

THE BULLETIN
VoL2.—No. 98.—Now Series.
SATURDAY, MARCH 28, 1885.
Frioe—6d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, MARCH 28, 1885.
A Foreign Policy.
A cobbespondbnt, who is good enough to
intimate his approbation of the views which
we have, during the past year or two, enun-
ciated on political subjects, asks us to indi-
cate the policy which would recommend
itself to us for adoption by tho British
Governmept with respect to the Soudan
crisis. This is rather a large order, and we
have some diffidence in meeting it, especially
as we have a lurking suspicion that the
British Government may be so far lacking
iu respect for our sagacity as to neglect to
regulate its policy by our suggestions. How-
ever, as there must be some benefit derived
by our readers from a consideration of a
policy founded upon definite principles and
explained in a candid spirit, we will endea-
vour to meet the wishes of our inquiring
friend. The policy which approves itself to
our ideas is delightfully simple. We would
have the Soudan evacuated by the British
armies, and the natives left to settle their
domestic government in the fashion which
best suits themselves, just as the Germans
evacuated Paris and left the contending
factions in that capital to “stew in their
own gravy,” as Bismarck phrased it. We
will proceed presently to consider the ad-
vantages attending such a policy, and the
objections which it involves. But, in fht
first place, we will make a little digression,
and amuse ourselves by a retrospect, show
ing what might, perhaps—we think, probably
—have been the situation as regards tht
Mahdi and the Soudan at the present time,
had the policy we advocated with respect
to Egypt, from the very commencement of
the present troubles, been adopted. Our
constant readers will readily remember that
we advocated with respect to Egypt the
same policy of abstention as we now favour
with respect to the Soudan. We urged the
wisdom of permitting the Egyptians to work
out their own destiny, and we pleaded that
if Arabi could accomplish his revolution
and consolidate a national Government!
he should be permitted to do so; and
that all that was requisite in the na-
tional interests of Great Britain was that
all parties should be given to under-
stand that the neutrality and free navi-
gation of the Suez Canal must not be
meddled with. This would have been a
stipulation not of a nature to rouse a feel-
ing of insuperable and essential antagonism
on the part of the rulers —whoever these
might prove to be—or of the people, of
Egypt. And, moreover, it would have been
a demand comparatively easy to enforce, if
resisted. For all the maritime powers of
Europe are interested in preserving the
freedom of passage through, and the neutra-
lity of, that important avenue. Not only,
therefore, could Great Brstain, if circum-
stances rendered it necessary, have oper-
ated with her utmost power along the line
°f the canal, from both ends, and never
more than a score or so of miles from a base
°f supplies, &c., on the Mediterranean and
Red Sea coasts, but she might, with reason-
able confidence, have counted upon—even
supposing she had not by treaty arranged
for—the co-operation of every one of the
Creat Powers of Europe, in so necessary
and so useful a duty.
* * *
But even that supposition of rupture with
e rulers of Egypt seems strained. Sup-
posing that Arabi had been permitted to
rea ,P the fruits of the bloodless revolution
* ich i* e had actually accomplished when
6 British upset everything, he would, in
10 aature of things, surely have been abun-
dantly glad to cultivate friendly relations
with England, so that no fighting at all
would have been necessary. But against
the idea that Arabi should have been left
to work out the national revival of the
Egyptian people, it has been objected that
part of his programme was to expel from
administrative posts all Europeans, and to
repudiate the debts contracted by the suc-
cessive Khedives. And so much weight has
been allowed to this objection, that to it
alone is attributed the circumstance that
Arabi was not permitted to work out the
emancipation of his country. Now, for our
own part, wo should have gladly seen the
bond-holders lose every farthing, rather
than the enfranchisement of a nation, too
long oppressed and ground down, frustrated.
In connection with this part of the subject,
we were diverted in a grim sort of way by
the singular morality of Mr. Henry Cope-
land, when—to the immense surprise and
mortification of his well-wishers -he made a
Jingo oration in the Soudan debate. Mr.
Copeland scornfully referred to the com-
mon saying that “this Egyptian debt for
which England is fighting was simply Jewish
blood-money.” And, with crushing viva-
city, he informed his opponents that “ there
were hundreds of respectable British fami-
lies who had the misfortune to invest their
money in these bonds.” The inference sug-
gested, but not openly stated, was, of course,
that the investments of a respectable Eng-
lishman are sacred things, even though, were
they the investments of a Jew, they might
deserve the name of “blood-money.” Mr.
Copeland did indeed pick himself up a bit,
by demanding, with fine emphasis, whether
a British Jew hadn’t the same rights to pro-
tection as a Biitish Christian. But even
then he missed the real point, which is cer-
tainly not whether a Jew or a Christian
should be preferred, but whether the reco-
very of private blood-money should be made
a matter of national concern. We need not,
we think, here dwell upon the aptness of
the term “blood-money,” quoted by Mr.
Copeland as commonly applied to Egyptian
bonds. Few people have the effrontery to
deny the appropriateness of the name, and
the history of the different Khedive’s bor-
rowings, and of the abuses to which the
major part of. the money was devoted, are
widely and'generally known.
• * *
To return, then, to the main subject, we
should have gladly seen the “ blood money ’,
bonds repudiated by the nation, as liabili.
ties personal to the Tyrant whom they had
deposed. There would have been some
humour in pitching out Ismail and Tewfik
together, for the bondholders to squeeze
their money out ot the lovely pair. Eng-
land didn’t go to war with the United States
when the Pennsylvanian bonds were, most
dishonestly, repudiated; nor with Peru,nqr
Mexico, under circumstances almost identi-
cal with those of Egypt, viz., a revolutioq
followed by repudiation of the pecuniary
obligations of the last Government. There-
fore, the respectable British bondholders so
feelingly referred to by Mr. Copeland, had
no earthly reason or precedent for suppos-i
ing that the nation would protect theip
speculation by force of arms.
• • o
Now, presuming that the Egyptian bond-
holders had been left to take their luck,
and that the substitution of natives for
foreigners in all administrative positions
had been approved—as it reasonably might
have been—there would have been no
Egyptian war, no bloodshed at Alexandria,
no slaughter at Tel-el-Kebir. There would
have been a national Egyptian Government
strongly founded on the approval of the
Fellahs, and glad enough to enter upon
friendly relations with such a power as
Great Britain. What the bondholders, Mr.
Copeland’s respectable British families—
with the respectable names ot Oppenhei-
mer, and Rothschild, and Gosohen, and
Lazarus, for the most part; and if not
these, purchasers from these—lost, the
British taxpayer would have saved. For,
before we are clear of this business, the
probabilities are strong that the British
nation will have expended in war a suiq
equal to the total amount of the Egyptian
debt. So that, as a matter of fact, it will
turn out that it would have been cheaper
for England to pay the bondholders in the
first instance all their claims, the cash re-,
suits being the same, while the horrible
expenditure of human lives and human
agony would have been saved—which, we
venture to believe, would be a handsome
saving to humanity.
• • •
Having in Egypt a national Government
under a leader strong in the affections of
the people, the Soudan affair, Mahdi and all,
would have been of comparatively little im-
portance to Great Britain. In the first
place, the best authorities, among whom we
may instance Mr. Wilfred Blunt, the
friend of Arabi, who has expressed all
through the trouble just the same opinions
as The Bulletin, assert that the cause of
the Mahdi is identical with the cause of
Arabi. In that case, once Arabi had been
eft to consolidate his revolution, the trouble
would have been over, and the Egyptians
and Soudanese would have had no further
cause of quarrel, their common tyrant and
scourge, the Khedive, having been got rid
of. But even presuming that the identity
of interest as between Arabi and the Mahdi
be imaginary, and that the latter had moved
with his hordes upon the Lower Nile, the
situation would have been immensely sim-
plified. In the first place, the Mahdi’s in-
fluence would have been minimized, as the
war would not have had the colour of a
religious crusade against infidels as now.
For Soudanese against Egyptian would have
been Mahommedan against Mahommedan.
Then, again, it would have been compara-
tively easy to break up the Mahdi on the
Lower Nile, with the entire Egyptian popu-
lation in sympathy with the defenders,
whether these were Egyptian troops only
or Egyptian troops side by side with British
brigades. Frequent experiences in India
and elsewhere have shown that coloured
races who make but a puisillanmous show
when fighting against [|European troops,
pluck up a spirit, and make capital fighters
when brigaded with Europeans against a
common adversary. In the next place,
England would not have particularly
needed to care whether the Mahdi invasion
succeeded or failed. The blessed bond-
holders having been left to take their luck,
PRINCE HENRY OP BATTENBERG,


he government of the Mahdi in Egypt
would suit just as well as the government
of Arabi. The Canal could be defended
against any, either, or both; and that would
still be all that concerned England ; and the
other Powers would still be with her. If
the Mahdi were content to rule Egypt, and
enter into treaties as to the Canal, well and
good. If not, he would be more easily
fought and smashed in Lower. Egypt than
a thousand miles up the Nile and towards
the Equator.
* • •
It only remains for us now to try back to
our first position, and review the objections
that may be urged against the idea that the
policy of the present Government should be
the prompt and total withdrawal of British
troops from the Soudan. Foremost among
these, of course, is the plea that to do so
would involve a loss of prestige. Wo do not
think the argument is good. Up to the
present moment the British troops have,
although invariably outnumbered, beaten
the Arab patriots in every encounter with-
out exception. The valour has been equal
on both sides, and in point of strategy, the
Arab commanders have not been deficient*
But the advantage of weapons, and of disci-
pline, apparently, albeit the Arab tactics
have not seemed contemptible, has more
than counterbalanced the inequality ofjnum-
bers, and has given the victory invariably
to the British invaders. Consequently, in
that respect, no loss of prestige could attend
the withdrawal of our troops, now that no
object remains to be accomplished. Khar-
toum has fallen, and Gordon has been slain.
But Khartoum was not defended by British
troops, and consequently its fall easts no
stigma upon them. There are some who
argue that to retire in the presence of the
Mahdi, still defiant and uneonquered, would
be to encourage the Mahommedans whom
we hold enthralled in India to hold us in
contempt, and make an effort to break their
chains. Possibly this might be the effect.
But are we to fear the consequences of such
an effort? If such be the inclination of our
Indian conquered subjects, after two hun-
dred years of our beneficent rule, would
their affections be won by what would
to them appear as a wanton immolation of
a great leader of their religion, and a host
of his followers? And if they so hate us
now that they need but opportunity to
spring at our throats, how much more
will they hate us if wo crush the Mahdi ?
Hate may be carried to a point where it
overcomes feax-, and opportunities for iusur-
x’ection may occur again. To leave the
power of the Mahdi unbroken would, how-
ever, it may be argued, merely defer the
evil day. He has declared his intention of
ovei’running Egypt, and pushing into Apia,
to overthrow the present caliphate. Well,
as before, why not let him .try it? Surely
it is easy for all Europe the Canal,
and what is the caliphate to us ? Let Tew-
xtik and his Egyptians defend their country
if they can, and the Sultan bear his own
burdens. If we are out of Egypt, the matter
need concern us no more than an irruption
of Turkomans .into Asia Minor, or of Kurds
into Syria.
• • •
Now, all this reads like magniloquent non-
sense, doesn’t it? Ono moment, if you
Xdease. This policy is identical, as it hap-
pens, with the deliberately*declared inten-
tions of the British Government but a few
months back! They announced their reso*
lution to evacuate the Soudan, and reiter-
ated their determination to withdraw from
Egypt. The only present differences are
two—one essentia], and one casual. The
first is that before leaving Egypt they were
resolved to see the bond-holders all right.
The other is that after the fall of Khartoum
they announced their intention of breaking
the power of the Mahdi before leaving the
Soudan. That is to say, yielding to the gush
of Jingo feeling in England, they planned to
repeat in the Soudan the blunder committed
in Egypt, which has proved the origin of all
the later complications; while they prated
about the duty of replacing anarchy by
good government, they destroyed the only
possible stable government of that of
Araui in the one case, as they now
would destroy that of the Mahdi in the
other. Having broken the power of Araui,
they were compelled to undertake the gov-
ernment of Egypt, lest anarchy ensue.
Should they break up the Mahdi, the same
necessity will face them in the Soudan.
• * •
The question, therefore, arises: Would it
be advantageous to hold the Soudan ? Con-
sider a moment. To hold India occupies
80,000 troops. To hold Ireland requires
40,000,- besides other thousands of armed
constabulary, who are practically troops
also. To hold Egypt requires 12,000. If the
governing classes press upon the crofters of
the Scottish Highlands much longer, it will
take another 20,000 soldiers to preserve
“good government” and “ law and order ”
in Scotland. Add to this a garrison of 20,000
to 30,000 men to keep the Soudanese in sub-
jection, aud then ask yourself whether Eng-
land would be advantageously situated to
cope with any European power which chose
to pick a quarrel with her. Yet the frantic
creatux*es who urge the old country to re-
main in Egypt and prosecute au absurd and
immoral war in the Soudan, claim to be
patriots and the only genuine lovers of the
honour and dignity of Great Britain! Truly,
“whom the gods wish to destroy they first
deprive of reason,”
The Soudan Session.
The fate of the motion impugning the propriety
of the action of the Government in despatching
the colonial troops to the Soudan was a foregone
fact, and furnishes yet another instance of the
frequent collision between the will of the people
and the will of their representatives. The cause
of this paradox in political philosophy is not far to
seek. While the public are at liberty to view
every Executive action in its beating upon the
country’s weal, their representatives are relatively
as fettered at the people are free. Every member
of Parliament, here and elsewhere, has some per-
sonal hobby which gives either a conscious or an
unconscious bias to his political movements.
Without enumerating the extended list, it may
suffice to Indicate that some lust to bask in the
sunshine of social recognition, while others de-
light to invest their opinions with the “flattering
unction” derivable from voting in the ranks of a
palpable majority. The victims of either predo-
liotion invariably side and sympathise with those
in power until the solid symptoms of a reaction
shako their allegiance to the fountain of social
splendour and destroy their devotion to the shelter
of numerical strength. When this reaction asserts
itself, they turn with the tide, and, erstwhile “ of
Cephas,” are just as ardent on behalf “ of Apollo.”
In every nation, and until intelligence and indi-
viduality reach a milennium standard, a propor-
tionate part of its Legislature will, in the way of
political progress, imitate “dead fish” and “float
with the stream.”
• • •
Abstracting frorp the division-list this inevitable
detachment of Impulsive driftwood, it will be seen
that a solid, menacing minority have expressed
their disapproval of the action of the Govern-
ment. As an exhibition of the debating powers
of our public men, this special session redeemed
the empty exploits of the present Parliament. It
will be apparent, however, on a reflective perusal
of the tone of the debate, that, although the policy
of the Government was defended in several able
speeches, yet the majority of the apologists
evaded the gravamen of the censure, and hid the
obvious raaladriotness of the manoeuvre behind a
barricade of'splendid scintillations of sentiment.
Loyalty of the lip had an effusive swing, and,
under the pretence of a heart-prompting alle-
giance to “ old England,” hid the manifest treason
to the material and domestic Interests of the
colony, whose blood and treasure were recklessly
and pawned by the arrogant assumption
of a predominant prerogative on the part of an
“ irresponsible Crown nominee.” That Mr. Bal-
my's action combined Impulsive recklessness
with extreme (though, perhaps, unconscious) ar-
rogance is proved by his omission to consult—
first, the Colonial Treasurer, who was responsible
for the revenue involved, and was the loader, pro.
(cm. of the popular branch of the Legislature;
and, secondly, the actual Premier, who was within
a day’s hail, and who is the gentleman into whose
hands his Excellency committed the formation
and control of a responsible Ministry.
♦ ♦ *
These are items of impeachment that were dis-
ingenuously glozed over by those who eulogised
the prescience of the Government in “correctly
gauging ” popular opinion. The correctness is
open to question, but not so the sound political
theorem that popular opinion has no right to be
gauged in an initiatory operative sense except
within the walls of Parliament, where all opera-
tions adverse to the will of the Legislature can be
Instantly checked and averted. To argue other-
wise would be to hazard life and revenue to the
conjectural correctness of any Minister who might
choose to rashly guess at public feeling and give
it practical interpretation without consulting
either colleagues or Constitution.
* * *
Both the Colonial Treasurer and Sir Patrick
Jennings, in their weighty deliverances, laboured
hard to demonstrate that the British Empire wa
then in the darkest hour of need. And yet, for®
sooth, this dire distress is as good as averted by
the despatch of 700 serai-discipllnod troops 1 What
a libel upon “the grand old mother country!”
Moreover, this plea is advanced in face of what
was practically an announcement by the Home
authorities that six months hence would suffice
fer the despatch of the colonial troops. One
would think the darkest hour would reach its
sable climacteric within that term; perhaps these
apologists knew more of the depth and diversity
of the Empire’s dangers than did the'Home Go-
vernment itself.
* * *
Another speaker used the untenable argument
that New South Wales was ns much a portion of
the British Empire as the county of York— ergo, as
actively influenced by any belligerent action on
the part of the Imperial authorities. But is not
the proposition that “ England’s wars are our
wars” qualified by the estimate of the colonial
Legislature of the Individual merits of each quar-
rel in which England is embroiled ? Otherwise, ag
the House of Commons (where the colonies are
unrepresented) alone initiates, controls, confirms,
and censures all Imperial military movements, we
are voluntarily submitting to the odious burden of
“ taxation without representation.” That is why
these colonies and English counties have not an
identity of responsibility in Imperial wars. The
Heme Parliament evidently intended us to
be something better than mere antipodean
English barracks—to be, in fact, substantive
interdependent colonies, not intermeddling with
old-world contentions, and not a calculable item
in European complications. Had the Imperial
legislature designed Australia to be other than
a “neutral dependency,” it would have inserted
some provision in our Constitution Act, authoris.
ing us to despatch our troops on Imperial service.
The failure to do so shows that participation in
European complications was intentionally dis-
severed from the tenure by which the colonies
exerc : ss the powers of self-government.
Equally hollow is the ad captandum cry that wo
owe to the mother couni ry the duty of aiding to
defend the Empire by joining England implicitly
in her aggressive expeditions and wars of invasion,
Our share in the defence of the Empire is—con-
stitutionally and naturally—limited to the internal
defences of the colonies wo are commissioned to
occupy, solf-govern, and protect. We have wan-
tonly reversed this obligation by exporting the
flower of our military manhood to hazard life
and limb in aiding the subjugation of an ill-armed,
ill-disciplined (though heroic) race, whose resist-
ance to the cruel invader and foreign foe is not to
be dignified by being intituled a war.
* * *
It is futile to attempt to argue away the insult
to the people’s representatives, and through them
to the people, by the tu quoque retort that the late
Government expended various sums of money
without the explicit authorisation of Parliament,
were these offences, the money was ex-
pended within the colony, and—in some degree—
upon the colony’s material interests, and even then
they were condoned only because the offenders
were out of power, and, therefore, out of the
range of punishment. Even were it not so, the
present dereliction had to be explained and justi-
fied, not to preceding Governments, but to Parlia-
ment in its collective aspect, and to the common-
wealth of people, whose constitutional safeguards
have been wantonly battered down. To argue
that what is vice in Sir Henry Parkes, becomes,
when amplified and exaggerated, transformed
into virtue in Mr. Dalley, is neither just nor
logical.
* * *
Unless we falsely interpret the signs and omens
of popular resentment, the populace will reverse
the verdict of Parliament whenever they are
afforded a collective opportunity of doing so.
With the prospect of a repellent heritage of
military misfortunes in the shape of badges of
orphanage and weeds of widowhood—of wooden
monuments of multilation, and harrowing re-
proaches of vacant hearths—the masses will
awaken to the scheme projected to sacrifice their
domestic happiness and civic enjoyment at the
bloody altar of Australian Jingoism. The toilers
must fight that the effeminate drones may live on
in idle luxury! At its best, war is a voluntarily
contracted epidemic, which renders the poor
poorer, and makes the rich richer; and which pur-
chases spurious national triumphs by the barter of
the blood and of the industrial development of the
nation. It abstracts blood, bone, and brains, from
the altar of industry, and sacrifices them to the
God of Battles. Perceiving this, on a relapse to
reason, the people will recognise that we repay
England’s colonial outlay and fostering care by
our relation to her as a nursery for her Imports,
and an avenue for her manufactures and com-
merce. Without the recent parliamentary legal-
isation of this intrusive Jingoism, the blessings of
peace bade fair in Australia to become perpetual.
As it is, our precedent invites the curse of war to
become perennial.
A Representative Man.
There was one remark made by Sir John
Robertson, in the course of his much-vaunted
speech, which indicated that the old gentleman
has not, despite his extended political career, ever
grasped the true significance of the expression
“a representative man.” Defending Mr. Dalley’s
action, he said: —
“ There was no need to refer to the fact that he
was not a representative in the Assembly, for, ad-
mitting such was the ease, could anyone say he
was not one cf the most representative men in the
colony ?”
An extraordinary confusion of ideas is conveyed
iff this remark. Sir John Robertson evidently is
incapable of comprehending the distinction be-
tween a distingu'shed man and a representative
man. Now, no one will deny to Mr. Dalley the
first title. He is among the most distinguished of
colonial celebrities. Ho is distinguished by his
literary attainments, by his eloquence, by his
forensic talents, by the geniality of his tempera-
ment, and the cultivation of hia mind. And, while
wo are dealing with the qualities which entitle him
to eminent consideration, we may take the op-
portunity to express our dissent from the charge
levelled against him that his offer of a New South
Wales Contingent to assist in the Soudan was
prompted by an ambition to acquire some trum-
pery title or gew-gaw decoration. It would be
absurd to suppose that the possibility of his action
producing some such offer never occurred to him.
But wo think the proceedings on his part were
quite compatible with an indifference to such a
consideration. While we utterly antagonise what
Mr. Dalley has done, we can quite comprehend
that his course may have been actuated by an
enthusiasm quite unselfish, and which he really
believed to be the promptings of a noble and
generous principle. We may confess that when
wo first heard of his coup d'etat our heart gave a
bound, and had wo been content to permit ex-
citement and sentimental national enthusiasm to
usurp the place of calm reason and to stifle the re-
monstrances of principle, we could not but have
gone with the current of the hour, and out-Jingoed
the heartiest Jingo of the lot. The accusation we
level against Mr. Dalley is that he did not permit
himself time for reflection, albeit he should, now
that grey hairs sprinkle the locks which wreath
his expansive forehead, be sufficiently acquainted
with the constitution of his own character to
know that its prevailing defect—amidst many fine
attributes—is an impulsiveness frequently mis-
directed. Had ho allowed himself time to think
twice, either by consulting his colleagues before
acting, or by the obvious constitutional method
of maturing a plan with the view of submitting it
to Parliament, we confidently believe that no N.
S. Wales Contingent would ever have started.
Even if reflection had not convinced Mr. Dalley,
as it convinced us, that the first impulse was a
false one, it would at least have brought home to
him the fact that there were two sides to the
question, and by weighing one against the other,
a disposition to deliberate action would neces-
sarily have been created.
* * *
Again, if time for reflection had been taken, it
stands to reason that the result would have been
the same in this colony as it has been in the other
colonies where the temporary refusal of their
contingents promises to result in none being sent
at all. Mr Dalley was up to his neck before he
knew actually what a leap he had made, and he
dragged his colleagues, and a crowd of excitable
persons, after him. Nothing remained for him
after his first plunge, except to go ahead and
make for the opposite bank, whether it w. ro mud
or clean water he had taken a header into. In
other words, he had to carry out his enterprise,
and if a sense of error arose in his mind, or cen-
sors employed against him arguments which
knocked hard at the very portals of his sense and
conscience, he was compelled to stifle the first
and to endeavour to refute, or shut his ears’
against, the latter. The position Is not an enviable
one.
• ■ •
What we started to treat of was, however, Sir
John Robertson's contention that Mr. Daeley
is a representative man. A distinguished man he
is, truly, as we have shown. Bat not distinguished
—despite his numerous fine gifts—by a compre-
hensive grasp of principles, or a devotion to any
cognate cause. Mr. Dalley has, throughout his
career, been the least representative man of any
mark in the community. Born of the plebs and
with sympathies always somewhat retrospective,
the elegances and repose of jfjealth and position
have bad for him a constant arm powerful attrac-
tion. Mr. Daeley is thus a singular and excep-
tional man; and to show that he is this is to show
that he is the exact contrary of a “ representative ”
man. For he represents no class, just as he belongs
to no class. We should be disposed, in opposition
to Sir John Robertson, to adduce Mr. Haleey as
a most striking and prominent example of a man
who is not representative.
* * m
Take a merchant from ’Change, a lawyer from
the court, a parson from the pulpit, a clerk out of
a Government office—choose them by lot if you
please; take a retail tradesman from behind the
counter of the first shop you enter; take a me-
chanic from the bench, anywhere; ora labourer
from the pick; and you will in each case, almost
certainly, have a representative man. The speci-
men you have caught will be as true to its genus
af though you had caught a butteifly in the fields,
a slug under a stone, or a worm in the ground*
The merchant, the tradesman, the lawyer, the
citizen, and the labourer will, on certain subjects,
feel as his whole cla c s feel, and think as they
think; and upon a very wide range of subjects,
his sympathies and ideas will be more or less
affected by the impressions due to his condition in
life. Each one of the individuals, hit upon by
mere lot, would almost certainly be more truly a
representative man than Mr. Dalley, neither
plebeian nor aristocrat; neither Liberal, Radical,
nor Conservative—a man who has over and over
again shown himself to be, politically, “neither
fish, nor flesh, nor good red herring.”
♦ * *
Representative, never; polished, graceful, and
insinuating ever. To charge Mr. Dalley or to
credit him with having at any period evinced a
powerful and motive sense of conviction about
any policy or any set of political principles, would
be to fly in the face of all antecedent experience
of the man. Were he not the originator and re-
sponsible defender of the present policy of pre-
cipitating and dragging this hitherto peaceful
community into the vortex of old-world conflicts,
it would be easy to conceive him, without any
violence to the probabilities and to his reputation
and character, the most ardent and the most elo-
quent, and superficially the most impassioned,
denouncer of the folly and criminality of such a
course.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Judge for Yourselves.
The speech delivered by Sir John Robertson in
the debate on the dispatch of New South Wales
troops to the Soudan struck us, when perusing the
S. M. Herald’s report, as a peculiarly weak and
inconsequent deliverance. It appeared especially
poor when contrasted with the vigorous, clear,
and logical arguments of the speech by Mr.
Fletcher, which immediately preceded it. And
its ineffectiveness seemed the more remarkable
when it was considered that the occasion of
deliverance was so exceptional in all respects, and
especially in that it embodied the manifesto of a
leader who had regarded it as incumbent upon
him to desert his followers. It was with no little
surprise, therefore, that we discovered that the
Jingo journals, which might have been expected
to cover with decent silence the failure of their
recruit, were convulsed with extacy respecting
the speech. The S. M. Herald pronounced it
“ A speech which did credit to the House and
the country-as well as raising the tone of the
debate, did much to give it direction.”
While a writer in the little Echo with equal ad-
miration, but doubtful compliment, affirmed that
the old gentleman
*' Sprang into the fray, and, with a spirit that re-
called, or almost more than recalled, his ‘good
old swashing blow,’ carried terror and confusion
into the ranks, not of his foes before, but of his
friends behind him.”
The same writer, after tbus expressing his apprel
elation of a leader who carried terror and confus-
ion into the ranks of his friends-and we think it
likely that much confusion must be felt by Sir
John’s friends when called upon to justify the
exploit which has so enraptured his enemies—
pronounced that the deliverance
“ Was a speech which those who heard it will
never forgot; and the enthusiastic cheers which
hailed the grand old man as he sat down, should,
wherever the report of his brave speech goes, re-
echo round the land.”
Then we found Mr. Luscoaibe in the Assembly, re-
ferring to the speech, declare that
“ He thought all would agree that it was worthy
of any member of the House of Commons. He
bad never listened to such a glorious, true, and
patriotic speech as came from that honest, aged,
and venerable gentleman. Even if he never
uttered another word that speech would be suffi-
cient to keep his memory alive.”
And Mr. Loughlan characterised it as
“One of which that House should bo proud,
and of which every Australian ought to be
proud.”
So strong a concurrence of an exalted estimate
of the character and force of the speech of the
quasi-leader of the Opposition could not but
stagger us in our first impressions, and iti conse-
quence we have referred again to the report of Sir
John’s speech, and read it attentively several
different times. As it still appears to us totally
undeserving of the panegyrics heaped upon it, and
as, in fact, rather suggesting that the veteran
politician was oppressed by the singularity of his
position and the logical difficulties of the cause he
had adopted, wc have judged it most convenient
to reproduce the digest of the speech which is


C555^!a J gmgm^
-
ihe
ONLY REED ORGW1
H AVINGTHtmTEHT
Qualifying tubes
GIVING THE
IRFRT APPRO#
Nearest approx
‘i^tWTOUCOf
r pipe.
Qrgah
NICHOLSON AND GO.,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand,
325 GEORGE STREET,
C. W. ROBERTS*
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only Os.
Small Bottle, , 4s. 6d,
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOB INVALIDS.
A /9TRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. 6d. per Bottle,
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT
2s. per Bottle.
RDM,
la Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts,
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
ls.9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke s Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
SYDNEY.
Thb Rates ow Subscription to Tea Bulletin
are—Fori one year, 248.; half-year, 12a. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.— In advance.
Thb Advertising Rates are 5s. per inohi
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10e. per Inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.; For 36 consecutive insertions
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders'should
b® made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps ef any Australian
Colony may be sent. If more convenient.
in tho S.M. Herald, and which, we have
* ive “ d ourselves by careful comparison, brings
Wtl8 ii the points, such as they are, of the oration.
0at * {a n0 accounting for differences of taste. It
rbe l G , g consequently, merely to dispute or eon-
dict the opinions of the S.M. Herald audits
trft | satellite, or of the members of the Assembly
he expressed their delight. Our readers must
*do for themselves. The question is whether
fo lowing contains even the material of a great
apfiveranee- a speech never to be forgot :-
0 air torn Robertson said no one could deny
„ * ihe cost of this expedition must be paid, and
of the country upheld. If this amend-
the V carried, the Government must either
®?, a Vr order the Contingent back, and what a
dis position we should be in then, Hon mem-
prettypo® they votiid for this anfbndment,
ber8 .’iApftrefully consider what would be the effect
had, without authority,
? a the country into great expenditure, and they
1 ills the House together now to ask them to in-
S al ini v them for what they had done. He de-
rthe action of the Government because it
dfnrthe test interests of the country. Our
w tn had volunteered to go on this expedition, and
Jhev believed that it was legal for them to do so;
„o S illegal it was for the Parliament now
i f rnflicc it legal. If the majority of the Parlia-
duanproved of this, who should say it was
m nnir ? P There would be an end of Parliamentary
wr ,-ornment if Ministers always had to wait
Parliamentary sanction before they took
The only question for them to consider.
SST-was whether this occasion justified the
Government in taking the action they had done,
uo was sure there was not a person in the whole
Wintry that did not feel deeply the death of
ooneral Gordon, The Government thought, and
H.P people seemed to have thought, that some
assistance should have been given. He did not
vnow that he should have done so If he had been
•A office- he did not know that it would have
nppiirred’ to .him. But if it had occurred to him
h« would have strongly supported it. It had been
cniA that England had not asked for this help; but
uno-land had accepted it with thanks, and thanks
uTa most marked manner. Who then would say
ih«tEngland did not require it? Twenty-seven
Vpars ago he and his Government were censured
for sending away the Imperial troops to India at
♦he time of the mutiny, but that was before the
Parliament was reformed, in 1858. In reply
to an interjection about the ‘cabbage garden.’ he
declared he had never used that expression in the
ahane of a sneer. It was used at a social gathering
at his own house, and was said by way of repartee
to a Victorian gentleman, who said in jest that
thev would annex New South Wales, to which he
replied in jest that they had better annex some-
thing for they were only a cabbage garden. It
had been said that we had no right in Egypt, but
the rulers of England evidently thought we had
some right there. He defended the Government
for the prompt action they had taken; the only
reason the offer of the other colonies was not ac-
oented was because they were not so prompt.
Never in his life had his blood so thrilled as it did
when he witnessed the departure of our troops.
He was proud that this was done, and he was
proud that it was done by hia old colleague and
friend Mr. Halley.”
The Chapter of Cablegrams.
The special session of Parliament has had at least
one beneficial effect in unearthing the exact liter-
ature of the colossus of cablegrams that passed
between Mr. Halley and the Imperial Jingoes
with regard to the recent military expedition.
Some of them thus obtained publicity for the first
lime, and others contain pregnant passages
hitherto excised prior to their publication by the
Press. If the consequences of the craze were not
so lamentable, he contents of some of the cable-
grams would have an irresistibly ludicrous ten-
dency. Others, again, are important, as exploding
the fallacious contentions of those who defend the
enlistment of the colonial contingent as an oppor-
tune, well-executed act of rigorous necessity. In
the first flush of a newly-moulted martial excite-
ment, Mr. Halley flashed home the Intelligence
that he had an effective battalion of volunteer
infantry—five hundred strong—who were avail-
able for immediate despatch to the Soudan. As a
matter of fact, Mr. Halley had no perceptible
justification for the belief that anything approach-
ing this number of effective volunteer infantry-
men would voluntarily undertake to enlist on
foreign service; and as a further matter of fact,
not one half of them did respond to the invitation.
The complement was made up mainly by undiscip-
lined stragglers, to whom the prospect of military
employment was better than that of none at all,
and in whose minds death by slaughter presented
no grimmer horrors than death by starvation. So
much for the “ effective ” battalion of volunteer
"Infantry,” half of whom probably never under-
went a day’s infantry drill prior to recruiting. An-
nexed to this cable-cramis a delusive message from
the Governor of New South Wales to the Home
Government, urgently representing th?.t the colo-
nists as a body would be deeply grieved if their
offer should not be accepted. Why Lord Loftus
should lend himself to the scheme so causelefsly,
or what opportunities he first took to conjecture
the depth of woe the nation would attain through
polite refusal of an offer that not half a dozen
persons knew the terms of, are matters about
which the protracted debate did not evoke an ex-
planation. Perhaps they afford yet another in-
stance of Mr. Halley’s magical, magnetic influ-
ence over venerable fossils of the character that
he has lately employed his genius to complaisantly
charm. At all events, under the incitement of
these palpable delusions, the Imperial Govern-
ment accepted the offer, thus giving credence to
His Excellency’s representation that our loyalty
is so little apparent, and so hazed by doubts and
suspicions, that the nation would feel slighted if
not permitted to exhibit a fussy and extraneous
manifestation of it. Atop of the acceptance, con-
gratulatory messages were sent ipse inventor do-
hrum by Earl Rosebery and Sir Saul Samuel’s
social and commercial allies. The cry “Well
done!!!” may bo regarded as unctuously evoked
from the clarion throats of the sordid Hebrew
bondholders, with whom it is only natural that our
Agent-General and Rothschild's son-in-law
should have a well-defined sympathy. But, in ac-
cepting the troop?, the Home authorities plainly
intimated that six months’ delay would be as
Pell, but that if the colonial Government desired
to despatch the troops earlier the War Office
would not object to receive them. Where, then,
was the necessity for the haste which is now put
forward as the only valid excuse for the violation
of all constitutional proprieties ? Could a plainer
Proof be adduced—in conjunction with His Excel-
lency’s urgent appeal—that the offer was accepted
out of compliment to the colony’s attitude on the
blew Guinea question, out of deference to the Go-
vernor’s opinion, and under the pressure of a be-
lief that refusal would breed bad blood between
and the mother colony of Australia?
ollowing these cablegrams, tho Agent-General
announces tho creation of a “ profound impres-
sic n” in Berlin, where, probably, Prince Bismarck
secretly chuckled at the guileless advance of the
colonial fly into the meshes of the European
spider-web. Later on, after more adulatory mis-
sives from professed Jingoes and delighted bond-
holders, the Lord Mayor of London cabled the
news that Lord Loftus’ address to the departing
troops was the theme of universal admiration
among the citizens ol London. Bo we live in an
epoch of advanced civilisation, or are we slipping
back into an abyss of cant and humbug, that such
a Mayoral “ M'Elhone” should receive a grain of
credence ? Probably not one out of every 10,000
citizens of London troubled to read our Go-
vernor’s harangue, and those who did must be
infernally susceptible if such common-place emis-
sions of “ leather and prunella ” could excite their
admiration. Surely rational people have intelli-
gence enough to estimate these “cut and dried”
congratulations at their proper commercial value!
The Treasurer has admitted that the scheme fairly
took his breath away, but he and his colleagues
will be lucky if (“ past favours all forgot ’) it does
not result in taking away the breath of political
life from an Administration so blind to what con-
stitutes loyalty to the country they govern—the
advancement of its domestic welfare and the fur-
therance of its material development.
The Argyle Contest
When Sib Henry Parkes, a few months back f
voluntarily retired into the infirmary of private
life, his hostile critics predicted that his sequestra-
tion (a peculiarly Parkesian condition I) would be
abruptly terminated by his unbolting the door of
his hermitage of his own accord. His friends, ad-
mitting his penchant for political resuscitation,
were fain to acknowledge that he would have ex-
treme difficulty in inventing circumstances to
justify his reversal of his positively-protested re-
tirement. By an extraordinarily fortuitous occur-
rence, the pretext is put in his path, and—like Sir
Henry Parkes— he makes all available political
capital out of it. Whether he meant his retirement
to be conditionally perpetual, or whether he re-
solved to lay in ambush waiting, like the crafty
tiger, for a profitable spring, it is fair to admit
that the present circumstances do justify his
voluntary cancellation of his self-imposed retire-
ment. The action of Mr. Halley has altered the
whole face of politics, has made a new division of
political parties, and given birth to other Parlia-
mentary complications. Hence Sir Henry Parkes
is so far fortunate as to have his justification for
re-entry prepared for h'm by his great opponent,
Mr. Halley. What the upshot of the Argyle con-
test will be cannot well be foretold, in view of the
unique circumstances imported into the contest.
Sir Henry Parkes’ appearance in the lists ap-
pears to have instantaneously scared away his
first opponent, Mr. Rankbn, who incontinently
dropped his arms, unbuckled his armour, and
fled without striking a blow, fearing, possibly,
that if he did not retire, “ 10,000 Orangemen
would know the reason why.” Mr. George
Wallace, who recently contested Northumber-
land in the Opposition interest, and (miserable
dictu) was defeated by Mr. Lusoombe, then issued
a soul-stirring address on the Ministerial behalf ;
but, after a sound sleep, he appears to have also
permitted his prowess to ooze out at his fingers’
ends. Mr. John Osborne (ex-clergyman of the
Wesleyan Methodist Church) is now engaged in
opposing Sir Henry Parkes, and, in justifying
the war cry. The battle between those two ex-
Ministers has been reduced (according to the news-
papers) to a test of the numerical strength of the
Orange and the Green—the Orange Lodges sup-
porting Parkes and tho Roman Catholics voting
for Osborne. If this is the position of affairs,
then the attitude of both factions is eccentric. It
is generally believed of Orange Lodges that their
allegiance to “ the Throne and Person” is evolved
from the lips rather than from the heart; and if
this were so, the spurious loyalty of the Soudan
expedition should prompt the Orange body to
support the candidature of its apologist, Mr,
Osborne. On the other hand, if the Irish-Aus-
tralians are true to their instincts, they will not
uphold the invasion of the Soudan patriots. The
Irish party in the House of Commons oppose the
Egyptian policy of the Gladstone Government,
and there is scarcely an Irishman in Ireland who
does not sympathise with the Soudanese patriots
in their endeavour to secure “ Homo Buie” for
the Soudan. Ho Irishmen then change their poli-
tics on arrival in Australia, and are they so selfish
that what they deem just from an Irish stand-
point becomes unjust from a colonial coign of
vantage ? This is what the newspapers insinuate
when they announce that the Irish vote will be
given to support the candidate who supports the
war.
Russia.
The Herald’s European correspondents cannot
be accused of an undue leaning towards Liberalism.
On the contrary—whether the capital they write
from be under Monarchy or Autocracy—their
reports will nearly always be found on the side of
the ruling powers and against the malcontents.
Bearing this in mind, we can glean, even from
such an illiberal source, some faint idea of the
state of affairs in “ Holy Russia,” when the St.
Petersburg correspondent writes as follows:—
“Itevidently enters into the views of the present
Government to prolong in every way the moral
and intellectual darkness in which 60 millions of
souls are plunged. Notwithstanding all the cant
about the “ necessity of enlightening the people,”
no one does anything, and there is but one school
built where should be a hundred. If the trio
which are so powerful just now, were to take a
journey through the interior of the Empire, they
might really glory in the effect of their politics,
which have made of this great country a scene of
moral and intellectual desolation, and of the
peasantry a herd of drunken, purposeless crea-
tures, without a single aspiration. The Church is
busy lighting against dissent A signal
defeat may be predicted for her in this struggle,
for such a spiritless and merely formal institution
is doomed, sooner or later, to make room for
something more vivifying.” How history repeats
itself! Here, in the east of Europe, we see pass-
ing before us, as in a conjuror’s glass, a
series of events startlingly similar to those
which, in the west, culminated a hundred years
ago, destroyed the oldest European monarchy t
and deluged a continent with blood. And
yet, when Russia’s time comes — as come
it must, and before long—when the Autocrats’ cup
of abomination is filled to overflowing, and men*
hardened by suffering or maddened by despair,
turn on their oppressors and destroy them, there
will not be found wanting, even among ourselves
moralisls to weep for the poor victims of popular
fury and shriek against human depravity. It is
scarcely necessary at this time of day for us to say
that we have no sympathy whatever with such
moraPsts. Our sympathy is entirely with tho
millions of drunken peasants whose natural
leaders have not sufficient humanity to extend a
hand to help them out of their slough of beastli-
ness; with the unfortunates rotting in filthy
prisons, or streaming wearily to living death in
Siberian mines; even with the desperate men who
—assassins in the world's opinion—daily lay down
their lives for their convictions, rather than with
the insensate (Lesar who ridicules his country*
men’s natural aspirations for freedom, or the
insensate priests whose Christianity consists of
adding another gew-gaw to their gaudy vestments,
or persecuting those who do not believe as they.
And, should tho time come for terrified faineants
to appeal to foreign nations for succour in pre-
serving their “noblest and their best” from the
Moscow and St. Petersburg canaille, we would
calmly say, “ As they browed, so let them bake.”
Patriotism!
Our Sydney Jingoes won’t listen when they are
told that it is on a shameful and immoral mission
that our Contingent has been sent forth. “ Shame-
ful and immoral !” they cry. “Is it shameful
and immoral to help the mother country in her
hour of need ? ” They insist, on the contrary, that
the dispatch of the Contingent is an exemplifica-
tion of the highest loyalty and patriotism. But
still we answer steadily, yea, it is shameful and
immoral. The hour of need for the mother country
is no (yet come. And it is shameful and immoral
to be an accomplice, even of one’s parent, in a deed
which is in itself a violation of principle. If one’s
father were engaged in strangling la negro for
no better reason that that negro had, in resisting
an attempt to deprive him of his liberty and his
vineyard, hit back, would it bo a part of true
honour for a son to rush forward and help with
the throttling ? We have said, and wo repeat, that
“If it be noble and elevating for Britons in Aus-
tralia to offer their lives and their fortunes (no-
body has yet done the latter) for their mother’s
sake, is it not noble and elevating also for the
Arabs of the Soudan to lay down their Jives and
fortunes for the love of their mother country?”
We have asked, and we ask again—“Is it well
that affection between the mother country and
Australasia should bo cemented with Innocent
blood—aye, the blood of patriots ? ” “ Patriots 1 ”
cry tho Jingoes, in reply, clapping their hands
over their ears, “how can a lot of niggera.be
patriots? Whoever does not agree with us, that
for our nation moral laws and universal prin-
ciples have no application, and may be neglected
and violated without crime, is a traitor, a coward
and a villain!” Undismayed, we reiterate our
declaration that the war against the Soudanese
is a- wicked, unjust, and barbarous war,
and that they are patriots. If all who hold that
view are irrational and disloyal, they are at least a
decent brotherhood. Mark this:—" On the 13th of
last Mry, in reference to Sir Stafford Nobth-
cote's demand for ‘stemming the advance’ of
the Mahdi’s movement upon Egypt, Mr. Glad-
stone said:—‘Now, I tell gentlemen this,
that that task means the reconqnest of the
Soudan. I put aside for the moment all
questions of climate, of distance, of difficul-
ties, of the enormous charges, and all the
frightful loss of life. There is something
worse than that involved in the plan of the
right lion, gentleman. It would be a war
of conquest against a people struggling to
he free.’ (Laughter, and‘Oh, oh!’) ‘Yes, they
are people struggling to he free, and they
are struggling rightly to he free.’ ” Coerced
by fate, and by the blind passions of the thought-
less, the Prime Minister of England is to-day
doing that which in May last he denounced.
No wonder the cable has told us that the Cabinet
wavers in its intention, expressed Immediately
after the death of Gordon, of waging a war of
Revenge. “It is a great relief,” writes a London
paper, “that we possess one man who has been a
member of Mr. Gladstone’s own Government,
who protests against this enterprise as one which
is utterly indefensible on any ground of morality
or policy. Mr. Bright resigned on the bombard-
ment of Alexandria, but has never since had the
resolution to denounce in Parliament the policy
which he deplores. But Mr, Courtney, in a speech
to his constituents last Tuesday, demurred to the
national madness, and pointed out that, after tho
speech of Mr. Gladstone, to which he referred
and which I have just quoted, the projected attack
on the Mahdi—if Gordon is no more—would bo an
act of apostasy ‘ wholly inconsistent with even
heathen morality, and wholly Inconsistent with
the lowest and basest measure of our own self-
interest.’ I am glad to read that these words wore
received with loud and prolonged cheering. The
only deficiency in Mr. Courtney’s courageous
speech was that, while protesting against what we
ought not to do, he did not add that the commence-
ment of the evil was the taking of Egypt from
Turkey, and that the only possible remedy is to
withdraw the English troops and to restore Egypt
to the Sultan”—To the Egyptians, say we.
Is it china, glass, and earthenware, made
up into various article both for use and ornament,
you require ? If so, the best choice is obtainable
at Bray Bros., 403 and 401 George-street.*


Personal Items
The only time Madame Hugues experi-
enced emotion during the late trial, was when the
mistress of Morin appeared—a most ladylik e person
in address and appearance—deeply clad in mourning
for her lover, who was “to make an honest
women of her.’’ She has vowed to shoot Madame
Hugues.
The 1st Battalion of the Royal Irish Regi-
ment, which has gained the £100 offered uy Lord
Wolseley for the corps which should make the
quickest journey up the Nile, is commanded by
Colonel Hugh Shaw, who gained the Victoria
Cross for conspicuous gallantry in theN.Z. cam-
paign of 1865.
M'Donnell, the Victorian cricketer, has,
it is said, obtained a billet in N. S. Wales. In the
letter resigning ;his Victorian Government ap-
pointment, he says: “It Is but too apparent that
there is no prospect for any junior in the service ”
This is not bad from a chap who passed in pot-
hooks and hangers.
A morning paper says of Emperor Wil-
liam’s probable appearance at his approaching
birth-day:—“ He will appear a veritable patriarch
among the innumerable relations who will stand
around him on his birth-day.” Sam doutc. But
as most of them are employed fulfilling theatrical
engagements with travelling troupes, not one-
tenth of them will stand around him. He couldn’t
count them if they did.
I must tell you a story (says George Eliot)
Miss Bremer got from Emerson. Carlyle was
very angry with him for not believing in a devil,
and to convert him he took him among ail the
horrors of London-the gin shops, &c.—and finally
to the House of Commons, plying him at every
turn with the question, “ Do you believe in a devil
now ? ” As soon as Emerson arrived at the Com-
mons he believed in the devil.
Mr. Henry E. Abbey is now, through his
agent, filling up dates in the United States for
Mary Anderson’s farewell engagement there dur-
ing the season of 1885 6. Now, before Mr. Abbey
will sign dates, he demands from each American
manager an advance loan of from 500 to 5000 dol-
lars, according to the length of the engagement,
and, as security for said advance, Mr. Abbey gives
each manager a policy of insurance on the life of
“Our Mary.” Good business this, and nearly as
clever as that of Noah, who floated a company
while the rest of the world was in liquidation.
George Perry’s temperance meeting in the
Domain on a recent Sunday was graced by the
presence of Miss Phillips, the Jate female pedes-
trian. One of the larrikins present made use of
some abominable language to her. Upon this she
“ went for him” in most approved style, and
landed him one in the eye. Miss Phillips has been
a remarkable person in her time. First she was a
walklst, then a Salvationist, and now a tract-dis-
tributer. It is one of the sights of the Domain
on Sunday afternoons to see her rushing about
distributing tracts at an eight-mlle-an-hour-pace.
The virtues of Lady O’Looney are thus
commemorated in verse in an Irish churchyard; —
“ Here lies the body of Lady O’Looney,
Grand-niece to Edmund Burke,
Commonly called * the sublime,’
She was bland, passionate, and religious.
Also,
She painted in water-colours.
Also,
She sent several articles to the Exhibition,
She was first cousin to Lady Jones.
And of such Is the kingdom of Heaven.
Amen.”
Mark Twain is an inveterate smoker. He
smokes constantly while at his work, and, indeed,
all the time, from 8 30 in the morning to 10.30 at
night, stopping only when at his meals. A cigar
lasts him about forty minutes, now that he has
reduced to an exact science the art of reducing
the weed to ashes. So he smokes from fifteen to
twenty cigars every day. Some time ago he was
persuaded to stop the practice, and went a year
and more without tobacco; but he found himself
unable to carry along important work which he
undertook, and it was not until he resumed smok-
ing that he could do it. Since then his faith in his
cigar has not wavered.
Mr. F. Armes, one of “ the gallant G00,’’
the Balaklava lot not our Soudan 600, has
iust died at Norwich. He served in the Light
iragoons, and towards the close of the famous
engagement Armes was struck by a pound shot
in the ribs, which sent him flying out of bis sad-
dle. Ho was first supposed to have been killed,
but through careful nursing at Mcutari, he, to a
great extent, regained his health, although he
suffered more or less from his wounds, especially
at certain seasons. Two fingers of his right hand
were out off by a Russian cavalry soldier. Armes
lay so long at Scutari that when he was discharged
from the military hospital there the Crimean War
had terminated, so that his active military career
ended on the memorable field of Balaklava.
There is a curiously philosophical side to
the sale of the “divine ’ Sally’s furniture and
works of art, which took place at the Hotel des
Ventes,Paris last week. Just when the furniture,
pictures, and other household goods ot the great
actress were being disposed of, Sarah Bernhardt
appeared elsewhere before the club, crowned with
the Imperial diadem and wearing the blue velvet
mantle of which chroniqueurs have said and
written so much. Her love of contrast has been
singularly gratified, for a wide gulf lay between
the auctioneer’s hammer and thunders of applause
simultaneously greeting “Theodora.” “Ad-
judge I” cries a voice; and “Sarah, Sarah! ” is the
response of a crowded house. The actress re-
appears, and smilingly bows her acknowledge-
ments. So great, indeed, is she in the hour ot her
triumph that she had had no time in the evening
to think of the brokers who had swooped down
upon her goods and chatties in the daytime.
W. Green, Adelaide Government Printing
Office, Is the coolest verse-concoctor in Australia.
It is probably because ho is at Adelaide, and con-
sequently considers himself out of reach, that he
ventures to send ua original printed verses on—
what do you think? “Our Beautiful Harbour.”
If the verses were good, we should invest in
enough dynamite to blast all Adelaide, rather than
let the miscreant escape us. Had they been bad,
we would merely have let the office bloodhound
sniff at them, and then would have let him off the
chain. He would have turned up in Adelaide in
due course, munching some fragments which
medical experts would recognise as a human wind-
pipe. And William Green would bo mysteriously
missing. But as the verses are neither good nor
had, we will leave Mr. Green in the hands of an
avenging Providence. Conceive the shrieking
death-scene of a miscreant who could write poetry
on Our Beautiful Harbour.
Mayor Playfair sent around a quasi-official
document recently, and the knights of the Council
toble, after reading It, declared they would ro up
to the Town Hall to receive “the distinguished
vijitor. But who is he?” ssked one ou the
road up, holding the letter before a brother alder-
nmn p nose, and making an attempt to pronounce
the litterateur s name. “ Salar-Salar-he inns be
a pote. I never mmd coming across any of bis
pottery. Salar?” replied the other • “voucall
him Salar ? I noticed the little turn at the tail of
the name, but I took it for a ‘d.’ I was eaiiinc
him Salad. Looked likely, didn’t it ? I never read
pottery no now. 1 1 m not much given to it-
myself but I liked some of Hallomn’s things
about the war. There’s one of them I d like to
Oe?r sung. I gev a pound to Kendall onct.” “Oh
then, I see you’re In the swim. You’ll cotton to
Salar at once.” And in half-an-hour after, the
Mayor had assured Mr. Sala that his name was a
household word, that for 30 years his writings had
charmed his present entertainers, and that, on be-
half of the citizens of Sydney, the members of the
Council had come spontaneously together to do
themselves and the city honour in welcoming one
who was known, appreciated, and beloved, where-
ever the English language was spoken. The great
litterateur responded effusively, and promised to
write a most favourable notice of the Sydney
City Council, with its highly-accomplished mayor
and able aldermen, in the columns of that London
paper which, everyone know, has the largest cir-
culation in the world. Scratch—Scratch!
The Jews called Jesus a blasphemer and
Sabbath-breaker. From their stand-point they
were probably right, just as Parkes in prosecuting
Webb, was, from a common-sense stand-point,
certainly wrong. But how did the Nazarene take
it ? With bluster and by standing on his dignity ?
Far from it. With patience and humility. Their
accusations He overturned by arguments—their
vilifications by calmly pursuing a blameless life.
had a mlS8i 9 n to perform, and could not step
aside to wrangle. But His followers have im-
proved on all 1 his. For t hem the teachings of the
Master are old-fashioned. If by any mistake von
happen, either in writing or to omit
tles > f° u aro apt to discover what’ecclesias-
means Here Is an instance.
The Bishop of , a N.s, Wales see had sorru
business to transact with the Government and
committed his views to paper. We are nSt con-
cerned with his ideas beyond eayina that the hand-
wrlting' which conveyed them was probably the
r.l d eL 8 .n P !i table t , he . ] w 9 rld has seen since Cadmus
invented letters. And it was hl§ Lordship’s own.
The most experienced officers of the Department
had to give it up. At fast one of them guessed its
purport and wrote a reply addressed:—” Mr. A. B.
Bishop, Oroakangoalong, N.S. Wales.” That was
the address the offending officer made out. He
never knew there was a Bishop of Oroakangoalong.
His Lordship received the letter, andthecommina-
tion he used was simply hair-raising. The first train
saw him en route for Sydney. The interview he
had with the head of the offending department has
caused that official to give stringent orders that
no more persons having an ecclesiastical air are to
be allowed in. The letter tad to be re-written and
re-addressed, or “he’d let ’em know who he was,
he would.’’ Alas! Christianity. What things are
done in thy name I
Dr. Moffltt, resident surgeon of the Bal-
larat Hospital, has got his foot in a crab-hole, and
it will require a lot of wriggling to dislodge the
pedal member. Dr. M. is a believer in faith-heal-
ing, and thinks lotion and lance aint a circum-
stance when pure unadulterated faith takes this
case in hand. Queer views these for a medical
man, seeing that the “ perfesh’’can’t monopolise
faith and retain its half-a guinea a pop. Anyhow,
he baa written a 1. tter to the local Courier on the
subject, wherein he uses the case of a patient,
late of the institution, as an example how faith
had given her a fresh start at the mangle, when
the usual medical remedies were tried, and never
eased her worth a dime. The ey« of the Hospit 1
Committee happened to light on this soulful scrib-
ble. whereupon the aforesaid Committee got
high up on the back of its cheir and howled. It
ssii that if the begrimed institution couldn t lick
faith one hand kneeling, they’d better bust it up
“ to onst,” give the medicos a job knapping rock,
and hand all contributions over to the “ clugy.” But
the other doctors connoted with the hospital cut ip
hero, and claimed all credit for the relief afforded
to the patient, and affirmed, moreover, that Moffltt
is a speaker of untruths, a morbid prevaricator, if
he says that faith was anywhere about in the
case. So now thelCommittee is barking at Moffltt
like a mob of famished dingoes. But this Is not
the sum of his woes. It appears that a youth
named Clarke was admitted to the hospital, suf-
fering from diphtheria or something. The boy was
had, and continued to get no better very fast,
until the 4tb instant, when the doctor decided to
operate on him. So he ran a slit ia his windpipe,
and fixed him up with a three-inch gaspipe. But
the boy died, and his father say? he has been ex-
perimentally killed, and is clamouring for sweet
revenge. And Dr. Moffltt wishes he had taken to
the soap-boiling business.
Mr. Edmund Yates, now in gaol for four
months for libelling Lord Lonsdale, writes from
Holloway Gaol a letter of nearly three columns to
the Worud from which wo extract: “The last
Bari of Lonsdale, brother of the present man,
ended a most disreputable life by a most awful
death—a death so shudderingly hideous in its
details as to be only describabie by the pen of a
Zola. With these details, within 34 hours of their
occurrence, I was made fully acquainted. Within
48 hours of their occurrence I was personally ad-
dressed by a gentleman representing the Lonsdale
family. After satisfying himself, by a few adroit
questions (to which one word of mine was suffi-
cient answer), that I knew all the circumstances,
he told me he had, on behalf of the family, to
implore me to prevent these awful details from
becoming known. My reply was that the publi-
cation ot such matters was not my business; that
by reason of his wealth and position, the late Lord
Lonsdale had been a public man, on whose eccen-
tric career and wasted opportunities it might be
fitting to comment, but that of the history and
mystery of his death nothing would be said. The
gentleman retired, protesting his gratitude on the
family’s behalf; and I kept my word. This is the
Lonsdale family, which, in kindly acknowledg-
ment of my reticence, has, in punishment of some-
thing which was at worst but an error of careless-
ness on my part, promptly regretted and apolo-
gised for, hounded me down for two years,
bringing to bear against me every weapon which
their wealth, their position, their connections
placed in their power, and finally tearing me, at
mature age and In a state of health which requires
careful watching and special treatment—tearing
me from my home, my family, my comforts, my
business, and landing me—where everyone knows
I am. For nearly three years I have carried this
story locked under my own waistcoat, having
mentioned it to only one or two intimates. Now,
liberavi animam, and there’s an end ou’t.”
Mr. James Munro was entertained at
breakfast lately in the Melbourne Athenaeum. He
goes to the land of his sires for a spell, and for-
gives, while trying to forget, the hard things said
to and of him during his recent struggles to be
accepted by somebody as a representative. Mr.
Munro looks a particularly honest man, and the
vehemence with which he assures an audience
that he actually is one is strongly corroborative of
his look. When he gets in a passion he leaves
more tattered English about the platform and
plugged into the ears of his hearers than any other
orator in the South. And what is strange in this
connection, is that he sucks nothing stronger than
water. We don’t know what started him first at
the consumption of water, but he is not alone a
glutton himself with respect to that rather scarce
commodity, but he makes it the chief purpose ot
his life to induce others to connect themselves
with thoYan Yean mains and hold taps in their
mouths. When, not long ago, he contested a seat
in the Legislative Council with the representative
of democracy and diamonds, (most of our good
wishes went with the brilliant Beaney. Why ? Be-
cause, In our opinion, any man who, during such
seasons of drought as all the colonies have been
going through, could drink away at the precious
fluid as he drank, and egg on the mult itude to lay
hold of taps as he egged them, cannot have within
his bosom the largo and noble heart of the unsel-
fish patriot. Any man with one spark of that fire
which at times blazes up, and, emerging in crim-
son flames from between the teeth of the patriot
orator, makes him look like a burning shanty, and
which at other times does not blaze but can be felt
if you hold a hand on his stomach, would have, we
contend, during the last drought in Victoria, let
go the tap of the Yan Yean main and given whisky
a turn. That was our chief objection to Mr.
Munro. Now that the drought is over, and that
he informed the 300 ladles and gentlemen who sat
at table with him of his forgiveness of all those
who disagreed with him, we, too, cry off, on our
side, and wish him a sunny voyage!
A private letter of George Elliot’s con-
cerning a certain “papular preacher,” Spurgeon,
probably:—“Yesterday, for the first time, we
went to hear A. (a popular preacher). I remem-
bered what you had said about bis vulgar, false
emphasis; but there remained the fact of his
celebrity, I was glad of the opportunity. But
my impressions fell below the lowest judgment I
ever heard passed upon him. He has the gift of a
fine voice, very flexible and various; he is admir-
ably fluent and clear in his language, and every
now and then his enunciation is effective. But I
never heaid any pulpit reading and speaking
which, in Its level tone, was more utterly common
and empty of guiding intelligence or emotion; it
was as if the words had been learned by heart, and
uttered without comprehension by a man who
had no instinct of rhythm or music in his soul.
And the doctrine I It was a libel on Calvinism
that it should be presented in such a form.
1 never heard any attempt to exhibit the
soul’s experience that was more destitute
of insight. The sermon was against Fear, in
the elect Christian, as being a distrust of God; but
never once did he touch the true ground of fear—
the doubt whether the signs of God’s choice are
present in the soul. We had plenty of anecdotes,
but they were all poor and pointless—Tract Society
anecdotes of the feeblest kind. It was the most
superficial grocer’s-back-parlour view of Calvlnls-
tic Christianity; and I was shocked to find how
low tho mental pitch of our society must be,
judged by the standard of this man’s celebrity.
Mr. Lewes was struck with some of his tones as
good actor’s tones, and was not so wroth as I was.
But just now, with all Europe stirred by events
that make every conscience tremble after some
great principle as a consolation and guide, it was
too exasperating to sit and listen to doctrine that
seemed to look no farther than the retail Chris-
tian’s tea and muffins. He said, ‘ Let us approach
the throne of God,’ very much as he might have
invited you to take a chair; and then followed
this fine touch, ‘ We feel no love to God because
He hears the prayers of others; It is because He
hears my prayer that I love Him.’ ”
Mrs. Weldon, the notorious English liti-
gant, who is now sueing that most unfortunate of
wretches, her husband, for £33,000 damages for
breach of contract, remarked in court of a cer-
tain witness that he was telling “ an infernal lie.”
She said she was married on the 31st April, 1860.
Mr. Weldon was introduced to her in 1858 as a man
worth £10,600 a year. He was considered “ a great
catch.” He fell in love with her, and she with
him. Her father, whose estates were near
Brighton, said that Mr. Weldon must not come to
the house unless he agreed to marry one of the
daughter?. Afterwards Mr. Weldon said he had
only £5000 a year. It then appeared that he had
only £1000 a year on coming of age, but he had
£3000 on the death of his grandmother. Mrs.
Treherne, her mother, told her £3000 a year was
beggary, and £1000 a year starvation. In 1859 they
met again, and exchanged vows of eternal love.
Afterwards she found that he was living with a
mistress, but the did not know what that meant.
She knew a mistress must be a woman. She was
much shocked at what she heard, and herfove for
defendant became less ardent. Then he wrote to
her and said that unless she married him there was
nothing for him but to get killed In India. She
wished to marry him, but did not see how they
were to live on nothing. Her friends were against
marriage, as she was then very pretty, and
might have made a good marriage. She then
thought of earning money by singing; she wrote
to Mr. Weldon proposing to do this Mrs. Weldon
then read a voluminous correspondence between
herself and her husband relative to her going on
the stage. She said that she should not read all
the lettefs (one of them—her own-iyas of 70.
RELIEF.
*' ‘ Whilst the Court,’ said Mr. Justice Windeyer ‘will make every allowance for
men who hy adverse circumstances are really compelled to leave their -wives in search
of honest employment, it will give no countenance to a class of men, already too large,
who, preferring to spend their time in dissipated idleness, seek no settled employment,
leave their wives to the mercy of strangers, fill our charitable institutions with their
deserted children, and, when they have too often succeeded in dragging their wives
down to their own level, think they can rid themselves of them by the machinery of
a Court which was established not for the encouragement of the reckleis and dissolute
but for the innocent and unfortunate.’ ”
JUSTICE W.: “THERE, NOW, INSTEAD OF BREAKING THE CHAIN, I HAVE GIVEN
YOU A HEAVIER ONE THAN BEFORE !”
NOT LIKELY!
AMATEUR ASPIRANT FOR DRAMATIC HONOURS: “OH, MR. M'BUSKIN, PRAY LET
ME PLAY JULIET. I'M CERTAIN I SHALL NEVER FALL FLAT!”


oo-pr) as they were about 500 in number. On the
PM e VnrU, I860- she said, they were married, and
went abroad for the purpose of her beieg
4 j»at,ed for the stage. Mr. Weldon had misrepre-
fortune; at the time of the marriage he
money at all. Her father was very much
offftinst the marriage. In July, I860, they went to
npRumaris, to Mr. Weldon's mother; she was liv-
Svtn a small cottage. She gave up goii?g on the
the request of Mr. Weldon. They lived
&Vfaur vears on £130 a year, she keeping the ac-
..nts Mr. Weldon promised to make a postnup-
tial settlement on her of £800 a year, and in conse-
,pnee of what be told b?r, she made an entry in
2»rJournal: “ Harry has settled £800 a year on his
Swires ” He. however, had never maie any such
ipment. She then read letters passing between
Smpself and her husband in May and June, 1869,
«flative to their going to London. The case hadn t
concluded when the mail left.
Shoemakers have the reputation of being
vppn politicians, all the land over. While at work
fhpv have plenty of time to ponder on the sole of
♦Sinvs The hardy and brave islanders of Skye—
to whom, (says the English paper from which we
nuote the whole of their paragraph) we wish every
o,7ppes3 in their resolute and manful fight against
pnnressivo and unjust rents-have, as one of
their bold leaders, a particularly ’determined dis-
Pinle of St. Crispin in John Maeleod, whose fea-
tures we now beg to Introduce to our readers
throughout the Empire. John Maeleod belongs to
the stout-hearted brotherhood of the crofters,
whose courageous struggle against oppressive
Feudalism in Skye and in the North of Scotland
generally we Londoners watch with sympathetic
interest, inasmuch as they are pluckily fighting
the battle of every tenant who happens to
be over-burdened by an unscrupulous usurer
of a landlord, such as rules the roast too fre-
quently in town and country alike. Here
in London such monstrously high ground-
rents a r e demanded and insisted on by Ducal Land-
lords that the only wonder is a householders’
combination has not not been formed to resist
by co-operation the cruelly unjust exactions
which obtain on the estates of the Duke of Bed-
ford and the Duke of Westminster, for example.
The same screw is put on in Skye and in London
alike. But the hour should be nigh when these
conscienceless land usurers should be compelled
by an indignant Parliament to disgorge their ill-
gotten wealth, and be prevented by legal enact-
ment from over again grinding their tenants to
the dust. To hasten the coming of this time, we
need a few determined Macleods among us in Lon-
don.
Australia can get but little money in Lon-
don for genuine gold-mining enterprises. But
when coin is required for a South African, or
South American venture, or for some bogus
Indian scheme—the British public dropped eight
or ten millions in Indian gold-mining—John Bull
" comes down ” like a lamb. Everyone has heard
of Albert Grant, the notorious London “finan-
cier,” whom the Emperor of Germany “ennobled ”
a few years ago, and, in doing so, gave London
Punch the opportunity to remark:—
“ A king may titles give, but honours can’t;
Title without honour is a Barren Grant.”
The illustrious Baron went smash a good while
since, and was sold up. He found himself penniless
in the city to which in the times of his croesian
prosperity he had, with reckless, off-hand good
nature, presented a niece of ground worth nowa-
days, perhaps, £300,000, The Baron was literally
stripped of all his goods. The magnificent marble
staircase —which cost £10,000—from his Kensington
mansion was sold, and is now trodden on by the
public as they ascend the stairs at Madame Tus-
saud's new waxworks establishment. But the
clouds have rolled by, and the Baron is once more
“in it” right up to his neck. Two years ago.
he floated the “ Lisbon - Berlyn (Transvaal)
G.M. Co.. Limited,” capital, £500,000, which had
£200,000 actually available for operations. He
has’ spent all this money, and a meeting of share-
holder the other day authorised him to borrow
£50,000 on debentures at 10 per cent., though so
far not a speck of gold has been sent to London.
How is it that fair and square Australian mining
has so long been without a golden-mouthed re
presentative and advocate in London ? How is it
that we can’t get the “ aristocracy,” except a few
of them who are commercially in bad odour, to
believe or affect to believe in us ? Does the N.S.W,
Agent-General, Saul Samuel, spoil our chances
when he says “ inter noose” and when he speaks
of the New Caledonian convicts as “ residivvies ?"
Or, on the other hand, does Murray Smith, the
Victorian Ambassador, who, like Sir Dillon Bell,
of New Zealand, is able to speak Parisian French
to Jules Ferry, make a mess of things by placing
his colony under the patronage of noblemen
whom such politically ignorant people as Joe Mit-
chell and Hezlet would speak of as “ Fenians ? ’
The affairs of the Victorian Embassy in London
are in a somewhat complicated condition. The
second in command, Mr. Cashel Hoey, is really
boss of the situation. He is a C.M.G., and Mur-
ray Smith, his alleged official superior, who
holds a similar title, did not get it con-
ferred on him until some time after it had been
given to Mr. Hoey. The latter is grand cecretary,
or something to the “Knights of Malta,” a body
who, it is understood, are able to get a fellow made
a “Count of the Holy Roman Empire,” whatever
that may mean. To this body belong most of the
ho man Catholic peers, and as Murray Smith is
only mortal, and as he has ladies in his family
to be presented in court, and so on, it follows that
be is somewhat susceptible to the wills of the
aristocracy. Hoey knows this and plays on it.
So whenever Murray Smith gets a bit restive in
consequence of a cablegram from Service, and
rings the “ bell ” for Mr. Cashel Hoey, the latter,
who always contrives to keep a live lord on the
premises, sa> s, “ Pardon me, Mr. Smith.” Then he
rushes out—he says, over to the House of Lords.
He soon returns with a third party and rushes
n to the sacred presencefof the Cabbage Garden
ambassador. “Permit me, my lord Ashburn-
b»m,” he remarks, “to introduce you to
hoy little Victorian friend—er— Smith— Mr. Mur-
ray Smith.” Then Murray bows deeply and
reverentially to his lordship, and a few
nights afterwards you find an R.C. peer—
my Lord Ashburnham or my Lord Qranard,
Perhaps— asking questions in the House of Peers
on behalf of the Victorian Embassy. One of the
London papers recently remarked that the Go-
vernment of Victoria, which colony refused the
Redmond brothers the use of lecture-halls, won't
be very pleased to find that its business in the
House of Lords is done by Romanist noblemen.
As if there was of necessity the slightest connec-
'*on between Romanism and the policy of the
ctld-blcoded, calculating, and indomitable Protcs
tant Parnell I When Lords Granard and Ashburn-
ham, etc., go in for the encouragement of landlord-
shooting (which by bigots is understood to be the
policy of the Irish land-reform party), the Duke
of Westmicster and Sir W. J. Clarke, Baronet,
may be expected to develop into practical commu-
nists. All the things set forth in this wandering
paragraph point to one conclusion—that it is abso-
lutely necessary for the great Australian nation to
select some nice, clean little boys from its State
Schools and put them in training for its diplomatic
service. All the bows which lords get at the Vic-
torian office in London are of one pattern. The
poor little office-boy, when he sees a peer, actually
bites his own toes.
* * ♦
Mr. Campbell Williams, of Sydney, a
student of University College, has just been ad-
mitted as a member of the Royal College of Sur-
geons... The death is announced, at Liverpool, of
Mr. Mining, who was owner of the Bella, In which
Sir Roger Tichborne sailed for Rio, and which was
never heard of afterwards ...Much stir has been
made in R. C. circles by the announcement that
the Marquis of Bute had joined the Wyclif
Society, and it is stated that efforts are being
made to induce him to withdraw his name from
the list of members... .The Pall Mall alludes to
Mudgee Taylcr as “ a kind of colonial Bradlaugh.”
Mrs. Langtry has been unwell lately. It is
said (probably by Mr. Langtry) she has heart dis-
ease.. Zola's latest novel “Germinal,” is attract-
ing absolutely no attention in Paris—Colonel
Burnaby wasn’t a good writer. In his own words,
“he wrote as he talked, and did not pretend to
have any style.” Yet he was a success, for
Sampson Low gave him, as a first instalment on
his “On Horseback through Asia Minor,” £2500.
.... The father of Lucille Dudley, the woman w io
shot O'Donovan Rossa, is said to be cooking on an
Australian station.. The Marchioness of Lome
is an inveterate cigarette smoker, Edmund
Yates began his journalistic career at one pound
a week.. Madame Clovie-Hugues, who will pro-
bably not be seen on the stage as Lady Macbeth,
or otherwise, is said to resemble greatly in ap-
pearance the lato Madame Parepa-Kosa. She is a
close friend of Theresa, the famous ballad-singer.
Edison is only 37 years old. He wears short
brown hair, but no beard. His gray eyes axe re-
markable for their enormous pupils.
Jeremiah O’Donovaa, better known as O’Donovan Rossa, was born in the little town of Ross
county of Cork, about the year 1830, and has, therefore, attainedhis fifty-fifth orfifty-sixth year. Subse-
quently he removed
to Skibbereen, in the
same county, wheie
he opened a small
shop. Jt so chanced,
however, that there
was another person
of the same name,
also a shopkeeper,
at Skibbereen, and
this led the hereafter
Fenian leader to
change his patrony-
mic. Meanwhile
Rossa bad become
known among his as-
sociates for ultra
anti-English views,
and in 1858, when
Stephens was organ-
ising the movement
which ultimately de-
veloped Into Fenian-
ism, he found at
Skibbereen a so-
called literary club,
the Phoenix Na-
tional and Literary
Society.” Rcesawas
concerned in the
foundation of that
society, which was
distinctly not liter-
ary, but seditious.
The oath taken by
its members was to
the following effect:
—“ I do solemnly de •
clare in the presence
of God that I re-
nounce all allegiance
to the Queen of Eng-
land, and will do my
utmost at every risk
to make Ireland an
Independent Demo-
cratic Republic, and
that I will take up
arms and fight at a
moment’s notice;
that I shall yield im-
plicit obedience to
the commands of my
superior o ffi c e r s;
that I will preserve
inviolable secrecy
with regard to tho
society; and that I
take this oath with-
out any mental re-
servation whatever.
. w o help mo God.”
The Phoenix Society
was composed chief-
ly of young men.
mostly clerks, who it
was declared in evi-
dence, had ’occasion-
ally met at night
and been drilled and
disciplined. On De-
cember 8,1858, seve-
ral of these enthusi-
asts were arrested,
O Donovan Rosea
being of thenumber.
One of them only,
Daniel O'Sullivan,
was convicted, and
sentenced to ten
years’ penal servi-
tude—he was de-
fended by the late
Lord O'Hagan—the
rest pleaded guilty,
and were liberated
to appear when
called on. Rossa's
promises of future
good behaviour were
immediately broken.
No sooner was tho
Phoenix Society dis-
solved than he be-
came deeply i n-
volved in the Fenian
conspiracy. It was
on November 8, 1863,
that the Irish Peo-
ple, tho organ of
Fenianism, first ap-
peared, its registered
proprietor being
ThomasClarke Luby,
and its publisher
Jeremiah O’Dono-
van (Rossa). Mean-
while the Fenian
confederacy was
growing, nurtured
largely by subscrip-
tions and assistance
in other forms from
America, one of the
most trusted agents
between the Trans-
atlantic and Home
conspirators being
O'Donovan Rossa.
Then came the ar-
rangements for the
rising, the seizure of
the Irish People,
the arrest and trial
of Rossa and his col-
leagues. On Novem-
ber 27, 1865, the spe-
cial commission
charged with the
trials of the prisoners
was opened. Of all
the Fenian trials in
Ireland, Rossa’s
was the most sensa-
tional, and excited
the greatest interest,
and tho prisoner suc-
ceeded In making
capital out of it. His
sentence of penal
servitude for life
was cut short by the
amnesty in 1869, and
since then the prin-
cipal interest In the
conspirator’s life has
been America, where
he openly ad ■ ocated
the use of dynamite
to blow up public
buildings in Eng-
land, In New York
he was a well-known
figure. Habitually
ho was to be seen In
Pi inting House-
square, which is the
Fleet street of New
York, orating before
an excited Irish mob,
baring his arms and
showing the scars he
said he had received
in British prisons.
But O’Donovan Ros-
sa took care to profit
by treason without
incurring risk, and
he did this the more
effectually by always
claimin'? the credit
of every dynamite
outrage in this coun-
try. He did this the
other day when the
explosions took
place at the Tower
and in the House of
Commons. As late as
January 27 it was tel-
egraphed from Ntw
York that “ O’Dono-
van Rossa's paper
this week submits a
plnnfor setting flreto
London by locating
50 men and women
in lodging - houses
round three or four of the principal squares, in order to set Are to all at the same time.” Rossa’s in-
temperate hablfs made the wounds he received on Monday particularly dangerous. While O’Donovan
Rossa was walking down Ghambers-street, New York, he was appro ched by a handsome young
woman, quietly dressed and wearing spectacles, who presented the appearance of an intellectual school
teacher. On nearing him she drew from the pocket of her dress a five-chambered revolver of small
calibre, and, presenting it, tired one shot at him. Rossa threw up his hands, and, exclaiming “ I am
shotl” fell heavily on the pavement. The woman then fired the remaining four chambers at the pros-
trate man, and proceeded to walk calmly and unconcernedly away, with the i evolver in her hand. A
large crowd assembled round the spot where Rossa lay, and several people followed the woman and
arrested her. The man who actually apprehended her said that he found her in the street brandishing
a weapon. She was conducted to the police station, and behaved with remarkable coolness. A man
who entered the station with her informed the police that she had just shot a man. The sergeant
asked her: “ Do you know the man ?” She replied, with a slight English accent. “ Yes, I shot O'Douo-
van Rossa.” She looked demure, and as she stood at the bar, betrayed no excitement. She gave her
name as Yeslet Dudley, and said she was a native of England, and a hospital nurse by occupation. She
described herself as a widow, of 24, but did not appear more than 18. Subsequently she was locked up,
and was not allowed to be interv lowed by any representatives of the Press. The prisoner is not thought
to be insane, as she answered all the questions put to her deliberately and with some degree of
caution. The Yankee papers describe Miss Dudley, who shot Rossa, the dynamite coward, as a
“ thoroughbred Englishwoman of keen mind and bright perception. She was an intensely patriotic
little lady, sarcastic and cuttirg at times.” That’s just it. She fires her epigrams and sarcasms into
one in a way that even the dullest can understand. There are few things “ more sarcastic and cut-
ting” than a revolver bullet, or more apt to make a man re-conslder his opinions. It now turns out
that Miss Mudley was hired by Rossa to shoot him in some fleshy part, which would cause no greater
Inconvenience than obliging him to lie on his face for a day or two, or say his prayers standing.
The money wans't re l ing in fast enough for dynamite, and the saloon business was falling off.
Something had to be done.- Rut Dudley’s nervousness nearly ruined all—she aimed too high. Besides,
according to the agreement, the powder was to be wet, but she, womanlike, forgot all about that
part of the contract O’Douovan swears that if ho ever gets another woman to fire at him it will be
with a bow-and-arrow.
Mr. DbCourct Bkownb (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52 Castle-
reagh-streot, Sydney, *ar Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supremo Court.*
MISS DUDLEY.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Moral Keynote.
My bright, blythe, early years of life with piety
were crammed,
And words of holy counsel—thickly buttered,
sweetly jammed—
Regardless of expense, were slid into me day by
day,
Until my mind was charged and primed with what
to say
In ev'ry sharp emergency; and ti l my soul soared
straight,
On wings of aspiration, o'er the high, glass-bottled
gate,
Where souls untaught to soar like mine are sure
to cut their hands
And shins, if they will clamber o’er into the angel
lands.
Of course, some people think the way to get with-
in the gate
la by loud knocking, but you'll have the deuce’s
time to wait
If any fun is on within—a new chum Irish saint
Explaining that he came toheav’n without “the
laste complaint.”
Or an Australian patriot, declaring it sublime
To voluntar’iy sling his wife and go to punish
crime;
These sorts of fun are sure to make the angels
madly gay.
And, though your soul its knuckles break, they’ll
let it rap away.
I found myself, when youth was past, stuffed full
of moral laws—
A theologic pin-cushion, where sages stuck their
saws;
For ev’ry purpose of existence I could fork
straight out
A yard or two of good advice to strangle noisy
doubt;
A silver spur, a golden lance to give a send-along
To virtue, if it flagged or showed a tendency to
wrong;
Arad I got on, and on, and on, and others, who
began
With equal opportunities, soon saw me in the van.
The other day one said to mo, “I see why you
should go
Ahead of all the common ruck; but, truly, I don’t
know
In what way you can manage to excel the people
who
Have got as holy counsel and boon taught as well
as you.”
I thought upon this language; I could see my col-
lege chums,
Like me In pious childhood, all a-sucking of their
thumbs;
Like me in holy youthhood, all a-swallowlng the
laws
That gave eternal meaning to the simplest little
cause.
And yet they were behind me and below me I Why>
oh, why ?
Was it a special Providence at work up In the sky?
I puzzled and I pondered, and at last 1 thought I’d
run
My ethical convictions slowly o’er, one by one,
And observe wherein I differed in my practices
from those
Who, with equal opportunities, but slowly, slowly
rose,
Or never rose at all.
Ha, yesl I found it in the end—
It is conveyed in the brief lines I herewith noW
append:
’Tis-7 fIfound the way around
Too Inna, well, then I was
Absolved from the necessity of minding any laws!
That’s itl that's itl That’s how I came to make
such stirring pace I
Not all the other laws and saws could give mo a
front place;
Not Infancy of piety, or childhood of long prayer.
Or manhood of devotion, will avail to lift you
there,
Unless you hold tenaciously, while keeping all the
rest.
That ethical conviction at the bottom of your
breast.
Shylock’s Knife in Egypt
Hark 1 Hear the drum; the bugle, hark 1
While armed soldiers disembark,
A scarlet-clad and stolid host,
Upon the hot Egyptian coast.
In steel array, they sternly stand
In martial line upon the strand;
All move as one—a Jive machine,
With soul crushed out by discipline.
While clang of arms and bugle shrill
Strike dread o’er plain and distant hill,
The patriots mark the firm advance
Of British sword, and gun, and lance;
Wide miles of bayonets in the sun,
Behind the mortar and the gun—
Grim iron tools, long and straight.
By Christiana made, to desolate—
Which, hard and bright, Uing back the rays
Of burning sun in fltckeilng blaze;
Tho dread artillery of Krupp
Is dragged by foaming horses up —
A thousand guns, to crush or kill
The hearts that beat for Egypt still.
With shrieking fife and rolling drum.
In endless train, the Christiana come
Upon tho lines of Egypt—dumb I
Like to the tiger gathering
His dreaded strength for fatal spring.
Bo Britain breathes, and draws together—
A deadly lull in threatening weatUerl
Till, in the stillest moment, wakes
The tempest that on fooman breaks.
Red British lines at last begin
To pour their volleys swiftly in.
And Egypt, in a writhing mass,
Falls prone and bleeding on the grafs.
Now sounds tlm rapid kettledrum,
Shrill screams the bugle o’er the hum—
Advance I advance upon them Hying,
O’er heaps of wounded, dead, and dying.
There, wrestling ’mid the smoke and dust.
With clubbed gun and dreadful thrust,
With eyes aglare and brow aswoat.
Blood dripping from each bayonet,
Or belching out upon the plain
From groaning men yet scarcely slain.
With anxious hankering athirst,
Upon the shrinking foe they burst!
Prepare for cavalry I The sound
Of bugle’s heard, vibrates the ground,
And, rushing like a wind from hell,
With jaws a-iock and breasts a-swell,
Dragoons lean forward on their horses
And gallop over mangled corpses;
Excited by the racing speed.
None now may turn the gallant steed;
None may refuse their leader’s lead,
None now refuse to die or bleed;
No one may turn him from the strife—
A medal now, or butcher's knifel
Hark! bear the dreaded battle cry;
One wild Hurrah 1 and foemen fly.
Seel Egypt shrinks from sabre blow;
Yet some do turn their face to foe—
They die avenged, with duty done
For country, wife, and little one.
Ah I brave lips pressed by mother’s kiss—
Ah I heart’s wild swell—religious bliss—
And aspirations good and high—
All dragaed to battle, and to dlel
When will humanity ask why?
And, with bis foot upon its head,
When lay the “ battle monster ” dead ?
Now Night unrolls her mantle black
On dire retreat and dread attack,
And hides from each the other’s face,
Disfigured, drawn, by pain’s grimace;
Human bodies out and gashed.
Disembowelled, slit, and smashed,
Faces crushed, and chests all gaped
With wlde-llpt wounds by sabres shaped,
And mangled masses struck by shell—
Some say from heaven, some from hell—
with heaps of festering redcoats dead,
Who less for country fought, than bread;
All reeking, grinning, ghastly, gory—
And this is Military Glory!
The distant Christiana, full of news,
Are gravely in their pews,
While priests, oificially, their praise
To «od, for crimes like Shy lock’s raise.
The cry of blood from out the ground
Is by Te Deum and organ drowneVl;
.Ana solemn, pious parsons croak,
And thank Heaven for the ghastly joke.
While murder, organised and armed,
Is rampant, fondled, and be-Psalmed.
In the Woods.
Within the dark recesses of the woods.
When sunlight gPmmers through thef retted[roof,
And calls chiaroscuro.lnto life
To set the over-shifting light and shade.
In Keirbrandtesque effects,
The sombrous, undefined arboreal groupings,
From uniformity assume variety.
And wear a thousand graduated hues;
The lizard basks upon the fallen trunk,
The where it shows from out its mossy shroud;
The forest spider’s geometric snare
Wears liquid pearls upon its filmy threads,
And then the vivifying ray illumines
The graceful fern, the greenwood's nodding
plumes.
0’DONOV.AN ROSSI.


32 O CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
IMPORTERS OF SUPPLIES
L
Nr
%
9
<2
So
<•0
m-
8
£
A
<2
;rc
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, beat, and cheapest
in the colonies.
Catalogues, post free, to any part of Australia.
Sole Agents for Baker's Dry Plate, the most reliable and rapid in the market.
Carnriek’s Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk
(Composed of about equal proportions of Pure Cod Liver Oil and Condensed Milk digested).
IT affords us much pleasure to announce to the Medical Profession and the Public that wo have suc-
ceeded in combining these nu'ritive substances Into a permanent, palatable, and easilu assimilable
form.
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk has the following advantages over the Plain Oil and the
Emulsions now in use 1st. Plain Cod Liver Oil is unpalatable to most persons, but in combinat on
with condensed ( digested) milk, as exhibited in this preparation, it will usually bo taken by the youngest
child with a relish'. 2nd. Oils are prepared for assimilation principally in the duodenum ; com eqnently
Cod Liver Oil, when taken plain, often .'itfends the stomach, The Oil and Milk in Peptonized Cod Liver
Oil and Milk are digested, and it will therefore usually agree with the most delicate stomach. 3rd.
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk contains double the nutritive and liesh-forming principles found in
the Emulsions of Cod Liver Oil. 4th. It is well known that the Emulsions of Cod Liver Oil usually
contain from 00 to 75 per cent, of water. Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk contains 52 per cent, of
best Cod Liver Oil, and in the place of water we use condensed milk, reduced in vacuo in our labora-
tory. 5th. The milk is condensed to the consistency of the Cod Liver Oil, and when combined, as in
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk, it forms one of the meat pleasant and nutritious compounds that
can bo conceived or produced.
|3r° This Preparation is acknowledged far superior to any of the Cod Liver Oil Emulsions ever
introduced, it being already digested, it may be retained on the weakest stomach.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with HYPOPHOSPHITES OF LIME AND
SODA. To be obtained of the Principal Chemists and Druggists in the colonies. •
The Maltine Manufacturing Co., Lim., 24 and 25 Hart-st., Bloomubury, London, W.C.
Wholesale Agents in the Colonies Elliott Bros.. Sydney; B. Prosser & Co., Sydney; Felton, Grim-
waOc, & Co., Melbourne; Rocke, Tompaitt. & Co., Melbourne; Duerdin & Sainsbury, Melbourne; F H.
Faulting &Co., Adelaide; A. M. Bicklord & Co., Adelaide; Berkley, Taylor, & Co., Brisbane ; Elliott,
Bros. & Co., Brisbane; New Zealand Drug Co., Brisbane.
Samples and Full Particulars may be obtained of
W. T. PALMER, 104 King-street, Sydney.
s
Y D N E T OWL CLUB.
GARDEN^PARTY
Will take place
THURSDAY, the 9th APRIL,
at the
Sir Joseph Banks’ Gardens,
BOTANY.
Tickets—Double, 30j.; Gent.’s, 218.; Ms.«d.;
can be procured from any of the lioaiu o
Management.
MORRIS MEN8BB. Hon. Sec.,
384 George-street.
' Special return tram, 11.30 p.m.
OHIARINI’S GRAND CIRCUS
And „„„
GREAT WILD BEAST SHOW.
■'"s
Will Exhibit at RELMORE PARK,
Commencing about FRIDAY, MARCH 27.
VST Wait for it? Watch for it I J See it 111
In all Its Wondrous and Gigantic Entirety.
Its Vast Pavilion Enclosures (Seating capacity, 5000
people), its Brilliant Illumination, its Periec-
of the ANIMAL KINGDOM,
Its GOLDEN and SILVER BAND,
Led by the Greatest Living Cornetist,
Professor Mohden,
Which gives a grand free out-door Concert for one
hour before each performance commences,
In Front of the Huge Tents.
Several NEW FEATURES Added Since its Last
Visit.
I /WtAW/lvs*.
FRANK Q. WILSON. Advance Agent.
2 T. GEORGE’S HALL,
5 Melbourne.
Lessees Clark and Ryman.
OPEN ALL THE TEAR ROUND.
First-class Artists, Novelties, Combinations—
either Musical. Dramatic, Minstrel, or Operatic—
treated with.
Silence a respectful negative. ...
This popular place of amusement is now in its
full tide of success—houses packed to the doors
nightly. Pronounced by the Press, public, and
profession to be the best entertainment ever seen
in Melbourne.
Notice.—The title of “Red Stockings” has
been duly registered, and anyone infringing this
title will bo prosecuted according to law.
JOHN TORNING,
Business Manager.
A N O I N G
PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh Rouse Academy, 251
Castlereagh-street, near Bathurst-street. P.S.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all bo
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
soring floor, &c. No decorations required.
GENTS ARE WANTED
to represent our fast-selling
PUBLICATIONS AND BOOKS
in every town through Australia.
Our men make from £5 to £10 weekly. Stamp
to ensure full particulars.
STAND ARD PUBLISHING CO.,
57 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
Professional Directory.
H ISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks.. _
W HORACE BENT, with Hlscocks’ Federal
• Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
Sydney
TO AMATEUR THE ATRICALS.-Scenery Sup-
plied or Lent. G. Pebbiman. Scene Painter,
No. 7, back of Academy of Music, Castlereagh-st,
mHEATRB R O YAL.
X Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Gabneb and Musgbove.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager—Mr. H. H. Vincent.
Doors open at 7.15, commence 7.45, Carriages, 10.45.
Seventh Week, and established Success of the
Royal Dramatic Company.
THIS EVENING, at a quarter to 8 precisely,
Sardou’s famous Society Comedy Drama,
friends
FRIENDS FRIENDS
BRILLIANT CAST and GORDON’S SCENERY.
Furniture and appointments from Hamilton ai d
Co. Globe Furniture Warehouse, Park and Castle-
,f> Prkj'e8 tr of : Digss Circle, 5s.; Stalls,
3s.; Family Circle, 2s.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway s
Hotel. Box office open dally from 11 till 4.
New opera ho us e .
Lessees, Messrs. E. Majeroni and W. J..Wilson.
Under the Management of Rlgnold and Allison.
Stage Manager, J. F. Cathcart.
FOURTH WEEK CONFUSION.
George Augustus Sala on “ Confusion 1
defy the veriest stoic in the way of self-command
to restrain a smile, and I myself plead guilty to
laughing boisterously.”
EVERY EVENING, at 8 15,
Rlgnold and Allison’s Selected Comedy Company.
Plan at Huenerbein’s. Treasurer, G. A Coleman.
C A D B M Y
Lessee and Manager
OF MUSIC,
Mr. F. B. HiSCOCKS.
H ISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION
Every Evening In their Refined and Amusing
Entertainment.
The whole terminating with the Topical Absurdity,
by W. H. Bent,
REFUSED FOR THE SOUDAN.
Admission, 4s., 3s., 2s., and la. Box Plan at
Paling’s. Carriages at 10.15.
M
ATTHEW8’ WORLD CIRCUS
AND
CONGRESS OF ARENIC MARVELS.
Sole Proprietor Theodore Matthews.
Business Manager R- H. Bernard.
Equestrian Director W. Barlow.
TO-NIGHT TO-NIGHT,
until further notice, in their Mammoth two-
pole Pavilion, attho arRT'FTS
ORNER OF PITT AND PARK STREETS,
the wondrous and renowned
MATTHEWS FAMILY,
Premier All-round Circus Performers of the
dale and Female Champions ot the Arena. 00
ii x afnrt nf Performing Trick Horses and
”"3 f
uim?ban tralns. maaCe G t Vgent.° r
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL, GOULBURN.
rm handsome Bijou Theatre, completely re-
llb nanusuuio j .vlth every convenience,
modelled, best stages inthe colony (50 x
fof* anuisementTlfl .IfuaMln
nnsitlon of the main street. Mr. (Danes
,«r of the Montague-Turner Opera Company,
■--“The Hall I consider second to none R 1 New
h wales The acoustics are good; the stage
ireaslng-room accommodation Is superior to
TTflll in the colony. Applications addressed to
L PULLEN® Secretary, will receive prompt
OBTAINABLE EROM ALL GBOCEBS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
CELEBRATED
rams AID CASES, IEEACLI AID DOLDEI STEEP,
Self-raising TErated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
8. & A. liave obtained Eirst Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880 j Special Gold Medal
and Seven Eirst Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta LB. 1883-4*


REVOLUTION IN THE POSTAL SYSTEM.
PRODIGIOUS efforts are being made by the
New South Wales Government to bring the
Postal Department up to the requirements of the
time. Once pledged [to the introduction of the
parcels-post system, which has proved a national
boon in the United Kingdom and the United
States, the Sydney Minister is expediting the work
of making his Department a safe, cheap, And
speedy medium ot transit for all descriptions of
portable merchandise. This means that goods
may now be despatched through the Post Office
and delivered as qu'cklv as a letter to any address
in either colony. 1 he significance of the thing is
that it virtually brings the most distant resident
down to the doorstep of the best and cheapest
establishment in the great free-trade metropolis.
The man who has led the way in encouraging this
new and beneficial system of trade, is undoubtedly
Mr. T. M. ALCOCK, Jeweller and Watchmaker, of
the Haymarket, Sydney, Australian Agent for the
World-renowned Waltham Watches. For the past
15 years Mr. T. M. Alcock has been doing business
with people who have never been in Sydney, and
who have never seen or entered his shop.
Thorough, straightgoing, honest treatment of
patrons hundreds of miles away has won him a
permanent hold on the entire inland community
of each colony, and he now does a larger parcels-
post business in jewellery and watches than any
other three houses of either city. The Waltham
Watch has given Mr. Alcock ft further hold on the
inland public. By personal negotiation with the
Waltham proprietors at their works, Massachu-
setts, Mr. Alcock secured concessions as the Wal-
tham agent which placed these famous watches be-
fore the Australian public at manufacturer’s
prices. The parcels-post system completely links
the whole Australian public, as it were, on to the
great Waltham factory. Mr. Alcock forwards
these watches to any address in all Australia, pay-
ing the postage, and taking all the risk of safe de-
livery. By these means Walthams have gone
broadcast throughout these colonies. Mr. Alcock
handles every watch before despatching it, and he
alone executes the order. Of upwards of 10,000
purchasers there is not a single customer who has
complained or expressed dissappointment at Mr.
Alcock’s treatment of their favours.
THOUSANDS in ALL GRADES to select from at
MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES.
Mr. ALCOCK gives a Three Years’ Guarantee
with every Waltham Watch, and, in addition to
this, issues with each watch sold the Company’s
Certificate, as follows: —“ Watch. No. , and en-
graved with our Trade Mark, was manufactured
at our works, and is guaranteed by us to be made
of the best materials on the most approved prin-
ciples, and to possess every requisite tor a reliable
Timekeeper.”
For any defect in material, workmanship, or
performance under fair usage, we at all times hold
ourselves responsible.
General Agents, for the American Watch Co.,
ROBBINS and APPLETON.
R. ROBBINS, Treasurer.
T. M. ALCOCK, Agent,
673, George-street, HayraarkeLSydney.
GENT.’S SILVER WALTHAM WATCHES,
In Hunting or Open Face, with Crystal
Glass Sterling Hall-marked Cases.
KEVT WINDERS.
No. 1,—Seven jewels, steel balance. A
sound reliable timekeeper .. .. £2 10 0
No. 2.—Seven jewels, steel balance. Extra
heavy full size cases, specially
built for bush use 3 10 0
No. 3.—Seven jewels, good balance. Very
superior finish. Perfect time-
keeper 3 5 0
No. 4.—Full jewelled, compensation ba-
lance. Very highly finished; suit-
able for extreme climates 3 15 0
No. 5.—Compensation balance, extra
jewelled. In separate settings;
very superior movements 4 4 0
No. 6.—Three-quarter plate hands, to set
at back, good balance, seven jewels 3 5 0
No. 7.—Three-quarter plate, compensa-
tion balance, full jewelled. Spe-
cially rated ... 4 0 0
PATENT KEYLESS.
No. 8.—CELEBRATED RIVERSIDE, adjusted
keyless fine movement", three pair extra fine jewels
in setting, exposed pallets, compensation balance,
in silver case, 7 guineas; in massive gold cases 15
guineas. Note.—Read Swiss Commissioner’s speech
re this watch, and If you are in want of a perfect
time-keeper, buy one at manufacturer’s price ot
the agent, T. M. ALCOCK.
No. 9.—CELEBRATED HILLSIDE,seven jewels,
compensation balance. Very highly finished, and
perfect time-keeper, £415s. and £5 5s.
No. 10.—Full-sized extra stout cases, compensa-
tion balance, full jewelled. This movement is
specially built for hard usage, and is a perfectly
reliable time-keeper. In two prices, £5 5a. and £3
10s.
No. 11.—Full sized, three pairs of extra fine
jewels, in settings. Adjusted. This is a very
superior movement. £7 7s.
No. 12,—Named “ P. B. BARTLETT,” Waltham*
Mass., four pairs extra fine jewels, in settings,
compensation balance. This watch is the acme of
perfection. £7 7s.
No. 13.—Ladies’ very superior, full jewelled, com-
pensation balance. Engraved cates. £4 10s. and
£6 53.
LADIES’ AND GENT’S GOLD WALTHAMS,
In Hunting or Open Face, with Crystal Glass,
Standard Hall-marked Gold Cases, of various
grades—
£8 8 0 £11 11 0 £17 10 0
990 14 00 2000
10 10 0 15 15 0 up to 75 0 0
A magnificent stock of every grade ot Watch
made by the Waltham Company* including a rich
collection of Presentation Watches, in plain and
fancy engraved cases,
Duplicate parts of every Watch made by the
Company kept in stock. Waltham Watches re-
paired with the Company’s Materials on the
shortest notice.
THE ENGLISH PATENT LEVER WATCHES
ALSO COMPETE IN ALL AUSTRALIA.
Recognising the value of the better class of
English Patent Lever Watches, T. M. Alcock,
while in England, visited the great watch factories
of London, and entering into large contracts,
arranged for the manufacture of a splendid and
superior class of English Patent Lever Watch,
the BEST and cheapest ever imported to Aus-
tralia.
No. 1.—Crystal Glass or Hunting Case 5 .. £3 10 0
No. 2.—Ditto, extra jewelled and superior
finish 4 4 0
No. 3.—Ditto, highest grade, fuil-jewelled 5 5 0
No. 4.—Ditto ditto, superior adjusted .. 6 6 0
No. 5,—Rotherham's celebrated Levers .. 4 10 0
No. 6.—Rotherham's Compensated Balance 5 5 0
No. 7.—Rotherham’s Chronometer Balance,
highest quality 660
No. 8.—Rotherham’s Adjusted, compensated
balance, very superior 7 7 0
An unequalled stock of the above in 18-carat
gold casts, from £12 to £20; in keyless. £20 to £50.
SUPERIOR CHRONOGRAPHS.
T, M. ALCOCK is now in a position to offer td
the public generally the Cheapest and Best
CHRONOGRAPH for racing and timing purposes
ever made.
Illustrated Catalogues Forwarded Frefe.
All communications to be addressed,
T. M. ALCOCK,
Waltham Watch Agent,
673 Gcorgc-st., Haymarket, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
.-o B KOTAt—" Friends ” P>
9 cape mv°of E MusiCiscookfl’‘ F. Minstrels !!
Chews' CiRCUS-Pitt and Park Streets.... „
ThPre must be a head and a tail to every-
“ Even in the Soudan we have the “ Guards
end, and the N.8, Wales “ contingent’ at
other. So with the t’lnps’” matinee at the
t h ® House on Thursday last. Amery started-
9R£ r Vreran and Alf. Moynham finished. The
Man ’’ described in the bill as a “ descriptive
%na ” fell to Amery. It appeared to be half-
-Xtive, half-song. But whether recitative or
odv!or one or the other, or both or neither, it
m f«°aiven in a way which those who heard it will
w8 f ?onret in a day. Do we compare his voice
Srtth aafof the great baritones or light basses of
fha last thirty years ? Certainly not. We ve heard
Brians which would simply drown his. But there
® r fhmit his voice a sympathetic but indescribable
nuS often found wanting in far more powerful
qU !,= At all events, every one regretted that
Shell (wasT Campbell ?-weforget;. hadn’t
half-a-dozen more verses to his Last Man,
ff only to make it last longer.
* * *
Miss Deaken followed. Her voice—this is
m ,r opinion, and we’re prepared to fight for it—
u getting rounder, fuller, and-ln some of the
ower notes—mellower. Like good wine, it lm-
nroves with age. We can’t say how long she has
nnnsessed it, but- [The ground is delicate—try back.
P °Fi) B 1 To her squall there was a violin obli-
gato Played by “Brother” G. Rivers Allpress.
f*auaU, Allpret s-wo believe there’s a chance here
for a person to sail in with something funny.
We’ve tried and failed. Now, then. Evening
news “ Brevity man,” wake up.) Sister Allpress
might be more appropriate, but we forgive him
everything for the way he played that obligato.
Urn N. La Fuillade came next. We wonder if
•‘Nick ” ever in his life played anything as ’twas
written ? A namesake of his, of course, once
nlaved on a woman’s credulity, and we ye been
oa/ing the piper ever since. Still, as that distant
progenitor supplied both words and music, con-
siderable latitude of treatment was justly allowed
him But, to return. Our “Nick - worked off
“ Aiild Robin Gray ” as Mrs. Robin would pro-
bably have wished to work him off when
‘■ Jamie” turned the corner, took one (very
likelv) kiss, and cleared. For an cld man (especially
since the passing of the divorce bill) there's noth-
ing pleasanter (we prefer this form) than to have
a young wife whose sweetheart s ship is sig-
nalled. Then the great La F. gave us an imita-
tion of the bag-pipes that made several grey-
headed Scotchmen in the pit make for the stage
door, and beg from Coleman a couple of swords to
dance across. # #
Braham, Read, Porter, and Amery war-
bled “ Come where my love lies dreaming.” We’ve
heard this song before. All but Braham wore gloves.
Be would, probably, have worn them, too, butyou
never can depend on people to have your things
back in time. Wo’vo often been had that way our-
selves. Then there was a comedy, “ Trying it on.
Phil. Day pulled it through after a severe strug-
gle When a man is walking about for 30 minutes
with a diamond necklace in his boot and a tongs
down his back he persnires, and so do the audience.
We live in hopes of some day seeing amateurs try
this piece, but not in a theatre of ours—unless it s
heavily insured. For, as sure as fate, the people
will rise en masse, demand Walshingham Potts
(Day’s character) head, and, failing to obtain it,
burn the place down. No. 7 on the bill was a piano
solo-one of Weber’s—played by C. Shepherd in a
pleasant, rippling way. The double-voice vocalist,
Carroll, now put in an appearance with “ I dreamt
my little boy of thee.” Astonishment, pleasure,
and pity kept the audience quiet. It would be
quite impossible to say which predominated.
* ♦ •
Make way for “Brother” Titheradge—
and way was made. Elocution, accent, action,
presence and piece were good. The piece was
Simply a mock-heroic recitation. A pious young
Canadian gives his Sunday-school pupils a treat.
He takes them for a sleigh-ride. In Canada, as in
Russia,-it is pleasant to spin over the hard snow,
your horses’ bells jingling jocundly. It is not so
pleasant when a few thousand hungry wolves are
closing round you—converging on a point, and
you that point. This was the fix in which the un-
happy hero and bis young charges were placed.
If the wolves rose to the occasion so did he. So
did his pupils. As the ferocious brutes neared him
he began with the smallest kid, took him by the
slackest part and sent him spinning amongst his
pursuers. The beasts must have had their eyes
on this particular school for some time, and so
worked up an abnormal appetite. The first two
■or three lads scarcely delayed the wolves a mo-
ment. The animals were thinking of the teacher,
and laughing. But as scholar after scholar went
•overboard and the sleigh approached shelter, the
foremost wolves sat down to think. It appeared
to strike them that they were passing over the boy
substance for the instructor shadow. Then they
turned back to have their share of the lads. The
great struggle in the teacher’s breast was where
the animals were pressing him; there was but one
pupil left: he was fat, and—his master had no
knife I The whole piece was irresistably droll, and
Titheradge made the most of it.
* * m
Ivanova, Appleby, and Vernon gave us
the “Rose of Auvergne.” It is a pleasant trifle,
with a tendency to drag. Ivanova was all action—
the others all passion. Her choice of Appleby for
a husband instead of Vernon was a great blow to
the pit. Then Miss Louise Crawford gave Ham-
let’s soliloquy. She had the now usual flaxen
curls which, when introduced by Fechter, goaded
millions to rage and laughter. Her attempt was
good, meritorious—but it wasn’t Shakespeare.
Horace Bent appeared in “Old Mother Hubbard,”
and caused the usual commotion. Porter followed,
and was never heard to better advantage. After
him came Redwood. His Irish brogue and French
patois require looking to. The house now became
restless, and looked murderously round for the
person who drew up the programme. Had they
seen him he would now be in as many pieces as
the Post-office carvings (hurrah I) will probably be
shortly. It was long after5, the affair had begun at
3.30, the mercury had bubbled through the bulb,
and there were seven more pieces to come. All-
press fiddled through the “Carnival of Venlce,” and
polished the variations off so neat and clean that
we forgive him his air and hair. Still if he would
polish the one and cut the other, he would feel
more comfortable, and so would we. Warner was
encored 11 Dark began indifferently and ended
well. Hart was nearly reversing this. Hagan
sang an Irish ditty, "Comeback,” with appro-
priate gestures. But to us the stage Irishman,
like the unicorn, is a gruesome mystery. When
he’s not kissiog nor drinking, he’s sitting behind a
hedge playing “forty-fives” with a blunderbuss
between his knees for emergencies. Colonel and
Mrs. Austin cam© last but one, and Messrs. Keenan
and Moynhem Iasi of all. We remember no more.
It was half-past six, and we were carried out on a
stretcher.
* * * »
Not the least amongst the various amuse-
ments on St. Patrick’s night was the concert on
Irish national airS, given in the new Masonie Hall,
we were going to say the audience was enthu-
siastic, but we’ll say it was Irish, and that’ll do
just as well. Fred. Leston was funny—rery funny;
and when he sang “ I lovo my native country,”
and changed the next line —“ I’m loyal to my
(30660”—to “The girls are all serene,” it gave
satisfaction all round; but success made him care-
less, and in the last verse he so far forgot him-
self as to commence “I'm loyal ,”but just
pulled himself up in time, and didn’t say
to whom he was loyal, so we concluded
it was to the girls, who were all serene. Miss
Cowley sang nicely, and Mr, Hallewell wasn't idle,
you may bet your last copper on that. The sweet
songs of Erin caused many a salt tear to flow, but
whether this was due to whisky or to sentiment, is
Still an open question ; perhaps it was both.
Twenty-six items on the programme, and encores
not prohibited! Ye gods! We’re fond of Irish
songs, but neither the love of song nor the fear ot
the bosses’ displeasure would induce us to sit out
36 items with unlimited encores again. A goodly
chorus sang “God Save Ireland,” and—we were
frfceI * * * *
Matthews’ “ World Circus ” has settled
comfortably down in one of the right angles
formed by Pitt and Park Streets. There is enough
room there to swing a kitten in, but not a full-
grown cat. It has been packed since its arrival,
r at, perspiring females, with imperfectly-washed
children, sit and’scream with laughter at j kes that
were co-eval with the cave bear and were lately
found on some papyri discovered by Wolseley
among the mummies of Korti. There’s no doubt
that, what with circus clowns and Christy Minstrel
corner-men, life is getting lees worth living every
day, and will soon be a one-horse affair. It wants
but a visit from Henry Irving or .Lily Langtry to
make Australian existence unbearable-to make
us collar a boomerang and take to the bush.
* • ♦
There was some “ double bare-back horse-
manship” by Willie Cole. A good understanding
appeared to exist between the near steed and
Willie. Whenever Bill’s left foot appeared anxious
to descend on nothing, that horse would edge in
and stop it with his off quarter. This re-assured
the audience and balanced William. Still, no fault
could be found with the “double bare-back” busi-
ness. It was clever in its way. And it was intro-
ductory to a new piece of circus “biz.” ; hat we
don’t remember to have seen before. It was time
we had some novelty, and so this innovation is
sure to be welcomed in Sydney. What was it ? It
was this. There was a pillow or something strapped
on a horse’s back, a man stood on it, and daringly
leaped through a hoop when the animal was
going at full speed. As the performer approached
the hoop a thrill of apprehension went through
the audience. “S’posin’ he sticks in it? ’ remarked
a respectable-looking labourer next us. All who
heard the suggestion shivered, “ Were do he
’speet to land ef he git through ?” said a foreign-
looking per — [Oh, here—we’ve stood this long
enough.—Ed. B,j
* * *
There was a “Dashing and graceful Eques-
trienne Act,” by Miss Victoria; and then came the
“Musical Spiders,” by the Matthews brothers.
This was really clever. In fact, whatever strength
the performance had, was entirely in the “tumb-
ling ” line. No. 9 on the programme was a
“ Grand Acrobatic Display,” by “ Theodore, Willie,
and Little Carl.” We suppose they are the
“ Matthews Brothers ” of the spider business, with
“little Carl” thrown In. But whoever they are,
they’re up to their work, and could legitimately
claim a place in the very front rank of acrobats.
To those who take an interest in gymnastics, it
was instructive to sec them. Rather short men,
but such limbs and chests! A regiment like them
eould cover 50 miles a day, and be fit for action
after the march.
* * *
Miss Rosina did more things with balls on
horseback than an ordinary woman could do on the
ground. She kept tour of them going all the
time—tossing, twirling, grabbing them as they
rose and fell. The “Docile, Mare Firefly,” was a
, bit of a frost. In these days (considering how
successfully donkeys have been trained to speak,
write, and look wise) we expect more from a horse
than going on his knees or lying down. Then
Mr. Barlow introduced his "Educated Dogs.”
There were two of them, and between them a
fairly good understanding appeared to exist.
They walked backwards and forwards up ladders,
jumped over one another, sat on chairs, hopped
on their hind legs, and made themselves pleasant
all round. Dogs can be taught anything. We
once had a dog—[No, you don’t.—Ed. B.]
• m m
We would have seen the performance out
but for the clown. When a lady lost her crinoline
and he wanted to know where was “Caroline”;
when, further on, he smacks his lips over the pros-
pect of getting some “ Irish stoo ”; when, towards
the end, he spoke of the size of his family, and
that there wasn’t sufficient measles to go round
them; and when, as a Parthian shaft ot outrage,
he said, “ I beg your parsnips,” we knew it was
useless to linger. No. Life to us is now sombre
and unmeaning. Nor will the clouds break till
some philanthropist—some one who loves his kind
—Invites, one by one, so as to allay suspicion, all
the clowns and corner-men in the world to call
upon him, and, as they come, boils them in tar.
£|£
Dunning’s people wound up at the Gaiety-
on Friday .with a benefit to the “ boss.” It was
called a benefit, and was, no doubt, intended to be
one. but whom it benefited is quite another thing.
Certainly not Dunning. The audience, perhaps.
At all events, the night was a wretched one- sloppy
and boisterous—and the audience slender, morose,
and unsympathising. A couple of acts of “ Boc-
caccio 99 were given; but, 11* the actors manifested
no interest, the public showed no feeling. Few
things are sadder than seeing three people of
mature age strumming dummy guitars and trying
to look as if they liked it. To see Ivanova, Lore-
dan, and Knight Aston hauling at those strings
with their right hands, while the fingers of the left
were wandering aimlessly over the thin end of the
instrument, was worse than being run over by a
hearse. Some buxom girls in the chorus brought
their hammers down—in the Cooper’s song—on the
casks with an emphasis that started some persons
behind us, if it didn’t start the hoops. An elderly,
industrious-looking male cooper in the mob could
scarcely get a whack in, for the unusual energy
displayed by these ladies. But when he did get a
fair belt at the vessel it wasn’t fit for much after,
except as firewood. Loredan was wedged in a
large tub, which Dark had to roll about the stage.
On ordinary occasions, he rolls it about where the
stage is even, and as little inconvenience as possible
is given to the occupant. But, on Friday night,
whether because it was the last, or on account of
some arriere pensie, that tub travelled over a deal
of broken ground. Over boxes, shrubs, and tools
it went. The audience enjoyed it—so did Dark.
But ’twas Loredan had the best fun. You could
see by his face—'twas towards the house—as he
was going round, how nice it must be to be in a
barrel, and have a friend rolling it over rocks.
Whether there was any subsequent “settlement”
after the piece we are unable to say.
• • *
A “ miscellaneous concert ” followed.
Considering there were but two songs, the title
“miscellaneous” was peculiarly happy. Aston
sang one and Vernon the other. We liked the
latter’s best. All his notes pass muster and some
are fine. Dark gave us a sketch, at which some
laughed and many grieved. Then there was the
“ aesthetic quadrille.” It belongs to the same
category as can-can, only that the women wear
longer dresses and do not attitudinise so sugges- i
lively. The “ Rose of Auvergne” brought the
entertainment to a close.
* * *
With the exception of the Roman Col-
losseum we know no place so suggestive of solitude
and meditation as the dress circle of the Royal.
At least it was a few nights ago. What it is now we
shall tell you in our next.
♦ * * *
“ You’re a humbug.” The remark was
made to us by a lady, and followed by “ I thought
you said nobody but a rag doll could stand ‘ Con-
fusion ’ the second time, and the oth r night I saw
you there stowed away in a corner by yourself
and laughing till the attendant came and requested
you to conduct yourself.” It was at James (Cath-
cart) we were laughing that night. He struck us—
we can’t say why, exactly—as belnv very funny.
From the top of his head to the ball of his great
toe, he’s a flunkey—a flunkey in everything—ap-
pearance, manner, dress, and address. The dog, by
the way, wrote us a note, which we’ve, somehow,
mislaid. He complained of being connected by
us with Woolloomooloo and brick-bats—says he
was never in Woolloomooloo, and wouldn’t know
a brick-bat if he saw it. If we’ve done this poor
creature an injustice, we regret it; but he’s a lot to
learn. If he lived in our street for a week, he
could sample brick-bats, paving-stones, and junks
of coal at first sight—tell their weight and the pre-
mises they came from. We should think, and we
ought to know, that (always barring Hlscocks’)
“ Confusion ” was the only paying game In Sydney
just now.
** * *
Hiscocks still worries along with crowded
houses two or three times a week, and payable
ones the remainder. All the pieces—the “Fat
Boys,” the “ French Conductor,” etc., have been
described over and over again.
♦ * * *
The Turners deserved a bettor house than
they got at their farewell matinee. But, consider-
ing the weather and the seesm (Lent), nothing but
a circus or a cat-fight would draw in Sydney now.
“The English authorities have complete
commissariat arrangements, and can easily lay
down provisions of every sort at Suakim; we shall
simply provide them with more mouths to feed,”
is what a contemporary says. And in friendly
attachment to those mouths, we will guarantee to
supply an equal number of stotnachs possessing
the finest discrimination for alcohol in any form.
Special services are being held in the Mel-
bourne churches for the purpose of elaborating
some more ingenious description of commination
to meet the case of Justice Williams, who pub-
lished “Religion without Superstition.” It is
agreed on all sides that the old curses are not
nearly strong enough—have, In fact, lost much of
their vigour from over-use. In the meantime, the
Judge enjoys his little five meals a day.
The editor of the local paper is evidently
of the opinion that the Qundaites want stimulat-
ing; for here is the first par. of last week’s instal-
ment of his tale:—“When Lucy regained con-
sciousness, she by degrees became aware that she
was in some vehicle that was being driven at a
tremendous rate. Where was she?” Well, we
think we can reassure the lady. She was only in
the police-cart going up to do her ordinary “ little
seven,” in default.
Says the Echo : “ Let any Irishman or
other man, clear-headed and of good heart, pic-
ture for himself the saint [Patrick]; imagine him
reincarnated and busy in Sydney at the time of the
late enthusiasm, and let him ask himself what
would St. Patrick have done. What would he
have done ?” Why do as he did before—clear the
land of snakes and toads, and that would leave
plenty of vacancies in the Bench, the Press, and
the Legislature.
Some little time ago a banquet was given
by the Argus staff to a reporter who was about to
take a trip to Europe. Referring to this, the
Argus said of the gentleman in question that he
was “the writer of some of the lightsome and
humourous sketches which have appeared in our
columns at intervals during the past year or two.”
Since this paragraph appeared, every corpse that
is brought to the morgue refuses to start for the
cemetery unless it gets a farewell banquet.
Speaking of the last end of St. Patrick, Dr.
Moran observedFor seven days his disciples
and the whole clergy of Erin kept vigil around his
hallowed remains; but, what with the chant of
the religious choirs, and the fragrance of Paradise,
and the heavenly light, and the melody of the
angels, it appeared to them as though it were the
interval of one short day.” The undertaker’s name
is not given, and we shall never know whether he
paid the £30 fine or “ took it out.” Eh, Kirby ?
Over in Melbourne —where, by the way,
suicides are far more frequent than in Sydney—a
foundry-man committed suicide by jumping into
the Yarra, lately. Why not an epitaph ? Certainly,
an epitaph. The gridiron, gentle slave. And
now:—
Good-bye to you, O foundry-man 1
To change your lot you swore;
You sprang into the stream—and were
A foun-dry-man nb morel
Hunter-Street (log) : “ In weeks and
months to come the reaction may be greater than
it is now. Few things are more fickle than the
voice of the multitude.” If this isn’t “ cheek,” it’s
an uncommonly good imitation. Talk about
knocking a man down and kicking him for falling I
Why the dear, old body’s shriek was the shrillest
in swelling the “fickle voice” she now condemns.
You would run with the hare and hunt with the
hounds, would you? No, no. You mustn’t run
no w because your colours do.
An inquest was recently held on tbe body
of me Simpson (run over) at the Assembly Hotel,
Phillip-street. There is an undertaker next door
to the hotel, and another exactly faces it. And it
was a splendid sight to see those two artists, each
with a tape in his pocket, prepare to mount the
stairs together, and to hear the first, in freezing
tones, say to his rival, “After you, sir.” It bor-
dered on the painful, though, later in the day, to
behold a third undertaker flitting off with the
bod v, having, while the other two were exchanging
chilling amenities, underbid the pair.
The conductors of the S. M. Herald can-
not honestly plead ignorance of the fact that the
Jingo craze which they persist in representing as
affecting the entire community is in reality
limited to a noisy minority. An Invitation was
issued to the employ^ i in their own establishment
to contribute to the bogus Patriotic Fund, and a
subscription-list was circulated among the com-
positors, with the result that the “ companion-
ship,” numbering upwards of 100 men, subscribed
among them about £51 of which amount £2 was
the donation of a solitary enthusiast. The Herald
omitted to give publicity to this indication of
popular feeling, among the Jingo items with
which it daily loads its columns.
This didn’t appear in tbe dailies in their
report of the Local Option League meeting, but
nevertheless, it is the joke of a century. One of
the members had written to the council-clerk (a
friend of his) at Evanston, U.S., for statistics
touching that town, where strong drink is pro-
hibited. and he received the following reply,
which he read aloud to the League with much
satisfaction. It was as follows: “Dear Mr,
M’Slummox,—1 am proud to be able to inform the
League thatno one has been seen drunk about the
streets since you were last up here.—Respectfully,
Jay Eve.” Then there was a roar. But it was
not until he had washed away the cobwebs of his
brain by means of seven portergalfs and a rum-
and-cloves, that it gradually dawned on Mr.
M'Slummox what they had been laughing about.
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hookings and
Co, 143, Pitt-street.*
Some have wondered that so many Eng-
lish officers have fallen in the Soudan war, and yet
the explanation is simple enough. It is that they
invite their men to follow them to “the imminent
deadly breach,” and are not content with merely
saying go. People who want to make a name for
themselves must lead, must be to the front,
whether they be warriors, discoverers, explorers,
politicians, navigators, or peace-loving honest
traders. “ The wise and prudent conquer diffi-
culties, by daring to attempt them,” says our
favourite William, and surely it is a truthful say-
ing above all contradiction. That monument of
commercial pluck, the Palace Emporium Hay-
market, was built on such a foundation, and those
leaders of commercial enterprise, Anthony
Hordern and Sons, achieved their present proud
position under the same flag.*
Quid Ireland was ould Ireland
When England was a pup;
Ould Ireland will be ould Ireland
When England's “ busted ” up.
Substantial progress in Irish manufactures can
only be made on their own Intrinsic merits. Wear
the real “Cork tweeds:” special purchase now
being sold by Summerfield and Company. Mr.
Patrick O’Meagher, the celebrated cutter, from
the well-known firm O'Brien and Gallagher, Cork,
is specially engaged to cut from these tweeds.
Irish gentlemen residing away from Sydney please
write for patterns of these beautiful goods. We
purchased at half the usual price, and intend giv-
ing our customers the benefit of the same. Only
one Sydney address—Summerfield and Company,
Merchant Tailors, k 235 and 237 Pitt-street.*


WAR SONG OF THE MAHDI.
An Arab gentleman, who occasionally calls
tit our princely mansion with chutney and curry-
JJowdors, left us a translation of a song with which
the Mahdi is said to rouse his followers to frenzy
whenever he likes. The original words were
written by the Prophet himself, who, by-the-way,
is stated, on good authority, to be a Scotchman.
With this explanation, here you are;—
Allah 11 Allah,
Mahdi resoul 11 Allah!
t shall wipe the dogs of KafHrs off the face of the
earth, Inshallah!
Allah il Allah 1
This is the Holy War.
iTou bet yoilr life, before I’m finished with him,
I’ll make the skull of Lord Wolseley into a to-
bacco-jar.
Allah il Allah!
I think ho is over-rated;
Use Hop Bitters—
fthe bad and worthless are never imitated.
Allah II Allah I
They are blest who die _ _______ •
tinder my standard fighting; they shall go seven
heavens high—
No Irish need apply 1
Allah il Allah 1
Faith is enough,
t cmlld get along pretty well in the prophet busi-
ness oht here, only for the scarcity of whisky
and snuff I)
* * *
dur black brudder, the Rev. J. C. Ander-
tion, seems to have dropped into a bit of bad luck
lately. After a meeting, in the course of which
there was a considerable amount of yuck-yucking
the bredren rounded on their pastor, accusing him
of having got a month “ on the vag.” in Launces-
ton. The rev. brudder replies subsequently In the
Rum, and admits that he was lumbered in Laun-
beston because he was poor, and was reduced to
Sharing a tank and cadging for grub with another
Christian. “ My only crime,” he writes, “ was my
poverty.” After this, we got tired of the rev-
brudder. What was his University (or night
school), in heaven’s name, that did not teach him
that poverty’s the greatest crime ? Anyhow, Mr-
Anderson has got to windward of the coloured
“ push ” for a surplus, and a bit of “ stuff,” so he’s
pretty right on it- What most got the bung out the
gospel-hole was an accusaton which our holy brud-
der admits in his letter to the RuM]in the following
terms:—“ Before joining this present mission it is
quite true that I called upon Archbishop Moran
and offered my services, and told him all my cir-
cumstances, and as I could find no other church at
the time, I was quite willing to preach the Gospel
of Christ in the Catholic Church as readily as in
any other Church. I believe In Christ as the Sa-
viour of mankind, and I believe that Catholics are
as good Christians as any one else,” And this
straightforward statement having inspired our ad.
miration, we now proceed to Inscribe to the ill-
treated one a few humble verses. —
He stood with bent brows on the side of
D’Connell-stroet, facing the Brigade Office, while
the second batch of would-be heroes were surg*
ing outside waiting to be enlisted. “ Yes,” he
said, scraping his chin with his hand—“ there is
young Fitz-Gascoigne, whose £300 remittance is
duo next mall, and who has asked me to go with
him to get it; and there, too, pressing in the front
rank on the road to glory is the well-behaved
boarder, with musical tastes, who is on the look-
out for a big thing in the brewery line. There’s
young Martisson, too, who said he gets his
month’s screw to-morrow, when he will settle up
for board and money lent. Humph ! ’ The
speaker then went home to his large .board ing-
house and waited. He saw them all three come in
together about tea time, bearing a decidedly de-
jected appearance, but assuming a kind of dismal
jauntiness. But by the time they hsd freshened
up in their rooms they turned out as good as now;
and it was not long befohe they were seated at the
tea-table, lying, as was their wont, like Trojans.
The landlord listened intently to a description by
Pitz-Gascoigne of a lawn-tennis party at Govern-
ment House, from which ho had just returned;
and appeared much edified by a narrative by Mar-
tissonof how he had “tooled” a mail-phaeton down
to Botany. The well-behaved boarder’s recital of
how, having jESOOO spare cash he had swooped
down upon a share In a brewery, that was a gold
mine, was listened to by the host with equal
politeness; and when an interval of silence cc
curred, he said—“ I cannot boasttheluckcf any of
you; I passed my afternoon humbly, in O’Connell-
street, watching the volunteers endeavouring to
enlist for the Soudan.” Late that
night, the following colloquy took place just by
the Paddington Brewery, “ Well, I don’t know
what to say,” said a hairy gentleman, leaning half
in and half out of a boiler, “ I don’t like to siy no;
but confound it, you ought to have given notice.
It’s a rule of the Club. You see, there’s ..Sir
Rupert, and the Colonel’s nephew already inside,
while Mervin Beaudelaire, who appropriated the
barometer during his week at Government, is
sure to turn up. And as for the Hon. Ploss Bisket
—he’s a life member. He has struck a friend in a
tobacco factory, and keeps the Club supplied with
weed.” “ Well, I’m sure I did what I could when
I lived In the house,” rejoined Martisson, de-
jectedly. “Very likely,” returned the president'
drily; “but that wasn’t much. A soup-ladle, with
a Minister’s monogram on, a well-known caf<S
cruet, six tumblers, and a hat-rack, were your
contributions. However, come in. There! I’ll
light the candle, and we’ll play piquet with the
pack Fitz Gascoigne lifted from the Union Club at
the time he was the Duke of Portland travelling
incognito.” With this they crept in at the round
hole, and with a clank the shutter closed for the
night.”
♦ ♦ *
Perhaps the greatest curiosities in Mel-
bourne literature are the three publications pre-
sided over by that splendid genius and surpassing
scholar, Mr. Mortimer Franklyn. First of these is
the Victorian Review, a production venerable
with ancient names and antique thoughts and
aged theories, brightened by the gleaming new-
ness of a single name—the name of the editor.
Then comes the Federal Australian, a weekly
paper which is understood to have considerable
weight—about half a stone—and whose tinted
pages are highly appreciated by all respectable
trnnk-makers and egg-packers; not to mention
that its articles are read with rapture where the
thoughtful wombat hides his head in the ground
and sighs as he calls to mind the time when he,
too, wrote articles of a simlla kind r the per-
manent mental paralysis of shepherds in the lonely
bush. The last one is the World, an evening
journal with a very low opinion of Mr. Gladstone
and a very high opinion of Mr. Mortimer Franklyn.
There is a fine spirit of unanimity noticeable in alj
three. Thus, If you take up the Federal Aus-
tralian, you will probably notice a reference
to the masterly article in the Victorian Review
(which circulates among the highest circles in the
colonies, and is read with delight by all the
crowned heads and the nobility of llurOpe), on the
memoirs of Lord Fitzluddle, by H. Mottimer
Franklyn. The sime paper considers the WbSbn
the smartest, most enterprising, and best con*
ducted evening journal in the Australian colonies
and the World returns the compliment by never
missing a chance of alluding to the Federal
Australian as the ablest, highest-toned, and
most influential weekly published this side of
Sirius. It is seldom you will see such edifying
esprit de corps in journalism. If Mr. Franklyn
were not a man noted for his extreme
modesty (he is said to be almost as bash-
ful as a young girl), and morbid of
display (it is stated that ne never drives to his
office at a higher rate than 2.14 to the mile), he
would have been even fnore celebrated than he is
by this time. But, it is understood to be the
struggle of his life to keep his zealous literary
staff (the members of which, according to com-
mon report, idolise him) from filling the publica-
tions referred to with his praises. This hero
worship is always the penalty of greatness. How
Mr. Franklyn must long for a little oblivion I And
how oblivion But no, it would be a pity for
such a brilliant spirit to pass away from us so
soon. We could better spare Lewis Scott ; wo
would rather lose Garden Honey.
We are beginning to think that our loyalty
is doubted in certain circies; for we consider we
have been subjected, if not to absolute insults, at
least to indifference at the hands of the War De-
partment. One instance will suffice. Although
we have carefully scanned the papers, we can see
no acknowledgment of our contribution to the
commissariat of the contingent. This is really ex
traordinary, since we went to a considerable
amount of trouble in selecting the articles. The
following was our letter (whica surely must have
miscarried) to Mr. Dailey:—
“ Bulletin office, 10th March, ’85.
“ The Hon. G. B. Dailey, Q.C , M.L C., J.P., At-
torney-Qeneral, Acting Colonial Secretary, Minis-
ter for War, elc. Fir,—Fired by the noble conduct
of the little boy at Manly, we beg herewith (for we
were little boys once ourselves, though not, un-
fortunately, of Manly) to forward for the use of
the troops on their adventurous voyage, the fob
lowing packet, which we wish respectfully to be
called
The Bulletin Bundle.
It contains the following articles, which we
humbly trust will be appreciated by our noble
aspirants for glory:—
6 ginger-beer bottles full of hair-oil (home made)
1 cwt bees-wax—for spiking moustaches
1 barrel draught lavender water
13 volumes Young Ladies Journal
1 gross silver mounted tooth-picks
1 box bricks (for recreative purposes)
1 Noah’s Ark. (A gift from the bad little boy
who plays tip-cat in our lane)
100 ivory fans
12 jars guava jelly
1 cup-and-ball
1 ton uncrumpled roseleaves for the gallant
squad to repose on.”
No notice was taken of this, as we have said, and
though this circumstance (since we are very sensi-
tive as to any neglect—especially in the flsh-shop)
piqued us to some extent, we did not absolutely
suffer what might be termed annoyance. But
what, in the classic vernacular of David
Esq., “ cruelled ” us was the non-recognition of
the following document:—
The Bulletin Company (Limited) beg to state
that they have decided upon giving the following
prizes with a view—originated by our munificent
mayor—of inspiring our troops to deeds of fur-
ther valour:—
Prize 1.—To the man who kills the Mahdi— One of
Kirby’s best.
Prize 3.— To the man who disembowels him - A file
of the Shroud.
Prize 3.—To the man who slays Osman Digna in
fair fight (no hitting behind, mind you!)—A
junior eleven cricketing trophy, the owner
having no further use for it.
Prize4—To the man who succeeds ingettingjback
first—1 pair boots (any size), colonial made.
We wish this list to be read aloud by the Com-
mandant to the troops when assembled on the
quarter-deck for church, immediately after the
chaplain has got to the end of his so welcome-
“ And now to God the Father,” &c.
Fancy I not even this recorded. Never mind;
though we are slighted, we proudly put our list in
evidence. Ha, ha I But no matter I
• * •
Says the Melbourne World, speaking of
an attempted suicide:—“ The prisoner struck him-
self on the side of the head with a tomahawk,
inflicting a frightful gash. The chairman of the
Bench remarked that prisoner could not have
1 been in his right mind, or he would not have at-
tempted to kill himself in the manner described.”
Certainly not. If he bad to kill himself, he should
have read the war articles of the S.M. Herald for
six consecutive issues. It would have been a plea-
1 sant death. He would have died laughing.
PEPPER AND SALT.
THE PLUCKY POLICEMEN AND THE RECK-
LESS RUFFIANS.
Two men once ( near a Southern town,
Set up a whisky mill;
But quite forgot to purchase first
A license to distil.
Or else, perhaps, the fear of “ traps ”
Did not disturb their peace
Of mind, and so they set to work,
Regardless of police.
But, ah 1 too lightly they esteemed
The valiant men In bluet
Listen, and you shall hear what deeds
Policemen dare to do.
At length, when half the country round
Had “ smoked ” the stlllers’ game,
To make the capture doubly sure,
Two special troopers came.
Each eve these guardians of the peace,
With arms that boded ill
To all who should offend the law.
Encamped above the still.
From whence they watched the lawless men
All through the weary night;
And if they shivered in their shoes,
You bet, ’twas not from fright.
So things went on from week to week,
Until there came a day.
When, in a cart, the troopers saw
Their victims drive away.
They waited till they saw their foes
Rad vanished o’er the hill,
And then, with reckless bravery,
They ib ent and nabbed the still!
ibhey marched in triumph to the town,
And oft I’ve heard men tell,
That for a year, at least, their breath
Did much of spirits smell.
Now, there are some who wish to cast
tlpon this tale some doubt,
And tell us that the troopers bought
the desperadoes out!'
Rut on dark rumours, such as these,
No confidence is placed;
And, if the “traps " of whisky smelt,
You know they had to taste.
To BRUDDER ANDERSON.
Keep up your pecker, kuller’d one I
Let nothing make yow strike;
You’re just the kind, O Christian son.
Of minister we like.
Where’er you are, just “ give it lip,”
Smack Clootie on the crown,
And you will find, sir—take our tip—
They cannot put you down.
M I will convert,” you cry aloud,
“ All Sydney’s sinful Hocks 1”
And If a church you’re not allowed,
Why—take a sentry-box.
“ Cairo, March 18.—General Graham has sent a messenger to Osman Digna, sum-
moning him to surrender in order to avoid unnecessary bloodshed.”— Cablegram.
IF HE HAD BEEN THE SENSIBLE OLD OSMAN WE TOOK HIM TO BE, HE WOULD
HAVE HANDED OVER HIS SCIMETAR AT ONCE, WITHOUT ANY BACK TALK, ESPECI-
ALLY AS OUR “CONTINGENT ” MAY SHORTLY BE EXPECTED,
SEETHING.
“ And the climate of our interior is really not very different from that of Egypt,”
is what the Echo man says.
THIS IS JUST WHAT WE THOUGHT ALL AL r NG. AND STILL IT’S HOT.
A QUESTION.
We have here a little question,
And we’d like an answer plain.
Or even a suggestion,
But evasions are in vain—
When our shattered sons of glory,
From the field of battle gory,
Return to us once more—
What is going to be done for them upon their
native shore ?
For we may as well be putting
The cvse clearly: Can a man
Come homo on the same footing
If one leg’s in the Soudan ?
He can not. Fame may have charms there,
But if he leaves both his arms there,
Who will take him by the hand ?
We havo put our little question, and an answer
we demand.


For downright heathen cuteness you can’t
behind a New Zealand rabbiter. When the
omiatterB of an infested district were buying cats
f the Thomas variety and letting them loose to
, old Harry with poor little bunny, the profes-
sorial rabbiters killed and skinned these same
docked the tails short, and sold the skins,
ixed up with rabbit skins, to the deluded owners
® 3d each. Consequence is, many of these
rabbiters are now furry well off indeed, and
” ral of them, who have voted on the winning
have been fur-tlvely raised to the seat of
side, have DU8ay .laoermous Government in pur-
3ufnnl o r f an abject policy of cat-ering to the
Wishes of the mobocracy, with whom the rabbits
are great favourites. + #
Tt is not generally known that one pair
, bluchers, served, at the recruiting, the turn of
all of whom were elected for .be
tinted field. The dressing-room was under the
on the Moore Park side. On the first Sunday,
however, confusion having subsequently:ensued, a
, iri „ a de order was suddenly framed as follows:
“ , nr .f being provided with hat and
Either or both-need attend for Church
b0 ®oar Privates who have lost the trick of cpmb-
P ar thfiir hair will be waited on after breakfast
bvVhe regimental (barber.-UnYSSKS O’Chbistie,
BuSSfior of Brigade.
He meant well, but
be didn’t know. A short
time ago, one of those
p“u. piratical analr,.
Jelled Church bazaars,
•was organized in a certain
Sydney suburb, and to-
wards the close of the
Bhow it was decided to
supplement the “loot’
by means of an amateur
theatrical entertainment.
A meeting of all those
in favour of the good
cause was accordingly
held, the minister's lady
being voted to the chair.
The fair stall - holders
soon arranged the bulb
of their business con-
nected with the coming
trouble, but some little
difficultywas experienced
in getting gentlemen to
cotton on to the male
characters. Amongst the
crowd was a green young
telegraph operator, who
had a relation connected
with the scenery depart-
ment of one of our
theatres, and who in
consequence thereby,
knew a little of the
theatrical lingo in gene-
ral use. After some
considerable time had
been wasted, the lady
president called out to
the lightning squirter,
“Come, now, Mr. O’Gee,
am sure* you will take
part in the entertain-
ment, will you not?’’
Twenty pairs of beaming,
imploring eyes were im-
mediately cast on the
blushing youth, who
then rose, and to the
horror of all, replied:
I have never done any-
thing in the way of act-
ing, Madam, but I will be
delighted to be of assis-
tance to the ladies who
are so kindly getting up
this theatrical perform-
ance, and if they will
allow me, 1 will with
pleasure look after their
‘shifts’ for the whole
evening.”. The next in-
Btant twenty hysterically
screaming forms were
writhing on the floor,
and twenty pairs of Bal-
morals were frantically
kicking holes in the air,
while the terrified opera-
tor was excitedly calling
upon the struggles to
“ keep their key sclosed,”
as he “didn’t mean what
they did.” However, he
burst up the amateur
dramatics, and he now
moons about with the
breast of his breeches
lined with galvanised
iron, in case he should
happen to collide with the
boot of a revengeful
elder brother.
A MILITARY EPISODE.
“A Soldier’s Mother’s Prayer March” has
been “ courteously ” forwarded to the Nooze, and
that trenchant organ says that it is a very fine one,
and “ well adapted to inspire soldierly ardour in
marching troops.” This depends a good deal on
the way they were marching-towards the enemy
or the other way. We were once a soldier. We
don’t say it out of any feeling of contempt for
people who follow more peaceful pursuits, and
were never swayed by the desire to dig a bayonet
into some fellow who didn’t see things just as they
did No. It is this “Mother’s Prayer” business
that stirs up our military remembrances. The
first night we werain the barrack-room m Dublin
we knelt beside our little cot to pray. One of the
old soldiers had filled our bed with straw, ot a
strength and inflexibility resembling bamboo. He
had also introduced some road metal, a brick or
two, and other odds and ends, to make things cona-
fortable and home-like. When he had finished,
our bed looked like a huge saveloy, or like a tat
man with a severe attack of dropsy. It looked as
If we would have to get on it with a But this
is rambling. We knelt beside it to pray. It shortly
occurred to us that there were more boots coming
our way than appeared to be going In any o or
direction. But we held on through the first bar of
the Apostles’ Creed. Then a tin-dish and a dam-
aged cartouch-box eat down beside us. These
were followed by some waist-belts, a water-can,
and a number of shaving-brushes. “Open-hearted,
splendid fellows," we thought; “this is our first
night in a barrack-room, and here they are making !
us presents of everything in the place. Still, they
might adopt some less ostentatious way of present.
ing them. If, for instance ,” here we dodged,
but It was too late. It was a 4lb. loaf this time.
We had worked our way down to “I believe in
the Holy Ghost, the communion of saints, the for-
giveness of —” when that bread caught us at the
articulation of the upper and lower maxilla
Many years have gone by since then, but we occi-
sionally meet .n Sydney tap-rooms old soldiers
who were in the barrack-room that night. They
all agree that the celerity with which we got Into
bed when that loaf reached us has never been sur-
passed in military annals.
• • *
We always hail with joy the signs of enter-
prise which the colonial Press exhibits, and when
we see a man boldly step forward and undertake
literary labours, that are in themselves arduous
and unapproachable, we, with hearts devoid ®f
envy, look niton such a man as a hero, and a bro-
ther. Therefore, we desire to gaze upon the
“Paris correspondent” of the Nepean Some-
times; especially as we have a decided impression j
that he is the man who borrowed 6d from us last j
Tuesday to go over to North Shore to see an aunt
whose impending dissolution was to endow him
with untold wealth. We noticed at the time that
he had a French accent. His style of writing is at
once grand, majestic, and decidedly original. And
having said so much in his praise, we may, perhaps,
venture to suggest, that in future it would be well
if he were to arrange so as to make his French
more unlike the language of his native Woolloo-
mooloo; and his English less likc-well, less like
some tongue which, although he may have learnt,
no one else has ever even heard of. He writes, for
instance, of “republicans,” “ connote,” and
eunsumed,” and tells us that “It was only a
curnot," and also that “ Even the well-to-do have
not the air to be in a carnaval vieu\ ” statements
which may, perhaps, mean something, when the
language they are written in is understood. As
the peculiar lingo, however, is to us unknown, we
are unable to console ourselves for the loss of that
“ tanner ” by mentally Imbibing the precious wis-
dom which the words doubtless enclose.
* * *
A poor idiot named Charles Williams re-
cently went into s>me “Coffee Palace” and
stated he was a detective. His statement was
received with hilarious incredulity by the diners,
and he was locked up. Our detectives have no
need to say anything. They are even known by
every goat in Pyrmont. The Woolloomooloo
larrikins mike furious fun of them whenever
they show up, and the Paddington hoodlums wel-
come their appearance with a loud acclaim. This
is the modus operandi of our agents:—' “ Now,
Dubbo Kate, you shall be let alone if you tell me
what has become of Korty Johnson. We want
him for a super and slang 1” This is when they
are “ on the track.” When they’ve got a clue t
they sit in the pub. all day, and gaze attentively
up at the wrong house. Then, suddenly summon-
ing up determination, cross and enter—greatly to
the disgust of an old lady washing greens, who
thinks they've come for the gas-money. This is
when “the police authorities have, for the mo-
ment, lost all trace of the fugitive.” Two years
later, the “wanted” one runn against the whole
force outs'de the Theatre lloyal. Havicg the
vision of an eagle, the detectives recognise him on
account of his having a broken nose, one eye
short, a club foot, and an impediment in his
speech. This brings forth the well-known par.:—
“A remarkably clever capture was affected bj
those clever officers, M’Raffeity and O Doldrums
in a manner f.which does great credit to their
sagacity. It appears—” And here come the details
all wrong. Booh!
TO-DAY I-A Hymn.
Awake, my soul, and with the sun
Look down upon this world of fun;
Shake off dull fact, and early rise
To sing thy morning hymn of lies.
There’s nought so grand beneath the stars
As Parkes’ speech or Dailey s wars;
Oh, grant me grace to hear the tale
Sung by the angel Abigail.
Buchanan, be thou ever near,
With mildest words our way to cheer;
And while wo toil through life's short span,
Take all things, Lord, but leave us Dan.
Then while, with pious steps and slow,
We wend cur pilgrimage below,
Take not our Luscombe from our view,
Or, taking him, take Melville too.
Give us this day our dally Rum,
As penance till the Nooze shall come;
And purged through suffering let us be,
With one short speech from long A.G.
So, sanctified through Make-believe,
Our days to Satan we may give;
And, saved from Faith, and Truth as well,
Tread, hand in hand, the path to hell.
A Melbourne paper states that there is
over there a constable who is a perfect master of
the deaf and dumb alphabet. Pooh! We are
always hearing of these Victorian prodigies Why,
we have plenty of men in the Sydney force who
have, so to speak, the deaf and dumb alphabet at
their fingers’ ends. They can express more with
one simple sign than wo could tell you in a
column. Would you like to know what the sign
is? Very well. Gently close the fingers of one
hand, and hollow the palm lilt the baud takes
something like the shape of a scoop. Then put It
behind your back. That’s all.* Some superline
Individuals Improve on this by gently moving the
thumb backward and forward, but this is unne-
ceesary. The sign in question is one of the most
expressive in the deaf and dumb alphabet of the
police, and is understood in all civilised countries.
No publican should be without it. Few are.
• * •
A German was found dead in his bed in a
Brisbane hotel lately. He had taken a dote of
poison simultaneously with a small bottle of
champagne. He was a stranger in Brisbane, and
did not know ihat he should have confined himself
to the poison. Consequently, he is now practising
on a golden tooth-comb, previous to being trusted
with a harp.
He had packed them
off to bed. “Madam,”
he said, sternly, “ Wc go
to press early. Domes-
tic as I am, I cannot
but think that the
affairs of the children
must by this time have
been amply discussed. I
propose to write a hu-
mourous sketch concern-
ing a contest which I
witnessed between our
cat and the neighbour's
dog. The story is ex-
quisitely funny, and runs
this way;—‘About 11
o’clock last night, as we
were wending (Did you
say reeling, my dear ?)
our way from the baunis
of (Red Lion ?) literature
to our family circle, judge
our (Gait?) surprise
when, on crossing (8tag-
geiing, dear?) the foot-
path, our attention was
arrested by (No. 107
again ?) tho unwonted
spectacle of a cat seated
on a fence, evidently in
the last stages of (In-
toxi-?).’ In tho name
of thunder, Madam, how
I am I to get on with
these interruptions? An-
swer me ; to what am I
Indebted for this
(Baker’s bill is only five
and nine—don't disturb
yourself about that. Go
on with your composi-
tion. I am sorry if I
have interrupted you,
but really the woodman
left word that if you
don’t—). “ Well," he
continued, with frenzy,
dipping bis pen in the
baby’s pap, “ this cat,
seated there in the moon-
light, finding herself eyed
by the dog, set up her
tail erect, and was about
to—(Lor, what have you
done with the baby’s
food ? I declare of all
the awkward and most
ridiculous men that ever
I— Ob, what would my
mother say if she knew
I had to endure this?")
He, rising in the wrath of
a man who gets a T. and
C. Jouknaij potted to
him in mistake for a
Bulletin. “ Maltiro, I
can endure this no longer.
Every ounce of humour
is sore. I am filled with
the vials of wrath and ”
——(New brand at the
Red Lion}). And he
crawled up humbly to
the attic, and groaned
himself into oblivion
alongside one of his
boys.
The Queensland Defence Force is now in
course of formation. They expect that when
thoroughly organised, It will bo able to strik 0
terror into the vitals of any force of goats that
can be brought against it. It is a safe squad to
join. One of the officers said, when questioned
the other day by a private, that the men “ might
in case of Invasion, have to leave the colony at a
fow days' notice.” Under such circumstances,
who would not be a volunteer ? It is just as com-
fortable as being a policeman. And, by-the-way,
if what the officer says be true, the Defence
Force must have copied its tactics from the
police. # * * (aB
Is this true ? “ Mr. Dailey had the services
of several numbers of the contingent dispensed
with, because of their leaving old and Infirm
parents unprovided for.” We read it in a paper,
anyhow. If it be true, then has Mr. Dailey in this
case shown none of tte magnificent acumen he
displayed in h's recent military coup (whatever a
coup may be). What he should have done-to have
carried out his policy to a logical conclusion—
would have been to organise the old and infirm
parents into a Defence Force, which he might
have officered from the Legislative Council, and
commanded himself. There is nothing too great
for a man of such surpassing genius.
Fourth Phase. —Is this a dream?
Fifth Phase.—Let’s go home.
Sixth Phase.— Inexpressibly nappy.
First Phase —Inexpressibly happy.
Second Phase —What shall we call our house t
Thibd Phase—Getting bored.
The Honeymoon.


BRIEF MENTION.
The Persian Government views with
favour the Russian advance! P—Shah 11
Ninny Melville has been in Newcastle,
lecturing in defence of the Bible, poor thing.
A reporter of the E N. was recently caught
In the very act of drinking water from a tap!
The News thinks “ there is a still some-
where up Cook’s River.” As if it didn’t know!
“Cats are like oysters,” says the Echo
man. Wo wish some writers were, and kept as
quiet.
“Counter proposals.’’ By a Noozb re-
forter. " You let me have two beers now, and
’ll pay you next week.”
The Lismore Chronicle has a “ contem-
porary” we learn. Wc should like to see it. We
can take any amount of punishment.
The Camden Times reports “ that we have
not had our usual visit from flying foxes this fruit
season.” Too late now. Going for Argyle.
The Registrar-General estimates that the
population of the Glebe will double itself every
15 years, now that Messrs. Sheridan and Bell have
retired.
Says a contemporary: “ Rest is never so
Bweet as after a long struggle.” How sweet it
would be to the Rum I And bow sweet to the
readers!
“The bad and the worthless are never
Imitated.” What a comfort this must be to the
editors of country newspapers in the absence of a
copyright Act.
Glory is almost as much yearned after by
Victorians es by ourselves. A week or two ago,
the Balrnsdale Council received thirteen applica-
tions for the position of dog officers!
“The Soudan Expedition, and its Lessons
for us ” is the title of a sermon lately preached In
Melbourne. It teaches people many lessons; one
in particular—mind your own business.
Speaking of the late Hibernian festival,
the Echo breaks out: “Ah! indeed, it is not the
Irish saints who trouble the world.” No. faith.
It’s the sinners that keep things from stagnating.
G. F. Smith asked permission of the City
Council of Sandhurst to erect a shooting gallery.
Had he but joined our “troops” going to the
Soudan he would have found one there ready
made.
What strange ambitions some people have.
At Rookwood a man tried to pass himself off as
Deenen, the escaped lunatic. Great Cmsar! We
may find some man personating Melville, or “Over
the Clock,” or M'Elhone, or even effigy Luscombe,
next.
There was a tract put under our door this
morning entitled “ What do you hold by ? ” Well,
for our own part we are contented to hold by a
pewter, although sometimes a lamp post suits us
well enough.
Next to that of the undisciplined “Johnny
Raws ” going to the Soudan, the saddest procession
we ever saw was that of Lord Loftus to open
Parliament. No procession half so funereal ever
left Kirby’s.
Says the Federal Australian: “There
are 23,339 newspapers in the world, of which
13,378 are printed in English.” Humph! The
Evening News, we presume, belongs to the re-
maining 9961.
Parkes said, at Q oulburn, that Dailey made
the Imperial Government an offer of troops which
were“n.tin existence.” And yet nine out of
every ten privates on board the Iberia take three
helpings of jam.
From an up-country paper we learn that
Minister Trickett has decided on adopting Lyschin-
ska’s “Kindergarter principles” as a text-book
for pupil teachers. Male pupil teachers should
surely be exempt.
When the harbour is attacked at Easter,
the Wolverine is to “take shelter” under the
forts- This is happily conceived. Shelter is the
only thing that this magnificent warship will ever
be capable of taking. J
An extract on the “ health and longevity
of the Jews” is given in a local paper. We have
studied this strange people long and closely, and
can honestly affirm that nothing will kill them.
We’ve tried everything.
There is a boy in the Ararat Lunatic
Asylum who can write with his mouth. Not so
much in that. There are plenty of rising young
men in the Rum office who can write with—their
feet. Also think with them.
We were only thinking last night how it
will be calculated to awe the Mahdl, when his spies
inform him that the Australian contingent, 500
strong, has been practising the goose step daily in
front of the Suakim citadel.
“Business very quiet at Penrith. Very
little of the ‘ready’ about.” So the boss of the
Penrith Pigmy says. “Ready wit,” of course, is
meant. At least, we think, from the flatness of
the paper, that this is the trouble.
It is rumoured that A. G, Taylor really
intends proceeding to England. This rumour la
based on the fact that he was observed last Friday
in William-street looking very hard at a shoe-
trunk labelled “Abargan: 7s. 6d.”
If the number of people who shouted o r
raised their “tiles ” when the Governor passed on
his way to open Parliament be a fair index of New
South Wales’ loyalty, then there are more
“rebels” In Sydney than in Dublin.
St. Patrick prayed 100 times every day for
60 years, and at least an equal number of times
every night. This runs up to something like four
or five millions of petitions for the welfare of Ire-
land. Now, if the state of Ireland to day is ?
“What does thatclever-looking gentleman
with the black whiskers and the nobby forehead
write in ?” asked a sweet young lady of her part-
ner at the last Owl byginx. “In the slop-shop
ledger ? ” was the gloomy reply. Her partner was
a poat.
There is nothing strange in this item, but
something Instructive. A Wilcannia hotel changed
hands, the other day. The present landlord was—
the acting-galor. There always has been a kindly
feeling between the public-house and the police-
station.
Chris, says: “On Wednesday morning at
the old butter market, the perfume at the soliei-'
tors table was so strong that the legal fraternity
took possession of the Press seats, where the scent
was not much weaker.” This is the hardest thing
we ve ever heard said of the Press.
An exchange uses the word “teper” in-
stead of “trooper,” and, in apologising in a sub-
sequent issue, states that the former term was not
intended to apply to the constable of the village
To whom, then, was it Intended to apply ? Surely
(horrid thought!) not to the editor himself I y
They say that a comedian never laughs at
his own joker. Here Is a proof. A man arrested
for wife-beating the other day is said to tfave
5 y turnin * his back on
the Bench. He himself showed not the faintest
sign of amusement. He got 48 hours for the glee
he had caused. This is no world for a wag to live
Going Home to Die.
MAJORS MELVILLE AND LUSCOMDE: “WELL, MARSHAL, ORDER US A MILITARY FUNERAL UP THERE, ANYHOW.”
FIELD-MARSHAL DALLEY: “NO HURRY, MY LADS. HOLD ON TILL POLLING DAY COMES. IT’S NOT YOU THAT WILL GO UNDER; I’LL SEE THAT THE MINERS
ARE ALL UNDERGROUND.”


“ Ministers themselves will not deny that
much may be very legitimately said against, as
well as for the undertaking to which ttiey have
committed the country.” This is the Herald’s
opinion. It doesn’t look like “ ratting,” does it ?
She’ll lose her character for firm convictions if
she doesn’t mind.
Monaghan has started the “ Imperial
Band ” in Bendigo It is to play twice a week in
the Domain rotundo. Property holders in the
Mall are petitioning against it. They say that the
increase in the value of their holdings will not
make up for the decrease in rent which will follow
the performances.
It was because a young man from Ray-
mond Terrace went with the contingent that the
children of Tomago Church voluntarily (yah!)
sent to the Patriotic Fund the small sum collected
to buy them toys. If the prayers of those kids
are of any avail, that young man is now lying in
the deepest hole in the Pacific.
One of our exchanges, commenting on the
circumstances attending the elopement of a Dub-
lin reporter with a lady of fortune, ends up by
saying, “ this is the third Dublin reporter who has
left in this way during the last three months.
This is rough on the Press.” Perhaps so, but it is
very much rougher on the ladies.
“Among the alligators’’ was what came
down in the first Herald proof of Deakin’s Cali-
fornian trip. The editor looked pleased. He knew
there was a connection between saurians and
water. Still be altered it to “ irrigators,” and rc-
sumed his leader on “The Indivisibility of the
Empire and the defence of Qundagai.”
We read a paragraph the other day about
a little girl who drank half a pint of whisky and
died. This is a shocking proof of the carelessness
of those who had charge of her. We have a
quantity of children ourselves, and we can safely
say that we have never left so much liquor in
their way. We would sooner drink it ourselves.
Much!
Jamberoo has writhed for four days in the
hands of Mrs. Browne, the Gospel temperance
lecturess, and now everybody has signed the
pledge or put on the blue ribbon. We have lived
in Jamberoo. and congratulate that city on its
return to sobriety. But about the blue we are
not so cert tin. We all*bad ’em while we lived there
A correspondent, who styles himself “ A
Searcher after Truth,” writes a long letter to the
Penrith Colless. This fact, of itself, is not re-
markable; but then, naturally, if he write* to that
organ in search of truth, he must read it for the
same purpose. Misguided man! Will not some of
his friends keep him supplied with the Vesper
Harp?
“We now see a picture of a sweet little
girl, of four or thereabouts, intent with bucket
and spade, and occasionally sitting down in the
water with embroidered skirts and silk sash.” &c.,
&c., is the “ swill” that is run into us by a D. T. man.
Eheu! If he would only sit in the water we’d
supply him with sash and skirts, and pray for a
tidal wave.
The Herald speaks regarding the Address
in Reply: “ And if honourable members have not
said all there is to be said they have said about all
they are likely to say.” Ahem! Let’s see. There
are some telling points that could bo made against
the expedition, but our representatives are not
likely to discover their. Granny knows them,
but she keeps dark. Cruel one.
We are informed that when Mrs. Dudley,
who planted a ihorn In O'Donovan Kossa's sine,
“turned to leave the court-room, a smile played
upon her face.” But, to the credit of the Ameri-
can Executive, It should be told that the “smile ”
wss at once arrested by a vigilant official who dis-
approved of any expression of feeling in the pre-
cincts of the court. It wasn’t a licensed house In
the meaning of the Act.
The Allora (Q.) Guardian has had such a
run on its type that capital M’s of all kinds have
been used to stand in the place of the usual up-
right letters. The effect is curious. To see the
sloping capital adjacent to several of its more
erect fellows, reminds us of a country editor re-
turning from a ploughing match, with the escort
of constables necessary on such an occasion.
During the Crimean War the English tired
15,000,000 shots, with which 21,000 Russians were
killed. Thi gives an average of 714 shots for each
dead man. Whence we may estimate that when
our Contingent gets to the Soudan and lets go at
the forces of the Mahdi, the entire 700, if every
one of them, from Colonel Richardson to Bill, the
little drummer, fire off at once, will come very
near to killing one foe.
Elworthy [No larks now, comps.; please
I e not lavish of h'a and l’s] of the Qundagai-CRfMES
says; "A man’s mind is like his bed. It must be
made up occasionally.” But then, very few men
make up their own beds, and, of course, there are
men who never make up their minds. And this
the best of reasons. They have no minds.
Which brings us back to our starting point.
There is a coloured Vigilance Committee
in Sydney. Its members must be black men with
white characters. Unawtre of this, some mem-
bers of the Assembiy, with an eye to votes,
wished to join if, the other day, but, as their attri-
butes were precisely the reverse, they were
deemed ineligible. However, this is not the point.
These aliens watch over each other’s back-slidings
and lined a black * brudder £1, the other night,
for telling 1 a lie or something. The note was
handed over to a reporter present, to be given to
the Sydney Infirmary. The money-smile as in-
credulously as you like, but it’s a fact, all the
same-was—paid.
People know that for the due editorship
of a daily Journal, a man should be well educated,
a solid reasoner, an expert tactician, and an un-
limited capacity for reading rot and rejecting it.
But there is one qualification demanded by some
papers that is often overlooked. Mr. G. A. Sala
said at the banquet that he was delightfully ignor-
ant of New South Wales affairs, and immediately
the enterprising Rum pounced on the opportunity
and commenced negotiations. It leaked out, how-
ever, that Mr. S. intended to know something
about our affairs shortly. This settled the busi-
ness, and the Rum will go on as usual.
Terrible Apparition.
BALLET: “GO AHEAD, OSBORNE. WHO-WHO-HOO-HOOS AFRAID?”
OSBORNE ALL VERY FINE, DALLEY; BUT YOU WEREN’T GAME TO GO IN FRONT YOURSELF.”


A POPULAR MINSTREL MADE HAPPY ;
OR, FROM JEST TO EARNEST.
“ For seven years,” writes Mr. Horace Bent, of
the Federal Minstrels, “I have suffered from an
acute neuralgic affection of the right knee and
rheumatic gout, which became so severe during
our season at the ‘ G aiety ’ in September, ’83, that
was obliged to relingulsh the active duties of my
profession and keep my room for a couple of days.
I had tried several strong liniments at various
times, some of which gave me partial relief. In
the course of my lecture and sketches I had fre-
quently mentioned. Jocularly, St. Jacobs Oil; but
it never occurred to me to apply It to my own ail-
ments until a friend who happened to be in my
room whilst I was complaining of intense pain re-
minded me of its claims, and sent out for a bottle
right away. I u?ed a little of it Immediately, and
found instant re ief, repeating the application
again later on in the evening. Prom that night I
have never felt either the neuralgic affection of
the knee or the rheumatic gout return, and I
would have sent you this acknowledgment earlier
but I thought it best to thoroughly 1 establish the
permanence of the effect; and have to subscribe
myself a Arm believer in the virtues of St. Jacobs
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.S.W.
price 3a. 6d. per bottle.
Mashers.— The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 653 George-street, Brickfield Hill.*
For close confinement, want of air, seden-
tary habits and brain and nerve tire, trust in Hop
Bitters. Read.
A new discovery.—Hoffman’s Euealyptol
(icgistered) “ Mixture and Injection.” They will
positively cure all kidney diseases and disorders,
all urinary complaints and discharges, irritation,
scalding, inflammation, gravel, pains in the back,
&o. A case Incurable in nine months was actually
cured in eight days with Hoffmann’s Euealyptol
Injection (“ purely vegetable ”1. Hoffman's Eu-
calyptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
nosandalwood.no balsam, or anything injurious
t® the most delicate constitution of either sex.
Ask for Hoffman’s, and take no substitute.
Wholesale: E. Prouser and Co.; Elliott Bros. Re-
tail : All principal chemists and storekeepers
Price, 3s. 6d. and 3s. 6d.*
“ BEACH’S ”
i onsi i/r.vi ion
ON
SYDNEY CUP,
NOW OPEN. FILLING RAPIDLY.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10s. EACH.
APPLY EARLY.
Address—
“BEACH,”
Care of J. Q. Deeble,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney
The Referee
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We thaU be glad to have this index petted up by
eeeretariee of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general »1
RACING.
Hawkesbury R.C. (Autumn) March 26, 37
Yarraman . April 6
A.J.O. (Autumn)... April 6,8,10,11
Rosehlll R.C April 18
Mudgee Tattersall’s R.C. April 23. 24
Western Downs J.C. (Tambo, Q.) Annual..May 13, It
Canterbury Park R.C May 16
Rosehlll R C May 23
Wollongong T.O. (Autumn) May 25
Walkorston (nr. Mackay ,Q.) R.C. Annual...May 25
Blackall R.C June 4, 5
Hosehlil R.C June20
Walgett R.C July 8, 0
Rosehlll R.C i July 18
Canterbury Park R.C August 1
Rosehill R C August 8
Canterbury Park R.C — September 5
Hawkesbury (Spring) September 10 12
A.J.C. (Spring) September 19, 22, 24, 26
Rosehlll R.C October 3
Canterbury Park R.C October 17
Canterbury Park R.C ....December 19
Rosehlll R.C. December 28
AQUATICS.
Beach v. Hanlan March 28
Nelson v. Harris, Champion Course April 4
Woolloomooloo Bay Regatta 1. April 18
Intercolonial 8-Oar Race April
ATHLETICS.
Oddfellows’ 100-Gulneas Handicap, Show
Grounds, Wollongong April 6
SPORTING AND ATHLBTIC MEMS.
Miller and Farnan still hard at it in the
1'®'bourne newspapers.
A Melbourne paper suggests the Victorian
eight-oar crew should bo provided with decent
coverings when they Indulge in exhibition rows.
“X.Y.”: We don’t think porridge eating
is included in a Scotch go-as-you-please light.
Throttling and gouging are permissable, wo be-
lieve.
Langley’s opponent, in the race for the
cup at Balmain R.C. Regatta, took his beating in
good form. But then, you know, he ought to be
pretty well used to a beat by this time.
At the Upper Yarra (Vic.), Amateur Re-
gatta, last Saturday week, eleven competitors,
twelve atone and over, and twenty-one between
eleven and twelve stone put in an appearance.
We don’t appear to be able to raise ’em in Port
Jackson.
The Rum, last week, discovered that W. G.
George, the famous English amateur runner, was
“spieling” under an assumed name at Botany.
W. G. George would make two ot the runner in
question. Another mare’s nest—and, maybe, an
expensive one, too.
When Beach beat Clifford it is worthy of
chronicling that he didn’t say that it was one of
the finest races he had ever rowed in his life; that
the race was in peril during the first mile; and
that Clifford was “ a magnificent oarsman.” He
didn't say anything at all; and, it is when he
doesn’t say anything, that Beach is the most elo-
quent.
The North Shore Rowing Club have fixed
their half-yearly regatta for llih April next, when
trial, maiden double sculls, and scratch fours will
be gone through. Above all things, ye bold
North Shoremen, start your races up to time.
And, by way of a little hint, wouldn t an open
race for Juniors or seniors in skiffs be a big addi-
tion to your programme ?
The Melbournians appear to work the
oracle properly, and bring off their weekly glove
fight without luss or bother. Last week Moiloy,
from Tasmania, list. 101b , and Holbrook, list. 31b.,
fought in a room near Melbourne lor a purse, and
after five rounus had been gone through, Hol-
brook threw up the sponge. How is it Powell and
Dunn have such difficulty in bringing their little
affair to an issue ?
The giant is not at all pleased with the
action of the Marylebone Club in giving the mem-
bers of the late amateur Australian Eleven the
dirty kick out. He says he means to bring that
haughty Club to his feet. He has so frightened
Lillywhite that the latter says he means to try and
send out the president of the Club—who, by the
bye, is no less a person than Mr. Wales—to make
peace with the Australian Great Man.
Good news for anglers. Thus a corres-
pondment of a London sporting paper:—“ When I
was with the late Mr. Qrevllle Fennell last he was
preparing to write an article on the use of the
hair of the Chinaman’s pigtail, as applied to ang-
ling, a friend having lately sent him over some
for trial. Ho gave me to understand that it would
be found far stronger than that now used, the
best of which is taken from the stallion of a
foreign breed of horses.”
The Narandera sports came off on St.
Patrick’s Day in good style, but they were totally
eclipsed by the hurdle race which came off on the
following day for £10 aside between Duffy and
Farrell, both of Wagga, 150 yards over six hurdles
four feet »ix inches in height. The men Jumped
the first three hurdles together, but at the fourth
Duffy caught one of his shoe-laces in the opposite
shoe, and Just touched, but jumped the fifth clean.
On trying the sixth he again caught, and fell
heavily on his shoulder. Farrell, who is described
as a splendid specimen of humanity, Jumped all
through in magnificent style.
Beach rowed down to the Balmain R. C.
Regatta to receive the cap made for him by some
fair admirers of his or the club—we don’t exactly
know which—but there was some hitch about
the affair, and the champion rowed back to his
quarters a crushed and disappointed man. The
whole afternoon was
Full of h-itches as a frowsy hen—
But ’tis waste of time to these folks preach—
And they capped their many hitches when
They failed to cap the champion Beach.
r In the International skating match at
Lecnwarden, Holland, on 28th January. “Fish”
Smart, the English champion, was one of the com-
petitors. The distance of the race was a little
over an English mile, and the first prize was the
gold medal for the championship of the world and
a purse of 600 florins (£50). The result was to up-
hold the supremacy of the Dutch as speed skaters.
Smart was beaten in the first round by B. Kingma,
who made the quickest time in the race-viz , 3
min, 31 3-5sec. Smart has not skated in a race
since January, 1881, and for the present contest he
had only had three days' practice after his arrival
in Holland. He held the lead for some consider-
able distance, after which the better condition of
his opponent enabled him to get in front, and in a
magnificent race Smart was defeated by ten yards.
Hanlan himself tried his gift of the gab on
the Colonial Treasurer last week, and at the ter-
mination of the Interview, seemed pretty well
convinced one steamer only was the correct thing.
And so we think. A century or two would prove
a bit of a salve to the loser, no doubt, but with
more than one steamer, it is no certainty a fair
course would be preserved, as the trouble lies in
the fact of one steamer running in front of an-
other, then the hinder boat goes for best position,
and so on, until the pair run up pretty well on to
the men. Up to the time of our going to press,
one boat only appeared a certainty. If experience
goes for anything, Mr. Tom Strange should prove
an efficient umpire. It was thought Mr. Garvau
would act, but the Beach party objected for some
reason or other, and the pair then agreed to Mr.
Strange.
We understand that J. J, Langley and
J. Beadman, who figured In the outrigger races at
the Balmain Rowing Club regatta, have been
matched for £30 a side—trophy, of course—to be
rowed on 18th April. £35 a side has been posted at
a public-house in Balmain, and we think it is time
the Rowing Association stepped in and kept a
strict eye on these large trophy races amongst
amateurs. At least one of the competitors does
not rank as a bona fide amateur, except In the
Balmain Rowing Club, and in our opinion the
period has arrived when the Association should
call upon the Balmain Rowing Club to weed out
its mechanic members. Should it refuse so to do,
we fall to see why the Association should coun-
tenance It as a bona fide amateur club, any more
than the Tradesmen’s Club, recently started at
Miller’s Point.
Foley receives any number of challenges,
but. somehow, when It comes to tho planking
business, the challengers do not seem to care
about tackling our little champion. Dinnie’s last
challenge for a go-as-you-please fight, must have
been intended for a bluff and a cheap ad., for
when Foley’s representative showed up with the
£490, Dinnie’s people could not see it in the same
light, and without a doubt the £20 deposited
should have been handed over to Larry. “ I
want,” said the huge Scotchman, ‘‘to have the af-
fair come off in a small room.” 41 The very thing, ”
replied Larry, without hesitation; “or. better still,
three sides of a six-foot ring might be roped off
on the brink of South Head, and a saving of rope
might be effected by utilising the cliff as the
fourth boundary,” but even this was not gory
enough for the daring Scot, and up to the time of
our going to press the pair had not come to terms
for their chawing and gouging match.
When Gritnshaw won the Two Thousand
on Gladiateur, Count Lagrange did not give him a
penny, nor did he give him anything over the
Derby. At Ascot, however, after the Grand Prize
of Paris had been won, the Count gave his jockey
£3000, and said, “I will make It £5000 If you win
the St. Leger.” Grlmahaw received the full
amount. Mr. Merry, in the same week, won the
Derby with Doncaster, and the Oaks with Marie
Stuart, Webb riding the colt, and Cannon the filly.
Mr. Merry said that he would mane both jockeys a
handsome present. At Ascot, he saw Cannon in
the weighing-room and gave him an envelope, and
told him to send Webb in Cannon opened his
envelope and found £300. Seeing Webb, he said,
“ The old man wants you inside.” “ How much is
it?” asked Webb, anxiously. “A thousand,” re-
plied Cannon, in an off-hand manner. Over-joyed,
Webb received his envelope, and did not open it
until later in the day. He then said things about
Cannon.
As we presaged in a previous issue, Simp-
son, as No. 6, has not proved a success, and on
Sunday last we noticed Kennedy has been shifted
up to No. 6, and Simpson put on No. 4. It is to be
hoped the crew will now settle down to steady
rows, and give up the short spurts which, from all
accounts, they have been giving the scullers
training for the champion race. Almost tho first
row the eight had together on the river they gave
Beach a spin, and it is needless to say it was a case
of every man for himself. We have seen Charley
Bros set a perfect stroke to a four, and the coach
should keep him down to steady rows, at all events
till the men begin to know each other, and not
lead him into temptation by taking tho eight
alongside the scullers or steamers. However, so
far as the scullers are concerned, after next Sat-
urday the course will doubtless be deserted, and
we trust to see our representatives go in for rows
calculated to make them swing together, as it is to
something extra in form an i condition that such a
light crew must look for victory in their coming
struggle.
The editor was absorbed in a deep article
he was writing upon the probable chances of suc-
cess of the Russians in a raid upon India, when
tho man who wrote his sporting notes came in to
ask a question or two. He said: “ After watching
the performances of tho two I should say a good
deal would depend on the weather when Bea .”
The editor caught only his last words, and replied,
41 The climate s-uith of the Caspian is certainly a
trying one,” and plunged again into his article.
* 4 1 was merely saying,” said the reporter, “ that
when Hanlan meets .” “ They’ll never meet,”
said the editor, looking up distractedly; 44 the op-
position of tho Afghans will cause sufliclent de-
lay,” and on he went again with his screed. “ I
am talking about the match,” ventured the re-
porter, after listening silently to tho scratch of the
pen for a few moments, “ Eh, what’s that
you say ?—no match for that country ? My dear
sir, you know nothing about it. If we fail on
water, let us have it out on land,” and once more
his quill went scratchily along.* 4 What in thunder
do you mean,” roared tho reporter, “you bald-
headed old mopoke. How can men row on land ?
How can boats that are built to go on the sea —
“ That’s the point I wish to bring you to,” said the
editor, finishing his scrawl, and sending the
“ copy ” up the lift. “ Now, sir, mark my words, I
think you were saying something about ner boats
not being fit forsea Why, sir, the English navy at
this present moment .” There was a howl, a
hat seized, a door slammed, the sound of a re-
porter s bluchers and blasphemy as he thundered
downstairs; and tho editor scratched hts head,
wiped his glasses, and said, “ Bit gone in the head,
that fellow, I think.”
From the land of lies and inventions,
America, comes tho yarn that the latest thing in
the latter line, so far as the pugilistic world is
concerned, is an automaton boxer, warranted to
hit, stop, job, and get away with the best of the
real material. The inventor decided upon a quiet
seance, just to see how the affair got along, and a
select few, amongst them John L. Sullivan, were
invited to the show. The automaton looked like
an ordinary boxer, having a padded body, an india-
rubber face, and arms finished off with large-sized
boxing gloves. The inventor stated that his
boxer could be wound up to tap with scarcely
sufficient force to brush the powder off a lady’s
face, or with power enough to fell a lOOOib. bul-
lock, and when John L. Sullivan, who offered to
have a set-to with it, was asked what strength
should be put on, he replied to “ put it on strong,”
as he fancied he was a bit too quick to lot
it get in on him, Sullivan, before-hand
wished to know how the thing worked, but the
inventor with a smile on his face, said he would
rather John should find out for himself. With
bated breath the select few watched John dano:
round it, but nary a show made the automaton.
This sort of game didn’t suit John L., and ho
jumped in with one of his terrific right handers
on the Jaw, intending to knock his bogus com-
petitor off his—we mean its feet. But it never
budged, and when John’s right landed on the jaw,
it loosed a spring for a cross-counter, and John
L. that cross-counter duly received. Some few
minutes afterwards, when the champion slogger
came to, ho thought he would not, just then, re-
new the combat, and the Ingenuous inventor has
been ever since looking out a slogger to test his
automaton.
When we penned a par. last week, stating
that the Messrs. Longfleld had given up all hopes
of racing the Alolus, we little thought we should
have this week to chronicle her maiden effort and
victory. George Fletcher’s challenge was taken
up all in a moment, and last Saturday the ASolus,
with “Podge” Newton at the tiller, and the St. Cris-
pin, with George Fletcher manipulating the pick-
handle, turned up at the red buoy off tha Fort
for a flutter round Manly and back for a fifty-
pound note. A fresh north-easter was piping,
and it seemed like “old times, rocks,” to see the
two beauties, handled as only professionals can
handle these boats, draw up for a start and get
away in workmanlike fashion. In the thrash
down the ASolus gained a good advantage
by the time the Heads were negotiated, but
Fletcher must have got a bit of a lead for
the “Snob,” as the boats rounded Manly buoy neck
and neck, and then commenced a run home worth
seeing. N eck and neck the llyei s tore along—now
one would get the first of the puff and draw away,
and as the other would get it, she in turn would
gain lost ground, and so on till Bradley’s was
reached, when squaresails were doused and point-
| Ing commenced. Nose and nose they still ran, the
Crispin to windward, and as she (rot the first of
a puff off the land, she drew just clear of the
A3olus. Now was Podge Newton’s chance, and
the old staler made the most of it. Jibing like a
piece of machinery, he grot in on Fletcher, who
tried to stop him, but it was too late, as when his
boom came over, Podge had him under his lee.
This won the race for the yEolus, which just
defeated the patron saint of the snobs on the post,
thanks to the generalship of the old stager at the
tiller. We have all through prophesied great
things for the and Saturday’s racing
could hardly be taken as criterion of her true
going. It was her maiden effort, and wo fancy
she had too many men aboard for the day, whereas
Fletcher has raced the Crispin for years, and
knows her to a turn.
In one of his sham sentimental sermons,
Henry Ward Beecher observed: “I think (and I
sincerely hope) that horses have some slight sem-
blance of a soul.” If they have, we are sorry for
them, for their jealousies, heart burnings, and
crushed aspirations must at times render them as
miserable even as man himself. For example—
“look hero, upon this picture, and on this.” The
fee for the marital attentions of the celebrated sire
St. Albans for the coming season will be lOOgs. per
mare, and, consequently, Solomon in all his glory
was not better oired for, or attended to, than is
this fortunate equine just at present. Even at the
exceedingly tall figure asked, St. Albacs is sure to
have a large and aristocratic harem, for, as nothing
succeeds like success, the sire of Malua, Tasman,
Coronet, Johnny Faulkner, Meteor, liingwood.
Blink Bonny, etc., must necessar ly be in great
demand. Now for the dark side of the pic-
ture. A few days ago, the imported stallion
Hughenden, the sire of such flyers as Co-
nlngsby, The Jingo, Duration, Dizzy, Darrell, and
a heap of other celebrities was offered at
Yuille’s yards for absolute and unreserved sale.
After a long panegyric on the old hero, In which it
was pointed out that the blood of King Tom, New-
mlnster, Muley Molock, and Alice Hawthorn ran
in his veins, the knight of the hammer paused for
a reply, and a gentleman who had been industri-
ously scanning the horse’s points, and chewing a
straw during the oration, lifted up his office, and
nearly paralysed the seller by observing that he
wouldn t mind “sayin’ four quid for the old’un,
just to start him goin’.” This liberal offer was
met by a gentle rebuke from Mr. Yullle, who
advised the would-be owner of a thoroughbred.to
keep his money and buy tobacco with it for his
wife and family. In spite of all the auctioneer's
persuasive powers, however, Hughenden was
actually knocked down to Mr. El worthy, of South
Australia for 25 guineas, and so delighted was that
gentleman with his new purchase, that he sold
him shortly afterwards for a trifling advance on
what he paid for him. And yet the son of King
Tom and May Bloom bears his years well, and bis
breeding is fully equal to that of his pampered
rival, St. Albans. Sic transit is an adage that
keeps well, even in a stable.
The Balmain people are becoming—or
rather, have become—proverbial for the execrable
manner in which they manage their lessor regattas.
At the Snail's Bay affair, unfortunates were kept
for fully an hour on the savoury Balmain landing,
waiting for a steamer to convey them to the flag-
ship, and at the Balmain Bowing Club Regatta, on
Saturday last, the complaints came in at the other
end. The first race was started long behind the
time stated on the card, and as the lost time was
gradually increased between each race, the last
contest, to start at quarter past five, was not sent
away till past six, and the Sydney visitors were not
landed at Erskinc-street till past 7 o’clock, thor-
oughly worn out and disgusted with their after-
noon’s Imprisonment. The Admiral served as
flagship, and the launch Acls as umpire's boat,
both crafts being well filled with spectators. We
noticed one pair very undecided as to which
steamer they would patronise—but stay, our muse
has made a savage onslaught, and we ll chip in with
a little doggerel:— |
The two events which caused the only show
of excitement amongst the locals, were two
wager boat events. One for scullers who had
never won a wager-boat race—open to all comers;
and the other for cup presented by Mr. Hutchin-
son, to be won three times. For the first event,
all interest was centred on J. J, Langley and J.
Bead man, who soon left their field, Langley with
the lead. When a few hundred yards had been
covered, Beadman drew up level, and Langley
fbut up as smart as a rat-trap, leaving his oppo-
nent to win with comparative ease. The race for
the cup was then looked upon by outsiders as a
gift for Beadman, but a thorough reversal of
form was shown by the same two men, as Langley,
pulling in really good style, won from end to end
as he liked. The four-oar race ended in a fizzle,
and three poorly contested skiff races b'oughc to
a conclusion the slowest and worst conducted club
regatta it has ever been our ill-luck to attend.
Edward Hanlan little thought, when he
landed in Australia over twelvemonths since, that
his number tens would have bean at this length-
ened period still pulverising the land of the kan-
garoo; but, win or lose on Saturday next, we have
no doubt he will bo only too glad to kick Sydney
dust off his feet, and to his dying day curse the
hour he first made up his mind to visit the anti-
Eodes. That the period since his defeat by Beach
as been one of doubt and chagrin goes without
saying, and it has left its mark on the good-looking
little Canadian, too, as evinced by the fact that, if
closely looked into, a white hair may here and
there be discovered peeping out from his well-
covered head. As to the race on Saturday, so far
as performances and style are concerned, Hanlan
should win, given he still possesses the stlying
powers for which he has ever been famous. Beach,
as a sculler, is a greater wonder than Hanlan,
when it is taken into consideration the respective
times the pair have been at the game, and he may be
—we don’t say he is—the Canadian s peer in stay ing
quality, as his admirers would have us believe;
but as to style, we decidedly say—no. From Har-
lan's grip of the water to the commencement of
the next stroke, pick a hole in him who can; but
not so with Beach, who catches the water in faulty
manner with slanting blade—a fault he picked up
and has never dropped, when practising light-skiff
rowing in Johnson’s Bay. It is argued Beach has
improved vastly since his last match with Hanlan,
and so he would require to do to beat him agair,
considering the manner Hanlan led him to the
period when condition compelled the Canadian to
cry a go; and in spite of Beach’s acknowledged
herculean strength and bull-dog determination,
wo still stick to our opinion the Canadian will
carry back the championship with him to America.
We also hear it stated Hanlan is not a stayer. This
is amusing, considering that, barring the Beach
race, Hanlan has proved himself the greatest
stayer of his day the world could produce, by row-
ing terrific races for a mile and a-half or two
miles, and then going on comparatively fresh
away from his defeated men. If this is the sort of
man that cannot stay, in the interests of colonial
aquatics, let us hope our man is a non-stayer. In
our opinion, there is but one perfect style of row-
ing— 1 1anlan’s—and Hanlan is its only exponent.
Both men will probably face the starter as fit as
the proverbial fiddle, and our sincere wishes for
them are a calm day, a fair field, and may the best
man win.
And now for some cycling “ Hash.” No
cyclist can go as well with stockings gartered
tight round the knee as when the leg Is loose and
free....A Vienna paper gives a glimpse of the
possible future of bicycling. The Austrian War
Department tried some of its cadet* on an expedi-
tion on bicycles recently. Each young soldier
t carried a small knapaack, and $he party covered
350 miles In five days, over the rbads In Cleve-
land (Am.), a minister rode to church on his
bicycle. As he swept up to the sacred edifice, a
large dog, belonging to the senior deacon, came
up to greet him. The bicycle struck that large
dog head on, most surprisingly, and ran him to
earth with a shock that be could plainly felt by the
naked eye. The reverend prayist took a header
that landed him through the crown of his hat, the
scattered leaves of a four-headed sermon with
rragipents'strewed the air, and the dog wailed In a
Voice that would have made the stones of Rome
(o rise and mutiny. The parson’s coat was
split on his back, and his trousers rlpned where
we can’t explain. This latter damage was repaired
with pins, and when the parson had put on the
deacon’s pepper and salt coat, he preached elo-
quontlyfrom Ezekiel: “The Lord bmdeth uothe
breaeh of his people.”—Hygienic Dr. Richard-
son is a most enthusiastic cybllst; he proposes a
society of ,scientific cyclists, who are to undergo
excursions in the Interests of botany, geography,
geology, and other sciences, on their machines-a
sort of small Royal Society on wheels An Ame-
rican has Invented patent elastic web-cycling
breeches, made of wool yet light as silk, and fit-
ting glove like. They are made either for racing
or heavier for road work. Hitherto, women have
monopolised the elastic garments for showing
their symmetery; it’s time men had a show
Czar of Russia rides an “ Imperial” tricycle At
the British Cyclists’ Tournlng Club, which num-
bers several hundreds of members, there was a
heated debate over the question of patronage.
The chairman thought the club should have
an honorary president, chosen from the Royal
Family or the aristocracy. Since the aris-
tocracy had taken up Cycling more respect
had been paid to tho sport, and by hav-
ing such a president the whole status of
cyclists would be elevated. Mr. Marsh warmly in-
sisted that the time had come when they should
not court the smiles of royalty, (Hear, hear, and
hisses ) Cycling had had its worth vindicated by
the respectable middle classes-(Cheers)—and they
wanted men with brains and spirit, not mere
marionettes, at the head of the club. (More hisses
and counter cheers.) The great racing man, Lacy
Hlllier, very wittily ended the rather acrimonious
discussion, by saying that while they might not
want a royal figure head, it ought to be clearly un-
derstood that “the misfortune of being born a
lord ” would not prevent a man belonging to the
club if he bad enough ability to ride a bicycle.
(Laughter;)....Mr. D. Corey, manager of a hard-
ware storo in Boston, being the first to ride a
bicycle up a hill before regarded as impracticable,
Messrs. Rudge and Co., of Coventry, on hearing of
it, sent the rider a 30-guinea bike as a present
As it is often asked what is tho best bike
time for a mile, we may say that in September, Mr.
Sanders Sellers was presented with a gold stop-
watch for riding a mile in 3min. 39sec. t at Spring-
field, America, beating the world's record . At
Liverpool Monster Meet 6C clubs were represented,
and 831 bicyclists rode in the procession At St.
Helen*, a drunken vanman, being angry at some
wheelmen, and failing to overtake tnem on foot
with his whip, deliberately galloped a tricyclist
down with his van. Cost him £40.'.. .Square rub-
ber pedaJsare usm! to prevent the feet slipping. ..
At the last St. Petersburg annual cycling meet,
there were 30,000 spectators, and £t)00 went to
charities .. Bicycling at Bombay is carried on
when the thermometer reaches 85 degrees on
moonlight nights. The native salaams humbly as
the unesmny thing goes by... .Tde latest stimulant.
among racers is coca—a Peruvian drug, which
gives great support under physical strain, but
some say it plays the devil with the nerves after-
wards.
SPORTING GLEANING?.
An American contemporary says there are
Jess than a million amateur athletes in America,
but more than ten hundred thousand who have
run lUOOyds. In lOsec... One Potinger Stephens
courteously says in the Topical Times (London)
that Murdoch’s eleven arc “ wln-tie-or-wra"glo
cricketers, mercenary cads.” Dr. Carver, the
champion rifle-shot, was Interviewed the other
day at New Haven, Connecticut. During the in-
fliction the doctor negotiated a light breakfast,
which consisted of four boiled eggs, three lamb
chops, several slices of toast, a beefsteak the size
of a tea-tray, potatoes, and a large pot of tea.
We saw a pair with quiv’ring lip.
With eagle glance and thirsty throat,
Fixed was one eye on the flagship,
The other on the umpire’s boat.
The ad. said, steamers start at two—
’Twas getting on, a quarter past:
Said Number One, “Things look darned blue!’’
Cried Number Two, “Ha, ha I At last!
“ The grog went on the umpire’s boat!”
And a guileless sral'e illumed his face,
As Number One cried, “ Get afloat;
1 guess the umpire’s launch we ll grace.”
Who were the pair ? Where are you from ?
You must. Indeed, be a very new chum?
They were aquatic scribblers from
The 6yen Nooze and Mornin’ Rum.


GOMPAGNONI CATERING GO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. /
THE oldest and leading Catering Establishment in N.S.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor,
Municipal Council of Sydney, the A.J.C., City Club, v c , &o. ,, , . ,. .
Tne Dining Saloons for Ladies and Gentlemen are the Finest, Coollest, and loftiest In the colony.
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar—Good Wine List,
rw GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p m. (after tne
Theatres. Select your own steak, Ac., and sec it grilled in the room. This is one of the acquisitions
or the ciiv. and a long-felt wat t. Inspection invited Ciub rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Cluo
and City Club, upstaix’8. Ei D. TOLLEMA.CHE, General Manager.
Foster’s Bugle Brand.
notice oe removal.
COCHRANE MI CUTLER,
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
TO
No. 3 Htjntek-sxreex,
SECOND DOOR FROM GEORGE-STREET.
m
have ARRIVED.
I Ad immense delivery
° f YANKEE RUBBER
BABIES.
Goes In the waistcoat poo
ket; blows out to life size;
is washable, durable, and
unbreakable ; resembles
life, for like the real article
it coos at pleasure and yet
______ screams awfully if smacked
Experienced fathers are deceived by these laugh-
fer-proaucing infants, and no home is really a
happy one without their presence. Price (post
free): largest. Is. 6d.; medium, Is. 3d.
Also, just in, a large assortment of Conjuring
Tricks, catalogues on application.
THE WIZARD CARDS,
changing from eights
to deuces, from, black to
red, and back again at the
pleasure of the per-
fsrmer. Post free, with
full instructions, Is. 2d.
jpJ S I’m a Daddy ; I’m in
>A\ Love; Tbe Mother-in-law;
I’m a Farder; and Be
'VSSJ fore and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever issued, 5 in each set.
Price, 6d. per set, or 5 sets for 2s.; by poet, 2s. 2d.
The Three Donkeys. The newest “have” out.
Send for them, but keep It quiet. Price, Is.; by
post, la. 2d.
The Sooner Dog—a wonderful little animal;
roars of laughter follow him wherever he goes.
Is. 6d,; by post, 2s. 6d.
Napoleon in Council, very rich, Is. 6d. ; by post, 3s.
HORTON and CO., 401 George-street, Sydney.
Box 641, G.P.O.
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate in Medicine and Surgery, Registered
Physician of New South Wales. „ .
Office Hours : 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., T to 9 on Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday Evenings.
Ladies’ Waiting Room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen s, No.
11,52 Caatlercagh-street (upstairs.)
Send for Free Treatise on Vitality and Nervous
Debility, Diseases of Women.
Illustrated Works on Deformities, Electricity
and its Application. Hernia (ruptures), Varicocele,
Australian Medical and Surgical In-
firmary, Sydney ; or B. O. HOLTERMANN, Esq.,
M.P., President, Box 120, G.P.O.
Consultation Free bv mall or in person.
Deformities, Specific. Female, and Nervous
Diseases, a Specialty.
BLAKE’S IMPROVED
STEAM PUMPS.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
17 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE ABOV E,
and have in Stock and to arrive—
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING PUMP
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
BEND FOR PRICES AND ALL PARTICULARS
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FREE.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £100,000.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Sydney Branch : Royle’s Chambers, Bond-street.
Victorian Directors I N. S. Wales Directors:
John L. Dow, Esq., M P., | Andrew Town, J.P , Esq.
Chairman I Frank Cowley, Esq.
Hon. J. F. Levien. M.P. George S. Yeo, Esq.
Thomas Learmonth, Esq. I
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
Causes on land, rail, or at sea.
Marine Risks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted.
The only Live Stock Insurance Society in the
colonies.
Full particulars can bo obtained from the under-
signed.
Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
J. A. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.
Office, Royle’s Chambers, Bond-street.
QUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALB.
A USTRALIAN MUTUAL FIKE SOCIETY.
Established 1873.
Capital—£100,COO with po wer to increase to £1,000,C00
BONUSES—30 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
CHURCHILL’S 8YKUP OF THB HYPO-
PHOSPHITES.
THESE SYRUPS have bo thoroughly obtained
the contldonce of the Medical Faculty that they
are now preferred to any other preparations as
General Tonics.
The Syrup of Hy pophosphites of Lime has proved
itself for many years most useful in cases of Con-
sumption and diseases of the Pulmonary Organs.
It is also most beneficial to debilitated constitu-
tions proceeding from any cause whatever, as it
contains two of the most necessary ingredients for
building up the Human Frame, namely, Phospho-
rus and Lime.
Churchill’s Syrup of the Hypophosphite of Iron
is one of the best preparations of Iron and Phos-
phorus that has been offered to the public. As a
permanent tonic it has been found more service-
able than any other preparation of Iron, and is
especially recommended to those suffering from
the effects of a long residence in a hot climate.
Churchill's Compound Syrup of the Hy pophos-
phites contains Lime, Iron, and Soda, and as a
general Tonic has been found most useful. Deli-
cate children have derived the greatest benefit
from going through a course of this medicine,
which supplies nearly all the elements necessary
to develops in perfection the Human Frame. To
Ladies suffering from General Debility, any of
these Syrups can be taken with most beneficial re-
sults, but as almost every constitution differs, one
may give better results than the other. To be bad
from all Chemists, and Wholesale from ELLIOTT
BROS.. Pitt-street, Sydney.
MASON BROTHERS
LIMITED,
IXHIBI
14 and 18 Spring 1 Street
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS. CHINA,
▲HB
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T, QAYBN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Bdlnbui'gnFale die.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
IMPOffi of IK
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRASSES
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX,
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&o., &o.
BLEND
jMAfbi
fTRAO|)
COLLIE BLEND WHISKT.-Thls is a B T END
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and Savour. CATTBLL & CO., Sole
Agents.
Nervous debility, lost vitality,
Weakness, and Premature Decay.—A favour-
ite Prescription of an eminent French Hospital
Physician for simple self-cure. Free to any suf-
ferer. Send your address, on a stamped envelope,
to C. C. W., Box 766, G.P. O., Sydney.
WASTE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Bullet: v
Office
Head Offices. <sas>
First Fire Society established in the colony on
the Mutual principle, Riving policy-holders back
part, of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
preflts every year.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from
all liability. „
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums. , .
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
The BEST at.it. and 8T0UT In the Market
SOLD BT AT.T. STOREKEEPERS AND WIN 13
merchants.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
fiSSs?
B'RieORffS
,ESSKH€Eop
!e only intauimo remedy for
y/ERybifs ))EBl\.l jyT
THIS Invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes Incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system: regenerating
all the Important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. * In cases at 12?., or four quantities is one for
aes.; if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,’’
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from Georga-street South.
| — — '
VENET1A WALTER
TV jfir to h« igjfl nuirk/ul, Garompe Lowtihan.
p/3 eatUabiU
red
Fed
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC In the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &o.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues will be ready in a few days and
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &o,, at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£ 1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most Important Copying
Instruments ever Invented, The Trypograpn
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM ~BULLARD P
342 GEORGE STREET.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager,
Head Offlees-PITT and KINO STREETS.
Watch and Clockmaker to the Victorian
Government.
I. GAUNT
Watchmaker,
GOLDSMITH,
jam ud mu,
297 and 299
George Street,
aftcii oefoiie MOUSTACHE and WHISZEE3.
JJoyd’t Beard Plixirdid thin,and
i will do it on cither bald head or
bare face, fuicea henry Mime.
tacheiii/rnmZIobvxsekaandncver (
■ /ails, 20,000 young men already \'. hled '
Copyrighted, wear full heard h, having need 1 to Copyrigtltea.
. Ko iniury. easily applied, certain in effect. Packete le.ua.
each, 3 for 3! ib/poet p<nd.eeat under
Addrtti, Frank Dougin*,
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found it at
last with the Argosy Braces at Gowing Bros.
m
wm
iU/l/U
GOWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. Od., 3s , 3s. 6d.,& 4s. Od
GOWING BROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS. OUTFITTERS, &c.
333 and 4»8 Gcorge-strcet.
298 George Street, Sydney.
Every description of Shirts made to measure
A perfect fit guaranteed.
& v
h-
0
SMITH & MANNELL,
THE SHIRT MANUFACTURERS OF
AUSTRALASIA,
o
DenttstS °
IOb-6
market Sr £YDN EY.


JglUBNITUKl SHOW BOOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
BEADING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisit!
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, Ac.
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley.
Newton, and Lamb.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &o.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feeit
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
EDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached: PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 3 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 30s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 13s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s-
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB; Spring and O’Connell streets.
*
i}QK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oCOtl strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished la
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &o.
jrNHlflFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
V Just received. Bradley, Newton,
OConneli-strect.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-street.
TThRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
±J A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
HAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIRj
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
penslve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suited for dining-room—side-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-strcet.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D
[ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
m
NEE!
■ -i
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It 1s simple, yet ingenious in Its
construction'; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of he body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It Is superior
to anything yet Invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four Inches In thickness
when f( Jded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, If required,
2s. 6d. extra.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A vorv exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room furni-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
EDSTBADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
BEDSTEADS, all kinds and Sizes7 at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rate*
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB?0™o£
nell and Spring streets.
W
A8HSTANDS, with marble, from 2Ss each*
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB/
GARDEN SEATS, 30s: Verandah Chairs
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD*
LEY. NEWTON, and LAMB. O’ConneU-street
BENTWOOD FUSNITURB.-A very
Assortment: best make, lowest price*. ’
SOCIAL
The plain and fancy hall given in return
to the laldies of Petersham in the Albert Hall, on
Thursday, 19th Instant, was a success, 30 couples
assembling to dispose of the well set programme.
Dancing was Indulged in freely, while the evening
was varied hy songs by lady and gentlemen
visitors, among whom was Mr. Phillips, who sang
“Killarney,” &o. Among the various fancy
dresses were Patience and Little Ked Biding Hood,
two sisters from Petersham—from which place
also came a Skipping Girl, in a pale blue costume.
Summer Hill was represented by three sisters, two
of whom were attired in black and cardinal, while
the third wore cardinal body and black skirt.
Two sisters dressed in navy blue bodies and white
skirts looked very fascinating. From Surry Hills
two ladies came, one in crushed strawberry, and
the other arrayed in a dreamy blue skirt, with a
carefully adjusted bodice of light blue satin. A
lady in a, blue dress with low neck, and trimmed
with lace, who was a vi ry line dancer, also looked
charming. Various were the other costumes,
principal among which were a pink and cream
from Annandale; and those of two sisters —
one cardinal and white, the other light blue and
white. One other costume—it carried off the palm
of the evening—was that of a lady who appeared
as a Spanish Dancing Girl; it suited her to perfec-
tion. Dancing continued until 4 a.ra., and Mr.
Snudden, the local man, catered excellently.
• * •
Petersham was merry last Friday when
La Socletd gave their first social evening. Evening
dress was “optional,” so swallow-tails were pretty
scarce, but tne ladles—catch them going in any-
thing but evening dress when they have the
chancel Oh, no. Their walking-dresses maybe
shabby, their kid-gloves well rubbed, and the ribs
of their parasols broken, but they are never with-
out a nice evening dress. Well, La Sooletd —
pretty,,high-sounding name, isn’t it?—commenced
their entertainment by a miniature concert, and
the way they hurried through the music to arrive
at the dancing was amusing. There are some very
fair voices among this Petersham crowd, buL as
we presume they are amateurs, to criticise their
singing would be unfair. We can hardly forbear,
however, making mention of the very even ren-
dering of the “ Angelus” chorus. It was so even
that there wasn’t a hairbreadth's difference in the
volumn of sound throughout. The equality was
such that It might have been sung by a vocal
hurdy-gurdy. However, if hurdy-gardjs are ex-
pressionless they are correct. Two clever little
girls danced a stage waltz. They were mighty
clever to dance any sort of a waltz to such music.
The piano was right enough,bu t the violin would’nt
gee at all. The unanimous sigh that was heaved
when the concert was over was enough to lift the
roof off the Petersham Town Hall, where, by the
Way, the social was held. It didn’t take five
minutes to clear away the chairs, and it was evi-
dent to us, when we consulted some of the pro-
grammes and could find nothing but a square left
in any of them, that, instead of listening to the
concert, the time had been occupied in filling in
engagements. This wasn’t fair to us, who stolidly
and conscientiously listened to all the music, in
the hope of coming across something worth listen-
ing to. However, as we were doomed to be denied
a dance, next beat thing was to admire the dresses,
which we did, and amongst them the following
were what pleased us most. The handsomest of
all was a full black net skirt with an amber satin
short basque. Next was a pale green nun’s veil-
ing skirt with one broad band of ruby velvet
above the hem, and a ruby velvet peaked bodice—
a sp.endid contrast, and altogether tasteful. Two
sisters wore cerise satin basques over black net
skirts. A pink spotted tulle with pink broche body
was very nice—the wearer had long pink mittens
reaching past the elbow, where they were fastened
by a ribbon band and bows. One of the prettiest
maidens wore cream veiling without colour, and a
gold filigree butterfly in the hair. An ivory satin,
draped with beautiful lace, with ruby velvet
bodice and train, was very rich-looking. A com-
bination of crimson satin and old gold silk was
amongst the more striking dresses. Miss Bayfield’s
dress was a pale blue veiling, made with tucked
skirt, baby body, and short sleeves. We were
going to admire Miss D’Arietta’s dress all we
knew, and we did admire it until we saw that the
effect of the pretty moss green velvet bodice over
the white skirt was spoilt by some loops of blue
ribbon, which were displayed in front of the dress.
There is a pale blue which goes very well witn a
very deep green, but this blue and green was all
out of harmony. A black dress, about which
there was just a sensation of pink, looked neat.
Tbo wearer had her fair hair hanging in a long
plait, in which was interlaced several strings of
pearls. The same ornaments were worn in bands
round the head. Happiness beamed on every
face, and the first social evening of La So-
ciety was undoubtedly a success.
♦ * *
We have been guilty of a piece of gross
injustice. We stated last week that Mrs. Watts, of
Hordern Brothers, PItLstreet, had been the re-
cipient; of an address and presentation from the
members of the millinerg department, when it
should have been the dressmaking department.
What erring mortals we are, to be sure I However,
wo humbly apologise to those concerned, and
must beg them to put the mistake down to our
crass ignorance in supposing both lines were
bossed by the same person, and composed only one
department. Now, however, we know Watts the
difference.
• ♦ •
More German annexation. Two well-
known ladies residing at Surry Hills are soon to
be annexed by two equally known German resi-
dents of Sydney. One wedding takes place the
end of this month and the other in April.
* » »
As we anticipated, the Opera House on the
occasion of the “Imps’” matinee, on Thursday
last, was devoid of standing rot m long before the
performance commenced. It si ook our ideas on
the subject of matinees not a lltt'e, as it has hither-
to appeared to us that afternoon shows don’t
" take ” in Sydney, but that may be because they
have generally consisted of very mediocre con-
certs and the like. Now, if one good theatrical
performance were to be given on one afternoon in
each week—say Wednesdays—there is no reason
why it shouldn’t be well patronised. Many ladies
who cannot conveniently leave their homes at
night, would gladly attend an afternoon theatre.
Come, you theatrical managers, this is worth your
consideration. A good show of dresses was dis-
played in the circle, and not a few in the front
rows of the stalls. Some ladies were kind, and
removed their hats, and some were unkind, and
didn’t. It mattered not when the head-gear con-
sisted of small Hat bonnets, but when a tall
crowned hat, with plumes a foot high, unneces-
sarily obstructed the view, it was too bad—it was
indeed. Mrs. M'Quade wore a pretty fawn-
coloured silk, and light bonnet; and over the edge
of the same box peeped a lovely baby face, encir-
cled by the quaintest of lace bonnets. Mrs.
Trlckett looked well in a peacock blue satin, with
lace trimming. Mrs. John Wilson, black
silk, and a pretty bonnet adorned with cream
and pink feathers. One of the handsomest
dresses was worn by a lady who sat in the
front row of the circle. The material was a
rich ruby satin, with jabot of salmon-coloured
brocade. Mrs. J. N. Hart’s dress of electric blue
satin, peppered with fawn spots, was also much
admired. Mrs. C. Stratton, myrtle-green satin
and seal-brown bonnet; her sister, Miss Payne,
navy blue, with white vest and small Princess
bonnet. Mrs. J. S. Ramsay wore a pretty drees of
embossed China silk; Miss Butler, cream nun’s
veiling and lace; Miss G oodman’s zebra-like basque
over a dark skirt was very striking; her sister’s
costume was all black. Mrs. Baumann wore black
satin, small black bonnet with gold berries; Mrs.
Captain Webber also wore black with small white
lace bonnet. A cool-looking white dress had a
gold zone and old gold trimming; a bunch of mis-
cellaneous llowers, backed by variegated leaves,
were caught in the zone and looked very tasty.
Mrs. Huenerbeln wore a fawn-coloured hat and
feathers and black satin dress. Miss Annie Taylor
ware a magnificent terra cotta silk with long train
of embossed velvet in same shade. Miss Conny
Deorwyn a pretty sage satin petticoat with ovir-
skirt of a pale fawn colour. Miss Josephine
Deakin wore a pale blue silk skirt with biscuit-
coloured lace polonaise. Many more beautiful
costumes were worn, but so many that to mention
all would be Imp-possible.
• * •
To show their appreciation of Messrs.
Hordern Brothers’ big heartedness in determining
to close their establishment at 2 p.m. on Saturdays,
their employes entertained them at a banquet and
ball at Professor West’s Academy last Thursday
night. The ball-room was prettily decorated with
flags and flowers, and everything went right
menily. About a hundred were present, and after
the banquet and speeches were concluded, the
gentlemen wiped their beards and the ladies
stroked do wn their pretty dresses and gave 1 hem-
selves up to the full enjoyment of the giddy whirl.
If they did not dance with much skill the will was
there, and they did their level best. It goes without
saying, the costumes were all very tasteful ; in-
deed it would have been most unbusinesslike of
the ladies had they been otherwise. But leaving
shop alone, wo will single out a few from the many
which we thought were more than passibly nice—
extra-hordern-ary, in fact. A white satin, draped
with white lace, was rich and pretty, and a graceful
figure set off a handsome pink satin, with black
lace polonaise. One of the best dancers wore a
dark green satin, with cream ostrich feathers
round the square-cut neck. A young lady looked
neat in black net, as also did one in black
broche, with yellow flowers in the hair and neck.
Two sisters looked particularly nice in white
muslin, with old gold sashes and ribbons. A
demure litt.'e blonde, whom many dubbed the
little belle, was in gray silk, with blue top skirt,
and danced very creditably. A cream nun’s veil-
ing had the front of the skirt completely covered
with lace and long loops of ribbon. A striking
dress was of black brocM, with jabot handsomely
braided with gold braid, cuffs and collar to cor-
respond. A pretty figure wore a white-kilted
skirt, white satin jacket and shoes. A cream
satin, covered with white muslin and old-gold
lace, was uncommon. The pretty conservatory
at the further end of the room was much fre-
quented. You see, dancing is pretty fatiguing
after standing behind a,counter all day; so if the
fair heads did droop languidly upon their partners’
shoulders it wasn’t much to wonder at. The Pro-
fessor was amongst the throng, and if the dancing
did to a certain extent set his artistic soul on edge,
he had at least the satisfaction of knowing there was
plenty of work in Sydney for him yet. Dancing
was kept up till the small hours, and, after wit-
nessing the apparent amiable understanding there
exists between employers and employes, we no
longer marvel at seeing the same faces in the
establishment of Hordern Brothers that have
been there for years.
• ■ •
The Moss Vale Show, which came off the
latter end of last week, was a brilliant success.
The weather was the warmest and brightest the
little village has experienced for a long time.
Some of the ladies’ riding costumes were quite
unique, and the walking-dresses very tasteful.
The wife of the Moss Vale Bank manager wore a
conspicuous costume, which consisted of a bright
scarlet jersey over a black surah skirt. Mrs.
Andrew Badgery wore pure white, and her sister-
in-lawla pale blue zephyr, which looked really nice.
Mrs. D. Forman wore light blue, made in a most
becoming style. Many nice costumes were on the
grand stand, but, as they kept their places, we
could only obtain a bird’s-eye view of them,
Amongst the visitors from Sydney were Miss
Yeend from Manly, in all her rosy beauty, and Mr.
C. Bennett.
• •
The Admiral took a good load of visitors
to the Balmain Bowing Club regatta last Saturday
afternoon. We were assured on the programmes
that the last race would take place no later than
5,15, but in future we shall put no faith in pro-
grammes, for it was past 7 o’clock before we
regained terra flrma. This isn’t fair to a man who
has an appointment with his best girl for 6.30-lt
makes him feel very bitter, and vow all sorts of
vengeance against regattas which take four hours
to accomplish what should be done In three. With
the very best of intentions, the secretary had
provided refreshments—light refreshments, very
— for the ladies, but—a word in your ear, Mr. Sec-
retary—nexttime you provide refreshment for the
ladies, see that they get it, and look here, old fellow,
charter a few more tumblers next time; it doesn’t
look nice to see their rosy lips squeezed
into the neck of a lemonade bottle. Be-
sides, drinking out of a bottle is an art
in itself; they can no more do it than you
can thread a needle. So you won’t forget the
tumblers next time, will you? Beach rowed
alongside for a few minutes, and took his cap off
quite gracefully, when he was cheered. We heard
some fair creature whisper, “ Oh, that's Beach is
it? Well, I must say he’s more massive than
beautiful.” Nice dresses were scarce ; indeed,
there were none worthy of note, with the excep-
tion of a pink muslin, a white cashmere trimmed
with satin, a biue oatmeal cloth, and a white
flounced skirt with a jaunty, faultlessly-fitting,
black-corded velvet basque, which was worn by
Miss L, Haslington. Had mere been any spirituous
liquors on board, it would have been very easy to
account for the ridiculous and coarse behaviour
of a few youths, to whom a regatta seems to be
a grand gala day. They essayed to be witty,
which consisted in blowing each other’s matches
out as they were in the act of lighting their pipes.
Brilliant and noble youths, how we esteem you!
It has often been a matter of wonder to us
why regattas should be so little popular. We have
done wondering now.
• • m
On Wednesday evening, the 18th instant,
George Matthews and Son’s wheat store, adjoining
their Western City Flour Mills, Bathurst, looked
quite gay and festive in celebration of the birthday
of Miss Matthews. Dancing opened at 8 p.m., and
was continued with the utmost vigour until 5 on
Thursday morning, at which hour about 80 couples
wended their weary way homewards. Mrs. H. C.
Matthews in cream satin, Miss Butler in cream
veiling, and Miss Turner in black silk came in for
the largest share of belleship votes. The monotony
of the dance was broken by songs from Mrs. H. C.
Matthews (*‘ Out on the Rocks ”), and Messrs. Prott
(“ Our Jack’s Come Home ”) and G. Wareham; and
Mr. J. B. Butler “ brought down the house ” by
stepping the sailors’ hornpipe and Highland fling.
Supper at midnight, on conclusion of which Mr.
J, B. Butler proposed Miss Matthews’ health, and
all joined in drinking her “many happy returns
of the day;” her only brother—H. C. Matthews—
briefly responded. Altogether an extremely plea-
sant time was spent, and all look forward to a
repetition next year.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“D. M‘B.”: Too late for insertion last week, and
too stale for this.,..“ Maud”: How is it we
never hear from you now ? Have you quite
forsaken us ? Please reply.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Mr. Henry VV. Chapman’s Complimentary
Elocutionary Recitals, assisted by
Miss Louisa Woodward (pianist and
vocalist), Protestant Hall March 27
Liberal Association of N.8. Wales. Grand
Soirte. West’s Academy March 27
Private view of the Art Society’s sixth
exhibition. Town Hall, 2.30, p.m March 28
Sydney Owls’ Garden Party, (postponed)....April 9
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated wit!
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
1 fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
’ consummated. 60t Hunter-street, Sydney.*
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Belle,— Grievous have the complaints
been of late anent the lengthy programmes for
our matinees, concerts, and regattas, and, sooth to
say, dear, there has been ample cause for such
complaints. Upon the occasion of the Imps ma-
tinee last Thursday, we were told wo might order
our carriages for 5.15, and yet the entertainment
did not terminate until 6.30. Now, for the many
who had made engagements to dine out, it either
necessitated their being rude and leaving the
theatre during a performance, or breaking their
appointments—thus, perhaps, giving offence to
their friends. It is time, really, that these enter-
tainment contractors showed a little more judg-
ment in the drawing out of the programmes—at
all events, surely they need not bo so wide of the
mark as an hour and a quarter. And then the en-
tertainers themselves should be shown some con-
sideration, too, for now, taking the case of Sam
Keenan and Moynham, who were the last per-
formers on the programme, I think it was right
down cruel to ask them to play at 0.30 when their
own entertainment at the Academy commenced
at 8 p.m.; don’t you ? I must say it was a splendid
programme, but it was quite long enough
for two matinees. Colonel Ike Austen gave an
exhibition of his skill in shooting, and I
think he must have been practising a good deal
on his introducer's h’s and shot them all away, for
there wasn’t a suspicion of such a letter in this
gentleman’s speech. But, although this deter-
mined discardance of the troublesome aspirant
was provocative of much mirth amongst the audi-
ence, I do think many of them should look at home
before finding fault in others, I do not believe,
dear, that in Sydney there is one person out of ten
who speaks pure English; if they do not make
actual errors in grammar, they abuse the letter
r ’ to such an extent that I often wonder it isn’t
worn out. It seems to me that the world is in such
a hurry now-a-days that when two words come to-
gether, the one ending in, and the other commenc-
ing with, a vowel, this aggressive little letter f s
introduced so as to prevent the slight pause which
is necessary in order to avert the words from run-
ning into each other. It’s convenient, no doubt,
but upon refined ears it grates distressingly. Just
after this anfl-H-gentleman had made a little
speech, I heard a lady in the circle ask her com-
panion how he was going home. He replied, “ Oh,
viar America.” And yet he was amongst the most
amused at the faulty speech of another. I should
just like to see this same gentleman in an English
drawing-room, where even to raise the voice
above a certain pitch is a crime. He would find
there, if anywhere, that his vulgarisms were as
obnoxious to people of good breeding, as the
omission of the “ h ” was amusing to him. But,
dear, this same vulgarism is so universal here in
Sydney (I don’t know how it is up there with
you) that we are getting quite accustomed to it.
I think, however, that our actors and actresses
should avoid this careless and slovenly mode of
speech, as it is part of their business to guard
against such faults. But I am sorry to say that
many of them are following suit, perhaps with the
impression that here they may do so with im-
punity; but if they persist in it, dear, sure as any-
thing the papers will bring them to book over it.
And yet another line of industry has been
opened to us poor females I How would you like
to be a commercial traveller, dear ? I should fancy
for a girl possessing plenty of nerve (vulgarly
termed “ cheek ’’) the life would be fascinating
enough. I hear that now that the scheme has had
a trial, there is a great demand for these lady
travellers, for not only are they willing to take
less salaries than men, but their persuasive powers
are so strong that they have proved themselves to
be far more valuable than the sterner sex. It
appears to me, though, that in the households of
business men, who possess wives, the scheme will
not be quite palatable, for in some cases these wives
will not always be ready to believe that the well-
dressed (for she would be stupid did she not dress
well), intelligent-looking girl who kept her hus-
band talking for two whole hours was monopolis-
ing him for purely business motives. No, I am
not sure that these female travellers will be re-
garded by these wives with friendly eyes; so a
girl will require to be not over sensitive to adopt
a life which, if it possesses pecuniary advantages,
and a vast amount of variety, is certainly fraught
with its share of dangers. But I am quite rejoiced,
dear, to see that, besides dress-making, acting,
governessing, walking the block, and marrying,
the lords of creation have nobly conceded to girls
a few other occupations by which they can earn a
living, but when they divided the spoils of the
commercial traveller with them I hardly think
they realised what dangerous rivals they were
letting loose.
In readiness for the forthcoming dancing season,
a novel and cunning little punishment has heen
devised for those selfish of all men, the non-
dancers. Not that I think one whit the less of a
man, dear, who doesn’t dance, for, in my opinion,
the activity he lacks in his legs is, in many cases,
found in his brains; but, when he doesn’t mean to
dance, he has no right to accept of an invitation
to that class of amusement, for when he docs, he
goes under false pretences. They should be honest,
and give out to their friends that they do not
care for dancing, and then they would not be in-
vited, and no harm would be done. Now, there
are some men, who, although almost indispensable
at a musicale or conversazione, are quite out of
place in a ball-room, and there are also some
noodles who are neither use nor ornament in either
place, and it is for these species of humanity that
this punishment has been invented. The hostess
hands to the dancers a blue ticket which entitles
them to a champagne supper, but to the wall-
flower mashers a pink ticket is given which only
entitles him to lemonade and biscuits. Now, as it
can only be concluded that this class of men go
solely for the sake of the champagne, the little bit
of pink reproach must go straight home to them,
and perhaps in time it will effect a cure to this
bane of the ball-room.
I have heard of another eight-year-old musical
genius, but as I have neither seen nor heard her
yet, f can only tell you that she is also a pupil of
Herr Kreitchmann’s, and if all the things which
are said of her are true, she must be almost as
wonderful as little Elsie Hall. This music
is a terrible study if carried out properly
—don’t you agree with me dear ? I mean
there is such endless work attached to
it, that excepting one is entirely devoted to the
art, and something of a genius besides, the pursuit
is one big struggle—unless, indeed, one is satisfied
with very mediocre results. The other day a
young student was practising away, and when her
governess dropped in upon her to note her pro-
gress, if any, the weary fingers fell listlessly upon
her lap whilst she declared that the passage, which
she had played over at least SOJtimes, was no better
than at first. In order to cheer her, the governess
related how Madame Arabella Goddard had once
practised two hars for eight hours, and had her
meals brought to her as she sat at the piano. So
you see, dear, these people whom we think so
clever have to work, and work hard, too, in order
to meet their talents half-way. So fearful was
poor Henri Ketten that his son would have a llkr
ing for music, and be Induced to follow it;as a pro-
fession, that he even forbade him to go to church
in case ho would hear some good music and fan
into the temptation. (I might remark cn passant;
dear, that he might go to nearly all the churches in
(Continued on next page.)


them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with la. Cd. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece ©f common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
IC iSMTI
54 Margaret-straet,
SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 231.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, 34th March, 1885.
Tenders for public works and sup
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office In the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
F. A. WRIGHT.
Tit Utar-WiI Australia,
WITH
COLOURED MAP OF N.S. WALES,
Demy 8vo., boards, cloth back, 750 pp.,
Price 5s.; post free, 5s. 9d.: also abridged edition s
Cd. and Is.
18 one of the most complete works of the kind
ever published in any part of the world. The
articles are written by experts, and the book is so
complete in all its parts, that it may with conil-
denca be recommended for its varied and useful
information concerning Australia and Tasmania.
It contains an enormous mass of facts which every-
body ought to have at hand, and which, by a
copious index, are easily accessible, and cannot be
found in any other collected form. The English,
American, and Australian Press apeak most highly
of it, and the London “ Times ” transferred to its
columns the statements of the Debts and Assets of
Australia.
SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS.
ALCOCK&C0.'S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS:
375 George-st.p Sydney.
|y TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED*
Castoria
Infants and Children
i
What gives our Children rosy cheeks, J
What cures their fevers, makes them sleep;
Castoria-
When Babies fret, and cry by turns.
What cures their colic, kills their worms.
Castoria. 1
• What quickly cures Constipation,
. Sour Stomach, Colds, Indigestion ;
V _Castorla, \
. Farewell then to Morphine Syrups, ,
Castor Oil and Paregoric, and
W Hall Castoria.
“ Castoria, is so well adapted to Children
that I recommend, it as superior to any medi-
cine known to mo.”— II. A. Arcueu, M. D.,
HI Oxford St., Now York.
Elliott Bros., Sidney, Agents.
DR.SCOTT'S
m-
'm*
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by the
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
If you have any pain, ache, or ill-feeling
from any cause; if you seem “pretty well,”
yet lack energy and do not “feel up to the
mark;” if you suffer from disease, we beg
you to at once try these remarkable cura-
tives. They cannot and do not injure like
medicine. Always doing good, never harm.
There is no shock or sensation felt in wear-
ing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro-magnetism acts quickly*
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during the
first hour they are worn their wonderful
curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all
the old-time health and good-feeling come
back. They are constructed on scientific
princ’ples, imparting an exhilarating,
health-giving current to the whole system.
Professienal men assert that there is hardly
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily
practise the same, as your own physician
will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance
from those usually worn, as we substitute
our flat steel rnagnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in quality and design.
They are elegant in shape and finish, made
after the best French patterns, and war-
i ranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
1 who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents.
Stej
UAfeli
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &e., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
BARGAINS! BARGAINS !! BARGAINS!!
Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
ISOSS-A-XjIE, XjXjO "2“D dz CO.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO, ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
Ladles should secure the
CHEAP LACES AND UNDERCLOTHING AT ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.’S SALE.
4s. In the pound taken oft' your Bill.
Thousands of Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laces.
Remnants of Ribbons. Remnants of Ribbons. Summer Millinery. Summer Millinery.
A MAGNIFICENT STOCK ALL INCLUDED IN THE SALE.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
Umbrellas. Umbrellas. Parasols. Parasols.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.,
NEAR THE GENERAL POST OFFICE.
ROYAL HOTEL
BOUEKB,
Is the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel In the Western District. The Table and Liquors
cannot be surpassed, even in the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. First-class Stablingr
r;:?*MAS HUGGINS, Proprietor.
Annual Income exceeds One Million;
Lightning and Gas BxplosionBDamagea Paid.
(Continued from page 16.)
Q„.inev without having his dormant musical soul
awakened .in the faintest degree). Ketten, him-
kif found music entail such terrible work that he
«as’determined no son of his should follow so ex-
orting an art. This same boy, by the way. is in
Paris and Ketten’s second wife, who was devoted
to him, was last heard of in Nice.
What do you think is the latest freak of a
fashionable London lady? Nothing lees than
leaving with her own card that of her darling little
‘ “ Isn’t it utter nonsense ? And what do peo-
nle mean, I wonder, by trying to persuade us that
Mrs Langtry does not attach much importance to
dress— that is to say, that, although she is always
neatly attired, she is never extravagantly dressed,
and trusts so completely to the effect of her
natural charms that she deems much expenditure
noon her wardrobe unnecessary ? Now, this must
be an overdrawn statement, for I have just opened
a beautiful coloured picture of her six latest
dresses, made by Worth and other famous artists,
and I assure you, dear, it would be difficult to
conceive anything more magnificent than these
same dresses. I will send you the picture, so that
vou may judge for yourself; but it is foolish in
neople trying to make us believe that the famous
beauty is almost indifferent to any suspicion of
" get up.” It’s so unnatural, isn’t it, dear ?
L’ttle Bessie Doyle’s benefit comes off to-night,
and I hope with all my heart the child will have a
full house. Mr. Fitzpatrick has been indefatigable
in his efforts to ensure the concert’s being a suc-
cess and has used his well-known persuasive
powers to get Mr. Hallewell’s promise for two
solos. However, we are just off to see how it
laretb. So good-bye, dear.
Your loving
MAB.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“Timmins”: Not good enough. What
the dickens do our readers care about burly widder
cooks and gaunt housemaids ?....“ E.N.D. : We
send you a copy of the 7th. Your remarks are
perfectly just. The thing, as at present done,
could not be produced for less; but something
different is In contemplation....” G.K.H.”:“ Put
it in your ‘Pepper and Salt’ column I” Thats
what you say, and it’s about the roughest thing
that has ever been said to us. No, we won’t put it
in “Pepper and Salt.” But we made use of it,
“GK.H.” It’s now on the table before us keep-
ing' the trotters off the cloth....‘ Gaero Jimmy”:
We tried honestly to use your letter, but failed.
Then we tried to undertand it, but the failure was
more complete. At last we tried to read it, and
when we couldn’t do that we chucked it in the
Are. Write again and explain “ G. W. (Stan-
more Road): You will perceive that we have been
at some pales to satisfy your first request. As to
your question: “Can you explain to me the dif-
ference between avenging and punishing ? We
talk of punishing a man, who, perhaps, in the heat
of the moment kills his best friend; but we talk of
revenging ourselves upon and not punishing the
Arabs, who, in the excess of their patriotism and
religious fanaticism, have killed one whom, in
their calmer moments, they knew to be their best
friend, and who only wanted to peacefully with-
draw himself and his friends from their country.”
We are fatigued with the effort of dealing
with your first, and feel unequal to deal-
ing with this nice point of casuistry, just
at this moment. Gordon’s motives seem ob-
scurer, the more we learn of them.... James
O’Rooke writes from Newtown:—“Sir,—You seem
to think that the Soudaneese are flting for their
country, and that we Britens have no rice to
subjue them to submission; but I think when a
tribe of nigers insults the old Hag, they shoold be
punished because we Britens must uphold the
honor and virtue of the old country. You think
you are very smart in ranting about the war an
iavashing of Egypt, but in N.S. Wales all hearts
except yourn and you’re palltry staff of devils,
&o. and old hangers on, think we ought to fight
them.” We silently bow before the superior
sagacity of Mr. O’Rooke, with, however, some
little suspicion that he is a mythical per-
sonage, or a friend in masquerade.. ,“B. and
W.”: Your letter is simply an impertinence.
We don’t dream of taking one tittle of the
advice you proffer. You seem only yet to read
the Sydney Mail, in which you will find nothing
to expose you to the necessity of having to think.
....“Occasional Reader”; Trench, not French,
was the name of the late Arc'ibishop of Dublin—a
mere misprint. [A host of notices to correspon-
dents held over till next week.]
Says Sir Edward Strickland:— •* The latter
(Osman Digna), true to the Instincts of his race,
retires before his Christian antagonists and de-
clined the first encounter offered him.” He might
have fallen back because his foes were Christians,
but we fancy it was because they had breech-
loaders. However, Sir Edward can settle the
matter by placing himself at the head of 10,000 of
the devoutest Christians armed with pitchtorks
and let us know how far Osman retired before
him.
A telegram from the Northern Territory
states that “The s.s. Cattertbun refused to take a
lunatic named Coligan. 1'here is no asylum here,
and the authorities are puzzled what course to
adopt.” We wonder what CoJlgan thinks. But we
suppose he thinks much as they do. Anyhow, here
is a chance for the Salvation Army to start a
branch at Palmerston. Here they have a captain
ready to their hands, and one who will not make
himself disliked by enquiring too closely where
the contributions go to.
Osman Digna defeated at Hasheen, re-
treats to Tamai, followed by the troops of General
Graham. Our Australian forces are displayed in
the windows and our four showrooms, and there
you will see General Dinnerset, Captains Tea and
Breakfast Service, Lieutenants Dessert and Toilet-
sets, and host of Privates known by the name of
China, Glass, and Delf. Keview ground, Bray
Bros., 403 and 404 George-street.*
Cork tweeds are warranted all pure wool, well
and carefully manufactured, and dyed in the most
effective way known. They are guaranteed to
stand any test of wear and colour; to resist sun-
light, sea air, salt water, &c. A very large con-
signment of these celebrated tweeds, now so well
and favourably known for their great durability
and excellence of quality, BOUGHT UNDER EX-
CEPTIONAL CIRCUMSTANCES, for hard cash,
are now being shown by SUMMERFIELD and
COMPANY, Merchant Tailors, 235 and 337 Pitt-
street, Sydney.*
“Who steals my purse, steals trash; ’tis
something, nothing; . . and has been slave to
thousands. But he who filches from me my good
name,” &c.
Who imitates the mere external form of an
article, by counterfeiting the style in which it is
offered to the public, perpetrates a comparatively
sbght wrong to him who pirates upon its reputa-
tlonby using the name for some Inferior manu-
facture. Who brands some impure compound as
Wolfe's Schnapps “filches” from it “its good
name.” Be sure you obtain Wolfe’s Schnapps.


Political Points
Maiay Native Indians have recently been
called to the English Bar, and three of the most
valuable law scholarships in London have just
been won by Natives. These are the sort of men
who are disqualified by our rule from discharging
public functions in their own country.
Sir E, Strickland writes : “ Now we have
. . . fought the Soudanese up to the very walls
of Khartoum, which city they were base enough
to purchase with treachery.” That’s where Euro-
peans—especially Britons—show their moral supe-
riority. They never took a town by treachery.
Whoopi
Wily fellow, that New Zealand Premier.
“ Heartily congratulate you on your patriotic
offer of assistance, which reflects credit on all the
Australian colonies,” was the telegram he sent
when he heard of Dailey’s offer. He knew well
enough that, if the reflection was credit, the
reality was debt.
This is a positive fact. We received on
Monday the following telegram from Cloncurry,
Queensland, which serves to show how the Jingo
craze is regarded in places outside the influence of
the spurious craze, worked up by the Sydney
dallies. Here you are:—“Cloncurry. Six black
boys, Calkedoon tribe, with dogs, offer service for
Soudan—your Government to provide timber for
war implements, and dogs’ meat. King Jackey
will take command. Special Orient steamer not
necessary.— Gulf Squatter.”
On Thursday morning, 20th instant,
several members of Parliament woke up quite
light-headed—to the great alarm of their families.
One hon. member had addressed his boots at con-
siderable length upon the Enabling Bill before he
could be called to a recollection of where he was.
And then he only fell back upon the bed in a
paroxysm of demonialc laughter. - It was not till
the papers came that the key to this extraordinary
conduct was grasped. It was the Rum summary,
and ran as follows:—“ Mr. O’Connor spoke for two
hours in the Assembly last night.”
“ I pray that y our noble parents and your-
self,” writes a little Liverpool boy of ten to Prince
Albert Victor, “ may long be spared to follow the
example of our great and good Queen, for what
would England's history bo to us English boys and
girls without its Kings and Queens ?” “ The art-
less observation covers a great truth. But, if we
got rid of Kings and Queens,” says the Pall
Mall, “ we might learn more of history and less
of the crowned landmarks, a knowledge of whose
names and wardrobes, virtues and vices, are now
regarded as a substitute for an acquaintance with
the real history of the English people.”
“ If the Soudan expedition has done no-
thing else, it has brought me here,” cried Sir
Henry Parkes in his first Argyle oration. He did
not think till afterwards the effect these words
would have on the local Patriotic Fund. They
fell like a bombshell amongst the assembled Com-
mittee, and scattered it to the four corners of the
city. 'J hat night nine of the body called round on
the local editors, and desired them to state that
their names had been mentioned in error as hav-
ing been connected with the movement. And a
gentleman, who had previously stated from the
platform, while elevated In a double sense, that a
man who refused to subscribe to the P.F. was a
dastard and a reptile, sobbed out p eccavi, and
went away and hid in his coal-hole.
On Wednesday night, the 18th March, Sir
John Robertson, in arguing that England needed
the assistance of the New South Wales contingent,
declared that “ England wanted the men by the
time that General Graham commenced bis march,
and this colony had them in readiness against
that time.” In the newspapers on Thursday
morning the following cablegram appeared:—
“ Suaklm, March 17. It is announced that General
Graham, commanding the Suakim-Berber column,
who reached h£re a few days ago, will be able to
make a forward movement towards Berber in
a week from the present time.” And later news
proves that, in point of fact, General Graham
oommened his march without troubling his head
about our contingent, which has not have arrived.
The Duke of Edinburgh, in one way or
other, every year screws £”6,600 out of the bleed-
ing British taxpayers. As heir to the Duchy of
Saxe-Coburg, he will shortly inherit the “princely”
estates and wealth of his uncle, the present reign-
ing Duke, and a royal income of fully £30,000 a
year. Some idea of Allred’s wealth may further
be gathered from the fact that his Wife brought
him a private fortune of £90,000, a marriage por-
tion of £300.000, and her life annuity of £11,350 a
year. Alfred got an additional grant in 1874 from
the grateful British people for “marrying the
richest heiress in Europe.” “Albert the Good”
pocketed 630,000 .British sovereigns ere he died.
The Prince of Wales has £120,687 a year from the
revenue. On attaining his majority he came in
for the accumulated revenues of his Duchy of
Cornwall, amounting to £601,731.
Mr. Copeland, over whose—we trust, tem-
porary-aberration from the cause of reason and
humanity wq shed more or less tears, magnified in
his “Soudan” speech the generosity of Great
Britain in bestowing upon the colonists, without
stipulation or reserve, the whole of the magnifi-
cent territory of Australia. The hon. gentleman
would perhaps not have enthused so much had it
occurred to him that, when England bestowed
upon us that splendid gift, she thought it worth-
less, and had no conception that it would ever be
more than the barren wilderness it was then com-
sidered to be. If we fling an old coat to a depen-
dent, we believing it to bo no use to us and little
to him, is he to be grateful to us for ever, as the
most generous and magnanimous of benefacto.e,
because he discovers a purse of gold in the pocket
and priceless jewels hid away in the lining ? Try
again, Henry.
The secret of Germany’s greatness also is
the Bible. The total value of Uerman exports to
Africa amounts to some 33,000,000 marks, or more
than £1,500,000 sterling. Of this total no less than
13.000.00J marks, or nearly £600,000 sterling, repre-
sents the traffic in “ nigger brandy” and “ nigger
rum” alone. Next in importance to intoxicating
drink among the German exports is the scarcely
more pleasing commodity of guns and gunpowder.
German trade is, in fact, almost exclusively in-
jurious to the best interests of the Alrican popu-
lations. “ These returns,” remarks an English
newspaper, with magnificent hypocrisy, “ com-
pletely, though most unsatisfactorily, explains the
resistance which German diplomacy offered to the
British attempts at the Berlin Conference to re-
strain the traffic in intoxicating drink on the
African coasts.” We are a moral people. We
never sell guns and brandy to the niggers. Let us
prey.
On Monday, cablegrams announced the
probable success of General Warren’s military and
diplomatic mission in Bechuanaland. In February
last, there seemed little hope of this. Here is a
dispatch in the London Daily News, dated
Durban, February 6:—“Private letters from the
Transv aal stste that the feeling is that there is a
certainty of war arising out of the Bechuanaland
business. The Freebooters will unquestionably be
strongly assisted by the Boers of the Transvaal,
who cannot be restrained by their leaders, whose
authority, indeed, is little more than nominal. It
this Is the case—and all the correspondence I have
seen is unanimous in asserting it-a serious strug-
gle is about to begin, for the Free State Boers will
certainly join those of the Transvaal it lighting
once commences. Reports have for some time
been current to the effect that the Boers have been
tampering with the natives in Basutoland, and
have been endeavouring to get thorn to join in
hostilities against us. A. confirmation of these re-
ports comes to us from Mount Frere.”
Whether by accident or design, but very
probably through carelessness, the new rulers of
the Victorian Civil Service have been making
candidates for employment gamble away a good
deal of small change needlessly and irregularly,
A few junior clerks were wanted in the Railway
Department lately, and applications were asked
by advertisement. Half the youths of the colony
are qualified, and, of course, the names sent in
were many. But a regulation obliges each appli-
cant to enclose a certificate of birth, This certi-
ficate stands 7s. 6d„ 5s. of which goes to the re-
venue for a duty stamp. A hundred rejected ap-
plicants go back about £10 poorer. This is adding
injury to insult, and laying the foundation of a
palatial edifice of profanity. For other vacancies
in the Civil Service, applicants must present as
well as the certificate of birth a medical certificate
declaring health to be good. The general price
for this is half-a-guiaea. Surely Victoria is pay-
ing its commissioners well enough to expect irom
them when they make regulations they will study
out a means of complying with them, which will
not be a manifest hardship and a shabby imposi-
tion. And with the regulations these means should
be gazetted.
Thus an irreverent London journal:—
“We shall probably learn in time—In a year or
so—what became of the special accounts of the
newspaper correspondents of the battle of Abou
Klea. Two out of the live correspondents who
went forward with Stewart managed to pass a
mangled version of their descriptions through
Lord Wolseley’s special and monopoly wire ; the
others gdt nothing through. Mr. Cameron’s
account of the battle seems to have been totally
suppressed; and the Times, Standard and Tele-
graph, in spite of the heavy expense they in-
curred to arrange for the news, did not receive
a line. Mr. Cameron Is an independent and fear-
less writer, and his criticism upon previous fights
in the Soudan has been valuable. But he is not
the right man in the right place with Lord AVolse-
ley. What is wanted there is a safe writer, teem-
ing with common-places about the skill of the
military strategy, the admirable commissariat
arrangement (as in the Egyptian war, vide the
Transport Commission), and ‘ the economy of the
campaign.’ ” Our Mr. Melvin will . av i to use
his discretion as to which of his facts he will
embody in his letters, and which reserve for publi-
cation after the campaign.
Extract from the form of prayer read at
the Cathedral, March 1, 1883 (B C.?):—“ Send down
such blessings on our arms in Egypt that the
clouds of danger may be scattered before us. , .
Acknowledging Thea as the giver of all victory
... we beseech Thee for Thy gracious favour
and protection,” &c , &o. Now, how does all this
sound from the Mahdi's standpoint ? He, too, is a
believer in the One God, and, from all reliable ac-
counts, as pure in his life and his purpose as was
General Gordon. He, too, no doubt, called on
Allah, and, so far, the God of Mahomet seems to
have the best of it, and with some show of reason,
for, while the Mahdi asks for victory, he does not
insult his Maker by asking for favour or protec-
tion. Every one of his men is taught to welcome
death, and to expect the instant reward in Para-
dise of dying in a righteous cause. That’s a fair
deal, and has all that is good in humanity, in
paganism, and Cbx-istianity, to back it up. But to
clamour for protection, and to provide for con-
tingencies in case things go wrong; to ask that—a
thing that on the face of it carries death and
danger according to all knowledge and all reason-
able faith. The blasphemy is notontte side of
common sense that says such prayers bear on the
face of them the belief that the god of battles is a
fool.
Thus an English writer “ The Cologne
Gazette says that Germans have only to show
their teeth and England would be frightened. It
is quite true, but no Englishman would have been
rude enough to say so. Joking apart, the article
of the Cologne Gazette apropos of England in
Egypt is exceedingly ill-timed and highly offen-
sive. The|Eoglish people have never been afraid of
the Germane. We admit them in shoals to our coun-
try, and treat them with courtesy. German
princes come here paupers, and we clothe and feed
them, and keep them in pocket-money. We even
allow them to inspect our soldiers, and give them
military and naval posts, to the exclusion of our
fellow-countrymen. I like the Germans. They
are a cultured, thrifty, grasping, self-sufficient
race. They send us their musicians to compete
with the organ-grinders of Italy. They send us
their politicians to edit the Frbiheit, their finan-
ciers to start Emma Mines and negotiate Honduras
Loans, their military men to draw enormous sala-
ries, but never the sword, their naval men to run
down yachts in broad daylight, their barons of
degree to live on their wives’ relations. Yes,
everything considered, we have every reason to
thank Germany for the blessings she sends us, not
the least of which are the trichinosis which comes
over in her sausages, and the princes, married
with the left hand at home, who come here to
clutch with the unwedded right the dowries the
British taxpayer has yearly added to his already
grievous burden.”
From the London Globe :—“It seems cer-
tain that, one hour after th® termination of
Madame Clovis Hugues’ trial, there was assem-
bled at Hill’e night restuarant, on the Boulevard
des Capueines, Paris, a group, consisting of three
men and one woman, and the latter was the one
who took the dynamite that worked all the des-
truction in London. But this was not her original
mission. That was to penetrate into the Distin-
guished Strangers’ Gallery of the House of Com-
mons while the House was sitting, and to throw
three explosive shells among its members.
Everything had been provided—material, acces-
sories In the shape of a magnificent dress made by
Paget, in the Rue Louis Le Grand, wherein she
was to make her appearance as a distinguished
foreigner, and the means of escape after
the exploit had been performed, namely, a
servant’s cap and dress to match. The woman
left next morning for London, and returned
on lath of January. Meanwhile the original idea
had been abandoned for various reasons, the
principal one being the fear of compromising the
member of Parliament who would have provided
her with the ticket. The servant’s disguise was
ready for her in a house in the Belvedere-read,
Lambeth. It should be stated also that the police
got some scent of the matter, but that the con-
spirators in Paris were quicker than they, and the
affair was countermanded. They never caught
sight of her, else the police would have known
that she took a deal of dynamite with her to
London. The reader may well ask himself why
the correspondent of the Globe should be better
informed than the police; why the woman and her
accomplices should have divulged this much.
The answer to this question must not be forth-
coming; sufficient to state that all was divulged
In a moment of woman’s pique.”
This is no time for joking. When Burra-
wang agrees with Gundagai, and Tenterfleld is not
ashamed to turn her back upon herself, so as to
bring the Soudan business up to a stage the
country may be proud of—then, we say, we can
afford to disregard what the Bungeraboo Times
says, and must grapple with the thing, d la Donald
Dinnie. A careful digest of the war articles, how-
ever, brings out the following result, and we are
compelled to print it without note or comment.
What we want is truth In the event of
Russia going to war with England, the trade with
China will be hampered. The French, ever ready
for a jab at perfidious Albion, will then begin to
recidivise on a gigantic scale. Scoundrels will
come here and enter into competition with the
native industry, and make the descendants of our
first families ashamed of the achievements of their
founders. And that will lead to discontent.
Then, Russian ambition, terrorised by the pau-
Slav agitation, and backed up by bankruptcy,
will enable Turkey to tender hypocritical
help, with a view to the seizure of Cyprus, and
the subsequent fortification thereof for the con-
venience of O’Donovan Rossa, who, by secret
treaty with Mr. Gladstone, has arranged the whole
visit of the Prince of Wales to Ireland, in the
interest of the Irish-American “ring.” This will
upset Parnell. President Cleveland, meanwhile,
will pour troops into Nicaragua at the exact time
when Denmark is massing her troops on the
Rhine to encourage Alsace and Lorraine In their
long-meditated revolt against Germany. The issue
is then as plain as Melville s protection. Japan,
being free from complications, will swoop down
on Iceland, and begin a career of conquest.
Guernsey and Jersey will rise; and their secret
compact with Gabo Island, long-suspected by the
Russian spies quartered in Hongkong, will become
known to the world. This Is the state of things
we have to face. We confess to approaching this
subject with some diffidence. In short, we won’t
face it. But we caution the country to keep an
eye on Patagonia. Patagonia has made no sign.
The sound of Pat is powerful when it is silent.
We are glad to perceive that the epidemic
of Jingoism, which has induced the professedly
Christian clergy of Sydney, without any exception
that we know of, to deny their Master and preach
bloodshed, vengeance, and fury, in lieu of the
Gospel of Peace and the Brotherhood of Man,
which Christ taught, has been strictly local. In
E laces where the contagion of Immoral excitement
as not reached, the clergy have not emulated
Peter and denied their Master. From the Otago
(N.Z.) Daily Times we quote the following tele-
gram from Auoklend“ Auckland, March 10. The
Kev. Alexander Reid, of the Pitt-street Wesleyan
Church, preaching yesterday on the subject of
young men in New Zealand volunteering for mili-
tary service in the Soudan, used the following
strong language: ‘ We venture the opinion, which
m us is a very strong conviction, that for a
New Zealand youth, or a youth of any country,
to Invest his British sympathies, his fair expec-
tations, his health, his intelligence, and it may
be his life and his influence—to invest his all
in the Soudan campaign, would prove the most
worthless investment possible. In this world of
living men I do not know a class of characters
sufficiently degraded that I would appoint them
to occupy the position of avengers of General
Gordon in the Soudan. With all my admiration of
the spirit which actuates the youth and older men
who offer themselves, it is our firm conviction
that a worse Investment of treasure and life and
intelligence and character and influence it would
be impossible to find on this side of hell than that
which is now proposed. This is strong language.
We want it to bo criticised. We want our young
men to look into it. Bvery man ought to make
the best and the most of himself, so that the re-
sults of his efforts may be of the greatest advant-
age to the Church, to the State, to his family, and
to himself. Every man is bound to do this. To go
to the Soudan is to make the least and worst that a
man can possibly make of himself. This is our
conviction.’ Mr. Thomas Spurgeon in a discourse
said there were men in the country who would
not soil their hands with one day’s hard, honest
work, blit yet were ready to volunteer for the
Soudan at the mere prospect of an opnortunity of
imbruing their hands in the blood of their fellow
creatures.”
John Bright and the Right Hon. Joseph
Chamberlain addressed their constituents at Bir-
mingham, on January 23rd. We give below pas-
sages from their speeches. John Bright spoke
just as though he had the gift of prophesy, and
foresaw how applicable to the conditions of affairs
in N. S. Wales his remarks would be by the time
their tenour reached this part of the world. Thus,
with regard to our daily press, he declared that;—
We had a very Influential public press, and con-
nected with it some editors with hysterical fits
that led them every two or three days to write
screaming articles about the possibilities of the
future, and about the necessity of increasing our
forces, and especially of adding millions to the cost
of our navy.” Next, he proceeded to deliver the
substance of a Bulletin article, thus:—“The
British people imagined that the Victorian reign
was one of peace, and that Heaven should be
thanked for it. How much peace had we enjoyed
during the reign of the Queen? We had throe
wars with China, one with Burmah; he did not
remember how many in South Africa; one
in the Crimea, of the greatest proportions:
two in Afghanistan, and we were in the
midst of one in Egypt. In regard to nearly
eveir one of these wars, it was not pos-
slble for anybody to frame, he would not say a
just defence, but a reasonable excuse. How much
more glorious would have been the reign of the
Queen if those wars had not been waged, and how
much more abundant would have been the pros-
perity of the people. (Cheers.) M. Pelleton had
said of us in the French Chamber that we enjoyed
a state of peace soothed by occasional acts of ra-
pine, but in truth we had not had much peace, but
we had had a great deal too much of the acts of
rapine. We had spent more than 150 millions in
war during the Queen’s reign, and had probably
lost from 60,060 to 80,000 men, without saying any-
thing of those called our enemies. If the Man-
chester school of politics were dead, let us
humiliate ourselves with the acknowledgement
that morality and Christianity were dead also.
(Hear, hear.) But there was an opposite spirit
which was by no means dead, and that was the
spirit roused and cherished by the editors of
whom he had spoken, and who cultivated as much
as they could the hunger for more territory. They
seemed to have received history without know-
ledge or profit. What had become of the vast
empires of the world ? Nothing remained of them
exceptin the pages of history. This ever-growing
empire for which these men were clamouring was
a delusion and a snare. It involved increasing
burdens, and must involve in the not remote
future catastrophes from which we should pray
our children might be saved. (Cheers.) ....
We had possessions all over the globe, our lan-
guage was spread all over the globe; a hundred
years years hence the English language would be
the prevailing language, as compared with any
other. Let us, then, be content with the territory
we had and the regions we covered. Let us deal
with all people as we would wish to be dealt by,
and as time went on it might not only be said that
When Britain’s power is felt, mankind may feel
her mercy too,’ but, in addition, where Britain’s
power was felt, there would also the justice and
moderation of her character be manifested.’
(Loud cheers.) Then Mr. Chamberlain took up the
running. “ And he could assure them that there
was none among them who more earnestly desired
that all this bloodshed and expenditure should be
terminated than the members of her Majesty’s
Government, but they thought that they could
not desert General Gordon in his need, and that it
would not be honourable or creditable to the
British name that we should leave to their proba-
ble fate the Egyptian garrisons in the Soudan, who
had no other help but what they could expect
from us. But whenever this work of mercy was
happily accomplished, as now we might havegood
confidence it soon would be, we should leave that
country to its own people. (Cheers.) And we
should leave the savage tribesmen, whom we must
respect, although we had found them confronting
us as foes, to choose their own form of govern-
ment and their own rulei’s. (Renewed cheers )”
Gordon has fallen. But that changes no prin-
ciple, and Imposes on Britainlno moral duty It
relieves her of the honourable and moral duty re-
ferred to by Mr. Chamberlain, There is nothing
in the speech of the President of the Board of
Trade about introducing good Government in the
Soudan, or similar fudge, as recently prated bv
Governor Loftus, Bishop Barry, the S. M. Herald
Mr. Dailey, or their accomplices. How great
fudge this is may be instantly understood by
taking a parallel case. Russia is the most fearfully
misgoverned country on the face of the earth
The slave trade of the Soudan is a humane diver-
sion, compared with the Siberian slavery Inflicted
upon hundreds of thousands of the most Intelli-
gent of the Czar s subjects. If it be the [mission
and duty of Great Britain to invade and conquer
every misgoverned country, and substitute law
and order for disorder and convulsion, why
doesn’t she tackle Russia ? Again, if any country
is entitled to make internal disorder in any other
country a reason for invasion, what moral objec-
tion could be raised to Russia pouring her legions
into India on the first occasion when the natives
revolt against our rule ?
♦ * *
In the U.S. no fewer than 112,000 public
servants of various] kinds find their places ieo
pardised by Governor Cleveland’s succeis. The
whole of this vast army may, and possibly will be
turned out to make room for the friends of the
Democratic caucus leaders....The German Em
peror (whose income from the castles, estates, and
woods iq various provinces is immense) is votpd
in addition, a Civil list of about £611 000
the recent French elections, the electors with
singular discernment, rejected the Bonanartist
candidates, the Charente Infdrieure, the strong
hoid of Bonapartism, repudiating the three Bodb.
partist Senators, and electing Republicans in their
stead. Universal suffrage cannot be expected to
maintain for ever the disinterested worship, of
Imperial tombs, ■
“THE BULLETIN” PRIMER.—No. 10.
The El-e-phant is a sa-ga-ci-ous beast. But there are some
peo-ple who are beasts with-out be-ing sa-ga-ci-ous. The El-e-
phant nev-er drinks Whis-ky or u-ses To-bac-co in an-y form. If
he does, it is by Mis-take. A man once gave an El-e-phant a
cake of To-bac-co, and he, think-ing it was plum-cake, put it in
his mouth, and swal-low-ed it. It made him ve-ry sea-sick, and
they had to give him some Whis-ky as an An-ti-dote. You see
how one Vice leads to an-o-ther I An El-e-phant ney-er for-gets
a man who gives him To-bac-co; so, the next time this El-e-phant
saw the man in a crowd, he held out his Trunk for some more
To-bac-co. He want-ed to make him-self ill a-gain, so that he
could get some more An-ti-dote. It was ve-ry sa-ga-ci-ous of
him. Ve-ry! But this time the man gave him real plum-cake
in-stead, and when the El-e-phant found that it a-greed with him,
it an-noy-ed him so that he slew the man with one of his tails.
Moral.—Well, there is no moral.


JACK TDEKOIvC^SCOT,
A.J.C. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON,
91 King-street.
1ST N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
READ THIS I
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting- Patent English
Lover, capped and jewelled,
with the latest Improvements,
£3 lOs. each,
Warranted for three years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 Pitt-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER ANu JEWELLER
Black Swan Hotel.
GREENWELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
gassed. The magniticient s.s. Illawarra, leaves
ydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o'clock.
I Ann DOMESTIC PAPER FASHIONS
Av/UU shown in our Illustrated Catalogue
Price, Threepence ; by Post, Fourpbncb.
CHAP PEL A CO.,
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern and General Sewing-machine
Agency,
746 GEORGE ST., HAY MARKET, SYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and all fittings, &o. t kept in
stock.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT ,v
GENT.’S 50, Is. 6d.; 100, 8a. 6d.
LADIES* ... .„ .. 60, 3s. Od.; 100, 3$k 0$.
Address, 6d. extra.
Neat Business Card*.
100, 38. 6d.; 260. 6s. 6d.; 600, 10s.; 1000. 1%
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
0T Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
TIE BtIm CD.,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
M. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS f
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-streeU
From the Strand, London.
302
'T
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 354 and 356 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work. u
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the late Mr,
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, MANAGER. •
aid CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. Q. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
ilD, d mm 1BMTS,
Importers of
ST R^r E WAV N fNnm/ H N l,F^X 0 , and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
RAIL^r\^ RACTO B8 ’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS.
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS’
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &o.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACK8
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED fl GIRDERS
se?
~~ i 'Hirin',, i
UJ
im
PORTABLE, FIXED
and SEMI-FIXED EN-
GINES ,
VERTICAL and HORI-
ZONTAL BOILERS
sfSSTBAM and
~ ’ PUMPS
other
LATHES, PLANING,
_ SHAPING, SCREW-
Iffrii 1 r N d E8 DHILLIN0
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, &o.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse -
Iron an I Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office -
- 54 YORK STREET.
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR
SYDNEY:
- 85 GRACJEfiOHUUgi* STREET.
A£L... :
I)
ISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Ernp-
v) tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
1,088 of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent , the new Blood Puritier,
internally, and CUTICURA and Cuticura SOAP, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Purl-
fler, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Itch i uk and Burning: Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
r. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Curb (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautitler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun*
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Kennedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 16 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT RO OMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.
Holiday Presents.
Wi I* PALING
AND CO. (Limited),
HAVE JUST RECEIVED A MAGNIFICENT SHIPMENT OF
COTTAGE,
CPRIGHT GRAND
SEMI-GRAND,
CONCERT GRAND
PIANOS,
by the
MOST RENOWNED
MAKERS
in the
WORLD.
t:
AMERICAN
ORGANS,
BELL and CO.,
PALACE CO.,
STORY and CO.,
at
PRICES to SUIT ALL
CUSTOMERS.
These instruments have been SPECIALLY SELECTED by Mr. W. H. PALING, who Is NOW
IN EUROPE, and may justly be considered
of Musical Instruments ever introduced to Australia.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms.
Mr. PALING has also FORWARDED a COMPLETE ASSORTMENT of
FROM TWO TO SIXTEEN AIRS.
These Goods will he Sold at Unheard-of Prices.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and SYDNEY.
Catalogues Catalogues
POST FREE.
W. WALKER
and SONS
are one of the
Largest
Stockholder*
and
Manufacturers
n
k
Hi(b-tlasg
FURNITURE
ENGLAND.
POST FREE.
ALL STOCK
in their
'SYDNEY
HOUSE
Supplied
DIRECT
from their
Loudon
Manufactory,
and Latest
London Styles
G tTABANTEED
SYDNEY BRANCH:
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robe Makers.
Trousers from 21s. to 40s.
0T N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Co.
W. Shearsbt & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
‘take cheer, for
Hop Bitten will cure yon.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
• weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
* taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘ and work,
Hop Bitters will Restore yon.
“If yon are a man of business or
‘ labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your every-day duties, or a man of let-
ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten yon.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dis.; 1-
‘ patlon, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, as Is often the case,
Hop Bitters will relieve yon.
“ If you are In the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
‘ that your system needs cleansing, ton-
‘ ing, or stimulating, without Inttoxicat-
‘Ing
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“ If you are old, and your blood thin
‘ and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters will give yon new Life
and Vigour 1 .
“ HOP BITTERS Is an elegant, heal-
‘ thy, and refreshing flavouring for slck-
‘ room drinks : impure water, etc., ron-
‘ dering them harmless, and sweetening
‘ the mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for sick-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
them harmless, sweetening tne mouth, and cleans-
ing the stomach.
WeakNervousMen
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay
and failure to perform IHV’a
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THE MARSTON BOLUS.
Neither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Ncrroni Beblllty and
I*hy ideal Decay isuniformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., B2 Cactlcrcagh St., Sydney
A Bazaar & Art Union
IN connection with the Union Masonic Lodge,
of Berrlma, 981 B.C., In aid of the
WIDOW AND ORPHAN FOND,
under the patronage of the District Grand Master,
John Williams, Esq., of the District Grand Lodge,
English Constitution,
£7000 Worth off Works of
Art, Pictures, &c.,
to bo disposed of In Shares of £1 each on the Art
Union Principle, and to be drawn for at Moss Vale,
time and place of which will bo given In public
Press, and the drawing will be under the super-
vision of the following gentlemen, who have
kindly offered to act :—
J. S. HVAMS,
Hon. Secretary,
Moss Vale.
E
AU DE COLOGNE,
4711 4711.
Established 1793.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1872; Prize Modal, Vienna, 1873
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 33 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, s rtngth,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors.
It haa become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the till to of
Europe.
The large and constantly Increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only In
Europe, but also In North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number—47ll changed into 7411. 1147, 4117, &c , &c.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic bluo-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS. Pltt-
street, Sydney.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
end Storekeepers, In town and Country.
Useful Tonic for Digestive Organs.
93 COLiiiNg-STREET East, Melbourne.
Gentlemen,—I have carefully examined the
samples of Bavarian Hop Bitters which you
sent to me. They contain some uselul tonics and
stimulants for the digestive organs, and appear to
be quite free from any deleterious ingredients.
Possessing these qualifications, and being palat-
able, with a fine aroma, their use will doubtless be-
come universal. I have already recommended
them to several of ray patients. Wishing you the
success you deserve.-! trug.
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS
WATCHES I
WHY be foolish) and buy a bad watch, which
is dear at any price, and gives no end of
trouble. If you buy one of
ROTHERHAM’S COMPENSATION BALANCE
AND JEWELLED WATCHES
from C. GRANT, you will never want another, as
they are, without doubt, the Best Watches in the
market.
Guaranteed for 5 years. Price, only £6 10s.
Bent post free to any part of the country. Special
attention given to country orders.
G. GRANT, Watchmaker,
B84 George Street, Sydney.
Estaelished 1880.
rilRY BURQIS’ £33s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
B from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STRBKT,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for scft-measurinp
forwarded to any part of the colony
MODINI,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that ho has been appointed AGENT for
tho following Firms ;-JuHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don; THOS. BLAND & SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London; W, POWELL & SON,
Birmingham: CHAS. OSBORNE & CO., London.
G. R. M. is also AGENT for the eminent firm of
BUSSY & CO., London.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 George.st., Sydney,
Where Inspection is invited.
SOLE AGENT FOR THE
SMITH ORGAN.
WILLIAM BTHJCE,
197 PITT STREET
SOLE IMPORTER OP
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
gBwag
■PIIIHli!! I!!!1" '!■' I !■: ■" !,'■■ I ■ ,■ ■ .-1TT7~' '
’ f
<s
CDTTACE VILLA or business sites
'©N MAIN ’BOA CIOVE'RLOO kj'nTcJ
UVERROOL RACECOURSE *-
ClOStTO BAllWAY STATION:MAIN Ti8UNK.LI.NE
f£«TRA,LINE SURVTYE.D 8 E<O.UC) NQ PISTANCETfli
14 MILES FROM SYDNEY
£,5 LOTS PAYAfi’tfE SI- PER .MONT.H, no into
PLANS (TiREE. ItOYD k XfA'C
/WCT/0/V£££&
NJXflEST.
, .c 96 P/tt S!Sydney
If the Rev. George Walters (Unitarian), of
Melbourne, has a soul to be damned, and the
prayeis of the faithful avail much, he stands a
first-rate chance of getting an unusually sultry
corner later on. Not only does he, from the pulpit,
denounce the current orthodoxy of the day for
Insincerity and dishonesty In upholding exploded
dogmas and creeds In which it has ceas d to be-
lieve; but he llatly declares there is less immora-
lity in the back slums of Little Bourke-street
than In many of the orthodox and Evangelical
pulpits of this city.” How’s that for high ? He
also asserts that the theology of the day Is adul-
terated worse (If possible) than our milk. Give
us your hand, George.
A young French peasant, called Gautier,
was In the habit of brutally ill-treating hts mother,
In the hope of coming in sooner for h ® r b r ?Rf Gj;
Unable to endure it, the latter resolved to sell her
land and go somewhere out of her sons reach.
Exasperated at this resolve, he determined to get
rid of her at once. Finding her asleep, he first
tried to strangle her with « ???*
marks on the victim’s neck snow that, finding this
method ineffectual, hn had used on© hand to
throttle her, while with the other ho had closed
her mouth and nostrils. Some of her teeth were
knocked out by the violence of his grasp. The
jury found “extenuating Circumstances, and the
murderer therefore escapes with hard labour for
life. The “extenuatingcircumstances probab y
arise from the fact that the gentleman heroically
resisted a strong temptation to roast the old lady
allvp.
It is in Levuka (Fiji) that the first great
advance has been madeln funeral reform. Ed ward
Hyan, a fireman on board the A. 8. N. Go. s Glntra,
had a slight dispute with the first mate, and tHed
to convince that officer with araarline-splko. But
the officers of this company are notorious for then
unamenability to reason, so Edward got a fort-
night fracturing Old red sandstone. At the end of
the fortnight ho came out, secured as choice a
fragment of typhoid fever as Levuka could sup-
ply? wont to the hospital, and from that (let us
hope) to a land where there are no marllno-splkes
and no bumptious first officers. Then followed
the funeral reform alluded to. The body was put
In a “plner” laid on a hand-truck, and given over to
four prisoners and a warder. These mon had a
rare old time with the “ stiff ’un.’ They sent
that truck spinning along through the town like a
tram-car, they racing behind yelling with glee.
They then chucked the coffin into the first hole
they met In the cemetery, shovelled In some clods,
had a few drinks, and started for home, all agree-
ing ’twas the biggest afternoon’s sport they d had
for many a long day. Thus a reform, which issure
to appeal to the good sense of all rig-ht-mlnded
people, has been Inaugurated In little Fiji by a
warder and four prisoners. How tnanklul wo
should be to those unassuming men I


Sulpholine
Lotion,
the CURE FOR SKIN DISEASES!
m a few days Eruptions, Pimples,'Blotches entirely
fade away. Beautifully fragrant. Perfectly harm-
cures old-standing Skin Diseases. Astonish-
ing' results follow. It removes every kind ol
Eviction, Spot, or Blemish, and renders the skin
Hear smooth, supple, ai d healthy. Sulpholine
tlotion is sold by most Chemists. Bottles, 3s 9d
Mch? Made only by J. PEPPER and Co.. London
peppeWs
QUININE & IRON
TONIC
C.REAT BODILY STRENGTH I
GREAT NERVE STRENGTH I
GREAT MENTAL STRENGTH I
GREAT DIGESTIVE STRENGTH follows the use
of PEPPER’S QUININE and IRON TONIC. It
promotes appetite, dispels languor, depression,
&c la a remedy for Neuralgia, Cbest affections,
and wasting diseases. Bottles, 33 doses. Spld by
rhemists everywhere. Insist on having Pepper’s
Mado solely by J. PEPPER and Co., London.
Spccial'y suitable for the colonies.
SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
THE BEST. THE SAFEST, THE CHEAPEST.
Restores the Colour in a few applications.
Large Bottles, Is. 6d. Made in London.
CIENCB
Or
LIFE
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses maybe
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-
chase and rend the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Self Preservation. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all acuto ami chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. 300 pages, bound in beautiful French cloth,
full gilt, guaranteed to lie a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which ho refers.
The Science of Life should be read by the young for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all.— London Lancet.
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As- Mril
sociation, or Dr. W. R. Parker, No. 69 Hunter 111A L
Street,Sydney,N.S.W. Thoauthormay TUVOCI C
be consulted on all diseases requiring | || | OtLl
skill, secrecy, and experience.
AST L£ #
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
■SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
r
MOULTONS
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MGCLTON'S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and nc
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also euro
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
nmrty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit),
they ore as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price Is. 3<1.
C. E, MOULTON, Sole Proprietor
wais
TONIC NERVINE
A_ . _ REGISTERED.
SAFE, CERTAIN, &SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
inat spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
loothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss or
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, Loss of Vital Power, &c. By its tonic
soothing effects it at once removes all craving
ror Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
system. Price, 4s. 6d., or 25s. a oise.
i? ®Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHER8/M.P.8,
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists, 104 and
k ne * T Hyde Park, Sydney, and
TUTK 01roular - < l u *7- TAKE NO SUBS PI-
GOOLALTA WINES,
SILTVER MEDAL BORDEAUX, *
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 GS-eorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s,)
NO MORE CORNS J
CORNS AND WAHfiS removed without palJ
by the use of Palmer's Painless, Harmless,
and Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER.
This preparation is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If appl ed accord-
ing to the directions, it remove
them in from six to el. ht days.
PALMER’S
JSS£\ FACI/E CURA fK
For Neuralgia, eiiher Chronic or Local.
This most wonderful Preparation has surpassed
all others in speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
how long or severe the suffering has been, a single
botllo has never failed in producing thedcslred re-
sults: and it can be most confidently recomme ded.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
g.neral stores: wholesale by Messrs Elliott Bros,
Sydney ; E. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton,
urimwade. and Co., Melbourne; Kempthorne and
Prrsser, Dunedin.
NEUSTADT and
COMPLETE
HOUSE
FURNISHERS,
39. 154, 156, & 158 OXFORD-ST]
SYDNEY.
tar houses furnished throughout
WITH EVERY REQUISITE.
Either fob Cash ob Time Payment.
BEST OP UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
MANHOOD RESTORED I
A Clergyman having -tried every known
remedy for the Cure ot Nervous Exhaustion,
Premature Decay, &c., has at last discovered a
simple Self-Cube, which for the sake of suffering
humanity, bo will send FREE the Prescription
which CURED him. Address, with self-addressed
stamped envelope—
Dr. E. A CLARKE, P O. Box 292, Sydney.
ROWLANDS' MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strenghtons, and beautifies the hair; It con-
tains no load or mineral ingredients, and can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALTDOR is a most cool-
ing, healisg, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands, and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures ; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &o.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE pro-
duces Immediately a perfect change in red or grey
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and per-
manent brown or black, whlcV colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer In perfumery for Rowland?’
articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless Imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bros. E
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 PITT &TREET, SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Compagnonl’s.)
THE undersigned, recognising the want of a
FIRST CLASS TAILORING ESTABLISH-
MENT, have OPENED the premises lately occu-
pied by the Bank of Australasia, at 168 PITT-
STREBT (TH E WEaT RND HOI SF) where they
intend to carry on a High-class and Fashionable
Trade.
The public may feel assured that we shall be
able to maintain a high standard, when we state
that our Mr. Ward has had some years' experience
in the best houses in I o don, Paris, as well as In
first-class Sydney Establishments, namely, Farmer
and Co.’s and David Jones and Co.’s.
Our Mr. Wilson has had fully 30 years’ expe-
rience in the Australian trade, and has just re-
turned from England, where he visited all the
principal Woollen Mills, including that of Hud-
dersfield, as well as West of England and Scotch
Mills. This will be a sufficient guarantee that the
tastes and requirements of the public will receive
the attention they deserve.
In conclusion, we desire to say that we hope to
obtain a fair share of patronage, in return for
which we guarantee flrst-class work, all hand-
made, well shrunk, perfect fit, and all in tbo latest
London and Paris styles.
Soliciting a trial, we remain,'
Very truly yours,
FREDERICK WILSON,
HUGH WARD,
Fashionable Tailors, Robe and Habit Mskers,
West End House,
168 Pitt-street, Sydney,
nils
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy I
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; thev can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys,
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
808 GEORGE STREET.
°*&Scot
WHOLES ALB
GROCER
and
WINE and
6PIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGBN BIT-
TBRS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
’ MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE
TEE
I
IE
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever introduced Into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, EAST TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine in the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS In Town and Country.
tW Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE to
any part of the colony.
B. O. Ho Hermann & Co ,
Sole Agents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J. TURNER ROBINSON i CO.’S
tailoring establishment
Market cloth halt.,
478 Georgo-straot,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS,
13T* Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect lit
guatanteed.
A. & C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
SIS GEORGE STREET,
Next Poapos and Shaw.
P* r ~ The most liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited,
-A.. & C. Huenerbein,
318 GEORGE STREET.
W. H. CHARD AND GO.
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
X IBERAL ADVANCES made on WOOL er
other PRODUCE shipped to their Loddoa
Agents, Messrs. Redfern, Alexander and Co., 3
Great Winchester-street, E.C.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well*
known firm is given to all conslgnmeats.
DENTIST.
(Of America)
Q UARANTEES
Perfect Fit ana Mastication.
mr PRICES MODERATE.
Corner George and Market Streets.
OVER HUNTER’S BOOT PALACP.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOE PRESENTATION PLATE.
(S
8 0
8
S
9
&
£
a
(iH
C/>
p-:
«
o
&
to
\
4
M
a
£
&
r>
r
s
3
rs
lu
3
02
t£\f^
A
%
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
ZSellaTble jBu.g'g'les!
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY.
CORNER OP CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS. 9
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)


The Heritage off Woe!
Misery, shame, and agony, often bequeathed as
a sole legacy to children by parents, is neglected
Scrofula, To cleanse the blood of this hereditary
poison, and thus remove the most prolific cause
of human suffering, to ciear the skin of disfigur-
ing humors, itching tortures, humiliating erup-
tions, and loathsome sores, caused by it, to purify
and beautify the skin, and restore the hair, so that
no trace of the disease remains, Cutioura Re-
solvent, the new blood purifier, and Cutioura
and Cutioura Soap, the great skin cures and
beautiflers, are infallible. They are the only re-
medies that succeed when physicians and all other
means fail. _
For sinking spells, fits, dizziness, palpita-
tion and low spirits, rely on Hop Bitters. Notice.
The handkerchief which is perfumed with
MURRAY and LANMAN’S FLORIDA WATER
yields more enjoyment to its possessor than would
a bouquet of llowers, because the latter fade, de-
cay, and become offensive, but the Florida Water
remains fresh and delicious, unaffected by the
lapse of time.
Printed and Published by Thb Bulletin News-
paper Oo. (Limited), 34 Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
VANITY FAIR.
A ball was given recently in Paris by a
certain Spanish lady of rank, whose reputation
was something more than doubtful. She invited
to It Alexandre Dumas and his unmarried
daughter. The gentleman arrived alone at the
entertainment. ■ “Charmed to see M. Dumas,”
said the hostess; “but where is your daughter ?”
“ She was unable to on me, madame, for two rea-
sons,” was the courteous response; “the second
was that she had a bad cold,”... Mabel: “Do you
try to observe the golden rule, Mr. B—? ”. . .Tall
Senior: “Yes, indeed; do you?” Mabel: “Yes:
I always try to do as I would be done by, but I
sometimes fail. If I were to try now I should
fall." Senior: “Indeed I Why?” Mabel: “I
am not tall enough to reach.” No cards—“Are
you going to Miss Fussonfeather’s party ? ” asked
a young lady of a friend as they met on the
street. “No, was the response. “And why not,
pray ? It is to be very
swell.” “ Yes, I know,
but I haven’t anything
to wear.” “ O, you
don't need anything
much; it’s to be a full
dress, you know.”—
Little daughter of host:
“And are you really
and truly an English
lord?” “Yes,” he re-
sponded pleasantly,
“really and truly.”
“I have often thought
that I should like to
see an English lord,”
she went on, “ unh-
and—And now you
are satisfied at last,”
he interrupted, laugh-
ingly. “ N—no,” replied
the truthful little girl,
“ I’m not satisfied. I'm
a good deal disap-
pointed.”..' As La
Prlncesse Georges, Mrs.
Langtry looked lovely
in grey, lovller in filmy
white, and loveliest in
a miracle of pink—
Among the wedding
presents in connection
with the wedding of
Rev. Stephen Glad-
stone, the Premier’s
son, were a phaeton and
cheque for a hundred
guineas from Sir An-
drew Clark. M.D., and
a cheque for a hun-
dred guineas from the /-
Duke of Westminster...
Mr. Oscar Wilde, recently at Glasgow, lectured in
his usual amusing way upon “ Dress.” He said
that a Lancashire mill girl, with a shawl over her
shoulders and wearing clogs, knew more about
dress than a fashionable London lady recently re-
turned from Paris; because in the former case
there was'comfort, while in the latter there was
discomfort. He was sad to see in newspapers
that such and such a colour was to be the fashion.
Colour was viewed by an artist as a piano was by
a musician. It was a combination of the one and
the harmony of the other that made beauty. What
would people say if a musical paper stated that B
fiat was to be the fashionable note for next winter ?
..“You must come and see me, my dear,” said a
lady to a little girl of her acquaintance. “ Do you
know my number?” “On, yes,” responded the
innocent child. " Papa says you always live at
sixes and sevens.".... Younr Richling: “Let me
get you some champagne?” Miss Dhumme:
“No, thanks.” Y. R.: “Do yon not like it. Mies
Dhumme?” Miss D.; “ Gh. yes; but then it has
such an effect upon me.” Y. R, (struggling to say
something pleasant): “Ah! makes you—ah—
bright—. —Little prattler to elderly visitor:
“ Mamma says baby has got my nose. What does
she mean, Mrs. Qummer? 1 Elderly Visitor:
“She means that baby's nose la like yours.”
Little Prattler: “Then baby’s got your mouth,
hasn’t she ? ’Cos she hasn’t got any teeth in it.
— A Munster lady has entered an action at Dub-
lin to recover £3000 damages from a Roman
Catholic clergyman for refusing to administer the
sacrament to her— It is said that the marrriage of
Miss Maokay fo Prince Oolonna will take place
this month Miss Itoseleaf (who is trying to
force a conversation); “What do you suppose,
Mr. Van Noodle, makes our hostess’ receptions so
invariably stupid?” Mr. Van Noodle : “Aw,
weally, I haven t a ghost of an ideaw.”
Miss R.: “And all the other gentlemen are very
much like you. Yes, that must be the reason.’’
— “Backs are now out low,” says a book of
fashion. What with low backs, lower fronts, and
invisible sleeves, we shall soon reach the fashion
that flourished in the Garden of Eden, though
whether we shall return to the same degree ot in-
nocence is another question Some of the most
effective costumes worn by the men at a recent
fancy-dress ball were dress coats made of red
satin, lined With white satin, and worn with em-
broidered white vests and black trousers ...Or-
chids are to become the fashionable bridal
bouquets, because some one or two daughters of
millionnaircs carry them. Nothing lees graceful
or inappropriate could be chosen. The idea
seems to be simply to find the most rare and
unique species of natural flowers. independent
of beauty, and they must cost much money....
A young Swede recently sent in a bill for 3s. to the
administration of the almshouses where his mother
had for some time lived and eventually died. The
demand for the money was based on the loss of
time occasioned by going to his mother’s funeral.
— “ Robbie,” said the visitor, kindly, "have you
any little brothers and sisters?” "No,” replies
wee Robbie, solemnly: “I'm all the children we’ve
got.” —Sold Mrs. Weldon (the English lady who is
always at law and always conducts her own cases)
to a judge, the other day; “ If I have appeared to
be disrespectful to your Lordship, it is because I
do feel that I have been treated most cruelly. If
Madame Clovis Hugues had been so treated, she
would have shot a dozen people.” Now, if a man
had said such a thing to Sir James Martini ...A
woman once scared a burglar away by pointing a
hair brush at him. Some men who have boon boys
can never look at a hair brus i or slipper in the
bands of a woman without wanting to run.
“ Five per cent, in this world, and ninety-
five per cent, in the next,” is the interest which
General Booth is just now offering on money ad-
vanced to the Harmy Building Fund in London.
That wouldn’t be bad bus ness, except that a fel-
low can’t perceive at a glance the exact value of
money “on high.” The “old masters” have
shown us that angels don’t wear any cothes
to speak of, and their remarkable freedom from
anything li»e stomach bears testimony to the fact
that they eat nothing much. To what purpose,
then, could an Investor in Booth’s speculation
devote bis guaranteed bonus when he reaches the
golden shore? Echo answers, “In musical intru-
ments of praise.” Good, wc never thought of
that. We will forward a little draft to the
worthy General. So long as our days are in the
land we will draw our modest five per cent, ar.d
when life’s weary burden grows too heavy, and
we decide to join the great ethereal majority, we
will lay out our accrued compound interest in the
purchase ot a silver gilt trombone.
In all policies of insurance these, a
host of other questions, occur: “ Age of father, if
living?” “Age of moflher, if Jiving?” A man in
the country who fillid up an application made Ida
fatuer’sago, “if liviu.,” one hundred and twelve
years, and his mother’s one hundred and two. The
agent was amazed at this, and fancied he bad
secured an excellent customer; but, feeling some-
what dubious, he remarked that the applicant
came of a very long-lived family. “Oh, yo u see,
sir,” replied he, “ my parents died many years ago.
but,‘if living ’would be aged as there put down.”
“Exactly—I understand,’’said the agent.
There was a considerable stir among the
athletic yard-measurers In the employ of A. Hor-
dern and Sons, and the robust tape and calico
retailers at Farmer and Co.’s, when it became
known that a prize, roughly estimated at tea
guineas, had been donated by a York-street soft-
goods magnate for the highest scorer in the inter-
warenouse cricket match—[Inter-warehouse is
good.— Ed. B.]—at the drapers’ picnic. The off-
chanca of not only becoming suddenly wealthy,
but attaining undying fame in athletic circles,
had the effect of causing an epedemic of cricket
to break knights of the yard-stick, and at early
morning, as well as at dewy eve, the bounding
ball and defensive bat were kept in constant
trouble by the aspirants for cricketing glory
and a big prize. For weeks past, we have sadly
watched those sucking Spofforths aud budding
Bannermans in the seclusion of their respective
back-yards, defending battered kerosene-tins with
'superannuated broom-sticks against the feeble
assaults of small boys, armed with evil-smelling
rag balls, and from the
efforts put forth by
the talented batsmen,
we anticipated that the
diurnal scribes would
have to chronicle a
“ grand display of
leather-hunting” on the
eventful day. How-
ever, as we are particu-
larly careful of the
morals of our numerous
and cultured readers,
we will not afflict them
with the details of
that brilliant match,
suffice it to place on
record that Hordern’s
team suffered a crush-
ing defeat, and that a
vigorous young bale-
man in Farmer’s team
ran up the top score,
which barely crossed
the line of demarkation
between single and
double figures. We will
also pass over the con-
gratulations of his
numerous friends on
the occasion, and, by
our usual easy mode of
progression, proceed
with the fortunate
prize-winner to that
York-street warehouse
to receive his reward.
“I’ve come for that
trophy,’’was the modest
remark with which the
Slogger blushingly
opened up negotiations
with the generous donor. “Ah, glad to see you;
happy to present you with a prize of inestimable
value, a reward for which great and good men in all
ages have fought the good fight,” was the reply of
the merchant, as ho suited the action to the word,
and handed to the crack batsman a family Bible,
as large as a bale of slop goods, profusely illus-
trated with pictures of Noah, Jacob, Pharoah,
Solomon, Huth, Rebecca, and other ancient cele-
brities, printed in as many colours as was Joseph’s
famous coat. “Take it, my friend,” he added,
“ read, mark, learn, and Inwardly digest it; and,
above all things, remember that it is the ‘ secret
of England’s greatness.’ “And,” he further
remarked, sotto voce, as he settled himself down
I again to business matters, “it has been a long time
in stock.” We will draw a veil of thick obscurity
over the sayings of the recipient as he hired a
vanman to cart the treasure down to the wharf,
and the passengers by the Lane Cove River boat
that evening thought that some new theological
seminary, in addition to those already established
on the shores of that picturesque inlet, was about
to be founded, judging by the stray phrases which
hopped out occasionally from the lips of the
champion cricketer. But in the quietude of his
home, the premier batsman sat himself down to
think out whether ’twere better to start a Sunday-
school on the strength of his prize, or trade it off
for bullion. As conscientious, and, we humbly
trust, homst journalists, we are bound to state
that the Holy Book was rallied at five bob a mem-
ber, and it fortunately fell to the lot of a God-
fearing draper, who. as he trundled it home in a
wheelbarrow, softly murmured,
“ 4 Holy Bible, book divine,
Precious treasure thou art mine.’
—at just a twentieth of cost price.”
“ If you put the meekest of angels, or any
self-sacrificing saint on a piece of boggy clay, and
made him subsist there on a possible pig and the
precarious potato, he would become open to take
whatever he could lay his hand upon. It is impos-
sible not to feel the greatest respect and affection
for the Highlander in straitened circumstances.
He is God-fearing, honest, refined in manner and
mind, hardy, and well able to take advantage of
opportunities offered to him. But he is mortal,
and has failings like the rest of us,” &c. &c. Thus
the most noble the Marquis of Lome, in a late
number of the Contemporary Review. The
Highlander, in “straitened circumstances,” liv-
ing on a piece of boggy clay (and having to pay
rent to the Marquis’ most noble father the Duke of
Argyle) is honest, God-fearing, and so on, but still
be is “ open to take whatever he can lay his bands
upon.” So, at least, evidently thinks the Marquis
of Lome, and perhaps he is right. A half-starved
Highlander, who has to sell his food to pay rent to
keep up ta tignity of his lord and God, his Grace, is
not probably above the temptation of taking a
salmon from the river, or a hare from the
hill. He may even be tempted to go the dar-
ing length of laying his hand rather roughly
on a bailiff, it the latter is sent by his
Grace to evict him. But, if the “ Highlander in
straitened circumstances,” notwithstanding his
liability to “lay his hand” on things, is still
worthy of our greatest respect and affection, what
we want to know is this: What amount of respect
can be shown to persons like the Marquis of Lorn©
or his father the Duke, who are mean enough to
live in the greatest luxury on rent squeezed at
starvation’s bayonet-point from poor cottars liv-
ing on pieces of boggy clay, or on rooky mountain
sides, while at the same time magnificent and
fertile valleys—the home of the cottars’ fore-
fathers, and theirs, too, by divine right—are laid
waste and devoted to the comfort and welfare of
his Grace’s precious collection of deer and other
game? The drift of Lome’s little article is to
show that the Highlander in straitened circum-
stances would be better off in Canada than on the
Duke’s estate. We have no doubt ho is right. As
Burns sang of it long ago ;—
“ Whoe’er he be that sojourns there
I pity much his case.
Unless he come to wait upon
Their lord and god, his Grace.”
TO A PAIR OF OLD BOOTS.
Farewell 1 old friends, I bid ye a sad adieu—
Well I remember the day when ye were new:
When first your polished uppers caught my eye.
And tempted thus, I bought you with a sigh.
Since then we’ve seen some roughish times to-
gether;
We’ve trudged about in many kinds of weather.
On dusty roads, or in the muddy street.
My trusty boots were ever on my feet.
At times, well worn, you let the water through,
And stitches in your sides had. not a few;
Still I will not reproach you with the past
Your first offence is pardoned—and yourlost.
’Tis touching to recall, now you are old!
Wo ne’er did part, though you were often soled;
Your work is closed, ail your elastic gone!
Your fronts are dull, where Day and Martin
shone -
Your pegs, like old men’s teeth, are growing loose,
Sole after sole you’ve had—all now no use.
Boots are but mortal, nor for ever wear,
I’ll put you by, and buy another pair;
And as 1 cast you forth, my faithful friends,
Consoled I am, I’ve made you much amends.
Let cynics laugh, they are unfeeling brutes—
I drop a tear o’er my poor worn-out boots.
LANCELOT BOOTH.
RAILWAY RHYMES.
No. I.— THE MIRACLE.
The Station-master started back
In wonder and amaze;
The guards looked wildly up and down,
With horror-stricken gaze;
The lights depending from the roof
Gave out a hideous glare,
And, in his daft astonishment,
A cabby asked his fare!
A ticket-seller saw it come,
And fainted In affright;
The oldest signal-man was loth
To trust his swimming sight;
A porter quite forgot himself,
And spoke in civil tone,
For such a wonderful event
He ne'er before had known.
The platform-sweeper, panic struck,
His besom deftly plied;
The Bulletin boy silent stood,
As though electrified;
And old men, when they heard the news,
In faltering accents spake:
“ This feat was never known before;
There must he some mistake.”
And would you know what feat was this
That thus so rudely broke
The spell, and made the sweeper change
His wonted listless stroke ?'
That taught a porter civil tones,
And caused this Hallway Rhyme?
’Twas simply thus; an evening train
Qad come in up to time.
TO THE LORD BISHOP OF GOULBURN.
“The Bishop of Goulburn denies that the
project of establishing a bishopric at Fiji has been
abandoned.” Hallelujah!
Bishop of Goulburn, thanks!
■ We are tired of our little pranks.
Bishop of Goulburn, this
Is a chance we would not miss.
Bishop of Goulburn, hear!
We will give up our lager-beer;
Bishop of Qoulburn, too
We will give up our nap. and loo;
Bishop of Goulburn, yea,
We will pitch our cards away;
Bishop of Goulburn, yea,
And confine ourselves to chess.
. Bishop of Goulburn, we
Would like to be Bishop of Fiji.
Mr. Tomkins, in a moment of magnanimousness, offers to take bis missus and little ones fora day’s outing down the harbour, and,
fully confident of his powers as a waterman, hires a boat and pulls them to aseoluded picnic ground. After spending a most enjoyable
day, they start for home, when, to Tomkins’ horror, he finds that, by pulling his utmost, he can hardly make any “way.” Anyhow, ho
labours on, and after a three-hours’ pull, arrives at home, himself, his wife, and children tired, cross, and out of spirits, with the excep-
tion of one small boy, who, perched right aft, had been amusing himself by towing the picnic hampers, and who was afterwards con-
nected with “ towing ” of a different description.
Bishop of Goulburn, well
Will we speak, in future, of hell.
Bishop of Qoulburn rich.
We have longed to live well—which,
Bishop of Goulburn, means
We are weary of sardines;
Bishop of Goulburn, yes,
And weary of water-orcss.
Bishop of Goulburn, you
Would be weary of them too;
Bishop of Goulburn, much,
If you had lived long on such I
Bishop of Goulburn, but
You have lived on the under-out.
Bishop of Goulburn, that
Is the thing to make a man fat.
Bishop of Qoulburn, there!
We will start on the Lord’s Prayer;
Bishop of Goulburn, then
We will learn the Commandments ten.
Bishop of Qoulburn, we
Remain, in expectancy.
Yours in the Lord (and
Bishop of Qoulburn, you
Are a Bishop—we would be, too.
Bishop of Goulburn, then
We will lay down our flashing’ pen—
Bishop of Goulburn—which
Has never yet made us rich.
Bishop of Goulburn, Lord,
We are thin as a wooden sword.
Bishop of Goulburn, we
Would Jike to be Bishop of Fiji.
Bishop of Qoulburn, quick,
Give us that bishopric;
Bishop of Goulburn, or
Kecommend us that same thing for!
Bishop of Goulburn, come.
And you never need lack for rum I
Bishop of Goulburn, yea,
In rum (of the best) you may,
Bishop of Goulburn, bask
While the diocese holds a cask,
Bishop of Goulburn, if
You will put in a bit of “ stiff,”
Bishop of Goulburn, to
The Boss Bishop, to say that you,
Bishop of Goulburn, can
Lay your hands on the proper man.
Bishop of Goulburn, think.
You must have your little drink!
Bishop of Goulburn—bist
Of Bishops—you know the rest.
Bishop of Goulburn, one
Word more, and then we are done.
Bishop of Goulburn, know,
If sugar you’d like to grow,
Bishop of Goulburn, tax
Our thanks—and we’ll pay in blacks!
