

THE BULLETIN
VoL a —No 88.—New Series.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 17, 1885.
Price—Ad-
The Bulletin.
January it, im.
That Wretch, the Working Man.
The Melbourne correspondent of the S.M.
Herald is either an adept at adjusting his
tone to suit his employers, or else is in
genuine agreement with the principles and
sentiments which dominate the policy of
that journal. If anything, no matter how
true, transpire to emphasize the absurdity of
regarding as semi-divine—and as, in fact, of
divine ordination—monarchsand aristocrats,
the existing constitution of society, and
other stately monstrosities by law and cus-
tom established, the Herald either shoves
its ostrich-head in the sand and makes shift
to so conceal the existence of such incon-
venient facts, or laboriously addresses itself
to demonstrate that they arc, like Mr.
Toots* troubles, of no consequence. But
when the mere common herd, tho vulgar
working man, is concerned, there is no such
gqueamiehness. The lofty contempt and
superciliousness which is the natural attri-
bute and testimony of high birth and aris-
tocratic lineage and instincts, impel the
haughty and patrician Herald people
to "permit every license to traducers
of the mere workers—a license which,
if permitted when treating of persons
of station, i.e., persons with money,
they would groan at as scurrilous.
Thus we have the comments of their Mel-
bourne correspondent printed without ap-
parent reserve with regard to those disgust,
ing wretches—the bootmakers on strike, and
working men in general. “ It really makes
little difference,” the readers of the Herald
are informed, “ whether the so-called work-
ing man works or idles. He never fatigues
himself.” And, with respect to the boot-
makers on strike, it is superciliously slated
that “ they are enjoying themselves after
their kind—that is to say, they lounge at
street corners, and smoke and spit a good
deal, and at night they repair to Bourke-
street Hast, where they also smoke and spit,
and, in the intervals of these exercises,
%omit forth profanity.” This description
is instinct with the spirit of Corxolanus,
Shakespeare’s type of supercilious patri-
cian ism—
•’ What’s the nntter, you diaaentlous rogues,
That rubbing the poor Itch of your opinion
Make yourselves scabs ?
And, again—
“ You common cry of curs! whose breath I hate
As reek o’ the rotten fens; whose loves I prize,
As the dead carcases of unburied men
That do corrupt my air.”
• * *
We do not for a moment challenge the
correctness of the description of the Her-
ald’s correspondent. Journeymen boot-
makers have not the elegance of manner
which distinguishes their sons, should the
latter happen to inherit, early enough, pro-
perty worth fifty or sixty thousand pounds
per annum. Very likely some propor-
tion of the bootmakers on strike did
hang about the street corner - , and smoke
and spit. We abhor'a man who spits when
smoking. The practice is brutally and le-
voltingly offensive. To witness the dis-
charge of excrementary matter from the
mouth tends to turn a delicate stomach.
No gentleman spits demonstratively when
smoking. That is to say, no man whose
circumstances have permitted him to de-
vote attention to the elegances of social
habits, and who has been brought up under
the influence of refined surroundings, per-
mits himself so offensive a practice. Pro-
fanity, however, is not the vice of the
working man only. It is one which is in
considerable vogue at both extremities of
the social scale. In the circle which takes
its tone from the Heir Apparent, it is gener-
ally understood that it is not regarded as
inelegant, or as bad form to swear “by
God,” or to “damn” things conversation-
ally. Refraining from profanity is, in fact,
peculiarly a bourgeois virtue. Princes,
nobles, and proletarians swear and curse
with vigour. Your prim bourgeois—he
with the shaven upper lip-eschews the
practice. Possibly monarohs—all recent
British male sovereigns were fine, free, all-
round swearers—and princes of the blood
royal, perhaps, consider that what is
profanity in ordinary persons is permissible
to them, and that there is no impropriety
in their taking in vain the name of God,
since as nearly as they can gather from the
demeanour of their surroundings of lick-
spittles, and from the tone of loyal
addresses and of Conservative journals—
even in the Australian colonies—they are
closely related to God themselves, and par-
take considerably of His attributes, It’s all
in the family, as it were.
* « •
It is clear that the status of working
men, and the vices of the class or genus, are
not hereditary. There is a something which
can, in a very brief period, convert the
working man into a different being. That
may be a natural inspiration, an instinctive
delicacy, a strength of character, a nobility
ora concentration of purpose. Given any
of these, and the working man may be, like
Bottom, translated. But every day experi-
ence and observation teach, that if you in-
vest a working man with all these qualities
and impulses, he yet remains a workingman
to the end of the chapter, unless—here comes
the great talisman—he employs all these
gif t-A and faculties to accomplish one
particular object. That is to say, un-
less he successfully utilizes them to—
benefit his fellowmen? Not necessarily;—
to gain money ! For, be it noted, although
a working man may achieve, by the exhibi-
tion of grand qualities, a certain apprecia-
tion in a very restricted circle, his sons can-
not inherit that and find themselves mem-
bers of Nature’s aristocracy because their
father was cfne of Nature’s noblemen. But,
on the other hand, the sons of a dissolute
nightman can adopt the principles of the
patrician order, and gradually establish a
claim to be regarded as persons of superior
station and of the conservative instincts
naturally belonging to that position, pro
vided the said nightman made plenty of
money and left it well-invested in a less ob-
jectionable trade. As a matter of fact,
therefore, the general difference uow-a-days
between the working man and the distin-
guished race of the Veneeking pattern is,
that the one class have very little money,
although they produce much by their
labour, and the other class have a great deal
of money, although they personally produce
very little.
♦ « *
Tho rough old ferryman, Vanderbilt,
piles up millions. He is a coarse but vigour-
ously acquisitive person. His sons, inherit-
ing his millions, cultivate sybarite tastes,
and conceive by an error common under
such conditions, that they are cast in a
superior clay to the sons of all other ferry-
men and to the children of their father’s
equals. William Henry Vandebilt, con-
sequently, permits himself to remark, “The
public be damned.” This is more concrete
than the style approved by the proprietors
of the S. M. Herald, but it means the same
as sneering references to the alleged practice
by men of equal lineage of standing at
street-corners, and spitting. If Cornelius
Vanderbilt or John Fairfax had beeu
merely men of virtuous and generous na-
ture, without being endowed with the
money-gaining disposition and aptitude,
their respective soas would have been, in
the one case, undistinguishable from others
of the “damned ” public, and, in the other
case, on an equal social footing with tbe
operatives of whom some, when on strike,
lounge at street corners and smoke and
spit.
• « *
xbere is no question that to lounge at street
corners is undignified. The correct manner
in which to dispose of one’s unoccupied
time is by strolling round one's shrub-
beries, or chatting at one’s club, or going
out yachting or—in short, there are a hun-
dred elegant ways in which leisure can be
occupied. That unmarried operatives, who
share with three or four others a bedroom,
should stand about the street corners In
lieu of gracefully employing their leisure,
is certainly a fair occasion for sneers. And
the disposition to sneer naturally arises in
view of the fact that tho reason these
loutish persons are lounging at all is because
they have refused to work for tbe amount
of remuneration which employers choose to
regard as sufficient for them. There is no
one who so savagely resents the claims of
the working man to a considerable propor-
tion of the profits derived from his labours,
as does the ex-working man who has
achieved the position of employer. The
sense of an actual near equality is a pe pe-
tual cause of dislike ou the part of the
parvenu with regard to the labourer.
There is a feeling of satisfaction in cultivat-
ing an air of distinctiveness. To appear to
have nothing in common with the meie
mechanic is the eager ambition of the man
whose small soul smarts at the inward con-
sciousness that he has everything in com-
mon with the operatives he employs, except
such divergences as money has purchased
for him. We are not blind to the defects of
the working man. He lacks social refine-
ment. He feeds coarsely, and eats peas with
his knife. He* is often “ unconscientious”
with regard to his work, and altogether
pragmatical and inaccessible to reason iu
trade disputes. He is generally devoid of
ambition, and stolidly indisposed to learn
anything outside the merest routine of his
trade. But to what Is all this attributable?
It is customary for successful money-
makers—men who have extricated them-
selves from the ranks of the workers for
wage, and achieved the position of employers
—to strike an attitude of self-complacency,
and quote their own achievements as evi-
dence of what can be effected by a working
man, if he choose to make the effort, and
exercise self-denial. And this style of illus-
trative demonstration has from time im-
memorial been greatly favoured by all the
moralists who nave regarded it as their
interest to moralize in a sense likely to com-
mend them to the well-to-do olaes-
• • •
But the inference invariably suggested is
Utterly Jfclsp. as can readily be shown. It
THE HON. J. M’BAIN, M.L.C., PRESIDENT OF THE VICTORIAN LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.


Thb Rates or Subscription to Thb Bulletin
arc —For one year, Sis.; halt-year, 13s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
Thh Advertising Bates are 5a. per Inch S
special positions In the paper 7a. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10a. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows :—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions
15 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps ef any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient-
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, , 4s, 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
Prom Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WIN K
FOB INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
la. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT
2s. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts,
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
Is. 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke’s Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH ANU SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
SXPITBT
ia that what some working men have
done, anj and every working man can do.
That is to say, that every working man can
extricate himself from the ranks and be-
come an employer of labour. The thing is
farcically, preposterously, and obviously
absurd. If every working man can become
an employer, whom shall he employ?
Working men feel the fallacy. They know
that for one of their order to extricate him-
self from its perpetual mill-round of ill-
recompensed exertion demands on the part
of the aspirant a combination of natural
qualities of a very exceotional kind, assisted
by favourable oiroumstauees which no
exertion of self-denial or of will-power can
ensure. And they know also by observation
that among these necessary qualities are
some which are the reverse of noble or
admirable, although these may be, and fre-
quently are, allied to very fine character-
istics, as was the case in the instance of the
late John Fairfax.
• * *
It is no wonder-on the contrary, it is per-
fectly natural—that the average working
man, feeling conscious that he is but an
average and not an extraordinary man, re-
cognises the disproportion between the exer-
tion of his utmost energies and the share
which is accorded him of the fruits of his
toil. While bowing for the time to what
seems inevitable—that is to say, exploitation
of his labour—he is a discouraged man.
Extra exertion leads to nothing for him—or,
at least, nothing proportionate to the effort
it requires. Thus it happens that, as the
Herald’s correspondent has observed, the
working man does not ordinarily fatigue
himself, at any rate in Australia, where
competition is not so keen as to compel a
man to choosa between strenuous exertion
and starvation.
* * *
That the result is prodigious waste, cannot
be denied. But, to be honest, the Herald
should have remarked that the waste is two-
fold. The social candle is burned at both
ends. There is waste by the habitual shirk-
ing of work by working men, and there is
also waste of the fruits of labour by idle
persons who enjoy by virtue of a corrupt
system a right to live in idleness upon tho
results of the toil of other men, or to im-
pound for dillctante supervision a share of
the results of the common exertion utterly
disproportionate to their contribution of
labour and to their abilities. And there is
waste, again, by misdirection of labour to
provide for the whims, caprices, and luxuries
of the idle—while millions are inadequately
supplied with the necessaries for comfort,
let alone for elegant or graceful life. There
is no native disability, on the part of the
working man, from elegant manners [and
intellectual pursuits. Give him the same
chances, and you will get from him the same
results as from the descendant of a Norman
filibuster or a successful brewer. Only the
opportunities differ. The clay and the
nature are Identical, although generations
of forefathers living in squalid discomfort,
and reduced to think all their lives
of little else than sordid necessities, will
doubtless transmit a brain formation for the
alteration of which some generations ef ease
and competence will bo needed. It seldom
happens that an actual patrician insults the
working man. It is the parvenu who makes
the antagonism of classes a matter personal
to himself. What in the one is an almost
unconscious belief in his personal and native
superiority, is in the other—the new man—a
thing to be asserted, to be demonstrated
somehow. And the somehow is often by
studied arrogance, which is intended to in-
dicate elevation, and really does indicate
merely vulgar impertinence.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Parties in Victoria.
The year 1885 was inaugurated in Melbourne by a
display of national feeling which has disgusted
those who affect to be the promoters of peace and
good-will among all sections of the Victorian
population. The members of the Hibernian Aus-
tralasian Catholic Benefit Society met in Swanston-
street, to glorify each other and abash unnamed
enemies by recording the successes of the past
and avowing their determination to keep in step
on the road of the good old cause, whether foes
with power smite or foes without power scoff.
Fourteen years ago the society consisted of thir-
teen members only, and very little money stood to
their credit. To-day the roll of names reaches 6100,
and the accumulated fund is set down at £30,000.
Their new buildings in Swanston-street whl be the
second largest structure in Australia, and it is
boasted that the main hall rivals in dimensions the
spacious and noble chamber in Collins-street.
These were gladdening results to bring before a
susceptible audience, and on the face of them there
appears to be no reason why everyone in the com-
munity should not have participated in the glad-
ness. Next to doing well oneself, the knowledge
that others are doing well should impart pleasure
to a rightly disposed and healthy mind. But it
was not so in Melbourne. The joy in Swanston-
street was responded to by gloom in Collins-street,
or, rather, the circumstances which made one sec-
tion of the community glad excited the apprehen-
sion, distrust, and anger of another section. Why ?
The Hon. Nicholas Fitzgerald, in his address
to the audience on the occasion, accepted boldly
tho exigencies of the time ; and, in words that
suggested the trailing of the metaphorical coat,
described the sort of work bis countrymen and
oo>reu*loiil0t« bad mapped out £(?r acsonjpjisb-
ment in the future. That part of the work which
is to carry the religious aspect cau stand aside, as
it is not of general.lnterest; and, although contri-
buting something to the gladness of the audience,
did not appreciably affect the sum of the gloom
on the other side. It was the secular work mapped
out for his countrymen that commanded notice.
Mr. Fitzgerald exhorted Irishmen to treasure
the memories of the past, and, in their now homes’
not to forget those who had struggled and still
struggle to redress the wrongs of Ireland. He
exhorted the women of Victoria, who had learned
from their mothers the tale of Irish sufferings, to
pass on the story to their offspring. Mr. Fitz-
gerald cannot be called an adventurer, ora needy
spouter, or a frothy demagogue, or a new-chum
enthusiast, or a professional politician. Ho is a
colonist of more than a quarter of a century’sjstand-
ing, a pract cal man of business, a successful pro-
jector of new industries, and he has never received a
penny for his political services. Now, there can
be no question that his exhortations were calcu-
lated to disquiet the majority of his fellow-colo-
nists, and If reduced to action, to divide Victoria
into internecine camps. His audience went spon*
tanoousiy with him. A fourteen years’ growth of
from 13 to 6000 members, and from a few shillings
to £30.000, was a retrospect to stand on. What was
tho meaning of the whole thing? Was it simply
that Mr. Fitzgerald and his audience became the
vehicles in Victoria of the old party spirit that
bled and bleeds Ireland—that, without rhyme or
reason he and theyjstarted the new year with notes
of dimension and alarm? Not at all. He and his
audience were evidently proclaiming as Victorian
colonists a triumph over certain Victorian preju-
dices, and announcing that they were prepared to
carry on the conflict along the lines. Tho ruling
parties In Victoria have discredited principles
when applied to Ireland, which, when applied
elsewhere, were accepted as axioms of sound con-
duct. Members of the Assembly were threatened
with expulsion, and in effect the threat was some-
times executed, If on contemporary British politics
they spoke out with as much freedom as would be
accorded them in the House of Commons. They
were threatened, again, If they appeared on a public
platform where the politics of Ireland wore likely
to come up. Some of them grew cowed, and sub-
mitted ; others formed leagues, or associated
themselves with the members of leagues already
existing, to cope with what, if let grow, would be
as great an evil as any of the old-world oppres-
sions. When the Redmonds sought the liberty to
state their case, the ruling parties refused them
the only suitable hall in Melbourne. With that
in mind, is not the new hall in Swanston-street a
cause of pride on one side and of chagrin on tho
other ? The chagrined affect to have been always
preachers of peace and good-will, and make it
look as if Mr. Fitzgerald and his susceptible
audience were all to blame, and were setting about
the commission of a gigantic crime against the
welfare of the colony. The real case Is, however,
clear. There is crime and counter-crime. Those
who want to make Victoria an Enniskillen must
get ready to meet those who will want to make it
a Tipperary. What Victoria appears to want badly
is a third party who will triumph over both, and
score for the colony a fair fame and an impartial
name.
Honour among Thieves.
Thebe is something sublimely grotesque in the
indignation at present being launched at the head
ot Prince Bismarck for the breach of faith
which has, as is understood, permitted him to
forestall our own national authorities in the an-
nexation of part of New Guinea. It now appears
that the north-western part of the island, claimed
by the Dutch, has not been meddled with, but
that it is a fragment of the remainder which has
been snapped up, under the very nose of the
British authorities. The dispute to which this
certainly very rude and contemptuous pro-
ceeding has given occasion is the grotesque
part of the business. The British and the
German Ministers stand in the position of a pair
of burglars who meet quite unexpectedly in a
house which has been broken into. The question
of honour among thieves is a very delicate one to
be discussed under any circumstances, and is pecu-
liarly awkward to raise In the very act of bur-
glarious entry. The first burglar appealing to the
good feeling and decency of the second thief, and
suggesting that, as a matter of gentlemanly eti-
quette, he (the second robber) should gracefully
retire, and leave all the premises to be ransacked
by the earlier intruder, furnishes a spectacle for
the gods to groan over and all the devils to laugh
at till hell resound with the uncanny merriment.
Paying the Piper.
Wk have been at some pains to acquire, by special
research, information respecting the manner in
which the Sydney Municipal Council has con-
ducted the paving with wood-blocks of the prin-
cipal streets. Very heavy contracts have been
handled In this connection, and the Corporation
has, in respect of dealings with contracts, a repu-
tation to—lose. We do not think it has achieved
that desirable loss. We will take, as an illustra-
tion of the manner in which the pockets of the
Sydney ratepayers have been protected by the
Municipal Council, the section of wood-block
paving recently effected, by contract, in Parra-
matta-srreet. The total cost of this work has been
£20,875 15s. lid., of which amount £7,507 6s. 5d. has
been disbursed lor wood-blocks, exclusive ef
labour. As the work comprised 14,790 square yards,
the cost for wood alone, therefore, was at the
rate; of 10.153 shillings (a fraction over 10s.
per square yard. The blocks used were of two
sizes, the contractor being, we understand, per.
mitted the option of suiting his convenience in
this respect after the contract had been let with
the condition that the smaller size, which, as in-
volving most labour to out and lay, were most ex-
pensive, should be used. These sizes were 3in. by
61n. by 6in. for the contract size, and 3in. by 6in,
by 9in. for the size subsequently permitted.
Taking the average length, 7lln., and allowing one-
third of the space laid for joints and interstices,
this would give 38.4 blocks to the square yard of
paving. And the cubic contents of these 38.4
blocks would be 53.8 cubic feet, which would cost
19.337 shillings per 100 cubic feet. This would give
the cost of each block at 3.173 pence per block.
Now, the cost of hardwood timber per ICO feet was,
wJjeo tills cootwt- ym Jet, J3 ebjjijogs per joq ;
so that for the cost of cutting Into blocks the city
has paid a fraction over 0 shillings per 100 feet I
As a matter of fact, so much of scrap and waste
ends, otherwise valueless, and always made at a
saw-mill, would come In for paving blocks, that
the price could be got down equal to that of run-
ning feet. But it was not. Now, the Corporation
propose to spend about half a million sterling on
wood paving. And, taking the Parramatta-street
job as a guide, the proportion of that £500,000
which would be absorbed fur wood alone
would amount to £1*0,000. In which ease, should
the contractor be permitted the same advantage
as was allowed in the case of Parramatta-streeD
the loss on wood blocks, as between their real
and contract values, would amount, at same; prices,
to £58,300 or thereabouts! This is but one sample
of the way the money goes. Citizens may cease
now to wonder that the contractors, builders,
and all that class of persons are always ready to
put their hands into their pockets to contribute
hundreds of pounds to secure tho election of
aldermen to represent—them 1
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“Chandos” : Glad to renew relations.... 1 J.
M.” (Mt. Owen, King River. W. Coast, Tasmania):
Letter received. You may have more in you than
you reckon. At any rate, don't send your next
production to blazes, but post It to us. We have
plenty matches. It is belter to burn than to sin.
Nevertheless, let’s have a sample offence....
‘•James O.”: Your condemnation of us is more
than severe —it is devastating.—
“ Oh. Scoffer, stay thy wild career I
If thou wert a grenadier,
Bombardier, or fusileer.
Or any other musketeer,
At thy breast a ten-foot spear,
Goth-pointed (Goth one gory smear)—
Then thou hadst not more to tear,
Wer’t not more to ruin near
Than now—when, with delirium sheer,
Deridest thou the front austere
Of her, the Pythoness, so dear
To ail, as known the utterance clear
Of all the Gods in one.
Oh dear,” &c.
What we said of your contributions mav have de-
served correction—but—not—not like this....“ Veri-
tas”: The double entendre Is clever, but old ...
“Ina. M. M.”; “Plea for Poultry” not received.
Seed us as many as you like. They will have to
stand on their merits, but you can stand that.
The “ three roses,” published some time ago, was a
real bonne bouche. ..." Queensland ”: Not adapted.
“ W.P.D.” (Mackay) : It will depend entirely
on circumstances whether splitting Queensland
into two or more colonies will be beneficial or
otherwise ✓ W.I.M.” : Received ‘ Robert
Boyd” (Wyong); Perpetual motion In terrestrial
machinery belongs to the same class of myths as
trisecting the angle or squaring the circle. You
see it would be contrary to principles, which are
not theoretical, nor tentative, but axiomatic
Take a case. If you, for instance, showed us a
demonstaation (in which we could discover no
error) that a straight line was not tho shortest dis-
tance between two points, we—although we could
not drop upon the loose screw in your proof—
would put It aside at once because it contradicted
an axiomatic truth... .“Aqua”: Received....
“A.J.”: Received “A.M.” : May use
“Tiercet” writes: “Kindly tell me through
your page to correspondents what you think
of the following lines, are they poetry ” :—
“ Oh I have you heard of the Osborne case,
And the strife amongst the Wests,
To prove that rev. gentleman
Is not a genuine Wesleyan ?”
“ They do charge him with the sympathy
He feels tor Christianity,
And they want to plainly prove
He’s not a genuine Wesleyan.”
Our correspondent would also like an un-
biassed opinion about his handwriting. There is
nothing, “Tiercet,” more difficult than to say
what is poetry and what Is not. Every age has
different ideas on the subject. What’s poetry to
one is “bosh” to the other. Your lines show a
certain nervous strength allied with a good deal
of worldly wisdom, for it is noticeable you do not
commit yourself to any views as to whether he is
or is not a “ genuine Wesleyan.” But, at present,
there Is a popular prejudice against your style of
verse. It is out of season, just now. It may not
come in again before the solar system returns to
nebulae—at least, we hope not. We can t decide
on your handwriting till we know what you did it
with-a clothes-prop or the handle of a hoe ...
“Elgedi”: Not in our line. It is more
in the style of a mild tale for Sunday reading.
....“Standard”: Do not know her address..,.
“ Cairns Darkle ” (North Queensland): “ Progress
and Poverty” can be procured from Kirby, book-
eellWf put-street. Frtoe 64; w bear yoti
have been circulating your copy. We read the
other day that over 600,000 copies of various edi-
tions have already been sold. We have already-
given a sketch portrait of Mr. George—a comely-
powerful face, surmounted by a grand forehead.
We may meet your desire shortly... "Miles”:
There is not a grain of difference, in one sense, in
the fighting qualities of the European peoples. It
is all a question of discipline, arms, leadership, and
—most Important of all—numbers. The “stay-
ing” power of the central and northern nations
is counterbalanced by the elan of the Southern.
If 100,000 trained Frenchmen had to meet to-
morrow the same number ot English, Germans, or
Russians, it would be just a toss-up who'd win.
The ablest leader—other things being equal, or
nearly so—would, probably, turn the tide. It is
mere national vanity that thinks otherwise.
“John Davies”: It la the first we have
beard of Archbishop Moran’s intention to lay
the'foundation-stone of the Orange lodge at
Dubbo, and we can hardly credit It
“ E.P,” (Dubbo): writes, under date December 13,
1884:—“Your readers have often laughed with
you. they have as often congratulated you; they
ought now, I am sure, to thank you. In your
descriptive sub-leader of this date you give loud
and certain utterance to the real loyalty that
should actuate all true men and women, and your
imaginary “ message to the Commons ” should bo
learned by heart by every thinking man and
woman In the colonies, if this humble line suc-
ceeds in drawing fuller attention to that article*
my object in writing will be fully achieved, my
sympathies with liberal progress fully expressed.’*
All right “ E P.” We have not hltbertojpublished a.
single one ot the appreciative letters which con-
stantly snow upon us. We don’t condescend to
Town and Country self-puffery. But, upon
mature reflection, we don’t see why we should
always deny insertion to expressions of content
with us. In you go.— Ed. B.]
Evviva , Umbeito! An’more powir to th’
little macaroni-worryin’ divil’s elbow. The
Italian Monarch and his Ministers are seriously
thinking of prohibiting .the further exportation
of organ-grinders, because it Is thought these
gentry give a false idea of the country and tend
to injure its dignity. So they do, Umberto, and
all the world will uphold you in your patriotic
idea to protect the dignity of la bell’ Itaiia. If
you must send us a plague, send the cholera. We
could stand a little of that, but keep your hurdy-
gurdy humping deadbeats.
For downright sanctimonious politeness,
and clergy worship, you cannot beat the fossilized
and ultra-religious town of Maitland much. Here’s
a sample of “ dooty to his riverince,” that hap-
pened there the other day which takes a trick and
no mistake. At a meeting held in the local Coun-
cil Chambers, for the purpose of making arrange-
ments to banquet the Hon. H. E. Cohen, and the
Hon. W. B. Dailey, one gentleman, a staunch
churchwarden, proposed that eight or nine min-
isters of ihe Gospel be presented with complimen-
tary tickets. A well-known sporting man, think-
ing it was too heavy a handicap on the committee,
strenuously opposed such a piece of extrava-
gance, urging, that as it was a political, and
not a social affair, there was nothing to war-
rant the proceeding. After a lot ot discussion, the
motion was passed by a majority of one or two;
but the opposition party showed such an inclina-
tion to withdraw from the undertaking that It was
thought advisable to rescind the motion. This
was done, and the clerics who wish to be present
at the bar quet will have to pay their guinea with
the rest of the visitors. And why shouldn’t they ?
They can well afford it. And as the affair will cost
a guinea a bead, It means that if they bad been
admitted gratis, the committee would have had to
ante the amount of loss out of their own pockets.
There is no earthly reason why the local ministers
—who can appreciate a good dinner with any
man—should not be present on the festive occa-
sion; but there Is no just cause or impediment
to their being charged a guinea a head for the
privilege. For a decade past, the State has given
largely to the Church; and now, for goodness
sake, let the Church give something to the State,
when an opportunity occurs, even it It is only in
a small and an indirect way.


Woman Items
The meek and modest city of Philadelphia
is to be enlivened this winter by a ball which a gay
voung widow of that ilk intends to give, at which
no ladies but widows will be invited. Two pre-
requisites are necessary for an invitation—the
guest must actually have buried her husband, and
she must not be thirty years old. Inasmuch as
New Yorkers are to share this unique orgie, it
may as well he stated plainly, for the enlighten-
ment of the innocent Quaker mind, that there are
no widows in that city who admit being over thirty
years; and the present railway facilities between
the two cities will be insufficient to accommodate
all who will want to go as guests under this rule.
Telling of the eventful Coronation Day,
the author of the recently-published volume con-
cerning the life of the Queen writes:—” It was said
that the Queen’s crown was too cumbrous, and dis-
turbed the arrangement of those soft braids ot hair,
♦he simple modest fashion of which called forth
bir David Wilkie's praise, and that, as her Majesty
drove along in her state carriage, she was seen
laughingly submitting to the good offices of her
beautiful companion, seeking to loop up afresh
the rebellious locks which had broken loose. . . .
She was very fond of dogs, and possessed a favour-
ite little spaniel, whi 'h was always on the look-out
tor her. She had been away from him longer than
usual on this particular da>. When the state coach
drove up to the Palace on her return, she heard
his bark of joy in the hall. She cried, ‘ There’s
JJash.’ and seemed to forget crown and sceptre in
her girlish eagerness to greet her small friend.”
Old Duponchel was explaining the other
day how it was that, while manager of the Opera,
“enever committed the blunder of falling la love
„ * a ballet-girl, or becoming a slave to the pre-
mtfcreoanseuse. “ It's very simple,” he said; “it‘a
aw through my eye-glass'” “Your eye-glass?”
queried his interlocutor; “what eye-glass?”
“This one,” replied Duponchel, showing the glass
in question. “ It is a capital one,” he added, “ and
shows up everything in Its exasperating reality.
It may bo a magnifying glass, for all I know; any-
how. where you peroolve nothing but a rosy
cheek, my glass shows me splathers of cold cream
and dabs of rouge. It brings out the small
wrinkles—especially the crow’s feet—and all the
hideous details of the ‘ make-up.’ Thanks to this
eyo-glars, good bye to the enchantment of illusion,
which is everything in love affairs; and that id
how I have escaped what many managers have
not been able to avoid—mistakes, sirl”
NEVER GROW OLD TO MB.
(By Charles Mackay.)
I looked in the tell-tale mirror.
And saw the marks of care,
The crow’s feet and the wrinkles
And the grey in the d rk'brown hair;
My wife looked over my shoulder —
Most beautiful was she -
“Thou wilt never grow old, my love," she said,
“ Never grow old to me.”
“ For age is the chilling of heart,
And thine, as mine can tell.
Is as young and warm as when we first heard
The sound of our bridal beli I ”
I turned and kissed her ripe red lips,
“ Let time do Us work on me.
If in my soul, my love, my taitn,
r never seem old to theel ”
A well-known photographer, of New
York, says that there is infinitely more profit on
photographs of actresses than on those of great
politicians and philosophers. The mania for buy-
ing photographs began in 1860, and the greatest
favourite in early times was Adelaide Nellson.
One of the first to be paid for a sitting was Sara
Bjrnhardt. and the amount was three hundred
pounds. Patti sells enormously, and will until she
dies, probably, bhe poses easily and gracefully,
and makes a pretty picture. But one of the
greatest cards of recent years Is Mrs. Langtry—
scores of thousands of her photographs being
sold every year. She was paid .£300 for her first
sitting. School giris used to go for the pictures of
Montague and George Rignold, and it was with
difficulty the photographer could keep pace with
the orders. Oscar Wilde was paid a percentage,
and for a time his pictures sold like fresh eggs,
but bis day is over. Perhaps the greatest favourite
ever known (photographically, of course, we
speak) is Mary Anderson. Her pictures, in every
style and position, meet with favour all over the
world. Maud Branscombe, too, I as been taken in
every conceivable attitude, and has drawn the
dollars almost as well as any ot them. What an
easy billet it is to be beautiful I It is a singular
fact, in connection with this sale of photographs,
that In Europe, as soon as a celebrity dies, tne
orders for his or her pictures Increase consider-
ably, whilst la the States It is exactly the reverse.
Tens of thousands of likenesses of Miss Mary
Anderson and Miss Maud Branscombe have been
sold within the last three years, and the demand is
on tho increase.
Fanny Elssler, the celebrated danseuse,
whose death has been reported balf-a-dozeu times
lately, has at last gone to the land of shadows, at
the age of 74. Once the world ot opera-goers
was divided between the worshippers of Taglioni
and EHsl >r; the first excelled by her airy and per-
fect grace, the second by her superb, almost inso-
lent, beauty and that wondrous dancing only pro-
duced by a combination of strength and elegance.
Fanny Elssler belonged from her birth to the
world of song and of dance-her father was the
music-copyist of Haydn. Bern in 1810, she was
only seven years later danoing at the theatre by
the Carinthian Gate of Vienna. At seventeen she
went to Italy with her elder sister Theresa, wbo
had an important influence upon her sister’s
career. Theresa Elssler was one of those com-
binations of powerand beauty rarely seen, and was
nicknamed in consequence “ the Majestic.” Her
great physical strength was of inestimable value
to her sister, whom she could bold in the most
difficult poses, and thus get rid of the ugly necessity
for a male dancer upon the see e. What strange
creatures they seemed, those male dancers who
served as a kind ot pedestal for the prima bal-
lerina! The “Majestic” one was able to do ail
that her sister required, and, in helping to make
Fanny s immense fortune, secured ner own. In
1851 Theresa Elssler •* as married (morganatlcally,
of course) to Prince Adalbert of Prussia, and lived
until 18T8. It was not till 1811 that Fanny went to
the U. 8., where her success was unprecedented.
For 130 years she has lived in such complete retire-
ment as to have been forgotten. Her best friends
were the famous actors Laroche and Haizinger,
who died only a short time ego, at the ages of 80
and 78 respectively. To the Dst Fanny Elssler re-
tained her mild face, her slender waist, her grace-
ful and elastic step, and the brightness of her
eyes. In early life she married a French doctor,
from whom she was long ago divoretd.
At the School of Arts, last Saturcliy, the
lecture for the evening was “ Woman’s Influence
on the World’s Development.” Mr. E. Lewis Scott
presided. Mrs. Sarah Parker, the lecturess from
India, treated the subject in such a very masterlv
manner that a gemleman said “She never wrote
that lecture herself: no, shk never wrote it.”
Mrs. Parker traced the influence of worn >n
from savage times to the nineteenth century,
and condensed into one hour and five mi-
nutes’ talk a surprising amount ot Information.
She quoted many women as “ inventors,”,’ a fact
which she said was often disputed—ran down the
line of famous women in literature, art, and science
—and showed how stupid it was to think women
were the mere “ ciphers ” our nineteenth-century
civilization would endeavour to make them. Tho
lecturess drew a very pathetic picture of ancient
Greece, and its early decay; “ for,” said she.
whoa the legal mothers of that classic land
were left In seclusion, and treated with indif-
ference, and the glory of the country bent Ita
knee to vice and sensuality, you can only expect
decay, no matter how cultured, how glorious, tbe<
vice may bo. I would not dare to say society
presents a similar picture to-day. I only know 4
do not find the Australian wives or daughters in
company with their male relatives anywhere—not
even at the School of Arts. If women are deemed
inferior in Intellect, they were unquestionably
superior morally; and but for the devotion, moral
purity, and sobriety of women, the world’s deve-
lopment would be summed up in the word * stag-
nation.’” A grand picture of woman’s influence
was given from the time of Louis XIV. in France
to the early days of the l!Hh century, and though
the grand French queens of society have
passed their Influence still lives in the
lives of French women to-day, who are equal
in every respect to men, socially. “ Those women
who began with petit suupcrs, and ended with the
Revolution, had influence potent to overthrow
dynasties and upset a form of Government which
had stood the assaults of hundreds of years. The
appeal to men to lift their female relatives to
their companionship in thought, la amusement,
in culture ami responsibility, was quite pathetic.
Why should you cheat yourselves? Why wait
for the display of women’s devotion, until the
bloom was off life’s peach? She is more faithful
—ten times more faithful— than man. Give her
her place beside you. Who has ever seen a man
go down to the mire and degradation of
is wife’s moral wreck, and stretched forth
his arm to redeem her? ,yea, even though the
waves of life brought him back only a corpse;
but we have seen and see women do this every day.
Go home to-night to the good wife, and tell her
I said this, and you know if—tell her from out the
future years we know not what great discoveries,
what glorious thoughts, what golden-webbed in-
ventions may be woven, but we do know that
never can there be a greater or purer gift born to
■ is than women’s influence has been, is, and ever
shall be in the world's development.” The lecture
was received throughout with much appreciation.
It was illustrated with laughable stories and
pathetic allusions, and a double vote ot thanks.
Kruee’8 insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; It
nosipus insects. Tins, Is,*
Honour Among Thieves.
JACK BULL (who has broken into the premises of N. E. W. Guinea, Esq.), to Biy Bismarck (also in the hurghna line): “ OH, I SAY, COMB, NOW; YOU KNOW J WHY, CONFOUND IT,
RIS3Y, I CALL THIS HANGED UNGENTLBMANLY OF YOU. YOU KNEW VERY WRLL THAT I MEANT TO CRACK THIS CRIB MYSELF. HANG IT, GET OUT OF MV
HOUSE. OR I'LL”
BIG BISMARCK: “WELL?”
JACK BULL: “I’LL I’LL PLACE MYSELF IN COMMUNICATION WITH YOU.'"


Personal Items
In the Wagqa Star, there is a ghost of
a tale by Tennyaon Smith—but read the head, well
displayed—“(For the Star, and dedicated to Mrs.
Dargon-Piercy.) The Ghost of a Chbistmas
Dinner.” Poor Tenny 1 He can’t wrestle with
his old recollections. He and we have often had
the ghost of a red herring for breakfast between
us—and afterwards fought for the head.
AT LAST.
“Completely broken down, Harry Sellars,
the coloured prize-fighter, has entered the Mel-
bourne Benevolent Asylum.”
.7": Rest thee, Harry ! Many a peeper
Thou hast closed in fight alone!;
May when comes the World’s Dread Reaper,
Gentle fingers close thine own.
The champion barman of Australia is
Jack Barker, of Gunsler's. Jack is a man of pro-
perty, and has rather an antipathy to members of
Parliament, on account, presumedly, of their cre-
ditable tendencies. His latest is this: Enter mem-
ber. M: Is the manager in? J. B.: No. M.
(hesitatingly): I feel I should like . J. B. (Im-
patiently): 1 know what you’re going to say—
never mind. Look hero, old pal—hare a drink
with me. And he had it.
Here’s a new and true little item aboud
dot grade tragedian, do only Bandmann. Upon a
certain occasion, the champion Hamlet was tn-
deavouring to explain to the late H. J. Byron a
figure which he wished to have lithographed for a
large poster. Not being able to make the drama-
tist thoroughly grip his meaning, the worthy Herr
started to make a sketch of the figure, first of all
apologetically observing, “You know, Mlstare
Byron, I do not draw,” “ So all the managers tell
me,” replied Henry John, and dot grade trage-
dian turned pea-green with suppressed gratitude
for the delicate compliment paid him.
Whenever your London correspondent of
a Sydney paper has to deal with the peccadilloes of
princes, he Is like Poll Sweedleplpe going "a tip
toe ’’ over Bailey junior’s pimples. lie is delicate.
Thus A. P. Martin in the Rum telling us that Lord
Colin Campbell accuses his wife of having taken
the Duke of Marlborough, Colonel Duller, and
Captain Shaw into his place, says further, “A still
more august name was mentioned, but by arrange-
ment it will not appear amongst those of her al-
leged co-respondents.” That is to say, in other
words that became Lord Colin Campbell suspects
H.R.H. of being only one of many, he is willing to
leave him out of the question.
A theatrical mem.: It is well known that
when travelling with her company Mrs. Turner
goes round to all the hotels to see that her subor-
dinates are comfortably and respectably lodged.
Woe, then, to the lady who elects to stay at a hotel
In close proximity to an oyster-saloon, or a gentle-
man who puts up at a hostelrle where the land-
lord’s daughters “object tollady boarders.” Gordon
once said he had to go a circuitous route of over
five miles in order to reach a skittle-alley unper-
ceived, while when the secundo tenoris (wo believe
this to be the language) want to play billiards in
the day time, they plav with the blinds down <*nd
make their hazards with muffled cues. As Mr.
Bagnet used to say, “ Discipline must be main-
tained.”
The [champion mean shopkeeper lives in
Napier,* New Zealand. A gentleman who had
bought nlnepenoe worth of something from this
counter-jumper, gave the coppers to a little girl
who had just entered the shop, and then he de-
parted. When he was fairly out of bearing, the
shopkeeper said to the little girl, “ Lemme see
what he gave you, dear.” Then, seizing the cop-
pers she held out, he said, “ He thort you wore my
little gal, my dear, and he meant to give this to
her. I know he did,’cos he alius gives her suth-
Ing, but you can have a penny to yourself this
time.” And he gave the little girl a penny, and
put the other two in the till. That man will be
Colonial Treasurer some day, if he is not hung in
the interim.
“Little Lotta,” as she is everywhere
known, is the most popular as well as the richest
actress in the United States, and has a large share
In the management, of several important theatres
In Boston, New York, and Philadelphia. Her
greatest successes have been Little Nell and the
Marchioness in the adaptation of the “ Old Curiosity
Shop.” Lotta is the possessor of a beautiful
country residence near Lake George, New York
State, and is a great favourite with ladies as well
as gentlemen wherever she has appeared. Her
mother travels everywhere with her, and, as yet,
Cupid’s shafts have fallen harmlessly at her feet,
she preferring the company of her favourite
domestic pets, of which she carries with her quite
a happy family.
DRAWING THE BADGERY.
“The Bomhala Herald pretty lively on
our senior member last week, and deservedly so.
Mr. Badgery had better look out for squalls from
all parts of the constituency, if he woos the
electors again.”
There Is a big man of Mouaro,
The lustre has lost of his star O ;
If ho comes up again,
It is perfectly plain.
He'll be hooted
And booted.
Until he has scooted—
In fact the big man of Monaro
Will “ cop ” what most people term “ jar-ro.”
Hurroo for the real Sir Roger!—whoever
that is. Th® (English) Law Journal, an authority
which certainly ought to know something about
the business, has just discovered “ that there is
nothing in law to prevent the Tichborne Claimant
from sitting in Parliament, since the legal dis-
qualification only extends to felons. The Claim-
ant is not a felon, having been convicted of per-
fury, which is only a misdemeanour.” Ergo, the
door of our fat-headed friend’s political career is
not yet closed, and there is still a chance of his
stepping into the Grandoleman’s bluchers, after
all Not a very great chance, we admit; but still
there is a chance. Such a one, for instance, as
Pastor Allen has of being the next Pope, or Alf.
Bennett has of pulling off th© St. Jacob’s Oil prize
for the best Australian humourist.
From the Gundagai Times we tearfully
ooov the fact that a man named Harvey, instead
of wrapping thick woollens round his throat this
weather, tried to make an incision therein,
whether for its better ventilation, or through ex-
asneration at having a 14-inch collar roun d a 15-lnch
neck, is not stated. But as the Times, rising to
the occasion, gives the rather original report that
there was “ great determination,” we should in-
cline to the under-size collar theory. He first tried
to dash out his brains with an axe; but appears to
have been a dashed sight more out than his brains,
for he missed them. So he “stabbed his left arm,”
according to the Times report, which leaves us to
wonder how his legs escaped, because we read
“Dr" Hozier stitched up.” We forgot to
mention that the Times, in referring to the tra-
gedy. does not say that it “ cast a gloom over the
community,” but it goes so far-and we shudder
here—as to refer to the case, now sub-judice, as a
» ra8 h a ct.” We wouldn’t risk that phrase.
Power, the bushranger, who made things
nrettv lively in the north-eastern district of Vic-
toria some fifteen years ago, will soon be a free
man, after serving a long term of imprisonment.
In February his time expires, and it appears that
some of his friends are trying to make arrange-
ments to get him sent to America as soon as he
regains his freedom. And apropos of Power, there
is a story told of how ho once stuck up the Jamie-
eoa (Vic.) njall-coaoh some distance from Mw
field, whereupon he ordered the passengers to dis-
mount and hand over their loose property. The
travellers were by no means in a hurry to comply
with the polite request of the suave bushranger,
who was getting a bit impatient at their tardiness,
and again he called out to them, in commanding
tones, to get out of the coach and stack their
valuables. And then the Hibernian coach-driver,
who saw that the inevitable must happen, added
his persuasive voice to that of the highwayman by
calling out to his fares: “ Arrah now, can’t ye
come out of that; don’t ye hear the gintloman
gpakin’ to ye.” Then they came out.
It is so painfully seldom anything in the
way of repartee or "wholesome fun” enlivens
the dreary dulness of our Supreme Court pro-
ceedings, that, when such an event really does oc-
cur, too much publicity cannot be given to an ac-
count of the facts thereof. And one of these
sunny gleams lit up the old dead-house on Monday
week, when a certain learned counsel remarked that
persons, now-a-days, so often changed their names,
that they were subsequently known by entirely
different monikers altogether from those they
were known by in former years. “ i hat’s so:” ex-
claimed ftlr George Innes, as a bright idea struck
him; “ for I remember, some years ago, there was
a gentleman who was known only as Mr. George
w. Allen, but now he is better know as fair G.
Wigram Allen." “ Yes,” chipped in another horse-
hair-bedecked Joe Miller; “and I remember there
was another humble individual, who, in days gone
by, was known as plain Mr. Joseph Innes; but
after a brief sojourn in Fiji, he came back to us as
Sir George Long Innes.” Chen the whole Court
yelled; and Sir George turned groen sur-
passed admiration of the joker’s smart reply.
Here’s a meeting of the gods, if you like :
Out with the celestial pewter, and let two hogs-
heads of the ambrosial ichor rush through the
bunghole while we raise our moustaches in the
beaded bubbles winking at the brim I A. Domett,
poet and politician, of N.Z., writes to Henry
Parkes as a chummy of Tennyson and Browning 1
Mr. Domett (we would like to alter a vowel, just
to ease our minds) winds up with, “ I think you
must rather mlgs tfic society of some of the eu-
perior men in the old country who * took so kindly
to you and you to them.’ ” We have promised not
to blaspheme; and wo won’t. But did the heavens
or t&e earth ever contain so consummate an anser
as Domett ? — poet, mark you—just like Parkes—
divine afflatus and all that sort of thing—just
genially chatting away as with a sort of a feeling,
that if he, and Milton, and Shakespeare, and
Parkes, and Browning, and Tennyson could only
get together, what a meeting of souls . Herel
Thunder 1 Bring us some red ink, somebody!
Bring us . . . [Our contributor’s head has been
shaved. In his wanderings, he has roared for tor-
pedoes and thunder-bolts. What's it all about ?—
Ed.]
The much-abused and unaesthetic-looking
tall hat has its uses after all, even if it’s only that
ol a life-preserver. Lord Allngton was walking
Grosvenor-square the other day, when, owing to
a high wind that was blowing at the time, a chim-
ney fell over into the street and assaulted my
Lord, but his tall hat intervened, and at the ex-
pense of being completely flattened and almost
cut in two, saved the wearer’s head from being
bashed to pieces. And wo know a more celebrated
man than Lord A., whose life was saved by a few
inches of hat the other day. It was one John
Radcllff, who tootles on the flute a bit, and who
was foolish enough to play cricket with some
Americans, who, as everybody knows, are the
biggest muffs at cricket that ever held a bat.
Luckstone, whose fingers can travel over the
keys of a piano more effectively than they
can throw a ball, was trying to put out
Himmer, who was taking a run ; some-
how the ball misunderstood his intentions,
and found its way to Radclitf's head instead of to
the wicket (certainly, Kadclitf was only standing a
quarter of a mile or so away, and had been
advised over and over again that he was in
considerable danger by doing so, but he is such a
reckless fellow), and, but for that stiff-crowned
hat, as sure as that there are dishonest statesmen
in Sydney, so surely would the famous flautist
Richardson, who some time back joined heaven’s
orchestra, have been compelled to give place to a
ypunger and even mqre celebrated map, and have
had to content himself by playing second flute for
ever and ever. Amen,
The other day, a ninny called William
Bell committed suicide for love of Judge Dow-
ling’s slavey. It seems, though often at the house,
he never penetrated to the dinner table, otherwise
his Honor’s jokes would have enabled him to save
his cartridge. However, hero’s to him:—
There was a man called William Bell
Who’d loved Liz well and long,
And spoke his love, though told to put
“A clapper on his tongue.”
When William would “ pour out his soul ”
She’d deign not to say “ Can't, sir—
(The sole Bell, he, in that nice house
That Lizzy wouldn’t “ answer ”).
She of his little nature was,
All woman-like, a solver;
She knew he “ loaded up,” alas,
Apart from his revolver.
He flashed his pistol in the sun;
To aim he took much pains,
And blew out something which—well, which
Could never have been brains.
Mr. M’Caffiery, who shot at the Bishop of
Armidale, is a bit of a bore, on the whole; though
he is, to a certain extent, amusing. He didn’t
mind, it seems, parting his little pile to the priestly
“push;” but one windy day he saw the bishop's
vestments blow up, and beholding “threecrosses”
underneath, wished, in the street, to kneel down
and kiss them. The Bishop, thinking of his “ wan-
ing soup,” gave Mr. M’Oaffery about two-bob’s-
worth of a benediction, and scuttled away.
M’Laffery’s mind—say liver (" disordered liver”)—
then became Imbued with the idea that there was
a secret of the cross, and became mad upon that
and every other subject but dinner. Dr. Torre-
giani gave his evidence in a manner which showed
a kindly feeling towards the prisoner, who will, of
course, be removed to the Parramatta Asylum.
The following, to conclude the par., will give any-
one, who has got over his Christmas, an inkling ot
the poor fellow’s state of mind. This was part of
a rambling statement in Court:—** There was a
sign on the cross, but 1 cannot say if it was the
sign of a secret society or of God. There were
three sons of God, not one. They were Faith,
Hope, and Charity, or Charity, Hope, and Faith,
and one of them was an Irishman.” Surely that
should have been Hope.
Jane Ball is a married woman. She is
likewise a human being. At least she is Included
in the census returns aa such. But we have grave
doubts whether Darwin, if alive, would care to
Insult any respectable ourang by insinuating that
Jane could claim descent from so distinguished an
ancestor. But perhaps she never troubles herself
on this point. Life is short, and she would like to
make it shorter—for her husband. That much-
married Benedict has had a bitter time of it lately.
Mr. Ball is, according to all accounts, dying of
dropsy, and while in the Melbourne Hospital, made
over some freehold property to his wife. In re-
turn for this mark of matrimonial affection, a day
or two after his return from the hospital, said wife
threw him out of the house, and whacked him
until some neighbours went to his assistance. Ball
had been allowed to leave the hospital to spend the
holidays at home. At home I What a bitter satire
in this, as in many other cases. The accomplished
virago was bound over to keep the peace for six
months. But we shan’t keep our peace—there’s
something more to be added. Prior to his entering
the hospital, and while Mr. Ball whs supposed to be
on his death-bed, Jane attacked him in a violent
manner, and she was then committed to gaol tor
six months in default of ball, but before a month
was over her husband obtained ball for her.
There's a model husband for you 1 For our part,
we don’t want to be a model husband If the
“bitter-half ” is made Ball pattern. We
did have some thoughts of wedding a “Cabbage
Garden” girl, but have since concluded to wait.
It may be stated that the Jane above mentioned
resides in Coilingwood (Vic.) It may also be men-
tioned that if we had had the “ run of the bench ”
when the case was on, Mrs. B. wouid now be
“hanging out ’’ in another part of Melbourne—and
at the Queen’s expense I
“Muck” is not a ' ery elegant word, we
admit, but it is intensely expressive—especially at
electioneering times ; and, in fact, it is the only
one in the bright lexicon of the English language
to-day which appropriately tits a statement re-
cently made in some London newspapeis, to the
effect that the late Duke of Brunswick “ lan-
guished all his life under a hopeless passion for
Queen Victoria.” His Grace was not one of the
languishing order of men at all. No man who
could wolf hirj six square meals a day and place
himself outside three bottles of port at a sitting
ever was. The plain, undiluted truth is, the
“Book” had an idea, in 1838, that he was a fit and
proper person to hitch on to our gracious Queen,
and turn off the gas at night, and tight the tax-col-
lector when he called, and do divers other works
in a husband’s line, and be was considerably
pricked also when he discovered that the “ other
feller” had turned up in the person of Prince
Albert, who was of inferior rank, and who, when
it came to a question of hard cash, was simply a
double-barrelled pauper by the side of His Grace
the Dook of Brunswick. But the Dock didn’t lan-
guish any more than a graven image would. He
simply turned nasty, and sat on each individual
member of the Royal household whenever a fair
opportunity offered. It was said that he was par-
tial to the immortal Mr. John Brown, but this
arose from the fact that they both took a No. 9
boot and dearly loved a haggis. And the ungodly
also assert that numerous and earnest attempts
were made by the English Royal family to con-
ciliate the Dook, for, although the Queen would
never have dreamt of marrying him, still she is
far-seeing, and, naturally, would have no objec-
tion to And his fortune whacked amongst her poor
little boys and girls. His Grace was the senior
“ Royal ” Knight of the Garter, but there was no
more of the languishing element in him than
there is in a patriarchal goat.
George Smith holds a charter from the
Municipal Council of Forbes, by virtue of which
he runs the municipal cart—in fact, he is scavenger
in chief to the Corporation. But George has his
troubles, notwithstanding. A short time ago, he
was up to his neck in business, when Alderman
Fraser sent round a peremptory order to have his
ash-pit cleaned out before the Christmas holidays;
but as Smith was attending to the wants of his
more regular customers, he declined to execute
the commission. Whereupon the Alderman
waxed wroth, brought the matter before the Muni-
cipal Council, and broadly hinted that George
should be relieved of his onerous duties. Then
the irrepressible Smith seized his stylograph, and
wrote a cheery epistle on scented note-paper to
the editor of the local Gazette, in which he gra-
ghloally described the surroundings of the said
ash-pit, and, to a certain extent, gave a fair analy-
sis of its contents. Towards the end of his letter,
gtnltb grows defiant, and, still referring to the
“LITTLE LOTTA.”
NOT NEGOTIABLE.
TRAMP: “GIVE ME YOUR MONEY OR YOUR LIFE!”
YOUNG MAN: “MY MONEY IS INVESTED, AND MY LIFE IS INSURED.”
TRAMP: WELL, GIVE ME YOUR WATCH, THEN.”
YOUNG MAN: “I GAVE MY WATCH TO MY UNCLE, SOME FEW DAYS SINCE.”
TRAMP: “WELL, BLAME IT, GIVE MB SOMETHING.”
YOUNG MAN: “I WILL GIVE YOU GOOD DAY. TA, TA.”
THE SAME OLD THING.
“Mr. John M’Elhone has returned to Syd-
ney, and states that he never felt in better health
in his life.” [Our troubles.— Bn. B.]
O Honest Jack I once more thine azure eye
Will make admiring millions to rejoice ;
Anc, once again, sweet Jack, will maidens sigh,
When floats to Heav’n the rhythm of thy voice 1
We’ve heard of thee across the far off sea—
And, Jack, old boy, the rumour really such Is,
You were for days the beau of all Paree,
And, when in London, mashed a merry Duchess I
“ Got up,” you “ did ” the Burlington Arcade
(Your Upper Hunter pals this will be gall on)
And patent leathers, too, also ’tls said,
You “mounted,” John, when you bad bad’em
“ all on.”
You took, alas I your absinthe—Ya-as, ah, out,—
And dressed, we’re told, like any masher-man-
nikin.
Yet, now you’re here, the “same old thing ” ’twill
bo,
“Two drinks, by , and let’s have no shln-
anikin.”


Y8PEP8IA VANQUISHED.
HAMBURG TEA TO THE RESCUE.
CORROBORATIVE EVIDENCE.
DON’T SUFFER.
The well-known Tea has proved Itself to be a
most certain and efficacious Remedy for such
Diseases as Sudden and Severe Colds, Coughs
Fevers and Ague, Asthma, Phthisis, Headache*
Bowels, Kidney, and Liver Complaints, the Piles,
Congestion, &o., caused by an impure state, or a
superfluity, of blood. Its use removes Scrofula,
Cutaneous Eruptions, Pimples on the Face,
Blotches, Bo'Is, and pains in the bones and Joints.
It is a preventive against contagion, and destroys
inhaled Miasmatic and Contagious Vapours. It
purifies the blood, cleanses the stomach and
bowels, and gives to the whole system a healthy,
easy tone. It opens the bowels in a very mild and
certain way. It works on the system generally,
causing little or no discomfort. It will prevent
almost any disease if used at least once a month.
It restores the appetite, it removes the distress
caused by eating hearty food or overloading the
stomach, and will be found effectual as a Family
Remedy where a simple purgative only is needed.
Appended are a few of the numerous testimo-
nials received acknowledging its sterling merit,
and which can be seen any time on application:—
That the Hamburg Tea is most valuable for the
cure of headache and other distressing com-
plaints of females may be seen from the follow-
ing letter, written by a lady resident in Sydney,
whose address may bo obtained at the office of
the agents:—
Sydney, February 10,1884,
Dear Sir,—For some time previously to using
your Hamburg Tea I had been subject to headache
and general debility, caused, I think, by the sud-
den changes of the weather, t am glad to say.
however, that since taking it I have been entirely
free from these complaints; and I think it is a very
valuable meduine to have on hand.
Yours faithfully,
J. Hogan.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
Nlxon-street, Surry Hills.
December 8, 1884.
Gentlem n,—Having been a sufferer for al con-
siderable time trom biliousness and headache, I
am pieased to inform you that the Hamburg Tea
you recommended me has effected a complete
cur S-.A know of my neighbours who have
used it for similar complaints, and find ir, a first-
class remedy; and a member of my family, who
has been subject to dyspeptic attacks for a great
number of years, says who obtains more substan-
tial relief from Hamburg Tea than irom any pre-
paration she has ever taken.
If my reoommeneation is of any service, in
common fairness I think it is due to you.
Yours faithfully,
R. A. Grant.
The above testimony was received by Messrs
Myers and Solomon, and their salesmen inform me
that they frequently hear very favourable reports
of its reliable curative properties.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
GENTLE BUT EFFICACIOUS.
Wyndham-street, Alexandria, Sydney, Fsb. 14,1884 <
Gentlemen,—I beg to inform you that I have
used Emil Freso's Hamburg Tea In my household
with good results. My children have taken is as
an aperient, and its action has been gentle but
efficacious.
Yours faithfully,
Joseph Linqard,
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
VERDICT OF A POPULAR BONIFACE.
I have tried Hamburg Tea, and my household
have proved it to be gentle but efficacious as an
aperient, and I can strongly recommend it.
G. A. BROWN,
Exchange Hotel.
West Maitland.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
; GRATIFYING RESULTS.
Pitt-street, February 14, 1884.
Messrs. Elliott Bros.,
Dear Sirs,—
I have pleasure in recommending
Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea to any person suffering
from indigestion. I used it myself, and was cured
of indigestion of considerable standing, and have
seen it used in another case with equally gratify-
ing results. It is undoubtedly the beat family
medicine 1 have ever taken.
I remain, Dear Sirs,
Yours faithfully,
ARTHUR JOHN HANNAH.
Sold by all
CHEMISTS and STOREKEEPERS
In New South Wales.
PRICE: ONE SHILLING,
Bad Bloodp Scrofulous,
Inherited, and contagious humors, with loss of
hair, glandular swellings, ulcerous patches in the
throat and mouth, abscesses, tumors, carbuncles,
blotches, sores, scurvey, wasting of the kidneys
and urinary organs, dropsy, ensemia, pyaemia,
septicemia, debility, chronic rheumatism, consti-
pation and piles, and most diseases arising from an
impure and impoverished condition of the blood are
positively cur ed by Cdticura Hesolvent, assisted
by tuTicuKA and Cuticura Soap. Cuticura
Resolvent is the only blood purifier that at once
and forever eradicates the virus of inherited and
contagious blood poisons.
! merman Fraser, he warbles along in this style:-
it will scarcely surprise anyone that he cannot
st any other men to do such work. And then be
118 back on me with abuse, and even threatens to
ke the Municipal cart from me. I can only tell
m if he covets the billet, he is welcome to it, and
»?haps he is better qualified than myself, but
fen I should get another cart and run opposition
Mm -Tours, &o.. Geo. Smith.” Now, this is the
nd of independent spirit we like to see, even in
kontleman who follows the undesirable calling by
hich Mr. Smith earns his crust. He does not
ive a tinsmith’s malediction for opposition either,
ough in his charitable estimate of tala opponent’s,
bility he is prepared to concede a point of better
nallfication to the municipal magnate, and per-
“S he is right, too. Now, we know several
Idermen who are out out by nature for Smith s
llet There’s — [No. you don’t. The one thing
i Particular that we have reason to be proud of
that we are never personal, and we don’t feel
isposed to break through our rules at present.-
ID. B 3 . ...
Please, don’t laugh too much at this, or
ou might interrupt the neighbours next door
rho are playing the “ Pinafore ” quadrilles on the
me-payment Bord. So, bend down your little
ink ear-thank you. Well, you must be told that
has of late cultivated a taste tor the fine arts,
nd assisted by his art critic, has been busy form-
er an art-gallery. Unfortunately a mlsunder-
tandlng recently arose between the gorgeous
ffecenas and his artistic guide; and that worthy
lavlnir resumed his appointment of selling oranges
n the Domain, A. has been left, comparatively
noaking, marooned on the island of Art. But,
lothing uaunted, he sallied out one afternoon, on
«1 looting intent, and. wandering down into the
lavraarket, suddenly came upon an auction-room
•hose walls were closely hung with pictures-flne,
,right, shining pictures, with plenty of bold oolour-
mr in them; layers of vermilion and streaks of
■obalt; paintings set in frames of dazzling bnght-
loss and of massive construction. He entered
iftstilv. and his heart palpitated with pleasure.
Phese were. Indeed, pictures after his own heart.
i,, wandered round until he came to a painting
■eoresentlng “ Napoleon at the Pall of Sedan, the
Hue tunic and red pants of the Emperor impress-
nir him greatly. “A nice picture, sir,” said the
iieelv-eycd, black-bearded man (the proprietor),
nnroachlng. “ Pretty colours,” said A., admiring
t “ Oh, plenty of colour,” rejoined the proprietor.
‘ Who’s the painter ? ” enquired the connoisseur,
iveing Napoleon’s spiked moustaches lovingly.
'‘That’s a Paul Veronese,” replied the dealer;
• his name’s on it at the bottom there.” what s
(■ho price?” enquired A„ nervously. £6 10 s.
replied the proprietor. “Is it? Why, I got a
Rubens. the other day, for £310s. and a set of studs
thrown in.” “Very likely,” replied the man: “but
we don’t keep no Rubenses here. Had a job to get
the last off; and only did that by giving a Rubens
and a goose for thirty bob.” “But how am I to
know this picture is a genuine Paul Pairpknees ?
“Knowl” cried the proprietor indignantly—“ why
I saw the man paint it myself .” That settled it, and
i few moments later A. was scudding away in the
direction of Market-street with his purchase under
his arm, wrapped up, like a fish, in a wisp of news-
Mr. A. W. Ren all, of Masterton, New Zea-
land, is an antiquarian who has had about three-
auarfers of a century’s experience of matrimony,
and when the Mayor of the place gave a luncheon
the other day to Inaugurate a new handle for the
town pump, the boys who had charge of the feed
set thn gay and festive old paternoster up to pro-
pote the toast of “ The Ladies." We quote from
the local butter-wrapper:—“Mr. Renall said: I
have been called upon to propose The Ladies. It
is hardly fair to ask me to give such a toast at ray
time of life. However, you all know that I have
had a fair share of experience among the ladies.
You may laugh, but some of you might do well to
follow my good example. When 1 am asked
about the number of my f..mily, I tell people that
mv wife had fourteen and I had fifteen. (Great
cheering, and cries of ‘How did you manage it,
old ’un ?') Now, I will leave you to work out the
problem. Some of you here are not so blessed,
but the sooner you mend the better. Matrimony
has its risks, I know; but if you get sucked inhere
vou will be amply repaid in another place. (Cries
,if ‘ Where ? Where ?’ and ‘ Explain yourself, old
man.’) The main thing is to get your craft and
embark; of course, taking your chances of the
breezes. Things have changed very much since I
first tried my hand. There was no divided skirt in
those days. All the ladies had on could be hung
up on a peg. Bachelors have a little extra trouble
before them now-a-days; but, if they take my ad
vice they will get embarked, and never mind the
voyage. They will then find a magnetic Influence
that will carry them to the North Pole, and that is
a cardinal point. Bachelorism is a poor thing.
Noi'odv puts much confidence in bachelors, i ll
vuaicntee our friend the banker there rarely
smiles bonignontly when a bachelor comes along
to woo fcis favours. I would say once more to the
(bachelors present, get married and you 11 get your
friends toMP you along,” That s all very well,
.and its easy saying “ get married, but who in
yihunder has a chance alongside of an ancient go-
hanna” like this, who is so reproductive that he
iturnB out, apparently with ease and efficiency,
fifteen young Renalls to his wife’s fourteen ?
And you’ll get your friends to help you along,
adds this patriarchlal freebooter. Oh, no, daddy;
Sot if we know if, they don’t. And we would ad-
vise your reverend self not to Introduce your
hoary head into our family circle, as we would
have you know that we keep a sharpened toma-
hawk on the premises, with the handle turned
towards our band, ready for executing the first
disturber of our domestic peace. Goto, Renall.
pirn: take a trip to Utah, and put in a century or
t" o .among the Mormons; then come back, and
tbll us a few more, and die.
Young Dr. Samuel Rabbetb was made of
the right sort of stuff. In attempting to save the
life of a diptheritic patient, he Inserted a tube,
and with his own lips drew from the throat the in-
fectious matter which was the means of cutting
short his young and precious life —forthe llfeof
such a man is precious to everybody. And in
dying he hadn't oven the satisfaction of knowing
that his true heroism had saved the life for which
'he risked his own. A man of only twenty-six
years, with every probability of a brilliant career
in front of him, and who hasn’t had time to become
world weary, must have been mighty forgetful ot
1 self in thus cheerfully overstepping the bounds of
<luty. Now, fluids a man after our own hearra,
• and one whom we could reverence; and it will
need neither tablet nor statue to keep the name of
Rabbeth and his story fresh in our memories for
years to come.
There is a certain flourishing town some-
where between this and the North Pole which is
justly celebrated for its dust simoons, its snake-
juice, and its gay and gallant young, unmarried
Civil Servants. And Constable Decimal Nought
One is a promising mlmber av th’ foorce, who
arrived in the aforesaid town about the beginning
of the present year of dls-graee, and was shortly
afterwards told off to patrol a certain portion of
the town in which some of the very bluest blood
of the whole district resides. In particular, he
was told to keep watch and ward! over one snug
little villa, as the owner of it happened to be on
a visit to Sydney, and there was no one in the
place to look after bis young and lovely wife.
Two nights passed without any incident happen-
ing worth recording, but about 4 o’clock on the
third morning the officer on duty was surprised to
see one of the lonely villa’s windows raised very
quietly, and the form of a man emerge. “To
surround ” the suspected burglar and arrest him
on a charge of being unlawfully on the “ premises ”
was a labour of love to the new policeman, but
he was rather disgusted to find his prisoner fairly
splitting himself in halves with laughter as he
said, “ It’s all right, sonny. I see you’re rather
raw up here, but it's quite correct. I’m Mr.
Blank, the police magistrate.” “ Give over ylr
thricks at onst an’ come quietly along wid me or
It’ll be wurso for ye.” sternly said the active and
intelligent officer, “polls maglstrits are always
grey-headed, respectlble owld men, an you’re
naythir the wan nor th’ other, so thramp along
thare immagitly.” Seeing there was no help for
it, the half-throttled burglar allowed himself to be
marched to the lock-up, where, much to Constable
Decimal Nought One’s surprise, the sergeant
touched his cap respectfully to the prisoner, and
observed, “Good morning, sir, what’s the matter ?
That broke the astonished Robert up completely,
and he now goes mooning sadly round wonder-
ing why ho wasn’t struck dead for laying his sac-
religious hands on the sacred form of a police
magistrate. But there are lucid intervals when
this reverent awe cools down, and then the
“ foorce ” sits on a log and scratches himself, try-
ing to discover what sort of a case His Worship
was trying in that little villa.
“Chorlton-on-Medlock” is a name which,
it must be allowed, has about it a low comedy or
burlesque flavour that should commend it to the
attention of either W. S. Gilbert or our most ex-
cellent friend Tom Moser, of the S. M. Herald.
Well, Chorlton-on-Medlock has a vicar—the Rev.
Joseph Cater—who, the other day, sued for a di-
vorce, Mrs. Cater having, on a recent occasion,
catered for the amusement of one col-
lector to a soup mission’’ —with whom she used to
stay at hotels. Mr. Stainer, on one memorable
evening, to which the erring lady’s attention was
barristerially directed, took to a certain hostelry
the wife of the Rev. Joseph. Mr. Stainer was
drunk, so said Mrs. C., who went so far as to admit
that she had been indiscreet enough to remain
“ sitting up in a chair all night in his room,” while
he “ slept it off.” This was the circumstance on
which the rev. petitioner mainly relied for a di-
vorce. Mrs. Cater, it transpired, had obtained a
judicial separation on the ground of her husband’s
cruelty, and at the trial she stated, by way of set-
off to her peccadilloes, that Joseph had miscon-
ducted himself with a Miss Cooper, a 80-year old
spinster, whom she had caught him kissing, and
whom he had insisted on retaining in his house as
a guest. The oldest daughter of the parties (they
have twelve children) deposed that her mother
was treated by the Rev. Joseph “ more as a house-
keeper than a wife ” during the Cooperian regime ;
that at dinner Miss Cooper and her father partook
of wine, while witness and her mother had cold
water only. (Laughter.) After dinner ♦hey would
go into the drawing-room and be alone together
at long periods. On one occasion she found a
letter from Miss Cooper to her father, the contents
of which were to the effect that the sunshine of
her life had gone now that Mr. Cater was away;
that he was to take plenty of q.ulnine and claret
“ to keep up his strength (laughter)—and that
his face was so imprinted on heir heart that she
could draw It from memory. It ended, “Yours
affectionately, Mart.” Miss Coepor had charge
of his linen, and on one occasion she sent her
father a night-shirt. (Laughter.) Joseph got his
divorce conditionally on allowing Mrs. Cater £50
a year alimony; and the wife of the vicar of Chorl-
ton-on-Medlock is thus free once more to ilirt
and drink matutinal soda-and-brandy with the
pious collector for the Evangelical soup-mission.
In a recent lecture, Dr. Symes Thompson,
of the Brompton Hospital for Consumption, said
that his calm conviction was that, whilst alcohol
was of unmistakable value under some condi-
tions, in the large majority of cases the severity of
the illness and its continuance were greater, but
ultimate recovery was more secure without its
use. He had come to the conclusion, after 14
years’ experience with in-patients, that the results
were at least as good when alcohol was not ad-
ministered. As to the daily use of stimulants,
they were no longer guided only by opinion; they
had now facts to guide them, and they knew what
the limit of moderation was, and when it was
passed. Taking an average man, the limit of pure,
unadulterated spirit which he might take without
danger to the system, was three table spoonsful In
34 hours, so that the quantity of pure alcohol
which it exceeded would produce injurious effects,
was ; of brandy. 3oz.; of sherry, 6oz,; of
claret, 13oz ; of ale, one pint; or of table-beer, one
quart. These were the quantities beyond which
the average man could not pass without damage
to the bodily tissues. Even this limited quantity,
however, was too much for those who were gouty,
who were suffering from heart disease, from de-
rangement of the kidneys or liver, or for those
who inherited a tendency to drink to excess.
For a woman, the maximum amount which
might be taken without danger was two-thirds
of the quantity allowed for an average man.
A man at the age of 30 had an expectancy of life,
if temperate, of 44 years, but if intemperate, only
15 years: at the age of 30, 38 years if temperate,
and 13 if intemperate; at 40,38 years if temperate,
and 11 if intemperate; at 60,31 years If temperate,
and 10 years if intemperate. With regard to oc-
cupation, the annual number of deaths per 1000
was among farmers 13, shoemakers 15, labourers
17, miners 30, bakers 31, butchers 33, and publicans
38. It must not be assumed that all publicans
were necessarily inebriates, but so many were
that the result was as he had stated, and the Cleri-
cal and Medical Assurance Society did not accept
male publicans. A comparison between the Re-
chabiteq—a society ot total abstainers —and the
Oddfellows, the members of which were not drun-
kards but selected lives, was very striking. The
average number of days upon which each member
of the Rechabltes was on the sick list was four
days in the year, whereas in the Oddfellows
Society the average was 13 days. Among the
Oddfellows, one in every 44 died in the course of
the year, but among the Rechabites, the death-
rate was one in 141. A greal deal might be done to
promote temperance amongst servants. Sir Wil-
liam Jenner, when he started for his long after-
noon round, had started a plan of taking a bottle
of hot tea, which was kept warm, and a portion
was given to the coachman. Whilst the mortality
directly traceable to alcohol was only 4 per cent.,
when the certificates of death were carefully ana-
lysed, it was found that 14 in every 100 died from
causes more or less traceable to drink.
DU. SAMUEL RABBETH.
CAUSE AND EFFECT.
SEEDY PARTY (contemplating print of a well-known picture): “WELL I’M BLEST IF I
CAN MAKE OUT WHAT IT IS ALL ABOUT.”
BYSTANDER: “WHY, YOU SEE THE VICTURE IS CALLED ‘WEDDED.’ IT ISA POETIC
REPRESENTATION OP TWO PEOPLE RECENTLY MARRIED I ”
SEEDY PARTY: “RECENTLY MARRIED, AND THE BRIDEGROOM AS RAGGED AS
THAT ALREADY I WHY, I HAVE BEEN MARRIED A YEAR MYSELE, BUT HAVEN’T
BEEN OBLIGED TO PAWN MY TROUSERS, YET, AS THAT CHAP EVIDENTLY HAS!”
7
JANUARY 17, 1885.
THE BULLETIN.


ANNIVERSARY DAY!
ANNIVERSARY DAY I
Great Land Sale!
Was! Kogarah.
West Kogarah.
260 Choice Villa and
Business Sites!
Illawarra Railway ,
Adjoining the Railway, and directly opposite to the
KOGARAH RAILWAY STATION.
wtde"streets,
GOOD SIZE ALLOTMENTS.
TERMS MOST LIBERAL.
£5 deposit, balance 36 equal monthly payments;
interest 6 per cent., or, if ±‘10 deposit and 6
quarterly payments, only 5 per cent, 3>b per
cent, allowed tor cash.
TORRENS’ TITLE. TORRENS’ TITLE.
Torrens’ Title. Torrens’ Title.
OCEAN VIEWS, OCEAN VIEWS, OCEAN VIEWS.
WHERE? WHERE? WHERE?
WEST KOGARAH ESTATE.
To be SOLD ON THE GROUND.
On Aniversary Day.
Inspect'on invited.
FREE LUNCHEON FREE LUNCHEON.
FREE RAILWAY TICKETS.
WEST KOGARAH LAND SALE,
ANNIVERSARY DAY.
The vendors are anxious that persons in s arch
of good building elevated sites should visit this
delightful, healthy, and well-laid-out estate, for
they are satisfied that there is no better invest-
ment in the market.
THE TERMS have been made liberal so as to
enable all classes to participate in THE BENEFITS
which will surely accrue to the first purchasers]
in the
WEST KOGARAH ESTATE.
' THE RAILWAY DEPARTMENT, with their
usual foresight, have arranged for SPECIAL
TRAINS to run as often as the traffic demands.
Intending purooassrs need not, th refore, antici-
pate any inconvenience in that respect.
WORKMEN’S TICKETS are issued between
Sydney and Kogarah at the rate of 3s. 4d. per
week, or about 4d per day.
YEARLY SEASON TICKETS, available by any
train between Sydney ana Kogarah—First class,
«J4d. per day; Second class, only per day.
EXCURSION FARES will be issued by the Rail-
way authorities from country stations to Kogarah
on ANNIVERSARY DAL
THE SALE will commence at 1.30 sharp
on
ANNIVERSARY DAY.
It would be well, therefore, for Land Buyers to
go by the EARLY TRAINS, to admit of their in-
specting the VARIOUS ALLOTMENTS, and then
join the vendors at a LUNCH which will be pro-
vided on the ground.
NO EXPENSES INCURRED, We issue FREE
TICKETS by the RAILWAY and to the LUNCH.
GRAND VIEWS,
Unsurpassed on the Illawarra Line,
at
WEST KOGARAH.
NOTE THE EASY TERMS:
£5 deposit, and 30 equ il monthly payments.
Interest at 0 per cent., or if you pav £10 deposit
and balance in 18 monthly payments, 5 per
cent, interest.
2H; per cent, for cash.
Note well the date fixed
for
WEST KOGARAH LAND SALE,
lose not this, perhaps the last, opportunity of se-
curing a railway frontage opposite
the Kogarah Railway Station.
WEST KOGARAH.
WEST KOGARAH,
ANNIVERSARY DAY.
Natives, purchase an Allotment at
WEST KOGARAH
in memory of
CAPTAIN COOK.
Mark the Anniversary of the Colony by
Purchasing an Allotment in
WEST KOGARAH ESTATE.
COMBINE BUSINESS WITH PLEASURE
on
ANNIVERSARY DAY
by
attending and securing
CHOICE SITE at AVEST KOGARAH ESTATE.
REMEMBER, REMEMBER, REMEMBER,
Attend
SMITH, CHAPMAN, and SMITH’S
LAND SALE
at
WEST KOGARAH.
TR. SMITH, CHAPMAN, and SMITH have re-
• ceived ins 1 ructions to sell by auction, on
the Ground, on ANNIVERSARY DAY,
361 choice business and villa sites.
Most liberal tr rms,
Torrens' Title.
Free Tickets by Rail on application to Smith,
Chapman, and Smith, 458, George-street.
W. C. PHOCTOR, Esq., M.P., Pitt-street, Solicitor
for the Estate.
JJOARD OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION.
SYDNEY TECHNICAL COLLEGE.
The First Term In 1885 commences on January
13th.
Classes at, Sydney Mechanics’ School of Arts, in
Pitt-street,
Techical Institute, in Sussex-street,
The Public School, in Castlereagh-street, and
No. 64 Royal Arcade, Pitt-street.
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE.
Mr. U. W. Emerson Maclvor, F.C.S , F.J.C.,
Instructor.
Agriculture—Mr. Emerson Maclvor, Monday, 7.30
p.m
Botany—Dr. R. von Lendenfeld, Monday, 7.30 p.m.
Veterinary—
DEPARTMENT OF APPLIED MECHANICS.
Mr. W. H. Warren, A.M.I.U.E., Instructor.
Applied Mechanics (including Mechanical Drawing)
—Mr. W II.; Warren, Monday, Tuesday, Wed-
nesday, Tnursday, and Friday, 7.30 p m.
Plumbing—Mr. Donald Mackenzie, Monday and
Wednesday, 7.30 p m.
Naval Architecture—Mr. John Hyland, Tuesday
and Friday, 7.30p.m.
Metal Plato Wurkiug-Mr. W. Walker, Friday, 7 30
p m.
DEPARTMENT OF ARCHITECTURE,
Mr. .1. F. Hennessy, Instructor.
Architecture—Mr. Hennessy, Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday, 7 30 p.m.
Carpentry and Joinery—Mr. John Gardiner, Mon-
day and Wednesday, 7.30 p.m.
Bricklaying—Mr. J. Bustard, Monday and Wednes-
day, 7 30 p.m.
Masonry—Mr. J. Howie, Tuesday and Thuisday,
7.30 p.m.
Cabinet Making—Mr. C. M. Smithson, Monday and
Wednesday, 7.30 p.m.
Carriage Building-Mr. J. J. North, Monday and
Wednesday, 7 30 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF ART.
Mr. Lucien Henry, Instructor.
Freehand Drawing, Geometry, Perspective, and
Modelling — Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday, and Friday, 7.30 p.m.
A special class for teachers, Wednesday, at 7.30
p.m., and Saturday, at 10.30 a m.
Design—Monuay and Wednesday, 7.30 p.m.
Wood Carving—Tuesday and t'hurday, 7.30 p.m.
House Painting and Decoration—Mr. P. W. John-
son, Tuesday and Friday, 7.30 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY.
Mr. W. Dixon, F.C.S., F.I.C., instructor.
Practical Chemistry—Mr. Dixon, Monday, 7 30 p.m.
Theoretical chemistry—Mr. Dixon, Tuesday and
Thursday, 7.30 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCIAL ECONOMY.
Mr. A. Adame, Instructor.
Commercial Ciass—Mr. Adams, Tuesday, Wednes-
day, and Tnursday, 7 30 p.m.
Caligraphy aud Correspondence—Mr. James Bruce,
Thursday, 7 30 p.m.
Bookkeeping—Mr. R. S. Cannon, Tuesday and
Thursday, 7.30 p.m.
Phonography—Mr. H. Graham, Friday, 7 p.m.
Actuarial Science-Mr. D. Garment, Wednesday,
7.30 p.m.
German-Mr. A. Erythropel, Monday and Wednes-
day, 8 p.m.
French—Mr. R. Curtis, Monday and Thursday, 5
p.m. to 8 p m.
Latin—Mr. G. E. Rich, B.A., Tuesday and Thurs-
day, 7 pm.
DEPARTMENT OF DOMESTIC ECONOMY.
Mrs. A. Fawcett Story, Teacher.
Domestic Ecouomy—Mrs. atory, Mouoay, 3 30p m.
Cookery—Mrs. atory, Monday, 7.30 p.m.; Friday,
2 30 p m. and 7 30 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY, MINERALOGY',
AND MINING.
Mr. 8. Herbert Cox, F.G.8., F.C S., Instructor.
Geology—Mr. Cox, Friday, 7 30 p.m.
Mineralogy—Mr. Cox, Friday, 8 30 p.m.
Mining—Mr. Cox, Thursday, 8 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICS.
Mr. J. Kimoch, M.A., instructor.
Mathematics—Mr. Klnioch, Geometry and Alge-
bra, Monday and Wednesday; Trigonometry,
Conic Sections, and Meenanios, Thuisday, 7.10
p m.
Navigation—Capt. EverllJ, Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday, p.m.
DEPARTMENT OP MUSIC.
Mr. J. Asnorolt Edwards, Instructor.
Music—Mr. Edwards, Tuesday aud Thursday
8 p.m.
Class Singing—Mr. Edwards, Monday, Friday, and
Saturday, 7.30 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OP ELOCUTION.
Mr. John Connery, Instructor.
Elocution—Mr. Connery, Tuesday aud Friday,
7 p.m.
DEPARTMENT©? PHARMACY,
Mr. F. Wright, M.P.S , Instructor.
Materia Medioa and Pharmacy—Mr. Wright, Mon-
day and Wednesday, 8 p.m.
Anatomy and Physiology—Dr. Anderson Stuart
(lecturer), Monday, 4,30 p.m.
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS.
Mr. T. E. Hewett, instructor.
Physics—Mr. Hewett, Monday, Tuesday, and Fri-
day, 8 p.m.
Electricity (practical)—Mr. Hewett, Wednesday,
8 p in.
Telegraphy—Mr. Hewett, Wednesday and Thurs-
day, 6 p.m.
College Rooms by permission of the Board:—
Drawing and Painting (Ladies).—Mrs. Phillips and
Miss Higginbotham, Monday and Thursday,
3.30 p.m , £l Is.; Tuesday and Friday, 9.30 a.m ,
£3 3s. per quarter
Drawing and Painting.—Mr. ,A. Tischbtuer, Mon-
day, 9 30 a.m. ; Saturday, 10 a.m. ; £3 3s. per
quarter
Drawing and Painting.—Mr. A. D. Riley, Wednes-
day, 10 a.m., <£3 3s.; Saturday, 3 p m., £3 2s.; the
two classes, £4 4a. per quarter
Drawing and Painting.— i*ir. L. Henry, Tuesday
and Friday, 3 30 p.m., £4 4s. per quarter
Perspective (Ladies).—Miss Jessie A. Green, Wed-
nesday, 10s 6d. per quarter
Chemistry.—Mr. W. A. Dixon, F.C.S., F.I.C., daily,
as per arrangement
Theory of Music (Lad.e ).—Mies Biddoll, Wednes-
day, 15s. per quarter
Elocution and Voice Building (Ladies).—Miss Lydia
Hastings, Friday, 4 p.m., 13s 6d. per quarter
Law.—Mr. R. M. Sly, LL.D., Friday, 8 p.m., £1 Is.
per quarter
Pottery Painting.—Hr. Henry Thackray, twice
weekly, £33s. per quarter.
FREE POPULAR LECTURES on TECHNICAL
SCIKNCE and ART SUBJECTS are delivered in
the Large Hall of the Sydney Mechanics’ School of
Arts on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Fri-
day, at 8 p m.
Classes m other subjects will be formed on the
application of 12 intending students, aud their en-
rolment by the Registrar. Certiflcttesof efficiency
will be granted at the Annual Examination’ in
December. Further Information may be obtained
from the Secretary or Registrar of the Sydney
Technical College, at the School o Arts, Pitt'
EDWARD DOWLING,
Secretary to Beard of Technical Education,
Offices, 139, Philllp-street.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, cate of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
ESTABLISHED 18G0,
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
lira of ini
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRASSES,
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX,
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&o., &c.
NO MORE CORNS I
CORNS AND WANTS removed without pain
bv the use of Palmer's Painless, Harmless,
and Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER.
This p eparatlon is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If appbed accord-
ing to the directions, it will effectually remove
them in from six to eLht days.
PALMER’S
FACUE CURA |K e
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Local.
This most wonderful Preparation ins surpassed
all others in speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
how long or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed in producing the desired re-
sults: and it can bo most contidently recommended.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general stores: wholesale by Messrs Elliott Bros,
Sydney ; E. Prosser and . Co., Sydney ; Felton,
Hrimwade. and Co., Melbourne; Kempthorne and
Prosser, Dunedin.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, 6th January, 1886.
TENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be inattendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
PURCHASE YOUR FURNITURE
at. the
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
where everything is marked in plain figures at the
lowest net cash price. Lust month we pjbllshed
our Chri.tmas Illustrated Supplement, with re-
duced prices. The same is still in circulation, and
will be until the end of this month. Intending
buyers should therefore avail themselves of the
opportunity, and purchase without delay.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 George-stpeet, Sydney, next the Royal Hotel.
SUFFERERS Afflicted with Nervous Debility,
Lost Vitality, 4c., be your own Physician
Tne FRENCH HOSPITAL REMEDY will soon re-
store you to health ana manly vigour. Prescription
free. Send youraddress on a st-unped envelope to
C. C. W., Box 706, G.P.O., Sydney.
Professional Directory.
HI8COCK8’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
W.
Sydney
HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
TO AMATEUR THEATRICALS.— Scenery Sup
plied or Lent, (I. Peruiman, Scene Painter,
No.7, back of Academy of Music, Castlereagh-st,
Theatre royal.
Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musorovb.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager—B. N. Jones.
THE ONLY PANTOMIME IN SYDNEY
is
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD,
THIS and EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
THE GRAND COMIC CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
entitled
LITTLE RED RiDING HOOD,
or
HARLEQUIN ROY BLUB,
The Good Fairy and the Naughty Wolf.
PRICES: Dress Circle, (is.; Stalls, 4s,; Family
Circle, Os.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Rastway’s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4 at Theatre.
B W
OPERA
HOUSE
Lessees A Managers ... B.Majeronl & W, J, Wilson.
Treasurer and Secretary ... Mr, Joe Brown.
£kage Manager Mr. George Leopold.
MAJERONI and WILSON’S
COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
GIGANTIC SUCCESS
GIGANTIC SUCCESS
GIGANTIC SUCCESS
of
Looocq’g Famous Opera
LA FILLE DE MADAME ANGOT
LA FILLE DB MADAME ANGOT
LA FILLE DE MADAME ANGOT
LA FILLE DB MADAME ANGOT.
The ORCHESTRA under the Baton of
Mr. LUSCOMBB SEARBLLE.
Box plan now open at A. and 0. Huenerbeln’s
Music Warehouse, 318, George-street.
C A D B M Y
Lessee and Manager
OF MUSIC.
Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
And Speciality Union,
glth fresh faces and new business, and all the old
favourites.
THIS and EVERY EVENING,
GRAND BLACK PANTOMIME.
mHE AUSTRALIAN
J_ WAXWORKS
Opposite the Cathedral,
Have been visited by 17,000 persons; and pro-
sounoed by the public and press to be the best ex-
hibition ever opened In Sydney.
Open daily from 10 a.m. till 10 p.m.
Admission, One Shilling; Children, half-price.
CEAD MILLS FATLTHE.
Grand Irish Fancy Fair
IN AID OF ST. BENEDICT’S CHURCH AND
THE CONVENT B UND,
Held in St. Benedict s Hall, Abercromble-street,
off Qeorge-street West.
Mrs. M’Carthy, lady amateur contralto ; Mrs.
M’Donald (n(r Miss Kate Slattery) lady amabur
soprano, and Messrs. J. H. Ralnford, Alderman Con-
Un, BYed. Leston, and Flynn have kindly con-
sented to assist. , . ...
May Pole and other Amusements nightly.
GREAT ATTRACTIONS 1
A tlrst-class band in attendance every evening.
Grand Pianos kindly lent by Messrs. Huenerbein
and Beale.
Open from 7 till 10 p.m. nightly, also from 3 till 6
and from 7 till 10 p.m. on Saturdays.
Trams and ’buses stop at the door ; also within
two minutes’ walk from Railway Station.
M. E. O’BRIEN, I
JOHN DBLARGY, )
- Hon. Secs.
ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
SCHOOL OF ARTS H A LL.
CONSIDERABLE Additions and Improvements
have been made to the above Hail, which is
jiow the most commodious place of entertainment
in Rockhampton, and is in the centred the town.
3t is thoroughly furnished and fitted, seated for
(500 people, and has a large Stage and Gallery.
Ample means of access and egress have been pro-
vided ; also thorough ventilation. Travelling
companies will tlnd special facilities for giving
entertainments In this Hall. Terms moderate.
Particulars on application to the Secretary.
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL, GOULBURN.
THIS handsome Bijou Theatr ■, completely re-
modelled, is fitted with every convenience,
and has one of the best stages in the colony (50 x
!)0) Is now open for engagement on very moderate
terms. Seats comfortably in dress circle, 250; pit
and stalls. 500. The population of the city is nearly
0000, and the Hall, which Is now the most popular
place of amusement, Is situated In tne most cen-
tral position of the main street. Mr. Charles
Turner, of the Montague-Turner Opera Company,
says—“ The Hall 1 consider second to none in New
South Wales. The acoustics are good; the stage
and dressing-room accommodation Is superior to
any Hall in the colony. Applications addressed to
M. E. PULLEN, Secretary, will receive prompt
attention.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
First open date, Monday. January
19th, 1885. Share or Let. Terms on applica-
tion to
J. B. HICKIE,
Lessee.
First open date—Monday, February 23,1885.
N.B. Only responsible managers treated with.
N
N
HOF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
aursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
isdays. Private Lessons, day and evening,
oraing and afternoon classes. The suite of
oms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
lea Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, 251
istlereagh-street, near Bathurst-street. P.S.—
ae ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
rdney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
peer, and drawing rooms, which can all be
rown together, and is superior in ventilation,
ring floor, &o. No decorations required.


325-
*■ ‘ i
■ - • ■ . . .
■
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
THIRTY
SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
THIS triumph of musical Invention is acknow-
ledged on all hands to he the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It is a wonderful little instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OP A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 23 reeds, plays in three keys, and all the
parts of moat dillicult music.
To Mr, H. B. Horton, the Inventor, the world
was first Indebted for the Organctte; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and Intelligent
study, ho has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of cost and crudeness.
It requires no skill to extract from It any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &o , &o., &o. A child can
play any of these selections with perfeotaecuracy.
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that “ be who runs
may read.” It is best adapted to the kind of music
which suits an organ best, In which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card-holder for convenience
in singing. It will bo found Invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one ; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autopbonc. It will afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
OF ,
1474 6E0R6E STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the oities-from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can effer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corre-
spondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of It. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on tile from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by all educators and moralists
that music is the great refining influence, and
especially with children its effect for good is
boundless. The love for music which music in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, rnd parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other
wise hard task an easy one.
The price of the Autoplione Is 30s.,
and where good music can be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autopho e for 30s. we
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogues of tunes at any time.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS,
Sole Agents for Australia:
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY.
474 George-street, Sydney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
TH1ATB1 ROYAL— “ Little Red RidingHood ”. .p. 8
Opera House— “ La Fille de Madame Angot” ib.
GaibtyTheathe— Montague-TurnerOpera.. lb.
Academy of Music.—Hiscocks’ F. Minstrels lb.
Of the few dozen cultivated people assem-
bled at the new Masonic one night last week to
witness the struggle between “ Don Checco ” and
Signora Fabris’ “ Comic English Opera Company,
we were one. Equally depressing for anists and
audience were the long rows of empty seats. Over
the stage, “ In Domino Confldeo,” in letters of gold,
met the eye. It was suggestively apropos the night
of our visit, for there was little use trusting in
“ Don Checco ” to mollify the greengrocer or keep
the poulterer from hanging round the premises for
a “settlement.”
♦ * *
“ Don Checco ” is a musical trifle, contain-
ing few solos coming within the range of an
ordinary boy’s whistling capacity; but it has
many concerted movements pretty and taking.
The curtain rises on a number of men singing and
drinking. The singing is real—the swilling, the
gloomiest make-believe. Fiorina (Miss Sherwin,
on this occasion), the soprano—daughter of the
innkeeper, Bartolaccio (Mr. Moonie)—in skimpy
skirts and striped stockings—sits beside a spinning-
wheel, endeavouring not very successfully to con-
vert a few pounds of tow into yarn. Her progress
is slow— partly because she is “ mashed ” on Car-
letto, the tenor (Mr. Fitz-Wllliams), and partly
because it would require a donkey-engine to turn
the wheel. Neither her love nor her wheel goes
smoothly, for her lover is a mere journeyman
baker—a poor devil who kneads dough and
money. He is her father’s servant, too, and
appears to divide his time between making love
and breaking the old man’s crockery. And a
rather choleric old chap is Bartolaccio pere,
who alienated many among the audience who
might have been his best friends by expending ail
the padding about his stomach and leaving none
for legs. The latter were perceptibly thicker than
a crochet-needle, but not so stout as a drum-
stick. And here is the fitting place to remark
that a noticeable feature about the males of this
pushing company is the marvellous attenuation to
which they’ve succeeded in reducing their legs—
a fact to which their attention would certainly
have been invited in a full house, with a fair
sprinkling of Woolloomooloo larrikins bent on
expressing their views. Indeed, owing to this
singular deficiency in the matter of calves,”
many respectable callings, such as footmen,
liveried servants, and others, are practically
closed to most of those who were the first to in-
troduce “ Don Checco ” to Sydney.
• • •
It is but bare justice to say that the ladies
of the company—so far as they gave us a chance
to judge—were free from this strange defect.
But they (among the chorus, of course) had other
characteristics of a no less depressing nature to
bear up against. One or two of them we noticed
who could confidently travel overland to Carpen-
taria, pass through forests of mistletoe with the
blue-jackets of the Channel squadron on one side
of their path, and a division of Turcos on the
other; might camp out for months among the
most treacherous tribes of aborigines, and re-
turn without having heard an offensive word, or
an equivocal proposal. But to get back. Carletto
wins his Fiorina in the end—a consumma-
tion due more to his'Ivoice, which is sweet,
than to bis gestures, which are marvel-
lous. Nothing funnier than by his by-play
has been seen since Aristophanes. With the
best intentions in the world—impressive in their
sincerity—he appeared to take a deep Interest in
the things going on around him, and the sparse
audience took an equal Interest in him. Nor was
Bartolaccio far behind. He did not confine him-
self to the stale advice to suit the action to the
word. He went much further, and effected an
alliance between actions and words which left no
doubt as to his possessing a vein of attractive
originality. While he was on the stage, you felt
how little, after all, even the greatest actors
know of the resources of their profession. In his
hands, commonplace, everyday expressions formed
morganatic alliances with gestures of bewildering
suggestiveness and complexity. When he was off,
you dwelt with keen appreciation on the glimpses
be had given you of hitherto unsuspected depart-
ments of representation, and longed for his re-ap-
pearance, in the hope—seldom denied-that be
would take you by the hand, and lead you further
into the territory he had discovered and annexed.
• • *
Mr. Orchard was the Bailiff, but he was so
unlike those of bis class with whom we’ve had
confidential dealings and spent many a wild night
in the half-forgotten past, that we can’t say much
about him. He caused a little harmless amuse-
ment bv occasionally bringing down the end of
his official staff on the toes of some inoffensive lis-
tener. But humour of this sort—however sparkl-
ing-having almost become the exclusive property
of the “ Ethiopian serenading ” branch of his-
trionics, it is not necessary to do more than mention
it. Don Cheoco3(Mr. Parron) had most to do.*He
appeared as if he’d just returned from helping
the police at the late Bondi diversion. He wore
a swallow-tailed coat of pre-Raphaelite build,
his hat was deplorable, and bis white duck trou-
sers showed patches of various colours and areas
—the smaller for the sake, probably, of effect, the
larger for decency. All the “togs” had seen ser-
vice in some primitive society at some remote
period. The Don—their present wearer—could not
afford to be particular. Well, it was this scare-
crow who found his way into Bartolaccio’s inn (he
was of the genus which, however hard pushed, can
always be relied on to turn up in a public-house),
and was mistaken by the landlord for the eccentric
and masquerading Count Ridolfl, who was expected
about the same time. The “ vlttles ” were too
good for him to remedy the mistake —at all events
before he got a substantial “blow-out.” He has
to sing a good deal, which he does vigorously, but
his acting frequently bordered on the bizarre. Of
course it was intended to do so, and it is merely a
question of opinion whether, in wading into
bizarrerie, he didn’t get beyond his depth—go far-
ther than the author intended. However, It is
mainly through this vaurien that Fiorina and Car-
letto are “hitched.” The real Count Ridolfl (Miss
Fabien) pays bis debts, and the curtain descends
on a scene of idyllic happiness. As Count Ridolfl,
Miss Fabien has little to do, but look pleasant and
make herself generally useful. She succeeds in
both. She has a fine presence, a mobile, hand-
some face, and a seductive smile. The dress, also,
shows her to advantage. We bad no opportunity
of hearing her voice, except in concerted pieces,
but some who saw her in Lazarillo tell us she has
a sweet contralto voice of great flexibity, power,
and range. If so, and that she decides (which is
almost certain) on taking to the “perfesh,” she
should be heard of again. Miss Sherwin’s Fiorina
was good throughout. To us her voice appeared
to be a mezzo-soprano of wide range and sym-
pathy, Signora Fabric waved the baton the night
of our visit, and her (Jobduct was irreproachable.
« « * «
The “rankand nobility ” of sleepy St. Leo-
nards shook itself together, brushed up its good
clothes, and turned out en masse on Friday night
to celebrate with a “grand Musical Festival” the
opening of the Masonic Hall-a stately pile, with
the two extraordinary characteristics of space and
nre-escape doors. There is more space to the
square loot contained here than in any Sydney
hall, and the inviting placards on every side—
fire-escape: the door opens as you go out”—
tend to disoel any lurking fear of the devouring
element. [Whoopi— Ed. B.] The original and
only genuine Vogrich, assisted by Madame Yog-
rlch (Alice Rees), Mr. Hallewell, Mons. de Wllli-
tnofl, and a strong contingent of picked voices
trom the Sydney Liedertafcl, attacked a lengthy
p, !P.kramme of high-class music, some portions «f
which were a peg above some of the worthy
brethren. Even our brilliant Max failed to obtain a
sympathetic response to his struggle with “ Alda.”
f.h® fOtte voce remark of one of the fraternity
in ■, n M *' ve fy clever, but blamed little music
* n - }t * seemed to meet with general approval.
The gentle Alice Rees fluttered gracefully through
Ganz, time-worn “ Sing, sweet bird,” but her
voice showed signs of straining, and prevented
her taking any further part in the programme,
Mr. Hallewell gained an enthusiastic recall for his
singing of “ Simon, the cellarer,” which he gave
in his usual robust “ take-lt-out-of-that-style.”
Mons. de Willimoff’s ||not too brilliant attack on
Wieniawsky’s “ Legende” inspired certain of the
brethren, who were overheard to declare that
“ they always liked those Scotch-fiddling .pieces
that had the bagpipe in them.” The various glees
were sung by the male chorus, and altogether the
event was successful.
* * * *
A good, but not uncomfortably-crowded,
house witnessed “ La Fille de Madame Angot ” on
Monday night at the Opera House. The airs in
this work—as in most of Lecocq’s—are now as
familiar as Dan O'Connor’s face at a picnic. Barrel-
organs have long made them a specialty, and for
years they have formed the pieces de resistance on
bush schools’ breaking-up days. The “ Conspira-
tors’ chorus ” has now taken the place formerly
occupied by “ Haydn’s Surprise ” and “ The Battle
of Prague” as the first piece to be negotiated by
young girls in curl-papers who are just .through
the five-finger exercises.
• * *
It is as well to say at the very beginning
that the cast was a strong one, and their efforts
received with favour, occasionally developing
into acclamation. The story—such as it is—be-
longs to the early Revolutionary days, when the
attention of patriotic Frenchmen was divided be-
tween scattering the Prussians and Austrians on
their frontiers and escorting their own “ upper
surcles ” to the Place de la Concorde to sneeze into
the sawdust.
“ Corbleu! but la mire guillotine
Cared little for splendour or show
So you gave her an axe and a beam,
And a plank and a basket or so.”
Mons. Louchard (Mr. Leopold) gave a good idea of
the sort of gentlerren who found favour in the
eyes of the authorities of those days. The patoh
over t is left eye was at once a mark of his zeal
and of the determination of the patriots of St.
Antoine to welcome him with rocks when next
he visited them. At first he looked like a “pro-
vincial ” from Normandy— or Brittany, perhaps—
but when you heard him allude to Ange Pltou
as “ Orange Piko,” you knew he was reared in the
front room of the Louvre, and that his sponsors
were do Stiiel and Mirabeau.
* • ♦
Miss Plaisted chirped out the music of
Clairette with pleasure to herself, and profit—
[What are you giving us? If you think this
criticism, you should never have left the grocery
business— Ed. B.] (You have given us a wound
which you shall not have the honour to heal.—
Critic ) Well, at all events she appeared to enjoy
her efforts. And if she didn’t, the audience did.
It might have been running through their heads
that the plucky little body before them was just
off a sick bed and that, therefore, a little sympathy
wouldn’t be out of place. But the real reason,
after all, that she met with the reception she did,
was-just because she deserved it. Miss Frances
Saville has a fine presence and a cultivated voice.
Both run in the family. (Her mother's Lucia was
the best we ever saw this side of the Mediter-
ranean.) Her flight accent, too, is by no means
against her—Madame sa mere had the same. She
has not the “ go ” of Mias Plaisted—nor is it neces-
sary. But sne has advantages which La belle
Arnericaine (wonder if she is?) does not possess.
Her solos were received with demonstrativeness.
♦ * *
As Orange Piko Mr. Harding was accept-
able. Let’s see. How many tenors are theie at
present south of New Guinea (leave that Island
out for obvious reasons. Some high clear notes’ll
bo heard there presently, half English, half Ger-
man) who can tie him ? The fingers of one hand’ll
do —especially if they’ve been all amputated. Mr.
Rosevear was just so-so as Pomponnet. Some-
times you listen to him with a certain pleasure,
and sometimes you feel annoyed with the Com-
mittee of Safety for not persuading him also to
look through the national window. Mr. Oily
Deering was Trenitz, an officer of Hussars. Le-
cocq must have had a serious debauch, either well
on hand, or coquetting with D.T., when he found
a place for this character in “ Madame Angot.”
The Conspirator’s chorus was a little rough-and
tumble, and the plotters themselves a harmless
bourgeois band, masquerading as cut-throats.
‘ Madame Angot ” will continue during the wee-«.
« » * *
The Gaiety was full on Saturday night,
when the troubles of Azucena and her promising
son, Manrico, obtained a fair hearing. “ II Trova-
tore ’is the best known of Verdi’s works. It is
melodious throughout, and the airs are now as
well known as those of “ Marltana.” The Ger-
maus-at least the “ Wagner” crowd—call it “ rot.”
say it’s not music at all, but something else. It
may not be music, but—so far as we are con-
cerned—It’s a very good imitation, and we
would be loth to part with it, even for the
genuine article. The bills said Miss Lambert
was to he the gipsy, but it was some time before
we could recognise the rather obstreperous bum-
boat woman of “Pinafore” in the vagrant of the
Troubadour. In the former character we were
not pleasantly impressed with her—thought her
altogether too loud and boisterous. As Azucena
she makes up for this, and gives a reading which
is to be beaten by only one lady in Sydney or Aus-
tralia. There is more music In her lower than in
her upper register, and her (all but) deepest notes
are singularly full and pleasing.
• • •
This is as good a place as any to trem-
blingly tender a tribute of admiration to one of
those so often lumped togetherunder the common
—and cruel—designation of “ supes ” Away in the
Himalaya hills, in Japan, in Malta, in Melbourne—
whether we attended a cock-fight or knelt in the
mud at a Procession of the Host—the second man
whose image was pictured on our retina was this
humble henchman. His image has burnt into our
brain, and, like Calais on Mary s heart, Is by this
time stamped on the convolutions of thepiarnater.
He never thrusts himself offensively forward-
just sidles on, does his bawl or serves round
doubtful chateau la rose in crystal goblets of sus-
picious antecedents and damaged handles; at-
tends a high-born lady or two to a dungeon spe-
cially constructed to admit of prisoners escaping,
and then modestly retires to give a hand at rinsing
glasses and making himself generally useful. His
name is unknown to us, but we love him all the
same. Even now we are doubtful whether he
was bred on oatmeal or maccaronl. On Saturday
night he was a rapparee, and looked just the one
to sit behind a barricade peeling potatoes, and
leaving off every now and then to plant a chas-
sepot bullet under the waist-band of any honest
citizen coming his way. Mr. England’s Count
di Luna gave satisfaction, general. If not
great. For “ II Balen ” he received an en-
core. On the appearance of the nuns, a dis-
respectful little titter went round. There was
an air of unbecoming levity in many of their
faces, and the oblique manner in which some of
them wore the white bandage over their eyes was
suggestive of the elderly ladies who so often plead
*• Not guilty, your Waehup,” at the Water Police
For continuation of “ Sundry Shows," seepage 1
Here you see Miss Marion Terry as the wife in Young Mrs. Winthrop. Her dress is
extremely handsome, being composed of rich white brocade adorned with white os-
trich feathers. From the right shoulder down to the bottom of the skirt hangs a loose
scarf of white spangled tulle, and on the opposite side of <he skirt is a huge bow and
ends of white silk fastened high on the hip by a silver aigrette. From what we can
learn, Miss Marion Terry’s acting lacks somewhat of her sister’s sprightly vivacity, but
on the other hand, in emotional parts, she is her superior.


PEPPER AND SALT.
The Manning Rif kr Times ha? Its bard,
too, of course. ft re is a bit of bim!
“ But lo! I hoar a sad voice sighing,
tn the muse of other days,
tVom a lov'd one, lone and dying,
Breathing hymns of Christmas praise.”
The author of this noble outburst is, It seems, a
*• Mr. Small,” and wb feel that there is a high fate
In store tot - hlrh. Our llttlu triiuth: —
Thy verse, eweet Small, Is quite undying,
It makes us, with emotiou, say—
We’dCike to bear thy sad voice sighing
*Tn Noosk o/—just to-day.”
‘*Np, thanks! It’s too early.
♦ • •
’You know where we live, of course? No!
’Well, it is about ten doors from the public-house,
>and facing a little grocer, who seems to sell every,
thing but immortality. For a reason, which it
would be idle to explain, our relations with the
proprietor of the store wo have mentioned arc
Strained. When we pass and bid bim an airy good
morning, he murmurs something about “ long
outstanding” and " bills to meet”—not sometimes
unaccompanied (when in drink) by the exclama-
tion, “Givesomebody else a turn!” However’
yoU couldn't miss it, because there's a dairy be-
hind, and la the (me opposite two infernal alche-
mists have, In a mansion which contains a suite of
one room, an lee-cream factory. So, if any of you
are passing, you might call—with a llask. Now
comes the story [Thank Heaven I—Ed. B ] The
sun was darting his golden arrows upon our man-
sion, and persistently exposing the unfurnished
condition of our llrst floor Iront, when a ring came
at the bell. Without even scrutinizing the ringer,
we contented ourselves with saying, “Tell him
to call on Saturday,” and ran away and heroically
hid in the coal-hole. After some moments, the
under-butler (from Blloela) whispered, "Come
out; it’s all right.” We came out, begrimed, per-
haps, but, we trust, majestic. To our surprise, wo
discovered two midshipmen, in full uniform, in
the passage. They were dark and swaitby—pro-
bably from the effects of the sun-and each one
carried a bundle. “ you the master of the
house asked t he older of those toilers of the sea.
“We are,” we replied—thinking of theincc)miug
bail'd —"at present.” “ Can wo see you in pri-
vate?" enquired the younger of this twain of
tacklers of the circumambient foam. “You had
better come Into the draw—we mean kitchen,” we
replied, and into the kitchen we filed accordingly.
“Can we trust you T” whispered the older one,
closing cautiously the door. “ We wish you
would,” w? said. A lightning glance passed be-
tween the two representatives of the Mercantile
Marine. “ Listen,” said the first speaker, “ we
have run away from our ship, and are liable, If
caught, to the horrors of a dungeon.” “ Fancy I”
We exclaimed. “ And,” said the second, “ we
know not Whither to wing our flight.” " That’s a
pity,” we said. “ But it you are hungry there arc
some cold sausages in the safe. They may have a
little fur on them; but, as you are in such despe-
rate case— —“ Sir,” said the elder of these
hoarders of the surf, “ we are too sad to be hun-
gry. But, listen I We wish to lly, and have not
the wherewithal. All we have each is a roll of
cloth, the same as that of which our uniforms arc
made. There is enough to make two suits in
each.” Hero he undid his bundle. “ Mark,” he
cried, “the gloss.” We looked at the cloth; then
wo eyed the navigators with pity. “ It's very
good, indeed,” we said, “ and very clever; hut
we have been in the line ourselves. Give our com-
pliments to Izaacs, and tell him we consider him
mean to try to play on one of the old * push.’" At
this the defiers of the elements girded tip their
shoddy, and “ hopped.”
* * *
tfnder the signature “ Sue2,” au American
young lady writes a prayer In verse entitled
“ Prayer of the Betrothed"’ It has been widely
copied by the pious. We give four lines :—
“ Forgive me if the loving kiss.
He leaves upon my brow,
Is thought Of in an hour like this.
And thrills me even now.”
Which Is a very noble sentiment, and certainly
one which might, we think, be fairly forgiven.
But with the sour eye of misgiving, with the baby
squalling la the corner, and the blast of the Ice-
cream man beneath our window as we read, and a
milliner's bill staring at us meekly from the file,
wo look ten years ahead, “Suez,” dear—ten years —
and we hear your prayer again:—
What? Put up with a hat like this
You see upon my brow ?
You heartless wretch, I will have cash,
Or else 1 11 sell the cow.
• . •
A man in Goulburn got two months last
Friday for trying to get a free drink on the score
A Little Suggestion.
GIVE ’EM BONDI. THE HOLIDAY POLICEMAN OF THE IMMEDIATE FUTURE.


that he was a detective. It was only the word
“ detective ” that caused the landlord to give the
than in charge. He explained to the arresting
constable that he had a detective lodging with him
a few weeks back, who professed to be in search
of the industrious burgu-urgular. He Ian up a
Score of £4 and scooted one night with the Biloe-
lan bUtler and the landlord’s shoes. It subsequently
transpired that the man was not in the police at
all; and this information was furnished by the
Cockatoo handmaid, who returned a fortnight
later with a black eye apd her arm in a sling.
Whenever a man comes to us, now, and states he
is a detective, we always give him threepence and
a letter of introduction to Dan O’Connor. Dan Is
a wise man, with much acumen; and if these bogus
agents de sureti be electors of West Sydney, he
generally fixes them up as motor-drivers. One*
we believe, is a purchaser of pictures for the Art
Gallery, and another Government inspector of
telegraph-poles. That’s the way they do it.
* • ♦'
THE SIREN.
“Matrimony.— A young lady, aged 20,
Well domesticated, fond of home, and possessing
considerable means, is desirous of corresponding
with a Gentleman, with a view to above. Enclose
photo and address, E. News office.”
We think we’ve seen her, “ maid forlorn,”
Her face upon our mind’s imprinted.
And on us now does slowly dawn
The horrid way in which she squinted.
One sunny noon we’d our first look,
As gaily on the Block we flaunted;
And ever since we saw that foot,
By day and night wo have been haunted.
Wo looked down as we stood aloof,
And) as we gaied, it seemed to us like
Some funny pantomimic hoof
Spread on the ground so octopus-like.
Her face was not a countenance
That tropic sun-darts merely speckle,
Or shade, and beauty oft enhance—
But, Moses! it was one large freckle!
With “ means considerable,” no
Uneasiness need her mind trammel;
She’d “ cop ” of gentlemen a row
Were she a griffin or a camel.
Adieu, fair lady—you’ll seem fair,
We do not doubt, to many a fella!
That oakum turned to golden hair—
Thy foot like that of Cinderella.
We—don’t—know—but we're sordid elves:
Our thirst for bullion nothing stifles!
Look round —we’ll marry you ourselves,
But then we do not stick at trifles.
• • •
The Maitland Mail recently shook the
foundations of society in an article on a double
cucumber, and now “Mr. R. Jacob, ’ having
observed our article, has shown us a double
orange squash, which is a most palatable vege-
table, and, cooked with butter only, and seasoned
with pepper and salt, makes a wholesome and
delicious dish.” How our mouths water to be
a Maitland editor, and to be up to the ears in
squash and! double cucumber! Alas, not so our
Jacob. Not for us the Yule squash, and the New
Year Cucumber, double or single. No
My name is Isaac Jacobs, and
Vat do you mean to pay ?
Bis billmit indrest two-pound ten,
Ish due dis very day.
Vat nothing ? Den I takes der law
“ You vants a Chrishmas spree? ”
Den sphend your own dam money, den—
Vat’s Christmas dime to me ?
“ Now, Rupert, what will you try ?" said
Paterfamilias, balancing the nut-crackers on the
first finger of his right hand, as he looked towards
his first-born. They lived in high stylo at that
Elizabeth Bay mansion, for papa had negotiated
two fires, three insolvencies, a shipwreck, a tram
accident, and a land resumption, and corsequently
was quite rich; and as wealth had introduced her
step-sister, refinement, the family never had any-
thing at luncheon, they “tried” it. By the way, we
rever hear the expression “will you try” this,
without a remembrance of a boarding-house
which we once stayed at until the proprietress
began to get impatient, and showed a marked
curiosity as to our modus Vivendi. She used always
to say, “ will you try an egg ?” a phrase strictly
correct, as the enticing hen-fruit was generally
found to be but a whited sepulchre, fair to look
upon without, but, within, full of corruption and a
dead chicken. Oh, and before we go on, we may
tell you that Rupert was not the youth’s cogno-
men by strict legal right. His godfathers and
godmothers in baptism had given him the name of
Samuel, hoping, thereby, to gratify an old bache-
lor uncle, from whom the parents had great ex*
pectatlons; but when the said uncle saw fit to
marry a barmaid, and subsequently to obey the
Divine command by increasing and multiplying,
the fond mother had revengefully changed
Samuel for Rupert, “named after my grand-
father, Sir Rupettde Oakhead, you know, dear.”
The youth surveyed the dishes and replied, “ Well,
I’ll try some figs, an’ oranges, an’ bananas, an’
almonds, an* nuts, an’ then some crackers an’ lol-
lies.” “ And when you have got through that lot,
what will you try?” asked the fond parient, weav-
ing a woof of sarcasm into the warp of enquiry.
Rupert looked round the table to make sure that
he had not overlooked anything, and then as he
remembered his successive triumphs over the
goose, turkey, ham, pudding, and mincemeat, the
very thought came o er bis face, and he murmured
in a tone that was entirely the outcome of deep
consideration and stern resolve, “well, then, I
think I'll try a tummyaebe.” And the event justi-
fied the prediction.
HMlwraith’s Plant.—Will It Grow?
MR. M'lLWRAITE: “EASY WITH YOUR WATERING, SERVICE AND VOGEL; YE’LL WASH IT AWAY A’THEGITHER 1 ”


Continuation of “ Sundry Shows ” from page 9.
Court the morning after an eight hours’ demon-
stration or an undertakers’ picnic.
♦ * •
Miss Montague’s Leonora is, perhaps, one
of her best, if not her very best, part, and as Man-
rlco Mr. Turner always secures cordiality. In
starting for the field of battle, one truculent little
“supe” wore, on drawing his sword, a look of
singular ferocity which boded ill for any stray
fowls or unclaimed pigs found on the line of
march. These plucky fellows seized the gipsy
with the same dare-devil recklessness as a Wool-
loomooloo bobby an applewoman on Sunday
morning. In the third act, they got a slight start
of the orchestra, and won by a neck. Some of
Leonora’s and Manrico’s efforts were received
with a demonstrativeness which nothing but a re-
petition could appease.
* * * *
At Hisoooks’, on Saturday night, there
was a repetition of the old thing—a full house and
noisy mirth. “Harlequin, Black Blue-Beard " is
still running. The song, “Far, far away, by
Messrs. Keenan and Bent, caused undlmlnished
laughter. The jokes between the corner-men are
of the usual primordial type.
« * * *
There was a marked falling-off of the at-
tendance at the Royal. The pace, considering the
prices, was too fast, and could not be expected to
continue. With the present tariff, the rocks
ahead are already beginning to look ugly.
“THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession .]
....Let’s get on. anyhow. There’s no time for
more verse in this hard-pressure age. Genevieve
Ward, then, (she is not so young as she used to be,
which remark applies equally to ourselves) has
been making a very big hit at Christchurch (N.a )
with Sydney Grundy’s “Manfmon,” an adaptation
from the French. Mr. Grundy, who was long on
the staff of Judy, has distinguished himself by
adapting a great many pieces from the French,
and carefully concealing the source from whence
he derived bis inspiration. His first effort was
“ The Snowball,” which was produced at the
Strand Theatre, and which was a crib from a mad
comedy by Lablche and Gille. The piece, how-
ever, which brought Mr. Grundy the most noto-
riety was the “Glass of Fashion,” a piece also
“ faked ” from the French, and Intended to satirize
Edmund Yates of the World. Prom what we can
learn, “ The Glass of Fashion ’’ (the supposed name
of a newspaper) is very good work indeed: though,
strange to say, although George R. Sims had a
hand in the authorship, he refused, at the last
moment, to allow his name to be associated with
the play....” The Glass of Fashion” ran for some
months at the London Globe, and turned t he tide
of the lessee, Mrs. Conover’s, fortunes Clement
Scott classes Sydney Grundy high amongst con-
temporary dramatists, and eulogizes his dialogues,
which he considers very sharp and pungent. Cle-
ment Scott, it will be remembered, is the author
of a pathetic little piece called “off the Line,
written for Mr. J. L. Toole, and is the Seville
Rowe of the Bolton and Bavllle Rowes who so
successfully adapted Sardou’s “ Dora,” and called
it “ Diplomacy. Well, now, let us see. Yes, the
“ Blackbirds ’ of Maitland have been giving
minstrel performances before their relations
with much effect; and Theresa and Jennie Horan
(surely not under the patronage of the member for
Windsor I) have been singing at the Exhibition
Building, in concerts under the management of
Mr. Luscombe, M.P. Miss Amy Rowe, who used
to be with Hudson, is also in the “ push.’ Amy is
noted for two voices and two feet. The latter will
not fit into every hall... .To get along: The Black-
birds have been going it for the sufferers by the
late fire in Narrabrl, and have done so well that
every man who was burnt out is going to buy land
with his ninepenoo.... The Lynch Bellringing fiends
appeared on Boxing-night at Townsville. The local
rag describes the entertainment as being chaste.
The Lynches are gradually swooping down
uoon us; but, thank heaven, now, it does not take
long to get "over the Murray.” ...And there has
been a concert given at Tonterfleld by the Church
of England parson, in aid of a now suit of togs,
and we learn that “A lady visitor to Tentorfield,
who kindly consented to sing after the programme
had been published, now sang the fine old favour-
ite ’ Maggie’s Secret,’ which was tolerably well
received by the audience.” This was, evidently,
the parson’s aunt; and it seems by the notice that
she sang the ballad in a bunch of skeleton keys....
Dampier and the “fairy actresses are still hav-
ing a go-in at Newcastle with “The Workman,
and we are glad to see—for he is a charming fellow
-that he ls making a pile Alfred is going to play
“ Othello ” (no beastly pride about him I) and after-
waids “The Green Lanes of England,’ apiece which
was prettily put on some years ago in the Gaiety.
We notice that Fred. Gunther-who formerly
managed for that gifted entertainer, Fleming
Norton-is Dam pier 's agent. W hat more can he
want? We mean Dam pier!.... And it is Just to
hand, the new crack prlma donna, Madame Yalda,
of the Theatre Italien, Paris, bad a tiff with her
manager, and, at a minute’s notice, * guyed a
whack to her own Medina —which means London
—where she is going to sing for Mapleson, at Her
Majesty’s.... Straight on this comes the news that
that pathetic artist, Johnny Cowan—once the
glory of Wright’s Colosseum, in Melbourne-is
performing at that El Dorado for pres., the Hay-
market Academy, supported by the following
splendid body of talented strangers: - Cissy
Clifton, Harrv Hurceless, W. Harrison, Bay-
lev Bruoo, Webb, Williams, Collins, &o„ &o.;
pianist, Mr. J. Somers; violinist, Mr. w. Radcliffe.
The business manager is * Mr. Smith —a name
which, somehow, seems familiar to us....
Fancy! Mac Alexander, the actor, is dead. He
must have been playing here seven years or m ire
with Dampier when he was starring here at (he
Vic under John Bennett's management; and poor,
thin, delicate, (esthetic Bryan was his manager.
And this reminds us that, havlrg made some
money, Bryan took a pub. in Carlton, Melbourne,
where he had “an extensive theatrical connec-
tion ” The subordinate members of the “per-
fesh ” rallied round John to a man, and they drank
his beer and ate his “ sandwidges ” with stupen-
dous energy and extraordinary enthusiasm. As in
the case of Mrs. Plornisb, of Bleeding Hart Y ard,
the credit was against the business, so John jacked
up the pub. in disgust, after loading up the Mel-
bourne profession, on credit, for over a twelve-
month, and put the residue of his thousands into
Dewhurst—where they still remain. Mac. Alexan-
der (his proper name was Macdougall) died in
Liverpool, regretted, of course, by a *arge circle
of friends From the actor to the critic: Buy
some peanuts, sir?” enquired something under a
hat as we passed through the Domain the other
day We started. The voice sounded familiar.
“Ah, you don’t quite rekynise he, sadly;
“but it’s only a few days ago since I was a hark
cricket. Rut me and Gsrdlng Honey has both guv
it up. He’s a lUJUcd g handbills, and I m a
sell take a quart, sir ? ” “ No thanks. Box
o’ matches?” “We have some.” “Cokernut,
2J. a slice?” “No.” “ Well, said he, “if things
don't get to look a little livelier than this. 11!
have to go back to the blooming press again. .. v
The Rum has an article (reprlm)—“Is an Actors
Calling a Worthy One?” Depends upon how he
calls ’ .Tom Buckley, at the very latest dates,
had an Hibernicon at Launceston, Miss May
Vivian, Dave Gardner, Miss “Vergy ” Vivian, and
Alick Andrews are thejoompany, and a very good
one. too. Miss Vergy has evidently mashed the
“ cricket ” of the Launceston Telegraph, tor
he says —"Miss Vergy ! Vivian falwavs makes a
charmingly pretty Cbailotte, and infuses plenty
of spirit into her part. She has a sweet musical
voice, and her wonderously (sic) innocence is an
amusing contrast to the rich humour of Julius,”
&c. What sort! ... This is the latest London Pan-
tomime sensation—“ The Hee-haw Quadrilles,
with a Vocal Accompaniment by a Trained Choir
of Young Donkevs. Enormous success I Triple
encores nightly ! ” This could be started easily
here. You would not have to go farther than the
side chairs in the D.C, at the Royal, to obtain
(haw) as many young donkeys as you wish....
With regard to George Darrell’s play, The
Sunny South,” at the Grand, at Islington,
the London press is quite hearty in its no-
tices. Fancy this from the Chronicle
“ America has sent us her plays and her actors in
plenty, but until last night we have had no
thoroughly representative drama or actor (sic)
from Australia.” Let’s see. What part of Wap-
ping was George born in? But the Standard
considers that the “ whole entertainment seems to
gratify those to whom it appeals”—which is, on
the whole, rather “ cold pudding."....The Vivians
are back from S.A., so we hear ...The other
day, at Wellington, when Douglas (Duke of Glou-
cester), in •* Jane Shore,” suggests giddy things to
that frail young person which are rejected, (and
then denounces her as a witch, a man in the pit
called out, “ You’re a liar.” This brought down
the house, and — nobody “ dropped.” It’s a
hundred to one that next night the excited
spectator was not carrying on a banner....
George Darrell continues to suffer severely from
the wounds inflicted on his arms while he was
playing In his drama “The Sunny South,” in Lon-
don. The wounds refuse to heal—MissLingard,
as Pauline in “Called Back,” has made a success at
the Princess’ Theatre, and this la how she looks
before she comes back to life and love. It needs a
self-denying actress to hide her beautiful eyes this
way, but we wouldn't mind betting our last cop-
per that when Vaughan plants his first hiss on her
fair cheek, she doesn’t resist the temptation of
raising at least one eye-lid, just to see how jealous
her latest “ mash ” looks during the operation.
She would be more than human if she didn’t.
To produce real genuine sleep and child-
like repose sll night, take a little Hop Bitters on
roMri' g. Loots for.
BRIEF MENTION.
A party of some consequence : Party
politics.
How to Ret “on”: Drink a quart ot Colo-
nial beer.
Major and minor: As a rule, the major
portion of the in habit ints of a mining district are
miners.
The most opportune time for butchers to
Indulge In a " sniff of the briny ” is when the sea is
*’ choppy.”
When a reporter has abandoned all hope
of ever getting sober, he goes to Bourke. Then
he goes—but it is only one remove.
The skeleton in the cupboard of the aver-
age boarding-house is the skeleton of a decrepld
fowl of the same age as the landlady.
There are strained relations between Bur-
rowa and Galong, and all about the merits of Tom
Slattery. Is it worth while to dispute about
nothing ?
From certain circumstances that have
transpired, a rumour is atloat that, in the end.
Her Majesty's Tueatre will be erected by Garden
Honey.
“ We have never been in favour of the an-
nexation of New Guinea,” says the Bombala
Herald. We see. now, why Lord Derby has re-
fused to be hurried.
Recently, at Mansfield, two boys had a
“ staring match." One boy stared so long that he
“expired in great agony.” As usual, it was the
good boy who died.
The Brisbane correspondent of a daily
paper says that New Year’s Day was observed as a
close holiday. Considering the thermometer re-
gistered over 100’ in the shade, we think it was.
A recent number of the Northern Miner
contained three columns ofnaddlng, and a lucid
account of a cock-fight, what absorbs Thady s
interest noiy.. we believe, Is the carving of his
tombstone.
There fa a facetious photographer in
George-street, who, when : requested by impecun-
ious pressmen for money., always shows them a
negative photo plate, Th e would-be borrowers
generally understand.
It fa reported that Jane Robinson, the
satchf Jl-snatcher, said, on being arrested, that if
she didn’t make more that i a day, her man
used to belt her. What’s tb e good of writing for
the papers after this ?
Says the Nepean Tucks:—'“To hear his
(Sir Henry Parkes’) mournft il lay one would dread
that the country was r»n the eve of hopeless bank-
ruptcy, owing to the itsoklea i expenditure of the
Stuart Ministry. An contr arie (sic), the State
coffers are,” &o.— , ,
What sort of st utf is th is. we ask I
Now Just lea' re Frencsh alone;
Before you tac kle other tongues,
Just try and write your own.
“One form of : idvertisament,” says a
London paper, “is a, donkey cart, in which is*
placed a bottle 10ft in "height to advertise a brand
of champagne.” W1 iat a thundering good way
this would be of ad vertlsing th« Jkknle, with
A in the cart instf ad of the bottle 1
Not long ago at ( Canterbury, in England, a
member of the Dioct san Synod moved that it was
sinful to raise money lor the Church by means of
concerts and ontertai nments. Since then, his wife
has filed a petition aj. »inst him for giddy conduct
with the Slavee. “ 1 «t us pray.”
This time Mr, S anday-school Biographer
scores a win. While s playing off a match on the
Looard s Day, Hern i«n Schultzenkranz, a crack
billiardist, dropped d i«ad in a club-room at Read-
ing, England. He d iei, literally, on the spot, and
no chance was given to “ star” a new life.
Says “Sigma ”ii i the Cobar paper:—“ I lost
the run of von last week, Mr. Editor. I can’t ex-
actly tell why.” We * «me. we’ll forgive you this
time, old boy; but C hetetmas doesn't last forever
-even in Cobar. (Te trust the sergeant didn’t
forget to give the gWigiiog trademan his shutter
back.
These are splendid times. You wander
out of your boat Into a Judge’s grounds, and you
are shot by a Jew-keeper. You go Into an orchard
to abduct a little fruit (which is wrong), and you
are killed, with a stone by the proprietor. When
these facts are known, they will doubtless give an
impetus to immigration!
A number of mining companies are an-
nually floated purporting to be “ no-liabillty ”
concerns. Judging by the infrequent realisation
of the glowing prospects set forth in the prospec-
tuses, we think that “ unlimited lie-ability” would
not be a too free translation of the meaning of the
promoters of these bogus mining ventures.
“ We have exchanged with a paper for
years,” says the Bourke Watchman, “simply
because wo thought a worse one could not pos-
sibly be printed.” But we object to the Watch-
man claiming this as a unique mark of philan-
thr. pic and newspaper enterprise on his part.
Why, he knows we have been taking the Watch-
man for years.
This is the conclusion of the Rom par. on
the Druid's picnic:—“At half-past 4 all [II] had
(sic) the grounds for home, where one ana (sic)
arrived safe, well pleased with their day’s outing.”
It sheemsh to us (don’t heed ush —hie
Our speesh ish rather thick);
The writer or the readerlsh (hie)
Or both of them, were sick.
The King of Siam has 263 children, and he
Is under thirty years of age. Well, he needn’t
“ bite his thumb at us.” In consequence of the
many attractions of the harbour, children here
get so distributed I Still we are not going to give
his Majesty best by a long way. We know a choir-
master who— [The rest of this paragraph editori-
ally struck out.— Ed. B.]
“Hang me” —“blooming innocent I
“like Mr. Wright, muchly”—this is the sort of
aboriginal slush wo came across in a Burrowa and
in other papers, when we went through them for
news. When will these wags give over trying to
be funny in print, and take a pot of tar and a
brush and lavish their waggery out on the Old
Man Plains, where the lost dingo is hungering for
something to amuse him ?
Re a Wilcannia banquet, is the following
Ear. in the local Walterus:— “ We are requested
y the chairman to state, in answer to numerous
inquiries, that, in consequence of the heat of the
weather, evening dress will not be adhered to, but
‘go as you please’ costume will be adopted.”
This manifesto only appeared after it had been
discovered that the waiter at the Jumbuck Hotel
had let his coat out seventeen deep.
The ancient opossum who edits the Cook-
town Independent appears to be sliding off his
bojar. He thinks the ey. s of the world are unon
him, and he is, apparently, anxious to shine in the
eyes of the seven kanakas who support him. “ It ”
—we mean Fowler—says that he has given us
“grula” (sic), and, in conclusion, he advises us
“to let sleeping dogs snore.” Well, we shan’t
trouble him, so long as, when he does snore, he
keeps in his own country.
Says the metropolitan correspondent of a
Victorian up-country paper: “The new Land Act
commenced to operate after the hand of the clock
glided past mitinlght into the wee etna hours ayant
the twaal (sic) yesterday. We are now under the
rule of the'tucker Act.” Yes, Melbourne corre-
spondent of an up-country paper, you are now
under the rule of the Tucker Act, but it is doubt-
ful whether “tucker ” had anything to do with the
inspiration of the paragraph.
This is the kind of novel-writing wo like.
It is from J. J. Utting’s “ Golden Cross," and there
is nothing about Wenus in it. Mark:—“ However
the show was a very good one of its klndl there
were the usual baulks of the horses, the usual
falls of some of the riders, and the usual tumblings
and so-called witticisms of the clowns, of which
‘Wilson’s World-wide Circus’ possessed two”
Either this style will create a revolution in novel-
writing, or some one will kill the author with a
boot.
It is with extreme regret that we have to
announce our inability to render a tribute of
praise to the editor of a country paper who has
done our souls good. We took a note of the name
of the paper at the time, but have mislaid it. If
the proprietors, or any of our readers, can recal
it, and furnish the name, we will cheerfully print
it. Headers may be (assisted by this fact: The
paper gave a Christmas leader, and there was no
mention In it of those “sonny South lands” or
“ under the Southern Cross.”
The Maitland Mercury opens the oyster
1885 with a pndound disquisition. He says: “The
newspaper writer is little better tnan a diarist.”
Now, we always knew he was no better than he
should be, but we thought he was better than
that. However, farther down the deeps of this
leader we read : “Mis work must be superficial,
and his conclusions will probably be mistaken."
Now, this Is not newspaper writing, neither is it
the work of a diarist. It is autobiography. And
leading articles should, as a rule, be impeisonal.
They won’t let out the Mignonette sailors
who ate a boy. We think this is right. People can’t
expect to enjoy all the luxuries of the season and
not pay for them. We have really no sympathy
with these men now, chiefly, we think, because we
have eaten so many boys in our time that our ap-
petite has become satiated. You might have
noticed a bright-eyed, curly-haired child behind
our counter, who —. However, his afflicted
mother was happy to take the proffered indemnity
of three half-crowns, and gave us a curtsey In.
When the scathing “ Brevity ” genius of
the Nooze isn’t reporting the maudlin twaddle of
suburban aldermen, or localising the antediluvian
jokes found in Bristol's sarsaparilla almanacs, he
puts in bis time re-hashing notes from the Mel-
bourne World. Here’s one little item from
Mortimer’s dally, however, which beseems to have
completely overlooked:— “A bird’s nest was dis-
covered in Belmore (Hurstville), the other day,
made of stringy bark, feathers, and part of an
Evening News. ‘It’s a dirty bird that fouls its
own nest.’ ”
In Paris, the other day, one man prose-
cuted another for taking his wife away from him
—a penal offence there—and living with her lor
four years. The trial came on, in due course, at
the Tribunal Correctional, and, though the facts
were not denied by the respondent and her lover,
their defence consisted in proving the cruelty of
the petitioner. In the end, the delinquents were
ordered to pay—what do you think ?—26frs. apiece 1
Lots of fellahs, who know other fellahs who occa-
sionally manually correct their fascinating better-
halves, are now growing eloquent on the luxury
of the Messageries boats, and continually cry,
“ What would be more delightful, now, than to
make a little party!”
The Western Grazier “despises” the op-
position paper, so we may infer what the other
paper must be like. Assuming, however, that
both are of equal weight in the sajUeof creation,
and that the contempt may be mgpl, we would
ask, is this a time for the moulderlWcolonlal and
continental opinion to be fighting one another,
when the Germans are thundering at our doors
and the French are clearing the fowl-house at the
back? Our statesmen waver, the Imperial au-
thorities humbug u*, and our military are ineffl-
cent. looked to Bourke for the guidance of
two still strong men in the time of our helpless-
ness. We find them deaf to the exigencies of
their country, and “despising” one another I
Whither shall we flee ?
A TYPE—THE LOW COMEDIAN.
You see that man—now watch him—there !
Who has a melancholy stare;
An eye that is with sorrow glazed,
A memory that seems quite dazed.
You’ll see, if you stand by his side,
He’s Damning Grief personified!
Gaze on that face—those lines alone,
Will tell Grief’s marked him for her own;
His sunken eyes at orce declare
That Silent Sorrow lodges there!
And yet. It can’t be true, you’ll say—
He is the droll man in the play!
The pit convulsed, all cry—“ An-oor,”
As he the house sets in a roar I
A low comedian—on the stage
He works hard for his weekly wage.
Once off the boards—oh, thunder 1 then
He is the gloomiest of men.
MORE SMALL-POX SCARE. 1
EMINENT MEDICAL PRACTITIONER (hoping to interest gouty pa tient): “NOW. HERE
IS SOMETHING OF A CURIOSITY. IT IS A PHOTOGRAPH OF A SMA LL-POXPATIENT"—
OOUTEE: “SCOUNDREL! HOW DARE YOU PLACE MY LIFE IN JEOPARDY, BY
FLOURISHING SUCH A VERY DANGEROUS SOUVENIR UNDER MT Y NOSE?" (Files in
terror from the room.)
[We understand Dr. M'KeUar, the Health Officer, is disseminating these pRo tos. broadcast among
the medical profession.']
MTSS LINGARD.
THE REASON.
“ Why let him off, your Worship, say,.
It’s more than I can understand;;
He is the terror of the Bay—
He is the worst of all the band ? ”
The P.M. said, In tones quite low—"TBgi
“ We have our weaknesses, you see,
I am a bachelor, you know j
His mother used to wash for me.”
• • • • • J
The sergeant, then—a merry elf—
Said, “ ir I've been that way myself.”


Even suicide—that self-slaughter whieh
the boy Hamlet regretted was not in accordance
with the religious principles in which his late
lamented father had evidently brought him up -
even this crime, once the last resource of despair-
ing lovers and brave men who would not face dis-
honour, nas gradually drifted into an affair of
kitchen-knives across throats, dirty water, and rat
noison. Suicide has now, however, been brought
to a lower depth still. The other day a poor brain-
tortured gentleman went to a shop, bought some
strychnine, put it on a half-penny worth ot cat s-
raeat. and then began to eat. Suicide by poisoned
cat’s-meat! M. Zola, make a note of it. please.
The details were proved before an English coroner
and jury.
Amongst the thousand and one good points
to be found in the heathen Chinee is the marvellous
rapidity and quiet, uncomplaining manner in which
he adapts himself to the customs of the country In
which his lot is cast. And another matter for ad-
miration is the style in which he blends his own
ideas with foreign ways, so that, no matter what
irame is played, he always holds a winning hand.
An anecdote illustrating this comes from the far
North, where a gang of Celestial navvies were
recently out down in their wages a shilling a day.
Instead of “striking” at once, as the free-born,
B “ton, the hot-blooded “Irlshy,” or the hard-
headed Scot would do. the “ pig-tails ’’ simply cut
a couple of inches off each of their shovels over
niaht. Next morning the Celtic boss politely re-
onested to be informed "what the sanguinary
Hades this kind o’ thing might mean ? To which
the childlike and bland spokesman promptly re-
plied “ Not getee so much pay—no liftee so muchee
dirt- all ri’. Job lastee all tho more long. Spose
Irishman workee here, bim plenty strike. China-
man not a b fool like that. Him workee longer
an’ liftee less. Sabee that, now ?” Aud burying
his head in a billy of beer, the ganger sighed
“ Well, be th’ howly frog, ye haythins bate Bana-
gher, an’ Banagher bates tn’ divll.”
One of the greatest
social illusion of the pre-
sent day is the jackass
Idea that Henry George
has been the first man to
start a crusade in Eng-
land against the titled
land-grabbers and drones
■who hold the poor in
bondage, and who merci-
lessly drain the last far-
things their down-trod-
den tenants have, in order
that they themselves may
live in riotousness and
luxury. Persons who
credit Mr. George with
being the first to raise
his voice against such
oppression fill their heads
with a very great mis--
take, Indeed; for, when
Richard II., in order to
raise money for his troops
instituted the detested
poll-tax which cost Wat
Tyler his life, a patriot
Catholic priest named
Father John Ball, of Kent
county, wentamongstthe
people on Sundays as they
came out of the churches,
and, as Froissart the his-
torian tells us, let out
against the lords of the
soil in the following un-
mistakeable “ Plain Eng-
lish” terms Ah, ye
good people, matters go
not well m Eng lane, nor
will they until everything
be common, and that
there be no villeins (serls)
nor gentlemen, but that
we ail be united together,
and that the lords be no
greater masters than we.
We all came from one
lather and mother, Adam
and Eve. Whereby can
they show that they are
greater lords than we he,
saving by this, that they
cause us to wiu aud
labour for them ? They
are clothed in velvet and
camlet, furred and er-
mined, and we are ves-
tured in poor cloth.
They have their wines,
and spices, and goon
bread, and we have the
drawing out of the chaff,
and drink water. Web©
called their bondsmen,
and without we do wil-
lingly their service we be
beaten. . . . If we go
together, all manner of
people now in any bond-
age will follow us to the
intent to be made free;
and we shall obtain some
remedy, either by fair-
ness or otherwise. Con-
sidering that, in those
days, the nobility had
power to flog their serfs
as they pleased, and that
the die ot a priest was
thought no more of
than that of a hound,
Father John Ball was a
plucky oldpatriotjindeed,
and we’re not quite sure
that he isn’t more deserv-
ing of a statue than one
half the titled dodderils
who now ornament our
parks and squares.
The public press announces that Sir Henry
Parkes has gone to live in Parramatta. Here the
iron enters into our souls when we reflect that we
are not eager to announce in public where we are
going to live. We are green with envy because
we never have the luxury of changing our ad-
dr. ss—it is always the same— en route. Scarcely
have we found a new hole 1 1 the rocks near Lady
Macquarie’s Chair, and feot the run of the mussels,
than population pours in, and the means of sub-
sistence is obliterated. We so'eot the hollowest-
holed tree In the Domain to shelter our heads, and
a claimalnt with beery head is alongside of ours,
hiccupping “ g-golng to be wet, mate—th-this is
my tree,” and we crawl to an ash-heap back of a
foundry, andAMjte up with a coat-tail and the
bosom of ourprousers smouldering off in filmy
flakes. We a boarding-house, aud the
sordid landlord fires us out la the morning be-
cause wo ask credit to go down town to get the
shilling to pay. And the boiler retreat has been
referred to in the press, and the shrewder press*
men are in before us. Alas, whither shall we flee ?
Now, if Sir Henry is going to stay in Parramatta
for a while, couldn’t he—an ardent admirer of the
press—just till we are settled a bit, let us Faulc ?
But he would want stiff rent and we are opposed
to rent. We couldn’t look Henry George la the
face if we paid extortionate rent.
Let everybody but (not this time.— Ed. B.)
prick up his ears. We excuse that gentleman, for
we want a little daylight. Well, there has lived a
childless couple, who, as years went on. became
disunited, but called upon and dined with each
other “ religiously," at stated intervals. Among
the lady’s possessions was a magnificent pair of
carriage-horses and a gigantic coachman. Well, it
got to toe rumoured about .... However,
the husband, afraid of being made ridiculous, laid
a plan to cure his wife of such a ridiculous (to
him) Infatuation. He invited her to a grand din-
ner, and agreed with the invitis (twelve gentlemen)
to all dress as coachmen. They did so, and were
all assembled in the drawing-room when she en-
tered on her husband’s arm, a blaze of beauty and
diamonds. No sooner had her eyes lighted on the
guests, than she cried, “What! All coachmen!”
" My dear,” rejoined the husband, with a soft
smile, “ It Is the premier duty of my life to please
you in everything.” Then the husband bowed,
and each of the coachmen pulled bis hair to her, in
true coachman fashion. Upon which the lady
swooned away. The next day her big Jehu was
dispensed with, and she took to driving about in
a ponj phaeton and pair, the driver being either a
young groom, born on the estate, or—fancy I—her
husband. Now, there's a tale with a moral for
you. Eh ?
The Tamworth Hookes are amusing
people. They have just discovered that, in the
case of travelling companies, It is preferable to
make them “ part beforehand.” Their notice
in this regard which they advise “ brother Journal-
ists to copy” is unique. Here is some of it:—
”... Nor will even a ‘ dodge’ be printed un-
less the money therefore (sic) is put down in ad-
vance. It will be no use for agents to swell out
with Importance, talk about the custom of otlmr
towns, or the glory of their Company. We will
have the money first.” This policy—though its
soundness is not, perhaps, open to serious ques-
tion, so far as they are concerned—appears to us to
possess more than a scintilla ot severity. Now,
with us, It Is different. We always trust the pro-
fession. We have lived by it for many years. It
has even built our big corner clock. When we
had only a little corner block we contented our-
selves with trusting the regular theatres, and em-
ploying an energetic canvasser to go about sollclt-
ing actors’ and actresses’ “ cards,” which we
Inserted for nothing. We commenced to prosper
then: and an Invitation was given to the “ cour-
teous and obliging agent” of every company start-
ing out ©n the road to come and do what fhe liked
with the paper. They promptly came; and then
there was such a smile on us that our mouth was
as big as a beehive. We sent surreptitiously round
for the fairy erector of palaces. He came round,
made a thundering lot of dust, and — Behold !
Here’s a sample of the style in which justice
is slung in parts of Alllgatorland—and, we are
afraid, much nearer home as well. It was a red-
hot, roasting morn. The sun gleamed out like a
newly-scoured copper lid; the flies darted into
one’s ears and out through one’s eyes; the fences
were warped up into knots; and the hens, as they
Incautiously dabbed their feet on the burning
stones, gave a yell of pain, and sat down to blow
on their blistered toes. Water was as scarce as
scented soap in a black gin’s dllly-bag, and there
wasn’t a drop of decent whisky to be found in the
whole district. That was the state of affairs when
the worthy “saynyur sargint” In a Northern town
went, as usual, to round up bis “ dhrunk an’ dis-
orthurlies; ” and, having straightened up the
animated rag-stacks against the watchhouse fence,
he harangued them as follows:—" Now thin, me
bhoys, this weather is too warrum t’ bother much
wid the loikes avye; so mark fwhat Oi tell yez.
The Polls Maglstrit is as crass as two sthicks to-day.
If yez all plade guilty, be th’ same towken yez’ll
git off aisy enuff; but if yez give him th’ lashte
trubbll at all by yer kanoodlin’ and philanderin’,
and sayin’ yer ‘ not guilty’ an’ all the loikes o’ that,
be jabers, but ye’ll git a bloomin’ month aich at
th’ very lashte. D’ye molnd me, now ? Attintion,
thin, and march along t’ glory.” And the unani-
mity with which each dead-beat toed the line and
shouted “Guilty, yer Washup” so softened the
Solon’s soul that he not only discharged the crowd
but shouted for the “ intllligint mimber av th’
foorce’’ as well. Fiat justitia— when convenient.
Now that the Executive has appointed a
New South Wales representative at the approach-
ing telegraphic conference to be held in Berlin,
they might as well furnish tho savants over there
with a copy of our new telegraphic tariff with
Victoria. Under the sapient regulations just
framed, a message of ten words may be sent across
the border tor Is., but Instead of making the
charge for every additional word Id., as anyone
possessing the brains of a brass-mounted jacs daw
would suggest, our fossilised authorities have
fixed the rate of 2d. Some idea of the phenomenal
stupidity of this proceeding may be guessed from
the fact that to avoid this double charge for the
extra words, the oracle is now worked by splitting
up a lengthy communication into two, three, five,
or even fifty different messages ot ten words each.
An ordinary message of, say, 100 words, would cost
under the new rules 16s., huf dividing the same
into ten different despatches, the cost would come
to 10s. only. Fixing the number of words in the
addresses and signatures (which go free) at the
low average of ten, It will be at once seen that the
work of the operators is just doubled; and la
addition to this, the delivery of the ten messages
would probably necessitate the work of two or
three extra messengers. By all means, let us send
a representative to the Berlin telegraphic con-
ference. and let his chief Instructions be to belt
open the heads of his brother savants and steal
their brains, for brains are apparently what our
own lightning wrestlers stand most in need of at
the present dav.
Last week we published the suggestion of
one John M‘Culloch, shoemaker and local bard of
the town ot Grief, Scotland, in which is advocated
the adoption of a prayer machine to be run by
means of water. This, however, turns out to be a
stale idea, after all, as such machines have been
issued for ages both in India, China, and Japan.
These machines are composed of cylinders, and on
those cylinders different forms of prayer are
written. Every time the cylinder makes a com-
plete revolution, the prayer is considered to be
said, and of course the more revolutions made the
greater the efficacy of the prayers. And before
we, the intelligent men of the enlightened 10th
century, smile at tho heathen’s over this, it would
be well to remember that the Catholic who rambles
through his ten Pater Hosiers and 750 Hail Marys a
day, acts on a precisely similar principle. Of the
two systems, we like the heathens’ best, for there
is something poetical in the device which has en-
listed the breeze and the stream In the praise of
Nature’s God, Where the winds of heaven are
employed, the holy cylinders are made to rotate
by the action ot wings like the fans of a windmill.
Another variety is at Darjeeling, where
there is an important Lama temple where ceaseless
prayers are offered for the benefit of the dead.
The names of the deceased and the form of prayer
are written on flags of great length, but only
about four feet in width. These streamers aro
affixed to lofty poles, and every flap is reckoned as
ono prayer said. Such, too, is the poetic meaning
of the little tinkling wind-bells suspended beneath
each storey of the many-roofed pagodas of China
and Japan, and the man who says he wouldn t
prefer their fairy sounds to the intolerable ding-
dong and discordant jangle of our bells is, to put
it mildly, in St. James’ own words, “ a liar and the
truth is not in him.” In the water service line,
the prayer cylinders are fixed over running water,
A spindle, passing through each, terminates in a
horizontal wheel, with cogs turned diagonally to
the water, which, rushing onwards, causes the
wheel to rotate and so turn the cylinders. If
something of the kind were started here, the
chances are that heaven wouldn’t be half large
enough to hold all the godly candidates for admis-
sion. All a man would have to do would be to
run a two-horse power engine in his own private
little oratory, and by means of this he could offer
un something like a thousand prayers a minute.
When special devotions for rain were needed, all
that would be necessary would he to turn the
whole of our private cylinders on the one s-tyle of
prayer, and a deluge would flood the land at once.
It may be argued that the old Apostles never
shirked their work, and hired empty nail-kcgs and
oil-drums to do the praying for them; but, then
again, we are reminded that
“ John P.
Robinson, he
Said they didn’t know everything down in Judee ’
“This an’ th’ next,” yelled a fog-horn
throated “book” at Kandwlck on New Year’s
Day as the hurdle flyers sailed through the pad-
deck gate; “ I wanter lay this an’ th’ next.” Two
voices called out in reply. One came from a
downy-looking descendant of the tribe of Levi,
hut the other belonged to a remarkably verdant
young man who had the true eucalyptus smell
about him. The Hebrew party was politely told
to go to Armageddon, but the youthful speculator
was promptly collared, and negotiations were at
once opened up by his enquiring the price of Pell
Mell. “Three ter von to you, as a favour, seein’
ash how id is our first dealias,’’ replied the anxious
metalllcian as he mentally gloated over the well-
feathered pigeon he was about to pluok. ‘An’,
what’s Right Bower at?” asked the soft one!
“ Righdt Power, veil I doan mlndt layin’ you 4 to
1. but, for Got’s sake, keep it keviet. Dat’s my
prother over dere; he have heart disease pad, an»
I schvear he drops dead If he knows I mok such a
foolish bedt." “ Vidette oughter be a good thing
don’t you think?” said the innocent green-horn’
Shplendidt, ma poy; you hev got der goot joodg-
ment; you knowa your vays aboudtl see; now I
book you six t’ von Vlaette.” “How about
Student, though?" asked the bushy. “Oh you
must pe kweek,” snapped the “book;” "f Jose
half an hour now vid you; I lays you six t’ von
Student.” “Very well. I’ll take that for a half-
crown,” replied the young man from the country
as he drew out the coin. “ ’Arf-a-orown!” ox
claimed the disgusted knight of the ring- “ veil
sthrlke me stiff if I hevn’t been wastin’ma time
takln' to a b lunatic asylum.” Aud then he
filed slowly off and prayed that the tooth-ache
face-ache, and small-pox might jump on that soft
young man all at once, i nd stand by him as long ns
there was a tail on a oaf.
Sun Chong was hia
name, and, as he toed the
scratch at the Gundagat
Temple of Justice aW
days ago,Jit was remarked
that when It came to a
matter of guileless sim-
plicity and angelic inno-
cence, Sun Chong could
give points even to the
babe unborn. And yet
the charge preferred
against him was one of
the most diabolical we
ever remember hearing.
It appears that on the
Srevloua Sawbath Day,
ub-inspector Carroll was
mooning along past the
prisoner’s plantation, al-
ternately warbling ”Tue
Gate's Ajar,” and resolv-
ing within himself to
draw the baton of blood
and belt in the devil’s
skull at the very earliest
opportunity, when he was
paralysed with holy hor-
ror on seeing the sac-
rilegious Bun Chong
soaking a cauliflower’s
bead with a piokle-bottlc -
ful of water, instead of
being at church refresh-
ing his heathen soul with
the manna of the Looard.
On being requested to
put up his plea to this
heinous charge, Sun
Chong smiled sweetly
around and simply said
“No savee.” This was
the burden of bis song
all through the case, and
a slant-eyed friend, tak-
ing pity on his country-
man’s sad plight, charit-
ably informed the Bench
“ This man no speakee
Inglls. Him wellee noo’
—only jus’ come from
I’nlriu.” But when the
P.M. informed the Court
that the tine would be fs.
or in default two hours
in the public stocks, bun
Chong planked down the
c sb, and shaking the
dust of the court off
his wooden-soled shoes,
veiled out: “Well, I’m
d~d! S’pose me no got
planty cabbagee for Mon-
day, all my Inglls cars-
tumers kickee up
row, an’ s'pose Chinaman
putce littee drap wartah
on garden, Sunday,
pb eceman pulleelongim
court an’ tnakee pay fl’
shillin’. How fusnion
this? My no sabe. Ing-
lisman catcbee planty
whisky allee week-planty
lie, planty steal, then go
long 'im God’sbouse Sun-
day tnakee all square.
My no sahe that, too.
S’pose Chinaman tiy that
game, his Joss plotty
quick bustee up allee
business. You call ’im
lls flee cuntly; I call ’m
Flenchman.” And
then the guileless foreign-
er who “ no speakee
Inglis ” grabbed hold of
his baskets and trotted
off with a look on big
face that would turn a
can of milk sour at a
distance of 750 yards.
This is not a snake yarn Neither is it a
Continental cablegram, a ministerial promise, nor
any other sort of truth-mangling narration. It is
the simple story of a 'awk and a ’tn. A tourist
had arrived at one of our facetiously-termed rail-
way refreshment rooms, and called for a tender
chicken, in order to enable him to 1111 a long-felt
want in his internal apparatus. Just as the tempt-
ing dish was being carried from the kitchen, how-
ever, a hungry hawk swooped down and carried
off the prize to his cloud-curtained eyrie on the
beetling mountain’s brow. Half an hour after
he returned, a perfect wreck of his former self.
The bottom of his bill was snapped short off at
tho root, and the top turned round 10 the back of
his head; both w ngs were broken, all his claws
gone, ami after limping sadly about the place, he
caught hold of a navvy’s boot, and tiling slowly
away exclaimed, in very good English—for a hawk
—“ i ot any more tender fowl on my plate, to day,
thank you, Mr. Manager.” We who have com-
fortable homes, and all the sweet consolations of
religion, together with stewed tripe and light-
weight bread, seldom think of the misery and pri-
vations which fall to the lot of our railway
tourists.
Messrs. Crampton and Bruce, the well-
known piano and music importers of Pitt-street,
have notified a dissolution of partnership. The
business will, in future, be carried on by Mr.
William Bruce. In consequence of this change,
Mr. Bruce has found it necessary to hold a great
clearance sale of pianos and organs, and, for all
of our readers wuo require a high-class instru-
ment, thu is an opportunity not often met with.
As to Mr. Bruce’s future welfare (in business)
there is no doubt, for he has, by his untiring
energy and strict integrity, won for himself a high
position in our commercial circle.*
One of the sights of Sydney is the show of
Royal Worcester China, including vases, orna-
ments, dinner, breakfast, ami tea sets, also kettle-
drum sets, just opened by that enterprising firm,
Bray Bros.. 402 and 404 George-street. Everyone is
admiring the display.*.
Gentle Shepherd (Smith) Tell Me Why.
THE TREASURER ,• ‘’WHAT Do I CARE FOR THAT TOY BANK OF YOURS, WHEN I HAVE GOT THIS AT MY BACK 1”


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We thall be glad to have thU index vetted up by
teerttariet of racing cluht and managert of
«porting event»In general .1
RACING.
Bega. .................. January 14,15.
Sydney T.C. ...... January 36.
Lawrence J.C January 26.
Blayney January 26, 27.
New England ..... February 4, 5.
Burrowa J.O February 5, 6.
Cootamundra T.C ..... February 11,13.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 11,13,13.
Tasmanian T.C February 18,19,
Murrumburrab T.C. (Annual) February 18,19.
Glen Innes February 18, 19,
Moree February 35, 26.
V.K.C. Autumn Meeting Feb. 28. March 5, 7.
Tumut March 25, 36,
Hawkesbury B.C March 26, 28.
AQUATICS.
Snail’s Bay Regatta January
Anniversaiw Regatta January 26.
Haulan v. Clifford February 7.
Clifford v. Beach February 28.
Beach v. Hanlan March 28.
Hanlan v. Clifford (if Clifford beat Beach)....April 18.
Newcastle Regatta January 1,
Intercolonial 8-Oar Race April
SPORTING AND ATHLBTIC MEMS.
“ Plunger ” Walton is said to have won
£10,000 over the recent Yankee election.
John Meagher of Lawrence, Mass., and
our own William Edwards were matched for a 48-
hours' walk to be decided In Boston, at the Casino,
Nov. 27, SO.
The Queenslanders have purchased from
Fuller, of Melbourne, a socond-hsjnd outrigger
eight, with the object of practising for the inter-
colonial race.
Tbe Rover, the reputed sire of St, Gatien,
was one morning found slaughtered to his box, at
Listowel, Ireland. It is stated the outrage was
perpetrated at the Instance of a secret society who
had a down on The Hover’s owner. Tills is meaner
than hedge-potting, by long chalks.
Raynor oamo off best in the recent six
days’ brutality in Melbourne, with 475 miles 1 lao.
The poor devil had to cover 475 miles to ontit e
him to the prize, and for the last hour or so;he was
staggering all over the track. A canine contro-
veisy is small bones for brutality alongside a six-
days’ go-as-you-please.
The Victorian Cricketers Association has
called upon Blackham, Bonnor, Boyle, .M'Donnell,
Palmer, and Scott to explain, either patrsonally or
by letter, why they declined to play In the match
Australia r. England when Invited to do so by Mr.
Major on behalf of the Association. We cannot
sue, however, that any satisfaction can be derived
from such action.
We must go from home to hear news*
London JIbli.’h Life of November 26th says:—
‘ Two matches, each for £500 a side, have just
been made. The first is between Wallace Ross
and Ellas Laycock (subject to the approval of the
last-named), and in the second George Perkins is
to receive live seconds start from the Australian.
The matches aru to bo decided on the Thames be-
fore tbe cud of May next."
A purse of 2T> sova. haa been subscribed in
Melbourne forFarnan and Lees to box for under the
following conditions:—Farnau to knock Lees out
in four Queensberry rounds, only the subscribers
to the purse and a second for eacb principal to be
present. If the pair accept the terms, Lees should
stand a fair show of lasting the four rounds, If he
acts on the getting away and saving principle,
but, should ho stand up for a manly give-and-take
bout, we give him to’the ilnish of the second, at
tbe longest.
Rudduck was to have finished the first of
an order of two wager-boats for Haiilan about the
beginning of December. The boat was to be built
of Mexican nedar, 3lft. 61n. long, 10%in. beam
amidships, 5%ln. deep amidships, 2%in. depth for-
ward, and I44 ,n - ait, the camber of the keel to be
3 metres forward and lln. alt. The craft was to
have supplementary gunwales with strong brac-
ing, 27 Inch slide, and to weigh when completed
251b. The second boat was to be much the same,
with the exception of 10%in. beam and to weigh
one pound heavier.
Poor old Granny must have had a had
time during the holidays, as on tbe tlth she had not
suffered a reoovory. Judging from the fact that on
tha t date she gave tbe 16-footer, Sophia, a par.
all to. herself, anent the capsizing on New Year’e
Day. We sympathise with the Sophia people, not
for the capsize—for Heaven knows they must by
this time be used to that sort of thing—but Just as
they bad got over the chaillng. Granny must
needs clip in and rake up tbe sore again. And
there was nothing to be so nasty about either, for
it must have been fully throe weeks since tbe
Sophia’s previous capsize.
aharland has left the ranks of amateur
scatters, having started and won a race at Norfolk
K igatoa, Tasmania, for a money prize ot £ J. Be-
al les losing bis title of amateur, Sharlund has
caused himself to be dlsllaed” In Tasmania in
rowing circles It appears the race In question
was In skiffs for a paltry £6 prize, and Sharland
entered at the last moment, spoiling what would
no doubt have proved a good contest between the
small fry, who had trained hard for the k evont.
Farewell, Sharland, old boy, to visions of hundred
?ulnea trophies gracing your sideboard. And all
or a measly six quid. Sharland evidently does
not know how to work these little affairs. We
know amateurs who make more than £6, without
dropping the title ,either.
Harry Hutchens, the English champion
sprinter, had a shore and anything but merry trip
to the States, as he started for home on Nov. 8th,
In the Anohorla, the vessel in which he arrived in
America the previous week. It appears that on
Nov. 1st he ran without success In a handicap at
Pastime Park, and on the 3rd he was announced to
run 300 yards against time. In the morning Acton,
the ground proprietor, agreed to give his backer,
by name Squires, the total gate-receipts, with the
understanding that Squires pay half of the adver-
tising expenses. Squires took the gate-receipts,
and then the sprinters who beat Hutchens clam-
oured for the prize-money. They went to Acton,
and he referred them to Squires, who refused to
pay them. That night Mr. Squires was sent to the
police station, charged with embezzlement.
It is rather rough ou a man to have to eat
dirt pie at times, but when he is perfectly willing
to Ull himself out with the mess and is denied the
luxury, he must feel iu a remarkably low down
swat, indeed. And this is the case to-day with Mr,
Absolom, a sporting gentle nan not wholly un-
known to Victorian fame, as he was recently stuca
for £50 for his share in the management of the
shady “Hurricane” business. He refused to pay,
and the committee expelled him. Since then,
however, he tendered the amount, accompanied
with an apology for not having bowed to the first
decision ot the club; but tbe committee declined
to accept either, and the sentence of expulsion
from the Victorian Club has been upheld. Quite
right, too. For it 1* only by a vigorous stamp of
the iron hoof that “roshy leedlo games ” such as
this can be kept down.
Archer, with 241 wins, has headed the list
of winning jockeys on the English turf for tha
eleventh consecutive year. Archer has now
ridden 3331 winners since he made an unsuccessful
first appearance on Aberdeen in the Trial Stakes
at Ascot in 1870. His first winning mount was on
Athol Daisy in that year In a Nursery at Chester-
field, on September 38. Wood, though not so suc-
cessful as last year, stands well away from the
others in the second position. Fordhara only had
' a couple of unsuccessful mounts this season, and
his total of 2587 winners since he secured his first
race on Hampton at Brighton in 1851 remains un-
altered. We are not likely to have Archer out
here, after all; at all events, not for some time to
come, as it is now stated that it is his intention to
be back in England again before the commence-
ment of the next racing season.
How low English sculling has fallen, may
be judged from the fact that Bubear, who was
beaten by Wallace Boss, and with a start at that,
dubbed himself champion oflEngland; and wo
suppose he still clnims the title, as he conceded a
start to Perkins, who defeated ‘‘the champion ” so
easily. Of Perkins, an English paper save:—“The
winner rows in beautiful style, and is certainly at
present the best professional sculler we have this
side of the water. Whether, however, he will de-
velop anything like championship form is another
question. He has youth on his side, and is a man
who takes the greatest care of himself. Those
who had carefully watched the practice of the
whilom rivals could not fall to notice the marked
improvement manifest in Perkins’ style since bis
last appearance in public, but even those who
knew the Botberhithe man best were astonished
at the ease with which be disposed of his op-
ponent.”
account is that he was “got at”
over the recent Gaudaur fizzle, Sauison and
Morris, two of Teemer's principal backers, are
stated to have backed Gaudaur very heavily on
the quiet. Teemer started a warm favourite, but
was out of the race by the time half of the course
had been covered. Teemer himself exposed the
swindle, and stated that two spams in the forward
compartment of his boat bad been slightly opened,
and she gradually got more and more waterlogged
until at the turn he could hardly keep her going.
Teemer said “ ho had been betrayed by his friends,
who put him in a craft they knew would be water-
logged, and told him to win. He did not see the
split until he found his boat filling,” Another
account says, “ Teemer almost burst into tears, so
great was his feeling after the finish, and said.
My friends have undone me.’ ” It will be remem-
bered there was a big scandal over Teemer and his
backers when the young sculler first came into
prominence.
The Victorian Rowing Association has
called a meeting for the 21st Instant, with the
object of devising means to “ raise the wind ” in
connection with the coming intercolonial eight-
oar race. Our AssooiBlon is in much the same
strait, but it only requires a little tact and energy
to surmount the difficulty. Wo recollect on one
occasion when the Sydney Association was walking
on Its uppers and the heels of its trousers looked
as if the dogs had been gnawing them, “Charon,”
the at that period enthusiastic contributor to the
Sydney Maid, came to the rescue, and in a few
afternoons canvassed the general public to the
extent of £60 odd for the purpose of raising a new
boat. “ Charon ’’—who, bv the way, must he feel-
ing lonely over his long spell of single sculls, as
he has now an engagement on to row “double”
—was about the most appropriate nom de
plume that the gentleman in question could have
dropped upon, the old ferryman being in such
close proximity to “Old Nick.”
The following statistics of the principal
winning owners on the English Turf, for 1884,
seem to show that there are times when the horse-
racer's profession is almost as profitable as that of
a night policeman. Anyway we find that Mr. J.
Hammond, with eight horses, won £12,528, exclu-
sive of £3300 won by Florence at Baden; Mr. II.
Peek, W horses, £11,945 ; Duke of Westminster,
nine horses, £11,769 ; Mr. Manton, seven horses,
£11,504; Mr. L. do Kotlwchild, 17 horses, £10,851;
Mr. C. J. Letevre, 11 horses, £9789 ; Sir G. Ch«t-
wind, 26 horses, £9315; Duke of Portland, eight
horses, £8602; Lord Zetland, 12 horses, £8588; Mr.
H. C. Viner, 13 horses, £8591; Mr. K. Jardlne. 13
horses, £8150; Lord Abingdon, four horses, £7868;
Mr. a blngton, six horses, £7281; Mr. K. cloeto, two
horses, £6395; Lord Rosebery, 13 horses, £5557;
Lord Hastings, four horses, £5551; General Wil-
liams, 10 horses, £5047. In addition to the above
there were 284 other winners, ranging from £4951
to £108-and something like a thousand more non-
winners who didn’t rake in enough to pay the
wages of tho men who chopped the carrots for
their flyers.
On the 19th of the present month tho Mer-
cantile Rowing Club will elect a new captain in
the place of Mr. Wilkinson, who has been “told
off ” by the Lands Department for Maitland. Mr.
Merrlman is almost sure to be picked upon by his
fellow-clubmen for tho post of honour—and work
too, we trust—and we have a par. already written
congratulating the club upon the selection of a
gentleman of influence and means to take charge
of the ribbons. Should Mr. Merrlman be elected,
we trust he will be Arm and independent in seeing
the rules of racing carried out in their entirety;
and that in the interests of amateur rowing he
will put aside all potty feeling in the matter, in an
■endeavour to bridge over The broach between his
club and the New South Wales Rowing Associa-
tion. And while on the subject of the Rowing
Association, whatever it was in the past, it has
certainly fallen away to a great extent since the
energetic Mr. Coles left the colony. Hero we
have an association always growling about its
finances, employing a paid secretary for work
that should prove a labour of love to some cner- ■
getlc practical man. It is a reproach to our row-
ing men that such a one cannot be found to take
the association In band and| raise it from its
present slough.
Alfred Greenfield, the English pugilist,
who recently had all the best of a set-to with John
L. Sullivan is thirty-one years of age, stands 5ft.
8%ln., and weighs about eleven stone and a haif.
After lighting several outside battles, Greenfield
made his first show with a good man in 1877, when
he tackled a “brummagem” named Pat Perry,
prize ring rules, for £50. Greenfield was defeated
after fighting exactly one hour. Greenfield then i
defeated Sam Breeze, on Good Friday, 1878, also
Irving Highland at the end of 1878, in one hour
fifteen minutes. Ho was then defeated by Denny I
Harrington, on a foul. In a Queeoaberry match,
and defeated Jimmy Highland shortly afterwards,
this match also being decided on a foul. Greenfield
then fought Jim Stewart, Queenaberry rules, and,
notwithstanding an injured arm, he defeated his
man la one hour two minutes. Greenfield's last
appearance in the prize ring was with Tug Wilson,
and it is stated the battle was not reported owing
to the fact that “ Wales,” the Duke of Beaufort,
Lord Aylesford, Captain Wyndham, Lord Lons-
dale, and other big swells were witnesses of the
affair, but of course this can be taken for what it
is worth. Greenfield again had the small bone of
his arm broken, and after twenty-eight heavy
rounds had been fought in one hour twenty min-
utes, Greenfield’s friends broke the ring, and it
was declared a draw. His last affair previous to
his Yankee tour, was the winning of a belt given
by Jem Mace.
On Sunday morning we journeyed up the
Parramatta River for the purpose of having a
look at the big gun scullers, and wo had the luck
to see the three of them doing their spin within
the hour. Beach has altered very little for
the bettor in the matter of style, and ap-
pears very cramped in his rowing. In great con-
trast to his neighbour, Clifford, who rows straight
as an arrow, and swings clean from the hips, much
in the style of Nod Trlckett of old, only with more
dash and power. To see Clifford rowing towards
you he is a perfect picture, but when he comes
abeam he is not so taking, as he clips the water
rather toolmuch—at all events, for our fancy. Like
the school children, we leave the tit bit, Hanlan,
to the last. The Canadian looks a bit thin about
the face, but in body he does not appear to
be at all fine drawn, and seems in first-
class fettle. Hanlan’s style is peculiarly his
own, and as different from every other
sculler we have seen as a well-fed alderman
is from a half-starved Hum man. Hanlan’s bit of
rowing on Sunday last, in our eyes, was as near
perfection as we believe any sculler will ever ap-
proach. With a thoroughly rowed-out twenty-
nine or thirty strokes, pulled like a piece of ma-
chinery, the boat continued I he even tenor of her
way; and when, on one occasion, she dashed into
rather heavy steamer’s wash, the ex-Champion
showed us how good he is in rough water. The
sculler never faltered, but forced his shell through
it without losing his form for one Instant, not-
withstanding that his craft shipped water enough
to thoroughly drench him. Our Summer is, no
doubt, a heavy handicap, but Iranian has much at
stake, and it is not likely he will, this time, throw
a chance away. We understand, in place of going
for a walk before breakfast, he now does a quiet
spin on the water, but we cannot say we view the
change as one for the better. The present rowing
of the men has not caused us to alter our opinion,
and, fit and well, we shall be much surprised if
Hanlan does not carry all before him.
The big excitement in Sydney boxing
circles just now is the proposed match between a
well-known Sydney amateur and a Britisher, who
came out here during the running of the big Exhl-
bition, and who has since “ travelled ” on a big
boxing reputation he brought ©ut with him. If
wo thought there was any chance of the ohivoo
coming off we would hold our peace, but we think
It is about the proverbial guinea to a gooseberry
that the affair will not eventuate on the 30th July,
the date stated In the agreement—for agreements,
where there is no "sugar” at stake, are not, as a
rule, very binding. We have seen the Britisher
box on two occasions. When Larry Foley had the
pub. in Woolloomooloo, we one evening journeyed
to that aristocratic locality to see a set-to between
the at that period new arrival and our own Larry.
We had often read of pugilists being cazed, but
that was the llrst time wo had seen a man in that
condition. The Engllsher, assisted by a yidisher—
we can’t take our affidavit as to the spelling-
friend, also from the old country, fully arrayed
himself for the fray, and stood up before Larry in
his too too gorgeous attire, and it was then
we ga/.ed upon a dazed pugilist. The bold
Turonite could only murmur, In faltering accents,
” I have seen an English amateur in his war paint,
and I am now prepared to meet my doom." How-
ever, he survived the encounter. The second
show this English champion had was with a young
gentleman, minus the slightest pretensions to
science, but plus enough tallow to mate It an
utter impossibility to last a single round, if only
opposed to his own shadow. Though very little
could be gleaned of the Englishman’s form from
either of these exhibitions, Foley being as immea-
surably his superior as the amateur was his in-
ferior, we have an idea he would now have no
show with the Sydneyite, whatever he might have
done when at his best. We are not aware in what
year or years our visitor won tho light-weight
championship; but, as he came to the colonies with
the reputation in 1879, he must be getting rather
stale to meet a scientific man heavier than himself,
and in the first blush of his strength and manhood.
Setting-to right foot foremost, Foley’s pupil has
99 men out of every hundred at a disadvantage,
and when he cross-counters with the left, it 's
generally time to put the shutters up. The
Britisher is no doubt quick with both hands and
teet; but, to our thinking, his hitting power ap-
pears Ifar too piano to allow of his coping with
any show of success against tho colonial amateur
phenomenon.
ANSWER TO CORRESPONDENT.
“ Petrel ”: We should say your craft will rank
with the half-deckers over twenty feet.
So Eve and Adam wore no dresses,
Because they lived on watercresses;
And till they learned to cook their crudities,
Went blind as beetles to their nudities.
These four linos point to the tremendoas tact that
If Father Adam had lived to wear the pants of
Sumraerrteld and Co., at 10s. 6d., the serpent would
not have stood a show when five was tempted.
Eight high-class cutters employed by Summerfleld
and Co., Merchant Tailors, 235 and 237 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Country residents write for our new
“ World of Fashion,” free.*
THE KOOKABURRA.
“ Come and have a drink ” is now expressed
by “Come and take a physiological quantity.”
Mashers.—The best and lightest are made by
Oflord, Hatter, 652 Oeorge-street, Brickfield Hill. 4 '
German scientists protect iron from rust.
The German scientist is boiled to the consistency
of glue, and spread on the iron with a small brush.
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Young Hopeful : “ Mamma, may I go out
I fishing to-day?” Mamma : “Yes, my dear: only
: remember that you are not to go near the water,
and If you get your feet wet, or come home
drowned, you will have a whipping and be sent to
bod.”
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hookings and
Oo., 143, Pltt-street.*
There was recently a trial for murder in
which the evidence was so palpably insufficient
that the Judge stopped the case, and directed the
jury to return a verdict of “ not guilty.” A well-
known lawyer, however, who wished to say some-
thing for the fee he had received for the defence,
claimed the privilege of addressing the court.
“ We’ll hear you with pleasure, Mr. B,” said the
J udge; “ but, to prevent accident, we’ll first acquit
the prisoner.”
Think and Act.—After many trials,
Messrs. Dalm and Oertel succeeded in preparing a
most delicious Lemonade from Australian lemons.
They discarded imported, unwholesome Oil of
Lemons. Give it a trial. ASrated-water works, 403
Pltt-street.*
He was a Democrat and the treasurer of a
small county town in New Hampshire. The
other day, through stress of circumstances, he
was compelled to acknowledge that not only was
the county strong-box empty, but that his books
showed a balance of $16,000 on the wrong side.
“ It isn’t my fault,” he calmly explained, “ You
know wo want a new bridge over Gladstone Creek.
I hoped to build it without calling on the tax-
payers. I put up the $18,000 as a margin
to buy wheat, and I calculated that on
the transaction I should make a profit of
at least $8000.” ‘‘And you lost the lot?”
“ Every cent. Those cussed Britishers had a good
harvest, and you can’t sell the stuff for love or
money.” “You ought to have known itl” howled
two men who were securities for his integrity.
“How, gentlemen, how would you have one con-
trol the price of food ? I regret the circumstance,
gentlemen, extremely. But I have the consola-
tion of knowing that, while my two securities lose
$18,000, the tolling masses will have the benefit of
the decline in wheat.” The two securities, who
happened to be Republicans, said nothing, but
went out and wept bitterly.
“Thank Heaven!” exclaimed a fond
father, as he paced the floor at midnight with the
howling heir. “ Thank Heaven you are not twins,
because, if It was not for Summerfleld and Co.,
the Great Juvenile Outfitters, who clothe Augus-
tus and George "Washington with such pretty suits
for 10s. 6d., I should regret the day X ever saw my
lovely Angelina.” Every lady should secure
Summerfiel.i and Co.’s 33-page “ World of
Fashion,” sent post free. Biggest stock of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Newest designs in strong
Knlcker Suits at 8a. lid. to 10s. 6d. Long Trouser
Suits from our celebrated “ wear resisting fabric ”
at 21s, 35s., and 30s. BiCMMEKFIELD and CO.,
the Great Juvenile Outfitters, 235 and 237 Pitt-
street, Sydney.*
“Hit me with a little vitriol mixed with
broken glass,” said a man who might have been
taken for the worst man in the West to an Eighth-
street bar-tender, one morning, “ and Are in a few
rattlesnake stings along with it. I'm from Dead
Man’s Gulch. 1 ami” “That’s a Western order,
sir; I don’t understand it,” was the reply. “ Don't
you know what vitriol is ?” “ Yes.” “ Don’t you
know what glass is?” “Yes.” “ Don’t you know
what rattlesnake stingo is ?" “ No.” “ VVell, throw
in a little red pepper. It will make a weak drink
for me, but i’ll have to go you. It’s a mean sec-
tion of the country, this.” The ferocious style of
the man had terrorized a half-dozen listeners in
the bar-room, and when he lit a rankapee cigar
with a whole box of matches the lookers-on were
amazed. The Terror spit over the head of the
nearest man to him,and shouted, “ Come a-runnlng
with that wash; you’ve been long enough to clean
out a camp or break a bank.” A boy, who had
been dispatched by the barman to a drug store
came hurrying just at that time, and the sound ot
crushing glass made the scowling Western look up
quickly. Suddenly the barman was before him
with a largo tumbler full of vitriol, broken glass,
and red pepper. “ Is the rattlesnake stings in
thar ? asked t he Terror, with less ferociousness
than characterised his former speech. “ It’s what
you ordered,” firmly replied the saloonlst. “ I
don’t want it without the bites,” replied the bad
man, as he sidled toward the door. A club moved
from its position behind the bar, and rhe wicked
man stopped. “ Pay for that or go to the hospital,”
said the bar-man, with determination. r How
much is it?” asked the dangerous man. “Three
dollars.” The money was paid and the Terror
sneaked out.
Maternal Affection.—A Mother’s Strug-
gle for the Preservation of her Offspring.—A
Piteous Fate:—
“ Some feelings are to mortals given
With less of earth in them than heaven.”
A strange occurrence took place recently at the
residence of one of our leading citizens, living at
Woollahra. Hearing, at early morning, an unusual
sound in a spare bed-room, he went up, and there
a sad spectacle presented itself, stretched upon a
bed lay the lifeless body of a still beautiful crea-
ture, with her three little ones, all unconscious of
their irreparable loss, asleep by her side. Filled
with horror and commiseration, he examined the
house, and found the back door had been left open
the preceding night. She, with stealthy footsteps,
in her womanlike desire to preserve her dear ones
had crept upstairs with them. Subsequent inves-
tigation disclosed the fact that the father of these
three poor orphans was a good-looking scamp
always well-dressed, an adept ct evading a tailor’s
bill, decked out in finery ho never paid for He
was a frequent attendant at a singing-school
where his voice was considered “heavenly” bv
the fair sex, by whom he was greatly admired.
At one of these entertainments he had met the
partner of his fate, the fair creature now
lying dead and cold upon the bed. Poor thing”
deserted at an early ago by her heartless mother"
she had no kind friend to point out to her the path
of virtue, or to warn her of the dangerous course
she was entering upon. Her betrayer exerted his
voice beyond sdl human effort, and, alas! capti-
vated her tender heart. No clergyman blessed
their nuptials. The scoundrel who nad gained her
young affections was a type dM thorough
Sydney larrikin. He obtained a BHKks Roof In-
spector, but lost it tnrough
In a row m Sussex-street, ono ot his savage com-
panions had bitten off his ear, and otherwise
seriously injured him. He was last heard of as a
stowaway on a steamer bound for Melbourne He
of course, contributed not a single penny towards
the support of his helpless offspring. Our kind
hearted friend softly slipped down and awakened
his family. Gently loving hands removed the hap-
less .little ones, piercing the while the hearts of
those present by their piteous waiN. There
room in the house for them, and their immedlaD.
wants were attended to by the tender-hlartel
daughters of our benevolent citizen. The coffin
was ordered, and the funeral arranged for/ Kffid
stranger hands laid the body in the casket without
removing her garments, and, as the corpse was
borne away, the oldest daughter of the family
played the “Dead March” to “Saul” on a soTen
dld-toned, sweet Hapsburg piano. And then"
?^ ld K fc s tbe hea J t * r ending sobs of the household’
the body was deposited in a passing vehicle-a
dust-cart-and the " Wonderful Werthelm ’’ ma-
chine man made the driver solemnly swear
a shuttle, that the poor cat’s carcase should not be
dissected by the German sausage manufacturer ♦
POLICE TACTICS.
AT THE BONDI RIOT INQUIRY, A MEMBER OF THE “FOORCE” TESTIFIED THAT
HE RAN AWAY FROM THE PAVILION AT THE TIME WHEN THE SHOWER OP STONES
WAS AT ITS HEIGHT—NOT TO SAVE HIMSELF, YOU UNDERSTAND. BUT TO “DRAW
THE FIRE TO HIMSELF, AND AWAY FROM THE PAVILION, WHICH WAS FULL OP
LADIES!” ISN’T THERE A LEATHER MEDAL OR A C.M.G.-SH1P LYING ABOUT SOME-
WHERE FOR THAT VICARIOUS PEELER?


COMPAGNONI CATERING GO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ' 7
THE oldest and leading Catering Establishment in N.S.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor.
Municipal Council of Sydney, the A.J.C., City Club, a o , &c-
Tne Dining Saloons for Ladies and Gentlemen arc the Finest, Coollest, and loftiest inthe colony,
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar—Good Wine List.
GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p ra. (after the
Theatres. Select your own steak, 4c , and see it grilled in the room. This is one of the acquisitions
or the cRy, and a long-felt want. Inspection invited Ciub moms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Club
and City Club, upstairs. B. D. TOLLEIHACHE, General Manager.
NOTICE OE REMOVAL.
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
TO
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR FROM GEORGE-STREET.
M'FICIALTeeth
, (ompl6te ± £ at - c
J jD^rx"-
° DentistS °
market sr E i
%
THE YANKEE RUBBER
BABY.
THE unprecedented de-
mand for these inter-
esting infants has ex-
hausted the supply a full
month earlier than we an-
ticipated. A fresh supply
will, however, be received
in time for Xmas and New
Year’s amusements ; it is,
therefore, advisable to send in your orders as
early as possible, and we will forward the Infant
as soon as received. Post free, Is. 6d.
THE WIZARD CARDS,
changing from eights
to deuces, from black to
red, and back again at the
leasure of the per-
ormer. Post free, with
full instructions, Is. 2d.
I’m a Daddy ; I’m in
Love; The Mother-in-law;
I’m a Farder; and Be
fore and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever issued, 5 in each set.
Price, 6d. per set, or 5 sets for 2s.; by post, 2s. 2d.
The Three Donkeys. The newest “have” out.
Send for them, but keep it quiet. Price, Is.; by
post, Is. 2d.
The Sooner Dog—a wonderful little animal;
roars of laughter follow him wherever he goes.
Is. 6d.; by post, 2s. 6d.
Napoleon in Council, very rich, Is. 6d.; by post, 3s.
Metal Puzzles, the best in the world. Of these
we have a large assortment, priced as follows
New Challenge, Is. 6d.; New Favourite, Is. 6d.;
Arrow Hoads, Is.; Afghan Maze, Is.; Mystic Rings,
Is.; Magic Heart, Is.; and many others. On single
puzzles add 2d. for postage. On receipt of 3s. we
will send, post free, to any address, one 18d. and
two at Is. each.
HORTON and CO., 401 George-street, Sydney.
Box 641, G.P.O.
*
V
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate in Medicine and Surgery, Registered
Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours ; 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., 7 to 9 on Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday Evenings,
Ladies’ Waiting Room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
11, 52 Castlereagh-street (upstairs.)
Send for Free Treatise on Vitality and Nervous
Debility, Diseases of Women.
Illustrated Works on Deformities, Electricity
nnd its Application. Hernia (ruptures), Varicocele,
&c., &c
Address—Australian Medical and Surgical In-
firmary, Sydney : or R. 0. HOLTBRMANN, Esq.,
M.P., President, Box 120, G.P.O.
Consultation Free by mail or in person.
Deformities, Specific. Female, and Nervous
Diseases, a Specialty.
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of William-street, Hyde Park.
High-class Furniture
At Very Lowest Prices, compatible with the fines
finish, for entrance halls,
dining-rooa||HB|teivmg.rooms, bedrooms,
libraries.
CARPETS IN NEWEST DESIGNS AND
FINEST QUALITY.
WILTON CARPETS, BRUSSELS CARPETS.
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With Hearthrugs to match.
1ST CORLICINE AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL AN
BLACK AND BRASS,
In all sizes and various designs.
Foster ’s Bugle Brand.
Wiilll
»tt?!
£11
M
v.
Sis
fuss
wm
■ r
*3
tlllll.f
m*
Mill
%
tiiii
•w
8
flfta
M
wet
Uteri
•til
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BAB8 PALE ALE.
MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1873.
Capital—£100,000 with power to increase to £1,000/00
BONUSES—20 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
•pajfAui AnBjpaoo 0jb aptiax
umqij 038 0} aaiqstAi Xuy
gg
‘nvi '1'iya
qnv
‘X33UJLS 39U039 OSS
‘ETHVOM T
I OOOVU.OX HSIMHilJj 3an<I
epBca enoaBHjo isofj aqj ®.ib SVdlVdOJlO
any
: sooovnox KvoiaaMY xeaand
9qj moaj apnai _
0 q? ojb SadJ. NVld 010
SENT FREE, by POST ONLY, In an Envelope.
SOCIAL 'SCIENCE,
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders which
cause Impediments te Marriage, and all
Chronic Diseases; also, How to choose a partner
for life, so as to live happy and produce healthy
children ; and how to regain and preserve your
health, &c, &c.
Address: R. T. 8ELBT, Medical Herbalist,
Devonshire-street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
ALCOCK & CO.'S
CELEBRATED]]
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS:
CB ISO! ill III.,
375 Georga-sft., Sydney.
TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED.
DE
COMFORTABLE TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insurei
entire freedom from toothache and decay of tin
teeth. There are tbiee kinds, distinguished by 1
Yellow, Green, and Rod 811k Thread attached t<
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Greet
is invaluable to persons who suifer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth ant
~ums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a lev
urops in a little water to rinse the mouth dally
they will not only never suffer again, but will pro
8 ®rve thetr teeth sound and white to the end. Thai
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations
Label bears the name, “ Wilcox am
see that each uwno WK .
Co., 230 Oxford-street, London,
DE
ASTHMA,COUGH, BRONCHITIS,
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief Ji
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at nigh
1, nn<
Bpasui. promt.
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may b(
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicat
patienta.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
CamtAon.—To guard against fraudulent imitations
*** henr * the name of “ Wilcox am
Co., £& Ozford~sireel, London."
* dti
f ■ 'f*
I
** i2 Head Office*, stts
First Fire Society established in the colony on
the Mutual principle. Riving- policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from
all liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
The BEST ALE and STOUT In the Market
BOLD BT ALti STOREKEEPERS AND WINB1
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
i»*RjeOR0S
fe for
//ERybl/sJjEBltlJYT
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system: regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 12a., or four quantities is one lor
36s.; If by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,1
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from George-street South.
rp O A L L WOMEN.
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERT
IN SOAP 1
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with it:
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
839" Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
6d. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
VENETIA WALT^
Tht 4ir to b« woU nurrkai, Oaroupe Lowthian.
raiitabiU
Pea
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &c.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &o.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues will be ready in a few days and
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &o., at lowest prices.
Printing—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
Music and Books bound in any stylo, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most impertant Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygiaph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
S nd and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM~BULLARD,
343 GEORGE STREET.
~W. B. DBAPB & CO.,
MINING BROKERS AND AGENTS,
Mining Exchange,
FITZROY STREET, ROCKHAMPTON.
Commissions entrusted to our care executed with
judgment and despatch. Latest Mining Intelli-
gence from-th© surrounding fields.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Hoad Oflices-PITT and KING STREETS,
Infants and Children
' What gives our Children rosy cheeks, '
, What cures their fevers, makes them sleep; 1
I Castoria-
When Babies fret, and cry by turns,
1 What cures their colic, kills their worms.
| Castoria. )
* What quickly cures Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Colds, Indigestion ;
I v
* Farewell then to Morphine Syrups,
i Castor Oil and Paregoric, and
I Hall Castoria.
* “Castoria is so well adapted to Children
that I recommend it aa superior to any medi-
cine known to mo,”—H, A. Abchkr, M. D.,
Ill Oxford St., Now York.
Elliott Bros., Sidney, Agents.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found it a
last with the Argosy Braces at Gowlng Bros.
£
»
W
GOWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s, «cl., 3s., 3s. Od., «c 4s. Od
GOWING BROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, &o.
332 and 408 George-street,
T. L. SMITH,
Royal Book and Picture Promenade,
418 and 300 George-strect,
Near Royal Hotel.
, “A thing of beauty is a joy for ever.”
CALL and view the Works of Art displayed in
Christmas and New Year’s Cards.
Christmas Cards. Christmas Cards.
The Largest and Choicest Variety ever
Displayed in Australia.
Hand Painted, Ivory Gelatine, Satin, Plush.
Photographic Cards, and a host of others, too
numerous to particularize.
Cards from 3d. per dozen to KJs. each.


Jjiu
BNITU&l SHOW BOOM
BRADLEY NKWTON. and LAMB,
O'Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTAND8, pnd
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library fuKniturb, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, Ac.
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for olubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, Ac.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB. Spring ana O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Bight-pound bedroom suiTES.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 3 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURN1TURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6<f.; Washstauds from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s-
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
i?QK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Faahlon-
v-r able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly amsnea in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
jriHlFFONNlBR WHATNOTS, effective designs,
Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
OConnell-street.
NAMELLBD and JEWELLED MIHRoKS, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens lor flro grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-street.
ThRA WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
JLF A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O'Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80a the pair.
XTlUIiL SUITES for DINING-ROOM —SIDE-
JT BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARVl
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Counell-street.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
< ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK OH AIL—
Patented.
D
-v-
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa . at tho will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames arc of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when ft Jded. Price 80s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2s. 6d. extra.
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
F RAMBWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
slve assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newtoql^Hyiiamb.
ntnProom FUHSi-
nd Massiv<
B
•piRAMEWORK for DI
__ TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
EDSTBADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass"
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
B
ED8TEAD8, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B
deecrmtions at lowest rate-
BRADLEY, NKWTON, and LAMB, O’Con
nell and Spring streets.
WASHSTANDS, with marble, from 26s. eacl
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 20s : Verandah Chain
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB. O’Connell-street.
B
BNT WOOD FURNITURE.—A very eomplet
' Assortment; best nuke, lowest i '
SOCIAL
Mr. Jagd’s ball last Thurday drew a
gathering of pleasure-seekers to Tattersall’s Hall,
who had a capital night’s dancing. A trio of
musicians, who occupied the stage, played good
time, and e\ ery now and then the cornet man
would shoot out with much effect. His efforts
covered him with credit, considering the heat of
the weather. Yet some day, perhaps, he will die.
Ah I The floor was well managed by Mr. Ellis.
The number of the dressy sex present rather out-
balanced the men, who always get lazy in hot
weather. “Hot” is rather vulgar, isn’t it? But
warm won’t express what it was on Thursday
night. Even with all the windows wide open, and
Ice-cream put in the lemonade, and an occasional
chill caused by the freaks of the cornet man, it
was nothing less than hot. In such weather,
ladies have a clear advantage, and while a man is
saturated with perspiration and profanity under his
black broadcloth, they can keep as cool as they
like by leaving off as much as they dare. And
some ladies dare a great deal. However, at
Mrs. Jagd’s genial ball the toilettes were tasteful
rather than daring, and some were exceptionally
neat. A pink nun’s-veiling, in close gathers round
the shoulders, sheltered a beautiful girl named
after a native tree. No, it’s not gum; perish such
a prosaic thought I Another pink was silk, and
the wearer a pretty girl from Bourke-street. A
married lady in black moire, accompanied by her
sister, chaperoned two of Sydney’s sweetest dan-
cers, two Cissies. From Blizabeth-street, Pad-
dington, came a fair young lady in blue satin,
with daisies to match. They don’t usually grow
that colour, but most likely they turned blue so
as not to spoil her niceness. A little brunette
made a inoat combination of crimson satin with
black striped grenadine ; and the blue and whites
were as pretty as they were plentiful. Twenty-
four dances brought 3 o'clock, and Mrs. Jagd was
as pleasant all round as ever she could be.
» • *
Six sweet girls gave a party at the Fores-
ter’s Hall on the 7ta instant It’s a most con-
venient and pretty little place for a limited
number, and decorated as it was, with one end
screened off for the ever-welcome supper table, It
proved exactly the spot for joy on that same
sultry evening. A good musician was engaged,
and Mr. Hawkins, who acted as M.C,, saw that the
twenty-two dances were not too long spun out.
Of course every broad-minded man is in favour of
woman’s rights, and when the sex take it in their
winsome little heads that they have a right to
entertain their male friends at a party, they ought
to be encouraged. The only pity is that young
ladles don’t think of exercising this right ortener.
They do it so nicely. Tha half-dozen young hos-
tesses at the Foresters’spared no trouble, and were
as gracious in introducing partners to one another
as they were graceful in accepting them them-
selves. There was no slowness, there never need
be when lively girls like to set their hearts against
it. Just one little tremor of apprehension arose
as nine o’clock came and no musician, but he ap-
peared at last, and then everything went as happily
as love’s young dream till morning. Some wore
fancy costumes, and of the ladies who promoted
the party, two from Phllllp-street wore Red Rid-
ing Hood and Nancy Lee. One from Woolloo-
mooloo was a pretty Peasant, and two from
Forbes-stroet were Dawn and Starlight. Both fair
girls and merryones—the former wore white satin
and golden stars, the other blue satin and silver
stars; both wore veils representing, we thought,
the morning and evening mist. But when they
were out of the room, then we became sure they
were mist. A Botany belle as Night was the sixth,
dressed in black and stars, a celestial kind of
dancer, too. A Flower Girl came from Phililp-
stroet, and three charming sisters in white from
Church Hill. A piquant face peering over blue
satin belonged to a Woolloomooloo ladv; and a
Gipsy, in high spirits, came from Dawes Point. A
Bailor’s Wife costume was an excellent character,
so was Advance Australia. Most of the gentlemen
were limited to the conventional black, as they
generally are, but the owner of a Lawn Tennis
suit got the deadwood on the others. It was de-
lightfully cool, and the white flannel was setoff
with bright cardinal.
m * *
After all, we aren’t so much behind the
times here. Society says: “ A new fashion has
come into vogue by which singers in public can
dispense with the usual custom of biding their
faces in a sheet ot music, or hiring a light porter
to carry their impedimenta. At a musical ‘ At
Home’ the other evening a gentleman attracted
considerable attention by reason of the music
from which ho sang his songs. Instead of being
cumbered with the usual long roll of music, or
the bound volume which can only be modestly
brought concealed up one’s back, he produced
from his pocket a small book not much bigger
than an ordinary hymn-book, and sang from
this. On enquiry, it was ascertained that he
had had his songs reduced by one of the
many available processes, and bad thus ob-
tained, in a portable and legible form, enough
music to make, in the customary way, « big,
awkward volume.” New, the Australian Photo.
Engraving Company, Pitt-street, have been using
one of these excellent processes for some time
past, and cm bring an ordinary sheet of music
down like this—
la fact, small enough just to fit nicely into your
waistcoat pocket. For a man with good eyesight,
the music might be made of a size suitable for
going inside the locket which hangs from his
albert; but, perhaps, that would be overdoing it.
Anyway, this reducing process is a good scheme,
and, for your can’t-be-bothered-to-oarry-my-
music man, should prove an invaluable boon.
* * *
It is not likely the ladies of Sydney will be
at al' satisfied with the way in which a number
of middle-aged and estimable gentlemen have
arranged for the colony to say good-bye to Com-
modore Era kino and his officers. It is said of
many men that they dearly love a lord, but It is
certain that the ladies of Sydney dearly love
lieutenants. They have proved it. And now the
gold-buttoned gallants are to be wafted away
without the belles of Sydney having one chance
of showing how much they feel the sweet sorrow
of parting. In place of ladies’ company, the Nel-
son officers are to enjoy a French menu, expen-
sive wines, and dry speeches. They would pro-
bably have one evening with the ladles rather
than an eternity of vituals and wine and gas.
But the speeches will be printed. They will let
England know how pleased the colony is with
Commodore Brskine: they will be, in fact, a sort
of *• character ” which the officers will delightedly
show to their friends; and they will bring the
middle-aged and estimable gentlemen who make
them into notice. That is, in the event ot any
one reading them. It seems almost cruel to sug-
gest that if these gentlemen talked till they
dropped into their patriarchal graves, and the
Tamar was loaded with their laboriously-con-
structed flattery, all their speeches would not
make or mar the character of the smallest middy
on board. This determination to have a banquet
la thorougly unsatisfactory. The Nelson has not
done so much fighting on the Australian station
that her officers can with any degree ot accuracy be
complimented on their powers In war. It is in the
social line they have done their greatest perform-
ances, and for their bonnet-hops they are most
famed. It is the ladies who have been fa-
voured with the most convincing proofs of their
gallantry, and now the ladies are not to be even
allowed to bid them good-bye. Why was a picnic
not given T Surely one could be organised in far
less than a fortnight. There are pi ices large
enough for any crowd likely to go, either down
the harbour or at Botany. And, when leaving
for the last time the finest harbour in the world,
it would not be unfitting that the Nelson
officers should carry in their mind along
with its beauty the memory of the fair
Australiennes who live on its shores, and so
often enhance its beauty with the presence of
their own. And the steady commercial gentlemen
could have delivered their speeches, too. The re-
porters would, in their heroic adherence to duty,
get up close, and passively suffer them through to
the bitter end, even if no one else felt any interest.
A ball was negatived, on the ground of hot
weather. If a well-managed ball were given in
the exhibition, with the officers in attendance, it
is pretty safe to say that every lady who likes gold
buttons would bo willing to go to it, and would
cheerfully chance the weather. One gentleman
urged that many people would go to a ban-
quet who would not go to a ball ; it
did not seem to enter his sapient head that
the converse would be true, and that
a very much larger number who would
go to a ball would never dream of going to the
magnificent gorge which has been decided on. It
ought to bo recorded that one magnanimous male
suggested that, as there was not room in the vesti-
bule for ladies to sit with the gentlemen at their
heavy feed, the fair ones should be accommodated
in the corridor, and looking through the windows
should watch them eatl Speaking from memory,
there are seven windows in the corridor, and each
window will accommodate two ladles. As Chad-
hand would say. this is a blessed thought, indeed.
Even if ladles did participate in the banquet, it
would be but dull to them compared with the
pleasures of either picnic or ball, where all may
freely merge together. But it is evident there is
neither the will nor the wish on the part of certain
gentlemen to allow ladles a share in the Nelson
farewell. The whole affair makes but a shabby
show of Sydney chivalry.
* * *
A very enjoyable evening party was held
on Tuesday, nth instant, at Creedmoor, Padding-
ton, when a large and happy company assembled.
The evening was rather close for dancing, but
the floor in splendid order, and the rooms largo
and lofty. Dancing commenced about 9, and was
kept up with spirit till nearly 3. The card rooms
and balconies were extensively patronised, the
whole being tastefully decorated with flowers,
ferns, and large Chinese lanterns, making the
whole a nice, cool, and refreshing retreat. Dresses
were exceedingly tasteful, it being a hard matter
to single any out, but the following came in for
the greatest share of attentionThe hostess
looked charming in black silk and jet trimmings,
with head-dress of pearls and pink roses; a
married lady, from Oxford-st., was pretty in white
silk and forget-me-nots ; a married lady, from
Darlinghurst, in black and cerise silk, was greatly
admired; two ladies from Woollahra, one in ruby
satin and ruby lace, and the other in lilac and
tulle, were very becoming; a newly-married lady
from North Shore, in white satin and lace, looked
sweetly pretty The sweet seventeens who took
part in the gay and festive scene were the two
daughters, one in ruby velvet, trimmed with ruby
satin and coffee lace, and the other in white satin
and heliotrope, with cream lace and silver trim-
mings; and two from Darlinghurst, one in white
satin and field flowers, and the other in pale blue
and silver trimmings, were greatly admired. A
Glebe Point young lady, in pale pink satin and
cretonne lace, and a Woollahra damsel, in old
gold satin, looked charming. Two sisters from
Woollahra, one in cerise and white, and the
other in white and honeysuckle, were delightful.
A young lady from Surry Hills looked sweet in
ruby and pink satin, and one from Bummer Hill in
China silk and ruby satin was nice. Two sisters
from Balmain, in pink, and one from Ultimo, in
cream and bunches of ribbon, were deservedly
admired.
I • •
Ou the Tth instant, the Rev. W. Mathieson
wedded Mr. J. T. Marshall to Mis* Addle Brlarley,
second daughter of Mr. James Brlarley, in the
Congregational Church at Croydon. The church
was adorned with blush roses and greenery by
Bearle and Sons, and Mr. B. Sutton played the
usual Wedding March at the proper moment. Pour
maids accompanied the bride, three being her
sisters, Florrie, Louie, and Edle, and the fourth
her cousin, Mias Florrie Hardie. Half the quar-
tette wore pale-blue, and half wore pink, with
cream lace and marabout feathers. A number of
handsome costumes were seen in the church; but,
of course, attraction centred in the graceful bride,
who wore a cream dress of satin and moire, trimmed
with cream lace, and wreath and veil to frame a
charming face. After the ceremony, adjournment
was made to Clythe, Burwood, where some half
hundred guests partook of the breakfast, and short
speeches expressed the happiness and good-will of
all concerned, and the new-made pair then started
for the mountain honeymoon. Tennis, croquet,
and other pastimes occupied the afternoon, and a
dance was held in the evening.
* * * *
About the most unfortunate way of cele-
brating his silver wedding was pursued by the
Hon. J. Hill, of Fiji, who partly blew himself up.
He intended to explode some dynamite in a creek
at Rambi Island, to make a haul of fish, but it
shattered his right hand, &o. A messenger bad
to traveUby sea 130 miles for the doctor—On ex-
hibition in Hordern’s Emporium window is a
wonderful pair of gloves. They are cardinal
jersey silk, equal to 100 buttons—that is, 5ft. in
length. When a girl wears them to a party, she
starts getting them on immediately after
breakfast An interesting wedding took
place in the Wesleyan Church, Tenterfleld, on the
7th instant, when a Sydney gentleman was married
to the eldest daughter of an old resident. Bride
charming in cream cashmere and satin, three
bridesmaids pretty, two in fawn-figured sateen,
and one in white sateen and wine-coloured bows.
After breakfast at residence of bride’s parents,
happy pair started to Queensland for honeymoon.
a balance of £1 9s. from the recent Ministry
banquet was handed to the Soup Kitchen Over
TOO gentlemen attended a banquet at Gerripgong
last week, givenlto Dr. Harman Tarrant, M.P., in-
cluding Ministers Dibbs and Norton. Dr. Tarrant
said his medical duties left him insufficient time to
fulfil Parliamentary duties, and notified that he
would resign ...Snails’ Bay regatta on Valentine
Day A fine new Masonic Hall was opened at St.
Leonard's on Friday night last by a fashionable
concert. The best musicians in Sydney competed
for public favour. The hall cost £4600, and will be
available for concerts, meetings, balls, &o , all tho
various necessary rooms being provided The
proposal to admit schoolboys to the Mechanics’
School of Arts at reduced fee has been negatived.
£1 a year is surely low enough tor any one
Moruya Jockey Club ball occurred in the Agricul-
tural Hall on New Year’s night. Night before,
there was a Masonic ball in the Moruya Mechanics
Institute On Anniversary Day, the Hon. W. B.
Dailey will lay a memorial stone at the new Koyal
Foresters’ Hall, Castlereagh-street. A banquet
will be held and speeches given; and In the even-
ing ladies will be allowed to take their share In a
soirie dangante at the old Masonic Hall—As the
year went out, Sir Wigram Allen’s youngest
daughter also went. On the last day, Miss Marian
Isabel was married at the private chapel, Toxteth
Park, to Mr. J. 8. Mitchell, of Btham. Darling
Point, and managing partner In the wealthy firm of
Tooth and Co. brewers.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“J. M‘K.”: Yes. send along; but give names for
our information “ R J.”: Glad to hear from
you. Not too much dress, please.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Banq uet to Mr. C. J. Roberta (Exchange) January 20.
Banquet to Commodore Ersklne and
Nelson Officers (Town Hall January 23.
Anniversary Regatta January 26.
Banquet and Soiree (Old Masonic Hall) January 26.
Banquet to Mr. Alf. Bennett (Ex-
change) January 2T.
THE CAMBRIDGE CLUB HOTEL.
There has scarcely been a better instance in
Sydney of the room for a first-class hotel than is
found In the success which has attended the enter-
prise of Mr. James Rainford with regard to the
Cambridge Club Hotel. It was in itself a first-class
s ruoture, in a capital position, but, until Mr.
Rainford took up the management, the full mea-
sure of its success was not accomplished. And un-
doubtedly its position, too, is unique. The Cam-
bridge Club is in reality a home where comfort
and conviviality eternally reign, there being scarce
a single evidence of the repellant character
of the city hotel. The edifice was built on
an entirely modern plan for a superior hotel;
the site was unsurpassed, being directly opposite
Hyde Park, and it was about the most elevated
part of the city. Then the plan of loftiness being
adopted, it gave the hotel a commanding position,
ensuring a splendid view and unsurpassed ventila-
tion. To these advantages Mr. Rainford brought
everv detail in furniture and equipment which
could contribute to one’s comfort and convenience.
The family or residential portion of the hotel is
entirely cut off from the public part, and has
a wholly separate entrance from the street.
The suites of rooms here, with balcony, ren-
ders the Cambridge the most enjoyable family
hotel in any city in Australia. The private
bar is more like a private parlour in a first-
class residence, being in every way private, en-
tirely away from the street, and so situated and
secluded as to make an hour spent there really one
of enjoyment. The dining hall of the hotel is
without exception the finest could be designed. It
is like an art gallery, beautifully lighted and de-
corated, and with extraordinary lofty ceilings and
expansive windows. In the internal management
of the hotel, Mr. Rainford is assisted ty the mana-
geress. Mrs. Spence, who dispenses a hospitality
and attention which have won encomiums from
innumerable lady friends, families, and visitors.
The terms are made very reasonable—two guineas
a week, or 8s. per day, and, considering that every-
thing is first-class, the liquors in particular being
of all-round excellence, these terms are reasonable.
As to the host, our popular friend Jem Rainford,
as he is known to thousands all over Australia—
no man better deserves success. With rare
steady system of business habits, Mr. Rainford
combines one of the most genial and certainly
the most generous disposition we have found.
For over fifteen years he has been the stand-
ing friend of professional men who have had to
struggle for a living, and his kindness has fol-
lowed many a one to the grave, often giving
decent interment to men who died helpless and
friendless. Good luck and continued prosperity
to Jim Rainford 1 A man who does this good by
stealth is a thousand-fold a nobler fellow than the
man who hoards up coin and bequeaths it to per-
petuate his own name.*
Wolfe's Schnapps is the only genuine
Schnapps— Avoid ail counterfeits and imitations.
That indigestion or stomach gas at night,
preventing rest and sleep, will disappear by using
Hop Bitters. Head.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. flOf Hunter-street, Sydney.*
Entirely new shapes of moustaohe oups
and saucers are now on view at Bray Bros., 403
George-street. This same firm have a great as-
sortment of new goods, including chamber ser-
vices of all sorts, with or without accessories, of
recent importation.*
The handkerchief which is perfumed with
MURRAY AND LANMAN’S FLORIDA WATER
yields more enjoyment to its possessor than would
a bouquet of flowers, because the latter fade, de-
cay, and become offensive, but the Florida Water
remains fresh and delicious, unaffected by the
lapse of time.
John T. McInnbs and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
bers, 90 Pitt-stbbbt, Sydney. Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant, &o. No commission charged for
buying. (3B r ” Agents for the sale or purchase on
commission of Pure-bred Stnok.*
The Suddenness of Deaths.—While the
aphorism that in the midst of life we are in death
indicates the unexpectedness of the grim visitant,
of late the abrupt termination of human life is
something simply appalling. The reasons are
obvious. We either neglect to tonify the system,
or over excite it by phlogistic draughts. A gener-
ous use of Wolfe s Schnapps will impart strength
while not unduly stimulating the organs of the
body. Always ask for W olfb's Schnapps.
Mr. DbCourot Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “Miners* Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders' Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 62 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, *r Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, CS? Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Bags Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d.
Eer package. Send 2d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.O-
ydney, and you will receive a Sample Card or
Colours, &e., &o.. by return post.*
Readers of Charles Lamb’s charming es-
says will remember, that exquisitlvely humorous
Eiece, entitled “A Dissertation on Roast Pig”;
ow the flavour ot the tender porker is mingleu
with the delight of the fortunate Chinaman who,
for the first time and by a singular accident, revels
in the luxury of roast sucking pig. Whether this
was the commencement of the intense lining
which some folks have for this succulent dish, or
whether the now general addition of sage and
onions, by way of stuffing, is the cause of its popu-
larity cannot, with anything like certainty, be ar-
rived at; but that the improvised meal ot the
heathen Chinee was delicately browned, and done
to a turn, there can be no doubt. Those who like
sucking pig or other edibles properly cooked
should see the cooking ranges and stoves at An-
thony Hordern aod Sous, Palace Emporium, Hay-
market.*
BLOSSOMS OF SRRINQTIOE.


Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINK of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED
NESDAT8, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS A SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Maokay
every fortnight
Fleet or Steamships:
BUNINYONG EDINA KONOOWARRA
BARRABOOL GABO LBURA
BURWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KE1LAWARRA YOU YANG8,
WM. HOWARD SMITH A SONS (Limited).
42 King Street, Sydney.
J. MASSEY, Jim.,
fiaios m imis,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—ALTERATION OF AR-
RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAT
Swimming; Baths
(the *nly pure sea-water baths near Sydney.)
Open every day for Ladies and Gentlemen from
6 a.m. till dark.
Admission, 3d.; Children, accompanied by adults,
2d.; 100 tickets, 31s.; Monthly Tickets, 6s.; An-
nual Tickets, from 1st. September, 2ls.
SWIMMING TAUGHT by Mr. Frederick
Cavill, the world-renowned swimmer, who swam
from France to England in 12 hours, 30th August.
1877. Six Lessons, 31s. The North Shore Ferry
Steamers leave the Circular Quay for the Baths
every quarter-of-an-hour.
ESTABLISHED 1855.
H. GRIESSELICH & CO.,
Shippers, Merchants & General Commission Agents,
WEAVER’S HALL—WOOL EXCHANGE,
22 Basinghall-street, London, E.C.
TER.MS:—
or slimiil 1 , 1 ' nSiull 01, every description of General Merchandise from any Special Maker, Factor,
mission er ’ ut>ou P° r cent.—and Consignments of Colonial Produce realised at I per cent.—Cora-
( * h n\lr ng *1° ex P en8 i ye Branch Houses to support in the Colonies,
direct 6n * e a Mer ohants, Importers, Storekeepers, &c., for the purpose of
unon ->W, of any description of Goods in large «r small quantities,
Hemit~r^np«^uh t nrH!^ n, i( 8S < b n r. on j- 16 I U? t coat ' subject to the usual financial arrangements, viz
SfmnlStfi ShGinil.2'°H: dlt ° r Negooiatlon of Draft bv a London Dank on presentation of the
complete Shipping Securities, otherwise payment through friends in Kurope.
makers or*Sup*pliers^ >urc^a8ers visiting England or the Continent will be Introduced to the actual
Drapery job linos secured at the end of Season much under Cost.
Please D^H N G. S & f Co/8 0 Peri^cal U Pr(^uce V Kepo^L aymen * , ° r U8Ual advances granted there0Q -
Colonial Banks EE * ERENCE ® : 'I’he London Westminster Bank, Lothbury, London, and any of the
Messrs. GRIESSELICH <Sr CO ’S Prices Current (Importers and Shippers Guide), one hundred
pages, or any special maker on application. Price List forwarded, post free, on application.
Address for Telegrams—
GRIESSELICH. LONDON.
Consignments.
Messrs. H. G. & Co. hive frequent opportunities to influence consignments, provided usual advances
are arranged.
Special arrangements entered into with Merchants in a position to influence orders.
LLOTD (5c CO-
4s. In the £, or 20 per cent. Reduction.
GREAT SALE OF^EALLY NEW GOODS!
Disposal of the Balance of Spring and Summer Imports,
at a Discount of 4s. in the £.
PRIOR to our Half-yearly Stocktaking, at the end of JANUARY, wo intend Disnoslmr of all
SURPLUS SUMMER SEASON’S GOODS, at the very large Discount of Is. In the £.
83T” BOSSALIE, LLOYD and CO. have not reduced the prices of their goods, but thov make a
bond fide deduction of Is. in the £ after the bill is made out. Fleas** note that you buy in the uanaT
way, thus : If your purchases amount to £6, you only.pay £1 IBj. This is the only genuine warn
selling off. J
LADIES WILL DO WELL TO INSPECT THIS MAGNIFICENT STOCK.
ORDERS ENTRUSTED TO US THROUGH POST WILL HAVE OUR BEIT CARE.
ROSSALIE, LLOFD & CO.,
3S4= G-eorg-e-street, S37 , d.ao.e37-
(Near the Post Office, and directly opposite Wynyard-street).
107 Pitt-streot,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
tw LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.
Carnrick’s Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk
(Composed of about equal proportions of Pure Cod Liver Oil and Condensed Milk digested)
T a£orda us muohpleMure to amiounce_totte_ Medical Profession and the Public that we have suc-
form.
needed In combining these nutritive substances Into a permanent , palatable , and easily a *imilable
child with a rellshr 2nd. oitaWpr-piKd for a^mil^
Cod Liver Oil, when taken plain, often "trends the stomach, The Oil and Milk in Peptonized rnAr?nA
Oil and Milk are digested, and it will therefore usually agree with the most
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil ami Milk contains double the nutritive and flesh-forming nrlnclffies
the Emulsions of Cod Liver Oil. Ith It is well known that the BmulsiSns of Tod Liver Oil uwal ?
contain from bOto 75 per cent, of water. Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk contains 53 per cent of
best Cod Liver Oil. and in the place of water we use condensed milk, reduced in vacuo In our labora-
tory. 5th. The milk is condensed to the consistency of the Cod Liver Oil, and when cnmhlnL
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk, it forms one of the most pleasant and nutritious corapmmds^ha"
can be conceived or produced.
This Preparation is acknowledged far superior to any of the Cod Liver Oil Emulsions ever
Introduced, it being already digested, it may be retained on the weakest stomach.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with HYPQPHOSPHITES OF limp- iwn
SODA. To be obtained of the Principal Chemists and Druggists in the colonies. AND
The Maltine Manufacturing Co., Lim , 24 aud 25 Hart-st., Bloomubury, London, W.C
Wholesale Agents in the Colonies Elliott Bros.. Sydney; E. Prosser & Co.. Sydney Felton nw™
Fa MolhAtirno • Wnnlro Tnmr.yff C, VT~1 vT .V. tv jZ. V _. \ U ». . F dVOIl, IB
vv uuivouit as* uuiuuioo . uiaoti oi ub.. oyuuuy , j 1 *• rTUeser <x UO.. oydnev* Koltnn
waJe, & Co., Melbourne; Rocke, Tompsitt. & Co., Melbourne; Duerdin & Sainsburv Melbourne- 'pUii
Fauldmg & Co., Adelaide; A. M. Blcktord & Co., Adelaide; Bentley, Taylor, & Co y Brisbane" 6 * * *
Rroa no Driahnne- New Zealand TD-mr TV. J ’ WlBOane , r
Bros. & Co., Brisbane; New Zealand Drug Co., Brisbane.
Samples and Full Particulars may be obtained of
W. T. PALMER, 104 KIng-straet, Sydney.
Elliott
W. H. ARIELL & CO.’S Agencies,
irinwrv arrmtin*n tt* l l, ’
KENT STREET (near King-street 1 , SYDNEY
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S Celebrated Biscuits, Cakes, Treacle, &o.
EXCELSIOR MILLS Prize Victorian Oatmeal and Flour.
& CO.’S Prize Assorted Confectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.'S Prize Baking Powders.
SWaLLOW & QERHAM’S Queensland Refined Sugars.
ANGLQ-SCANDINa VI AN Gold Medal Condensed Milk.
R WHITTINGHAM & co.’S London Provisions and General Merchandise.
Annual Income exceeds One Million;
U #0H
Ligbtoiog and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dearest Belle, —I was so sorry to hear
your oold was so bad that you were compelled to
keep to your room, and I am glad to .be able to
■end you somethin* which will occupy your mind,
and help to while away some of the tedious boors.
It is only a word-puzzle, but one which has baffled
even Gladstone's great mind. It is said be found
the Egyptian Question mere child's play as com-
pared to this. He carries it about in his pocket-
book, and puzzles over it in railway carriages and
cabs, but hasn’t mastered it yet. So come, let me
see what you can do. I haven't had time to give it
my attention as yet, for. you see, I have no cold, so
bave no excuse for staying indoors in order to
solve puzzles, but I don’t think I would let it beat
me If once I took it in hand. And now you are
full of curiosity to know what this masterpiece of
a puzxle la. Well, it is simply to make a word out
the letters AABBLYRY. Now, try it.
I always had an idea that the boys who play
violins, flutes, or harps In our streets, were a good
step removed from the ordinary boy. I fondly
imagined that the music threw its ennobling in-
fluence over them—indeed, it has always been my
theory that a being who is fond of flowers or
music, has a strain of refinement running through
his nature. But I have discovered lately that it only
requires a little observance (not very close either)
to find that these boy musicians are just as full of
mischief and roguery ns other mortals. One day, as
wc were going over to Manly, an Italian boy sat near
us and began to “tune up” just as the boat left the
wharf. With a look of agony, a gentleman begged
him to desist, and promised to give him sixpence
If he would do so. Of course, I expected to see
the dark eyes fill with tears, the sensitive lips
gulver, and the proffered sixpence proudly but
rmly rejected as soon as the unfeeling request
Was made. But my hero simply continued his
tuning, and replied in broken English, emphasized
with a small swear (Isn’t It queer how easily
foreigners pick up our swear words ? I nptice they
•always speak them mare distinctly than they do
others), that he had paid his shilling for his pas-
sage, and had a right to play if he chose. Upon
which, he struck up, and. possibly with the view
of raising the price of his silence, made the most
excruciating sounds that ever came from a fiddle.
The rogue shook with laughter at his success,
when the gentlemen who had first spoken doubled
his offer; but even this failed to dissuade him
from torturing our ears. In despair, we all gave
our mite toware* sileneing this aggressive little
fellow: and when at last twelve shillings were
held out to him, his black eyes danced with de-
light, and—he stopped his playing. He had a
great sense of humour, this boy, and my pity for
his wounded feelings were quite wasted ; they
were anything but wounded, if we could judge by
his actions. He informed us with a broad grin
that we had given him far more money to go away
than he ever earned in the same length of
time by playing; and, indeed, be became quite
confidential over it, and told us hts future plans,
which were as follows:—He would go to the other
end of the boat, and see if be could make his music
sufficiently bad so as to induce the other passen-
gers to bribe him to leave them in peace, as we
had done, and then, when ho had got all be could
out of them, he would come back and try us
again. This was certainly a nice return to make
us, and the rogue meant it, too; but, fortunately
for us, we arrived at Manly before he had time to
carry out his vile intentions. Bat, in future, I
shall beware of these rascals, and not be imposed
upon by them, as I am now aware I have always
been.
I call It positive cruelty to keep us without
water for two whole days at a time, as they are
doing now In some of our suburbs. Just Imagine
such a day as last Friday, and no water for a bath!
I mean a good plunge bath, not an unsatisfying,
tantalising shower. I heard one little fellow who
could hardly endure being deprived of his bath,
suggest to his mamma that she should give him the
ice from her ice-chest to “ melt down. ’ But why,
in the name of all that’s good, can they not be con-
tent with depriving us of water for a few hours
daily, instead of for two consecutive days ? I
suppose they have good reasons for all they do,
though it seems very absurd to me.
Let me warmly recommend to your notice the
“ Bobadil Waltzes,” a copy of which Messrs. Paling
and Co. kindly sent me some time since, but
which, in consequence of many besetting cares,
had entirely escaped my memory until just this
moment, when I hear Edith playing them in the
drawing-room. They are really good, and are ar-
ranged from the best airs from the opeia of that
name; and one curious thing about this Bobadil
opera is that the oftener you hear the music the
better you like it, which speaks much in its favour.
The waltzes are thus introduced:—
And if you could turn over the page you
th £t the first theme—a really charm-
ing ~ Awake, my lord, awake ! ” you
and W T<rhl here ®°, ba . dil lies sleeping on a couch,
f^7 here -but how stupid of me; I quite
forgot you haven t seen the opera. Well I
do von°v n Wl11 hav u that P leasure some day; for,
somZw T' we ha 7® errown quite attached to it
unwefi To lm as quit ®, 8 °rry Miss Plamted was too
benefit w S n o, he night of Mr - Searelle’s
Savllle was an astonishingly good
substitute. You just send for a copy of tfiose
waltzes; you will like them, I feel sure.
a notices and good advertising will go
mu^ a f t ame ay h^ W f rdS * iviD * pub J ic Performers
of the beTi cases, they remind me
mon ua to 1 boarding-school, used to sum-
,our nght evening repast of bread and
9 eatioo (sometimes called “scrape ’’) and milk
of a decided bluish tint; in fact, there was a big
fuss made over very little. When I had a letter
from a friend in the North of Queensland last
week deploring her sad fate in being unable to
get down to Brisbane, in order to hear Miss Bur-
vett perform, who, she said she heard, was quite
equal to Ketten, I felt impatient to think that
papers and people could bring themselves to be so
foolish and thoughtless as to spread such ridi-
culous opinions. Now, had this lady gone down to
Brisbane to hear Miss Burvett play the piano,
just imagine her disappointment in (lading that
she bad been altogether misled. It is simply being
indulgent to one at the expense of many, which, I
maintain, is positively dishonest. And it is not
real kindness to the lady In question, either, who
can hardly be blamed for showing a prodigious
amount of self-esteem when it is encouraged and
kept warm by the fulsome notices In some of our
papers, which leave nothing to be said in the way
of praise and admiration. Oh! the pity of it, the
pity of Itl
Did you ever observe how, at the end of any
festivities, such as those we indulge in at Christ-
mas and New Year, we all long so ardently to fall
into our usual routine of duties and simple plea-
sures again? And how any article appertaining
to these same festivities pnlls upon us! I do think,
at the present moment, 1 would walk a mile in
order to avoid seeing a Christmas card or a New
Year’s almanac, beautiful as some of them are,
notably of the latter that of the Waltham
Watch Company. The fact is we ax-e sa-
tiated with such things ; but the difficulty is
the getting back into our old groove again.
Of course, of the all-important topic, dress, we
never weary, but even that has its drawbacks,
when your pocket-money has run out, and all
through that dreadfully expensive Christmas
season. It is Just at such times (when pockets are
empty) that I feel I should like to shake Mother Eve
for ever inventing such tiresome (though I am
bound to confess, interesting) things as clothes.
The fact of the matter is. dear, I saw this morning
a dress which has fllled my all too susceptible
heart with envy, it was simply lovely, and I shall
strain every nerve in order to get a fac itimile.
Just think—a myrtle green corduroy, with pure
white moleskin facings! Isn’t it deliciously un-
common? Not altogether seasonable, certainly;
but for Autumn it would be just the thing. If it
comes to staying from theatres for a whole month
in order to save glove money, I will do so to ob-
tain that dress. 1 only hope no one will steal a
march on me; but I don’t believe any one will
imagine what a unique combination the corduroy
and moleskin makes unless they see one, and they
are hardly likely to do that, for I believe there '8
only this one in Sydney. Now, don’t forget to try
the puzzle.
Yours, as ever,
MAB.
In the year 1846 the Maoris were at war
with the settlers in the vicinity of Wellington
(N Z.), and a detachment of the 95th Regiment was
stationed there for the colonists’ protection. One
day a bugler belonging to this regiment saw a
body of rebels coming forward in a stealthy man-
ner to attack the soldiers. The bugler was in the
act of sounding the alarm when he was struck by
a tomahawk on the right arm. He placed the
bugle in his left hand, when that limb wan also
struck. He then held it between his knees, blew a
louu alarm, aud was Instantly brained with a toma-
hawk. The brave bugler’s heroic action saved the
whole detachment from being massacred.
It is very rare in these puling times to
meet with such on instance of devotion as the
following, which wo clip from the Newcastle
Hanby of the 30th ult., giving an account of a fire
at Bullock Island. It says:—“On proceeding to
the spot, we ascertained that two houses and
their contents had been completely gutted (sic),”
and that, on the Are oato dug the second house, the
owner was asleep, or, in its words, “ he and his
family were in bed at the time, and, with some
trouble, the neighbours awoke him. He imme-
diately made every effort to save his wife and
children before he thought of his furniture.”
This is where the sublimity comes in; but, in con-
templating such an evidence of exalted virtue, let
us not forget to sufficiently eulogise the man who
thus forcibly presents this gratifying spectacle to
us, and to express a wish that he will speedily get
his just reward, and if he do s, to use the words
of the immortal poet, “ We,will be there,” and, if
the hearse goes slowly, will take a box seat.
Gentle reader, in the touching words of
the immortal discoverer of Mother Seegull’s
Liver-jostling Elixir, let us ask to-day have you
cold, creeping chills extending down your back
and darting across your stomach, as if green
potato beetles and slime-oozing caterpillars
were dancing the can-can or doing a slx-
days’-go-as-you-please pedestrian contest around
those troubled regions ? Or do you feel as if you
received no sympathy from any one, and as if
your case was generally misunderstood ? No1
Well, Sir Henry Parkes does, for some “ d—d
obliging friend,” as Sheridan would say, has Just
sent him a cheerful copy of yet another marked
paper. This time It is the European Mail which
rubs in the gall; aud, speaking of the crushed poli-
tician's return to the seat of his former triumphs,
the Mail says:—" The good people of Tentertleld
were pleased to hear of the return of their mem-
ber, although they had little to complain of In his
locum tenem, Sir John Robertson, who bad been
most attentive to their wants, and most punctual
in dealing with any business brought before him.
It was gratifying to I hem, as It was to many others
throughout the colony, to know that they have
the veteran statesman once more watching the in-
terests of the colony, which, according to many,
bad sadly drifted into a most melancholy chaos.”
Rather unfortunately for himself, it is the “ vete-
ran statesman" that has drifted into the “ melan-
oh'.ly chaos,” and it is said that when he read the
above bitter par. ho burled his head in his hat, «nd
exclaimed, with the other monarch of old: “ Have
mercy on me—at least you, my friends, have
mercy on me.”
The Press is the great Arohime [Oh,
give that a rest! It’s staler now than the eggs of
the geese that saved Rome, or thePliocene Period
jokes that were resurrected to adorn the Christ-
mas number of the Jernil.—Ed. B.] But, look
here, boss; the thing Is true, and truth should
never be sacrificed except at electioneering times
—or any other occasion on which the slaughter
pays. The Press is a mighty Brobdingnagian water-
inp-pot, so to speak, which rains down god-like
wisdom, invaluable information, and sewing-ma-
chine advertisements on the thirsty land, and,
unless a man lives down a cellar all his lifetime or
wears galvanised iron clothes, the plenteous
showers of the Press must sooner or later prove
to be invaluable blessings and benefits to us all.
Now, for instance, here’s the phenomenally
gifted genius who runs the Camden Times. What
sort of a grip has he on the handle of the great
Archimedianlever that moves the world? Why,
he holds it at both ends with his giant bands, and
grips the middle with his teeth as well, for, in his
last issue, he leads off as follows: “ Knowledge is
a great blessing to mankind: the ally of Virtue
and the harbinger of Freedom.” But is that all he
does for his benighted fellowraen, round whose
half-inch brows the dusky clouds of ignorance
roll ? Not a bit of it. But, in the very next
breath, as it were, he proves that knowledge is a
freat blessing to mankind, because it is this
eaven-born knowledge which enables him to
point out to all that “ at the Camden Iron Store a
frood cotton shirt can be bought for the ridicu-
ously small sum of Is. 5d.” The sun may fail, the
heavens fall, but the world will still roll on as long
as the man at Camden grips the lever.
-hkbobhdiii + mytm***


Political Points
Mr. Northmore, a prominent South Aus-
tralian politician, says simply that those who speak
and write against him merely utter “senseless
twaddle and abuse.”
The Rev. John Osborne will soon give a
special Sabbath evening discourse on “ Bismarck,
Bewarel” or “My Advice to the Germans.” The
Imperial Chancellor is to be Invited either to at-
tend or send a representative.
The Victorian Premier has taken to quot-
ing Shakespeare. Being asked what he thought
of tho New South Wales Attorney-General’s
minute on German annexation in the Pacific, he
said, “ It dallies nicely with words.”
While Mr. Dibbs and Dr. Tarrant and the
rest at the Gerrlngong banquet were mutually
assuring each other that they were the finest fel-
lows in the world, an old farmer at table said, “We
make the finest butter in Australia here. What do
them fellows want exhibiting their political axle-
grease ?”
They are reversing thus in South Australia.
A presentation has been made there to “ an unsuc-
cessful colonist.” He tried his hardest (and tha f
honestly) to get on, hut failed. Now, this kind of
this will never do. If it should become the rule,
what will those who get on honestly, or dis-
honestly, do for presentations ?
The bitter effects of Bismarck’s Pacific
policy are making themselves ft It thus early.
Gustav Von Schwlneshnout was charged at tho
Central Police Court on Saturday with having
stolen a watch. In defence, he said, “ Mine vrents
1 only anteeeepate one leedle. More as by an by
dam zoon Yarmany will take all your wadges,”
Tbe Rum is determined to be ahead on the
New Guinea question Some of its most soul-stir-
nng leaders were sent to the Gorman Consulate
with a request that they might be forwarded to
Bismarck, An official reply was received that
until the loaders were written in English it would
be useless to send them, as His Excellency had no
one to Interpret aboriginal Australian.
The Victorian Premier does not blame
Bismarck for annexing the other Pacific Islands,
but ho does blame him for annexing part of New
Guinea, and he blames Earl Derby lor lotting him
do it. This will be sad and sorry reading for the
English Secretary of State for the Colonies and the
German Chancellor. However, they will probably
disguise their annoyance and pretend not to
notice It.
Bismarck is not without a champion here.
Mr. O’Sullivan has pronounced definitely on his
side. Blood will toll, and the descendant of Irish
kings felt bound to stand by his order. Under
tho circumstances, however, it is undignified of
him to keep up the discussion with the Nooze
about wharf lumpers washing themselves. Inter-
national questions should not be mixed up with
such trifles.
Messrs, Dibbs and Shepherd Smith are re-
spectively delighted with the publication of their
correspondence, though not from the same causes.
The Colonial Treasurer says, ” It’s high time that
fellow’s overweening vanity and impertinence
wore checked;” and the bank manager says,
“ He may be g«od enough for a Colonial Tieasurer.
though that Is not saying much, but I wouldn't
ut him in charge of a country branch.”
They are at it again in Paradise (South
A ustralia, mind). The shareholders and directors
there are quarrelling with each other. Well, we
know quite a number of shareholders and direc-
tors who have gone to the other Paradise, as pro-
vided for rich men by Alfred Sydney and the Rev.
Jeflerls, and it is likely they, too, are quarrelling.
If not, however, the row is certain to begin when
th# Mllburn Creek shareholders and directors die.
The Hobart Mercury, in mentioning the
arrival of our own Alexander Stuart, Premier, did
not mention that bis son had arrived with him
Thereupon Alexander Interviewed the editor of
the Mercury, and had the omission filled up,
stating that his son was “his private secretary.”
And upon these very points there Is ignorance
even in New South Wales. If Mr. Stuart’s son’
however, is only as handsome as he ought to be,
he will have pleasant times in Hobart. The girls
there are just lovely, and [This is not politics.
-Ed. B.]
The Local Government Bill, to be intro-
duced next session of the New Zealand Parliament,
will go to the root of things. All roads and bridges
—even what are called “ main roads”—will be put
under local care and support; charitable institu-
tions and education tho same, with, of course, Go-
vernment Inspectors. To Parliament will be left
the concern ot nothing but purely colonial
matters. The property tax will be localised, unless
it should be abolished; and, if this should bo done,
a land tax will bo substituted, and that will bo
localised also. Extended powers of legislation, as
well as of administration, will bo given to local
governing bodies.
The “move” of New Zealand to Samoan
annexation is not like that of Queensland, under
M’llwralth, to New Guinea. It is known that the
New Zealand Governor and the Premier discussed
the question of annexing Samoa, at Christchurch,
in tbe middle of last month, and tbe Governor has
gone almost outside his constitutional functions in
this matter, for if he has not actually advised his
Ministers, he has met them more than half way.
The Incomprehensible part of the matter is that
Mr. Stout, the Now Zealand premier, should be in
favour of annexation. He is an advanced thinker
on all matters political and otherwise, in tbe truest
and best sense of the word, is a radical to tbe back-
bone, and. In fact, is the last man likely, appar-
ently, to sanction a grasping acquisition of terri-
tory.
New South Wales has furnished the Con-
servatives ol West Australia with an awful politi-
cal example. They have just succeeded there in
postponing representative government for a time,
and the nominee government, having raised a
£500,000 loan, have allocated its expenditure in ail
sorts of directions; in fact, have turned it into
local bribes. For this the Liberals have taken them
to task, and the Conservative paper, the West
Australian, justifies its friends by saying that
Ministries under representative government do
exactly the same. It instances the New South
Wales Ministry, which, it says, by means of its last
loan has “ bribed and pacified every part of the
colony and bought itself a long lease of power,”
The value of these conclusions will be estimated
when it is mantioned that the West Australian
is a Sydney Morning Herald in petto. Its read-
ing matter is in a moral and intellectual sense
strictly p uerisque virglnibus, and it is full of un-
truths which only men versed in the world’s aff airs
can understand.
The way the Rum is writing about German
annexation, is verr like what a Cork editor did
many years ago. He was called Sparrow Crane,
and he edited a good oli high and dry hot Protes-
tant and ultra-Conservative paper, the Constitu-
tion. When the late Emperor of the French was
getting up the Russian war and leading England
foolishly Into it, Sparrow Crane addressed himself
In several leaders to the Czar of Russia, in order
to deter that restless gentleman from fighting.
A,id one leader began, “ We warn the Emperor' of
Russia.” Well, the Czar, unfortunately for him-
self, either did not read, or did not take the advice
of the Constitution. So war broke out, and th'.
battle of the Alma was fought and won. And on
the morning after news of the victory arrived,
Sparrow Crane had a leader beginning, “Well.
Nicolas, and what do you think of yourself now ?
Yet, strange to say, even this had no influence on
the Czar. Let us hope, however, that the Emperor
of Germany and Bismarck do not think so slight-
ingly of the Rum. Perhaps, if they got the paper
in Berlin, it might have some effect upon—the
price of sauerkraut.
The reporters sang hymns over the iced
champagne which the Bourke Municipal Council
let loose for Messrs. Abbott and Norton on their
Ministerial visit. The Council arc cursing about
it now. They quietly passed its cost (over £41) as
an expenditure in connection with the reception
of the Ministry. But fifty ratepayers have pro-
tested against the expenditure as Illegal, and have
suggested that the Aldermen, if they wish to
drink fizz with great people, should not do so at
the public expense. Both “ the powerful organs”
at Bourke support the Aldermen. The editor of
the Watchman says that though personally he
prefers red herrings and rum to champagne, he
considers it an inalienable right that champagne
should be tree to Parliament, press, and aldermen.
The editor of the Central Australian main-
tains that the divine right of kings is indissolubly
associated wb n the question, and regrets that any
vulgar fellows should be found to object to
Bourke doing/the thing in a gentlemanly fashion.
By the way, the editor of the Central Australian
is said to be Don Carlos, and this, it is whispered,
accounts for his denunciation of tho republican
form of government, also for a disinclination to
sit down unless he has something soft under him.
Don Carlos was wounded, it may be remembered,
in bis last battle.
That ‘‘The New Book of Kings,” by Mr.
J. Morrison Davidson, the learned author of
“ Eminent Radicals in and out of Parliament,” has
produced a widespread and lively sensation in
England is evident enough from the denunciations
hurled against it bv the Whig and Tory Press.
The Dublin Mail, for instance, after stating that
“it is nothing more nor less than a scandalous
chronicle of the English Monarchy,” declares that
the “ paragraphs now going the rounds of nearly
the whole English, Irish, and Scotch Press are but
gratuitous advertisements of a book which ought
never to have been published.” Without saying
anything, in the meantime, of the series of por-
traits Mr. Davidson has drawn of the sovereigns
of England, from William the Conqueror down to,
but not including, Queen Victoria, we must pro-
test that there is in it a great deal more, and some-
thing of the highest importance, too, than a, or
the “scandalous chronicle” of the English mon-
archy. The author does not, by any means, con-
fine himself to the past; he deals also with the
present and the future. As to the present, in the
face of a record which, he says, reads more like
the Newgate Calendar than any other kind of
literature, wo are asked to believe that an institu-
tion which, for eight centuries, has borne such
fruit as “lust, madness, bloodshed, murder”—to
make only a brief quotation from his indictment—
has become suddenly respectable and innocuous.
“Tho Ethiopian.” he goes on. “has been pleased
to change his skin, and tbe leopard his spots. I,
for one, do not credit it. A good Queen
is as much a contradiction in terms as ‘ An
amiable wolf,’ ‘ Cheerful lightning,’ or ‘ A
benevolent earthquake.’ Royalty cannot change
its character.” Of course, Mr. Davidson does
not contend that Kings and Queens are
naturally any worse or better than other men and
women. “ It is the institution, ’ ho says, “ that
corrupts and degrades them below the level of
their fellows;” and, consequently, he proceeds to
urge “ the abolition of kingship in the Interest of
those whom they misgovern. No community
has a right to place man or woman in a position
where tbe temptations to vice are such as to ren-
der virtue next to impossible. Royalty is essen-
tially an immoral institution, for the existence of
which monarchists are more responsible than
monarchs.” These are, certainly, most uncom-
promising propositions to postulate: and there is no
mistaking the conclusion to which they point, viz.,
th.vt monarchy “ can neither be curotd nor longer
endured— Delenda est Carthago." Mr. Davidson,
being a Scotchman, and manifestly endowed with
a more than ordinary share of the perfervidum
ingenium, we are not surprised to find him familiar
with and fond of Scripture. He actually quotes
nearly the whole of the eighth chapter of First
Samuel, and slyly bases on it tbe argument that
“ monarchy is a sinful institution, repugnant to
the Divine will, and, as such, the inevitable source
of misery, oppression, and dishonour, national and
Individual.” He even goes the length of insinuat-
ing that the Archbishop of Canterbury invariably
prefaces the coronation of a new monarch by read-
ing the account of tho foundation of the Jewish
monarchy, which is to be found in that chap-
ter. This is plainly monstrous, for the God
of Israel is there represented as a bitter foe
to royalty, and the antipathy of the fiery
old prophet, who “ hewed Agag to pieces before
the Lord in Gilgal,” was, if possible, still
more antagonistic to the Institution. Assuredly
no passage in the Bible could be more out of place
on such an occasion than this, and, for our part,
we do not believe that any dignitary of the Church
of England would read and expound it in its ob-
vious meaning in the presence either of sovereign
or subjects. At least, we,shall try to keep our
mind in suspense on this point until we are con-
fronted with conclusive proof. Mr. Davidson in-
vites all persons who desire to become acquainted
with the Old Testament notions as to the moral,
economic, and political llneameats of Royalty, to
read and study 1 Sam. viii., and we willingly echo
his advice. But far more important are the state-
ments that Mr. Davidson makes in the concluding
chapters of his “ New Book of Kings ” regarding
the development of the Democratic and Republi-
can creed. The toil-worn, half-dazed giant of
Democracy has, he tells us, to keep two objects
steadily in view in order to grasp and retain the
whole machinery of Government in his hand.
“ He must possess himself of equal manhood suf-
frage and of the land. These acquisitions are neces-
sarily antecedent to all others. To the old watch-
words of Democracy— ‘ Liberty, Equality, Frater-
nity’—Property must now be added. Liberty to
starve or to be driven into exile, is not a kind of
liberty worth having. It is at this point,” he pro-
ceeds, “ that Mr. Henry George’s land gospel comes
to be of such vital importance to the British De-
mocracy. It strikes at the very root of aristocracy
and monarchy. Give every man, woman, and
child in the country an equal inalienable interest
in the national soli, and the feet of the Democratic
giant are at once planted on a rock. The
whole earth is a natural monopoly, and cannot,
therefore, become a true subject of Free-trade,
much less of entail or strict settlement. Granted
this—and it is impossible seriously to dispute it—
the only question that remains is bow to secure to
each son and daughter of Adam an equitable
share.” If Mr. Davidson is entitled to speak in the
name of English Republicans, then, after the
above, there cannot be the slightest doubt that
the abolition of private property in land Is hence-
forth one of the fundamental planks of their
platform. In the ad] ufitment of the details ot the
scheme under which the right that Is claimed for
every living human being to an equal share in the
soil of the country he inhabits will be secured,
Mr. Davidson, as a lawyer, contemplates some
difficulty. “ But the Democratic giant,” he as-
serts, “need not harass himself too much with
details. Suffice it for him to assert his equal right
to the soil with the Westminsters, Portlands, De-
vonshire's, and Sutherlands. Our Bramwells and
Argylls," he remarks, “have attempted, in a
feeble way, to deny the doctrine of equal land
rights: but they could not have taken up more
dangerous ground: for if there are no natural
rights, what remain but natural mights? If the
oligarchy have might on their side to-day, they
cannot complain if the Democracy, feeling their
strength, exercise their might oi numbers to-
morrow. Better secure exemption from all taxes
with a reasonable provision for widows and or-
phans,” this desperate counsellor suggests, “than
run the risks of the French noblesse In 1789.” Per-
haps we have already given our readers draughts
sufficient from Mr. Davidson’s still to enable them
to form a judgment of the strength and flavour of
the spirit ho distils; but we are tempted to add
still another passage from “The New Book of
Kings,” which deals with the almost universally
controverted and, perhaps by a vast majority,
oven warmly denounced proposal to deny the
landlords compensation for the loss of rent they
would sustain by their land being transformed
Into common property. On this point, there Is
evidently a great need for light. Remarking that
when William the Conqueror and his fellow free-
booters took possession of England, there was not
a word said about compensating the owners or
occupiers of the soil, but, “singularly enough, the
£ resent race of landlords, who are so horrified at
[r. Henry George’s proposal to put rents into the
Exchequer Instead of their pockets,” he observes,
“ make it their special boast that their ancestors
‘ came over with the Conqueror.’ They glory In
their descent from robbers! But Mr. George’s ob-
jects are not at all to their minds, and no wonder.
What their forefathers, real or pretended, did, was
to take from the many and give to the few. That,
indeed, was robbery, pure and simple. Mr. George,
on the contrary, though he would deprive no son
or daughter of Adam of bis or her natural stake
la the bounty of Providence, would take their
ill-gotten possessions from the robber few, and
restore them to the lawful owners, the lackland
many. Mr. George's scheme is not one ot robbery,
but of confiscation in the original etymological
sense of the word. Confiscation means tbe appro-
priation of the estates of robbers, traitors, and
other felons to the uses of the flscus or national
treasury. It is in that sense that the American
economist is a canfisoator, and no other.” We
put Mr. Davidson’s argument on this puzzling and
vexed point before our readers for their considera-
tion. It presents the question 1m somewhat of a
new light, and novelty has always an attraction of
its own. In his closing paragraph, Mr. Davidson
repeats his demand for equal land and suffrage
rights, for with them only, he contends. Is Demo-
cracy or self-government possible. “ Without
both,” he re-iterates, “Democracy is impossible,
and Liberty, Its offspring, remains unborn.” He
is by no means sanguine that what he calls the
triple alliance of monarchy, aristocracy, and pluto-
cracy will be overthrown at an early date, but
Providence, he thinks, is on the side of the heavy
Democratic battalions. “ The golden age—the age
of Republican brotherhood— ‘ when man to man
the world o’er shall brothers be an’ a’ that,” is not
in the past, but. in the future. To us it is given to
see it only in visions and glimpses, as Moses saw
the Promised Land from the height of Mount
Pisgah i*-,to see it only,’.like him.
Who, rowing hard against the stream
Saw distant gates of Eden gleam,
And did not dream it was a dream.”
* * m
Henry George will contribute to the next
issue of the Church Reformer (Dec. 15) an ac-
count of the American Church Congress lately
held at Detroit, at which Mr. George was one of
the appointed readers of papers on the question,
“la our Civilisation Just to Working-men?”
The world moves along not merely by the gigantic
shoves of its hero-workers, but by the aggregate
tiny pushes of every honest porker whatever.
All men may give some tiny push or other, and
feel that they are doing something for mankind.
August Flower.—The most miserable
beings in the world are those suffering from Dys-
pepsia and Liver Complaint. More than seventy-
live per cent, of the people are afflicted with these
two diseases and their effects : such as Bout
Stomach, Sick Headache, Habitual Costiveness,
Palpitation of the Heart, Heart-burn, Waterbraah,
gnawing and burning pains at the pit of the
Stomach, Yellow Skin, Coated Tongue and disa-
greeable taste in the mouth, coming up of food
after eating, low spirits, &c. Go to your Druggist
and get a bottle of August Flower. This valuable
medicine has cured thousands and thousands
sufferers and is known in all civilized counter s
Two doses will relieve you. It costs only Od a
. bottle. Sample bottles »d, y *
CHINESE PICTORIAL VERSION OF THE CONFLICT AT FOO-CHOW : RSPULSE OF THE FRENCH OUN-BOATS.


Now is the Time
IT is at this season, when the diseases of the
blood and skin are most active, that Disfigur-
ing Humors, Humiliating Eruptions, Itching Tor-
tures, Salt Rheum or Eczema, Psoriasis, Tetter,
Ringworm, Baby Humors, Scrofula, Scrofulous
Sores, Abscesses, and Discharging Wounds, and
every species of Itching, Scaly, and Pimply Dis-
eases of the Skin and Scalp, are most speedily and
economically cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
To Purify
CHAS. HOUGHTON, Esq., lawyer, 38 State St.,
Boston, reports a case of Salt Rheum under
his observation for ten years, which covered the
patient’s body and limbs, and to which all known
methods of treatment had been applied without
benefit, which was completely cured solely by the
Cuticuba Remedies, leaving a elean and healthy
skin. Sworn to before the British Consul.
HUNDREDS of letters in our possession (copies
of which may be had by return mall) are
our authority for the assertion that Skin, Scalp,
and Blood Humors, whether Scrofulous, Inherited,
or Contagious, may NOW be permanently cured
by Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally, in one
half the time and at one half the expense of any
other season.
the Blood
FH. DRAKE, Esq., Detroit, Mich., suffered
• untold tortures from Salt Rheum, which ap'
peared on his hands, head, and face, and nearly
destroyed his Ryes. After the most careful doc-
toring and a consultation of physicians failed to
relieve him, he the Cuticura Remedies, and
was cured, and has remained e>o to date. Sworn to
before the British Consul.
To Beautify the Skin
THE HALF HAS not. been told as to the great
curative powers of the Cuticura Remedies.
I have paid hundreds of dollars for medicines to
cure diseases of the blood and skin, and never
found anything yet to equal the Cuticura Reme-
dies. Chas. A. Williams.
Providence, R. I.
CUTICURA
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
CUTICURA, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use). Instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Sold by all Chemists and Druggists.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
"VT'OUR CUTICURA REMEDIES outsell all other
medicines IJccep for skin diseases. My cus-
tomers and patients say that they have effected a
cure in every instance, where other remedies have
failed.
H. W. Brockway, M.D.
Franklin Falls, N.H.
REMEDIES
CUTICURA SOAP, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura
is Indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Bashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or G-easy Skin.
CUTICURA REMEDIES are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
Price, Cuticura, 50 cents; Soap, 35 cents; Re-
solvent, Prepared by
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A,
BOUEKE,
Is the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel in the Western District. The Table and Liquors
cannot be surpassed, even in the Metropolis, Private Suites for families. First-class Stabling.
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor.
Holiday Presents.
w.
PALING
AND CO. (Limited),
HAVE JUST RECEIVED A MAGNIFICENT SHIPMENT OF
COTTAGE,
UPRIGHT GRAND
SEMI-GRAND,
CONCERT GRAND
PIANOS,
by the
MOST RENOWNED
MAKERS
in the
WORLD.
TJ
AMERICAN
ORGANS,
by
BELL and CO.,
PALACE CO.,
STORY and CO.,
at
PRICES to SUIT ALL
CUSTOMERS.
These instruments have been SPECIALLY SELECTED by Mr. W H PArnvrn —
IN EUROPE, and may justly be considered ALING * wh <> NOW
T
T
of Musical Instruments ever introduced to Australia.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms.
Mr. also FORWARDED a COMPLETE ASSORTMENT of
"CTSIC_£>.3L IBOZBZES,
FROM TWO TO SIXTEEN AIRS.
These Goods will he Sold at Unheard-of Prices.
• H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
T-A-CZZ TSI02v£^S0a?T,
A.J.C. CIGAE DIVAN AND HAIE-DEESSING SALOON,
. 91 Sing-street.
IST N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
READ_THIS I
A Single Watch at manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 lOa. each,
Warranted for three years,
CAN BK BOUGHT AT
269 Piit-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER ANn JEWELLER
Black Swan Hotel.
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting. Ashing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
Sassed. The magnlUcient s.s. lllawarra, leaves
ydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o clock.
| Ann DOMESTIC PAPER FASHIONS
AVUU shown in our Illustrated Catalogue
Price, Threepence ; by Post, Fourpence.
CHAP PEL & CO.,
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern and General Sewing-machine
Agency,
746 GEORGE 8T„ HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and all fittings, &o., kept in
stock.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GENT.-S 50, 1s. 6d.; 100, 2s. 6d.
LADIES’ 50, 3s. Od.; 100, 3s. Od.
Address, Od. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. 6d.; 350, 6s. 6d.; 500, 10a.; 1000, 15s.
NO r CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
239 Pitt-street, Sydney,
M. A. BROWN A CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
U60 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
From the Strand, London.
7*
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd's New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 854 and 356 GEORG E STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows tnat the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms*are the Grandest in Australia
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
18 carrU5d on ;or 11,6 beneBt of the lat »
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manager,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. It. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
ail 1UI
!
Importers of
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS. PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARE
FENCING WIRE,
WOOLPACKS
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON
QERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
HP
mi
PORTABLE, FIXED,
gJdgMl-nXKD E»;
VERTICAL and HORI-
Z0NTAL BOILERS
8 TEA M and other
PUMPS
LAT .HBS. PLANING,
SHAPING. SCREW-
BRftCUt ING, and DRILLING
j machines
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
* FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, &c.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse -
Iron an! Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office -
54 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS.
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR
SYDNEY.
- 85 GRACECHURCH STREET.


aV
pA(
■/vj
?
<
IME‘1
/J
1ENNAI4F
Sttvtvtv
Jus> opened by
LANG, Bl
54- & 5(a Wi LL.jfrM
PLENDID REFRESHMENT IRoOty FORj'LaDIES&(s CNTUC|HitTNl-lli
Ttje Pastry-. Tea. Cream .Refreshments e(
are tjnequajlled-. : —
The Cafe & Refreshmenf daily from SAM fall SQP.M
On II P. M. J^e?^
Orders Punctually of Town to II P-M
Specially Established for Private Order Trade
v.v.vry:v;v.\cv.y.v■ v;v.v."/."v:v.y. wv. v. v. v. w
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TUBE
HOTEL, which is now kept by
*
i
m
AT
Ilfs
v^rirf
f
asents for
BAKER 5
ARY PLATE*
'll vrn mr
A
01
o c
RfigMI
9
a l
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
•* If you are suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
* take sheer, for
Hop Bitters will cure yon.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
•weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Hevive yon.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
‘ taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
* and work,
Hop Bitters will Restore yon.
“If yon are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your avcry-day duties, or a man of let-
* ters, tolling over your midnight work.
Hop Bitters will Strenghten yon.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
‘ pation, or are young and growing too
' fast, as is often the case,
Hop Bitters will relieve yon.
“ If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
‘ that your system needs cleansing, ton-
' ing, or stimulating, without inttoxicat-
‘ Ing
Hop Bitters is what yon need.
“ If you are old, and yeur blood thin
‘ and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘ unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters will give yon new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTEK8 is an elegant, heal-
* thy, and refreshing flavouring for sick-
* room drinks ; impure water, etc., ren-
* derlng them harmless, and sweetening
* the mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for sick-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
them harmless, sweetening the mouth, and cleans-
ing the stomach.
WeakNervousMen
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, prematura decay
and failure to perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will lino a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THEMARSTON BOLUS.
Neither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Nervous Debility and
Physical Decay is uniformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new nnd direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness. Frill information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., B2 Castlomgh Ct., Sydney
*
Christmas Presents and New
Year’s Gifts!
J UBT RECEIVED, a Large Assortment of
Gold & Silver Jewellery,
SUITABLE FOR PRESENTS.
Ladies’ Gold Drees Rings, from 10s.
Ladies' Silver Watches, from £210s.
Gent.’s Silver Watches, from £3 10s.
And other articles too numerous to mention.
c . oUTa n t ,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER.
B84 George Street, Sydney.
Country Orders promptly attented to.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
SMITH OKGA1T.
WILLIAM BTrtJCE,
197 PITT STREET
SOLE IMPORTERS OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
«-
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH!
A HONEST REMEDY. Prescribed bv the BEST PHYSICIANS.
THEY WILL. POSITIVELY
Nervous Headache in o minutes!!
Bilious Headache in 5 minutes!!
Neuralgia in 5 Minutes!!
Falling Hair and Baldness!!
Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp 1
Promptly Arrest Premature Grayness. Make the Hair grow long
and Glossy. Immediately Soothe the Weary Brain.
Mo. 1 Hair Brush
Mo. 2 Hair Brush
Mo. 3 Hair Brush
Mo. 4 Hair Brush
Mo. 6 Hair Brush
V
Handsome
Unbreakable
Elegantly Carved
BRUSH
The
5s. Od.
7s. 3d,
9s. 6d.
11s. 6d.
13s. 6d.
Their Royal Highnesses the PRINCE and PRINCESS of WALES, PRINCE
BISMARCK, and the KING of HOLLAND each use a pair of Dr. Scott’s
Electric Hair Brushes, and a long list of Distinguished Patrons could be pub-
lished, and their Testimony added, did space permit.
The Brush Handle ia made of a new odorless composition, resembling ebony; a combination
of substances producing a permanent electro-magnetic Current, which acts
immediately upon the Hair Gland* and Follicles. This power can always be
tested by a silver compass, which accompanies each Brush.
PURE BRISTLES—WOT WIRES. Wire Brushes injure the Scalp,
and cause baldness and irritation.
Crewkerne, Nov. 12, 1880.
Sir, —My patients have given
me a very satisfactory account
of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair Brush.
One lady assures me that she gets no
neuralgia in her face if she uses it, and
others (late that by a few minutes’ brush-
ing with the Electric Brush, a nervous headache,
or one arising from overwork or debility, is quickly
removed. The invention is, I think, very valuable.
I am, your obedient servant, (j. p Wills, M.D., M,R. C.S.B.
Mounted.
From Dr. Lemprirrr, D.G.L., Ac., St. John’s College, Oxford. Dec. 28,1881.
Gentlemen,—I have known and appreciated the great advantages of your Electric Hair Brush for some time, and, as I find the benefits increasing,
I feel it my duty, as well os my pleasure, to earnestly recommend it. No one who has not tried it can possibly imagine how material its comfort ia
Your Flesh Brush is only one more proof of the enormous future open to the scientific development of useful and beneficial domestic appliances
Brushes are indeed a wonder, and well worth the money. Yours faithfuI]y> c . Lbmpiurre> d . c . L-) &c
The Eight Honourable WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE, M.P.,
has written upon the merits of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair
Brushes, and has added them to his Toilet.
Lady A. CHURCHILL—daughter of the Duke of
Marlborough (hero of Blenheim), and sister of
Lord Eandolph Churchill, of Parlia-
mentary celebrity—uses them regularly
and thinks them unequalled for
the hair.
£3T Send for Circular of
Dr. Scott's Electric Flesh
Brushes, Corsets, & Belts
for Ladies' and Gen-
tlemen’s use.
These Brushes cm ha obtained of all Chemists and Fancy Storokcepers-for will be forwarded
' of prices named, with Is. added. Re-
direct
mlttancea
crossed
none are genuine.
or Currency. Cheques con be
onthoBosjWitbout which
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
P.O. BOX 22!.
BSES
FURTHER VALUABLE TESTIMONY.
I have examined samples of
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
.... These popular Bitters are aromatic, clear
upon the palate, Inviting to the eye, quite free
from any objectionable material, and are both
stimulant and tonic.
WILLIAM JOHNSON.
Analytical Chemist.
THE DINGO AND THE OPOSSUM.
A FABLE.
A dingo, who had gorged himself with a
fat goose which the station overseer had prepared
for Christmas, made two or three desperate at-
tempts to finish the bird, and succeeded; but he
was now so full that when he proposed to come
out of the log for a drink, he could not get out,
so he sat down to consider the situation. The
tears came Into bis eyes; but, quickly whisking
them away, he began to soliloquise. “Cheer up,
old man, he said, “many’s the dingo In this
country that would like to die with a paunch like
this." Then looking down at his stomach he
slapped It with hla fore paws, and laughed till he
was In agony. A s he rolled In pain, he prayed to his
gods, and vowed that If spared this time he would,
on all future occasions of securing a goose, share
the results of his honest toll with some needy
creature, “ for,” said he, “In a world of ups and
downs, we should remember the poor and needy,
when, to neglect It, means this Infernal torture.
With these words he fell Into the placid slumber
of a just dingo who needed no further repentance.
The next sight, having sufficiently shrunk, ho was
able to squeeze his way out just as the rosy shades
of night wrapped the feathered songsters of the
barn-yard In appropriate slumber. Having
tenderly thrown his little mouth around the ala-
baster throat of a white hen. he gracefully assisted
her to alight, and escorted the delighted fair one
to his bower. “ And now,” he said, thoughtfully,
chewing off her head, “ I partake of a slight re-
past, and roast the rest —confound my vow.
He prepared a fire, but striking the match
with his teeth, he burnt his mouth so badly that
he was actually unable to swear. And then the
horrible thought flashed over him that he would
be unable to eat either, and his mouth was so
sore that he was unable to pray. And the fowl
would never keep till he was recovered. “ 'i hen,
thought he, "as I can neither eat nor pray, I will
perform those obligations whlclyjrosperlty should
ever Impose upon the wealthy, useless abundance
is the sacred perquisite of the poor.” With these
philodingolc sentiments warming his soul he roasted
the fowl, and went out and Invited an oppossum
to dinner. On sitting down the dingo asked the
opossum to say grace. “ I want to see what
you’ve got, first,’ 1 said the opossum: "I don t
pray before I see the grub.” The dingo then bit
off a wing and handed it to his guest. “I can’t eat
meat,” said she. “Then try some of this
gravy,” said he. “I can’t eat gravy,” said
she. " But you’ve got to eat It, by thun-
der,” roared the dingo ; “that meat’ll be bad
by to-morrow.” He now tried throats and en-
treaties. His guest tried a mouthful, but it had
to come out again. He was about fo seize the
opossum and roast her alive, when he remem-
bered that roast opossum wouldn’t keep either :
so a thought struck him. He apologised, and as
he escorted the opossum home, professed such
genuine sorrow that she Invited him to visit her
when his mouth should be well. They embraced,
and he went home, lapped up a little giavy,
pitched out the fowl, ana lay down to plan. Duly
to promise, he met his old guest at the foot of a
tree, but found that wretched animal bad nothing
but loaves to eat. “ Ho, ho I ” says the dingo, who
bad eaten nothing for throe days, "A ‘nave’ is
It?” and seizing the unfortunate hostess by the
scruff of the neck, took her home. “ Learn from
this, my friend,” said he, as he roasted her alive,
and bit off a com fortable mouthful here and there,
and singed the tail to dainty brown, “learn from
this .” He here had his mouth so full that he
couldn’t speak, and as tho last bone disappeared,
he looked once more at his paunch, lay down, and
finished his moral with, “ Ah, well, some never
learn but In ruin, and when It is too late. How
are you getting on Inside there ? ”
Advance Australia! For, after all, the
glorious days of disinterested patriotism, and
spirited enterprise are not quite as dead as some
of our carping croakers would lead us to believe.
And amongst the very first rank of Australia’s
god-llke benefactors we find the Messrs. Adcock
Brothers, of the Northern Territory (Q), who
pluoklly advertise In the Pour Darwin Times
that, “ in view of the Importance of population
for the development of tho great natural re-
sources of the Northern Territory,” they will pay
“a bonus of £50 to the mother of the first triplets
born of European parents in the Territory.” Tho
generous, noble-hearted men ! There’s en-
couragement for the cultivation of colonial pro-
duce if you like. And right glad we are to say
that the entries for the great treble event are
filling fast. Marriagesjare being consummated as
last as the Northern gospel-sharps can tie the
knots. Shiploads of Pemell’s self-raising flour
are being landed every day. Give us more Ad-
cocks, and the stain of assisted immigration will
be blotted out for ever.


THB
IGNO
FAMOUS
P1AMO.
NEVER previously did any piano win such a hold
on the public as the Mignon has done since
its introduction. Our competitors have no doubt
done their level best to rival us—blazoning forth
their bald imitations with a tremendous flourish
of trumpets. What result hare they to show,
excepting- to point to the gradual death of all their
offspring? The reason is soon found. Inferior
instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted on the
public. But the right-thinking public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales off the Mignon Piano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found its way into every town almost of all
the colonies—in Victoria and New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north of Queens-
land ; in New Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE MIGNON
can be found, and its name is really a household
word,
THE MIGNON PIANO
15 the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for its size defies all would-bo imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be had;on vety easy TIME PAYMENT.
the mignon piano
excels all similar pianos for first-class work anc
richness of tone.
wlth ful1 description
on application* 01 * and al * other 8:00(1 instruments,
nicholsonT AND CO.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE,
MOULTON’S
rpmS COMPLAINT
FRUIT PILLS.
positively cured
MOULTON’S
we can prove ® ™ eau Bot merely relieved, and
»>• BILIOUSNESS
Present CONSTIPATION and DVS-
Ey^aC m °™ reHeVV^tres.s'Tom"too
•timufato tU\lVFp C r LI , S ? R £ BR S of the STOMACH,
THE BLOOD L Thi’/^ Ufttfl thG BOWELS, and PURIFY
known, pureiv vllh 'T 1 , and Best Family Medicine
They (n mde of tho Extract of Fruit).
• y perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Everywhere, Price In. 3d.
C. E, MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
A. V CURE for Ner
that spitaVfpn ne , raJ , D cbliity, and all
ToothLshn * r \! m lack ol nerve force, as
complaints
T’oothach* vL“ lacii of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
A PPctite WrAo r i V0l i?, nu8a ’ Indigestion. Loss of
Complatota «r^n? r , d £ r8 ’ Llver and Kidney
and soothimrTf? 8 ° f X lta I Power, &c. By Its tonic
for Alcohol* e n^ C^ 9 lt: , at -once removes all craving
other powerful rlohnesa in phesnhorous and
TONIC NB wm^ 118111 ? elements, MARSHALL’S
the wpoie nourishoa and gives vigour to
Sole Proprleto^S^, 4s * 8d -» or 35s. a case.
18 ’ MARSHALL BROTHERS, M.PJ3.
lc * MarkltJSi«? ad e °nflultlng Chemists, 104 and
Hyae Park. **dney. and
TUlg. r * Oircular-quay. TAKE NO SU B8TI-
J T A L I A N E M P O R I U M
FANCY CHINA WARE,
TEA SETS, VASES, ORNA-
MENTS, Ac.
FANCY GOODS IN GREAT VARIETY.
Silk Pans, Ladies’ Belts, sunshades. Dolls, &c.
The Latest Novelties always on hand.
Best quality with reasonable prices.
B. MARMONT, 470 George-strcct.
PAINTS.
OILS.
&
56> WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 George-street.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
wr N.B. Patterns and Prioeg tent.
NEUSTADT and CO.,
COMPLETE
FURNISHERS,
39, 154, 156, & 158 OXFORD~ST\
SYDNEY.
HotisEs Furnished throughout
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
Either for Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special InduBeihents to Cash Purchasers.
MANHOOD BESTORED i
bkjbk
Premature Decay, &c., has at last discovered a
simple Self-Cure, which lor the sake of suffering
humanity, he will send FREE the Prescript on
S^.S URE1 ? him ’ Addre88 * with
stamped envelope—
1)r. B. A CLARKE, P O. Box 292, Sydney.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL nre
serves, strenghtens, and beautifies the hai? it^
ZT 1 Fou “f,” ohMrenlSS'ffi
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a mosl mn i
ing, healing, and refreshing wash for the fane"
hands, and arms, and is perfectly free from am?
mineral or metallic admixtures - it dwL any
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness? pimples® Ac?® 8
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OP TYRE pro-
duces immediately a perfect change In red or grey
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a g’ ,swy and per
manent brown or black, whlcV colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bros E
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Compagnoni’a.)
MENT, have OPENED the premises laTelvn 1 !?'
STREET (THE WEST *N ‘if HOI WVbS^ir 1
Trade! t0 Carry ° D a Hi * h - cla * 8 and Fashionable
The public may feel assured that we shall k.
able to mamtaln ». high standard, when we stnta
that our Mr Ward has had some years’ ? x 2il
in the best houses in Lo idnn, Paris as wniTi^f 6
first-class Sydney Establishments. nameK^ e L a8 * n
and Co.’s and David Jones and Co.’s? * armer
Our Mr. Wilson has had fuJJv 20 vmro’ „„
rience in the Australian trade? and
In conclusion, we desire to sav thue v,
obteizi a fair share ’StSSFf
which we guarantee first-class work aLho?
SafpSW' 1 “ nd
Soliciting a trial, we remain,
Very truly yours,
Fashionable Tailors, Hobo and Habit Make™,
West. End House,
168 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Fills
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy
aiioKt»o^, d {f°, m Dandelion, and free from the
*E e8t P art ,' c * e °t mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth «t*n
— - — -jIj —•- — - -
• sci simple, yet most effective ; the* can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practmai ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
ImmSaM roS.f'" “** tb ' >r haT6 uot ‘ tor *"
434 GEORGE STREET.
'JAMES MACGREGOR,
1ST 808 GBORGB STREET.
WHOLES AL1
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
solb'agbnt
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CBLBBRATBD
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGBN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
1 MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
THE
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, A BEST MACHINE
ever Introduced Into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, EASY TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine In the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS In Town and Country.
Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE to
any part of the colony,
B. O. Holtermann & Co.,
Sole Agents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J. TURNER ROBINSON A CO.’S
tailoring establishment
market cloth ttat.t,,
478 George-straet,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF V
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and Flrst-olass GARMENTS to
order, weU made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteod.
A. & C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse ,
SIS GEORGE STREET,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
The most liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
■A. & C. Huenerbein,
318 GEORGE STREET.
W. H. CHARD AND CO.
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
T IBERAL ADVANCES made on WOOL •:
other PRODUCE shipped to their Londoi
Agents, Messrs. Redfern, Alexander and Co., i
Great Winchester-street, B.C.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well
known firm is given to all consignments.
DENTIST.
(Of America)
Perfect
G U ARANTEES
Fit ui Mastication.
I w PRICES MODERATE.
Corner George and Market Streets,
OVER HUNTER’S BOOT PALACE.
ESTIMATES SIVEW FOR PRESENTATION FLATeT
fS
FT
&
8S
IS
I
oc
&
o
■SfcS
O'
ei
(/>
o
gs
S
3
o
s
r>
>
07 W Bl
til
4
pr<(«2
a
&
.0
t
%
7-
a
&
%
A
(A
%
o
S
€5
SS£SJ s jl£9£ ts of arms, and club colours enamelled
Original Designs for Trophies I
and Medals. x
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS. *
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES
California and Eastern Backboard Waqqons. ’
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT ftT STOCK
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer
22 & 24 Clarenee-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.) '


A POPULAR MINSTREL MADE HAPPY
OK, FROM JEST TO EARNEST.
“ For seven years,” writes Mr. Horace Bent, of
the Federal Minstrels, “I have suffered from an
acute neuralgic affection of the right knee and
rheumatic gout, which became so severe during
our season at the ' Gaiety ’ in September, ’83, that I
was obliged to relingulsh the active duties of my
profession and keep my room for a couple of days.
I had tried several strong liniments at various
times, some of which gave me partial relief. In
the course of my lecture and sketches I had fre-
quently mentioned. Jocularly, St. Jacobs Oil; but
it never occurred to me to apply It to my own ail-
ments until a friend who happened to be in my
room whilst I was complaining of intense pain re-
minded me of its claims, and sent out for a bottle
right away. I u?ed a little of it Immediately, and
found it stant re lef, repealing the application
again later on in the evening, hrom that night I
have never felt either the neuralgic affection of
the knee or the rheumatic sout return, and I
would have sent you this acknowledgment earlier
but I thought it best to thoroughly establish the
permanence of the effect: and have to subscribe
myself a tlrm believer in the virtues of St. Jacobs
Oil.”
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.S.W.*
price 3s. 6d. per bottle.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDN EIV
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
r
Printed and Published by Th® Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 24 Pltt-rt., Sydney, N.S.W.
THE OLD MAN AND HIS ASS.
(A REVISED VERSION.)
tAs some of our readers may have forgotten a few
of the Valuable fables and tales which have adorned
btlr school reading-books for the last thirty years,
find for the supply of which the Education Depart-
ment—always in the (furniture) van of progress—
Still pays thousands of pounds annually, we shall
from time to time give a few from memory.—Ed J
An old man and his little boy were driving
an ass to the maraet to sell. “ What a fool is this
fellow,” says a man upon the road, "tnbeswagging
it on foot with his son, that hismoke may go light!'
The old man, hearing this, thought there was some
dashed good sense in it, and said "Sonny, gimme a
leg up. “HulloI old ’un,” roars the sundowner,
“ what d’ye mean by leaving the kid to tramp it ?”
" His legs are younger than mine, mate,” says the
old man, “and he can take a spell after I’ve beered
up at Mother Murphy’s shanty ahead.” “ Come off
that boss, younker, and lot the old man ride,” roars
another; "you can see he’s drunir.” “Let him
die,” says the boy; "toe old hulk can't get up
on a stump to mount; and, besides, there ain't
room for two on us,” —and was about to move
on, when the man says "No you don’t,” and
humped the old man up in front. " Look hero,
old man,” says another, " is that moke yer own ?
“L—look (hie) at his brands,” says the old man.
" I wouldn’t have believed It,” returned the man,
“ if I hadn’t seen you buy him out of the pound.
But you and your son are better able to carry him
than he is to carry you.” "Anything you p—
please,” hlocuped the owner, falling off and drag-
Sing his son with him. Then he and his son led
ini up to a bridge, tied him up, and running a
sapling under his belly, the old man got behind,
and was sent flying heels over head Into the river.
The boy said serve him right, and wont into town
to buy nuts. The ass broke loose, and walked
leisurely into Dublin, cropping thistles as he went,
and strolled into the office of Alex. Thom and
Son and said ‘ Dam it, look here, 1 can beat the
record of old Balaam's steed as a talker,” Ho then
related the story of the journey. “ The very
editor I wanted,” said the delighted Thom, and
furnishing him with a truss of hay, made
him editor of the reading books he was
publishing for the Irish National Board, which
post he ictains to this day with credit to himself
and debit to us.
One of the most popular libels on our
black brudders is the repeated assertion that they
hold the very lowermost rung In the ladder of
social intelligence. But this Is not always war-
ranted by f .cts. For example: A few days ago a
Storekeeper on a station up Bowen way lost the
key of his stores, and the most careful search on
his part failed to find it. Hearing of the loss, how-
ever, an antiquated old gin hobbled up, and con-
solingly observed, “ Baal you care bout that fel-
low lose ’1m, massir. Me bin got ’nother feller
key, fit along it store fus’ rate. And then, after
a short rummage in her “ dilly,” she hauled out a
roughly-manufactured key that worked the look
quite readily. That storekeeper can now make a
shrewd guess as to the cause of part of his stock’s
absconding of late, and we are beginning to think
that the cash we donated in our childhood’s days
for the edification of the “ poah little heathen ”
wasn’t entirely thrown a wav, after all.
Thank heaven! The encore nuisance has
received a check at last, and one artist at least has
had sufficient love for her art and respect for her-
self to firmly decline to respond to an extra call
made upon her. It appears that during the course
of their Ohio season, the Julia Hunt Dramatic
Company found it necessary to employ a real live
hen on the stage, Just as the spirited impressarlo
in “Nlckleby” thought it advisable to produce
real tubs, or ihe Bijou management in Melbourne
has in their now crowded "Contusion” comedy
engaged the services of a genuine little yaller
dorg. During the progress of the scene In which
the Hunt hen was coruscating, a joyful cackle an-
nounced the fact that the real ben bad laid a real
egg. The audience, of course, joined heartily in
the cackle chorus, after which the hen bowed her
thanks and gracefully retired. A furious yell of
"encore” was then set up, but although the in-
considerate roughs broke up the seats and howled
themselves hoarse, and raised Cain In general,
still the dignified hen positively refused to repeat
her laying performance. During the course of the
tumult, a pine plank fell on the talented artist’s
head, and she now lays with her fathers.
“JA new Bible has at last been provided at
the Parramatta Police Court, thanks to the advo-
cacy of the press,” chuckles the Cumberland
Mercury. Ha, do wo not see the three great
powers—the O’Donohoe come with his stately
stride to the box, and call for bis Douay, before
swearing that the defendant was indebted to him
in one quarter’s torture ? And do we not observe
that pencilled nostril recoil as he detects on the
cover the hated breath of Regans and O’Shaugh-
nassys be had deemed long since exterminated by
the clubs or hospitality of his sires ? or Morrison’-
ferocious moustache twirled up to his oars when
the greasy King James’ version is h mdodtohira
to salute, by way of backing up an alleged claim
against defendant for a dog form delivered ? And
we shiver and hear the pibroch, when Fergy’s
Heeghlan’ scorrn comes through that grizzled
aperture—the time-worn channel of much truth
and occasional stronger things -we say we shud-
der, when wo see the Press of Parramatta leave
that box, and from their separate desks pour In
grape and cannister on the • fflcial mind, until the
old Bible is sent to the boiling-down establishment,
and a new copy (sold under cost price, at 10d.)
glistens once more as the gonfalon of sound evi-
dence and the hostile oriflamme to perjurers. Oh,
a united press—Parramatta press—can do anything.
It can even exist.
“ Yarraraan” is the nom dc plume of a
Crocodile Creek gentleman, who is evidently filled
with a laudable desire to get as much useful in-
formation at the smallest cost as he possibly can,
for ho coolly asks us to “ please print In our next
a full account of the method pursued by Professor
Sample in breaklng-ln horses.” This would be
giving both the Professor and ourselves away far
too cheaply; but, as we were born to do all the
good we can for our fellow-men, we gladly give
" Yarraman” a par. or two from a work by .one
Blundevili, who. in 159T, published a learned treatise
on “ The Four Chiefest Offices of Horsemanship,”
and, we sincerely trust, had his head chopped off
befora he was able to bring out a second edition.
In a chapter on restiveness, for Instance, Maister
Blundevili says:—"Let a footman stand behind
you with a shrewd Cat, tied at the one end of a
long poll with her bellie upward, so she may have
mouth and clawes at llbertie, and when your
horse doth state, or go backward, let him thrust
the cat between his thlgbes, so as she may scratch
and bite him. But let the Footman and all the
standers-by threaten the horse with a terrible
noise, and you shall see it will make him to go as
you would hauo him. ’ " Go as you would nans
him!” We don’t doubt it. The only thing that
seems questionable to us is whether the brute
would ever stop until he had reached the North
Pole, and bucked the shrewd Cat into the frozen
sea beyond. A more tasty way (as the cookery
books would say) is given a little further on,
where ye dom clever Maister Blundevili observes:
—" The shrill crie of a Hedgehog being strait tied
by the foote under the horses tall, is a remedle
of like force, which was proved by Maister Yln-
centlo Respino, a Neapolitan, who corrected by
this means an old restife horse of the King’s in
such sorle, as he had much ado afterward to keepe
him trom the oontralrie vice of running awaie.”
All these device?, however, are, as the 18th century
Professor explains, to be used "onlle in time of
neede, and that with great discretion, for other-
wise you should but amaze your horse, and drlue
him unto despalre.” Wherever shrewd cats or
hedgehogs are scarce, similar desirable results can
be obtained by caching the fractious steed into the
midst of a Salvation Army band or a Municipal
Council meeting, or, better still, show him your
livery stable-keeper’s bill for a month, and if that
doesn't drive him “ unto despalre” you will find it
to your advantage to lose the wretch at your
earliest convenience.
After all, Tim Finnigan’s wake may have
been an actuality. At a recent Waterford inquest'
on the body of a woman named Clancy, a police
sergeant stated that on the previous night at the
wake nearly all in the house were drunk. The
corpse was raised and sat up in the coffin, and the
hands were kept in motion by way of getting up a
Punch and Judy entertainment. Then the corpse
was laid back in the coffin, when it was handed
round the room until it fell out on the floor. The
scene then became very disorderly—this “ then" is
delightfully Hibernian—and the police eventually
went in. The sergeant added that a night or two
previously he had entered a house where a party
of young people (eight in number) were waltzing
around the room to the music of a concertina,
which was being played by a man who sat beside
the coffin. Once more. At Waterford a child
named Donovan died, and such was the wretched
condition of its parents that tfce corpfe was laid
upon a wisp of straw on the table pending the
arrival of the coffin from the relieving officer. The
wake commenced, and during the proceedings
Donovan and his wife struck each other over the
table, which they knocked over, causing the corpse
to fall heavily to the ground. A woman picked up
the body, and ran upstairs with it. After a time
comparative quietude was restored, and the corpse
having been brought back was again laid on the
table, and the wake proceeded. A R.C. priest,
writing to a Dublin paper, says “ that at wakes, the
chamber of death Is in a majority of cjscs con-
verted into a hall of drunkenness, immorality,
card-playing, singing, aud dancing, is proved by
the sad experiences of most Irish priests, which if
Siveu would open a chapter of shocking records.”
iecently at a wake he found a huge measure con-
taining drink, where, before death, he could
scarcely find one attendant for the dying, or a
drop of wine to moisten the lips. Robberies and
outrages are also committed on the nights of
wakes. Two months ago another priest visited by
night a wake in a fashionable Dublin suburb, and
he found the corpse placed in a sitting position,
an umbrella tied over Its head, and a clay pipe in
the mouth. The drunken men who filled the room
were dispersed by the police. Wakes sometimes
last four days. The priest suggests that mortuary
chapels In connection with Catholic churches
should be built, whore the dead could bo waked in
a Christian manner.
Christmas comes but once a year, but
when it does arrive, It brings 1 1 us all a sp'nt of
peace and forgiveness that Is bom < f a better
world. Hence we find that a noted journalistic
warrior up North leads off his Christmas leader
thusly : "In terra pax hominibus. .This is the
season of peace and goodwill to all. Therefore,
our paper will be marked by an unusual placidity
of tone.” And having delivered himself of those
truly Christian sentiments, the noble-hearted
editor took a Jong survey of the lly-docorated
celling through the bottom of a broken glass,
after which he replaced the cork In the bottle,
grasped his pen once more, and wrote: “ We un-
derstand that the dirty cur who runs the tried llsh
wrapper over the way objects to our name being
placed on the hospital committee of this district,
and he has also sobered up long enough, in spite
of this festive season of general rejoic.-racnt and
free drinks to ail, to empty on our devoted head
a small quantity of that slime with which his dirty,
bloated, whisky-preserved carcase Is filled. Utterly
dead to all those finer feelings which should ani-
mate the breast of every honest man at this
sacred hour, when the whole Christian world
celebrates the birth of universal peace, this wall-
eyed, crooked-snanked drunken hog has dared to
Insinuate that when we were on a certain hospital
committee in another colony, we used to live on
the patients’ victuals, and pawn their bed-
clothes to purchase grog, but we tell this
foul-mouthed, low-flung, maudlin sot, that not
one of his charges were ever proved, and
we left the colony in question without the slight-
est stigma on our spotless character. This is a
time of good will to all, and but for that we would
print the gaol-bird career of our unprincipled re-
viler in terms that would scorch even his stringy-
bark-tanned, green-hide, heathen soul, but if he
has any differences to settle of his own, let him
name time and place, and not go sneaking round
our heels like a mangy cur, the tool of that owl-
faced, spike-nosed, walking rum cask of a pig-
brained T.P., whose villainous, Caln-llke form
would better grace the gallows than the Bench.
Christmas is a season when the human heart ex-
pands, and throws its loving tendrils out with an
ardent desire to be in sweet and suave companion-
ship with all, and, touched with these holy senti-
ments at this glad time, wo refrain from exposing
the criminal career of the miserable clique of
which that pagan hog opposite is the filthy mouth-
piece. In tact, until the cowardly yahoos have
been run through a sieve, filtered, scoured, swab-
bed, sponged, and disinfected; until they are (if
possible) made fit objects to enter decent society
again, we will scorn to take any further notice of
them. Now then, you palsied, rura-and-onlon-
scented old reprobate, when you reply to this,
send us a fumigated copy of the rag containing
your dirty slush, and wo’il give you a doing that
will cause oven the very dogs of the town to clear
out of the street when they see you coming. ’Tis
midnight’s sacred hour:—
* 1 Glory to God ’—the angels shout on high;
"Good wlll;to men’—the words which we reply*
A perfectly lovely and unique ease of
breacn of promise. Allestree v. Clarkson, has just
been decided in London. Mrs. Allestree, the
plaintiff, was an interesting and virtuous widow,
who lived apart from her husband (to whom she
had but a short while been married), and she had a
lodger, the defendant, Clarkson, son of an opulent
brewer. Mrs. Allestree’s "better half” was a
giddy schoolmaster, and she took divorce proceed-
ings against him. Her lodger, "who always be-
haved himself at her house with the greatest pro-
priety," deeply sympathised with her, and “ his
feelings of sympathy ultimately ripened Into a
sincere aud honourable attachment,” the result
being that after a brief interval he proposed mar-
riage, informing plaintiff that his Income was £500
a year, and that he would be entitled to £1500 a
year when he got married. Plaintiff accepted his
offer of marriage, conditional on the decision of
the Divorce Court in the proceedings she had insti-
tuted against Mr. Allestree. But when Mrs. Alles-
troe got her divorce, Mr. Clarkson backed out of
his bargain, saying, firstly, that he was engaged to
another, and secondly, that his pa had threatened
to disinherit him It he persisted in marrying a
divorcee. Mrs. Allestree threatened law, and the
crumpled-up Clarkson offered her £4000 as a sola-
lium for her wounded feelings—"but,” In
the eloquent words of her learned counsel, she
nobly and "indignantly refused to accept his
money, large and tempting even as the amount
was, and told him it was not his gold but himself
she desired to marry.” Of course, as a matter of
fact, she wanted both. Then she served him with
a writ, and bis answer to her pleadings at law was
that he could only marry her at the expense of his
patrimony. Mrs. Allestree asked for •* exemplary
damages,” but, in the verdict of the crass jury she
tasted bitterly of the lesson administered to the
speculative dog who gave up the bone for its
shadow. She only got £1500, wnich under the cir-
cumstances was in our humble Australian opinion
a thundering deal too much, for a variety of rea-
sons. As space is limited, and as we have, on
various occasions, expressed ourselves fully con-
cerning this interesting question, we need now
only point out the danger attendant on al-
lowing lovely woman to arrange concerning hus-
band number two before she has got rid of hus-
band number one. According to the court’s de-
cision a married woman can, during the life of
the wretch who is so unfortunate as to be
her husband, enter into- a contract to marry
one of her “ tame-cats ” so soon as her “ first ven-
ture” shall have been comfortably screwed down
in his little cherry-case and packed off to Kensal
Green, or Upper Norwood, or Haslem’s Creek, or
the Necropolis, as the case may be. And if it be
good Jaw that the wife of one’s bosom can thus, as
it were, take and enforce a secondary mortgage
over one of the male sex, what is to prevent ner,
during the lifetime of her first husband, from
fully completing all her arrangements, not only In
regard to her second, but in regard to her third,
fourth, fifth, sixth, or, in fact, her sixtieth mar-
riage ? What is sauce for the goose should be
sauce for the gander; so we hereby announce that
it is the intention of a large number of the contri-
butors of this paper to take legal proceedings
against anyone interfering matrimonially with a
varied assortment of eligible Sydney and other
widows over whom they bold Allestreeian liens.
Here is the very latest domestic joke. A
certain lady, well known in society as a persever-
ing flirt, was seated in her drawing-room convers-
ing with a naval officer and her husband, a little
child of six being present. Suddenly mamma
said: “ Now, it's time for bed, Tot, and be sure
aud say your prayers.” “ And mind and pray for
dearest ma,” said the officer, persuasively. Pay
for oo, mamma?” said the child, wonderingly.
“ Are oo as bad as all dat ?” On this, the bell was
rung for Charlotte, and Tot was carried off to bed.
Then gloom falling upon the party, the officer sud-
denly remembered his duties to his bleeding
country and took himself off; and, strange to say,
he has never since been Invited. This is a tale
“ for all sick persons and young children,” espe-
cially if the persons are very sick, and the children
reryjyoung.
Eureka! We’ve struck it at last. The
long-felt want is now filled to the bung, and the
least little jolt would send it squirting out through
the spigot. Only the other day we drew attention
to the fact that loving, but levol-headed, papas
wore encouraging their future sons-in-law to
elope with their darling gyurls, in order to save
the ruinous expense of the nuptial shlvoos. Now,
however, all this little bogus business is to bo
abolished, and a system of co-operative weddings
established throughout the land. This glorious
idea originated in the wide-awake brain of the
Rev. Simon Sassoon, a Yankee clergyman, who,
finding ho was called upon to celebrate the mar-
riage ceremony just about as often as a tom-cat
voluntarily goes to sea, entered into himself to
wrestle mentally with the matter, and when he
came out again he brought his co-operative racket
with him. And the way it’s worked is this: Mar-
riages are celebrated on the first day of each
month only, and then not less than twelve couples
must toe the scratch for a simultaneous send-off
on their all-eventful journey. The minister who
takes the contract to turn-off the crowd provides
the nuptial feed as well, and caters for so much a
head—just the same as Coinpagnoni would do for
an undertaker’s picnic. Even a one-eyed mummy
could see the Immense advantages to be derived
from this inspired Idea. Any number of sweet-
souled sillikins, from twelve up to twelve millions,
can be put through in half an hour, at most, and
all that’s re dred would be one service, one offi-
ciating clergyman, one fee (clubbed up on the co-
operative plan), one organist, one wedding break-
fast, one monster bridecake, one comprehensive
J oast embracing all the brides and another fnclud-
og all t he bridegrooms, and then, if a ball is to be
held in the evening, it is worked out on the 2<;me
jolnt-stffck principle also, and bossed by the
parson who provides the wedding feast. All that
he stipulates for is that the happy couples clear
out when the light-footed fun is over. He is will-
ing to do anything in the way of board, but he
draws the line at lodgings. Not only is a consider-
able cash saving effected by this new Idea of the
Rev. Mr. Sassoon’s, but it also enables the
most timid young man to boldly meet his
fate without having—as was formerly the case—to
tickle his courage with a bottle of three-star, or a
two-gallon key of colonial beer. Speaking of this,
Mr, Sassoon truly says: “However brave a youth-
ful bachelor may oe in all dilemmas of life, he
tumbles to pieces worse than a band-box kicked
by a mule before the dread ordeal of the marriage
ceremony.” It is a well-known fact that 90 out of
every hundred bridegrooms plead earnestly to
have the terrible operation performed privately,
after dark, and that 99% out of every hundred
brides make it a sine qua non that they are to have
a public parade, with a(1 bridesmaids, half a dozen
sky-pilots clad in clean boiled surplices and cra-
vats, and a whole church-full of envious swelter-
ing female onlookers, who, by the bye, generally
swarm up on the seats, and with squeals of joy
point out to each other what a washed-out dowdy
the pale bride looks ; how the bridegroom’s
trousers bag at the knees ; and how much better
it would be for the parents of the disgustingly
ridiculous pair to pay their debts instead of slop-
ping away t h eir borrowed money on such an ab-
surd and uncalled for pageant. Equally well at-
tested is the fact that tne night before his wedding
Is spent by the unfortunate groom very much the
same as if he was about to be banged on the fol-
lowing morn; but now, all this despairing fear,
this shrinking from the public gaze, this dread
anxiety to crawl down his own throat and hide
from the world for ever. Is found to vanish when
the bridegroom is only one of a mob of men in a
similar trouble. He plucks up courage, and in the
touching words of the Reverend Mr. Sassoon “ he
cocks a stiff upper Up, and prances gaily along
like a hog going to war,” when he finds a dozen
others as deep m the mud as himself, and so. with
a light heart, and a firm teetotaller’s step, he as-
cends the scaffold, actually smiles on the crowd as
the white nuptial cap is pulled over his eyes, and
then down he drops with a sickening thud into the
awful hole of matrimony. Since the birth of the
gifted genius who invented shirts that button up
the back, no greater benefactor of the human
race than the Reverend Simon Sassoon has yet ap-
peared ; and we are indeed pleased to be in a posi-
tion to state that a public meeting of single per-
sons of all sexes wid be held next Monday night
under the auspices of the Auti-Assistcd-Immigra-
tion League, in the vestibule of the Soup uitohen,
for the purpose of starting branches of the Great
Co-operative aud Mutual Improvement Marriage
Society in every hole and corner throughout the
land. Garden Honey will take the chair. Doors
open all night. Children in arms not admitted.
This simple dinner toilette has a corsage of broche with pleated basques. The
pointed corsage is edged with a band of velvet, and the open fronts are also edged with
velvet, and filled in with a plastron velvet collar with a lace frill inside. Broche
sleeves draped at the elbow, and edged with lace Velvet sash bow in front beneath the
basques.
