

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.—No. 124 -New Serlee.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1885.
Frloe—Gd.
The Bull
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 26. 1885.
Father-in-law Parnell Replies.
Fob Borne time prior to the opening of the
present session of the Parliament of New
South Wales, ugly rumours were abroad
concerning the administration of the Land
Act of 1884. It was said that, like other acts
of every-day occurrence, the forfeiture or
non-forfeiture of conditionally-purchased
land went entirely by favour. Some colour
was given to this by the publication of a
letter signed by a land-agent named Fbed-
bbick Gumming, a son-in-law of the Minister
for Lands. Judged by his letter, Mr. Gum-
ming appears to be a young man who thinks
it stupid to have influential relatives with-
out using them. The use to which he put,
or intended to put his father-in-law, Mr.
Parnell, can be gleaned from the following
circular, without the trouble of reading be-
tween the lines:
“ Dbab Sib,— l notice that your conditional pur-
chase has just been gazetted forfeited, and I now
beg to inform you that if employed by you, I will
use my utmost endeavours to have the forfeiture
reversed, and you re-instated in your selection.
Upon receiving instructions from you I will at
once peruse the evidence and place your cate in
as favourable a light as possible before the Minister
for Lands, with a view to reversal of the existing
forfeiture. There can be no doubt that many
selections are forfeited on account of the parties
concerned not understanding the method of con-
ducting their cases before Inquiry Courts,
although in reality the selections are perfectly
bona-fide. In caoes of this kind the services of a
clever, experienced agent are invaluable, and
often result in his obtaining for the selector a re-
hearing of his case before the Court, and ulti-
mately a reversal of forfeiture, or, perhaps, re-
versal of forfeiture without re-hearing. In con-
clusion. I think I may safely say that I have as
much Influence at head < uarters as any other
agent in Sydney, and very much more than a grest
many.—l am, yours faithfully, F. Cumminq.”
We believe this circular to be a model of
perspicuity. From the opening pronoun
to the Anal adjective it is lucioity itseF.
Whatever fault may be found with Mr.
Gumming for the part he takes in the ad-
ministration of the Land Act, there can be
but one opinion regarding the benefits of
early training in enabling a pushing person
to express his views with elegance and
directness. If his influence with his relaiive
the Minister can be gauged by his fee, he
must have been the favourite son-in-law.
» • *
But it was only on the opening of Parlia-
ment that these rumours became precipi-
tated and crystallised. It was then that
pointed and uncjraplimentary allusions
were made to the positions as land agents
held by some of the Minister’s relatives.
Speaking from his place in the House, Dr.
Ross, the member for Molong, made some
revelations which fairly surprised and
alarmed the country. Among the doctor’s
constituents were three selectors, M‘Oud-
den, Leabt, and Ross. For various causes,
their selections were recommended for
forfeiture, and they applied to their
member to use his endeavours in getting
the forfeitures revoked. He first, he said,
tried the Minister with M'Cudden’s case,
but was unsuccessful. The application
for revocation could not bo entertained.
Waa M'Gudden satisfied to let the law
take its course without making a final effort
to recover his land ? Far from it. He wrote
to Mr. Gumming on the matter, and received
the following reply
“ Dear Sir— l am in receipt of your favour of
16th Instant, and hasten to reply. I really think if
you come to Sydney I can pull you through, but,
of course, it will be difficult. With reference to
your inquiry about fee, I think it will cost £5O at
least. Why not come lor a trip to Sydney ; it will
not cost you much, and then I will take you to see
my relative, the Minister for Lands, and I hope to
get the forfeiture reversed. Yours faithfully,
Frederick Gumming. P.B.—lt you do come to
Sydney I shall not require you for about 10 days.”
He came. He and Mr. Cdmming saw, and
between them conquered. Thus we see that
Dr. Ross tried to get M‘Cdddbn’s claim re-
considered and failed. Another tried and
succeeded, not only in getting the matter
re-opened, but in getting the claim allowed
That other was the Minister’s son-in-law,
Mr. Frederick Cdmming.
♦ * ♦
Then there was Leary's case. Leary
came to Sydney to have the forfeiture of
his selection rescinded. For him, too,
Dr. Ross did his utmost, but in vain.
And now comes the most suggestive of
the Doctor’s statements—one which, so
far, has not yet received an answer
either in or out of Parliament—“ imme-
diately the £5O was given the forfeiture was
revoked.” The last case to which the mem-
ber for Molong referred was that of Robert
Scott. Scott was burnt out, and even the
grass on his land was destroyed. Dr. Ross,
undaunted by his former failures, pleaded
Scott’s case also, but with a result similar
to the previous ones. Indeed, as a land-
agent under the present administration the
Molong representative appears to be a dis-
mal failure. Scott turned Sydneywards,
expended £5O judiciously, and got his land
back accompanied by the following receipt:
—“Received from Mr. Robert Scott the
sum of fifty pounds sterling as a fee for
having forfeiture of his conditional pur-
chases 82-145, 200 acres; and 84-126,110 acres,
and 84-18 *, 100 acres reversed. Fbbd. Gum-
ming, Sydney, August 11, 1885.” For a
week from the time of the first alle-
gations against his administration, the
Minister for Lands preserved a strange
silence. On Thursday, the 17th September,
his long-expected explanation was given.
The metropolitan journals, without excep-
tion, describe it as eminently successful.
Let us examine it, always bearing in mind
that the same journals pronounced the Sou-
dan expedition an effort of the purest
patriotism, while the papers which mould
the thought of Democratic England were
thundering against it. To us it appears that
Mr. Faknele’s explanation is no explana-
tion at all—that it leaves the matter just
where Dr. Ross left it.
• • •
This is what the Minister is reported to
have said :
“So far as I am concerned myself, I am not
responsible for these letters. No one deprecates
the writing of them more than I do. I say it was
a most improper and Indecent thing for these
young men to do, socs-in-law of mine though they
be. I say it is the grossest misconduct, and if they
had been my greatest enemies they could not have
invented anything more calculated to do me harm
in my Ministerial reputation. Whether they have
done the thing innocently or not I do not know.
Whether they have written these letters on ac-
count of the position that 1 hold, and for the pur-
pose of getting business, of course, is known to
themselves and not to me. J know nothing of
their actions or of their transactions. Indeed, I
very seldom see them as sons-in-law, or in their
capacity as land-agents. These gentlemen were
land-agents long before they became my sons-ln-
law. They were land agents—one of them at all
events—before I became a Minister of the Crown.
I have really no defence to make, for I don't in-
tend to defend those young men for their mis-
conduct—because it is misconduct. Neither sons-
in-law, daughters-in-law, mother, or sisters, would
influence me in my administration of the law. 1
have too much confidence in my rectitude to
allow myself to be swayed by personal relation-
ships. This matter having been brought under
the attention of the House, and I myself feeling
its real tendency—because I dare say it may cause
a severance in my family ties—l can only say I
shall do my duty honourably and fairly to the
public; and as my attention has been called to the
subject, I shall consider it my duty to issue in-
structions that these young men shall not be
allowed to see me personally in their capacity as
land agents.”
In these sceptical times, it is really pleasant
to know there are those amongst us who
are satisfied with this explanation.
* «*
It is not with the writing of the letters we
are concerned. It is of little public interest
whether Mr. Farnbll considers them “in-
decent ” or not—whether or not they were
written in all innocence Ly his interesting
relatives. What we really want to know, and
what has, so far, remained unexplained, is,
why certain revocations were denied to one
agent and granted to another. If the offi-
cers of the Department are responsible, it is
for them to produce the fresh evidence on
which their change of opinion was founded.
It is reassuring to know that “neither son?-
in-law, daughters-in-law, mothers or sisters”
can inlluence the Minister. But if they can
influence others who, in thtir turn, can in-
flux nee him, how is the matter mended?
According to Dr. Ross, certain lands were
forfeited. He tried to get the forfeitures
cancelled, hut failed. Other persons, who
happened to be related to the Minister, tried
and succeeded. Why ?
• • •
We no more believe Mr. Farnell cor-
rupt than the metnberfor Molong did. But,
at the same time, we deny that his explana-
tion is satisfactory. It is a lawyer's expla-
nation throughout. This might account for
the Minister’s silence until silence was no
longer possible. It might account also for
otuer peculiarities in the reply. If by the
truth is meant the whole truth and nothing
but the truth, then entire veracity is almost
a stranger to the legal mind. “ Even some
people who really ought to know better
imagined that local Boards bad the power of
forfeiture. They had no such power.” This
is from Mr. Farnell’s reply, and is given
as an illustration of the caution of the mind
forensic. “ They (the Land Boards) had no
such power (of forfeiture).” Why not go a
step further and complete or round off
the truth by saying who had ? If the Boards
have no such power, neither has the Minis-
ter. Both must be of the same mind. The
names of both partners in the firm must go
to the cheque before it is honoured. It
would have been easy for Mr. Farnell to
tell the whole truth, but, as a fragment
served his purpose, the whole truth was not
told. There is but one more point in the
Minister’s singular exculpation to which wo
have space to refer. *‘As he [ Mr. Farnbll]
understood the word they never had a cor-
rupt Government, and, in fact, he did
not know what was meant by corrup-
tion.” It is clear then that he does not
understand the word. The friends of De-
mocracy will take fresh heart when they
find that for years they have returned to
Parliament an important statesman, who
did not know what was meant by corrup-
tion. Still, as even the purest-minded
priest has to read bad books in order to dis-
cover and refute the errors they contain, it
would be only fair to the public for even
THE REV. G. F. MACARTHUR, M.A.
Head-Master of The King’s School, Parramatta.


A NEW BOOK.
ii
HAAGIc
MIRTH
250 Tricks and Delusions
WITH
CARDS, DICE, and CONJURING APPARATUS,
and also containing over 100 tricks and deception*
with cards, illustrated with blocks and diagrams,
fully explained, simplified, and adapted for home
amusement and social entertainments, forming
the most complete collection of Its kind ever
offered to the Australian public. Mailed free to
any address ONE SHILLING.
THE WIZARD’S CHANGEABLE CARDS.
These cards change from Red to Black, from
eights to deuces and back again at the pleasure of
the performer, and elicit exclamations of wonder
and surprise from all who witness them. Post
free, with fuUjnstructlona. Is. 3d.
COMIC CARICATURES.
“I’m a Fadder,” “I’m in love,” “I’m a Daddy,”
“Before and After Marriage,” “The Mother-In-
Law.” Five separate sets, each set consisting of
five character sketchings that have convulsed with
laughter every gathering at which they have
appeared. Price, post free, Is. 3d.
WONDERFUL JAPANESE DRAWER BOX.
The performer sends round a pretty little box to
the company, which they fill with rings, coins, etc.
Directly the performer takes it in his hand the
articles instantly vanish and the drawer is shown
empty. Price 25.. post free.
laf GIVEN AWAY I
Cut this advertisement out and post it to us, en-
closing ss. in stamps, or a P.O. order for 55,, and
we will send you by return of post the above-men-
tioned goods, together with either of the follow-
ing articles
A LADY’S HANDSOME BROOCH or EARRINGS
GENT’S SCARF PIN or SET OF STUDS,
of the finest American Roll-plate Gold, guaranteed
to stand the acid test, and to wear for 10 years,
alone worth double the money, for which we
MAKE NO CHARGE.
N.B.W. stamps taken at par, other colonies add
Id. to each Is.
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT,
BOX 641 G.P.O. 401 GEORGE-BT., SYDNEF.
J, TURNER ROR/NSON A CO.S 1
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1804.
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLEN'S
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perterot fit
guaranteed.
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only IDs.
Small Bottle, , 4s. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. Bd, per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
Is. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT
la. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Botties, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN —IN FLASKS,
ls« 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Prize Medal Brand,
In stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
C. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets#
SYDNEY.
The Rates or Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 24s.: half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
The Advertising Rates are 5s. per Inch:
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertionsr
16 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent. If more convenient.
Mr. Alfred Hancock, of Balmain, has at-
tained celebrity in one bound, He announces
that he is not going to stand for any constituency
at next election.
The decision in Equity, which restores to
the Speaker of the N.8.W. Assembly the lands of
his father, for some time past held by the Bank
of N.S.W., has been received with much joy. Not
only is this the case because of Mr. Barton’s popu-
larity, but also because strong feeling evinced
against the Bank when the evidence was pub-
lished. The verdict is eminently satisfactory.
John Lewis, convicted of murder at Mud-
gee in 1879, died in the Darlinghurst (N.S.W.) Gaol
Hospital on Saturday evening. Next morning, at
8, Mrs. Sarah Keep, the poisoner, under sentence
for the Maitland murder, also departed this life.
With apologies to the Sydney Morning Herald
obituary bard, we sing of the pair:—
Almost tegether from their cells
In Darlinghurst they glided.
On earth their two hearts beat as one,
In death they weren’t divided.
«•
m
m
i
'MI
wm
r-- /
BOYS’ AND YOUTHS’ S. B. IMPERIAL SAC SUITS, LINED THROUGH,
10 6. lO 6. 10/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium, Hay market only.
the most ingenuous Minister to learn the
meaning of corruption, if only to destroy
it. Should Mr. Farnbll seriously desire to
learn the various transactions to which this
important word might be applied, we en-
gage-provided a free pardon is held out to
us—to give him the names of at least half-
a-dozen members who, we have no doubt,
would gladly afford a good deal of informa-
tion on the subject.
Mr. Melville in Explanation.
“J must live Mr. Melville, M.L.A., is
reported to have said in the New
South Wales Assembly, when accused
of using his Parliamentary position for
the furtherance of his private ends.
We question the necessity. Indeed, con-
sidering that Mr. Melville follows the
respectable and lucrative calling of under-
taker—a calling depending for its suc-
cess on death rather than life—it would
have been more in keeping with his sur-
roundings had he said “I must die.’ 1 But,
admitting that he has the right to live, and
to enjoy life—granting, even, that he is
fairly entitled to something more filling than
air on which to subsist—his answer to the
charge brought against him by Mr. Abi-
gail of having used his public position
for the purpose of personal profit, opens
up a subject of the gravest moment.
Those who oppose the system of payment
of members do so on the assumption that
there is in the community a sufficient num-
ber of men of means, leisure, and parts who
are willing and able to transact the business
of the State without recompense. The prin-
ciple, it is also said, has a tendency to foster
a class of professional public men who,
having failed at everything else, take to
politics as a last resource. Why there should
be such an objection to professional public
men in a community where professional
doctors, lawyers, and clergymen flourish
is as illogical as it is singular. Why
the clever persons who examine your
tongue, explain the idiosyncrasies of
John Doe and Richard Rob, or warn
you of the danger of entertaining doubts
regarding the manufacture of worlds out of
nothing, should be highly paid for the use-
ful information they afford, while those
who make the laws in accordance with
which you must shape your life are to
receive no fee, is at least puzzling. If it is
foolish to place health, goods, or soul in the
keeping of the amateur doctor, lawyer, or
priest, how much more stupid is it to con-
fide to the amateur politician the manufac-
ture of laws under which you must live ?
* * *
That any representative should have trans-
actions with the Government by which he
would be pecuniarily benefited is wrong, and
opens the door to abuses of the gravest
description. Especially is this the case in a
country where the State is the chief em-
ployer—where thousands of men are in its
service, and millions of acres of unalienated
land are in its hands. That a member of
Parliament, who is also a Ministerial sup-
porter, can influence the Government in
many ways, is beyond doubt. When, there-
fore, he uses that influence even on the side
of justice, and when by so doing he puts
money in his own pockets, the public will
uot be slow to suspect unworthy motives.
It is no answer to say that others do like-
wise, or that he is conscious of his own recti-
tude. The very semblance of wrong-doing
should be avoided. The member who uses
his political power for the sake of gain,
places himself in a false position towards his
constituents and the country, and does
something towards bringing representative
government into disrepute. Whether, as in
a late notorious case, he recommends an
unfit person for the public service, or fol-
lows the calling of a land-agent, or makes
use of his position in any way to sway the
Government and benefit himself, the action
is pernicious and cannot be too strongly
condemned.
* * ♦
Strangely enough, the very means which
would go far towards removing those fre-
quently-recurring abuses, is looked coldly
on by many public men who are certainly
not m iudepeudant . circumstances. We
mean payment of members. It has done so
in Victoria. How a member who has to
work for a living can object to receive
money for the performance of his important
public duties, and at.the same time accept
money for doing things that had better
be left undone,, is one of those facts
for which no rational explanation has
yet been given. Gan. it be that in a
non-paying House in a colony with a
vast publio domain, the money to be made
by various indirect means is much greater
than any regular stipend would be ! That
the rich and idle should clamour for the pre-
servation of a system which offers them such
advantages is not, perhaps, to be wondered
at. But that men who admit that their cir-
cumstances are not the best should still ad-
here to a system which is incompatible with
true Democracy, and which is being dis-
carded by most progressive States, is odd
indeed.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Sladen Brays Again.
In putting into metre the virtues and talents of
Australians in England, Douglas B. W. Sladen,
B.A., late a lecturer at Sydney University, appears
to have at last discovered his true vocation. He
told us in rhyme bearing indications of the rise of
a new school of poetry what he thought of the
qualities of head and heart possessed by Mr. Hen-
niker, Heaton. We knew Mr. Heaton well, and
always entertained for him an honest admiration
—a respect which commenced when we read his
first newspaper paragraph beglnnin?: “Dark
doings in George-street, cruel hatchet-work,” and
increased by leaps and bounds as he worked his
way up to wealth and fame. Still, with all our
knowledge of this remarkable man, it was left for
Mr. Sladen to discover iu him some important
qualities which we had quite overlooked. Oh!
and another odd thing is that it is only in colonists
who return to England with good bank balances
that Mr. S. discovers any estimable traits. This is
as it should be. It is stupid to suppose that a per-
son who spent twenty or thirty years in a country
where land was to be dummied and logs rolled,
and who still remained in comparative poverty,
would be a fit subject for poetry. All this is but
an Introduction to Douglas B.’s last effort, which
is as follows
“ TO SIR SAMUEL WILSON,
Of Hughbnden Manor, Bucks, and Ebcil-
doune, Australia.
“ Often by shallow critics carped at erst
You have lived down their cackling.
Now you stand
Known through the length and breadth of this
great land
As one who thinks of England’s greatness first
And place and profit afterwards; who durst.
When patriot hopes were low, and hearts were
fanned
With slander’s breath to fury, join the band,
The patriot band who braved the wild outburst
Of wrath and hate misguided millions hurled.
Your’s is the steady purpose which has won
History’s giants their glory in the world;
You showed its fibre ’neath a fiercer sun,
Where Melbourne's Hall* declares how well your
will
Tamed Austral wilds its mandates to fulfil.
“ Douglas B. W. Sladen,
“ Author of * A Summer Christmas,”
“ ‘ Christmas Lyrics,’ etc.
“ ♦ The Wilson Hall at the Melbourne University,
the gift of Sir Samuel, is the finest building in
Melbourne.”
We frankly consider this, in the words of our
American cousins, the “ boss ” poem of the cen-
tury. There is thought in every line. There is
also truth;—
“ Now you stand,
Known through the length and breadth of this
great land
As one who thinks of England’s greatness first,
And place and profit afterwards.”
Those who knew Sir Samuel Wilson best will see
what an effect change of residence has had upon
him. In Australia he thought of himself. In
England he thinks of others.—
“ Where Melbourne’s Hall declares how well your
will
Tamed Austral wilds its mandates to fulfil.”
Who will say after this that sheep-breeding and
toadyism do not lead to glory ? Sir Samuel, it is
said, has set his heart on a peerage, and is pretty
sure of it in time. How various are men’s
ambitions I But we trust he will get it, so
that when the Republic comes, he or his
will discover the true value of the baubles
on which their hearts are set. Young Aus-
tralians entertain in many oases a sort of
sentimental reverence for monarchy, aristocracy,
and prelacy—the trinity which has caused more
curses and tears than all other causes combined.
This reverence arises chiefly from ignorance and
the glamour occasioned by distance. Australians
visit England, and return to boast to their fellow-
citizens that there is more loyalty on this side of
the Equator than on the other. They glory in
their shame. If they only had a near view of
princes and peers they would understand at least
some of the causes of the coming revolution. And
now you get a glimmering of why we wish 8am.
Wilson luck in his cruise for a coronet. His suc-
cess will bring home to Australians the kind of
men who find favour in certain English circles.
If young colonists ’can continue to admire an
hereditary aristocracy they deserve to—have such
an institution themselves, and a Sladen to
sing it.
The Stats and Literature.
Mb. Nimmo’s motion, asking the Victorian As-
sembly to vote £lOOO towards the expense of
publishing the works of the late Marcus Clarke,
brings the relations between the State and litera-
ture once more under consideration. It is clearly
enough seen that the object of the motion is to
obtain for Mrs. Clarke and her children recog-
nition at the hands of the Government. The
question then arises, is it the duty of Government
to subsidise directly or indirectly the producer of
literature? We shall not at present go fully into
the controversy. We shall simply point out what
appear to be mistakes in principle, and mistakes
in reasoning, in a leading article in last Saturday’s
Daily Telegraph, supporting the negative side
of the discussion. The fundamental error the writer
of the article falls into lies in his confounding a life
of letters with a life of idleness. We quote: “Does
anyone really suppose that the maintaining a few
able and specially-gifted men in idleness is a legi-
timate object for the levying taxation on the
people?” Again: “What is proposed by the
theory is to treat the supremacy of gifts as a dis-
ability for work, and to make the possession of
one faculty the more a reason for enabling its for-
tunate possessor to live at the cost of his less
gifted fellow-men.” The fact is that literature is
as much an industry as house-building, or print-
ing. It is not to stop writing a pension is given to
a literary man, but to enable him to goon writing.
The newspaper next says that the dispensing of
this kind of patronage would fall to Ministers, and
it distrusts their discrimination. But if there be
any point on which public opinion has influence
over a Minister, It is here. He may, of course,
confer a pension on a poetaster. Palmerston did
it, Disraeli did it, Gladstone did it. But no
i Minister has made more than a couple of blunders
in exercising this function. Every Minister has
blundered many times in his other functions.
The argument which denies him this must deny
him all. Further, the Daily Telegraph con-
tends that State recognition would humiliate
the man of letters. Why does It not do so in Eng-
land ? Why in America ? The English Govern-
ment comes in many ways to the side of the man
whoso intellect, admittedly superior, is tempo-
rarily unmarketable. It maintains a list of sine-
cures, or offices with very small duties, to bestow
in such cases. Was it not State recognition of
literary services that salaried Lowell in London
and Bret Harte in Glasgow ? It is quibbling to
distinguish between this sort of recognition and
pensions. There is an appearance of manliness in
such articles as the one we are considering. They
ring with independence. They are full of the
commercial spirit. But it is to keep communities
from entertaining this unwise manliness that other
States maintain, or help to maintain, great
thinkers. It is a truism that genius is, in its day,
often unmarketable. Yet its acts on the State-
forms, reforms, teaches. Is the organism that car.
ried it about to be paid nothing ? The State is
debtor.
The Captain.
Some days ago we thought that the position of
Captain Mulholland, of the late Contingent,
was the most unenviable in New South Wales.
To-day—assuming that the news Mulholland
says he obtained from the Colonial Secretary’s
office Is correct—we think he has secured an
honourable retreat, and that the Hon. F. B. Sui-
tor has promptly occupied the vacated position.
From his place in Parliament Mr. Suitor made
statements concerning Mulholland's conduct
before the enemy—statements which, if confirmed,
would go far to excuse any action, however
severe, the Government might think fit to pursue.
In fact, accusations of the meanest poltroonery
were levelled against the officer in question.
There was but one course open to him—to demand
a searching investigation. This he did with credit-
able promptitude. But his accuser—assuming, as
we said before, the truth of Mulholland’s state-
ment-declined to grant the satisfaction de-
manded. Into the fortress of Parliamentary privi-
lege Mr. Suitor crept, and pulled up the draw-
bridge. As Paleys “Argument from Design”
raised more doubts than it allayed, so the question
arises whether, after all, the extraordinary license
granted to Parliamentary representatives does
not intensify some of the very evils it was
intended to cure. Mr. Suitor’s further utter-
ances are anxiously awaited by the country. It
may be that he may yet satisfactorily explan his
conduct. If not able to substantiate his charges,
an amende honorable to Captain Mulholland—
similar to that which he made to Mr. Musson a
few days ago—at least may be expected.


I prefer Wolfe’s Schnapps to Brandy or Whisky
—lt is a more wholesome spirit.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is particularly free from
fusil oil as it is well aged Before being bottled.
Thpirfl is no better iudfre for what is geod than
Germans— They always drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The recently deceased husband of the
PhimtAflA of Dudley, wbo is conning l to Australia
shortly! left a peSonil estate in Great Britain to
the amount of £1,030,000. This, however, repre-
sented but an insignificant fraction of his huge
fortune, for the Earl was one of the largest land
and coal-mine owners in the kingdom.
Wolfe’s Schnapps stands alone without a
rival elixir in the catalogue of magnificent tonics.
Bndilv comfort is the accompaniment of health-
ful vigour, and it will return when Wolfe s
Schnapps is employed.
Ball Room Specialities.— Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated wltk
flair and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 601 Hunter-street. Sydney.
A great revolution In the use of spirits has
taken place-Wolfe’s Schnapps has taken the
place of the best brandies.
The New York Daily Graphic of July 14th, 1884
contains illustrations of the Wolfe s Schnapps
establishment at Hamburg.
Unsolicited testimonials from medical gentlemen
testify to the merits of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe's Schnapps is the only genuine
Schnapps—Avoid all counterfeits and imitations.
Newspaper men are about the best judges of a
food drioK. They one and all appreciate Wolfe’s
CHNAPPS.
Brandies and Whiskies are not at all as wel
adapted for this climate as Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Englishmen, Scotchmen, Irishmen, and Ameri
cans aU drink Wolfe’s SgftNa.pps,
CORRESPONDENCE
[Corresp ondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“ Cato” : Too vigorous for this euphemistic
age. Give ua something that won’t shock the pro-
priety of the primmest of the spinsters to whom
the Rev. Jetferis lectures ...” Tas.”: Shall be glad
to hear from you. The writer was a lady....
“RB ”: You are straining at trifles. In the pre-
aent condition of the N.B.W. political atmosphere
it is absurd to object to a man being made a J.P.
on the ground that he has only just got out of the
Insolvent Court,...” Hiram Abiff Will consider
and possibly publish....“Ahasuerus”; Sir Salmon
Wilson’s new title will, no doubt, be Earl Footrot,
and, in the peerage of Ireland, Baron Fluke—
t, j£.L.O.”i Someone has been “ running ” you.
The Act provides that Councillors shall be “ na-
tural born” or naturalised, not that they shall be
born naturals.” Whether the Ministry select
only those qualified in the latter way, we firmly
decline to consider.... ”C. R. Mlllward”: The Can-
terbury Times paragraph as to the alleged inten-
tions of Mr. Bouoicault, jun., and Miss Nina
Bouoioault, in the event of their father’s marriage
with the lady who is now his wife, is shown by the
result to have been mere imaginative moonshine..
» Woollooland”: Not accepted. Consequently no
doceur." “ D.M.M.” : We are prejudiced
against anything in pencil. But the adventures
of Jones would not be interesting even in ink-
printer’s ink “X.Y.”: STou want to know
i< why there is such a demand for German princes
as husbands ?” Because, dear boy, most of them
are near-sighted and all of them dull-witted. Do
you see ?....” Thaumus”: “Who are the sub-
scribers to the Protestant Standard, and why
do they take it ?” That is your question, and we
are pleased to be able to answer it. The sub-
scribers to the PROTESTANT Standard are mostly
bullock-drivers, and they take it with a view of
picking up the newest styles in vituperation as
well as a general knowledge of the sort of lan-
guage which, in their opinion, is most calculated
to make horses and bullocks go on and prosper.
Are you answered ?....“ What We Saw ’ : Not up
to the average snake-yarn....” Y.H.” (Townsville,
O): Metre faulty. Compare verse with verse, so
as to attain uniformity....”H.S.” (Coohto): You
should wait till the weather’s Cool-ah. You must
have been out in the sun before writing The
strain that gilds their words with thrills and bril-
liancy.” “ ’Tis full a decade since you wooed the
Muse;” take, then, our advice, dear boy, and don’t
go wooing her for another decade....”Scotty :
The officers you mention may have advised that
the mutineers of ’6l be shot down, but even
if we knew it to be true, to say so would
only be to make them a present of £IOOO each—
“ The Fowl-house If the T. and C. Journal and
the Mail can’t set you up, we can’t. They’ve had
a monopoly of experience in such things ...
“RJP”- Our W.P.B. absolutely yawns for
malice such as yours. Take our advice and never
again commit such statements to paper....
“ B WG” (Melb.): The Age might also have re-
marked the fact that when a movement was not
long since initiated for the purpose of throwing
open the museums and libraries on the Sabbath*
the only religious body that openly countenanced
and enthusiastically supported the agitation were
the R.C.’5....“J.P.T.” (Melbourne): The points
vou raise as objections support the argument of
the article. You add another to those who prey.
Rate of interest is not all. The absolute depend-
ence of tho publican on those holding his bills is
the demoralising circumstance. There is no parity
between softgoodamen and publicans. All ooun-
tries have special legislation for publicans.
The traffic is carried on on the edge of a sink.
Little pushing sends the publican in. Licenses
should be withdrawn from public-houses under
Such bills of sale. You say Pearson is a puppet of toe
Age and that the Age is actuated by spite. We
have nothing to do with the motives of either. As
for the publicans being unwilling to have the re-
turn issued, that is natural, but is immaterial.. .
» j H C ”: You are not mistaken in your estimate
of J B P * He had the misfortune to be born a
man’ had he been born a woman, we’d be in-
clined to predict a heavy balance against him on
the ledger at the final day of reckoning. He would
lav! twisted the heart of his admirers as adroitly
as he turns in the State rostrum. The numerous
suitors he could have handled with alarming dex-
terity is sufficient to cause him to regret his sex.
But his omniscient Creator, perhaps, acted for the
w TO how many bodies might the cold and
nitiless river, the drug-shop, and the gunsmiths
J ave offered a haven of repose had he been Jenny
ILanf.Timmy? Miswell": There are
mire births in N.S.W. than in Victoria in propor-
tion to the population because N.S.W, is a Free-
trade c010ny....”W. Mountford”: It was Yale
who once called Service a “Scotch Jesuit.” C. E.
Tones was formerly a tailor in Spnng-street, Mel-
bourne....” W. Cardwell”: Just so-
“ Dice and adultery, with a small estate,
\ o Jamnimr crimes i but venial with ft great*
VeniilTnay, graceful, witty, gallant, brave,
Andsuch wild tricks as gentlemen should have.
“ Australian”: About eight yearsi ag o -If there
ohniiid ever be trouble between \ ictoria and
Ww -and there are fools enough on either side
of to make it if they had a chance-toe
o£ £ kl’tic will be the rights to tho water of the
b In connection with this, read the
following extract s V M Sy° U arii^ The^og
.“ The dually
mthe “fowrithe course of the Australian Rhine;
feeders of the stream are in Victoria,
yet the main feeders oi r e Murrumbidgee.
down Je junction^ tor . a fa tho right t 0
? • • A+J,'. w *H.ter flowing down these feeding
be fought out in the radiant future
“Justice Certainly, there is a clause In the Pub-
lic Service Act ordering the retirement of Civil
Servants after they attain 00 years of age. And in
principle it is quite fair, for one generation should
give place to the other as it comes along. When a
man has been in the service of the State till he is
60 years old, we think he may be said to have had
a very good innings. But when you say, “that
Civil Servants, whose work is mere routine, have
to resign when they are 00 years old, while Legis-
lative Councillors, who have a share in the Go-
vernment of the country, may be centenarians
and keep the country back with their fos-
silised fads of two generations ago seems to
me grotesquely ridiculous,’' we are with y0u....
“ C.K.” (Canterbury): -Let us put the case more
fairly. Two men, A and B, are chatting in the
street, when a policeman appears and orders them
to “move on.” A turns “rusty,” the policeman
aggressive, one word leads to another, and finally,
the latter proceeds to arrest A. A sculiie ensues;
B. thinking his friend too roughly used, hits the
policeman over the head with a walking-stick he
carries, and the blow proves fatal. We do not
think that, under such circumstances, A should be
held responsible for B’s act, unless it can be shown
that he incited, encouraged, or helped him to
strike the b10w....“C.M.G.”: Send the rest of it,
by all means. You might, however, send
the ink and paper in separate parcels. They
would then be of use to us; otherwise, they
will be of use to the dustman only “J.
Wason ”: There is yet hope for even you,
when your head becomes grey and your whiskers
hoary. George Coppin, who once owned Cre-
morne, where Anonyma and Synonyma danced
and clinked their glasses hts become a reformer;
and Graham Berry, who quitted Parliament so
suddenly a few years ago, has started out upon a
crusade against the barmaids....,“A.O.”: Your
matter is good. Will possibly publish, although
the theme is somewhat pass 5.... “ Nemo ”: Subject
too weak for us. Even then, perhaps, the subject
is stronger than the verse....“J.J.A.”: Awful
bosh. Are you Douglas Sladen? “Our Jim”:
We are “Jack” of this kind of verse
“Heathie”: It is evident “you’ve got ’em on.”
But even when love is the inspiration, your verse
is not exquisite. We can stand your girl with “ a
wreath of hair of flaxen hue,” and a mouth
“ which seems to hide an endless kiss ” (and possibly
some potatoes), but when you call her “a poor
forlorn wretch,” we firmly and respectfully
put your screed under the table—“ Vulcan”
(Albury): Not this time “Boss”: Bosh. At
least that is to say—er—you know, not suitable.
...“Fold”: “You went to Bourke and got
drunk.” That is the substance of your six-page
Sage What of that? If we were to print a
column for everyone that did the same, the paper
would baas heavy as a well-connected land-agents
fee...J.H.” (Willeroon): It may be. as
that contracts have been for the last 18 months
simply handed over without tender to a firm
which does them at its own schedule prices;
further, that Arm may have strong infiueace, and
these proceedings may cause much loss to the
State but without definite and available proof we
could’ not breathe a word on the subject, and even
with this proof we couldn’t say f \ .?. f
we might know to be trie ' ■• • 'that we
seen something so like your last effort that we
hesitate to publish, Won’t soutrj ? yet
jeot-something concerning which nothing has yet j
been written ? Say an ode (or even epitaph) to our
subeditor He is really a very nice young man.
“ J II ” : Sorry that we cannot touch your trouble.
“ VVoman’s inhumanity to woman ” makes a lot
of unpleasantness, but this would not Pear print-
ing ‘‘O.S.”: Thanks, but we want to hear no
more about the “dentist scandal.”
Sang Chai, the new Chinese giant, now
travelling with a circus down South, is “the
youngest of 11 children, and stands 9ft. 3>fcln.
high.”
Mr. Robert Hudson, although supported
by powerful influence, could only obtain 888 votes
at the Canterbury (N.8.W.) election, as against
1733 polled by Mr. Henson. The electors have no
love for tho latter, but they naturally objected to
elect one who has been so largely concerned in
contracts in which Parliamentary influence might
have been of use, had the Arm desired to avail
themselves of it. The and -cision is creditable to the
electorate, although, doubtless, unpleasant to Mr.
Hudson.
“Dawvid” Buchanan got over-excited
when attacking the N.S.W. Government on Fri-
day night about the release of Graham Bennett.
“ After the lapse of six years,” cried the energetic
and idiomatic member for Mudgee, “the Govern-
ment had taken it into their heads to liberate this
man, Graham Berry —” a roar of laughter made
Dawvid pause, and when he became aware he had
made out his friend and loader, Graham Berry, to
be a conflnee in gaol, a look ot horror came over
his face, and the perspiration stood upon his manly
brow.
One Smith bankrupted last week. Alleged
cause, “insufficiency;or income.” His creditors
will possibly say “ extravagance of expenditure.”
If “ insufficiency of income” is to justify the non-
payment of cur debts we might all go into Court,
We have never met a man satisfied with his in-
come, “another hundred” with a fewanother
thousand” with the many being what was wanted.
If we belonged to that prolific) genus with many
species—the Smiths—we should be probably
tempted to plead “insufficiency of income” for
not doing many things expected of us.
The dinner given by Sir John Hay, Presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Legislative Council, was not
reported in detail by the Press. The occasion
afforded tho Attorney-General an opportunity of
slating his political opponents, which, we are told,
he used to considerable advantage. Rumour,
which, in this matter, we do not believe, asserts
that Mr. Dailey will shortly be seen in the Assem-
bly; if this should be so, we shall expect to see the
Strangers' Gallery always crowded during the
Session. Personal attacs and eloquent personal
abuse always delight the hahitucs of that resort.
Plain BUI and Plain John (M'Elhone) would be the
idols of the gallery.
The recent elevation of Lord Rothschild
to the English House of Lords has attracted con-
siderable attention. As a politician, he was a
nonentity, nor has he indulged in philanthropy
to any known extent. Lord Kothschild has attained
celebrity only by his enormous wealth and his
magnificent dinners. His peerage and the re-
ported elevation ot Sir Samuel Wilson go to show
that the highest honour the Sovereign can bestow
is reserved for the man who has shown the most
ability as a money-grubber. Homo s Imperial
throne in the most corrupt days of the Empire
was knocked down to the highest bidders. Eng-
lish peerages would seem to be now disposed ot in
a similar manner.
Some of the young bookmakers who study
philosophy or something else under Sydney lat-
tersall’s verandah aspire to be humorous, and
occasionally, in their exuberance of spirits, make
it warm for passers-by whose appearance Invites
remarks. Last week we had in town a remarkable
looking youog man—remarkable for having a fine
headot llix-white curly hair. He certainly did
invite remark, and when he passed along the
street everyone’s head was turned to look after
him. He did not run the gauntlet of the verandah
unscathed. “Better get shorn,” remarked one
rising metalliolan: “I’ll buy the fleece.
“Thanks,” replied the meek young man; when 1
want to be fleeced this is the shed I will corns to.
And as he passed on the books thought that they
had not “ skinned the lamb ” that time.
This is the kind of stuff an ardent young
Scotch lover wrote to his inamorata, In those days
when life was to them filled with the lurid glow of
love-light, and before a writ for breach of pro-
mise ripped their sentiment into as many pieces as
the average N.S.W. Cabinet Minister has sons-in-
law. Regretting his enforced absence, he pro-
ceeds to state that—
“ Oft at eve, when work is o’er,
And the cold, fresh breezes blow,
I sit me down, and think upon
The days of long, long ago.
Th se happy days have passed away
Like snow before the sun,
Like lovely flowers in summer,
Whose course has soon been run.
Could I recall those happy hours
We have spent in Coltness-road,
Could I but think they’d come again,
From my heart ’twould lift a load.
But, ahl they are gone for ever.
No power on earth can call
Those hours, so pleasant, back again,
Though we were to give our all.”
The jury gave a verdict for £75, less on account of
his lapses as a lover, than as penalty for bis in-
comparably abject verse.
Another of the dear old illusions has
been dispelled. The Rev. S. Chapman, of Mel-
bourne, doesn’t believe that our revered friend,
Joshua, made the sun to stand still. He considers
it a fable. Chapman ha? a little faith left, though.
He believes that miracles only performed what
was strictly necessary. He points out that the
miracle didn’t roll away the stone from Lazarus’s
tomb, nor unwrap his grave-clothes, because
human agency could accomplish that much.
Chapman, for instance, could have untied Lazarus,
only he wasn’t about at the time. But as regards
ordering the sun to stand still, Chapman thinks
that would have been uanecesjary. We think so
too.
The electioneering slogan is already re-
sounding through most of the N.8.W. constituen-
cies, and a glorious prospect of free drinks de-
lights the thirsty. Very many now men are
coming out, and among them one of the most
promising is Mr. Walter Edmunds, whose views
and ability ought to gain him a good following in
any electorate. He, It Is reported, will throw his
handkerchief to West Maitland. At Illawarra, the
Premier is to be opposed by Mr. Wiley, and pos-
sibly also by Messrs. Aquila Parsons, Archibald
Campbell (of the local Mebgcjrv), T. W. Garlick,
and Quong Tart. Messrs.! Charles Collins, D. W.
Wright, and Colonna Close are out for Namoi. If
talking is appreciated at Narrabrl, the last-named
will stand a good show, but possibly the local men
will be too strong for the stranger. The Land
and Industrial Alliance are said to be backing Mr.
M’Lean for Inverell, but his chance there will bo
worth as much as a week-old copy of the Sydney
Echo. Messrs. Garton and Byrne contest Pad*
dington and Orange under the auspices of the Re-
form League. For Young, Messrs. G. Spring, J,
R. M’Klnnon, W. I. Watson, and possibly another
local man, Mr. P. Heffernan, are running. For
East Macquarie, Mr. John Shepherd and Mr. J. E.
Tonkin are out. Prom what we hoar, they will
probably continue to remain there.
Under the head “Editorial Flowers,” in
the Tamworth Observer, we thought we were
about to inhale the mellifluous odours of the
Smartpabaqbapuia Hook-Ei, but, no; all we can
make of it seems to be that Hooke has invited the
gardeners of the district to send In to his desk
specimens of their finest flowers, with a view of
getting an accurate description of them in the
paper. Instance: “Mr. George Loder, one of our
most successful amateur gardeners, contributes
blooms of polyanthus, marigold, violet-cyclamen,
and white camellia,” etc. This Is a master-stroke,
and should be Instantly followed up. Fancy this
for instance; “The Editorial Flour-bag.—We have
received from Mr. Double Furrow, of Nundle, two
quarter-sacks of his noted double-sifted flour.
For puddings we have found ft light, of good
flavour, and easy of digestion.” “The Editorial
Meat Safe. Received.—T. Stickem, butcher, 31b.
rump steak: four ditto dripping, and a roll of
tripe. F. Mulligan: A sucking-pig. But couldn’t
you send him ready dressed? We really have no
time to dress him. Wo would send him down to
the News, but do not, for obvious reasons. A
Friend: Side of bacon and pig’s cheek. We wish
we had more of such friends. The flavour of the
bacon is second to none we have tasted in the dis-
trict. We should like our Friend to be a regular
contributor of articles of this olass. Country
papers please copy.”
According to the Victorian Temperance
orators the new Licensing Bill will, when it be-
comes law, pour out piety and plenty, as from a
horn, upon the land. The money now spent in
drink will then go to the purchase of mangles,
and the working man coming home weary on
Saturday afternoon will, instead of sinfully re-
freshing himself In the corner hotel, carry home
the whole of his wages, and Immediately start to
enjoy himself at the mangle-crank till it Is time to
go to bed. Thus will wealth be added to wealth,
and prosperity reign in the Temperance Lodges
throughout the country, not to mention that on
Sundays sufficient coin will always be forthcom-
ing for the plate. It is a pretty prospect.
But what are the Temperance lecturers going
to do then ? Mr. W. M. K. Vale-a leading
light among them — said at a meeting the
other night that he “ expected the time
would come when all men would be sober, and
they would be wise and prudent according to the
measure of their sobriety.” Without remarking
on the wild and visionary nature of such an ex-
pectation, we may mildly hint that, if such a
time over does come, it will be a poor time for Mr.
Vale and the other Licensed Virtue-makers. It
men become so sober as all that they will be too
sober to listen to them. And, In their disgust at
this, who knows but they, too, might take 10
drinK and become shocking examples to regener-
ated drunkards of the past? It is well to look at
all sides of a question before bursting yourself in
the praise of one.
The Victorian Public Service Commis-
sioners are wagging their venerable beards—if
they have any beards—over the case of Mr. Wil-
kinson, who, after entering Into the solemn noose
of matrimony at the residence of the Rev.
Nathaniel Kinsman, sought to wriggle out of it in
the Melbourne Divorce Court. Wilkinson is a
telegraph operator, and the Government is a bit
afraid that the morals of the public service may
suffer from the contagious presence of the poor
devil, or the wires go wrong under the baneful
influence of his click, click, click. It appears—
although we wouldn’t have thought it-that there
is an Act providing for the dismissal of “any
officer who is guilty of any conduct which, in the
opinion of the Commissioners, renders him unfit
to continue in the public service.” Heighol Wo
suppose the persistent swallowing of oamels bas so
deranged the digestive organs of the V.P.8. that it
rebels at this little gnat of a Wilkinson. Sympathy
costs nothing, we’ll condole with him in verse:—
COUNTRY PARSON (to navvy shifting camp on Sunday): “IF FATHER HAYES MEETS YOU
NAVVY " FAITH, BETWIXT YERSELF AN’ FATHER HAYES POOR DIVILS LIKE ME
HAVE AN AIBY LIFE.”
Poor Wilkinson, poor Wilkinson I
It seemeth somewhat hard
That youthful clerks from playing larks
Must ever be debarred;
These potent seigniors, Wilkinson,
Who now in judgment sit,
Why, maybe they have in their day
Been gay—a little bit.
But they are older, Wilkinson—
They’ve passed the giddy stage,
And virtue stern, ymrll have to learn,
Comes to us with old age;
They might have winked once, Wilkinson,
But that was long ago;
Their blood was hot, but now it s not—
We guess you’ll have to go.


“Doctors differ.” They do, but the ex-
ception proves the rule,—They all agree that
Wolfe s Schnapps is the best stimulant procur-
“l cannot say enough in praise of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral, believing as I do that but for
its use I should long since have died from lung
troubles. s
“Palestine, Texas, April 33,1883,” F ‘ Bbagdon *
Art Union of Moss Yale, in aid of Widow
and Orpan Fund of Berrima Masonic Lodge
Tickets, 30s. Will shortly be drawn. Annlv at
once for tickets, J. S. Hyams, SecV. Mosa Vak£
Mb. DeOoubot Browni (late Denntv
Chairman of the Mining Board of New Smith
Wales). Author of the “ Miners’ Hand 7 Book ”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Ifonuai At
Mineral,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and llnd ani
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted oFevery
description of Land and Mining business nersnn-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford CTiambers 63
reagh-street. Sydney, w Mining TltJesfa weU
proven speciality, pT Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments wd
Supreme Court.* u “ *‘ ua
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the most celebrated
tome and stimulant of this or any age Be cm-tain
that you obtain Wolfe’s. g certain
The Renner Manufacturing Co., of Pitts-
burgh. Pennsylvania, U.8.A., make an extraordfS-
ary offer to agents, and those wanting employ-
ment, to sell their Renner Combined Alarnforid
Door Bell, in the different colonies and countfes to
Australia. It is endorsed by over 3000 DnhHahowa
in the United States and Canada! and by the 100 000
who are now using them on their doors it ha«
never been sold by the trade, but by agents alomf
J* ««m pay i oop ? r ce ? t ’ profit * and from $°S)
to $6.00 each. Agents in the United States have
taken as high as 33 orders in a single day? ft S eiS
readily on its merits. General agents who
handle a number of counties, or one of the cok)°
nies, can secure those they want by being the first
to comply with our terms. Large Illustrated
circulars, containing terms and wifi be
sent free. Address: Renner MANUFACTnnrr?rt
Co., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, TJ.S.A.* DIJN °
Wolfe’s Schnapps is now the most nonu-
KaSw,' 6 ■ I ™ M ’ «*■« <» P «XI
Personal Items
Sir Henry Parkes says of himself : “ There’s
a kick In the old dog yet.”
Dr. Atherton returns to Sydney from
England by the Carthage, which sails from London
October 23.
The name of the heroine of the Mutta-
purra (Q.) elopement Is Goff-Go-off I Who said
there was nothing in a name ?
It *. 8 Ba *d that the Lord Chief Justice
(Coleridge) of England Is about to marry a lady
under a threat of breach of promise.
The yery big estate left by a recently-
deceased personage Is to be re-valued by the N.S.W.
Government for probate. We wonder why I
At Wentworth (N.S.W.) there is an alder-
man named Woodhead. It isn’t everywhere that
an alderman’s qualification is stated so plainly.
S*™ B Reeves,” says an English paper,
* will shortly pay a professional visit to Australia,
where, we believe, a golden harvest awaits him.”
The Australasian regards the report of
the N.S.W. Bailway Bridges’ Commission as a eom-
gjeto triumph for Mr. Whitton, the Bnglneer-in-
Dr. Alexander M’Cormiok, of the Sydney
Enlverslty, has received a gold medal from the
dinburgh University for an essay on the myology
of the marsupials. We do hope he said a good
word for the paddymelons.
“ There is not a town in the colony which
ean show such a muster of pretty children as
Charters Towers.” says Thady O’Kane. The
veteran tribune’s estimate of his mental endow-
ments is known to be high. The estimate of his
physical symmetry, grace, and beauty is still
In the report of an action brought to
restrain the Pall Mall from publishing Gordon’s
diary, it is stated that the Sydney Mail people
gave £350 for the right of publishing the diary la
Australia. We wonder how many people now reel
interested in the precious production in question.
Verily, this is an emotional world.
Said the Archbishop of Canterbury, in an
oration the other day:—” One of the most beauti-
ful characteristics of the English clergyman was
his modesty.” Simply lovely! We have known
many successful clergymen whose most beautiful
characteristic (next to their piety and their
mashing” abilities) was their cheek.
The L’lndependent of New Caledonia
says the Association of Republican Journalists in
i ranee will bring an action in the English Courts
against General Wolseley for having put a price
on Olivier Pain’s head. It maintains that his ex-
ploits honoured not only France but humanity.
Fain has left a widow and four young children.
The Adelong Argus publicly remarks that
“though Mr. Wright, the N.S.W. Minister for
Works, has at times boasted that he is the only
sot nd man in the Ministry, physically speaking, in
our humble opinion the opacity of his mental
vision is, so far as the public are concerned, a much
worse disorder than the various bodily ailments of
his colleagues.”
Baron Ferdinand de Rothschild, on enter-
ing the House of Commons to take the oath,
brought with him the copy of the Hebrew Scrip-
tures upon which he was sworn. This precedent
might fairly be construed in favour of Bradlaugh,
who would have no objection to “taking his
davy ” on, say, Tom Paine’s “ Age of Reason,” the
Freethought Bible.
The irascible Purves doesn’t always have
his own way. He defended the prisoner in the
Carter Jewellery case, and one day recently got
handling the jewels which were produced. The
owner naturally appeared kinder anxious whilst
this was going on, and requested him not to do it.
“You have been ordered out of court,” snapped
the legal luminary. “He needs to remain here
when you are fingering his valuables,” said the
prosecuting lawyer.
Prince Louis of Battenberg, who was in
Australia a few years ago, probably feels rather
disgusted with his English relatives, as when he
proposed for Princess Beatrice he was rejected
solely (as he was told) because the Queen had re-
solved not to sanction her youngest daughter’s
marriage with anybody not of Royal birth, and
now, lo and behold! hlg younger brother’s suit
has prospered triumphantly, in spite of the oppo-
sition ot the whole of the bride’s relatives.
We notice that a New York publication
heralds the appearance of Kyrle Bellew (some-
time, by-the-way, a reporter on the Melbourne
Px r ’A nd Bvb » in g Herald) by describing him as
“ Ouida-esque, supernal, with a dash of London
Journal.” New York women have an admiring
eye for elegance and picturesque posing, and if
the ladies pet leading man can prevent them from
discovering that Kyrle-when we knew him his
name was Harold-is a trifle bow-legged all will be
wtll.
For the third time this session the brilliant
“ Brevity ’’banditti of the Sydney Evening News
have poked their dreary fun at Dr. Ross, M.L A
who, we are told, spoke for an hour over the Ad-
dress in Reply, and “ used the words ‘as it were’
about 300 times during that period,” Never mind
Doctor; you don’t spell “cart” with a k, like
some of the Market-street smarties. You sin in
good company, too, for Tacitus tells us Cicero was
accused of too frequently using “ esse vldeatur
“ as it would seem.”
O/i dit that the N.S.W. Government are
about to purchase as a gubernatorial residence
the splendid Sydney suburban residence recently
erected by Mr. Cooper, son of Sir Daniel of that
ilk. !t is also said that “ The Warren,” Hon. Thos
Holts mansion, has been bought by the R.C
authorities as a nunnery. If this be so, the road
along George’s River will be blocked. And as the
grant recent y made to Archbishop Moran at
Manly also blocks the public, it is quite evident
that, in one sense, the R.C. Church is becoming the
loe of progress. ‘
Time after time complaints have reached
us touching the highly indecent style in which
cattle, pigs, dogs and the like, hold Ministerial ban-
quets and alfresco picnics in the country church-
yards of New South Wales; but the climax has
been reached at last by a Bathurst journal an-
nouncing, with a ghastliness evidently intended to
be humorous, that “ the last football match of the
season there will be played on Monday next in the
d°i d gs
D n an^lD O em a eh o y“’ Wm be the akuli of
The Otago Witness has been listening to
stories about Archbishop Goold. of Melbrnfmo
And the Witness prints nearly all it Lars Here ? s
this. A Southern firm indented a new tiara « J
with precious stones, for his Grace. It came B if
had to be classed at the Customs. It was nof“‘hats
or caps.” There was a solemn quandarv On«
official put it on his head and made an affidavit
that it was worn. But more thought
Finally It was decided to let it 'Jo Mmoles”
As there is but one Archbishop in the colony the
Customs would appear to have been enjoying l
perluold interval when conferring that desig-
ie £ ce ’ of ’ Frisc o, is terse
and to the point:—“The Queen of England writes
Jwwke Qf dullness and invjnci y. v , t)
and they have an enormous vogue, mainly among
the most highly educated. An equal popularity
is accorded to the novels of a writer named Dis-
raeli—who had the consummate literary skill to be
i rime Minister. True, his novels are vacant of
meaning and destitute of grace—the voice of a
literary idiot crying in a wilderness of words—but
the stars and crosses of critical acceptance and
public enthusiasm hastened to fix themselves upon
his breast, blazing with a lively lustre through the
spittle that he drooled.”
Sir Salmon Wilson, incensed at the re-
marks Australian papers have printed concerning
sls5 ls recent genealogical discoveries, has finally
decided not to allow any colonial journals within
his gates. Any malicious person who has nothing
better to do than to annoy the fat little man of the
llame-coloured whiskers will now have to cut out
the newspaper-extracts he desires to bring under
the notice of the servants’-hall, and post them
under cover to the butler. However, we dare say
something could be done by mailing Wilsonian
literature of a derisive character to the curate at
Hughenden, who, as he is bound to be shockingly
poor, is almost sure to be a Radical.
The statement that Louis Riel has ap-
pealed to the Privy Council is mysterious to
some people. But the fact is that any Canadian
found guilty of murder and sentenced to death
has a constitutional right, after exhausting the
local courts, to appeal to this tribunal. An appo-
site case occurred quite recently- A murderer,
named Connor, was tried at Winnipeg, found
guilty, and sentenced to death. He appealed to
the Queen's Bench at Manitoba. The sentence
was confirmed. Thereupon he appealed to the
Privy Council in England. Unfortunately, how-
ever, in Connor's case the papers were delayed,
and on the morning his petition came up for hear-
ing he was executed. But the constitutional right
appertains to the prisoner. This is the right Louis
Kiel is now enforcing.
Sir Saul Samuel is “ pressing” the English
Government to bestow the Soudan medal on the
men of the disbanded N.S.W. Contingent. Even
should his solicitations have the desired effect the
fact that he made them at all deprives the medal of
whatever little honour might attach to its posses-
sion. If the thing is only to be obtained by beg-
ging It becomes just as unmeaning as the dazzling
galaxy of stars and crosses which deck the gallant
breast of Field-Marshal H.R.H. the Prince of
Wales to show the number of fierce battles from
which he was unavoidably absent. Now, had Sir
Saul, instead of pressing the British Government
for medals which were never won, pressed them
to decline Australian interference in a matter with
which she had no concern, he himself would de-
serve a medal as big as a soup-plate for his pa-
triotism.
Dr. Taylor, the geologist, had a curious
experience in driving out to the Otway Forest.
On the way, the buggy began to bounce up and
down on the rough road, and, to quote his own
words, “ When the bouncing was at its climax, my
friend and driver remarked, ‘I hope you don’t
mind it, but that’s a packet of dynamite, about
51b. of it, on the bottom of the buggy underneath
you.’ ” The dynamite was to be used in tree-
splitting. Nice hospitable people down there, but
cool. By the way, Dr. Taylor says that kangaroos
are the oldest race of mammals in the world, and
lived in England millions of years before the woad-
stained Britons paddled up and down the Thames
in their wicker coracles. If there were such a
thing as a kangaroo system of chronology and a
kangaroo were to write a book about it. what a lot
of line antiquarian theories it would burst up to be
sure!
Mias Chamberlain, la belle Amevicaine,
appears to have ogled her way back into the good
graces of H.K.H. “ Wales,” for. at the late Good-
wood races, this interesting couple promenaded
the lawn together as of yore. The Chamberlain,
so people said, passed for a while from the bright
sunshine of royal favour to the cold shade of
neglect for daring to address his Podginess as
“Jumbo.” They were at supper—she and the
amorous Bertie—and when he sent up his plate for
the 13th “go” of boned turkey, she remarked,
“Jumbo, you eat too much.” Bertie was so in-
censed that he turned his back on his fair com-
panion, and devoted himself entirely to the
vittles ” for the rest of the evening, nor did they
speak for a long time after. It was a thoughtle s
speech to make, and the nickname was particularly
disrespectful—to Barnum’s grand old elephant.
For scathing sarcasm the following “ takes
the bun ” from all creation. During the presenta-
tion of a testimonial to a K.C. divine out West, in
N.S.W., a few days ago, the President of the Guild,
amongst the rest of his complimentary remarks,
observed:—” We do not deny that there may have
been pastors who were unmindful of their sacred
trust-pastors on whom the Lord himself, by the
mouth of the Prophet, pronounced a terrible woe
—‘ Woe to the shepherds of Israel that feed them-
selves You drank the milk, and you
clothed yourselves with the wool, and you killed
that which wai fat, but thy flock you did not feed.
Behold, I myself will come upon the shepherds, and
I will require mv fiock at their hands.’” This,
though it of course did not apply to the gentleman
testimonialised, is rather rough on the portly
clerics who live on roast turkey and fizz, and die
worth £BO,OOO, respected by all who know them.
The “ Great Macdermott,” lion comique of
the London Music Halls, and creator of “We
don’t want to firht,” is in the Bmkruptcy Court.
Mac. had to admit that ho was earning £5O a week
at the present time, and that his income had aver-
aged £l5OO per annum for years past. Ye gods I
Sixty pounds a week for howling out “ patriotic
songs ” behind a wide expanse of shirt-front.
Macdermott, by the way, was a very capital actor,
until he became alive to the pecuniary advantages
of being a music hall “starj” but he has gradually
drifted away from the old biz , until now he does
nothing but walk on and throw his manly chest
forward and howl. Mac. is quite a clever enough
man to know that he is playing the fool, and at
times even his stock of brass fails him. On these
rare occasions a pint of champagne has to be put
into the great man before he can face the audience
that is panting for “ We'll lick the blooming
world,” or some other ditty equally patriotic.
We make no apology for re-printing the
subjoined from the Sydney D.T. of the other
day:—“ Bay by.—Died on Sunday, August 33,1885,
at Inca, Queen-street, Woollahra, Sydney, Mar-
gueretto Eliza L. Mac Jonnell, the beloved wife of
o’ ley, Railway Department of New
South Wales, daughter of the late Robert Mac-
Donnell, physician, Dublin, sister of Lady Blake,
late of Menlough Castle, Ireland, and of Robert
Mac Donnell, M.D., founder of the Hospital for
?. oaB^ mpti .T eB ’ Montreal, Canada, and of Richard
Mac Donnell, barrister, Philadelphia, niece of Dr.
Richard Mac Donnell, D.D., and late Provost of
Trinity College, Dublin, and also of Dr. Charles
Mac Donnell, late Professor of Mathematics, Trinity
College, and the late Rev. W, A. Evanson, of
Inglesham Vicarage, Gloucestershire, and first
cousin of Sir Richard G. Mac Donnell, formerly
Go ™ r ?°. r South Australia and Hongkong, also
of Gaptam Robert H, Mac Donnell, formerly of the
ooth Regiment. Her end was perfect peace.”
Mr. Milne Smith, of Horsham, Vie., is con-
sidered by the akgus to be favoured by fortune—
his acquittal is, in disguised words, said to be a
fluke. The people of Horsham are told that each
man may now suspect his neighbour—" ten out of
ten” may be suspicioned of the robbery of
£6OOO of the London Chartered Bank's money.
The trial was, in its details, little heeded, as the
public knew that one of the two persons, Koss,
had been accepted as approver. The value of such
Queen’s evidence is usually overpowering in like
cases, but the Horsham jury set their faces against
such ways of getting canvictions. It was in the
atmosphere that this result should happen. The
Judge s summing up was favourable, and the jury
were, as is not now usually the case, all of one
mind. The crowd in court were with the Judge
and the Jury and the prisoner, and such cheering
took place, when the verdict was quickly given, as
was never before heard in a court. Mr. Purves,
who got 100 guineas a day for the three days’ trial,
will be now in greater request by thosp who may
p:-t into trojfih'. The jstter, t>y-tby,way. will, in
Henry Garret, at one time a noted bush-
ranger, and lately an agedprisoner in New Zealand,
died a few days ago at Wellington Gaol. Garret
first got ten years in 1813 for something he had
none in Birmingham, and was sent to Norfolk
Island. In 1855, he robbed a bank in Ballarat of
*6OOO, and got clean away to London, where
he was arrested by a Victorian detective who
cooee d ” after him in the street, and on his
looking round, “grabbed” him. He was loose
again in 1802, and went to Otago, where he stuck-
up the gold escort and robbed 17 diggers and
teamsters, all of whom he tied to trees in the bush,
afterwards lighting their pipes and giving each a
pannikin of hot tea, and threatening them with
death if they stirred for two hours. For this little
achievement he was arrested in Australia, and
ever since New Zealand has claimed him as her
own. At the inquest held over his remains in
Wellington Gaol, Mr. George Leslie, one of the
teamsters he stuck-up 23 years ago, was foreman
of the jury. Garret spent about 50 years of his
life in gaol. He was 72 years of age when he
“shuffled off.”
The now celebrated Lord Randolph
Churchill, leader of the “ Tory Democrats,” in
whom lies the present British Premier’s only
shadow of a hope to secure the support of any con-
siderable section of the people properly so-called,
is not improving his political position. Two of his
party, the members for Liverpool, ha ve jibbed alto-
gether at supportlnghim at his proposed mass
meeting in that city. He foolishly showed the white
feather—so his enemies say—and excused his at-
tendance, to the great disappointment of many
thousands who had secured seats. Since that time
the Standard— leading Conservative organ—has
altogether thrown him over. Lord Randolph, who,
so last week’s cablegrams tell us, has been or-
dered by the doctors to take six weeks’ complete
rest, is an utter wreck in health. His failure to
attend the meeting in question was, one may be
sure, owing to no want of pluck; for he is as game
as a little bulldog, an animal to which, facially, he
bears a not Inconsiderable resemblance. As the
world knows, he is a younger brother of the notori-
ous Duke of Marlborough. He “ went the pace ”
while young, and is now paying the penalty.
The Sydney Mail, in a recent issue, says :
“ There are lots of things in this land permitted to
die out, which ought to be placed on record—lota
of historical facts only held in memory by a few
old residents, and fated with them to die; some
really important, others of only a quaint sort of
Interest.” And then goes on to “ spin a cuffer,”
as it admits, “ told over a couple of glasses of
whisky,” about a poor devil at Macquarie Harbour
taking a letter he had picked up to the officer in
cnarge, which entitled its bearer to 60 lashes. He
got them, the receipt was written. In blood, on the
flogger’s instrument, and he went on his way. If
this is an item of “ quaint interest,” retailed over
a couple of glasses of Old Rye, the following must
be broadly humorous:—Nine-fingered Mick was
a hard case, one of the roughest of a rough lot of
exiles, whom a maternal Government located in
the vicinity of Maitland, some years ago. Mick
was often the bearer of “a note to the Governor,”
and the “forty stripes save one” was more than
thrice his portion. One day he was triced up for a
score, and had received them, in the presence of
the officials and an officer’s lady, who, with a keen
sense of the quaintly Interesting, had strolled down
to see the man flogged. Her baby, at the termina-
tiou of the matinee, and just as Mick was being
taken down, crowed gleefully. The lady, turning to
the officer of the day, remarked sweetly, “ Give
him another dozen; it makes the baby laugh.”
And the victim to quaint interest was again
tackled and received a dozen, credited, no doubt,
to his current account. This was not told over a
couple of glasses of whisky, it takes a couple of
casks to make us forget facts.
Here are a few interesting little episodes
of the N.S.W, Viceroy’s recent trip to Bourke.
Notwithstanding the fact that Orange can raise 80
volunteers, only four cculd be found who were
willing to form a guard of honour for the Vice-
Regal party, and these four confined their atten-
tion to guarding the outside of the pub. at which
the travellers stayed. His Excellency was in
splendid diplomatic form on this occasion, how-
ever, and amongst other things observed, “ J per-
ceive you men of Orange have wisely availed
yourselves of your great and numerous natural
advantages, and have, in the midst of the richest
agricultural lind in the colony, and with a climate
of unrivalled salubrity, erected a town which
would favourably compare in its arrangements, in
its architecture, and in its municipal government
with any of equal size to be found in the colonies.”
The joke is that His Excellency made this speech
at the railway stati on,and at a time when he had not
seen a single brick of the township, and was as
religiously ignorant of where the “numerous
natural advantages ” of the district lay as he was
of the Solomon-like discretion with which its
municipal arrangements are managed. Possibly
the whole thing was carefully “ faked ” in Sydney
long before the excursion started, and the style
in which it was gulped down affords another
proof of the correctness of Carlyle’s theory that
most people are fools. Perhaps the brightest in-
cident in the Vica-Regal trip was the discovery
that the humblest man on earth to-day is the
Grange Mayor, for, Instead of perching himself in
the State carriage which was to convey the dis-
tinguished visitors round the town, the municipal
magnate pushed a private citizen into the place of
honour, and contented himself by crowding up on
the box between the groom and the coachman.
Sir Archibald Michie, Q.C. —he was some-
what of a barristerial frost in Sydney—has just
written a pamphlet on the education question.
Here is a slab of it, which would seem to indicate
that Sir Archibald is regaining his old form:—
“ Not until I witnessed in the Protestant cathedral
of a neighbouring colony, some two years back,
this manufacturing of priests (literally manufac-
turing in one sense, for it is done by the imposi-
tion of hands) by the bishop of the diocese, did I
realise the grotesque absurdity of this part of the
operation. There were five or six young candi-
dates for holy orders, turned out in a gowned
group, kneeling round the bishop. One of them
(a nice young fellow I well knew) bad on, to my
certain knowledge, a substantial brawn wig,
as he had lost all his own hair by a fever.
When I saw the bishop’s hands on the arti-
ficial covering, and heard the episcopal request—
as per prayer-book—that anyone who had any-
thing to urge as an impediment to any of these
candidates enlisting would come forward and state
it, I confess that, as I looked on the business in
more of a critical than a reverential spirit, some
curious thoughts would rush across my mind. Did
the bishop Know that he was touching a merely
thatched candidate when he said, ‘ Receive
&o. ? ’ I did not take the point myself, but
I could not but feel a little nervous lest some
extra conscientious person might arise and inquire
of the bishop whether the Imposition of hands was
essential to the operation or not. If yea, should
not the bare head of the candidate have been ex-
posed to the episcopal hands 7 Would the effluence
from the bishop’s palms pass through such a non-
conductor—so to speak—as this brown wig? If
not, might not the whole operation, so far as this
particular candidate went, be-to use a legal ex-
pression—a nullity, with all its dreadful after con-
sequences? It should be ‘disputed on,’ as Bra-
bantio says.”
Judas Iscariot and Judge Jeffreys will get
a whitewashing next. They are about all of the
Infamous who now remain to be so served. The
Australian daily Press has been lately largely re-
viewing Justice Stephen’s work whitewashing
Impoy, the Calcutta Chief Justice who tried, con-
victed, and hauged Nuncomar—a Hindoo Rajah.
The Rajah had blurted out charges of embezzle-
ment against Warren Hastings to the newly-
appointed Governing Council who, in 1774, took
the government out of Hastings’ hands. Macaulay,
who had been in India and knew much about
things there, condemns this execution of Nun-
comar as a judicial murder concocted by Hastings
and Impeytoget rid of one who knew too much
and would not keep quiet about it. As we read
the book, and what It rakes up, we are disgusted
with the scoundrellsm which prevailed then—
nearly as much as it does now—in high places.
For a good, straightforward, honest man we had
believed in “Junius,” judging him by his famous
letters, which vhe world accepts as the wyrk
Sir Philip Francis. He also was In the scramble
m India at that time, and. Judging by this book of
Stephen s, helped himself to other people’s pro-
perty as freely as anybody. We had swallowed
Edmund Burke too, along with Hastings, as a
pure-minded, whole-souled being, and as some-
body to swear by. We find him, according to
Justice Stephen’s book, to be —well, anything but
that. He sends out to India his brother William to
the care of Francis, and plainly tells the latter to
take care of his brother and “ bring him home
with you at his ease under the protection of your
opulence.” This Is something of what Fagln told
the Dodger when sending out Oliver Twist under
the latter’s care. We have done now with believ-
ing in anybody—as being better than ourselves.
This Judge Stephen, by the way, is the man who
was quoted, the other day, by the Sydney Echo as
having expressed the opinion that there wasn’t
enough hanging in the land. When we read the
Echo s quotation wo thought It came from some
other Judge Stephen.
Mr. George Glenny Wilson, of Fitzroy.
Melbourne, has fallen a victim to the current
‘ cold.” He and Jardine Smith were well-known
figures In that journalist-haunted suburb. Often
they found their way together across the Victoria
Parade and down the hill to Collins-street. They
were quiet, unpretentious, working men. Wilson
had realised that he had not a particle of genius,
and he held his pen with much the same sentiment
the labourer entertains while holding his pick.
He indited letters to the country papers of
toria. For nearly 30 years he had been thus in-
forming rural minds. To a conscientious man
there is perhaps no work harder. To an
imaginative man with little conscience it is. for a
while, delightful. He Is a creator. Incident,
clothed with comment, rolls abroad. Kural
opinion Is a sun that lights and warms. It oscil-
lates, gyrates, and In its little existence is as beau-
tiful, if as unsubstantial, as a soap-bubble. He
alone makes the brilliant Kosmos, and even with-
out, nearly always without, either soap or water
The writer of this knows It. In that same suburb
he too worked for the Improvement of the rural
mind of Victoria. Ach! And maybe he will
again do it. If so, he hopes that when Pallida
Mors takes the old yellow ’bus for Fitzroy, the
implacable deity will find a oonclence as little bur-
thened as that of George Glenny Wilson. The
Melbourne correspondent of the 8. M. Herald
refers to him:A good and useful newspaper
man, George Glenny Wilson, is dead. He was not
brilliant, nor witty, nor profound, nor erudite
nor marvellously learned, no t greatly skilled in
the world’s ways; bathe wrffcodest and Indus-
trious, and honest and u lassumlng. He was a
familiar figure In Melbourne streets for 30 years
past; a tall, stooping figure, with a mild and gentle
manner. He had no ambition, no aspirations, no
yearning to be other than he was. He filled his
place, and he died. He had always a pleasant
smile and a kindly greeting for those who knew
him. And he had no enemies.” If we had a friend
who we thought would write of us like that when
we were dead, there would be two deaths to
chronicle. Ours would be the second.
Lord Lonsdale had Edmund Yates, of the
World, sent to gaol for libelling him a while ago
It is now Yates’ turn, and he accordingly takes the
starch out of his lordship thus: la the Interests
of outraged decency, it is to be hoped that every-
body will hear of the case, and that those few
ladles who still remain as bulwarks of the old faith
of manners and morals will mark their sense of
this gross violation of their rules. And here it is
necessary to make a clear distinction between
Lord Lonsdale and ;Chetwynd The
former, a young athlete of 28, with cast-iron
nerves, sinews, and muscles, in the habitual train
ing of the professional bruiser, with his powerful
frame attacked a man who was physically his
inferior. This may not sound heroic but It is pro-
bably in accordance with the latest rules of con-
temporary chivalry. That exhibition of chivalry
brings, it may be supposed, the series of the
aristocratic scandals of the expiring season
to a close. And what a cron of them them
has been I The Durham nullity of marriage
case, the Colin Campbell divorce, the Cole-
ridge libel, and the Aylesford bastardy case
were no sooner exhausted than Society's laded
palate was refreshed by the narrative of the Lons-
dale fight, and the newspaper report of the mys-
terious case of the baronet—’ the undersized man
with the iron-gray whiskers and the Homan nose’
—whose portrait is presented to us In these gra-
phic words, but whose name Is suppressed Here
indeed, are scandals in plenty; scandals every one
of which is forged by malignant hands into an in-
strument against the order within the precincts of
which they occur. For Society now cannot sin in
secret, and its offences, committed under the
translucent cover of a crystal mansion, entail
political as well as social consequences. Patrician
libertinism or rowdyism Is not merely a breach of
the decalogue, it Is a menace to the patrician sys-
tem. Those who, moving on the same exalted
plane on which it is committed, connive at the sin
morally implicate themselves in it, and will have’
some day to bear the brunt of its responsibility. Yet
the upper classes and the semi-Boyal eoteries are
always lamenting the destructive inroads of de-
mocracy and the pernicious propaganda of social
levellers. It really might have been thought that
the titled classes would by this time have taken
warning from events, and that personages whose
welfare, whose very existence, depends on the
perpetuation of our social stability, would not
tolerate. these repeated challenges to destiny.
Great may be the virtues of judicious squaring,
but the day must come when tne most expert of
squarers can square successfully no longer aud
there is an end even to the efficacy of "hush-
mon fy- I* most things have hitherto been
possible, it is to be trusted that henceforth some
things may b© impossibl©, ©ven und©r our presont
most tolerant vice regal control.”


BEALE & COMPANY.
BEALE & COMPANY
Beale & Company.
SYDNEY and BRISBANE.
SOLE IMPORTERS OF THE
Sweet Hapsburg Piano,
SWEET “ HAPSBURG ” PIANO.
Juaiolous Selection and Addition o f
all Valuable Improvements, they have raised to
trallaf em er PoBltion InstrumonVln AuS
Principal of the Firm Is at present VlsiHn»
the Continent of Europe, and the Vlsltln*
SHIPMENTS NOW ARRIVING
contain all the
VERY LATEST IMPROVEMENTS.
MORE ARE SOLD THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY than of
ANY OTHER MAKE.
ty E^g^X°rs!arvXM!iSSfyAtt ‘ ,t,,a
BEALE & COMPANY
iWlll Deliver
A “ Hapsburg ” Piano,
A "Haydn” Organ,
OR
A "Haydn” Harmonium
(CARRIAGE PAID)
To any Wharf or Railway Station in New South
Wales upon the most
LIBERAL TERMS OF TIME-PAYMENT.
Catalogues Free on Application.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
Sydney Show Rooms,
386 and 612 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
151 OXFORD STREET.
BRANCHES and TRAVELLERS THROUG H© DT
”
CONSULTATION
ON THE
MELBOURNE CUP,
NOW OPEN. W
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10s. BACH.
First Horse £350
.. r 100
3rd „ ;j5
Starters 65
Non-starters 50
lmnQ . Also. CAULFIELD CUP.
1000 Subscribers at £1 each; First Horse, £5OO.
Address—
“ BEACH,”
Care of J. Q. Dceble,
Hotel, Kins: and Pitt Street, Sydney
wßfsasirrjSiff rei!l<ter Mten tot
Public Announcement.
TO ALL WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.
"TV/TBSSRS. NEILD and CO., on behalf of The
Magnetlcal-Electric Appliance Company
earnestly desire to call the attention of the public
to the fact that. In consequence of the success
attending' the sale of the above Company’s Bleo-
trio Belts, Corsets, &0., a so-called Caution has
been published, emanating from an agent for
Electric articles, who, prompted by a motive to
attempt to monopolise the sale of such articles,
the principle of which we emphatically assei-t has
been known to the world for at least twenty years
and are now being manufactured In Great Britain
by dozens of firms, and variously styled for the
purposes of a trade mark only, but avowedly par-
taking of the same nature, being an adaptation of
the element of Magnetlcal Electricity. Further-
more, to give substantial proof of our assertions,
we here cite the well-known names of firms who
may well be called the pioneers of this form of
Electric Treatment, who perfected and popularised
its adaptation for Therapeutical purposes which
could he worn about the body as articles of
clothing, dlsoenslng with the cumbersome chain
bands and the objectionable use of acids. Fore-
most among the promoters of this treatment are
Darlow’s “Magnetine,” Scrivener Pills’ “Amyn-
terlon,” Welton’s “ Magnoticon,” Whiting’s “ Mag-
netod,” &0., &o. We wish, therefore, to refute
intoto any erroneous impressions caused by the
before-mentioned so-caiajid Caution, and we
emphatically assert that the Magnetieal-Electrlo
Appliance Company’s Belts, Corsets, Lung in-
vlgorators. Spine Bands, Insoles, &c , and various
other appliances of their manufacture, embrace
all the latest improvements, and are manufactured
on strictly scientific principles, and In accordance
with the most modern and approved adaptation of
Curative Electricity. We ask, therefore, those
who desire to adopt the treatment of Electricity
for constitutional or local derangements, to com-
pare our Electric Balts, Corsets, &c , with those of
other manufacture, as they are undoubtedly of
superior Electrical Strength, design, quality of
material, and elegance of finish. The half-guinea
Gent.’s Belt Is the best ever offered to the public
tor electrical strength and quality. Qent.’sspecial-
power Electric Belts, 20s. These Belts are manu-
factured expressly for tropical climates, and are
very durable, as also are our Electric Corsets
Lung Invlgorators, Spine Bjnds. &o.
We beg also to draw special attention to the fact
that we have secured the services of a Medical
Electrician, a gentleman who was for many years
engaged as consulting representative In the firm
of Messrs. Welton and Co,, London, whose ap-
pliances are of world-wide reputation, and who
was also recently engaged as consultant to the
Hygienic-Electric Association, of Regent-street,
London.
All correspondence treated with the greatest
despatch.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
We have just received a large stock of the Mag-
netical-Electric Appliance Company’s Halt-guinea
Electric Belts, which are unequalled for electric
power and finish.
The Guinea Electric Belt is tbe same as sold In
England for £3 3s.
All our Electric Appliances are stamped “ Mag-
netlcal Electric Appliance Co., London and Sydney,
without which none are genuine.
E. S. NEILD AND GO..
158 Pltt-st., Sydney,
SOLE PROPRIETORS FOR AUSTRALIA. ~
Political Points
Mr. Hudson must think the Canterbury
(Sydney) electors “go up flrstj” when ingratitude
is in question. Seventeen hundred of them rode
In his vans, drank his beer, and then voted for the
total abstainer Henson.
The Newcastle Hbbald, commenting upon
the candidature of Mr. Alexander Hutchison for
Glen Innes, caustically remarks:—“We should
have thought their present member was bad
enough, but he can lay claim to education, if
nothing else.’’
Reynolds says of the Battenberg Natur-
alisation Bill “As Prince Henry only knows
four words of English (‘Yes,’ ‘No,’ and ‘Cash,
please’), it is not easy to see what good can be
effected by making him a natural Englishman by a
fifteen-minute Act of Parliament.”
Labouohere tells how a man bad con-
tracted to deliver some baskets to the Egyptian
Government for £4500, and how eventually a
British Commission committed the infamous job
of giving him £98,000 for these very baskets. This
is the sort of thing that the N.S.W. Contingent
was sent to bolster up.
John Davies intends standing for Kiama,
and also for a metropolitan seat at next N.S.W.
general election. This would tend to show that
John is gradually arriving at a true sense of his
political position. A man who insults the electors
by standing simultaneously for two seats, only
shows that he has, and that he believes the public
has, no confidence in himself.
M‘Elhone is going to take a seat in the
background in future unless it happens that the
Assembly should be so ill-advised as to expel him
in connection with the Handsaker business, in
which case he would be obliged, “in the interests
of those who are nearest and dearest to him,” to
seek re-electkn. Subtle M‘Blhone I What would
not members all round sacrifice to have the irritat-
ing thorn removed from the body politic ?
These are some of the planks in the latest
devised platform of thelFrench Socialistic Party:
The abolition of the Presidency; the abolition of
the Senate; the settlement of all questions of war
by popular vote; the legal equality of legitimate
and illegitimate children; the gradual abolition of
standing armies; the establishment of a progres-
sive income tax; reduction in the hours of labour;
and the maintenance of disabled workmen at the
public expense.
A sign of the times. At a public meeting
of working men, held in the Farringdon Hall,
London, the following resolution was passed, with
seven dissentients, in an audience of several hun-
dreds:—“That this meeting, recognising the hide-
ous sexual corruption of the capitalistic classes,
and the iniquities practised by them on the
children of the workers, is of opinion that these
evils cannot be removed, or even remedied, until
the present capitalistic system of society is done
away with.”
E. W. O’Sullivan objects to our statement
that he is “ a Domain orator,” and says that, on
the contrary, he has often come into collision
with the shrieking brotherhood. Judging from
the country Press, his tour through the Quean-
beyan and Orange districts has been rather a
success. He says he found the farmers and free-
selectors with a strong leaning towards Protection,
and decidedly hostile to the present Government
of New South Wales. E.W. is likely to be a
farmers’ candidate at next election.
From a municipal picnic report in the New-
castle (N.S.W.) Dispatch: -“The inner man hav-
ing been satisfied, the toasts were proposed by Mr.
Hubbard, who occupied the chair. ‘Gentlemen,
charge your glasses I' The order was obeyed, and
‘The Queen’ was proposed, which was honoured
by a bumper with the usual musical accompani-
ment rendered most lustily. Mr. Fletcher, M L. A.,
paid, * Gentlemen, it s a strange thing, that song
was composed for George lit, who was the
greatest scoundrel that eyep jived.’ ” We are glad
to see that one member of the N.S.W. Legislature
has been diving into history.
WHY NOT ?
Speaking of the complaints of school-
teachers in the Victorian Assembly, the other
night, the Minister of Education said: ‘ The Go-
vernment are prepared to deal generously with
any cases of hardship which may be brought
under their notice.” They have several oases of
hardship sitting opposite them every night. Why
pot do something for them ? In other words—
If they are so concerned, you know.
For others’ hard condition,
Why not resign and give a show
To the poor Opposition ?
Mr. James Inglis, in bia address to the
electors of New England (N.8.W.). says:-” I have
no sympathy with the parochial spirit in politics.
I would not enter Parliament as a mere delegate
of any party or person, creed, sect, or organiza-
tion I cherish my individuality and hope always
to be an independent thinker. My ambition is to
do practical work for the good of the country at
large, careless of mere popularity, and quite will-
ing to co-operate in every wise and beneficent
measure designed for the welfare of the people,
no matter from what side of the House it might
be introduced. In all matters affecting your
purely local wants, my hearty co-operation would
be given to my colleague, although, if a compre-
hensive measure of Local Self Government be
passed. I would fain hop© that the type of mere
roads-and-bridges member—the parochial politi-
clan, the log-roller, the carpet-bagger, the con-
tractor’s agent, and parliamentary land-shark, too
many of whom haye degraded our politics by the
greed, vulgarity, and incapacity in the past—will
cease to be a reproach to opr public life in the
years to come.” It pleases us to oee that Mr.
Inglis who, as an educated and honest man. will
be a distinct gain to Parliament, proposes entering
politics as an independent member.
Sir Julius Vogel, the glittering New Zea-
land financier and statesman, is now at a dismal
discount in the country whose councils he so long
adorned, if what the N.Z. correspondent of the
age says is true. Speaking of the claim of Sir
Julius for £6OOO commission on the floating of a
loan he remarks: “A statement has got abroad
that’in the event of Sir Julius agreeing to leave
the colony for ever, a proposal would be favourably
entertained for settling a handsome amount upon
his wife and family.” T 9 this he may well say,
“Ingratitude, thy name is Stout. After this,
who can expect a politician to work disinterestedly
for his country? But yet, perhaps, their loss—
as the local papers say when a new subscriber
comes to the town from another district-
will be our gain. We may yet see the obese but
astute Sir Julius borne triumphantly in a waggon
to take his three or four seats In our Legislative
Assembly, and dim the feeble lights of finance
fchgt hesitatingly spend their little hundreds of
thousands when the glory of the Empire is at stake
InTimbucfcoo. What N.S.W. wants is a man with
nleniv of dash-a man who is not afraid to plunge
Ms arm up to the shoulder. In the coffers of the
country, and show.er the revenue around. And
this is just the map New Zealand—a colony with
no aspiration to become a great nation by one or
two brilliant coups—does not want. So N.S.W.
ought to be able to trade.
We see that in the Commons the other
day Mr. Labouohere seized the opportunity to de-
mand from the Government an explanation of Its
Egyptian policy. He contended that the £9,000,000
loan just floated was a public scandal. The “ cos-
mopolitan jackals,” the Rothschilds and the
Bleiohroders, were having it all their own way. A
3 per cent, loan guaranteed by England could be
obtained at 99j£. Even the Metropolitan Board
of Works could borrow at 98j£. Why, then,
fix the Egyptian Loan at ? The best thing for
Egypt to do was to become bankrupt, and let the
loan managers take the consequences. Sir Michael
Beach replied that the financial question had at
last been settled, “ to the great benefit, not only
of the creditors of Egypt, but what was of infi-
nitely greater importance, to the inhabitants of
Egypt.” How any man with a hoad on his
shoulders, not to speak of a heart in his bosom,
could make such a statement is almost Incredible.
For the miserable fellah the new loan simply
means a fresh load of misery and oppression-
more courbash and bastinado. The first instal-
ment of tho loan—£4,ooo,ooo—is to go for the pay-
ment of indemnities—that is to say, the English
burned down Alexandria, and the Egyptians are
to compensate the foreign residents who suffered
by the conflagration. And the worst of it all is
that we ot N.S.W. have deliberately made our-
selves accomplices after the fact in this wholesale
Egyptian system of procuration, prostitution,
murder, burglary, and oppression.
The election for Canterbury, N.B.W.
shades of Hennlker Heaton, not the Conservative
Kentish Canterbury I—to fill the place In the
Assembly of the modern law-making (?) Moses,
resulted In the return of Mr. W. Henson, who
polled nearly twice as many votes as did his
opponent, Mr. Robert Hudson, the managing-
director of Hudson Brothers’ Company. The re-
sult is satisfactory in one sense, and most unsatis-
factory in another. It is satisfactory because it
shows that the people are determined that they
will have no more extensive Government con-
tractors in Parliament; but it is unsatisfactory
because the honour did not fall to the lot of some
abler man than Mr. Henson. No one has ever
been heard to question Mr. Henson’s honesty as
a private citizen, but on the other hand, no one
who had an opportunity of observing his actions
when he was in Parliament on a former occa-
sion has been heard to assert that he has
the least degree of capacity for the position
of a member of Parliament. He is a thoroughly
bigoted teetotaller et cetera—one of the
class of men who would deny a thirsty soul any-
thing more comforting than cold water, and any-
thing more enlivening on Sundays than Wesley’s
hymns—and against his bigotry in these respects
he hasn’t the redeeming feature of being able to
speak well, or even correctly. In an oratorical, or
a rhetorical contest, the late Mr. B. O. Holtermann
would have carried off the honours against him.
It is hardly creditable to the residents of the popu-
lous Western suburbs that, In affirming a perfectly
sound principle, they did not do so through the
agency of a more enlightened and influential man
than Mr. Henson,
The Legislative Assembly of N.S.W, did
not see much of Its leader last week. Sir Alexan-
der simply attended in his place to answer ques-
tions, and having done this he disappeared. It
was painfully evident to everyone who saw and
heard him that he was suffering from great ner-
vous prostration. The fact of his health having
again failed him has given rise to several rumours
It is said that the hon. gentleman himself despairs
of ever regaining sufficient strength to enable him
to face the heavy work and constant anxiety of
office, and th at with a vie w to a void the splitting up
of his party he has been endeavouring to persuade
Plain Bill to see* election to the Assembly so that
he (P. 8.) may assume the leadership. Sir Henry
Parkes having sounded the war cry, the chances
of the Government succeeding at the next elec
tion without the assistance and controlling power
of an able leader would be very poor indeed.
There is abundant evidence to show that the only
point upon which Ministers in the Assembly are
unanlmous-lf we except the modest Mr. Cohen—
is that each considers himself the-most competent
to take the position of leader in the event of Sir
Alexander giving up the post and Mr. Dailey de-
clining to take it. A body divided against itself in
such a way, would be sure to fall, mhe only thing
which, it is supposed, will induce Mr. Dailey to
attempt to secure the position is the fact that Sir
Henry has openly declared that the test question
at the next election, so far as he is concerned, will
be whether the action of the Government in send-
ing the Contingent to the Soudan was justified.
After all the bombastic talk which we have heard
on that subject, it would hardly be reasonable to
suppose that Mr. Dailey will surrender without
showing light. Be the result of the elections
whatever it may, it is quite clear that there will
be troublesome complications in the next Parlia-
ment.
Mr. T. C. O’Mara stated in the N.S.W. As-'
sembly last week that it was doubtful whether he
would seek election to the next Parliament. This
announcement will be heard with regret by every-
(ne who admires straightforward, independent
conduct in a politician. Mr. O’Mara is, without
question, one of the ablest debaters in the As-
sembly ; he is a scathing critic, and, as he combines
with this useful qualifloation a thorough spirit of
independence—a spirit which casts ,aside personal
feelings when in the political arena—his absence
from the Assembly would be a national lose. The
curse of our Assembly is, as it always has been,
the fact that there is a majority of members who
are cringing, servile jackals blinded bv personal
prejudice and incapable of thinking for themselves.
Mr. O’Mara is not one of this class. He was a con-
sistent supporter of the Government land policy,
but the Soudan business caused him to change his
position in the House. He could not be convinced
that England was engaged in a righteous war, still
less could he be convinced that any contingency
could possibly arise which would necessitate Eng-
land seeking or requiring the small amount of aid
which we could offer. The best speeches made in
Parliament in antagonism to the warlike policy of
the Government were those which were delivered
by Mr. O’Mara. It is well-known that he has be-
come unpopular among a certain section of the
electors of Tumut for the simple reason that
he is not supposed to have paid as much
attention as he ought to have done to
“ local requirements”—roads and bridges, and so
forth. It is also said that the former representa-
tive of Tumut, Jimmy Hoskins-who is politically
as gouty and as amiable as ever—has determined
upon trying his fortune in that quarter again. If
the people of Tumut chose to kick out their boy
Tommy because he advocates political principles
instead of selling bis vote and his conscience for
the sake of securing some local advantage, he
ought to go elsewhere. We have a sufficiently
good opinion of the intelligence of the electors of
the colony to lead us to suppose that there are at
least a dozen constituencies which would be
pleased to have such an able man as their repre-
sentative.
Here is a bit of straightforward blasphemy
from the Bligh (N.8.W.) Watchman, which, after
remarking that Colonna-Close, In addressing the
local electors, spoke in vague and general terms,
taking care not to commit himself to any definite
statement of principles (probably because his
opinions were as vague and shadowy as the lan-
guage In which they were uttered)—proceeds
thus:—“ Colonna-Close has about as good a chance
of being elected for the Naraol as for the Presi-
dency of the United States. His candidature,
however, suggests a consideration which we would
like to Impress upon every elector in the colony.
Without a doubt there are far too many lawyers
In the House already. We have no desire to taunt
any body of men with the profession to which they
belong, perhaps more by choice, or the mistake of
others, than by their own chance; but we believe
that a training for the profession of the law
is about the worst preparation for an honest
legislator that could possibly be devised. The in-
trigue and trickery; the necessity of making black
appear white, and right appear wrong for hire,
cannot possibly tend in the direction of the broad,
liberal principles, single-minded honesty, and un-
selfish patriotism which should mark a genuine
statesman, though it does produce successful
politicians; not synonymous terms by any means.
One of the greatest curses of this colony Is its
multiplicity of laws, which Injure and annoy
honest people without, as a rule, conferring any
compensating advantage. Their operations ham-
per every business, while their administration
finds employment and easy living for crowds
who form a heavy tax upon the earning
of the working community. This must and
will be the case while legislation is largely
controlled and guided by a class who are
taught to regard laws, not as useful and necessary
rules for the proper conduct of Government, but
as a set of enactments affording a means of emolu-
ment to a privileged class. Theoretically no class
should have the chief power in framing laws
which it is their interest to make as complicated
and intricate as possible; practical experience
shows that it is a mistake for which this colony is
paying a heavy price Indeed. The people are
beginning at last to realise the true state of affairs,
and we shall be much surprised if there are half
as many lawyers in the next Assembly as there are
in the present one. They are all right ‘in their
place ’ but that is not the Assembly,” These words
should be kept standing in every newspaper
throughout Australia. We hope to see a clean
sweep made of nine-tenths of the lawyer-members
at the general election.
The stately Lord Abingdon, one day
riding through a village, met a lad dragging a calf
along the road, who, when his lordship came up to
him, made a stop, and stared him full In the face.
His lordship asked the boy if he knew him. He
replied, “ Yes.” “ What is my name ? ” asked the
peer. “Why, Lord Abingdon,” replied the lad.
“ Then, why don’t you take off your hat ? ” “So I
will, sir,” said the boy, “ If you’ll hold the calf.”
The Paris Petit Journal, owned by
Marlnonl, the great French printing-press maker,
has a far bigger circulation than any other daily
newspaper in the world. The London D.T. grandi-
loquently assigns to itself the largest circulation
—240,000 a day. The Petit Journal, the popular
newspaper of France, circulates 840,000 daily. It
is, above all things, a “ thoroughly decent and re-
spectable newspaper,” and its chief feature Is its
feuilletons, which are highly paid for.
Sunday is given up in Sydney to a series
of farces and tragedies arising from the endea-
vours of thirsty souls to get long beers or short
whiskies. The idea that no drink can be got on
the Sawbath is a baseless fiction. Most of the
places called “ hotels ” have back lanes, and if the
“ perlice ” are to secure the conviction so dear to
their souls they must watch three or four doors
"at wanst.” While the suburban Robert has his
eagle eye firmly fixed upon the back door, the
crafty and unscrupulous public get In by the
front, have their beers, and clear out, wiping their
mouths as they go, to Robert’s great annoyance.
Some suburban “hotels” are exceptionally fa-
voured in rear entrances, having quite a laby-
rinth of passages leading to the back door, the
faithful scout being thus enabled to give warn-
ing in full time for the glasses to be cleared
and a prayer-meeting got up. The foorce are well
aware that inglorious failure alone can attend the
efforts of the man who lays siege to such “ hotels.”
A whisky-mill without a good back entrance is
now-a-days as useless as a land-agent without a
father-in-law. In these degenerate times, the
poor stranger suffers a deep injustice. He is not
taken in ” by the publican, and unless introduced
by a friend he thirstily wanders about our gates
and sees the local people go into hotels and come
out with porter-froth on their sheik-like beards.
This Is not a fair world and won’t be till Dan.
O’Connor becomes Premier.
The Mayor of Richmond (Vic.) is moody.
Neither poppy nor mandragora nor all the drowsy
syrups of this world can medicine him to the
sweet sleep he owned but yesterday. A while ago
he decided to give a dinner. The preparations
were made "regardless.” But a few days before
the date fixed for the banquet, he received several
anonymous letters “ threatening the blowing-up
of the Town Hall, with the Mayor and his guests,
by dynamite.” Still, the dinner was ordered, and
somebody had to eat it. So he determined, like a
philosopher, to dle-if he had to die-eating.
Therefore he said nothing to his guests, but had a
cordon of police stationed around the Hall. This
precaution was probably the means of keeping
him in this sinful world a little while longer. He
is not by any means out of the wood, however.
Only a few days ago he received a cheerful hint to
the effect that “ the affair bad not yet come off,
but would be celebrated at some future date.”
This pleasant news he communicated to the Coun-
cil at the last meeting. The majority sympathised
with him—and themselves. One little verse :
“ Yer Washup,” cried the Council, “ must beware;
Who knows what they'll be at ? ”
" It's the penalty of greatness,” sighed the Mayor;
“ Me and the Czar knows that I ”
But the minority received the grisly information
with derision. They even went so far as to in-
sinuate that the Mayor knew all about the con-
tents of the letters before he opened the envelopes
they were in. Which was as much as to say that,
not being able to distinguish his term of office in
any other way, he was driven to threaten himself
with martyrdom. The majority, however, took
the matter very seriously, and sat a long time try-
ing to think of what persons they had offended.
One Councillor suggested the name of a man who
had written several letters to the Council com-
plaining about stray goats that were in the habit
of breaking into his garden and—after they had
eaten everything else—battening on the contents
of the clothes-line. Another recollected a man who
had sent in a claim tor damages—which were disal-
lowed—for having sprained his ankle through fall-
ing into the treneh cut lor the wire of the new tram
line. A third suggested the rival of the man who had
catered for the banquet as a likely person to hatch
such a wicked plot. But the Mayor suspected in
his secret heart that he had been marked as a rising
man by some society of revolutionists and level-
lers, and that they had decided to crush him before
he became too dangerous. The real Guy Fawkes
has not yet been found, and there are people who
say that the Mayor must have eaten too much
pork-pie one night and dreamt the whole thing.
Perhaps he did. But the trouble is telling on him
lor all that. They say that he frequently falls into
fits of abstraction, and is heard to murmur inco-
herently : “ Twine my civic chain around my neck
—say that I nied for my municipality. Let no
man interfere with the dog-officer in the execution
of his duties; see that my graves kept green,”
and other remarks of a similarly irrelevant nature.
It is as bad a case as we have heard ot this side of
the Barcoo.
“The debate on the address in reply in the
N.S.W. Assembly was resumed by Mr. Wilkinson,
who remarked upon the absence from the Go-
vernor’s speech of any allusion to the rabbit-pest.
Daily paper.
Whose was the eye that speech to scan ?
Its weak point pitch upon ?
The eye, sirs, of the coming man—
The eye of Wilkinson.
' While others talked of the Soudan,
And how our soldiers shone,
No sign came from the coming man—
No word said Wilkinson.
But, as they one by one did pan
Out, and nis turn came on.
Oh I then uprose the coming man,
Tremendous Wilkinson.
Right bitterly, sirs, he began,
While all the House grew wan,
And trembled at the coming man—
Terrific Wilkinson.
Said he, “ I see—though with a zest
Through this speech I have gone—
No word about the rabbit pest.”
O feeble Wilkinson I
Now, mark you, member from the gums—
Our metre here is shy—
This sort of oratory comes
From too much rabbit pie!
MR. WILKINSON.


Professional Directory.
GEORGE PE « «IMAN. Scene Painter, Theatre
Royal, Bri I) me. Disengaged.
A L
Theatre hoy
Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Gabnbb and Mdsqbovi.
Lessen, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo.L. Goodman
Acting Maaager, H H. Vincent.
Farewell Performances of Mr. Bcuolciult.
THE BOUCICAULT SEASON
must positively terminate on Wednesday, Oct. 7 h
TIILd t HURSDAY) EVENING, SEPTEMBER 24
Boucicault’s charming Play, in one act, entitled
K RRRV
KERRY ’ Mr. BOUCICAULT.
After which, at 8.40,
the most, popular of all Irish Dramas,
ARHAH-NA-POGUE.
SHAUN-THE-POST .. .. Mr= BOrCICAULT.
Entirely new Scenery by Gord jn and Hennings.
Prices of Admission: Dress Circle 5b.; Stalls, 3a.;
Family Circle, 2-».
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway"s
Hotel.
Box plan open at theatre from 11 till 4. No free
list. Agent for Mr. B lucicault, Mr. W. Macmahon.
N
R W OPERA HOUSE.
Under the Lesseeshlp and Management of
MAJERONI and WILSON.
IMMENSE SUCCESS CROWDED HOUSES
to witness
Luecombe Searelle’s most popular Comic Opera,
BOBADIL BGBADIL BOBADIL.
BOBADIL BOBADIL BOBADIL.
BOBADIL BOBADIL BOBADIL.
Immense enthusiasm from beginning to end.
One Verdict Only. BOBADIL is the most Charm-
ing of all the Comic Operas recently produced.
In preparation, THE BOHEMIAN GIRL
Saturday, October 3rd, Mr. George Darrell in his
sensational drama, THE SUNNY SOUTH.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Huenerbeln’s Music
Warehouse, 318 George-street. Tickets for all parts
of the house may be obtained at Roberts’, tobac-
conist, next theatre.
G
AIB T Y
THEA T R E I
Lessees Messss. CLARK and RYMAN.
Acting Manager .. A. LITHERLAND CUNAKD,
Last 6 Nights of Clark and Hyman's Red Stockings
in their new Yachting Costumes.
Last 5 Nights of Australia’s best
entertainment.
RED STOCKINGS.
Come and see the new Novelty,
RED STOCKINGS.
Come and hear the best vocalists
In the profession,
RED STOCKINGS.
Come and see the pretty circle of
RED STOCKINGS,
Box plan at Sandon’s, next door Huenerbeln's.
Admission-Orchestra Chairs 3a, Stalls 2s, Balcony
la. Doors open at 7.30, commence at 8.
A I E T Y
Proprietor
THEATRE.
Mr. John Solomon.
The
□ AMPIER SEASON.
Commencing
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 3,
with the grand production of the
DRAMA of the AGE.
IT’S NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND,
" This play has outlived a thousand dramas, and
will outlive a thousand more.”—London Times.
Box plan now open at Nicholson and Co , Music
Warehouse, George-street.
Prices: Orchestra Chairs, 45.; Stalls, 3s ; Par-
quette, 35.; and Balcony, Is.
Business Manager, FRED. GUNTHER.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager.. .. F. C. Hiscocks.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS of
THE GRAND DOUBLE COMPANY,
LEON and CUSHMAN COMBINATION
In conjunction with
HISCOCK’S FEDERAL MINSTRELS.
Concluding with Leon and Cushman’s Musical
Comedy. THE FARMER’S DAUGHTER.
Prices : Reserved Orchestra, 45.; Stalls, 35.; Par-
quette, 35.; Gallery, Is, Plan box at Paling’s.
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George street, Haymarket.
Lessee and Director ... ... Mr. Frank Smith.
CROWDED and FASHIONABLE AUDIENCES.
IMMENSE SUCCESS IMMENSE SUCCESS
of
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY COMPANY.
Pronounced by the Press and Public the most re-
fined Entertainment given in Sydney. Minstrelsy,
Olio, Farce, Every Evening.
The whole to conclude with the screaming farce,
SCHOOL.
Gentlemen ushers in attendance.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 3s; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
CHAB. AUSTIN, Business Manager.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
THE OLYMPIC
(late Old Masonic Hall, York-stmt).
Lessees .. Messrs. Davis and Raphael.
A CARD.
The Management have much pleasure in an-
nouncing that they have secured a long lease of
the above well-known hall, which Is now under-
going extensive alterations, decorations, and im-
provements, to be opened nightly as a permanent
place of amusement.
GRAND OPENING NIGHT.
OCTOUHR 3,
with one of the strongest combinations of specialty
artists that has ever appt a ed in Sydney.
THE ORCHESTRA
will consist of 10 picked musicians, under the
direction of Mr. G. RIVERS ALPRE9S,
Programme and full particulars in future issue.
Lynch Family Bellringers
(Organised 18671
GRAND MONSTER CONCERTS.
-NIGHT (Thursday)—Town Hall, Waterloo.
IDA'Y —ToWN HaLL, GLEBE.
ND AY—SCHOOL OF A <TB. BURWOOD.
ESI) KY- SCHOOL OF ARTS, AoIIFIELD.
IUNESUAY—SCHOOL OF ARTS, Petersham,
HARRY LYNCH, Manager.
BUFFALO BALL,
TO-iTig-lit.
TOWN HALL,
SYDNEY.
CALLAGHAN, Caterer. J, DOLEN, Sec.
JgJIQHT HOURS’ DEMONSTRATION I
“YE AUSTRALIAN FAYRE”
PICNIC, SPORTS,
and
ART UNION.
GRAND PROCESSION of 20 TRADE SOCIETIES.
.The finest sight ever witnessed in the city.
Banners, Emblems, and Specimens of Handicraft,
displayed throughout the Frocesssion.
Rendezvous at COOK PARK, MONDAY, OCT 5
GRAND CARNIVAL, GALA DAY, and SPORTS.
AGRICULTURAL GROUND, MOORE PARK,
MONDAY, OCTOBER sth,
18 BRASS BANDS IN PROCESSION 18
MONDAY, OCTOBER sth.
BALMAIN COLDSTREAM BRASS BAND,
25 performers,
head the procession and play for dancing.
Amusements for the lower million at the Agricul-
tural Ground, Moore Park, October 5.
Art Union Programmes will be ready on Thurs-
day, September 17th, everywhere.
The most complete Programme of Sports ever
offered to the Australian Public.
Tickets on sale at Anthony Hordern and Sons,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket; Turner and Hen-
derson, Hunter-street; J. R. Talbot, Bathurst-
street; Hordern Bros., Pltt-street; Mandelsonand
Davis, Oxford-street; Campbell Bros., George-
street; J. W. Wrivht, Brickfield Hill; 8, Punch’s
Swan with Two Necks Hotel; 8. Cank.l Harris-
street; and from Members of Committee; also, at
the Grounds on day of Demonstration.
All particulars at the Rooms, Sivan with Two
Necks Hotel.
D. MORRTNE, Secretary for Sports.
W. PERRIER, General Secretary.
“THE LYCEUM,”
Newcastle,
SITUATED IN THE BEST PART OF THE CITT
It is capable of seating 500 people,
and suitable for
MUSICAL & DRAMATIC ENTERTAINMENTS.
The Stage (40ft. by 24ft.) Is furnished with
STOCK, SCENERY, &c.
For Terms, apply
COLIN CHRISTIE,
“The Lyceum,”
Newcastle.
Miss Annette Scasi
HAVING rested her voice for six months, after
a long and successful tour through New
Zealand, would be happy to
RESUME HER PROFESSIONAL DUTIES ON
THE STAGE ONCE MORE.
Line of Business Opera Bouffe, Concerts,
Burlesques.
This young lady artiste, being an eminent musi-
cian, would have no objection to travel with a
first-class company as Pianist.
All theatrical managers please address letters,
for the present, Post Office, Young.
-WARE, HOUSES. SYDNEY.
Tlit Kti Zealand Liu and Mercantile dp; Con
(LIMITED),
HEAD OFFICE
... LONDON.
Capita,! - £3,500,000.
THIS COMPANY WILL CONTINUE TO DISPLAY AND SELL
WOOL!
ON THE MELBOURNE SYSTEM,
JLt their Magnificent Warehouses,
BRIDOE STREET,
SYDNEY.
„ EVERY LOT WILL BE CAREFULLY VALUED, AND SPECIAL ATTENTION WILL RE
BESTOWED UPON SMALL FARMERS' PARCELS, WHICH WILL BE PLACED ON A FOOTING
OF EQUALITY WITH THE LARGE CLIPS.
If reserves are not reached, the nominal charge of one shilling per hale only will bo made.
WOOL SALES, EVERY TUESDAY. SHEEPSKINS AND HIDES, EVERY FRIDAY.
Way Bills and all Information can be obtained on application, or will be sent by return of post.
H. H. LANG, Produce Manager.
Sydney Wool and Grain Warehouses.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 3lst September, 1885.
FRESH TENDERS FOR ADDITIONS, FENCING
AND REPAIRS.
FRESH TENDERS are invited for Additions to
the Teacher’s residence, and for fencing and
repairs, at the Tempe Public School.
Plans and Specifications may bo seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Department
of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Fresh Tender for Additions,
Fencing, and Repairs, Tempe Public School,” must
be lodged with the Under Secretary. Department
of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m.
on Monday, the sth October, 1885.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
W. J, TRICKBTT.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 21st September, 1885.
TENDERS FOR REPAIRS AND IMPROVE-
MENTS.
TENDERS are invited for Repairs and Im-
provements to tbe Macquarie-street, South,
Public School.
Specifications may be seen, and Forms of
Tender obtained at the office of the Department
of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Repairs and Im-
provements, Macquarie-street, South, Public
School,” must be lodged with the Under Secretary.
Department of Public'lnstruction, at or before 10
o'clock a m., on Monday, the sth October, 1883.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
/ /
-
W
v '--
-< '
Vt
SrtV
»:
3
■ V v n
•fi*
n
N
vs
\V
v
■'V !
V
-v
NEW AND INGENIOUS READY-ACTING DOG-TAIL AND CAMERA ATTACHMENT, FOR TOURISTS.
A patent is now pending by the inventors.
They claim the dog’s tail and the instantaneous shutter, also the combination of the shutter and dog’s tail, also the whole dog,
and the general application, in the manner substantially and for the purpose described.
BRAY & LICHTNER, 32 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
' PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK D
Complete Photographic Outfit!*, in great variety, from £3, Catalogues post free.
HALERS
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, best, and
Cheapest in the colonies.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
SOLE AGENTS FOR BAKER’S DRY PLATE, THE MOST RELIABLE AND RABID IN THE MARKET.


-}y ~ ~ a
• ~ *' V /if
1
. v> ‘ A
f'ill mM'i // ft
iy THIRTY SHILLINGS.
tST THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
THIS triumph of musical Invention Is acknow-
ledged on all hands to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It is a wonderful little instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 22 reeds, plays in three keys, and all the
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the inventor, the world
was first indebted for the Organette; but that waS
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
study, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of cost and crudeness.
It requires no skill t© extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &0., &c., Ac. A child cad
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy.
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that “ he who runs
may read.” It is best adapted to the kind of music
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; but It has also wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card-holder for convenience
in singing. It will be found invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one ; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophono. It will afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
or
474 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities—frem
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can offer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corre-
spondence, we have never bad a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by all educators and moralists
that music is the great refining inlluence, and
especially with children its effect for good is
boundless. The love for music which music In
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, end parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other
wise hard task an easy one.
The price of the Autophone Is 305.,
and where good music can be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autophoce for 30s. we
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogues of tunes at any time,
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents for Australia:
Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-street, Sydney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets.
Poor Joe Symes! they’ve got him at last.
The net of the faithful has been gradually winding
round his long, lean, unbelieving carcase, and his
gambols are almost ended. But he couldn’t ex-
pect to go on for ever In his sin and crack his
little jokes at Jehovah unchecked. Scarcely.
Jehovah has more toadies than Joe Symes has,
especially in Melbourne, and victory seems likely
to rest with the heaviest battalions, Joseph has
been summoned to appear at the Melbourne City
Court for “ keeping and maintaining a disorderly
house.” The artful wording of this charge has
brought about a good deal of misunderstanding in
many quiet Melbourne families. A few weeks
back, it was rather the correct thing for pater-
familias to stretch himself In his arm - chair
about 7 o’clock on Sunday evening and remark
that he thought he’d “just stroll round to the
Hall of Science for an hour, and hear what
Joe Symes had to say.” And when he came back
about ten, and remarked that Joe had been fairly
knocking the kingdom of heaven into smither-
eens, the missus would smile approvingly, and
say, “How shocking, to besure!” But the very
day that last summons was published in the
dallies, the unhappy followers of Joseph com-
menced to have a warm time of it. It’s no use for
them to protest that Mr. Symes didn’t keep a
“disorderly house” in the orthodox acceptation
of the word. The women won’t have it. It’s dan-
gerous to mention the Hall of Science to the
average Melbourne matron now. “Science,”
she’ll say, “ pretty science, Indeed, went on there;
and me thinking it was lectures all the while I”
Last year the NZ. Parliament made a
stringent law in the interests of the Sabbatarians,
prohibiting anyone under certain penalties from
working on the sabbath Day at his or her “ usual
lawful calling and occupation.” Shortly after
the Bill came into force, and the bobbies had
seen to it that all the wee lolly shops had their
shutters up on the holy day, two tradesmen resid-
ing in Port Lyttelton put up this little job on the
authorities. The one was a carpenter, the other
a house-painter, and they lived in adjoining cot-
tages close to and between a Presbyterian kirk
and ia Methodist chapel. The carpenter’s front
fence was badly out of repair and the painter’s
house sadly required a coat of paint to make it
look respectable, and one Sunday just as the
tw® congregations, fisting their hymn-books,
were hurrying from church, the more serious
portion of them were paralysed with sanc-
timonious and simultaneous horror at seeing
the carpenter with his own coat oil busy slapping
a fresh coat of paint on his neighbour's house;
while the painter, in his shirt sleeves, was hard at
it fixing up the carpenter's dilapidated fence. To
say that the deacons and elders were horrified,
gives but a pale idea of the condition of these
saintly persons on witnessing this deliberate
and double work of sin and desecration.
They were. In fact, speechless with holy
rage and righteous indignation; and apoplexy,
lock-jaw, or delirium tremens would probably have
supervened, had they not recollected that the new
Act was now in force, and that Sir Julius Vogel
and Charles 11. had combined to deliver these
awful reprobates into their hands. A few days
afterwards, the Sabbath-breakers had to appear
before the K.M. to answer a charge of smashing
the law, but as they were both able to prove that
neither of them had worked at his usual trade,
calling, or occupation, the charge against them
was dismissed, and they left the court laughing
hilariously at the success of their unrighteous
little joke.
Advocates of the lash must grind their
teeth at contumacy like this. Prisoner Rice was
brought out to be flogged in the yard of tho Wool-
loomooloo lock-up a few days ago. About a dozen
police officials, a medical man, and some members
of the Press were present. Rfce was stripped and
tied up ta the triangles. Then he was asked by an
official: “Would you like a glass of brandy?”
Advocates of flogging should take an opportunity
of explaining why they offer brandy to a man
about to be flogged. Is it to quicken his sen-
sibilities, so that he shall have a keener con-
sciousness of pain ? Is it to dull them so that
he shall be less conscious ? In either case there
is no legal reason for the exhibition of too drug.
It is likely, however, that it is administered under
the conviction that it helps to carry a man over
a trying occasion. But there is a subsequent cor-
responding relapse. It is legal to raise a man
into an abnormal state so as to run him through
a punishment judicially inflicted on him in
his, normal state ? In Rice’s case this ques-
tion was irrelevant. He declined the brandy.
“It was drink brought me here,” he said,
“ and I want no more of it.” The flogging
went on. Blood oozed profusely from tho red
stripes on his back. The end came. He was un-
tied. Another official approached, and asked
“ Will you have a drop of brandy?” “ No,” re-
Slied Rice, “ I have had enough of that.” Then
e added, “Is that what you call a flogging ? I
could stand that on my head,” The incident urges
two reflections. The first makes the advocates of
flogging gnash their teeth at the way the gory
victim scouts their fetish. The second drives the
public mind to enquire whether it is legal, and, if
legal, whether it is moral to whip a criminal with
one hand and with the other hold to his mouth a
brandy-flask from which, in every likelihood, the
inspiration of the crime he suffers for sprang. If
a man before being flogged may have brandy,
where is the logical reason for not giving him
ether, or chloroform, or morphia?
Wolfe's Schnapps is an agreeable remedy for
debility, biliousness, &c. Be sure you obtain
Wolfe’s.
Everybody should know, and those who
do not ought to, and those who do know will please
tell everybody else they know, that the greatest
care is taken to keen the choicest, latest, and most
varied stock of China, Glass, and Earthenware in
Sydney at Bray Bros., 403 and 404 George-street.*
My medical experience satisfies me that Wolfe's
Schnapps is an excellent stimulant.
Two burglars one night made a raid
On Summerfield and Co.,
And were surprised to see the goods
Marked so extremely low.
To steal goods so extremely cheap
Was too absurd, they thought;
And so, like honest men, they came
Next morning round and bought. *
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a standard medicinal beve-
rage, and is highly recommended by medical men.
Wolfe’s Schnapps the greatest stimulant
and tonic in the world. Beware of imitations.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Taeatbe Royal— “Arrah-na-Pogue ”... . .. p. 8
Gaiety Theatre—” Red Stockings ” «
Opera House—” Bobadll ”
Alhambra— Variety Cimpany >.
Academy of Music- Minstrels ••
The Sydney Theatre Royal was well filled
on Saturday night. “Kerry” and “Arrah-na-
Pogue” had been put on on Wednesday and ap-
preciative Interest was now assured. The double
bill has a reason for its existence. It Is not the
mere haphazard throwing together of a long piece
and a short one. It is a studied setting of two
strongly-contrasted characters. In the one Mr.
Boucioault Js the aged servitor. He is white-
headed, white-faced, wrinkled, feeble. His voice
la thin, his hand shakes, his knees tremble, his
feet totter. In the other he is the “gossoon.” He is
young, strong, ruddy, round-faced, sinewy-armed,
and firm-footed. Shaun, following Kerry so closely,
looks more lithe, blithe, and vigorous than other-
wise he would.
• * *
The dramas are familiar. Yet the specta-
tor finds them full of freshness. The reputation
of the principal draws eyes. His ability holds
them. We have a further reason for looking with
friendliness. It is the first time we have seen him
this 13 years. The past floats up. Only for Dion,
we might now be on the stage. The old haunt
on the Strand, near the Lyceum, silent London in
its midnights, awake. We know how things are
now. How might they have been ?
• • •
In “ Arrah-na-Pogue ” there is a good cast
of characters. The work, too, is well spread.
Shaun, Feeney, Arrah Meelish, and Fanny Power
get much the best chances, but a lot falls over to
others, Mr. Vincent is Colonel O'Grady. Bearing
and gesture meet expectations, but there is a
hardness about him. He has many soft and kindly
things to say to Fanny, but his tone is stony and
his emotion jerky. He leaves the court-martial
with satisfying dash. Mr, Flemming plays
Beamish M‘Ooul. This is the rebel outlaw. The
part was not made attractive. Mr. Flemming has
physical advantages, but he showed nothing of a
penetrating personality. There is no great fault,
but he is easily forgotten. This is regrettable, as
the character might easily be made to affect the
imagination.
• Y ♦
Mr. Boucioault expressed all the simple
pathos and quiet humour the character of Shaun
suggests. Everyone would admire the persona-
tion. Irishmen would love it. There was more in
it than love for the Colleen. There was patriotism
reduced to the condition of a family virtue. The
” Wearing of the green,” sung in the barn, was
suffused with the glow that sent Emmet to the
scaffold and Tone to a suicide’s grave. To some
it seems unnatural for a man to drag in the pa-
triotic sentiment on the occasion of his marriage.
Bat in Ireland, especially in peasant Ireland,
patriotism is a dominant and all-pervading in-
fluence. Other sentiments live in it, work through
it, are coloured by it. The christening, the mar-
riage, the funeral, are in the midst of it.
♦ * *
At this stage someone observed to us that
it was a wonder no drama of upper-class Irish life
comes on the boards. All Irish dramas are like the
Boucioault ones. They rise and run among pea-
sants. They are an assemblage of faded green
velvet coats, red waistcoats, and knee-breeches.
Men and women wear worsted hose, and show it.
The hats are battered and the boots are brogues-
The wonder is natural, but it gets dissipated when
we reflect that Ireland possesses no upper class in
the sense that England possesses one. Ireland is
but a province. The upper class, as in all lauds
that are mere provinces, pass over in sentiment to
England. A drama representing upper-class life
in Ireland, would not be an Irish drama. It would
be an English one. Consequently, the dramatist
who wants to exhibit national features must go
among the peasantry.
» • »
Miss Boucioault played Arrah Meelish.
She was simple, gentle, and bright. She made a
pathetic picture beside the dock in which Shaun
stood. Her singing, when outside the prison, was
not a vocal success, but then her heart was sup-
posed to be breaking. Miss Thomas had the part
of Fanny Power. This, at boat, Is not an amiable
character. It was played without any striking
merit. » • *
We have left Michael Feeney to the last.
Mr ‘Dion Boucioault, jun., played this. Manifestly
a careful and elaborate study has been made of
the part. The result is a highly-finished piece of
work. The character has to be Invested with
attributes the peasants despise as well as hate. In
he hands of this young actor, the process-server
and informer fills every want. Meanness, malice,
revenge, and impotence are combined, personified,
and exhibited with Intense minuteness. As a
niece of art. it is the finest feat of the night. The
conception of the dramatist has been thoroughly
assimilated and given a depth of significance that
merits for the actor a share in the creation.
* * *
The scenery, by Gordon and Hennings,
was very beautiful. Fairy spots of the Emerald
Isle rose up behind the dull stage fixtures. Glen-
dalough was there. Around was the green of the
meadows, beyond was the historic tower, and some-
thinglike the old, old moon looked down. It was
like the world that was when all of ua were
vounger The orchestra, under Mr. Rice, helped
the illusion. The music took possession of its old
ehambers. The past was the present.
*• • *
jj t Warner, the Australian comique,
took a well-attended benefit last Friday night in
the new Masonic Hall. Sydney. There was a great
crowd of performers. The entertainment ran
from Mr. Fergusson’s comic song, “ The Farm-
yard ” to Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Palmer's Turtle
Doves ” Mr Fred. Millls contributed a highly-di-
verting ventriloqulal half-hour, and Mr. and Mrs.
Empson gave a comedietta entitled ‘‘No, no. nol ’
The manner in which she took her contumacious
husband in her arms and carried him off the stage
conveyed a lesson to small bachelors. Miss Fer-
nandez played some things very nicely, and Miss
Lome sang “ I dreamt I dwelt in marble halls.”
This is one of the young ladies who went away
with the Montagu '-Turner Company. She stands
straight, holds her head back, half closes her eyes,
and sings without affectation, but apparently
against her will. She is young enough to improve.
♦ ♦ *
Messrs. Keenan and Moynham came out as
Fat Boys. Straw did duty for fat. When one
kicked the other, which happened every couple of
minutes, the sound of assaulted hay went round
the house. Mr. Keen treated the audience to his
song, “ Fou Dirty Boy.” It is observable that he
still calls it a “ comic ” song. It must be three
years,sines we heard him at this very song in the
Temperance Hall in Melbourne, It is, therefore,
a fact that, despite the spread of education, a man
can go about the capitals of these colonies with a
false idea in his head for the term of three solid
years. Mr. Warner gave some very clever imper-
sonations. After a while, however, he came out
and, with Mr. James, gave a piece called “Halle-
lujah Lasses.” Each wore female attire and a large
black bonnet. The song had no merit, but the
spoken parts were supposed to be very funny*
The lasses quarrel. They tell the audience how
they live in the barracks. One says she goes round
after dark, steals clothes from clothes-lines and
carries them to the barracks. Another tells how
she bags peoples’ ducks and carries them to the
barracks. A good many in the house laughed at
these bits. Messrs. Warner and James and those
who laughed at them ought to be caught by the
heels and thrown over the Equator.
* * * *
A splendid programme is now on at
Sydney Academy of Music, and has been played
to hilarious houses since Saturday night. To see
the country visitors, down for the Races, yelling
whenever Bent smiled was alone worth the-[Give
us something fresh.— Ed. B.] Horace Bent edited
a “ Comic History of England,” which was funnier
than Farnell’s speech in his own defence, and
Martyn Hagan, the latest addition to the Combina-
tion, proved his right to be classed with such a
crowd. Leon and Cushman raise a final yell with
the “ Farmer’s Daughter,”
• * * *
Next to a change of lodgings when hul-
bous-nosed, big-stlcked men loiter on the foot-way
outside your window, there’s nothing like a
change of name. The Old Sydney Masonic in
York-street is now to be known as the Olympic,
and is to be opened by Davis and Raphael on the
3rd October with a variety crowd of surpassing
talent, brought together by an expenditure which
would put even Jemmy Tyson up King-street.
Allpress is to control the orchestra.
* » • «
At Sydney Gaiety, on October 3, Dampier
opens in “Never Too Late to Mend." Liston, Booth-
man, Holloway, Stoneham, Perry and the Dampier
filles he trusts to pull him through. So far as we
remember just now this piece kept the ghost well
on his feet when last it was produced in Sydney.
Judging by the present crowd, it should do so
again. Fred. Gunther is the business manager,
and there is little chance of time’s hanging heavily
on his hands between this and the opening night.
» » *■ *
Mr. John Solomon has accepted a design
for his new theatre, which is to be commenced
without delay. The prize design gives promise of
a creditable addition to the Sydney Temples of
the Drama.
* * * *
“Mixed,” which can hardly he said to
have knocked ’em in Sydney, is filling the Mel-
bourne Bijou to burst ng; this, too. in the face of
big crowds rolling up to interview the “Private
Secretary ” at the Theatre Royal. The Melbourne
public neverjseems to weary of farce, somehow, as
witness the nine weeks’ career of “ Confusion ” at
the same Bijou. But we fancy that Philip Day
and a small stage have had a lot to do with the
successes at this house. A second season of “ Con-
fusion ” at another theatre, and without Master
Phil, froze uncommonly hard; and we’re Inclined
to think that the existence of “Mixed” without
Bosoo Blithers- the Blithers—would be short acd
not merry. Take away Bosoo’s (game-leg, his
white waistcoat, and his umbrella, and then get
his hair cut, and what have we left ? There isn’t
a witty line in the whole thing. “Mixed” just
throws Itself upon the kind consideration ot its
interpreters, and as Bosoo’s support has been
strengthened in Melbourne, the adaptation gets
more consideration than it really deserves,
• • *
Our old friend, J. L. Hall, takes the place
of J. G. Joyce as Mr. Salwyn, the married man
who’s afraid of his wife. If Mr. Hall really did
hold the missus in awe, he must be an arch dissem-
bler, for he never disclosed the state of his feelings
to the audience. His friend and lile-preserver
(how burglarious that reads, to be sure) called him
“ a naughty old mao,” and he looked it. That’s
why we liked him. A naughty old boy (in modera-
tion) is the noblest work of God. The irrepres-
sible Grevllle, as Mike, brogued his way into the
good graces of the gods, and struggled bravely to
manufacture humorous bricks without any decent
literary straw. Some of the bricks were rather
heavy, out, Jovel how the gallery roared I We’re
firmly persuaded that if Grevllle were to shout
out the alphabet from behind a door, a Melbourne
audience would be prepared to take an affidavit
that it was the drollest recitation they ever listened
to in their lives. By the way, Mike gets a laugh
out of a bit of business with a cigar. He sticks it
in his pocket when the master comes. Why
doesn’t he try a very small weed and suck it into
his mouth on the top of the tongue, and shoot it
out again when the old man’s back is turned. We
mention this wrinkle, because we’ve seen it para-
lyse an audience, and consider that Mr. G. has just
the mouth to carry It through with dignity.
♦ * *
Most of the other people in “ Mixed ” are
our old friends. Mr. Craven is a faithful portrait
of the Frenchman in London, with a square-cut
shirt and an everlasting simper that ter pts one to
shout “Waterloo I” in his precious ear. And Mr.
Douglas is still Fred. Singleton with the mission of
tracking Tompkins to his lair. There s a com-
mendable sobriety about this gentleman’s playing
which has a lot to do with the fun of the piece.
The matter-of-fact way in which he walked about
with the directory was an agreeable foil to some
of the clowning. Mr. Douglas looks like a man
who could keep a calm, even sad. countenance at
his mother-in-law's wake. Mias Docy Mainwaring
isn't at her best as Mrs. Belwyn, nor did Miss
Helene de Vallance monopolise the whole of our
admiration. As a matter-of-fact, we gave most ot
it to Bosco Blithers.
m # # #
A few more years have rolled by, and a
few more seasons come—as the song hath it-sinoe
we last feasted our eyes on Mr. Harry Rickards.
We saw him the other night at St. George’s Hall,
Melbourne. He hasn’t altered. In the old days
he was the greatest comedian on earth, and
now he is the world's unrivalled artist—
a mere distinction without a difference.
Now, as then, he Is giving a Variety En-
tertainment, and doing good business. The
necessity of introducing some plot into this sort of
show is apt to prove trying. It tries the people on
the stage and the people off It—particularly the
latter. The latter don’t want plot if they can get
decent whisky and cigars and sundry other music
hall comforts, but in a bric-a-brac—that’s the
name of the Variety Entertainment -they have to
Eut up with bad plot and dispense with liquid joys,
ooked at through a nobbier, or listened to amid
the fragrant tobacco cloud, some of the dances
and songs might be heavenly. They are not bad,
as it is, but there s too much of ’em. The great
Rickards is immense, colossal, and some of his
young ladies are “ bits of jam.” In thus describing
their charms we are quoting from the Variety En-
tertainment. They were, furthermore, referred to
as “ tarts,” but we won’t go so far as to call them
“ tarts.” We will merely smack our little lips and
apostrophise them as “sweets.” And if Mr. Rickards
will re-arrange his bric-a-brac all these delightful
dainties won’t be so apt to cloy the palates of his
matrons. Meanwhile, we lift our bat to the versa-
;ile Rickards and kiss our hand to the visions of
loveliness—the “ Strawberries and cream,” the
“ Perfect blisses,” the “ Paradisesjin one volume,”
(quoting from the playbill), and the “ Butter-
cups.” Tra-la-la. Oh 1 there’s another special
feature about Rickards’ entertainment. The
fevered faces of the srrey-haired old sinners in the
front seats, when there’s any leg-shaking going
on, would provide a study of melancholy interest
for the Rev. Dr. Jefferis,


BRIEF MENTION.
The “ Gumming ” Premier of N.B.W.
Honest James Squire Farnell.
We read in an English paper that Australia
exports a large number of “toads” annually to
England. Probably this Is a misprint. They
must mean “ toadies.”
The London correspondent of the Mel-
bourne Age aavs that Sir Samuel Wilson is likely
to be made a peer after all. Humph I There was
once a Homan Emperor who made hi* horse a
Consul;
A school of fencing has been started in
Melbourne. This is another result of the new
mania for military glory. Thrre would be some
sense in it if it had been a school of post-and rail
fencing.
The Sydney Evening News has blossomed
forth with a new tale, entitled “ Why did ha Wed
her ?” Judging from the tone of the thing so far,
we should say he did it to avoid the usual unplta-
sant police-court disclosures.
A certain section of wealthy Australian
tuft-hunters are, according to the Sydney D.T..
known in London as “the bounding kangaroos.”
If this is so, we shall shortly hear of Grand Old
Man Gladstone bringing in a Marsupials' Act,
scalp-reward and all.
The trouble between Germany and Spain
is nearly settled, thank goodness There has been
enough yap about It, anyhow. [Subscriptions for
the purpose of procuring a small headstone to put
over the grave of the man who wrote this may be
sent to this office.— Ed. B ]
Mr. Graham Berry, the Chief Secretary of
Victoria, has a great objection to the picture of
“Moses descending from the Mount,” which hangs
in the Melbourne gallery Graham will never for-
give Moses for not having broken the Ten Com-
mandments on his way down.
“Smiling Tom’s” wife is glad. Her hus-
band's record Is given in the laet Sydney War Cry.
For 18 years he drank. Ten weeks ago he gave up
k® ls dead u His wife sa y ß la glad.
She says it is because she feels he is saved. May it
not bo because she feels she is safe ? y
That awfully nice young man, Mr.Varnev
Parkes, son of Sir Henry, leads off his electioneer-
-8 GfihtioueD,— Short and
I riot' will oe the address which I now publish to
I® o, . and brief!” Get thee to a night-
school, Varney, and learn the meaning of the word
tautology.
From the Sydney Evening News:—“ Re-
ward, £lO-Lost, by poor woman, £175, in Waterloo '
or Botany tram, between Oleveland-street and 1
Red fern-street, yesterday afternoon. Apply Com- ‘
mbsioner of Tramways, Sydney. Numbers of 1
notes known.” Is this really the colonial Idea of a
poor woman ? If so, the advt. should;bo posted all
over England In the Interests of Australian im-
migration.
The waif, Elizabeth Kennedy, 10 years of
age, who said in court that she was a “ Free-
thinker,” has stirred up considerable amusement.
There is absurdity, certainly. But, logically con-
sidered, would the absurdity differ in essence had
she professed to be a Roman Catholic, ora Baptist,
or a Wesleyan ?
Of all the petitions In favour of the Licen-
sing Bill—over 500 in number—presented to the
Victorian Parliament, the Wesleyans contributed
341, the Presbyterians 29, the Church of England
30, the smaller sects 15, and the Roman Catholics
none! We begin to think the Church of Rome is
the true Church after all. Your bleesing, Kyar-
dinall
Dr. Chabret, an ingenious French surgeon,
has removed the eye of a girl and rep aced it with
one taken from a live rabbit. Putting the matter
in a purely Pickwickim sense, if the Government
surgeons had only taken in hand the N. B. W. MI -
isters and given them each a pair of eyes - ven
from a dead rabbit, how much further ahead
they’d have been able to seel
The new Bishop of Brisbane has been pre-
sented by his admirers in London with “a suite of
furniture for his episcopal palace in Queensland.”
There is artistic finish about that little stroke of
piety. It covers a hint to the gentle Queens-
landers. Surely they are not going to leave this
good follower of the meek and lowly Nazarene
without a palace to put the furniture In.
Thus stabs the St. Stephen’s Review
“ If hereafter it is found that women of the worst
class have got a lever for extortion they will have
to thank their close and intimate friend, the edis.
tor'of the Pall Mall.” Whether the editor of the
Pall Mall is or is not the close and intimate friend
of women of the worst class, there are, it is evi-
dent, man; close and Intimate friends of men of
the worst class.
Young Australia’s latest “sell” is not so
inane as many of its precursors. “ I saw you on a
bus to-day, Brown,” says Jones. “ Your eyesight
must be failing you, old man; I haven’t been on ft
’bus for a week,” says Brown. “Butltell you I
saw you on a ’bus to-day, and you’ll admit it
when I prove it!” ”0000, old man,” says Brown,
whereupon Jones makes It plain at once that the
“ you ” hi caw on a 'bus was between the letters
R and 8 - which “ nobody can deny.”
Mr Z .x, a prominent Hebrew member of
Iho Victorian Assembly, has a heart overflowing
with the chalk-and-water of human kindness.
He suggested to the Government, with much
pathos, the other night, that “something should
be done to ameliorate the condition of the adult
blind who were the objects of indiscriminate
public charity in the street.” We think so too.
From all we have been able to learn, the average
FATHER-IN-LAW FADNELL: "This maţer having bèn brought under the aţention of the House, and I myself feeling its real tendency-because I dare say it may cause a
severance in my family ties—I sgaķ do my duty honourably and fairly to the pulic; and as my attention has been called to thesubject, I shall cònsider it my
duty to issue unstructuins that these young mem shall not be allowed to see me personally in their capacity as land agents."
SON-IN-LAW No. 1: "YES, BUT, DAD, THIS ISN 'T BUSINESS: I ONLY CAME TO SHOW YOU UPIR LITTLE GRANDSON'S NEW TOOTH.
SON-IN-LAW No. 2: "AND I HAVE BROUGHT LITTLE TOTTLE TO SHOW YOU HOW SWEETLY SHE CAN TALK. SHE CAN SAY BIG WORDS LIKE "COMMISSIONS' ALREADY."
MINISTER FARNELL (with Spartan firmness): "I CAN'T SEE OU HERE ON BUSINESS, BUT I DON'T MIND COMING BOUND IN THE EVENING TO KISS THE BABY."


Income of a blind mendicant who knows his busi-
ness, and has a good dog, is very little more than
that of an Archbishop.
The Melbourne Jewish Synagogue was
burgled lately. The result was not exhilarating to
the “ burgular.” He robbed the collection-boxes
with a net profit of thirty-three and a thrum
—which serves to show that the Rabbis have as
much to complain about the parsons. And yet
Abraham and little Ikey attend the synagogue a
good deal more regularly than most Christians
attend the .churches. But the days of prodigal
piety are over even with the Chosen People.
Thus “Captain” Downward, of Greta,
yio*. Iu the War Cryj— “A man came Into the
hall to laugh, being drunk, but the Spirit of God
laid hold of him, and he got properly saved.”
Everywhere throughout Salvation Army records
entries like this are found. The Inference is that
the state of mind and body fitting a man best for
the reception of the religion the Army dispenses
li a drunken one. The thought admits of Indefi-
nite expansion. It holds a volume of psychology.
Mr. Finoham, of the Victorian Legislative
Assembly, wants to have all persons arrested who
attend the lectures of Joseph Symes.—
Don’t hem and haw about the law f
Just clinch him
At once, by putclug under lock
And key, his Atheistic flock I
Says Fmcham.
And this is a'l because poor Joseph does not be-
lieve in the Revised Edition.
flow can we make the Churches draw?
This is the problem of the parsons. A solution
has been attempted in a Melbourne suburb lately.
They advertised a “ Converted Comedian ” to
preach. It is only a step from this to putting
circus clowns in the pulpit. We may witness the
cheering spectacle or great moral truths empha-
sised by somersaults and flip-flaps, and the fate of
the sinner illustrated by back-falls. There is evi-
dently a good time coming for those who have
stuck by Churches when others gave themselves
over to ungodly and clandestine revelry in the
pubs.
Bourke, N.8.W., is almost as great on Com
mittees as it is on whisky. For instance, at the
recent railway opening, we learn there were the
General Committee, Room Committee, Catering
Committee, Bind Committee, Ticket Committee,
Finance Committee, Out-Door Decoration Com-
mittee, Toast and Programme Committee, Public
Proceedings Committee, and General Reception
Committee. But the hardest-worked crowd of all
were the Carry-’em-out-on-a-Shutter Committee,
and the Committee appointed for the suppression
o f pink-headed snakes and mad dogs with sulphur-
streaming eyes and chain-lightning tails.
To say that this is the age of adulteration
is merely repeating a bald-headed truism. Every-
thing Is adulterated, from sermons to rabbit-
scalps. Ballarat is the great emporium for the
first} South Australia for the second. Charges
have been brought in the latter place lately
against several persons of passing manufactured
rabbit scalps in order to obtain payment. The
manufacturers are complaining bitterly against
the Government for trying to crush a native in-
dustry. There certainly doe« seem to be bu little
encouragement fur 1 ical talent in the colonies
Some of the best of it is now Dr. akiug blue metal
or picking oakum.
The Melbourne correspondent of the 8 M.
Herald met a young lady who opened the Ute-d
tele witn " Wool is down.” Thisalarme... the scribe,
who goes on: —“ 1 never owned a sheep and I never
fxoect to own one. But I should be delighted if
1 could suggest any way to make wool rise. The
log.l °au think of is to breed fewer sheep,
and then there will be loss wool, and, of course, a
greater demand for it.” For a person who never
owned a sheep this writer appears to have a firm
grasp of the peculiarities appertaining to the wool
trade. But there is one way of raising the price
which does not appear to have occurred to him.
Let him only stuff his oars with wool, and he will
soon see how quickly the quantity In the market
will decrease and a rapid and permanent rise in
price follow.
Perhaps it is as well after all that there is
to be no war with Russia. Handkerchiefs have
been introduced into the Russian army. Every
soldier is provided with one on which is printed a
battle scene, where the enemy is flying, and the
Russians rushing furiously after them. The
British cheer is said to strike terror to the heart of
the foe, but fancy the panic that would take place
In the ranks of an enemy If 50,000 Russians at a
given signal used their handkerchiefs like one
man on the battlefield. Fifty thousand slmultan-
ooussnorts from 50,000 Cossack and Kalmuck noses!
It would blow the foe off the field like so much
chaff!
The inhabitants of the Northern and
North-western districts of N.S.W. want the
Govsrnor to set apart a day of prayer and humili-
ation for rain. His Excellency should set apart
the next bank holiday. But we half suspect that the
Idea originated among a ring of umbrella-makers.
The Almighty must be remind d to see that the
electrical conditions of our atmosphere are all
right before He attends to the rest of the universe.
So—
B»at the drum if eerpeut-skm—
You have nlygot to tell huge
L'es, a id say )ou 11 omoi esi ,
Audi u wid oe sent do>v i iv'ije.
We get on with Sunday readings of the
Revised Version, (lading it nelp towards ne ft* r-
noon nap This item, however, kept us awake for
awhile. The exhortation to suicide given of old
to those diners-out blessed with large appetites, is
now withdrawn. In the 23rd chapter ol Proverbs,
we shall read no more “ Put a knife to thy throat,
If thou be given to appetite.” A physician s ad-
vice la now substituted: ‘‘For thou wilt put a
knife to thy throat if Rhou be given,” &c.—a very
wall to keep back the sea from encroaching on the
land. This suggestion appears to have afforded
considerable amusement to the worthy guardians.
Long experience has taught them a cheaper and
more productive method of dealing with dead
paupers. Did you ever taste a spoonful of work-
house soup ?
The Hon. Harold Finoh-Hattou huswiit-
tenabo. k which he cal s “ Advance Australia,'’
in which e-a>s >url‘glslatorsgei ”runk roeS.Vf,
Herald is naturally very indig ant at this, and
majestically says: “It woul i be vuin to spend
words i i contradiction; and idle to waste thought
la attempting to dia«over a motive for such buf-
foouery as this, Ihe only excuse for noticing it at
*llll es In the risk of allowing the less Informed Eng-
lish readers to suppose that silence implies assent.”
1 hat s just what we think too; and we believe if
the Herald hadn't the bulge on us as a dally, wo
should have written m much the same language
ourselves. It takes a pretty good lot to shake on r
confidence In our legislators. And the moment
different view of It. We believe the revisers have
made a mull of the translation. The passage
should no doubt read: “ Thou wilt put a knife to
thy mouth.” The wealthy lower-classes among
the ancients may have been in the habit of eating
Reg* with their knives, just as they do in the
N.o.W. Parliamentary refreshment-mam, when
the Legislative Councillors come down fm dinner.
A. man in London has submitted to some
parish guardians a grand scheme for dealing with
defunct paupers. The idea is to purchase a big
tract of land stretching down to the seashore at
Herne Bay, Kent. Then as the London pauper
corpses fell due they would be carted down to
Herne Bay (about the first seaside trip they had
ever enjoyed), placed in a cheap coffin and burled
m a sarcophagus of soft concrete on the seashore
The sarcophagus would harden immediately, and
then another parcel of paupers would be embedde d
on the top of it. In time, says this practical gen-
tleman, the tombs of the paupers would form a
A Story for tho Marines.
In the N.S.W. Legislative Council, Plain Bill—and he ought.to know— stated that the total cost to the colony of the Soudan expedition up to date was £113 000, to
which would have to be added some trilling extras.
[The Litte Boy at Manly now figures it out, and tells the result to the most credulous branch of the service .l


A new hand on the Argus writes under
the name of “ Ivan.” He Is said to be a Mr. Fair-
field, who came out, In the artistic way, to render
services in that line to the Sketcher. His article
“ The Best of a Bad Job,” appearing in the Argus
of the 7th, and in the Australasian of the 13th,
has called for attention. The Age of the 12th
does this artist the honour ofjreplying, artistically,
to the article alluded to. In two wood-cuts, the
arguments for Preetrade and Protection are pic-
torlally set forth. In that unusual way, “ Ivan ”
is considered to be sufiiciently answered. We
look upon it as a great compliment to his powers
with the pencil, in which, perhaps, he could have
done as well for his subject as ho has done with
the pen.
The Melbourne syndicate who formally
“jumped” the celebrated Mount Morgan gold-
mine, have subscribed £20,000 to carry on the
legal war against the men (chiefly Sydney men)
now In possession. However, the latter have good
bank-balances, and mean to fight to the end for
the millions in the hill. We have had an experi-
ence of Melbourne syndicates, and It is this. We
once discovered a quartz-reef in Tlmbuctoo. It
only went 3 dwts. to the ton, and when we had
secured about 3oz. by dollying with boulders, the
king of the country sent an escort of Amazons
to convey the treasure to the coast. We acom-
panied them. On our return we found the claim
“jumped” bv a syndicate from Melbourne and
Sandhurst. But the rum we brought back with
us decided the case In our favour, and to avoid
unpleasantness, the syndicate disappeared. This
is merely told to show that when once you have
discovered the “ colour,” It Is well to remain on
your claim should any Victorians be in the
neighbourhood.
Invigorate the system with Wolfe’s
Schnapps, the purest stimulant in the world.
It was not far from the scene of the last
great railway accident that a lady was paying a
complimentary visit, when the four-o’clock tea-
set was called into use, and the conversation
turned upon the beauty and reasonableness of the
Combination Dinner and Tea Sets, costing 80s, at
Bray Bros’. China and Glass Warehouse, 403 and
404 George-street, Sydney.*
We sat by the river, you and I,
In the sweet summer time long ago.
And watched how the waters glided by.
Making music in their tranquil flow.
And oh I we were joyous, you and I,
With a joy that was lasting and deep,
For our clothes made by Summerfleld and Co.
Were the choicest of their kind, and very cheap.*
The Rev. Spurgeon has published his mil-
lion and first sermon, taking as his text “The
Works of the Devil destroyed ” As we have not
yet got through the first million of this voluble
divine, we have laid aside the last to be read in its
due order, should we live long enough and not be
destroyed ourselves. We took out this, however,
to help us on our benighted way: “Despite our
failures and mistakes, let us pursue holiness.
Taking it by the heel, let us keep close to it.” The
heel of a Salvationist’s boot we have proved to be a
scandalous myth, and if that of holiness in anyway
resembles it we fear that when we catch the
beatific vision we shall not be able to get a grip
of it. , -
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a noble exception to
the spirits of the day. Always ask for Wolfe s.
we begin to see them libelled like this we edge up,
and. like the fretful porcupine, exhibit all pur
quills. We don’t mind admitting that, on certain
occasions, our confidence has been strangely
shaken; but next time we see an hon. and learned
member walking from the smoking-room to his
attendant cab in one fifing step, we shall set it
down as an optical illusion.
The N.S.W. Minister for Lands, Father-in-
law Farnell, Is said to be sure of a seat in the next
Parliament. We think so, too; but it will be in
the Strangers’ Gallery.
The Irish and Australian World (Nar-
rabrl, N.8.W.), Is hopeful of a peaceful settlement
of the troubles between Spain and Germany. It,
however, will keep a vigilant eye on Bismarck.
The bath in which Marat was assassinated
by Charlotte Corday Is to be sold by auction, the
proceeds to be spent in charity. How Marat will
curse when the next arrival brings him the news I
Judas and he will not be sober for a century after-
wards.
The Bega (N.S.W.) Free Press notices the
coincidence that on the very day of the eclipse of
the sun each of the local papers came out with two
leading articles. No wonder the sun hid his face.
Possibly he thought a copy of the Press was to be
served on him—hence his “ not-at-home ap-
pearance.
All the way from St. Luke’s school rooms,
Adelaide, comes a touching little story of self-
denial. A gentleman named Whelan had given an
“amateur performance” and his rash audience
insisted on an encore. ’Twas a most unfortunate
position to be placed in. Mr. Whelan took in the
state of affairs at a glance. He knew what another
‘’amateur performance” meant, it meant at
least one death—perhaps several. To avoid the
latter contingency Mr. Whelan dropped down dead
himself— „ ,
He, working for the public weal,
Saw someone had to go,
So, like a fellow true and leal.
He answered to the grim appeal—
And Whelan came to woe.
The principal question debated at a recent
meeting of the Broughton Creek (N.S.W.) Literary
Society was “ Is it desirable to find the price of
butter rising?” The discussion was carried on
con amove. This shows that the society Is founded
on a broad basis—literature and butter. The next
debate will be on Esoteric Buddhism and the value
(at election time) of Broughton Creek eggs.
A boy by the name of William Millsom.
residing in Melbourne, has been taught to respect
the sacred rights of property for the rest of his
life. He plucked a small camellia blossom which
thrust itself out temptingly between the railings
of a 'little aristocratic garden that bloomed in
front of a little aristocratic cottage In East Mel-
bourne. He was promptly pursued and caught
by a constable, who had him locked up for the
night. In the morning he was brought before
the Rinoh. Nobody had any evidence to give
against him, and the owner of the garden did not
appear. But that did not save young William
Millsom. There were men of “ proputty on the
Blnch, every one of whom has a garden, or at any
rate a mignonette-box, at homo, and therefore it
behoved them to nip this floral larceny In the bud.
So they fined him 203., and ordered him to pay
30s. damages to the owner of the garden. A
jingle
“ Stole a small camlllar, did yer ?
Had to go and rob
Proputty, you little willln ?
Fine him twenty bob!”
“ Owner Isn’t here ? No matter —
Why should he be swore ?
Ee shan’t lose by that camlllar—
Fine him twenty morel”
And then the Blnch, with dignity, observed,
“ Vested interests must be conserved.
The Ref
SPORTING FIXTURES.
w *baU be glad to have tbit index petted »*P IV
Hertiariet of racing elMbi and manager* *1
tporting events in oeneroLl
RACING.
AT f! nr ins) . September 19, 22, 24,29
DUbbc-J C September3o. October 1
c » d 1 c October 3
wninhni R C l-0 October 3
Mudgee Tattersali’s R.C. (Spring) October 8. 9
Sydney Turf Club A-jOotober 10
Victoria A.T.C. (Spring) October 10.1.
Retriraa District R.C o °nSr 14
BurekaTC October 14
Canterbury Park R.C iwnwHsT J*
Wollongong T.C n
Queensland T O. "“.'“S,!
Liverpool J.C .. November 9
Wllllamstown R.C. V.) .. November 9
Canterbury (N Z.) J.C. Sprlng.-.November 10,13.13
Narandera J C ....... • - November 13. 13
MurrumblJgee T.C. (Spring)....November 18,19, 20
Verong Creek.. ...November 24
Kockampton (J.C November 35. 26
Gunnedah (Annual) November 85, 26
Narrabri J.C Decembers, 3
Brisbane Tattersall’s December au
Canterbury Park R.C December 19
A.J.C. (Summer) December 26
Victoria A.T.C. (Summer) December 26
Rosehlll tt.C December 28
V.R.C. (dimmer) January 1
Tattersall 8 (Annual) January 1
AQUATICS.
Newcastle R.C. Regatta September
Lake George Regatta October
Davis v. Maclean, at Woodburn October
New South Wales R A. Regatta Octobers
M.K.C. Branch Regatta October 17
Double Bay Regatta October 31
ATHLETICS.
E 8 A. A C. Sports ... September 36
Newcastle Cricket and Football Club’s
sports September 36
Eight Hours’ Art Union and Sports, Agrl-
cultural Society’s Grounds October 7
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
the raking Nordenfeldt’s chance. Boori and Mag-
nifier made up the rest of the field, and Boori was
accorded some support at 100’s to 10. First
Chester showed a little of his excitable nature
before the start, and when the flag fell, was first
to take up the running, followed by Nordenfeldt,
then Boori, Uralla, and Magnifier; and In this
order they led past the stand, young Kelso sawing
at Chester’s mouth to keep him back, the big colt
fairly bounding off the turf every stride In his en-
deavour to make the running. Across the tan
Nordenfeldt went to the front in the interest of bis
stable companion Uralla Kelso still pulling double
on Chester. At the back of the course Norden-
feldt must have bad fullyfour lengths to thegood,
but at the rise Chester commenced to close up.
Nordenfeldt was the first to show in the straight,
but he ran wide, taking First Chester with him,
and leaving an opening on the Inside for Uralla,
which Hales was not long in taking advantage of,
Boori being In close attendance. At the distance
First Chester was pretty well on an equality with
Nordenfeldt, but he had shot his bolt. and. rolling
like a ship at sea, was passed by the favourite
Uralla, who went In hot pursuit of the leader.
Hales, however, was unable to bring the ftlly on
terms with Nordenfeldt. who won under punish-
ment all out by three-quarters of a lengto; First
Chester, two lengths away, third. Young Kelso no
doubt rode to orders, but many were of opinion
that First Chester’s chance was thrown away by
the knocking about he received in the endeavour
to keep him back, and that the excitable son of
Chester would have shown to better advantage
had he been allowed to sail along to a smarter
tune, more especially as the pace was remarkably
slow until the rise was negotiated.
• * *
For the Hurdle Race the top weight
Student started most In demand at 7 to 4, but
Raven led to the last jump, when Caloola passed
the black gelding almost without an effort, and
won by some five lengths, the consistent goer,
Michael, running into a place. Student fell at the
The Australian Jockey Club scored again
on the opening day of their Spring meeting.
lUndwick looked at Its best, the weather was
most favourable, attendance wasllon a par, and,
alt through, the afternoon’s sport proved of a
moat interesting character. Dralla, who had been
a i carefully handled by the public as a doubtful
■taxter, went to the post as first favourite for the
l>er by at level money. First Chester being next
Jn cu mand at 5 to 4, and 3 to 1 was laid against
last jump. Lennox, with Hales up, started at even
money for the Trial Stakes, hut the pace was made
to order for the second favourite, Oaklelgh, who
was a bit on the burly side, and the horse led into
the straight, followed by Bon Accord and the
favourite. Coming up the straight. Hales made
his effort—a deal too late, we! fancied—but he was
unable to catch Oaklelgh, who won by a good
length, Bon Accord, a length off, third. For the
Epsom Handicap, 20 lengths from home. Wing
looked all over a winner, followed by Folly and
Lord Exeter, but a bystander’s hat blowing,
immediately in front of the horses, Wing
jumped over it, and, losing his stride, Folly came
like a plucked one, and just snatched a victory
from Wing by a head, Lord Exeter a few feet
awav, third. The Spring Stakes brought out
a fl Id of five, Astroea having the call at
even money, 3 to 2 being offered about Regi-
nald. Moonshee took up the running imme-
diately after the start, was allowed to steal a march
into tne straight, was never headed, and won by h
short head from Astrcer, who had she been called
upon a bit sooner, might have caused the judne to
handle a different number. The day s sport was
brought to a conclusion by a win for Deimond in
the Welter Handicap. Desmond led into the
s ralght, and was never interfered with, Norine, a
length away, second, and Fuze third.
♦ • •
Mr. Harry Payten’s new style of starting
was given a trial in two races, the Trial Stakes and
the Welter Handicap, both one mile and a quarter,
and started immediately in front of the stand.
The modus operandi is very simple. At the start,
a whitewashed line is laid across the course, and
some twenty yards back of the line a raised box is
erected, wherein stands the starter. On a post
alongside the fence, at the starting line, is affixed
a gong, an apparatus connecting said gong with
the starter's box. Mr. Payten’s idea is to mar-
shal his horses in a row back of his box,
walk them to the chalk-mark line, pull a lever
which strikes the gong, and away they go. Mr,
Payten had, on Saturday, about the easiest fields
to get away we have ever looked upon on a race-
course, but he had three or four breaks-away be-
fore he despatched them to a moderate start.
The raised starters’ box is a good Idea, for It
most decidedly gives a starter more command over
his field, and the gong we think an Improvement
on the red Uag; but to make the new style any-
thing like a success, wo fancy Mr. Paten will have
to “hump his drum ’’to a level with taeobalk-line,
and dispense with the lengthy” walk-up,” which we
feel sure will never be tolerated by a large and
restive field.
♦ ♦ *
By the American mail this week we will
probably hear more definite news with regard to
the “ pugs ” who purpose paying us a visit. Box-
ing in Sydney, of the milk-and-water type, we
have almost ad nameaum, but genuine “ knock-
out” affairs are tew and far between. How-
ever, Foley's large hall, at the rear of the
White Horse, In Qeorgc-street, now in course of
construction, will be finished in about five or six
weeks, and as the building will ssat a large assetn-
blage, the proprietor will, no doubt, find it to his
advantage to worry up contests of the first water.
One day last week Foley’s present room was filled
with a select crowd, “the olfice” having
gone the rounds that a little work with the mit-
tens would be gone through. The piece de re-
sistance, as we say in the Nooze, was a set-to be-
tween our champion amateur and a heavy-weight
pro. from the old country, who came out here, we
understand, with the reputation of being a bit of
a bruiser. The amateur gave away a cartload of
avoirdupois, but he proved more than a match for
the big ’un, who looked pretty sick at the end of
some tour rounds. We were not over favourably
impressed with the new arrival, but we fancy he is
a plucked one, and it must not be lost sight of that
he was in want of condition and was opposed to
about the smartest man Australia can produce, be
he amateur or pro. Ja?k Hall then had a playful
bout with an amateur, and Foley wound up in a
set-to with a gentleman who lays claim to the
title of amateur champion weight-lifter of Aus-
tralia. Next Saturday night Lawson receives a
benefit at Foley’s room, when “Professor Jack-
son, Jack Hall, Dooley, and Seymour, and a host
of the “ fancy,” have promised to show, 80
some lively boxing may be anticipated.
♦ * *
“Navvy’’has asked us for some particu-
lars about the fight between Tom Sayers and
Jack Grant. This was one of the most desperate
fights ever contested by Sayers, but is one of
which the general public know very little. The
pair met on the 39th of June, 1853. Sayers at that
period being known as the " Camden Novice,
when Sayers proved the winner, after fighting M
desperate rounds, lasting exactly two hours and
a half. Grant had a bad name for training, and he
justified it by stepping into the ring at lOst. 61b.,
some pounds over the weight it was expected he
would fight. Sayers weighed lOst. 6b. also, but
with condition fit to fight for a kingdom.
At many portions of the fight Grant ap-
pears to have had all the best of it. and
the authority of the day, Bells Life, said
that if Grant nad taken the trouble to get himself
into tip-top condition the fight might have had a
very different termination When Sayers met
Dan Collins two years previously-another des-
perate fight—he weighed but 955. 131 b.
As might have been expected, the surfeit
of athletic meetings has commenced to pall on
the general public, and the empty benches at the
Sydney Amateur Athletic Club meeting, on the
Association Cricket Ground, last Saturday, bore
evidence of the fact. H. R. Ball, the English ama-
teur, who li credited in the old country with his
quarter-mile in 49 tec , made his debut on Austra-
lian turf, but he did not show to advantage, and
has probably not yet dispensed with his sea legs.
The Club record-breakers were hard at it. Uor
the quarter-mile Challenge Cup, C. Atkinson won
in 53 3-lOseo., beating Charley Rush's previous best
of 53 5-lOseo., and as Atkinson won at the last
contest, the cup now becomes his property, lor
the 330yds. P. James was credited with a win in
22 8-10 sec., Rush and Spofforth dividing the honour
of the previous best with Si 1-lOsec. D. D. Middle-
ton, of rowing fame, carried off both the half-
mile champion easily in 2min Bscc., and the three-
quarter handicap in 3min. W. H. Bros,
also an aquatic man, who has for a long time past
tried the walking track unsuccessfully, was re-
warded for his patience by winning both the mile
and two mile handicaps, with 25sec.and 50yds start
respectively, but it is to be hoped his success will
not encourage him to give up rowing, for without
doubt his forte is more on the Hood than in the
field. The 120yds. champion hurdle race was won
by T. Richards, and the usual handicaps and a
couple of bicycle races filled in the afternoon.
Next Saturday we have still another athletic
meeting, that of the Eastern Suburbs Club, but so
far as attendance Is concerned, we do not fancy
they will have better luck than the Sydney Club
had last Saturday.
* * •
So the world wags. Football has in due
course faded Into oblivion, and cricket will, for a
fleeting and perspiring period, take its place; and
the verdant leaves which are now but budding in
their maiden fragrance, will be withered and
making acquaintance with the dark autumn
mother earth, ore the sturdy Wallarooite, or the
agile Arfomalte will again stand on the King-
street footpath and exhibit the sanguinary evi-
dences of the day’s prowess. In senior football,
the University Club took pride of place for the
Gardiner Cup, with Burwood (last year's winners)
runners-up; but, had the Suburban Club kept
well together and put their beat teams into the
field, we fancy they would have had a good show
of appropriating the Cup, as two consecutive
wins, wo understand, do the trick. However, next
season, it is to be hoped they will not throw a
chance away, as another win for the ’Varsity will
put a period to the series of contests for the Gar-
diner Cup. Coming to the summer game, the
ensuing season in Australia promises to be any-
thing but exciting—at all events, from the present
outlook. So far as a team for England is con-
cerned, the Melbourne Cricket Club has not, as
yet, been successful in getting anything like a
decent eleven together for their projected 1886 En-
Slish tour. All attempts to coax Massie, Jones, and
loses to join have proved|futile, while Marr is very
uncertain, even if he were considered good enough.
Walters, Trumble, M’Shanc, Bruce, Horan, Wor-
rall, and the only Bpofforth, have consented to go,
but for the sake of Australian cricket it is to be
hoped the promoters will wait till the present
season is well advanced before they make final
arrangements, as the lot mentioned might easily
be improved upon.
• * •
The massive Miller is getting himself fit
for his wrestling bout with Whistler on the 26tn,
in grim earnest. The great man standing at the
corner of Collins-street, Melbourne, in confab
with some of his friends, is a spectacle replete
with majesty. There’s a do or die glitter in his
dark, melancholy eye that tells of trouble In store
for the “ Mellican man,” and an Indescribable
something about his stern-set mouth that speaks
eloquently of fractured limbs. We never had the
good fortune to meet any of the Roman gladiators,
but we guess they must have been something like
Miller.
• • •
Melton has followed up his win in the
English Derby by carrying off the Doncaster St.
Leger, and Fred. Archer has added one more to
his list of victories in classic events. What a rich
man he must be getting!
• • •
Eye-witnesses state that one of the most
exciting sporting events of the season was the
mighty Whistler wrestling with four feet of
water In the Albert Park lagoon, Melbourne.
Whistler caught a crab while taking his daily pull
on the lake, capsized the boat, and somehow or
another lost his head for the moment. The water is
nowhere up to the chest of the “ Kansas demon,”
and yet it really looked as though he was going
to insist on being drowned until Hudson went out
and “ fixed” his pupil. Donald Dinnie never made
him half as nervous.
• • ■
The weather was not too favourable for
the Metrop., but a good crowd assembled to see
the big race. While waiting for the start, Kath-
leen bolted, and went almost round the course
before she * could be stopped. The boy then put
her in motion to get up to the starter’s box, and
again she overpowered him and did another once
round, thus upsetting her chance. Despot got his
legs tangled and fell, and the big money was
landed by Acolyte. Lord Exeter being second,
Brown and Rose third. The Squatter’s Handicap
fell to Oatcake, who won under punishment,
Polly second.
WHY.
Why doth not the poet sing of Spring, of the bud-
ding flowers, and the blooming trees.
Of the new-shorn sheep, and the klne and swine, of
the twittering birds and the humming bees;
Of the meadow drest in its sheeny green, of the
upland decked with its verdant wealth ?
Why doth not the poet sing of Spring, when the
woodland world dons her garb of health ?
M. D.
[My son, when the editor reads the screed, the old,
old rhymes to the theme of Spring,
The hackneyed tale of the “ showers and
“flowers,” of the bird which “floats on its
tireless **
When he reads of the things which leap or creep,
of the emu's stride through the 4 shady dell.
He flxeth a toe-plate on his boot and lays for the
poet to give him —Spring. — Ed, B.J
DID YOU ACTUALLY SUPPOSE-?
OH, DEAR. NO!-NOT AT ALL! HOW COULD YOU? WHY, THEY BELONG TO COUSIN
TOM, WHO IS PROPELLING THE SWING FROM BEHIND!


THIS WICKED WORLD.
At a federation meeting held in a suburb
of Melbourne lately, the Mayor of Melbourne
stated that “a Sydney gentleman had informed
him that there was a strong feeling in New South
Wales in favour of the federation of the Empire.”
Wo wonder who that “Sydney gentleman” was.
It could hardly have been Plain Bill. And yet
In reproducing the old record which states that
out of the 2540 kjngs and emperors the world has
seen, 24 died martyrs, the L’lndelfndant of New
Caledonia cries out, “ Martyrs of what ? It is their
subjects who were martyrsi ” —The proposed
Canadian line of mail steamers between Australia
and England, via Vancouver’s Island, will do the
trip in 30 days. Average P. and O. time is 37 days
13 hours; Orient Company’s, 35 days 3 hours; Mes-
sageries Maritimes’ 43 days 13 hours; Californian
line, todays 20 hours; and Torres Straits line, 43
days 33 hours Rev. Coker Adams (Anglican), of
No r folk, Eng., has publicly excommunicated an old
parishioner, Mr. Payne, aged 83 for declining to at-
tend church or let the parson visit at his house. .
The Maharejth of Jeypore has sent some illumin-
ated books—“ Memorials of the Jeypore Exhi-
bition, ’ to the Victorian Government, and wants
reciprocal gifts for his museum. We have heard
a rumour to the effect that it h"s been proposed
to tend him little Mirams, of Victoria, in a shoe-
trunk, with a copy of the Licensing BVL... A
Government clerk applied to the head of his De-
partment tor leave of absence in order to attend
the christening of his youngest boy. “ How old is
the child,” “ Pour days old.” “ Very good,” said
the chief; “ but two weeks ago I gave you leave
of absence to bury your wife. What have you to
say?” For a moment the subordinate was dumb;
then putting a bold face on, he sa'd: “I beg your
pardon; my little boy is a posthumous child.”....
A writer in the Southern World (Q ) askt how
U is that paupers at Dunwioh, near Brisbane, cost
7s. 314 d. per head, whereas in England they are
maintained at 3s. 0d„ per head. This writer should
ask further, Does the wood-and-water Joey who
ministers to Dunwich get twice as much as the
analogous individual in England ? In a betting-
case tried in the Tamworth (N.S.W.) Court, the
Bench of magistrates, one and all, professed that
they did not kno v the meaning of a “right
bower,” or “The Devil’s Prayer-Book.” Sweet
innocents; to see the exceedingly loose leg the
elderly elders of that elderly town flourish when
down in Sydney on “urgent business,” is enough
to (However this paper circulates in Tam-
worth. and we decline to disturb the harmony of
pious families — Ed ) The Queensland Premier's
new bill to prevent personation at elections, pro-
vides that ballot papers shall be marked with
voters' numbers gummed on the back. A little
iadustry on the part of the registrar will enable
him to work a hole in the secrecy of the ballot-
box.
• * ♦
Quaker sweetness has been made a pro-
verb. Here Is John Bright’s latest Incentive to
the peace that passeth understanding:—” I cannot
bottom all the foolish sayings of Tory speakers,
their faculty for slander and lying is something
wonderful.” By her recent marriage, the
Princess Beatrice became sister-in-law to her own
niece “ As for Prince Albert Victor and Prince
George,” remarks an English journal, “they may
have the sam ß fancies as their royal father. but
they are not likely soon to have an opportunity
afforded them of gratifying them. Like many
another parent who has not been averse to diver-
sions of a racy character in his young days, the
Prince of Wales is a Jealous guardian of his boys’
morale, and beers a sharp eye on the lads—The
Duke of Cambridge is Commander-In-Chief of the
British Army. He receives £13,000 a year by the
“goodwill” of the unfortunate British nation,
besides £3.110 for the nominal office of Hanger of
Hyde Park. £4500 as Commander-in-Chief of the
army, £3133 a* Colonel of the Grenadier Guards,
and about £lOOO a year in other ways. He also has
a private estate with a rental of £4COO, and a Royal
residence assigned him; and he is entitled
to have his Royal German carcase carried
across the Channel by special packet The
Prirc of Wales has Sandringham in Norfolk,
and Blrkball in Aberdeenshire—together nearly
15.000 acres in extent. Ho enjoys the revenues of
the Duchy of Cornwall, that extends over 74,000
acres. The lands of Balmoral are 25,000 acres wide
and palaces and forests will be bis galore when the
Queen ceases to reign. A wise ruler would dis-
courage the spirit of land hunger. The Prince of
Wales seems to he one of its victims... Anagram-
Prince Henry of Battenberg: Beg in 10 percent.
of 18, Harry I—ln Ireland, we read, one of the
judges, owing to a mishap in travelling, had to ap-
pear in court without his wig. “ My lud” felt it
necessary to apologise. What a thing to have to
apologise for—a judge in this nineteenth century
of ours transformed by accident into a human-
looking man!—Major-General Earle, killed in the
Soudm, left £103,000... Hodnett, a groom, has
been committed in Ireland for abducting a young
girl of 14. Prisoner said it was the girl who was
the worst. She bad gone to his room and asked
him to kiss her, and he could not see why he should
be prosecuted because a young lady fell In love
with him. She is “ rather good looking, while the
groom is unprepossessing and partially blind.”
There has been much mordant gossip in English
society in consequence of the Queen’s ill-natured
refusal to allow Princess Victoria to attend the
State balls, on the ridiculous ground that she had
not been confirmed. This canting nonsense has
led people to say that Her Majesty was jealous
that the Duchess of Teck’s children should be so
much better-looking than her own grandchildren,
and that Prince Albert Victor’s palpable admira-
tion for his charming relative hasn’t diminished
the Queen’s resentment....“ Bank Holiday” aid
the way of its observance by Londoners is hit off
by London Punch in a lively way. “ Well, Jarvis,
you have beaten your wife, you’ve had your own
head broken, your eyes blacked, and your front
(eelh knocked out, and jou spent the night in a
police cell I’ To which Jarvis answers: “Well,
Sir John, it’s a poor ’art as rever rejoices!”....
Prince Henry of Battenberg, who married Queen
Victoria's youngest daughter (and who. according
to English Jaw, is Illegitimate), bas been turned
into a Royal Highness. The Marquis of Lome,
who married H.M.’s youngest [daughter but one,
has not been so “ honoured.” The reason is that
Lorre is English. Battenberg, like the Queen, is a
German. The Queen, however had no real right
to make Battenberg into a Royal Highness. Asa
mother she transmitted the Royal quality, what-
ever it may be, but not as a mother-in-law—
A London tramcar conductor b«s to hand in his
takings when he leaves off at 12 30 a.ra., and can-
not, therefore, get. to bed till 1 a m. He bas to be
at work again at 7 a m. ta-d. consequently, must
rise at six I) “I have h«l five years of this sort
of thing,” said a conduci-or n cer tly, “ but being a
married man, I dare not risk leaving It" And all
this in order that the shareholders may divide
9 per cent “ What a lovely face Mrs. Anger has
in repose; perfectly beautiful, don’t you think
so?’ “I can’t say; I never saw it in repose”
“ Indeed, do you know the lady well ? ’ “ I ought
—l'm her husband.”....Perfumed lap-dogs have
been Imported to London from Paris. But a year
since the English were barbaric enough to be con-
tent with flea-powder —Mrs. Nancy Riggins has
just died at Burton Constable (Eng.), aged 105. She
habitually took her little drop of spirits, and
smoked three or four oz. tobacco every week.
She could dance a minuet and was frisky enough
to play cards when she wss 100 “I never
imagined, my boy, that your studies would have
cost me so much money.” “ No, father, neither
did I; and I don’t study much, either.”—“ Young
man,” said the Colonel to young Phlyhle Phelps,
as he stopped him at the hall door, “you have
been coming to see my daughter long enough to
warrant me in asking you if your Intentions are
honourable.” “My intentions honourable ?” re-
plied the young man, who is a noted flirt, “of
course they are; I can give you the names of at
least eight young ladles whom I courted with
honourable intentions.”. . It is said on the au-
thority of a leading London journal that the
Prince of Wales never carries a purse. With the
exception of the Puritanical cast of our morals
there appears to be a heap of resemblance between
his Royal Highness and ourselves.... The publishers
of an English weekly newspaper offer to pay £lOO
to the heirs of any person found dead with a copy
of the paper on his person. This advertisement
will attract attention and raise a good deal of dis-
cussion, for it does not appear on its face whether
the offer is la the nature of an insurance against
death, or simply puts a premium on murder
Teacher: “And so Adam was very happy; then
what did he do to make him unhappy?” Boy:
“Please, miss. h« got a wife” Jones wants to
stick to the old Bible and straight preaching. He
calls the new mmo for the old terror a silly,
namby-pamby word. “Why,” he says, “you
couldn't frighten a cat with sheol.”
The Newcasfe Herald announces that
“some persons in this world are blest with any
amount of assurance, and this In redundsnee i g
recognised as ‘ cheek.’ ” Toe occasion for this
appalling homily was that—“ While one of our re-
porters was yesterday in search of news along the
wharf, a carter hailed him in a moat authoritative
tone of voice to e’ear out of the way so as to allow
him to pass with his cart, there being more than
ample room for the purpose.” We are left in the
dark whether the ample room was enough for the
carter or for the Newcastle reporter. As far as
our experience goes, about ten feet will do the
average wharf carter, whose dray wheels are-say,
five feet apart; but we have had ampler oppor-
tunity than the carter of seeing the space required
when a Newcastle reporter goes his rounds on a
wharf to “search for news.”
Wet Paint!
“AH’ REMARKED THE HON. MR. COHEN, "THERE REALLY DOES SEEM TO BE SOME PAINT ON MY COAT-TAILS. BUT NEVER MIND—V LITTLE PRINTER’S INK
WILL TAKE IT OFF.”
(So he sat down and wrote a disclaimer to the D.T.)


There is nothing known better calculated
to invigorate the constitution than Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Last month Tamati Ngapora passed away
from the camps of the Maoris at the estimated age
of 80. We say “estimated,” advisedly. When
L’amati opened his eyes, civilised lustrations and
black-and-wbite entries In registrars’ ledgers
were unknown among his dusky race. Twenty
years ago his power was great. He was ruler of
the Waikato confederacy. Ho was one of those
who went to Auckland to negotiate with
Governor Browne about terms for ending the
war of ’6l. When the business of war was over,
Tamati donned the surplice, and, as a clergyman,
filled the people of his trioo full of Church of
England doctrines. He died on 4th August, and
Is, it is to be hoped, now happy.
What everybody says must be true. All
who have used Wolfe’s Schnapps say it is the
best stimulant.
PEPPER AND SALT.
It is not generally known, but George
Augustus Sala gets £3O a column for his sketches.
It Is no wonder, then, that he hates driving with
“ leading citizens ” to climb country ranges, and
prefers, as he puts it, to moon about the little
town and hear what they have to say in the
barbers’ and chemists’ shops. After all, we be-
lieve this is the true way to collate the history of a
nation. It’s about a hundred to one, now, that
Oibbon got all his notes for the “ Decline and Fall
of the Roman Empire ” from a Florentine barber,
and owes to the apothecary of the district the
wonderful amount of polish observable in the
scene where Vitelllus knocks Ccesar Augustus out
in three rounds at the Coliseum, after having
“ been rejected for the triumvirate ” in favour of
Yespasius Orestes. It won’t be easy to “ corner ”
Gus., this reminds us, when “The Land of the
Golden Fleece” (a capital title I) appears in book
form. In answer to, perhaps, mild remonstrances,
George will, of course, cry—“ What I wrong about
the kangaroo being found sleeping with his tall
tied in a lover’s knot at Coonamble I—pooh I
Here's the barber’s own MS. of the story; and as
for the yarn of the Slogolong bunylp that perched
on the school-house every night that Cobb’s groom
played the concertina, I produce the chemist's bill
for remedies supplied, on the occasion of the
public thumping the musician received, after the
seventh appearance of the bunylp, and the corre-
sponding disappearance of the last score of the
Town Clerk’s fowls.”
• • •
There is nothing in this visionary universe
that is not liable to change—except the Sydney
Morning Herald. It Indeed is the Akinctos of
the age—glued Immovably to a venerable rock
from which the ocean of human interest has ebbed
away and left high and dry generations ago. Per-
haps its time will come too—but not till all the
parsons who now clog it and clamp it down are
practising on shawms and sackberts in the land to
which they have all free excursion tickets. The
Melbourne Argus has had to move—the Argus
that was once a powerful and unshaken pillar of
high-toned conventionalism. It appears that
lately the Ballarat Council have been solemnly
discussing the question as to whether the Corpora-
tion baths should be opened on the Sabbath or not
—a pretty sure proof that they do not think much
of the opinion of the Apostle who considered
cleanliness was next to godliness. This is what
the Argus has to say upon the matter:—“ Ought
the Corporation baths to be open until 9 o'clock
on Sunday mornings ? After debate, the issue
has been resolved in the affirmative, but tickets
are to be purchased on week-days, so that there
may be no taking of money at the doors.
Swimmers are to have their splash, and
the cb'nking of silver is forbidden. Too much
can scarcely be said In favour of this re-
solution, for we may assume with confidence
that it will be pushed to its legitimate conclusion,
and that the Churches which applaud it will at
once prove their consistency, and will add largely
to their popularity and power by immediately
abolishing the obnoxious collection Plate. ” Now,
if a profane paper like ours had made this sugges-
tion, parsons would have rolled up the sleeves of
their surplices to curse us and made the air around
them smoke with anathemas. But coming from
the quarter it did, what can they do but bite their
tongues and hold their peace ? When even Brutus
has turned against them, whither shall they fiy for
aid ? Assuredly not to the Age, which sits like
Shlmei by the wayside and stones them as they
pass. The Daily Telegraph, though on their
side, is like one of those old Chinese cannons that
are more fatal to the gunners than to the foe, and
the circulation of their own organs is almost en-
tirely confined to the hospitals and the Benevolent
Asylum. Really, if it were not for our convictions
—and the fact that we are doing indifferently well
as we are—we would take up the gauntlet for
them and bring out a journal that would hurl
hell-fire and gnash maledictions at, and smite
hip and thigh all who were not subscribers. We
reckon if we bad a six months’ supply of absinthe
in the office, we could scorch a brimstone path to
success in the first quarter. If we could not shake
the gates of Hell during that time—aye, and beard
the very Devil in bis den, and tie him in an ever-
lasting knot—then have we made a life-long mis-
take in our own abilities. Wo are not in the habit
of using strong language, but we can assure you
when we do, Rabshakah was milder than the Rev.
Hopley Porter compared to us. Yet, though we
can’t see any way to take up the cause
of the Churches, there is no reason why—
as we have suggested before—such a man as
Joseph Symes should not. He would be an invalu-
able ally, because he knows both sides of the
question, and could knock down the arguments
he now uses like ninepins. Somebody will have
to dip a pin in naptha for the parsons soon, or
they will be left perching In their pulpits preach-
ing to empty pews, and not “ raking ” in enough
from the collection to pay for the washing of
their stocks. We know a man who could do It in
slashing style, but he wants no hundredfold
reward in Heaven—his squalid question is “ How
much is it worth here?” Should the heads of
any religious body wish to trade with him they
can address their letters to this office. There is no
Intolerance about us.
♦ ■ ■
We are pleased to see that our old friend
Garnet Walch is writing poetry for the Melbourne
Argus. We read one of his poems in this paper,
the other day, with much relish, and noticed at
the same time that, with a quaint Ingenuity quite
peculiar to bis genius, be had made the first letters
in each lino spell out the name of a furniture-firm
and—hut let us give you a verse:—
“ P rom her fond eyes, those limpid wells of truth,
U nfat homed <’eeps tha never knew a storm.
R ioher than all the riches of the earth,
N earer and dearer with each rising sun.
I s my true love, my pearl of priceless worth,
T he idol of my soul—the only one.
TJ pon the heaving heaven o’er her heart—
R apture’s fair haven—shall my own heart lie
E nthralled, enthroned, never from her to part.”
Look at that now I This Is what we call poetry
with a purpose. You may talk of your Gordons,
and .Kendalls, and Farrells, but they could never
have written a verse like that. They could—and
one of them still can—give you lofty lines, pulsat-
ing with passion and power, but they could not
make the first letters of each spell out that
solid word Furniture. Not much. Neither could
they wring your soul with the appalling anagram,
TIME PAYMENT 1 This is why two of them died
poor and one of them has desperately drowned his
Muse in a vat of his own brewery. They could not
take hold of one of the everlasting truths of exis-
tence, such as’Rent in advance or Sold for cash only,
and weave their runic rhymes around It, like
sugar round a pill, to touch all hearts to trouble,
as Garnet can. Good luck to you, Garnet, Bard of
the Beautiful and Useful combined, and may your
Muse never lack her three square meals a day, for
she deserves them. As for the other poets—Pooh I
Their strong-winged Pegasuses soared
To the empyrean.
For what ? For fame I an empty word I
But you—you gifted man I
You cut the wings of yours, and see—
Yon knew the paying plan I— '
You drive him now, triumphantly
In a time-payment van.
Here Lies the Body of
JUMBO:
Obit, 1885; Altat, 135.
Nec vos poetas septentrlonales
Silebo,
Metuende sagitta errata
Indoctas, qui lauderunt
Bgo,
This monument is erected by the Dean and
Chapter of the University of the World to keep
in everlasting remembrance the fact that, on
the 18th September, when it was doubtful
whether Australians could get press messages
from Europe at a liberal rate so that they might
know the intentions of the Larrikin Nations up
there, newspapers pay heavily for
A CABLEGRAM,
as we call it, which announces the death of
THIS GREAT ELEPHANT.
It is with feelings of deep sympathy we com-
memorate this bereavement of the British Em-
pire, leaving us only a shadowy interest in what
else is going on in the world. With tears we
erect this monument to our lamented bene-
factor.
For the Dean, Chapter, and Verse
Collegium Mundi,
Ton Ouranonque,
Nefas, Magister In Re.
There is great joy in Eaglish-bookmaking
circles. The latest news Is that the Prince of
Wales has gone in for racing. Some of the
Journals warn him against it, and tell him that
be will lose money and get into debt. What mat-
ter? He will be King one day—perhaps—and
meanwhile he can pay in post obits. It would not
trouble us, and many a million more, very much,
if he were to plunge till he had to Ipawn the
Crown Jewels, and auction the rest of the regalia
to pay the ring-men. The end must come some
time, and the sooner the better. We consider
monarchy to be but an obsolete fetish in these
days, but if we must have a monarchy, let some
other family have a turn on the throne—a branch
ofSflhe Smiths, for instance. The Guelphs have had
a good innings, we should think. The first gener-
ation of the Queen’s family have now been all dis-
posed of and pensioned off, and the younger brood
ought to be left to look after themselves. There
is plenty of work for the males of them out here
in any sort of business they are likely to be fit for.
We believe we could get young George of Wales a
very decent situation In a store up at Cooktown.
Albert Victor would hardly—Judging by his ap-
pearance when we saw him last—be fit for much
in the way of mental labour, but he might, If
taught a bit, be able to creditably fill the lucrative
post of poundkeeper. [We once knew a lawyer
who was a poundkeeper.] The back-block squat-
ters would not blame him because he happened to
be born a Prince. They are not bigoted, as a rule.
So let his Royal Highness of Wales go on the turf
and plunge as much as he pleases. We may yet
live to see a scion of the blood royal mixing up
paste for us,
A member of the Victorian Parliament
suggested the other night that the principle of the
plebiscite should be adopted with a view of dis-
covering who were and who were not in favour of
the Licensing Bill, inis is a good idea, and we are
pleased to be able to suggest an easy and reliable
way of carrying it out. Let the voters of every
town or township be marched on a given day la
single-file down the main street. Let a represen-
tative of the Licensed Victualling Interest stand
atone end; a representative of the Temperance
Party at the other. Let the former say to each
voter as he passes: “ Will you take a drink ? ” If
the free and enlightened rep lies in the affirmative
let the Licensed Victuallers’ representative give
him a ticket like this—the ticket to be stuck in the
hat of the free and enlightened—
: Frank this Noble Fellow for a Sixpenny
: Drink. :
. He Is one of the Right Sort.
: By Order,
: S. A. Kino, :
: Sec : V.U.L.V.A.
If the free but benighted replies In the negative It
may be safely assumed that he is in favour of the
Licensing Bill becoming ;iaw. The procession
must then file by the Temperance representative,
who will remark to each voter as he passes: “ Will
you shout ? ” If the answer be in the negative,
and the person addressed has a ticket the T.R,
will be entitled to gently remove the same from
his hat, and put It In a box placed close handy for
the purpose. If the answer be in the negative,
and the person addressed has not a ticket in his
hat the T.H. will give him one like this
1 Give this upright Man a Gup of Coffee :
: and a Roll. :
: He Is True-Blue, t
: By Order,
: J. Mirams, I
: 1.0.Q.T.
•
Those who have tickets In their hats and answer
the question of the T. E. in the affirmative, shall
be considered as having voted against the Licens-
ing Bill. Those who have given replies in the
negative to each representative, shall be considered
as having voted in favour of it. Those whose
liquor tickets have been confiscated, shall be con-
sidered as having no voice in the matter one way
or the other. A man who will take a drink and
not give a drink, does not deserve to have bis
wishes consulted. By the adoption of the plan we
have proposed, the thorough-going partisans on
either side could be separated from the loore-
principled ruck, who are neither fish, flesh, nor
good red herring, but a mongrel mixture of all.
This strikes us as being a fairer idea than any
which we have heard of yet. At the same time,
we do not conceal the fact that If it were acted
upon, we should bet upon the publicans. Which,
perhaps, proves the fairness of it.
« ♦ •
“ During the marriage ceremony between
Beatrice and Battenberg, Her Majesty the Queen
was distinctly observed to smile. As being the first
Royal smile since the decease of J obn Brown, It
deserves commemoration.’' Bring the concertina
and let us commemorate:—
The Anglican Bishop of Ballarat, in the
cauliflower of his colonial experience, was fond of
expressing his opinion freely on Australian men
and manners, but his platform orations were
never embellished with a story which was as good
as his best. Samuel, when he first set his ample
foot on the soil of the gold city, became the guest
of Mr. John Bolson, then manager of the National
Bank, who placed the establishment at his service.
By the night coach an accountant from a gold-
field branch arrived with some boxes and bags of
“ the rowdy” In Its raw state, and, ringing the
bell, waited for the messenger whose duty It was
to assist him to secure his parcels. Receiving no
response to his first appeal, he touched the harp
gently again, and the head of S. Ballarat ap-
peared at an Interval of 42ft. between the raging
accountant and the calm blue sky. “ What
do you want 7” “ Well, I’ll be d—d if this
isn’t jolly, you. I want to lock up this
gold.” (Gus. was not apprised of the change
and thought he was addressing the messenger.)
* Well, come at 10 o’clock to-morrow morning,
the bank is closed.” “Ten o’clock be eonseorated;
this stuff’s got to go in to-night. By the ghost of
Julius Caesar, If you don’t come right down here
and let me in, between two minutes, there’ll be a
row.” It began to dawn on the clerical mind that
it might be a good risk after all, so he climbed
down the staircase, and securing the door by a
chain which allowed it to open a couple of inches,
he let go the bars and bolts, and, speaking through
the cracks, enquired, “How what do you want?”
“ By —.” Bang went the door. “ No, you don’t,
my friend,” chuckled his lordship, and Gus., with
his lips to the keyhole, had to explain his mission.
He was at length admitted, secured his treasure
and, turning to go, asked brusquely, “Where’s
Jack?” “If you mean Mr. Robson .”
“ No, I mean Jack, the messenger, he’s gone, I
suppose, and you’ve taken his place. Now, look
here, you bald-headed old ruin, If ever you keep
me waiting when I come here again, by the Lord”
—and he commenced to unship a 4.50 baritone
which he carried. “ Young man,” queried his
Lordship, “do you know who lam 7” "I know
what you are, you’re ” “ I am the Bishop of
Ballarat.” The shooter fell from the nerveless
fingers of Gus., Its report had scarcely died away
ere Samuel dropped his candlestick, and clutching
the skirts of his garment skipped up the stairway
in less time than a city miss would climb on to a
chair when she got the word “ rats I ’ in a crowded
•shop. Gus., from the bottom of the flight, made
bis apologies, and shortly afterwards his escape,
while Samuel, who had stubbed his lordly toe on
his upward journey, sat on the top step and—
prayed—for all money-changers from the time of
Moses even unto that present day Inclusive. The
moral of all which is that it’s worse to find one
stair more when you think you have reached the
top than to find you have reached the top when
you think there is one stair more, when you think
you have— [Stop!— Ed. B 1
A LAMENT FOR JUMBO.
“Jumbo, the big elephant, formerly of the
London Zoological Gardens, has died in Now
York.”—Cablegram to Australian papers.
Jumbo dead! Big currant buns
No more shall tempt his long proboscis;
We’re weeping for the little ones,
Who know not how severe their loss is;
And babes unborn—the perfect bliss,
By Fate’s decree, has been denied ’em
Of giving Jumbo’s trunk a kiss.
With pa, and ma, and nurse beside ’em.
We, in our youth, the beast bestrode.
Along with others’ sons and daughters—
A happy, timid, laughing load.
Some on his neck, some on his quarters;
Until at last he bent the knee.
And we again touched terra flrma—
Ah I hard it were to find than he
A kinder, gentler friend, or firmer.
Dear Jumbo, In your Western grave,
Sleep on, bemourned by both the nations—
We, too, like you, have placed the wave
’Twixt us and old associations;
May wo, like you, leave troops of friends
Of varied ranks, and heights, and ages,
[LWho when our little story ends,
Will drop a tear upon its pages.
THAT SMILE.
Oh, spread abroad the blessed tale,
The tidings full of joy.
To every distant bill and vale,
That every girl and boy
May know that when our gracious Queen
Turned off her youngest child,
She quite enjoyed the nuptial scene,
And (hallelujah!) smiled.
Forgetting for a little space
The late lamented Brown,
A gleam of sunshine on her face
Replaced the royal frown;
Our ruler to her wretched state
Was almost reconciled—
Oh 1 let us in italics state
Hew Queen Victoria smiled!
The infant in its cradle laid.
The urchin yet at school.
The shoe-black and the serving-maid,
The clerk on offlce-stool,
Will each and all to shed a tear
Be probably beguiled.
When they peruse these lines, and hear
Our gracious sovereign smiled.
How good of her I She might have wept
The wedding service through;
Or, worse than that, have soundly slept
Within the royal pew;
She might (why shouldn’t she 7—she’s Queen/)
Have been intensely “ riled,”
And freely given vent to spleen—
Instead of which, she smiled.
Let’s celebrate the glad event,
In any way we choose;
As loyal subjects we are bent
On going on the “ booze.”
Here, landlord! fill the pewter, quick—
A pint of “ stout and mild
And do the same for Bill and Dick,
They’re “ stony,” so we’ve “smiled!”
The Poet’s gong.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Poet sang of a golden time*
In the golden sunbeams standing.
When the world was young, in the olden time,
And the people heard his melodies chime
Their tones with the echoes banding;
Men listened, rapt, as he struck the strings,
And women wept at their whisperings;
But the Poet stood in that olden time,
When the drones were drownly humming,
In the summer of eld, the fair golden prime.
And sang of the time that was coming.
Winter came, and the world grew old,
The snow fell chilling and numbing;
But the Poet stood singing, soothfast and bold—
Away through creation his harmonies rolled,
And told of the time that was coming;
Men would not hear, and hurriedly passed—
For wild was the wind and bleak was the blast;
And women but listened anon and afar,
Orsimpered, “Theslnger is mumming!”
But loud pealed his song, like a rune from a star,
And caroll'd the time that was coming.
Aged is the Poet, and silver-haired,
Yet this day he stands a-singing—
He is noble and poor; his limbs are half bared,
But his heart is warm, and bath never despaired;
Sonorous his voice, clear, and ringing;
Men will not heed, or cruelly jeer—
Women refuse him one womanly tear;
They cry, “ He sings nought of business and gold.
List not to the Vagabond’s strumming!”
But through the wide world swells and thrills aB
of old,
His song of the time that is coming.
The Touch of a Vanished Hand.
“ Ah 1 what wouldn’t I give to feel the touch
Of a lady’s hand again I”
Lindsay Gordon (or Mowbray Morris).
Her horses had bolted, I pulled them up, she
thanked me, 'twas enough;
And her fingers for a moment lay In my hand-
tanned, coarse, and rough;
A gentle pressure her thanks conveyed, she offered
no minted gold,
But the simple touch of that soft white hand was
to me as wealth untold.
Bough and bearded, and tanned, and old, I had
almost forgot the way
To do what seemed like a manly act; though there
was, in the past, a day—
A bygone time, like a dream it seems, as I rake
among memories dead—
When, at the touch of a lady’s hand, my blood no
faster sped;
When the glances arch of a hazel eye, meaning
little or less than nought,
Or the smile or frown of a rosy cheek caused never
a second thought;
Would I value them now—the smiles I’ve lost,
would I care for the frown or tear ?
God knows what a withered heart must feel
estranged from what life holds dear I
Ah, me I 1 have wasted the corn and oil, drained
the cups of joy and pain.
But I’d give this hand which had closed on hers
could I press her hand again I
A.O.
Norine.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Down by the foot of a pine-covered mountain—
A track takes you to it through twistings and
turns—
Hid in a cleft is a crystalline fountain—
A natural fountain embowered in ferns.
Many’s the time have T sat by the side of it
Whispering love to a maiden as fair;
Picturing life with Norine as the pride of it,
Gilding a phantasy baseless as air.
Spring, as of yore, scatters flowers by the brink of
Over’the top of it satin birds wing;
Maiden-hair creeps to the margin to drink of it.
Why cannot all awake new with the Spring ?
Up on the cliff still the kurrajongs cling to it,
Down in the valley the buttercups blow}
But all the beauties that Nat ure can bring to li-
fe Drive not the shade from the valley below.
Over the fount and the ferns that embower it,
their fronds in the spray of its Jet,
Over the numberless graces that dower It,
Shadows the cloud of an endless regret.
Dear are the daisies that sprinkle the slope from It,
Seeming to ask our old life to renew;
Dearer the spot, though, that’s stolen the hope
from it
Up on the bank amid pansies and rue.
J. P. B.


COMPAENONI CATERING GO.. LIMITED.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. * 7
THE oldest and leading Catering Establishment to HAW. , Caterers to His Worship the Mayor,
Municipal Council of Sydney, the A.J.0., City Club, &0., &o.
The Dining Saloons for and we the ftwas*. Coollmt, and loftiest In the colony.
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar—Good Wine List.
GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. (after the
Theatres. Select your own steak, &c., and see It grilled In the room. This Is one of the acquisitions
or the city, and a long-felt waut. Inspection Invite* Club rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Cluo
and City Club, upstairs. Bt D. TOLLS MACKE, General Manager.
XjOcla.-IDl3.ia. <Sz> SZb.ari3.roc
street. Sydney ; and at Melbourne. Adelaide, and Brisbane, Agent. Greer, & Co. (Ld.)
1885 Universal Club, a thoroughly reliable and easy-running
machine. Ball bearings to both wheels, and Improvements.
THE SYDNEY SPORTS
DEPOT.
289 GEORG E-STREET SYDNEY
(Opposite Royal Hotel.)
bicyglesTTricycles.
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles
and Tricycles
Have Every Improvement.
OUR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadster.
THE UNIVERSAL CLUB
fitted with Improved Ball Bear-
ings to front and beck wheels.
Hollow Forks, Patent Head and
Detachable Bent Handle Bar.
Easy Slide Spring, Hubs Plated
Black Enamelled Spokes,
Price, iBl3 10». At the price
we defy competition.
JAMES MARTIN & COMPANY, 389 George-st., Sydney.
CHAS. OTTE & GO.,
Electrical Engineers,
113 Pitt Street.
Electric Batteries for surgical and household use, Electric Bells
Private Telephones, Electric Lights, Lightning Conductors, Dynai
mos, and all Electrical appliances fitted at the shortest notice at
26 per cent, under usual price.
CHAS. OTTE & CO., 113 Pitt Street
fjl o ALL WOMEN.
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS A WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
ST TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, In either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY
IN SOAP!
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everythin!
washed with It;
HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
WT Bold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
Ha. per Bar.
Bole Manufacturers:
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
QENT.’S ... ~ ... BO, Is. 8d.; 100, Ss. Sd.
LADIES* ... 50, 2s. 0d.; 100. 8a, Od.
Address, Bd. extra.
■oat Business Cards.
100. 8s. Bd.; ISO. Bs. Bd.; 600, 10s.; 1000, IBs.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
tO~ Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
THE lECTiSOFFIT CO,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Rev. Father Wilds’
EXPERIENCE.
The Rev. Z. P. Wilde, well-known city
missionary in New York, and brother
tl»e late eminent Judge Wilds, of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
“78 E. 5 4(h St,, New York, May 16,1882.
Messrs. J. C. Ayer & Co., Gentlemen :
Last winter I was troubled with a most
Uncomfortable itching humor aifectlng
more especially my limbs, which itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so intense-
ly, that I could scarcely bear any.clothing
over them. I was also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough: my
appetite was poor, and my system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from personal use
in former years, I began taking It for the
above-named disorders. My appetite im-
proved almost from the first dose. After
a time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs of Irritation of the
skin disappeared. My catarrh and cough
were also cured by the same means, and
my general health greatly improved, until
it is now excellent. I feel a hundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of the Sarsaparilla, which
I recommend with all confidence as the
best blood medicine ever devised. 1 took
it in small doses three times a day, and
used, in all, less than two bottles, I place
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may do good,
, Your* respectfully, Z. P. Wilds.”
lha above instance is but one of the many
constantly coming to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from impure or impoverished blood, and a
weakened vitality.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates tbe action of tbe stomach and
bowels, and thereby enables tbe system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofu-
lous Diseases, Eruptions of the Skin, Rheu-
matism, Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state of tbe system.
prepared by
Dr. J.C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Driiggists; price $1, six bottles
for *5.
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
___ PILLS.
Best Purgative Medicine
cure Constipation, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious Disorders.
' Sold everywhere. Always reliable. 1
ELLIOTT BROS, and S. HOFFNUNG A CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
B.fo.6 MOUSTACHE and WHISEEES. itrons aftbk
Boyd't Beard Elixirdid thin, and
will do it on either batd head or
bare face, forces heavy Mous-
tache in from Utoiueeksand never
/ails, 20,000 young men already
toear full beards, having used 1 to
Copyrighted,
ssH 1
Ko injury, easily applied, sertain in effect.
Copyrighted.
Packets Is. 04.
3 for 3*. 6d.,post paid. sent under cover, free from observation*
us, Frank Dougins, Sole Agent, Boo 730. 0.P.O. .
, Sydney, NJ3.W*
BULL DOO ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
fflHB sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thlrst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at.
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burtonj
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage In tar
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTßLL 4 CO.,
Bole Agents.
'lXinf false. */” Metatier?
mrt
\\T ILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
W of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, 40.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, 40.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
om.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &0., at lowest prices.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
AH orders executed In best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels.
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Subscriptions solicited to all the’ leading maga-'
nea.
Call and see the two most Important Copying
nstrumenta ever Invented. The Trypograph
akes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Bond and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM ~~BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
ARTIFICIALTEETH
rOMPLETESFT
MARSHALLBRO!
DENT ISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
TO THE TRAD
Now landing ex Late Arrivals.
~ HALF-TESTER NICKEL BEDSTEADS.
HALF-TESTER BRASS BEDSTEADS.
HALF-TESTER IRON BEDSTEADS.
STUMP BEDSTEADS.
FRENCH BEDSTEADS.
BLACK and GOLD BEDSTEADS.
BLACK and BRASS BEDSTEADS.
50 Cases Of No. 14 AUSTRIAN CHAIRS.
460 Cases of AMERICAN CHAIRS.
760 Bales of BEST JAVA KAPOK.
10 Bales of COTTON FLOCK.
20 Bales of CURLED HAIR.
10 Cases of TOILET GLASSES (Assorted).
SO Cases of ROWCLIPFB SPRING MATTRESSES
15 Bales Of BLACK CURLED FIBRE.
13 Bales of WHITE WOOL FLOCK,
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st., Sydney,
IMPORTER of FURNITURE, UPHOLSTERER.
60d REDOING MAN UFAOTDRAR,
B
AVARIAN
ITTERS.
HOP
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of the best Bavarian Hops. Superior to an
other.
They take the first place wherever tried, and ar
well authenticated by eminent medical men an
well-known analysts.
Read the reports and testimony which aoooni
pany each bottle, and do not forget to make a
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
P. KIRBY,
Prom the late Mr. Jaitls Curtis,
TTn.d.©xtstlcer,
■4 HUNTER Ml PHILLIP STREETS,
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby Was In the employ of the
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (18) yean:
Manager for over ten (10) years.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and founi
last with the Argosy Braces at Gowini fib
>5
GOWING BROS.
Have Just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces I
Argosy Braces, 2s. 6d., Ss., 3s. 6d.,R 4(. 6
GOWINGIBROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS. OUTFITTERS,*
fsa SRd 48S 6»oriMtndi
"Mr. William Ball.—Dear Sir,—Allow me to say
that I find your * Bloom of Peaches ’ superior to
anything of the kind that I ever used before.—
Fours truly, EMelib Melville.”
" Dear Sir,—l have never used anything equal to
your * Bloom of Peaches.’— Maggie Moor*.”
"Dear Sir,—l have the greatest pleasure In re-
commending Mr. Ball’s ‘Bloom of Peaches’
‘Fett-Puder’ as being invaluable.—Yours truly,
Alice Bees.”
To be nbtalnod of all chemists,
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
“ PETT-PUDEB,” a delicate and invisible
powder for the face. Beautifully perfumed.
White, Pink, or Cream, to suit all complexions.
Price, 1/6 per box.
WILLIAM BALL,
Tho “ Professional ” and Pharmaceutical Chemist,
61 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Agents for Sydney ;
Messrs. E. PROSSER <fc CO., Wholesale Chemists
G. F. PRIDDY & GO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.30 p.m.: Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
Manufactured only by
SYDNEY,
GTUDT ECONOMY
and
, HavcyourUmbrellaPramet
I re-covered, and your
Parasols re-llned and made
i equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
1 Parasols made to match ooa-
UMBREtLAS
RF£PVESE^.
sr- 'tumea. Repairs neatly ext-
ents*


BNITUBI SHOWROOMS
JJI ÜBNIIDB ■ B
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
Hall furniture, hatstands, and
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
BEADING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, In nXQUISITB
taste, the very latest fashion ; ■well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb. _____
OVELTIBS in BOUDOIR and BOW WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
171 IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITBS.-The
li Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tue back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 3 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 305.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 375. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s.;
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
«
OOK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oboO strong’, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Case. Free at rail or wharves foi cash only#
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb. _
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome FMblon-
able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADT/EY. NEWTON, and LAMB. ,
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Plush, &c.
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
O’Connell-street.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-street.
u
RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRB.-
J A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Ices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, 0 Connell-st«
TOILET PAIRS, namely,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, 0 Connell-street.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
IHT.F-AriJriaTTNft BAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
m-
Thls chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will oi
the occupant. It Is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of tho numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash— strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches m thickness
when tcided. trice 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
3s. 6d. extra.
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
S
B
AGATBLLB BOARDS, Portable. Various
j Sizes. BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB. _
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
FRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
BDBTBADB, nickel-plated and black and brass
i new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamp
BDDTNG.—AII descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and I
aell and Spring streets.
B
I. A MR, O’Con-
ABHSTANDB, with marble, from 2Ss. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
AWN and PARK SEATS 6 feet long. Rustic
■ s Cast-iron Standards, 15s. each. Bradley, New-
ton,
ENT WOOD FURNITURE.—A very BOinplsts
Assortment ; best m»k*. lowest pricer.
W
B
SOCIAL
The threatening clouds which hung around
all day on Friday, as if to tease those ladies who
had got in readiness a specially prepared toilette
for Sydney Derby day, made themtelves scarce in
the most agreeable manner by Saturday morning,
when the weather was all that the most fastidious
could desire. Bat, sooth to say. the lawn at Rand-
wick, on Saturday, seemed to lack something of
the gorgeousnesa of former days. It may be that
the utter absence of trained dresses had something
to do with this, as these extravagant and use.ess-
though perhaps graceful appendages, were con-
spicuous by their total absence. An uncommon
conception was a dress of white satin, with several
broad bands of pale-green broche r “ n ® lo *
the skirt; the bodice was also touched with the
broche, and the high-crowned white straw hat had
for its sole trimming a mass of lilies of the valley
bunched at the extreme peak of the crown. Mrs.
Gillies wore an exquisitely fitting dress of a dark
fawn serge, artistically blended with green velvet,
small straw bonnet with green trimming. A
soft-looking tambour muslin was delicately
trimmed with old gold satin, and looked extremely
well. A pleasing effect was given to a neat cos-
tume of ashes-of-roses colour by a crimson sun-
shade, which threw a charming glow over the
wearer’s complexion; Miss Grace Flatted wore a
“ fetching” costume of creme crepe trimmed with
figured lace, the draperies and fedora being com-
posed of a beautiful creme striped silk grenadine,
long tan gloves and small white velvet bonnet
bordered with white passementerie. A startling
costume was a salmon-coloured silk veiled with
white lace and a yellow straw hat of the crushed
beef-eater shape, trimmed with red .velvet and
bright yellow feathers; a novel and pleasing dress
was a dull gray cloth, with birds on the wing
worked in neutral tints on either side of the skirt.
Two sisters in pink Turkish cloth dresses and pmk
witch hats, looked deliciously cool and pretty.
Nice taste was shown in a brown satin bodice and
overskirt over a petticoat of amber satin. The
skirt was caught up very high on one side, dis-
playing the bright underskirt nearly to the hip.
Mrs. J. M. Curtis wore a rich lemon-coloured
Japanese surah silk, trimmed with cream lace, hat
to match; a lady from North Shore wore a
rich black satin, with a beaded apron, which
glistened gloriously as she trod the lawn;
an elderly lady of substantial proportions
looked self-satisfied in a bright yello v satin
skirt, over which hung, in ill-adjusted folds,
a mack satin dolman trimmed with yellow. This
lover of primary colours carried a red parachute,
and the effect was-well, peculiar, to say the least
of it. An exquisitely-flowered white delaine,
trimmed with silk and pretty bows of ribbon, was
much admired The Sydney ladies have evidently
been reading accounts of the fashionable out-
door theatricals at “ Coombe House ” which have
appeared in some of the home papers, and where it
says that instead of carrying a bouquet, most of
the audience appeared with an elegantly got-up
box of chocolates slung on their arms. Many of
the fair ones at Randwick on Saturday emulated
this example, and ever and anon their delicate
fingers would dive into one of these little port-
manteaux of sweetmeats and carry the brown
lumps of dellclousness to the ruby lips, in the
most fashionable style. Fry’s chocolate should
have a big run as long as the fashion lasts. One
doss not know just yet whether to admire this
little fad or not. The girl who abolished lilies for
•• lollies ” may yet appear on the lawn handling
roast beef instead of roses.
♦ * *
Ladles, especially married ones, have a
great objection to Masonic Lodges, blaming these
noble institutions for keeping their lawful con-
sorts away from their homes untli unseemly
hours; so, to conoll ate the uninitiated fair sex,
most lodges give a ball to which the brethren take
their wives and sisters, cousins and aunts. In pur-
suance of this laudable idea the Zetland Lodg«,
No. 655, E.C., gave their annual ball last Thursday
night in the vestibule of the Town Hall. The hall
was prettily decorated, and, as the dancers flitted
merrily around to De Groen’s tuneful and rythmic
music, the scence was very alluring. Mrs. Fresh-
man wore a very rechcrcM ioostume-the bodice
of black velvet and pale-blue satin, vest and
Skirt of black net embroidered with white flowers,
the contrasting embroidery being very unusual.
Another handsome dress was of cream satin, the
front of skirt being embroidered in gold and elec-
tric-blue shells a la Japanesque . A very petite
dancer looked graceful in pale pink veiling, and
a skilful waltzer wore pale blue of the same
material trimmed with cream lace, and carried a
circular fan of blue satin ornamented with forget-
me-nots. Mrs. Forster wore a majestic-looking
costume in Queen Anne style, the front of skirt
and bodice being of old gold satin, and the back
draperies and train of electric-blue velvet with
high collar. A very pretty dress was composed
of black and old gold satin with lace trimming and
loops of gold cord; and another tasteful costume
was of blue satin with cream lace flounces em-
broidered in Oriental patterns with pale-blue silk.
Miss Davis, of Ryde, was attired in pale-blue otto-
man cord, kilted to the waist; while another pale-
blue costume was covered with deep ficelle lace.
Mrs W T. Baker was richly garbed in cardinal
satin bodice and skirt of pink ottoman cord
trimmed with ruby chenille; and Mrs. de Groen
wore black brocaded velvet garnished with beaded
net and lace. The catering was in Compagnom s
usual superb style, and about 1 o’clock next day
B aw the last of the guests deporting.
* * *
Although Bouoicault is finishing his fourth
week at Sydney Royal, the circle is still filled with
trally-dressed ladles and claw-hammer coats. On
the first nightof “ Kerry ” and ” Arrah-ua- Pogue
the audience was distinctly fashionable, and a
well-known society belle wore a dress of exceed-
ing loveliness. The foundation was biscuit-
coloured satin, with vest and tunic of musk-green
velvet. Fine silk lace the colour of the satin gave
a charming softness to the costume. A white silk
striped grenadine, simply made with low-necked
bodice and plain skirt, was very suitable to the
youthful wearer, and the silver zone called atten-
tion to the sylph-like waist. Mrs Bouolcault, who
with a party of ladles occupied her box, wore
black satin and lace, with a magnificent cluster of
white fiowers on the left shoulder. A fair-haired
lady wore one of the new figured delaines, which
was both suitable and effective. The groundwork
was a pale cream over which was a pattern of tiny
pink flowers; the same colour was repeated in
waistband and numerous loops of ribbon on
shoulder and skirt. A gorgeous black satin had
a peculiar trimming of gold and black net-
work, which was, perhaps, just a little loud
for theatre wear, and another black satin was so
profusely trimmed with a kind of cut velvet, re-
velling In all the colours of the rainbow, that it
was a positive relief to turn from it and rest the
eye upon pretty little Miss Boucioault, in her plain
black silk gown. The young lady Is fast becoming
a favourite here, although it has been whispered
that the petting she received at Government
House, Melbourne, has made her rather scornful
of the Sydney adulation. But her gracious man-
ners certainly belle this assertion. There Is a new
departure in fans-the awkward, unwieldy, flag-
shaped article seeming determined to ingratiate
Itself into favour. An enormous crimson one was
used in the theatre the other night, and looked
extremely ungraceful. This could never be the
kind of fan which a French lady of fashion had in
her mind’s eye when she declared that In the hands
of a skilful woman the feminine weapon became a
means of fascination, of grace, of love-making, of
coquetry,and of a kind of silent talk on all subjects,
and that however agreeable, graceful, and ele-
gantly dressed a woman might be, she would be
ridiculous unless she knew how to handle a fan.
No end of meaning can be conveyed by the deli-
cate movement of a fan—ln its opening and closing,
its rising and falling, its sweeping and waving, its
pointing and beating—that Is in the circular, soft,
feather-tipped fan, but in the flag-shape—never.
* * *
The Parisian ladies’ idol, M. Worth, has
plunged hundreds of his lovely customers into
the direst grief, by compiling a black list, contain-
ing the names of women who have not paid for
their garments. It is divided Into three classes,
namely, those who are absolutely dishonest; those
who can, but will not pay until compelled by
[aw, and those who recklessly dress beyond their
Incomes. This terrible document, originally In-
tended for circulation amongst tradesmen only,
has fallen Into the hands of a reporter.
The Eastern Suburbs Amateur Athletic
Club hold their eighth sports* meeting at the
Association Cricket Ground on Saturday, the 26th.
The entries for the Ladies’ Bracelet are very
numerous, and altogether the meeting promises
to be very enjoyable.
* * •
A complimentary ball is to be tendered to
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Needs on Friday evening, 16th
October. The committee is thoroughly represen-
tative of old and familiar faces at Nithsdale, and
success is certain. Tickets may be obtained at
Olliffe’s Royal Hyde Park Hotel, or from any
member of the committee.
* * *
About 6000 people, men, woman, and chil-
dren, attended the annual picnic at Clontarf given
by the members of the Permanent Way Depart-
ment last Monday. It was a grand day for these
honest tollers, who, with their wives and families,
came from ail parts of the colony where the rail-
way extends, and 13 steamers were employed to
take them to the celebrated (very celebrated 1)
pleasure ground above-named. After spending a
pleasant day, the holiday-makers were landed In
Sydney in time to dress for the ball, which
was held in the evening at the Exhibition
Building. The dresses were both plain and
fancy, and some of them remarkably pretty. One
of the best dressed characters was Romp, as-
sumed by Miss Switzer. Miss Patterson, as a
Wailing Maid, in black dress and white apron,
looked very neat and demure. There was also a
pretty Peasant Girl, a Red Riding Hood, a charm-
ing Shepherdess, two Pollys, an America; and
Miss White, as a Fortune-Teller, dressed the
character extremely well; Miss Kate Fay was a
bonnie Scotch Lassie; and Miss Beauland,
a Jockey; little Miss Lament was a sweet
lolanthe ; and the handsomest lady in the
room, Mrs Court, wore the dress of a French
Huntress. An indescribably beautiful evening
dress of cardinal and cream satin was worn by
Mrs. E. Storm. There were also numerous
Cricketers, Jack Tars, Firemen, and the like un-
common characters, and a white satin Court dress
was iiuite too gorgeous to talk about. A preposes-
sing young lady wore white satin with white lace
and heliotrope velvet trimming and flowers of
snowdrops. Callaghan catered for the 400 cou-
ples in the most satisfactory style, whilst
Messrs. A. G. Neate (secretary) and H. C. Hoyle
(treasurer) performed their onerous duties capi-
tally.
• ♦ *
The fancy dress ball, lately given in aid of
the Glen Innes (N.8.W.) Hospital, was a decided
success, about 200 people being present. The
following were some of the best dresses worn: —
Mrs. Simmonds, Daughter of the Regiment; Miss
Martin, Coming through the Rye; Miss Hodgkin,
Zingara; Mrs. Holmes, Swiss Peasant; Miss Car-
penter, Highland Lassie; Miss Green, a pretty
Contatia; Miss Wyatt,.Glee Maiden;,Miss M’Kengit,
Night; Mrs. Hogg, Italian Gipsy; Miss Dixon,
Forget-Me-Not; Mr. Cecil Bloxsome, Charles Sur-
face: Mr. H. Vincent, Captain Bsdale; Mr. M’Gre-
gor, Barooo Stockman ; Mr. Blythe, Sergeant
Ballintyne; Mr. Tattersall, English Cricketer; and
Mr. Andrews, Huntsman.
« • *
Last month a fashionable Maori wedding
took place at Kalapoi Pah between Miss Reuben, a
Maori lady from the West Coast, and a Kalapoi
native, known as Captain Cook. The bride, ac-
companied by four bridesmaids, who carried her
train, led the procession from her residence to the
church, where, owing to the dense crowd collected
to witness the ceremony, they found some diffi-
culty in gaining admission. The bride, who is a
handsome little lady, was clothed in a cream satin
robe, with a long train, lace veil, and orange blos-
soms, and the bridesmaids wore white muslin and
Watteau hats. The bridegroom wore a European
costume, and after the ceremony the interesting
group was photographed.
** * *
Mr. and Mrs. Buchanan, of Yarildun,
Snail’s Bay, gave a pleasant dance on Wednesday,
the 16th Inst. The pretty programmes showed a
list of 16 dances. ..Miss Louise Dearborn, daughter
of Captain Dearborn, was married at the Palace
Hotel, San Francisco, last July, to Mr. M. C.
Nickels, a prominent Chinese merchant.... The
last of the Woollahra private assemblies was held
atNithsdale last Friday night; about 100 present,
and everything was very enjoyable.... Miss Ida
Maud, elder daughter of Mr. H, Imrle, of the
Audit Office, Brisbane, andfgrand daughter of the
iate Colonel Wettenhall, is to be married this week
to Mr. Ellis, of the J. 8. Bank, Dalby, Queensland,
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Buffalo Ball, Town Hall, Thursday... September 24.
Mrs. de Groen’s Evening Party, Leigh
House September 24.
Mayor of Petersham’s Ball, Peter-
sham Town Hall September 24.
Eastern Suburbs Amateur Athletic
Club Sports Meeting, Association
Ground, Saturday September 26.
Eureka Annual Ball, Professor West’s
Academy September 29.
Railway Officers’ Picnic, Botany September 30.
Plain and Fancy Dress Ball tendered
to Mrs. Martin by her pupils and
friends at the Dancing Academy.,Beptember 30.
The Mayor of Sydney’s Ball, Sydney
Town Hall September 30.
Petersham Social (last of the season)
local Town Hall October 2
Victoria House Cricket Club’s An-
Picnic at Tennyson October 3.
Complimentary Ball tendered to Mr.
and Mrs. Ernest Needs, Friday
evening, Nithsdale October 16.
Wednesday, September 33.
Dear Peg,— l promised to tell you of the wed-
ding at St. John’s last Monday week (the 14th). It
seems rather a long time to “try back” to, espe-
cially as the Australian Club Ball has come be-
tween; but a promise is a promise, so you must
have It, even if it goes rather lamely I Report said
It was to be very large and very gay; so we were
not surprised to find gloomy St. John’s nearly
crowded out with guests and onlookers. The con-
tracting parties were Mr. James R. Scroggie, eldest
son of Mr. James Scroggie, of Lankelly Terrace,
Macleay-street, Potts’ Point, and Miss Isabella
Walker, eldest daughter of Mr. P. B. Walker, of
BUerslie, Darlinghurst, and the knot was tied by
the Rev. Dr. Woolls, assisted by the Rev. A. W.
Pain, incumbent of St. John’s. I never witnessed
so short a marriage-service before. The bride
arrived punctually at 3.30, and the final benedlo
tion was given before 3. One cause of these sum-
mary proceedings was that the church is in the
hands of masons and carpenters, and has no vestry
for the time being; so all that festive business was
done beforehand. Another happy release was the
absence of the homily delivered to all those
married or about to be married. This Calvinistlc
custom has been revived lately by the Bishop and
one or two fresh clerical arrivals from home, but
it is too trying an innovation to the principal
characters to be long-lived. Of course, it is all
very right and proper, but Imagine the feelings
of a shy, sensitive bride standing motionless for
tan minutes, when she knows every eye is fixed
upon her—more especially if she fancies there
is a wrinkle in the fit of her bodice I
As I observed before, St. John’s is not the
most cheerful place for a wedding. The chan-
cel is only a temporary wooden one, but an abun-
dance of flowers and ferns, woven into graceful
arches by the deft fingers of Miss Walker’s girl
friends, Prince of Wales’ plumes finished off with
pure white posies, enlivening the ” bare-board ”
expression of the chancel, and wreaths round pul-
pit and lectern, gave a light effect to the dismal in-
terior-that is to say, if one could only have seen
it; but the unfortunate part of it was that dark
St. John’s was made doubly dark by the gloomy,
threatening day, so that, as one entered from the
outer world, one faced a grey, tomblike darkness.
Had they only thought of lighting the gas, the re-
sult would have been both striking and novel.
The four bridesmaids-three of whom are sisters,
and the fourth Miss Ebsworth, cousin of the bride
—waited for her, like vestal virgins, in the porch,
with lamps ready trimmed and burning, long
enough for us to admire most thoroughly their
pretty dresses.* They wore white cashmere and
rich red plush, with soft white lace on the full-
(Contiauod on next page.)


Department of Public Work*.
Sydney, :’3nd September, 18S5.
WENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
JL PLIES.—TENDERS are Invited for the fol-
lowing: Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office In the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced. If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
THE
CITY AND COUNTY
INVESTMENT, LAND, AND BUILDING COM-
PANY (LIMITED),
3*7 PITT-STIIEET.
Capital : £lOO,OOO in 100,000 shares of £1 each.
REGISTERED UNDER T3E COMPANIES’ ACT.
If
"V
m
ITAKF. BUT 1 SURRENDER
Si
DEPOSITS received to any amount and for any
term.
Interest allowed as under:—
For 13 months 7 per cent, per annum,
.. 6 „ 6 „
n 3 ~ 5,, „ „ ~
Special attention devoted to the Investment of
trust funds.
F. W. MIDDLETON,
Managing Director.
5-ACRE MODEL FARMS
FOR
40s. per Month,
Auction Sale at the Eooms, NEXT SATURDAY, 26th Instant, at 2 p.m.
BOTS
96 Pitt Street, Sydney.
RETAINED AND
DIGESTED WHEN ALL
OTHER KINDS OF FOOD ARE
REJECTED.ATALLCHEMISTS IN
23 10 fee 2 0 oz BOTTLES
C ARNOLD ©BRIDGE S t
TJOBBRT BUTCHER * 00
■“ (Late William Long),
wr WINE AND SPIRIT MRRCH '.NT,
534 GEORGE STREET.
OPFOBIip THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY*
Country Orders receive prompt attei- ion.
S
T| R * THOM.
may be consulted on
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affections.
Medical Establishment, 203, Elizabeth street,
near Bathurst-sfreet.
Hours: 9 till 10 daily.
Dr. Thomas Is the only medical man advertising
in Australia who has passed the degrees of an Eng.
Ugh Physician and Surgeon. Examinations passed
—Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians,
London, 18B4; Member of the Royal College of
Surgeons, London, 1E59.
n
■ :
m.
o
Jfltv
87 To
v
B
C»
Q
T
ot
Of
Q
*n
m
*
>x
*9
Sydney* Royal Arcades
©
V
Infants and Children
i "What gives our Children rosy cheeks,
■What cures their fevers, makes them sleep;
ft Castorla.
When Babies fret, and cry by turns,
What cures their colic, kills their worms.
* Castorla. ~1
What quickly cures Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Colds, Indigestion ;
Castorla.
Farewell then to Morphine Syrups,
Castor Oil and Paregoric, and '
Hail Castor la.
“Castoria is so well adapted to Children
that I recommend it as superior to any medi-
cine known to me.”— H. A. Archer, M. D.,
111 Oxford St., Now York.
Elliott Bros., Sidney, Agents.
(Continued from page 16.)
plaited over drapery. The plush was used in
broad, telling dashes of colour. Thoy each wore
large, high hats lined with plush, and covered
with cream ostrich feathers and aigrette. Each
carried a lovely basket of flowers tied with red
and white ribbons. The bride—who is tall, with a
good figure, but is not very pretty—wore a beau-
tiful dress of white gros-grain, ending in an un-
usually long train. The front of the dress was
entirely covered with ivory lace, which did
not quite harmonize with the dead white of
the silk. Her veil was artistically arranged
over the conventional wreath, and fell round
her In soft misty folds. It had a dellaateborder of
floss-silk embroidery that Just gave it the weight
a tulle veil often looks as If it wanted. The bride-
groom, who was supported by his brother as best
man, looked rather white, which is not to be won-
dered at, considering his responsibilities. After
the ceremony, Mr. and Mrs. Walker entertained
their guests right royally at breakfast at Kllerslie,
As the house was not equal to the strain of pack-
ing 300'guests, a large marquee was put up on the
lawn, where was spread a most recherchi repast.
The presents were lovely, costly, and numerous-
three important adjectives In the list of a bride’s
trousseau now-a-days. Very little jewellery was
given, but there were plate and kniek-knacka
galore. About 5 o’clock the happy pair amidst a
heavy shower of rice departed for the Hallway
Station, en route for Moss Vale, Mrs. Scroggie wear-
ing a most becoming costume of brown.
The afternoon revels were consummated in the
evening by a delightful dance, to which wedding
guests and many besides were bidden. Among
them were Mr. and Mrs. James Scroggie, sen., Miss
Scroggie, Mr. Scroggie, Mr. and Mrs. Mason, Mr.
and Mrs. Kbsworth (uncle and aunt of the bride)
the Misses Ebsworth, Mr. E. Ebsworth, Major and
Mrs. Mackenzie, Captain and Mrs. Penrose, Mrs.
Lord, Mr. and Mrs. H. B. Lord, Mr. and Mrs.
Docker, Mr. and Mrs. Squier, Mr. and Mrs. Ranken,
Mr. and Mrs. Windeyer, the Rev. A. W. Pain, Mrs.
Pain, Mrs. and Miss Windeyer, Miss Metcalfe, Mr.
Metcalfe, &o. Apropos of names, people have not
yet found any felicitous way of getting rid of
ugly surnames, except by the holy state of matri-
mony, which, at best, is only a one-sided bargain,
and not always that; for Instance, “Scroggie” Is
hardly euphonious, even to a lover’s ear; but it
does not sound more aristocratic when you are
told the family prefer a long accent over the “ o,”
as it were, " Sorogie”—besides, it’s Irritating to
have to unlearn the familiar pronunciation.
However, such is of the head of the bouse.
The Australian Club Ball, of September 18,1885 f
Is over. Alas! it was very “swagger.” How and
where shall I begin my Impressions ? By entering,
I suppose. This is rather a formidable under-
taking at a club ball, for one has to run the
gauntlet of so many eyes. There, on each side,
are drawn up the stewards, headed by their presi-
dent Mr. Christopher Rolleston; behind him Sir
John Hay, Dr. Cox, Sir Edward Strickland, Mr.
Lildley Mort, Mr. F. Suttor, Mr.]F. Moore, &0., &o.
We all bow, we all shake hands, and breathe more
freely when the last comes, and we pass on.
People are frightfully punctual, and the room is
quite crowded by 9 o’clock. Presently, a f w bars
of the National Anthem announce the arrival of
Lord and Lady Augustus Loftus and suite, i.e.,
Captain Loftus, A.D.C, and Mr. Unwin, private
secretary—and the ball is opened by Lady Augus-
tus and the president in a set of lancers.
One has time to recognise a goodly gathering
of faces, though many familiar ones are absent,
in consequence of the mourning that has closed
a number of houses this season. There are Sir
James Martin, the Misses Martin, Sir John Hay,
Lady Hay, Miss Hay, Miss Brennan, Lady
Manning, the Misses Manning, Major-General
Richardson, Mrs. and Mias Richardson, Count de
Cheron, Mr. Dion Bouoioault, jun., Miss Boucicault,
Colonel Bingham, Msjor and Mrs. Mackenzie,
Major and Mrs. Airey, Captain Airey, Captain and
Mrs. Bimbury, Captain Mllward, Mrs. F. B. Suttor,
Mrs. Suttor, Mr. and Mrs. ;W. H. Suttor, Mr. and
Mrs. George Jenkins, Mr. and Mrs. Ralph,
Mr. D. and Mias Jenkins, the Misses Joseph-
son, Hon. J. B. Watt, the Misses’ Watt, Hon.
E. Knox, Mrs. Knox, the Misses Knox, Hon. Alex.
Campbell, Mrs. and Miss Campbell, Horn W. Busby,
Mrs. ?Busby, the Misses Busby, Mrs. Darley, the
Misses Darley, Mr. and Mra. Cecil Darley, Mr. and
Mrs. Henry Austin, Miss Austin, Mr. and Mrs.
Cecil Griffiths, Mr. and Mrs. Fred Griffiths, Mr. and
Mrs. Lingen, Hon. S. W. Gray, Mrs. Gray, the
Misses Gray,; Mr. and Mrs. Salomons, Miss Salo-
mons, Mr. and Mrs. Gilles, Mr. and Mrs. G. B,
Simpson, Mrs. M Farland, Miss M’Farland, Mr. and
Mrs. B. R. Wise, Mr. and Mrs. James Fairfax, Miss
Fairfax, Dr. and the Misses Bowker, Mr. and Mrs.
Gilles, Mrs. M’Cabe, the Misses M’Cabe, Mr. and
Mrs. Thomas, Mrs. Macarthur, Miss Maoarthur,
Mr. and Mrs. F. Moore, Mr. and Mrs. F. Orr, Miss
Beatrice Stephen, Hon. James White, Mrs. White,
Mrs. and Mrs. Donkin, Mr. and Mrs. Deffel, Mr. and
Mrs. A. C. Garrick, Mr. and Mrs. H. Kater, Mr. and
Mrs. H. E. Lord, Mr. and Miss Bloxsome, Mr. and
Mrs. Roach, the Misses Gore, Dr. Anderson Stuart,
Dr. Wilkinson, Dr. Brinton, Mr. do Burg, Mr.
James Alison, Mr, W. Alison, Mr. Cockshott, Mr.
Massie, Mr. Knox, Mr. M Intyre, Mr. Bird, Mr.
Rothe, Mr. Butterworth, Mr. R. Bright, Mr. C.
Bloxsome, Mr. W. Watt, Mr. A. Mort, Mr. Mere-
wether, Mr. B. Macarthur, Mr. A. Cox, Mr. B. Cox,
Mr. C. Fairfax, Mr. G. Campbell, Mr. M. Campbell,
Mr. G. Simpson, Mr. Browning, Mr. Dlgby Smith.
Now for the dresses. On the whole there was
a good show of colour, yellows, pinks, or greys,
with browns and red occasionally. All the officers
were in full militaryuniform. Naval men there were
none, in spite of the delusive hopes the Admiral
set afloat when the Nelson went out Even the
Opal and Diamond had departed a few days be-
fore. This absence of a marine element was partly
filled up by an influx of youthful manhood that
was exuberant and interesting—as a psychological
study 1
Lady Augustus Loftus wore dark-blue satin and
diamond ornaments. Mrs. Knox blue satin, and
beautiful diamonds; Mr. Jenkins a perfect dress
of white satin with diamond ornaments. 1 don’t
exactly know where the ohftrm of the drew toy,
except, perhaps, in the wearer. Lady Manning in
old gold brocade with panels of pale pink covered
with gold lace. Mrs. F. Moore, her beautiful
bridal-gown covered with exquisite lace. Mrs.
Austin wore a handsome dress of black and gold;
Miss Austin pale yellow satin and lace; Mrs. Cecl*
Griffiths, a striking dress of pale pink brocaded
satin; Mrs. James White, a superb trained dress
of white and silver embossed velvet, with
front of pearl embroidery, ornaments dia-
monds and rubies. Little Miss Boucioault looked
perfectly charming In pale pink satin made d la
Prlnoesse, with cream lace front drapery, the train
lying richly in Its own plain folds. Mrs. Darley,
black tulle, with black satin bodice. Miss Corrie
Darley, corrallne pink over ficelle lace skirt; the
Misses Olive and Tilly Darley, pale blue with ficelle
lace skirts high to the neck and puffy sleeves.
Miss Campbell looked exceedingly nice in deep
yellow. Miss Watt wore, as usual, a lovely dress,
this time of pale apricot-coloured tulle. Miss F.
Watt white tulle, with narrow white satin ribbons*
Miss Manning, brown tulle, with soft brown
leaves; Miss Clara Manning, grey tulle with
satin bodice of the same colour; Miss Knox brown
tulle; Miss Katie Knox, a delicate primrose tulle,
with satin rosettes; Miss Richardson, in palest
pink, with narrow beet-root ribbons; Mlsi Mac-
Cabe, a white dress, flounced to the waist, with
long orange ribbons; Miss Salomons, terra-cotta
red satin and tulle; Miss Farquhar looked pretty
In a simple all-round white net frock; Miss Knid
M*Arthur, white net; Miss Hogg, white tulle;
Miss M‘Farland wore an exceedingly becoming
dress of pink chenille, tufted tulle, with pink
satin bodice; Mrs. Sydney Want, cream tulle,
tufted with cardinal chenille. You must be fairly
well au courant with the dramatis personas, so to
speak;; it is quite time to fill in with the attributes
of the gay scene. First, you must remember the
ball was held in the Exhibition Building, as being
the only place large enough to contain the 700
invited guests-most of whom, it is needless to
say, accepted. This is, once a year, rescued from
Its ordinary plebeian uses, and made beautiful for
the Union Club Ball. However, this year the
Australian Club has taken the wind out of the
other’s sails by coming first, whereby the floor will
doubtless profit for the second. It is not a perfect
floor at any time, au contraire, It is quite heavy,
nevertheless, this defect is of small moment at the
time—the other arrangements are all so charming.
Next day, one may feel that one’s feet are burden-
some. Ruston’s band performed in its best style.
The supper was done by Baumann, and he excelled
In his viands, but the Jellies and sweets were too
languid and limp to be either “ things of beauty
or joys for ever; ” however, the champagne
was good enough to stand on its own merits
and cover a multitude of sticky sins besides I At
least, so a bon-vivant confided to me. The decora-
tions were flags and greenery. There must have
been miles of garlands, which climbed the pillows,
clung to the walls, and hung in festoons from the
gallery, or disposed of themselves generously
wherever there was an inch of available space-
Bunting of all nations was draped in brilliant
patches of colour, while blue and white pennants
drooped everywhere, in compliment, I suppose, to
the blue shades that were so much used over the
gas-jets. Red ones seemed in a minority, which
pleased neither me nor my complexion. A red
glow may be growing commonplace, but it is de-
cidedly becoming. Perhaps that was the reason
of the generally quiet effect. Some one suggested
too many gum leaves. Certainly, it rather looked
as if the committee were staunch supporters
of the Health Bill, or else expected a
spread of malarial fever, and took this innocent
means of inoculating everyone 1 As to the rest,
things were much as usual; under the galleries
the space was carpeted and got up in drawing-
room fashion, with flowers, mirrors, lounges, and
tables, where non-dancers might sit and discuss
public or domestic politics. Even the unique
pleasaunce opening out of the ballroom, with its
groves of gum trees, its groups of chairs, and the
dim light from above, was the same. Only that
the seats were in orthodox rows—not broken
up into suggestives couples with the intervening
eucalyptus.
Two engagements are announced—Mr. E, A.
Merewether, son of the Hon. Edward Merewether,
of Oastlefleld, Bondi, to Miss Dorothea Pell,
youngest daughter of the late Professor Peli, of
the Sydney University; and her sister, Miss Maud
Pell, to Mr. Jacob, of Sydney. Two others are
rumoured as certainties, but engagements are so
often moulded into solid facts without the know-
ledge of the chief parties, that I am very chary of
ventilating such knowledge, except on the best
authority.
CORRA LYNN.


“ Honesty is the best policy.” If every-
body thought so Wolfe’s Schnapps would not bo
imitated as it is.
The exceptional Increase in the sale of Wolfe’S
Schnapps may be attributed to its marked superi-
ority over other Spirits.
Invigorate the system with Wolfe’S
1 Schnapps if you would avoid bilious attacks,
Woman Items.
From an Adelaide paper “ In memory
of my first husband, John Bailey, who died, &o.”
Wo suppose this tender announcement was paid
for with the money of her second husband. Lovely
woman I
The Australasian says“ Rev. Dr. Jef-
feris, of Sydney, should read Darwin’s * Descent
of Man I ’ Among the Hottentots and other South
African tribes, the (dress-improver) exaggeration
at which he now so solemnly uplifts his hand
passes, in its natural form, for the highest stylo of
beauty.”
At a crowded meeting of women at East-
bourne, England, at which a Miss Hopkins pre-
sided, a resolution was passed that the age up to
which the virtue of woman should be legally pro-
tected, should be raised to 31. Some women we
have read of would require protecting up to 85,
We wonder what are the views of that crowded
meeting of women ” about protecting men ?
“ Do I love George,” mused Clara, softly,
“ or is it simply a sister’s affection that I feel for
.” Just then Bobby burst noisily into the
room and interrupted her sweet meditation. G et
out of here, you little brat!” she shouted, and
seizing him by the arm she shot him through the
door. "Ah, no,” she assumed her interrupted
train of thought, "my love for George is not a
sister’s love. It is something sweeter, higher, and
holler.”
Girls to whom Nature has denied the
witching dimple, may comfort themselves that
these may now be made whenever and wherever
desired. The spot is simply smeared with colour-
less glue and the flesh pressed in with the point of
a pencil. The stiffened indentation will retain it*
shape until fractured by too sudden a smile, or
until the face is washed. Think of the Joy a
young man would have In kissing glue 1 The Rev.
Jefferis Is respectfully requested to bring the idea
under the notice of the guileless spinsters of his
congregation.
Mamma was upstairs readying-up a speech
for the next Social Purity meeting; Pa was down
In the wash-house putting shine on the family
boots: and Angelina Maud's fair head was pillowed
on Percy Reginald’s manly breast as she softly
sighed, "Do you know, deah Charles —. You
mean dear Percy, I think,” he Interrupted,
smiling fondly at her little mistake. To which the
oorreoted entranoer replied, " Ob, yes, to be sure.
How stupid lam! I was thinking this was Tues-
day evening*” Ha declared be was never tateen
BO ill at short notice in all his life before.
MASHED.
He tinkled on his little lute outside the garden gate.
And queried of th® maid If till the clouds rolled
by she’d wait— . „ . .
If* in the years to come, she’d kindly trust him
with her fate ?
He pitched it in the key of G, and went on with
The offi 8 man came—the key "G.O.” would rather
better suit— . . . . . . .
The masher sought the daughter 8 hand but got
the father's boot.
This is valuable-as from an Australian
lady’s letter. She is explaining why her brother
remained a bachelor. “He was engaged some
years back, and we thought It settled, but a par-
son appeared upon the scene. The twenty-woman
power of ‘ coming round a man,’ possessed by a
widow Is reproduced In a parson’s power as a rival
In matrimonial matters. A splnpter always with
draws from rivalry with a widow, but Tom had
not the like feminine Instinct to know of his pro-
bable defeat. He fought on to the end—which
was a bitter end for him. He has since sworn off
all further matrimonial Intentions, and swears
especially at parsons.”
An inventive genius in England has
evolved a patent pocket for ladies, which is
claimed to be pickpocket-proof. This suggests to
us what a poor pickpocket the average husband
would make. Those who have crawled out of bed
in the morning With their tongues glued to the
roof of their mouth and clandestinely endea-
voured to fish the price of “it” out of the missus’s
pocket, will understand us. We ask any of these
can they say on their word of honour that they
have found the pocket before she awoke. We
would not believe them If they swore it. We have,
been there—long ago, when we were a good deal
thore married than we are now.
Since Dunn, the Irish barrister, pestered
Miss Burdett>Coutts into prosecuting him as a
nuisance, there has been no repetition of like
K. A successor has now appeared In one
d Kowdon, an Oxfordshire J.P. with a
London address in Jermyn-street and an estate in
the Insolvent Court. For two years past this
middle-aged Justice Shallow has been annoying
Lady Conyers and her adult daughter—Miss Lane
Fox. Rowdon followed them for two seasons all
over the Continent—living at the hotels the ladles
stayed at, travelling by same train, and occasion-
ally. when possible, in same carriage. His letters,
read in Court when the magistrate heard the case,
were those of a demented man—absurd as they
were impertinent. He is now detained until he
tinds sufficient sureties against a repetition of his
behaviour, and will likely be detained some long
time.
"It is a thousand pities,” says an irrev-
erent English paper, “ that [poor Brown was not
burled in the grounds of Buckingham Palace.
His sepulture in our midst would have secured
Her Majesty's permanent residence in London as
surely as buttering a cat’s paws is said to prevent
it from straying.” And then the horrid man pro-
ceeds:—" Of Her Majesty’s visit to the Princess
Beatrice and her husband at Quarr Abbey, after
their abbreviated honeymoon, nothing has been
allowed to leak out. It was, we may be sure, of a
distinctly domestic character, and probably was
precisely similar to the call that every anxious
mother hastens to make upon her newly-married
daughter, consisting of a close and eager scrutiny
of the bride’s face, minute inquiries as to her
health, and an exhaustive catechism upon the
behaviour of the husband—this last conducted in
the privacy of the upper apartments away from
the eye and ear of the man Implicated. Provide
our Sovereign with a wedding, a funeral, or an
accouchment to superintend, and she is as happy
as a monthly nurse over a glass of gin and a dish
of scandal.”
M. Chevreul, the chemist of the French
Aeademy of Sciences, although now past his 100th
year, is not too old to discuss the interesting ques-
tion of bonnets and millinery. A black bonnet,
he says, with white, pink, or red leathers or
flowers suits a fair complexion. A dead white hat
is only suitable for florid complexions, whether
blondes or brunettes. Gauze crape or tulle bon-
nets suit all complexions. A white bonnet for a
blonde should have white or pink flowers—blue is
still better. Brunettes should avoid blue and
rather choose red, pink, or orange. Light
bld'fe bonnets are especially suitable for fair
persons. They may ba trimmed with white
flowers, or even yellow or orange, but not
pink or violet. For dark persons who venture
to wear a blue bonnet, yellow or orange is indis-
pensable. A green bonnet sets off a pale or slightly
coloured complexion. A pink bonnet should not
be too near the face, but should be separated by
the hair or bf a white or green inside trimming,
the latter colour especially. White flowers, with
an abundance of leaves, produce a good effect on
pink. A dark red bonnet is only suitable for per-
sons with a highly-coloured complexion. Avoid
yellow or orange bonnets. Violet is not to be re-
commended unless separated from the face, not
only by the hair, but by yellow accessories also.
Be it known, that this gallant chemist has made
the harmony of colours one of bis special studies,
and applied bis theories to millinery.
At last we find a humorist writing to a
Sydney dally. “ T.” thus addresses the D.T. in re
the Kev. Jefferls’ recent jeremiad on feminine
dress:—“ Sir,—ln the Sandwich Islands, it is said,
the people wear a pair of spectacles and a smile.
And in a delicious little account of the aborigines
of Australia we are informed by Mr. John F.
Manns that ‘ they (the natives) readily accept any
old clothing, any single article of which they con-
sider as full dress- The first time 1 saw Queen
Gooseberry, the widow of King Bungaree, she bad
little on beyond a straw bonnet. Three men, who
bad been engaged on a farm, arrived to fulfil their
contract, having one boot, an old cravat, and a
waistcoat between them.’ One can imagine how
completely after Dr. Jefforls’s own heart would
be the attire of Bungaree’s fair relict, and with
what respectful admiration the rev. gentleman
would gaze upon her and exclaim. Ah I your
majesty has got it on.’ ” “ T.” goes on to say that
the reverend one does not denounee but rather
advocates tasteful apparel, and would be as easily
floored by a “ duck of a bonnet” as the editor.
“ What he inveighed against was the distortion of
the human form divine—ln fact, I think beseemed
rather to get into a passion over small matters,
such as the displacement of a ribbon or the height
of a lady’s heels. And who has not been appalled,
let me ask, at the latest fashion, yclept ‘ im-
provers,’ which have been well described as re-
sembling a ‘romance of war,’ i.e., a pleasing (?)
fiction of a stern reality ? Better far the native
simplicity of Queen Gooseberry, I say.”
In the suit for divorce brought against
Sullivan, champion pugilist, by his wife, the judge
has decided for defendant on the ground that the
lady knew before she married him that Sullivan
was not an angel, and that her somewhat extended
experience of this fact does not give her a right to
apply to the Courts for relief. If one takes a
counterfeit shilling, thinking it genuine, he can
obtain redress, but if, with a full knowledge of its
counterfeit character, be accepts it. he must take
the consequences. It was shown during the trial
that Sullivan has found pummelling lucrative.
£2O 000 as the result of a sparring tour is
no mean sum. That flat has been worth a fortune
to its possessor. A great many of his opponents
are ready to testify that the pugilist is a man who
always leaves his mark. Byes which were comely
to look upon, noses which Nature constructed
with great care, and teeth which were both useful
and ornamental, have suffered change, and in
many oases removal. Dislocation, breakage, and
discoloration are the peculiarities of his journeys,
aod to behold him when producing these disasters,
the people have willingly and freely spent their
money. He laughed at all this when on the wit-
ness-stand, but as he spoke of his wife’s relations
John Sullivan grew pathetic, and even sad. He
breathed a sigh when he pleaded with the Court
in behalf of a husband’s rights, and he touched a
sympathetic chord in many a man’s heart when
he said, “I had no objection to supporting two or
three of her relatives, but I didn’t care about sup-
porting the whole of Khode Island.” Such elo-
quence was irresistible.
A San Francisco Chronicle reporter was
recently engaged in conversation with the pro-
prietor ef a Market-street corset-factory a few
days ago, when a dapper-looking and stylishly-
dressed young man, well-known in society, en-
tered, and, addressing the proprietor, wanted to
know if ‘’those things” he had ordered were
done.” “ You mean the corset and pads?” asked
the proprietor. “ Yes,” timidly replied the dandy,
looking suspiciously at the reporter. A clerk was
called and took charge of the young man, who
secured the things and departed. “Yes, that
young man and many others of his class wear cor-
sets and pads,” said the proprietor, in answer to
interrogatories. “You must think that artificial
make-ups are confined alone to women,” be said.
“ You may not believe it, but I can name upward
of a hundred society men in this city who wear
corsets, and even a greater number than that
who pad their legs. The latter custom hss
only been in vogue since the tight-fitting panta-
loons came into style. No; the custom is not
original. It comes from abroad, where roues,
dandies, and court followers who are getting old
make up to a greater extent than the most slender
and homely ballet-dancer in the country. After a
man gets to bo between 45 and 50 years of age his
abdominal region expands and he becomes corpu-
lent. To avoid this he orders an appliance, which,
although it differs somewhat from the female cor-
set, is virtually a corset, and clinches the wearer’s
adipose tissue up so as to make his form almost as
perfect as an Apollo. Then by the Judicious use
of a few pads and some paint and powder, aided
by false teeth and hair-dye, the aged beau looks
many years younger, and frisks about a ballroom
with a step as light as a youth of twenty. Army
officers, as a general thing, are very proud of their
shape, and if nature has been unkind to them they
wear corsets and pad, There are a dozen or
more of Uncle Sam’s brass-mounted dandles
who deal with me. Actors, too, are good cus-
tomers. Of course many of them only wear these
appliances on the stage to carry out their idea of a
character, but I could name several who wear
them both on and off the stage. There is one in
particular, a member of an Eastern combination,
who thinks he is just too sweet for anything. Lots
of the girls thinks so too. Be travels principally
on his shape, but if the girls could but know how
he is made up they would be astonished and dis-
gusted. Of course there is a prejudice against
men wearing corsets,” continued the maker, “ but
in some oases it is a silly one. Now, take it in the
case of large, heavy men; there it is an absolute
necessity. They become so fat that unless they
wear something to brace their bodies they would
grow entirely out of proportion.” A corpulent
gentleman who wanted to have a brace made in-
terrupted the conversation, and the reporter took
his departure, pondering over his discovery that
men wore oorsets. There no w I
Corsets or no corsets ? that is the question
taking ;up a column a day in the Melbourne
Herald. For the anxious male who has just
plighted his youthful troth to a maiden with a
seventeen-inch waist the question possesses a dan-
gerous fascination. He has been taught to believe
that her waist is “ naturally small,” and that if she
does (with a blush) wear oorsets “ it’s only for a
support.” But now a Miss Niven has rushed into
print with the statement that 341 n. is the naturally
small waist, and |l7in. is a natural deformity. Pos-
sibly. Still, the ardent lover might look at his
seventeen-inch sylph and enjoy the prospect of
supporting her under her severe affliction, and
come to the conclusion that he liked ’em best de-
formed. Now, however, a Mrs. Professor Fraser
has gone “ one higher ” than Miss Niven, and made
disclosures about corsets which may well sickly
o’er the cheek of any bridegroom-elect with the
pale oast of thought. Let us quote one or two
Sassages of Mrs. Fraser’s letter:—” When the body
i encased in one of these instruments, the
peristaltic action of the stomach is hindered,
the diaphragm cannot move freely, the liver
is squeezed so that the hepatic artery and
portal vein are obstructed in their wotk ....
and other important organs are forced out of their
normal positions." This sounds pretty dreadful,
but there’s worse than that. It appears that a
“ mechanical action” goes on in the interior of
even the nicest girl, which assists in dissolving the
food before it is prepared to pass through the
pyloric oriioe into the duodenum. But if the
stomach is held down by one of these steel boxes
(rough on oorsets, that) the result is indigestion.
Mrs. Fraser’s letter has fallen like a bombshell in
matrimonial circles. Fellows who were all aflame
a week or two back have been transformed into
cool, calculating admirers of the sex. Only yes-
terday we introduced a one-time hot-headed
youth to a miracle of feminine beauty—a fairy, a
goddess, a veritable daisy. He wasn’t overcome—
not a bit—but took the first opportunity of whis-
pering to us that she looked ” like the sort of girl
whose diaphragm didn’t move freely.” There’s
only one course open to Melbourne maidens if
they wish to re-assume their away over the sterner
eex. They must leave ’em off.—
Cora Pearl, the notorious monclainc who
glittered during the last French Empire, has come
to the end of her tether, and been obliged to sell
her chateau, a place where the jests ind Iged in
were ** practical,” and the mirth fast and furious.
Battues of rabbits used to take place in the court-
yard, and when there were foreign guests, the
donkeys belonging to Cora were painted in the
colours of their respective nations. This latter
artistic Idea, we are sure, won’t be lost to * Plain
Bill,” who, instead of (as was contemplated) prose-
cuting the man who brought home the Soudan
donkey as a trophy of war—on the ground that
that sapient animal was not, as required by the
Act in such case made and provided,' submitted,
before being landed, to the Inspector of Stock-
Plain Bill, we doubt not, will straightway Import
some more Soudan donkeys, and have them
Ealnted in honour of all great personages who may
ereafter favour New South Wales by a visit.
But to return to Cora Pearl, who was an
Englishwoman, and named, really, Emma Crutch.
Her hair was exactly the shade of a deep-tinted
carrot. There was, until she came to Paris, a
strong prejudice against a carrotty head. Instead
of trying to hide her locks, she combed txem out,
and brazenly let them fall in a frizzled mass down
to the very saddle. With the setting sun striking c n
them they were a superb advertisement. The face
was very plain. It had the freckled, pasty com-
plexion which goes generally with her shade of
hair, and which added to the vulgarity of the
coarse features. The nose was a Snub, the mouth
was wide, being formed evidently to say harsh and
shameless things; the chin was narrow, the cheek
bones were prominent, and the eyes small. Speak-
ing French very badly, Cora’s ribaldry was thought
droll by the fine gentlemen (one of whom was an
Imperial Prince) who gathered round her. She
understood dogs and horses, was abashed at noth-
ing, and finally nad the hardihood to appear on the
stage as Cupid, in a part In which there was a good
deal to say. Her vaulting ambition on this occa-
sion over-leaped Itself. The footlights are
cruel to reveal vulgarity and plastic defects.
Cora was a maniac about the neatness of her
carpets and the Immaculate brightness of her
fire-irons. In her decline she got a young parvenu,
son of the founder of the Bouillons-Duval, to
spend seventeen millions of francs on her. When
he thus got through his fortune he appealed fo
her tenderness for a small loan, which she dryly
refused. He called again to renew his “ instances,”
and, failing to soften her, tried to blow bis brains
out. In doing this he wounded himself severely.
Cora, on seeing him fall and the blood streaming
from his wound, cried out, “You low, coarse
fellow I Do you take my house for your father’s
butchery ? Don’t you see that you have fllthied
my new carpet ?” The much-priaed object hap-
pened to be a Manchester article, with a felt
crumb-cloth above it; had it been a relic from the
Mosque of Tamerlane she could not have made a
greater fuss about it.
One holds one breath on hearing of the
wreck of the fine new steamship Gulf of Carpen-
taria, which struck a sunken rock between Sydney
and Melbourne, and went down so rapidly that
those escaping did so leaving- bats and boots be-
hind. They saved their lives, and that was all.
One passenger only had shipped by this steamer,
who complains muchly of the loss of “ a large sum
of money.” We shudder to think how nearly we
escaped his fate on several occasions—all but the
large sum of money.
The Times Rome correspondent, in a re-
cent letter, carries us back to the dark ages. In a
little place called Corano, near Piacenza, a young
girl of 11 gave out that she had had a vision of the
Madonna, but, says the report naively: “ This
lonely spot is destitute of railway or telegraphic
communication.” That's it—the rest follows as a
matter of course. Tens of thousands are making
pilgrimages to the spot, rolling on the ground and
kissing it, whilst calling on the Madonna to appear
to them also, and, of course, not in vain, for one
has only to tlog himself into a frenzy with bad
rum and he can see the Devil himself and all his
angels without the slightest difficulty. The civil
authorities are putting a stop to this epidemic of
Insanity. Do you know why ? The clergy, of
course, believe in the manifestation. Here is the
Virgin’s speech to a little girl of 11, as reported by
a special correspondent: ” My child, I am the Ma-
donna. My Son has allowed me to come once
more on earth. I will stay in this place for a while
among you, and you shall come and adore me here,’]
&c. Why ? To teach these poor savages the
rules of health, the laws of nature, and to let in
some modern light by telegraph and rail ? Not
much. It is that “ you may rebuild the oratory
which was once on this spat." Who cannot see some
fat. ruthless, indolent cleric at the back of that,
either working the oracle for the erection of a
aew soul-mill, or striking out a little " syndicate ”
spec, that throws the beggarly land-sale adver-
tisements of Sydney into the shade ?
Boat-racing in England appears to have
been played down about as low as it will go. What
contests come off are seldom very seldom—
iquare, and the scenes on board steamers follow-
ing these delectable “ barneys ” pretty well beggar
description. Evidence given in a London police
court case discloses some out-and-out ruffianism
that went on aboard one of these chartered boats
recently. Two men—both of means and on© of
them, at any rate, a respectable tradesman—were
threatened by a gang of deperadoes with knifing,
if they wouldn’t “ part,” and an attempt was even
made to pitch them into the river. This is any-
thing but an exceptional incident in connection
with second-rate sculling matches, and at other
sporting gatherings, the “boys,” ever increasing
in numbers, arc getting almost as dangerous a pest.
The law affords little protection against their
organised raids, and the apathy of the powers that
be (or ought to be) in regard to any sort of black-
guardism associated with sport, is astonishing. The
‘boys’’—bless ’em I—are at liberty to set on and half
murder any respectable citizen who comes within
their clutches, provided always that the word bet-
tiny can be brought into the case. This sounds like
exaggeration. It is nothing but plain, unvarnished
fact. The average “beak” appears to consider
that villainy is licensed at any gathering where
gambling goes on, and that anyone attending a
foot-race, a boat-race, or a horse-race Is entitled
to all he gets, whether that be maltreatment from
the marauders, on the one hand, or money from
the victimised, on the other. Under this benevo-
lent administration magsmen and welch rs are
getting every week more impudent. On last
Derby day several recognised bookmakers were
bailed up in the privileged enclosure—Tattersall’s
tiing-and made to “ shell out ” something for the
irrepressible ” boys,” who had gained admission
none knew how. Such things could never have
been attempted or dreamt of a few years back, but
now Intimidation is carried to such lengths that
the victims of these daylight robberies prefer to
submit to the black mail rather than seek protec-
tion from magistrates who would throw aspersions
on the characters of the applicants. As for the
Jockey Club, it seems powerless to deal with the
evil that has grown up under its aristocratic
nose. While this sort of thing goes on unchecked
at high-class soring and summer meetings, the
state of affairs is ten times worse at the late
autumn fixtures, when the “boys” are bent on
making provision against the closed season. There
the “ scum ” are allowed to reign rampant. Book-
makers who used to go down and field in the Ring
now study their safety by staying in town and
laying starting price odds, while any unfortunate
lamb, who does Innocently seek a day’s “ sport,”
is likely enough to be stripped of his valuables by
a hungry mob, under the grimly humorous indict-
ment of being a “ welsher.” Woe betide, too, any
“green” backer who spots a winner with one of
the “wrong ’uns,” and is misguided enough to
ask for his money. A favourite device is to strike
a match and threaten to set fire to the “ mug ” if
he doesn’t take himself off. And the drollest part
of it all is that to read the newspaper accounts of
fashionable English race meetings one would im-
agine that these things never were.
TOMMY’S TALK.
Mamu.v, does aiatar Anna know the captain iwell
1 know just why I think fto, but I promised not to tell
Still, if you really want to hear, and won’t put me away,
I’ll tell you what I saw when you were out the other day.'
The captain came and rang the bell and asked if she was
in. • , , , ,
And when John^Thoma.': said was, you should haic
soon him grin. ,
And sister Anna sent me uff to play witn pnh upstijire.
But I ,aw she was embarrassed, so 1 didn’t mind her airs.
As soon as nurse had gone away, why, pie and Bob canto
back, .
And underneath the pir.o ir. door we found an awful
So wo just lay down quit., -pnetly thitkidc upon the door
.And glued our'eves unto the crack and
THIS IS WHAT WE SAW.
“THE CUPBOARD WAS BARE.”
The benevolent old lady went to the ice-box.
Went to the frigid ice box in a niche of the pantry.
Went to get a mutton chop for her hungry poodle;
Hut when she got there, the ice-box investigating,
Alas, for the ice box of the chop was denuded!.
Denuded the ice box of the chop of the mutton!
Naught but a w hiff of (he air of the Boreal
Remained where erst in repose lay the chop of the
mutton!
Naught but a whiff of the air of the Boreal,
Borcally filling the nostrils of the poodle
With snuffles; naught but a whiff of the air Boreal!
And shrilly it blew through the whiskers of the
poodle.
LINES TO THE LADIES.
Ladies, ’tis an age progressing,
Let a little common-sense
Regulate your ways of dressing
(Hope we’re giving no offence).
Leave ’em off, and start enj lying
Comfort, Health, and lengthened days;
fiurn those Desky, peace-destroying,
Nasty, stiff, pernicious stays.
Blender waists have lost attraction,
Since we learnt that girls thereby
Stop the peristaltic action.
And send the diaphragm awry;
Waistbands that we once found pleasing
Now bring blushes to our face.
At the thought of what the squeezing
Must be pushing out of place.
Oh, to know those interesting
Faces, that we thought so nice,
Show the food is not digesting
Freely through the orifice!
Oh, to feel that “ something ” presses,
Filling maidens’ hearts with care;
Making e'en our fond caresses
Sometimes very hard to bear.
Leave ’em off. Those words emphatic
Once again we beg to shout;
There’s the artery hepatic,
And portal vein to think about.
Never mind vain sisters’ venom,
They may sneer, ’tis very true,
But you respect the duodenum,
And men will have respect for you.
Kismet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Born with the child's first feeble breath,
At its either hand twin angels stand—
The Angel Life and the Angel Death.
They open the book of Life, within
Tells the lettered page, from youth to age,
Of good and evil, of truth and sin.
Fain is the Angel of Life to turn
To the page unread, the wordj are said,
“ Of the Future seek, though not to learn;
“ To-day is thine, but to-morrow, nay!
The past is revealed, the future sealed—
The morn and the evening make the day."
And Life, in the peaceful calm of age,
Seeks a brief delay, ere the close of day.
Comes the answer ever, "Turnthe page.”
The leaf is blank, then the bonds are out,
And floats the soul to its distant goal—
The sword is sheathed, and the book to shut.
The angels spreading their pinions fleet.
Speed to the throne of the Great Unknown,
And lay the hook at the Author's feet.
A.O.


(Jiticura
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSEHOLD a Canister of
Williams Australian Yeast Powder!
WILLIAMS'S
MiS>
AUSTRALIAN
mj powder.
MANUF AcruRERS AND PATENTEES-
F°N. CRIMWADE& CO-
LETTERS PATENT
Williams’ Yeast Powder
MAKES LIGHT BREAD, TEA CAKEjS.
and PABTRy,
HALF-POUND TINS, SIXPENCE,
Beware of Imitations.
TAKE ONLY WILLIAMS',
This YEAST POWDER, the first manufactured
In the Australian colonies, has from the outset
maintained its position as the Premier Yeast
Powder ; and, in spite of severe competition, its
radius of consumption has steadily increased.
WILLIAMS’ AUSTRALIAN YEAST
POWDER Is the most economical of Bakinar
Powders, and sold at Sixpence the half-pound
canister.
Wholesale Depot t
VIRGOE. SON. and CHAPMAN,
BOND STREET, STDNET,
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from Infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; nave had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
tier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
, and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
- Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
i it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
> Cuticura, the Great Skin Curb (a Medicinal
b Jelly for external use), Instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
• heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, rc-
£ fitores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
f Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
j .and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
, indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu.-
j mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
, Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
. Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
. arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
i table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
r Pam by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
• Massachusetts.
- For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
t dnuggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
, Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, largo boxes
1 $1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents: Cuticura Shav-
j inq Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.oo
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug ■& Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
Til.© 2£©lla.'ble Bnj.g'g'ios!
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THB
AMERICAN CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Buckboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant A Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
and CO.,
7 ———-v
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMBBS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
, mm, iii MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS,
MINING. CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBU1LDERS’
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &o.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
QALVANISBD CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARB
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKS
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
POLLED H GIRDERS
=3
P O R T A B L1, FIXED
and SEMI-FIXBD EN-
GINES W
VERTICAL and HORI-
ZONTAL BOILERS
‘ TEAM and
pumps
other
LATHES, PLANING,
, SHAPING, SCREW-
MA%INM DBILUNa
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, &o.
%ar Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
Head Warehouse -
Iron anl Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office
- 54 YORK STREET, ' ■
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUfi,
SYDNEY:
< 25 GRACfiCaURCH STR11X
limited.
im os
'Si
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
LDNOHBON AND BBFBBBHMBNT BOOMS FOB LADIBB AND QBNTLBMBN.


To Invigorate the system and rectify irregulari-
ties of the bowels, drink Wolee’s Sounax’ps.
Notice!— Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for Invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hockings, 143 Pitt-street.
Wolfe’s Schnapps.—No nervous suffeaer over
tried this wholesome stimulant without being
thankful,
The Rev. Dr. M’Auliff, who ministers to
the spiritual wants of the Roman Catholics of
Eugowra, out Forbes way, is enjoying the luxury
of Press eulogiums becauselhe sold, at cost price,
a piece of land to the Presbyterian parson. The
parson bought it to build a church on. The
country Press, observing that four times the
price could have been obtained had the land been
put up to public auction, descants on the brotherly
love of these modern apostles, and cites with an-
imadverslontf, apposite lines from Byron’s “Don
Juan.” But where is the glory ? If Dr. M’Auliff
parted on easy terms with an eligible piece of
land for a picture gallery, a public library, or a
hall of science, he would show ho was abreast of
the broader humanities. Parting with it for the
erection of a church, which his church believes to
be a hybrid imposition, is, in a general sense, and
especially in the sense his own theology insists on,
a manifestation of an easy-going personal good-
will. There is nothing in it for eulogiums.
The charges made against the Melbourne
Benevolent Asylum authorities by that merry old
lady, Mrs. Hubbard, have been generally sneered
at by the local Press, the writers of which now re-
joice in their youth. But in after years Mrs. Hub-
oard may be amply avenged. When the vigorous
and slashing journalists of the Melbourne papers
of to-day have become old-fashioned and obsolete—
when from Tarquinian smiting at tallest heads in
the leading journals they drop down to writing
leaders for suburban papers, vaunting the praises
of the new pump or the longed-for enlargement of
the lock-up—when from that they fail still lower
to haunting police courts with little bundles of
groasy papers in their pockets-ugh! it is too ugly
a subject to continue—then they will regret
they did not, when they had power, assist instead
of hindering an inquiry into the management of
the Benevolent Asylum. According to Mrs. Hub-
bard, the life of an asylum attendant is the freest
and easiest barring that of a pirate in
pwdiy 1^1 jiubbard em they conflate
the eggs intended for the patients, and use them
up in rice puddings, custards, and blancmanges—
sell all the new clothes sent to the patients, and
also drink all the stimulants provided for their
use. Besides this, they rob the sick and dead of
their money, and then, with light hearts and con-
sciences clear of having missed any opportunity,
go out on shooting excursions, and when they
come home sit up at night card-playing and gamb-
ling till they get tired, and then a tumbler of hot
toddy sends them off comfortably to sleep. On
other nights both male and female attendants go
out to dances, and stay out all night* One wag of
a wardsman plays in a band all night, and comes
home to the asylum to sleep all day. These are a
few of the lighter and more humorous charges
made by Mrs. Hubbard.
The Adelaide Licensed Yictuallebs’ Ga-
zette was nearly torn up about the Pall Mall
business. Mr. M'Clory, the doughty editor of the
instructive print, with an Instinct akin to that
which guides the destinies of a certain Sydney
evening journal, scissored out and shoved under
the noses of his subscribers some columns of the
“ revelations.” The constituents of the paper met
to express disgust. They expressed it, but, as the
report runs, “ without any tangible result.” When
Mr. M’Clory lifts a copy of the Sydney Evening
News and smells it, he must feel himself the right
man only in the wrong place. When he lets go his
massive intellect in Adelaide patrons bark at him,
whereas, if he were in Sydney and let it go, the
head of the firm would write from Windsor
Castle, saying, * Yure enterprls was highly saters-
factory and gev pleasure to all, Doitagen.” But
to return to the Pall Mall, Bobby Byrne, of
Queensland FxqARO, says in last issue:—“ After
mature consideration, I have decided not to pub-
lish the Pall M.\ll Gazette’s pamphlet, entitled,
4 The Maiden Tribute of Modern Babylon,’ I told
my readers last week that I didn’t like the job,
thttf X oeiy tu yety ftropg procure, and
that, even then, I only consented to a sort of com-
promise. The more I have considered the matter,
the more distasteful has the project become to me.
At last, although I had half of the pamphlet in
type, I stopped its being printed, and decided not
to undertake the job.” We don’t know which
ought to command the greater admiration on the
part of Bobby’s friends: whether the generosity
that induced him to promise to publish what he
admits that he believed to be a mass of purpose-
less filth, or the firmness which enabled him after-
wards to refuse to do so. There is a palpable display
of weakness of moral sense shown in the promise
to publish at all, and the subsequent vacillation
only exhibits this want the more plainly.
In the Perth (West Australia) Morning
Herald reference is made to the case of William
Thomas, an ex-policeman, and a parallel drawn
between his treatment by the Bench, and that of
a settler residing some miles from Roeburne;—
“ It is said that this man had two boys in his em-
ploy , the eldest being about 13 years old, both
speaking English. They ran awav after being
dogged, were pursued, and were driven back with
a stockwhip a distance of 30 miles. Arrived at
the station, the elder boy was stripped, lashed to
a fence in crucified position, and then dogged
until he bad fainted. The second boy was treated
In the same manner, and after having worn out
one lash, he began to put on another, when the
boy, in his agony, screamed out, ‘Oh, master I if
you want to kill me, cut my throat, but don’t cut
me to places.’ The brute, unmoved, continued
dogging, until the second lash had worn out.
Nows of the horrible deed reached Roebourne,
and when the boys were brought in, the inhuman
monster admitted that ho had not dogged the lirst
boy so much as he had the second because be
could not bear it, adding that he had ‘ lost bis
temper.’ The magistrate indicted a fine of £1
for dogging the weaker boy, and £5 for the
fiffMUlt upuu the boy wto 901*14 bow it."
Well, we don’t see much to talk about in
all this. The very same thing is done bv
law in “ civilised ” parts of Australia—in Brisbane
say—where the six-foot hangman, after he has
been flogging for an hour or so, has to replace the
blood-clotted lash by a fresh one. They flogged a
wretched aboriginal in Brisbane last week, and so
cut up with the lash a white man who was strapped
to the triangles on the same day that, when re-
moved to the gaol hospital, he was expected to
die. In the name of God, we ask, what was the
use of flogging the miserable blackfellow 7 White
juries always convict blacks, and send them to the
hangman or to the flogger without the slightest
hesitation; and no judge and no Executive ever
shows them the slightest mercy. Was it for the
sake of example ? If so, how are the blacks to
hear of it ? And yet a judge is the man responsible
for all this'filthy brutality perpetrated in the
name of the law—a brutality which tends to
bestialise the population of the colonies. We arc
fast going back to the days when, at Bathurst, the
hangmen dogged incessantly for hours, and the
bulldog ants crawled about with great lumps of
liesh that the lash had scattered on the ground.
Every drop of human blood which dies from the
cat—an instrument which, in New South Wales,
gentle reader, consists of five strands of knotted
whipcord and four strands of knotted wire— is the
seed of a murder. There is no argument adducible
in favour of dogging which cannot be advanced
in fav our of the thumbscrew and the rack.
The Quarrel about Caroline.
“Prince Bismarck, the German Chancellor, in an official despatch upon the question of the Caroline Islands, says that the islands are not of sufficient importance to tempt
Germany to take up an unfriendly attitude.”
BISMARCK (turning on his heel): “IT VOS NOT VURT MY VHILE TO HAVE A ROW MIT YOU OVER DOT GIRL.”


ECONOMICAL FURNrTURgmtrjECONQMICALFURNITURF
i'——V._— /L . - /——J
r THE LARGEST AND ONLY LEGITIMATE
TIME-PAYMENT FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THE COLONY,
365 PITT STREET.
DB. BOYD,
53 CASTLBREACH-STREET, SYDNEY
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South AValefl.
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p m. Monday, Wednesday:
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and female Diseases a
Specialty.
Box 120 G.P.O.
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£5 DRAPERY HIES!
PACKED in CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
£5 WINTER BALE.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 Large Marcella Quilt
10 yards good Sheeting
20 yards Strong Calico
12 Strong Cotton Tick
20 Wincey Dress Tweed
10 good Welsh Flannel
6 yds. Strapping Tweed
All the above are good
wearing articles.
£5 FREE SELECTORS’
BALK.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 White or Colored Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 White or Unbleached
Calico
fi White or Red Flannel
12 yards Dress Material
12 yds. Cotton Shirtings
4 pair Good Stockings
1 pair Strong Stays
1 dark Petticoat
6 Strong Harabroon
(i Brown Holland
4 Large White Towels
3 yards Good Trousers
Tweed, Buttons,
Threads, &c.
£55 MEN’S CLOTHING
BALE.
1 Suit Tweed Coat,
Trousers, and Vest
2 Crimean Shirts, large
size •
3 Best Cotton Shirts,
large size
1 Best Felt Hat, any size
6 pairs Strong Cotton
Socks
8 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or Pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &c.
*5 LADY’S BALE.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladles’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
B Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, ,Ch ristenlng
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, whlqh we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials - Silks, Velvets, &o.—with
prices, and full Instruction tor self-measurement,
if applied to.
The £5 Bale system has been In operation for 13
year?, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
READ THIS!
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS.
Manufactured by
THE GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS CO.,
SALE.
Certificate by Wm. Johnson, Government Ana-
lytical Chemist
“ Government Analytical Laboratory,
“ Melbourne, J uly 14tb, 1884.
“ I have examined Trood's Hop Bitters (m»nu-
factured at Sale). They are remarkably pleafant
to the palate, and as a general tonic and p; omoter
of appetite for invalids and young people are no
doubt excellent. The Hop Aroma is delicately
combined with a fragrant fruit flavour, producing
a really elegant preparation, which may be relied
on as beneficial to health and free from anythiog
deleterious.
(Signed) “ WM. JOHNSON,
“ Analytical Chemist.”
fHESE celebrated Bitters have been proved by
analysis to be a pure, delicate, palatable com-
pound, and are invaluable in affording relief in all
cases of disorderi of the blood, stomach, liver,
nerves, etc.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Will be found a perfect “ Balm of Gilead” to all
who are suffering from shattered nerves, an over-
worked brain, or lassitude; they are, in fact,
nature's brain and nerve food.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Are an excellent appetiser, and may be taken
with perfect safety by the most delicate invalids
and young people.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Enrich and purify the blood, and are an exquisite
tonic and stimulant. If you are sick, no matter
from what cause, use
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS.
The large and increasing consumption has
gained for the Gippsland Hop Bitters Manu-
facturing Co. a wide celebrity.
Beware oe Imitations,
And use only those manufactured by the
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS CO.
They are pronounced to be the best and onlygenn.
ine Hop Bitters manufactured in the colonies.
Sale, Nov. 11th.
THOMAS TROOD & CO.,
Proprietors.
To be obtained from all the leading merchants,
chemists, and hotels In the colonies.
A
UBTRALIAN MUTUAL EIRE SOCIETY
_ Established 1872.
Capital—£loo,ooo with power to increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES—3O per cent, paid annually since 1873.
PE APES & SHAW’S
spun SHOT!
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING MILLINERY.
PEAPE 8 and SHAW’S SPRING COSTUMES.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING DRESS
FABRICS.
PE APES and SHAW’S SPRING FABRIC
GLOVES.
PEAPES and SHAW'S SPRING SHIPMENT
KID GLOVES,
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING HOSIERY,
from J. and R. MOHLBY’S.
PEAPES and iH HWB SPRING SHIPMENT OF
LACE GOODS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
EMBROIDERY.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
PARASOLS.
tST" SPECIAL NOTICEI
All the above goods are
Now Open for Inspection.
Large Shipments
for other Departments are
CLOSE AT HAND,
and a constant Row of
NOVELTIES
will be opened up
DURING THE SEASON.
PEAPHJS& SHAW,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS,
324, 326, 328 George Street.
J. NOAKE,
320 ft 446 George Street,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
Just Unpacked, ex s.s. Rome,
12 Cases Heal HAVA UN A CIGARS
(Finest Brands), consisting of
“ANTONIO MURIAS ”
“ VILLAR OF VILLARB”
‘ HENRY CLAYS’’
“REAL”CABANAS
“LARRANAQA”
“HITICA”
“ MORALES”
“FLOR DK NARKS”
“PARTAGAS”
“ INTIMIDADS”
“FLOR DE CUBA”
EBPANOLA "
“LA CORONA”
J. NOAKE,
320 & 446 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
POST FREE FOR Is. STAMPS.
Social Science !
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders, Chronic
Diseases, Impediments to Marriage, &c., How to
choose a partner for life so as to live happy, How
to Regain and Preserve your Health, &c.
Address—R. T. SELBY, M.H , Devonshire-street,
Surry Hills, Sydney.
ANHOOD.RESTOREDI
A Clergyman having tried every known remedj
forthe CURE of NERVOUS EXHAUS-
TION, PREMATURE DECAY, &c., has at
last discovered a simple SELF-CURE, which, fot
the sake of suffering humanity, he will send FREE
the Prescription which CURED him. Address,
with self-addressed stamped envelope— 1
Dr. E. A. CLARKE, P.O. Box 292, Sydney.
Head Offices.
First Fire Society established la me colony on
the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year,
Poliey-hc'ders are perfectly free by law from
all liability .
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
Wolfe's Schnapps is the purest and best
stimulant, tonic, diuretic, at present before the
world.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a delightful beverage
as agreeable to the taste as its properties are bene-
ficial to the health.
QUOD PACIMUa VALUE facimus.
(What we do we do well.)
YOUR PHOTO.-If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
counsel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arr ayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co , which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices—C-D-V.,; Cabinets* 30s. per dozen.
CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE.
Amml I ■earn* axeaata Oil ■llllam
-■“SgS.
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
Head Offices
WALTER CHURCH. Manager,
i—PITT and KING STREETS.
suffering- from the
effects of youthfii I
errors, early decay,
lost vitality, premature decline, nervous neat-
ness, etc., I will send, you particulars of a
certain, simple, and sure means of self cure,
Free of Charge. Address, in confidence.
Prof. M. B. TAYLOR,
68 Elizabeth St.,
SYDNEY 3NT.S W.
DR. BRIGHT’S FHOSFHODYNE
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental ana Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility, Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and Is a
marvellous medicine for renovating impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought unon the
individual as to the process. It moves the lungs,
liver, heart, kidney, stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour, yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, and Is the most powerful blood purifier
of the present day. Sold by all chemists.
Agents— Elliott Bros
TO Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams,
and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. “ Beta,” Bulletin Office.
BEST !N
T
I
I
THE WORLD
OFFICE-31 LOMBARD ST. LONDON.
it.nr
assan
mm
Lilli
plan
Sdiiiian
IN PRICE
SCOTIAN -HORIZONTAL ENGINES, 6H ' RCOMPLETEfiS7IOO
OTHER SIZES W PROPORTION.
[“ALBION” UONSSTROKE HORIZONTAL ENGINES, .
V'CLIMAX” \/ERTICAL ENGINES 21 BOILERS.
'“CLIMAX” PORTABLE -HOIST I Ng ENGINES.'
fBRITON ’MTORIZONTAL COMPOUND LAUNCH ENGINES.
INVERTED COMPOUND MARINE ENGINES.
»• PORTABLE STEAM CRANES,
A/ERTIGAL.CORNISH. & MARINE BOILERS,
LARGE STOCKS:FOR FULL PARTICULARS AND PRICES APPLY TO
D.& W.ROBERTSON.ISYDNEY,SOLE AGENTS «. NEW SOUTH WALES
J.W.SUTTON &CO, BRISBANE,SOLE AGENTS ""QUEENSLAND
ROBISON BROS.& CO,MELBOURNE,SOLE AGENTS -VICTORIA
COMMERCIAL STATISTICS.
A well-known commercial-traveller gives
the following account of his last quarter's opera-
tions:—
Travelled 3864 miles.
Crrrled 4 trunks.
Shown goods 116 times.
Sold „ 98 „
Been asked the news .. . 5061 „
Told ~ „ •• •• 2210 „
Lied about it 2160 „
Didn’t kno w 691 ~
Been asked to drink 1861 „
Drank 1861 „
Changed politics 46 „
Dally expenses allowed by house .. 32/0,
„ Actual average 28/0.
„ Clear profit 4/0.
Cash in hand 10/6.
Been in church “ Once.”
We remember once, in England, looking
over the examination-papers of tne previous year
for candidates for clerkships in the Indian Clvl
Service. They only required a knowledge of
Greek, Latin, Sanscrit, English, French, and one
or two other languages aod literatures, besides
some impossibilities in mathematics and various
additional things which we forget now. But there
was one question in English history which fas-
cinated us at the time. Jt was, “What were the
victories and alliances of King Offa?” Surely none
but a ghost from the days of the Heptarchy could
have answered thatl And yet, with all these des-
perate demands on the knowledge of candidate?,
some of the successful ones we have met did not
strike us as being miracles of information. We
are reminded of this by the accomplishments the
German New Guinea Company r. quires in its
officers. They must “unite in their own persons
practical knowledge of surveying, chemistry,
agriculture, natural history, trees, plants, and
the sol's best suited for their growth, to
he able to make meteorological observations, un-
derstand how to trade and make friendly terms
with the natives, learn and adapt themselves as
far as may be to their customs, gain their confi-
dence, have an especial aptitude for learning
savage languages, and, amid all these responsibi-
lities and duths, bear the interest of Germany in
general, and the company in particular foremost
in their hearts.” Not much to ask, is it—consider-
ing that their salaries will very probably have to
be taken out in copra and b<sche-de-mer ? The
remark that they will have to learn and adapt
themselves to the custom of the natives, is lugru-
blously suggestive of a future of cannibalism for
the successful candidates for the service of the
German New Guinea Company. But the Teutonic
mind is easily taught-and the Teutonic appetite
adaptive to all circumstances. So that, without
the interference of our fiery Queensland friends,
there is a lair prospect of the German colonists in
New Guinea disappearing by a process of mutual
assimilation before they have been there long.
“Unto this last.”
They brought my fair love out upon a bier,
Out from the dwelling that hersmile made sweet,
Out from the life that her life made complete,
Into the glitter of the garish street,
And no man wept, save X, for that dead dear.
And then the dark procession wound along,
Like a black serpent with a snow-white bird
Held in Its fargs: I think God said a word
To Death, as He in His chill heaven heard
Her voice so sweeter than His seraphs’ song.
And so Death took away her flower sweet breath
One darkest day of days in a dark year,
And brought to that strong God who had no dear
My own dear love. Ah, closed eyes without peer!
Ah, red lips pressed on the blue lips of Death I
Y. J. D.


W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and SYDNEY.
Catalogues
POST FEES.
W. WALKER
and SONS
are one of the
Largest
Stockholder*
and
Manufacturer*
||
■ifk'dau
FURNITURE I
m
ENGLAND.
Catalogues
POST PBBB,
ALL STOCK
In their
IBYDNBT
■OVIS
Supplied
direct
from their
London
Manufactory
and Lateet
London Stylo*
QUABANTIID.
SYDNEY BRANCH J
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
BEAD IT ALL.
It may Save your Ufa.
AMERICAN CO.’S
Hop Bitters
ABl
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARB COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
‘‘The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and In addition contain all the best
•and most effective curative properties
‘ of aU other bitters, being th ® greatest
• Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
' earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Mon, Labourers, Ladles, and all those
•whoso sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach,
• Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are Invaluable, being
• highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
• without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don t
• wait until you are sick, hut if you only
• feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
•once. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘ friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘use the American Co.’s Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, these Hop Bitters are
‘no vile, drugged, drunken nostrum,
‘ but the purest and best Medicine
‘ ever made, and no person or family
‘ should be without it.”
ET* See that the name Dr. Soule is blown
In every bottle, none other genuine.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUT UAL IVF STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital ... £lOO,OOO.
Head Office : Melbourne.
New South Wales Branch ; 171 Castlereagh-street.
N. S. Wales Directors:
Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Prank Cowley, Esq.
George 8. Yeo, Esq.
Victorian Directors;
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P.,
Chairman
Hon. J. F. Levlen, M.P.
Thomas Learmonth, Esq.
Horses. Cattle, Sheep. Pigs, and Dogs Insured
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
Causes on land, rail, or at sea.
Marine Risks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted. J
The only Live Stock Insurance Society in the
olonies. , .. . .
Full particulars can be obtained from the under-
?l Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
A. J. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.!
Office, 171 Castlereagh-street.
E
A U
4711
D B
0 O L O G N B,
4711.
Established 1793.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1873; Prize edal, Vienna, 1873
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
tbn Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tainedat the Tit Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, strength,
and Invigorating qualities, excelling all other oom-
has'become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the <slito of
E The P large and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne. not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evl-
de The o publio UP arr r rcBpectfully warned against
numerous spurious Imitations with the genuine
number —4713 changed into 7411,1147, 4117, &c.
The real epennine article wbich carried off the
Modafat the Vienna Exhibition is that with
The peculiar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from aDthe others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents— ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
street, Sydney.
To b<> had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
and storekeepers, in town and country.
SOLE IMPORTER OF
Only Iron-fframad Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE
197 PITT STREET.
BOLE AGENT FOB THE
SMITH ORGAN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
187 PITT STKEBT
DU
itiHmuminmi
Depot for tie World’s Patented Articles
GEORGE ST., Opp. Wynyard St.
7 AMERICAN
NOVELTY CO.
FANCY GOODS
k NOVELTIES i
Bring’ your Wife and Children with you.
Nobody pressed to buy.
WANTED a number of Gentlemen who will have their
heads shaved as above, and guarantee to attend all
meetings and side-walk gatherings. SALARY LIBERAL.
TKCP DPJIDT rPMPUT for mending China, Glass,
UoJjI rMub tMIMI Wood, &e., and everything
but Iron. Is. Bottle.
TOOTHACHE TINCTURE. " application. Don’t be
afraid tc use it freely. Nc trouble to the Teeth. Is. Bottle.
The Misery, Shame, and Suffering,
often bequeathed as a sole legacy to children by
parents, Is neglected scrofula. To cleanse the
blood of this hereditary poison at this season, and
thus remove the most prolific cause of human
suffering, to clear the skin of disfiguring humors,
Itching tortures, humiliating eruptions, and loath-
some sores caused by it, to purify and beautify the
skin and restore the hair so that no trao» of the
disease remains, Cutioura Kesolvent, the new
blood purifier, and Cdticuba and Cuticura Soap,
the great skin cures and beautlflers, are ini’allible.
Exhausted nature signifies by symptoms that
Bhe needs aid and succour. Use Wolfe's
Schnapps.
Biliousness, drowsiness, jaundice, and
rheumatism, Hop Bitters removes easily if those
made by American Co. See.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a tonic and stimulant
which cannot be surpassed. Ask for and obtain
Wolfe’s.
Murray and Lanraan’s Florida Water is
probably the simplest and purest perfume ever
made, being absolutely nothing more than the
delicious fragrance of rare flowers, preserved and
made permanent, and it is doubtless to this purity
of composition that its immense popularity is in a
great measure to be ascribed.
Ostrlim.g' Hstr’bo’a.r Hotel,
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Railway Cates).
STEPHEN HOPKINS (Late of Wagga Wagga), Proprietor.
tar ESPECIAL ACCOMMODATION FOR COUNTRY VISITORS.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
CELEBEATED
BISCUITS AID CAKES, TREACLE AID SOLDES STKDP,
Self-raising JErated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
0, & A. have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney 1.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881 ; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
Sydney Agents: W. H« ARIEIL A CO., 343 and 345 Kent-street.
The Melbourne Argus is generally good at
literary criticism. But It is not as Infallible as the
Pope. For instance it speaks of the Tinted
Venus”—a very clever extravaganza by Mr.
Anstey—as though th© plot wer© surprisingly
quaint and novel. A hairdresser puts a ring
Jiven to him by his sweetheart on the finger of a
statue of Aphrodite. He Is unable to take it off
again, and the statue becomes vivified like Galatea
and follows him home with a view of taking him
off to Cyprus. The complications that arise are
very funny. But this is only a medieval legend
burlesqued. William Morris versified it years ago
in his Earthly Paradise,” under the title of The
Ring given to Venus.” It is not usual for us to
Interest ourselves in current criticism, but we like
occasionally to show our contemporaries by a flap
on the ear that they are mortal and liable to err.
That civilisation is spreading up North,
and that the refinement of the “uppah ten is
showing Itself among the savages, Is evident from
a little incident that occurred lately on the Daly
River (Q.). A dusky lord of the soli, boasting of
the proud and aristocratic name of Nlmblefoot
Jerry, having won the maiden heart of a 16-year-
old and 33-lnoh-walsted hour! belonsing to the
chief of his tribe, was. amid the blazing of bon-
fires. the beating of ’possum-skins, the banging of
nulla-nullabs, and the howls of the assembled
dark ’uns and their lubras, and according to the
customs of the tribe, declared to be the husband
of the aforesaid lithe-llmbed female—the pride of
the Daly. After the celebration of the nuptials,
and the accompanying honeymoon, the happy
pair settled down In the residence provided for
them—a sumptuous gunyah, built by the chief at
immense expense out of old bark and the re-
mains of a canoe—and passed their time
hunting the bounding kangaroo and wallaby
and snaring the unsophisticated but toothsome pos-
sum and “ gohannah,” until one day a green-eyed
monster in the person of Go-the-rig, a handsome
young blackbird from the wilds of Crocodile
Creek, made his appearance at Jerry’s mansion,
and cast his fascinating eyes on Jerry’s missus.
To the eternal disgrace of the fair (and dark) sex,
it must be admitted that Mrs. Jerry did not ignore
Go-the-rig’s glance, but on the contrary, courted
it, and smiled at him. Go-the-rig being no mere
amateur “masher,” lost no time in having a
private interview with Mrs. Jerry, and, finding her
willing, arranged for a flit to his gunyah far away
on the Crocodile. Jerry, however, got wind of
the course affairs were about to take, but kept
“ dark ” about it until everything was ready for
the adjournment, when he mentally decided to
upset the little game, and at the same time
have some amusement. At length the night
for the “ clearing ” came, and everything
seeming—to the giddy ones—to be favourable,
they stealthily crept out of the camp, and were in
a short while treading their way through the
cedar-trees along the banks of the Daly—when
something like a cannon ball on the end bf a
broom-handle caught the budding co-respondent
all over the countenance, flattening his nose com-
pletely, and destroying his starboard light. Jerry
—for it was his nulla-nullah that had surprised Go-
the-rig—now went in for the fun he had decided
on. and after giving his enemy “ what sort.” he
proceeded to knock his vagrant wife senseless;
and then, knotting her raven tresses round his
lingers, he hauled her, like a dead dog, after him,
back to her home, and when he got her there, it
was only after much reflection that he de-
cided not to roast her alive and eat her. As for
Go-the-rig, the cause of all the trouble, he re-
covered a bit and returned to his gunyah or Croco-
dile Creek without a missus, and without a right
eye. ■
Waiting.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She stands at the window watching,
Her sad face pale and drawn;
Anti her eyeS still sect
In the busy street .
The face she has sought since the dawn.
And hei’ lips form a mute petition
That is wrung from her tortured breast
“ Oh, God 1 is it right.
IS it gbod in thy sight.
That my heart shall find no rest 7
One prayer, as she opens her letter.
One glance and it falls to her feet,
Then her fair head’9 bowed,
She is sobbing aloud.
O'er the butcher's Ml for meat.
H.H.C.


If you wish to establish a name for your
house, tell the best brands— Wolfe's Schnapps
stands foremost.
The most suitable invjgorant, stimulant,
and protective is Wolfe s Schnapps. Obtain the
genuine Wolfe's.
MacLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 George-street,
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Famine’
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &o.*
The calm, soothing, but still invigorating
effect is peculiar only to Wolfe’s Schnapps. Ask
for Wolfe’s.
Experience teaches that Wolfe’s Schnapps
is more suited to the Colonies than either brandy
or whisky.
General Post Offlc j ,
Sydney, 3rd September, 1885.
CONVEYANCE OF MAILS.
CONVEY sNCB being required for the Poet
Office Mails,either by COACH or on HOHBE-
-1-..1.CK., to and trim tne nndermentiqyied places,
for one year (Ist January, 1886, to the 31st Decem-
ber, 1886), or tor three years (Ist January, 1886, to
tne 31st December, 1888), (with the exception of
those lines for which a special term Is named).—
persons willing to Contract for the same are Iq->
A Rockhampton man thus writes us;—
“ Editor Bulletin. Sir,—Allow me to say a few
words about what fell from Sir James Martin when
presiding at a lecture on Christian evidence by
Principal Kinross, in Sydney, the other day. I
only read his speech lately. He does not complain
of Judges coming to the conclusions which some
of them have come to, after due enquiry with
regard to Christianity; but he objects to men in
their high position publicly giving expression to
their views, and thereby throwing discredit on
Christianity, because—as I understand—it unsettles
the belief of the ignorant, and encourages in the
masses a spirit of resistance to all authority. The
principle implied in this is, that the people are to
be kept always in a state of ignorance, so that they
can be ruled by fraud. Their belief in heaven and
hell—specially hell—must not, on any account,
be shaken, or else the efficacy of oaths will
vanish. Ah I wicked rulers I And yet. Sir
James affirms that freedom and equality have
been established and that the brotherhood of man
has passed from a dream Into a reality I This he
ascribes to the benign influence of the Christian
religion. Well, I admit that we have advanced a
good way towards that happy state, owing, no
doubt, to the benign principle contained in the
Christian religion—a principle that exists, always
has existed, and will exist for ever, whether the
present theories regarding the nature of God and
His motives fall to the ground or not. And it Is
owing to some of the doctrines at one time ac-
cepted as ‘truths’ having been abolished by the
advance of science that this principle is now better
understood than it was In the Middle Ages, in A.D.
1, or, in fact, at any time sines the beginn-
ing of the world by the generality of the people.
Those persons, then, who, honestly following this
principle of peace and good-will, endeavour to
show to the people the folly of all superstitious
formalities, Instead of being called weak-minded
apostles of disorder, should be looked upon as
benevolent reformers, apostles of liberty and
order, and, In fact, true Christians. Mankind has
through the ages been gradually progressing from
evil to good -that is, from ignorance to knowledge
—in spite of priests, wicked rulers, or the Devil.
When the obstacles these have put in the way of
such progress have been so strong as to stop It for
a time, there has always resulted war or revolu-
tion—a flood—to break down the obstruction. And
when the priests, the wicked rulers, or the Devil-
let in say ‘the Devil’ for shortness—when the
Devil, then, is unable to make much opposition to
the progress of knowledge, he always wants to
make out that it Is to his exertions and his doc-
trines that the advance is and he calls him-
self good, and the philosophers and Democrats he
calls evil. Do you agree with me ?— Lucas Mien-
tras.”
WHY YOUNG MEN DON’T MARRY.
The real solution of the marriage problem
has been found out at last—and by the Melbourne
Age. Various attempts have been made by
various writers to get at the core of the trouble,
but—till a most suggestive leader-writer on the
Age staff took the question in hand—all in vain.
We say a most suggestive writer because he has
the high art of seeming unconscious that he has
skivered the subject right through the midriff in a
stray sentence. The article he wrote had no osten-
sible connection with the marriage-question—in
fact, there is not a word about marriage in it from
beginning to end. It purports to bo about educa-
tion—that is the shyness of it. Now, this is the
very last sentence but one:—“What we want is
.... that the Glbeonltes, rich or poor, who
are fitted by strong thews and slow brains to be
hewers of wood and drawers of water, should be
able to pass the standards at so early an age -13 or
13—that they may begin at once to settle down
into their appropriate spheres, and earn money
for their parents.” Eh? Is it not a culls eye?
Does It not cleave the clout ? The burning ques-
tion is: Why do our young men not marry ?
* * v
Nearly everybody who could sign his name has
tried to answer it. Some of the answers have
been plausible enough—such as tl) “They don t
marry because the girls of the present day are too
expensive in their habits to make good wives for
young men of moderate incomes;” (3) "They
don’t marry because they don’t like to lose the r
freedom;” (-3) "They don’t marry because they
have been behind the scenes—have sisters, or
female relatives too near to be married, who do
not mind appearing before them in deshabille, and
they are, consequently, disenchanted with woman. ’
And so lorth. Now, all these arguments would be
inexpugnable If young men were machines. But
they are not. Aud. consequently, all these arc u-
ments are so much smoke. The answer to the
first is that five young men out of six have
sufficient experience to know that the dress
which looks so charming in the street may have
been turned halt-a-dczsn times and made up at
home in the first place, and that the piquant bon-
net is probably a “shape" bought lor sixpence
and decked out with leathers and trimmings
from an old bonnet, with, perhaps, a new flower
or two added. Concerning the other portions of
feminine apparel he. of course, knows nothing,
but may assume what he pleases. If he be a
modest young man, he will content himself by
assuming they are clean and cheap. As for the
boots, it Is simply marvellous what wear a
woman can get out of a live or six-shilling pair
of elastic-sides if she likes. And with all that she
will look well, remember.
• * •
Now, no young man—except that hypothetical
one out of six—will say that a young woman
of 'this type would make a very extrava-
gant wife. Besides, even in the case of a
girl who is extravagant before marriage, it is
ten to one that she will become a pattern of
economy afterwards. Perhaps it is the feeling of
personal property—a home of her very own, and
so on—which leads her from the paths of prodi-
gality; and again, perhaps she has had enough of
it. The fact is, that it is the nature of woman to
conserve. This applies to more things than
money. Which sex supports the churches most
in these days ? But let us keep to our subject.
There ar»> some feminine freaks of nature who
are extravagant—but many of these are so of
malice aforethought, because they hate their hus-
bands. This is a savage truth savagely stated.
But it is the truth nevertheless. In tine, we may
drive the concluding nail in the colßn ot that first
argument by asking any young man who is afraid
the girl he loves knows more about playing
the piano than making pies to question any of bis
married friends as to how often their wives played
the piano after the honeymoon was over. If they
do not answer that it was only by much persuad-
ing that their wives could be got to touch the
piano at all, then we are nothing better than a
dr'.ed neat's foot and a shotten herring. What we
say is, therefore: Marry the girl, young man, and
Smile at the first argument.
* * *
Now we will take the second in hand, but
more briefly. "They don’t marry because they
are afraid t.) lose their freedom.'' The simple
reply to that, is that the young man who
accepts it has never been In love, and, in
all human probability, never will be. But, as it is
hardly humanly probable for a man to go through
life without loving some woman to a large or
small extent, then we may say that the yourg
men who accept this argument are comparatively
few. And it is merely a burlesque, at any rate, to
say that a man is airatd to mirry because if he
does he will lose his freedom, when under our
noble British law, a married man is free to get
drunk and come home and dance upon his wife.
The third argument can now come up for its
gruel: “ They don’t marry because they have
been behind the scenes, &o." Unmarried young
men may be roughly divided Into two classes -
those who expect to marry angels, and these wno
expect to marry mere mortal women. In the
former case, no melancholy example of sister, or
cousin, or aunt, will make the Infatuated lover
believe that his Dulolnea Is not everything his
fancy paints her-which, If she Is not In some ways
she probably is a good deal more In others, he
will not argue, from what he sees In his own
family, that she is not always the dainty fairy
she appears when she comes down to meet him in
the drawing-room. No suspicion of unkempt
hair and slouching slippers closely connected with
that same dainty fairy in the mornings ever
crosses his faithful mind. Of course be finds it
all out afterwards, and gets used to it, and laughs,
like a sensible fellow, at hi* previous great expec-
tations.
* * *
With the second ola's of young man all tils
is taken for gran'ed. It would not cause him
to break olf the engagement it Ua ohanoea to pass
by the back gate of her house, and saw the maiden
of his choice sitting on a candle-box cleaning hi r
toots, nor would it ruin the rest of his life if he
saw her tramping through the back-yard, hanging
the clothes out, with one foot In a Wellington
boot and the other in a sand-shoe, and her pack
hair fastened uo with a clothes peg. On the con-
trary, these homely traits would probably con-
vince him that she was just the girl to confer
domestic happiness upon the man she married.
♦ * *
We will now pause a moment, and light our pipe
while tho remains of tnat third argument are cur-
ried out of the ring. Very good. There are a few
more reasons for voting men not marrying whlca
we could answer jusc as readily, but we have not
space just now. In fact, the present little article
is merely made up of a few of the rough notes
we have jotted down for a folio volume on tho
subject. After all, though, why waste Ink
and paper upon it, when, as we said before,
the Aok has settled the question conclu-
sively ? Bo good enough to run your eve
back to the quotation. Must we explain
to you, or do you see it at once? Perhaps it is
better to explain just a little. Weil, the Age says
that children of slow intellects should not be kept
at school after 13 or 13 years of age, and that then
“ they may begin at ouco to settle down into their
appropriate spheres, and earn money for their
parents." In these last lew italicised words you
nave the key to this hitherto unsolved problem.
* • *
Put it this way—When a young man marries he
knows he will not only have to support his wife
but also (almost any odds to nothing) a procession
of children extending indefinitely. According to
the present educational laws, he has to fetd and
clothe these children and keen them at sc-00l ti l
they are 14 years of age, no matter what hopeless
dunderheads they mav be. Then, when they are
able to earn money, they (with the fine freehorn
instinct common amongst colonial youngetersi
earn it for themselves, and coolly ignore the claims
their parents have upon them. This is the real
reason why young men will not marry. We have
not given the reason without being able to suggest
the remedy. If the legielators of Australia have a
mind to ret about dealing with this matter
seriously—and is cm be dealt with in no other
way—let them bring in a Bill, with three clauses,
which might be ctiled ,l The Promotion of Native
Population Bill;" the c'auses to be (1) That no
manifestly unintellectual child shall be kept at
school after be or she is able to read
and write and cipher up to compound propor-
tion, and if not so far advanced at twelve years
of age to be discharged from school as
not capable of mental accomplishments, and
fitted only for manual labour. (3' Children show-
ing traces of cleverness to be discharged from
school after the aforementioned standard has been
reached, no matter what age they may be, if not
under 10. on the father showing cause that their
labour is necessary to h'm. (3) That all children
shall be compelled by law to pay back to their
parents by regular instalments the whole of the
money, with compound iuterrst (the sum to be
assessed by state ofiioers—of the Aaron Waxman
type—appointed for the purpose), expended upon
tnem by said parents from the time of their birth
till the time they left school, and that until this
condition be complied with said children, no
matter of what age, snaT be considered minora,
shall not be permitted to vote nor be considered as
citizens nor allowed to marrv. Over and above
this children who succeed in life and improve
upon the position in which they were born, shall
be obliged to keep their parents iu corresponding
comfort or luxury, as the may be-partlou-
larly their fathers. What do you think of this
for a BUI? We rather fancy if It were p we
should not hear so much talk concerning wby
young men don’t marry. Bto what a vista it
would open to the speculative young man. He
concludes on marrying when he is of age, say. Well,
any insurance-agent will tell him his chance of
Increase. He may fairly reckon that when he is
35 years of age he will (according to the first
clause of the proposed law) have a boy earning
say. KU. a week for hlm-or, let us make a little
table of It, for we have got quite! interested
about the matter. Very well, we will take the man
at 35, and leave our readers to reckon the rest.
Remember be has fed and clothed all the children
he has had up till then for nothing. At 35, the
returns come in. Observe:—
n. d.
Man 3% eldest child (say boy) 13, wages... 10 0
„ 37,3nd. „ „ (say boy) 13. „ ..10 0
„ 39, Urd. „ „ (Shy girl) 13
(stays at home and minds
smaller children) „ .. Nil.
„ 41,4 th. „ „ (say boy) 13, „ .. 10 0
„ 43,5ih. „ (say girl) 13, „ ... 5 0
„ 45,6 th. „ „ (say toy) 13 „ 10 0
The total of his income from these children (allow-
ing that be stops at six, and settles down
to watch his capital accumulate) will then be
at 45 years of age, 45». a week, to which
must he added, say, at the very least, an increase
of3i (i 1. annually on the salary of ad the boys up
till the last boy, which gives a weekly income of
4J5 12s. 61,, without lifting a hand or turn-
ing a hair. And it would have to be under-
stood that this money was simply a return
for board and lodging until the children
reached their majority, and in nowise a contri-
bution towards their liability for the expenses In-
curred by their parents up till the time they lett
school. These would have to be settled in after
life. On reaching their majority they might go
from home and look after themselves, hut this
debt would be a charge on them before all others.
Of c lurse, we have here set down only a fear
lough suggestions. But we hope we have said
enough to set our readers tninaiug. 1c is tue tear
of being run Into the Benevolent Asylum when old
and feeole that terr,ft is so many promising young
men from the hymeneal altar. Omy assure thim
that their declining years will not be embittered
through a i«ek of bter or tobacco, and they will
risk it. We conslter-wlth compliments to the
suggestive writer on the staff of the Age— tba'i
this is the most sensible article which has yet been
written on the subject. Many other ideas, branch-
lug off from this central one, we are regretfully
prevented by various things from following out.
We might, for instance, have glanced at the pro-
bability of right in children being made aa trans-
ferable as other property, so teat a father who
wanted to leave the country might be enabled 1 o
sell out his family income for a lump sum. Th a
would open uo a new branch of business half-way
between commission agency and ‘lift -assurance*
But wo think we will leave a full development of
the question to a future issue.
TWO SUNSETS.
(Last Fragments of a Frustrate Poem.)
ON THE SHORE.
Thb day afad its delights are done;
So all delights and days expire:
Down in the dim, sad West the sun
Is dying like a dying fire.
The fiercest lances of his light
Are spent; I watch him droop and die,
Like a great king who falls in light;
None dared the duel of his eye
Living, but, now his eye Is dim,
The eyes of all may stare at him.
How lovely in his strength at morn
He orbed along the burning blue 1
The blown gold of his flying hair
Was tangled in green-tressed trees,
And netted in the river sand
In gleaming links of amber clear.
But all his shining locks are shorn,
His brow of its bright crown Is bare,
The golden sceptre leaves tis hand,
And deeper, darker, the hue
Of the dim purple draperies
And cloudy bankers round his bier.
0 beautiful, rose-hearted dawn I
O splendid noon ot gold and blue I
Is this wan glimmer all of you ?
Where are the blush and bloom ye gave
To laughing land and smiling sea ?
The swift lights that did flash and shiver
In diamond rain upon the river,
And set a star in each blue wave ?
Where are the merry lights and shadows
That danced through wood ana over lawn,
And fl ew across the shining meadows.
Like white nymphs chased by satyr lovers ?
Faded and perished utterly.
All delicate, and all rich colour.
In flower and cloud, on lawn and lea,
On butterfly, and bird, and bee,
A little space and all are gone—
And darkness, like a raven, hovers
Over the death-bed of the day.
So when the long last night draws on,
And all the world grows ghastly gray.
We see our beautiful and bravo
Wither, and watch with heavy sighs
The life-light dying in their eyes,
The love-light slowly fading out,
Leaving no faint hope in their place,
But only, ou each dear wan face,
The shadow of a weary doubt.
The ashen pallor of the grave.
0 gracious morn and golcTen noon I
With what fair dreams did ye depart-
Beloved so well and lost so soon 1
1 could not fold ye to my breast;
I could not hide ye in my heart;
I saw the Watchers in the West-
Sad, shrouded shapes, with hands that wring,
And phantom fingers beckoning I
ON THE RIVER.
Fade off the ridges, rosy light,
Fade slowly from the last gray height,
And leave no gloomy cloud to grieve
The heart of this enchanted eve I
All things beneath the still sky seem
Bound by the spell of a sweet dream;
In the dusk forest, dreamingly.
Droops lowly down each plumed head;
The river flowing softly by
Dreams of the sea; the quiet sea
Dreams of the unseen stars; and I
Am dreaming of the dreamless dead.
The river has a silken sheen,
But red rays of the sunset stain
Its pictures, from the steep shore caught,
Till shades of rock, and fern, and tree
Glow like the figures on a pane
Of some old church by twilight seen.
Or like the rich devices wrought
Upon an ancient tapestry.
All lonely in a drifting boat
Through shine and shade I float and float,
Dreaming and dreaming, till I seem
Part of the picture and the dream.
There is no sound to break the spell;
No voice of bird, or stir ot bough,
Only the lisp of waters wreathing
In little ripples round the prow.
And a low air. like silence breathing.
That hardly dusks the sleepy swell
Whereon I float to that strange deep
That sighs upon the shores of sleep.
But, in the silent heaven blooming,
Behold the wondrous sunset-flower
That blooms and fades within the hour—
The flower of fantasy, perfuming
With subtle melody of scent
The blue aisles of the firmament I
For colour, music, scent, are one;
From deeps of air to airless heights
Lo, how he sweeps, the splendid sun,
His burning lyre of many lights I
See the clear golden-lily blowing!
It shines as shone thy gentle soul,
o my most sweet, wuen from the goal
Of life, far-frazlns:, thou didst see—
While Death still feared to touch thine eyes,
Where such immortal light was glowing—
The vision of Eternity,
The pearly gates of Paradise I
Now richer hues the sky illume:
The pale gold blushes into bloom
Delicate as the flowering
Of first love in the tender spring
Of life, when love is wizardry
That over narrow days can throw
A glamour and a glory; so
Did thine, my beautiful, for me
So long ago; so long ago.
Bo long ago I so long ago I
Ah, who can Love and Grief estrange ?
Or Memory and Sorrow part ?
Lo, in the West, another change—
A deeper glow: a rose of fire;
A rose of passionate desire
Long burning in a lonely heart.
A lonely heart; a lonely flood.
The wave that glassed her gleaming head
And smiling passed, it does not know
That gleaming head lies dark and low,
The myrtle tree that bends above;
1 pray that it may early bud.
For under its green boughs sate wo-
We twain, we only, hand in hand
When Love was lord of all the land—
It does not know that she is dead
And all is over now with love.
Is over now with love and me.
Once more, once more, O shining years
Gone by; onc« more, O vanished days
Whose hours flew by on iris-wings,
Come back and bring my love to me I
My voice faint* down the wooded wavs
And dies along the darkling flood.
The past is past; 1 cry in vain,
For when did Dsath an answer deign
To Love's heart-broken questionings (
Tne dead are deaf; dust cnokts their ears;
Only the rolling river hears
Far off the calling of the sea—
A shiver strikes through ail my blood,
My eyes are full of sudden tears.
The shadows gather over all,
The valley, and the mountains old;
Shadow on shadow fast they fall
On glooming green and waning gold;
And on my heart they gather drear,
Damp as with grave-damps, dark with fear.
0 Sorrow, Sorrow, couldst thou leave me
Not one brief hour to dream alone?
Hast thou not all my days to grieve me ?
My nights, are they not all thine own ?
Thou bauntest me at morning light.
Thou blackenest the white moonbeams—
A hollow voice at noon; at night
A crowned ghost Bitting on a throne,
Ruling the kingdom of my dreams.
Maker of men. Thou gavest breath,
Thou gavest love to all that live.
Thou rendest loves and lives apart;
All wise art Thou; who questlonetn
Thy will, or who can read Thy heart ?
But couldst Thou not in mercy give
A sign to us-one little spark
Of sure hope that the end of all
Is not concealed beneath the pall.
Or wound up with the winding-sheet?
Who heedeth aught the preacher salth
When eyes wax dim, and limbs grow stark,
And Fear sits on the darkened bed ?
The dying man turns to the wall.
"What hope have we above our dead ?
Tense fingers clutching at the dark.
And hopeless bands that vainly beat
Against the iron doors of Death 1
VICTOR J. DALEY.
It would appear that Mr. Polyhobby, who lodges on the top floor of our boarding-
house, has been secretly practising roller-skating, with a view to the revival of that
sport in Australia. He has not yet quite caught on, as it were.


vitod to transmit tenders In the approved form
before noon, on TUESDAY, the 27th day of Octo-
ber next.
-Tenders must be addressed to the Secretary to
the Post Office, Sydney, and endorsed “ Tender
for Conveyance ot Mails.”
For full particulars, see Government Gazette,
t Western Roads.
1. Railway Station and Post Office, Parramatta,
four times or oftener dally.
3. From Prospect to Eastern Creek, Rooty Hill,
3. From the Railway Station to the Post Office,
Windsor, four times a dsy; and from the
Post Office to the Railway station, Windsor,
live times a day, Including the clearance of
the letter receiver in Bridge-street, and the
conveyance of the contents to the Post Office,
three times a day.
4. Windsor and Freeman's Reach, six times a
5. Sackvllle Reach and Lower Portland, three
tlmtsaweek.
6. Lower Portland and Central Cjlo, once a
week.
7. Pitt Town and Wiseman's Ferry, twice a week,
by vehlc'e; and Wiseman’s Ferry, Central
M’Donald and St Alban's, "twice a week, on
horseback.
8. Wiseman’s Ferry and Lower Hawkesbury,
once a week
9. Lower Hawkesbury and Gentleman's Halt,
once a week.
10. Kurrajong and Upper Colo, twice a week.
11. Kurrajopg and Kurrajong Heights, six times
ft W 66 It
13. Ra'lwa/station. South Creek, and Post Office,
St. Mary, three times or oftener dally.
13. Railway Station and Post Offi se, Penrith,
three times or oftener dally.
14. Penrith and Castlereagb, six times a week.
15. rrom Muigoa to Penrith, three times a week,
for one year only.
10. ,From Emu Plains to Emu, twelve times a
week; and from Enu to Emu Plains, six
Limes ft week
17. Railway Station and Post Office, Mount Vic-
toria, twice or oftener daily; and Railway
Station. Mount Victoria, and Post Offices
Moult Victoria, Little Hartley. Hartley, and
Hartley Vale, seven times a week.
18. Gapertee, Ilford, Cudgegong, Apple-Tree Flat,
and Mudgee, three times a week.
19. Dungaree and Upper Botobolar, via Bara,
once a week.
30. Line withdrawn.
31. Mudgee, Stony Creek, Cooyal, Wollar, and
Barragon, twice a week.
33. Guigong, TaUewang, Denison Town, and
Coolab, twice a week.
33. Guigong and Guntawang, twice a week.
24. and Palmer’s Oakey, twice a
35. Glngkln, and Shooter’s Hill, twice a
20. Brewonglo and O'Connell, six times a week.
27. Railway Station, Raglan, and Post Office, Gian-
mire, once or oftener daily.
38. Bathurst and Bsrom, six times a week: and
Esrom, Dunkeld, Evan’s Plains, and Fitz-
gerald s Vality, three times a week.
29. Sofala and Upper Turon (Junction of Palmer's
Oakey Creek with Turon River), via Main
Road past Wilde’s, twice a week,
30. Sofala and Box Ridge, twice a week.
31. Sofala. Salley’s Flat, and Hill End, three times
a week.
33. Rockley, Swallow’s Nest, and Burraga, via
Sewell's and Warby’s, Eagle Vale, twice a
33. Railway Stailon, Newbridge, and Post Offices
Mooriida, Hobby’s Yards,and Trunkey Creek,
three times a week.
34. Railway Station, Newbridge, and Poet Office,
Calooia. three times a week.
35. From Hallway Station, Blayney.to Po t Offices
Blayney and Carcoar, six times a week.
30. Railway Station, Blayney, and Post Offices,
Blayney, Carcoar, Manaurama, Lydhurat,
Sheet ot Bark, and Cowra, six times a week.
37. Blayney and Brown’s Creek, three times a
week.
38. Blayney, Greghamstown, and Vittorla, twice
a week.
39. Mandurama, Walll, and Canowlndra, via
Egan’s, Cliefden, and Beimore, twice a week,
(contractor to travel via Tenandra, Instead
of via Beimore, if required).
40. Cowra, Gooiagong, and Forbes, three times a
week.
41. Cowra and Grenfell, three times a week.
43. Grenfell and Gooiagong,via Warraderry Creek
and Tin Pot, once a week.
43. Mlilthorpo Railway Station and Post Offices,
Guyong and Byng, three times a week.
44. Orange. Kangaroobie, and Molong, seven
times a week, if required. (Contract to ter-
minate on the opening of the Railway to
Molong).
45. From Orange to Ophlr, via Lewis Ponds, re-
turning by direct road, twice a week.
40. Orange, Sprlegside, Cadia, and Carcoar, via
Burnt Yards, once a week.
47. Canowlndra, Nyrang, and Gooiagong. twice a
week.
48. Cudab Boree, Grega, and Meranburn, twice a
49. Cudal and Bowan Park, three times a week.
50. Toogong, Cranbury, and Cargo, twice a week.
51. Forbes, Carrawoblty, Bedgerebong, Mulguth-
trle, Boramhil, and Condobolin, twice a week.
53. Forbes, Waroo, Newlands, and Condobolin,
along the south bank of the LacnUa River,
twice a week.
53. Forbes, Tlchborne, a d Parkes, three times a
54. Forbes and Marsden’s, via Bundaburra and
The Gap, twice a week; and Forbts and
Marsden’s, via Wongagong. Bundaburra
Creek, Dog and Duck, Green Hills, Boyd, and
Battery, once a week.
65. Eauabaloog, South Mount Hope, and Mount
Hope, twice a week, for one year only.
56. Molong, Boomey, and Warne, three times a
57. Molong, Cunnock, Yullundry, Yeoval, and
Obley, via bridge water and the Gap, keeping
the main road, tniee times a week.
58. Parkes, Bogan Gate, and Condobolin, via Wat-
kins, Gunning Bland Head Station, Old Gun-
ning Bland, aud Burrawang, once a week.
89. Wellington, Ponto, Terra Bella, and Dubbo,
via Wiilandra Bridge, twice a week.
60, Wellington, Lincoln. Spicer’s Creek, Goolma,
Two-miie Flat, Guntawang, Oullenbone, and
Mudgee, twice a week.
61. Ponio, Terra Bella, aud Arthurville, once a
63. Railway station and Post Office, Dubbo, twice
or oftener daily.
63. Dubbo, Beni, Murrungundy, and Cobbora,
twice a week.
64. Dubbo and Ten-Mile Reef, three times a
week; aim Tea-Mile Reef and Bulgandra-
mlne, twice a week.
65. Dubbo and Obley, via The Meadows, The
bprings, and Wambangataug, twicer a week.
66. Counamble, Uaa wilkie, and Baradine, via
Nebea, Btlleroy, Terembone, and Teridgerie,
once a week.
67. Coonamble and Carlnda, via Tooloom, Narro-
way, Ne'gourl o , Ningy, Coonlmbln, P,er Pier,
and Gongolmau, once a week.
68. Narramine, Tlmbriebungle, and Warren, twice
69. Railway Station, Nevertlre, and Post Office,
once or oftener daily; and Post
Offices, Nevertlre and Warren, six times a
70. Warren and Cannonbar, once a week.
71. warren, Tenaudra, and Quambone, twice a
73 Nyugaii, Wicklow, and Nymagee, by surveyed
road, three times a week.
73. Nyngan, Hermitage Plains, and Cobar, three
times a week.
74. Cobar and Louth, once a week.
75. Cannonbar and Colane, once a week.
76. Monkey and Brewarrlna, along the left bank
of the Marra Creek, oncaa week.
77. From Brewarrlna to Enngcnla, via the “Horse
and Jockey Hotel” (Biree), Biree Station,
Cooklerlna, Klnibrl, Coiless’, Corella, Leac-
napper, Coiless’ Springs, and Shearer's Gararl
Station, returning to Brewarrlna, via Nellie’s
Spring j and Conning, once a week. (Contrac-
tor to return by former route, If required by
the Postmaster-General to do so).
<B. Brewarrina, Willawtllingbah and Goodooga,
via Moorabdla, Bundabulla. Wlllah, Muckera-
wab, Bumble, and Bree Police Station, once
a wc ek.
79 Bmrke, North Buirke, and Hungerford, via
Ford s Bridge, Yantabul'abulia, and Brlnd-
ingabba. once a week.
80. Bourke, Louth, Tilpa, Tanheroolca, and Wil-
cannla, travelling on either side of the Dar-
., Pug River, twice a week,
Enngonnia and Yantabullabulla, via Wapwal-
j ft h and Brewarra, once a week.
82 ’ Mungunyah and Louth, via Lila Springs,
Pinllle, Ford a Bridge, Winabrina, and Ker-
nle, once a week.
SOUTITEItN Roads.
1. Railway Station and Post-office, Campbell-
-0 town, five times or oftener daily.
"• From Campbelltown to Appln, six times a
week; and Railway Station, Campbelltown,
and I ost-offiees, Campbelltown, Appln, Built,
Woonona, Fairy Meadow, and Wollongong,
six times a week. (Contract to terminate at
three months' notice on either side).
3. Norellan Tramway Platform and Post-office.
four times or oftener dally,
4. Brownlow Hill and Werombl, three times a
week.
5. Wollongong, Fig-tree, Unanderra, Browns-
ville, Dapto. Albion Park, Shellharbour, and
Klama, six times a week.
Sjk-tree and Mount Kernbla. six times a week.
1 Picton Wail way Station and Post-office, Plcton.
two or three times dally.
8. Plcton and Bargo, twice a week,
9. Plcton and Oaks, six times a week.
10 ’ B week 8r ° raDfir and COX 8 River > three times a
“• ’SiSTSSg* I Creek,
ro ° Valley and w attamolla, twice a
13. Nowra, Bomadary, and Coolanyatta, six times
ft WGGK*
Nowra and Burrler, twice a week.
15. Milton, Brooman. Nelligen, and Bateman’s
Bay, via Currawang, once a week. (Contract
edther'sTd'e* 16 at tliree month 9’ notice on
16. Bateman s Bay, Mogo, Mullenderree, and Mo-
week; and from Bateman’s Bay
week 0 * 0 ' lenderree and Moruya, once a
17. Mogo and Tomakln, once a week.
18. Long Reach and Greenwich Park, three times
a week, for two years only.
19. Gnulburn, Tarlo, Chatsbury, Myrtleville, and
Taralga, six times a week. ’
20. Goulburn and Middle Arm. twice a week.
and Tuena, three times a
£? g f a °r> find F ullerton, twice a week.
’ ®^«?** and Re'fs Flat, twice a week.
(Contractor to travel via new Government
road between Blnda and Blgga.)
-4. Bigga and Mount M'Donald, once a week.
*f a an £ Pelspte, three times a week.
36. GoDple and Lelghwood, three times a week.
Railway Station and Post-office, Tarago, twice
or oftener dally. ’
28. Tarago, Boro, Manar, Braidwood, Ball’s Creek,
Araluen, Mullenderree, and Moruya. six
times a week: with a branch mall to and
week Rraidwood and Reidsdale, twice a
29. Queanbeyan, Tuggranong, and Tharwa. via
Lanyon, three times a week.
30. Uriarra Post-olfioe and Mr. T. Franklin's
Brindabella, once a week. Hannans.
31. Cooma, Numeralla, Whinstone Valley. Balla-
nalad, Captain s Fltt, and Foxlow, once a
week.
33. Cooma, Gpgedzerick. and Buckley's Crossing-
place, via Woolway, three times a we«?k. S
33 ' C S ?^ a ’ , R ? cl£ Nlmltybelle, Holt s Flat,
m r. B i bben D, k ?' ap £ four times a week.
3t. Cooma, Rhine Falls, and Adamlnaby, along
the matin or Wamorook Road, once a week :
and Adamioaby and Kiaodra once a week.
30. Cooma, AdamLaby, Russell's, and Klandra.
via Middling Bans, once a week
36. Gegedzerick and Jindabyne, twice a week
37. Gegedzerick and Rocky Plain, once a week
38. Buckley s Crossing-place and Jimenbuan.
one-* a week. '
39. Bombola, Craigie, and Delegate, twice a week •
Bombala, Nicholson's, and Delegate, once a
week; and Bombala, Mila, and Craigie, via
Mabratta and Mr, George Stephenson's at
The Bog, once a week.
40 B.mbala, Catbcart, Rocky Hall, Wyndham.
and Pambula, twice a week.
41. Bobundarah, Timbery Range, and Bombala,
a ° d Bucka long. once a week.
Candelo and Wyndham, via Myrtle Creek,
once a week. ’
43. Xdamlnaby and Rosedale, twice a week.
44. Braidwood and Nelligen, twice a week
45. Braidwood and Larbert, twice a week "
46. Bodalla and Wagonga Heads, once a week.
17. Line withdrawn. See supplementary notice.
48. Bega and Tanja, once a week.
49. Edenland Towamba, twice a week
50 Breaaalbane and Collector, six times a week.
fL R readal hane and Gurrundah, onco a week.
5". Railway Station, Gunning, and Post Offices.
Gunning, Lower Gundaroo, Upper Gundaroo
button, and Queanbeyan, three times a week:
and Railway Station, Gunning, and Past
Offices, Gunning, Lower Gundaroo, and
Upper Gundaroo, three times a week.
53. Gunning and Wheeo, once a week; and Dal-
ton and Wheeo, once a week.
54 Upper Gundaroo and Glnnlndena. twice a
week.
55. Dalton and Rye Park, once a week.
58, Dalton and Blakney Creek (Bevendale) via
Byrnevllle, once a week.
57. Yass and C*van, via Brassall’s Inn, Warro, and
the main road, crossing the river at Bloom-
field, once a week.
58 ’ Y tw?c^a 6 week ld Farm ' and Lower Gundaroo,
59 Y a we^k 1 Good Hope > via Spring Creek, twice
6°. Yass, Murrumbateman, Jeir, Glnninderra.
week™’ a ° d Q ueanbe y an * three times a
Yass and Boambola, once a week.
63. Murrumbateman and Nanama, twice a week.
and Ta ogmangaroo, three times a
6i * B via k Q^V- Chi^9, w,£ !' ? p ngongo, and Tumut,
wv«^i h8 ’ Kiley 8 Red Ull1 > and Geary's
Q?le, ones a week-for one year only.
>•). Railway station and Post Office, Murrumbur-
rin, twice or oftener daily—lncluding the
hn?r<fh cuoff tbe i etter box at the Murrum-
Purra h Station, when required.
8lx r tiSe8 U a r weBk Damondnlle ’ and Wombat ’
6T> Y a a week° nteag 1e ’ via 5 - mile aad 10-mlle,
68 Grenfell and Marsden’s. twice a week
69 ‘ ini M’ Moran <?arell, and West
a week Moonoucca and Narraburra,
7 °- M o°ace fwee 1 k aUd Barmedm “- a Tarangalay.
71. Wallendbeen and Callings, twice a week
i-., Cootamundrs, Kilrush, and Juglong, via The
Grove, Culliog* Cfcok, Grovesend Temnlc-
mo , r 2' C jWong, Kyron. Rathden,
__ -r, aad Sandy Cretk, once a week. y>
73. I'jom Cootamuudra to West Temora via
Dacey's, Geraldra. Grogan. CorumbL’ and
Narraburra stations, returning to Coota-
mundra via North Gundib'ndvai WnndaT
a o week 3Ulldlbindyal, aad Btocki nblngal, twice
74 ‘ T w“e 0 k a aDd L ° Wer Tamora ' seven times a
75 Guridagal. Nangus, Clarendon, and Cooba, via
we?k* T " nandra - aud twice a
73. Gundagai, South Gundigaf, and Adelontr
Crossing olace, six tim s a week.
a. Adelong Crossing-place, HilUs Creek, Lower
Tarcutta, and Tarcatta, three timea a
wee a.
78. Tarcutta. Kyamba, Luntsvale, Little Billa-
bong, Garryowen, and Germanton, three
times a week.
79. Little Billabpng, Caraboat, Rosewood, and
lumberumba, three times a week.
80. Tumberumba, Burns, Tooma, Welaregang
station, Tintaldra (Victoria) Walaregang
station, Ournie, Jlngelllc, Maracket, Wagra,
Bowna, and Albury, via Camberoona, Dora
Dora, Talmalmei, and Ournie Diggings (main
road to be travelled between Cambaroona
and Wagra), twice a week.
81* Wagga and Narrandera, three times a
82. Wagg'a Wagga and Tarcutta, three times a
week.
&}. Railway Station. The Rock, Receiving Office,
Perrier’s, and Post Office, Urana, via Broo-
gong, four times a^week.
84. Urana, Jereelderle, Coree, Conargo, and Deni-
Hquin, four times a week.
85 Jereelderle and Broome, twice a week.
86, Jereelderle and Tocumwall, via Mr. George
Jones , Murray Hut, twice a week; or Jeroel-
derle and Tocumwall, via Mr. Hezekiah Sim
mons’ store, twice a week.
B<. Oorowa, Maiwals, and Tocumwall, twice a
week.
88 ’ 8 and Wah K un y ah » twelve times a
89. Tocumwall and Deniliquln, twice a week.
90. Yerong Creek, Laliarook, and Urangeline, by
tJ mai g road, three times a week.
91. Railway Station, Culcalrn, and Post Offices,
no Morven, and Germanton, six times a week.
9J- Morven and Cookardlnla, three times a week.
JJ. Germanton, Woomargana. Mullengandra,
Bowna, Thurgoona, and Albury, six times a
week.
9t Germanton and Yarra, twice a week.
95. Railway Station and Post Office, Albury,
three or four tlm as a day, as required.
96 Albury, Bungowannah, Howlong.and Corowa,
twice a week.
97. Mahonga and Urangeline, once a week.
98. Goombargona and Carnsdale, once a week.
99. Coolaman and North Berry Jerry, three times
a week; and North Berry Jerry and Ariah,
via Noonan’s, Veitch’s C.P., Public School,
Mimosa West, Wallaroobie, and Yarren-
garry, twice a week.
100. Coolaman, Uley, and Ariah, via Cowabee,
im T rirrh Creea, and Warri, twice a week,
101. Uley, Warn, By goo, Bolera, and Talgogrin,
once a wee*.
102. Rail way Station and Post Office, Narrandera.
twice or oftener daily.
103 ' a week 6 ™ and DarliDgton Pol ut, three times
104. Narrandera and Waddai, on the south side of
the river, once a week.
105. Narrandera, Rankin’s Springs, and Lake Cud-
gellico ) via Medium, Mumbledoon. Barelian,
North Gogeldra. Blnya, Mount Elliott, Bal-
inn an j Coonapalra, twice a week.
I™ Whitton and Mount Elliott, twice a week.
107. and Lake Cudgellioo, via Wol-
longough Station, Youngara, Monument
FlaU, Bygolorlo, Gorman’s Hill West, Dun-
dee Efills South, Boorobll, and Galnblll Sta-
tions, once a week.
108. Moama and Perrfcoota. six times a week;
a ,uu to and from Perrlooota, Womboota
(Edwards), and Womboo (Rogers’) twice a
week, with a branch mail to and from a
point on the Moama and Perrlooota Line and
... Altoar Receiving Office, twice a week.
109. Railway Station and Post Office, Deniliquln.
twice or oftener dally.
110. Deniliquln, Morago, Moulamtin, and Balran-
aid, via Moolpar, once a week.
!H. Deniliquln, Cochran Creek, and Noorang, via
Cobran and North Wakool, once a week.
Jjj' G-unbar, and Hillston, once a week.
113. Hay, Maude, Oxley, and Balranald, oy direct
route, three times a week. (Contractor to
travel once a week, when practicable, via
Gilam and Nao Nap mall-box, which is on the
north side of the river),
114. Balranald and Swan Hill, via Poon Boon and
Murray Downs, twice or thrice a week.
115. Balranald, Hatfield, Clare, and Ivanhoe, via
Paika, Darling Block D, Til Til, and Klifera
Station, twice a week, with a branch mail to
® n d from Clare and Manfred, twice a week.
116. Wentworth, Pooncarle, Menindie.and Wllcan-
nia, twice a week.
117. Wilcannla, Tarella, Yandarlo. Cobham, Mil-
perinka. The Albert, and Tibooburra, via
Mena Murtle, Morden, and Yan-
derberry, twice a week.
118. Tarella, Purnamoota, and Silverton, vlaGnalta
and Poolamacca, once a week.
119. Tibooburra and Whompah, once a fortnight.
, T Northern Roads,
1. St. Leonards and Buena Vista, once a dav.
2. Gostord, Blue-gum Fiat, Wyong Creek, and
Cooranbong, twice a week.
3. Cooranbong and Wallsend. three times a week.
4. Newcastle Wharf, Post Office, and Railway
Terminus, twice or oftener daily.
5 Newcastle and Stockton, twice or oftener
daily.
6. Wallsend and Winding Creek (Freshwater
Creek), three times a week.
7. Raymond Terrace and Nelson's Plains, six
times a week.
8 -BuWidelah and Upper Myall River, twice a
9. Larry’s Flat, Firefly Creek, Clarkson’s Cross-
mg, and Forster, twice or thrice a week.
10. Ha .vke s Nest and Nelson’s Bay. twice a week,
xl. Gloucester, Barrington, and Copeland North,
six times a week.
12. Barrington and Rawdon Vale, twice a week.
13. laree and Wingham, via Woolla Woolla, sir
times a week.
w* wi D^u au an d Cedar Party Creek, twice a week,
I°. Wingham, Dingo Creek, and Marlee, three
times a week.
19. Cundletown and Landsdown, twice a week.
17. Camden Haven Punt, Camden Haven, and.
Laurieton, three times a week.
18. Port Macquarie, Wanohope, Huntingdon, and
the junction of the Ellenborough and Hast-
m Jr ng ® slver».5 lver ». three times a week.
J - eBt Kempsey and Corangula, once a week.
Boat Harbour and Never Ntver, once a week,
Ofesford and Lostook, three times a week.
32. Clarence Town and Glen William, six times a
week.
23. Dungog and Monkerai, once a week.
34. Bendolba and Underbank, three times a week,
20. Monkerai and Langworthy’s, twice a week.
*36. West Maitland, Abergiasslyn, Rosebrook,
Lamb a Creek, and Elderslie, calling at Hills-
borough, Irishtown, and Stanhope, twice a.
week.
37. Railway Station and Post Office, Loohinvar,
twice or oftener daily.
38. Branxton, Rothbury, and Pokolbln, three
times a week.
Branxton and Elderslie, twic> a week,
30. Railway Station and Post Office, Singleton,
twice or oftener dally. *
31. Singleton and Rix’s Creek, twice a week.
fFlalnsand Doyle’s Creek, twice a week.
33. Glennie s Creek and Camberwell, once or
oftener dally.
34. Muswellbrook and Kayuga, three times a
week.
35. Muswellbrook and Dunbar’s Creek, twice a
week.
36. Kerrabee, Bylong, and Wollar, twice a week.
37. Caseins, Uarbry, and Denison Town, via
Lamb's, O'Malley’s, and “Piper’s Hotel,”
twice a week.
38. Cassilis and Wollar, once a week.
39. Denison Town, Boiaro, and Cobbora, twice a
week.
40. Scone, Gundy, and Moonan Brook, twice a
week,
41. Scone and Woodlands, via Margin’s and Thorn-
th waite, once a week.
42. Railway Station, Murrurundi, and Post Offices,
Haydonton and Murrurundi, twice or
oftener dally.
43 Willow Tree, Glass’on, Blackvllle, Yarraman,
Bundella, and Tambar Springs, three times a
week.
44 Quirindl, Spring Ridge, and Goran Like, via
Abbotsley, twice a week.
45 Railway Station and Post Office, Qutpolly.
twice a week.
48. Railway Station and Post Office, Gunnedab,
twice or oftener daily,
47. Boggabrl and Maule's Creek (Coolah Station),
via Quest’s, Chamberland’s, Wolfe’s, Cllf-
63.
ford s, Carter s, Douse’s, Harvey's, Eather’a
[ Billyena, Cox’s Station, Fitzgerald’s, Leard’s,
Goldman’s, and Birreny, twice a week.
48, Boggabrl and Narrabri, by the old mail line,
once a week.
49 * B week br1 ’ Barney s P rin »s, and Manilla, once a
50. Mullaley, Tambar Springs, and Coolah, via
Bando, twice a week.
[5l. Narrabri, Wee Waa, Pllliga, and Walgett,
three times a week.
Narrabri and Cryan, via Clay’s, Gundemaine,
Lehane s, Coboroft’s, Barker’s, Hardy’s, Hol-
i and r a. Wrightman’s, Shanahan Walls, Shana-
han Halls, Power’s, Wyatt, Bacon, Mitchell.
Pallett, Topladunnah, Boolcarroll, J. Clark’s
Belson a, The Woodlands, Beiarbo, Nowley,
Moore s. Barren, Old Barren, Galara, and
Oonan (Capel’s), twice a week.
K * Wee Waa and Baradine, via Cuttabrl, Cubble,
1 angle, Gamble, Upper Curable, and Gib-
bean, once a week.
04. Shanahan’s (on the Narrabri and Cyran mall
line), Plan Creek, and Pllliga, via Nowland’s,
Holcombe s. Thompson’?, 800 800, Pine
Grove,[Knight’s, Bussell’s, Bennett’s, Powell’s
Dempsey s, Murphy’s, and Bucklebone, once
a week.
55. Walgett, Brewarrlna, and Bourke, via Gingl,
Ulah, Milrea, and Boorooma, calling at
and Brewan, twice a week.
55. Walgett, Collarenebri, and Mogil Mogil, via
Earle Earle, Manilla(Mercadool Homestead),
Broomfield's, Bundabaruna, and Brasen’s,
twice a week.
57. Walgett, Angledool, Currawilllnghl, Goo-
dooga, and Brenda (Tate’s Station, Culgoa
River), via Gideon’s Inn,” Forrester’s, on
the Bar won and Narran Rivers, and Thor-
old, on Bokhara River, once a week. (Con-
tractor to travel between Currawillinghl and
Goodooga, on south side of the Boklra and
Biree Rivers, via the “ Finger Post Inn,” and
Boyle’s Station.)
58. Collarenebri, on the Barwon, and Angledool,
on f be Narran River, via the 60-mile track
En Bunumbral, once a week.
SJ. Millie, New Oriel, and Mogil Mogil, via Bunna
Bunna, Munyga, Oriel, Buleorl, Colleytudula,
Merriwynebone, Pockataroo, Collymungle,
and Werrlbllli, twice a week.
»V Qe w dr^ wn - See supplementary notice.
61. Mogil Mogil and Mungindl, via Caidmurra
and Wirrah, twice a week.
63. Moree, Pallamallawa, and Warlalda, via 800-
Jooroo, and up the north bank of the Big
River, past Tareelari, crossing it at Booloo-
roo, twice a week.
Moree, Garah, and Mungindi, viaßogree, Mid-
kin, Welbon, Cow Vale, Benarba, and Yar-
rawa, twice a week.
64. Moree and Keytah, via Milburndale, Lucksall,
Barlow s and Prairie, Dale, once a week.
65. Railway Platform, Duri, and Goonoo Goonoo,
six times a week.
66* Ra«way Station, West Tamworth, and Post
Oinces, West Tamworth and Tamworth, twice
or often er dally.
67. Tamworth, Somerton, Carroll, and Gunnedah.
three times a week.
6S * T g“l°K r „ th ’^ u M ani Ha. Upper Manilla
b kadah f Blngera, and Warialda,
week* ar^er S| Bingrera, six times a
69. Cobbadah, Eulourie, and Moree, via Crawley’s
Station, Currangandi, Uiiembarella, Rocky
Creek, Terry-hi-hi, Bundoowithlldi, Thos.
Pitmans, John P. Carrlgan's, Owen E. Car-
rigan s, and Edwin Harris’s, once a week.
'd. Plain, Rob Roy, and Inverell
71. Warlalda, Boggahilla, and Goondiwindi, via
Oregon, Albson s. Old Gunyerwarlldi, New
Gunyerwarildl, Yalarol, Toolooma, Copper-
marenbfilen, and the several selections on
the Whalan water-course, between Copper-
and Boggabilia, once or twice a
Walcha and Yarrowitch, via Ohio, Europam-
bpla. Waterloo, Tiara, and Tia, once a week.
If* Ura^lla and Rocky River, three times a week.
74. Bundarra and Barraba, once a week.
7j. Railway Station and Post Office, Armidale,
twice or oftener daily,
76 * tti 6 ’ Hillgrove, Wollomombi, South
d Graft p°. via Gara and Major
Parke s Stations, twice a week. (Contractor
to Uavel alternately via Skinner’s Creek,
Blaxland s Plat, and Deadman’s Creek.)
77. Armidale and Puddledock, once a week.
78. Glen Innes, Beaufort, Clarevaulx, Wellin-
eroye. Nullamanns, and Inverell. via King’s
Plains, Fevers SluepStation, A. M-Leod’s,
and Brown’s, twice a week, or;
79. Glen Innes, Beaufort, Clarevaulx, Wellin-
grove, Nullamanna, and Inverell, via King’s
Plains, Sheep Station. Pindari, A.
an , od s ’ Brown’S, twice a week.
80. Glen Innes, Shannon Vale, Bald Nob. Dalmor-
ton, South Grafton, and Grafton, via Sham-
bigne, Buccarumbl, Broad Meadows, Newton
0 , B°yd, and Big Hill, twice a week.
81. Inverell, Goomoorah, Bukkulla, Ashford, and
Bo . D |saw, via Byron, Dinton Vale, Bdgerton,
Frazer 'a Creek, t w Ice a week.
Tenterfleld, WRlson’s Downfall, Sugarloaf
Ky oomba (Queensland), and
Stanthorpe (Queensland), six times a week,
& trac , t 0 terminate on the opening of the
Railway line in New South Wales or Queens-
land as may be required.)
83. Tenterfleld, Stelnbrook, Tlmbarra, Lionsville,
Copmanhurst, Whiteman Creek, and Grafton.
twlceaweJk. 1^ Melara ’ and Yu, * ilbar ’
84. Drak e. Lunatic Reefs, and Pretty Gully, once
qe m a J v^ ek ’ one ye “ r only.
85 ' week™’ Murra^an? ’ and Dawrence, twice a
86, Tabulam, Tooloom, Acacia Creek, and Klllar-
lend), via Bunalbo, Kangaroo
y ta , tlon . New Koreelah, Old
Koreemh, Lamb s Selection, Robertson’s Saw-
Q _ w^?? 8 ’ and Spring Creek, twice a week.
87 - 3 Downfall and -A-mosfleld, three times
88 • Dal ™en (Queensland) and Maryland, six times
89 ’ C {mka Ce ft^d iVe v tt l t Ha merB and , PoBt offlceB -
- ana iamba, as required to mppr
steamers that arrive and depart, or that pass
a ? d d °wo the river; and to and f?om
. Offices, lluka and Yamba. twice a wppir
90 * C is^H C T C i JKi^ er Steamers and Post Olflce, Mar-
tha?*!. J-J and ’ as required to meet steamers
that arrive and depart, or that pass up and
down the river, for one year only.
ft Lbm ColdBtrea - twice a ™ek.
ut H imarra and Upper Coldstream, twice a week,
flfi” ri South F a te, twice a week.
96 a week Grafton and Gerrymberryn, twice a
97. South Woodburn. Swan Bay. Bungawalhin
lf Wyraßab ' 6und nrlmba, and Liaraore,’!
a week, by ,steam launch, including
15a?Se ,teSSe°s." a, ' Bbet '’ een ,be “ ° moo '
B »eW. b S, g k S; aiS&Sf
via Green s, twice a week by steam launch’
Jh£a Udl ffl r the porterage of mails between
these offices and steamers.
99. Casino and TJnumgar, once a week,
100, Casino and Tabulam, via Wooroowoolvin
mi T& ba r ant l Sandiland, once a week! g 1
10L L week ’ Goolmanßar ’ and Nimbln, once a
102 Goolmangar and Jlggi, once a week
103 ’ T a , we“k. Cadg ® U Scrub > aQd Brunswick,
104. Ballina and Upper North Creek, once a week.
Suburban Roads.
!. Genera! Post Office. Sydney, and the Post
Offices, Newtown. Macdon ‘ldcowo.St: Peter’f
and uempe, twelve times a week. L ’ iecers '
3. Circular Quay, Sydney, and Post;Office Wat-
s Jn s Bay, twelve times a week. ’
3. General Post Office, Sydney, and Post Offices
Drummoyne, Gladesville, and Ryde. twio^a
4. Railway Station, Kogarah, and Post Oiiinoa
Kogarahand Wonlora, twice a day. 6 Ollloes *
JAMES NORTON.
72,
83,
98.


A BOON TO THOUSANDS!
\lanhood and Vigour of Youth
Restored in Four Weeks
DR. RICORDS
ESSENCE OF LIFE
R.ftores manhood to the most shattered and debilitated con
ititution from whatever cause arising, in FOUR WEEKS,
Failure is impossible if taken according to the printed di-
rections, which are very simple, and require no restraint or
hindrance from business.
This invaluable remedy affords relief, and permanently
cures all who suffer wasting and withering of the nerves and
muscular tissues, Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Disturbed
Sleep, Trembling Sensations, Dizziness, Spermatorrhoea, all
Urinary Deposits, which cause incapacity and degeneracy,
total and partial prostration, and every other exhaustive de-
rangement of the system ; regenerating all the important
elements of the human frame, and enabling man to fulfil his
most sacred obligations.
In cases at iss., or four quantities in one for 365.; if by
coach, *s. fid. extra.
NATURE’S GREAT REMEDY!
DR. RICORDS
SANATIVE PILLS
For strengthening the system, purifying the blood, regulating
the bowels, and removing all vitiated humours, bilious and
Liver Complaints, Rheumatism, Gout, Scorbutic Affections,
Costiveness, Skin Eruptions, and all diseases of the nervous
system. This never-failing remedy affords at once a new
lease of life to the sickly and aged of both sexes, imnartiaf
a beautiful and clear complexion, a sure sign of health,
strength, and vigour. Price, as. ;hy post, ad. extra.
AGENTS FOR SYDNEY I
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 QOPLBVRX STREET,
Qkb Door f*om Georgs Street Sovtm,
And may be had of most Chemists. 4
Parcels packed securely and free from observation, sent to
Queensland, New Zealand, or any part of the Australian
Colonies, on receipt of Post Office Order or Stamps.
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
Lost Vitality, &C.-A simple and positive
means of Self-Cure, by an eminent
French Hospital Physician. Sent Free
Medico, P.O. Box 7Q6. Sydney.
mcß
or
life
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses maybe
alleviated and cured, Those who doubt this should pur-
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or . Preservation. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health mav be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
nil acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
2U years is suck probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. SOOpages, bound in beautiful French eloth
lull gilt; guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
m !-Y other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
Will ho refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
. T he Science of Life should be read by the vonner for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all. —London Lancet.
Address the World's Dispensary Medical As- 11P* A I
sociation, or Dr. W. R. Parker, No. 69 Hunter HL A L
■Street, Sydney, N.S.W. The author may TLI \ZO f" I F
"be consulted on all diseases requiriner I |1 l uLLr
skill, secrecy, and experience.
MOULTON'S
COMPLAINT positively cured by MUCLTON’S
FRUIT I’ILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and n<
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cun
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS
PERSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from toe
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit)
lacy are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price Is. 3*l.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
Marshalls
ONIC; NiEßVilir
RIQIBTIHED.
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CUKE for Ner-
youb and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, Loss of Vital Power, &c. By Its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By Its richness in phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MAKS HALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, is. 6d., or 265. a case.
Bole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS,‘M.P.B.
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists. l’ofi and
106 Market-street, near Hyde Park, Sydney, and
Clmi,ur ■ au • T ’ NO BDRBTI.
£1 A tJ 1 o N .
IMPORTANT NOTICE to THE PUBLIC.
In consequence of an attest to substitute in-
ferior and spurious articles for “ Dr. Scott’s Elec-
tric, ’’ the Pall Mall Electric Association. 51, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, desire to caution the public
against purchasing any counterfeit of the follow-
ing goods “ Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets, Dr.
Scott’s Electric Belts, Dr. scotfs Electric Hair,
Flesh, or Tooth Brushes, Dr. Scott’s Galvanic
Generators, and Dr. Scott’s Electric Insoles/
Every genuine article bears the word “ Electric”
and the name of Dr. Scott, as also docs the box
containing same. The extent of our trade, and the
marked appreciation of the public having induced
certain parties to manufacture a line of worthless
goods, having something of the general form and
external appearance of ours, and variously styled
“Magneto—Electric or Electric Magnetic,”
we respectfully ask that parties who have been
influenced by the many testimonials we publish,
all of which are strictly genuine, or the universal
reputation of our goods, to give electricity a
trial, will see that the name of Dr. Scott and the
word “ Electric” appear on every article purchased.
In addition to this, we have recently registered a
new trade mark—an oval label with our local
address, “Pall Mall Electric Association, 54, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, N.S.W,” in marginal lines,
encircling the device of a mailed hand holding a
group of thunderbolts,
61E
V
.*
£
6
*
$
St-
as we are the only parties in Australia importing
these goods direct from Dr. Scott, and are prepared
to guaiantee the genuineness of every article
bearing this label, we advise purchasers to see
personally that this trade mark invariably appears
on any and every Electric Corset, Belt, Insole,
Generator, Hair, E'lesh, or Tooth Brush, they may
desire to purchase. This borne In mind, much
vexation and disappointmt nt will be saved; and
we respectfully request that any person who has
been Induced to buy any of those Imitations under
the Impression that they were Dr. Scott's Electric,
will at once communicate with us.
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by; he
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continenta
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
id
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &o., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing oases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
No. 1
No. 3
No. 3
No. 6
Electric Belts..
s. d.
..6 6
... 8 6
.. 10 6
.. 15 0
.. 15 0
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size ol
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece of common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
am ran,
54 Hargareft-stroot,
SYDNEY.
P.O.Box&I.
II O D I N Ip
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
Q. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms:—JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don; THOS. BLAND & SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHAS. OSBORNE &
CO., London.
G. B. M. is also AGENT for the eminent firm of
BCBBY & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, Ac., and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 GBorge.st.p Sydney,
Where Inspection is Invited.
RAW VASELINE.
B
22
A
FOR Softening and Preserving Horses’ Hoofs.
Kills parasites, and prevents their growth,
As a Leather Preservative It is Invaluable—pre-
vents It cracking, and renders It waterproof.
From Its anti-corrcslve qualities, uneqalled as a
metal protector, and for keeping in perfect order
Firearms, Machines, &c. It is the sole material
used for the above purposes in the Austrian and
German armies. Sold by all Saddlers and Store-
keepers.
SOLE AGENTS:
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
128 York-street, Sydney.
ASTLE XSOII/s
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
'SYDNEY:
•I M PORTtRSUT At LTHE
-NEWEST-SHAPES.
r
Champagne
Hnldslock A Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WIN* MERCHANTS
SAMUEL RICHARDS to Co., London.
'ott Aimntf for Heujsiecb & Co. Heims
E USB [PBMELL'S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADB FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE la VERY LOW. and the QUALITY
IB GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
SSI Ceorire-atreet, Sydney.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1889.
INCORPORATED BT ACT or PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital SBOO.OW
Reserve Fund *160,000
Directors:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.0.M.G., Chairm
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.G.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gldiey King, M.L.O,
C. Holies ton, Esq., C.M.Q.
Auditors:
Jas. Seroggle, Esq. I Hon. H. B. Cohen, Me
General Manager;
F. A. A. Wilson.
Sborbtabt:
Hector Allen,
Branches in Nbw South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyngan
Dourke, Manly, Byerook, and Parramatta,
Branch in Queensland ;
Brisbane.
London Branch : 168 Leadenhall-steeet.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G 1 Geo. H. Alexander. Bso.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This hank transacts all usual Banking and Flnan
olal Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted dally.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo.
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
NEUSTADT and W..
COMPLETE
FURNISHERS,
39. 154. 156. A 158 OXFORD-ST
SYDNEY.
MF“ HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
IL Either for Cash or Tim Pathbnt.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND AU
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers
Alex. Borthwick.
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c.
G-eorg-e-st., S3rc3.an.e3r,
Glass,
MM
Mm
■a
m
■'A
r
Hi
DR. O CONNELL,
62 Castlereagh Street,
IsT.S.'W'.
AEEGULAE GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat*
ment, and pure riledicinfea irisui'6 speedy aha pet*
manfent biirhsin all cases, ch rdh id*
fetciri and special diseases,
DR> O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or hy post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent hy post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects Ne-
rvousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Pace, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
safe „,lprivate, list K« Med C "“
Pimples, Blotches .Eruptions
„ ,ft is self-evitlent that a physician paying particular attention to a class of oases attains great skill
this P ote office m S Aus r t?Bi C ‘ 1C w) a11 OVer knowing, this, frequently recommend cases to
°„ e m Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
W W ff CoUl | tneS *2£ e us . ecL , On account of the great number of cases applyingf the
are kept low often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and set a
aßd^ess 3,1111 perfect hfe cure * that 18 the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call dh or I
' DOCTOR J. O CONNELL, ®
52 Castlereajfh street (ground floor), Sydne^,
co
<-Ji
r JO
:ea
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsA-passed
Crispness distinguish Wilson's Ame
rican “ Extra Toast ” BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert
nothing equals them. Delicious with’
milk, superb with wine, and incomnarlhla
with coffee or cheese. w ®
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agent?,
74 ODSBM ftrfWißT, gypNßy.


The Queensland Government set apart a
plaoe across the harbour up at Cooktown for some
Chinese affected with leprosy. Stringent regula-
tions were devised to prevent all intercourse be-
tween the lepers and the townspeople. However,
the authorities appear to have no objection to
the lepers communicating with the local abor-
igines. A Chinese leper is company quite good
enough for a blaokfellow.
Wolfe’s Schnapps strengthens and braces
up the system against disease. Be sure you ob-
tain Wolfe’s. .
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a great relief in
Rheumatism, infinitely superior to brandy or
whisky.
Inaction of the Kidneys and Urinary
organs causes the worst of diseases which Ameri-
can Co’s Hop Bitters cures. Read.
The popularity and enormous sales of
Wolfe’s Schnapps testify its intrinsic merits.
Universal [use and popular approval have
indissolubly established the fame of Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News-
naper Ot. him It 31), U rltt-at, Sydney, HAW,
WHY THE REPUBLIC IS COMING.
A LINE FOR THE IMPERIALIS IS OF
AUSTRALIA.
The Irish are compelled to pay their Lord
Chancellor (who is elected by England) £BOOO
a year. When the hard-worked Engllsh-Irish
Lord Chancellor goes out of office by the defeat of
his party, he becomes entitled to a life-pension of
£4OOO a year at the expense of the Irish taxpayer.
A montb’or two ago Lord Chancellor Sullivan died,
whereupon the Irish Attorney-General was duly
promoted to the vacant £BOOO. He had held the
post for about five weeks when the Tories came
into office and landed Mr. Gibson into Mr. Naish’s
post. For these five weeks’ work Mr. Naish is to
receive for the remainder of his natural life a pen-
sion of £4OOO a year. He is now 43 years of age,
and if he lives to be three-score years and ten, he
will have pocketed from the taxes of Ireland the
sum of £lOB,OOO for having held a Dublin Castle
post during a period of 33 days. But this is not
all. The new Lord Chancellor, Gibson, will only
hold the post until the general election in Novem-
ber drives his party and himself from power.
He will retire on a pension of £4OOO also, and, as
he is only 48 years old, he will receive,
should he survive the laborious work of the next
couple of months, for the coming 34 years, the
sum of £96 000 out of the pockets of Irish tax-
payers. Now, just listen to this little sum in
Dublin Castle party arithmetic: Naish and Gibson,
when the latter retires from office, will have
worked 190 days altogether at the duties of Irish
Lord Chancellor, at about the rate of, say, five
hohrs per day, and for these 950 hours judicial
labour they will draw from the taxes of the Irish
people pensions the capitalised value of which
amounts to the astouuding figure of £304,000. But
worse remains behind. An ex-Tory Lord Chan-
cellor, Dr. Ball, has been drawing his £4OOO a year
since the Conservatives were last in power. He is
but 61 years of age, and is ready and willing to ex-
change his £4OOO pension for the £BOOO salary by re-
suming the position he once held, and for the dis-
charge of the duties of which he possesses legal
qualifications which a second-rate, out-of-practice
lawyer like Gibson can have no pretensions to what-
ever. Why is he not called back ? Simply because
Gibson’s English Tory friends want the late hon.
and learned member for Dublin University to ob-
tain a pension of £4OOO a year for a few months’
retention of office, which will enable him to serve
them all the more loyally and efficiently in next
Parliament in obstructing the cause of the indus-
trial classes In Great Britain and Ireland. The
above is out from a speech delivered in London
the other day by Michael Davitt, the great man
whom the aristocracy of England immured in a
dungeon for 15 years, aqd who has emerged with
heart unbroken, to resume his life-battle in the
cause of right and freedom. The above extract,
and what now follows, may enable the thousands
of Australian-born men and women to whom The
Bulletin goes every week—the Australian-born
parents of those who will rule this country when
the toadies who are trying to foist upon New
South Wales the beginnings of a hateful Im-
perialism, shall have passed from place and from
memory—to form some small estimate of the
sooundrelism of the privileged classes who now
have their fingers on Labour’s windpipe. “ Work-
ing men of London 1 ” continued Davitt,
“I want you to remember these facts and ponder
over them, while I am directing your attention to
some matters in your own country. The commer-
cial and industrial greatness of England is mainly
due to its coal-seams, without which manufactur-
ing machinery could not well be propelled. The
men who work these coal mines are, therefore,
benefactors to their country. They risk their
lives in bringing to the fuel without
which your homes would be cheerless, and Eng-
land but an insignificant member of the family of
nations. Since 1861, over 40,000 of these brave and
industrious miners have lost their lives in the coal
pits of Great Britain, not counting the tens of
thousands who have been maimed and crippled
for life. The other day in Lancashire, 150 more
were sacrificed in this perilous occupation. Will
the helpless widows and orphans who have been
deprived of their bread by this disaster become
entitled to pensions from the State for the loss of
those who have sacrificed their lives for indus-
try and their country? And, if not, why not?
Two Irish lawyers, for the labour of 950 hours,
may receive in pensions an amount of public
money which if distributed among the 150 families
of the dead Lancashire miners would provide
them with a sum of over £l3OO each with which to
face the terrible future. But then the two Irish
lawyers are the tools of class-rule In Ireland, and
are also supporters of that charming system of
society which is based upon the robbery and
degiadation of labour, and they are consequently
of far more value in the estimation of your land-
lord and capitalist legislators than :150 Lancashire
miners who sacrificed their lives in producing
your coal. Therefore the daughters of these dead
miners may be driven to prostitution on your
streets, and their sons to crime through poverty,
while Naish and Gibson take their £4OOO a year
from the public purse, and Christian England-
humane, benevolent England—will fall to see any-
thing morally or socially wrong in the damnable
and infamous injustice that is thus perpetrated.
Working men, how long are you going to
tolerate infamies of this kind? How long are
you going to be humbugged about England’s
greatness and all that sort of thing, while your
paupers can be counted by the million and your
workhouses are full of broken-down labourers
and artisans, the victims of au unjust landlord and
capitalistic system of wc-l.h distribution? Is it
not time that the industrial masses of these conn*
tries asked themselves a few common-sense ques-
tions as to rights, the natural and social, of those
without whom neither wealth nor power could
belong to England—viz., the producing classes ?
Is It not true that the land of the country belongs
by right to Its people, and not to a section thereof?
Is it not equally tru ) that such land receives Its
value from the wants and industrial pursuits of
the community alone, and that in virtue of this
double right the land of England should be ad-
ministered for the benefit of its entire people in-
stead of leaving its ownership and its revenue at
the disposal of a class which, among other kindred
acts of injustice, drives English working men to
the necessity of parochial medical relief, and then
deprives them of the tights of citizenship ?
[The latter remark was an allusion to the fact
that the House of Lords has refused to allow any
elector to vote if he has accepted free medical
relief from the parish doctor.— Eh. B ]
The Homicide Law In N.S.W.—A Suggestion to Legislators.
GHOST op the LATE MR. JOUNS to jurors in the Canterbury murder [?]): “SO YOU’RE GOING TO FIND 'EM GUILTY WITH A RECOMMENDATION TO MERCY. DON'T
YOU. THAT’S HOW THEY HAD ME.”
VERDICT: MANSLAUGHTER ONLY.
