

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 8.—No. 116 —Now Sorlei.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 1, 1885.
Frioo—64.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 1, 1885.
Grant and Democracy.
In the death of Grant the world has lost one
of its greatest soldiers, if not one of its
greatest men. The distinction is necessary,
for, so far from great
soldiers being always
great men, the con-
trary is more fre-
quently the case.
Marlborough was
one of the greatest
scoundrels of his day
jn England. In friend-
ship, private or na-
tional, Frederick was
a fraud, who swore
eternal friendship to
Austria while prepar-
ing to seize some of
her possessions, and
had Yoltaibe’s niece
pulled through the
mud because Francois
Marie hinted that His
Majesty’s Frenchrerse
would adorn a dirty-
clothes-basket. Under
the recent lights
thrown upon Napo-
leon’s career, his char-
acter and aspirations
appear treacherous
and inhuman, while,
as lor Wellington,
whatever he was in
Spain, he was com-
pletely hors de combat
in the Cabinet. But,
in Grant’s case, if the
President was not so
successful as the Gen-
eral,at least he evinced
none of the treachery,
meanness, or inepii-
tude which charac-
terized the famous
soldiers we have
named.
* • ♦
Observe the differ-
ence between a really
great man and one
made so by circum-
stances. In any coun-
try, or at any period,
Shakespeare would
have been great. His
genius was his own —
personal, heaven-sen!.
Born a Frenchman,
Europe would have
listened while he sung,
not of the prowess of
our Edwards and
Hknrts, but of theirs.
As a Spaniard, h e
would have immortal-
ised Ferdinand and
Philip. If Charles,
on the contrary, had
not insisted on ship
money, nor tried to
seize recalcitrant re-
presentatives, Crom-
well w ould have lived
and died a Gon-fear-
ing and fairly honest
brewer—a combina-
tion not easily found
in these days. Had
Louis met the sans-
onJottcs with grape in-
stead of gab, Napo-
leon might have risen
to be Major of Brigade, il he did not throw
up arms in disgust, and return to Corsica to
earn a precarious living in his father’s busi-
ness. Circumstances made these men. It
was so with Grant. Had the American re-
bellion broken out twenty years sooner, or
twenty years later, or not at all, his talents
would have been solely directed to improve-
ments in the leather-cutting business. We
say this not to detract from Grant’s un-
doubted military genius, but to show that in
estimating a man’s position in the temple of
fame, his surroundings and opportunities
should never be lost sight of. It may, of
course, be said that not one man in a thous-
and is lit to take advantage of great oppor-
tunities, when they do arrive. True. Yet
it is equally true that to not one in a thou-
sand do such opportunities ever come.
♦ • *
But it is not so much to follow Grant’s
successful career through ten stormy years
of military and civil service that we write.
His performances are known to his country-
men and to the world—are preserved in
numerous books, aud fill columns in thou-
sands of newspapers. Our object is to
show the fundamental difference between
the democracy he saved and led, and that
which superficial men are endeavour,
ing to impose upon Australia. “Between
democratic ideas and the aristocratic adjust-
ments of society,” says George, “there is
an irreconcilable conflict.” Yet there are
Australian statesmen who are so blind to
what is passing before them in Europe and
iu the Great Western Republic, as to en-
deavour to engraft on these young de-
mocracies of the South the trumpery
badges and usages
rapidly falling into
derision in older coun-
tries. Calling them-
selves Demc crats, they
have missed the true
spirit of democracy.
Instead of taking as
their model the demo-
cracy of America with
its equality, its simpli-
city, and its unosten-
tatiousness, they pine
for the aristocratic in-
stitutions of Biitain
with their inequality,
heredity and gorge-
ousness, their trum-
pery titles and high-
bred effeminacy, their
social castes aud be-
wigged flunkeys. This
is shown in many
ways. Let. u? glance at
a few. Now South
Wales and Victoria
possess a population of
nearly a million each.
Yet their highest exe-
cutive officers have to
be sent to them from
a country 12,000 miles
away. Those officers
may have been serving
the British public in
Russia or Turkey till
they grew old and de-
crepit. But they are
good enough for us.
They know nothing
about us, our mauners,
or our ways — hold
them, indeed, in con-
tempt. But we pay
them, they pocket the
moiey, and go home
to laugh. This system
is considered a model
of political foresight.
The men sent may not
have the brain of
fairly-iutel hod-
men, but, being sup-
posed to have no po-
litical leanings, they
will hold the balance
more evenly between
c ntending parties
l ban any colonial
statesman could. This
is the assumption. It
never seems to strike
the able people who
uphold and advocate
this insulting system
that every American
State elects its own
Governor, that some
of those States are
more populous than
all Australasia, and
that the Union itself,
with 6 1 ) millions of
people, elects its own
Chief Magistrate. If
it is necessary for a
man to come 12,000
miles to see fair play,
then Australian states*
men are irremediably corrupt.
♦ ■ ■
Take titles again. Titles are alien to the
THE LATE GENERAL ULYSSES 8. GRANT, EX-PRESIDENT OP THE UNITED STATES,


democratic spirit. They arose io barbarous
ages, and were generally the rewards of
successful murder cr knavery. They are
fast losing their significance even in the
countries where they arose. They are the
draff and offal of a rude age. No American
citizen is allowed to accept or bear one.
But every successful Australian pawnbroker
or publican spells through the list of “ birth-
day honours ” to see if the magic letters
have been glued to his name. As things go,
every retired tradesman who gives money
to a famine fund, or leaves for England to
feast Prince Tkck, or "carry on Gordon’s
work” among London Arabs, wi.I return
with the right to put a monosyllable before
his name and three or four isolated letters
after it. It is a dreary prospect, and can
only be met by an influential petition to
Her Majesty either to cut off the supply of
those honours and recall those already issued
or else raise every adult male in Australia
—omitting Chinese and Europeans thrice
convicted—to the dignity of K.C.M.G.—well-
conducted male children to be let in at half-
price as C.M.G.’s. We see nothing else for
it, but will be glad to receive other sugges-
tions. And this reminds us of a circumstance
which is said to have happened to a pro-
minent Australian during his American
tour. Arriving in what our cousins, in their
strange vocabulary, designate a “ one-horse
town,” he sent his card to the local editor
and followed a few yards behind. The
literary person read it, and a smile of sug-
gestive meaning and size look possession of
his intelligent features. Smiles, especially
when the features are large and flat, are like
the Evil One—easy to raise, but difficult to
lay. This one appeared to have securtd a
particularly Arm fooling, aud was not en-
tirely laid when the Australian tutored. He
saw and resented it. “ Do you mean to
insult me, sir?” he said. " No,” drawled the
other. "If there is any insult, it is you who
offered it. Coming from a presumably
Democratic country, just like this, you
should know better than present such cards
here. Keep them till your return, and then
add the remainder of the alphabet.”
♦ • •
As a further instance of (he wide gulf
separating the true Democracy of America
from the spurious article attempted to be
foisted upon Australia, let us consider the
political status of the men sent to govern us.
There must be in England hundreds of com-
moners with equal means, far more experi-
enced public lives, and quite as clean private
ones as any of the governors sent us - as our
coming one, for instanc?. Why were not
one of these chosen ? The answer is on the
surface. It was because English ftatemen
knew that nothing but a “lord” would
satisfy Australian flunkeyism. A commoner
is good enough to govern the British Em-
pire, but if a Mr. Jones or a Mr. Smith were
sent to govern us, there are few journa’s
from Hunter-street to the Darling that
would not scream at tho indignity, and
demand instead a senile "man of rank.’’
Lord Tomnoddy would be welcomed, while
Mill or Carlyle would be received with
disdain. Englishmen who are aware of this
abject deference to inherited rank, say plea-
sant and flattering things of us in public.
What they think in private it would per-
haps, be as well not to consider too curi-
ously. When the present generation shall
have passed away, and the historian of a
great federal Republic sits down to wiite of
"Australia before the separation,” ho will
find to meaner chapter than the one telling
how Australians ran after gew-gaws while
the rest of the world was discarding them.
• * *
Boletus return to Grant. Whether as
farmer, tanner, commander of twelve times
as many men as Wellington ever had
under his baton, or President of the freest
people in the world, his hearing and con-
duct were always characterised by the same
simplicity. While our own Monarch or her
numerous offspring could not travel over
an English or Scotch railway without
cavalry or infantry to receive them and
barriers to exclude their faithful subjects,
he moved about among his fellow- citizens as
one of themselves, unattended and unas-
suming. From his life and from the insti-
tutions of the great country he served so
well, Australians may learn many pregnant
lessons. Will they learn them ?
The One Dailey and the Two Walkers
Two recent actions of the NS.W. Attorney-General
are clearly illustrative of the odd views of impar-
tiality possessed by that official. Some weeks ago
a public speaker —Mr. Thomas Walker-cx
pressed bis intention of giving a lecture on capital
punishment, coupling with it the case of a felon
then under the death sentence for murderous
assault. The convict had been tried, found
guilty, and condemned, but his case had still to bo
finally considered by the Executive. Under these
circumstances it will be readily agreed that only
by twisting words out of their proper and obvious
meaning could the prisoner’s case be considered
mib-Judice. But, admitting that it could be so con-
sidered, the lecturer was willing to omit all allu-
sion to It. Still, even this would not satisfy Mr.
Dalley. Ho had his mind made up to stop a cer-
tain lecture on the death penalty, and the lecture
was stopped. It could not have been prohibited
legally, but the end was attained in a way as tor-
tuous as it was mean. Mr. Walker speaks every
Sunday night at the Theatre Koyal on a variety of
subjects. Some of these subjects are distasteful to
what Is, strangely enough, called the "religious
world.” Now, the licensing of theatres is In the
hands of the authorities, who can refuse, or sus-
pend, or withdraw these licenses almost at plea-
sure. So Mr. D alley, when he could not say to
Walker, boldly, “ Your Intended lecture is dis-
tinctly Illegal, and will be prevented by force if
you persist,” compassed just the same end—the
muzzling of the lecturer—hy warning the lessees
of the theatre that If they permitted the discourse
in question, they would have to look to their
license. On the arbitrariness of the whole pro-
ceeding it is difficult to speak with patience. Yet
so strong a bold has tne spirit of servility on the
Sydney Press that the matter was allowed to pass
almost without comment. The lecture was not
given, as the speaker rightly declined to
jeopardise the large amount of property that
would be sacrificed by its deliverance.
• • •
Let us now examine the Attorney-General’s
action in an affair in which his own sympathies
were concerned, A fine steamer belonging to the
A.S.N. Company was recently wrecked, and the
usual inquiry into the causes leading up to the
disaster was held. The captain—another Walker
—of the wrecked vessel was a prime favourite in
Australian waters. He was justly so. The case
came before the duly constituted Marine Board of
New South Wales, and the judgment was pro-
nounced on Tuesday, the 31st of July. The cap-
tain’s certificate was suspended for six months
But three days before the deliverance Of the find-
ing of this legally-appointed Board, and while the
whole matter was still suh juclice, Mr. D alley
expressed his determination to take the chair at a
meeting to express sympathy for the unlucky
sailor. If the first Walker’s attempt to deliver a
lecture on capital punishment was illegal in con-
nection with a case in which the prisoner's trial
was ended and sentence passed, what must be
thought of the Attorney-General’s resolution to
preside at a meeting of sympathy for an accused
whose case was not ended at ail ? If the course ol
justice was not likely to run smooth because one
Thomas Walker gave his opinion on banging,
was it likely to be more unruffled when the
Attorney-General of the colony ventilated his
determination to have his say in the other
Walker's case ? We must not be misunderst od.
We believe that Captain Walker of the Cahors
deserved all the sympathy he got. It Is against
Mr. Dalley s gross inconsistency we protest.
And Mr. Dalley showed by his remarks that he
had a sense of the inconsistency to which he was
lending himself, for when a friend suggested the
impropriety of attending at all he answered:—" It
had not occurred to me; hut the Instant that I dis-
covered that the occupation of office interfered
with the most public and unreserved expression of
sympathy with misfortune in any form I should
get rid of the difficulty by resigning my office.’’
He attended the meeting—he did not resign his
cffice. His colleague, the Hon. Mr. Dibbs, fol-
lowed in bis wake—he attended and did not resign.
And if it should further be said that there was no
life lost in the shipwreck the matter is not mended.
There was no life lost in the case to which the lec-
turer was about to refer. Had there been one or a
dezm lives lost on the Cahors Mr. Dalley might
have had to file a criminal indictment against jthe
very man at the meeting in whose favour he pie-
sldod. He should not, under the ciroum. taioes.have
condemned one member of this highlj -in creating
Walker family, nor sympathised with the other.
The proper course to pursue would cave been to
Jet both severely alone. But it merely shows the
difficulty of getting even the most honourable
men to act fairly when their social, or religious*
or political prejudices are involved. We see the
same in Victoria, where Mr. Bebry— a statesman
who appears bent on forcing on the country the
ascetic moral canons which have so notoriously
shaped his own life—has entered a crusade against
barmaids. With Berry pounding at barmaids,
and Dalley at Freethought and Its exponents,
there is a gloomy future before the two leading
colonies. Yet it would be safe to say that bar-
maids and latitudinarlaBism will be strong and
captivating when Messrs. Berry and Dalley
have been resolved into their component atoms,
and are busily entering into new protoplasmic
combinations to assist, p.erhaps, In nurturing the
very sceptics and sirens they, on earth, so much
despised.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Golden Calf.
The memory of Sir George Wigram Allen,
whose remains were deposited in the Rookwood
Cemetery on the afternoon of last Saturday, has
been wept over in lugubrious periods by the S. M.
Herald, and sobbed over in epithets of grue-
some Greek by its blind satellite, the Echo. Were
this concurrence in wet woe the honest tribute of
personal affection towards the ashes of the dead,
we would not be found standing, defending
national honour and national example, beside the
Gate of Tears. The words rained round the
memory the Herald means to bo a lesson. The
life lived and ended it means to be a model. We
ask, what signal virtues, what heroic actions,
what national benefactions stand to the credit of
this dead man ? There is no disturbance of the
pulse of the time in consequence of his departure.
To the days that are his public influence was
nought. In the mental arena his death created no
vacancy. But previously ? He sat as Speaker of
the Legislative Assembly for eight years, and with
such effect that he was removed from the chair in
1883, to the great satisfaction of the majority of the
members. They had sickened of bis air, patronis-
ing and offensive, and destitute of that strength
or brilliance which makes men condone grave
faults of manner. Whether as a nominee in the
Council, or as a member of the Lower House, heas-
a jclated himself actively with no question that car-
ried popular rights to a higher level. H e was known
to the public as a respectable attorney of over 40
years’ standing, who, in his profession, had done
remarkably well for himself. The Echo lends Its
sweet approval to a suggested comparison between
him and William Augustine Duncan. In no
way can the men be bracketed. Duncan fought
battles tor rights and liberties now prostituted by
Press Toadies. When he died the Herald did not
profusely spill its periods, nor did the Echo groan
its Greek. But it is a fld Sir Wigram was an “ emi-
nently charitable man.” When such specious
generalities were thrown about, the Napoleonic
query used to be, “What has he done?” An
eminently charitable man I What is charity? Is
its eminence reached by the giving away moieties
of superfluities? Sir Wigram died with close on
half a million of money. Were there not
poor in Sydney, wayworn outcasts, within
a rifle-shot of his Texteth palace? Can
eminence in charitable actions to reached
without self-sacrifice, without self-mortification,
without giving away something o:.e badly wants
for oneself? Is not tho question answered by a
venerable narrative about a rich man’s offering
and a widow’s mite 1 Had the Herald haa a
hand in the writing of the S nflptures that widow
would never have been heard of, but the rich man
would hive had a chapter in leaded type all to
himself toadying to the eminence of bis charity.
Why, Preacher Cocks, an employd of oec of the
large firms in this city, stands on a h'ghor emin-
ence. He preaches temperance in the Domain,
and gets spat upon by larrikins. He, without
payment, wheels about a paralysed man, who
otherwise would seldom breathe fr« sh air. He give?
away to the needy every penny of his wages outside
his bare support. When Preacher Cocks dies a
friend who wants to see the event recorded in the
Hehald will have to pay for it as an advertise-
ment. What is this? How dare these people talk
of charity, eminent or otherwise ? They put in
here that dir Wigram subscribed £50 towards the
Badham Memorial Fund. A hollow,hollow life;
a cruel,' cruel Destiny holding it as it spins
along I Badham the man with the brain through
* hose chambers walked the ghosts of the old dead
gods; the man with the eyes that glowed with the
light In which Apollo was conceived and the se a
and the sky grew alive with ideals of love and of
power; Badham, whose feet were an honour to
our shores, whose ashes are a national heritage;
Badham, who, even when straitened, had always
ahelplcghand for the struggling student and a
share of his little for the needy scholar; Badham,
whose width and depth of lore are better known
and appreciated among Greek scholars in E-gland
and in Germany than here, where his dust is lying;
Badham— the Kov. Dr. Charles BADHAM-did
not leave, when called away to the sages he
dreamed of, asuperabundanco of good things for
his family, and lo, now, down the hills of the world
come the heavy-browed men with their bags of
copper, and £50 given to the family of the great
scholar is set up as the figure-head of a claim on
a reputation for “-eminent charity”! DuU f
stupid, purblind, blundering advocates of a ban
cause! But now we come to a main secret of this
toady laudation. The Echo says of its idol:—"Hie
delight was to administer, but without a scrap of
ostentation, to the enjoyment of all who came
amongst us as strangers, whose rank or distinction
seemed to withdraw them from the range of or-
dinary middle-class hospitalities.” We thus
see that, according to the Echo, Sir Wigram
was fully qualified for a front place In
Thackeray s “ Book of Snobs.” An artist
might make a striking picture out of this—Sir
Wigram, the rich Sydney Attorney, administering
to the enjoyment of those “ whese rank or distinc-
tion raised them above the range of ordinary
middle-class hospitality,” and the little Echo on
the mat rubbing its skinny bands with delight at
" the eminent charity P But we haven't time to
tear these toadying scribes to shreds. There
arises before us a vision of the direct incentive to
all this adultation and adoration. Sir Wigram
Allen died with the reputation of having Jett
nearly half a million of money behind him. Oji
from its closet has crept every footless and many-
footed thing that hides in the damp crevices in the
underground chambeis of Humanity. So much
money is a miraculous spectacle I So much money
Is alately-rism sun, a Universe, a Deity I Mediocre
though the talent was, mediocre though the
virtue, mediocre the sympathy with a suffering
lives around, mediocre the heart an! soul of true
humanity he carried about, yet, wherein his
money-bags were heavy, up crawled the footless
and many-footed creatures, and with spilled
periods and gruesome Greek filled buckets of wet
woe to be emptied out in front of the altars of the
Golden Shrine. We protest against the adoration.
We protest against the adulation. The idol is
Money. We want a better god for our Australian
Pantheon.
The Adaptability of Man
The Payment of Members BUI has set the country
editors in Queensland to pull each other by the
hair. If you want to know how hard a Plutocratic
political principle dies, the best place to go is to
the back-blocks where a newspaper is published in
the centre of a score of sheep stations. Tho owner
of the paper may be, and in all likelihood is, him-
self living in a bark humpy, with passion fruit
vines or other creepers serving as blinds for his
glassless windows, with empty gin cases as tables
and chairs, and candle boxes as desks He may be
promising the but .her a special “ local ” if he will
let the account stand over another month. He
may be interpolating in a report of a public meet-
ing the words, “ The highly-esteemed, courteous,
and noble-spir.ted host of the Shearer’s Ho.el.’
He may be walking about with the he .Is out of
his socks and the toes out of His boots Ytt,
in all this extremity of circumstance, if you
talk to him about Payment of Parliamentary
representatives, he will object, and he will put a
“ leader ” la his next issue maintaining that such a
principle would degrade the Legislature by enab-
ling men “svithout a stake in the country” to
enter the House. His tone is wltheringly indig-
nant when he alludes to men who would seek pay-
ment for their work. All that is curious, and we
have been led into thinking about it from a
general look at the back-block Queensland Press,
and because our eye rests just now on a paragraph
in the Allora Guardian dealing with the editorial
doctrines of the Roma Star, Allora has not
many stations: Roma is in the thick of them.
The Guardian wants payment of members, the
Star, in the centre of sheepruns, dees
not want it, but maintains that Parliamen-
tary representatives must be men with “ a
stake in the country.” The Star has always
struck us as a well and independently-conducted
bush newspaper, but in this instance it reminds us
of some hardshell acquaintances, who sow their
literary flowers on the desert of the back-blocks.
And harkihg back, we become philosophical
There is, we reflect, a great difference between
man and the lower animals. The sheep or the ox
taken far away out of his own latitude, will, unless
tie is tenderly tended, die; man, wherever taken
will, even though you strip him half naked, and
keep him half-starved, accommodate himself to
circumstances and survive till the world is sick of
aim.
A Queensland Advocate of Capital
Punishment.
Mr. Bourcicault, of the Qymple Miner, has
crossed his legs, and delivered judgment on
he lately-executed Johns. As Johns was e'em
vhenthe brilliant j ournallst seized his pen, It is fair
to surmise that the homily is wholly intended for
.he living. Before, however, we touch it in its re.
ations to the living, we shall premise one thing,
ibout its relations to the dead. Mr. Bourcicault
has missed the facts of the case to an extent that
proves either gross negligence or gross incompe-
tence to weigh statements; and if the Miner cir-
culates where Johns Is now, whether the realm be
sulphurous or lustrous, tho unhanged man should
feel more ashamed than the hanged one when
their eyes meet hereafter. Mr. Bourcicaults
claims on the attention of the living lies in the
expression of his conviction that, on monetary
grounds, capital punishment is a sound policy for
the State to enforce. We don't want to be unjust
to Mr. Bourcicault. We give his words. He
says:—" Why should the couutiy be saddled with
the support of any murderer ? What right have
the people to be taxed to keep him ?” There exists
in favour of the employment of capital punish-
ment a large miscellany of arguments which
can be touched and handled without feeling
that the sacredness of human life Is being vulgarly
assaulted. These arguments are, apparently, too
sentimental for the Gympie editor’s use. He is g
nugget of utilitarianism. He knows how many
pieces of silver a life is worth. He will not allow
it to stay in stable and eat its head off. What but.
oher would ? What drover would ? What horse-
trader would? When the life is a human one
neither would Mr; Bourcicault, But if life be
assessed at a monetary value, the murderer is not
so great a criminal after all. He only kills so
much. Nay, the murderer nuy actually confer a
monetary favour on the community. He may kill
persons whose support is a loss to the State.
If Mr. Bourcicault’s doctrine take hold, a
semi-sane economist may get into his head
che notion that a life is not sacred if its owner bj
too poor to support it. A spectacular radish in
velvet coat, Bedford cord smalls, anl red necktie,
particularly If it lounges and lolls la a mansion of
howling luxury, will, of course, escape the knife
and the bullet. But a man less like a column of
luminous paint, let off in sections to admirers of
different colours, will stand every chanca of
beinglruthlessly slaughtered. Seriously, If to keep
down taxation be a valid reason for hang-
ing a murderer, surely the murderer who
keeps down taxation by murdering a legion of
State-supported invalids can set up this monetary
saving against the cost of supporting him in per-
son while he lives. Or, if the murderer be wealthy,
what happens Mr. Bourcicault’s sapient science ?
Mr. Bourcicault has, no doubt, other reasons in
favour of hanging people, but when he enters into
chedi cusaion of a debatable casa, and presents
only this as his weapon, it is not unfair to
assume that he has confidence in its power.
Other advocates of capital punishment may
occupy as low ground as Mr. Bourcicault,
but Mr. Bourcicault is the first man in Aus-
tralia who has publicly issued a photograph of
himself holding the noose for a prisoner because
the expense of keeping him in gaol was too much.
There are many worthless lives in our human
family, many erring, and many sinful ones; but
over them all a mantle is spread which, when
oxen and sheep with a price on their heads pass
into the shambles, segregates these human lives
from all, keeps them sacred, and maintains them
Inviolate. If on this aspect of the case Mr. Hour-
cicault has any thing new to say, bis words will
be welcome. But we counsel him to pause before
be again advocates the taking away of a man's life
to save the taxpayers’ money, whether the esti-
mated sum be one piece or thirty pieces of silver.
veal “Patriotism” and Alleged Forgery.
“ It is stated that the replica of the celebrated
picture, the ‘Roll Call,’ by Mrs. Butler (Miss
Flizabeth Thompson), now hanging in the Syd-
ney Art Gallery, is a forgery.”—London telegram.
It is cruel, we say it fearless of contradiction, to fire
a harpoon like that into us without at least pre-
paring us in some way. The wmd should be tem-
pered to the shorn lamb. Miss Thompson s "Roll
0.11,” painted 10 or 11 years ago, having attracted
the attention of the Prince of Wales, of course
"made” the artist. All sorts of things attract
his Royal Highness’ attention—nothing can escape
his comprehensive gaze. The Queen got possession
of the original, but the artist was allowedjto make
a c jpy. She did so, and it found its way to Sydney
some months ago. The art critics of the Herald
weat into hysterics over it—said they had never
seoa anything like it, which we quite believe.
Toen the Committee of the Art Gallery—of which
Mr. Fairfax, managing proprietor of the Sydney
Morning Herald is a member—secured the prizi
for a mere bagatelle— 350 guineas we believe. And
n ) w it is openly "stated to be a forgery.” Shou d
such be tbo case it proves a good many things.
Among others that English picture dealers are the
simplest people In the world and always choose
the wrong time for disposing of a forged
replica of a patriotic picture—when the colony to
which it is sent is aflame with patriotism and
pugnacity. And it shows a'so how the opinions of
newspapers can always be depeuded on—especially
when their proprietors are connoisseurs. And,
lastly, it shows that in our Art Committee we pos-
sess a body of men who have such intuitive
perception, accompanied with practical judgment
in art matters, that you might as well attempt to
teach your maternal relative once removed to
suck eggs as try to take them in. What we want
now is a board of artists to go round the Callers'
and tell us what are originals, what replicas, a Q(1
what forgeries. Also, a commission of smart
man to enquire-(1) what pictures have been
bought for the New South Wales Gallery during
the last ten yesfrs ; (3) tho name of tbe
seller, and of the agent who made the bar-
gain on the trustees’ behalf in each case; P
the price of each picture, and the amount


“ 1Vr iND IT BOILS,” and In thia case the com-
ijJL ing of the requisite appearances will not
tax your patience. This Is a Pocket Stove, called
THE “NAPOLEON” SPIRIT STOVE.
You can carry It In your pocket, your valise; or,
if you have no pocket and no valise, you can stow
it away in the crown of your hat. A handier
little arrangement isn’t.
The
PINT
KETTLE
6d.
The
STOVE
ready for
uso.
7*d.
And if you elect to buy the pair, which is most
likely, a simple arithmetical process will tell you
the cost. It’s hardly credible, still it’s a fact. You
don’t believe it. This is a sceptical age, but this
time the believers have it. This little affair is
worth its weight in gold when an early cup of
tea or coffee is a desideratum. It will prevent
much swearing at the stove that won’t light and
the water that won’t boil.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket (only).
QUOD FACIMUS VALDE PACIMU8.
(What we do we do well.)
YOUR PHOTO.-If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
couuael, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices- C-D-V.,; Cabinets* 30s. per dozen.
CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADH
J. TURNER ROBINSON A CO.S '
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-stroet,
Established 1884,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLEN'S
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
fW Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
AJ—ual lawn »ibh4i Oae Eilllfai
Liarhtning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9a.
Small Bottle, , is. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOB INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. 8d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGFE PORT,
Ss per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT!
St. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
ls,9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke s Prize Medal Brand,
In stone bottles and square bottles,
LABOSST sxzs,
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW.
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
SYDNEY.
They have curmua notions of osteology in
Portland (Vie.). Some human bones were found
on the beach there lately. After Ion* and careful
scrutiny the police magistrate gave his opinion
that the bones were those of a female aboriginal,
and made an order for their Interment in the
cemetery. Upon which the local correspondent
of a Melbourne paper employed the telegraph
wires to register this sage remark:—” The bones
presented the appearance of having been exposed
for some time, as they were bleached perfectly
white.” He evidently expected from the police
magistrate's conclusion that they would be black 1
This is thorough aboriginal logic, but he might
easily have settled his doubts by scraping the sain
off one of his own bones.
Ladies, when you are next cooking just give
Klngsford’s Oswego Cornflour a trirl.
To make a good Custard you should use Kings-
foad's Oswego Cornflour.
Every grocer Kingsford’s Oswego Corn-
flour done up in and lib.-packets.
For Blancmanges, KingBford’s Oswego Cornflour
cannot be surpassed.
For Pies, Puddings, Custards, Blancmanges, &c.,
use Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour.
The purity and excellence of Kingsford’s Oswego
Cornflour is unequalled.
Ladies, if you want your Pastry light, use Kings-
ford’s Oswego Cornflour.
Kingsfords Oswego Cornflour made of American
Indian Corn, pure and unadulterated.
To avoid all mistakes ask for Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Everybody nowadays drinks Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
If you want good puddings use Klngsford’s
Oswego Cornflour.
Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour has no equal In
the world.
Invalids and children—give them Klngsford's
Oswego Cornflour.
A. genuine source of health—Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
ff{ the dommlBSioa (If any) paid on Its purchase.
We wish to kflow—because we think a thorough
enquiry might lead to Some of the people who
have cheated the trustees being hanged in the
Gallery—beside the “ Roll Call ” for choice,
gy the way, it has been suggested that, after
all, Miss Thompson- assuming it was she who
started the douots concerning our picture’s genu-
ineness-may be mistaken, and the “ Roll Call ” be
the real replica. It came to Mr. Sands through the
Fine Art Society of London, We have every con-
fidence in the perfect honesty of Mr. Sands and of
the trustees. But none the less is there need for
an exhaustive enoulry.
“ There Were Great Rejcicings.”
Many questions of the first importance help, at
present, to keep England and her colonies in a
state of constant alertness, If not apprehension.
Our unsettled relations with Russia, our anomal-
ous position in Egypt, and the Indecent determina*
tioh of the Irish to bo allowed to mind their own
business, are but a few among many. These
the attention of serious colonists on the tele-
grams in the daily papers for the first faint ink-
lings of coming storms. But sometimes a message
of peace and good-will comes to us from our old
home—a message that tempts us to forget the
sinister designs of unscrupulous foreigners. Such
a one was flashed to us along the ocean’s bed a few
days ago. It was as follows:—“The marriage of
Princess Beatrice with Prince Henry of Batten-
berg was solemnised at Whlpplngham Church, the
other day. The Queen gave the bride away. The
evens was celebrated by great public rejoicings*
It is announced that Prince Louis of Batten-
berg has been created a Knight of the Garter.”
We believe the marriage took place —we are
sure the rejoicings did. But the wire Is not
quite clear as to the reason of England’s re-
joicing. It might be because two respectable
young people were made happy, and it might be
because there were no more highly cultivated
young persons left to dip their hands into
the national purse and grab what they
could. It is impossible to say. The British work-
man is the most mercurial of creatures. He re-
joices at anything. He shouted when Brad-
nAUQH was ordered off to prison- he cavorted
when the lying, ponderous Wagga butcher
came out. But a Royal marriage always
throws him into a delirium of joy—especially as he
knows that he will have to support the young
couple. If Her Majesty had only nine more
unmarried children left to be provided for,
the bliss of this volatile workman would
go beyond all decent bounds. And the
“ Queen gave the bride away.” There was
magnanimity for youl To give her child
away to a poor young man and pot the nation
for the "dot!” The telegram does not men-
tion it, but we may be sure that the Sovereign
did not let the young woman go away empty-
handed—that she set her up with an Indian
shawl and a workbox or two. While as for the
groom, if he did not get a watch or a pen-knife
with seven blades from his mother-in-law, then
for years we have been mistaken in Her Majesty’s
prodigality. Nor did her generosity stop with the
Prince. It.extended to his brother. Prince Louis.
He was made a Knight of the Garter. When the
British workman heard this, we may be certain
that his joy was at its height. And then consider
how the exuberance of his nature would have
bubbled over if that garter, instead of being
twisted round His Royal Highness’ leg, had been
secured round his neck, while the other end was
hitched to a beam. Yes; we can rest assured that
over the great British Empire to-day, tollers in the
mines and the workshop, sturdy sailors far out at
sea. solitary shepherds in lonesome shanties, will
be filled with love and loyalty when they hear that
another young German male pauper has found the
key of another young English Princess’ chamber.
An Alleged Clerical Prig.
Once more the vial of wrath Is upended in shining
Ballarat, and the holy men of the local Presbytery
howl. A clergyman officiating there has been
caught peddling wares, the exclusive patent for
the sale of which has been taken out by the Dean
of Canterbury. The disingenuous son of John
Knox is alleged to have claimed them as his own
manufacture. They were of the nature of ser-
mons—windy, effervescing things—capable, as al-
leged, of puffing and blowing a sick soul
up several rungs of the ladder of salvation.
His brother clerics heard how he was sav-
ing people. They came and watched. They
saw him mix the blue and white powders of theo-
logical Seidlltz. They made a grab at the vial.
They shouted out “BarrabasI” Confusion
spread itself like a mist through the realm of Bal-
larat Presbyterianism. For our own part, we don’t
join heartily with those who rise and howl at a
preacher who preaches another man’s sermons.
In saying they are his own he certainly gives
proof that the truth is not in him. That is bad.
But he could do a thing that is worse. He could
actually preach his own. In determining what to
do with their pious brother, we recommend the
Presbytery, when assessing the gravity of his vice
of commission, not to forget the lustre of his virtue
of omission.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correepondente who give neither name nor nom-de-
plmue cannot expect to have their com-
munication noticed.]
“ Murray River” (Adelaide): The Macqua-
rie rises near Bathurst (N.8.W.). flows thence
through Wellington, and afterwards goes to dilute
Dubbo whisky, finally reaching the Darling....
“ Frederick Lee ”: We cannot publish your letter
in reply to the Echo. You may, however, rest
assured that the portion of their article to which
you object is condemned by everyone outside
their office, and also that your view of the Prero-
gative question is logically unchallengeable Mid is
almost unanimously endorsed.. .“Coma”: Good
style. Will consider—“Companion to A.M.D.”;
We don’t regard the airy cynicisms of the Argus,
a paper whose doom has been pronounced and
whose day is past. The Argus Is the organ of a
class which don’t care who’s killed so long as
they themselves live “ Legal ” (Auckland, N Z):
Thanks for information. One could bear to be
fleeced by a lawyer If the lady clerk had to be
consulted of ten.... “Duffer” (Temora): You think
your town should be properly “laid out. So do
we. It has been dead long enough....“E.H. : If
your wit were equal to your venom, you could
make millions. Now vou are merely a literary
reptile..,.“Myall”: Both rhyme and rhythm are
rough and faulty “Nemo”: The full strength
of the British army is now stated to be 231,000, of
which 135,000 are niggers....” E.D.”i Your story
won’t gee. You say it Is the “ moral truth.’ We
say it’s just the other thing “T.L.’: Ideas
sublime, screed ridiculous. Try a Spenserian
stanza to. say, a pound and a half of tripe.
“ See-Saw ”: Go to work, man, and growl no
longer about how you were treated in gaol. There
are 10,000 whose casts are worse than yours —
“ P.B.”: We have already dealt with this question.
Your initials alone should ensure insertion In any
other Australian paper—“Bega”: We consider
that the Innuendoes of a section of the country
Press regarding His Honor are most cow-
ardly. '1 he Crown Law Office authorities should
grant the Judge an opportunity of confronting his
accusers....“C.W.B.”: Yes, too much of their
gold Is the result of unearned Increment, or has
been extracted from the blood of swagsmen by the
alchemy of greed....“J.P.B.”; Very good, indeed.
.... “ Oyster Johnnie ” : Thanks. ... Dundee ” :
For our part, we.don’t see why the Bible need have
been revised at all. All sects and Freethinkers
can make “ the secret of England’s greatness ”
prove exactly what they desire now. Then why
alter It ? In the Revised Edition, par exemple, we
see that “ Thou thalt not kill” has been modern-
ised into “ Thou shalt do no murder.” Which
strikes us as an Impudent and bare-faced attempt
to make the law as alleged to be laid down by God
correspond with a law actually laid down by
Governments. In short, we have the cool cheek
to “ revise” the Scriptures in order that we may
justify murders done in the name of the law. By
and bye, when another system of human morality
arises, there will be another revision to enable us
to further accommodate the Almighty to our-
selves. Had the Bible-Revisers been appointed by
the Church of England Synod of N.S.W., they’d
very likely have put a clause Into the Ten
Commandments ordering and justifying flogging...
“J.H.G.”; We have seen worse verse than yours.
We have also seen better. Your allusion to the
“ Donkey of the smallest size, not so big as Bill,”
is clever, but the episode is pass I —“ D. J.” (Jerll-
derie): We won’t insult our readers to oblige you.
Your effusion is simply personal spite —“Paul
Pry”: Will read, consider, and preserve your MS.
.... “ De Mortuis nilJnisl Bonum:” .Then why say
anything hard of Judas Iscariot or Nero?—
“James Parsons”: You’re as unreasonable as the
average woman, who expects every male being of
her acquaintance to recognise her 100 yards off
when she sallies forth with a thick black veil
drawn over her face to the chin....“ Mackay (Q )
Fire Brigade”: Can’t “lick into shape.” Not
enough to work upon “A.R.” (Richmond):
Thanks “P.W.”: Yes, and they know that it’s
not by any means 20 years since a Prince who
visited Melbourne had his eyes artistically black-
ened by a publican on whose wife he had set the
august optics in question “J.M.” ; Thanks.
May yet use....“July Fog”; Right you are. Your
poem is a July fog. If printed, it would be a frost.
.... “ E.H.W.” (Mackay): What sort of an article ?
...." A Bushwoman ’’; If by marriage law you
mean the accumulation of rights and duties re-
cognised and enforced by our Courts, marriage
law is of human origin. Very human. It is a
compound of Roman, Canon, Kalmuck, English,
and Cherokee law. The rite involving these
duties is essentially a civil contract. It may be
said that marriage is a divine institution, but
if so, it has been very liberally interpreted
by Solomon, Lamech, and others. Such “in-
stitutions” as Solomon indulged in would now
give their promoter a pass to Berrima Gaol....
“Quiz”; Your intentions are better than your
grammar. Such items are! of use to us if they
contain a joke, not otherwise.. . “ G.H.’ ’:
Carey was then a lieutenant....“H.O.” (New-
castle); We don’t think the News made
such a suggestion. Such an idea would be
too original for our contemporary. But we
don’t see how there can possibly be any logical
objection to giving a man who misconducts him-
self in or out of gaol, and in treating whom the
ordinary lash has been found a failure, “150 lashes
across the stomach with iron tags.” And, as there
are some men who are not even afraid of the lash,
but have been flogged over and over again, we
think some special punishment should be Invented
to meet their case. Sticking matches under their
nails would possibly make them sit up and behave.
Roasting one hand at a time in a gas-jet, or strap-
ping them up tightly, and letting ice-water drop
slowly and steadily on their skulls for an hour at a
time would be a good idea. If we are to govern by
torture, let us do it properly, and carry out the
system to its logical conclusion. In this depart-
ment we can take some good lessons from the
Chinese, who kill a man by sticking pins in him for
ten or eleven days to keep him awake “ Clemen-
tina ” : We print the best of your neat verses on
the Orange celebration—
“Must 1 say I was charmed? Alas I no—I was
harmed 1
By the thought that a benefleed parson,
With a mission of Love from the Saviour above,
Could commemorate murder and arson! ”
«F. f. and P. B.”: We don’t quite know
whether it is P.B. or the memory of the “ false and
cruel Nellie ” that has affected your verse. Any-
how, the ode to Memory does not strike us as
being first rate, except this verse :—
“ We narted one night in the long ago.
When the flowers and birds wore sleeping,
And wild winds rushed with awful speed,
While the rain kept time to our weeping.’
This is perfect—bosh. Moss Rose is better —
“ Nemo . We strongly recommend you to pro-
cure (from any leading city bookseller) “ Whita-
ker’s Almanac,” price a shilling or so. After
reading it for a week you’ll be a perfect encyclo-
pedia. And if Whitaker doesn’t till you up,
then spend another shilling in the “ Financial
Reform Almanac.” When thoroughly conversant
with these two publications, you’ll know more
about England’s business affairs than Gladstone
does “8.N.” (Sydney): Think out an opinion
for yourself about Mr. Freethought Walker.
Every bane in life has its antidote. Were bigotry
and intolerance dead, there would be an end of
Mr. Walker. Freethought asafoetida is the
pharmacopcetc remedy for religious chorea and
epilepsy. We are not with Mr. Walker any , more
than with the epileptics. If we—to use a thought
of Lytton’s—are going to Brisbane, we don’t mind
if there are other people on board going to Rock-
hampton. We go our length. We should perhaps be
glad if both bane and antidote were swept away.
The asafoetida we have is bitter, acrid, foetid, and
persistent. But look into your “ Materia Medica.
You will find these the characteristics of the gum
resin obtained from the root of the Narthez asa-
feetida. And it cures chorea. Spiritualise both.
And there you have the root of our opinion....
“Morson”: It arises from the fact that a certain
kind of emotional piety, and wantonness, are
closely-related externatlons of the same senti-
ment. It is a mere matter of accident which of
the two the subject exhibits. Immoralities in the
Salvation Army are to be expected, not because
the principles of the'Army sow them, but because
the Army draws most of its recruits from the class
in whom the sentiment we speak of is dominant.
Persons of this class, when immoral, are not na-
turally so, just as when they are pious they are not
naturally so. Naturally they are a congeries of
vibrating emotions, and accident lifts them to
virtue, and accident lowers them to vice. They
are ready to be touched by either. It would take
space to mahe the point clear, but start your in-
tellect—If you have one—along the lines we lay
down and tell us where it gets to.
The papers publish “ The wants of Gos-
ford.” There is one thing Gosford does not really
want—Farnell.
So Farnell says he’s going to be Premier
when they get rid of Stuart. Heaven help us.
Stuart has no backbone. Farnell hasn’t even a
back.
The Judges will shortly have to “roundup"
a certain solicitor of the Supreme Court of N.S.W.,
who is alleged to have speculated extensively with
trust-funds.
The Tenterfield Debating Society lately
held a catch-as-catoh-ean contest with the ques-
tion of the advisableness of suitably recognising
the political achievements of Mr. Dailey. The local
papers do not explain what they mean by suitable
recognition. Perhaps that is what they call a
dinner at Tenterfield. Or possibly it’s the local
name for a tombstone.
Mr. Gormley, who, for two years, has been
Mayor of Wagga, and who, a few years since,
unsuccessfully contested a seat in Parliament, is
to be a candidate for the N.S.W. Assembly at next
general election. Mr. Gormley, when he gets into
the House, which he will endeavour to do in what
he alleges to be the selectors’ interest, will strike
terror into his enemies. His voice, which he him-
self loves to hear, is a sort of compromise between
the low sweet music of an JEollan harp, the
“ barking ” of a cross-cut saw, and the melancholy
wail of a screechowl, as illustrated in the melo-
dious accents of Angus Mackay, M.L.A., of Vic-
toria. Mr. Gormley will, indeed, be a priceless
acquisition to our Parliamentary Institutions.
But we strongly recommend him, ere he takes his
seat, to have his tongue-axle greased a bit, and to
fetch with him a muzzle, to be used at the discre-
tion of dear old Toby Barton.
The “ Lydian Monarch,” a steam transport
of 4000 tons, lay in the harbour of Suez. She had
troops and horses on board bound for England.
Everything seemed to be in readiness for a start,
and yet she remained quietly at anchor. The cost
of detaining her was £150 a day. Then why was
she detained, did we hear you say ? Because the
most important item of her cargo—an Egyptian
donkey for the Queen of England—had not
arrived. Public money was being thrown into
the sea, soldiers and sailors—long strangers to
green fields and temperate days—were fretting
and chafing In the sun’s glare. But the Queen’s
“moke” had not cone on board—was probably
“ wagging” it on the Nile chewing thistles. And
it is the system under which these things occur
that successful Sydney publicans and pawnbrokers
so much reverence, and before which the Sydney
Morning Herald curls up in the dust I Ciel/
“ Skotos” in the Herald advises the Free-
traders of N.S.W. to “ establish a network of free-
trade societies all over the colony, and therebv
frustrate the attempt to damage our prosperity.
Inconsistently enough he says, in the same breath,
that the Protectionists “are in so insignificant a
minority as to be almost of infinitesimal import-
ance.” If this is the style of reasoning on which
the Free-traders rest their cause there will soon be
a prohibitive tariff in N.S.W. Why men should
organise to crush an “ insignificant minority of
infinitesimal importance” is entirely beyond us. It
would be much more charitable to leave them
alone in their errors. But it is a fair sample of the
wild things men will say in support of a crotchet.
So long as Sydney warehousemen can swamp the
country with European goods admitted almost
free, they and their Press organs will continue to
maunder on the follies of Protection. They know
those goods have been manufactured in a country
where poverty necessitates a fierce competition,
such as we trust will never come amongst us, but
they still go on telling you how much better it is
to buy an article for 9d. than for a shilling, but
always steering clear of the principal question—
where you are to find the nine-pence to start with.
Mr. James Kingston's portrait accom-
panies this paragraph. He is the writer of that
curious book, “ The Australian Abroad.” He has
spread himself muchly in this notable production.
If he desired, as a Londoner, to make his mark in
this land of his adoption, he has done so more suc-
cessfully than 99 out of a hundred. Perhaps 999
out of a thousand would not think of doing as he
did. Going away in middle life, and leaving busi-
ness and money-making—the all in all to most
people—and all for what? Simply to see the
world, and let the world know what he thought of
it I He does this very quaintly and honestly. The
London reviewers seem to have fallen in love with
him—so eulogistic are they all. Even a sporting
paper wrote of ‘‘The Australian Abroad;” Thete
ia not a dull line in the book.” Another reviewer
says that the writer combined Eliot Warburton’s
style in the “ Crescent and the Cross, with King-
lake’s power, as shown In “ Bothen —all mixed up
with a humour equal to Mark Twain s, but in a dif-
ferent vein I The book, originally published by a
London firm at 28s., was out of the reach of the
people altogether. Now, by a 2s. 6d. popular
edition of 5C0 pages, with 75 illustrations,
it will be in the hands of, everybody. Mr.
Kingston lives wholly in hotels. He has
lived 17 years in the George at St., Kilda,
and before that lived, for U years, in the same
neighbourhood at the Royal and the Prince of
Wales. He Is, while thus living in the neighbour-
hood of it, a most abstemious man. He says that
as it is always handy, he does not care about it—
like a boy, with sugar, in a grocer's shop. He is
said to be a millionaire, but there are doubts abiput
that business. There is no doubt about his being
a bachelor, and the reason is, as he says, that the
women can never believe him to be serious—a
sad mistake on their part, Induced by his geniality
of manner.


Personal Items
Mr. Dailey will, it seems tolerably certain,
shortly leave for England.
Queen Victoria’s fa-
vourite dog. Noble, is no
mere. He was a C.M.G.,
and died partly of mange
and partly because he
didn’t get the other letter.
Those insolvent Ger-
mans, the Duke and
Duchess of Teck, hire a
special steamer every
time they cross the Chan-
nel, at an expense of £40,
which is paid by the Brit-
ish public. “They sponge
on the public for their
travelling expenses,” re-
marks Labouchere, who
reminds’ them that the
Duchess already gets
£5000 a year out of the
Treasury for the doubt-
ful honour she did the
world by condescending
to be born.
Alderman O’Kane—
the " Thady ” of long ago
—is “ getting ” it from his
fellows. The Northern
Miner (Thady’s organ)
says that “ Alderman
Ayton stormed into the
chamber and insisted on
an explanation of a para-
graph in yesterday’s
Northern Miner from
Alderman O’Kane, who
was sitting quietly at the
table waiting for the
meeting.” But for one
word we would believe
this little extract impli-
citly. The word is
“quietly.” We can’t
swallow that.
According to a cable
received last week, the
Mahdi is dead. Listen,
and you will learn how
nis decease was effected.
In London, we read, a
woman was seven weeks
ago accused of having
laid military trousers,
which she was making,
on a bed which held a
child ill with small-pox.
No less than 18 pairs bad
been thus infected. This
was on the 7th June. A few
days ago the Mahdi died
of small pox. The infer-
ence is plain to us. The
English Government
bought up those trousers
and sent them to their
enemy. Thus Infected
garments did what Eng-
lish armies failed to do.
But how low has British
prowess fallen, when a
single pair of nether gar-
ments is ebesed for a
work which the national
armies failed to achieve 1
We have not yet
been favoured with a
copy of “ Advance Aus-
tralia,” a book recently
published in England by
the Hon. Harold Flnch-
Hatton, a sprig of alleged
nobility, who, when in
Australia, was chiefly
located in Queensland.
Mr. Finch-Hatton’s liter-
ary ability is probably
hereditary, in that he is a
son of the senile Earl of
Wlnchllsea, who has per-
haps written more awful
verse of the Sladen-cum-
Halloran - cum -Lewis-
tioott order than any
other living man-cer-
tainly more than any
other living nobleman.
Vanity Fair says of
“Advance Australia”: —
“This is an amateurish
account of ‘eight years’
work, wandering, and
amusement in Queens-
land, N.8.W., and Vic-
toria.’ Mr. Finch-Hatton
went through the usual
experiences of young
men who rough it in the
colonies. His impres-
sions of life in the hush,
at the diggings, and on a
stock farm were no doubt
read by his friends at
home, in the form of
letters, with a certain
amount of Interest; but
why ho thought it worth
while to publish them in
a thick volume, orna-
mented with a coat-of-
arms supported by an
ostrich and a kangaroo,
will remain a mystery to
the end of time. Every-
thing be likes he gushes
over; everything he does
not like is made the ob-
ject of sickly cynicism.
A tone of discon tent per-
vades the book, inter-
spersed with slangy ex-
pressions and feeble dis-
sertations on human
nature. Anyone, he says,
can get a very fair idea
of what a tropical sun-
set is like ‘ by eating a
quantity of cold pork pie
and unripe apples just
before going to bed.’ The
same result could be
achieved by reading ‘ Ad-
vance Australia I * con-
gdentlously through
from cover to cover.”
“1 am independent and not subject to any
temptations,” was the gist of a statement made by
Mr. Farnell, the Minister for Lands, at Gosford.
And the concussion of his words started the cork
of a champagne bottle, and caused three porter
bottles at the other end of the table to explode
with laughter.
Mr. Purves—a Melbourne lawyer of much
note for his hrusquerie of manner and business
success-said the othpr day that the Study of
human nature had been the secret of that success.
There is nothing very wonderful in this sta’ement.
The same admission might be made by most
lawyers, although it is not, perhaps, lawyer-like to
do so. The conclusion is simply—Human Nature
j8 an ass.
That blasphemous person, Labouchere,
says: "Knighthoods, a* a rule, are given to rail-
road contractors, aldermen, and persons who
know how to make an opportune and judicious
outlay. I am told that one of the implied condi-
tions of the contract for the abortive Suakim rail-
road was that one of the contractors should be
given a knighthood.” By the way, Heuland,
Mayor of Belfast, who recently spent £18,003 in
entertaining the Prince of Wales, was only offered
a knighthood for his trouble.
We clip this, concerning a well-known
Sydney bump-and-magnetlsm man, from the Mel-
bourne Age:— “ ‘ Professor Hume ’ writes to say
that ‘ he has cured by sympathetic action or mag-
netism followers of Abraham, Zoroaster, Buddha,
Brahma, Mahommed, and the late Mr. Mark
Foy.’” Followers of Mark Foy! Thunder and
blazes, what a conjunction! Mark Foy was in the
days of his life a little dropsical Colllngwood
tVic.) draper, who amassed a fortune by selling
J ob-lots of clothing at ruinous sacrifices. A decent
little man he was too, but hardly fit to range up
with Abraham, Zoroaster, Buddha, Brahma, and
Mahommed. Considering Brahma Is only the first
person of the Hindu Trinity, and Buddha the
Hindu Christ, we think Mr. Mark Foy would him-
self be prepared to acknowledge that he was
thrown Into rather superior company. But
nothing Is too audacious for a professor of heal-
ing by sympathetic action (a queer jargon this 1)
and magnetism. He would just as soon couple the
Deity and Garden Honey as not.
“Senex," who scads us a clipping from
the N.8.W. Government Gazette notifying that
a Mr. Alfred Bennett has been appointed assistant
teacher at Wagga Public School, enquires whether
the teacher in question is identical with the man-
aging proprietor of the Town and Kuntry
Jernel. We do not think that such can be the
case. Apart from the fact that the immortal
Alfred is believed to be in England just now,
hobnobbing with Royalty and so on, we have
strong grounds for believing that he has not
entered upon the thankless task of teaching the
young idea how to shoot. To the eternal shame
of the educational authorities of the colony, be it
said, there is such a great gulf fixed between
the orthography of our national system and the
style of spelling adopted by the gifted “ jernellst,”
that it is useless to hope that Mr. Bennett can
ever be persuaded to resign the scissors for chalk
and blackboard. We fear that the obstinacy of
the Department in adhering to Mavor and Sulli-
van must result in permanently depriving the
children of our land of so gifted a teacher.
Some good stories are told of German
newspaper men who, educated in a country where
genealogies are as long as Pitt-street, and where
Princes are as common (in all senses) as C.M.G.’s
in N.3.W,, find themselves ever under the neces-
slty of being watchful lest. In mentioning the
name of some Royal personage who reigns over a
suburban allotment, they omit one of His Nibs’
string of titles. It is related of Labouchere, M.P.,
that, while staying at a German hotel, he signed
the visitors’ book “ Labouchere, Elector of Mid-
dlesex,” which at once ensured him royal honours,
even if it did add somewhat to the dimensions of
the bill. And now, in an English paper, we read:
—“Some little time back a certain English Judge
was travelling in Germany, and, entering his name
in the visitors’ book in a certain city, he was par-
ticular to append to his name every titular dis-
tinction he possessed. The next comer, noticing
this, added to the other titles, * Toady and Tuft-
hunter.’ The reporter of the local paper, who did
not understand English, called, as usual, for the
list of visitors, and copied from the book the full
description of the Judge, with the additional
words, which duly appeared in the newspaper
next day,”
It is stated in the Age that Mr. Brennan,
the young Victorian engineer who invented the
torpedo bearing his name, has been rewarded by
an Imperial grant of £100,000.
Mr. Purves, the Melbourne lawyer, is not
a nice man to stand before in a witness-box. He
Is not conspicuous for delicacy in cross-examina-
tion. The other day Dr. L. L. Smith was cross-
examined by him in a case of larceny. The cele-
brated doctor and legislator was called to prove
that a letter addressed to him, and stolen by &
letter-sorter, contained a £1 note. Mr. Purves
said, with grim irony: “You were not surprised to
get the £1 note?” The doctor blandly replied
“No.” Then Mr. Purves continued: “You get
thousands of letters with £1 notes ?” The doctor
said nothing, hut smiled. So did the audience.
They saw a joke somewhere orother. We wonder
where.
There is great appre-
hension in Northern
Queensland as to what
Mr. Sala will say of the
Tropic worthies when he
gets back to his roost in
St. James’s Hall. “n 0
doubt,” says one paper,
“ he will lie heartily.” The
Townsville organ sees
clearly how it will be. It
says : “ Sala will have no
scruple of conscience
a bout describing the orl-
ginal owners of the soil
from the boozy tynes ex-
hibited near the Queen’s
Hotel, Townsville, and
explaining the growth
and manufacture of sugar
from what he saw during
his 20 minutes’ sojourn at
the Burdekin.” That ig
sad. If there was one
thing we thought George
Augustus excelled in, it
was, we fancied, a clean
and spotless conscience.
We know that in “The
Land of the Golden
Fleece,” which he man-
aged to trade off for
simultaneous publication
in the Melbourne Argcs
and our placid acquaint-
ance in Hunter-street,
there is not a sentence
which would shame the
great principles that have
made the London Daily
Telegraph a power in
the world. Even this
great literary achieve-
ment, however, the Tro-
pic scribes scribble scath-
ingly about. The North-
ern editor sees farther
than his nose again.
“When Mr. Sala goes
home,” he asserts, “ he is
to give a series of lectures
in London and the chief
provincial towns, on
• The Land of the Golden
Fleece,’ and like others
of his class, will probably
prove his gratitude to
those who fawned upon
and feted him, while
scathing ‘the vulgar.’
who had the independ-
ence to appraise him only
by his words, without
being overpowered by his
traditional ton ” Hal that
is it, is it? The Towns-
ville editor had independ-
ence, and George Augus-
tus lefused to “shout.”
It is ever thus. We don’t
think, however, the emi-
nent journalist has it, at
present, in his mind to
lecture in London on
“ The Land of the Golden
Fleece. - ’ He, of course,
is willing to write while
here on it, but when he
gets there he will write
and speak on “ The Land
of the Golden Fleecers.”
Mr. Quong Tart, the
well-known Chinese
trader, of Sydney, has
initiated a movement for
the purpose of entertain-
ing and feasting the in-
mates of the N. S. W.
Benevolent Asylums.
This effort, another proof
of his practical philan-
thropy, is used by the
Echo for the purpose of
insulting its promoter,
and in denouncing the
wretched recipients of
his bounty. This is what is
said concerning the hene-
ftciares, in the “ tersely-
written ” columns of the
little rag. The ital-
ics are ours:—“The ut-
most they can claim is
meat, drin k, and wearing
apparel, to enable them
to shuffle comfortably out
of the world ; and It Is
hard and wrong perhaps,
that the revenue of the
country should be taxed
to supply even those neces-
saries.” What a judg-
ment on these miserablesl
It would please the Echo
perhaps to deprive them
of “even those necessa-
ries;” then they would
starve to death, and not
intrude themselves on
our notice as the recipi-
ents of private bounty.
And, having thus dis-
posed of them, allusion Is
made to their benefactor:
—“ We have no difficulty
in joining a general
hurrah for the illustrious
Quong Tart, whose
pioneering in this way is
the most honourable ana
creditable thing that ev<r
came out of his nation.
Thus cleverly, under tne
pretence of hysterical ap-
plause, Q. T. is insult-
ed by being denied tne
title due to every citizen,
and by the assertion tnar
no such act of generosity
ever came out or nis
nation. Quong Tartsreal
crime, in the sight of tne
Echo, is that he has tried to alleviate the s 01 * 0 *®
of a suffering class. Such attempts ever
been, and ever will be denounced and contemneo
by the wealthy lower orders and journals bidaiuK
for the support of our mushroom aristocracy.
That born idiot, Lord Cairns, late Lord
Garmoyle, has taken his seat in the House o
Lords as an hereditary legislator.
Mr. Stead is editor of the Pall
Gazette. On account of his alleged Russian pr '
clivities his enemies have nicknamed him Steaacu.
According to a private cable received by
The Bulletin last Friday night, the Germ
Prince Henry of Battenberg was at his weaaiDs
neatly and appropriately attired in a suit
the skins of a large number of British taxpayers.
This is a paragraph calculated to ecstasise
Potts’ Point and the other Points. It la the
A Bursting Bosom.
MR. LEVIEN, M.L.A. (Inq.): “ IF DIVINE PROVIDENCE SPARES ME TO MEET PARLIAMENT I SHALL DO MY DUTY BY
GIVING PARTICULARS OF THE BIGGEST PUBLIC ROBBERY EVER PERPETRATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES."


RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£9 mm I BALES!
PACKED In CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
*5 WINTER BALE.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 Large Marcella Quilt
10 yards good Sheeting
20 yards Strong Calico
13 Strong Cotton Tick
30 Wincey Dress Tweed
10 good Welsh Flannel
6 yds. Strapping Tweed
All the above are good
wearing articles.
FREE SELECTORS’
BALK.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 White or Colored Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 White or Unbleached
Calico
0 White or Bed Flannel
13 yards Dress Material
13 yds. Cotton Shirtings
4 pair Good Stockings
1 pair Strong Stays
1 dark Petticoat
6 Strong Gambroon
6 Brown Holland
4 Large White Towels
3 yards Good Trousers
Tweed, Buttons,
Threads, &c.
£5 MEN’S CLOTHING
BALE.
1 Suit Tweed — Coat,
Trousers, and Vest
3 Crimean Shirts, large
size ’
3 Best Cotton Shirts,
large size
1 Best Felt Hat, any size
6 pairs Strong Cotton
Socks
S White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or Pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &c.
£S LADY’S BALE.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
3 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant's Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Kobe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials-Silks, Velvets, &c.—with
prices, and full instruction for self-measurement,
if applied to.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 13
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
nwwwwiuiiiiiiiimmiini
m
iil
*
c
MIRTH
A NEW BOOK.
Containing over 250 Tricks
AND DELUSIONS WITH CARDS, DICE,
AND CONJURING1APPARATUS.
Illustrated with blocks and diagrams, fully ex-
plain d, simplified, and adapted for home amuse-
ment and social entertainments, forming the most
complete collection of its kind ever offered to the
Australian public. Mailed free to any address
ONE SHILLING.
THE WIZARD’S CHANGEABLE CARDS.
These cards change from Red to Black, from
eights to deuces and back again at the pleasure of
the performer, and elicit exclamations of wonder
and surprise from all who witness them. Post
free, with full instructions. Is, 3d.
THE YANKEE RUBBER BABY.
Goes In the waistcoat pocket, yet can be instantly
blown out to lifesize; screams awfully if smacked.
Even experienced fathers are deceived by these
laughter-producing infants, and no home can be a
really happy one without their cheering presence
Price, post free, Is.
Cut this advertisement out and post it to us, en-
closing 2s. in postage stamps, naming this paper,
and we will send you by return post,
THE BOOKS, CARDS, AND BABY.
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT,
401 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ALCOCK& CO.'S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
BOLE AGENTS;
BUM DOB ul CO.,
375 Georgo-st., Sydney.
nr TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED
DR. SCOTT'S
i
m
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by; hi
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial T
If you have any pain, ache, or ill-feeling
from any cause; if you seem “pretty well,”
yet lack energy and do not “feel up to the
mark;” if you suffer from disease, we beg
you to at once try these remarkable cura-
tives. They cannot and do not injure like
medicine. Always doing good, never b arm.
There is no shock or sensation felt in wear-
ing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during the
first hour they are worn their wonderful
curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all
the old-time health and good-feeling come
back. They are constructed on scientific
Erinc’ples, imparting an exhilarating,
ealth-giving current to the whole system.
Professional men assert that there is hardly
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily
practise the same, as your own physician
will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance
from those usually worn, as we substitute
our flat steel magnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in quality and design.
They are elegant in shape and finish, made
after the best French patterns, and war-
ranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents.
as
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for fctoinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &c., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
No. 1
No. a
No. 3
No. 5
Electric Belts..
8. d.
6 6
8 6
10 6
16 0
16 0
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or (Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece ©f common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
me in,
64 llargaret-Btrost,
SYDNEY.
P.G. BOX Ml.
Wolfe's Schnapps the great remedy for
dyspepsia.
Numbers four hundred and two and four
hundred and four George-street is well known as
tne best establishment for articles you require
whether for drawing-room, dining-room, bedroom,
kitchen, or any other part of the house. Speciali-
ties : Dinner, Tea, Breakfast, Dessert, and Toilet
Bets. Name : Bray Brothess.
Wolfe's Schnapps an unequalled specific
for diseases of the stomach and bowels.
f hnW prince Albert Victor was, the other day,
°oo«pd through all the stages of law study.,and
n?ade a Bencher in five minutes:- The Trea-
having moved the suspension of the Stand-
f“ r Orders of the Inn, proposed that Prince Albert
>9fL nr of Wales should be admitted as a student-
\ law This was carried nemine cnntradiccnte, and
Prince signed the students’ book. Without
sneaking the Treasurer proposed that His
Highness should be called to the Outer Bar,
which was also agreed to. and the latest barrister
Hffned the roll. It was then proposed by the Trea-
surer? and seconded by the Prince of Wales, that
oiince Albert Victor should be invited to the
aonch This was agreed to without discussion or
Amendment, and the Prince assumed the gown of
Rancher.” The incident is interesting because it
Bealls the most corrupt and degraded character-
Of the legal profession in England. The
immg Prince is not the first man who has been
I«de*a Bencher without five minutes’ study of
branch of the Law. The narrative, but for
J fact that'lt illustrates the utter rottenness of
Jhc whole Monarchical system, would Jbe the
funniest thing we ever read in any language.
Among the late arrivals in Melbourne is a
inline feTlow by the name of Coleman. George
Dawson Coleman is his full title, His father was a
Food American, and when he died went to Paris.
Coleman is, therefore, a sort of eelestfallsed
American. He is a great rider, a great horse-
nmner a great whip, and a small pianist. He has
come out to Australia to study the breeds of our
Ss, and to acquire the art of riding as prac-
ticed here. We could tell him something about
the latter part of his mission if he were over here
now and we had a jug of punch between us-
rather nearer to us, if anything. Riding as we
have seen it in the Tumut Ranges, for Instance,
would bo an interesting topic. We are Inclined to
ihink it would somewhat surprise him to hear
Sat the wild inhabitants of that district ride down
nreclpices which they call “bits of slopes,” at a
speed which would take all the vanity out of a
travelling thunderbolt. We have seen them.
More than that, one mad afternoon we rode with
them, and we can assure Mr./’oleman that all the
time wo were going down that bit of a slope
the horse we rode on was wiping his hind heels
four back hair. That’s the kind of thing they
call riding in Tumut. Mr. Coleman should go
there-and learn it-and take it homo with him as
a new sensation in equestrianism. That is, if he
doesn’t die.
Do you remember our telling you some
time ago of a French uncle of ours who had a plan
for combining a church, a bar, and a skittle-alley
in one building ? Whether you do or not, he had
the plan. But it appears no man can be quite
original—not even a Frenchman. _We read in a
Victorian country paper not long since of a story,
told by Mr. Patterson (M L. A. and wag) In a speech
delivered by him at Malmsbury. which recalled to
us our own paragraph. Mr. Patterson says that
when he was in Dublin he was told of an American
who had been on a visit there shortly before, and
had manifested considerabJe interest in the public
buildings A large pile not yet completed caught
his eyeT and he asked a wayfarer: “Stranger,
what’s that for f” “ That,” said the Dublin man,
“ is a school being built by Mr. Guinness. Con-
tinuing his walk, he saw considerable repairs being
, done to a church. He asked who was doing that.
“ The repairs,” said a polite attendant, are being
executed at the cost of Mr. Guinness,” The next
> prominent structure that he examined was a
brewery, which, he was informed, belonged to
Mr. Guinness. That last fact filled the cup to
overflowing. "Wal,” said the astonished Ameri-
can, “this beats thunder; I never heard of such a
thing in my life before-education, salvation, and
damnation all run by one man.” Mr. Patterson
(brought this story with him all the way from
Europe. It is said there were some deaths on the
t passage out. We are not surprised. Are you ?
We see Mr. Howard Vincent won’t let
/Australian affairs take care of themselves. At
'the last meeting of the Royal Colonial Institute he
was there with a paper on the “ British Empire.”
Speaking of Sydney, he said; “It was the capital
•of a flourishing colony which has of late marked
her devotion to the mother country in letters of
blood and wich a sword of glory.” This isa t bad
for a start. We can only say that if the letters
were of blood their size was “ pic V while, as for
a “golden sword,” none of the Contingent men
we know possessed one. Iftheydld.lt would never
wave on the Red Sea littoral. If it waved at all
’twould be in a pawnshop. And Mr. Vincent went
on; “I do not look forward with unmlxed satis-
faction to a united, independent Australasia of
such a strength as to constitute one of the greatest
powers on earth, and even capable of dictating its
own terms to the mother country.” This is delicious
—a real bonne-bouche. Mr. Vincent wouldn't like to
see us strong and united—we might be too strong
and too united. But the teeming Australian millions
of 40 or 50 years hence, no one in a hundred of
whom will have ever seen England, might be
allowed a say in the matter. At all events, the
subject is one which will be of more Interest to
them than to anyone else. And there was a Cap-
tain Bedford Plm at the meeting who Was just
back from the Panama canal, and was bursting to
say something about it. He said It. He remarked
that if the canal was finished and opened before
the millennium, “ he would eat It.” It is not quite
clear which he would eat—the millennium or the
canal—but he appeared bent on doing for one of
them. Depended, probably, on which came first.
Judging by this omnivorous sailor’s speech, he
might “eat” the cutting, but never “drink” It.
What it is intended to contain doesn’t appear to
be much in his line. While meetings of the Royal
Colonial Institute are addressed by such lights as
Mr. Vincent and Captain Pirn, it is not quite clear
why Cockneys still go to the theatres lor amuse-
ment.
Appended is the portrait of the late Mr.
John Sheehan, ex-Minister for Native Affairs in
New Zsaland. A sketch of his political career
appeared in one of our recent issues. As showing
his ability, it may be mentioned that the day on
which he took his seat in the House he was asked
to second the adoption of the address, and will-
ingly did so, although he had no chance whatever
of preparing what proved to be one of the best
speeches ever delivered in the N.Z. House. Our
Portrait is from a photo, by Wrigglesworth and
Binns, Wellington, N.Z.
We have a lurking suspicion that climate
has a lot to do with the workings of a man’s moral
nature. How otherwise could men. reputably
Sensible, go on as they do in tne Far North of this
Island Continent ? The two journals up there are
the North Australian and the Northern Ter-
ritory Times. After the 8.M. Herald, either of
these is an excellent tonic. Their last set-to Is
abodt one Mr. Barkwood. Now, although Mr.
Barkwood is only the bone between the two
•editors, we have an interest in his fate. The first
fact wo are apprised of is that Barkwood was sub*
editor of the N. T. Times. That was a prelude to
bad business. From January 13, 1883, till June 25,
1885, he oscillated between the Times office and the
police court with tropic ardour. In our Southern
latitudes we crown a man with vine-leaves, place
in his hand the metaphorical goblet, and ordain
him High Priest of Bacchanalian revels if he has
been carried to the lockup four times in a
lifetime. But listen to Barkwood’s record. Ye
men of the pen, bear witness to this vera-
cious excerpt from the books of the Police Court
at Palmerston. Keep it before you, and when of
nights you sit and brag, look up at Barkwood’s re-
cord and be dumb:—“January 13, 1883-Police v.
Barkwood. Drunk. Discharged with a caution,
January 15—Police v. Barkwood. Excessive use
of liquor. An order was made forbidding supply
for 12 months. August 3—Police v. Barkwood.
Indecent language. Fined 10s. December 10-
Pollce v. Barkwood. Insulting words. Fined 40s.
January 31,1884—Police v. Barkwood. Drunk and
Incapable. Fined 10s. March 24—Police v. Bark-
wood. Drunk., Fined 10s. March 24-Police v.
Barkwood, Insulting words. Fined 40s. Same
date. Riotous behaviour. Fined 40i. August 13 -
Police v. Barkwood. Abusive language. Dis-
charged with a caution. Same date. Breaking
cell door. Case withdrawn. September 10-Police
v. Barkwood. Drunk. Fined 20. June 25, 1885-
Pollce v. Barkwood. Abusive words. One month
hard labour. Same date-Hill v. Barkwood. Abu-
sive words. Case withdrawn.” According to this
record, he got out last Saturday, and is therefore,
by this time, cooling his heels in a cell on a new
charge. The point that specially stirs the moralist’s
attention in this case is that it is the North Aus-
tralian which gives this history of the man, and
that It does it pointing a finger of scorn at the
N. T. Times for being silent whilelits own
was, fey a tyrannous Police Magistrate, sent to gaol
for a month as an exceptionally hard character to
manage.
From London Society of 13th June:—
“ London is full of wealthy Australians this sea-
son. Among others from the South now in town
is the Hon. Thomas Holt, M.L.C, a venerable
squatter and senator, whose wealth may be
reckoned by millions. Mr, Holt was one of those
who had the honour of entertaining the Duke of
Edinburgh when he visited Australia many years
ago in the old Galatea. In Marrickvllle, an out-
lying suburb of Sydney, Mr. Holt possessed in
those days an immense mansion know as ‘The
Warren,’ which contalnedthe finest picture gallery
in Australia In Marrickville also Jived, by the
way, Mr. Yial, the coachbuilder, who saved
the Prince’s life when it was attempted by
the Fenian (or, as it has since been asserted,
the lunatic) Farrell; but ‘Let sleeping dogs He I’
During his stay in London Mr. Holt has been doing
good work among outcast boys, and is showing
la an unostentatious way every desire to continue
‘ Gordon’s Work.’” Humph I “ Gordon’s Work.”
Old Tommy Holt would be liked a thundering deal
better if he did “Gordon’s Work” out in
paltry colony of ours, whence he derives his
“millions.” Gordon’s work, indeed I The snob who
insolently tacks on to the (o c-tails of Gordon the
name of Thomas Holt, M.L.C., evidently believes
he has to a hair’s breadth the measure of Aus-
tralian “benevolence,” and “philanthropy,” and
“loyalty,” and “patriotism,” “Gordon’s work!”
The name of the son of the Nazarene Carpenter In
these days is not, in the opinion of the gilded
idlers of England, sufficiently fashionable to trade
on, or travel under. “ Philanthropy ” must be
cultivated, not silently and in the name of Human-
ity, but in the name of the fanatic nigger-slayer a
pretence of worshipping whose memory is just
now the “correct thing ” in “good” society. The
news that Tommy Holt is suspected of doing
“philanthropic” biz. (possibly not unconnected
with considerations of prospective titular distinc-
tion) under the “ Gordon ” trade-mark, will much
chagrin the numerous friends and admirers of
Roberts, C.M.G., and other illustrious Australian
statesmen just nowjin England. Whose work, by
the way, is Roberts, C.M.G., going to ‘ continue •’
now that he has been presented at Court and is
hob nobbing with the aristocracy ? Probably the
great Pitt’s. Tommy Holt has clearly jumped the
claim of the tilled Keeper of the flve-cent whisky
mill. As the blue-blooded millionaires of Aus-
tralia are going in for "Gordon’s work” in En-
gland, it behoves the “lower classes” of this
bleeding country to try whether a swinging absen-
tee-tax won t bring them to their bearings, and
make them sit up.
The Hon. R. Richardson, the Holy Joe of
the Victorian Assembly, has been passing through
the fire of a Board of Inquiry over certain very
“ fishy ” land transaction at Fisher's Creek, and
he has not come out like gold seven times refined;
on the contrary, the Board says his conduct ’ is
calculated to destroy confidence in the honour
and integrity of anyone acting as a Justice of the
Peace.” We should think it was. A person named
Carnegie, who has since become Mr. Richardson’s
son-in-law, left Mr. Richardson a declaration re
some land at Fisher’s Creek when he went to Eng-
land. Mr. Richardson afterwards spoiled this form
by writing upon it an application for one of his
sons, also an intending selector, and then tore it
up and threw it aside, iwrlting another (which he
forgot to mark “ copy ”) in its place, signing Car-
negie’s name and attesting the signature as a
Justice of the Peace I What this precious
document would be called if written by
any Tom, Bill, Dick, or Harry, we leave our
readers to say. It was duly handed to
the Lands Department, and accepted as genuine
by the officials-could they dare doubt any-
thing Mr Richardson sent them I and passed
on until it came before the Local Land Board,
when the bubble burst. The Argus publishes a
fac simile of Carnegie’s signature, and Mr. Richard-
son s substitute for it, and looking at the two we
do not wonder the officers accepted the copied
document. Mr. Richardson, we are told, would
have been even more severely censured but for
his past record of piety and so on. Well;
what is that past record; why should it
shield him ? He has been a local preacher,
and a politician of a but too common class;
a man who shrieked with horror at the idea of
Sunday trains, or opening the museums and
libraries on the Sabbath, but who is shown
to have taken the means above described
to get a Richardson settlement—father, chil-
dren, sons-in-law, &o.—on the rich lands at
Fisher’s Creek. The old adage is true in this
case—one man may steal a horse and escape, while
another cannot look over the fence. The whole
of the goody-goodies of the Assembly at once
rushed to the rescue of their leader and howled at
the set made upon the “ good old man.” In
their eyes a holy man can do no HI. They scorn
Roman Catholicism, but the descriptions given by
Balzac in the Contes Drolatiques of the good
Abbott and various other ecclesiastics who
did things, for which other men were hinged,
under religious names, applies w an to them.
It is such suspicions as are induced by this
affair that make ordinary men regard the Holy
Joes as rank hypocrites seeking worldly good under
the guise of sanctity; these are the actions that
bring religion into disrepute. What adds more to
the indictment against the “ Hon.” Richardson is
that he was Minister of Lands in one of the Berry
Administrations, and ought to know all about the
land laws. Will the Victorian Government
have him kicked out of Parliament? We
shaii see. Win the electors of Creswick give him
his congil We doubt it; every canting, grasping,
snuffling, hymnslinger in the constituency will
rush to his rescue, for is not the order in danger ?
Trust the crowd to stick together like “ vera
brlthers.” In this respect, the “ children of light ”
set a good example to the “children of this
world.”


THE SYDNEY BICYCLE CLUB.
FOURTH ANNUAL INTERCOLONIAL AMA-
TEUR CHAMPION BICYCLE AND TRICYCLE
RACE MEETING,
Under the patronage and rules of the New South
Wales ’Cyclists Union.
To be held at the
N.8.W. CRICKET ASSOCIATION GROUND,
Moore Park, Sydney, N.S.W.,
SATURDAY, 22nd AUGUST, 1885.
PROGRAMME:
1. One-mile Bicycle Championship of N.S.W.—
Special Club Trophy
2. Ten-miles Bicycle Championship of N.S.W.—
Gardiner Cup
3. One-mile Bicycle Handicap , .. ,
4. Three-miles Bicycle Handicap—The Ladies
B racel Gt8
Competitors in this race must be nominated by
ladies.
5. One-mile Bicycle Handicap, for Maiden Riders
only
This race to be ridden on Roadster Bicycles.
Minimum weight, 351bs.
6. Two-miles Tricycle Handicap
GOLD MEDAL FOB FIRST SCRATCH MAN
PAST THE POST. IN ADDITION TO THE
THREE PRIZES ALLOTTED TO THE HANDI-
CAP; ANY COMPETITOR ALLOTTED A START
T) BE AT LIBERTY TO GO FROM THE
SCRATCH MARK IF HE CHOOSES.
THREE PRIZES IN EACH EVENT.
ENTRIES CLOSE AUGUST 10, AT 9 O’CLOCK
P.M , AT CLUB ROOMS.
7. 150 Yards Handicap Foot Race
8. 440 Yards Handicap Foot Race
9. Parade—Prize, Silver Bugle, for the Club ex-
celling in appearance and manoeuvres.
All events open to all amateurs.
E. H. MCRAE,
Honorary Secretary.
All communications and enquiries to be ad-
dressed to, and entry forms obtained from, the
Club Clerk, J. Copland, at the Club Rooms and
Headquarters, 85 Market-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
B
FIRST
PRIZE
FIRST,
PRIZE.
AGLBHAWK MECHANICS’ INSTITUTE.
GRAND ART UNION,
In strict accordance with the Act.
VALUE
£500.
SECOND PRIZE, £300.
THIRD PRIZE, £100.
4 prizes, value £50 each. 100prizes, value £5 each.
4 „ „ £25 each. 550 „ ,. £1 each.
40 „ ,, £10 each. 300 „ n 10s. leach.
1000 PRIZES 1 1000 PRIZES I
10,000 TICKETS at 10s. each, obtainable at most
business places in the colony.
N.B.—In proof of the value of the above, the
Committee undertake to find purchasers for the
various prizes at the prices named, and to hand the
winner full amount in cash, less 10 per cent, for
commission. . ,,
The drawing to take place in June, under the
supervision of the Mayor and Councillors of Eagle-
hawk and a Committee of Shareholders.
T. H. TAYLOR,
Managing Secretary.
Bull-street, Sandhurst, and
Mechanics’ Institute, Baglehawk.
SULLIVAN & JACKSON, Agents,
Vaughan Chambers, 143 King-street, Sydney.
B
X S.S. BALLARAT. EX. 8.S. BALLARAT.
kEAPES and SHAW PEAPE3 and SHAW,
H
AYE
OPENED a large
GLOVES.
SHIPMENT of
FNCLUDING Gents’ Chevrettes, Ladles’ Chev-
rettes
ADIB3’ Four-botton Tan Florentine GLOVES
R
UBY, Bronze, and Black ditto ditto.
F
OUR-BUTTON or Clasp Tan KID GLOVES,
W 1
TH Ingrain Twist Points, Black and Self
Colour.
LSO, Bight-button Length Tan Mosquetaire.
L X HE LARGEST, most RELIABLE, and Cheap'
est
iTOCK of
LADIES’ and
GLOVES
GENTLEMEN'S
*N THE AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
ADIES’ and CHILDREN’S GLOVES
"N EVERY LENGTH SIZE, an COLOUR.
)EAPES and SHAW, PBAPBS and SHAW.
G
EORGE-STBEET, GBORGE-8TRBBT.
w
BT WEATHER REQUISITES
T PBAPBS and SHAW’S, GBORGB-STRBBT.
ADIES’ TAILOR-MADE ULSTERS.
ADIES’ MACINTOSH OVERALLS.
ADIES’ UMBRELLAS. GENTLEMEN’S
I UMBRELLAS.
s
PLBNDID VARIETY and EXTRAORDIN-
ARY CHEAP.
GENTLEMEN’S WINTER OVERCOATS, from
25s. each
ANTIPLUVIAN MACINTOSHES sewn seams
22a. 6d.
OUBLE TEXTURE MACINTOSHES, 30s. each.
D
B
nVBRY VARIETY of Warm WINTER
HOSIERY,
■ ADIES’ and GENTLEMEN
B h GLOVES.
WINTER
J>EAPB3 and SHAW, PBAPBS and SHAW.
BT, GEOKGK-bTKEE’i.
SB. BRIGHT’S PHOSPHODYNE
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental ana Physical
Depression, Nervous Debility, Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Energy. Sick Headache, indigestion*
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, ana i* »
marvellous medicine for renovating impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought upon the
individual a* to the process. It moves the Jungs,
liver, heart, kidney, stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour, yet mildness unparalleled In
medicine, and is the most powerful blood purifier
of the present day. Sold by all chemists.
Agents—Elliott Bros-
I-iCc3a.-da.VL <Sz Sib-arco-rocls
3-8tar 10-Years’ Old Whiskies. The Oldest, Purest, and Most Mellow imported. GOLD MEOALS-cm
cutta, N.Z. and 8. and W. Australia. HOLLAND & CO.’S OLD TOM GIN, G. H ADAMS. 119 Pi*f
trect, Sydney : and at Melbourne, Adelaide, and Brisbane, Agents. Kirker, Greer, & Co. (Ld.)
1885 Universal Club, a thoroughly reliable and easy-running
machine. Ball bearings to both wheels, and improvements.
THE SYDNEY SPORTS
DEPOT.
389 GEORGE-STREET SYDNEY
(Opposite Royal Hotel.)
bicycles,j[ricycle8.
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles
and Tricycles
Have Every Improvement.
OUR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadster.
THE UNIVERSAL CLUB
BICYCLE,
fitted with Improved Ball Bear-
ings to front and back wheel*
Hollow Forks, Patent Head and
Detachable Bent Handle Bar
Easy Slide Spring, Hubs Plated’
Black Enamelled Spokes,
Price, ;fi!3 10s. At the price
we defy competition.
JAMES MARTIN & COMPANY, 389 Georga-st., Sydney.
AVOID COMPLICATED FOREIGN BRACES.”
-i- _CO_ _1Z_I
“CREDENT A,”
SIMPLEST AND BEST FOR MEN AND' BOYS,
wholeSale only at
le 1*7 CHEAPSIDE, LONDON, E.C.
And of W, PENNY FINDLAY & BRO., Melbourne Sc Sydney.
BOtT RKE,
Is the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel In the Western Distrldt. The TahlP&ttd Llquo
cannot be surpassed, even In the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. Firsl-clalte Stabling
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor.
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST manufactured articles only kept in stock.
WILLIAM FLEMINGS-, Merchant & Importer
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
GIVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
.Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing,
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Bleotrie and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description,
BOULTON’S "FLUBH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, "VACUUM” WATBR-WASTB
PREVENTERS, &o.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Am Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney*
Full particulars and priop on application. __
Profusions! Directory.
G
EORGB PE < HIM AN. Scene Painter, Theatre
Royal. Brisbane.
A L
hbatrb rot
Under the management of
■Messrs. Williamson, Garner and MuSQROVl.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo.L. Goodman.
Overture at 7.43,
WILLIAMSON. GARNER. and MUSQROVE’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of
LA PETITE MADEMOISELLE
Pronounced by the public ti be the
MOST MAGNIFICENT PRODUCTION
and Grandest Spectacle ever seen in Australia.
Prices of Admission; Dress Circle 5s.; Stalls, 3j.;
Family Circle, 3s. ,
Tickets for all parts of the house at Bastway s
Hotel.
Box plan open at theatre from 11 till 4. No free
list. Doors open at 715. Carriages at 10.50.
ON SATURDAY NEXT.
The Fairy Opera, entitled 10LANTHE.
N
EW OPERA HOUSE.
Lessees Messrs. Majeronl and Wilson
Sub-Lessee Miss Genevieve Ward.
Positively the Last Two Nights of the
WARD-VEHNON SEASON.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING.
Last Night of the ever-sucocasful Historical
Comedy,
THE QUEEN’S FAVOURITE
THE QUEEN’S FAVOURITE.
Duchess of Marlborough .. Miss Gane vie ve Ward
Vlcount Dolingbroke ... Mr, W. H. Vernon.
TO-MORROW (FRIDAY),
BENEFIT of MISS GENEVIEVE WARD.
LUCREZIA BORGIA.
Art Ornaments from John Sands’, George-st.
Handsome Furnishing by David Jones and Co.
Prices as usual,
Ltddt, Agent. Signor Aorati, Business Manager.
I B T Y tHeT BAT R E 1
Lessee Mr. B. N. Jones. Treasurer Mr.H. Musgro ve
Doors open at 7.30. Overture at 8. Carriages at 10 la
No Free List—Public Press excepted.
SPECIAL COMEDY SEASON,
under the direction of
Messrs. WILLIAMSON, GARNER, A MUSGRO VE
Success most legitimate of the young English
comedian, Mr. FRANK THORN ION.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY,
Mr. Prank Thornton aa the Rev. Robert Spalding
A SPECIALLY-SELECTED COMEDY COMPANY
The furniture and appointments from Hamilton’s
Globe Furniture Depot, Park-street.
Admission—Parquetto Stalls, 5s.: Stalls, 3s.; Bal-
Box plan at Nicholson’s Music Ware-
house, George-street.
General Business Manager, Mr. H. R. Harwood.
Masonic hall, tork street.
Lessee Harry Lynch.
)ND SEASON, MONDAY, AUGUST 3. 1885,
and every evening during the week,
THE WORLD-FAMED
Lynch Family Bellringers,
IN THEIR ORIGINAL CONCERTS.
FIFTH CHANGE OF PROGRAMME.
Admission- 4s.. 3s., 2s., Is. Box plan at Paling’s.
Doors open at 7 30, overture at 8. Carriages, 10.15
EW MASONIC HALL.
Castlereagh-street, South.
PEOPLES’ POPULAR CONCERTS.
Every Saturday and Monday Night.
Re-appearance of JOHNNY COWAN, as end
man; also, In his great parody,
THE MASHER KING.
N
Miss Lucille Battye, Champion High Pedestal
— ~ ~ ’ iford, Mr. G. Riley, and all the
J. SMITH, Manager.
Dancer, T H. Rainford, Mr
old favourites.
HALL*
NEW MASONIC
Castlereagh-street South.
A LONG FELT WANT.
SERIES OF SACRED CONCERTS,
Commencing SUNDAY, 2nd AUGUST,
to be continued every following Sunday evening.
All the best Musical Artists.
Grand String Quartette under Mods. De Wllllmoff.
The programme will comprise nothing but what
Is of a sacred character, and of the highest order.
Prices—Front Seats, 3s.; Body of Ball. 2s.; Bal-
3ony, Is, JOE BROWN, Business Manager.
AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY, N S W.
RAND 8 H O
2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th SEPTEMBER,
W,
AT MOORE PARK.
P&* Prize Schedules may be obtained on appli-
cation.
ENTRIES CLOSE 18th AUGUST.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary,
Tattersall’s Buildings, Sydney.
“THE LYCEUM7’
Newcastle,
SITUATED IN THE BEST PART OF THE CITY.
It is capable of seating 300 people,
and suitable for
MUSICAL A DRAMATIC ENTERTAINMENTS.
The Stage (40ft. by 34ft.) is furnished with
STOCK, SCENERY, Ac
For Terms, apply
COLIN CHRISTIE,
“ The Lyceum,”
Newcastle.
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL,
Goulbubn.
T
HIS Theatre, one of the best In the colony, Is
opon for Engagement. Particulars from
M. B POLLEN, Hall Secretary*
THEY WILL LOOK BETTER THAN NE
=!
Ta.'flf43EL|
HEY WILL WEMPBETT
GOOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 Gt-eorge-street
(Beneath Paling's.)
pnpr PRESCRIPT I PUS a™ ,0
■ KfcW bo found In the “LIGHT
LIFE,” for the speedy cure of Nervous Dew *
Lost Manhood, Despondency, &o. A copy
this book will be sent free, sealed. Adders* -
8. WARD & CO,
Sydney Pharmacy.
76 Hunter-street, 8jdflcF^
fro Country Journalists -Leader?,
I and Sydney Letters, supplied by
literary man of long experience, on nioo
terms. “ Beta,” Bulletin Office.
AHHOOD RESTOREDI
A Clergyman having tried every known remedy
fortheCUREof NERVOUS EXHAUS-
TION, PREMATURE DECAY, &c., has at
last discovered a simple SELF-CURE, which, for
the sake of suffering humanity, he will send FREE
the Prescription which CURED him. Address,
F?ith self-addressed stamped envelope—
Dr. E. A. CIARKEi P.O. Box 292, Sydney.
BILLIARD TABLES, CLOTHS, BALLS, CUES,
POCKETS.
Tables New Cushioned and Recovered.
THOMAS’S FACTORY, 153 Bathurst Street.


Important kmut!
THE
ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
BEG to inform the public that, In consequence
of the
EXPIRATION OF LEASE
of their present premises, they have commenced
their
GRAND
[ms ms,
Which will
LAST FOR A FEW WEEKS ONLY!
The Goods are all marked at an
IB SACRIFICE!
as will be seen by list below.
PRICE LIST.
Ladies’ Handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 10s, Ita
17s 6d, and 30s each
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 4s and 6s per pair
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, 5s each
Ladle*’ Choice Necklets, best American Plate, 30b
each
Ladies’ Elegant Bangles, 4s, Os, and 10s per pair
Choice Lockets, 6s each
Handsome Gem Rings, 4s and 8s Od each
Wedding and Keeper Rings, in Solid Gold, 7s 6d
each
Ladies' Handsome Lockets, 10s each
Ladies’ Elegant Crosses, 4s, 5s, and 6s each
Ladles’ Brooch and Earring Sets, from 5s to 10s
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3s 6d each
Gents’ 0. G. Watches, Hunting, Open-Faced
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 30s each,
warranted 3 years
Ladles’ (same as above.) *
0T These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and Jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled. In hunting or open
faced crystal glasses 14 0 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balance .. £6 0 0
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levon .. .. £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. £6 0 0
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses.. .. £3 15 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance.. .. £4 16 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph, £6 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade .. £0 0 0
Ditto, In hunting cases, compensated and
full Jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £8 10 0
We Import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent*
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £6
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £6 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £10.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 4s
each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, half round buckle
flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck rings
2s 6d each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 3s, 4s, 6s, and 6s 6d per set.
Same as above, only ha>f sets, IS fid, 2s, and 3s per
set.
Best American Patent Spring Solitaire Suites,
6s per set.
Gent’s elegant Seals, 4s each.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, 63 each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pins, Is,
fid, 3s, 3s fid, 3s, 3s fid, 4s, 49 fid, 6s, and 6s fid eao
Very best American Pencil Cases, 8s fid each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Match Boxes, 4a each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign Purses, 4s each.
Richly engraved Bracelets, fis each.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully jewelled, 8s, 10s,
13s, and 14s each.
Brooocbes, Brooches, Brooches, Is fid, 2s, 2s 61, 3s,
3s fid, 4a, 4s fid, 6s, fis fid, fis, fis fid, 7s, 7s fid, 8s, 8a
fid, 9s, 9s fid, and 10s each.
PLEASE NOTE.
All goods will be sent post free, with the excep-
tion of the watches, orders for which must be ac-
companied with an extra amount of two and six-
pence to defray postage expenses. Send In your
orders early, as the goods must be sold, and no one
should miss this chance of procuring the beautiful
gems at less than cost price.
Note the Address :
The Oriental Gold Co.,
474 George Street,
OPPOSITE THE
“ A mad world, my masters,” wrote the
Bard of Avon; and, of a truth, ’tls greatly to he
doubted if our generation be vastly saner than
the one which he adorned. Could the master-
singer, from the pure Empyrean where (despite
the detractions of envious calumniators) we are
Eersuaded that he dwells, dercend and revisit the
aunts of his manhood; and looking round, be-
hold the tricks of statecraft and the juggleries of
power; the crown and coronet ennobling brows
were better graced by the fool’s cap and bells. The
world-old struggle of the rich against the poor, of
the landless against the landed—carried on still,
upon the one side, with the apathetic Inertia
born of long prescription, on the other with the
blind ferocity bred by ages of oppression—
and still, for all that appears, as far as ever from a
happy end—would he not, think you, repeat and
intensify his dictum, and marvel that the world
was grown so little wiser since he laid him down
to sleep ? Natheless to us, though fallen on evil
days, there remains a comfortable hope and sign
of hotter things to come, to which we do well if
we take heed. Amid the conflict of political
parties, the jar of rival creeds, the disintegration
of otd beliefs, the general strain and stress of the
times, the popularity of the sweet Hapsburg
Plano still stands Arm and permanent like a rock
in mid ocean. Take courage, most obstinate of
pessimists, and cease laudator temposis ach; for
while a nation retains a sense so keen of the
beautiful and the perfect, who shall forbid It the
hope of a glorious immortality ?*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
<rw*ATB* Rotax— “La Petite MadamoiseUe” p. 8
npEBA House— “ The Queen’s Favourite"— ,.
Gaiety Theatre—" The Private Secretary ” ,
As the chimes indicating eight at e en
pr e ringing out from the Town Hall clock, a
]fafplv form might have been seen bearing down
finon the Gaiety. This was ourselves. In all the
Irinrles of a brand new suit and a pair of chess-
hnard socks, we felt we were a person to be re-
enacted. Our mind was easy on the sub ject of the
naiety. No bearding in his den of Smileless George
iton he being otherwise occupied with “ La Petite
uademoiselle.” This was a fascinating reflexion,
and we turned into the lobby one explosive
11 okle. A curious sight here met our gaze,
fvorv mild literature this.) Batches of from 10 to
Innf Sydney’s most cherished Israelites filing out
jn tens a nd twenties. They had all seen "The
nueen’s Favourite” and “ Li Petite Mademoiselle,
oh as they drew up under the verandah, dismay
was stamoed upm every Judaic countenance, and
lamentations were general. “ Vere can ve goash,
,1 veil ?” exclaimed a gentleman in a high con-
dition of brilliants who has (if his ads. are to be
believed) acquired opulence by lending mony on
„«ntlemen - 8 uotes of hand, at 5 per cent, interest
nar annum, no security of any kind being re-
quired. We remember calling, with a sunny
omile, upon this party once. We told him we
wanted a few hundreds on the terms he adver-
tised and we pointed out to him that we had
brought a bag with us in which to carry away the
blunder. He shook hands with us and gave us a
piuar. He then asked us to sit down, and men-
tioned that he would consider our application.
This we felt, was almost as good as getting the
money. Seven long years have since elapsed, so
we suppose he is still considering. WhenJSImonths
had slowly panned out, we encountered him one
day in George-street. On that occasion we have a
distinct remembrance that no allusion whatever
was made to our application. All ho did was to
offer us a pinch of snuff and ask us for an order
for the circus I
* * *
Despite the exodus of the Israelites, we
contrived to “ shove in.” What a house 1 Bvery
seat occupied downstairs, and the gallery (you
don’t get any “ family circle ” out of us I) packed
with layers of the gods in a high state of hilarity.
We envied those people for the manner in which
thev enjoyed themselves. No affectation of not
being amused about them, mind youl You could
mark the merry manner in which they handed
about the ginger- beer bottle with the rum in it,
and the initiated could make out how Hemmy
Mta ” lift under the ear ” for taking too expan-
sive a “ suck ” at the same ambrosial flask. Com-
fortably ensconced in the front row of the
stalls was Inspector Seymour. This officer
Is a fervent first-nighter, not taking his
chance, mind you, as poor “ dramatical
crickets” have, at times, to do, but sending
a menial in the broad sunshine to take his seat
from Freeman, and arriving just as the gods are
i. W aking up the catgut ” In a contented mind and
a sober spirit. How he manages things has long
been a mystery, since he has to be up to muster
the city scavengers at 4 a.m., and then has to
drive down and sell all the fish that is wolfed
la the metropolis. There was a strong muster of
the Press, too, conspicuous amongst them being
an accomplished and versatile member of the.
Herald staff, who presented the appearance of
baying been much planed down by matrimony.
» ♦ •
The jiiece, proper, commenced after the
overture. This statement will, perchance, be
regarded by the thoughtless as unnecessary; but
lust some of you hyper-critics start writing at so
much a column. You will be mean enough to do
anything then, and you will never write the word
••fact” when you are sober enough to crowd in
“circumstance.” And yet people think we are
rotting In riches! Why, it was only the other day
as we were crossing the Park, and listening to the
chimes at midnight, Master Shallow, when a de-
cayed brother pressman came up apd said—
" eighteen pence, or your life.” Upon which we
immediately handed him a dagger! He, mark
you he had been a dramatic critic I Ha, ha, ha,
hal (This is intended to imply scorn and derision.)
It will bo remembered that in the year 1087, there
was crowned with great splendour In Linden
(Eog.), one William Rufus. He —[Let's hear
about the play. Five “sticks” of historical gossip—
Norman period—editorially struck out— Ed. B.j
“The Private Secretary’—the overture being over
—engaged our serious attention. It is not, per-
haps, a production to engage anyone’s “serious
attention but ours: but we’ve got too sore a foot
to laugh above, and an exhibition of undue
hilarity on the part of a critic. Is apt to upset the
equanimity of the players. They are a respect-
able, hard-working class of persons, as a rule, but
require to be continually reminded of the illimit-
able gulf which separates the author, and the
" vagabond.” “ The Private Secretary,” then, Is a
three-act farce, which the management announce
to have been written by “ C. H. Hawtrey. Esq.”
the piece, indeed, being one of John Stofel s most
recent purchases. As & matter of fact, this
play is not by “C. H. Hawtrey, Bsq.,” at all;
but Is a by no means too neat translation
of a Palais Royale farce; a fact which has been
diligently advertised for the last two years , in the
London papers, but which appears to be cheerfully
ignored In these realms. People who know a thing
or two tell this story of the " Private-Secretary,”
which is quite wicked enough to be true. Here it
Is for you,all Included in the sixpence, the pink
cover, and the pretty pictures by “Hop” being
thrown in. Bcootly :—
• ** ' s -„; *
There lives in a big house, in Burton.Square,
one Ada Cavendish, who by reason of her; singu-
larly clever impersonation of “ Mercy Merrick
was, some time ago regarded as the greatest
actress on the English-speaking stage. We say
was,” advisedly ; because it seems that Miss
Genevieve Ward is that now, and there Cin t very
well be two of them. Ada betag, like Miss W . a
few fleeting months over 17, was of a susceptible
nature, and, to use a term much in vogue m ( the
neighbourhood of the Fish Market, froze on to
Mr. Hawtrey (which his name is Simpson) ana
not only endowed him with the translation under
review, but let him have ithe ghostly Olympic to
play it in. It caught on, and is now in its second
year.
* * *
The success of “The Piivate Secretary ’’ is
less due to its dialogue than its " business, which
Is largely after the nigger-minstrel order, much
merriment being excited by the oomlcalappear-
ance of the Curate's ‘‘goods and chattels, and by
tbe artistic humour embodied in bis make-up.
The entire weight of the piece falls upon trank
Thornton, the impersonator of this character, and
it is not too much to say that his acting is of a re-
markable description. His Success, indeed, ap-
peared to us to be complete, and his aaveut
amongst us, after the experience we have had of
some other Importations, should be welcomed
with general congratulations. H will ha iat
app rent to persons of ordinary intelligence that
Mr. Thornton’s performance ot the Rev. Robert
Spalding is quite inimitable. You can believe
this. Though, having a heart about the size ot a
bank-clerk’s lunch, we have acqu ired somewhat
of a reputation for “laying on the raspberry.
And really, almost as merry an impersonation is
that ot Mr. H. R. Harwood as Mr. Cattermoie.
Mr, H. is a remarkable gentleman, and appears by
some astounding freak of Providence to be about
10 years younger than when ho enjoyed the seduc-
tive evolutions of the sarsaparilla troupe In Ta©
Mascoite.” It is as funny ai was his Laurent
XII., and we have to offer Mr. Harwood our
forVid cdngratulatidns upon the fact of-his not
being called upon to sing I
• • •
Frank Cates is a perfect picture as the
sham curate, Douglas Cotiernlole, and his attitude
oh the stage bore an impress of novelty that w is
singularly refreshing. He has quitemastered ice
, art ot “how not to act,” tor which relict, dear
FiAQK, many thanks! Mr. Arthur Redwood, who
played a London tailor of an eccentric disposition,
contrived to make himself look like one, and his
performance may truthfully be written down as
one of an hilarious nature. The efforts of the
other gentlemen were likewise of a satisfactory
character.
* * »
The efforts of the ladies, however, hardly
ever rose above mediocrity. The cast included, of
course, that honest performer. Miss Annie Taylor,
and also a young lady of considerable personal at-
tractions called Florence Trevellyn, who made
“her first appearance in Sydney” in the part of
Edith Marsland.
♦ * *
The management have mounted the piece
with great care and considerable taste; and the
unqualified success of the play should bo a source
of congratulation to Mr. Harwood, under whose
superintendence it has been produced. The or-
chestra is satisfactory, though we could wish that
the man who saws at the big fiddle would be a
little more sparing in the use of his rosin.
* * * *
“TheQueen’s Favour te” was revived in
the Opera House on Saturday night. With Miss
Ward’s benefit on 31st instant, this company s sea-
son terminates, and playgoers are not likely to s p e
the fine ti’aglc’actress on a stage in this part of
the world again. It is now 13 or 13 years since she
gave up opera singing. After the Franco-German
war, through part of which she went as nurse, she
appeared in England as an actress. Dublin was
the first place in which she “ starred.’ The piece
was, we believe, “ Lucrezia Borgia,” which she is
to give for her benefit on Friday night. She passed
rapidly to the front in London, and soon occupied
a very high place in the dramatic profession.
• * •
The drama played last Saturday night has
been described (before. It seems, however, to
confirm impressions that have been gradually
forming. As Dueness of Marlborough, Miss Ward
had a wide range of character to cover. She had
also a wide range of voice to compass. In the
latter success was not so marked as in the former.
In her lowest tones she is distinct but cold ; her
medium ones are full and musical; but when she
rises to her loudest, although they are delivered
forcibly from the chest, the tones strike the ear
without mingling with the attention. Apart from
the fixed face, the decisive mouth, the panther eyes,
her voice, when raised, would jar upon the ear.
Her action often redeems her tone. In passages of
suppressed purpose where the way iSjtortuous and
serpentine, and where voice and face are held ready
for modulation and transformation at each new
step, the command she exercises over both is a
revelation of very high art. As Rachel and as
Stephaine this power was displayed. As Duchess
of Marlborough it is made specially prominent.
When she fears she is beaten by Bollngbroke
and comes to the Queen’s apartment to deliver
up.her key there is something very like genius
in the impersonation. She kneels there, playing
with the kev, extending it, drawing it back,
.Weeping—but with eyes fastened on the Queen s
eyes, suing for pardon but losing no dignity, her
face changing its aspect each instant, as water
over which sun and shade pass might change, her
voice insinuating Itself lowly, sweetly, clearly into
the unwilling ear, until in the end triumph comes,
and with radiant eyes and springing gait, she
walks off the stage with the Queen on her arm.
This single passage is a histrionic victory.
The professional union between Miss Ward
and Mr. Vernon appears to have for its raison
d'etre the belief that their natural powers stand
In such contrast as enhances the best qualities of
both. The woman personifies tragic earnestness,
the man cynical selfishness. It is with this as a
leading idea that Mr. Sydney Grundy has been
writing up to them. We think the belief is rather
overrated, and we think Mr. Grundy fails to give
artistic satisfaction. Mr. Vernon’s voice, ex-
ceptionally good over a few tones, is bad beyond.
His manner is never, even when an evidence of
pathos is wanted, wholly free from the comic
•• aside.” There should be in Mr. Grundy's plays a
third strong character to bridge the gulf. The
gap between Miss Ward and Mr. Vernon is always
yawning. The empty space is always there. Tne
two characters, each so great, do not fuse, do not
blend. They are not two parts of an idea. They
are a positive and negative, a static and dynamic
force. The result is that nooverwhelmingpission
agitates the house. The audience is fllilpad b/
bits of emotion. Its sympathy is frittered away.
Its seat of reason is not troubled, its seat of feeling
is not stormed.
• 1 *
Miss Watts-Phillips and Mrs. Gordon had |
parts on Saturday night. The former has a very
good notion of “business,” and her intonation
has the merit of being, if hard, clear. The latter
■was far and away better as Margartt in *• Rachel,
than as Queen Anne in “The Favourite. It is a
satire on Royalty that we cannot get better Eag-
lish Queens on the stage. Miss Blanche Lewis
gave us a Queen Elizabeth, not long ago, in “Mane
Stuart,” that kindled little loyalty. Mrs. Gordon s
Queen Anne isja companion picture.
To the Ward-Vernon company as a whole,
wherever its stage, and wherever its sky, vale.
mm mm
Majeroni and Wilson (whom dear old j
Joe drown seems to have desirted) evidently
Intend to go it. They produce on Saturday night,
for they announce “that on the above date a
comedy season will be inaugurated at their popu-
lar theatre with a new farcical comedy, in three
acts, by Walter L. Craven, entitled, * Mixed,
which seems to have run for 3Q0 nights in London,
and in which the noble adapter Impersonates the
principal part.
m •
Mr. Walter L. Craven is supported (dra-
matically) by Miss Helene de Valance—a tact difti -
cult to credit; thougn, on consideration, It is
but fitting that in connection with a curtain there
should be a Valance. Philip Day is likewise en-
gaged, which is a good hearing, as he Is likewise a
merry man; and we see also the names of Charley
Seagrave and H. N. Douglas, which, with the
addition of Miss Docy Mainwariog, is quite enough
glory for us. We’d travel 16 miles on a stolen
mule, if only to feast our eyes on Miss Helene de
Va'ance.
♦ * * *
At the new Masonic Hall on the evening
of the day upon wnlch we publish will be executed
Gounod’s ” R ’demptlon,” by 150 performers, iho
effect of this ought to be striking. While listening
to the man who blows into the cornet in the Ger-
man Band, we have generally considered that one
performer was enough for us. But, we suppose,
that single-handed he would not be equal to an
oratorio. As might be expected, “The Redemp-
tion,” having a distinct interest for the pawn-
broking fraternity, will be under the cordial
patronage of that noble body. Should the work
achieve that success which the performers hope
for It, it will bo, doubtles?, followed by “The
Pledge,” a cantata by Bister Sholomunsh. And,
while on the subject of music, do not let us forget
that Charley Huenerbein gives Herr Insecticide
Kruse a send-off at the Now Masonic on Thursday,
tith August, when, we trust, that Mr. Charles will
lust oblige us by omitting “To the Front” from
the programme. No one was ever denied the
existence of any amount of “ front ” in the un-
lucky Contingent, but why toast it musically ?
* * * *
A par. for the Royal. We notice that “ La
Petite Mademoiselle ” will be taken off on Satur-
day, when we are to have “lolanthe.” We shall
welcome the change “with avidity.” for we don’t
mind owning that, as regards “ La Petite M.,” we
are pretty “ full ” of the Opara’s hairs, whatever
we may be of its graces. But for Nellie Stewart
and her sister, it would be a doleful business in-
deed, for you tire of looking at stage-pictures,
however elaborate. In the next opera we expect
to see Mr. Robert Brough assert himself. The last
specially imported humorist, we remember, was
Will Simpson, “the Celebrated English Clown.”
To him we owe our thanks. He resigned us, dur-
ing the first five minutes of his performance, to a
violent death.
« • « •
When we looked in on Monday night, the
Lynch Bellringers at the old Masonic Hall had only
a moderate house, which was chiefly to be
accounted for by the fact that the church bells on
Saturday chimed so long and excruciatingly that
men began to hate and abhor the very thought of
such sounds.
* * * *
The sudden announcement in the Herald
of Tuesday, that owing to the extensive alterations
that “favourite and fashionable lounge,” the
Academy of Music, would be closed until further
notice, fell upon us like a clap of thunder I We
don’t mind admitting that we have always had a
sneaking kindness for Minstrelsy. For instance,
when Horace Bent does the French Conductor we
are invariably seduced into infinite merriment.
It might interest the reader to know where Horace
rehearses his wheezes. We can tell you without
straining ourselves. In the afternoon he goes over
to Mossman’s Bay, hires a boat, and sculls himself
leisurely about. As he paddles, every ear on the
shores of the Bay is flapped eagerly forward, and
they catch something in this wise You never
heard of that restauraut, did you, sir, which is
conducted on novel and equitable principles?'’
“No. sir 1” “ Well, the Idea’s grand. You see, they
weigh you before you go in, and after you have
dined you are put again in the scales and charged
prorata." “ Indeed,sir? ’ “Yes,sir I Butlgotthe
bulge on the restaurant. I put two bricks in my
pocket whan I went in, and while I was having
dinner I slid them underthe stove. I was weighed,
of course, as I came out, and the restaurant was
found to owe me four dollars.”
Beaumont Read’s gong: -
" My Cloud has no Silver Linxno.
“ Father’s head is ’neath the culvert;
He's at bis familiar tricks, sir;
Mother shook a pair of boots, and
She has got to do a sixer;
Billy’s put his elber out, and
He's a worry with his whining;
There’s not, la my little cloudlet,
Beaa German-silver lining.
CHORDS,
j- must sob with bitter sorrow.
jj,, j- must ever be repining;
Gloom is e’er on j to-morrow I
j cloud has no silver lining I ”
• * m
The “Colonel” is off for a six weeks’ sea-
son to Melbourne—giving Newcastle a turn for a
week first. By the time he returns the Academy
will not merely be a majestic building; it will be a
monument I
* * * *
At one time outface was familiar at Botany.
We were younger then, and at that time “ tapering
off ” had not become with us a lost art. Many Is
tho lady *'occupying a prominent position in the
dramatic profession” that we have driven down,
feasted with chicken, and enshrined in flowers.
We used to walk about the lawn then, and twirl
our umbrella, and presented, probably, a feeble
spectacle. Something must have happened since
then, it seems, because when the other day we
encountered a gorgeous histrionic lady, who had
been our guest on several occasions, she said:
“ Hallo I yovUook poorly. Come, and I'll buy you
a drink.” Tms, aft Q r But let it pass.
EPSOM SALTS.
MUST I?
on! I
YES I


PEPPER AND SALT.
It is a curious thing, but no sooner does a
youngster get educated up to the literary standard
of writing—" The usual number of drunks were
fined 5s. each by the presiding magistrate ’’—than
he wants to write theatrical notices. He yearns
to be on the free-list; to swagger into the theatre'
converse In familar terms with “ Goodie,” and
gaze scornfully on Freeman at the top of the land-
ing, if he has the audacity to offer him a pass-
check going out. We had that same yearning, once,
ourselves. We panted to write about bis rendition
of the role being “ good, though overdone at times ’■
—in which phrase criticism exhausts itself; and
our dream was to be waylaid by actors, and to be
asked for the favour of a “line.” All this
came in due time. And, for a good while, we were
caked three inches thick in glory. We sobered
down after a bit, and now it takes the promise of
A bottle of rum and six powerful mules to draw us
to the theatre. Here, for instance, is a Utile In.
cident that was one of many which were instru-
mental in damping our ardour. Now, you mark: —
Once there arrived out hero a tragedian-we don’t
try to remember his name-who was of gigantic
stature, and whose foot was only second in size to
that of Largan, the sculler. He opened in " Hara-
et,” and we went to see it—anticipating a splen-
did histrionic treat - having been much taken with
printing. The performance came off in a
little theatre in which the fleas fastened on to you
with a grip directly you sat down, and it you in-
terfered with them, barked at you. We think we
see him now. Such funereal trappings as he wore’
were probably never seen before outside under-
taker Kirby’s. And his star I The size and volume
of it gained him, on his first appearance, three
rounds of applause from the gods. He was a
terrible performer. Whenever he came on,
he used his arms as though he were swim-
ming, cannoned Ophelia against the prompter
and flattened all the rest of the charac-
tors against the “open country.” The perform-
ance lasted three hours, and was one dreary chain
of mishaps from beginning to end. For Instance
in the graveyard scene, one of the tombstones
suddenly fell flat on its face, revealing to the
audience the legend, in bold printed characters,
“ And take no other.” This and many other simi-
lar circumstances, caused the sorrows of the noble
Dane to be received derisively, and behind the
scenes when the curtain went down the air was
thick with curses. After the play we moved about
a while in the cool night air, seeking relief for
a perturbed spirit and an aching brow. Finally,
however, we wandered into an hotel frequented
by the “ profession,” and the first person that met
our gaze was the actor who had that night bored
a hole through Polonius. A number of his brother
professionals were grouped around him, and he
was apparently entertaining them with the story
of his triumph. “ And what,” he said, advanc-
ing towards us, “ did you think of my in-
terpretation of Shakespeare’s masterpiece ? ”
We wore hot and tired and savage. Misery
had made us reckless. "And what did you
think,” he repeated, "of my interpretation of
Shakespeare’s masterpiece ? ” “ Do you want our
candid opinion ? ” we asked, in a grating voice
A shade seemed to pass over his face, we thought*
(He was seven feet high!) “Yes;” he replied'
“ What did you think of it ? ” " We thought, sir »
we answered, sternly, "that you had a d—. eight
too much to [say.” In another moment 35 people
were holding him back, while another 10 carried
us down and looked us in the cellar. It was an ex-
citing: experience.
• • •
A Melbourne undertaker has invented an
improved disinfecting coffin for preventing con-
tagion. No sensible corpse, he says, will be buried
without It. Thunder! how thankful we should be
to live in this nineteenth oentufry. And how much
more thankful to die in it I With a coffin like that
who need be afraid to -die? The' name of the
gifted inventor is Apps. Wo are, therefore,
. .v ■
FARNELL TRIES ONE END.
A Mile Too Big.
YET MR. FARNELL WILL TRY WHEN SIR ALEXANDER TAKES THEM OFF.


assured that he 1s not an Irishman (though he
might be Welsh), and consequently bis idea of
keeping contagion from corpses, wild as it may
seem, is saved from the suspicion of being a Boyle
Rocher. There is evidently a professional secret
Involved in it. In the mind of Mr. Apps the dead
are only dormant, and death is but a kind of pro-
longed hibernation. And as a man who has had
an extensive acquaintance with all classes of
corpses, his opinions are worthy of respect, if not
absolute credence. What nightmares some of
them must have I ‘‘But in that sleep of death
*hat dreams may come.” Good old William, what
ft head you had 1 If you were only alive now you
never want your little drop of rum while
Ve had any left in the looker. And as far as a
few shillings now and then were concerned, you
could have made your noble intellect easy—while
had any friends remaining to borrow from.
• • ■
Frank Blake, who toed the line the other
flfty at the Water Police Court, furnishes a sad in-
stance of filial ingratitude. He went to the old
“Ian’s office and stole-a bottle of whisky. Weave
ft father ourselves, and we never put the bottle to
our lips now without watering it with a little tear
of sympathy for Blake, senior. Ah, Frank, Frank I
we trust the fourteen days you are now doing will
bring with them repentance for the past. Con-
sider a father's love, Frank —
He dandled you upon his knee
When infantile and puling;
He heard you say your ABC,
And paid for all your schooling;
He sent you forth to learn a trade -
He launched you on life’s ocean—
And this is the return ycu made;
To go and steal his “lotion.”
Another of our dreams is dispelled. We
had laid ourselves out to live merrily, and pass the
jorum festively around till we had thoroughly
wrecked our constitutions and studded our liver
all over with hobnails such as the temperance lec-
turer delights to exhibit. Tnen we would throw
ourselves upon the charity of our country, and
piss away the evening of our life comfortably in
the Benevolent Asylum, cheered by a lltcle tobacco
and occasional furloughs at the request of our
friends—if we should happen to have any then
living, and not in the Benevolent themselves —
when we would fill he bowl again in the manner
of old times, and bring back afleetlng blush to our
once ever-glowing nose. Yes; It was a dream-
and like all our other dreams, it is now dust and
ashes. We shall never rest our aged limbs within
the walls of that retreat for Improvident age.
Better by far the morgue. Recent enquiries
Into the domestic economy of the Melbourne
Benevolent Asylum (and one asylum is much
like another) have revealed the fact that
the meat provided for the poor old inmates
(most of whom are toothless) is of a tough-
ness that would disgust an alligator in the
last stages of hunger. It is said that when a mem-
ber of the house committee asked one of these
pensioners why he and most of his companions re-
fused to eat the meat served up to them for several
days previous, the anciont man drew that member
aside and whispered to him, “Sir, I don’t like to
tell you—the cook might hear of it.” ‘‘Non-
sense,” the house-committee man replied; “ never
mind the cook, my friend, but tell me the reason
straight out. Your secret will be safe enough
with me.” ‘‘Then, sir,” said the venerable in-
mate, "we didn’t care to eat It because old Bill
Jackson died last week—he was 104 years of ago,
to furnish a thrilling page to history. You have
read it, probably, but it will bear repellilon:—
For the first few hours, the half-breeds not only
held their own, but Inflicted serious losses upon,
the troops. The critical moment came when a
Gatling gun, worked not by regulars, but by a
volunteer, who was merely the agent for that
weapon, and who hoped, by demonstrating its
value, to get a contract from the Government, was
moved forwarJ, and balled bullets into the ranks
of the rebels. The latter made an effort, by a des-
perate coup da main, to capture the gun. but were
driven back with terrific slaughter, and forced to
all but a month, when ho died, he was, and a very
tough ’un for his age, was old Bill.” “Very pos-
sibly, my good man,” remarked the member of
the committee, impatiently; ‘‘but what has old
Bill Jackson to do with your not eating the meat ?”
“ Just this, sir,” said the old man, solemnly, and in
a lower key: “we believed them steaks was
[Enough.— Ed. B.]
• • •
The story of how the troops of the Cana-
dian Government succeeded in dispersing the
half-breeds, under Louis Riel, at Batouche, is fated
FARNELL TRIES THE OTHER END.
“Honast James Squire Farnell” tries on the Crown, and makes the Old Man Sit Up.


Mr. Julian Thomas is anxiously expected
up la Cooktown. When, some years ago, Northern
Queensland was in trouble about the Chinese
question, Mr. Thomas went to Cooktown, and
settled the difficulty la two hours. The impres-
sion there is that he will settle the Separation
question in leas than half an hour. On© local
paper says: “ Mr. Thomas will be heartily wel-
comed.” The other says: “ We are on the look-
out for Mr. Thomas.” If we were Mr. Thomas
we’d send somebody forward to see what they
have in their bands.
What with Contingent banquets and
dinners to Benevolent Asylums we are slightly
upset, and though we uave not yet tapped
that keg of whisky sent us by an admirer last
week, we sigh for real relief. Now, when our
old Iriend John M. Ives, the genial manager out
here for Warner's Kerned if s was about, we never
suffered ; for Mr. Ives always invited us to a
square feed or *• pie social ” and got us back into
shape somehow. John 1 come back I We yearn
for thy presence I*
retire Into the woods.” The notion of blazing
away at a body of men with a Gatling, in order to
demonstrate the capabilities of the weapon,
worthy of the Yankee brain that conceived it, and
if the agent doesn’t secure a good “ line ” we shall
be mad. Ret us sing a hymn to the praise and
glory of this copamercial warrior:—
The Mudgee Independent is responsible
for the following story : Three years ago It
Was known to several Dungaree settlers that there
were several dingoes lurking about, and a trap,
attached to a rope, was secured to a tree. One
morning the trap was missing, and it was evident
a dog had put his foot on it, hut, with the cun-
nlng for which the native dog is noted, the rope
which held the trap was gnawed, and the animal
got free. Some time afterwards, however, the
identical trap, with a dog’s foot, was found by
some bushmen, and last week Mr. Spratbrow shot
an old dingo that had been deprived of a foot and
portion of his leg for some considerable time,
evidently the same animal which three years
before had made tracks with the trap.”
Lord St. Leonards, the “ rorty ” haughty
noble who recently got into trouble for forcing his
titled attentions upon a servant-maid, when
“master was out,” announces his Intention of
honouring Australia with a visit. He’ll be an ob-
ject of Intense interest to good society, no doubt—
“ Shockingly wicked, my dear, but such tone,” and
all that sort of thing. Still, take It altogether, we
could have done without St. Leonards,—
BRIEF MENTION.
The Sydney D.T. on the Mahdi’s death :—
“A true Prophet’s first duty is—to live.” That
cuts a good many ways.
Mr. T. Qibney, up Manning River way,
recently shot an opossum with only three legs.
That ends one country correspondent of the Town
AND KTTNTRY JBRNIL.
At the Gosford banquet Mr. Farnell said :
—“ It seems to me I have contributed a great deal
to your pleasure and happiness by my presence
down at Gosford.” (Hear, hear.) Exactly so.
Farnell —Beer— Bliss.
The Tamworth Observer chronicles that
when Sir James Martin orders grapes from “ Little
Paradise” he “ always pays for them.” And yet
we’ll wager that If his Honor neglected to part
not a word would be said about it I
When Walker, the “Boy Lecturer.” said
he’d occupy Dadlnghurst but that he feared carn-
age, one of the procession asked him If he pro-
posed to get in through the key-hole. Tom made
no reply to this unkind and key-holed remark.
There are a lot of speculations as to what
Mr. R H. Levien’s “ grossest case of robbery that
has ever taken place in the colony” Is. The gene-
ral oolnion In sporting circles is that someone
has rung in the nob on the man who had the kip
■ and let the mug collar the plunder.”
The last manifestation of the spread of
martial ardour In N.8.W. Is reported to have been
visible at a Northern town lately. The local de-
fenders had mustered for their evening demon-
stration when an unfortunate altercation ensued,
and the officer in charge very kindly consented to
postpone the drill until a blacksmith had succeeded
in putting a head on the tailor.
The piety party of the Victorian Legisla-
tive Assembly are deprived of one of their pillars
by the resignation of Mr. Richardson. It was
all along of those nasty newspapers, too. They
couldn’t see that signing another man’s name
wbs merely a “ Christian inadvertency.” Re-
morselessly they slew his reputation, and wrote
his epitaph, “Another good man gone wrong.”
Mr. Cooper, M.L.A. for a Victorian con-
stituency, asked in the House, the other night, for
a return of the number of persons convicted of
drunkenness in the several police districts of the
colony. What a glutton for information that man
must bo I The statistics—if he gets them—will
probably make him drunk. We know they would
make us—and we have heads as strong as most.
Mr. Harper, one of the most scholarly
members ot the Victorian. Parliament, remarked
in an address to the undergraduates of the Mel-
bourne University, the other day, that “the
aboriginal languages of Australia afforded a wide
and interesting Held for study.” We believe him.
It they were in Sydney they could put this advice
into practice cheaply enough. Alfred and the
D.T. are philological mines in themselves.
“ What is alcohol ?” is the sphinx-like co-
nundrum that many profound intellects have set
tnemselves to solve in the Melbourne Arous, If
the writers on the staff of that able journal were
allowed to enter into the controversy the question
would soon ba settled. They know. Properly
speaking, however, this is a subject in which the
Lyre should have no rival. Roughly, alcohol
may be said to mean five-shillings or twenty-four
hours.
Dr. Edward Malins, a famous English
physician, says that the adult brain requires eight
hours of sleep out ot every 24 to produce Rood
work when awake. You can calculate from this
how many hours the leader-writers on the S.M.
Herald must require. Perhaps, if you were in-
clined to be sarcastic, you would say 23. There
you would be wrong. They take much less. But
then you see they co npel their readers to make it
up for th<»m. <
Sir William Clarke has presented Trinity
College, Melbourne, with £1000. Touching this
little donation, the Age says, with Innocent satire;
“This will enable the authorities to provide those
members of the college who are preparing for the
medical profession with great additional facilities
for the Atudy of science by means of practical
demonstrations.” The resurreotion-men will want
handsome premiums from apprentices to the busi-
ness after this.
They have at last got a number of new
forms of obituary verse in the Melbourne Age,
It is expected that this additional expense will be
justified by the increase in the death-rate. Very
many persons who have been grimly balancing on
the edge of the grave for years past in dread of
dyin* lest the old obituaries should be printed
in reference to their cases, are expected to die
without further delay now that death is made so
muoh easier for them. Judicious expenditure is
never thrown away.
This paragraph contains a mild warning
for those who look too frequently upon the rum
when it is rubescent. A man living in a Melbourne
suburb, being drunk one night, got his head be-
tween the pickets of a fence. When he was
released he was dead. His head had swelled so
much with the liquor he had drunk Uat after
irettlng-lt in he found It impossiole to take It out.
When the police searched his nooke a thev found—
a summons. He had bluffed them anyhow.
Mr.’ Farnell was misunderstood at the
Gosford guzzle, so he spoke in explanation at
Lambton. He should nst have tried public
speakinsr until he had got rid of the scia-
tica. When touched with that excruciating
complaint he was sure to be misunderstood.
Mr. Copeland could not make himself un-
derstood either when he had dyspepsia. Mind, we
don’t say that he cm be understood now. We
have been reading his book on “ Adam’s Curse.”
At Bundaberg (Q.) the authorities are busy
decapitating fowls to induce Cnlnamen to tell the
truth. As a rule, the Confucian is the most artis-
tic liar among t he children of men. Even behead-
ing a cock will scarcely induce him to respect
facts. We have often thought that tf country
justices, instead of sacrificing a wretched chicken
for the purpose of getting at the-truth, were to
chop the head off an emu, the better feelings
of the yellow man might be aroused and the in-
terests of justice advanced.
At the Bourke-street (Sydney) Literary
and Debating Society’s meeting in the Congrega-
tional school-room of that reflective street no
fresh light was thrown on the “ Religion of
Ancient Egypt ” by the Rev. James Hill’s lecture
a few nights ago. So far as we could make out,
their belief closely approximated to that of the
present day—to eat as much as you can, and do as
little as possible for it. If they were as sincere in
these convictions as many religious people we
know in Sydney, it is difficult to understand how
their faith ever died out.
The Bush Missionary Society recovered
£5910s, from the Railway Department for damage
done to one of their waggonettes in charge of Mr.
James Smith, who was driving religious literature
over the railway line at Sevon Hills when a Pass-
ing train—seemingly an advanced sceptic—assisted
reading and preacher to the roof of the adjoining
lodge. What became of the horse and vehicle has
never been clearly ascertained. The lodge-keeper
said that during an experience of religious con-
troversies, extending over many years, he did not
remember to have heard a more powerful exhor-
tation than that given by Mr. Smith when he sat
through the roof.
There’s not a word of this but is as true as
gospel. She was the wife of a successful trader
and had a palace at one of the “Pints” Ana
she was so cultivated, too, and refined. So, when
she told the captain of one of our war-ships that
she intended to give a party—of, rather, a c n u P
as her friends wculd fill a circus—he looked tor-
ward to some real fun. “I can’t accommodate
them all the same night,” she went on majesti-
cally, “ but on the Monday I’ll entertain the oona-
tong" “And on the Tuesday I” ventured the in-
quisitive sailor. “On the Tuesday,” she repile
with winning grace, “I shall entertain the aemi
monde." Tableau!
The great Sala spreads himself to proj®
the loyalty of Australians to the Crown and their
veneration for Her Majesty. These laots are, we
God prosper thee! thou agent,
Who, In the hour of need,
With thy good gun the battle won.
And made the foe recede
(Excuse us if we make a pun) ]
Thou art agent, indeed.
Thou saw’st the fate of armies
Thy Gatling could decide—
That weapon dire had but to fire
And turn the battle’s tide;
So blessings on the noble arm
That used it for our side.
Yes, yes; thou fought’st for England I
Let none In haste condemn;
Good practice made in Britain’s aid
* The rebels’ rush to stem —
’Twbs Providence that made thee turn
The weapon upon them.
Grand deeds have been performed
Again and yet again,
And hundreds killed and brave blood spilled
Commissions to obtain—
Let’s hope thy labours on that day
Have not been spent in vain.
Then Heaven bless thee, agent I
And long the gun preserve
So freely fired when most required
Old England's cause to serve.
We humbly trust you got the “line”
Which richly you deserve.
Alas! to gaze in silent joy on that brow
May never be our lot. Ours is the lots!
0 monster-parsnip chronicler of Sprathrow,
We groan, as we take up our heavy cross!
Our eye may never meet that eye resplendent
With Wit's large glamour—we may never see
This scribe who, in the Mudgee Independent,
Writes for the vision of eternity I
Alas! we lean upon our hand our fiat brow,
And weep that we have not the mighty pen
That makes the smallest movement of a Sprat-
brow
Loom out gigantic In the eyes of men.
With your subscribers, we’ve no doubt, this thing
goes
Down well—with old and young, with sire and
pup;
That par. should bring down hosts of eager dingoes.
To take another quarter and pay up!
IN THE EMPTY PLAYHOUSE.
I stood within the empty playhouse, musing—
The lights were out, the music dead, the curtain
And thought that when the Play of Life Is over,
So God will look upon the empty world.
V. J. D.
At the Sydney Lawn Tennis Ball.
THE DAYLIGHT FAIRY.
« Drunkenness is greatly on the increase
fkmongst the juvenile population of the city,”
Might be nine,
Might be seven;
Surely she was
Not eleven 1
She was tapping
(Pale face worn)
In the Silver-
Grey of dawn —
Tapping, or we
Are “foreswore,”
At a public-
House, its door.*
" Tell us, child,” we
Said, “ who’s sick ?
We will make the
Man come quick.
“ What is wrong with
Your dear mother ?
Have they brought a
Little brother ?
* •'A pastry-cook, his door-way W. 8. Gilbert’s
“Bab Ballads.”
“ Where do you live?
Is it far ?
Have they put a
Head on pa?
“ Has your uncle,
Gentle child,
‘Got’em,’and is
Pretty wild ?”
She cried, “ Go to — I”
(Won’t say where),
“ Don't poke borack
At me, there I”
Here she kicked some
Broken delf—
“ I’ve come for a
Drink myself! *
Door was ope’d; us
It behoves
Just to say she’d
Rum and cloves!
MORE "CULCHAW.”
Another noted member of Old Eogland’s haute
noblesse
Is coming in September, and we're proud, we must
confess;
But ’twere wise to take some measures to protect
the weaker sex,
Since his lordship’s little pleasures are so varied
and complex.
Yes, a gentle trepidation—just a kind of nervous
dread—
Mingled with our exultation when these tidings
glad we read;
For although this noble’s visit must improve our
moral tone,
Still, we trust (to be explicit) that he’ll leave our
maids alone.


Wolfe's Schnapps for the bladder and like
complaints.
The days and niahts now warmer grow,
And each bird sings thisfong—
“ The’ Summerfleld maker, short-tailed coats,
Men wear them very long.”*
Ktngsford’s Oswego Core Hour superior ttmll
similar articles In the market.
Wolfe's Schnapps stimulates the liver.
suppose, cited to support the assertion:—“Here,
in George-street, Sydney, you see the Royal Arms
and the Union Jack everywhere. The magic ini-
tials ‘ V.R,’ are on all the post-office letter-boxes.
The letter carriers wear the Queen’s scarlet. The
railways are all Government railways, and the
employes all wear something symbolic of the
Crown.” How wonderful these instances of
loyalty will seem to home readers. Just fancy
V.R. on the letter-boxes? Also, we may state for
the benefit of English subscribers, on the local
gaol-vans.
There was a dispute in the Victorian Par-
liament the other night as to what sort of stone
should be used for facing the Parliament House.
omo members wanted Stawell stone; others stone
from Oamarn. But Gauneon, of the gorgeous
thought, would have nothing meaner than mar-
ble. He should hive marble; sweet orator!
Marble or watllc-and-daub. It never seemed to
strike any of the members that for some of them
blueetone. or the stone of which our Darlinghurst
Home is built might be more appropriate. We
would suggest to them that if expense no object
they might-in imitation of the statue of Palos,
which crowned the Parthenon—have a statue to
crown their Parliament House. Theraites would
be a proper subject.
At a gay little township in North Queens-
land two booh-canvassers met. Now, in most
cases, such a meeting would be productive of
mutual recriminations, but these two dispersers
of knowledge accepted the situation and saluted
It with rum unlimited. Such was their hilarity
that, when they started out “ to do a line before
(hie ) dinner,” they had managed to swop prospec-
tuses, so the Bible man brought up at the house
of a Wesleyan deacon and expatiated on the ex-
cellence of bis edition of “ the secret of England’s
greatness,” pointing his arguments by a specimen
of Dante’s “ Inferno.” “ There you seo,” he said,
“ Moshesh striking sh’ rock to get a driuksh fo’ sh'
children in sh’ Soudan.” “ But I never saw Moses
with a tail and Horns before,” dubiously remarked
the deacon. “Of coursh not,” came the hazy
reply, “of coursh not; hut didn’t I sh tell you
shish—the Revlsehised Version — Mosesh allers
got hornsh and (hie) tailsh now.” And the deacon
ordered a copy at once.
We suppose it’s with a view of teaching
the youngsters’ altruism that the authorities
of St. Isaac’s Grammar School, Melbourne—
ft school conducted In the odour of Angli-
can sanctity, with the Primate for Its big
gun and a Canon for its small bore—purvey tea-
pots, and toast-racks, and dinner-napkin-rings,
and mulliaiores, and such like articles as prizes at
the annual athletic sports. When a youngster
lands one of the events and becomes the proud
owner of a silver coffee pot, it is refreshing to see
his guileless enthusiasm struggling with the
conundrum, what the blazes is a fellow to do with
It ? The riddle, however, is solved when ’tis sug-
gested to him that he can make friends with bis
piece of plate by laying it at the feet, metaphori-
cally, of, say. the wife of the Low Dutch master.
A school sports’ day, with fun for the scholars
and booty for the school administration. Is an Im-
provement on the old Greek practice of the pars-
sley wreath, since, while placing no temptation in
the way of youths’ latent cupidity, it provides
pleasant perks for the members of a class too
often underpaid.
He was a short, stout man with a glass eye,
a head as bald as a turnip, and no brains, and his
probable age was about 67 years, 4 months, and 3
days. As he took his seat in the Hedfern tram, he
opened his Bulletin, caught sight of our first
cartoon, and then yelled, “ Dailey sgln! Bust me
if this ’ere Dailey isn’t gettln’ too much notice
altogether. He munoperlizes all the newspapers,
all the bill-sticker’s walls, all the banquets; in
fact, all the everythings. A stranger would think
there wos only one white man in all Ostralyur, an’
that man wos Bill Dailey. But take my word fur
it, he’ll hev t’ take a back seat afore long. He’ll
wake up some o’ these flue mornin’s t’ find there’s
other big men in this country besides himself.
This ain’t Rooshla, nor Jurminy, nor none o’ yer
one-man countries at all, and we mean t’hev our
rights, or we’ll know th’ reason why.” ‘'And
what might you be, sir?” enquired a party oppo-
site. “ Mel” exclaimed the fat enthusiast, “didn't
you ever hear ov me? Why, I’m oneo’th’ best
bowl players that ever steeped on Cook Park.
Come right home with me now an’ see my trofys.”
The Parramatta Mercury, is view of a
Chinaman having been fined at Burrowa “ for dis-
posing of goods on the Sabbath,” asks, as an ortho-
dox inquisitor’s familiar might ask, “ Why nre not
Christian (?) tobacconists and fruiterers treated in
the same manner?” evidently convinced of the
beauty of the Caroline Sabbath Observance Law.
and only concerned that a number of purveyors
to the public convenience ain't mulct in stiff flues
for outraging its sense of bigoted proprkiy. A
fruiterer who sells fair fresh fruit or crisp salading
to his customers on a Sunday, or a tobacconist the
fragrant, unadulterated weed, is fulfilling the
golden rule a precious sight better than a heated
pulpiter preaching damnation and hell’s flames to
those who don’t think as he does, or a goody
editor pandering to priggish purltanlsm, or a
priggish Puritan, sleek servitor of Mammon, who
“binding up his Bible with his ledger, blends
Gospel texts with trading gammon, a black-leg
saint, a spiritual hedger, who backs his rigid Sab-
bath, so to speak, against the wicked remnant of
the week.” What we ask, In view of what hap-
pened at Burrowa, is, why are not soi-dimnt Chris-
tian ministers treated in the same manner—or,
rather, why mayn’t John Chinaman be as free to
disnose of Ms goods on the Sunday as any mitred,
galtered, or white-choker ecclesiastic Is to barter
bis for lucre. Bigotry yells, 8t. Charles It. and bin
love of law! sweet reasonableness only asks for
Christs te*chirg ‘‘with his law of love” Theo-
logy and Christianity are not synonymous—are.
indeed, as far asunder as the poles, and Sabba-
tarianism is the blackest pip in the blackest card
In Theology’s pack.
CONCERNING THE SYDNEY CREMATION DISCUSSION.
A MORIBUND MURMUR.
Oh! bury mo not where the rank weeds grow,
And the owl sings a dirge o’er the dead;
Where the weird weeping-willow its branches droops loW 3
With a cold marble slab o’er my head.
0, bury me not ’neatb the wave of the sea,
Where the mermaids would weep o’er my pall—
In fact, howe’er nice any funeral might be.
I object to be buried at all,
When the feverish fight for existence shall cease,
When I’ve tried every chance in life’s lottery,
I would hove you cremate my remains, if you please,
And inclose the residuum in pottery.
Cremation in Various Aspects.
Similarly the remains of Boodles, deceased,
wore emptied out, though Mrs. Boodles nee
Moodies could not quite make up her mind
to part with the urn, which was of
rather an artistic pattern. That dear man
Moodies didn’t object—in fact, he found i if
rather handy for holding his umbrella. Such
is life !
D
’fwas about this period that a broken urn
of unique pattern was found in Mr. Hoodie’s
dust-bin. Mrs. Moodies, as was to be, he
naturally thought, would not want the house
cluttered up with the remains of her prede-
cessor.
Drawn toward each other naturally at first
by a community of sorrow, their tears rapidly
evaporated in the sunshine of love, as when
the effulgent rays of Heaven’s orb in early
morn kisses away the evanesent dew-drops
from a weeping willow, or, for the matter of
that, a cabbage.
Perhaps nur artist can’t do fine writing when he goes regu-
larly at it I
One day the stricken Mr. Moodies met,
while doing the block, disconsolate Mrs,
Boodles. Their tear-bedewed eyes rested
upon each other for an instant—and it was
a case.
Likewise the widow Biodlcs found it a
melancholy satisfaction to sit and gaze for
hours upon the receptacle containing all that
was mortal of Mr. Boodles, who had gone fo
that “ burn ” whence no traveller returns.
The bereft Mr. Moodies derived untold
ponsolation from caressing the urn contain-
ing the incinerated remains of the late Mrs.
Moodies.
THE END OF A CREMATORY URN.
“ I’m wery sorry, mum, but I’ve managed to clean up
the dust that was in it, so that it hardly shows on the car-
pet, at all, an’ I’ll buy ye another jar when you pay me my
wages on Saturday.”
* S'
Fair Invalid: “Now, doctor, what do you think of cre-
mation ? ”
Doctor (a bit of a quack); “Urn! Well, a little of it
might do you no harm. Still, you’d better leave all that sort ■,
of thing alone, altogether, until you have passed through the
coarse of treatment which I have preacribed for you ! ” a\’
sj ' .,-/// . \ , i Xa\\


A return dealing with the cases of 107 men
sentenced to solitary confinement by Victorian
Judges, shows that the average duration of such
confinement for each was 18 days, and the average
loss in weight of each prisoner was 111b. 7oz.
Wolfe's Schnapps is known and appreciated
throughout the colonies.
A quarter of an hour may he agreeably
and proft'ably spent any day between the hours of
8 j .nd 18 o'clock:, in viewing the works of art In
China an (Lass displayed at the Showrooms, 402
itL d 404 Oeorge-street, S>dney. Look lor the name,
“ Bray's.”*
Wolfe's Schnapps cheers the mind and
body.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES
<r» tnali ue guta to a ave tnu w*a«* ponea «*>
iteretariet of racing club* and manager! of
tvorUna event i in general, 1
RACING.
Canterbury Park R.C • • August 1
Tamworth RC August5,6
Rosehill R • • • August 8
Townsville (Annual) August 13,13
Northern Hunt Club, at Randwlck.... ..August 33
Canterbury Park R.C ....Septembers
Hawkesbury (Spring) September 10 la
A J.C. (Spring) September 19, 32, 24, 26
Rosohill R.C
Canterbury Park R.C • • • October 17
Narrabrl J.C December 3
Liverpool J.C November 9
Canterbury Park R.0 December 19
A.J.C. (Summer) December 26
Rosehlll R.C December 28
AQUATICS.
Newcastle R.C. Regatta. September
M.R.C. Outrigger Race September
Davis v. Maclean —
M.R.C. Branch Regatta October 10
ATHLETICS.
Quirindi Handicap • • • August;5,6
Sir Joseph Banks Fourth Handicap.... August--,
22, 26, 4r*i
Mudgee Sheffield Handicap September 1
’CYCLING.
Sydney Bicycle Club (Annual R.M.), Asso-
elation Ground August 23
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC KEMS.
Mr. W. H. Isles, a -well-known Brisbane
bicyclist, died in Sydney last week from perfora-
tion of tne bowels, caused by swallowing a cherry
stone.
In the Kenl-Lancashire county cricket
match, won by the latter, J. Briggs scored 58 and
115, rather more than half the entire score made by
his county.
By winning the Oaks, says Vanity Fair,
Arcner won a treble-event bet—the Two Thou-
sand Guineas, the Derby, and the Oaks—to the
amount of £30.000.
Know all men by these presents that J.
Rolfe claims to be “Australian champion
bicyclist,” which title he is prepared to dispute, at
his own distance, against any man in the colonies.
Lees goes about with his arm in a sling
since Miner treated him to a “flying mare” in a
little practice-bout. He is just now ot opinion
that Miller throws a leetle too much soul into his
work.
The Camden athletic sports, postponed
from Queen’s Birthday, came off on Friday last.
H. Britton, 8 yds., won the 100 yds. handicap; F.
Campbell won the 150 yds. from scratch; and P.
Quirk proved best man at putting the weight.
In spite of the adverse rumours about
Newstead, the favourite for the Victorian Derby,
he was backed to win several thousands last week
by one of our Sydney “ books.” If common
report is to be relied on—which it generally isn’t
—the layer should have the best of the deal.
Hippogriff was booked as a “ little moral”
for tne Malden Hurdle Race, Flemington, by such
as were in the know about his jumping abilities.
Considering that he was freely backed lor the last
Victorian Derby, it wasn’t asking much of him to
win with 9st. 3lb. on his back, and the redoubtable
Corrigan in the saddle.
Donald Dinnie’s admirers have been rush-
ing into print to contradict certain estimates of
the Soot's mental powers published by “ Profes-
sor” Fraser in a Melbourne paper, ft Is refresh-
ing to find that Donald is a “ howler ” at Latin
grammar, and can build a bridge. We always
thought there was something Intellectual about
Donald, especially as regards his legs.
From the English papers, we see that L. E.
Myers, the Yankee amateur champion runner, has
been running in some of the handicaps in Kngiand.
At the Croyaon Football Club sports, Myers was
beaten in an open 440yds. handicap, and won the
best half-mile in 2min. S^sec.; and at the Civil
Servlse sports he started in the open 440yds handi-
cap, which he won from scratch in the splendid
time of 48 4-6seo.
The hero of the V.R.C. Grand National
meeting was Denmark, who was received with a
perfect ovation on returning to the scale. When
it is remembered that Denmark was conceding two
stone seven pounds to the winner, and three stone
one pound to the second, it will be seen that the
cross-country champion accomplished no mean
feat in securing third place. Over lighter going
he might never have been caught.
Recently wrote an English paper “ It is
very interesting to watch the expression upon the
faces of owners of horses during important races.
Lord Rosebery selects a cnoioe cigar and proceeds
to eat it. The Duke of Westminster tries to look
as If he were Interested In anything or anybody
except the h -rses.” And so on. w hlcb reminds
us tuat It is cabled this week that Lord Rosebery
has determined to sell ( ff all his horses, A man
can’t go on catlog cigars lor long.
The light skiff race on Saturday last be-
tween Nelson and M’Clerken, over the Parramatta
champion course, resulted la an easy victory for
Nelsou. M'Clerken led tor the first mile, when
Nelson passed him, and the result was never after-
wards in doubt.“*At the finish M’Clerken rolled out
of his boat and looked In a bad way, but our
amateur champion, W. G. Brett, who had coached
him over the course in an outrigger, pluoklly
jumped out of his shell and supported the “ busted
sculler,” until Jimmy Richards came to the
rescue.
H. Hutchens, the English professional
sprint champion, has succeeded In altering the
140 yards record by running the distance (before
the official tlme-keeners) in He had two
tries, the first being a failure owing to the strong
cross wind, but on repeating the .effort at the re-
quest of Mr. L. E. Myers, the American flyer, and
several other gentlemen, and running the reverse
way of the ground, he won In rare style, and
earned a gold medal promised him by bit J. D.
Astley, Bart. Upon each occasion he conceded D
ilsaaos start and managed to defeat him.
The proposed matches between the Eng-
lish amateur, W. G. George, and the professional
champion, W. Cummings, of Paisley, seem In a fair
way of becoming ratified. In answer to Cum-
imings’ challenge, George expressed his willingness
to run him one mile, four miles, and ten miles, and
there the matter rested foi a while, but at last
someone took it into his head to telegraph to
Cummings to know if he was going to take any
further action, the result being that the Scotch-
man replied that if fair articles were sent he
would sign and return triem with a deposit. The
matches are, it is said, to be for £300 a side each.
The result of the Grand National Steeple-
chase at Flemington furnished another illustration
of the uncertainty that surrounds cross-country
events. On paper, Morven, the favourite, should
undoubtedly have won, as private trials had shown
him to have a bit in hand of his stable companion,
Wymlet, at their respective weights. The latter,
however, cantered in a comfortable six lengths
winner, while Morven came to grief at the st no
wall One Is reminded of the opinion that old
Fred Swindells, tne notorious English turfite, ex-
pressed about oacki tg wteepleohaser • Swlndebs
said he didn’t care about seeing his money “jump
up in the air.’
Last week we penned a par. deploring the
d fllculty in the fixing up of a match between the
Ight-welght boxers, Powell and Hall, but before
said par. appeared la print the difficulty was
overcome, and the lads now stand matched to box
In private, on September 1st, for £50 aside, with
the option of making it £100 The match may be
said to be for the light-weight championship, and
till Powell tires the battle should prove very even.
However, Hall has weight on his side, and, so far
as appearances go, we should say he Is the greater
stayer of the two. Nevertheless. Powell has
proved himself a flrst-class little ’un, and will
take a lot of beating.
Jerilderie made great preparations for the
opening of the railway, and, fired by the example
of other towns, advertised a programme of races,
including a grand handicap of £100, and with
similar liberality called for tenders for a grand-
stand just less In size than the one at Flemlngtqn.
But there the liberality ended. Tenders came in,
and their amount seemed so high that one member
of the committee delicately asserted that the ten-
derers had conspired to swindle the Club, so the
grand-stand idea was abandoned, and resort had
to the homely edifice of slabs and stringy bark,
which was considered a perfect daisy before the
railway demoralised the town.
The second annual sports of the Brisbane
Bicycle Club, for which several Sydney riders
went over, came off on Saturday last In the pre-
sence of some 3000 spectators The five-mile In-
tercolonial bicycle race proved an exciting strug-
gle between H. H. Lambton, of Sydney, and J. E.
Harris, of Brisbane, until Lambton, who was lead-
ing, came to grief in the last Jap. and Harris won
by 100 yds. W.( Hamilton, of Sydney, won the
half-mile scratch race, and the Queensland ama-
teur championship fell to F. W. Bellbridge, of the
Brisbane Club. The race without bandies was
won by A. C. Palmer (80 yds), R. S. Lambton,
who started from scratch, finishing second some
10 yds. away.
The Deniliquin Jockey Club Midwinter
meeting last week proved a great success, both as
regards weather, attendance, and the raking in of
the “doubloons” to the club’s coffers, william
Tell won the Flying Handicap; and Kisba the
Warbreccan Handicap; Brown Girl won the first
■ Hurdle Race, during the running for which
M'Culloch received a bad spill off Equity; Tanta-
llser carried off the Jockey Club Handicap; and
William Toll made a second win in the Midwinter
Handicap. On the second day the sport opened
with the Maiden Plate, won by Vernet; the Wool-
brokers’ Handicap fell to Denmark; Merri won
the second Hurdle Race;'.and Tantaliser secured
the Ladies’ Bracelet.
Neil Mutterson must have been doing
something wonderful for his friends if the offer is
genuine to back him against Hanlan. Teemer. or
any sculler, bar Beach, for from £300 to £5000
aside. On Saturday evening last it was stated that
Matterson could be matched against Beach, £200
aside, provided the champion agreed to concede
20 seconds. That Beach is able to concede the
start we b’lieve, but 30 seconds, which means
some 11 or 13 lengths, is not quite such a soft thing
asjit at first sight appears, as for the offer to row
any other man level for such big money, although
not for the championship, it should prove a much
more tempting bait than a match with the cham-
pion, and should meet with ready response from
several of the Yankee scullers. Matterson, who,
so far, has proved himself a most successful and
promising young sculler, has had the advantage of
having at his back most generous patrons of
aquatics, but, in connection with their last offer,
it it to be hoped young Matterson will not have to
sing In chorus with Tom Clifford, “ Save me from
my friends.'’
The Woollootnooloo Bay Rowing Club
people have lost no time in accepting tenders for
their shed, and the work Is to be proceeded with
with the least possible delay. The building, to be
erected on the western side of the bay, will con-
sist of a boatshed 60ft. long, 30ft. wide, and 30ft.
deep, to contain bath, lockers, dressing-room, &c.
At the recent meeting the following officers were
electedPatron: His Excellency the Governor.
President: Mr. G. N. Griffiths, M.L.A. Vice-presi-
dents: Mr. G. H. Keld, Hon. E. Barton, M.L.A.,
Mr. J. P. Qarvan, M.L.A., Alderman J. Hardie,
J.P., Mr. H. 0. Dangar, Mr. Henry Gorman, Mr. C.
J. Roberts, C.M G.. Mr. George Merrlman, M.L.A..
Mr. S. Burdekin, M.L A., Mr. I. J. Joaephson, and
Alderman Poole. Committee: Messrs. Aokman,
W. J. Morgan, J. P. Finnegan, H. Chapman, J.
Portus, T. Keary, T. Punch, and W. J. Martin.
Captain, J. Myers. Hon. treasurer, F. M’Donald.
Hon. secretary, R. J. Sheridan. It was also de-
cided—“ That all candidates for membership must
be proposed in writing, stating name, address, and
occupation, and addressed to the secretary, to be
submitted to the committee for election by ballot,
a majority to accept or exclude.”
Those who have not yet visited the match-
ground of the Sydney Hurlers should lose no time
In doing so, as a few weeks hence the hurlers may
have Kilkenny-catted each other, and there will
be no hurlers to visit. Hurling is purely an Italian
game, and although the nationality of the players
might be gues ed when sides are picked and the
men answer to the “ roll call,” a still greater evi-
dence is shown in the bar’l of whisky which is
Invariably drawn on the ground on match days
for the use of the players and the “Press,” a
fact which may account for tne rather “ nuxed ”
reports which occasionally appear. Bach player is
armed with a “shinty ’ stick, wherewith he operates
upon a leather-covered ball, and as the afternoon
and the wnisky decline, the fun becomes fast and
furious. On Saturday week, a playful dog ran
after the ball, but he was quickly reminded as to
what game was being played by a lift under the
ear, which “ laid him out ” until he was revived by
a dip in the Nannygoat Swamp; and then the
owner of the dog grew wrathful and uttered alt
sorts of threats, until one of the hurlers suggested
he should be treated in the same manner as bis
dorg, whereupon he quietly stole away. Tom
Malone, t he crack runner is a hurler, or rather he
will be again when the pieces of his ankle are put
together.
In re the English Derby and Oaks, ac-
cording to Tnuxn, Mr. Clock), the owner of Para-
dox, was strongly advised to change his jockey at
the last moment; but either no good rider was at
liberty, or he was resolved to trust Webb, whose
scurrilous assailants were put to shame by the
splendid race he rode. Mr. Cloete took the wise
course of telling Webb frankly of the scandalous
insinuations which were current, and after some
very plain speaking, he added that, of course, he
did not for a moment doubt his jackey’s honesty,
and concluded by promising him a present.of
£3000 if he won on Paradox. After the race, Mr.
Cloete expressed his entire satisfaction with
Webb’s riding, and gave him £100. The book-
makers said that the Derby was the best betting
race they have had for the past seven or eight
years. Archer, who rode both the winners of the
Derby and Oaks, has now achieved Frank But-
ler’s teat of 1853, and Tom Cannon's of 1883, and it
makes him a winner of four Oaks as well as four
Derbies. Hermit has now added another Oaks
winner to his credentials, his descendants having
won the Derby twice and the Oaks twice. Lonely,
the winner of the Oaks, was bred by Mr. Chaplin,
and was purchased by Lord Cadogan. at the July
sale of 1883 for 530 guineas. Dame Agnes, Mr. w.
A. Long’s filly, was much fancied for the race,
but she was far from fit, and a writer in Bumi/s
Life says: “That Lonely would have won the Oaks
had Dame Agnes been quite up to the mark is very
doubtful.”
Lord Harris has broken out in a fresh
place—or rather in an old wound. His Lordship
evidently is of opinion that the recent defeat of
Kent by Lancashire was due to the bowling of
Crossland and Nash, whom he accuses of unfair
bowling, and In writing to the victorious club,
amongst other things, he says, “ I conceive, after
careful consideration, that there is only one course
open for me to adopt, and that is to advise the
committee of the Kent County Cricket Club to
decline any further engagement with your Club,
certainly for this year—and until a more satisfac-
tory state of things obtain.” To this high and
mighty epistle, the Lancashire committee briefly
replied, saying they would prefer the complaint to
come in the name of the Kent committee itself,
and not at the instance of one member of it, and
promising on these conditions to give the question
their attention. As Lord Harris leads Kent
cricket by the nose, it goes as a matter of course
they will support him in his protest, so that bo is
pretty safe in a threat made further on that if his
Club does not support him he will retire from
cricket. However, affairs look very sultry for
Lancashire, as the whole of the counties who sup-
ported Lord Harris at the meeting, in 1883, will
probably follow the lead set them, and cancel the
fixtures already made with Lancashire; and unless
Lancashire makes a virtue of necessity by elimi-
nating Crossland and Nash from their eleven, it is
more than probable that they will ere long find
themselves “ boycotted ” by most of the first class
counties.
Now that cash-betting has been prohi-
bited in Victoria, it is expected that there will be
a ibig run on bush-missionary-ships. There are
altogether 313 bookmakers registered by the Vie-
torla Racing Club. Out of these 123 pay £25 a year
each for permission to ply what the religious
papers call their “ nefarious trade” In the paddock
at Flemington. The remaining 89 plebeians p \y 10
guineas each for license to do the same on the
Hid. Of the 123 high-class bookmakers, “ about
3o," says a Melbourne paper, “ depend mainly on
tne cash system (when on the course) for the bulk
of their business; whl'e of the remainder about
70 bet more or less largely for cash, the other 23
being composed of the more wealthy members of
the ring, who transact their business principally
with owners, trainers, and other heavy backers.”
The 23 plutocrats will not, therefore, be affected
by the prohibition, 70 of the more modestly tfflu-
ent ones will be very little injured, and 30 will
be hit very hard. The Hill harriers will be
crushed to a man and have to join the Salvation
Army or the police. It would be a most success-
ful satire if they were to accept the latter alter-
native. It Is a curious and rather melancholy thing
that there never has been a law made yet which
did not press more heavily on the poor than on the
rich. Very few people—unless perhaps pea-nut
sellers or pressmen—ever lost fortunes betting with
these little bookmakers of the Hill. As a rule, the
people who go to the Hill lose no more money on
the.races than they came prepared to lose. It is
in the paddock that the danger is found.
There you can bet up to almost any sum, and it is
an understood thing that you shall not bet below
a certain sum. Here is where the temptation
comes in. Many a bank-clerk now sitting pen-
sively on his pile of blue-metal has found tnis out
to his cost. One thing, however, has been over-
looked by the papers that have commented on
this matter. It Is the question: What is to become
of the poor welshers ? Theirs Is surely a case for
pity. They have to live most of the year on the
few pounds they make at race meetings. The
maton-box trick and the three-card game are not
worth speaking about as sources of revenue in
these days. The present generation has grown
too sophisticated to be taken in to any extent by
them. What is to become of the poor welshers ?
we ask again. Perhaps situations may be pro-
vided for them in the Civil Service. If not, we are
much atraid they will have to become —can we
venture it?— blue-metalllclans.
A SOLID REASON.
“THE SEVEN CHRISTIANS OF
CHAMPION DOM."
We thought we had taken up an old tome
written by the white fingers of a monk of the
mediteval times, all abcut demonology or theo-
logy, witchcraft or astrology. It was a paste-
board 10 x 8 thing of some 150 cages, in penman-
ship of various styles, copied off by a multigraph,
or some such instrument, and entitled “ The Seven
Christians of Champlondom.” It is neither a fas-
ciculus nor a palimpsest, however. The reader of
a few pages will wish it was. Criticism of it is
out of the question. Mr. Healey, the author, says,
in a preface, that he wrote the tale for publica-
tion m a journal which failed to appear, and that
as other Sydney newspapers would not “ purchase
the rubbish,” he gives It to his readers in its
present form. He heralds this announcement with
*• Hurrah I ”
• •
Mr. Healey must have lived with a man
who made a few jokes. In the city of Yendis,
which is no doubt Sydney, he tells a native, who
wants employment, to dress himself as a new-
chum, and say he arrived by the last boat. He
describes fully the workings of the Equality Syn-
dicate. This syndicate will sell land to the poor,
and lend them money to build. Thus all will be-
come landlords. What will the present landlords
do with their streets of houses’ Sell them to the
syndicate What will the syndicate do with them ?
Bring out immigrants and rent the houses to
them.
si o •
Mr. Healey is sly occasionally. He can’t
be praised, however. Neither is it possible to
blame him. One would first want to know what
he would have been doing had he not been labour-
ing over the contents of this book. Any action
ever attributed to human agency would come
natural to a man like Mr. Healey. Some of these
actions would have been better work for him
than inditing the scroll. Others of them, though,
wouldn’t Hence our quandary. Perhaps we
shall be doing the right thing if we employ Mr.
Healey’s own picturesque word. Well, then,
“Hurrah I”
♦ “The Seven Christians of ChamplondomA
tale of the times. By Daniel Healey, 1885.
LEAN INDIVIDUAL: “GIVE THE POOR WOMAN SOMETHING-TOU HEAR THE
TOUCHING STORY SHE TELLS.”
PORTLY INDIVIDUAL: “THAT’S ALL RIGHT, MY DEAR BOY; BUT I’M NOT SO
EASILY MOVED AS YOU ARE.”
“OUT IN THE SOUDAN."
The author of this little tale is, we under-i
stand, a lady. Much la the book makes one re-
member that. There is great enthusiasm for
scarlet coats, and going to war is looked upon as
in Itself a noble ocoupation. Few women analyse
a fact or a thought. The aspect before them is
enough for their purpose. Their Intellect does
not force them to hunt down an effect to its cause.
That makes them very often look cruel, when in
reality they are merely thoughtless*
♦ • *
Women follow the adventures of their
own particular soldiers. Pulses throb, lips quiver,
eyes sparkle, while sword and shot play navoc.
They are in transports over the success of their
men. They don’t look underneath. They don’t
see that other men are slaughtered. These men
also own women. Laughing woman, can you not
think of the weeping one ? Sister in mirth, don’t
forget you have a sister in woo 1 Try not to look
upon war as In Itself a grand thing. Make your-
self quite sure before you encourage your men to
go on with it, that it is a dire necessity. Don’t get
into it for a purpose you can’t explain. Don’t get
into it at all unless you must. If you do, however
eloquently you may write, however gracious
your smile and celestial your rippling laughter as
you raise up the banner of victory, depend upon
it you are an evil influence in sublunary affairs;
a thing of tusks and fangs, of venom and vicu us-
ness, a bird with the face of a virgin seducing to
slay.
♦ • *
Miss Phillips makes her story comm on co
somewhere about 150 years ago. A little fanner
back would have enabled her to start finely
Adam. That woull have set our COjdnK at
squarely on its legs. It would also have lusuted
her in claiming for Mr. Dailey—about wh,„e noble
conception of the thing she is effus’vely enthusi-
astic—a close relationship with the Almighty. It
is freely admitted on all handt that the Almighty
can make men. la fact. He has been doing ic
this long time. But, as Mies Phillips says, it re-
quired ’‘the clear understanding and caivalrous
spirit of one who, long after those generations
have passed away, and when a mighty nation shall
encircle these shores of the Pacific, will still be re-
membered,” to turn these men into a Contingent.
That’s where Mr. Dailey got the pull. Indeed,
had Miss Phillips, instead of going back only a
cenjbury or two. worked out the Contingent from
the Garden of Eden, we see no reason why Mr.
Dailey might not he set up, not merely as a close
relation of the Almighty’s, but as a most notable
rival.
• a ♦
The story shows the extinction of the
dirdot line of the Havilands, of Shoreham Manor,
Sussex. The eldest son, dying in 1785, prophesied
that in a hundred years not one Haviland would
remain. In the beginning of 1885, Hilda Haviland
is at Harrow Station, in New South Wales. In the
terms of the prophecy she must be eased off. But
she is in love with Captain Charlton, who is also
at Harrow. Something must be devised to frus-
trate this. First, he loses himself in the bush.
That looks like ending him. But when all have
given up hopes, Hilda finds him, and brings him
round. Something else must be devised. He is
ordered off to the Soudan. Now she can't marry
'him and perpetuate the direct line. But she takes
it into her head to go to the Soudan as a nurse.
Dailey, however, won’t let her. At this juncture.
Major and Mrs. Airlie, from New Zealand, write
saying they are going and would be glad of
Hilda’s company. Off goes Hilda. Charlton gets
shot. He nearly dies, but she nurses him in hos-
pital till he recovers. Then ho goes to England
and falls in love with Miss Asher. Hilda dies at
Suakim, leaving him £2500. Thus the prophecy of
Baptiste Arthur Haviland of Shoreham Manor is
fulfilled.
« • m
Miss Phillips seizes on some situations
admitting the exercise of good descriptive power*
But her treatment is pateby. In chapter v.,
Charlton is mlesed. In chapter vl>, he is lost. This
incident should now have been pursued. But she
breaks it off to put in a chapter about the Soudan.
In chapter viil., she come back to Charlton. Again
she breaks it off with a chapter on “England,
Home, and Beauty,” and with another on Khar-
toum and the death of Gordon. There is, no
doubt, an instinct for dramatic association here,
but it requires stronger powers than Miss Phillips
displays to keep the associations from weakening
interest in her central figure. It is bad art to
briibg us from the death of Gordon to the side of a
man temporarily astray in the bush. This does
not make us rise. It makes us sit down.
* ♦ *
The finding of Charlton, taken by itself, is
nieely conceived. It proves Miss Phillips can see
pictures. Hilda, alone and herself lost, coming
upon the unconscious form of Charlton lying
among ferns at the side of the waterhole, at once
catches the reader’s interest. But the literary
execution Is Inferior. The small white stone in
the cemetery at Suakim, with only the words
“ Hilda Haviland ” Is of the same order of concep-
tion. There is great inequality in literary execu-
tion throughout the book. Here and there a
paragraph is written so well as to make one think,
it the work of a different hand. For the most,
part the writing is slipshod and the scenes conven-
tional. There are grammatical errors and repul-
sive idioms that exhibit wilful carelessness. Fet
the little book is not without merit. The author
has reason to hope Disciplined perseverance will
not, we think, in her case, be quite in vain.
♦ “ Out in the Soudan; A Story of the War.” By
B. Phillips. Sydney: George Robertson aud Co.,
1885.


COMPAGNONI CATERING GO., LIMITED,
T__ PITT STREET. SYDNEY. " "
HE oldest and leading Catering Establishment In N 8 W n )o u
Municipal Council of Sydney, the A.J.C., City Clubvc & ~ aterera to Hls Wor8hlp the Mayor,
e Dlning al °p°R^x-CLASS^BN^^i)AI^ I Y^ re pH e $*#>»• CponiiEST, and loftiest in the colony.
The^s G Se L ct^our M oZ W 8tT a k n * C A *** 0 U E m * (after the
® r ay Liclitner,
32 O CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, Jjest,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments. wlthfulliMtnictloo . Ior Nortoei:
C5
O
23
k:
Co
■g. 0.0
nrrn
O
. H
c-
i
■o-
f$\
leqaBra m pidui ptra »sora
£j(j Jtoj eiog
IMPORTERS, k 0P SUPPLIES
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, best,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments. .i
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION."
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass' Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO.,
Sole Agents.
VENETIA WALTZ: „
, Tht Air to 6. totO markml. Ouu>ur< Imnui
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC In the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues will be ready in a few days and
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
Music and Books bound In any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most Important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere triile, takes off TO splendid copies.
Sand and obtain full particulars of working,
WILUAM~~BULLARD,
312 GEORGE STREET.
ftp, eantabtU
Ped.<» •
PUBLIC NOTICE.
Marshall’s Artificial Taofh.
MARSHALL BROTHERS, owing to the great
increase of their dentistry practice, have
also taken extensive premises at 133 ELIZABETH
STREET, Hyde Park. They still continue to
inseit artificial teeth at the same enormously
reduced price as before, namely, per set
(upper and lower), which are precisely the same
Srize-medal teeth advertised by other firms,
tarshall Brothers gurantee these to be equal in
every way, both for quality, fit, and appearance,
to those inserted by hundreds of dentists (with a
limited practice), who charge double and treble
this amount. The public may doubt this, but
Marshall Brothers offer £1000 to any person who
proves this statement untrue. Consultation
free. Painless extraction under nitrous oxide
gas. MARSHALL BROTHERS, American Den-
tists, 133 Blizabeth-street, Hyde Park, and Market-
street. N.B.—All trams stop at the dooy.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
mm if fume.
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRA8SE8
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX
FURNISHING DRAPERY,)
ko., ko.
T
O ALL WOMBN
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACB8.
® ither hot °*
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOYREY
IN SOAP 1
Parifles, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with It;
HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
|8F“ Sold by every Storekeeper and Orooer at
6d. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers:
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
iBSRieeRgsi
IKSSKOTg^FEi
fe only infaUible-emedy for
//fenybifs JjebiLijyT
This invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of tne nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustlve derangement of the system: regenerating
all the important elements 01 the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 13s., or four quantities is onefor
<Ca.; If by coach. 2s. 8d. extra. Agents for Sydney,!
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulbum-
street. One Door from Georga-street South.
Rev. Father Wilds’
EXPERIENCE.
The Rev. Z. P. Wilds, well-known city
missionary in New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds, of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
“ 78 E. 54 th St., Toi'Ic, Ma\ / 16,1882.
Messrs. J. C. Ayer & Co., Gentlemen:
Last winter I was troubled with a most
uncomfortable itching humor affecting
more especially my limbs, which itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so intense-
ly, that I could scarcely bear any clothing
over them. I was also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough; my
appetite was poor, and my system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from personal use
in former years, I began taking it for the
above-named disorders. My appetite im-
proved almost from the first dose. After
a short time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs of irritation of the
skin disappeared. My catarrh and cough
were also cured by the same means, and
my general health greatly Improved, until
it is now excellent. I feel a hundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of the Sarsaparilla, which
I recommend with all confidence as tho
best blood medicine ever devised. I took
it in small doses three times a day, and
used,' in all, less than two bottles. I place
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may do good.
Yours respectfully, Z, P. "Wilds.”
The above instance is but one of the many
constantly coming to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from impure or impoverished blood, and a
weakened vitality.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of the stomach and
bowels, and thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofu-
lous Diseases, Eruptions of the Skin, Rheu-
matism, Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state of the system.
PREPARED by
Dr.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists; price $1. six bottles
for S5.
Best
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
PILLS.
Purgative Medicine
cure Constipation, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious Disorders.
1 Sold everywhere. Always reliable.
ELLIOTT BROS, and S. HOFPNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
srwB before MOUSTACHE and WHISKEES. «fons * FTEB
Boyd's Beard Elixir did this, and
,1 toill do it on either bald head or
bare face. Forces heavy Mens-
tachein frotnS to 4 weeks and never i
‘ fails, 20,000 young tuen already
wear full beards , having used 1 to Copyrighted,
3 pkts. Ao injury, easily applied , sertain in tfect. Packets la. 6d.
each, 3 for 3 s. 6 d.,post paid, sent under cover f free from observation,
\AMress, Frank Dooglai, Sole Agent , Box 730, G.P.O, , Sydney % A.B. W»
Copyrighted.
THE LATEST WtittXS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, thi
most reliable and rapid in the market.
WILLIAM BALL,
THE “ PROFESSIONAL” AND PHARMACEU-
TICAL CHEMIST,
61 Bourke-street East, Melbourne.
THE Toilet and Theatrical Requisites, manu-
factured by W Ball, are composed of the
purest Ingredients, and are guaranteed not to
cause the least injury to the most delicate skin.
There are few ladies now, either in private life
or of the Theatrical Profession, who do not look
upon the
BLOOM OF PEACHES
(REGISTERED)
as the one article that is perfectly safe and satis-
factory to use either for the
THEATRE, BALLROOM, OR PROMENADE.
Our Cupids Manufacturing Bloom of Peaches.
“ Dear Sir,—I consider your ‘make-up' perfect,
and should never think of using anything else
while it is possible to obtain it.—Yours truly,
Ed. Parley.”
The following ladies and gentlemen have also
written, speaking in the highest terms of theee
Toilet Requisites Mesdames Louise Pomeroy,
Alice Deorwyne, Myra Kemble, Eva Davenport,
Roland Watt Phillips, etc., etc.; Messieurs George
Titheradge, George Rlgnold, Sheridan, Henry
Hodgson, W. J. Holloway, Fred. Marshall, Brian
Barley, Frank Cates, etc.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
Wholesale Agents, N.S.W.;
Messrs. PROSSER & CO., Sydney.
C. F. PRIDDY & CO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.30 p.m.; Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET P
SYDNEY,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
J Literature, Law, Mercantile and
, T & Fancy Stationery.
Inillih Papers and Magazines received by
every Mall.
ROTAL ARC ADI, G BURGS 8T.. tM BTDNBI
Bavarian m r> p
ittebs. nllr
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of the beet Bavarian Hops, Superior to any
other.
They take the first place wherever tried, and are
well authenticated by eminent medical men and
well-known analysts.
Read the reports and testimony which aooom
pany each bottle, and do not forget to make a
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
XJ n. d.er't a,3s©r_
84 HUNTER * PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (18) years;
Manager for over ten (10) years.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found
last with the Argosy Braces at ©owing Bros.
%
K
i
GrOWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, Za. 6d., 3s., 3s. 6d„* 4s. 0
COWING - BROS.,
MEN’S MBHCER8. HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, A
332 and 488 Ceorse-street.


F
H
UBNITUB1 SHOW BOOM.
BRADLBY NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS, and
CHAIRS, LARGB ASSORTMENT.
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suite*, fashionably uphoi-
stored, at all prices. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, Jco.
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb
N
OVELTIES in BOUDOIR and BOW WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley. Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes forMngle
rooms, drcat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTCfN
ffndLAMB. Spring and O’Connell streets. Sydney,
171 IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.-The
ll Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. Th© lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O'Connell-stieet.
BDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tue back and Towol rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 3 CANE SEAT dHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLBY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
HEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, fromlOs. M.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O Connell streets.
3
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves foi
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome fashion-
able designs In Black and Gold, with Bias
Shelves; also In Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB. _
OCCASIONAL TABLES In all Woods. Immense
variety of deslgjps; also elegantly finished In
Embroidery, Plush, $c. _____
/"IHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
(PConneU-street. '
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant BRADLBY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-street.
,RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRB.-
J A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
ices, from 12s 6d. Bradley. Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and Inez-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, 0 Connell-st,
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
PULL SUITES for DINING - ROOM —SIDE-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O Connell-street.
,INING TABLES, with patent extending
_ 1 screw, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet*
ELF-AD JUSTING HAMMOCK OHATL-
Patented.
D
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in am
material. -
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
s
AGATBLLB BOARDS, Portable. Various
>_ Sizes. BRADLBY. NEWTON, and
RAMBWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
JU and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-vA very exten
live assortment in Chippendale, Early Jtogjr lB '
and other designs, which can be uphotetereo
any materials to meet the taste and requireme
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
for DINING-ROOM "FURSI*
Jd TURB, Handsome and Massive, in
walnut, anff Mahogany. THE VERY BEST
MOROdcO SKINS and Materials fur Upholstery
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, an
LAMB, Spring and O ’Connell-streets.
B
F
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass
new shipments. Bradley. Newton, and La —
BEDSTEADS, an kinds and sizes, at
prices, ~ J
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
lowest
BEDDING.— Ail descriptions at iowMt raW-
BRADLBY, NEWTON, and LAMB, 0 Con
aeU and Spring streets. —
WASHSTANDS, with marble, from Ms. e* 0 *
TtR A m.EY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
. AWN and PARK SEATS 6 feet long.■
1 i Cast-iron Standards, 15s. each. Bradley. B
ton, and Lamb.
B1NTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very compl***
Assortment i bast make, lowest pnoos
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated wit*
flapr and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 601 Hunter-street. Sydney.*
Be sure you get Wolfe's Schnapps.
SOCIAL
Never, even lathe old old days, did
of the Mercantile Rowing Club g ve so eo joy able
and successful a ha lasihatof last Thursday night
la the Town Hall. Some man, wise in bta genera-
tion, decided that to decorate the beantiful walls
o? the town Hall would be as jmh 6 ™ uol i. 8 ai ,*
p tint the Illy,” bo save for a f6w flags here and
tiere and the pretty chrtatnS veiling each door-
way, which were kindly lent tor ihe occasion bj
Mr. Playfair, d'ecoVAtions there were none. Avery
garden of gliding flowers, however, graced the
flofcn and as viewed from the win dow ia an P P® r
woafl the scene was extremely brilliant The most
uncommon and striking dress was a helio-
trope satin, the front of the skirt beingadornea by
narrow bands of violet velvet zoning crosswise,
back drapery of vi .let velvet, and round the low-
cut and sleeveless bodice, was ft nftl'rpw bordering
of violets. Tae pretty fan was alsd composed
completely of violets. This farming d^ n ,Y« a a S
worn by Miss Prescott. One J a8 \ yea F. 8
Mrs. Blackstone Wore a neat black satin dress
with sleeves and corsage trimmed with black
and gold lace. Mrs. Kurts looked handsome
In h beautiful mixture of pale blue and pink
Satin, with peculiar cream chenille ornaments on
the skirt. MIsj Milson, stately as usual. in white
satin and lace, with ruby velvet neck-band,
fastened with a jewel-spray of natural flowers
over the left shoulder. Mrs. Cole looked graceful
In a bright crimson satin, with skirt draperies of
black Span s i lace A neat little figure was clad
In cream satin, with handsome lace trimmings —
Skirt just short enough to show a pair of tiny feet
With cream satin coverings, which looked like
little mice peeping in and out.” Very
a white llama skirt adorned with graduated black
velvet tabs, and a black velvet basque.- Mrs.
Strattan’s orange-coloured satin, slightly relieved
bv purple velvet, was, if a little harsh, certainly
very striking. A second Miss Milson was neat and
pretty in black lace skirt and velvet corsage out
low and sleeveless, which contrasted with her
blonde complexion and flaxen hair. Two sisters
In white chenille, tufted net over white satin and
garnished with pink rosebuds, were very charming.
A dress all crimson was composed of spotted tulle
and satin, and was worn by a dark lady. Miss J.
Ball wore an elaborate toilet of pink satin and
dark-green velvet; skirt of the satin flounced
with white laoe. bodice and drapery of green vel-
vet, prettily devised and profusely trimmed with
lace. A pale green veiling, caught up here and
there With pink roses, was fresh looking, a white
net skirt covered with swansdown tufts looked
charmingly delicate and pure-the bodice of white
satin edged with swansdown. Mrs. MGarvey, rich
white silk with enormous train, and bunch of
crimson and white ribbons (the Club s colours) on
the left shoulder. Many complimented the Club
by wearing its colours, a white dress being par-
tiouiarly nic0 with its festoons of white and
crimson ribbons on the skirt and bertha.
There were just three hundred and two people at
the ball, and if the odd two had ‘been left
out, the committee would have attained their
worthy object in keeping the affair as select as
even the most fastidious could desire. But careful
as they were in disposing of the tickets only to
men they knew," or that their friends knew, one
or two young ladles were taken to the ball spite of
all this caution, whose room would have been far
preferable to their company. The 20 dances,
with several extras, were accomplished sometime
before sunrise, and if the band was a little loud at
times, It played in capital time, which made up for
everything. Compagnoni catered la the usual
comfortable style, and—that’s all.
♦ • »
Miss Genevieve Ward held a reception on
the stage of the Ooera House on the afternoon of
Wednesday, the 22nd, which was attended by
about 60 ladles and gentlemen. The stage was
turned into a pretty drawing-room and Miss Ward,
In her own fascinating manner, Introduced her
guests all round, as they arrived. Amongst those
present were:-Mrs. and Miss Fischer, Mrs. Pro-
fessor Smith, Mr. Griffin (American Consul), Dr.
and Mrs. Urereton, Mrs. and the Misses Garran, the
Misses Stephen, Mr. W. Stephen. Mr. W. H. Ver-
non, Mr. G. E. Labertouche, Mrs. Libertouche, Mr.
Faithful!, besides various members of the dramatic
profession. Afternoon tea was partaken of, and a
very enjoyable two hours spent with one of the
cleverest actresses who has ever graced a Sydney
stage.
Nice dance at Ashgrove, Ashfleld, last
Wednesday night. The ballroom was tastefully
decorated with beautiful ferns and flowers.
Nearly all the young ladies were clad in light
dresses, a rosy-faced Miss Devlin looking very
nice in ivory satin flounced with rich white lace:
the hostess, Mrs Webb, was attired id brown satin
trimmed with a mixture of cream and crimson-
lace: Miss Webb, black satin, with blue Fedora
and natural flowers; Miss F. Webb, a pretty white
China silk; Mies Wallace, white grenadine : and
Miss Allen, cream satin and lace, with touches of
crimson; Miss Pedrlo looked very charming in
cream, and Miss Malden also in cream and car-
dinal; a tall lady, who helped with the dance
music, looked well in black lace and satin, with
Jet # m
The Petersham Owl Club roosted at the
local Town Hall, Tuesday, the 21st. The flrst part
of the entertainment was a concert, given princi-
pally by members of the Club Mrs. Gray and Mr.
Booth have both pleasant voices, but had they
chosen a lees ambitious duet than “Fairy NVancJ,
It would have been as well. Mr. Andrew Fairfax,
an ever-weloomo vocalist, sang the ‘’Skipper,
and was accompanied by his daughter. Pity It is
t aat Mr. Fairfax has almost deserted our Sydney
c mcerts-his place is not easy to All. Mies Cowley
gave “The New Kingdom” with nice expression,
and was warmly encored. All Mr Hallewolls
Si nils sing in good style, but Miss Cowley does the
aestro more than ordinary credit. The haven ,
toy Mr- Chapman, quite took our breath away. It
was a big surprise, and a surprise of the light sort,
too. For encore he gave “ The Masher. A young
lady recited "Sale by auction of 40 bachelor#,
which sent a simmer through the hall. Mr. Wen-
ban sang the “ Powder Monkey, and Mies
M‘Coy Braja’s Serenata, with violin obligato,
very nicely. Mr. Hugh Duff played a solo,
and officiated as accompanist. The concert
over, chairs were swiftly swept off the floor by
scores of eager hands, and dancing was vigorously
attacked. Miss Cowley wore a deepish blue satin
dress, with draperies of pink tinselled grenadine;
her pretty sister, a white dress and /old ribbons,
and a third, in cream satin skirt and ruby velvet
bodice. Mrs. Shaw, black net skirt and black
satin bodice. Miss M‘Coy wore blue satin
with deep cream lace flounces; and a tali fair girl,
in pink satin, with lace trimmings, was a nice
dancer. A combination of shell-pink and ruby
satin was rather tasteful. Light—very light-re-
freshments were partaken of at 10 o clock, and
dancing terminated at 12 o’clock.
* * *
The “ show” ball at Murrurundi, which
took place in the School of Arts, was quite a suc-
cess. Between 80 and 100 people were present,
and nearly all being known to one another, the
affair was like a private ball. Good music was
provided by Mr. Emerson from Maitland (King s
School). Miss Macarthur laid claims to belleshlp,
and was attired in black satin, with lace sleeves
and flounces, and autumn leaves in her shining
hair; almost equally well looked Miss Sevll from
Temple Court, in cream broche, and Miss Hayden
from Ethclstone, in cream satin, with deep
lace flounces and crimson leather trimming :
Mrs. B. Hay don (Bloomtield), wore pale-pink
broche and cashmere trimmed with coffee-
coloured laoe ; from the Parsonage came
Miss Duff hrodle in a charming dress of
maize spotted muslin, trimmed with same
coloured lace and blue silk. The Misses Brodle,
from Rockvale, wore pretty pink and blue dresses.
Miss ThotheB, cream dress with sunflowers; Miss
Wright (Bickham), cream broche, with cardinal
trimming. Mrs. Bell wore lace flounces over rich
maize satin, crimson velvet body, witn maize
feather trimming: and lace: Miss Terry s pale-blue
dre's, flounced to the waist, and trimmed with
white lace, was much admired, her luxuriant hair
was worn in basket plaits; Miss J. Loner from
Abbey Green, was attired in cream and cardinal
satin, and looked very bright and piquant: miss
Reynolds, from Oaklands, w re black velvet with
scarlet body, and her sister, Mrs. Finch, was in pale
mauve; Mias O'Hara and Miss Taylor both wort-
rose pink silks, and Mbs Manchee black gauze and
lacs Amongst the gentlemen present, we noticed
Mr. Braddon a nephew of the famous novelist, Mr
Perel, of Tarriaro. Mr. G. B. G. King, of Goonoo
Goonoo. Mr. Lang, Mr. Weaver, and Mr. Cadei ,
two Messrs. Higgins, of Kiokerbill, and numerous
others of note around the district, The
was a great success thii year, about 20UU nemg
presant.
• • •
Christ Church, St. Kilda, Melbourne, was
crowded with an eager crowd to witness the mar-
riage of Miss Selina Emma Maud, eldest daughter
of the Rev. J. Stanley Low, Incumbent of Christ
Church, ti) the Rev. R. Stephen, last Thursday.
The church was beautifully decorated for the
occasion, the communion rail being most appro-
priately embellished by those emblems of purity,
lilies and camellias A little after 3 o’clock, the
bridal party, headed by the choir and chorister
toys singing a processional hymn, entered the
church, and the ceremony was proceeded witn. me
officiating clergy were, the Bishop of Melbourne,
assisted by the Rev. J. Stanley Low. Bridesmaids
were: Misses Irene Low, Ethel Kelly. H. Smith,
M Cook, H. Hyndman, Ann Mein, N. Stephen,
Chapman, and Richesson, and were all attired in
rich French white muslin jupes and satin bodices,
trimmed with fine edelweiss lace. The lovely
bride wore an Ivory-white satin with long square
train, bordered with rich flounces of lace, falling
over the full ruched front of the skirt. A. wreath
of wax orange blossoms graced her shoulder, and
with the all-enveloping veil crowned with the cus-
tomary bridal wreath, the picture of, an “
beauty thus presented was such that it will long
dwell in the memory of all beholders. Alter the
ceremony about 2T0 guests were entertained at a
very richerchi dejeuner, where the health of the
happy pair was proposed by the Bishop.
• • ♦
The first annual plain and fancy dress
ball of the Macquarie Lawn Tennis Club, even-
tuated at West's rooms last Friday nigbt. The
first object which riveted the attention upon en-
tering the ball room was the “ Professor, stand-
log, chin in hand, gazing with up-turned eyes at
the gorgeous decorations, which had been devised
by his own igiant brain. He was satisfied. The
festoons of artificial leaves, innumerable flags, and
coloured lamps left nothing to be desired, and he
of the nimble feet and diamond stud was well
pleased. The ball was opened by a grand march
—a march with variations—at times partners
marching together and anon breaking off and
joining again as they met at the further
end of the room, ibe “March” was prettily de-
vised (by the professor), and as the greater num-
ber of the dresses were fancy, the pageant was
most uncommon. Miss Sibley made a pretty little
America, but at the same time we should like to
remind the young lady that the stripes on the
American flag are simply red and white, not red,
white, and blue. Miss Crear was a bewitching
Gltana, and Miss Watson’s costume, Monte Carlo,
was well carried out. The prettiest of shep-
herdesses appeared la a large up-turned white
straw hat, bedecked with many flowers, short
white dress caught up with ribbons and flowers,
and the inevitanle crook. Grace Darling looked
rather sombre, but Young Australia was bright
enough for anything. Other good ladies were
Music, Spanish Lady (Miss Fox), Snow, and
Carmen, and Daughter of the Regiment,
Mr. Nutty, one of the M.’sC. appeared dur-
ing the first part of the evening in a graceful
lawn-tennis costume of white flannel, with crim-
son bindings and white straw hat. Afterwards he
donned a gold and black aesthetic costume almost
completely covered with enormous sun-flowers,
He should have worn the tennis cocstume
last and left a good impression. Mr. Whildon
was a fair Toreador, and Mr. G. Scott’s jockey
costume was one of the best in the room.
The calves of one unfortunate individual In
striped tights were rather unmanageable, they
insisted in slipping round, and this destroyed the
shapely beauty of his limbs. A long man looked
perfectly satisfied with himself, in pink tights and
tunic, curly wig and rouged cheeks. A nice even-
ing dress was worn by Miss King, and was com-
posed almost entirely of white lace and satin,
bodice cut low and sleeveless. A handsome crim-
son satin, with long train, had the front width
composed of old gold satin and lace —the same
coloured lace was repeated on bodice and sleeves.
Another rich dress was ruby satin, with an over-
skirt of black tulle, caught here and there with
ruby ribbons. For a first ball of a young Club, It
was remarkably successful, and dancing was kept
up till 3.20 Profeaior West’s band provided good
music, and Compagnoni the creature comforts.
♦ * ♦
On Tuesday afternoon Miss Laura Johnson
was married to Mr. William Woodd in Christ
Church, Sydney, The church was prettily de-
corated with flowers, &o„ and a full choral service
embellished the ceremony. The amiable bride
was robed In a rich pearl broche with long train
and lace garniture, oranare blossom wreath, and
long handsome veil. Bridesmaids, six in number,
were creased-three in cream veiling, blue sashes,
and straw hats trimmed with white lace and blue
ribbons; two in cream veiling and cardinal sashes,
straw hats trimmed with lace and cardinal flowers;
and one in all blue. The “ Wedding March” was
well played by the organist as the bride and bride-
groom left the ctmrch, and just at this moment
the sun burst forth from a lowering sky as if to
give a blessing. Rice, slippers, &c.
* * *
The fifth of the Newtown private socials
proved as enjoyable as each,of its predecessors—
in fact, these socials have been so successful that
the committee have decided to continue them
longer than was at first intended.
* ♦ * *
On Friday the 10th, a ball was held in the
Brewarrina Hall in aid of the School of Arts.
Ladies’ dresses tasteful and costly. The best of
them were a pink silk elaborately trimmed with
lace, worn by a young lady from the Narran; a
handsome ruby and cream satin; and a costly
brocaded white satin, trimmed with coffee lace.
Best subscription ball that has ever been held in
the Back-blocks... .Miss Millard, of Blacktown,
was, on the 18th, married to Mr. T. Lolhurst, of
cricket fame A very pleasant social was held
in Moree Mechanics’ Institute on the 16th instant,
but, as usual la small townships, the exclusive-
ness of the invites created a good deal of Ill-feeling
amongst the counted-out ones.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Fourth Annual Ball of the Balmain Rowing
Club, Town Hall .. July 31
Plain and Fancy Dress Ball, Albert Hall,
Petersham • — July 30.
Madame Charbonnet-Kellermann s An-
nual Matinee and Soiree Musicals,
New Masonic Hall Aug. 8,11.
Plain and Fancy Dress Ball of the Amazon
Quadriile Assembly, Mr. Giltinan’s
Academy, Susaex-street August 4.
Grand Masonic Ball (Sydney Tarbolton)
Town Hall August 13.
Pastoral, Agricultural, and Horticultural
Society’s Show, Corrowa Show Grounds
Wednesday Augusts
Newtown Private Social August 14.
Sydney, Wednesday.
Deadest Belle,— Isn’t, It provoking? Just as
soon as this new Philharmonic Society is formed,
the < onduotor appointed, and everything nice and
comfortable, we hear that Herr Vogrich is to
leave Sydney before the end of the year, we
girls are terribly upset about it, for we were con-
gratulating ourselves warmly at having obtained
the services of bo patient and caoable a conductor
for this, our new society. How the Sydney
Liedertafel will fare without him, I am afraid to
conjecture, for, as you well know, good all-round
musicians are as scarce as oysters in restaurant
oyster soup. However, If he does go, he will leave
us whilst our admiration for his and his wife s
talents is still green. I am certain, that the
Sydney musical societies will search long ere they
find another so good a chief.
There is a gay f.otharlo here, dear, a well-known
man, who has managed to gain much favour
amongst our silly sex on account of his fine, firm,
and handsome looks, but entre nous , he has little
else to recommend him, for he “ shows all his
beat goods in his shop-window,” as it were.
Edith was foolish enough to be in the long list of
his admirers; but, by good fortune, she is quite
cured since a certain ball held at North Shore.
You must know fof bourse you do) that nothing in
this world annoys a girl more than to find out that
the pretty poetltf expressions a man indulges in for
her edification are stock property, which come in
bandy for any other girl he may happen to take
on to the verandah after a waltz. I was talking to
some friends at an open window one night be-
tween the dances, when I heard a drawling voice
thus express Itself: “Aw, do you see yonder
bwlght star? Aw, well, yonder bwight star
isn’t half so bwight as your lovely eyes.' I
felt some one pinch roy arm and a voice hies into
my ear: “ The very words he said to me last night
at Mrs. 8 —'s party. OhI the deceiver, howl
hate him 1” This was Edith, of course, but her
idol wasn’t completely shattered till she had the
bad, or I should rather say good, fortune to hear
the same words drawled out by the same voice to
a different girl for the third time In two weeks,
and all without the slightest variation in either
words or drawl—the only thing that varied
was the girl. And now when he makeslhis ap-
pearance any where the girls say: “Here comes
yonder bwight star.”
And now that I have told you about a foolish
man, it is only right I should let you know what
wicked, women we have in this city of ours. For
instance, there was one who, a few weeks ago, in
the dead of night went round to her children’s
cots, kissed them good-bye, cried a little, and then
left them motherless, and all just because she liked
another man better than their father. Now,
wasn’t that heartless ? She is in a good position in
Sydney, but I dare not divulge her name, for I
don't believe you could keep a secret to save your
life. Anyhow, I don’t intend to chance it.
Just fancy what fvas picked up in Paling’s music
room the other night, after Madame Woolner’s
soiree musicals I An odd glove, a small clpud, and
a lady's improver! None of the men seemed to
know what the latter article was, and cried out,
like Warner of the Pederals does in his song,
“What is it? oh, heavens I what is it?” A.nd some
one was just suggesting that it might be an un-
finished bird-cage, when a married man came up
and explained things. But -now, dear, aren't we
foolish to wear such detachable embarrassments ?
And what agony the poor lady must have suffered
when she felt herself “ minus ” Oh, it’s too hor-
rible to think about.
A friend of mine, a young solicitor, hired a new
office-boy last week, and having occasion to go
round to the Court one morning, he instructed the
lad to enter the names of callers in the call-book.
But when he returned and found names entered
without even a Mr. or Esquire, he was wroth and
told the boy he must be more courteous to his
visitors and not omit the appendages to their
names. So the next time he left the boy in charge
he found, when he returned and examined the
book, that amongst the list of names was “ A girl
for subscription, Btq.” He hasn’t got that boy
now.
Have you heard that the directors of the Joint
Stock Bank have issued a circular prohibiting their
clerks from marrying until they attain incomes
of at least be £300 a year ? This is hard on a poc r
little girl L know, who happens to be engaged to a
clerk who has only two-thirds of the specified
Income, and the worst or it Is it may be mai y
years before he gets the necessary increase. Ban) s
are so slow, you know, to appreciate superior
intellect and Industry. At least that’s what the
young clerks themselves always say (who are in-
variably of brilliant Intellect), and 1 suppose they
ought to know. But now I wonder how tie
bank directors Intend to fix up matters with those
who are already married on less than the two
hundred per annum! As they cannot very we 1
untie the marriage knot, perhaps they will ado
what by their own showiog is needful to the
Incomes of these already married young men-
whicb will go to prove that it is Indeed an ill wind
that blows no one any good.
Another genial and handsome man has betaken
hlmsslf from this sinful world of ours. I mean
Mr. do Poix Tyrol, who died up at Stanthorpe,
Queensland, the other day. I think you met him
once when he was in Sydney, did you not? And it
I remember aright, you were much Impressed
with his big manly form and comely face. Every-
body in Queensland knew him and loved him, for
he was ever ready to help those in need, and was
a merry companion withal. Stanthorpe may well
mourn over the loss of such a man.
I think I have told you before that Remonyl.the
violinist, has a great weakness for curios Well,
lately, as he was roaming among the dusky mag-
nates in Maoriland, be came across a beautiful
mat belonging to one high up in ohiefdom. He of
the black velvet coat at once made up his mind to
become possessed of it, but Waluna said “ No.
A large sum of money was held out as a tempta-
tion—no use. But Waiuna also has his weakness,
and fell into raptures over the velvet coat worn
by the white man. That made things easy for
Remenyi, who has that same mat caret ully packed
away in his trunk, whilst Waluna struts around,
thinking himself no end of a dude In a shabby
old velveteen jacket Speaking of Remenyi re-
minds me that a great many in the musical pro-
fession hero are indignant that our townsmen
did not see fit to serenade Kruse whilst he was
with us. I certainly think they should have paid
him that graceful compliment, he being an Aus-
tralian born, and such a violinist too. He reminds
me more of Wilhelmj than any fiddler—horrid
word—I ever heard, for he has the same exquisite
tone and doesn’t seem to think| it necessary to
indulge In fantastical attitudes and facial ex-
pression, in order to produce an effect upon the
people, any more than did my old favourite. And,
by the way, Mrs. Armstrong, who has been singing
so sweetly at the Kruse concerts, is an old mus c
I pupil of Madame Kellermann’s, and intends to go
(Continued on next page.)


“ BEACH'S ”
C 1 ON 8U LTA1 ION
ON THE
Sir Joseph Bank’s 4th Grand Handicap,
to be run at Botany. August 33nd, 36th, and 39th,
1885 ; also on
Hawfcesbnry Handicap, Metropolitan and
Melbourne Cup,
NOW OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10s. BACH.
•First Horse, £350.
Address—
“ BBACH,”
Care of J. G. Deeble,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney
Please apply early.
ORMOND'S
SWISS CIOAB8
Have been recognised as the BEST for half a
century.
Department of Public Worxs.
Sydney, 38th July, 1886.
TBNDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and 8UP-
TENDERS are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Worka and Supplies. For full partl-
oulars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office In the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer win be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
with** terms of * he n °tloe are strictly compiled
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a
this office.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Erection of Lockup at Lochin-
var
Erection of Gallery, Court-
house, Wllcannia
Bridge over Greg Greg River at
W hitobead’s Crossing
Erection of Cottages, Wagga
Wagga Water Supply
Erection of Wharf and Goods
Shed at Great Marlow, Clar-
ence River
Erection of Dwarf Wall and
Iron Railing, Parramatta Park
Bridge over Tarbuc Creek, road
Bingwall to Forster
Bridge over Greenbah Creek,
road Merrygoen to Coonabara-
bran
Bridge over Mandagery Creek,
at Wlndreds, road Cudal to I
Coates’ Creek
Contract lo, road up Burragor- i
ang Mountain, Picton to Bur-
ragorang
Enlargement of Public Wharf I
at Ermington
Erection of Retaining Wall and
Paving Pathway, Lighthouse,
Seal Rooks
Tuesday,
4th August,
at II o’clock
Erection of Station Buildings |
at Como, Sutherland, and I
Bottle Forest, Illawarra Rail- I
way
Erection of Post and Telegraph I
Office at Broughton Creek |
Purchase of Muntz Metal, lying I
at Fitzroy Dock
Tuesday,
11th August,
at 11 o’clock.
F. A. WRfGHT.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869. '
INCORPORATED bt ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £330,0W
Reserve Fund £150,000
Directors:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.G.M.G., Chains
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George 8. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gldley King, M.L.O.
C. Rolleston. Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Boroggle, Esq. | Hon. H. B. Cohen, Br<
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales ;
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyngan
Bourke, Manly, Byerock, and Parramatta.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 168 Leadenhall-street.
„ Directors;
Edward Chapman. Esq. I Geo. P. Blade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G | Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Flnan
olal Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo.
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
GRANVILLE.
IN THE HEART OF GRANVILLE.
THE CITY AND COUNTY INVESTMENT, LAND,
AND BUILDIinG COMPANY, Limited,
are now selling at
their Offices,
_ , 16 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY,
forty-two splendid well-elevated ALLOTMENTS,
in the heart of the town,
near the Railway Station and Public School,
and all the Great Manufactories.
BUSINESS AND VILLA SITES,
„ GRANVILLE.
TERMS: £5 per deposit, and the balance may
extend over 10 years, repayable by Instalments
of 5s. 6d. per week for each £100 of the pur-
chase-money.
.. _ And
the Company will LEND to Build to the extent of
90 per cent of Improved value.
The Company confidently recommends these
choice allotments to all persons desirous of really
good speculations, as land in a first class position
in Granville is evtrj day becoming more scarce,
and the allotments now offered will be worth. In a
short time, double the prices now asked for them.
Title—Torrens.
Agent on the ground on Saturday afternoon.
For PLANS and PRICES apply
CITY AND COUNTY INVESTMENT, LAND.
AND BUILDING COMPANY, Limited,
16 ROYAL ARCADE,
SYDNEY.
RAW VASELINE.
A
CAB and Buggy Harness, Super Race, Serge,
Prince’s Check Horse Clothing, Linen Horse
Clothing and Quarter Sheets, Horse Nets and Ear
Caps, Exercise Saddles, Race Saddles, Gold and
Silver-mounted Hunting and Aiding Whips for
presentation, Newmarket Bandages, Head Collars,
Indlarubber Brushing Rings, Knee Caps, Horse
Brushes, Mane Combs, Spurs, Bridles, Kersey and
Felt Saddle Cloths in great variety, Kersey, Serge,
■relt. Collar Check, Trees, and a general assortment
of Saddler’s Ironmongery.
BLACKBURN & CO..
WHOLESALE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
125 Tork-street, Sydney.
J.H.CEDDES&CO.
SEj'K.SOJST.
Wool & Produce'
Auctioneer.
Sale Days: |
Wool and Sheep-1 i . „
skins, f'.|gS=Ej'
THURSDAY
At Chamber
of Commerce
At Warehouse,
Hides & Tallow |)L
FRIDAY.
Homs, Bones,
&c.,
8 ATURDAY.
Leather,
TUESDAY. r .
~ Returns.
Liberal Advances Fat g tock) Moderate”
MONDAYS & THURSDAYS. Gliar S e3
Woo! fully Insured from reception to delivery.
Strong Woolpacks, for Wool to be Scoured by the Firm,
forwarded Free of Cost.
WAREHOUSES & OFFICES, CIRCULAR QUAY.
s-ynifEY.
■-.•rr
=
H
'
livi
6-6
Wool Scourers-
Buokland Mills
Waterloo Mills
And Floodvale.
Capabilities,
1,000 Bales
Weekly
Delivery,
14 Days aftei
reception.
Special Rebate
on Wool Sold
by ns after
Scouring.
Prompt
V
infants and Children
y _ ■ J
What gives our Children rosy cheeks, A
■What cures their fevers, makes them sleep;
Castorla.
"When Babies fret, and cry by turns,
What cures their colic, kills their worms.
Castorla. )
What quickly cures Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Colds, Indigestion ;
_Castoria. x
Farewell then to Morphine Syrups,
Castor Oil and Paregoric, and
. HajlCajtorU,
“ Castoria is so well adapted to Children
that I recommend it as superior to any medi-
cine known to mo.”—H. A. Abchee, M. D h
111 Oxford St., New York.
Elliott Bbos., Sidney, Agent*.
NESS, Despondency, Lost Vitality
Premature Decay, and all forms of Debility
causing loss of Physical and Mental Power, quick Jj
and easily cured by the French Aphrodisiac
Remedy. Illustrative book free. Address Aus-
tralian Agency, P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
The first number of the Rockhampton
Tbjipkbance Advocate has reached us. Its name
explains Its object. It is fairly printed, but is very
small and very uninteresting. It is a pity the
professed advocates of Temperance cannot work
together, and give us a good live paper- There i
abundance of material in their topic. The paper
they offer are very much like temperance drinks
A man would rather go without than swallow the
slush. Temperance advocates should put their
heads together and invent a good, sharp pungen
drink, and a good, sharp pungent paper. Then
they will get at men. There is no use in firing a
them weak literature and diluted sarsaparilla.
“A curious discovery,” says the Tam-
worth (N. 8. W.) News, "was made the other day
in the strong-room of the Commercial Bank, as
Mr. Robey, the manager, was going through the
strong-room he came across a human skull. Infor-
mation was at once sent to the police authorities
and Inspector Creaghe went to have a a look at it.
He, however, came to the conclusion that it was
simply that of an aboriginal or of some orimina:
that had been kept as a curiosity by some one, and
probably placed in the strong-room as a place ot
security.” This reminds us that when we were in
North Queensland several of the banks never
charged less than about 17 per cent for aoo immo-
dation on mining accounts, and it was rumoured
that at times some customers were compelled to
leave their skulls as security for overdrafts.
Perhaps—[Too flippant.— Ed. B ]
Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour takes the full
flavour of every kind of Seasoning,
The massive gates of circumstance
Are turned upon the smallest hinge,
And thus some seeming petty chance
Oft gives our after life a tinge.
The things that make our daily life,
Soon out of memory’s grasp will fall,
But Summerfleld s Cork Tweed outlasts
The most enduring of them all.*
Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour can be obtained
in and 11b. packets.
Renovate your failing frames with Wolfe’s
Schnapps
Just, give Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour a trial
when you ? re next cooking.
Wolfe's Schnapps 40 years before the
public and its qualities aud virtues never yet ap-
proached.
The sale per day now exceeds 60,000 lbs of Kings-
foia'ct Oswego Cornflour.
For light pastry, cikee, &o., just try Kingsford’s
Oswego Coriiilour.
Advise
Schnapps.
your friends to drink Wolfe’s
0 8 wVo lt cSlpdr.° OmPlet) Wlth ° Ut Kinsrsford's
I held her little hand in mine
I clasped her beauteous form,
And swore to shield her from the world,
And from the raging storm;
She met my glance with loving eye,
And said, In accents low,
1 wish, dear boy, you d get your pants
.brom Summerfleld and Cc.*
delicious of all preparations for Pud-
flour’ Cj8tard8, &c ” 18 Kingsford’s Oswego Corn-
in,! °/> cs c ] ina PPi> is the remedy “ p ar excel-
lence lor kidney diseases, indigestion and debility
OsXVcCrutlou?: ODR8fc the ladl68 18 KlD^ford ’ 8
home to study for opera as soon as she fulfils her
engagements here.
In speaking of the Queen’s last drawing-room,
some one wonders when civilisation will become
sufficiently advanced to allow of the present sys-
tem of drawing-room dresses to be done away
with, and when the Queen will see how much nicer
elderly women like herself look in high gar-
ments embellished and softened by clouds of lace
and tucks round their throats and chests. If Her
Majisty heard only half the remarks passed by
her own loyal subjects anent this system of ladies
entering her presence Insufficiently clad, she
would surely be brought to allow them to dress
with some consideration of decency and comfort.
Just imagine, dear, a with a delicate chest
being compelled to expose it to draughts and
cold, and all lor the whim of another woman a
Queen, certainly, but a woman all the same. No,
Ican’ttayl admire the Queen for her insistence
on the low corsage, for, although It Is agreeable
enough for some. It is death to others. And, be-
sides, these whd possess seamy necks flat chests,
and bony arms don’t care to advertise the fact.
Oneortwo meagre women fiom Sydney have of
late had their ooliar-bones inspected by the British
public.
The Princess of Wales has been photographed
in her cap and gown, in which it Is said she looks
simply cbarmlng. There was a picture In one of
the late numbers of the London Graphic of a
young girl who had taken her degree as B A.; and
although the face was sweetly pretty, I. really
think she put on too much *■ side,” as Ned says, in
wearing pince-aez, and caressing an ugly grin-
ning skull with her left baud. I suppose the eye-
glasses were worn in order that she might look
learned, and the skull was there just to show us
all she wasn’t frightened of it. Well, now, our
two young lady B A.’s here were photographed in
their caps and gowns, but they neither wore eye-
glasses nor toyed with dead men’s heads; which
proves, dear, that our colonial sisters aren’t half
as affected as those English girls. Now, don’t you
agree with me ?
If you are as observant a little girl as I give you
credit for being, you will have noticed that la all
the German comic papers Prince Bismarck is re-
presented with just three hairs projecting from his
bald head. Now, in point of fact, those last three
hairs died a natural death long, long ago, but still
they appear in the caricatures. V' r ell, there was
a ?.£ m £ rican )ady who was a Passionate admirer
of the German Chancellor, and who was desirous
of possessing a memento of her hero; so, with that
daring modesty which men say is character-
istic ot pur sex, she wrote a letter to the Prince,
asking him for some memorial, even if it were
“only a single hair.” The Prince replied In the
foUpwing words; “Impossible, madame; theylare
all three gone.” So the poor lady didn’t get her
memento, modest though the request seemed.
At a musical party the other night I saw a most
peculiar costume, which even jet I can’t quite
make up my mind whether I liked or not. The
skirt was a beautiful moss-green velvet, draped
with handsome pink Spanish lace, but the upper
dress-now, listen-was simply a floe silk flesh-
coloured jersey, fitting like one ot Cator’s gloves
to the form. To any one short-sighted, like your
poorMab, it looked, at a first glance, just as if—as
11.7 well, as If the wearer had forgotten to put any-
thing on; hut I suppose she didn’t conceive the
costume for stupid, short-sighted people like me
and I was quite vexed that I couldn’t go Into such
raptures over it as some of the others did, but I
couldn’t, and I didn’t. ,. ’
1 mustn’t forget to tell you about the entertain-
ment Mr. Qaong Tart, assisted by Messrs. Badgery.
Dan. 0 Connor, and a few others, got up for the
Inmates of the Liverpool Benevolent Asylum last
Saturday. We were taken up by special train,
and, upon arriving at the station, the little Vernon
boys Played some lively music as they marched to
the institution, followed by us all. It would make
you sad, dear, to.aee, all the suffering old men at
the Asylum, but if it is possible to brighten the
lives of such unfortunates I am sure It was done.
• A good luncheon was pro-
Tided for all at 2 o clock, and then a nice little
entertainment was given In the big dining-room,
where Mr. Tart distinguished himself by singing
with Miss Gribbeo the “ Hunting Tower ” duet!
The Federal Minstrels also contributed something
towards the success of the entertainment and
kind lady and gentleman amateurs sang songs
or gave recitations. But the nicest, kindest, and
most graceful thing I saw done that day, was
when Miss Playfair invited one of the old
m ®o *0 dance with her. I was quite vexed
E W vi tl U he K 0 d m „ an £° r . chewing tobacco all
the time, but perhaps he isn’t used to the society
of young ladies, and knew no better. Another
lady also danced with the old men, but I forget
never forget her face, nor
this kindly behaviour of hers.fcWe all took button-
S' 1 k°* th , e “ en > and Pinned them In
their coats, but although some looked gratified
enough, I couldn t help thinking that others would
have preferred a fig of tobacco to the dainty
flowers. Too much praise can hardly be
given to those gentlemen who took part la
+hff daj^8 g0 n d A eeda < makes one think, dear,
that, after all, the world isn’t made up olf such
rf 1 Pewle 88 cymos would have us believe,
r f y0I 5 any more, I shall miss the post, as
woufdlt? Week ’ aUd th8t wouldn,t P Jea8e Ton,
Ever your loving
MAB.
THE WICKED WORLD.
Byrnes, of the Liberator, says that the
Victorian Attorney-General is “ unjust and noto-
riously partial. Many months ago the Govern-
ment was duly apprised that a R.C. church took
money for admission on Sundays; he has never
prosecuted the offenders. But he is prosecuting
the Secularists for doing the same thing!” And
now the Melbourne D.T., which has been success-
fully cggiag-on the Attorney-General to prosecute
the Liberator, is plotting to have him raised to
the Supreme Court Bench A lately - arrived
Britisher describes a Fiji banana as a mixture of
bad dough and home-made soap From a N.Z
paper:—“In order to protect a large portion of
New South Wales from the rabbits, it is proposed
to fence a oorslderabie portion of the railway line
from Sydney—1190 miles—at a cost of £83,300.”
How could such a yarn have got to Maoriland .
Does the Noozk circulate there ? Ernest Boland
Davis, whose career in New Zealand is somewhat
clouded by forgery, seduction, uttering, false pre-
tences, and a few other crimes, was accustomed’
for the purposes of his profession, to travel as a
missionary Anglican clergyman, and occasionally
as Salvation Army Captain and temperance lec-
turer. The ardent lover was his last role, and to
more effectually compass his purpose, he drugged
his inamorata. Fifteen years’ hard labour is the
sum of his earthly prospects at present.
« * *
“ If you will kindly give me the names of
the articles you require seriatim, I shall have plea-
sure in producing them I ” said an ironmonger’s
assistant to a C M Q.’s wifo the other day From
a home paper—‘‘The- London and racing seasons
have now reached their climax, and horses and
young ladles alike are daily winning by bare
necka.”—Jones: “ 80, Spalding, you’re engaged
at last. Glad to hear if, old man. Girl pretty ? ”
Spalding (who is more of a student than a man):
“ Oh, no; she's not pretty, and they say her figure
is bad, but she has a lovely soul.” At Perth,
Scotland, the stock of a bankrupt undertaker was
sold by auction. Coffins sold as low as 8d. each.
Strange this Scoten people generally make pro-
vision for death Medicine is the art of
killing people without police interference
“ Yes,” taid Clara’s dear friend to Clara, the thea-
trical star—“It is Indeed a lovely photo. Whom
did you get to sit for you ?” Mrs. Oscar Wilde
and her son are both "doing well.” The baby has
a distinct bridge to his nose, an Indication of solid
character, which ueo*r regards with pride as a
happy autrury of fdture success....“My dear.”
said Mr. P., pleasantly, “ isn’t that your brother
just passing down the road ? ” Mrs. P. looked out
of the window, saw a donkey, and sweetly replied,
"Yes, Jove—but only by marriage ”.. At a Surrey
Parian church a widower of 84 married a widow of
87. The frisky bridegroom was attended by a
grandson, and the lest ve bride by a couple of
grand daughters Tne Kev. Covington, a Bromp-
ton (Eng.; clergyman, the other day expressed his
warm approval of the revised version of the Old
Testament, and said he was particularly gratified
that the revisers, after the most careful considera-
tion, bad decided not to make any alteration in
the names by which the Almighty is known in the
Ssriptures. The old gentlemen really might have
invented new names just to oblige Australian
bullock-drivers The Supreme Court of Massa-
chusetts has just given mortal offence to the Sab-
batarians in that state by formally deciding that it
is not criminal fora citizen to take a short walk on
Sunday "for air and exercise, or to call on a neigh-
bour ’ ....Countryman (at theatre box-office):
"Gimme two seats.”' Treasurer: “Do you want
contiguous seats?” Countryman: “No, sir. I
am on my weddia’ tour, and nothin’ but the
best goes. Gimme orohestrer chairs.” The
bicycle is to be officially introduced into the
Bavarian army. A number of soldiers of the gar-
rison of Munich are at present doing orderly ser-
vice for the purpose of trying the practicability of
the “ wheel ”.... Sims Beeves is 68, and still sings
magnificently Buskin has thus summed up the
recent great controversy on “Indecent Art”
initiated by "British Matron’s” letter to the
Times:—"I can assert to you as a positive and
perpetual law, that so much of the nude body as
in the dally life of the nation may bo shown with
modesty, and seen with reverence and delight—so
much, and no more, ought to be shown by the
national arts, either of painting or sculpture. What
more than this either art exhibits will assuredly
pervert taste, and, in all probability, morals.” ...
Parnell is reported in United Ireland to have
stated that whisky was one of the few remaining
industries of his country. It is not made clear in
the interview whether he referred to the con-
sumption or to the manufacture of that article
The much talked-of “corps of Amazons ” offered
to England by an Indian Maharajah, should have
been sent to tne Soudan to mash the Mahdi....Here
is the precise, scientific, and simple definition of
"Genius” given by Dr, Walshe in his brochure,
“The Colloquial Linguistic FacultyGenius
is the irrepressible energy of a differentiated
highly dynamised and perfectly organised cluster
of brain-cells, which, through use, increases in po-
tentiality and in readiness of assimilating nutrient
material from the interwoven neuroglia, and
eventually becomes extra nourished and extra
vigorous.”
the LATE SIR GEORGE WIGRAM ALLEN, K C M G.


Wolfe's Schnapps is superior to brandy or
whisky.
Weakness and sickness chans©
and strength with Hop Bitters always if too
made by American Co. See
Mind you get Wolfe's Sclmapps.
Woman Items
Instead of his daughter, her father met a
young Townsville mnsher at the breakwater re
cently. Ever since this the young man has taken
his repasts standing, while the young lady is re-
ported to have evolved a passion for hemming
dusters.
And now a London paper tells us that at
home all who can afford to buy a special license
get married In the afternoon, as In the morning
“thebrldeand bridesmaids look unattractive and
sleepy from having risen early to don their festal
attire.” Surely the matter might be managed by
their going to bed early the night before? This
they never do, bless them. There are too many
things to sit up and talk about.
If none hut the brave deserve the fair,
then most certainly does the Reverend H. Jones,
of Dorchester (Eng ), deserve the fairest of all fair
brides to fall to bis fortune, for at the good old
age of 83 he is about to take unto himself a wife
for the first time; and, not content with this,
astonished his parishioners exceedingly by pub-
fishing his own banns without a falter or so much
as the ghost of a smile upon his countenance.
There is nothing to prevent Miss Helen
Taylor from taking her seat in the Commons
should she be elected—and that -she will bo elected
Is certain. It Is not generally known that women
were “honourable members” in the Saxon Wl-
tenagamote, the earliest attempt at a Parliament on
record, and that their advice was eagerly sought,
and their opinions gratefully taken on any sub-
ject that came before it; they were allowed to
speak first, and bad altogether a lino time of it.
“ No, George, our engagement must be
broken. Father has failed, vou know.” “ When
did your father fall ? I hadn't heard of it,” he
said, turning pale. “ He failed yesterday, and is
very much prostrated in consequence. My whole
time must be given to him now. He needs my
undivided care and attention, and though it may
break our hearts, George, we must part tor ever.”
“Noble girl,” thought George, as he hastily
grasped bis bat; and with his broken heart wont
out into the night. This item takes a little think-
ing over.
The Kentish ladies gave the Princess
Beatrice a mammoth wedding-cake. It was in
three terraces, rising one above the other like the
New Zealand hills near Auckland. Round the
lower terrace were wreaths of lilies and ivy, sym-
bolical of purity, sweetness, and friendship. Next
came the coats-of-a'.tms of the contracting parties
with passion-flowers in plenty. Then came jessa-
mine, roses, and more ivy, with some Cupids to
mind them. The whole cake weighs 4owt. The
decorations are all sugar. The stand is of massive
gold, which must have cost a deal of “ sugar.” If
tne young couple are not happy after this, ’twould
ba better they had never mot.
A perfect little domestic treasure turned
up as plaintiff in a case at the Melbourne District
Court, the other day. Her name is Nellie Cal-
lender, and she sued her mistress for a week’s
wages, In additlsn to money lent for the purpose
of “buying rum.” However, it is of Nellie we
wish to speak. It canu- out iu evidence that she
had a penchant (that's French) for waltzing into
the dining-room with a tumbler of water on her
head. Here is, indeed, an instance of a damsel
mistaking her avocation. Nell certainly ought to
he in a bar, and waltz round with the drinks. The
thought of snatching one’s “ hot Scotch” from off
the classic head of a whirling mermaid is—well,
rapture.
“ A Young Scamp,” the new drama with
an old title which W G. Wills has written for Mrs.
Langtry, was to be produced at a Prince’s matinee
a tew days after last mail left. The piece contains
“ some bold writing.” There is in it a naughty
old squire, who is always a bit doubtful as to the
exact number of illegitimate children for whom
he is responsible. Truth Is always stranger than
fiction. Mrs. Langtry was to play a character
vaguely described as “a ballet girl and actress.”
She has to don trousers, and to ask a friend
whether she looks like a man The friend has to
make a reply to the effect that the Jersey Lily
looked a good deal too broadly built. Upon which
the Lily would very properly remark, “Don’t be
rudel”
“Four children at a birth, a hoy and three
girls, occurred recer tly at Hackney. They, how-
ever, all died within 31 hours.” Just Imagine the
sigh of relief that was heard in the royal apart-
ments when this news was wired to London. A
fiver saved is a fiver gained; and this the more
especially as it is six to four that after marriage
Bat. will develop Prince Teok’s propensities for
railway “ Nap.” and “ heading them.” At present,
however, he is “ most devoted,” so the society
papers say—and we think so too. We were that
way ourselves once. What will probably break
Bat. all up, though, is being asked at 3 a.m. on a
frosty morning to “ light the gas-stove, there’s a
dear, and put on the kettle.” This request has
made a widower of us on several occasions.
The very atmosphere of a church must be
laden with giddiness. The amorous propensities
of vicars, curates, and choir maidens have long
caused us considerable anxiety, and now it seems
that even vergers worship at the shrine of Venus.
Mr. William Holmes is verger at a Prahran church,
and one day last week a maiden of bashful fifteen
called to get a shawl which had been left there on
tne occasion of a marriage. William said, “ follow
me,” and—stated the youthful complainant —
“ when he got me in the church he kissed me
several times.” The stolen embrace cost William
£20, and destroys the last relic of.church respect-
ability. Hitherto we had believed in vergers, but
now we must include them in the same category
as their reverend superiors. The name of this
church, by the way, is All Saints’. Ahl they’re all
saints till they’re found out.
“William Holmes, an elderly man em-
ployed as verger at All Saints' Church, St. Kilda
(Melb.), was flood £20 or six months’ for assaulting
a young girl in church by kissing her.”—Dally
paper.—
Though civilisation, stripped to the buff
and in a lather of perspiration, is footing it nobly
among the aborigines of Northern Queensland,
she has not yet executed more than half her
sacred mission. She has got the length of Jimmy,
but has not collared Willie. Jimmy, living near
Ravens wood Junction, filled his stomach full of
the good tidings, the other day, scooted to the
gunyah of Willie, and pleaded eloquently with the
gin he found there to arise with her dilly-bag and,
as is done dally in the capitals of Fashion, elope
with him to the shelter of the cosy sandridge.
Willie dropped in, however, and spotted the game.
Stubborn child of barbarism, he refused to wink.
He did not know there was a Supreme Court to
which he could carry his lacerated heart. He
did not know that civilisation had provided him
with a judge and jury who would sit care-
fully on his case, estimate how much money
and value the co-respondent possessed, and order,
under the direst penalties, that cash equivalent to
the virtue of his wife be paid to her broken-
hearted husband. He did not know these things,
and therefore he is not to be blamed because he
did not wink. The crass Ignorance kindled the
wrath of the more enlightened Jimmy. He
sharpened a tomahawk and cut Willie to bits.
Then he owned the gin. Then they eloped to the
shelter of the cosy sandridge! Foot It faster. O
Civilisation I There are other Willies in that far
Northern land. Their dense ignorance may get
them killed. Make haste and tell them of your
great Supreme Court, with open doors, and Judge
and jury sitting, ready to investigate the circum-
stances in which wives lose their virtue, and to
award to the.complainlng husband quite a liberal
compensation in the coin of the realm.
THE CZAR AND HIS COOK;
OR,
HOW IT USED TO BE DONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Czar’s cook is dead. He was the
John Brown of Russia. He was an Italian, aad
was consulted by the Emperor, over whom he had
great influence, even on the weightiest affairs of
state.”— English paper.
It was dinner-hour in the fortress ot Gatschina.
The Czar moved uneasily in his Insulated ex-
plosion-proof arm-chair. Since morning, neither
meat nor drink had passed through the bars of his
helmet.
else. A rabbit pie—a couple of chickens—an Irish
stew—any thing.”
“Impossible, your Majesty; they have all been
chemically analysed and discovered to be poi-
soned,” answered the cook, firmly.
“Then bring me some corned beef—a black
pudding—a tin of sheeps-tongues—whatever you
please,” exclaimed the Czar, wearily.
“ Quite out of the question, your Majesty—they
have all been tampered with by the Nihilists,” re-
joined the cook still more firmly.
“Then in the name of heaven, bring me a biscuit
and a pint of porter, or I will abdicate immediately
and have you made Czar in my place.”
Terrified by this threat the cook hastened to
fulfil his master’s order. But he was arrested at
the door by his master’s voice—“Hi! come back I
I forgot to tell you something.” The cook ap-
proached close to the Imperial ctialr.
The Czar leaned forward and whispered, “ Bring
It in a pewter!”
Then falling back in his chair he murmured,
“ It’s the only little comfort I have now.”
The porter and biscuits came, and after he had
made them matters of history the autocrat
reached for the toasting-fork, and commenced
to pick his teeth with it.
All this time the cook stood patiently waiting.
It was a gruesome spectacle, but be was used to
it.
He was In no hurry, anyhow.
He had had Ms dinner.
“ Well,” said the Czar, at length, with a weary
sigh, “ what are we going to do with this last lot
of Nihilists ? ”
“Sibsria,” replied the cook, abruptly—so
abruptly that his voice sounded like a bark.
“ But they have really done no harm. They have
not killed anybody-or blown up anything—
or—”
“ They have desecrated my dishes,” interrupted
the cook, sullenly.
“.True, but that is not exa ?tly high treason, you
know, and—”
Some Evidences off Conventional Piety.
So, William, it has come to this!
(Vou should not so assault her.)
The only place to kiss a miss
In church is at the altar,
When she becomes your lawful spouse,
And vows to love you dearly.
To mind your buttons, and your trows-
Ers patch when threadbare nearly.
Now, William, from that billet snug
You’re bound to go-you’ll miss itl
So, when you see a pretty mug,
You’ll call a cab. go straight home to your
Old woman, and don’t attempt to kiss it.
“ Does my cook, too, conspire against me?” ho
muttered, letting his head drop despondently upon
his armour-plated breast.
Still there was no sign of hash. '
Then, in the bitterness of his heart he burst into
rhyme. He got no farther than a quartraln. It
was this:—
I cannot rest by day or night,
New terrors rise my peace to mar,
My dreams are full of dynamite—
Would I were cook and be were Czar!
Then the Imperial poet succumbed. The unusual
mental exertion was too much for his weakened
nerves.
There was a sudden noise of footsteps outside.
"My hour has come,” murmured the unhappy
monarch, touching a spring In his chair, which
caused an electiic mitrailleuse to glide from a
recess and cover the entrance, while the beads of
agony dropped from his brow and rattled down his
iron pants.
The noise came nearer and nearer.
“Shade of Peter the Great, support me!” he
cried. “ I refuse a Constitution I Traitors, do your
worst I” . ... ..
But there was no danger this time.
It was only the cook.
He entered, striking his brow frantically with a
toasting-fork. . _
The sudden revulsion of feeling caused the Gear
to sink down suddenly into his ferruginous suit.
After the cook had hooked him up to the surface
again with the toasting-fork, he enquired what
the trouble was.
“Miserable dog that I am,” replied the chef,
again beginning to beat his head with the fork—
“ I hung over it as a mother hangs over her sleep-
ing babe—I watched over it as a lover watches
over his mistress—one moment I turn my head,
and—Holy Virgin, it is ruined.”
“ What’s ruined ? ” growled the Czar.
“That dish for the gods, your Majesty. The
lapwings d la Tantale /” , , .
r ‘Pishl” said the Czar; “bring me something
“ They have ruloed the lapwing d la Tantale,
persisted the cook, in agloomy monotone.
“ That is bad, certainly,” diving into his suit for
a moment to smile ironically, “but,” coming to
the surface again. “ that is not the Empire."
“ It is my prestige, your Majesty,” exclaimed the
cook, with an aridflera.
“ But consider my position.”
“ Consider my honour.”
“ The Empire ”
“The lap wing ”
“ But I am tired of sending my subjects Into
exile I” ,
“ Does your Majesty wish to dine for the rest or
the year ?” f
‘ Um—well-yes; but a plain chop, a pint ot
porter, a bit of cheese ”
“They will probably be strychnlned.”
“If it must be,” said the Czar, resignedly, then
it must be. Bring me the warrants!”
The cook went out chuckling.
“ I would have starved him into submission, a
ho had refused,” he said to himself as he passed
out. . T
“Seems to me,” soliloquised the Czar, than
get all the kicks and he gets all the halfpence.
The cook did not chuckle without reason, ine
name of a rival chef was included in the proscrip-
tion list.
Next day the cbok was dead.
“Humph,” muttered the Czar when the p®*®
was brought to him, “this time he has got tne
kicks.”
. . . . » » *
That’s all.


DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiliers, externally.
nUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Purl-
ner, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura' Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story; I have been a terrible sufferer
for yeijrs from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure us a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, H How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
B. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
bores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors. Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun,
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiliers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 60 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co , Boston, U.3.A.
0.
e
LIMITED
mos
r WEH8000FTH^
PstMa
A56S e °
u-
1
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.
A.J.O. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRE88ING SALOON.
91 King-street.
W N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSEHOLD a Canister of
Williams’ Australian Yeast Powder!
WILLIAMS'S
I
3
H
, AUSTRALIAN
AST POWDER.
AND PATENTEES-
CRIIV1WADE & CO-
NDERS LANE wE IIrWlELB?E5aSS
bsSjISRV;- jeffcott sr
Williams’ Yeast Powder
MAKES LIGHT BREAD, TEA CAKES,
and PASTRY,
HALF-POUND TINS, SIXPENCF,
Beware of Imitations.
TAKE ONLY WILLIAMS’.
This rBASTPOWDEK, the Brat manufactured
in the Australian colonies, has from the outset
maintained its position as the Premier Yeast
.Powder : and, in spite of severe competition, its
radius of consumption has steadily increased.
AlJ STKALIAN YEAST
J is the most economical of Baking
I canister 8 * an( * Sixpence the half-pound
Wholesale Depot: ’
VmOE. SON. and CHAPMAN.
BOND STREET, SYDNEY,
r
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 864 and 356 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work. . ,
Everybody knows tnat the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment. *
ET %X d i’’. i ohn , dZ! d byhlL«‘u 8 tSz.‘ 0 “ Mrried 0,1 ,or “• b<m « at the late Mr.
Everybody should remember the address : •
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, MANASM.
, and CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J, ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
. H, aid UK mm,
Importers of
8T^SL^AY N ANDOTH f BR^CONTRACTORS^^p!Tnt TE A hRirm rS MACH INERY
mining. c*—
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IKON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC; TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRU8HWARB
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKS
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
u-
maim
m
m
3 L R, FI 1
and SEMl-FliED
GINES “
EN-
VERTICAL and HORI-
ZONTAL BOILERS
team
PUMPS
and other
l ATH ?8 , PLANING,
SHAPIaG, SCREW-
-c DCllL W ■
MA < (iHSV 1ULUN0
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, & 0 .
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
Head Warehouse -
Iron anl Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office
- 54 YORK STREET.
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
SYDNEY;
■ ■ • 86 GRACKOBUROH STREET,


W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON 1 ,and SYDNEY.
Catalogues
POST PBEB.
W. WALKER
and SQNS
Catalogues
POST FREB,
wm
ALL STOCK
In their
SYDNEY
are one ot the
Largest
IOUII
Stockholder*
Supplied
and
OIB.BOT
Manufacturer!
from their
High-class
FURNITURE
svasniHNN
ENGLAND.
London
Manufactory
and Latest
London Btrlsi
Guarantmd.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYHTARD SQUARE.
REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ABB SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails. , f ,
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and simulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being toy the use of American Co. s
HOP BITTERS*
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
Suffering from any of th A lt °^|
diseases of stomach or "vif
your own fault if you remain ill, lor
American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
Pl If D you are wasting away Emoting
form of Kidney Disease, tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible
ness, Nervousness, you will fl n d a »aim
In Gilead ” in the use of American Co, s _
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of malarial,
epidemic, bilious and intermittent
fevers—by the use of American Co. s
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, American HOI
BITTERS will give you fair skin, rich
blood, the sweetest breath, health, and
comfort. In short, they cure ALL
Diseases of the Stomach, Bowels,
Blood, Liver, Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
£500
win be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in them.
That poor, bed-ndden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, ban be made |
the picture of health by a few bottles of
American Hop Bitters, costing but a
trifle.
Will you let them suffer T
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
American Hop Bitters,
And vou will have no sickness or suffering or doe-
tors’ bills to pay.
pr see If the name of Br. Soule Is blown
In every bottle, If not It Is counterfeit.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital JE100.000.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Svdnev Branch : Royle's Chambers, Bond-street.
N. S. Wales Directors.
Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Frank Cowley, Esq.
George 8. Teo, Esq.
Victorian Directors:
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P.,
Chairman
Hon. J. P. Levlen.M.P.
Thomas Learmonth, Esq.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
° a Marine 1 Risks’ covering mortality or on
M The 1^y mook Insurance Society in the
°Bhill < particular8 can be obtained from the under-
Bl Sctive Agents wanted where unrepresented;
A. J. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.
Office, Royle’s Chambers, Bond-street.
E
A U
4711
D B
COLOGNE,
4711.
Established 1793.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1872; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, pb-
tatoodat the* last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition for its superior sweetness, strength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
P It h*M become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the riite of
TheTargo and constantly increasing demand for
Genuine 4711 Bau de Cologne, not only in
Europe! but also in North and South America,
Indlaf and Australia, is further undeniable evl-
d ®The °publi 9 c UP are 0r rMpectfully warned against
numerousspurious imitations with the genuine
changed into 7411,1147, 4117. &C.. &c.
The real genuine article which carried off the
dJi-To Modal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
(dlflerent
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents— ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pitt-
street, Sydney.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
ond storekeepers, fn town and country.
SOLE IMPORTER OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
SOIiB AGENT FOR THE
SMITH OHCfrAXT.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
5th Half-Yearly Sale.
v^;
JULY, 1885.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO
354 George-street, Sydney.
resneotfullv to inform our numerous Customers and the Public generally, that
m,?US CAL JULY has commenced in the usual way. The Ladies of Sydney
1" no doubt remember what bargains they have purchased at our previous Sales;
Therefore we venture to think that a great and speedy clearance will be effected, and
we trust by our well earned reputation for really new goods, Ladies will determine to
attend the Sale.
dz CO.
354 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Ask for Wolfe's Sdknnpvs, and take no
other.
If you would have appetite, flesh, colour,
ntremrtb, and vigour, take Aver's S ATtsAi’AUir.ija,
which will confer them upon yon in rapid
succession.
Don’t be fooled into taking any other but
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
BELTED
biscuits hid cakes, treacle aid soldei steep,
Self-raising Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
8. & A. have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-1,-
Sydney Agents I ■ H. ARE ELL A CO. **3 and 345 Kont-s*—-*.
"THE HEEL OF THE PRIEST.”
We have received some verses with the
■.hove heading, from Kynoton (Vic) It appears
that on the 12th of July, when the Orangemen of
the district gathered together <w!ebrate the
nious. glorious, and Immortal memory of the little
Dutchman! the Catholics of the place-not un-
mlndful ol the tradition the day demanded
gore—spat upon their hands, and put a iresn e g
SSStiSUBB did Selure red «.d J ? «,.
take any further interest in them. He was dreaa
fully blati. that sun of the 13th July. Had ne
not seen tte famous war which out in the
upper stratum of the valley of the vezere, a
raged all through the stone age, and which arose
™ dispute as to whether the marrow of a
mammotn-bone should be extracted by
it at the end of the bone, or by cracking the bone
in the middle ? Remembering the unnumbered
myriad sof cave-men who perished in battle be tore
tbTs depute was forgotten. It is hardly to be won-
dered? that he looked but languidly on the signs
Of triumph and trouble in Kyneton. Not so the
nennle however. They had not attained to that
OTude which looks over the ages. They were no
philosophers, but some of them knew tbat William
of Orange had done something or other which
necessitated all true men walking in processibn,
oramre-saabed, and preceded with band and sword
while otners’recollected that this same
William of Orange, having, by a miscarriage of
justice, escaped the gallows during life, required
nrompt hanging in effigy for the two-hundredth
and odd time. A week before, these two opposing
'parties were the best of good neighbours. But as
the Anniversary of the Boyne approached, they
■began to discover that they were hereditary
‘enemies. They had never personally Injured
each other. On the contrary, there was a record of
•mutual kindnesses between them. But all that
had to be swept away and burled for the time. A
principle was involved. Several local orators who
had spent hours in the Kyneton Library looking
up the facts said so, and they could not be mis-
taken, for there it all was printed in black and
white in the histories. There was no getting away
from print, and if the histories said they were
born to be enemies, enemies they were, as a mat-
ter of oourfie. Green could never mate with
Orange, nor Orange be friendly with Green.
Parenthetically, we thank the gods we were bora
colour-blind. So on the fated day the Catholics
mustered in great numbers, and held a fiery meet-
ing In Hunt’s Hotel to protest against the Orange
procession. All was going gaily, and there were
cheerful signs of a splendid ruction in the evening
when Dean Geoghegan made his appearance on
the scene, and requested the meeting to break up
and go home about its business. And the meeting
broke up, and went home without a murmur.
This is the text upon which our Kyneton corres-
pondent dilates in the following fashion : —
»• Yerra, dig us a grave for the whole of the race
of us, , . .
Aisy and deep for a nayshun deceased,
Wld the clods of forgetfulness cover the face
Set upno headsthone to mark the lasht place of
Wbrms throdden undher the heel of a priest I
I‘» Ochonel The ould shplrit’s died uttherly out of
Orangemen now can go blowln’ their horn—
Once they would shtaggera perch at the clout of
Now we are dead—och, the divel a doubt of usl
Dead as the babby that nlver was bora.
“ Btiry us deep, and name nlver the name of us—
Slaves that forget our forefathers’ renown;
Keep ye no record to say what became of us;
Grew on our graves will grow green to the
shame of us— . . .. . „
Oiangemen o’er us play Croppies, He down I
“ We are the sons of the fiery Milesians—
Sons of the sires that played ball wid the
BatthCred the Romans and scatthered the G re-
named? 8 w id King Dithi, the tameless Helve-
Hlvensl. to what depths of disgrace we are
hurled 1
b Aisy to talk Of yer clvll-i-sayshuc, sirs;
Aisy to talk of yer knowledge as ripe—
Ireland was 11-eland, and we were a nayshun, sirs.
Hundreds of years before iver CreayshUrf, sire,
Was thought of or dreamt of. Put that in your
pipe!" . - J -y
There are several other verses, which are of a too
Inflammatory nature to quote. The Kyneton bard
then goes on :—
• Shure, the poor Irishman asks for but little, sirs:
A Dig and a cow and an acre of land,
A shot at a balliff-and then an acquittal, sirs;
Whisky, dancin’, and wakes, and a thnfle of
vlttle, sirs— ■ • ■ , ... . .
A head right fornlnst him—a shtick in his
hand.”
The remainder is both too nitfo-glycerlnlsh and
too long to print. We leave it as it is to the con-
sideration of our Irish readers.


ST 3 v
LIAS
UMiR
TUDY ECONOMY
and
aveyourUmbrella Frames
■, re-covered, and your
. Parasols re-llned and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVANS
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts*
Parasols made to match cos-
tume*. Repairs neatly exe-
cute*
(COMPLETE SET),
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
DENTIST,
MARKET STREET,
One door from George-strcet.
CIENCEi
or
LIFE
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses maybe
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-
chase and read the new work_ issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Self Preservation. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. SOOpages, bound in beautiful French cloth,
full gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded in every Instance. Price, only 12/6by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should be read by the young for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all. —London Lancet.
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As- M P 11
sociation, or Dr. W. R. Parker, No. 69 Hunter fl L. AL
Street, Sydney, N.S.W. The author may TIJVQ Cl C
be consulted on all diseases requiring | fl I OULl
skill, secrecy, and experience.
0J\WTCASTL££S%
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDN EY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
MOULTONS
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON'S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, /Price li. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor ■.
PILLS
Marshall's 1
tonIc nervine
RJOISTIRBD.
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURB for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia.
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, Loss of Vital Power, &c. By Its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By Its richness In phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d., or 25s. a ease.
Bole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHER8,:M.P.S.
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists, 104 and
106 Market-street, near Hyde Park, Sydney, and
6 Pltt-etreet. Circular-quay. TAKE NO
TUT*.
NO MORE CORNS !
CORNS AND WARTS removed without pain
by the use of Palmer’s Painless, Harmless,
and Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER.
This preparation is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If applied accord-
ing to the directions, It will effectually remove
them In from six to eight days.
PALMER’S
K( FACI£ CURA IK
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Local.
This most wonderful Preparation has surpassed
all others In speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
how long or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed in producing the desired re-
sults ; and it can be most confidently recommended.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general stores; wholesale by Messrs. Elliott Bros.,
ydney ; E. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton,
Qrimwade, and Go., Melbourne; Kempthorne and
Prosser, Dunedin.
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 HUNTER STREET,
Opposite Tramway, Elizabeth Street.
TJHTSICIANS* PRESCRIPTIONS carefully pre-
Jl pared with Drugs of the purest quality.
French Indlarubber Goods, Ladles’ Abdominal
Supports and Pessaries, Syringes and Enemas of
every description, always in stock.
Country Orders promptly executed.
H. P. BABIEL, M.P.S., Mgr.
NEUSTMDT and CO.,
COMPLETE
HOUSE
FURNISHERS,
39, 154, 156, A 158
BTDNBT.
Iar houses furnished throughout
WITH EVERT REQUISITE,
von Cash ob Tim* Patmiwt.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
TO weak m effects of youthful
1 w " 1 errors, early decay,
lost vitality, premature decline, nervous weak-
ness, _ etc., I will send you particulars of a
certain, simple, and sure means of self cure,
Free of Charge. Address, in confidence.
Prof. M. B. TAYLOP,
68 Elizabeth St.,
SYDNEY N.S W.
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AHD
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of William-street, Hyde Park.
High-class Furniture
it Very Lowest Prices, compatible with the finest
workmanship and finish, for entrance halls,
dining-rooms, drawing.rooms, bedrooms,
and libraries.
CARPETS IN NEWEST DESIGNS AND
FINEST QUALITY.
WILTON CARPETS, BRUSSELS CARPETS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With Hearthrugs to match.
CiT* CORLICINE AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL AND
BLACK AND BRASS,
In all sizes and various designs.
U8TRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capital—£100,000 with power to increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES—20 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
C. B
ODIMI,
DURING bis recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms:—JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don; THOS. BLAND & SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHA8. OSBORNE &
CO., London.
AGENT for the eminent firm of
BUS8Y & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, &o., and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
B02 Gaorgo.st., Sydney,
Where Inspection Is Invited.
Champagne
Haldsleck & Go's.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINS MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS Si Co., London.
Sole Averts for Heldslecb A Oo„ Reims.
E V SHOULD USB IPEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE Is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
18 GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
881 G curare-street, Sydney.
ff Are you going to Bourke ?
-Yes; and I am going to stay at the TUBE
HOTEL, which is now kept by
The “LOUIS”
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
A Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
, the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
; Every yard of genuine bears
■ the name of “ Louis."
I May be had from all
| Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
post free on,
application.
Vjr
MM
Lv.nNnXvL.-;
''if
DR. O CONNELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
SYDUET, ZTsT.S.W.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases,chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guara»tocd i where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. liiwlni attention to
Severe and Long-standing Ctscs.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects: —Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Face, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, MelancHStr, Dyj
Persia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of wpiriti _
Pams in the Back, Stunted Development, Acs, are
,tv
Cures pG5>’
treated with unparalleled success.
manent, safe, and private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching:, Burning:, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of kind, from whatever cause, promptly cured.
It is self-evident that a physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill,
and physicians in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of cases applying, the
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get ft
speedy and perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
addre8S DOCTOR J. O CONNELL, ®
62 Castlereagli Street (ground floor), Sydney*'
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Raba Makars*
Trouser* from Sis. to 40s.
| w~ N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, lor the last flye years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Co.
W, Sheahsbt & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st.
“ VICTORIA ” OFNEft BITTER-WATER,
The Best and Strongest Natural Aperient.
A Natural Fluid Magnesia, as a safe, ordinary, and gentle aperient in Inflammation
and Congestion, in Rheumatic and Gouty Disorders, against undue tendency to Fat,
against Hsemorrhoids, in Bilious Attacks and Disorders of the Liver.
Nature’s Aperient Remedy during Pregnancy, and in many Female Diseases; for
Habitual Constipation, in Organic Diseases resulting from fatty degeneration, to remove
the consequences resulting from excess in diet, &c.
jy One wineglassfui will usually relieve the most distressing headache.
ONE BOTTLE OF “ VICTORIA" IS EQUAL IN ITS EFFECTS TO TWO OF OTHER BITTER*
UMK uuuiifi WATERS, HENCE IT IS MUCH CHEAPER.
In cases of Indigestion, Stomach and Liver Affections, Constipation, and other Derangements of the
System, as a Family Medicine this has ho equal.
Sold in Bottles at /s. £d. and 2s.,
And may be obtained ot any Chemist or Patent Medicine Vendor In the United Kingdom^
s&m ■
■ v
&& Head Office*. «=»
First Fire Society established lu me colony on
the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-hc'dersare perfectly free by law from
all liability
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates*
WALTER C HURCH, Manager.
Head Offices—PITT and KING STREETS.
“VISITORS TO MELBOURNE.
MADAME ELISE,
PARISIENNB DRESSMAKER AND SPECIAL
8TAYMAKER,
BEGS to call Ladies’ attention to her superior
FIT, TASTE, and exceptionally reasonable
charges. All orders receive her personal attention
and superintendence.
128 COLLINS STREET EAST.


What can Cuticura do for Baby,
Everythin* that Is purifying, beautifying, and
curative for the shin and scalp the Cutxcoba
Remedies will do. Nothing in medicine so agree-
able, so speedy, and so wholesome. Guaranteed
absolutely pure and safe by the analytical chemists
of the State of Massachusetts, whose certificates
accompany every package. For cleansing the skin
and scalp of birth humours, for allaying itching,
chafing, and inflammation, for curing the first
symptoms of eczema, psoriasis, milk crust, and
other inherited skin diseases, Cuticuba, the great
skin cure, and Cuticuba Soax*, an exquisite skin
beautifier, are infallible.
Wolfe’s Schnapps as a tonic aud stimulant
cxnnot be surpassed.
Mashers.— The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 653 George-street, Brickfield Hill.*
American Co.s Hop Bitters strengthen,
builds up and cures continually, from the first
dose. Be sure and see.
Notice!—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Pitt-street.
Art Union of Moss Yale, in aid of Widow
and Orpan Fund of Berrima Masonic Lodge.
Ticket?, 30s. Will shortly be drawn. Anply at
once for tickets. J. S. Hyams, Sec., Moss Yale.*
MacLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 George-street,
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &o.*
Mb. DbOoubot Bbownb (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “ManuaUof
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on etefy
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 63 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, |3r Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
Old sores !,—Many persons are greatly
troubled with old sores that they cannot succeed la
healing—they try all kinds of applications, lotions,
plasters, poultices, liniments, &c., &c., but all, in
vain—the open wound remains sullen and obstinate.
For all such sores the only mode of healing is to
alter the character of the blood, put into it a
greater amount of life power, cleanse it, make it
healthy and natural, and you wiil be astonished
how quickly the old sore will heal. BRISTOL’S
SaRSAPAKILLA is the greatest and best of all
blood purifiers, cleanses, and heales.
A NEW DISCOVERY. —Hoffman’s Eucalyptol
(i egistered) “ Mixture and Injection.” They will
positively cure all kidney diseases and disorders,
ail urinary complaints and discharges, irritation,
scalding, inflammation, gravel, pains in the back,
&c. A case incurable in nine months was actually
cured in eight days with Hoffmann’s Eucalyptol
Injection (“purely vegetable”). Hoffman's Bu-
oalyptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
no sandalwood, no balsam, or anything injurious
to the most delicate constitution of either sex.
Ask for Hoffman’s, and take no substitute.
Wholesale: E. Prosser and Co.; Elliott Bros. Re-
tail : All principal chemists and storekeepers
Price, 2b. 6d, and 3s. 0d.*
Ihe Renner Manufacturing Co., of Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvan a, U.8.A., make an extraordin-
ary offer to agents, and those wanting employ-
ment, to sell their Renner Combined Alarm and
Door Bell, in the different colonies and counties in
Australia. It is endorsed by over 3000 publishers
in the United States and Canada, and by the 100,000
who are now using them on their doors. It has
never been sold by the trade, but by agents alone.
It will pay 100 per cent, profit, and sells from $1.00
to $6 00 each. Agents In the United States have
taken as high as 33 orders in a single day. It sells
readily on its merits. General agents who can
handle a number of counties, or one of the colo-
nies, can secure those they want by being the first
to comply with our terms. Large illustrated
circulars, containing terms and price-list, will be
sent freo. Address: Renner MANUFACTUXiiNO
Co., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, U.S.A. *
The public should be careful they are not
imposed upon with Imitations of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 84 Pitt-st., Sydney, N.8.W.
LOVE’S MIDDLE-AGED DREAM.
OVER THE GARDEN WALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(BY AUSTRAL.)
Shakespeare is an authority about the
usual rough running of the course of love. We
all have had our experiences of It, no doubt, but
are [often too shame-faced to .tell of .them.
Why should this be so ? Truth Is stranger than
fiction, and why should It not be told when truth
Iff so much the more Interesting ?
The woman who hesitates is said to be lost.
What I have to tell now is of a momentary hesita-
tion on a woman’s part which got me into the
most ludicrous scrape I ever was in.
As we both bad clear consciences in the matter,
we should have been bold—taking Shakespeare’s
word for it that it is “ Conscience which makes us
cowards all.” But when there is a lady in the
matter deference has to be paid to her feelings
and two people are seldom of one mind on mo
mentous matters.
Miss Smith was a great favourite of mine in the
days when one is impressionable to the fascination
of pretty faces. She had a nice face and figure
and nice ways, and I was soft-hearted and, per
haps, soft headed also in those times.
Whichever way It was, 1 found myself honour
ing her Invitation to come one Sunday to tea. She
had changed her lodgings, and was gone to live
with a widow—a Mrs. Arrowsmith—who had one
daughter living with her in a cottage in the
suburbs. As Miss S. worked as a colourist at
photographer’s all the week and her parents lived
up-country, she had necessarily to be a boarder
somewhere, and the widow bad just a spare loom
for one lodger. Widows often have.
Now, when I arrived in the afternoon at the cot
tage in Acacia Terrace it was a fall hour or more
before tea-time. We are impatient, if not 1m
petuous, in matters where one's fancy leads us
which, perhaps, accounts for my early arrival at
the house.
Miss Smith was not within. She had gone out in
the morning and left no word as to her hour of re-
turning. It was thought that she had forgotten
the tea-taking invitation given to me, and had
gone on one of her usual visits to an aunt in
another suburb.
But Mrs. Arrowsmith proved to be an old ac
quaintance, known to me in the days when she
was plain Miss Brown. Pretty Miss Brown would
be the proper expression, for she had been that, at
was plain on the face of it to those who lookec
upon her even now. It was six years past since
she had become a wife, and a year only of her
widowhood had elapsed. Her little daughter of
four years old was a nice little thing, whom any-
body would have liked —as I did.
As I had come to tea, I proposed stopping until
tea time, and so stayed on chatting with the pretty
widow and her winsome little daughter. There
was plenty to talkjabout beyond our own intei est-
Ing selves, but conversations with womankind soon
become of a domestic, not to say personal, nature.
It was tea time by 6 o’clock, and nearly dark at
that time of the year.
“ I don’t think Miss Smith will come in to tea,
now. When shall I say you will call again ?’’ said
Mrs. A.
“ Had I not better wait and take her place at the
tea table with you—she may com e in before tea is
over.”
“ She might not like It I I should have to tell her
that you stayed to tea—if she did not come in until
afteryou had gone. 1 know that I should not like
to find that another lady had entertained a beau of
mine in my absence. These are very delicate
matters which men don’t think enough about.
Besides, I think that she knows that you were a
former beau of mine. I heard her mention your
name only this morning, and asked if it was the
same Mr. Jones whom I had known, and we found
that it was so. I was telling her, too, how sorry 1
was that I had taken Mr. Arrowsmith instead of
you.”
**Yer;y kind of you, Indeed I I had no idea that
you regretted Jilting me—you might have broken
my heart and made a blighted being for life of
me. You were my first love, and 1 never forgot
you.”
“ Until you met Miss Smith I”
“ Ob, we won’t talk about the absent, and you’ll
lot me stop to tea.”
“ Miss Smith will think that strange, perhaps, as
she believes that I am going out to tea, but I can’t
do that, as Polly’s mother bos been taken ill, and
she has been called a a ay since Miss Smith went
out, and sol must stop in now.”
The “ Polly ” referred to was, I supposed, the
one domestic of the little household. Mrs. A. con-
tinued :
“ If you stay to tea and she does not come in, I
shall not say you have been here, and you won’t
say that you came. Least said the soonest mended.
Nothing said, nobody hurt.”
I felt that agreeing to such a proposal was very
weak. I should have to tell a tarradiddle about it
in saying that 1 did not keep my appointment.
But this widow was a charming woman and a
former love of mine. 1 was not certain that she
was nut still a love of mine, as I felt myself hoping
Miss Smith might not come. Men get embarrassed
in such matters and lose their heads too often
when the heart has anything to do with it.
The result was that I found myself agreeing to
the widow’s duplicitous proposal. The tea was
got ready, and taken a long time over, too—so
interesting was the conversation. I was getting
ready to go when, in reaching over for some pur-
pose—perhaps to shake hands with Mrs. A.—the
candle was knocked over and extinguished on the
table. In its tumbling over we could hear that it
broke one of the teacups if not also the saucer. In
this state of things, and in the darkness, a knock
at the door.
“That’s Miss Smith 1” said the widow, in a
whisper.
There was no occasion for saying it in a whisper,
because we were in the back-parlour and so not
likely to be heard outside the door. Looking back
at it all now, I see—as I often did afterwards—that
I should have stepped out and opened the door,
welcomed Miss Smith, and asked her to account
for herself and her forgetfulness of her appoint-
ment, thus taking the high hand in the matter and
the position of an Injured Innocent. I waited
however, for the widow’s decision on it—being in
her house, and foolishly thinking that she ought to
know what was proper to be done. Putting her
hand on my arm, she said, in a whisper : “Sit down
and be quite quiet I”
“Let me light the candle while you open the
door,” I said, whispering to her as if her cautious
behaviour had been catching, and I had taken the
Infection. With that there came a louder and
sharper rap at the door—a rap that showed im-
patience if not temper. Now, unless the consci-
ence is quite easy and clear there is nothing more
alarming to two people in the dark than a sudden
knocking at the door. We know how it affected
Macbeth and his awful wife when they were in-
terrupted in their quiet night’s work with such a
visitation.
“It’s too late now,” whispered the widow. “She
has seen there was no light, and it will not do to
let her see that we are in the dark and the tea-
table kept so late, and all in a confusion, too. She
must think I have gone out and she will then go
away again,”
I never felt before so placed in what is called a
“ false position.” If 1 had come to rob the place I
could; now feel what must be a burglar’s alarm at
being surprised amidst bis operations. To quiet
the widow’s fears I took the liberty of an old
sweetheart and the opportunity of the darkness
to give her a kiss by way of acquiesence in her
proposal. It was all very wrong, of course, and I
saw it so afterwards, but we don’t always do the
right thing when we ought. Having beg.ua in the
wrong way, as I had done, I had now gone further
into it—as JMacbeth found that he had to do when
similarly under feminine Influence.
As we sat waiting in the darkness another and
yet '•pother rap came to the door—each rap
sounding louder to me, there in the gloom,
than such raps had ever before sounded.
It was very comical as I think of it now,
but it was not so just then. Mrs. A. passed
me now, going out on tiptoe towards the door. On
her [return the report she whispered to me was
very dreadful, Mies Smith had turned the sie^e
into a blockade, and seated herself on a sideboard
under the verandah.
“ She’s going: to wait there until either I or
Polly comes back; we are In for it I”
If I bad dared to laugh I should have done so,
things had now become so dreadfully mixed.
“ What will you do ?” I whispered—much as
Mrs. Macbeth might have done had the gatekeeper
not in her case gone to open the door.
“ You sit quiet; I’ll clear the tea things away,”
What this would lead to I could not guess, and
only hoped that little Nina might not begin to
further embarrass matters by crying, as she would
have been, child-llke, justified in doing. I would
have given a trifle to have been able to indulge a
wish I had for smoking, but that was out of the
question as leaving proof positive of a man hav-
POPPING THE QUESTION.
ITS LIGHTS AND SHADOW.
ETHBLTNDA ALWAYS THOUGHT THAT SMUGGLETHORPE WANTED HER FOR HER
MONEY; AND WHEN HE PROPOSED, AND SHE CAUGHT SIGHT OF THE SHADOW
OP HIS ACT OF HYPOCRISY, SHE WAS CERTAIN OP IT.
Poor Smuggletturrpe never knew that the position of the lamp was the cause of his being refused.
ing been there to anyone who might oome In with
a clear nose from the fresh air.
Quietly, In the darkness, I heard Mrs. A, moving
noiselessly about obliterating all evidence of the
tea-drinalng. The Are was even extinguished by
the kettle’s contents being emptied upon it. Little
Nina fortunately “ kept as good as gold,” as her
mamma afterwards expressed it. I am afraid that
the proceedings of her seniors could scarcely be so
regarded. As for myself. I felt what an American
would call “ very mean,” and I am not quite cer-
tain if a bettor phrase could be adopted as a de-
scriptive one.
Half an hour or more had now gone by, and the
widow again went to the front to reconnoitre. On
her return she reported to my farther alarm that
the blockade still oontined; Miss Smith had deter-
MRS. EVERGREEN’, HAVING FOR A SECOND TIME ACCEPTED A PARTNER IN LIFE'S
DULL ROUND, IS REDUCED TO THE HUMILIATING NECESSITY OP TELLING HER
ANXIOUS SUITOR TO “ ASK MY CHILDREN.”
mined to see it out, or more properly, perhaps,
waited to see someone in. I know well enough I
wished myself out of it—all dumb there in the
darkness as I was.
“ What will you do ?’’ I whispered to the widow.
*' Be quiet 1” she said, “ and follow me.”
With that she laid a hand upon my arm, and led
me out at the door opening into the kitchen, and
thence into the back-yard. Bidding mo wait there
she then fetched little Nina, and told me to hold her
hand while she put on bonnet and shawl and
fetched similar things for the child. The depar-
ture of the Israleltes out of Egypt was, I thought,
attended with many dilliculties. I had gone out
of Egyptian darkness, at least, in getting away
thus from the last hour’s time in a semi-coal-hole
state of ah’airs..
Taking stock of things by the moonlight, I saw
oaly three walls surrounding the yard. Those on
either side led to the yards of adjoining cottages
To get into them, on some excuse or other, would
be no help to getting away unobserved by their
front doors. The wall to the back led over into
the long garden of a house in another street—as 1
could see by the lights glittering in the back
windows of it.
Mrs. A. had by this time joined me, bringing
with her a chair, to the back rail of which she tied
one end of her shawl. For these dumb proceed-
loss of hers she whispered this explanation.
" I will mount the wall bv help of the chair, and
you c»n then hand Nina over to me on the other
side. You can come over, and with the shawl
draw the chair after you. We will leave it in the
garden, and I can get it back again afterwards. I
have the key of the front door, and we can go
through the house opposite on an excuse I will
make for so doing. I can then go round to the
front with Nina and open the door as If Just re-
turned, and explain Polly’s absence also to Miss
Smith.”
" And what about me ? ’’
‘‘You go away and hold your tongue—trouble
enough you’ve given through stopping to tea when
I asked you not tol ”
This was a veritable feminine way of putting me
in the wrong for the whole of the business.
And yot I had been feeling all the time
as if I were the aggrieved one in the mat-
ter. However, there was no help for it, I had
‘‘stepped in so far that returning were less
easy than go on,” so on I had to go, and
over the garden wall I went, following the pretty
widow and the good little Nina, whom I could but
kiss for her goodness as I passed her over to her
bewitching mamma.
I stood, with blank astonishment, to hoar how
easily that lady explained the curious state of
things to the people of the house Into whose
premises we had so strangely Intruded. The ex-
planation was of a lost door-key, and being so
looked in her own house, and the necessity of get-
ting out in the way we were doing. It was all
taken as Gospel, though the slightest cross-exami-
nation would have broken It down. Why, for
Instance, could we have not got through the front
window on to the verandah ?
They were strangers to me—these people—and
would, I hope, continue eo, was what I thought as
I passed out into another street—glad enough to
get there out of the silly muddle which now ap.
peared more farcical, and more laughable, than it
had one hour before.
How things were explained to Miss Smith I was
not in a hurry to enquire. All must have
gone well, however, for I received no indignant
letter from that lady about it, nor did she ever
explain why she had not come earlier home to tea.
She had, I hoped, forgotten all about the appoint-
ment, and I never refreshed her memory on the
subject.
The Minister for Lands said at the Qosford
banquet that “ he should not at next election
trouble the good people of Armidale, notwith-
standing all the good opinion they had of him.”
Now, as a matter of fact, all the good opinion en-
tertained by the good people of Armidale for
“ Honest James Squire Farnell ’’ only enabled
James to get in by the skin of his teeth last time.
Even as we write, the people of Armidale are
thi rating for his blood.
Farnell’s logio (vide D.T.): “ It is a happy
thing I had forefathers before me who enabled
me to be perfectly independent; and to be inde-
pendent means that you are not subject to any
temptations. We are all subject to them.” This is
nqt quite according to Cocker. But it is a splendid
argument in favour of paying members. It is
also a splendid argument in favour of continuing
to cram in the House droves of men of the syndi-
cate and mining spec, order, whom you always
hear spoken of as " Independent ” men.
As we stated some time ago, the N.S. W.
Ministry are doing their best to bring about the
retirement of Mr. Farnell, the Minister for Lands,
whoso relegation to the befitting obscurity of pri-
vate life will now be rendered easy by his pitiable
lisplay of drivel at Gosford last week. If the
I cal electors should return to Parliament such a
min, who seeks to obtain at their hands an un-
warrantable consideration which would, as he
knows, never again be extended to him by the
constituency he now represents, they will show
themselves to be weaker than even that most
politically imbeoile of all nubile poaturers—the
aewly-christened "Honest James Squire Farnell.”
“There has been tampering enough of
late with things hitherto held sacred, but the
marriage laws must be spared a little longer. I
understand that upon this occasion the Eoyal
Princes will maintain an attitude of strict
neutrality.” This is what Vanity Fair says of
the attempt to marry your sister-in-law. There is
tine irony in the statement that the "Royal
Princes ” will not take sides. And yet one would
chink that no one in England could give sounder
information on everything connected with mar-
riage—its obligations and its responsibilities—than
che Gueiphs. What roving blades that family
supplied to a grateful country to be surel And
they never ran short of Princes either—always
had a job lot on hand to run on the market when
required. And now they are going to observe
“strict neutrality.” They will not lend them-
selves to interfere “ with things hitherto held
sacred.” That comes of having a religious train-
tng. Their great uncles, George IV. and William,
bad the same deep respect for sacred things—the
same sense of the sacredness of family life and
the domestic virtues.
