

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 86.—Now Series,
SATURDAY, JANUARY 3, 1885.
Price—6 d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 3, 1885.
Face to Face.
In connection with the annexation of the
Northern portion of New Guinea by the
German Government, there is one point
which seems to have escaped attention alto-
gether. The claim which the Dutch were
supposed to have over that part of the
island has scarcely been referred to, and
seems to have sunk suddenly out of sight.
When Sir Thomas MTlwraith despatched
Mr. Chester, Police Magistrate at Thursday
Island, to annex the Southern part of New
Guinea and hoist the British flag, he was
explicit in his reasons for non-interference
with the Northern portion of the island. He
understood —as did all the world, at least all
this part of the world—that the Dutch had
long ago established a claim to the Northern
portion by a very similar course of proceed-
ings. And until the intelligence arrived
that the German flag had been hoisted and
that portion of the territory added to the
Germanic dominions, it continued to be
popularly believed that [only the claims of
the King of Holland stood in the way of a
British protectorate over the whole island-
It is very singular, therefore, that Germany
should suddenly appear in the shoes of
the Dutchmen, and annex, without appar-
ent scruple, and without incurring the
anger or the remonstrances of the Dutch,
the territory which even the dashing Pre-
mier of Queensland, who so slightly re-
garded the susceptibilities of the British
Government, regarded as tabooed. Either
there has been a universal mistake with
respect to the Dutch having had any claims
at all, or the Government of Holland has
exhibited remarkable pusillanimity in per-
mitting Germany to play the cuckoo to it in
New Guinea, or else there has been a quiet
stroke of diplomacy on the part of Bis-
marck, and an agreement arrived at be-
tween the Dutch Government and the Ger-
man Chancellerie with equal secresy and
dispatch. Be the circumstances what they
may, the outcome simply precipitates a con-
dition of affairs in New Guinea to which we
directed attention when Sir Thomas MTl-
wraith first touched the wire which has set
all the Powers into motion with respect to
Oceanic territories. We have protested
against New Guinea annexation from the
first, as unnecessary and injudicious. While
recognising the force of the arguments that
for New Guinea to fall into foreign hands
would involve a certain inconvenience with
regard to freedom of one of our direct sea-
routes for trade with China and India, we
pointed out that, as half of the island was
already in foreign hands (Dutch), to appro-
priate the other half would not remove the
domination over these avenues of trade.
And we particularly dwelt upon the sur,
render of an advantage of position at pre-
sent held, by extending our frontiers into
that island. Australia, New Zealand, and
Tasmania are each in the position which has
been so grand an advantage to Great Britain
during centuries. Each is self-contained
and sea-girt. The colonists are like their
progenitors, the British, absolutely safe
rom attack or invasion except by sea. And,
so long as they continue to be appanages
of the Mother Country, and Great Britain
maintains her maritime supremacy, these
communities would enjoy—even in the case
of a universal war between European
nations—as secure an immunity from incur-
sions as do the inhabitants of Great Britain.
• •
By annexing half of New Guinea, we
place ourselves in the troublesome position
whioU worried Great Britain so long as
her imported Monarchs were sovereigns also
of their original dominions on the Continent.
So long as Hanover belonged to the British
Crown, and, in fact, ever since William of
Orange brought with him a deeper concern
for the security of his continental territory
than for the repose of his new subjects in
Britain, the people of Great Britain were in
perpetual hot water, and were compelled to
make deplorable sacrifices to protect and
hold dominions which were, unlike their
own native land, only separated from am-
bitious and quarrelsome neighbours by a
line drawn on a map. By annexing part of
New Guinea, the Australian colonists were,
we pointed out, actually' courting the same
undesirable political position. The Dutch
have, indeed, for several generations, been
quiet and inoffensive neighbours to English-
men all over But we were at the
pains to indicate that among the clear poli-
tical probabilities of the immediate future .
the seizure of Holland by the Germans was
one most plainly indicated by the drift and
tendency of events. And we further pointed
out that, in such an event, we should have
for neighbours in New Guinea, not the quiet
Dutch, but the very pushing and overbearing
Germans, who, since their successes over the
Austrians and French, have assumed a
meddlesome and dictorial at titude in all their
foreign relations very difficult for a proud and
stubborn race like our own to endure with-
out being drawn into serious dispute. The
entire preamble has been proved super-
fluous by the surprising precipitation of
events. The Dutch claim to Northern New
Guinea has evaporated, and the Germans
are the neighbours and competitors of the
British in that island without any preli-
minary appropriations in Europe. It is
extremly lucky now that Sir Thomas
MTlwbaith’s masterful annexation was
not endorsed by the Imperial authorities.
Had Southern New Guinea been made an
appanage of Queensland, and subject to a
Provincial authority, the situation would
have been terribly complicated. The re-
sponsibility of maintaining the position
taken up would have been an Australian
responsibility ; and, in any dispute, these
colonies would have found their half-
grown strength opposed to the mature forces
of the most powerful Empire In
The relations between the colonies, the
mother country, and the German Empire
would have presented a series of prepos-
terous anomalies, all to the advantage of the
last-named, which would have only one
mind to make up. As matters stand, Great
Britain has taken the protectorate upon its
own shoulders, and is thus confronted
directly by the German Empire in those re-
gions.
♦ * *
Putting aside the possibility of combina-
tions, the advantage is on tho side of Great
Britain in case of any war between the two
nations. The German Empire could, in-
deed, without weakening her continental
strength, garrison and occupy her New
Guinea and other South Sea possessions
with bodies of troops altogether outnum-
bering those which England could spare for
colonial service. But the maintenance of
large bodies of soldiers in Crown colonies is
very costly, and is only possible if climatic
conditions do not too fatally interfere.
Moreover, the naval superiority of Great
Britain counterpoises the military supe-
riority of the German Empire, and the firm
establishment of British subjects already
effected in these regions furnishes a
base of operations and of supplies
of incalculable value. We believe it would
be better for the peace, prosperity, and pro-
gress of Australia, that, since half of New
Guinea could not be British, no portion of it
should be. The boundary constituted by a
mere line drawn on a map is a very unsatis-
factory one, especially in a country peo-
pled by barbarians, who must be brought to
order by some process, and who are but too
apt, while officially and nominally under tho
control of European authority, to follow
their own dictates, whenever their tradi-
tions, grievances, quarrels, or inclinations
dispose them to make incursions across the
boundary they have no cognizance of. Be-
sides, the management of the natives may
very likely be undertaken on different lines
by the British and by the German authori-
ties in their respective portions of New
Guinea, and even that apparently trifling
circumstance may easily be fraught with
provocations and occasions for quarrels.
One thing seems clear, A new epoch has
commenced for the colonists of Oceania.
These regions are no longer to be detached
from European interests and troubles by
the width of half the globe. Europe is to
be reconstituted here, and when Germany
or France, or England, fly at each others’
throats, there will be blood-letting in the
South Seas as well as on the Rhine frontier
and in the British Channel. The whole
matter is of profound seriousness for Aus-
tralia and Australians, and is deserving of
the maturest consideration by every man
claiming to stand in the place of a statesman
to concert measures for the progress and
welfare of these hitherto fortunate com-
munities.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Protest.
The semi-weekly Death-rattle of Dead Man'0
Gulch, near Soaring Angel, Nevada, speaks Id
glowing terms of the clergy of that deathly para-
dise. In a late issue it spoke of Rev. C, G. BraA*
shaw, the eminent Methodist divine ofltbose “ dig-
gins,” as follows “ He can run a horse-race, and
can make it hot for his opponents in a foot-race ;
he also can Jump a hurdle, sing a song, and at the
end of the week preach a very good sermon
withal.” This is a very neat illustration of the
fact that parsons as a class manage to accommo-
date themselves and their teachings to suit the
inclinations of the people who pay them. Thus,
the clergy of the Church of England are almost
without exception advocates of thelmonarchioal
form of government and of the perpetuance of
all the evils which have their source in the
existence of privileged castes. In the slave States
of America, before the Civil War, the Southern
clergy almost to a man stood in with the fplanters,
and preached the Divine institution of slavery*.
In our own community the parsons stand stoutly
by the money-grubbing interests, and there isn’t
a man among them, from Pope Jefferis down to
Bishop Barry, who does not practically teach
them when Christ said that it is easier for a camel
to pass through the eye of a needle than tor a rich
man to enter the kingdom of Heaven, He didn’t
choose his words well, and either meant something
else, or at least intended to except rich men who
tip parsons and subscribe for missions and things.
We remember one very rich man who died about
ten years ago, and left Mr. Jefferis a nice little
income. Mr. Jefferis naturally dismissed from
his mind that little thoughtless remark of his
Saviour, and publicly announced—from informa-
tion received, no doubt—that this rich man had
gone to Heaven. No doubt.CHRiST was wrong, and
Mr. Jeffebis right. Then there was another rich
man died the other day, and left several thousands
to institutions favoured by the clergy. Straight-
way a pceau about the virtues of Dives arose, and
the public was instructed that this rich
;THE HONORABLE MR. BALLANCE, OF NEW ZEALAND.


tie roniM mo
BRIAN BORU
YOUNG, KING, and CO. (sole proprle-
tors of BRIAN BORU WHISKY), have
NEVER EXHIBITED THEIR WHISKIES
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &o.
Brian Boru
Whisky
Is guaranteed
SEVEN YEARS OLD,
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
EM II WHISKY,
when matured by age, la
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION
of the
OFFICERS OF H.M. CUSTOMS.
SOLE AGENT.
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
CHRISTMAS 1884.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, , 4s. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINK
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT.
2s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT POR'P
2s. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts,
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN-JN FLASKS,
Is. 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke’s Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS,
George and Market Streets.
SYDNEY.
man also had bought a reserved seat In
Heaven—and this in cool disregard of the
notorious fact that the dead man had been all his
life the keenest and least scrupulous of money-
grubbers, and was chiefly known to the public as
the most extensive concocter of spurious and
Adulterated brandies and whiskies in
and as a man who was black-balled by his fellow-
merchants and others when proposed as member
o> a club, fot the distinct reason that, just before,
A fire on his business premises had exposed the
tact that he had in stock an enormous supply of
forged labels for brandy bottles, &c , being the
brands of makers of repute-labels evidently used
for clapping on his vile concoctions which were
sold to bush publicans, and, doubtless, were in-
strumental in the ruined health and mind, and
occasionally the miserable death, of poor wretches
who drank of the stuff. Yet, doubtless, he went
to Heaven, and Is now among the white-robed
souls of the saved, for no one ever hears his name
without thinking of his white spirit.
A Pharisee with a Drum
The Salvation Army la at present storming the
fortress of Queanbeyan—a stronghold sheltering
about 1000 souls (allowing one to each body, which
they hardly average, perhaps). Captain Miller,
the soul-snavollor in charge of the engagement,
thus reports progress in the War Cry of Decem-
ber 30:—“On Sunday week, a banker was in the
meeting, laughing and making game of it. When
remonstrated with and asked to be quiet, he re-
marked that poihaps it would be the last time
they would have a chance, so they had better have
as much fun as possible. Terrible to relate, it was
the last time, for, on the following Thursday, the
devil got possession of him, and be blew bis brains
out with a revolver, without any cause. He be-
came a self-murderer, and there are none such in
the kingdom of Heaven. He was burled on Sun-
day, and (he minister who committed his body to
the ground, ‘In sure and certain hope of the
resurrection unto life,’ was thrown out of his
buggy, narrowly escaping serious injury, and got
his buggy smashed while passing the Salvation
Army while we were marching to our hall as he
was returning from the funeral. On Saturday
night a man came into the ball having with him a
large dog. They came right to the front seat.
When asked if he had given his heart to God,
he became infuriated. He was going to strike
me, and attempted to set this dog on me
but the dog had gone out. He ran to
search for it. On reaching the door, the ani-
mal jumped with his paws on his master's
breast and fell backward, dead. He would not
have taken £20 for it. On Monday, he came and
apologised for his proceedings, and said he be-
lieved it was a judgment of Got) on him. I pointed
him to God, who alone can forgive.” From w hich
it is pretty evident that Miller cannot forgive
much, and that God has set down His foot in the
Queanbeyan district, and will temporize no longer.
This is what we must infer from Miller's dis-
patch. That pOD caused poor Herring (who, by
the way, was a kind and honourable gentleman,
and one whose earthly accounts were found to bo
square to a fraction) to blow bis brains out
because he laughed at the corner-man busines 8
of Miller's little show: that God wrecked the
buggy of, and almost killed, the clergyman who
dared to perform the rite of Christian burial over
the man who laughed at Miller's corner-man
business. That God struck a twenty-pound dog
dead which was about to he “Booled "upon Miller
by a man who declined to be converted by Mil-
bPR'a eornerjnan business. That is the gospel
Recording to Filler, Ard it reminds us of an
incident. Once there was an explos on of gas
In one of the theatres In Melbourne, whereby
two or thpoe men were killed. This was text
enough for the full-fed pulpltpluggcrs of
those days, and every church in the land rang
with discourses on the wonderful manifesta-
tions pf Gap's dlspleaspre against the ini-
quity of the A little wfcile thereafter,
the ipodel boy of a Ajyesleyan Sunday-school away
pp country was ringing the bell to summon the
gagging scholars. This bell was fl.\ed up between
two high posts in a simple manner, and It suddenly
fell ppon the head of the good young ringer, and
drove him feet foremost right down into the trap-
pock formation. Then the holy men scratched
their heads, and spoke of it as a mysterious dispen-
sation of Providence. And an unregenerate few
out in the world enquired, Might not this be] a
manifestation of God’s anger against Sunday-
schools? So we (representing the unregenerate
few in this case) ask, Might not the un-
fortunate banker have Incurred the wrath
of the All-Merciful by having gone to see
the Army at all? Might not the minister’s
orthodox horse have rebelled against the Low
Church innovation of Sacred Trombones ? Might
not the dog have been destroyed by a just God
because it was not on hand to worry Captain
Miller when its master wanted it to ? Might not |
—but, enough, The whole thing, as set down by
Captain Miller, is the “Stand-aside-I-am-holier-
than-thou"-i6in of an ignorant Pharisee. We are
very glad that this Miller and his men are going
to Heaven. It will make Hell seem a good deal
more endurable to decent folk.
A Teapot Tempest.
To the ordinary mind, It would appear improbable
that any man would greatly care to be an aider-
man of a petty suburb of a third-rate city. Yet
there are superior intelligences which recognise
and appreciate the full dignity and advantage,
and the elevated duty which, on the one hand,
rewards, and, on the other, weighs upon, the citi-
zen who seeks aldermanic position. Thus it has
come to pass that several times the Supreme Court
of New South Wales has been called upon to
decide the precise meaning of section 32 of the
Municipalities Act, which provides that “every
male elector of any municipality, or, if the same
be divided into wards, of any ward thereof, who is
a natural-born or naturalised subject of Her
Majesty, and is not otherwise disqualified as herein
prescribed, shall be capab’e of being elected
mayor, aldermen, or auditor thereof. Provided
that no alderman shall be capable of being elected
an auditor in and for the municipality of which he
is an alderman.” The problem is to discover
whether the clause means that, when a Munici-
pality is divided into wards, any elector of the
municipality can be elected alderman to any
ward, or that only an elector for a parti-
cular ward can be elected alderman for that ward.
On the first occasion when the Supreme Court
was appealed to, to decide this momentous ques-
tion of grammatical construction, the Judges de-
cided by a majority, the then Chief-Justice, Sir
Alfred Stephen, dissenting, that the latter alter-
native is correct. In consequence of this decision.
Mr. C. J. Boyle was excluded from nomination
for the West ward of Kandwick municipality, and
he appealed to the Supreme Court for a fresh in-
terpretation. The! legal procedure Involved two
applications—one for a rule nisi, the other to have
the rule made absolute, We have no information
as to the cost of the earlier proceedings, but In
this recent case we observe that the quertion re-
quired the consideration of three Judges, two
firms of solicitors, and four barristers. Of these,
two of the Judges dealt with the cise only once
the remainder of the legal crowd had two
rallies at it. The cost of the investigation
of this point of grammatical expression may
be roughly estimated, on this occasion, at
£500, And the inspiriting result is that, whereas
a few years ago two Judges out of three decided
for the second alternative interpretation, this time
two Judges out of three have decided for the first
interpretation, reversing the previous decision-
The solid fact is that the clause is a “go-as-you"
please” one, and can with equal sense be read
either way. The reference to wards either means
something or nothing. Now, if it means nothing,
it is redundant, and the clause may be read ns if
the reference to wards did not exist. Thus:—
“ Every male elector of any municipality . . .
who is a natural born or naturalised subject of her
Majesty, and is not otherwise disqualified as herein
prescribed, shall be capable of being elected Mayor,
alderman, or auditor thereof.” That is quite clear,
Next try the clause as though it were meant that
where a municipality is divided into wards, only
electors of particular wards could represent these
wards. Thus:—” Every male elector of any
ward of any municipality, who is a natural-
born or naturalised subject of Her Majesty,
and is not otherwise disqualified as herein
prescribed, shall be capable of being e'ected
mayor, alderman, or auditor thereof.” Whereof?
Which does “ thereof ” refer to ? To any ward, or
to any munclpallty? We should say to “any
ward,” for if to “ any municipality ” be meant, the
reference to wards is unnecessary. Now, it wil 1
be seen that, in thejflrst instance, lit was requisite
to leave out 8?me words, to get the meaning aimed
at. In the other case, no words were omitted, but
the order was slightly altered. It seems, there-
fore, that the first set of Judges were right in their
ruling, and the later set wrong. To set the matter
at rest, we would suggest that it be argued again
a few years hence, on the “ best two out of three ”
principle. It need not cost more than £500 to
effect this, and to find persons willing to put up a
trifle like that, to settle so interesting a point in
grammatical construction, it would only be requi-
site to re-arrange a single phrase in the clause, and
Instead of “any natural-born subject of Her
Majesty,” to read “any subject of Her Majesty
who is a born-natural.
Die Wacht am Pacifik.—A Prediction.
[FROM THE BULLETIN OF JULY 12TH.]
Eread and a Stone.
Professor Stephens and Dr. Maclaurin are to
be thanked for their attempt to turn into a prac-
tical channel the proceedings at the meeting to
consider what should bo done to commemorate
the public services of Professor Badham. The
proposals submitted were altogether too
They were (1) to make provision for the Professor’s
widow and daughters; (2) to provide a monument
over his grave; and (3) to found scholarships in his
name at the University. Now, to effect either the
first or last of these in a substantial way some
thousands of pounds would be needed. Any prac-
tical man knows that in this community thousand 8
of pounds are not likely to be obtained for such a
purpose. There are a hundred men ready to clap
down a thousand pounds as a stake for scullers e r
horses to race for, to every one man who woulu
give a thousand pounds to help the great scholar's
widow and daughters, or to found University bur-
saries. As a matter of fact, at the close of the
meeting the total amount subscribed reached only
£400, barely sufficient Ito provide for the most
senseless of the propositions — a mortuary
monument. Professor Stephens proposed to
prune the nonsensical extravagance of tbe origl-
nal propositions, and to reduce them to a plain
and straightforward motion, to apply any fund
collected to the comfort of the widow and
daughters. The meeting, by a large majority, re
polled this suggestion, carried the more pompou
resolutions, and then subscribed £400 to cover the
lot. The thing was thus made a burlesque, ant
the veneer of respect and feeling which covered
a solid substratum uf anxiety to demonstrate as
persons of cultuah and, haw! refinement was ex-
posed. Professor Badham's memory needs no
artificial perpetuation. No man’s memory does
A monument to perpetuate the memory of a man
whose deeds do not live after him, becomes in due
course of time a bitter satire upon the man it is
erected to honour. Monuments of Shakespeare
of Bacon, of Goldsmith, of Watt, of Stephen-
son abound, it is true. But their true monuments
are in their works. A volume of Shakespeare’s
plays is a noble monument. Every steam-engine
is a monument to Watt, and every railway train
monument to Stephenson. Nothing is so absurd
as a costly mausoleum or statue to Smith or Leo
Hunter, which invokes no memories, and merely
serves to induce the visitor to enquire “ who was
Smith ? What did Leo Hunter do ? ” As foi
bursaries or scholarships in the University to per-
petuate Badham's name, what cruel or stupid
satire is this? In that noble institution to which he
above all men helped to give potency and dignify
will Badham’s name be forgotten unless there be
money tacked on to it? The very thought Isa
sordid insult to the memory, of the splendid
scholar who lent his fame to the institution. It is
a libel upon the very spirit which the University
is supposed to foster—the sentiment that culture
and knowledge are nobler and loftier things than
lucre. The name of Badham will reveberate
through the halls so long as one stone clings to
another. But his widow and children are strait-
ened. What would Badham have chosen ? For
himself he needed but little. But would he have
his monument, or comfort for his relicts ? Who can
doubt ? The Grand Old Freethinker scorned
shams as much as any man who ever lived. Let
the committee take thought, and have done with
nonsense. The widow and daughters of Badham
need bread. Shall they be offered a stone—monu-
ment ?
Extending the Lines.
In an article in these pages some months ago
readers were directed to welcome certain notable
statements made by Bishop Barry at the meeting
to inaugurate a Christian Evidence Society. The
Bishop in the course of an address on that
occasion had advanced so far ahead of what is
popularly rewarded ;as an episcopal view-point of
things as td(Kfcowledge that the alienation of
the working chfl|fci at home from the Christian
faith was due verymuch to this—" That they did
not see that Christianity dealt with those great
questions which mainly occupied their attention
in life.” The acknowledgment was welcomed, as>
coming from such a source, it deserved Ito be, for
*n it were implied two valuable admissions. The
first was that the working classes at home were
really occupied on “great questions.” Hitherto
the genet al episcopal belief appeared to be that
whatever time they wrenched from labour they
spent in swilling beer. The second admission im-
plied was that it was the business, or part of the
business, of Christianity, to exert an active in-
fluence on these questions, and that; Churchmen
should, as a duty, participate in the discussion and
determination of them. It is now interesting
to find from another source, as novel in its
way as the Bishop, that the working classes
at home are occupied in the manner de-
scribed, and that the leaders of a creed, built in
tbe usual orthodox fashion, have seriously taken
in hand' and have had a spirited wrestle with those
“ great questions.” At the closing meetings of the
CongregationalaUnion, held recently in London,
the reverend guides, starting with; a proposition
very like Bishop Barry’s, came sweating into the
very middle of Ithe social difficulty. Some think
that divines are not the best sort of men for carry-
ing on a discussion on affairs whose main aspect is
secular ; but there is no palpable reason why they
should not be able, when they are] in earnest, to
see as well as laymen that the few have too much
and the many too little to eat. In this case, the
divines saw clearly—at all events, to the extent
For coatlOUfttiqn of “ Plain English," §ee nest page
EARL DERBY: “ But, I got here first, and I mean to stay I ”
BISMARCK: “ Das macht aust better you look a leetle out, or I’ll bottle him oop every drop, and
dake ’Im home.”
E.D. : “ Oh, If that’s the way you feel about it. I’ll go home and tear up my despatches.”
(The Aborigines have not yet been heard from.)


Thi Rates oy Subscription to Thb Bulletin
are—For one year, 24a.; half-year, 12a. 6d.;
quarter, 6a. 6d.—In advance.
Thb Advertising Rates are 5s. per Inch:
special positions in the paper 7s. Sd. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10a. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive Insertions
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
he made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps ef any Australian
Colony may be sent, If more convenient.
Newspaper men are about the best judges
of a good drink. They one and all appreciate
Wolfe's Schnapps.
(••Plain English,” continued f rom page 4J^
nsuod- In another respect, also, they showed
themselves as well able to handle the subject as
laymen generally are, for they differed most pro"
nouncedly as to what should be done to spread the
food more evenly. Some placed thtir hopes in
emigration, others in the nationalisation of the
land, others again in co-operation, and still others
in distribution of profits. What there was marked
unanimity on was that something must be done, and
done soon, and that, In the doing, Christianity must
have a share, if its influence is to be maintained.
It is unnecessary here to canva's the arguments
for or against the expedients proposed by the
Congregational Union. It is not the expedients
nor tbe arguments of that largo body of divines
that are at present brought forward a: interest-
ing. The interest is found in noting the consensus
of opinio that has begun to obtain in the sp ritual
realm. Something must he done. It has taken
years of labour, iwith contumely often hanging
about them, and poverty often as their outcome,
to enable men to teach theologians that Chris-
tianity was compromised by being leagued in a
with injustice, and that a time would come when,
if the pact were not formally sundered, the creed
would go down with the crime. Those years of
labour are bearing fruit.
Mr. Deakin’s Factory Law.
Although Mr. DuaiCin was not successful in
passing through the Victorian Parliament a mea-
sure constructed with a view to what he called the
rights of labour, the good he has done in challeng-
ing the present relation between employers and
employed, and in compelling those Interested in
both to state anew the reasons for their economi-
cal faith, merits no small praise. So persistently
has the doctrine of supply and demand been din-
ned into the ears of the people, that the principle
conveyed by the phrase is accepted by many as an
axiom. People have starved to its music. Bqrn
into a market where the workers were numerous,
they cheapened themselves uncomplainingly, ex-
tended their hours of labour ungrudgingly, and
considerably before their natural time died re-
signedly. The doctrine has an almost divine
authority about it iu old countries, whence it
comes to pass that a great many in every genera,
tion grow rich, and a great many others remain
Poor all their lives. In Victoria, as In Australia
generally, not much more than the abstract prin-
ciple of the economic law is contended for. A few
critical occasions have arisen, however, in which
it became manifest that the holders of the theory
did not require extensive practice before they were
able to apply it with the skill of experts. Mt.Dea-
kin’s Factories' and Work-shops’ Bill came, there-
fore, in time. It is estimated that there are,
within the meaning of the Bill, in Victoria, 3800
factories, in which 45,000 persons are engaged. The
annual value of the work done is set down at
£5,500,000. The employes in shops are reckoned at
30,000. The Bill, then, proposed to operate on
nearly 80,000 persons, representing annually by
their labour close on £10,000,000. The interests
affected were, therefore, very great. Mr. Deakin
did not propose to interfere with the rates of
wages, but with well-nigh all else that the labourer
can sell he exhaustively dealt. His Bill affirmed
that the worker was not at liberty to barter health,
decency, or comfort. A section of the workers,
and, probably, all the employers in Victoria looked
on it as an outrage. That broad-minded body of
well-to-do individuals who go under the name of
the Chamber of Manufacturers, designated it a
Bill to prevent industilal occupation altogether.
It provided hours for closing shops and factories*
and hours during the day for meals. It ordained
that no person was to bo employed longer than
four hours and a-half without an interval for a
meal. It was tolerable that it should prevent
boys under 13 and girls under 13 from work-
ing; but ihe provision that no male under 16
and no female of any age should work more
than 48 hours in a week was called monstrous. It
might appear that the best thing the enemies of
the Bill could have done was to let it get on the
Statute Book without any opposition, and quietly
trust that its irritating provisions would never be
reduced to action. For instance, the clause that
directed an employer to keep a book and regularly
enter up all the work he gave out to be-done at
homo, with the rate of wages paid, might,
>t was one time thought, be conveniently
ignored. The workman and employer in
such cases had only to hold their tongues—as
obviously it was their interest to do—and the
clause was as dead as Queen Anne. But provisions
were forthcoming for these stratagems. Inspectors
were to be appointed, with power to enter fac-
tories at any time, and to satisfy themselves as to
whether In ?p rit and letter the law was observed.
There will be more about Mr. Dearth's Bill here-
after. It is its fate to have warm supporters and
bitter enemies, AVhatever may be thought about
c rtain details, its aim must be welcomed by all to
whom the happiness nf the workers is of higher
concern than the profit of their work.
The Hon Mr. Ballance, Native Minister,
New Zealand.
The Hon. Mr. Ballance, who has succeeded Mr.
Bryce as Minister of Native Atfairs in New Zea-
land, is a native of Ireland, whore he' was born in
1839. He emigrated to New Zealand in 1868, land-
ing at Wanganui, North Island, during the Maori
war, and soen went to the front as a volunteer.
He took an active part in organising a cavalry
corps, in which he held a commission. He also
started a newspaper in Wanganui, in which he
sharply criticised the Government administration
of the day, and for this fault his military career
was cut short and his commission cancelled. He
remained, however, for some time at tho front,
and contributed some graphic descriptions of the
war to tbe paper of which be was proprietor. In
1873 Mr. Ballance contested the Egmont seat for
the General Assembly against the late W, S. Mooj-
house and Major Atkinson, retiring, however, in
favour of the latter, who was returned, and has
continued to enjoy the confidence of this con-
stituency ever since. In 187> Mr. Ballance was
returnee member for Uangeteki on the retire-
ment of Sir William Fox, and the following year
was re-elected at the general elections by a large
majority. In 1878 he became a member of the
Grey Ministry, in which ha occupied the position
of Treasurer. Owing to a disagreement with Sir
George Grey, ho resigned the treasurershlp shortly
before the beginning of the session of 1879. At the
general election in 1880, he was defeated for the
Wanganui seat by Mr. W. H. Watt, merchant of
that place. He was out of Parliament from 1880
till July last, when he defeated his late opponent
by a very largo majority. On the formationjof "(fee
Stout-Vogel Ministry, Mr. Ballanco was offered tdio
portfolio of Native ;Minlstecr, which he has since
held, greatly to the satisfaction of the natives, who
were thoroughly disgusted wffh the domineering
policy of his predecessor. 7*Ir. Bryce. In addition
to the office of Native Minister, Mr. Ballance fills
that of Minister of Lands for the colony. At a
banquet lately given at Aganganui in his "honour,
he gave a description of a, scheme for settling the
people on the land, whi'Ih, he thought, would do
away with the unemploj/ed difficulty. The scheme
was described as “ Settlement by Association.” Re-
gulations for this system, were drawn out and would
shortly be gazetted: “The practical features of
the plan were that an association, say, of r>0 people
could be formed to take up 5000 acres, the maxi-
mum grant being MX) acres per man. A large
number of persons would be found willing to join
such an association, where they could invest their
money more profitably than by putting out at a
low rate of interest, because they could, instead of
going on to the land themselves, send a resident
substitute, 'and the conditions of settlement and
colonisation were thus fulfilled. Blocks of land
would be selected for these settlements, and roads
would be made through them. The three main
features of the blocks would be good roads, proxi-
mity to markets, and low price. The time for
payment would extend over a term of ten years,
payments to be made half-yearly. The Govern-
ment believed that 100 acres was a large enough
block for any one man if the land was good, and
the quality of the soil would be one of the features
of the system.” Our portrait of Mr. Ballance is
from a photograph taken by Mr. W. B. Gibbs,
Wellington, N.Z.
Mona. Grau is the business manager for
Mdme. Theo, the celebrated French actress now
starring in New York, and this is tbe playful style
he stood his fair charge on her head (figuratively
speaking, of course) a few days after she struck
the land of pop-corn and presidents. It appears
that hearing the gifted lady was of a charitable
turn of mind, the Rev. Mr. Beecher called to
solicit a small donation for the house of God, and
being shown into Mdme. Theo’s apartment, he was
received by the lady with a charming smile and a
“ Goot day, Mistare Peechare. I am delighted
mooch to see you. Vat a dam hot day we’re hav-
ing.” “Ye-ye-yess,” stammered the astonished
divine; ‘‘it is rather a warmish sort of day. De-
de-do you suffer much from the heat, Madame ?”
“ Ob, dem dem demnably mooch, Bare,” cried the
diva, with a despairing motion of her shapely little
hands. “ I — X — that is, I beg your pardon,
Madame?” exclaimed the Rev. H. W. “I say
dat I hev suffer vary dem dem mooch,” said Mdme.
Theo, with a smile sweet enough to coax a Rum
reporter away from a bar luncheon. The now fairly
flabbergasted prelate was beginning to have strong
doubts about the sobriety of the actr-ss, and was
gazing anxiously at the door, when Madame, per-
ceiving there was a screw loose somewhere,
jumped up. and, catching him by the hand, ex-
claimed: •* Pardonntz moi, s’are, I see I hev make
soom dam big error in ray Inglise. Vat ees it ? Tell
me queek,” Mutual explanations brought out the
fact that Madame’s English master, being ill, Mons.
Grau kindly volunteered his services, and pointed
out, with that peculiar positiveness which is born
of sublime Ignorance, that the word ‘‘ very” was
the English for the French trip, but when one
wanted to be extra forcible it was Usdal to use the
word “ damn.” “ That word, my dear Madame,”
observed the frog-punishing Professor, “ is a sort
of superlative of very,” and thus you see how
rich, how forcible, and how expressive is the great
Bngllsh language.” ‘ ‘And now Mistare Peechare,’
continued Theo, *‘ you see I oondarestood the word
dem vas an equivalent for our excessivement, and
nnon Dieu! here I hey’ been dem dem-ingall ze
wdsitares who hev’ called on me during ze past five
Itoours.” Henry said he was better then, but at
•first he felt as hot as the day he was boxed up over
tbe Tilden-Beecher scandal.
Die Macht am Pacifik.—A Sequel.
THE YOUNO ’UN: “GO FOR HIM, DADDY! PLL HOLD YER HAT!”


Personal Items
The Rev. Mr. Barnier, who has just re-
turned from a tour round tho world, says that “ he
never met a more obliging set of men than the
London policemen.” Ho I Likewise humph I
There is more In this—and so forth. We are sadly
afraid Mr. Barnier must have been having a rare
old time since he left Sydney.
The Lord Chamberlain’s department struck
out of George Darrell’s play, “The Sunny South,”
a piece of “business ” in which an Irishman or two
gets their heads punched by thirteen or fourteen
other people for not taking off their hats when
“ God Save the Queen ” or some other such loyal
melody is played by the orchestra.
There are some queer things in Jane Aus-
ten’s letters, just punllshed by Lord Brabourne.
Here, for Instance, the gentle Jane is presented to
us in quite a new character:—*' Mrs. Hall, of Sher-
borne, was brought to bed yesterday of a dead
child, some weeks before she expected, owing to a
fright. I suppose she happened unawares to look
at her husband.”
Rumour says Billy Brooks, the political
Father Mathew of Brisbane, and one of the
sweetest-tempered men in all Queensland, is about
to start off on an Inspection tour along the Clon-
ourv. We'd advise Sweet William to stay where
he Is. There are spots along that district where a
drop of rain hasn’t fallen since tho Deluge, and if
Billy got bushed on one of these ho might take a
little gin, and make himself a wee bit savage.
Twlggez voo, Qugllelmo ?
Jem Mace, the pugilist, has, so the English
papers say, commenced divorce proceedings
against his wife. Affairs are understood to be
somewhat complicated, as a question of bigamy Is
likely to arise. It Is understood that tho respon-
dent will, In her answer, plead that the petitioner
himself was already a married man at the time he
was wedded to her, and that, upon her learning
that fact, she herself contracted a second mar
rlage, believing that her first marriage was Illegal.
A Dutchman named Shenor has got into
trouble at Port Adelaide for stabbing a fellow
countryman. We are mentioning this little mis-
demeanour of Mr. Shenor’s because it was com-
mitted under circumstances unusually extenuat-
ing. He explained to the policeman who jugged
him that the other Dutchman had been calling
him “ugly names In their own language.” Now,
even pretty names-In Dutch—are scarcely joys
for ever; but ugly ones—great Scott I tho only
wonder Is that Mr. Shenor didn’t stab himself.
“And now, my boy,” said the father to the
son (who had just done well at the University ex-
amination), “you have everything before you.
You may be a great man. There’s Mr. Barton, or
Mr. Lusoombe, or Mr. Buchanan, or Sir John
Kobertson, or Sir James Martin. You may make
your mark In tho history of your country.” And
the son answered, “ Yes, father; but look at Mur-
doch—his is the mark I want to make. He didn’t
Want any University distinctions, and he’s tho best
bat In the world, and he's married J. B. Watson's
daughter!”
Hot-headed partisans in the U.S. pub-
lished awful scandals concerning the rival candi-
dates for the Presidency. The latest charge
against Cleveland is that in 1873 and 1873. when he
was Hherlff, he exocutod two b ish murderers vrii h
his own hands, in order to save the hangman’s fees.
The Indianapolis Sentinel, on the other hand,
has filed an answer to Mr. Blaine’s suit lor libel, In
which it is alleged that Blaine seduced the lady
who Is now his wife, and that he married her
under compulsion. It is further alleged that a
child was born shortly after the marriage, and
that its tombstone has been defaced to conceal the
date of birth. >
Mr. Henry Taylor, who had £100 a-year as
a clerk in the Bank of Victoria, London, got into
debt to the tune of £747 103, besides being liable
lor another £350 on a bill. Among his debts were
eleven tailors’ accounts and an item of £31 for
** button-hole bouquets.” On being Interrogated,
Henry said most of the flowers had been given to
ladies. He would not admit that he changed his
tailors because his credit was exhausted, but added
Insult to injury by saying it was “ because he could
not get properly fitted.” As an excuse for getting
so heavily Into debt, he stated that he was bound
to have lunch in the City every day and to smoko
cigars occasionally.” He Is now being button-
holed by the English Insolvency Commissioner.
Lord Durham, an outspoken young peer,
who has wisely become tho friend of the English
Radical politician, Mr, Chamberlain, at a recent
meeting thus described the Tory Lords by whose
votes the Franchise Bill was rejected “ It was
fifty or sixty peers who formed the majority
against the Franchise Bill. Ho wished his audience
could have seen some of them. There weie old
men in skull caps—(laughter)—the lame, the oeaf,
and the blind. Hoavrn knew where some of them
came from, and he did not know where they would
go to. (Laughter.) Possibly they might be sent
to the British Museum. These devoted gentlemen
were the subservient tools and voiceless followers
of Lord Salisbury.” Nothing so much annoys Lord
Salisbury ns the truth, and he has now got Lord
Durham “ boycotted” by many of the peers.
The Referee remarks that “if anyone
were to canvass the pupulace, no matter whether
dwelling In town or country, on the subject ot the
Tlchborne trial and tho Claimant’s lights, he
would be shocked or delighted, according to his
own standpoint, at the almost unanimous vote
which would be given in the ex-convict’s favour.
We have ourselves a very strong opinion on the
subject, and it is by no means an opinion advan-
tageous to the Claimant; that is, however, no
reason why we should deny that for every one
who is of our way of thinking there are at least
two who hold contrary oninions Notwithstand-
ing the way in which Mr, Gladstone has been car-
rying all before him up North, we venture to
think he would often enough have addressed thin
air if the Claimant had been on show in his vici-
nity.
Those who have wondered what the
Clalmalnt Is going to do for a living may be inter-
ested in learning that he could lease himself at
between £103 and £300 a week for the next five
years; there are several speculators in travelling
exhibitions who would jump with joy had they
tho chance of engaging him at these figures. If he
were eligible, this man of mystery and many
aliases could sit for any one of a dozen boroughs;
but he is not eligible, which is perhaps as well
under the circumstances. It would not look alto-
gel her wholesome If the first new M.P. under a
revised and redistributed condition of affairs were
the Tlchborne Claimant. Nor can he keep a pub-
lic-house, drive a cab, or conduct a ’bus. This is a
pity, as, providing he does not want to make a
show of himself round the country, he might have
done well as driver of a hansom. A heavy-weight
horse would have been essential for purposes of
balance.
Briere de 1’Isle, who has succeeded G eneral
Millot in Tonquin, is a Clerical and the best friend
of Monsignor Puginier, who got the Pope to grant
a dispensation to enable Catholics in Tonquin to
lend on mortgage at 24 per cent. When ne was
Governor of Senegal he shut up, to please the
Catholic missions ihere, the Masonic lodges, and
devoutly took part in grand uniform, with his
olficers around him, in the religious processions.
*lis residence was opposite the church. When he
was too ill to go to mass, he was placed on a couch
on his balcony. The priest ordered the doors of
the church to be thrown wide open. In this way
the general could be present, however indisposed,
£t the ceremony. The Catholic missions have pro*
moted the expeditions to Tonquln and Madagascar.
General Negrier, do I’Isle’s associate, Is also a
Clerical, and would gladly place his sword at the
disposal of any adventurer or pretender wanting
to upset the Republic.
Some time ago, Mrs. Weldon, the notorious
English litigant, was anxious to serve with a writ
Mr Johnson, the London representative of Paris
Figaro, against whom she has since recovered
£500 damages for libel. Her “man Friday,” one
Harcourt, made a thousand efforts to get the blue
paper Into the hands of the wary Johnson, but In
vain. At last, Mrs. Weldon somehow obtained pos-
session of the card of “A. Patchett Martin, London
correspondent of Boston Herald and Sydney
Daily Telegraph,” and gave it to Harcourt,
who sent It In to the unsuspecting Figaro man,
“Tell Mr. Martin to walk upstairs,” said Johnson,
and one minute later the writ was his. Patchett
swears he doesn’t know how or where the lovely
creature got his card, and Johnson believes him;
but now-a-days, when a much-dunned London
pressman has the pasteboard of Patchett Martin
handed to him, he shudders and tells the office-boy
that ho will go down himself and surreptitiously
make a reconnaissance.
At the funeral of the Duke of Brunswick,
behind the coffin walked the Duke of Cambridge,
who seemed deeply movi d, and leant heavily on
his walking-stick. He was—Heaven help us, how
Bismarck, and Von Moltke, and Manteuffel must
have grinned at the news!—dressed in the full
uniform of an English Field Marshal. The last
body interred in the crypt where the Duke’s
corpse was deposited was that of the unfortunate
Queen Caroline, wife of George IV., and the body
of the late Duke occupies the last vacant place
in the crypt, so lullllling an old Brunswick legend
that the ruling family shall become extinct with
the Ailing of the crypt. The Muitur VVockbn-
blatt reminds its readers that twelve Brunswick
Princes fought under Frederick the Great, of
whom Ave died on the Aeld of battle and three
others received honourable wounds. “ So long,”
says the article in conclusion, “ as the renown of
Frederick the Great and his deeds are praised, so
long will the remembrance of the brave.Princes of
Brunswick.”
The Gundagai Bailey hopes, in his paper
of December 3, that all “ lovers of a progressive
newspaper would rally around him in continuing
the publication of the Herald.” This pathetic
announcement was not without its fruits. A con-
stituent of the journal called round upon W. H.
L., and swore he would never desert him. As the
nucleus of a fund for a remuneration for the
many trials he has undergone, he planked down
on the counter a swarm of bees, three bundles of
carrots, and 3d. in coppers. Then, leaving the
establishment, his splendid and elastic hiccup blew
the town clerk's hat off (who happened to be pass-
ing at the time), after which he quietly subsided
into the lock-up ; and there, during the night, he
continued, in bis cool but cheerless cell, to extol
the praises of Bailey, sung to popular airs, with
ultra-involuntary variations. Next week, in the
Gundagax Herald, we expected to see a three-
column report of the “noble conduct of an en-
thusiastic supporter who became a martyr to his
principles—and who was fined 10s.
This, taken from on« of Mr. Fronde’s last
volumes of “The Life of Carlyle,” is a charming
picture by “The Sage of Chelsea” of the old age
of the groat Duke of Wellington“ Truly a beau-
tiful old man; I had never seen till now how
beautiful, and what an expression of graceful
simplicity, veracity, and nobleness there is about
the old hero when you see him close at hand. His
very had hitherto deceived me. He is a
shortish stylish figure, about five feet eight, of
good breadth, however, and all muscle or bone.
His legs, I think, must be the short part of him,
for certainly on horseback I have always taken
him to be tall. Eyes beautiful light blue, full of
mild valour, with infinitely more faculty and
geniality than I had fancied before; the face
wholly gentle, wise, valiant, and venerable. The
voice, too, as I again heard, is ‘aquiline’ clear,
Eerfectly equable—uncracked, that is—and per-
aps almost musical, but essentially tenor or
almost treble voice-eighty-two, I understand. He
glided slowly along, slightly saluting this and that
other, clear, clean, fresh as this June evening
itself, till the silver buckle of his stock vanished
into the door of the next room, and I saw him no
more.”
Mrs. Mary M‘Carthy, of Melbourne, ap-
pears to wield such potent sway over her liege
lord, that we shall hope to find her shortly figuring
as a shining light in the Woman’s Rights move-
ment. The other day, when Air. M’Carthy sought
the seclusion of his home, he found Mary lying on
the floor in a condition that was very un-Booth-
like, not to say beastly. He did not venture to
assert his authority by gently pouring the water
jug upon the prostrate lady, as husbands usually
do in these cases, but he did muster sufficient
courage to “ speak to her on the subject ” of her
libations. Annoyed at such unwarrantable jntep-
ference with her liberty of action, Mary
“ threatened to kill him with a tomahawk.” 1 or-
tunately she did not order her trembling spouse to
hand down the weapon, and place himself within
easy reaching distance, that the vow might be
carried into immediate execution, so Mr. M Oarthy
was enabled to slink away and seek the protection
of the law by having Mary bound over to keep
the peace, what this remarkable woman may be
capable of when she’s in a perpendicular position
remains to be proved, but the strength of mind
she exhibits under circumstances so disadvantage-
ous as those just quoted, stamps her as a born
lea ”er of her Sex.
"Good-bye, Sir George,” said the ever-
blooming Vincent Pyke, member for the Dunstan,
to Sir George Grey as the two old birds were part-
ing on the wharf at Wellington, lately; “good-
bye, Sir George. 1 hope we shall meet again safe
and sound next session.” “ Well, I hope so,” re-
plied the veteran. “Still you know, Pyke, my
good friend, we might never meet again, ’ and he
gave Vincent's hand an iron squeeze anil turned
to go. " Well, if not on this sublunary sphere,”
said Pyke, trying to separate the four digits the
ancient one had compressed into one; “if not in
this world. Sir George—why the dickens did you
squeeze my Angers like that ? —if not in this world,
Sir George, I feel conAdent w© shall meet again in
the next.” “ Oh, don’t say that, my good fellow—
don’t talk in that wi d way,” cried the old man
looking terribly alarmed and hastily stepping on
board the steamer —“ meet you in the next world,
Pyke! Oh, I hope not, I hope not,” he added
pathetically, waving his hand to Vincent as the
steamer moved off. “I hope not, Indeed, Pyke;
that’s not to be thought of; pood-bye.” Before
Pyke had time to Ash up a big specimen of auri-
ferous quartz from his left coat-tail pocket and
send it after him by way of rejoinder, the steamer
was off down the harbour, and the old gentleman
was seen on deck shaking his head and waving his
hand, safe beyond the reach of repartee.
In the “Life of the Prince Consort” we
read a deal about that “ dear ” and “ good ” Baron
Stockmar, whose little room was always kept pre-
pared for him at Windsor Castle, where he was,
perhaps, the most welcome guest of Prince Albert.
In the “ Memoirs of Karollne Bauer ” (the once
very beautiful and talented German actress), the
publication of which has caused a great and un-
comfortable sensation In certain English and con-
tinental circles, we read that Karollne was the
model Stockmar’s niece, and that the kindly uncle
arranged she should become the mistress of King
Leopold of Belgium! So, In truth, the beloved
Stockmar was in reality nothing better than aa old
pimp. Miss Bauer was the daughter of a German
ofHcer, and her mother, by all appearances, was a
very wideawake old lady As a matter of course,
the daughter had a vast number of admirers,
mostly persons of high degree, who thought rather
of making her their mistress than their wife. The
parental eye was always upon them, and but once
was she nearly being taken in by a counterfeit
Polish count, who was In reality a Russian valet.
The candid disclosures of the oourt-actreas at Ber-
lin develop the most persistent profligacy on the
part of everyone connected with the palace. The
theatres were, in fact, the hunting-ground of the
sensuous debauchee, both old and young, provided
he moved in the upper circles of society. Accord-
ing to her own account, Mademoiselle Bauer for a
time resisted all Immodest overtures, but at length
settled down under the protection of a German
prince.
A little three-year-old cherub named
Hounslow, native of Campbellfleld, in the colony
of Victoria, promises to attain, in the fulness of
time, to the very apex of fame. Future greatness
has been put in the way of this young gentleman
through the kind agency of a horse. But let us,
with the aid of a local newspaper, hasten to ex-
plain. Master Hounslow, then, “met with a
shocking accident, the result of a kick from a
horse, which laid its little head [The boy’s, not the
horse’s: horses don’t have little heads.—Ed. B]
open nearly three inches. On being picked up,
the brain was protruding, and the mother took a
portion of it away, and at once sent for Surgeon
Talbot, who bad little hopes of the child surviving.
He states that he also removed more of the brain,
but decided to simply dress the wound and leave
Dame Nature to do the rest, with the result that
the child is now able to toddle about, and appears
recovered.” Yet the worthy surgeon is so poor a
prophet that “he would not like to say what
future results may arise from so serious an acci-
dent,” Short-sighted surgeon I We will hazard a
conjecture about this interesting case. That boy,
ladies and gentlemen, will die Premier of Victoria.
Tune up:—
How very oft do we observe
That Fortune, ever kind,
Her fattest billets will reserve
For men bereft of mind;
So, judging from this patent truth,
u is certain there remains
A brilliant future for a youth
Wl\o66 mother’s got Me brains I
We all remember the story of the Dubbo
man who tried to kill his dog, which faithful ser-
vitor, after being 1 strychnined eight tlnles, dosed
with prussic acid twice, poll-axed once, and
hanged by the neck until he wasn’t dead on
several occasions, complacently wagged his tall
and chewed stolen bones. Sergeant Cramp, of the
10th Hussars, is “just such a man as thatdogwas.”
Cramp was with Major Slade when that gallant
officer was killed in Egypt. How the sergeant hes
escaped with his life is a mystery to all the medi-
cal men who have seen him. In fact, his death
was actually announced. Cramp was sent out with
an officer in cua; jgo of a company of scouts on the
day when the 10th Hussars met with so much dis-
aster, and was attacked from behind by an Arab
chief armed with a double-edged sword. Prom
this formidable weapon the sergeant received a
wound which extended across the head and com-
pletely severed the skull from the left eye to the
back of the head. The cut, being a straight one,
took off the upper part of the ear, and divided one
of the main arteries. Sergeant Cramp fell from
his horse, but although his skull was completely
laid open, he never lost consciousness, and when
removed to the hospital was enabled to converse
with the medical staff, and give to his commanding
officer a “ last message ” for bis friends. With a
view to stopping the flow of blood his throat was
out, and the arteries gathered up and tied. Mar-
vellous to say, he recovered, and with the oxcep-
tlon of having lost all feeling on the left side of
his face, ho expresses himself to be in fair health,
but of course totally unfitted for any description
of work.
Tawhalo’s Maori secretary, a gridironed
old party,iyclept Patara Te Turi, was Invited to a
tea scrimmage at a clergyman’s house in London.
The reverend host gave the assembled bun-
destroyers a long account of the good work the
missionaries had done in New Zealand, and, on
concluding. Invited Patara to give his testimony
on the subject. Patara stood up and salutationed
the crowd—which Included several “lovely
wahlnes ’’—and then proceeded to say that the
missionaries were smart men. They instructed
the Maorles to lift up their eyes to heaven, and,
when they found the natives all looking sky ward,
they themselves looked the other way and saw
that the Maorlcs’ land was good—and, in short,
stole it. He (Patara) well remembered a very
reverend gentleman who visited Tawhaio’s father,
Potatau, and produced, after prayers, a document
which he wished the latter to sign. This doou-
ment simply proposed that Potatau should sign
away the whole of the King Country—several
millions of acres of land, worth many millions of
sterling money—to the reverend visitor, a id, when
the chief refused to sign the paper, the missionary
was very angry, and prayed long and fervently
that the old heathen might be made to see the
error of his ways. Potatau was obdurate, how-
ever, and wouldn’t sign no sanguinary paper he
couldn’t read, and so the missionary had to depart
as he came. On leaving, he ;told Patara that, if
the “old fool” (as he called Potatau) had only
signed the paper, he was prepared to have done
handsomely by him, and would have presented
him with a Family Bible and a pair of spectacles 1
When Patura sat down with a smile like a crack In
a piece of brown crockeryware the assembled
missionaries and their wives looked as melancholy
as if they had returned from a funeral, and silence
reigned till one of them got up and said,
“ Brethren, it is evident our brother is still un-
saved. He is still in the gall of bitterness and the
bond of iniquity. Let us pray.” And they preyed.
Sir Samuel Wilson’s organ, the St. Ste-
phen’s Review, recently charged a gentleman from
America—Mr. Gerald Rogers—with being Irish, a
dynamltard, and so on. The “ man from America ”
met two of the Review people at th® London-
Amerlcan Exchange, and this Is what happened
“ Mr. G. E. Parkinson deposed that he was manager
of the St. Stephen’s Review, and on the 16th
October saw defendant at the American Exchange.
Defendant rushed towards him and collared him
by the threat and shook him very violently, looked
liked a demon in his face, and said, ’You
Englishman I What do you mean by inviting me
to your office to write articles, and then writing
me down ? ’ Witness fell down a couple or three
steps. Mr. Grain: ‘ Then he let you go.’ Wit-
ness : ‘ No : I was afraid he would.’ (Laughter.)
Mr- Flowers ; ‘ Then you fell ? ’ Witness : ’ No ;
but I should have done if ho bad let go.’ (Loud
Laughter.) Witness further deposed that his head
was Dumped against the wall two or three times.
He threatened ‘ to do for ’ witness, and said, with
an oath,; ‘ I will go for you.’ Mr. Dalglelsh came
up, and defendant turned upon him. He put his
hand to the back part of his coat, and witness
thought he was trying to get to his pistol-pocket.
He seized Mr. Dalgeish, but that gentleman denied
that he had written the article complained of.
Eventually defendant apologised, and said that if
it was not witness or Mr. Dalgeish who had written
the article, ‘It was the other man, and by ,
when I meet him I’ll club him.” Witness was very
much unsettled by the assault, and his clothes
were torn. He communicated with the authorities
at Scotland-yard, and, in consequence of informa-
tion he received, he obtained a summons.” Mr.
Rogers was bound over to keep the peace in a
£10 surety. Wilson’s organ had stated a few days
before that “every pure-bred Irishman was a
thorough-paced coward, and if properly tackled
would howl like a whipped our.” Wilson is not a
pure-bred Irishman. He apparently prides him-
self on being a mongrel.
Capt. Richard F. Burton is one of the most
wonderful men in the world. Mark his bull-dog
face: it is that of a man who for about forty years
has courted dangers, hardship, adventures: hun-
ger, thirst, heat, cold, wild beasts and savages, and
snapped his lingers at old man Death, in pure
devilment. Listen. For ten years he travelled
and studied on the Continent, at 31 joined the
Indian Army and studied Asiatic tongues; lived
seven years among the wild tribes, wandering
alone over the country on foot as one of them-
selves. On returning to France, he took the
highest honour the country gives for swordsman-
ship ; travelled for years as an Arab in the interest
of the Royal Geographical Society, fought in the
Irregular cavalry at the Crimea; explored with
Capt. Speke the lake region of Central Africa and
the Nile; visited Salt Lake and wrote a book on
the Mormons; was Consul at Fernando Po, then in
Brazil, then at Damascus, and is now British Consul
at Trieste. And he is married. Those are the
chief adventurous performances of his life. But
he is a man of great scientific and military know-
ledge, author of over forty volumes of travel,
master of eighteen languages. He is now publish-
ing a verbatim translation, from the Arabian
original, of “The Arabian Nights,” at ten guineas,
which will be the first complete version issued in
English. It is the result of twenty-two years’
work.
One of our Technological College savants
had quite an exciting little adventure the other
day, which is well worth recording. From the in-
formation to hand, it appears that, oeing in the
Port Macquarie district, the gentleman referred
OBVIOUS.
MOTHER: “MARY. HAS FREDERICK PROPOSED YET?”
DAUGHTER: “NOT YET, MA; BUT HE WILL BEFORE MANY DAYS.”
MOTHER: “ WIT AT MAKES YOU THINK SO?”
DAUGHTER: “BECAUSE HE ASKED ME IF YOU EXPECTED TO LIVE WITH ME IF I
MARRIED, AND I TOLD HIM NO 1”


to Indulged In his favourite hobby of collecting
seaweed on every pooslble occasion. Arriving at
I spot called the Nobbles one day, he stripped
himself naked, and. having secured some valuab e
gnecimens, he had a swim, after which, in the wild
exuberance of his animal spirits (as he put the
case himself), he raced along the beach, and stood
on his head In the sand, and pranced about like a
Gladesville boarder with six Inches of snake-juice
behind his “pinny.” A simple-minded native,
happening to catch Bight of the fantastic appari-
tion. hurried into town and, with bated breath
and trembling tongue, whispered in the terror-
stricken ears of his friends that he had seen either
Antichrist or the ghost of some other defunct
foreigner running about, and holding a most In-
decent oorrobboree all by himself on the shore
near the Nobbles. About a week after this, our
volatile scientist, happening to be at the same
Jpot, peeled off. and enjoyed his bath and capers
on the beach as before; but, what Is still more
strange, the self-same native caught sight of him
once more, and, jumping to the conclusion that
the dancing devil had been polkamg about the
spot ever since he first saw him, the affrighted
bumpkin made for the local watch-house, and In-
formed the police of the doings of the naked mad-
man. Helter-skelter darted the intelligent mlm-
blrs av th’ foorce. and. after a desperate struggle,
they at last succeeded in putting the M Guin-
ness” on the gay professor, and, in spite of «U ex-
planations, lodged him safe In limbo. A few
hours’ sojourn in a dungeon cell cooled the weed-
worrier’s ardour down completely, and, after a
little trouble, a J.P. who knew the enthusiast
name along and had him released, and gave the
foorce the of the kitchen ’’ also. Beauty
unadorned doesn’t go for much about Port Mao-
quarle.
The World on Carlyle;—“That the late
Mr Thomas Carlyle was a brute and a boor; that
he was vain, egotistical, mean, and envious; that
his conduct In marrying—left unexplained totidem
verbis. but not to be misconstrued by those who
read Mazzlnl’s letter to Mrs. Carlyle, vol. 1. page
oqi was base, and cowardly, and selfish in the ex-
treme; that he had bad words for every one with
whom he was brought in contact, with the excep-
tion of Tennyson and t*>e old Duke of Wellington,
likening even worthy Mr. Keble, of the Chris-
tian Year,’ to a ‘little ape ’—all this the world has
known since Mr. Froude first took his delectable
sublect In hand. It has remained, however, for
the publication of the last of these volumes to
show us that the great philosopher, prophet, and
teacher was a humbug—what he, in his barbarous
iargon. would have called ‘ a wind-bag and a sham.’
Look at page 270, vol. 11. His old horse Fritz falls
with him, he ‘sees the blood streaming over his
hoof ’ and finds ‘ the knees quite smashed.’ Then
he moralises in a letter to his brother: ‘I have
been extremely sorry for my poor old four-footed
friend. Oanztreu he constantly and wonderfully
was- and now what to do with myself I or how to
dispose of poor Fritz. Of course, I can sell him —
have him knocked down at Tattersall’s for a £10,
or an old song; and then (as he goes delirious
under violent usage, and is frightened for running
swift In harness) get the poor creature scourged
to death in a horrible way after all the 20,000 miles
he has carried me. I cannot bear to think of that.
He is a strong, healthy horse, loyal and peaceable,
and wise as horse ever was.’ These are honest and
humane sentiments, and such as are, I should
hope, pretty general among horse-owners. An
animal that has carried you safely and pleasantly
for years has honestly earned its speedy and pain-
less quietus when it breaks down. The proof that
all this writing was merely humbug on Carlyle s
part is found in the next line of Mr. Froude’s text:
• Fritz was sold for £9.’ A cruel old brute, who
broke his wife’s heart and his horse’s knees, and
snivelled forth his cant over both performances! ”
Lord Salisbury, the leader of the Tories,
claims, like the Churchills, to be an hereditary
ruler, by virtue of his noble ancestry. Well,
listen. The founder of this haughty family was
one Richard Cecil, who, though groom of the
robes to Henry VIII., contrived not merely to
keep his head on his shoulders, but even to flu his
pockets. His father had been water bailiff of
Wittlesea, and his grandfather. It is said, was a
“ publican.” At all events, Lord Salisbury did not
“ come over at the Conquest.” Dick Cecil did
well In the courtier business. He first got hold of
some Crown lands In Northamptonshire; then he
annexe! the priory of St. Michael, Stamford; next
he absorbed the manor of Essendine, in Rutland;
Tinwell manor, In Northamptonshire; to say
nothing of grants made to him In Kent and Lin-
colnshire. William Cecil, afterwards Lord Burgh-
ley, was still more successful in (he trade of
courtier. He began by devouring a hospital at
Lincoln; a monastery at Stamford; Ladybrigg
Close, In Northamptonshire; the manors at Ged-
dings and Boxe, in Hertfordshire, as well as the
Hundreds of Hertford and Braughling. Burghley
was a statesman who must have profited by the
doetrlne of Macchiavelli s “ Prince.” He lived In
plots, and has been justly described as “Spider”
Cecil. He incessantly wove nets, from the meshes
of which his victims rarely escaped. The rack was
his great instrument of government, and he ap-
plied it with the utmost diligence. His son, Robert
Cecil, James I.’s “ little beagle,” was, if possible, a
more unprincipled upholder of despotism than his
father. His unscrupulous abuse of power even
shocked Lord Clarendon, the Tory and High
Church historian. “No act of power, 1 ’ he bewails,
“ was ever proposed that he did not advance and
execute with the utmost rigour. No man so great
a tyrant in this country.” Ho literally revelled In
offices and sinecures of all kinds, and annexed
manor after manor with unappeasable voracity.
His talons were everywhere—in York, Sussex,
Kent, Norfolk, Essex. Nothing came wrong to
him—abbeys, tithes, imposts, or mines, glebe lands,
advowsons. chases, warrens, profits of fairs, de-
mesne lands and coppices In endless array. In the
present Marquis of Salisbury all the tyrannical
traditions of the Cecils have received embodiment.
The hard bargains he has driven with the Metro-
politan Board of Works while endeavouring to
improve his London property, and the costly liti-
gation to which he has subjected the public, are
simply scandalous. “Horrible Hatfield” is the
outcome of his patriarchal notions of society and
government. What bitter irony it was to put this
man on the Commission for the Better Housing of
the Poor!
This is Mary Anderson. We believe we
presented her once before. But on this occasion,
vou will perceive, she is looking the other way.
The last proceeding of “our Mary,” as the Ameri-
cans call her, has been to produce “ Romeo and
Juliet” at the Lyceum Theatre, London. This is
carrying the war into the stranger's camp with a
verity. And considering how proud the Ameri-
cans are of her beauty, it’s rather rough on the
American Intellect and its appreciation of the
legitimate drama, that she came to London to start
it. Enormous expense has been incurred to pro-
duoe the play in splendid fashion. This is what a
reliable paper— one that certainly doesn’t pander—
says of American Mary* —She is not a perfect
Julie t-is there one ?—but she is a very lovely and
bewltehlng one ; at her weakest In tragic, and her
strongest In love scenes. Yet in the potion scene
there is no lack of power; Miss Anderson dies
with infinite elegance. In the balcony, Juliet is as
arch as beautiful, and as modestas she is vivacious.
She is the embodiment of youthful maidenly in-
genuousness, and the impersonation of dainty
grace. Her rippling smile is delightful; her coy-
ness la irresistible. Borneo’s love for such a Juliet
requires no explanation.” It is understood that
Mary Anderson gets £100 a night. This picture
shows her just after receiving her salary.
We have not yet heard the last of that
stern, moral elocutionist, with the ‘‘cross-cut”
voice and semaphore-like action, Archibald Forbes.
Pome time ago, writes a London correspondent,
there appeared in that holy morning tract, the
South Australian Advertiser, which com-
bines piety and pruriency, scandal and tea, as
dvftly as those apparently very congruous com-
modities were ever mixed up by the most salutly
old female of all history, a letter written by Mr.
Uobert Emmett Fitzgerald, who very pertinently
Inquired of the editor how it was that while every
Irish “ atrocity ” and “outrage” was carefully
chronicled by the English correspondent of the
Advertiser, no notice had ever been taken, in
any column of that paper, of the horrible crimes
with which Cornwall, French, and other miserable
creatures taking part in the government of Ire-
land and in the punishment of Irishmen, were
charged. The sanctified editor of the ‘Tiber, in a
loot-note, replied that It wasn’t his custom to
bring filth before the public But in that
very same issue of the Advertiser, and another
published a day or two before, there appeared
three-column letters whereunto were boldly ap-
pended the name of the distinguished Archibald
Forbes who, despite his professed admiration for
Australia, and also despite the loudly-vaunted
moral prejudices of tho Advertiser proprietary,
evidently thinks that the Laud of the Kangaroo
is, after all, but a big dust-heap labelled “ Rub-
bish shot here.” Mr. Forbes’ letters, it is hardly
an exaggeration to say, are all and wholly what
the “ unco’s” term “ filth.” For instance, Forbes
fully retails the Lady Colin Campbell divorce case,
which is tilth in excelsls—the filthiest story ever
told in print, even by the moral Advertiser. The
Lord Euston matrimonial story—filth again. The
Lord Savernake and Dolly Tester case—filth once
more. Tne death of an English Judge in the arms
of a courtesan—filth the fifth time. Then the
cheerful Forbes goes out of his way to make an
accusation which he and the Advertiser will
assuredly rue to the day of their deaths— i.e.,
he deliberately charges Madame Sara Bern-
hardt with being a confirmed drunkard.
Forbes states that he saw her at the Lon-
don Gaiety feebly grasping a table on the
stage in an obvious state of “alcoholic stupefac-
tion.” Forbes’ story, I am assured by one who
acta with Sara Bernhardt, is a cruel and Imfamous
lie. Madame Bernhardt, the greatest of living
actresses, has never, like Forbes or the Adver-
tiser people, pretended to bo, what in the Sunday-
school is called “ moral.” She has not whined and
grovelled in the conventicle of Mrs. Grundy like
this bumptious dragoon. Sara Bernhardt is not a
drunkard. She has never been one. She is never
likely to be one. Like most of her countrywomen,
she drinks light wine, which does not make one
drunk. Besides, she is Jewish, and who ever
heard of a drunken Jewish woman—who, abore
all things, over heard of a drunken Jewish woman
of genius ? Sara Bernhardt is intensely nervous,
and she works with a tigerish energy to which her
cowardly accuser, the dense, boorish, unsympa-
pathetic son of the drum-ecclesiastic is a stranger.
He saw her exhausted on the stage, bethought she
was drunk and said so—not in the World, or even
in the 8. M. Herald, where the publication of
such a calumny would have cost someone thou-
sands of pounds-but .in an obscure rag which he
thought would never meet her eye. But Madame
Bernhardt has seen the paper in which this
“ greatest of war correspondents,” a man who is
known all over the world, and whose statements
carry with them some sort of weight, has branded
her as an habitual and hepeless drunkard. She has
seen bow this damning slander, uttered with the
imprint of Archibald Forbes, has been repeated
twenty million times in the press of America, a
country to which she goes next year under a mag-
nificent engagement, and she has determined to
get level in the law courts with either Forbes or
the Advertiser.
The book containing the late Lord Ly tton’s
love (and other) letters to his recently deceased wife
has been withdrawn from circulation—at any rate,
pending the law-courts’ decision in regard to an
injunction applied for by the present Earl, whose
legal position in regard to the matter is regarded
as unassailable. The Dowager Lady Lytton, in
entrusting her work of revenge to the hands of a
Miss Louisa Devey, in some respects evinced a wise
choice, as probably nothing could have been more
congenial to that “stale virgin with the winter
face” than the chance of avenging on the memory
of such a man as the great novelist the wrongs
suffered by her neglected self at the hands of the
sterner sex. Lady Lytton no doubt thought that
Louisa would be sure to “ bite,” and her expecta-
tion has been fulfilled. But Miss Dovey has, it
seems, completely over-reached herself by allow-
ing the publishers to hand to a newspaper an early
copy for review instead of rushing the whole edition
on to the market without preliminary warning,
and thus ensuring its sale on the very day of the
appearance of the newspaper notices. There has
been a deal of bosh written lately—by, among
others, the gushing G. R. Sims—about the “ ghoul-
like cruelty of thus laying bare the domestic life
of a great man” —“this dinging Into the muddy
road of the heart and soul of a great writer, that
all the hungry curs of the streets may sniff at
them, and turn them over and gnaw them, and
drag them from gutter to gutter; which,” re-
marks Mr. Sims, is “ a deed so cruel that every
man and woman with a spark of decent feeling
about them should rise and protest in the name of
our common humanity. The love-letters written
by Lord Lytton to his wife in the early days of
their affection are the outpourings of the secret
recesses of a lover’s heart. By what right are
they laid open to the brutalstare of the multitude?
.... This 1s the ago of the H orary Burke
and Hare, of the Grub-street resurrectionist, of
the biographical body-snatcher. An Act ought to
be passed,at once to apply to the sale of such
works as the penny pamphlet about a Judge’s
death, recently hawked in the streets, and the more
expensive memoirs of deceased celebrities, which
are in equally bad taste." 8iras then goes on to
bracket himself with the late Lord Lytton, by re-
marking that he (Sims) too has, in his time,
written foolish love-letters, “ yet he doesn’t see
why,” «fcc. But as “ the proper study of mankind
is man,” and as the present Lord Lytton has
thought it worth his while to give us a
biography of his father, in which, It is now evi-
dent, almost everything that could throw a light
upon the dead novelist’s character as a man was
carefully suppressed, It is perhaps just as well that
we should be permitted to look on the other side
of the picture, and strike a fair balance between
the Lord Lytton of the book in which much
is extenuated, and the Lord Lytton of the
other book, in which no doubt not a little is set
down in malice. It is much better, and more in-
structive, that the mental constitution of a real
and prominent character of contemporary his-
tory should now and then be dissected and ex-
posed to the view of the world, than that people
should go on accepting as true types of human
nature either the heroes or the vllilans of
novelists, or the novelists themselves as depicted
ini biographies such as that given us by the
present Lord Lytton. It row turns out that the
author who holds us enthralled as he guides us
page by page through the history of the brilliant
and cynical Devereaux—who unfolds to us the
weird romance of the gloomy Aram, and enchains
our imagination by his glorious ** Land of Dreams ”
—1s the same man who, while in some conditions
of mind, raved and slobbered over a pretty but
bad-tempered woman just as an obsequious nurse-
girl rav. s and jabbers over the mistress’ ugly
baby—that the author of “Ilienzi” and of “The
Last Days of Pompeii," and of “Pelham,” and of
plays which will live almost as long as our
language, could at times whimper and mumble
like a monthly nurse—that, judged by his
letters, the dignity of Intellect of that out-
wardly-polished man who ripened into one of the
most accomplished of England's writers and into
a great orator, at times by no means equalled that
of the criminals wno “ kick the missus ’’ and after-
wards throws to her “cross kisses” written on
brown paper and enclosed in soap, over the walls
of Pentridge or of Darlioghurst—that the Bulwer
Lytton who deified Andrd Chdnier and wrote the
“ Pilgrims of the Rhino” is the same who degrades
himself by falling into a rage with an empty-
headed woman—by chasing his wife round the
table with a carving-knife and banging her head
against the hearthstone. This theory about “ th
sacredneas of a man s home,” and “the infamy of
f trying into a man’s private life,” is, if construed
iterally, very good Indeed But It is one which
has been ridden to death in New South Wales—
which is an excellent one for the canting politician
who is a thief; for the pious Judge who, after
insisting on reading a proclamation against Im-
morality, the very same evening dies in a bordello;
for the men who, like G. R. Sims, begin life as
Radicals, but are deprived of their political sight
by the glare and glamour of the marble-halls of
the “great,” and wind up by kissing the toes of
the alleged aristocracy. The memory of such a
man as Lord Lytton we can still revere, despite all
the ex-parte revelations made by the malevolent
woman who carried her hatred beyond the grave
and now thrusts a poisoned dagger upwards
through her shroud and through the flowers
which grow around her tomb. The great genius,
Lord Lytton needs no such champions as the
8imses of the world, who, knowing their own
littleness, fear lest one day someone should tell
what they and their order really are—that, one
day. despite their hollow-ringing ballads and their
hollower melodrama, the populace should find
that the idol’s feet are clay. The greatest of men
are little, and no man is a hero to the friends of
the wife who has obtained from him a Judicial
separation. But, for all that, we don't want any
twaddle from the author of “ The Lights of Lon-
don” in defence of the immortal author of “The
Lady of Lyons,” whose reputation, unlike that of
certain other people, would be affected not one
Jot by the publication of a volume of his letters
every afternoon.
* * v
Daniel Tichborne Smith, the Domain
orator, who has Just gone home to play up with
the Imperial Government, was once a brass-fitter.
This explains everything. There is nothing too
audacious for a brass-fitter... Sir Charles and Lady
Gavan Duffy are, we read, at Cannes Fred
Gunnon bought a parrot the other day for £30.
And yet Fred’a married. Fancy I
♦ * *
Rear-Admiral Tryon, the new Com-
mander-In-Chief of the Australian station, has
appointed Lieutenant William C. Pakeham, at
present serving in the Tenedos, on the North
American and west Indies station, to be his Flag
Lieutenant; and Mr. Charles, Paymaster, to be his
Secretary The festive Grand Duke of Hesse is
seeking still another matrimonial venture, not-
withstanding the troubles brought about by his
morganatic marriage with Madame de Kalomine.
He is now “ mashed” on a beautiful young lady
“ much his inferior in rank,”—Mr. Chevmel, the
illustrious French savant, “ father of organic
chemistry.” is now 09 years old, and free from any
physical infirmity. He has never In his life drunlc
wlue. The years have passed over him without tak-
ing with them a particle of his bright intelligence.
The benefit subscribed for Mr. Blaokburne, the
English chess-player, who arrived here by the s.s.
Kildare, amounted to £350—It is worthy of note
that, notwithstanding the anti-English feeling
kept up in certain circles in France. Major-General
Fielding (of Australian transcontinental railway
celebrity) occupied the place of honour at the
banquet given in Bordeaux in honour of the
foreign officers present at the autumn manoeuvres
of the 17th corps Swinburne, the real poet-
laureate of England, is a dried-up little horror of
a dwarf, with “carrotty” hair. ...George Eliot’s
letters and journals have been arranged lor publi-
cation by her husband, Mr. W. J. Cross — If the
Finnish newspapers are to be believed, Professor
Nordenshjold is about to vary his Arctic experi-
ences by an attempt to reach the South Pole. The
Baron, according to the Novoe Vhkyma, thinks of
visiting Australia cn route— The Claimant’s wife,
with her two illegitimate children, born since her
husbhad’s imprisonment, has been for some years
an Inmate of the South Stoneham Uuion.
REMARKABLE SAGACITY OF A DOG—FAITH-
FUL UNTO DEATH.
Amongst the many Instances of canine sagacity,
the following story concerning a Scotch collie,
that comes from Dubbo, Illustrates In a won-
derful degree the areat attachment and fidelity
evinced by dogs to their masters. Mr. Albert
Wodeckl, a well-known resident of Dubbo, was
Inst week driving to Warren, when his horse
bolted, and after madly rushing some distance,
dashed against a tree and was instantly killed, Mr.
Wodeckl was violently thrown to the ground, sus-
taining severe injuries, and was rendered Insen-
sible. The day was one of those hot, scorching
ones, familiar to travellers in the Australian in-
terior, and lying without shelter In the glare of
the fierce, semi-tropical sun, with one leg smashed
and the broken vehicle keeping him prisoner, it
seemed probable that the matter would terminate
fatally. Mr. Wodeckl was accompanied by a splen-
did specimen of a collie, reared by him, and which
was his constant companion. Cmsar had followed
the horse in its mad career, arriving at the scene
of the disaster to find bis master lying apparently
dead, and the poor brute commenced walling and
licking his master's face and hands as if imploring
him to rise. This must have lasted something like
an hour, and was about midday, the dog running
here and there raising its plaintive cry unheard in
the solitude of the bush. Now comes the wonder-
ful portion of the narrative. Cmsar knew that long
exposure meant death to his owner, and with un-
doubted reason tore a piece of the cloth from his
master’s coat and then made direct tracks back to
Dubbo, where he arrived at 3 p.m., going straight
to the branch establishment of Messrs. Summer-
Held and Co , merchant tailors, Pltt-streot, Sydney.
The dog limped in, panting, breathless, and footsore
—nearly dead after his long Journey—and placed the
piece of cloth In Mr. Doherty’s hands (Messrs. Sum-
merflelds manager). Mr.Wodeokl, accompanied by
Cuesar, had the day previously purchased the coat
from Mr. Doherty, and the dog had hit upon this
sagacious plan of giving Information of the disaster
as he wailed piteously when he gave up the piece
of his master’s coat. Mr. Doherty know the dog.
and, recognising the cloth, suspected something
wrong, so set off In a buggy, with Cmsar Ifiadlng
the way ; and alter a weary Journey in the broil-
ing sun, came to the scene of the disaster, <o find
Mr. Wodeckl nearly dead from exposure to its
intense rays. But Cnusar had overtaxed his
strength, for after giving a cry of joy he laid
down and died, overcome by his long journey, but
faithful unto death. Mr.Wodeokl wan convejea
safely back, and is now rapidly recovering; his
grief, however, at the loss of his faithful servant
is very great, and bo intends raising a monument
on the spot of the disaster, in memory of the dog
which laid down Its life tor his. Mr. Doherty was
well pleased to be of such service to one of Messrs.
S jmmerfleld’s oldest customers, he having dealt
with them long before they bad such an extensive
business, employing eight high-class cutters, and
weekly turning out two hundred of their famous
£3 3s. Od. suits to measure. The only Sydney
address Is rfummertield and Co., Merchant Tailors,
235 and 337, Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Mashers.— The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 653 George-street, Brickfield Hill.*
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hookings and
Co., 143, PItt-street.*
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious Insects. Tins, Is.*
Think and Act.—After many trials,
Messrs. Dalm and Oertel succeeded In preparing a
most delicious Lemonade from Australian lemons.
They discarded imported, unwholesome Oil of
Lemons. Give It a trial. AErated-water works, 403
Pltt-street.*
John T. McInnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
bers, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney, ty Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant, &o. No commission charged for
buying, tsy Agents for the sale or purchase on
commission of Pure-bred Stock.*
Mb. DbCodroy Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 62 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, w Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, 63? Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Bags Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fact and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You wdll bo
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d.
Eer package. Send 2d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.O.,
ydney, and you will receive a Sample Card of
Colours. &c., &o.. by return post.*
Here’s a pretty state of things —twice
twelve Intelligent citizens can’t come to a reason-
able conclusion as to whether Sir ’Bnry deserved
it or “ the other feller” did it. Ohl fie upon you
both juries alike. Couldn’t you toss up for it like
the juries of old ? Could you not set the politi-
cian’s mind at rest or ease the conscience of the
paper man ? Couldn’t you “ look upon that pic-
ture and upon th s,” and say which was the better
daub of the two ? The citizens of Sydney an<
wisdom and discretion Itself in most things—why
were their representatives at fault over ;this latter
job ? They know what Is right and what is the
correct thing—for a big jury, consisting of thn • -
fourths of the entire colony, to say nothing ot ; Li.
ladies, have given their verdict long ago, to the
effect that for shopping there la no place like
Anthony Hordern and Bons’ Palace Emporium,
Haymarket.*
SAD RESULT OF FREE EDUCATION.


r| A N C I N G .
PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Glasses, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
In Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castlereagh-street, near Bathurst-street. P.S.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
soring floor, &o. No decorations required.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, cate of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
SPECIAL NOTICE-ALTERATION OF AR-
RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAY
Swimming: Baths
(the »nly pure sea-water baths near Sydney.)
Open every day for Ladies and Gentlemen from
6 a.m. till dark.
Admission, 3d.; Children, accompanied by adults,
2d.; 100 tickets, 21s.: Monthly Tickets, 5s.; An-
nual Tickets, from 1st September, 21s.
tZT SWIMMING TAUGHT by Mr, Frederick
Cavili,, the world-renowned swimmer, wbo swam
from France to England in 12 hours, 20th August
1877. Six Lessons, 21s. The North Shore Ferry
Steamers leave the Circular Quay for the Baths
every quarter-of-an-hour.
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate in Medicine and Surgery, Registered
Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours : 10 a m. to 4 p m , 7 to 9 on Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday Evenings.
Ladles’ Waiting Room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
11, 52 Castlereagh-street (upstairs.)
Send for Free Treatise on Vitality and Nervous
Debility, Diseases of Women.
Illustrated Works on Deformities, Electricity
«nd its Application. Hernia (ruptures), Varicocele,
&o., &c.
Address—Australian Medical and Surgical In-
firmary, Sydney ; or B. O. HOLTERMANN, Esq.,
M.P., President, Box 130, G.P.O.
Consultation Free by mail or in person.
Deformities, Specific. Female, and Nervous
Diseases, a Specialty,
W, R. DRAPE & CO.,
MINING BROKERS AND AGENTS,
Mining Exchange,
FITZROY STREET, ROCKHAMPTON.
Commissions entreated to our care executed with
judgment and despatch Latest Mining Intelli-
gence from the surrounding fields.
PHOTOGRAPHS! PHOTOGRAPHS!
Imported direct from theContlneni. Studies
from Idle for Artists, Classical and Mythological
Undraped Figures, Statuary (Sacred and Secular),
Photographs, Portraits of Celebrities, Pretty
Women, English and French Actresses. Selections
sent for approval on receipt of deposit of £1 and
upwards. Catalogues and price-lists free. The
Trade supplied. Colonial Agents wanted Address:
The Continental Novelty Co , KW Strand,
London, W.C., England.
m
COMFORTABLE TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are three kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Slik Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to peisons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. Thai
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox ana
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London.”
Hm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINK of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Omens: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves ; Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NB8DAY8, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Fleet or Steamships:
BUNINTONG EDINA KONOOWARRA
BA KH A BOOL GABO LEURA
BURWAH BALMAIN MORBTON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KEILAWARRA YOU YANG8.
WM. HOWARD SMITH Sc SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
MW
ASTHMA,COUGH, BRONCHITIS.
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief In
the worst attack oi Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis.
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at eight
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution—To guard against fraudulentimitation*,
see that each box bears the name of “ Wilcox etna
Co., 339 Oxford-street, Lon-lon.”
Professional Directory.
HI8C0CKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hlscocks..
W.
Sydney
HORACE BENT, with Hlscocks’Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
TO AMATEUR THEATRICALS.—Scenery. Sup-
plied or Lent. G. Pekriman, Scene Painter,
No. 1, back of Academy of Music, Castlereagh-st,
Y A L
Theatre ro
Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Mpsqrovb.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager—B. N. Jones.
THE ONLY PANTOMIME IN SYDNEY
is
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD.
THIS (Friday) EVENING, at 7.45,
THE GRAND COMIC CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
entitled
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD,
or
HARLEQUIN BOY BLUE,
The Good Fairy and the Naughty Wolf.
PRICES: Dress Circle, 6s.; Stalls, 4s.; Family
Circle, 3s.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4 at Theatre.
N
E W
OPERA HOUSE.
Lessees ... E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
This Fi’idav Evening, last night of
MAJERONI and WILSON’S
COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
In LU8COMBE SEARELLE’S NEW OPERA
BOBADIL BOBADIL BOBADIL
BOBADIL BOBADIL BOBADIL,
With the following powerful Cast;—
Miss Grade Plalsted Miss Frances Seville
Miss Minnie Desmond Miss Blanche Leopold
Mr. Chss. Harding Mr. Geo. Leopold
Mr. F. Wentworth Mr. Oily Deering
Mr. A. Davies Mr. W. P. Morrison
NEW SCENERY by Mr. ALFRED CLINT.
Grand ORCHESTRA under the Baton of
Mr. LU8COMBB 8BARELLE.
Leader HERR KU8TKR.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 3, 1885,
LA FILLE DE MADAME ANGOT.
Box plan now open at A. and C. Huenerbein’s
i Warehouse, 318, George-street.
Music
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. Wybert Reeve.
Manager for Mr. Reeve .. Mr. G. A. Coleman.
FIFTH WEEK
and
CONTINUED SUCCESS
of the
MONTAGUE-TURNER ENGLISH OPERA
COMPANY
TO-MORROW, SATURDAY,
H.M.8. PINAFORE.
H.M.8. PINAFORE. .
H.M.8. PINAFORE.
H.M.8. PINAFORE.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Prices: 5s., 3a., 2s., Is.
Doors open at 7, overture 7.45.
H. TREVORAH, Business Manager.
DUNCAN MACALLUM. Agent.
C A D B M Y
Lessee and Manager
OF MUSIC
Mr. F. E. Bibcocks.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
And Speciality Union,
with fresh faces and new business, and all the old
favourites.
THIS and EVERY EVENING.
GRAND BLACK PANTOMIME.
CEAD MILLE FA1LTHB.
Grand Irish Fancy Fair
GRAND IRISH FANCY FAIR!
IN AID OP ST. BENEDICT’S OBURCH AND
CONVENT FUND,
Held in the Hall, Abercrombie-street, off George-
street West.
May Pole and other Amusements day and night.
GREAT ATTRACTIONS I
Grand Piano kindly lent by Messrs. Huenerbeln
and Beale.
Open from 3 till 8, and from 7 till 10 p.m.
EE 1- A first-class Band in attendance nightly.
Trams and 'buses stop at the door; also within
two minutes’ walk from Railway Station.
M. E. O’BRIEN. I „ nn q
JOHN DBLARGY, ) Hon ’ Sec8<
n H E
AUSTRALIA
WAXWORKS
WILL OPEN on
HAT'D y,
December 20.
In
GEORGE-STREET,
opposite the Cathedral,
KRBITMAYER and SOHIEB,
- Proprietors.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
First open date, Monday, janua
I9th, 1885. Share or Let, Terms on appli
tlon to
J. B. HICKIE,
Lessei
N.B. Only responsible managers treated with
ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL.
CONSIDERABLE Additions and Improver
have been made to the above Hall, wh
now the most commodious place of entertain
iP 0 ®khampton, and is in the centre of the 1
It Is thoroughly furnished and fitted, seate
oOO people, and has a large Stage and Ga
Ample means of access and egress have beer
vlded; also thorough ventilation. Travi
companies will find special facilities for g
entertainments In this Hall. Terms moffi
Particulars on application to the Secretary.
SOLE IMPORTERS OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
SMITH OHG-AIT.
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
S3B.
298 George Street, Sydney.
Rvery description of Shirts made to measure
A perfect fit guaranteed.
*3r
%
m
SMITH & JI1NNELL,
THE SHIRT MANUFACTURERS OF
AUSTRALASIA.
n
%
&
S3
%
r \y 4L.
°^f-
%
<?
if!
*<£
<f
13
3URY.BUXT0N&C-
ENGLISH ALES
Burton-on-Trenl - .
: rC0S»Mj
SbonzerS
(F(H)"nisseurs oe 5 m l
j ' Border
URN
If
>c
I)' 1
'4
<y
<&*
a*
\ 6*
o-
di 1 <?^
m
%
v^.V
<. o
>
/
10 ~
AA
m
OHME ZUSA‘^
. ALLT S CO.’S Win ui Spirit tes and Agencies
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
London Agents: Messrs. Arthur Allt & Co., Wormwood Chambers, "Wormwood-street, E.C.
yj&'CU'tf*' Street;. ~ 2 -
.Sfcrg riels' th *^S>
&t■ 0~*ts < Q% t *7C& 'fT^derr
7Uj&? fiox? T^ixz^x^^ —.—$>


THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
Chris tm as Gifts ! C hr is tm as Gifts !
THE ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY have,
with their usual thoughtfulness for the
general public, imported, specially for the Xmas
season, a great variety of the most novel and ex-
quisite goods which cannot fail to suit the tastes
of the most fastidious. The goods, which have
been carefully selected by their agent from all the
best manufactories, are well worthy of inspection,
each article possessing some special charm of Its
own, and nothing can be more adapted for grace-
ful and elegant Christmas Gifts than these beauti-
ful gems. Note our pricelist, and
Remember the Address :
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
PRICE LIST.
Ladles’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberta, with
double slides and tassels, 15s.,20s., and 25s. each;
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 5s., 6s., 7s. 6d.,
8s., 8s. 6d„ 9s., and 10s a pair; Ladies’ choice
Necklets, from 13s. 6d. to 30s.; Ladies’ very
handsome Necklets, set in splendid Alaska Dia-
monds, £210s. to £5 5s.; Ladies’ elegant Bangles,
7s. to 15s. a pair ; Ladles’ handsome Cloak
Clasps, 15s. to 30s.; Ladies’ very best American
Rolled Gold Chatelaines, 30s. each ; Ladies’
choice Lockets and Necklets, 17s. 6d., 30s., 23s.
6d., 25s., 37s. 6d., 30s., 35s., and 40s.; Handsome
Gem Kings, 7s. 6d., 8s. 6d., 10s., 15s , 30s., and 30s.
each; Elegant Keepers, Wedding Rings, and
Fancy Kings, from 2s 6d. to 8s. 6a, each; Solid
Gold Wedding and Keeper Rings, 10s. each.
Qent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £2 2 0
Same as above, except that this watch Is
patent keyless £2 5
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tassells £2 15 0
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £3 0 0
These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert £4 5 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
Jewelled, and compensation balance,
with Oriental Gold Alb.-rt £6 6 0
Rotheram’s celebrated English Patent
Lever 1 * £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. £5 6 0
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert .. £8 s 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert £4 16
a written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 5 0
Ditto, extra Jewelled, of the highest
grade £6 6 6
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £10 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £10.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 6s. 6d.,
7s, 6J., 8s. 6d., and 10s. each ; Gent’s Oriental
Gold Alaska Diamond and Ruby Rings. 7a. Hd.
and 8s. 6d., each; Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings,
plain half, round buckle, flat broad buokl°, en-
graved, good luck rings, &o., &o., from 5s. to
8s, 6d. each; Gent's richly chased engraved and
plain Solitaire and Link Suites, 7s., 7s. 6d„ 8d.,
8s. 6d., 9s., 10s., and 12s. 6d. per set ; same as
above, only half sets, 3s., 4s., and 5s. per set;
Very latest American Patent Spring Solitaire
Suites, 10s. per set: Gent’s elegant Seals, real
stones, 7s. 6d„ 8s., 9s., 10s.. and 13s. 6d. each ;
Gent’s elegant Compasses, latest designs, 8s.,
10s„ and 12s. 6d. each ; Gent’s Oriental Gold Al-
berts, handsome patterns, 6s. 6d. and 10s. each;
Gent’s very latest American Rolhd Gold Al-
berts, made specially.to our order, 17s. 6d., 30s.,
36s., and 30s. each.
ORIENTAL GOLD
Is the latt st discovery of Science and the grandest
achievement of the alchemist’s art. It looks like
gold, it is as heavy as gold, and it is more enduring
None but an expert can detect the difference, and
then only by the severestttests. Ornaments made
Irom this new composition are equal in design «nd
general appearance to those made of the finest
18-oarat gold, and yet we sell them at but a tithe
of.the Cosr of the genuine goods.
Remember that we do not pretend that Oriental
Gold is anything but a composition of pure metals;
but we do affirm that it is so perfect an imitation
of the sterling gold as to almost dely detection.
Jewellery made of it may be worn anywhere, and
the closest Inspection will only strengthen the con-
viction that it is real gold. So perfect is it, and so
large has our trade become, that jewellers through-
out the colonies are complaining of the dullness in
trade, and are constantly writing to us to secure
our goods for their own customers. But as we are
Sole Agents for these colonies, wo prefer to deal
directly with the public. All of our Oriental Gold
Jewellery is made to our order, and is stamped
with our trade mark. You can order anything
from a Scarf Pin to a Watch and Chain, and it will
be sent Post Free, and at our risk, on receipt of
price.
SPECIALLY OBSERVE.
Should you be dissatisfied with your Investment
alter inspecting the articles, re-pack them at once
and send them back to us. If this is done within
two days—or where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not Injured -we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will refund the
money for the artieles.not retained. Fair dealing
is our motto, and we bind ourselves to give satis-
faction. Examine our catalogue, and send in your
order for what you may require.
The Oriental Gold Company have been ap-
pointed Sole Agents for the AUTOPHONE- price,
30s.; also for the ROLLER ORdAN— price, 40s.
No house should be without one of these charming
little instruments.
A POPULAR MINSTREL MADE HAPPY ;
OR, FROM JEST TO EARNEST.
“ For seven years,” writes Mr. Horace Bent, of
the Federal Minstrels, “ I have suffered from i n
acute neuralgic affection of the right knee and
rheumatic gout, which bccimo so severe during
our season at the ‘ Gaiety ’ in September, ’83, that I
was obliged to relinguish the active duties of my
profession and keep my room for a couple of days.
I bad tried several strong liniments at various
times, some of which gave me partial relief. In
the course of my lecture and sketches I had fre-
quently mentioned, jocularly, St. Jacobs Oil; but
it never occurred to me to apply it to my own ail-
ments until a friend who happened to be in my
room whilst I was complaining of intense pain re-
minded me of its claims, and sent out for a bottle
right away. I ured a little of it immediately, and
found Instant reief. repeating the application
again later on in the evening. From that night I
have never felt either the neuralgic affection of
the knee or the rheumatic «out return, and I
would have sent you this acknowledgment earlier
but I thought it best to thoroughly establish the
permanence of the effect; and have to subscribe
myself a firm believer in the virtues of St. Jacobs
Oil.”
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.S.W.*
price 2s. 6d. per bottle.
gT THIRTY SHILLINGS.
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone X
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Thbatrb ROTAI/—“ Little Red RidingHood ”. .p. 8
Opera House 11 Bobadll “*•
Gaiety THBATUE-Montague-Turner Opera ] . ID.
Academy of Music.—Hiscocks F. Minstrels ib.
During the earlier part of the week the
Turners relied on “ Carmen’ and Lucia c *fL*2?5
the “ ghost ” moving. On Friday and Saturday
they produced a new and lovely work called
“ Marltana,” which contains many airs almost sure
to become popular. The scene of this melodious
little trifle appears to be in Spain, and the writer
-whose name is at present a secret-deserves the
greatest credit for the manner In whichi he has
seized the salient points of court and domestic life
in that romantic country and given expression to
them in fascinating song. The of the
niece, too, is of the soundest, and fathers of
families need have no hesitation in attending its
representation with their wives and grown-up
daughters In fact, the way Marltana-a poor
strolling slnver, with nothing but her tambourine
and her virtue to fall back upon in time of sorest
temptation—spurns the love of no less a person
than the King of Spain, and clings to her lawful
husband, should be a lesson to—quite a number of
people. « , .
But it is of “Lucia” we would speak. It
drew good houses on Tuesday and Wednesday.
■ L'he bucolic element of our people was well repre-
sented. They didn't “ babble o’green fields, but
they smelt of them. Every agricultural, pastoral,
and mining odour from Sllverton to Parramatta
was represented, and the effect was depressing or
pleasant according to the place your neighbours
!iailed from. A body of determined-looking men
in the nit appeared to hold in force a strong and
isolated position. The general public good-natur-
edly left them to themselves, and, indeed, seemed
reluctant to press upon them too hardly They
were woolwashers from the Barcoo—mostly Cau-
cHSlan. but with a fair sprinkling of Chinese and
Negroes. In the gallery was one ferocious bandit
who watched the singers closely and worked In a
feu de 3 oie of claps and ’’aneores” whenever a
.muse in the music offered a fair opening for en-
thusiasm. Once he pounded away till, looking
round, he found himself the centre of a circle of
cold, murderous eyes. Then he relapsed into
gloom. , ,
Hearing “Lucia” for the first time suggests
to you that Donizetti must have scored It origi-
nally (and orcbestrally) for the flute and the big
drum alone. Subsequent masters worked in a
little here and there lor strings, reeds, and brasses,
leaving the flute part untouched. And now you
guess the cause of this little digression ? No ?
Well, It Is this—that the flute has a lot to do in
accompanying Lucia in her ’‘tantrums,’’ and so
you wonder why players will still stick to the old
eight or ton keyed instrument, with its unequal
holes, unequal tone, and doubtful tuning. Why,
it should long ago have been stowed away on the
highest shelf in some old curiosity shop. Now, the
artist who struggled with this primitive instru-
ment the other night worked his way through the
flowery music really well. But look at the way he
handicaps himself by not possessing a cylinder
flute, with equal holes and perfect Intonation!
Think how Radoliff’s Instrument, In proper hands
(his own, say), would have knocked ’em. The
story of “ Lucia” was told by Scott a good many
years ago. Scott was supposed to be one of the
writers who would last for all time. Who reads
him now ? Nobody. Who will read Dickens and
Thackeray in 50 years? About as many as read
Smollett and Fielding now. During this genera-
tion there have beeu published but two books
which will be read in a few years’ time-the “Ori-
gin of Species,” and “Leaves from our Diary In
the Highlands ’’—the one marking an epoch In
science, the other In literature. (Here, minion, go
round and chalk up another pint of “ wollop ” at
the corner.
* * *
The whole piece depends as much on Lucy
Ashton (Miss Montague) and Edgar (Mr. Turner)
us “Othello” on the Moor and his Ancient. And
we may say at once that they gave great satisfac-
tion all through. It is seldom we say this, but it
is squeezed out of us occasionally. And now that
we’ve said so much, those who “ boss” the show
should be frank, and tell us why they brought
Miss Harper on. Her bearing, her voice, her
ensemble t Get out. And Mr. England ? He was
a mediasval Scotch Baron. Those early scoundrels
had many peculiarities of dress, conduct, and
speech. But not one of them would have said,
“ Drawr near to me, Lucia.” And, if he had, she
wouldn’t have gone. She’d have waited to be
fetched. We have heard this refinement of lan-
guage in Ratcliff HigUway, but never in Inver-
ness. Perhaps we have anything el*e to say
about Sir Henry Ashton ? Well, not much—only
that If the Caledonian moss-troopers of a few cen-
turies ago were anything like him, they had an
uncommon resemblance to the tailors' dummies
ef to-day. “Lucia, why silent?” remarked her
stony-hearted brother with unnecessary vin-
dictiveness. And so all eyes were turned on
Miss Montague. You saw at once by her
bitter smiles made up of blighted affecTon,
want of sleep, and an Insufficient allow-
ance of porridge, that she wasn’t going to
hold her tongue long, and that when she did
meander in, things would be made pretty lively
ell round. And, sure enough, when she took a
hand she had the four aces. Of the other charac-
ters It is not necessary to say much. They came
like shadows—had a chirrup or two to which no-
body paid any attention-except, perhaps, the
hushmen, who regretted they hadn’t brought
boomerangs with them on their way down—and
left, as the Germans will leave Alsace—unregretted
by any.
* * * *
The season at the Royal commenced on
Boxing night. Of course, there were “perform-
ances ” on some previous nights during the week,
but they were as sad as Drogheda when Crom-
well’s troopers had done with it, or as Paris when
the Prussians were swarming under toe Are de
Trlomphe. But all this was changed on Boxing
eight. Then was produced, “ Little Red Riding
Hood, or Harlequin Boy Blue, the Good Fairy
and the Naughty Wolf, an entirely original,
grand, gorgeous, and grotesque ‘Christmas Panto-
mime,’ written by Frank W. Green, and localised,
jokallsed, and vocalised by Lance Lenton.”
• • *
This was not a bad start. Naturally, it
was not to be expected that an important work
like this could be “ local.sed, jokalised, and vocal-
ised” by even an inferior artist-let alone Mr.
Lance Lenton—and the old prices of admission be
still retained. So, when it was announced that 6s„
4s., ana 3s. were to be substituted, that there was
to be no pit, and that even the “gods” became
respectable for the occasion, and were re-christ-
ened “ the family circle,” there was a demonstra-
tion of public satisfaction. This was very well
for Boxing night, nut, on Saturday, in spite of the
good attendance, you could see ti at, owing to the
pantomime itself, or the new prices, or both, or
neither, the death-mark was already stamped
upon it-the undertaker in attendance—the cere-
ments prepared. Fancy a man earning 40s. a week,
saving (say) 3s. 6d. out of it, and then giving two
months’ savings to see a “grand, gorgeous, and
groteique” pantomime, even though bimself, his
missis, and four kids would have to say they sat
la the “family circle!” Likely, ain’t it? Thus
the change of prices will not be conducive to the
longevity of this “gorgeous” work —a fact
which may seem odd until it is remembered that
the charge was in the wrong direction.
• • •
And now for the pantomime itself. Is not
this species of entertainment rapidly becoming
anachronistic ? Did you ever meet anybody, ex-
cept a pronounced imbecile, who could sit one out
two nights running ? Then, again, the sparkling
writers who worship at the shrine of this descrip-
tion of literature—how they turn our old nursery
ta'es Inside out Just to suit what they consider the
public taste! We know that in the original and
only correct version of this domestic tragedy the
wolf not only “scoffed” the old woman—hunger
will make even a wolf disregard age and tough-
ness—but also placed an inside passage at poor
Red Biding Hood’s disposal. But those are mere
carpings, after all. Urged recklessly on by a stern
sense of duty, we’ve read right through this
“grand, gorgeous, and grotesque” pantomime.
And now you know why we are enshrouded in
gloom, walk moodily about from licensed victual-
ler’s to licensed victual'er’s, and startle casual lis-
teners by cruel and Irrelevant threats. Yet we
have seen the “localised, jokalised, and vocalised’
version only. What we now pine to see is the
original work, and then—and then, oblivion. The
curtain rises on the “lair of the goblin wolf,”
“ where he is a layer for all he can wolf." This, of
course, is not pleasant to start with. We hope for
better as we go along, and get this;—
“ Bother all the fairies good;
Their deeds we will overthrow.
For, be it clearly understood.
The whole hog wo mean to go.”
This fierce determination comes from Mother
Sblpton and a number of witches, who appear a
bad lot. Asked the news, Mrs. 8. tells, in a careless
way, what is happening among mortals. Mixed
up with other things, we learn that—
“ In Sydney things are bad ps I could wish.
For there each bnozsr can’t drink like a fish
In hotels till past eleven at night.
For Sproule is prowl-ing round—ne’er out of
sight.”
A little more:—
“ A female’s hast'ning here with hurried bustle
Or crinolette; if she is in the fashion,
Orin, Oh, let her—I’ll not fly in a passion.”
And:—
Fairy: “To spoil your games.”
Mother 8.: “Well, fairy, fairy well.”
And now we want to see Mr, Frank Green, and
bring a bloodhound with us.
♦ ♦ ♦
In this pantomime there are many pleas-
ant songs pleasantly sung. There is a good,
hearty chorus to Red Riding Hood’s song, “ The
dearest little darling.” A couplet from it will
suffice:—
“ I vow. my pet, I love you; your like I’ve never
seen;
And if a kingdom I possessed, I’d soon make you
my queen.”
But the people who are always so ready to promise
kingdoms and castles to young women, never had
any—not even in Spain. Tney usually begin life
with unfulfilled promises to their Sunday-school
teacher, pass along with unredeemed pledges to
publicans and hash-house supervisors, and end by
promising from the dock to turn over quite a new
leaf when they come out. We know ’em.
• ( (
We would gladly linger and cull a few more
blossoms of poesy from the work before us, but
they lie around so thickly, that selection is diffi-
cult. There are some quaint turns of thought
depending a good deal on orthoepy, and not too
easfiy apprehended at first, but well repaying the
time spent in grasping their true meaning. For
instance—
“ These are my trusty henchmen who.
If you’re not careful soon will bench Jure you.”
In the face of a threat like that, it is scarcely neces-
sary to say that the wicked baron lost all his brag,
curled up peacefully in a ditch in his domain, and
that even the wolf was visibly affected. What
became of the real wolf of the story ?-the brute
who destroyed the poor child and her grand-dam—
has never been satisfactorily settled. Some say
he came to Australia, changed his name, and his
descendants are thriving squatters on the Darling.
Others, that he married a fox. and that their pro-
geny, with scarcely one exception, have taken to
the law and the church. It is hard to say at this
distance of time what was his real end. Both
versions seem equally probable.
• • •
Most of the time, you see, we’ve been
speaking of the stupid things put in the mouths of
the performers. This species of inanity may be
inseparable from pantomime—may be a part and
parcel of it, in fact—but, if so, the authors should
have prepared us for it and not turn our heads all
at once with so much glory. And the performers ?
We had nearly forgotten them. Between the
mortals and immortals there was about as good a
show of feminine attractions as you would wish
to see. Miss Chambers (a new arrival) has every-
thing in her favour but size. Even this is favour-
able to her in many ways, although it may exclude
Lady Macbeth or Iphigenla from her repertoire.
Where she stows away all the sound that comes,
when called upon, out of her wee frame, is puz-
zling. As the fairy, Miss Pattie Brown is as oanti-
vating as she is good. And she is very good. The
Deorwyns have lost none of their attractions, and
when you see “Alice” as Red Riding Hood, you
half forgive the wicked Wolf for the interest he
takes in her. There is a company of witches who,
like many busybodles in real life, always have
some dirty job on hand. The Wolf (Mr. Seagrave)
was a truculent-looking beast with a determined
tail, which he did not appear to have under proper
contr l. He was at his best when sitting down,
and as he sat during most of the performance, his
efforts to please were received with approval. His
motions-probably owing to his tail and the gene-
ral “slop-mane’’ of his lumbar regions—were
occasionally a little eccentric, but be pulled
through without shocking public sentiment by an
unnecessary display of ferocity. Then there were
the usual dancing and harlequinade. Of these we
prefer to speak anon.
* * * *
Signora Fabris is a plucky lady. She is
giving us comic opera at the New Masonic
Hall, and she herself holds the baton. Her chief
object in giving opera is to encourage local
talent, which is right enough when there is any
talent worth encouraging. We scarcely think it
was wise to open the season with “ Don Checco,”
as there is neither scenery nor dresses of any
account to help it along. Certainly the music is
rather pretty, indeed in places it is more than
rather so, but on the whole the opera is feeble.
We are much puzzled to know where the Signora
picked up all those handsome chorus men. Why,
their stalwart lorms and noble countenances
would put even Verdi to the blush, and how Bar-
tolaccio’s body could be supported by such legs
is a greater mystery than a Chinese juggler. Mias
B de Fontaine as Carletto, is pretty and vivacious
enough for anything, and if she would only re-
serve those too constant clutchings at the side
where her heart ought to be, if she have one, until
she go«s in for tragedy, she’d be quiie too charm-
ing, even for us. Miss A. de Fontaine’s Fiorina
was also more than passably got d, and, in fact,
these two young lanies were undoubtedly the
mainstay of the opera. Don Checco (Mr. K. Rus-
sell) was well received, and showed a good deal of
aptitude for his part, but his make-up passed
our understanding. Everything went along
smoothly, which spoke well for Signora Fa-
bris’ di filing, and if the audience wasn’t a
very largo one, why, it shows the bad taste of
the people. Wo are promised a fresh cast to-mor-
row night, but by the greatest stretch of our
Imagination we can’t picture a fresher lot; why,
the biggest drawback to the present one is that it
is too fresh—quite too fresh—but perhaps the
Signora moans to be facetious. She is a clever
lady, and we don’t hesitate to say that if she had
anything like good material to work upon—as
good, for instance, as herself—there would be
nothing to prevent her giving us as good a comic
opera as it has ever been our lot to see in Sydney.
The next opera of the season is to be “ Maritana,”
with Miss S icrwin in the principal character.
That she wifi acquit herself well, as far as the
vocal part goes, we have not the slightest doubt,
but it is to be hoped she will dress the part better
than she did that of Lazarillo when she played
it at th<» Gaiety some time ago. Herr Patek is to
conduct “ Maritana.”
« • « «
Hisoooks and his pirates have been back
at the Academy for some time. Twice during the
week we interviewed them—once before and once
after Christmas. On each occasion there was just
standing room, If you were slim and kept a civil
tongue In your head. But if you happen to be
fat, or Inclined to be aggressive or to perspire
freely, avoid the Academy. There were the cus-
tomary melodies—associated with negro minstrelsy
since the time of Tubal Cain—indicative of a fixed
resolution to croon all day over your mother s
grave, and then dance all night with some “ yaller
girls” before the morning bell sounded for the
shovel and the hoe to get a turn, if the Southern
niggers were anything like this, we don’t wonder
at the Salem Scudders of the last generation wear-
ing out three cow-hides a day tor every reel of
cotton produced.
• ♦ •
With Hiscooks’ “ push ” the sloping—solo
and part—is always received (and deservedly) with
uproar—not the demonstrative uproar, mind you,
that sometimes prompts audiences to present per-
formers with cabbage stalks and turnips in the
absence of bricks or wooden blocks, but the noise
of approval so grateful to every artist, from
Irving to Johnny Cowan. Amery and Braham ap-
pear to be the favourites. The novelty of Beau-
mont Read has, in a measure, worn off, and—his
voice is not what it was. Keenan has a voice
that’ll get him inte trouble yet, and Bent—well, it
doesn’t much matter what he does, whether he
sings, or talks, or holds his tongue: the company
without him would be the Victorian Review
without Mortimer Franklyn, or the Assembly
wanting Buchanan.
♦ * •
Still, there’s a pood deal about this crush
that might be improved- Some of the farces, lor
instance, soon lose their grotesquerle and become
merely stupid. For instance, Bent’s “original”
sketch, the “Lost Child.” Of course, it was
original once, and so were the Peutateuch, the
cunielorm brick tablets of Assyria, and the
Moabite stone. You can stand it a lew thousand
times and come up smiling, but then it begins to
?et a little tiresome, till at list you wish this
errible kid were really lost, cr, if found at nil,
found in a lime-kiln or in a chaff-cuiter. F- r
years an “original” jeu d'esprit, called the
“Ghost,” kept the Kthiopian stage in England,
till at last the authorities had to interfere, wi'h
the result of a. gratifying reduction in the statistics
of “suicide” and “insanity.” And the N.S.
Wales Executive will have to step in yet, if the
public safety counts for anything. In the “New
Guinea Protectorate,” an “original (how the
word sticks in our throat), topical, tropical, absur-
dity,” and in the “Back Pantomime" many of
the more telling situations depend a good deal on
Mr, Samuel Keenan and his abysmal mouth. Ho
is good at most things. As a New Guinea Chief he
is, perhaps, at his best, because it is just here that
his mouth pushes itself to the front, if only to
demonstrate two facts: first, that the Creator
never made anything in vain; and, second, that
(on the assumption, of course, that Mr. Keenan's
slit at all resembles those of the slew Guinea aris-
tocrats) Lord Derby knew what he was about in
letting the Germans appropriate as much as they
liked of that island. Eve n Bismarck, if he once
saw that orifice, would pause in hie wild career of
annexation and think. In the “Black Panto-
mime ” Mr. Keenan showed a deal—p rhaps not
wisely but too well.
* * • •
New Opera House—“Bobaclil ” ! !
Here is a Tom Thumb (or little) story.
Five or six ballet girls—members of a travelling
opera company—were out fora drive in the green
lanes of— •* ell, say Nynmgce, when Arabella, the
shortest girl with the highest voice in the troupe,
remarked some farm labourer at work on a crop in
an adjacent padlock. “ What are they doing 7 ”
said Arabella to Frlvolette (a gay damsel). “ Why,
stripping, of course, can't you see. ’ Arabella
(whoso knowledge of agriculture was mainly
gleaned from farm-yard scenes in operas) couldn t
see, for she closed her eyes and blushed deeply,
and would have fainted—bad not a gin-bottle been
promptly applied to her lips. This story will serve
two purposes—it will either show that ballet-girls
are not such “giddy” creatures as thev are some-
times represented, or it will provide Alfred with
the materials for “ Another Indecent Exposure.”
No hospital needed for patients that use
Hop Bitters, as they cure so speedily at home. See
and believe.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
Hast and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 60$ Hunter-street, Sydney.*
Whatever feelings may actuate the pa-
ternal breast at Christmas-tide, certain it is that
the advent of the new year ot 18 5 will revive the
memories of “ Auld Lang- Syne,” and presents are
in order. Thousands of suitable tokens in dessert
and dinner sets are to be seen at Bray Bros, 402 and
404 George-stieet.*
An Admonition to the Public.—There are
impostures on the market purporting to be the
same as. equal, or superior to, a celebrated medi-
cinal beveiage of standing and excellence. Thesa
nostrums are compounded of unrectified spirits,
high wines, and pernicious drugs. Of course they
are hurtful in the last degree. The article of
which they are would-be rivals or Imitations is
Wolfe's Schnapps. Always ask for Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
How to tell Genuine Florida Water.-The
true Florida Water alwajs comes with a little
pamphlet wrapped around each bottle, and in the
paper of this pamphlet are the words, “ Lanman
and Kemp, New York.” water marked, or stamped
in pale transparent letters. Hold a leaf up to the
light, and if genuine, you will see the above
words. Do not buy if the words are not there,
because it is not the real article. The water mark
letters may he very pale, but by looking closely
against the light, you cannot fail to see them.
A Total Mistake. —“O mamma!” would
you believe it!” laughed a prettv girl from Bal-
main on her return from a down-harbcur picnic
on Boxing Day, "the boat jolted as we touched
the wharf and threw mo right into the lap of a
young gentleman from Woolloomooloo. it hurt
my back and side fearfully, but I didn’t care. He
apologised and said he was sorry as 1 had broken a
bottle of that celebrated tonic, Anheuser Busch
St. Louis Lager Beer, which ho had secreted in his
pocket.” “ What did you say ?” asked mamma.
I asked him to excuse me for landing so sud-
denly.” The young man’s face resembled a boiled
lobster as he departed.*


PEPPER AND SALT.
The charming Ada Spraggs, who shone as
a witness In the Waterloo outrage case, was pre-
sented at court on December 15th on a charge of
having no visible lawful means of support. Miss
Spraggs was said by two constables to be the
heiress of parents who keep a bad house, and to
be, herself. In the habit of bestowing her society
upon Chinamen. Her accomplishments, which are
the admlratlon]of a large circle of acquaintances,
are opium-smoking and getting drunk. Ada was
discharged with a caution, and we understand that
It is her Intention shortly to proceed to Paris on
a visit to her friend Isabella, ex-Queen of Spain.
We shall, in such case, entrust Ada with a oom-
mlsslon to inquire in our behalf from Her Majesty
who was the father of the present King of Spain ?
r £ Ad i m “ bta,, ° w«vi,i* to sk
rtere Plou. Billy mi,h, take a fancy to her vialWa
means of support. His most sacred Majesty is not
' thaD Davld was > when that other
a tdncy *° the
Ann f ° Judea fossicked ’.out for him.
And Billy la quite as pious as Dave used to be.
• • •
if v« re you u there > Mr - Blue-rag Booth? Well
onthe ?? y ° Ur llttle penoil sfcum P’ aa d
clean hoima a v, CU l ate wri 8tband tablets of your
S£ 8^ ,n ? ke a note of intern"
voun*? T u° re 8 a true tale told of a loving
y ung couple who lived on the Vale Creek, near
Bathurst, and who, seeing no just cause or Impedi-
ment against the fun coming off, trooped Into the
City of the Plains and were duly hitched by a
legally ordained sky-pilot. Being so excited with
joy or depressed with sorrow—it matters little
which—the bridegroom got properly corned, and
there was nothing left for the fair young bride to
do but bundle her newly-made lord and master on
to the floor of his cart, and drive him homo. Just
by way of getting up a little wholesome fun for
himself, a certain “ Creeker,” who was thought to
have amorous designs on the lady, wrapped him-
self up In a sheet, rubbed a lot of luminous paint
through his hair, and planted himself in a lonely
spot on the road where the wedding procession
had to pass. The bride, who was a staunch
daughter of temperance, saw the fearful sight,
and dropped dead on the track from sheer fright.
But the whisky-soaked joker inside couldn’t see a
hole in a ladder at the time, and so he peacefully
slumbered until the effects of the snake-juice wore
off, and in 13 months’ time he married another girl
who was worth £1500. That clearly proves that
where weddings are on the boom, whisky holds a
most decided bulge over even the very best
filtered water. Touching its valuable aid in the
case of death, we have only to refer to a recent
Tambo wire in the Rum which gleefully says: “ A
man tried to hang himself in the local lock-up last
night, but was unsuccessful. He was too drunk
to effect his purpose.” There you are, brother
Booth--whisky scores another “pint.” Had that
hJ9Q 'been a Good Templar, he would now be
furnishing a first-class land sale luncheon for the
Tambo worms, but, being Bacchus p Uni, he
fastened his belt round his heels and fooled away
his time trying to string himself up to the key,
hole. That man is alive to-day, and, in all proba-
bility, will amass wealth, hold a seat in Parliament
then peacefully die and go to hell at a ripe
cld age respected by all who know him. Verdict
for the defendant. Got thee behind us, Booth,
while we grip old Anacreon’s banjo and loudly
sing:
“ To-day we’ll haste to have our snree,
As If to-morrow ne’er should be;
But, If to-morrow comes, why, then —
Rip, boys! we’ll set ’em up again.
• * «
Bowen (Q.) must be a lively sort of a bone-
yard, if the following tale be true; and we think
it is, because we got it from a land-sale auctioneer
and we never knew one of that tribe to tell a lie
yet—except on business. It appears that a traveller
decorated with a beai d as long as that of a patri-
archal William-goat, called in to a tonsorial em-
porium (no less) in Bowen the other day, and
expressed a wish to bo shaved. “ Certainly, sir,’’
responded the knight of the lather-pot as hi
ulled off his apron and tied it round the patient's
neck; “pardon me, however, for observing that
your capillary integument manifests an Inclination
to disclose a scaly exfoliation which can only be
obliterated by using a bottle of my world-renowned
Hairium Restorium, price two shil ” “ I want
ter be shaved— goldarn yer physic,” roared the
new arrival; “ Kum right along with yer scraper.”
“De-lighted, sir, I’m sure,” exclaimed the barber,
as he dived out In the yard, and returned with
about a pint of steaming lather in an antiquated
salmon-tin. After a good coating of the paste, the
customer was fairly stiffened straight out by
the operator observing: “All right, sir, now—
where's yer razor?" “Where’s my razor?" ex-
claimed the customer ; “ why it’s at home la
Wagga Wagga-that’s where I come from-don’t
s'pose I carries it round In my boots, do yer?’*
“Ah,” sadly mused the tonsorial artist, as he
stroked his chin and abstractedly spat in the eye
of a passing cat; “that’s bad, sir-in fact, it’s
positively overwhelmin’. Y'seo, I’ve never had a
razor since Yaller Jimmy cut his throat with my
old ’un one day he had snakes in his boots bad, an’
thin the perleese collared it for everdense, an’ I
never saw it since. But look ’ere ; tell yer how
we’ll fix it. You’re a tolerably respectable lookin’
party when yer hat’s on, an’, above all things else,
you’re a stranger in distress Now, if you wouldn’t
mind slippin' round t’ th’ Perleese Magistrate, I’m
dead sure he’d lend you his, an’ then I’ll dance
round that old stubble o’ yours like a cooper
round a cask. Here, what’s that y’ say ? See me
dam furst, will yer ? Come back an’ do It. An’
look here, you ain’t paid me fur that lather,
either.” And then falling back into the chair the
disgusted customer had just vacated, the unlucky
barber murmured: “ Bust me, if some feilers don’t
give themselves as many airs when they come
here as if they was blood relations to Ponchis Pilate
or Joolyis Cmsar.”
Some Studies of Expression.
(A. REMINISCENCE OF DARLINGHURST.)


Here are two little gobs of glory from the
War Cry columns, and we hope we may be struck
political if we know whether it is better to laugh
or-weep on top of them. Junk the first says,
“Summerhill sisters doing a great business, and
rising nicely. Seven came out to give their hearts
to Jesus. The young buds are sweetest.” And in
junk the second we find—“Capt. Mott says: Last
Sunday I dressed up for Jesus, no doubt very
ridiculously to some people’s way of thinking.
But wisdom is justified of her children. TFc
emptied every grog bar in the place.” What a
glorious booze that must have been I And what
a nicely corned head the gallant Capting must
have had next morning.
• • •
It was G a.tn. by the Fish-market clock,
and he wandered hither and thither with a big
bream under his arm and about two inches of fur
on his tongue, on rum Intent. After a desperate
struggle, he traded away his fish for a glass of
what is facetiously called “ Woolloomooloo cham-
pagne”; but the effects of this quickly evaporat-
ing converted his former desperation into present
frenzy. He had been a bit of a poet before he had
taken to the boot-closing, so mouohed about until
he espied, through a public-house door, the land-
lady nursing a baby. Then he called at once for
pen and paper, like the man in the Christmas
story, and indited, upon the bar counter, the fol-
lowing burst of poesy:—
TO THE BABY.
Thy little ear is like a shell,
So pink and clear;
Thy little hand transparent is—
Thou art a dear!
Would I could ring for thee more rhythmic chimes
Than are contained, perchance, in these dull
rhymes I
But, mark! if I have not the gift to sing.
I’ve that to love thee, sweet unconscious thing!
To see thee sleeping, darling, is
For me sweet bliss;
Light-breathing innocent, with closed eyes,
Thy mother s only joy—thy father’s prize!
He presented these verses to the landlady, with an
anticipatory chuckle; but she, being unable to
decipher anything beyond the names upon the
’busses, sent it, with a puzzled air, up to the land
ord. In half an hour it came down again, en-
dorsed at the cack as follows: “i don’t cash no
■celery borders.” Then, wbh a sigh, the bard set
•cut once more upon the baby hunt.
The Morning Murmur’s leaders on
That Taylor-Barton case
Proclaim our Judges as unfit
To hold their honoured place,
And these same articles afford
The clearest evidence—
Not of the Judges’, mind, but of
The scribe’s incompetence.
Yes; though their Honors’ want of wit
Is never clearly shown,
The unhappy scribe successfully
Asserts and proves his own.
• ♦ *
“ On the 29th ultimo, Bishop Thomas, of
Goulburn, was summoned to the Police Court by
the Inspector of Nuisances, for driving round Sal-
vation Corner at a faster pace than a walk.”
Advance Australia! The glorious march
of improvement is now in full swing, and you can
no more cheek its onward career by the feeble
opposition of paltry politicians than you can beat
back the foam-crested billows of Manly Beach
with a hay-fork. A boy with three arms has just
been born at Bunbury, Western Australia. This
is the first cheerful result of the expedition of
King Hordern. Two-armed infants were well
enough until Hordern’s advent, but Nature evi-
dently foresaw that chaff-cutting machines and
steam saw-mills must speedily follow in Hordern's
tracks, and knowing from past records the execu-
tive ability of these inventions, she has felt that
a corresponding change in the human develop-
ment over there was a thing that would soon be
needed. Rumour says that Rockhampton has
trumped this Bunbury birth with that of a three-
legged boy, but we fall to see the wisdom of such
a case as this. It will cost more for boots and
breeches than the kid will be ever worth, al-
though, at the same time, however, we must
admit that if he should ever join the noble band
of six-days go-as-you-please pedestrians, he will
be able t® hold his own against all comers, as he
can always have an extra leg to bring into use
while one of the others is hanging out to dry. All
we can hanker for now is a woman with three
tongues. When that hisus naturae comes along
we’ll marry her straight away, and then issue the
prospectus of a monster sandwich manufactory.
* * *
The dear, innocent, old duck! Said Mr.
Justice Williams, in the Second Nisi Prius Court of
Victoria, the other day, “I thought costs were
only a secondary matter in every case, and that
when the plaintiff got a verdict he did not care
much about his costs.” “Wha-a-a-t!” shrieked
one of the barristers present, in wild dismay;
“ oniy a secondary matter, your Honor! Why
they are the life and soul, the Alpha and Omega,
the lock, stoclj, and barrel, the horns, hoofs, hide,
flesh, and tail of the whole concern; and the pro-
fession without costs would he a world without a
sun—a footless stocking, without a leg.” “ Only
a secondary matter, your Honor I” yelled another
forensic Cicero, with a glass eye and no brains:
“ why, without costs, the whole world would stand
still; costs are what the sunshine is to the un-
warmed soil, the dew to the thirsting flower, the
stars to the night, love to the heart, religion to the
soul, or a heap of dry manure to a hungry chicken-
Take our lives, your Honor! but, oh, touch not our
costs, for they are the very bone and marrow of
the sacred law Itself,” And then the whole of the
noble band, who, as Martial says, “Let their
words and their virtuous indignation out on hire,
by the day,” grabbed hold of their briefs and
trooped out of the court, looking as fierce as so
many hogs going to make war on a neighbouring
corn patch. “ Costs, only a secondary matter, Mr-
Justice Williams ! ” As if you didn’t know, you
sly dog, you.
* * •
The Mignonette mate and captain have got
six months each for killing and eating a boy. We
suppose this was a bad boy, or they would have
got more. Wo have killed several bad boys our-
selves (chiefly apprentices), and have got nothing
—but the price of their bones: the quotations in
this direction being, we may observe, abjectly and
contemptibly low. Once we slew a boy on our
commercial staff who was a good boy, and came to
us with a pea' h-like cheek and an orb whose beamg
alone bespoke the soul of honesty. That boy pre-
ferred to read his little hymn-book in his dinner-
hour, and complications of a financial nature were
the result. Out of respect for his [family we had
his bones “articulated,” and sent his relations a
bill for the amount. But they never responded.
So the skeleton of a well-made youth la still on sale
at the publishing department of this office. *' Be
in time!”
Here’s a little bit of ancestral-information
that’ll make Johnny Deeble’s stomach seasick
when he hears it. The previous title of the Hanlan
crowd was the O’Hanlans, and these In their turn
came from the sept or tribe of the Oh Anlauns
who bossed the district of Orlor In the county
Armagh, Ireland. The last of their chieftains was
Sir Oge O’Hanlan, who had his little bit of “ pro-
putty” confiscated over a high treason charge
towards the close of the 16th century. And—keep
your eye on this lot, Johnny—the word Anluan
literally translated, means “ The Champion.” Ah-
sit omen. But it’s true, for all that.
A new chum was stopping in the country,
n®t long ago, and as they were sitting together on
the verandah he noticed an agonized expres-
sion on his visitor’s face, which had suddenly be-
come extremely pale. At last the poor fellow
lumped up and cried: “Excuse me; I have often
heard of your terrible Australian mosquitoes, and
thought 1 should be able to stand them; but really
I shall faint if I stay here.” He was taken in-
doors, and ic was then found that he bad been
sitting over a wasp s nest, and that eight or ten
of the Insects were inside of his clothes and had
been stinging him lor some time before he gave
in to them. He was sick in bed for three days!
Fancy that I By a common Inspector
A Bishop lugged up to the beak I
Surely this is the honey—the nectar—
The pure golden syrup of cheek!
Now the Church is undone—now the scorner
Can scorn—now the mocker can mock,
For no Bishop may drive round a corner
At a faster pace than a walk I
An Awkward Customer.
“ THE] PORCUPINE WHEN ATTACKED BY A HOUND IS SAID TO LEAVE ITS BARBED QUILLS STICKING IN THE NOSE OF ITS ASSAILANT.”-Bu#on’8 Natural History.
Let the Protestant Plugger arise in
Its might, and o’erwhelm with its wrath
This new persecution that lies in
The midst of the clerical path.
Had it been but a curate or rector
’Twere then too much, by a long chalk:
But —a Bishop sued by an Inspector
For his pace being more than a walkl ! !
Now the curst Scarlet Person is trodden
To earth, and the People are free
To build Protestant shrines to thank God in,
Shall such an insult as this bo ?
J Tis too much 1 Strong to smite and to harry,
To bring Papist heads to the block,
Come and tackle this, Zachary Barry,
At a faster pace than a walk!
Why on earth—’tis with hot indignation
We ask—when a Bishop draws near
To the Corner where souls find salvation
Should he check his onward career ?
Ever since we were small as Jack Horner—
A good little boy in a frock—
We’ve seen Bishops pass the same corner
At a faster pace than a walk!


HEY WILL LOOK BETTER THAN NE
HAVE VOUR OLD
REPLATED BY,R.HELYER||
HEY WILL WEARBETTER THAN NEW
E
A U DE COLOGNE,
4711 4711.
Established 1792.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1873; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, s'rength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the 61ite of
Europe.
The large and constantly Increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only in
Kurope, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number-4711 changed into 7411.1147, 4117, &c., &c.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna-Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pitt-
street, Sydney.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
and Storekeepers, In town and country.
Annual Income exceeds One Mllliom
cow
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
wjSSS"
Department of Publio Works.
Sydney. 30th December, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
PLIES.—TENDERS are Invited for the fol-
lowing Publio Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
Department of Mines,
Forest Branch,
Sydney, 16th December, 1884.
NOTICE TO CONTRACl’ORS.
IT is pointed out to Contractors aud others cut-
ting Timber Reserves or Crown Lands, lor
use on Public Works, that they have no claim to
any concessions not given to the general public.
Licenses should be held in all cases, and Royalty
be paid for timber cut on Forest Reserves ex-
empted from the Ordinary licenses, as prescribed
by the Timber Regulations.
This notice does not refer to timber cut under
authority of the 3rd section of Act 30 Victoria No.
14, or of the 5th section of Act 31 Victoria No. 8.
JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
SENT FREE, by POST ONLY, in an Envelope.
SOCIAL SCIENCE,
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders which
cause Impediments to Marriage, and all
Curomc Diseases; also, How to choose a partuer
for life, so as to live happy and produce healthy
cnildren ; and how to regain and preserve your
health, &c, &o.
Address: R T. fELBT, Medical Herbalist,
Dovonsbire-street, Suit/ Hills, Sydney.
To Cleanse the Skin,
scalp, and blood of itching:, scaly, pimply, scrofu-
lous, Inherited and contagious humors, blood
poisons, ulcers, abscesses, and infantile skin tor-
tures, the CtJTicuRA Remedies are infallible.
Cdticdba Resolvent, the new blood purifier, ex-
pels disease germs from the blood and perspira-
tion, and thus removes the cause. ruTictmA, the
great skin cure, instantly allays itching and inflam-
mation clears the skin and scalp, heals ulcers and
sores, restores the complexion. Cuticctra Soap,
an exquisite skin beautitter, is indispensible in
treating skin diseases, and for rough, chapped, or
giessy skin, blackheads, blotches, and baby
humors. CtmctruA Remedies are the only infal-
lible blood purifiers and skin beau fillers.
everywhere. Cuticura, 50 cents; Snap. 25 cents;
Resolvent, $i. Rottee Drug and Chemical Co..
Rostov, Mass.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
We quite believe in all you say—
we’ve said the same ourselves at various times.
Yet w© don’t publish your letter. Well, you see,
we've many reasons. As a rule it is not wise to
give reasons, but We give you a couple. Your
letter is too crude. It nas plenty of strength—of
thought and expression—but the strength is not
properly organised; never brought down with
proper empnasis on the weak points of the
enemy’s armour. Then, again, it deals with sub-
jects having no Immediate Interest for Australians,
and yon cannot guess how hard it is to interest
Australians (for the matter of that, anybody) in
things remote....”G. Bromby” (Port Augusta):
Weoannotsay. We trust none....“J.D.”: Thanks.
...“Aqua”: Received; wlllsee....”A Correspon-
dent”: No; we shall not insert It—it is un-
generous, unmanly, unohlvalrous. Women have
enough to bear. In decency’s name, let them alone.
,...“P. Feely”: Thanks Your letter is encourag-
ing... “ J. C. Rudder”: We never decide wagers;
but, all the same, Bismarck was born in 1815—
Waterloo year. The Germans hope he will live
well into the 20th century—the French regret that
a sausage or a sam-culolte hadn’t choked him in
1870 “W.H.G.”: Your poetry is flrst-rate.
We’ve sent it to the Evening News. .. .“ K.”;
We’ve already said something of thlsnon-alcohollo
rum Wolseley took with him to Egypt. If any
great disaster happens to the “ camei corps” about
Khartoum, we snail know to what to attribute
it. Tommy Atkins knows what he’s about
“ Durdles” wants to know, in a letter punctuated
with expectoration, whether “ there is or was
a lady in Mrs. Langtrv’s Company by tho
name of Miss Minnie Bell, also if she is mar-
ried or not.” Don't too many answer at
once. Pipe up, Minnie, and speak for yourself —
“John Shroeder ” (at least that’s what the whole
strength of the office make of the name) New-
castle: “Are professional gentlemen exempt from
being forced into the ranks as a common soldier.”
Well, John, it depends on what country you are
speaking of. In England, no man. professional or
otherwise — except, perhaps, the professional
loafer, who must, occasionally, do something for a
feed—is forced to be either a general or a drum-
mer, There, military service is voluntary,
and, consequently, on the merest hint of
danger, we could put enough men In the field
for the French, Germans, or Russians to wipe
out with one determined hiccup. We are better
off in Australia. Here, soldiering is free also, and
’twouldu’t take even a hiccup to cause a masterly
retreat. In most European countries, everyone
—professional or not-has to serve. The Millenium
will probably be in sight when the Italians clap a
matchlock in the Pope's and order him to
look after the passes of the Alps. “How is Mon-
treal pronounced ? ” Just as It la written “H.
S.” : Your poem, “ A Voice for the Sheep that
le each Year of Thirst,’’Is suggestive and spirited.
The pressure of the holidays keeps us from giving
it in the leading columns, but there are a few
verses which demand insertion somewhere—if only
in a stove-pipe :—
Thought, feeling, rhythm, and rhyme are happily
blended her®. We, too, have prayed for water,
and we got it—In our milk. Persevere, “ H. Q.
He who throws into the cause of the dumb animals
enthusiasm and poesy like yours has a future
before him, both in this life and the next
“M.S.”: Any music seller will tell you “Ad*"
Received “ Victim You say the official in
question has been proved to be an undeniable em-
bezzler, and yet no action has been taken against
him. Then you ask for our opinion on the subject.
Wo have none to offer just now, and never will,
until you let us know the exact amount em-
bezzled. If It happens to bo a “fiver” only, the
fellow is a condemned paltry thief, and deserves 30
years in gaol. If £500, he is only a defaulter, and
six months would amply meettbe ends of justice—
o»pecially if he happens to be “well-connected.” If
the amount totals £5000, we call it “temporary
appropriation,’’ and you've got to be careful about
“taking the law ” on a gentleman who is troubled
that way. But, if the coin runs up to £50,000, we
would call him a brilliant financier, and willingly
walk barefooted over a ten-mile stretch of oyster-
beds in order to get a chance to bury our beads in
the mud and do a good old grovel towards him.
Turn up your Juvenal, and you’ll find, In Sat. x.,
be sings:
-*• Fraud and adultery with a small estate
Are damning crimes; but venial with a « reat;
Venial ? Nay. graceful; witty, gallant, brave.
And such wild tricks as gentlemen should have.”
The world’s pretty much the same to-day as it
always was, and good oonnooiions—like charity-
cover a multitude of sins...” Mao ” (N.Z.): There Is
something in what you say about Sectarianism.
We never treat honestly meant advice with con-
tempt, but we don't always take it. Thanks, ali the
same.
Vive, Le Roy! shouts the glad editor of
ihe Kiama Reporter; and with reason, too—for
Le Roy has (to use the disgustingly original lan-
guage of the joyful scribe) “supplied a long felt
want in the township” by opening at great expense
a fried fish saloon in the same street as the office
of the Kiama Wilson. Naturally enough, the hun-
gry editor thinks “ this is a step in the right direc-
tion"—and so do we; because the Reporter is
printed on good strong paper, and, not being dis-
figured with too much ink, it makes one of the
most suitable fish-wrappers we ever saw. Besides
this, Professor Huxley says that a fish dipt is the
very best brain-producer that can be had; and,
judging from the literary qualifications of the
Reporter, we know of no persons who stand
more in need of a brain-forming agency than the
staff which runs that cheerful little journal. A
whale or two taken every day for about ten years
would, no doubt, enable the Terralong-stroet
Macaulays to Terralong [whew! Eo. B.] until they
managed to give us something more Interesting to
read than fly-poisnn-paper “ads.” and humorous
selections culled from the side-splitting pages of
the Government Gazette. Therefore, Vive Le
Roy, once more. And, now. bring along the
savoury squid and cerebellum-building cat-fish.
He was a clerk in search of a job, and
haVing hied into the office of a well-known firm in
Pitt-street, the principals of which are justly cele-
brated for their outward show of sai.otlty, he was
duly catechised as to his abilities, &o., by the two
pure-minded bosses. Everything about him gave
the greatest satisfaction, and the agreement was
about to be signed and scaled, when an old man
rat happening to dart across the door, the new
candidate for office, springing off his perch, ex-
claimed. “Look out—there’s a d— —d rat, by
thunder I” That clerk is still out of work, and
busily employed reading up the lives of the Holy
Fathers.
All that glitters is not gold, neither is all
that sparkles, Sauterne nor Chateau Lagrange,
Such is the cheerful information we get from the
giddy old Hunter-street dame, who, speaking of
the grape-pressing games going on in France just
now, observes: —“ Every little peasant in the wine-
growing regions is busy, with his wile and chil-
dren, if he has any, treading the grapes in the
great vats into which the great baskets of grapes
are thrown as gathered ; the mouldy or withered
bunches, with any spiders, snails, or occasional
leaves that may have been torn off in the general
gathering, all going into the vats together.”
That’s not very refreshing news for the lovers of
the “ glorious vintage of Champagne,” of coarse;
but, nevertheless, the tramping process Has its
recommendations, because the human foot, un-
like a mechanical press, does not crush but merely
bruises the akin of the grape, and that does not
liberate the bitter matter contained in the husk,
which matter is certain ruin to any wine. What
the eye does not see the heart doesn’t fret over in
the least, and, therefore, few will thank Granny for
raking up unnecessary information —which, by the
way, was as well known as the death of Queen
Anne long before the old duchess thought fit to
print it. And. talking of the Iperspiration process
reminds us that in a certain brewery, which shall
bo nameless until the Christmas presentation sea-
son is over, a powerful buck nigger was employed
attending to the vats. One flue day thisculler’d
pusson was declared to be non ext; but, as it was
generally believed ho had cleared out for his little
log cabin by the old Kentucky shore, no further
bother was made about his absence. Soon after
this, however, the tanglefoot connoisseurs about
the district began to notice a decided improvement
in the beer sent out from this particular brewery.
There was—as they declared —more “ body” in it
than there was in former days, and it had a fine,
full flavour about it that was equal to the very
best British over bottled. The result was that the
consumption trebled the previous average; the
brewer waxed fat and prospered, and orders were
given to arrange for further additions to the
brewery. Then it was that the secret of the con-
noisseurs’ joy leaked out. The unfortunate nigger
had fallen into one of the vats, and it was the con-
centrated essence of him that had given the subse-
quent beer “brews” that particular body and
flavour for which it was so justly celebrated. This
may not be quite so appetising an item as that of
Granny’s, but it's strictly true; and truth is such
a scarce Hem just now, wo make no apologies for
trotting it out whenever a fair opportunity offers.
An Extensive Ironmongery and
Machinery Firm.
MESSRS. ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
Perhaps no greater proof can beadduced to show
the prosperity of the Colony than the liberal man-
ner in which capitalists embark in colossal busi-
nesses in our city, and it is one of these under-
takings we now desire to introduce to the public
of New South Wales. Some twelve years since,
the late Mr. Andrew Drysdale and Mr. James
Alfred Roberts brought their combined experience
and capital here, and started in bus : ness as Iron,
Hardware, and Machinery Merchants, under the
name or style of Drysdale and Roberts. Both the
members of this firm rapidly gained the esteem of
their fellow-citizens, and by untiring energy and
perseverance they laid the foundation of one of
the largest connections in this hemisphere. In-
deed, all those who had the pleasure of v siting
the Great International Exhibition which was
held in Sydney in 1879 will at once associate with
it the name of Drysdale and Roberts, who exhi-
bited perhaps the largest collection of Hardware,
Machinery, and Implements ever shown together
at any national or other exhibition, besides which
they actually provided the motive-power for all
the machlnerj exhibited at work during the time
our Garden Palace was open to the public. Mr.
Roberts, however, having realised his ambition by
the success of the Exhibition, and having other
businesses in the sister colony, retired from the
firm shortly afterwards, and Mr Drysdale, having
become associated with the Messrs. Briscoe a n/i
Son, of Wolverhampton, still carried on the flpin
as Briscoe, Drysdale, and Co Mr. Andrew D/ys-
dale, being in failing health, desired to recruit by
a trip to Europe, but to the intense regret of all
who knew him he passed to that boon e from
whence no traveller returns early last year (1884).
The old cherished associations offorcu by this
colony, combined with the undoubted prospects
of a renewal of the Drysdale and Roberts trade
with the natural additions caused by the develop-
ments of time, have induced Mr. Roberts once
more to embark into business under the name and
llrm of
ROBERTS. CHALMBERS, & CO.,
5t York Street.
With him is associated Mr. R. J. Alcook, the
managing partner of the well-known llrm of
Messrs. James Service and Co., Melbourne, the
head of which house is the deservedly popular
Premier o£ Victoria. Besides Mr. Aloock, there
are two members of the firm who held for many
years the highest positions in the house of Drys-
dale and Roberts, and who have for the past three
years had the sole management, under power of
attorney, of the Messrs. Briscoe's business. These
gentlemen are Messrs. Q. C. Chalmers and R. G.
Watkins, both extremely well-known and ener-
getic business men. With such a team, we can
predict a success such as they are bound to deserve,
and we look forward to the Arm of Roberts, Chal-
mers and Co. occupying the foremost ranks in
the Hardware trade.
General Ironmongers, Storekeepers, En-
gineers, CoACHngriLDEHS, Railway and other
Contractors, Builders, and the Squatting,
Farming and Mining Community will be catered
for and actively canvassed, while Messrs. Roberts,
Chalmers and Co. purpose to push their trade
throughout the whole of this colony ; and not
alone this, but vigorous steps will be taken to
secure business from Queensland, Tasmania. New
Zealand, New Caledonia, Fyi, and the Islands The
head warehouse of tho lirtu is at 54 York-Stroet,
and tho building is perhaps one of mo largest and
best in the city. There are six spacious tiporfij
besides basement, and all are fitted up with the
most modern conveniences for this class of tradb.
The whole of the fiats are well lighted and readily
accessible by patent-safety lifts worked by a
powerful engine. For the storage and display of
Machinery and Implements, Messrs. Roberts, Chal-
mers, and Co. have built a very large warehouse
In Hay-street, and running right tnrough to Vlc-
torla-street. At the side facing the latter street
extensive racks have been erected for the storage
of Bar, Sheet, Plate, and Hoop Iron, while ample
room has been allowed for Galvanized Iron, Oils
Fencing Wire, and Shearing Supplies, all of which
will be largely dealt In.
To Ironmongers and Storekeepers it will no
doubt be a convenience to And one Individual
house which will be able to supply old and recog-
nised lines in trade, while at the same time it will
be assured that every arrangement has been made
to have the latest and best improvements of either
English, American or Continental manufacture In
every branch of the business. Independently of
this, the firm under notice has laid itself out to
supply everything from the proverbial needle to
tho anchor or steam-engine: so that, no matter
how diversified tho order may be, the customer
may rely upon execution in its entirety.
Engineers will recognise the importance of be-
ing able to obtain their fittings selected with care
and experience of years amongst them. The stock
of machinery is replete with Engines, Boilers,
Lathes, Drilling, Slotting, Shaping, Punching and
Shearing Machines of the most approved makers,
and tho minor details of the trade are carefully
looked after.
Saw Mill and Joiners’ Machinery is well
stocked, and the firm promise to this branch an
extensive collection of English and American
Band and Circular Saw Benones, Planing, Surfac-
ing and Tongueing, and Grooving Machines, Jig
and Swinging Cut-off Saws, Mortising and Boring
Machines, and an endless variety of Saws and other
saw-mill appliances.
CoachbuildkRS have been cired for, and per-
haps there is no trade where greater care should
bo exercised than in the selection of coach
materials. However, Messrs. Roberts, Chalmers,
and Co. have made special arrangements for regu
lar shipments of Second-growth Hl< kory Spokes
and Rims, Rock Elm Hubs, best selected Shafts,
Polos, Whiftletrees and other woodenware. Large
consignments are to hand of Coach Ironwork.
Axles, Springs, Paints, Colours. Varnishes, etc , of
American aud English manufacture Novelties
in fittings and tools are well represented, and in
themselves betoken the interest evinced by the
firm in this special line.
Railway and other Contractors also have a
department allotted to their requiremen's, acd in
it may be seen their staple lines of Picks and
Sborels, though these give but a laint idea of the
provisions made by the firm for the supply of
other necessaries, such as Powder. Dynamite, Fuse
Detonators, Oils, Grease, Bolts. Spikes, Hoisting
and other Engines, Pumps, Hallway Waggon
Wheels and other rolling stock, together with the
innumerable sundries inseparanla from large con-
tracts for the Public Works of the Colony.
Builders will also find complete stocks of what
Is termed Builders’ Ironmongery, and which com-
prises everything from a Tack to a Lock, an 1
thence on to Register Grates of all conceivable te-
signs.
t-QUATTERS may, In another department, see tho
latest ideas in the way of Sheep-shears, and in the
relative merits of these useful tools there seems
but little unity of opinion amongst the shearers.
Some appear to lean towards the double bow of
one or other maker, others prefer the single bow
shear, and last yesr the acme appeared to be
reached when ihe e qualising shear came on tho
scene; however, here the firm appear determined
to satisfy all, as every design is represented.
Wooloacksof glossy appeara nce, Seaming, Replug
and Fieece Twines, with Washita and Turkey
Stones, all have their place, while below Is stored
the Boiled Oil, Raddle, Lampblack, and Colour
used in the shearing process.
Messrs. Roberts, Chalmers, & Co., have laid in
'stocks of Iron and Steel Wire, from No. 4 to No. 16,
both round and oval in shape, irrigation and Con-
servation of Water will occupy tte attent on of
the squatter, and for this Ihore are shown Dam-
making Ploughs, Earth-scoops of various designs,
Windmills, Pumps, Whims, Duckets, and other
requisites. Several wool-washing plants are now
in course of erection, and tenders are being con-
stantly given tor others.
Farmers are keenly alive to the necessity of
obtaining labour-saving agricultural implements,
and whether it be in the tilling of the soil or the
gathering of the harvest, the speedier the work,
and the less the labour attached to it, is the main
object. With this prominently before them, the
new firm have imported many novel macnines,
which will no doubt come under the farmers’
notice in due course, and they have also a great
collection of Single, Double, and Triple Furrow
Ploughs, Harrows, Seed Drills, Cultivators, Horse
Hoes, Hay Rakes, Threshing and Winnowing
Machines, Chaff-cutters, Corn-crushers, Malt Mills,
Horse Gears, Water-carts, etc.
Horticulturists will find all they require in
the shape of Garden Rollers, Lawn Mowers,
Sprinklers, Hose and Hose Reels, Pruning ana
other Shears, Hoes, Hakes, etc.
Mining Machinery is exhibited at the Hay-
street premises, aud comprises Wit. ding and Pump-
ing Gear, both separate and attached to Portable,
Semi-portable, aud Fixed Engines from 4 to 10
horse power. Batteries ean be supplied without
loss of time, and a specialty is made of an improved
crucible steel rope which materially lessens > he
danger to miners ascending aud descending suaft .
This rope has given tho best results of any yet in-
troduced, and it le most creditable to the mining
Investors that they aid in deducing to a minimum
the dangef to life and limb by Insisting upon hav-
ing this quality or steel wire rope, though the epat
is slightly in excess of the old nut less reliable
article. Cold-rolled Copper Ripple Tables are an-
other specialty of this firm, and they hold large
parcels of quicksilver and other requirements for
the mines.
Enormous Racks are filled with Bar Iron of the
best Staffordshire brands, Boiler and Girder Plates,
Galvanized and Black Hoop Iron, Black and Gal-
vanized Pipes and Boiler Tubes of all sizes, and
rows of cases denote the trade for Galvanized,
Corrugated, and Plain Iron.
The appliances for handling heavy goods in the
warehouses are perfect, and should enable Messrs.
Roberts, Chalmers, and Co. to execute orders en-
trusted to them with a promptitude hitherto un-
attainable, and we have no doubt that this fact
will prove a most valuable ally to the firm in
launching out upon what wo are confident will
prove a prosperous career.
“A VOICE FOR THE SHEEP THAT DIE EACH YEAR
OF THIRST.
“ For you wear armour of indifference,
Your hearts are steeled to their pain,
The visor of deep hypocrisy
Concealing from you your shamo.
“ The thrice ten million bleats of the sheep
Touch in your hearts ne'er a cord;
They could not possibly plainer speak—
Their cries convey more than words.
“ And as the cry goes up to heaven
Its depth its hearer appals,
Whilst peons of pleasure and gladness
Are resounding through your halls.”
This Is {good; but how limp and hobbling when
compared with:—
“ Pray for water! Base mockery!
It comes; ye conserve it not;
While ye revel in gaiety
Dumb animals die and rot.” •
SOLUTION OF MAZE PROBLEM IN CHRIST-
MAS NUMBER.


No good health with thin impure blood.
Hop Bitters makes rich blood, good health and
strength. Look up and read.
Many and varied are the presents suitabl
for New Year's Day at the Chinaware and
Crockery Establishment of Bray Brothers, 402 and
404 George-street. Everyone should InspecD this
stock, as it is one of the most complete assort-
ments of quaint and pretty goods that has been
seen in Sydney for a long time.*
BRIEF MENTION.
The “ Glass of Fashion ” : The wine-glass.
Companion piece to Arrah-na-Pogue:
Arrah be jabers.
New South Wales is the mother colony—
West Australia the farther.
They’re “ raisin’ cane” wholesale on the
Queensland plantations.
The Nooze reporter who was “ up to
snuff,” has got as far as tobacco.
A valueless check: Giving a confirmed
Swindler a short imprisonment for forgery.
A Darling Point dude wears bracelets
on his wrists. It is an hereditary trait. So did his
grandfather.
The “ Christmas waits” in Sydney. The
“ waits ” for trmas that run on the go-as-you-
please system.
ffiThere is a thief in Victoria whose pilfering
Instinct is so strong that he actually shook tfae dust
off his feet recently.
The reason of the chilly articles iin the
Shroud is said to be the result of damping the
paper before it is printed.
People who subscribe to the Shcroud
should also take The Bulletin. The one is the
bane—the other the antidote.
A religious item: The Pope has put tin
petticoats on all the female statues in the Vatican.
Pious old gentleman? the Pope.
Why not add “Van Winkle” after the
word “Rip” in mortuary advertisements? It
would bo impressive, if not elegant.
Suicide by cutting one’s throat with a
razor is a nice quiet way of "crossing the border.”
if you don’t want to razor row about it.
Thepropositlontoburnt.be Mallee (Via)
scrub la order to get rid of the rabbits is practi-
cally letting tbs question “go to blazes.”
“Mr. O’Brien is a professional Irishman,’'
says the London D.T-, which la rather neat. There
are several “professional Irishmen” In Sydney.
Eh, Dan ?
It was once thought that brevity was the
soul of wit, but the “ Brevity” column of the
Nooze has thoroughly dissipated this idea.
“ I want lodgings,” said a Rum reporter to
a Woolloomooloo landlady. “ What I with that
nose?” she said. “ Never I ’’—and slammed the
door instantly.
A Potts Point young lady was invited to
spend a month at Wilcannia. She declined be-
cause she heard the Darling is low there. She
hates low rivals.
A country paper has a paragraph on “ How
to treat cats.” Until now we never knew the
feline race were partial to stimulants. How would
a “ gin-sling ” suit them ?
A Shroud scnbe, whose forte is “muffin
struggle ” reports, says that ballet girls, like babies,
should be attired in long clothes. [That's because
he’s not allowed to attend the theatre.—Ed. B.l
The difference between Artemus Ward
and a Nooze scribe, is that Artemus could
spell correctly, but didn’t, while the Noozek can’t
spell properly, but does—thanks to the “ reader.”
“I say, my good man,” said a stranger to
a little wizened fellow in the street, “ can you
direct me to the Public Library.” “ I am not a
good man,” replied the person accosted, with some
heat; “ I am the Mayor.”
“ If all employers were like me,” said a
Domain orator, “ the sweating system would be
speedily abolished.” Would it f But fancy a
Domain orator knowing anything about sweat-
ing 1 The idea is absurd.
Yes, England is a free country. The
Queen is toasted several times a week in the old
land, and yet the perpetrators escape scot-free ;
and it is rare, Indeed , that the toast is not well
“ buttered” on both sides.
The 8 M. Herald is great on death notices.
An energetic statistician has discovered that the
majority of persons whose demises have appeared
in that journal were subscribers when alive! This
accounts for the milk in the cocoa-nut.
The Melbourne Argus speaks enthusiasti-
cally of a new gold-saving process. The common
woollen stocking'(two for a bob)—when you’ve
got the gold—is the best gold-saving process yet
invented :Jso says our respected grandmother.
In the recent Belgian anti-cierical riots, it
is alleged that the clericals, to make a show, en-
listed thousands of paupers, dressed them in
ready-made clothes, and gave them pay and din-
ner. They must have heard of the free selectors
who left Parramatta Asylum for Pucketaroo.
The Bendigo Independent recently ac-
cused Ballarat of being the Boston of Australia.
The Ballarat Courier didn’t retaliate by assert-
ing that Sandhurst was the colonial Chicago,
because the imputation of being a “ pig centre ”
is n’t reckoned (in Australia) a very high compli-
ment.
“Blue Ribbon” Booth, the ooldwater
swallower, is to lecture shortly in Melbourne, on
“ The Coming Man.” If the “ coming man ” will
be likely to rest five or six months of the year,
and do easy “ graft ” during the other part, like
unto Mr. Booth, all we can say is, «e trust the
“coming man” will change his mind and stop
away.
Last Friday a young ass, named Andersen,
attempted to obtain glory and a free cab-fare by
personating a detective. He drove t> giddy
places, and then vamosed. The Bench, however,
let him off. They probably considered he had
brought upon himself quite ignominy enough
already.
Two weeks «go a gentleman was fined £6
for beating a bailiff and allowing his wife to assist
in the fun with a knife. The value of bailiffs must
have risen of late. We remember when you could
kill one for that amount, and get the fine made up
by subscription before leaving the box. But those
were the good old days.
A country paper advertised for a turn-
over. The local baker, shrewdly suspecting a
loaf of bread of that name was meant, hastened to
the editor with a smoking-hot lump of alum-cum-
dough. The editor Informed the man of dough
that, although the particular turnover he wanted
was not of that kind, it would not be “ crowded
out,” as the “ pressure on his space” was very
limited. And we believe him.
Alfred’s brevity man has a grievance
against the St. Leonards Council. He says-re-
ferrlny to the lamp-posts lately erected in the
park—that “ the committee has had these posts
put up in the very centre of the pathway, quite
convenient for a collision on a dark night.” We
suppose he wants a wire hand-rail carriel on from
post to post. For ourselves, we fancy it would
cost less for him to sober up than for the council
to remove the posts. It is really about time now
that he did so.
Jones can’t understand why the dailies
make such a fuss about their double issue on
Saturdays. He says his wife comes out on Sunday
quite double the usual size In consequence of the
** special supplement,” but still never boasts about
it. He believes, however, that some of her neigh-
bours have a good deal to say on the subject We
asked him if there was any extra charge for the
“special supplement,” but he only crunched up a
milliner's bill, and glaring savagely at us and the
world in general, muttered somettiing about the
high rates ruling for steel—a remark that hardly
seemed to furnish the desired information.
Here is nn epitaph, of the candid and
truthful kind, for the benefit of Alfred. If It bed
been InIStoke Newington Churchyard, little Charles
Lamb might have never been Jed to aslc his sister
where the bad people were buried:—
In Momory op
So and So
A Bad Son,
A Bad Husband,
A Bad Father.
“ The wicked shall be turned Into Hell.”
This Is all.
How They Spent Their Christmas Holidays.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We than be plod to have this indent vested up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.]
RACING.
Bega January 14,15.
Sydney T.C January 36.
Lawrence J.C • .January26.
Blayney January 36,37.
New England February 4,5.
Burrowa J.C February’6, i.
Cootamundra T.C February 11,12.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 11,13,13.
Tasmanian T.C February 18,19.
Murrumburrah T.C. (Annual) February 18,19.
Glen Innes February 18,19,
Moree February 35, 26.
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb. 38, March 5, 7.
Tumut March 25,36.
Hawkesbury R.C March 26,28.
AQUATICS.
Snail’s Bay Regatta January
Anniversary Regatta January 26.
Hanlan v. Clifford February 7.
Clifford v. Beach February 38.
Beach v. Hanlan March 28.
Hanlan v. Clifford (if Clifford beat Beach)... .April 18.
Newcastle Regatta January 1,
Intercolonial 8-Oar Race April
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The wife of F. Archer, the celebrated
horseman, died on 8th November, three days after
her accouchement.
At the Auckland (N.Z.) Jockey Club meet
on Friday last, the Auckland Cup fell to Port,
Normanby second, four lengths away, and Wood
Nymph third.
It is reported that the American jockey,
M’Laughlin, has accepted Mr, Lorillard’s offer of
an annual salary of £3100 to ride for the American
sportsman.
The cricketers connected with Christopher
Newton, Brother, and Co., journeyed to Mudsree
for the Christmas holidays, and were defeated by
the local yokels by an innings and 74 runs.
At Wellington, N.Z., a twelve hours’ “go-
as-you-please ” match, for £35 a-side, came off
between Pettengell—who recently, by the way,
boxed Perry—and a ped. named Crofts. The latter
won. with 67 miles to his credit. Pettengell covered
miles.
At a recent billiard tournament in London,
won by W. Mitchell, J. Roberts, jun , made more
large breaks than any other competitor, scoring
upwards of 100 no fewer than ten times; but the
longest run throughout the handicap was 335, by
Tom Taylor.
At Worcester, Mass. (U.S.), in a running
hop-step-aud-jump match on Oct. 18, Thomas Bur-
rows, late of England, where he is well-known as
a brilliant performer in this style, is stated to have
cleared the unprecedented distance of 18ft. Sin. at
his first essay.
Harry Hutchens, of Putney, the cele-
brated ped. who is now in America, on November
1 made his debut on a Yankee running path, when
he was beaten by a man to whom he conceded 31
yds. His ill success was attributed to the
effects of the recent sea voyage. Hutchens is
stated to have run yds. in sec. and 300 yds.
In 30 sec.
Aquatic men are no doubt glad to hear
the Beach-Clifford affair has been fixed up all spry
for the 38th February. Mr. Deeble has forfeited
his £50 deposit; Mr. Jones—Evan of that ilk—holds
deposits to the extent of £100 aside, and on 37th
February, the day before the race, ho will receive
the final deposit, provided be is not absent at a
land sale, and Mr. Heebie does not forget such a
trifling event. No doubt it will come in time, but
we cannot just now forgive the principals in this
affair for fixing it up so quickly. We counted on
a quarter of a column a week for the next month.
They have in America a referee who for
extraordinary decisions would run the Mercantile
man who recently officiated on the Parramatta
a very clo c e rac . Oandaur and Teemer, the
Yankee scullers, recently rowed a dead heat over
a three-mile course wi h a turn. The race was re-
rowed, when Teemer’s boat commenced to leak
after rounding the stake,and Gandaur came in the
easiest of winners. And then came the decision
which placed the referee ou par with the Mercan-
tile man. He decided G<md«ur should take the
stakes, but all bets were off. This is beyond us, and
we feel too mean to try any comments upon it.
The Australian Jockey Club drew a big
crowd together for their Summer meeting on
Boxirg Day. Student defeated Pell Mell by a
length for the Hurdle Race; Queen’s Own made
an easy win of the December Stakes from Cardi-
gan; Brown and Rose started at 5 to 1 for the
Summer Cup, and justified the confidence placed
in her by winning cleverly by a length and a-half
from Lord Clifden, Merlin third, three-quarters of
a length away. The Selling Race fell to Paul, by a
length and a-half from Miss Livingstone ; the
Christinas gift was carried off by The Jewel, Man-
rico. two lengths away, second; Brown Ragle beat
Nellie Farren by a half length for the Two-year-
old Plate; and Little Dick (late The King) finished
the day’s sport by winning the A.J.C. Handicap
from Minerva (late Hawkesbury).
Bookmakers, so the Mayor of Nottingham
has ruled, are rightly described as “gentlemen”
—on nomination papers. We don’t like to depre-
ciate the value of this tribute of respect to
metallicians in general, by remarking that the
leading members of the Nottingham Town Coun-
cil are usually “books,” but such is the singular
fact. The celebrated lace town is the home of
several leading members of the English " ring,”
and the Mayor must have undeniable chances of
being put on a good thing now and again. Under
these circumstances, a Nottingham mayor would
hardly be such an ungrateful creature as to define
a bookmaker as other than a “ real gentleman.”
And why not, if it comes to that? There are
plenty of arrogaters of the grand old title, this side
of the world, who never had the remotest connec-
tion with any good thing, in the whole course of
their lives. Wo will stand Jack Thompson, at
evens, against the whole crowd of ’em.
It seems strange the Sydney “sports”
have never dropped upon the idea of professional
boxing competitions, light-weights for choice.
The "bantams” generally show more science than
the heavy ’uns, and as they do not knock the blood
and hair about to such an extent, they would not
be so likely to draw the authorities down upon
them. In London, these contests are as plentiful
as blackberries, and if they can be managed in the
world’s metropolis with propriety, we daresay
they could be brought off in this little village with
a like result. With regard to the Farnan-Jackson
squabble in Sydney, neither of the men showed
any punishment, and after a few minutes’ spell,
they were both as fit as when they commenced;
and had tho police shown firmness when the first
row took place, we believe Farnan would have
been allowed to win his fight, if such it could be
called. A light-weight competition in Sydney for
—say, £10, would draw any number of entries, and
should prove a money-making affair to the pro-
moters.
A novel match was decided at the Surbiton
Recreation Ground. London, Eng., on 13th Oct.,
between J. Rich, of Epsom, and G. Dicker, of Stock-
well, for £10 and a all ver cup. The conditions were
that each man should walk three miles. Rich re-
ceiving 300 yards start, and carrying a two-gallon
stone bottle on his bare head t' o first mile, a six-
gallon bottle the second mile, and a 561h-weight the
third; Dicker to carry a two-gallon stone bottle
all the way. Dicker began at once to gain very
fast, and in the first lap reduced Rich’s lead by
twenty yards, and at the end of the first mile had
(rained about eighty yards. When Rich changed
his bottle for the heavier one, he went still slower,
and Decker, who walked remarkably well the
whole way, closed up the gap very fast, until, on
entering the last mile, when Rich changed his
bottle for the weight, which consisted of a bag of
sand, Dicker was only fifty yards behind. Rich,
however, went off at a good pace, but still Dicker
held him and gained a little in each lap, and a fine
finish saw Rich a winner by barely twenty yards.
The time was 28 min. 30 sec.
Old Pendragon is never so happy as when
slating someone or something Australian. He
must have been suffering from a more than
usually bad bilious attack when he dropped across
Johnny Doeble’s now celebrated letter to the
Down and Gumtree. Says “Pen.”:—“A
loquacious busybody named Deeble has thrust
himself forward as the champion and representa-
tive of Beach, and in a long letter to the Town
and Country Journal insists on its being the
duty of all Australians, now that they have got
the championship, to do all they can to retain It.
‘ What guarantee have we,’ asks he, ‘that, if Han-
lan should defeat Beach, we should ever have the
opportunity of winning it again ? ’ Questions like
this, answered by the writer in a way to suit the
writer’s purpose, interspersed with suggestions
none too pleasant as to Hanlan’s ways of doing
business, make up the remainder of Mr. Deeble’s
effusion. There is no doubt that Hanlan has been
jockeyed out of his second race ; and, when such a
thing as this is certain, there is good ground for
supposing he may have been jockeyed out of the
first one.”
Says the Gazette of the Bombay Presi-
dency, in speaking of the games of Baroda:—
“Twenty couple of wrestlers open the games,
fighting rams rush on each other’s horns till the
loser, fairly stuck, falls on his back, every limb
shivering with pain; buffaloes attack one another
with incredible fury; the unwieldly rhinoceros,
with his blunted nose horn, enters more sluggishly
into a contest with bis brother, [and his wicked
little red eye belies his character; when one ele-
phant has turned his back, his vast opponent butts
ponderously into his side, and has to be frightened
off with rockets. The games, however, no longer
contain any great element of cruelty. Horse no
longer fights against horse; the rider no longer in
reality excites and then evades the enraged ele-
phant; man no longer wounds man with hands
armed with sharp steel claws. Not only cruelty
but sport is on the wane. Cock fighting has been
abandoned, the hogs and hunting leopards or
chitahs are fewer and less well-trained than they
were, the deer preserves are less well stocked,
wild pigs are more seldom met with, the breeds of
dogs and pigeons are degenerating, and the wrest-
lers are not incited to superhuman efforts by
princely rewards.”
Mr, Lees, the gentleman who performed
in Sydney with the Mlller-Foley combination, has
entered into a paper warfare with Farnan, and
offers to box Jackson’s conqueror, one to win.
When performirg in Sydney, one night, Lees was
asked to set-to with an amateur. Lees consented,
and when about to commence told a friend in a
stage whisper that he was going to have some fun,
and give the gentleman amateur a “ doing.” The
“doing” duly came off, but it was t’other way
about, as the amateur seeing Lees was “ hitting
ugly,” went in and gave him a thorough drub-
bing.” The amateur in question is a natural
fighter, and one of the best boxers, amateur or
professiona 1 , it has been our luck to see perform,
so that it does not show Lees is a perfect outsider
to be beaten by such a man. But we do not think
he would have much of a show with Farnan. For
the first round or so he would, no doubt, get on to
the South Melbourne man, but he has not suffi-
cient hitting power to knock out such a powerful
glutton for punishment as Farnan, and when he
commenced to tire, Farnan’s half-arm body blows
would make short work of him. Farnan is de-
void of all science, and would be easy prey to a
man of Foley’s hitting powers, with a terrible
right, but for a man of Lees calibre to tackle him
in anything but a newspaper Would be sheer mad-
ness.
We have received a letter from the captain
of the Balmain Rowing Club, in which he says:—
“ For your information, and in contradiction to
attached par. from your paper, I may state that
my boat is exactly the same, plank for plank, and
in eve’-y possible respect a fac simile of the Glebe
boat. It came from the hands of the same builder
only three weeks ago, and, instead of being under
the dimensions, is considerably over, and only 20
or 301b. heavier than any boat that competed
against it on Saturday. You will please do me the
favour of taking notice of this letter, as I do not
choose to have my club damaged by the errors of
your correspondent.” All this is about a par.
which appeared in a previous issue, with reference
to the Balmain representative—by the way, the
captain himself—rowing in an outngged craft for
the junior skiff race at the Glebe K.C. regatta. The
letter needs little comment. It will bo noticed
th? writer carefully refrains from reference to the
gist of our oar.—as to the outrigged swivels—and,
as to the statement that the boat was a quarter
heavier than any other craft in the race, we should
say from me way she sat in the water, it was the
opposite way about. If Mr. Frazer fancies we
wrote the par. with the idea that the boat was the
means of his winning the race, he makes a mis-
take. The trifling incidents that won the race for
him were: Tiley going inside the rounding buoy,
and Durrvll and Connolly fouling a sufficient
length of time to allow the Balmain representa-
tive to come up from a bad last to a brilliant first.
We hasten to put Mr. Frazer right in this respect.
At New York (U.S.), on 21st October,
Mitchell and Burke met in a so-called four-round
glove fight, winner to take the “ gate.” When the
men faced each other, it was noticed Mitchell was
broader-framed than his adversary, more set and
manly; but Bourke had a slight advantage in
height and roach. The first round was very equal,
the only noticeable feature about it being a clever
upper-cut by Mitchell on Bourke’s neck. The
upper-cut is like a knock-down blow—often talked
about, but seldom seen. To deliver a scientific
upper-cut, the arm has to be shortened, and con-
sequently the blow can very seldom be depended
upon. The best exponent of this particular blow
we ever saw was a heavy-weight amateur who
flourished in Sydney some fifteen years since.
Poor Jack, who used to stand, by the way, in the
same manner as our crack amateur of to-day—
right foot foremost—had met with an injury to
his left arm, which he was unable to straighten,
and it was with this terrible weapon he delivered
his upper-cut. If Jack got this properly on, as a
rule his arm was not the only stiff ’un in the room.
The second, third, and fourth rounds of the
Burke-Mitchell affair were much of a muchness,
and, as both men were fresh and able to go on
when time was called, the referee declared it a
draw, as, likely enough, the pair arranged it
should be before they entered the ring. The
Yankee papers give columns of the desperate
fighting ; but as Mitchell left off with a flushed
nose, and Burke's injuries consisted of a slightly
discoloured eye only, we are beginning to think
the sloggers of the present generation are
under a slight debt of gratitude to the
noble Marquis whose “Queensberry rules” are
now a household word in the best regulated
families, and which enables them to pocket the
“gate” for such trifling injuries, so different to
the punishment received in ;say) Tom Sayers and
Jack Grant’s desperate 64 rounds, occupying two
hours and a half, for a paltry £100. The Yankees
are, no doubt, smart in their way, but, judging
from the manner they are worked by the
“sports,” they must be, in sporting matters, the
greatest “ softies ” under the sun.
There is a rumour of a split-up in the
Mercantile camp over the late handicap race,
owing to the action of the committee in ordering
the contest to be rowed over again. It is of no use
raking up old sores, so we will pass over the
squabbles in which the Mercantiles have at vari-
ous times been mixed in the matter of judging
races, and content ourselves with saying that the
handicap race in question was the worst managed
affair it has ever been our lot to witness. The
various beats were rowed and judged without any
attempt at weighing in the competitors, and it
came like a thunderbolt to Seale’s .backers when
the commute' were seized with a fit of Zealand
weighed in the final, with the result that Seale was
found pounds short—though, by the way, no one
seemed to know what he really did carry—and
Williams was some time afterwards stated to be in
a like predicament. And then this original com-
mittee decided the final should be rewed over
again. Why the final heat only is beyond us. If
they could not see their way clear to give the
prize to Brett, who was entitled to it on the dis-
qualification of Seale and Williams, so far as the
final was concerned, how could they reconcile
themselves to only re-starting Brett, Seale, and
Williams, considering that Wflllams had won the
second heat unfairly, as he no doubt carried the
same weight as he did in the fleal. Reviewing
this matter fairly, in our opinion the committee
had but two courses open to them, either row the
whole of tho heats over again, or award the prize
to Brett. Not the least noticeable feature about
this remarkably managed race was the large
amount of money that was wagered, on the club
boat, as to the result. At boat races, both amateur
and professional, we see the same faces, and
amongst Ithem men who take little or no interest
in the sport, but who attend with a roll of notes
for the sole purpose of betting on the result, and
who would as soon wager on a contest between
two wood-bugs as on a horse I or boat race. The
betting was exceptionally heavy over the handi-
cap race we have under notice, and we feel assured
had there been less betting, tnere would not have
been such ill feeling over the fiasco. Our imbecile
Bowing Association have so far done very little in
the interests of rowing, but they would go a long
way to making amends for the past, if in the
future they made an effort to at least put down
open betting on the Association and Club
steamers.
Woman Items
She was a widow—fat, fair, and forty.
Much to the disgust of her 18-year-old daughter,
she was rapidly approaching her second matri-
monial venture. “ Don’t be afraid. Alberta,” she
said; “you know the proverb— Ce n’est quc le pre-
mier Pa qui coUe.”
The “ fan opera-glass ” is just coming into
fashionable use. The glass, very small and of tor-
toiseshell, is let into the fan, and the lady carrying
it has but to give it a dexterous turn to enable her
to scan the features of anybody piquing her
curiosity. It is a French invention, and in the
Faubourg it is known as the “ fan-spy a charm-
ing locution.
The Crown Princess of Sweden’s newly-
constructed ball dress is worthy of special descrip-
tion. It is a gown of salmon-pink satin, veiled in
long folds of tulle from the waist. At the edgejof
the skirt Is a thick ruche of waving “tipped”
marabout feathers, and the tulle over all Is be-
strewn with small plumes of the same shade,
placed singly. The pointed low bodice is of plain
satin, and the berthe Is a cordon of feathers,
which also border the sleeveless arm-holes, On
each point of the basque at the back a looped tab
of satin rests straight on the full gathered folds.
The effect Is most ethereal.
When Edison, genius and inventor that he
is, had given two weeks of his valuable time to
going up and down on the New York Elevated
Railroad trying to discover what caused its noise
and a cure for it,|he gave up the Job. Then a little
woman took it. She rode on the oars three days,
was denied a place to stand on the rear platform,
laughed at for her curiosity, and politely snubbed
by conductors and passengers. But she discovered
what caused the noise, invented a remedy that was
patented, and she was paid the sum of ten thousand
dollars, and a royalty tor ever. Her name is Mrs.
Mary Walton, and she lives in New York city.
The first Napoleon once observed, I have
found more benefit from an Inch advertisement
in the columns of a local newspaper than from all
the adulation that is offered at the shrine of im-
perial power.” The Little Corporal had a level
head when he said that, but he’d want to live in
this enlightened age in order to wake up to the Im-
portance of the advertising art. And, amongst a
myriad ether examples, the following, over-
heard in a boss millinery department, will show
how part of the game is worked. The first speaker
was evidently in the advance agent line, ana what
he said to the bonnet-builder behind the rails was
this: “Miss Blank thinks you are mistaken as to
which of the hats she saw here will prove most
popular and last best during the whole season;
but she is willing to take your judgment, and pay
the £20. The understanding is—and we don’t want
any mistake about this—that you’re going to put
this article on the market labelled with her name.”
“That's all right, sir,” said the milliner; “we’ll do
the same with her as we did with Miss K , and I
can assure you that she’ll get the worth of her
money.” And so it came to pass that £20 secured
a headgear ad. for the whole season. Verily, there
are tricks in all professions, except, perhaps, in
that of tne go-as-you-please pedestrian.
The “Maniage Fair,” the institution of
which dates from time immemorial, was held as
usual this year on the 29th Sept., St. Michael's Day,
In the little village of Ponz6, in Brittany. In pur-
suance of the singular custom, all the marriage-
able girls with a dowry, from that and neighbour-
ing villages, dressed in their best finery, climb the
parapet of the bridge, on which they sit in rows.
Naturally enough', all of them are anxious to win
a suitor; they therefore vie with each other in
showing their personal attractions. One shows a
fine waist; another allows a pretty foot and ankle
to peep out from under her dress; a third bares a
shapely arm, while a fourth exhibits a forest of
long hair. The eager youths soon advance along
the footway of the bridge, and examine the
eligible girls. They, too, are at great pains to
make the beat possible impression; this one curl-
ing an incipient moustache, that one throwing
back his thick locks, and others, again, walking to
show off their upright bearing. When one of them
fancies one of the girls, he steps up to her and
offers his hand to help her to alight from the para-
pet. If he is to her taste she takes the proffered
hand, jumps down, and negotiations at once begin
with the parents standing py. Should all inquiries
turn out satisfactorily on both sides, the young
couple strike each other's open hand, and the affair
is concluded. The marriage follows soon after-
wards.
This is a little thing that set us thinking.
At a London police court, a winsome, well-dressed
girl asked help of the magistrate. She had only been
married about a week, to a man she believed
honest and true, when he was arrested for a crime
and sentenced to ten years’ penal labour. She
wanted a separation. But the magistrate said she
could not have it. In the name of humanity,
should not the divorce law come In here ? If that
young girl, in the full flush of youth, were to do
the thing she should not, would there be any won-
der? Barely married, and her husband taken from
her for ten years! It would not be human charity
to refuse that wife a divorce from the man who
deceived her. The only argument is the so-called
divine law—“ Whom God has Joined, let no man
put asunder.” We never could see the force of
it. What has God to do with the matter ? In nine
cases out of ten, the man simply thinks a woman
will suit him for a wife, and tells her so. If he
seems somewhere near the mark, and probably
able to support her, the woman says “ Yes.” They
can go to the Registrar and be married for a few
shillings. Of course, if they like, they can make a
millinery show in a church, but it isn’t necessary.
Now, what share does God take in the matter at
all? True, it is alleged that it is a divine passion
that inspires them to marry. From our knowledge
of man and womankind, the passion that Adol-
phus has for Agonlsa isn’t of; the divine kind by a
long way.
Some amusing details are gradually com-
ing to light in regard to the recent revolt of
the female convicts in the prison of Alcala,
in Spain. They drove out all the guards
and took complete possession of the place,
which they barricaded and guarded day and
night. They had an ample supply of proviw
sions, and when the troops arrived to capture the
prison, the women jeered them through the win-
dows «nd pelted them with bread and vegetables
from their abundant su pply. The officer in charge
of the expedition against these viragoes found
himself in a bad fix. For eight days he did not
know what to do. To use artillery against the
young ladies was out of the question, and to get
into the prison without smashing down the walls
seemed impossible. Every day telegrams from
Madrid were poured upon the unfortunate old
commander, giving him Instructions. But all
these instructions were easier to give than to exe-
cute. At last he conceived a brilliant idea. He
gathered together a band of the best looking sol-
diers in his command, made them shave, wax their
mustaches, and put on their gayest uniforms.
Then he sent them with a flag of truce to the ama-
zons. The handsome fellows were at once ad-
mitted, but were not allowed to return; in fact,
they did not want to get back, and it was part of
the commander’s plan of campaign to have them
captured. In a very short time these military pri-
soners spread disunion and mutiny among the
amazons, and then the place was easily taken.
Agnes Leclerq was born in Baltimore in
1840. As she grew into a dashing, handsome
woman, she developed great ability as a rider,
married a rope-dancer and joined a circus. She
visited New Orleans and other Southern cities, and
became one of the stars of the sawdust ring. Ob-
taining a divorce, she appeared in Washington
during the war, and led a gay life. All the young
army officers were among her admirers. In 1863
she married Prince Salm-Salm, and succeeded in
having him made a Brigadier-General. Salm-Salm
was a genuine prince, but he had run down at
heel. His spunky wife made him go through the
war creditably, but without any special distinction.
When peace came tho princess wanted her hus-
band retained in the regular army as colonel, but
General Grant was against her, and thetwo adven-
turers went to Mexico and tendered their services
to the Emperor Maximilian. The Emperor was
shy at first, but the princess won him over, and
prince was made bis first aid-de-camp. The two
stuck to poor Maximilian to the last, and Salm-
Satm came near being shot with his royal master,
but his wife bogged him off. Returning to Ger-
many, Salm-Salm received a command in the army,
1 and was killed at Gravelotte. Some years after
the widow married Mr. Charles Heneage, an
; of the British Legation at Berlin. The
match did not turn out well, and a separation fol-
lowed. Heneage paid his dismissed wife five thou-
sand dollars a year until her death, some two or
three years ago. adventurous career
for a Baltimore girl.
The very latest fashion freak on the part
of the daughters of wealth and leisure is to have
wax dolls, reproducing in miniature their own
shapes as laced and girded for the putting en of
their outer garments. Even to the features and
complexions, a reduced counterpart is produced,
and by means of such a doll the artistic effects of
textures, colours, and styles can be tested. Some-
times this is done by having the garments made of
the materials the fair frolicer intends to wear her-
self, but a cheaper method is to paint paper for
the purpose, and put on with scissors, and pins,
and gum. To such an extent was the doll-dressing
fad carried by a Boston belle, Miss Llndella Brown,
whose wedding recently eventuated, that a com-
plete scenic representation of the bridal party at
the altar was constructed weeks beforehand, to be
altered and improved according to the exacting
judgment ot the aesthetic and culchawed bride.
These Brown bridal dolls were complete as to the
visible parts of their toilettes down to the smaller
details, such as the bouquets in their hands, and
the stockings on their feet. As yet we haven’t
heard of any christening tableaux being rehearsed,
but this is doubtlessly due to the unc* rtainty of
the number ot infants that would have to be re-
presented. The arrival of twins would completely
upend all arrangements made far a single baby
shivoo, and vice versa. However, we’re glad to
hear of this doll-dressing biz , for the female mind
is a gigantic concern when it’s on the boom, and if
it doesn’t find some suitable outlet there s apt to
be an Intellectual deluge.
Alluding to the magnificent runs of the
N.Z. Shipping Co.’s steamers Aorangi, Tongariro i
and Ruapehu, which have all done the journey to
England in under 38 days, a home paper remarks :
“ This rapid direct service will in ten years double
the value of all N.Z. real estate. Here is a second
England brought 5000 miles nearer than it ever was
belore. With an area equal to that of the older
one, and a climate Infinitely superior, she yet has
but half a million ef population to the forty
millions of the mother country ! ”
The question of private property in land
is discussed in a popular form, thus:—“ A Brick-
Yard Drama.—The scene opens with a family re-
hearsal, in which personal and business matters
are rehearsed by a successful father aged sixty,
and an inquiring son aged six. Son: ‘ What place
is this, pa V Father: * This, my child, is a brick-
yard.’ * Whose brick-yard is it, pa?’ ‘ It belongs
to me, my child.’ ‘ Does this big pile of bricks be-
long to you, pa?’ ‘ Yet, my son.’ * Do those dirty
men belong to you, pa?' ‘ No, my child. There
is no more slavery ;ia this country: those are free
men.’ * What makes them work so hard ?’ • They
are working for a living, my son.’ * Why do they
work for a living ?’ * Because they are poor and
are obliged to work.’ How are they so poor when
they work so hard? ’ ‘I don’t know, my child.’
‘ Don’t somebody steal from them what they
earn?’ ‘No, my child. What makes you
ask such ridiculous questions ? ’ ‘I thought
perhaps some of that dirt got in their
eyes and blinded them. But, pj, don’t the
the bricks belong to them after they have
made them?’ ‘No, child, they belong to me.’
* W hat are the bricks made; of, pa?’ ‘Clay, my
child.’ ‘ What I that dirt down there ? ’ ‘Yes, my
child, nothing else.’ ‘Who does the dirt belong
to ? ’ ‘It belongs to me, my son.’ ‘ Did you make
the dirt, pa? ’ ‘No, my child, God made it.’ ‘Did
He make it for you especially ? ’ ‘No, my child, I
bought it.’ ‘Bought it of God ?’ ‘No, i bought
it like I bought anything else.’ ‘Did the man you
bought it of buy it of God?’ ‘I don't know, my
child, ask me something easier.’ * Any way, it’s a
good thing you’ve got the land, isn’t it, pa ? ’
‘ Why, my son?’ ‘Because you’d have to make
bricks for a living like them horrid men. Will
have to work for a living when I’m a man ? ‘ No,
my boy. I’ll leave you the land when I die.’
* Don’t people turn to clay when they are dead,
pa?’ * What remains of them is clay.’ ‘When are
you going to die, pa?’ ‘I don’t know, my son.
Why do you ask ? ’ ‘ Nothing, only I was thinking
what a hard old brick your clay would make.’ ”
August Fl.ow.bh.— 1 The most miserable
beings in the world are those suffering from Dys-
pepsia and Liver Complaint. More than seventy-
five per cent, of the people are afflicted with these
two aiseases and their effects : such as Soul
Stomach, Sick Headache, Habitual Costiveness,
Palpitation of the Heart, Heart-burn, Waterbrash,
gnawing and burning pains at the pit of the
Stomach, Yellow Skin, Coated Tongue and disa-
greeable taste in the mouth, coming up of food
after eating, low spirits, &c. Go to your Druggist
and get a bottle of August Flower. This valuable
medicine has cured thousands and thousands of
sufferers and is known in all civilized countries.
Two doses will relie ve you. It costs only 3s. 6d. a
bottle. Sample bottles 6d.


NOTICE OE REMOVAL.
mm m cutler,
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
TO
No. 3 Hunter-stkeet,
SECOND DOOR FROM GEORGE-STREET.
a
m
TRY BURGIS’ £3 3a. Suita, to measure. Trousers
from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STRE ET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for sc 2>-meaauring
forwarded to anv part of the colony
C. B. MODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
Wt TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery Just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborns ; also Angelo Bor-
doni. of Brescia. Italy.
s
%
I
THE YANKEE RUBBER
BABY.
BxnrfflS®*..
THE unprecedented de
mand for these inter
estlng Infants has ex
hausted the supply a ful
month earlier than we an
ticloated. A fresh suppb
will, however, be receive!
in time for Xmas and Ney
Year’s amusements ; it is
therefore, advisable to send in your orders a;
early as possible, and we will forward the Infan
as soon as received. Post free, Is. 6d.
THE WIZARD CARDS,
changing from eight!
to deuces, from black t<
red, and back again at th(
pleasure of the per
former. Post free, witt
full instructions, Is. 2d.
I’m a Daddy ; I’m ir
Love; The Mother-in-law
I’m a Farder; and Bt
fore and After Marriage,
The funniest pictures ever issued, 5 in each set,
Price, 6d. per set, or 5 sets for 2s.; by post, 2s. 2d.
The Three Donkeys. The newest “ have ” out,
Send for them, but keep it quiet. Price, Is.; by
post, la. 2d.
The Sooner Dog—a wonderful little animal;
roars of laughter follow him wherever he goes.
Is. 6d.; by post, 2s. 6d.
Napoleon in Council, very rich, Is. 6d.; by post, 3s.
Metal Puzzles, the best in the world. Of these
we have a large assortment, priced as follows
New Challenge, Is. 6d.; New Favourite, Is. 6d.;
Arrow Heads, Is.; Afghan Maze, Is.; Mystic Rings,
Is.; Magic Heart, Is.; and many others. On single
puzzles add 2d. for postage. On receipt of 3s. we
will send, post free, to any address, one 18d. and
?nd CO., 401 George-street, Sydney.
Box 641, G.P.O.
JV
*
Foster s Bugle Brand\
COMPAGNONI CATERING CO. (Limited).
The Leading and Oldest Catering Establishment in N.8.W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &c., &o.
THE Catering and Sole Management undertaken for Balls, Weddings, Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons
and all kinds of demonstrations.
The DINING and REFRESHMENT SALOONS, both for Ladies and Gentlemen, are the finest in
the city. First-class Menu daily. Rooms for Dinner-parties up-«tairs.
PRIVATE BAB AND SMOKING LOUNGE. Beef Tea daily, 11 a.m. Coffee in the Bar until 11 p.m.
B. D. TOLLEMACHE, Licensee and General Manager.
Compagnonl Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney.
1
aV
u\T
-*■ . -a
Jus>
PLE.N
NNASAf
opened by
LANG. BROS
<54- & 5Q> Wi ll.iam $
f^EFFIESHNJENIT R.00N1 LaDIEsT<3ENT
Tfje Pasfry-, Tea. Cream
are unequallled
hefreshmenfs
The Cafe & Refreshmenf daily from SAM la 1130P.M
. daily from C
On Sund3V6. II P.M.
Punctually of Town to 11 P-M
Specially Established for Private Trade
BOURSE,
Is the largest and beat-appointed Family Hotel in the Western restrict. The Table and Liquors
cannot be surpassed, even In the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. First-class Stabling.
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor.
#7
■>:
i
v
r^z
&
5^
ft
;t?~£
5*3'>vS
s
Jf
g£
mm
&&.
«=
m
m
sm
A>
&J
E?.V
lt<
*rr-
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALB.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Mark©
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINS
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapmai
AGENTS.
(e only infallible remedy for
//ERybifs JjebiLijyT
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicln
affords relief and permanently cures all wh
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous an
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, aud all urlnar
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustlve derangement of the system: regenerate*
all the Important elements of the human frame
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obllga
tions. In cases at 13s., or four quantities is onelo
66s.; if by coach, 2s. fid. extra. Agents for Sydney,
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburc
street. One Door from Georga-stroet South.
f|l O A L L WOMEN
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT o
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY
IN SOAP 1
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everythin®
washed with It;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
{S'"" Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
fid. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
VENET1A WALTZ:
Tks Air to Ad woU fmrrktiL, OiROLirn Lowtotajc.
fip, caSitabiU
Fed.
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &o.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
Catalogues of above post free.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &o.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
The display of CHRISTMAS CARDS this year
will be the finest ever seen ; many beautiful kinds
have already been received.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere tribe, takes off 70 splendid copies.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
ATRIMON
HEALTH and HAPPINESS.
Parents, the Newly-Married,
and those about to Marry, may
obtain much valuable informa-
tion, by simply Bending a stamp,
ed addressed envelope for reply
to C.C.W., Box 766, G.P.O., Sydney
A
*0.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
Infants and Children
■What gives our Children rosy cheeks, '
What cures their fevers, makes them sleep; ,
Castoria. (
* When Babies fret, end cry by turns.
What cures their colic, kills their worms,
jf Castorjn. 1
What quickly cures Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Colds, Indigestion ;
! Castorla. ■
Farewell then to Morphine Syrups,
Castor Oil and Paregoric, and
Hall Castorla. I
“Castoria is no well adapted to Children
that I recommend it as superior to any medi-
cine known to mo."—-IE. A. Archer, M. D.,
Ill Oxford St., How York.
Elliott Bros., Sidney, Agents.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found it at
last with the Argosy Braces at flowing Bros.
%
4/,
X *
GOWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces Xj
Argosy Braces, 2s. Gd., 3s., 3s. Gel., 4: 4s. Gd
GOWING BROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, &c.
332 and 498 George-street.
Royal Hotel,
Bungexidore.
FIRST CLASS ACCOMMODATION.
J. McMAHON, Proprietor.
'/m
First Prizes ana Exhibition.
MR. F. WARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
K I p M A N_* S__ BU ILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney
" Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas
ACther Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
N
*
%
%
%
AS
O
a
Sydney&Boya! Arcades
6
JAS. LAWS0N1& SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of William-street, Hyde Park.
High-class Furniture
At Very Lowest Prices, compatible with the finest
workmanship and finish, for entrance halls,
dining-rooms, drawing-rooms, bedrooms,
and libraries.
CARPETS IN NEWEST DESIGNS AND
FINEST QUALITY.
WILTON CARPETS, BRUSSELS CARPETS.
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With Hearthrugs to match.
CORUCINE AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL AND
BLACK AND BRASS,
In all sizes and various designs.
WASTE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Bulletin
Office.


JIURNITUKl SHOW BOOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
Hall furniture, hatstands, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion : ■well worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, Ac.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Groat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-pound bedroom suiTEs.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 3 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEF, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 30s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 37s. 6d.; Washstands from 13s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, fromlOs. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON. & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streeta.
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Dmpass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also In Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
OTtonnell-street.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens lor fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
(4 Connell-street.
ThRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
JLF A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room-side-
board. DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
Self-adjusting hammock chai&-
Patented.
%
ps
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet Ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames arc of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when ft Jded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
3s. 6d. extra.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered la
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black aadbrass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
EDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING,— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell and Spring streets.
WASHSTANDS, with marble, from 38s. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
G J
LEY,
ARDEN SEATS, 80s: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
NEWTON, and LAMB, G’Connell-street.
B
ENT WOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment; beet make, lowest prices.
SOCIAL
Once upon a time—but, mind Y°u, this was
a longtime ago— it used to be some honour to'gain
a prize. No one can read the accounta of the
numerous schoolsi breaking up during the last few
weeks, without feeling that times ha •
altered. It used to be an honour, be.^ u r 8 n e .?
were hard to get; they were honestly earned, not;
given to please parents, or to p re vent the alar m-
ing catastrophe of pupils or com petitors filing
dissatisfied. It seems very hard, no w, for a school
hov to avoid netting a prize. Whether ne nas
loured for if or not, few parents stop to con-
sider; they see all the other boys as
and their boy must have one, too. Sesides, as
prizes are proofs of proficiency, is it not quite
clear, if a schoolmaster gives few P"ff 8 ’^ t ai ° n I | 1 v y
a few of his boys arc getting on well ? Certainly,
clear as mud. The boys mustn t stop at.a. schoo
liko that Thev are promptly taken away and
sent to Mr. Cra'mwell's, year they come
home laden with gilt-covered books. which ia irre
fragable proof that the clever boys have learned
a great deal at Mr. Cramwell s tutorial es-
tablishment. Ah, well—the teaching profession
must earn Its bread and butter in these days
of keen competition. So prizes are K ‘J e n whole-
sale now. In one school near Sydney, a prize was
given to every scholar I At another, after every
other excuse for banding over a gaudily-bound
book had been exhausted, a girl was solemnly called
up to receive aIprize for being amiable. The
principles he sees applied at school stick to the
youngster afterwards, and his life is often a
gathering of “ prizes ” that wpuld make honour
blush. He is subscribed lor in the cricket field
because he makes a catch ; accepts a breastpin for
acting as hon. sec. to a sociable club; is
presented by the other bank clerks when he is
removed to the branch at Mudville. 1 et these
gifts never feel hot in his hand. In the old
Olympic games, the most honourable prize that
Greece gave was a crown of laurel leaves; but
the modern young athlete hunts up silver pots at
the amateur sports, puts a stiff price on his ser-
vices as a ‘‘gentleman cricketer,” or goes for
championship trophies that are won by a quibble.
He receives these payments smilingly, as it there
was nothing to be ashamed of. An alderman for a
few years receives an electro, claret jug, a
fashionable parson a bag of sovs., a politician the
order of C M.G. It is no use prolonging the list.
Like the schoolboy, they all get more than they
earn—but it Is never the crown of laurel leaves.
There are few competitors in any arena to-day
content with a prize that is merely—Honour.
• • •
Nithsdale annual ball was held on the 19th
December, and the owners of all the pretty little
feet that the Messrs. Needs have been teaching
how to twinkle during the pa t year were there.
Hut it is not always the smallest feet that belong
to the best dancers. Dancing began at 9. to the
music of piano, violin, and cornet, and continued
till all the forgetful people were running about
asking for the loan of a watchkey. Flags fluttered
In the breeze as usual; fortunately there was a
cool breeze, and the golden candlesticks, Chinese
lanterns, and wreaths of flowers all did duty for
the last time in 1884. They are to have a rest now
for several weeks. Extras span out the 19 dances
to 25, after each fourth one coming the welcome
waltz. A few of those who preferred cards and
cigars to the dancing floor secluded themselves in
the study; and the garden, though small, was
thickly populated by those who found attractions
more potent than either, This annual ball is
always made a general one, so that there shall be a
social feeling among all the pupils of Nitbsdale
establishment. The girl who comes every Wednes-
day and wins hearts by her divine waltzing is
there, and so is the young man who is marched
every Monday into the small class-room by
“Willie,” and there shown how to do “four for-
ward and four back.” The maiden whose careful
ma will not let her out at night, and sends her to
the afternoon class where young men are scarce,
adds lustre to the scene. This is the sort of girl
who really appreciates a coat-sleeve on her belt.
And the Thursday night habitues show up, too—
the youth who pays his two guineas to learn, and
then, whenever he requires to dance, plants
behind the door; and the young gentleman who
always asks who his partner is to be, and then
protests, with as blast an expression as he can put
on, “ thanks, aw—It’s not good enough.” It is
great fun to see boys when they first commence
to put on airs, and tall collars, and think the girls
are fairly dying for them. Some of them grow
out of it after a while. But they are all these at
the ball, and a number of better people as well. A
few are present who learned 20 years ago, and
came to-night just for “ auId lang syne.” Among
the guests were Messrs. J. B. Olliffe, M.P., J,
M’Laughlin, M.P., F. Gannon, Mrs. W. Gannon and
her sister in grand raiment, for which the floor
was rather too crowded. Then there was a neat
little niece from Cook’s River in caroinal and
white. Two young girls were constantly twirling
clouds of pink. Another twirler, from Victoria-
street, was the funniest mixture of colours—a
perfect chromatrope of a girl in slate satin, with a
violet skirt, and you’d scarcely time to tell the
colour of her hair she went so fast. A lady from
a Southern suburb was bright and handsome in
heliotrope and white. Two Miller’s Point lassies,
also part al to pink, had bodices of cream and
black respectively. From Belmore was a light
maid in ruby plush body and the ruby skirt
covered with fine white net. A pretty little
brunette was from Petersham in white satin
bodice and ruched edging. As sisters are generally
sent to dancing class together, so they can look
after one another, a good many were connected in
this way at the ball, and always kept close to each
other, except when they had some one better to
be close to. Two daughters and the pianiste were
in white, lovely to fair ; two Bondi sisters were
really prrtty, and had at least a lover for every
flounce they wore ; two from Pyrmont charming
in blue ; a trio were from Campbelltown, and two
who had been rusticating at Rose Bay would
not have been absent for the world. Four
city (sisters were all sparkling, and in different
dresses; two dark sisters made a beautiful brace in
bodices of red shot silk and reddish skirts covered
with fine white lace ; two from George-street
south, dark and talkative, in white falling skirts,
blue satin bodies and pink bows; a set came from
Petersham, one in colours, and the other two in
plain white, and it would be a wise-heart could
look on them without losing itself; two nice girls,
in blue satin and in pink, named after two famous
biblical sisters, were immensely admired, only
they didn’t come from Bethany, but the Glebe.
And two dark young ladies, called after the war-
rior who conquered the world, were so successful
that they will soon have to do as he did—weep be-
cause they have nothing left to conquer. Now,
we’ve nearly exhausted all the sisters, or, at any
rate, they have exhausted us, and so turn again
with relief to the single stars. One of the brightest
was a fair and feathery dancer from Woollahra, an
ellis-ian partner. A dress just as stylish as ever it
could be was black satin bodice, and blue veiling
skirt with satin waterfall back; and by way of
contrast, her companion was very fair and wore
all white, looking so soft and gentle. Then from
Wynyard Square was a sweet sixteen in pink satin
and net skirt; and from Bourke-street a little
tripper as dainty as pretty in blue satin corsage
and white skirt; while a young lady who danced
skilfully came from Crown-street in nice blue
satin. Darlinghurst sent the lively wearer of a
suitable toilette all whit*, crossed fish-wife fashion
over the breast, which bore a large red flower-
like a red rose on a field of snow. During the
evening, Mr. W. H. Needs footed a hornpipe in
grand style and full sailor costume.
♦ ♦ *
The Master Butchers’ Association enter-
tained the Mayor elect, Mr. Thomas Playfair, at a
banquet in the Town Hall. Mr. H. S. Badgery was
chairman, and Messrs. G. Dibbs, Sutherland,
Cameron, O’Connor, M.’sP., and many leading
citizens were present. Baumann catered. Our
Guest ” was proposed by Mr. G. Maiden, and Mr.
Playfair, in reply, made a feeling speech, not
without gome points of humour. As Mayor, he
would be partial to no sects or classes, but do his
duty to all alike, nor be drawn aside by the seduc-
tions of upper society. He intended that the
charitable institutions and houses pf the poor
should be his first care, and the municipal interests
always kept in view.
* * ♦
The first complimentary performance of
the Commercial Dramatic Club drew a large
audience at the Academy of Music, on the 17th
Dec. Passing over the important fact that the
patron of the club is J. H. Rainford, Esq., we state
that the entertainment was really good, and gave
a couple of hours’ excellent amusement. “ Not
such a Fool as he Looks” was the comedy set up,
and, in addition, Mr. P. Buckle and Miss Stanley
each recited. Mr. Lombe’s D’Alberto Orchestra
also enlivened the intervals.
♦ * ♦
A very pleasant Cinderella ball was given
by Mrs. Martin on the 18th December, as a close
to her juvenile classes. Both juveniles and adults
were present in gay attire and good spirits. On
the programme were Mrs. Martin’s wishes of the
season to her guests, and some 14 dances, to which
the usual additions were made during the even-
ing, The music was good, and Mr. Steadman dis-
played his versatility by playing on several instru-
ments at once. Refreshments and singing also
helped to make things interesting. Some of Mrs.
Martin’s oldest pupils were present, and the young
and new ones, as the night was cool and the room
spacious, had plenty of enjoyment. Mr. C. Kitch-
ing kindly acted as manager of the dancing, and
to his willingness, and taste too, the decorations
were owing, which bespoke Christmas welcome
and Now Year happiness on all sides, framed in
ferns.
• * *
What a blessing it would be if music were
patented, and only a limited number of copies
printed! So suggests a Tumut girl. We’ve often
thought the same thing, and wish some one would
look after the matter. But then it’s a large ques-
tion—in addition to the music difficulty, some-
thing would have to be done with brass bands,
and average amateurs, and young man tenors, and
other inflictions. Where can I go, says the Tumut
maiden, to escape from the laboured strains of
“ Yonetia,” “ My Queen,” and other airs that not
long ago I thought so new and lovely ? Go where
you will, there come wafted on the breeze, alike
from parlour windows or public-house doors, the
noise of those murdered chords. Wherever the
country malls penetrate are cat ried long rolls of
concealed music, and thus is spread the seed of
the nuisance, which grows under the soulless
fingers of those who punch out, note by note, the
very life of melody. The soul of music is “ shed,”
indeed, and all soft grace and beauty die, under
the hand of the country girl piano-punisher.
There is the loved “ MyOsotis” coming with the
odour of rank beer and the sounds of curdling
oaths from your wayside shanty! Yes, music
should be paten td.
• * •
Even the influx of country visitors during
Christmas has not crowded the Wealth and Indus-
trial Exhibition, bu‘, still, numbers of people find
it pleasant and instructive enough to go night
after night and while away a social hour. The
admittance of one shilling would scarcely keep
even a miser out. There are witless persons who
can lurch through the whole of an exhibition of
this kind in an hour, and then go out with a pooh!
on their lips as if it contained nothing worthy of
their intellect. Thoughtful people can see much
In it of interest. Some specimens of how ladies
can employ themselves are worth drawing atten-
tion to. A pair of satin curtains with valance head
are poonah painted in exquisite style, not only as
to the colouring of the flowers, but they are
crystallised as if frosted. A number of settees, too,
upholstered in golden brown plush, have panels of
this poonah work, all done by ladies. There are
pictures formed entirely by arrangement of small
coloured feathers, and also stands of flowers made
from native feathers with ingenious skill. Indeed,
to the making of flowers there seems no end, they
are made by ladies’ fair hands from shells, from
wool, from wax, and from paper, some are of
wood, and some of leather. A number of baskets
are shown, made by Inmates of the blind asylum;
it would obviously be no good exhibiting them
there. The little girl still sits disconsolately mak-
ing fireworks which don’t go off, and the wonder
is that she doesn’t go off herself. She is certainly
a specimen of native Industry. The model tram
motor keeps running round, knocking a tin cart
and a supposed corpse off the lines, to show how it
is done; and youths do the mildest flirtation at the
ice-drink fountain, over goblets >with .delusively
thicK glass at the bottom, and an inordinate quan-
tity of froth on the top. In paintings, Mrs. Stod-
dart is ahead with two beautiful pictures, one
“The Artist’s Daughter;” and some exquisite
miniatures are shown by Miss Whiting on plaques
and small cards, Concerts have been constantly
given, and the chairs in front of the singers are
always full. It is intended to keep the exhibition
open two or three weeks yet.
• « •
Thursday, 18 th December, Miss Amy Hud-
son, eldest daughter of Mr. Robert Hudson of
Fairmount, Ashfleld, was married at St. John’s
Presbyterian Church to Mr. John Ritchie, son of
Mr. R. A. Ritchie. The bride was attired in white
broohed moir<5, and attended by six bridesmaids all
dressed in white china silk—namely. Misses Edith,
Martha and Alice Hudson, two Misses Ritchie,
and Miss Mortley. A large number of frieuds
gathered to witness the ceremony and to felicitate
at the wedding breakfast at Fairmount, where an
Impromptu dance was held in the evening. This
seems about the place to insert the information
that Mr. and Mrs. Ritchie, parents of the bride-
groom, gave—from Christmas till Monday last—a
most unique and splendid entertainment at their
residence, Glenifler-brae, Bowral, to commemo-
rate at once the marriage of both their sons, James
and John. Special trains were employed, and the
festivities kept up during the whole time included
picnics, explorations, sports, dancing, and all kinds
of enjoyment. It was in every way a merry
Christmas.
* • •
The annual wayzegoose of the S. M.
Herald staff occurred at Botany on Saturday
week. Mr. Frank Smith catered for the crowd in
the pavilion, and Mr. J. R. Fairfax was chairman
at dinner. Dr. Garran proposed the chief toast,
“The Firm and its Journals,” the speeches on this
absorbing topic clearly showing that the Herald
office is one of the most wonderful under the sun;
and that, owing to the care and prudence for
which “ the firm ” has long been remarkable, “ its
journals” are highly meritorious productions.
Mr. Hugh George made a reply that was rather
exhausting—no, that’s a slip; we mean exhaustive
—in which ho compared the 8. M. Herald with
the London Times, much to the disadvantage of
the latter, which, it seems, seldom rises to the alti-
tude of 24 pages, while the Herald has done it 17
times running, totally regardless of its readers’
feelings. Mr. George did not mention that a page
of the Times contains double as much as a
Herald page; he probably forgot. Sports were
carried on, also dancing, and among the music
played was Mr. John Stevens’s new composition,
the Sir Joseph Banks’Polka. Special trams back
at sundown.
* * *
Among the many pleasant festivities of
the Christmas season, was a fancy drees ball given
on the 22nd December at Warreston, Redfern, by
Mr. and Mrs. Bolger. A good idea was adopted of
having a children’s party first, of some three
hours’ duration, and the young ones were in a
state of the highest glee all the time. A perfect
little gem was Bertie Baylis’s character of a Vene-
tian Page, and a little cousin in pink and black was
also charming as a Spanish Lady. Innocence and
Red Riding Hood were pietty characters taken by
Janie and lima Thomas of Randwick, another
Red Riding Hood being a daughter of the City
Treasurer. Leila Baylis was Ceres, her sister May
a Page, and two daughters of a well-known pro-
fessor of music from Corowa were Pages. Lily
Merrirqan was a dainty Nancy Lee, her brother a
Bicyclist, Eva M'Coy was Snow, and a little maiden
from Petersleign a sweet Forget-Me-Not. Tottie
Smith was a Folly, Arthur Bolger the essence of
neatness as a Jockey in cardinal colours. Miss
Bessie Doyle, the winning little violinist, played
two or three times, and, in her white dress with a
sash sprayed all over with bars of crotchets and
minims, looked the prettiest embodiment of Music.
By 10 o’clock all the adult late-comers had arrived,
and they then started their own programme.
Fancy dresses were also the rule among them, and
as the ballroom was beautifully adorned with
mottoes, Christmas wreaths, and mirrors, it was a
glitteringly handsome sight. Flowers were there
in profusion, a “Merry Christmas” worked in
white down headed the room, Mr. Hall provided
music to everyone's satisfaction, and Baumann
catered an ample supper table open throughout
the night. The hostess wore a handsome character
costume as Night, with a bright starry headdress.
Mr. E. Palmer as the Butterman, and Mr. Ben
Palmer as thelBaw Correspondent, were both comi-
cal and well got-up. Two bright little flowers from
Hollylea, Forget-me-not, and Heartsease, bloomed
for a time, and then had to catch the Southern
train. Mr. T. J. Boyd was Dundreary, and the life
of the party. Mr. G. Brock personated a Rajah so
thoroughly that even his best friends did not
know him. Messrs. Sam Baylis and King each
took the part of Father Christmas, in different
style; while Mrs. Brock was Christmas in its most
fascinating—that is to say, its Australian—aspect.
It was a novelty of the prettiest kind to see a
light gauzy dress decked with flowers and plentiful
sprays of the pink Christmas blossom, so purely
Australian, and so very pretty in its native sim-
plicity ; and Mrs. Brock scored a success for her
originality as well as for tasteful effect. Two
daughters of the house were garbed respectively
as a French Peasant and a Watteau Peasant, the
latter being a very picturesque costume. From
Bessbrook came three charming girls—two sisters
being Claudine and Grace Darling, while a Rich-
mond visitor was Dolly Yarden. An admirable
make-up was the character of.Trancis Osbaldis-
tone “ from Rob Roy,” and another was Gubetta
from “Lucrezla Borgia.” Miss M’Coy was a Chinese
Lady in a magnificent dress of damascened silk in
sky-blue and orange ; a piquant little belle from
Petersleigh was Gltana ; • one from Osmund a
similar character,,two sisters were from Clareville
—a pinkjdresslbeing particularly liked ; and irom
Ashgrove theiecame a nice cool toilette on the
Kate Greenaway model. Numbers of other
characters, as well as becoming evening dresses,
enlivened the scene, and everyone found the
party so enjoyable that it was nearly 4 o’clock
before the last dance was done and tbe gratified
guests bade their host and hostess a merry good
morning.
• • «
On the 22nd Dec., some ceremony was used
in laying the foundation-stone of the new premises
for the Mutual Assurance Society of Victoria at
the corner of Margaret and George streets. A
number ef influential “ cits ” assembled, watched
the Hon. G. Thornton adjust the stone, and then
started in the Eagle for Pearl Bay. Compagnoni
provided luncheon there at three o’clock; the
Hon. G Thornton was chairman, supported by the
Hon. T. Loader and Sir John Robertson, tl e inter-
vals being enlivened by the German Band. A
number of toasts and speeches followed the lunch
Sir John was jocular about himself, as usual, and
gave Victoria another nudge: while Mr. Loader
successfully sat upon him afterwards with "the
retort courteous.”
The Oddfellows of Penrith district had a
grand day’s amusement lately. Special trains
gathered them from all stations on to Sprlngwood,
where they picnicked in grounds of the Honorable
Charles Moore. Open handicap race was won by
G. Horton; and Miss Squires came in a palpitating
first in the Ladles’ race, for which the prize was
one guinea’s worth of dress material. Nineteen
started in this event, and the assorted patterns of
dots, stripes, clox, etc., which were exnibited
proved very interesting At five o’clock all re-
turned to Penrith, and a ball was held in the even-
ing to music of local bandsmen. Elam Squires
catered; Mr. Besley the Mayor, Mr. T. R. Smith
and family, and several visitors from Parramatta
and Sydney were present. Mr. W, G. Clarke
minded the l oor, and the ball ended at four
o’clock.
• • •
An enjoyable entertainment was given at
the Freemasons’ Hall, Wagga, to help to erect a
gymnasium for the Superior Public School. Best
ite us on the programme were the artistic singing,
by the daughter of the proprietor of the Pastoral
Hotel, of two ballads, “ Till the breaking of day,”
and,"The Miller and the Maid”—the latter es-
pecially eliciting rounds of applause and plenty of
bouquets. Other good pieces were “Trusty as
Steel,” and “ Here upon my vessel’s deck,” by two
gentlemen from rival banking establishments, and
"Gates of the West” by the youthful lady who
lately posed as Heliotrope in the “ Flower Queen.”
The champion Footballer was about in the comic
line, and was the recipient of a choice collection
of vegetabks as a tribute to his talents. Some
budding Rignolds gladdened the hearts of their
doting mammas by histrionic displays. One
youngster gave evidence of future excellence as
an elocutionist. Altogether the concert was all
ways a success, and a “ dart ” in the right direction.
» * *
At the very tick of half-past seven, the
soiree commenced, and Madame Charbonnet-Kel-
lermann's example of punctuality might be a
lesson to many. One of the chief treats was her
own concert waltz Myosoll, a twlnuling melody
that at once grew popular. Miss H. Cottee being
absent, the pupils items were reduced to eleven,
which were kept close together to prevent the
evening being too long. The object of these
soirees—besides exhibiting proficiency and giving
pleasure—being to accustom pupils to piay in
public without nervousness, encores were
tabooed. The pupils manifested good style; pro-
ficiency must beget confidence. When the Wed-
ding March, by eight young ladies, closed the
programme, and the audience bad finished firing
off their bouquets, Sir Patrick Jennings handed
over the prizes, with short speeches of commen-
dation or humour to each recipient. Few music
teachers in Sydney can boast of as many talented
pupils as can Madame
and tbe parents and iriends of the pupils
must have been more than satisfied at the progress
they bad all made during the past year. Miss
Brown is now a really fine pianist, and does
Madame infinite credit; whilst Miss Rose Samper
bids fair to follow in her footsteps. The prizes
were awarded as follows:—1st piano class (1st
division): Gold medal, Miss Rose Samper ; silver
medal, Miss Hettie Cottee; certificate. Miss Nellie
Hunter (this young lady obtained a gold medal in
Maitland last year). 1st class (2nd division): Prize,
Mrs Ruthven ; prize, Miss Blanche Uther ; certifi-
cate, Miss Kate Bailey. 2nd class (1st division):
Prize, Miss Nellie Mooney ; (2nd division) prize.
Miss Blanche Montague. 3rd class: Prize, Miss
Nellie Bethel. 4th class ; Prize, Miss Hodge. 5ih
class : Prize, Miss Bertha Russell. Prize for play-
ing at various pupils' public concerts ; Miss Elsie
Stanley-Hall. Reading at sight: Miss Edith
Brown. Theory class : Silver medal, Miss Edith
Vaughan. Preparatory class: Prize, Miss Nellie
Pitcairn. Musical history: Prize, Miss Brindley
and Mrs. Ruthven. Private pupils : Piano prize,
Miss Daisy Baylv. At the termination of the con-
cert Sir Patrick Jennings, on behalf of the pupils,
presented Madame with a very handsome siver
epergne, upon which (we don’t mean the epergnei
Mr. Kellermann made a speech, which however
was as short as it was to the point. We hear it
is Madame’s intention to open a preparatory class
for beginners and children, which is to be con-
ducted by Miss James and Miss Edith Clark, and
audited by Madame once a month. This is a good
scheme, as there is nothing like giving children
good teaching from the start, and as the terms for
this class are low, it will be within the reach of
all.
• I «
A ball given by the young ladies of Wee
Waa was everything that could be desired ; music,
dancing, supper, and decorating being in a style
and taste only to be looked for from those natty
creatures. About 70 invited guests danced till
—
(For continuation of Social, tee next pagej


(Social, continued from page 16.)
daylight. Leap-year dances formed part of the
programme, and ladies therefore opened the ball.
Amongst the toilettes most admired were a cream
muslin and claret satin, a cream muslin and cardi-
nal sash, a Jneat pink nun’s veiling, a pink sateen
and white lace, a fawn cashmere and blue bows,
<kc. Some of the guests had come over 30 miles
to be present, and those who left next day bore
away the recollections of one of the nicest balls
given on the Namoi.
♦ * »
On Tuesday, 23rd December, the pupils of
Herr Francik entertained a large audience in the
Protestant Hall, an instrumental concert being
the attraction. Ladies preponderated, and it was
cooling to gaze upon their Ineffably gay, light
dresses, and their faces lit with smiles in expec-
tancy of a musical treat. Herr Francik and Miss
Burrows played a violin and piano duet with pre-
cision, the lady following her leader well through-
out. Over a dozen performers then gave Quite an
orchestral treat, with violins, piano, and harmo-
nium. Miss Alexander’s “ Airs Vatois” on the
violin elicited an encore that was richly merited,
her bowing of the instrument being as irue as her
bowing to the listeners was pretty. Miss Bohrs-
mann’s piano selection, with quintette accompani-
ment, was fairly received, partly owing to assist-
ance rendered by a little man who “ turned over
the music” in the intervals when his mustache did
not require attention. The Minuet du Quintette
performed by several musicians was ah that it
could be for time, harmony, and execution ; and
the “ Grand Yalse” duet, by the Misses James, was
timed so nicely that it set many heads nodding and
feet moving with desire to dince. The programme
was improved by the addition of songs by Madame
Marius and by Mrs. M’Carthy, a lady lately arrived
from Ireland, whose cultured singing of “II
Bacio ” procured her a warm encore. The gentle-
man who has undertaken to accompany Mrs.
M’Carthy through life’s vale accompanied her at
the piano—in other words, Dr, Charles M’Carthy
did so with tact and taste. All selections by Herr
Francik’s pupils were pleasing both to tutor and
audience, and the concert was quite an agreeable
affair.
* * *
With a glorious day, good company, and
high spirits, the first annual picnic of the Chemists’
Assistants’ Association was one of the pleasantest
of the many outings held on Boxing Day. With
many difficulties to contend against, every one
was overcome. The support given to those who
initiated the affair was not what it should have
been. There are always timorous souls, who fear
to join any new venture until its success is as-
sured. Then they are willing enough to join,
after others have had all the hard work of launch-
ing it. The day, also, was a difficulty; the
chemist’s door is hardly ever shut, and so the
chemists’ assistants can seldom indulge in a holi-
day. Boxing Day was almost the only day such an
outing could be managed, and it is a pleasure to
the promoters to know that on that day the inau-
guration of what will be a aeries of annual re-
unions was so thoroughly successful; and, as a
speaker at dinner said, many not present then will
in the future rev ard it as an honour rather than a
condescension to attend the gatherings of the
C.A.A. ’Buses took most of the visitors from the
Protestant Hall at 10 o’clock, and in an hour and
a half arrived at Sandringham, where the grounds
of Host Rust looked grassy and green, and rusti-
cally beautiful. Light refreshers, of which the
briny breeze off the bay was perhaps the best
after the dusty road, and then dancing began.
Four excellent musicians were engaged, and even
if the floor is not glassy, the pavilion is eool and
delightfully picturesque. Ladies formed the
larger, and of course lovelier, portion of the
dancers, and represented happy homes from all
points of the compass. Two sisters wore from
Waverley in white, and the daughter of a police
official charming in cream and brown. From a large
Oxford-street establishment, a married lady came
in similar colours; and from Balmain came the
fair owner of a pretty canary-coloured French
muslin, which was a good deal admired. Another
very neat costume, worn by a short-haired young
lady, was of spotted pink; in fact, it was
“spotted” at first glance as a nice fit to a dainty
figure. A recently married Regent-street lady
danced as nicely as she looked in a dainty picnic
pink, and a young blonde from Petersham, in
blue, was another light-footed favourite. A
daughter from the largest George-street house
was another pink: while a young lady with a hat
turned up in a dissipated way behind was viva-
cious in a book muslin that required a great deal
of adjusting. Strolls along the sands and about
the garden paths diversified the day, and at 3
o’clock a large party sat down to dinner. Mr. P.
Whelan, president, took the chair, and Mr. Charles
E. Towl, vice-president, the foot of the table.
Fresh air had sharpened appetites, and the
juvenile chemists, dispensing with ceremony, soon
pillaged the meats, compounded the pastries, and
took prolonged draughts from the pure juice of
the grape. After the Queen had been attended to,
Mr, W. Donald proposed the C.A. A., coupled with
the names of Messrs. Whelan and Towl, who re-
sponded. Mr. Whelan gave the Pharmaceutical
Society, and Mr. A. C. Watt proposed the Medical
Profession, coupling the names of two guests—
Drs. M. J. Clune and C. M’Carthy—who both re-
plied. The Ladies and Press concluded the toast
list, all speeches being sensibly brief, and the
talented musicians closing up each one with “For
he’s a jolly good fellow ” in a way that spoke more
tor their thorough mastery over that difficult air
than for their general discrimination. The
speeches showed that the Association had made
really good progress since its recent start, and the
picnic, chiefly carried out by Messrs. C. K. Towl
and S. J. Parke, was a practical proof of its energy
and management. A number of gentlemen drove
out during the day, and the ’buses returned into
town about 9 o’clock.
* * *
St. Benedict’s Irish Fair was opened on
Saturday afternoon by Mr. Jim Ralnford and
Archbishop Moran. A considerable crowd
gathered in the hall and waited In a state of per-
spiration and expectancy for His Grace’s arrival.
As he entered, the band struck up “ The harp that
once through Tara’s halls,” and after the Arch-
bishop and Father Coffey most of the stall-
holders marched in procession up the hall. It is
proper to say, however, that owing to the Queen
of Munster not having her dress fixed, she didn’t
arrive in time to lead the march, which was robbed
of much of its glory. Mr. Rainford read an
address, Dr. Moran made his opening speech, and
then a concert by Mrs. M’Donald, Miss M’Carthy,
and Mr. Hallewell spun out the afternoon. “God
aave the Queen” was played immediately the
Fair was declared open. The decorations, which
are very gay, are of course in keeping with the
title of the Fair, and green is consp cuous every-
where. A number of gentlemen with bare legs
and rather decollete tunics seemed to represent
ancient Hibernian warriors ; Mr. J. H. Rainford
was General O’Brien, Mr. Buckle made up as
Brian Boru, while Mr. Daly personated the more
modern character of Robert Emmett. Pictures
of patriots are dispersed about the hall, and
national mottoes meet the eye all round. Quite a
brigade of Irish belles are engaged at the stalls,
knd skirmishing round are maidens who each
represent one of the counties whose name is
primed on a green sash. The effect of the coloured
costumes is pretty and varied. Miss Hyndes has
three stalls, namely the Grattan, which is devoted
to flowers, Con of the Hundred Battles, and Brian
Boru, and her skirmishers are distinguished by
names of counties in Leinster. Miss Kelly
Presides over the Emmett stall, assisted by
* number of fascinating Munster girls. Miss
Murtough is head of j the Moore stall, and
also of the refreshment department, where
we gave a large coin for a very small drink and
were informed with a sweet smile “ That’s right;
there’s no change.” Most of the Ulster girls are
attached to the Moore shop. At the O’Connell
Stall is Miss PurceL, in dark green satin with train,
*#d a golden fiont thereto. Miss Flynn takes
strangers in at the stall labelled Davis, whose
Christian name was Tom, and it is the special stall
of the children belonging to the school, where
the Wheel of Fortune deceitfully revolveth, the
attraction is centred in a pretty little brunette.
Miss Doherty, whose smile is worth a shilling even
It the cpin produces no other prize. Finally, the
stall of General O, R. O'Neil is under the care of
Mrs. Kelly, beautifully dressed as Eithnein rich
crimson moire fronted with gold; and that of
O Donnell Aboo is graced by the presence of Mrs.
Thomson as Erin, in garnet velvet with pale golden
skirt and sleeves. Business was moderate tne first
afternoon, but on subsequent evenings the daugh-
ters of Erin have been pressing in their attention
to ; and as the Hair will be epeu at
least three weeks, the golden harvest will be a
large one. A brief enumeration will show what
venturesome visitors have to confront: Miss Kelly
is by common consent the belle of the Fair, and
her raiment as the Queen of Munster is ineffably
fine; a regal robe of emerald green velvet, the
lining of sleeves and vest front being of bright
golden colour, it is a magnificent dress. Miss
Robertson is Queen of Ulster, in a shimmering
green satin edged with white swansdown, the
train is studded with black velvet shamrocks, and
her hair falls loose from under a golden chaplet.
Miss Purcell represents Hibernia, Miss Cissy O’Con-
nor is a delicious America, and Miss Lacy a snowy
Christmas decked with holly. A character in
the play of " Colleen Bawn ” is taken by Miss
Agncw, a Brisbane belle, who is picturesque in
white satin and black velvet, with fringe to match,
plump, pretty, and original. Kathleen Mavour-
neen is well taken by a brisk little lady, who is a
perfect genius at business, Mrs. Hage; and Miss
Henderson is Arrah na-Pogue from Clare. Miss
Donalan is also a Colleen Bawn; Miss Minnie
O’Meara, who is green satin from crown to toes, is
Daughter of Erin; little Mary Murtough is Maid
of Honour, in white, with a necklace ot green
pearls; Annie Curley is a cheery little chatter-cox,
who carries a lucky bag, and is garbed in Medusa
blue frock, hung with white net and decked with
golden hearts—all hollow, of course. Miss Olsen
was one of the prettiest little teases, and called
herself a Reaperess. We haven’t time to look up
this word in the dictionary, but most people would
be quite willing to take the young lady’s word—or
her, either, in that natty blue, large hat, and
general trimming of bar.ey ears. Limerick was a
maiden of havocking loveliness in a crimson plush
and crushed strawberry broche, upon which grew
a crop of green shamrocks, and made a Maher-tyr
of many an impressible victim. Miss Dowling was
County Tyrone; Miss Peters, Belfast; Miss Keat-
ing, Omagh; Miss Anderson, Down; Miss Nellie
Irwin, Waterford: Miss Clements, King’s County:
Miss Robertson, Derry ; Miss Mary Shannon was
some other county, which has, unfortunately,
got smudged—another injustice to Ireland!—and
Miss M. Farrell was the Colleen dhascrutbe na
something, which we can’t finish spelling this
week, but, anyhow, it means " the pretty girl
milking her cow.” If a girl is really pretty it’s a
good plan to be labelled, otherwise people might
not notice. Misses M. and S. Calbreath were Ros-
common and Galway, in green satin polonaises
and pink Madrasskirts, which looked nice enough.
Miss Murtough personated Antrim, and Miss
Theresa Dowling, Fermanagh; while Miss Flynn,
in straw-coloured broche, was Molly Bawn
Asthore. Miss Fletcher and Miss Harnett—a pecu-
liarly mischievous girl, by the way—were sent out
on errands of plunder from the home of the
O’Donnell. Louth was represented twice, by
Emily Reynolds and Miss Warburton; Meath by
Katie Chandler. Carlow, too, was doubly dan-
gerous, because when you escaped from Miss
Olatworthy, it was to face a sparkling little tax-
gatherer in black velvet and dark-groen dress,
with white sleeves and cap. Westmeath was typi-
fied by a young lady who wore white lawn and
shamrocks, owing to the lamentable fact of her
other dress not being ready; and Wicklow was
represented by a lady in black, and a damsel in an
exceedingly neat tile-coloured cashmere. All
the others will be described as soon as we can save
money enough to venture into the Fair again.
Meantime, like the little Maypole girls in glazed
calico, they’ll have to be nassed over.
♦ ♦ «
Miss Florence Lamb’s wedding was a
rather pretty sight. It occurred lately at All
Saints’ Church, Woollahra, and the bridegroom
was Major Dowding, of the Nelson Marines. For
this reason a great supply of officers came to the
scene in full uniform, the best man being the Hon.
G. Digby, lieutenant to the Nelson, while the
ship’s chaplain helped to tie the knot. The bride’s
dress was white satin and velvet, low bodice, and
she carried a gigantic bouquet. Behind her stood
six sweet maids in ficelle muslin and lace, with
ruby velvet trimmings, and hats to match—four
Misses Lambs and two Misses Want. A number of
fashionable guests were present, who, after the
ceremony, joined in the breakfast at Kambala,
residence of the bride’s parents. Commodore
Erskine proposed the parents’ health, Sir Alfred
Stephen toasting the happy couple. Honeymoon
began at Bowral.
• • •
Mr. and Mrs. John Buchanan gave a ball
on the 19th December at Duncraggan, Auburn, to
nearly 100 guests, many of whom came iu fancy
costumes. The house, which, with its tall tower,
is a conspicuous object from the railway station,
afforded every facility for a first-class ball, and
such it was in every way. The drawing-room,
from which the curios had been cleared, is very
large, and the spacious verandahs and rooms in all
directions formed cosy resting spots for happy
couples. A glance at Mr. Buchanan’s curios is
something to remember; there are few collections
like it—pictares, carvings, inlaid work, bric-a-brac,
wondrous old china, delicate Dresden, costly
bronzes, and unique cabinet ware are gathered
In a collection that would make a curio-hunter
yearn down to the depths of his artistic soul. But
that is only by the way. Dancing, of course, was
the chief pastime, though songs, recitations, and
other diversion whiled away the night, mostof the
visitors staying till the early morning trains. The
ball commemorated the anniversary of Miss
Buchanan’s marriage with Mr. Cecil Teece, and
her sisters, Miss Grade and Miss Jessie, were
among the tireless throng who flitted in fancy
dress. Many characters were extremely pretty,
and Mr. and Mrs. Buchanan- both earnestly and
cordially made their visitors feel at hotnr.
Baumann provided a dainty supper, and music
was also satisfactory.
* * *
As if the Cumberland Band were not
already popular enough, they rendered themselves
more so by giving a complimentary ball in the
Parramatta Masonic Hall. Nearly a hundred per-
sons were present, and Skipper’s band assisted at
the music, so the Cumberland musicians were able
to have an occasional twirl round themselves.
With the aid of Mr. O’Shea, Mr. J. Garland, the
bandmaster, managed the affair well; Mrs. Hill
served the refreshments, and a most pleasant
night was spent. Visitors were made quite at
home by the Parramatta girls, who shone their
brightest; decorations were put up with good
effect; and dancing was maintained till nearly
dawn. The breasts of the Cumberland bandsmen
proudly bor* the medals which they won two or
three years back in public competition, when they
completely whipped a number of other bands in
one innings with a lot to spare.
• * *
On Thursday, 16th Deo., “Meg’s Diversion”
was acted by amateurs in the School of Arts
Speaking concisely, it went well. Jasper Pidgeon
was the part of the piece, taken by Mr. Frank
Floyd in an admirable manner; while Mr. Harper’s
Ashby Merton, Esq., the egotist who desired every-
thing to be of his own creation, was scarcely less
good. The three ladies who acted did themselves
credit. It is true that, in the part of Meg, Miss
Shelby’s humour in the first act was not so fine as
her pathos in the second; but both she and her
sister (as Cornelia) were clever, winning, and
letter-perfect. Miss Leibus, as the fascinating
widow Netwell, was a sparkle of pretty by-play
all through. The whole thing showed thorough
and intelligent study. Miss Palmer played on the
Eiano at intervals, and it was pleasant to Liszt to
er Chopin. The object of the pe, formance was to
aid the Young Australian Club. This object is so
important that we intend to pull ourselves to-
gether, and, when we have a little more space
build a separate par. about it.
•
Mr, C. J. Roberta, C.M.Q., will take his de-
parture, accompanied by Mrs. Roberts and family,
lor England, on the 23rd instant. A number of
his friends propose to tender Mr. Rooertsa com-
piinentary banquet at thq Exchange, on the 30th,
as an appropriate send-off for a'gentleman who
has, alike in his public capacity when Mayor of
Sydney and in private life, set an example of
munificent liberality in entertaining, which lots of
men quite |as well off in point of fortune might
with advantage emulate.
♦ ♦ m
The quarterly complimentary entertain-
ment of the Balmain Amateur Dramatic Club took
place in the School of Arts, Balmain, on the 19ih
Dec., when “London Assurance” was presented to
a numerous and appreciative audience. Excelsior
is evidently the motto of this club, which soars to
greater flights each time it does a soar, so to speak.
The result on this occasion, if not altogether suc-
cessful, was encouraging; and if the members will
humble their mighty souls to the labour of more
frequent rehearsals— look a little ortener before
they leap, in fact—there is a great future before
them. Turning to the characters, Mr. Perdriau
headed the weights with Sir Harcourt Courtley,
as whom he acquitted himself creditably,
speaking his words well. As Charles Court-
ley, Mr. Frank Smith was not himself; or,
rather, he was himself—that is to say, he wasn’t
Charles, and made very little out of a part that
could be made as prominent even as Mark Meddle.
And this brings us to Mr. Walker’s effort, which
was very pra’seworthy. We say it without hesita-
tion, and we say it boldly-as the legal gentle-
man himself would say—that he only required
the kick, which Charles Courtley didn t administer,
to make his part an unqualified success. Dolly
Spanker, Lady Gay’s husband, found an earnest
expositor inIMr. Frank Jones—though we are still
uncertain whether nervousness or i he jim-jams
was intended to be portrayed as the principal
feature of this character. Wonder if Jones knows?
It was a pleasure to see Miss Morran essay a higher
role in Lady Gay Spanker, and do it so well. She
seemed to catch the bang of the thing, somehow,
and her account of the steeplechase incurred a
burst of applause. Miss Phillips as Grace Hark-
away was, perhaps, the best up m her part of any,
but the infusion of a little more feeling would
have added to her delineation a charm vvhich it
certainly lacked. Miss Carrie Morran as Pert said
the little she had to say, nicely, and looked nicely
—couldn't help it. We were told that it was her
first appeara .ce. That was wrong. It was her
second. The first was made to a limited but ap-
preciative audience back in the year eighteen-
sixty—but we were at that time tussling
with ginger - bread and chewing gums our-
selves, and we are uncertain of the precise year.
There were two gentlemen whom we should like
to speak up for, but we failed to get their names.
They were ventriloquists, and spoke their parts
from the wings. We don't exactly know what
sphere of life they were intended to All, but it was
soothing and pleasant to hear them; besides, they
generally made similar remarks to the folks on the
stage, so you sort of knew what was coming, and
never got startled. Sometimes they both said the
same thing, and cooed across to each other, and
then a shirt sleeve and a book would wave out of
the side of a tree or one of the 3ft. marble pillars
that you usually see in drawing rooms. Evidently
the omission of these gentlemen from the cast was
a grave error, which we hope to see rectified.
• * • •
On the 17th December, the Speaker of the
Assembly, Mr. E. Barton, gave a picnic to the
Parliamentary officers. Over 40 started in the
forenoon in the Thetis; at Lane Cove they had
oysters, at Clontarf luncheon, sports, and speeches,
hut the Hansard staff never raised a pencil.
Home at dark. ..Dr. Badham’s title, G.O.M .. Sir
Saul Samuel gave a large dinner party on 11th
November, in honour of two men coming to Aus-
tralia. One was Admiral Tryon. the successor of
Commodore Erskine on the Australian Naval
Station; the other, Major-General Scratchley, the
newly-appointad High Commissioner for the
Pacific. All the other Agents-General were pre-
sent. .. .Mr. Gilderoy W. Griffin, our new American
Consul, started Jife as a Kentucky lawyer, turned
journalist, and has written several books. He has
been American Consul at Copenhagen, Samoa, and
Auckland, from which latter place he has just
arrived. And he is a family connection of Miss
Mary Anderson Last week, a complimentary
dinner was given to Dr. L. G. Mallam, at Armi-
dale, after his five years’absence in the old coun-
try, where he carried off high medical honours at
the universities—A club of gentlemen in Mel-
bourne named the Hygeia, own a yacht of that
name, and gave a fine outing to 100 ladies and
gwntlemen lately, cruising to Geelong and round
the bay. The novelty was much enjoyed... Aus-
tralian eleven gave Mrs. W. L. Murdoch gold
bracelets set with precious stones ...Melbourne
Rotten Row well patronised so far, the enthusiasm
of the Mite holding out well. Mrs. Inglis, of
Toorak, the belle of the fair riders... Mr. John
Young entertained a number of bowlers at his
Annandale residence on Boxing Day Granville
Amateurs played “Bitter Cold,” and the farce of
“ An Ugly Customer,” for Charles Dowling, who
lost his arm lately. Being advertised under the
“patronage of the gentry of Parramatta,” a
number of respectable people kept away
Races usually held at Moruya, at Christmas, also
the Race Club ball an t a Catholic ball, postponed
owing to the death of Father Pollard . Mr. Fran-
cis Ormond advocates a conservatory of music for
Melbourne Draftsmen of S.G.’s Dept, testi-
monialised Mr. T. H. Lewis, who has been thirty-
five years in the department, and is now going to
assume command at East Maitland. Gold watch,
and so on... Petersham brass band performed a
sacred and secular selection on the Reserve Christ-
mas afternoon—Two memorials to be erected at
Cooktown—an obelisk to Captain Cook; and that
to Mrs. Watson, who “died of thirst,” will take
the appropriate form of a drinking fountain ..
The Sydney Lyceum annual picnic on the 37th at
Athol Gardens was large and orderly. Messrs.
Gerald Massey and C. Bright were nresent and
briefly spoke. Dancing prevailed all day.
ANSWEBS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
C.H.H.”: Thanks, shortened; brief items always
acceptable —“Xmas”: Thanks, also “Co-
lumbine”; Excuse our altering, butlthad to be
modified a little. Write again whenever you
nave time....“Subscriber” (Manning River);
Too stale.
Sydney, New Year’s Eve, 11 p.m.
Dearest Belle, —This Is a strange time to
choose for writing my medley of gossip to my
dearest friend, is it not ? But, sooth to say, I did
not choose it, but It happened in this way: All
our uncles, cousins, and aunts came to our New
Year’s Eve supper, and determined to stay to help
us welcome the New Year; but one is apt to be-
come drowsy after a heavy supper, *'■> one by one
they were enfolded in the arms of Morpheus, and
are trusting to me to arouse them just before 12
o.clock, when we shall all sing or play “ Hail,
Smiling Morn,” which will sound abominably dis-
cordant with all the bells ringing, the steamer
whistles shrieking, &c. So then, in order to pass
this silent and weird hour to the best advantage, I
resolved to write and let you know what we have
all been doing this Christmas time. It makes me
melancholy when T think that this is the very last
hour in 1884—for, as we only remember the virtues
and none of the faults of a dear departed friend,
so do the pleasures aqd joys of the departing year
stand out in bold relief, leaving all the sufferings
and troubles forgotten. But here—I do believe I
am getting sentimental, and that I know won’t
suit you; but all is so fearfully still and gruesome,
and I don't think the jellies at supper agree with
me — cook will make them so leathery, which
causes them to be indigestable, and indigestion
always makes me feel sad. Of course this 1884
being leap-year was doubly dear to us girls,
for if few were sufficiently courageous to take
advantage of their privilege, still it was splendid
to feel that for one year, at all events, men were
as frightened of us as we ever are of them—per-
haps more so. But, here, it is a quarter-past 11,
and I haven’t told you anything about our Christ-
mas yet.
Of course we went to the Pantomime one night
with about a dozen children. I always like to have
a good number of these little creatures with us on
Pantomime nights, for to me the chief fun is in
watching their enjoyment. So for a whole day I
went canvassing around, and hadn't the slightest
difficulty in persuading the fond mammas to en-
trust their offspring to my care, provided, of
course, that I returned them safe and sound some
time before midnight, which I did, too: some were
particularly sound—asleep. Ned was rather token
aback when he beheld my little army, but 1 soon
coaxed him round. It was truly a grand night for
the little folks, for of all the Pantomimes we have
had here, I think this finds mostfavour with thorn.
When it came to the see-saw scene, their delight
knew no bounds, and one of them, after heaving a
big sigh, exclaimed, "Oh, I wish I was a Panto-
mime boy!’ And little Freddie (who is rather
spoilt, I’m afraid) cried so hard to be allowed to
have a ride on the see-saw that I had to get real
angry and threaten to send him around to the wolf
who eats up all little boys who don’t belong to the
Pantomime. That cured him. But, oh! the ques-
tions I had to answer that night! Imagine a dozen
pairs of rosy lips all speaking at once and expect-
ing an answer of some sort. One would be- “How
was it the wolf didn’t get fatter after eating Red
Riding Hood’s grandma?” Another would lisp-
ingly ask how “ little Carl ” could manage to
squeeze himself double without breaking his
bones ? and so on. And I had to try and look my
very wisest and answer all to the best of my
ability. Well, I worked hard, but I have now
twelve of the staunchest little friends ever girl
had, who think there is nobody in the world like
cousin Mab. for explaining all the wonderful
things in a Christmas Pantomime.
A few days ago, I was looking over some music
in Huenerbem’s, when I saw agroup of gentlemen
talking earnestly, and I heard the words, " Uni-
versity,” and “organ.” I also heard one of them
address another as ” David,” upon which I began
to wonder if it could possibly be David Lee, of
Melbourne, who gives such splendid organ recitals.
Yes, surely that was the same kindly face as of old,
and the -ame quiet manner, and I at once con-
cluded he w.>8 about to go to our University to try
the organ. I was quite right, and, when they said
to me “ come,” I went, nothing loth, I can assure
you. There were about half-a-dozen of us in all
and we had the most delightful organ recital all to
ourselves. These unexpected pleasures are always
the most enjoyable, but, in such cases, time passes
all too quickly. The march from “ Le Prophdte,”
the prayer from “Moses in Egypt,” and Batiste’s
offertory in G. were the principal solos, and, after
the last notes had died away, Mr. Lee came down
and admired the Great Hall and the pictures, and
then—back to the busy city and its worries. But
I shan’t forget that delightful summer’s day in a
hurry.
There are some new Waxworks opened now in
Sydney, and when I have time I mean to go Just
to see if they can bear any comparison to Madame
Taussaud’s, which we used to visit, on rare occa-
sions, years ago. I remember one time, when I
wore little white frocks and red shoes (ah, me!)
being taken with several more children, all a little
bigger than myself. After we had been there
some time, my feet got weary, and I wanted to
rest. 1 was just a little bit too big to be carried
about, yet being timid I could not be left alone, so
what was to be done ? At last, seeing an old gen-
tleman sitting on a rustic seat, reading a news-
paper, I suggested that he might take care of me.
Only too pleased to see a way out of the difficulty,
nurse lifted me on to the seat beside him, and
after bidding me not to be too troublesome to the
oldjgentleman, and giving me some ginger-nuts to
eat, left me with my chosen protector. I was very
good at first, but children can’t be silent for long
together, so I commenced to chatter to the old
man as if he had been an old friend. Being very
intent on his paper, he didn’t trouble to answer
me, but that made no difference, my tongue went
all the same whenever my mouth wasn’t fall of
ginger-nut. As soon as my appetite was appeased,
I thought it would only be polite to offer some
cakes to my companion, which I did. “ Will you
take a ginger-nut, sir?” No answer. Thinking
he had not heard, I repeated my query a little
louder, but with the same result. It struck me he
must be as deaf as Grandpa, so standing up on the
seat, I put my mouth to his ear, and shrieked out
the question as only children can shriek. What
was my chagrin to find that even this did not have
any effect upon him, so 1 made up my mind that
he was the most uncivil old man 1 ever knew, and
quite repented having wasted all my best anec-
dotes upon him. I was so angry and mortified
that I cried, and was still in tears when my friends
found me. Of course 1 told them all about it, but
they were just as ill-mannered as the old man, for
they only laughed at me, and didn’t seem a bit
angry with him. Ned was with us, and he could
hardly contain himself, he seemed so amused at
something, and kept exclaiming, “ Oh, its too
funny!” “ What’s funny ?” I asked. "Why, you
little goose, your old gentleman is made of wax!”
To think I had been sitting beside a wax figure all
the time without knowing it! Why, I should have
gone into a fit I do believe had I found it out dur-
ing their absence, for I wouldn’t have been left
alone for a kingdom, and that s what he’d thought
the funniest part of it, Truly, ignorance was bliss
that time, sol want to go to these Sydney wax-
works just to see if they are as life-like as Madame
Taussaud’s.
I do think it would be so much better if, when
people throw bouquets to their favourite artistes,
they would attacn their cards, for there can be
little doubt that it is pleasant to know who one’s
admirers are. And I think it is really stupid,
when two or three take part in a performance, to
throw the flowers without notifying for which
one they are intended. Surely, it is easy enough
to write on a small card the name of the intended
recipient, also that of tne donor I Much confu-
sion was caused by this neglect the other night
at Madame Charbonnet-Kellermann’s concert ;
for, when a bouquet was thrown and there were
three or four young ladies on the platfoim at the
time, the question was to which of them did it
belong. It was really embarrassing for tnem all,
for none cared to claim what was perhaps intended
for another. I don’t quite know how tney settled
it, but very likely they all went shares in the
flowers. And, oh! I was nearly forgetting to tell
you about the novel and pretty offering tendered
to Madame on the same night. It was the dearest
little canary in a beautiful cage almost covered
with beautiful flowers. Now, I think that was
such a graceful gift, don’t you? It was such a
nice change from the everlasting bouquets and
baskets of flowers. I think Mr. Russell was the
donor. And little Mary Guilfoyle, who ■ layed
quite charmingly for such a mite, also received an
appropriate gift in the shape of a basket filled
with boxes of bon-bons. Another prodigy was
little Bertha Russell, who played Beethoven’s
“ Bagatelle ” delightfully.
One short quarter of an hour and it will be next
year! Someone made us laugh at supper by tell-
ing us that in Scotland no lady dare venture out
of doors on New Year’s Day, as old custom gave
all men the privilege of kissing any female, no
matter who she was, on that day, it he were to
meet her in the open air. I said I didn’t believe it,
upon which that horrid brother of mine remarked
that “ Mab thought it was too good to be true.”
I felt dreadfully scandalised, but I will be even
with him yet for making such an ill-natured re-
mark. Time’* up. Happv New Year to you, dear.
Tour loving cousin.
MAB


Political Points
The Queensland gunboats have been put
to excellent use: they carry coals for railway use.
Now that the Queensland Assembly has
agreed to the Council’s amendments in the Land
Bill, its position is something like ours. Noons
can tell for a couple of years whether it will
operate for good or for evil.
The people of Northern Queensland,
anxious to cultivate our sympathies in their sepa-
ration movement, have sent our Zoological Gar-
dens a present of a crocodile by the s.s. Warrego.
Shall we neglect to reciprocate? No ! Here is
M'Elhono baek. North Queensland may have him,
and —no, no thanks—not as ajmere loan, but as an
absolue gift.
Mr. A. G. Taylor will go to England to
argue the appeal in his case to the Privy Coun-
cil. That is, he will go if he can raise funds for
lecturing. And he may raise funds for lecturing
“ if he will take care of himself.” And he may get
on well in the old country, “if he will take care of
himself.” It is to be hoped he will “ take care of
himself.” A New South Wales M.P. before the
Privy Council, acting as Mr. Taylor did when be
and Mr. Cameron had that little difference of
oninlon. would mot be good lor the reputation
of New South Wales.
The Premier and the Colonial Treasurer
of New Zealand have each libel actions on band;
against the Otago Daily Times, and the New
Zealand Times respectively. There is a Ncmeils
about the latter action. Sir Julius Vogel founded
both papers upon the relics of effete journals, the
Otago Witness and the Wellington Indepen-
dent. But he founded the former in conjunction
with Far jeon as a pure newspaper speculation;
whereas the other was in connection with unwaver-
ing support to him and his policy from 1874 to 1878.
Now the Times Is an Atkinson organ, and hates
Sir Julius and all his works.
Reynolds’ Weekly says the people will
soon come to the conclusion that it is no part of
their duty to support Princes and Peers. They
have been paying since 1850, and are paying now,
over two millions per annum to the Peers and
members of their families in salaries, pensions,
and grants. In other words, the Peerage has bad
more than eighty millions sterling from the people
uurlug the last thirty-four years, and they have
had nothing for it except the rejection of a few
Bills. Eighty millions of money saved, just to pay
off an instillment of the Debt, If it is not wanted to
ward off a famine or some great calamity, might be
considered well spent; but to give it to about
sixty Peers, and the members of their families, is
worse than useless.
The Limerick Town Council, who are
alleged to owe to the English Government some
£16,000 or so for extra-police rates, &c., which they
refuse to levy under the Crimes Act, were at latest
as contumelious as over. We read in an Irish
paper:—“Mr.Gildea, Governorof Limerick County
Gaol, has received instructions from Dublin Castle
to have the cells at the debtors’ side of the prison
Immediately fitted up, the cause being, it is be-
lieved, that accommodation may be provided for
the Mayor and members of the Town Council in
the event of their treating the writ of mandamus
as to the payment of the police-tax with the con-
tempt they have shown for the conditional orders
already granted by the Court of Queen’s Bench.
The report has created quite a sensation.”
“Here, in England, with enactments
heaped on the top of enactments, with statute
after statute contradicting other statutes, until
the Judges themselves cannot find their way out
of the tangle, the poor searcher after redress is
helpless as a deserted babe in a deserted land. And
the worst feature, perhaps, of the whole matter is
this—that our law is the most intolerably costly
all the world over. Franc© and America have
both good tribunals,! and with them justice is
easily and impartially administered: but neither
America nor France would dream of paying its
highest functionaries the immense sum of money
drawn from our pockets by legal sharks here. Five
hundred pounds is a very good salary for a Judge
in Paris, but in London [and Sydney] the cormo-
rants ot the law are not satisfied unless they take
[half] as many thousand pounds out of the public
purse as France allows hundreds,” The above is
from a London paper; we have merely Interpo-
lated the three words in brackets.
The Lord Chief Justice of England is a
sensible man, and—a quality somewhat rare with
his compeers—talks common sense into the bar-
gain. This was conspicuous in his charge last
week to the grand jury at the Bradford assizes.
“ The system,” said the first Judge on the British
bench, “ under which criminals are manufactured
by our social laws is one of the most painful sub-
jects with which Justice has to deal. There could
De no doubt,” he added, “ that crime was first
manufactured and then punished by the same
society which manufactured it. He thought it his
duty to call attention to the unreasonably severe
punishment whlchjwas too commonly allotted to
small offences agaimt property.” The Lord Chief
Justice has only to put his finger on one of the
myriads of abuses when he names imprisonment
for petty offences. Talk about stealing thirty
mutton chops, indeed I During the late Egyptian
expedition our men were supplied with plaster of
Paris for flour, aud the bales of the hay sent out
for forage were neatly filled with brick-ends. But
up to-day no word of punishment for the offenders
has been heard, or is likely to be heard.
Yet another addition to the sweetness
and light of legislation la to be made during the
recess of the New South Wales Parliament. At
the opening ceremonies for several sessions past
the Sergeant-at-Arms, in his State dress, has, as a
lady said, looked “ almost lovely.” That word
almost implied a deficiency, and it is, alas 1 true
that the otherwise perfect beauty of Mr. Harnett
was marred by what his knee-breeches and silk
stockings displayed. Mr. Fremlin, the sporting
member for Redtern, put this truly, but somewhat
coarsely, when he said that the Sergeant-at-Arms
looked “ groggy on his pins,” and also when he in-
stituted an indelicate comparison between Mr.
Harnett's poetic legs and pipe-stems. But “there’s
a divinity that shapes our ends,” no matter how
ill nature may have turned them out, and at next
opening ceremony the legs of the Sergeant-at-
Arms will be perfectly delightful instead of
having what Mr. Mantalini called “ a demn’d
outline.” And in the next Estimates will appear:
“ To necessaries for Sergeant-at-Arms, £3 2s. 6d.”
Well, why conceal the matter that will mean the
artistic padding so necessary to the proper delinea-
tion of the British drama ?
Says the London Echo, a vigorous Radical
paper:—“ Sooner or later the greater colonies will
,become independent States, and it is useless for us
-to murmur at the inevitable. Young, vigorous,
and expanding Commonwealths, like tue Do-
minion, or the Australasian colonies, will not
tolerate much longer the nominal supremacy of
England, and as for a closer union tbe notion is
What is it that the advocates of Federa-
tion ask? That the policy of the Empire should
he regulated from Westminster, where the colo-
nies cannot be adequately represented, and that
ithe colonists shall bear a share of tbe burden. It
<VOUid be an excellent arrangement for England;
but what are the colonies to gain from it ? Take
the Expedition now fitting out for the relief of
Khartoum. Does Lord Rosebery suppose that
the people of Canada and Australia, the Cape
Colony, and the West Indies would be willing to
pay a part of the cost of the Expedition? Is it
possible that he believes that the settlers in Mani-
toba or Queensland would be willing to be taxed
in order that millions may be spent in penetrating
into the centre of Africa for the rescue of a
soldier who, had‘he obeyed orders, would long
since have reached a place of safety? Yet once
Federation had been brought about, the colonists
would be helpless. They could not hope to con-
trol policy at Westminster; all they could do
would be to protest and pay. Federation can
never be anything but a dream, and it is strange
that able and practical men should think other-
wise.”
The society papers have sundry para-
fraphs about the eminent men whom R. 8. Smythe
as tried to induce to visit Australia—J. A. Froude,
Michael Davltt, and others. All which paragraphs
can be religiously disbelieved, as the “much-
travelled” never tells his business to anybody.
So says Smythe. But it is a fact that R.S.b. tried
hard to secure Davitt, who, however, after con-
sidering the matter, declined to cross the water.
The cable, however, within the past few days, con-
veys the intelligence that Davitt is to come.
Perhaps Symthe is at the bottom of this. We wish,
with all sympathy and appreciation, that Davitt
weuld keep away. Ireland has won the first cam-
paign in the agrarian struggle. It is Scotland’s
turn now. The Irish should keep quiet and con-
solidate their position now, and lend a hand to the
Scottish highlanders, who are as badly off as the
Irish were before they compelled the passing of
the Land Act. When the highlanders by their
help are equally advanced, then the lowlanders
and English tenantry and peasantry can be helped,
and English, Scottish, and Irish peoples will march
on together shoulder to shoulder to put down
fraudulent privileges and the spurious “ rights ”
of property.
The Right Honorable Joseph Chamberlain,
one of Her Britannic Majesty’s advisers, must be
looked upon by that venerable lady as a “ very
warm cup of tea,” judging by his public utter-
ances. When recently speaking at a Liberal de-
monstration at Bangor (Wales), and referring to
the attitude assumed by the Lords relative to the
Franchise Bill, he dealt In trenchant terms with
the tyranny and injustice which had always cha-
racterised the efforts of that irresponsible body,
especially in connection with the civil and religious
rights of Dls enters. He pointed out that during
the period between 1834 and 1870 the Lords rejected
every Bill that was brought in for the abolition of
the tests which deprived the Nonconformists of
the privilege of competing for the prizes at the
National Universities except at the sacrifice of
their conscientious scruples; and he wound up bv
saying, “ I have no spite against the House of
Lords, but, as a Dissenter, 1 have an account to
settle with them, and 1 promise you I shall not
forget the reckoning, (cheers). I can boau of a
descent of which 1 am as proud as any baron
might be of the title of nobility which he owes to
the smiles of a King or the favour of a King’s
mistress, as I claim descent from one of the two
thousand—one of the ejected members, who in
the time of the Stuarts left homo, and work, and
profit, rather than accept a State-made creed
which was sought to be forced upon them. And
for that reason, if for no other, I shall continue to
resist the insults, the injuries, and the injustice
from which the Dissenters have so long suffered
at the hands of a privileged Assembly.” And
right here, without further comment, we would
again direct the attention of colonial tuft-hunters
that this flattering picture of Britain’s hereditary
legislators is not drawn by either a Socialist or a
Nihilist, but one of Her Majesty s present Govern-
ment.
Treating of the pretensions of peers to be
hereditary legislators on the grounds that they
derive the right by hereditary transmission from
some distinguished ancestor, Reynolds’ Weekly
thus recounts, with perfect accuracy, the history
of the noble man to whom Lord Randolph Church-
1(1 and his distinguished brother, the present Duke,
owe their origin as members of the aristocracy:—
“Take the Churchills. How do thev come to bo
hereditary rulers of England ? In this wise:—The
Duke of York, afterwards James II., had an ex-
traordinary taste for ugly mistresses: so much so,
that one of them observed, "Tnere are none of us
handsome: and if we had wit he (James) would
not have the sense to find it out.’ Charles II. ac-
counted for the plainness of his brother’s harlots
by maintaining that they were selected by h's
father confessor by way of penance. However,
this singular love of female ugliness was the mak-
ing of the Churchills. Arabella Churchill found
her way into James’ harem, and the fortunes of
John Churchill, a penniless ensign, at once began
to look up. He was a man of great intellectual
ability, and undoubted physical courage, and be-
ing absolutely without the impediment of a con-
science, he rapidly improved his opportunities.
The infamous Barbara Palmer, Duchess of Cleve-
land, the mistress of Charles II., conceived a vio-
lent passion for ‘ handsome Jack,’ and on one oc-
casion, when they were together, the king sur-
prised them, and Churchill had to take a break-neck
leap from her bedroom window. She rewarded
this feat with a present of £5000, which the young
man Invested with the utmost prudence. This
was the foundation of the family fortunes, which
were subsequently augmented by contributions
from other court ladles, not less frail than Barbara
Palmer. Virtue, It is affirmed, is its own exceed-
ing great reward. This proposition can hardly be
gainsaid, for the history of our old nobility con-
clusively shows that vice secures so many of the
loaves and fishes, that hardly anything Is left to
save virtue from penury. Tbe career of John
Churchill is one unbroken record of successful
crime. Starting with hardly a sixpence in the
world, he was a major-general and a peer, both of
England and Scotland, before he was forty.
‘Faithful, but] unfortunate,’ is the singularly in-
appropriate family motto. If It had run, ‘Faith-
less and fortunate,’ the mark would have been hit
exactly. James II. reposed such complete con-
fidence in the traitor, that he made him lieutenant-
general of the kingdom. The very day before he
deserted to William of Orange, he drew his sword
in a council of war, and protested that he would
shed the last drop of his blood in defence of his
royal master. Marshal Schomberg told him
roundly that he ‘ was the first lieutenant-general
he had ever heard of that had deserted bis colours.’
Churchill had the effrontery to appeal to ‘the
inviolable dictates of his conscience and a neces-
sary concern for his religion’ as his excuse!
Great powers I Churchill’s conscience! Church-
ill’s religion! For this abominable treachery
he was made Earl of Marlborough by the
Dutch king, who, however, was under no
misapprehension as to the scoundrel’s real
character. Churchill, he held, ’ was a vile man,
and he hated him, for though he could profit of
treason, he could not bear the traitor. As a
matter of fact, the Earl was as faithless to William
as to James. He was the centre of a conspiracy
to bring back the exiled tyrant, to whom he sys-
tematically betrayed the secrets of the Cabinet
and the strength and dispositions of the military
forces of Great Britain. Suspicion, however, fell
on him, and he was arrested on a charve of high
treason. By dint of the most unblushing false-
hoods, he soon contrived not merely to recover
his liberty, but his command also. He at once
plunged into fresh enormities. It was determined
to send a secret expedition, under General Tal-
masb, to destroy Brest. Thereupon Churchill
wrote to James, under date 4th May, 1694:—‘It
came to my knowledge what I now send you, that
the bomb vessels and the twelve regiments which
are now encamped at Portsmouth, together with
two marine regiments, are to bo commanded by
Talmash, and designed to burn the harbour of
Brest, and to destroy tie men-of-war there. This
would be a great advantage to England, but no
consideration can, or ever shall, hinder me from
letting you know what I think may be for your
service, so that you may make what use you please
of this intelligence.’ Thus advised, Louis XtV. at
once rewarded the traitor with the gold for which
he was ever clamorous, and prepared a warm re-
ception for Talmish's force. The surprlsers wore
the surprised. Eight hundred British soldiers
fell, and their murderer enjoyed the recom-
pense of his unheard-of vlllany! When Queen
Anne came to the throne, Marlborough and his
wife, Sarah Jennings, were the de facto rulers of
England, and of course the worthy couple took
care to make ample provision for themselves in
the distribution of public plunder. Between them
they monopo ised offices worth £48,000 per annum.
But even this vast Income could not satisfy the
rapacity of the man who ‘loved money better
than women or fame.’ He tooa to wholesale
embezzlement—the worst form of theft. The
Commissioner of Public accounts reported that,
as commander-in-chief, he had pocketed £63,000
from army bread contractors, besides corruptly
receiving two and a half per cent, on the pay of
foreign troops subsidised by England. Altogether,
his defalcations amounted to more than £400,000.
The House of Commons resolved—(I), ‘ Tout the
taking the several sums of money annually by the
Duke of Marlborough, from the contractors for
furnishing the bread and bread-waggons for the
army in the Low Countries was unwarrantable
and Illegal;’ and (2) ‘That the before-mentioned
two sums of £283,366 9s. 7d. and £177,695 17s.,
deducted from the troops ih Her Majesty’s pay,
are public moneys, and ought to be accounted
for.’ But though men called out to him in public
places ‘ Stop thief 1 ’ Churchill stuck to his
plunder like a iimpet, and not a penny could be
recovered from him. Instead of being compelled
to disgorge bis shameless gams, be was rewarded
with that infamous perpetual pension which the
present pattern duke commuted the other dav for
£107,0001 Against Queen Anne, as against Kings
James and William, he plotted as he found occa-
sion. Anne suspected him, and consulted the
sagacious Lord Somers regarding him. Lord
Somers told her that * Marlborough was the worst
man that God Almighty ever made; that his am-
bition was boundless, and his avarice insatiable;
and that he had neither honour nor conscience to
restrain him from any wicked attempt even
against her person as well as against the country.’
Such, then, was the founder of this house ot Marl-
borough.. He had great ability, but it was the
ability of the devil—ability divorced from honour,
conscience, humanity. He was one of the greatest
generals and one of the worst men Europe ever
Produced. The tendency to steal did not die out
with John Churchill. The Dukes of Marlborough
managed to secure the rangershlp of Wychwood
Forest, In Oxfordshire, and when the land revenue
commissioners visited it, they found that the then
Duke had,practically made it his own in defiance of
fp e fefms of the grant. ‘ The greatest part of the
timber has been cut at much waste, and there is
now very little left,’ was the commissioners* plain-
tive report. The Duke had, moreover, it was
shown, ‘annexed’ in hard cash £862 6s. 3d., the
property of the Crown. If, instead of being a
Duke, he had been a starving city clerk, he would
have been speedily initiated into the mysteries of
oakum-picking.”
• • •
Colonel O’Neill, the leader of the Fenian
invasion of Canada in 1866, has died at El Pasos,
Texas The Queen vetoed peremptorily the
proposal of allowing Colonel Valentine Baker to
accompany Wolseley into Egypt. She will not
forgive his offence, though the Prince of Wales
and a part of society have reinstated him in
favour—The picture of the iate sainted Czar has
been ordered to be removed from the hotels and
restaurants of St. Petersburg because it is insulted
by the public —Lord Randolph Churchill seems
to be the A, G. Taylor of the House of Commons.
Within the course of a few weeks he has referred
to Mr. Gladstone as an “unkennelled fox,” Mr.
Chamberlain as a “pinchbeck Robespierre,” Sir
W, Harcourt as a “bravo” and a “flunkey,” Mr.
Bright as a “plundering cuckoo,” the Duke of
Argyll and Lord Oowper—two Whig peers—as the
“snivel and drivel” party Last year England
spent nineteen millions on the army, and twelve
millions on the navy It was reported on the
Glasgow Exchange lately that the Sydney
pipe contract, the settlement of which has been
anticipated with great interest in Scotland and
England, has been obtained by Messrs. Macfarlans,
Strang, and Co., Lockburn Ironworks, Glasgow.
The contract is for 20,000 tons of cast-iron pipes,
with the necessary fittings.
Prince Bismarck says medical science has
made no progress in the past two thousand years!
And so say we. There is not a single disease of any
seriousness which any living doctor can certainly
cure or even certain'y ameliorate. The system
of solemn affectation and of cautious secrecy
which is still habitual with doctors indicated
ignorance and humbug. Not one doctor in a hun-
dred is willing to tell a patient or a patient’s
friends in plain language what he believes the
malady to be, how he purposes to treat it, or what
is the composition and what the expected effect of
the drugs he prescribes. With surgical science the
case is different. Surgeons have to work under
observation, their operations cannot be concealed,
and the consequence is that surgical science has
made vast progress. Your doctor to-day pre-
scribes wormwood just as Galea did two thousand
years ago for the same complaints, and with, pro-
bably. le*s success; for Gaien most likely plucked
and distilled his own herbs, whereas the modern
uoctor gets them often adulterated or spoiled by
long keeping. But the surgeon of to-day is a
demigod compared with his predecessors in the
early days.
That terrible “Cocaigne” is at it again.
Here's how he describes the private intellectual
pursuits of the Heir-Apparent and his chums at
the house of a Mrs. Oust, at Cowes: “ After dinner,
when as before all the guests were assembled in
the drawing-room, an old woman, dressed in a
French costume with very short skirts, suddenly
made her appearance, and one of the company
being requested to play some lively opera-bouffe
airs on the pianoforte, she proceeded to dance the
can-can. 8ne danced with much spirit and viva-
city, not altogether, perhaps, as a modest old
woman should, and, as usual, the Prince of Wales
was in shouts of laughter. At last she sat down
amid a round of applause, and then a quadrille
was formed, the old woman requesting the Prince
to be her partner. Although not exactly the
proper thing, he couldn’t refuse. After the quad-
rille, she as suddenly disappeared, and people were
wondering who she was, when the door was thrown
open and in walked Sir Harry Keppel. It needed
but a glance to see that he it was who had been
masquerading as the ancient French damsel, and
great was the merriment thereat. On the whole,
when one reflects, it was not a very elevating
sirht. Sir Harry Keppel is a man of seventy-five,
and, notwithstanding his age, is one of the Prince’s
most constant companions and followers. There
are people who accuse him of being a great toady,
and if one might judge by tbe exploit just men-
tioned, the charge is not very untrue. Fancy a
man of his age, and an Admiral of the Fleet, con-
senting to such an exhibition of want of dignity
on his part, merely for the sake of amusing the
Prince of Wales I Sir Harry is a brother of the
Earl of Albermarle, and is a Knight of the Bath.”
The Rev. Mr. Smith is what is known in
Anglican Church circles as the “lay rector" of
the small parish of Rivers in Essex (Eng ), and
not only is the lay rector a gentleman of consider-
able wealth, but he is also a thorough utilitarian.
For instance. The plot of ground which from time
immemorial had been dedicated as “God’s Acre,”
and in which the remains of generations of the
good—as well as the bad and indifferent-people of
the quiet little hamlet had been reverently planted
in the sure and certain hope that when Gabriel
started the resurrection racket with a blast of his
fog-horn, they would have little difficulty in
rounding up their bones and things, and be among
the first of the procession to start along with their
tomostones (necessary sometimes in the case of
doubtful character references) on their shoulders
to the great gathering in the Valley of Johosophat
or somewhere. But the lay rector has raised Cain, so
to speak, among his live parishioners—the loved
and honoured dead having so tar refrained from
interfering or even entering a protest—through
the exercise of his utilitarian proclivities, and
there is now a feeling of disgust bordering on
Insurrection in the parish. For the, lay rector
has carted away the bones of thrir ancestors, to
utilise them for fertilising purposes, has laid down
the grave-yard in grass and made a calf-paddock
of it, and, worst of all, he has been making free
even with the headstones, some of which he manu-
factured into most artistic pig-troughs, whilst
with others he formed the Mosaic pavement of a
cow-house. It is said that the porkers turned
away from their feed in disgust when they recog-
nised some of the obituary “ pomes ” bearing the
stamp of Alfred’s poet, and also that the cows
laughed consumedly at the mortuary record of
prominent local citizens, but this has to be veri-
fied—we give the statement for what it is worth.
Then a meeting of the parishioners was held, at
which the vicar of the parish presided, and he
stated that Mr. Smith was truly sorry for
what he had done, and that he would apologise to
the corpses whom he had so ruthlessly disturbed,
but the yokels howled derisively, and used
language unfit for publication in a pious journal
and they are now going to prosecute their lay
rector for despoiling;the cemetery. After all, we
don’t see what they’ve got to grumble about. But
we sympathise with the corpses, because we
realise the heavy handicap that has been imposed
on them, when they’ll have to skirmish round
looking up their thigh bones and swopping skulls
and things at the sound of the last trump. And fur-
ther. we would like to know what respectable
corps© would be seen humping along an evil-
smelling headstone, even if his eternal welfare
depended upon tbe obituary notice inscribed
thereon.
A QUIET SUBURB.
COMING HOME FROM EVENING SERVICE AT BURWOOD.


THOlvdl^SCaT,
A.J.C. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON,
91 Sing-street.
N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
READJTHISI
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and Jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 lOs. each.
Warranted for three years,
CAN BK BOUGHT AT
269 Pitt-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER ANl) JEWELLER
Black Swan Hotel.
GREENWELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor,
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
gassed. The magalflclent s.s. lilawarra, leaves
ydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o'clock.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GENT.'S 50, I*. 6d.; 100, 2s. 6d.
LADIES’ 50, as. Od.; ICO, 3s. Od.
Address, 6d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. fid.; 250, 6s. fid,; 500, 103.; 1000, 15s.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
T
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
EXTENSION OE PREMISES.
Opening of New Show Rooms.
Mb BJ11IE, LLOYD S CO.
GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNTARD STREET.
Ladies’ Underclothing & Baby-Linen.
£3?“ A Magnificent NEW STOCK was selected by Mr.
Lloyd in London, Paris, and in Ireland p
FIRST GRAND SHOW OF DRESSING GOWNS.
FIRST GRAND SHOWOF TEA GOWNS.
. .. m „ FIR »T GRAND SHOW OF UNDERCLOTHING.
An endless variety of Dressing Gowns, Tea Gowns, Morning Wraps, Cashmere Robes, Children’s
Washing Pelisses and Cashmere Frocks. (The most complete stock ever shown.)
ERIN-GO-BRAGHI
IRISH HAND-MADE UNDERCLOTHING. | LONDON MACHINE-MADE UNDERCLOTHING.
LADIES’ DRAWERS, CHEMISES AND NIGHT-DRESSES.
0T An array beggaring description. Moderate prices. Call and ask for Illustrated Catalogue.
ii
During the Spring
THE misery, shame, and suffering, often be-
queathed as a solo legacy to children by
parents, is neglected Scrofula. To cleanse the
blood of this hereditary poison at this season, and
thus remove the most prolific cause of human suf- ,
ferlng to clear the Skin of Disfiguring Humors,
Itching Tortures, Humiliating Eruptions, and
Loathsome Sores caused by it, to purify and beau-
tify the Skin, and restore the Hair so that no trace
of the disease remain, Cuticura Resolvent, the
new Blood Purifier, and Cuticura and Cuticura
Soap, the great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, are in- ;
fallible. The spring is the time to take them.
“ \ FTER THREE MONTHS’ use of CUTICURA
and twelve years of as constant
suffering from Humor of the face, neck and scalp
as was ever endured, I can say that I am cured,
and pronounce my case the most remarkable on
ecord. I have been so elated with my success, that
I have stopped men on the street who were afflicted
and told them to get the Cuticura Remedies
and they would cure them. This is why I am so
grateful to you, for I believe them to be the best
and greatest discovery of the age, and that they will
cure all who are suffering with these diseases.”
HON. WM. TAYLOR, BOSTON.
Cleanse the Blood
I HAVE USED your Cuticura remedies in sev-
eral cases of Eczema, Moist and Dry Tetter 1
and cured them all. Your Cuticura Resolvent, so
far as my supply allows me to test it, has, in my
hands, exceeded in efficacy and efficiency and alte-
rative compound (blood purifier) I have ever made
use of in an active practice of 30 years’ duration.
E. N. ECKER, M.D.
Jacksonville, Pa.
He. CARPENTER, Esq., Henderson, N. Y
• cured of Psoriasis or Leprosy of twenty
years’ standing by the Cuticura Resolvent
(blood purifier) internally, and Cuticura and Cuti-
curtA Soap (the great skin cures) externally. The
most wonderful case on record. Cure certified to
before a justice of the Peace and prominent citi-
zens. All afflicted with itching and scaly diseases
should send to us for this testimonial in full.
Clear the Skin
AS A SPRING MEDICINE, Blood Purifier,
Diuretic and Aperient, no other so-called
blood purifier or sarsaparilla compound is for a
moment to be compared with the Cuticura Re-
solvent. It combines four great properties in
one medicine, acting at once upon the digestive
organs, blood, kidneys, and bowels.
CUTICURA
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
CUTICURA, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jolly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re- ;
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Sold by all Chemists and Druggists.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
FRED ROHRER, Esq., Cashier Stock-Growers
National Bank, Pueblo, Colorado, writes: “I
am so well pleased with its effects on my baby that
I cannot afford to be without it in my house. It is
a wonderful cure, and it is bound to become very
popular as soon as its virtues are known to the
masses.”
REMEDIES
CUTICURA SOAP, an exquisite Skin Beautlfler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura
is Indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or G-easy Skin.
CUTICURA REMEDIES are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
Price, Cuticura, 80 cents; Soap, 25 cents ; Re-
solvent, $1.00, Prepared by
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A,
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TUBE
HOTEL, which is now kept by
Pled Warmoll.
Holiday Presents.
w
PALING
AND CO. (Limited),
HAVE JUST RECEIVED A MAGNIFICENT SHIPMENT OF
COTTAGE,
UPRIGHT GRAND
SEMI-GRAND,
CONCERT GRAND
PIANOS,
by the
MOST RENOWNED
MAKERS
in the
WORLD.
AMERICAN
ORGANS,
- by -- ■ -
BELL and DO.,
PALACE CO.,
STORY and CO.,
at
PRICES to SUIT ALL
CUSTOMERS.
These insti’uments have been SPECIALLY SELECTED by Mr. W. H. PALING, who is NOW
IN EUROPE, and may justly be considered
TEE BEHEST ME MOST EECIEEC1E SHIPMENT
of Musical Instruments ever introduced to Australia.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms.
Mr. PALING has also FORWARDED a COMPLETE ASSORTMENT of
LITJSICiiL BOSSES,
FROM TWO TO SIXTEEN AIRS.
These Goods will be Sold at Unheard-of Prices.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WRIGHT, HEATON 4 CO.
(LIMITED).
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents. 1
HEAD OFFICE;
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO TUB GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALBSJ
BRANCH OFFICES.
SouTHKur District, N.8.W.;
Goulburn
Yass
Downing
Blnalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rook
Culcalm
Cowabee
Narander
Hulong
CarratEool
Hay
WaSTSBH Distbiot, N.8.W.:
Caperteo Nyngan
Bathurst Forbes
Blayney Condoblta
Orange Nymagee
Wellington Cobar
Dubbo Coonanable
Narromlne Bourke
Nevertire
NoBTHiRir District, N.8.W.:
Morpeth Brewarrlna
Gunnedah Tamworth
Narrabri Uralla
Walgett
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Bootjubr ahs South- Wasraiuf Lon:
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Rockhampton
Bogantungan
Emerald
Yeulba
Cambooya
CmirrRAL Liin:
Capella
Comet
Nobthbrr Luts:
Townsville Ravenswooe Junction
Charters Town*
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M‘CULI«OCH ft CO., LIMITED.
Agencies In all parts of the world.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
9
a
!^
HOP
ft
NVALUABLE
•urrtRi
TO®*!
to
ion
<5
CS
Pe
lery
!5«8
Ser
Jss
Eel
w
ri«
•'HfCCIALLy'
APTID FOR T _
»AustraliahColoniesP
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
ALCOCK CO. 'S
CELEBRATED]
BILLIARD
TABLES
I
SOLE AGENTS:
■P
375 George-sf., Sydney.
\gr TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED.


VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are suffering’ from poor health
*or languishing on a bed of sickness,
‘takeeheer, for
Hop Bitters will cure you.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
* taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘ and work.
Hop Bitters will B>estore yon.
“If you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
* your avery-day duties, or a man of let-
* bers, toiling over your midnight work.
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
‘ nation, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, as is often the case,
Hop Bitters will relieve yon.
“ If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
‘ that your system needs cleansing, ton-
* log, or stimulating, without Inttoxioat-
‘ing
Hop Bitters is what yon need.
“If you are old, and your blood thin
and Impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Bop Bitters will give yon new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS is an elegant, heal-
‘ thy, and refreshing flavouring for sick-
room drinks ; impure water, etc., ren-
‘ dering them harmless, and sweetening
‘ the mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
to an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for sick-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
them harmless, sweetening the mouth, and cleans-
ing the stomach.
WeakNenmusMBB
Whose debility, exhausted
P°W/r», premature deeay
and failtjr. to perform life’.
v du tie. properly are caused by
excesses., errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and Vigorous manhood in
THE WARSTON BOLUS.
,lvoitaer atomaoh drugging
— instruments. This treatment of
_ KSniSSqUiSLSg
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct method, and absolute thor.
Fu '> information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting: Physician of
MARSTON REMEDYCO., 636«tlereigh St, Sydney
Christmas Presents and New
Year’s Gifts!
U 8 T RECEIVED, a Large Assortment of
Gold & Silver Jewellery,
SUITABLE FOR PRESENTS.
Ladies’ Gold Dress Rings, from 10s.
Ladles’ Silver Watches, from £2 10s.
Gent.’b Silver Watches, from £3 10s.
And other articles too numerous to mention.
C . OKANT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER.
584 George Street, Sydney.
HT* Country Orders promptly attented to.
SANTA CLAUS’ HEAD QUARTERS.
'Oil want to
ness
i
For the /&
vr/r/f/:
S M\
Hit,
—v
On/y
I
One
uJdr
Jitob
£D
M
On,
■A
T
f/5f
0
Australia
-S4
/fl
AJ
//On
T
i>TW
/n
*
i
»
ay
m
4T
Uls
y
na
cq
o
AGENTS for
J>HY PLATES
‘ITAfW
3
<6
ns
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 354 and 356 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Austral-
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment. Iaua .
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the i„
Boyd’s children, by his executrix. ae Iate Mr.
Everybody should remember the address ;
Boyd s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manage*
MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
Chapel Street, Prahran.
I consider there are no superior or more reliable
Hop Bitters than those known as
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Burgeon Alfred Hospital,
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAER BRUSH!
A HONEST REMEDY. Prescribed by the BEST PHYSICIANS.
ft-
THEY WILL POSITIVELY
CURE
Nervous Headache in t> minutes!!
Bilious Headache in 5 minutes!!
Neuralgia in 5 Minutes!!
Palling Hair and Baldness!!
Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp 1
Bair gn
Brain.
Promptly Arrest Premature Grayness. Make the Hair grow lon°-
and Glossy. Immediately Soothe the Weary **
Crewkerne, Nov. 12, 1880.
Sir, —My patients have given
me a very satisfactory account
of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair Brush.
One lady assures ine that she gets no
neuralgia in her face if she uses it, and
others state that by a few minutes’ brush-
ing with the Electric Brush, a nervous headache,
or ono arising from overwork or debility, is quickly
removed. The invention is, I think, very valuable.
I am. your obedient servant, G F WlLLS; M D M R C-S B
Highnesses the PRINCE and PRINCESS of WALES, PRINCE
.HJ, a S d HING ot HOLLAND each use a pair of Dr, Scott’s
k E li«wi C lr +? 0 rUS m es l aIld a lo ?f list of Distinguished Patrons could be pub-
pushed, and their Testimony added, did space permit.
of “ ade of a new odorl , eS8 eompoeition, resembling ebony; a combination
producing a permanent electro-magnetic Current, which aots
k 1^e^i d hv tho ¥ a , lr Elands and Follicles. This power can alwayllbc
teste “ by a silvei compass, which accompanies each Brush. *
PUBE BRISTLES— NOT WIBES. Wire Brushes injure the Scalp
and cause baldness and irritation. v
The Eight Honourable WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE, M P
has written upon the merits of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair
Brushes, and has added them to his Toilet-
Lady A. CHUBCHILL—daughter of the Duke of
Marlborough (hero of Blenheim), and sister of
Lord Eandolph Chuichiil, of Parlia-
mentary celebrity—uses them regularly
and thinks them unequalled for
mM
the hair.
A Handsome
Unbreakable
Elegantly Carved
BRUSH,
o ——j Mounted
From Dr. LEMPKiaRK, D. CL.. Ac., St. John’s College, Oxford Dec 2S 1881
SZSSi SSS 5 '“ ure op ” “
a
These Brushes can be obtained of all Chemist* and Fancy 8torakeopers.!or will be for wudad
direct to any part of N.S.W. or Queensland upon receipt of prices named, with Is. added. Re-
mittances can be made in Cheques, Drafts, F.O. Orders, Stamps, or Currency. Chernies can be
<Stg?ed t3Sdon.Ba.nh of Australia- See that the name of Dr. Bcfctf is on thaBox, Without which
cane ora genuine.
S3T Send for Circular of
Dr. Scott's Electric Flesh
Brushes , Corsets, Jr Belts
for Ladies? and Gen-
tlemen’s use.
C. Lsmtribre, D.C.L., &c
Tho
Yours faithfully,
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
P.o. 60* 221. 44 .MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
At an immense Democratic meeting at
Leeds, attended by 65,000 persons, some of the
"processionists satirically displayed the mott<s
'The Lords’ will be done.” One Liberal Club had
In their portion of the procession a van full of
men masquerading as peers in robes, masks, and
•oronets labelled “Duke Curious,” “Esrl Jingo,”
“Duke Toll Not,” “Lord Constitution,” “Marquis
Distrust,” “Marquis Monopoly.” “Viscount Su-
perior,” “Marquis Rack Rent,” “Bishop Stand-
still,” and “ Baron Rejection.”
Just as a faint, very faint, sample of how
the Circumlocution Department slops our money
away over here, we may mention that for want of
a Court of Quarter Sessions at Balranald, a man
who “ lifted “ a quart of beer from a brewery had
to be sent to take his trial at Deniliquin, a distance
of 130 miles. With him were also conveyed, at the
public expense, the prosecutor, the arresting con-
stable, and a witness, the total cost of the whole
procession being over £10. But who cares for
this? The State has millions of money yet-to
borrow.
At General Gourko’s ball to the Emperor
and Empress at Warsaw, says the Daily News'
correspondent, not one word of Polish was spoken.
The few Polish nobles present spoke French.
When the Polish ladies forgot themselves, they
started, looking anxiously around to know if any
one had henx-d them. The rooms were so empty
that they assumed a most melancholy character,
notwithstanding the splendid decorations. At the
last moment, 300 officers had been ordered to at-
tend the ball, but still several long tables remained
unoccupied when supper commenced.
The very latest sensation out in the world
of wonders is George Naphi.ll. the luminous boy
of New Orleans—a young gentleman who is now
six years of age, and gives out a light of 1000-
candle power from his body already. Nothing re-
markable was ever noticed about the lad until a
few months ago, when, on taking him out of a
oath, it was noticed that bright and noiseless
dames were issuing from all parts of bis body.
Perceiving that the flames neither hurt the boy
nor scorched the carpet on which he was standing,
his parents allowed him to burn for a time, and
then blew him out just as they would an ordinary
lamp. From that day to this, his mother has
never used a drop of oil in the house. Every
evening, as soon as it grows dark, little Geordie is
lit, and burns away till bed-time. There seems to
be no consumption of his tissues by the heatless
flame, and the only fault to be found with him is
that the slightest puff of air extinguishes him im-
mediately. An attempt has been made to remedy
this defect by placing him under a glass globe, but
as he evinces a great love for standing on his head
and bucking about after the manner of small boys
In general, bis parents are thinking of fitting him
up with a large screw a* d securing him to the
table before he’s lit. Master George s wonderful
power is said to be due to a peculiar gaseous diet
indulged in by his parents before he was torn, and
upon which he was also bottle-fed until he reached
•he age of two years. And as the secret is about
to be made public, a complete re volution in our
social affairs will most assuredly follow. Street
lamps will be replaced by luminous policemen, and
every man, on going to bed, will light himself, and
so dispense with electricity, gas, or candles. Then,
again, a luminous girl will not be obliged to sug-
gest to an inexperienceo lover the propriety of
turning down the parlour lights in order to ease off
the old man s gas bill. She will simply decrease
aer own illuminating power by drawing a long
breath, pinching a nervf, or doing something else
of the kind, and if the spooney young man is raw
to the business, she can pretend that the shutting
off of the light was an accident, and she hopes be
will not be so awfully mean as to take cny advan-
tage of it. Ladies will have a great advantage in
the way of luminosity over their male friends, in-
asmuch as the light only comes from those por-
tions of the body which are uncovered. No re-
spectable young gentleman would dare appear at
a grand ball with any other portion of his anatomy
uncovered except nis head and hands, and al-
though the ears alone of some of our dudes would
throw out as much light as the electric light at the
Circular Quay, still, the amount of surface which
a fashionably-dressed—or rather, undressed-belle
is forced by the laws of fashion to expose would
enable her to give out a light 600 times as great as
that of her male partner. The success of the lu-
minous boy has been so great that the manager of
the Opera House in New York has ordered four
ballet girls to be made on the same principle, and
judging from the extent of the radiating surface
the average ballet queen presents, it is calculated
that these four luminous nymphs will be able to
not only light up the theatre in question, but the
whole of the city as well. In church choirs one
soprano will be quite enough to dazzle the whole
edifice at night time, and the amount a prudent
Boniface can save by engaging an Amazonian bar-
maid will easily cover all his fines for Sunday trad-
ing. Personally, we hail the new invention with
the greatest joy, and feel quite sure that it will fill
a very long-felt want indeed.


TALIAN EMPORIUM
FANCY CHINAWARE.
comprising
TEA SETS, DESSERT SETS, VASES, ORNA-
MENTS, &c.
FANCY GOODS IN GREAT VARIETY.
Silk Fans, Ladies’ Belts, Sunshades, Dolls, &c.
The Latest Novelties always on hand.
Best quality with reasonable prices.
B. MARMONT, 470 Gcorge-street.
PAINTS. A.
oils.
WALL
> PAPERS
Office: 330 George-street.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
iar N.B. Patterns and Prices sent.
NEUSTADT and CO.,
COMPLETE
FURNISHERS,
39.154, 156, & 158 OXFORD-ST’
SYDNEY
HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
Eithek fob Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
HjflNHOOD RESTORED!
A Clergyman having tried everv known
remedy for the Cure of Nervous Exhaustion,
Premature Decay, &c., has at last discovered a
simple Self-Cube, which for the sake of suffering
humanity, be will send FREE the Prescription
which CURED him. Address, with self-addressed
stamped envelope—
Dr. B. A CLARKE, P O. Box 293, Sydney.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL nre
serves, strenghtens, and beautifies the hair- it con
tains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can nor
be also had m a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per
sons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ EAL7DOR is a most cool
ing, healing, and refreshing wash for the face
hands, and arms, and is perfectly free from arn
minera! or metafile admixtures ; it disperse
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples &c
R OWANDS' ESSENCE 0E TYRE pro
duces immediately a perfect change in red or grej
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and per
manent brown or black, whicVi colour neithei
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands
articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoir
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bros. I
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Compagnoni’s.)
THE undersigned, recognising the want of n
FIRST CLASS TAILORING ESTABLISH-
OPENED the premises lately occu-
pied by the Bank of Australasia, at 108 PITT
STREET (THE WEST END HOOSB) where thrfv*
Trade t0 ° arry ° D a H ‘ Kh ' claS8 and fashionable
The public may feel assured that we shall be
able to maintain a high standard, when we state
that our Mr. Ward has bad some years’ experience
In the best bouses In London, Paris, as well ns in
first-class Sydney Establishments, namely Farmer
and Co.’s and David Jones and Co.’s. 3 mer
Our Mr. Wilson has bad fully 30 years’ erne
nence in the Australian trade, and has just re-
turned from England, where all the
principal Woollen Mills, including that of Hud!
dersfleld, as well as West of England and ScAtoVi
Tbis wil J be a sufficient guarantee that tfa<
the mbU ° WUI
we desire to say that we hope t<
which we guarantee 0 firs^clas^woVk.^lTaS
«• •“ •« <” t—ssa
Soliciting a trial, we remain,
Very truly yours.
FREDERICK WILSON.
HUGH WARD,
Fashionable Tailors. Rob® and Habit Makers.
Wegfcpjnd Ho pee,
168 Pitt-street, Sydney.
THE
IGNO
i|
FAMOUS
FliilTO.
NEVER previously did any piano win such a hold
on the public as the Mignon has done since
its introduction. Our competitors have no doubt
done their level best to rival ua—blazoning forth
their bald imitations with a tremendous flourish
of trumpets. What result hare they to show,
excepting to point to the gradual death of all their
offspring? The reason is soon found. Inferior
instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted on the
public. But the right-thinking public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales off the Mignon Piano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found its way into every town almost of all
the colonies—in Victoria and New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north of Queens-
land ; in New Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE MIGNON
oan be found, and its name is really a household
word.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for its size defies all would-be Imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, because the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be hadron very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for first-class work and
richness of tone.
Illustrated Catalogue, with full description
of THE MIGNON and all other good instruments,
on application.
NICHOLSON - AND CO.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
MOULTONS
T f T 9^J LA ,i N * cured by MOULTON'S
rttuii tILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
e c™^ M0ULT0N ' S *’RUIT PILLS also cure
BIL.OUSNES*. prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
mmulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
1UL BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
Mown, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit),
they are as nearly perfect as it is passible for a Pill to be.
Sola Everywhere, I»rlce It. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
A„ . „ bbgibtbrbd.
SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General DeblUty, and all complaints
tnat spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia
toothache. Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss ol
Appetite. Female Disorders, Liver and Kidnej
Complaints. Loss of Vital Power, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes ail craving
>or Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous ana
T t o^T^ n x?oL f S 1 r^ i^ alis,n f elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
«ie whole system, mop, 4s. «d., or 25s. a case.
Sole Proprietors, MARSH ALL BROTHERS, M.P.S.
i<wl!r actur ?2 s ’ consulting Chemists, UK and
near Hyde Park, *vdney, and
IUTE fcl ' & * t ’ 01rcaI * r<3uaj ’- TAKE ND SUfiSTI-
-i&.'brsiIb.suEOL’s
nils
(DANDELION)
Tlie Great Liver Remedy!
.Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
Eerience. They overcome the worst form of
diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
’JAMES MACGREGOR,
t&~ 808 GEORGE STREET.
ima
°*&ScotcW^
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE~AGBNT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAOBN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
%r MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE
THE
lira U Sraiij Machine.
The SIMPLEST. CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever introduced into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, EAST TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine in the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS in Town and Country.
Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE to
any part of the colony.
B. O. Holtermann & Go.,
Sole Acents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J. TURNER ROBINSON t CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
maaiu’s
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
A. & C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
318 GEORGE STREET,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
The most liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
A. & C. Huenerbein,
318 GEORGE STREET.
W. H. CHARD AND CO.
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
T IBERAL ADVANCES made on WOOL or
other PRODUCE shipped to their London
Agents, Messrs. Redfern, Alexander and Co., 3
Great Winchester-street, E.C.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well*
known firm is given to all consignments.
I HAH DOMESTIC PAPER FASHIONS
IvUU shown in our Illustrated Catalogue
Price, Threepence ; by Post, Fourpenob.
CHAP PEL & CO.,
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern and General Sewing-machine
Agency,
746 GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and all fittings, &c., kept In
ESTIMATES CJIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
a
%
%
s
5- ft.
03
CO
&
o
o
t-
<i>
CO
Cf>
(A
Pu
w
k
3
Oil
o
t—
§
p)
*
\
««
o
t/>
a.
B£
tTi
X"
&
Arf
9
A
%
A
ca
v:
%
%
KtN!
O
<6
OTt
€5
2fc
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
PROCUKABLB ONLY AT THB
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY.
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS *
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Packboard Waggons.
BT BEST MANUFACTURED a*w1C-.ES ONLY KEPT In STOCK


AST L£ <S
MANUFACTURING HATTERSi
GEORGE STREET
SVD N EY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
FEWEST SHAPES.
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited)! 24 Pitt-at., Sydney, N.S.W.
A Lay Sermon on the Land.
The “Lay Sermon on the Land’’ which
we give below Is from the facile pen of Mr. Wil-
liam Webster, and was published by the South
Australian Land Nationalization Society. Its
text is the well-being of mankind; for the specu-
lations of George and of his school have shown
how hopeless it Is to expect a largo proportion of
human well-being in a country where the land is
the property of a few. Mr. Webster's tract is
full of suggostlveness to those pious, well-to-do
faineants wno think our present system of all land
for the few and none for the many is in conso-
nance with the teachings of Jesus of Nazareth.
But let it speak for Itself
“No man can serve two masters; for, citherP®
will hate the one and love the other,ilhni* 0 Ye
will hold to the one and d splse the other. Ye
cannot serve God and Mammon. Therefore,
aay unto you. Take no thought for your i .
what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, nor
vet for your body, what ye shall put on. is not
the life more than meat, and the body than rai-
ment ? Behold the birds ol the they sow
not, neither do they reap. gather Anto harns
vet your heavenly Father f©®deth them. Are >e
not much better than they ? Which of you, by
taking thought, can add one cubit unto his sta-
ture?* And why take ya thought for raiment?
Consider the lilies ol the Held, they grow,
they toil not, neither do they spin, and yet 1 say
unto yon that Holomon in all his glory wsb not
arrayed like one of these. Therefore, if God SO
clothe the grass of the field, which to-day is, and
to-morrow is oast into the oven, shall He not
Smuoh more clothe you, O yc of little faith ?
* Therefore, take no thought, saying, What shall
we eat? or what shall we drink t or wherewithal
shaUwo be clothed ? For after ad these things
do the Gentiles seek; for your heavenly Father
knoweth that ye have need of all these things.
But seek ye first the kmgd _m of God and HI is
righteousness, and all these thmgsshall be added
unto you. Take, therefore, no thought for the
morrow; for the morrow shall take thought for
the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is
the evil tuereof.—Matt, vi., 24 to 34.
“Sisters anti Brothers.— All of you have pro-
bably heard many sermons on portions of the pas-
sage from the Sermon on the Mount which forms
the text or motto of the discourse that I am about
to address to you; but I confidently venture to
assert that not one of you ever heard any official
expounder of Christian doctrine, at any time or
on any occasion, refer, even ini an inferentlal and
casual way, to the teaching of the Founder of the
Christian faith on the land question; or, to be
moro irwise. on the relations which human beings
ooouDv or ought to occupy, towards the laud on
which they live. And yet this is manifest y the
subject dealt with in the paragraph I haveselected
"for our consideration this morning. On ttiis inost
vital, important, and uigent of all the economical,
political, social, moral, and religious questions of
the day, the Church has been silent; and, if we
except the Catholic Bishop of Meath, the Catholic
Archbishop of Cashel, and a few 1 rotestant as
well as Catholic clergy, whose utterances on the
subject, I may remark, have been strictly non-
offloial, I know of no clergyman of any denomina-
tion who has denounced and condemned the in-
herent and heinous injustice °t the existing If 1 }*?
system. The attitude of the Christian Church in
all its varied branches towards the dominant insti-
tution of private property in land is, at the
present moment, exactly similar to that occupied
fay the Christian Church towards the institution ot
private property in human beings before the ad
vooates of the abolition of slavery had virtually
triumphed in their noble and heroic endeavoms »
to rid the earth of that foul iniquity. That great
and glorious cause was fought tor and gained by
men and women who were without the gate of
every voclatlasUcal organisation, and they won it
by their own devoted efforts, without the assist-
ance of any of the recognised authorities or of-
ficials of any of the Churches. The emancipation
of the bodies and souls of human beings from the
thraldom of slavery has ho . v y® v ®^’. b^ e , a
heartily welcomed and adopted by the vast ma-
iorltv of the men and women who bear the Chris-
tian name, and it has even been accepted by them
as a practical application of Christianity to'the
regulation of the relations of human beings to-
wards one anoth r. out as yet very few Chrl.-
tians are aware that there Is flourishing in every
Christian country an Institution which is essen-
tially as unjust and as Iniquitous, and which, per-
haps, exercises even >• still more widespread, di-
sastrous, and evil Influence on the souls and
bodies of men than slavery ever did. In these cir-
cumstances, when the clergy of h11 the churches
and their 11 ckn are equally Insensible and Inalffer-
ent to the gigantic evils that reside in and flow
f?om the exisflng land system. 1 hope 1 may be ex-
cused if I. a layman, destitute ot anything that
•ould possibly oe described as authority-and not,
I may* say, at all concerned about its absence—
should attempt, to the best of my ability, to direct
attention to the teaching of Jesus of Nazareth on
this great and most important subject.
•• r shall begin wit h an exposition of the passage
I have chosen as my text or motto, as the reader
may not at a first glanee see its bearing upon the
laud question; and 1 shall confine myself strictly
to it, and avoid reference to other scriptural texts
which might tre cited in support of my interpreta-
tion. it will not be necessary to attempt to give
any exhaustive account of the two masters who
are contrasted with and opposed to each other‘ “J
the two opening sentences, God and Mammon
embody the conflicting ideas and motives ot un-
fiolftahuess and stdttahnGSs; and th© preacher as-
sumes that those he addresses hold by the former
and despise the latter. It is upon this assumption
that his wholelargument is ba«ed. Therefore —
that is because you cannot serve God and Mam-
mon, because you cannot, in a spirit of self-sacri-
fice, devote vourselves to the promotion of the
welt are and the elevation of the minds and hearts
of your fellowmeu, as you in your hearts really
wisti to do. if you are engrossed in self-seeking,
and worried by caiking cares—Therefore, be pro-
ceeds, ‘ take no thought for your life, what ye shall
eat, or what ye shad drink ; nor yet for your body,
what ye shall put o>..‘ 'there is more than meat
and drink and raiment and shelter—which is but
another sort of raiment, though it does not
directly touch the skin—there is more than these
things needed ; for. ‘Is not the Hie more than
meat, and the body than raiment ? Then follows,
as the reason why men should not worry them-
selves about food and clothing a reference to
what some of us would call the economy of
Nature, bur which Jesus termed the economy of
God, as it affects the birds of the air and the lilies
of the field. Your Heavenly Father feedeth the
fowls of the air and elotheth the grass ot the field.
‘Are ye not much better than they? O, ye of
little taith’.’ Think you, that God, who has pro-
vided so bountifully for the wants of the animal
creation, and has so sumptuously clothed the
lilies of the field, has neglected to provide for the
wants of his human creatuns? Your Heavenly
Father knoweth that ye have need ot all these
things—of meat, and drink, and raiment—and He
has provided them all for you in amplest abund-
ance. ‘ There! ore,’ Jesus reiterates, ‘take no
thought’ [or to give more emphatic and correct
expression to the idea, ‘ take no anxious thought, ]
saying. ‘What shall we eat. or what shall we drink,
or wherewith shall we be clothed ?’ Your trouble
and worry cannot really accomplish anything.
‘Which of you, by taking thought, can add one
cubit unto his stature ? And why take ye thought
tor the rest?’ It is God alone who glveth the
Increase. Human labour and skill cannot actually
and really produce anything. Our economists tell
us, and tell us truly, that land and labour are the
nrimary factors of production, the primary sources
of all wealth. The land, indeed, is the source of
all wealth, ot everything that maintains human
existence, and contributes to human comfort;
and the land, including the sea iand the atmo-
sphere, is the only source of wealth. All wealth.
In short, comes originally from nature. The
earth is the Lord’s, and the fulness theieot.'
“Labour and skill, may, however, increase the
yield cf the sail, oil tho water, arid tlio heat, aad
the light; and may. and do, fashion the produce
Into forma that render It more attractive and use-
ful, and more permanently attractive and useful,
to man than it was in its natural state ; aud this
service is not only of the very (greatest importance,
but it la even absolutely indispensable. Man has
high and necessary functions to perform with
baud, head, and heart; and Is not, like the rest of
the animal and vegetable creation, like the birds
of the air and the grass of the field, an Involuntary
and unconscious element in the natural order of
things ; but, by his mind and will, he can assist, or
retard and defeat—within certain limits, no doubt,
but to an extent that may determine the fate or
fortune of countless thousands of his fellow
beings-the obvious designs, the alms, and the
objects of creation. He has a choice before
him; he can, as Jesus put' it, servo either
God or Mammon. He may neglect and Ignore and
trample upon the rights of his fellow beings, and
concentrate his whole heart and mind and soul on
the promotion of his own Interests, and the Inter-
ests of his family, and of the class who enjoy simi-
lar privileges to hlmsell; or he may strive devot-
edly to redress the wrongs of the poor and '»eak,
and to live and act in the spirit of wh«t Theodore
Parker well calls ‘the one religion—love to the
Father and love to the Bon—to mankind here on
earth, for mankind is the Son of God.”
“I shall only be following out this line of thought
If I pass on, and complete my survey of the argu-
ment in the paragraph with which I am dealing.
Having counselled his hearers against taking
anxious thoughts about the necessaries of life, and
shown them that their Heavenly Father knoweth
that they have need of all these things, and plente-
ously provides them all, Jesus at once proceeds to
state the conclusion of the whole matter. But
seek ye first the Kingdom of God and His right-
eousness, and all these things shall be added unto
you.” What is the Kingdom of God ? That is the
first question that has to be grappled with; and, if
it be possible, answered conclusively, well, I
think that the Kingdom of God Is a kingdom or
realm where good prevails. Justice, equity, and
fraternity must prevail there: and. mark, It is not
only the ‘ Kingdom of God’ that Jesus urges his
bearers to seek to establish, and to maintain, but
a'ao the ‘ righteousness’ of God; and the certain
result of the establishment of the kingdom or
righteousness of God, and even of an earnest and
true seeking after It, will, the Great Teacher
assures us, be that all these things—meat and drink
and raiment—will be * added’ unto us. God has
provided meat and drink and raiment to supply
all the wants of the human family as bountifully
and beneficently as He has supplied the wants of
the birds of the air and the grass of the field;
but the distribution of the necessaries of life
which God has furnished for mankind is
determined, in a large measure, by man him-
self; and If man does not ‘seek first the King-
dom of God and His righteousness’ and manage his
affairs in accordance with the principle of
God’s kingdom and God’s righteousness, the vast
majority of the human race will be deprived of
the bounty of Heaven. Tho solution that Jesus
indicates of the problem raised by the widespread
and constant anxiety caused by poverty in a world
where there is superabundance to supply all tho
needs and desires of the whole human race, seems
to me to be the establishment of a system of
Government by laws that embody the principle of
righteousness; and this is the principle which is
most utterly frustrated by the land system under
which the people of this country, and tho people
throughout nearly the whole of Christendom, are
now keenly suffering.
‘ It would certainly be a serious defect in the
Christian religion If it did not comprise any maxim
or principle by which the justice or Injustice, the
legitimacy or illegitimacy, of property in land
could be decided; for on the land system, or the
relation in which the people stand towards the soil
on which and from which they live, the fabric
of society is necessarily based, and its char-
acter and stability are determined. Dors the
soil and the water —sea, river, and lake, as
well as continent and island—rightly belong to the
people, or only to a small section of the people,
who, through ‘possession.’ and not through ary
merit of their own, neither through their wisdom
and their virtue, nor through any service they
have ever rendered to their fellow-men, hold these
natural agents as their exclusive private property?
In truth, and as'a necessary consujueaoe of that
uejust £tod immoral position thoy have ooeupied
and now occupy, the landlord olwtas ®xp »
and will ever exercise, a most banefu
alike on the moral and material condition ot the
community that is subject to its rule. There is no
possibility of denying that the power Pro-
perty in land puts Into the hands of a has
a most demoralising Influence on its holders , ana
It is even, if possible, still more dear and unmis-
takable t»>at the power of life and death which the
possession of land as private property allows the
landlord class to wield bassunk the masses in ever>
country in which it has been Instituted to extreme
depths of poverty and degradation, and has even
not Infrequently starved thousands to death, in this
fair world of God. To be sure, the great body of
the people have been themselves largely to blame.
They have not had the intelligence to discern,
except fitfully, their nature 1 and inalienable,
because indispensable, right to the land on which
and from which they have alw ys lived, and
always must live, ano they have not had the neces-
sary interest in and loyalty towards their follow
men; o>, in Jesus’ words, they have nptsomrnt
after ‘the Kingdom of God and His righteous-
ness’ with that earnestness which would have
enabled them to repel the Inroads that the sons ot
Mammon have made on tneir heritage. Conse-
quently, they find themselves in a tar inferior
position to that of the birds of the air and the
grass of the field as regards the supply of the
necessaries of life; being practically excluded from
all participation in the bounty provided by then-
creator aud the Creator of the world, and reduced
to a state of subjection and servitude, under which
they owe their very existence to the sufferance ol
the privileged class that legally, but unjustly, hold
possession of the soil.
“Here It occurs to me to ask If It was the aim
and intention of the Christian religion to establish
‘the Kingdom of God aud His righteousness
upon this earth, during the lapse cf time ; or. as
many ot the official expounders of His doctrines
seem to believe and teach, did He only entertain
the idea of establishing God’s Kingdom in Heaven,
throughout the eternity of the future, or in some
other world than this ? In my opinion. Jpsub
clearly meant to establish God s Kingdom here
and now. In the prayer that He taught His dis-
ciples the first petition to the l ather runs Thy
kingdom come ; Thy will he done on earth as It
is in Heaven;’ and God’s will, certainly, can never
be done on earth so long as the gigantic evil and
injustice of property in land prevails, and the vast
majority of the human race are deprived of and
excluded from their primary and indispensable
right to a natural element that is as necessary to
their existencs and their welfare as is the air they
breathe. Heinrich Heine was, perhaps, a some-
what strange apostle of these latter days ; nut u®
was, as he described himself, ‘ A gallant soldier of
the idoly Ghost,’ and he believed in the possibility
of establishing, and in his own queer way worked
for the establishment of the Kingdom .of Heaven
here, under the sky, as well as above it. One of
his poems opens with this verse :
‘ Bin neues lied, ein besseres lied,
O freunde, will ich euch dichten,
Wir wollon hier, auf erden, schon.
Das Himmel’s—reich errichten.
(A new song, a better song, O! friends,
will I sing to you. We shall here, on this
earth, soon set up the very Kingdom ol
Heaven).
“ One word more before closing, or rather, before
breaking off, this discourse. Of course, the lay-
man who has given utterance to these somewhat
disjointed thoughts will be laughed at for seriously
and earnestly advocating the seeking after an
earthly ‘Kingdom of Heaven’ that would secure
the just distribution of meat and drink and rai-
ment to all mankind; and I fear that Christian
men and women will regard him as an enthusiast,
“ even as an ecstatic, notwithstanding the plain
injunctions of the Founder of their laith. He
will, doubtless, be told that the world cannot be
governed by just and noble and self-denying men,
but must always be under subjection to t sove-
reigns and statesmen,' and be ruled by Wood
and iron.’ And I frankly confess that but little
progress has been made since the execution of
Jesus towards the establishment on earth of any-
thing approximating to His Kingdom of Heaven,
but, nevertheless, 1 shall continue to cherish the
aspiration, and to seek after and work for its
practical realisation ; and it is my flrpa coqyictaon
tliat, at the praaent mcmeat, the brst and mast
needed service that can be done to the human
race is the promulgation of sound doctrines in re-
gard to the land, with the view to its eventual,
and, I hope, speedy resumption by the people
whose inalienable aud;mdjspeneable|heritage it is.
Solomon the Wise is on the rampage once
again. During the hearing of a recent civil growl
at Narrabri the other day, the sapient beak on the
Bench observed, “ Every woman should know the
height of her own husband. That a so .but ir
some women onlylknew the depth. of their hubbies,
they’d feel mad enough to dance round ami drag
the hair ■ ut of the plaster of their bedroom walls.
It is not true that the Celestials and Tou-
quinese are a parcel of emaso dated cowards.
General Millet speaks of them as a
and an obstinate enemy. It needed the ™cst
heroic and persevering efforts of the troopsiunder
his command to hold their ground against them m
forty-seven combats. “ Forty-seven . wnat a
revelation this composite word involves. Itsn ws
that as fast as the enemy was annihilated anotner
horde started up in its place.
One of the most sensible items in the way
of female harness that we ever tumbled over is a
new corset, registered under the name of the
“Tourist,” the peculiaiity of which is that it pro-
vides a pocket for notes and casn, a very con-
venient arrangement Inside the * 'tourist is
another small receptacle for tram-tickets, and we
can faintly imagine the Joy of a crowded tram
when a top-shelf society lady unpeols to got at tne
little punctured piece of pasteboard.
When Earl Spencer, Lord Lieutenant of
Ireland, visited Mill-street, county Cork, he was
accompanied by an escort of Hussars, and rode
through the town. He was received with derisive
banter, and cheers for Parnell were given at
various points. His Excellency lifted bis hat in
mistyke to a Land League banner, supposing it to
be a token of popular welcome. Such devices as
“•God save Ireland,’’ “Ireland loves William
O’Brien,” and “The Land for the People” were
displayed generally. The Viceroy was entertained
by the parish priest, and inspected the convent
schools, whore the children, however, abstained
from attending. At Listowel, His Excellency was
coldly received by the people. A black flag, bear-
ing on one side “ Poff and Barrett,” and on the
other “Murdered,” greeted him from the window
of Mrs. Poff, mother of Sylvester Poff, who was
hanged for the murder of Browne.
We boast of our civilization, forsooth, but
the honest Maori is already leagues ahead of*us in
many ways, and especially in the matter oi funeral
reform For example, when our mother-in-law
goes off the hooks, are we ever really prepared for
the sad event ? Hardly ever; fact is, probably wo
do not even know an undertaker to speak to or
hang up a cheap funeral with, and it takes us
several days before we can negotiate a thirty-bob
coffin for her. Contrast this dilatory way of giving
her a tardy send-off with the foresight and energy
displayed lately by a poor Maori at Hawera (N Z )
When his mother-in-law got sick and required
gruel, he at once went to work and chopped down
a tree, and had it sawn into boards. Ho then
spread himself out to make a coffin for his re-
spected relative; but before putting on the finish-
ing touches, he had the old woman jammed in to
see if she would fit. As might be expected, she
had a good fit of coffin,and when he pressed her
hard to say how she felt, and crushed her down
nice and smooth, so that the lid would be solid and
flt close, she appreciated his filial devotion so
much, and felt so comfortable, that she decided to
remain where she was, and accordingly expired.
Then that intelligent savage sat on the coffin-lid
for three days in case of accidents, and held a
" tangi ” and made many speeches in praise of the
deceased, and finally buried her in an old saw-pit.
Moral next week.
Anecdotes of Sir Moses Monteflore are now
in season. There is a little story which has uever
yet found its wav into print. The grandfather of
the baronet of East Cliff, it appears, had a family
of seventeen children, who dispersed throughout
the world, and “increased and multiplied” in the
manner of the chosen people. Sir Moses Monte-
flore was travelling abroad in his young days,
when a poor old lady, claiming relationship with
the rich Jewish stock-broker, solicited pecuniary
assistance from her kinsman. Having satisfied
himself of the truth of the lady’s representations,
he presented her with a handsome check, for
which she sent him her thanks and her blessing—
in the name or the Saviour! The lady was n con-
vert to Christianity. Sir Moses Montefiore’s
“ Uncle Josh ” distinguished himself in the world
more than any other of the seventeen children cf
his father. Joshua Monteflore whs a buccaneer, a
lawyer, a hundred things in his time, including an
author. He wi ote a very respectable Commercial
Dictionary, and lived and died in America Joshua
Monteflore married a Christian wife, but he came
back to his own faith at the end. When he was wn
bis death-bed he translated the burial-service of
the Jews out of Hebrew into English, and directed
that this translation should he read over his coffin.
Mr. Joshua Monteflore crowned an extraordinary
career by marrying a second wife when he was 73
years of age. Eight years later he died, leaving a
young wid.jw and six children, the youngest of
whom was only six weeks old.
It must not be supposed that the compro-
mise that has been effected between Mr Glad-
stone and Lord Salisbury on the Franohise-cum-
Redistribution business will put a stop to the agi-
tation for the abolition of the House of Lords,
which was revived by the action of the Conserva-
tive leader. It. is doubtful whether it will even
retard the movement. A me mber of the com-
mittee of “The People’s League to abolish the
Hereditary Legislative Chamber,” of which Sir
Wilfred Lawson is President, and Messrs Joseph
Cowan, M.P., H. Labouchere, M.P., Storey, M.P.,
and a host of other prominent men are connected,
and which has adopted as its motto the declaration
of the Lower Parliament, in 1619, “That a House
of Peers in Parliament is useless, dangerous, and
ought to be abolished,” says, in a letter just re-
ceivedWhether the Franchise Bill is passed or
not, the agitation against the Lords will go on.
The abolition of the hereditary element has be-
come a burning question, and the second chamber
Is threatened as it has never been before. If the
Lords go down, depend upon It more than the
Lords will go a ong with them.” The card of
membership of “The People s League” It signifi-
cant as well as artistic. A female figure in classic
robe, with a crown of laurel on her head, who can-
not be mistaken for the Republic, has a scroll
bearing the words “Non emmendosed estirpato,"
in her left hand, and grasps a long spear on which
hanga the “ Bonnet Rouge,” and the shaft of
which rests within the centre of an upturned
crown labelled “ Privilege ” A light from a
brazier burns at the side of the figure, and the
head of the serpent emanating from the pile of dis-
carded coronets, is stamped under her foot. “They
have rights who dare maintain them a line from
Mr. Russell Lowell’s vreat but comparatively little-
known poem “The Present Crisis,” forms the not
inappropriate legend of the card of “The People’s
League.”
Walking Dress with Fichu. The fichu is of Chantilly lace, trimmed with bugle lace
and three long loop rosettes of satin ribbon. The lower part of the fichu falls town in
long fan-like folds, kept in place by tacking down a few times at the back. The ncn
loop rosettes make a rich and effective trimming.
