

THE BULLETIN
Vol 3 —No. 131 -New SerlM.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1885.
Frloe—6d.
The Bulletin .
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 14 1886.
Government by Picnic.
In New South Wales representative Govern-
ment presents many anomalies. It has not
followed the lines followed by it in other
countries. Its development has been after
a different fashion. Broadly speaking, in
all other countries where Parliamentary
Government is recognised, the people are
divided into two great parties—one com-
posed of all those averse to change, and the
other of those who believe that change is
a universal law—that man cannot stand
still, but must move either forward like
Europeans, or backward like Asiatics, and
that stagnation means death. These primary
divisions are acain split up into various sec-
tions. On many important points these
sections differ. Though marching under the
same banners, bad language constantly
passes between those who form the body-
guard of the Marquis of Salisbury—de-
scendant of that “Spider Cecil,” of Eliza-
beth’s reign, who “racked” more men,
and devoured more monasteries than any
one of his time—and those who cluster round
Lord Randolph Churchill, whose family
has lived on the fat of the land for two
centuries, owing to the leap taken by
“ handsome Jack Churchill ” from th®
chamber window of Barbara Palmer, one
of the many mistresses of the Defender of
the Faith Charles II., when the guilty
pair heard His Majesty knocking at the
front door. Similar differences exist be-
tween the sections in the rival camp. There
is little in common between the Red
Radical and the Whig Marquis of Harting-
ton, whose progenitor CaveSdish was a
good second to his royal master, Henry
VIII., in the marriage business, and who. in
securing the reversion of stolen property,
could hold his own in any age or company.
• • •
In New South Wales, on the other hand,
not only are the sectional differences in the
ranks of the contending partiei unknown,
but the parties themselves have no exist-
ence. Between wrangling politicians in New
South Wales there exists no fundamental
differences of policy such as separate the
followers of Lord Salisbury from those of
Mr. Chamberlain, the French “Right”
from the “Left,” tne American Democrat
from the Republican, or even the Victorian
Conservative from the earnest voter of Col-
lingwood Flat who plumps for Mr. Mirams.
In New South Wales the words Whig, Tory,
Conservative, Liberal, Left, Right, Centre
or Mountain have no meaning. Politics are
purely personal. It is not a war of rival
principles but a Donnybrook of windy
politicians. It is not a question of halting
or advancing, but merely one of personal
liking or antipathy. The result of this
chaotic state of affairs is partly deplorable
and partly whimsical. It is deplorable
inasmuch as owing to it not only have
disgraceful Acts been kept upon the
Statute Book, but laws have been
passed which, as an amalgam of stu-
pidity and savagery, need not shrink
from a comparison with recent Chinese
legislation. It was John Stuart Mill who,
in his “Essay on Liberty,” roused the indig-
nation of England by bringing up the case
of a half-witted rustic who was at the time
undergoing a long term of imprisonment
for express ng doubts concerning the early
life of Jesus. Thegreat mass of Englishmen
were unaware that such iniquitous laws
existed or that, even if unrepealed, any
magistrates could be found insensate enough
to put them in operation. Buckle, it will
be remembered, wrote with blistering mor-
dancy on the matter. So here, the vast
majority of the people of New South Wales
know nothing of the barbarous laws with
which prominent politicians, who impu-
dently assume to be in line with the advanc-
ing civilisation of old countries, have
blurred the pages of the Statute Book. To
give a couple of instances. During the re-
cent elections Sir Henry Parkes boasted
that if the laws which he was instrumental
in passing were erased from the colonial
Statute Book little but a blank would re-
main. A thousand times better that the
book had never been opened than that the
Treason Felony Act of 1868 and the Criminal
Consolidation Act of 1882—both the handi-
work of him whose vanity found vent in the
vaunt that England could teach New South
Wales nothing—should have appeared there.
When the author of the Education Act is
forgotten, the author of the foregoing mea-
sures will he remembered —and cursed.
It was only the other day that a magazine
article in a neighbouring colony pointed
out the humiliating fact that eighteen of-
fences in New South Wales were punishable
by death, while the unheard-of abomination
of periodically torturing men suffering life-
long imprisonment was of common occur-
rence. This is the deplorable side of the
absence of well-defined parties in the colony
of New South Wale - .
* ♦ *
In making it dangerous for a man, if he
would escape whipping, to sit in the same
room with any female except his wife, it
might appear that it was in the interests of
virtue the Criminal Consolidation law was
pasreL How untenable such a supposition
would be will become obvious on examining
the moral characters of some of those
who supported it. As in Victoria the
satyrs of a generation ago are the saints
of to-day, and mumble their admiration for
measures which will throw hundreds of
honest women out of work, so elsewhere, the
men whom, some years ago, no one would
think of introducing to his family, are, in
their old age, the very ones who have placed
it in the power of an absolute trull to have a
decent man scourged by the common hang-
man.
* * +
But it is time to look at the whimsical
side of the matter. When elections take
place in the British Islands, or, indeed, in
any constitutionally-governed country but
New South Wales, there is no need for the
leaders to remain in doubt concerning the
strength of their followers. Directly the
last numbers go up the position of par-
lies can be told. Long before the
next Parliament assembles at West-
minster the whole world will know
whether the destinies of three hundred
millions of people are to be watched over
by Lord Salisbury or by Mr. Gladstone.
This system might do for 1 he British Empire,
but it lacks the element of uncertainty so
dear to New South Wales. In order to dis-
cover his chances of upsetting the Bibbs’
Government, Sir John Robertson has de-
cided to give an open-air entertainment to
the members of the Assembly. Those who
accept his invitation he will look upon as
friends—as foes upon those who decline.
This may be called “Government by Pic-
nic.” Whether he will include Mr. Bibbs
and the other members of the Ministry in
the invitation has not, we believe, been
finally decided. Matters, of course, will be
somewhat compile ated should the Premier
and the other Ministeis receive invitations
and accept them. Men are frequently their
own worst enemies, but their enmity is
seldom so virulent as to induce them to
turn them elves out of ollioe. We shall
watch with interest the now departure in
politics inaugurated by Sir John Robertson.
We have always suspected that there was
more in this veteran politician than many
people supposed—that the Land Act of 1861
did not exhaust all his originality. This
“picnic” proposal of Lis shows that our
diagnosis was correct. Besides this, it sug-
gests that Sir Henry Parkis was, perhaps,
not so far wrong when he said that the
colonies had nothing to learn from England.
Whether England is not too conceited to
learn from the colonies remains to be seen.
Probably nothing would do so much to
cement the Empire, arouse Australian
loyalty, and lead up to that grand confedera*
tion which Mr. Dallby, from his Pisgah of
the Upper House, sees in the distance, than a
picnic given by the Nonconforming Mr.
Chamberlain to the feitf hundred Tories
who lately pledged themselves to keep sacri-
legious hands off the Church’s fat livings, or
a similar entertainment given by Lord
Salisbury to the Liberal party, including
Mr. Timothy Healy, Mr. Labouchere, and
Mr. Bradlaugh.
* • *
Wo have seen that In other countries laws
are the resultants of the struggle between
inertia and motion—between the Toryism
which condemns God for disturbing Chaos
by creating the world, and the Radicalism
which cannot understand that the liberty
of one individual should always end where
the liberty of another begins. But in New
South Wales everything is different. There
is not a politician to whom one would be
justified in applying the term, Conservative,
Liberal, Democrat, or Radical. To a stranger
who asked, “ Have you a Liberal or a Conser-
vative Government in office?” the Sydney
resident would be forced to reply “Neither.
Robertson and Parkes have fired out
Stuart and Dalley, but what they are
or what their predecessors were I am quite
unable to say.” The result of Ih's oblitera-
tion of party lines, this adhesion to persors
instead of principles, is that the views of the
majority of the electors seldom find their
way to the front, and more seldom still
secure a place in the Statute Book. The
time which should be given to the repeal of
vicious or the enacting of useful legislation
is taken up with petty personal squabbles in
which no principle is involved. Thus it is
that New South, Wales, the mother of the
colonies, is so shamefully behindhand in
many things that her very name has
become synonymous with supineness.
While the political pendulum is swinging
from Dalley to Parkes and back again
a magnificent public estate is frittered
away, the mining laws remain a model of
oumbrousness, unclean towns become the
nurseries of preventible disease, and, if a
snag requires to be removed from a Mur-
rumbidgee; Billabong, the publican, the
blacksmith and the barber—honest trades-
men, dubbed “ our leading citizens” by the
local Press—who form the c rente of the
nearest township are obliged to visit Sydney
and prove to the Minister that the progress
of their district towards refinement of a high
order depends on the prompt destruction of
the defiant stump.
* * *
Is there no remedy for all this ? There is
but one—the division of the people and con-
HON. J. B. PATTBRSON, M.L.A., OF VICTORIA.


AMUSEMENT J™*
On receipt of the advertised price, any of the
following Tricks will be sent by return post :—
THE DISAPPEARING CARD BOX.-A card
placed in the box instantly vanishes, and the box
is shown quite empty. Price Is., post free Is. 6d.
THE MAGIC CORK BOX.-A capital multipli-
cation trick. Three corks are placed In the box,
which Is seen by the audience to be quite empty.
The lid Is placed on, and when removed there are
found six corks within. Price Is., post free Is. 6d
THE WIZARD OF THE NORTH’S CHANGING
CARDS.-These cards change instantly to other
cards, whilst held In the hand, in a most surprising
manner. Price Is., post free Is. 3d.
THB GRE AND DIE TRICK. A solid
die passes completely through the toy of a gentle-
man’s hat and is found inside. Price Is. 6d., .post
free 3s.
THE MARVEL CIGAR CASE.-The case Is
shown crammed full of fine cigars, which Instantly
vanish. Excellent trick. Beautifully made in
leather. Price 3s. 63., post free 3s,
THE MAGIC SNUFF BOX.—A most excellent
trick. No opening can be discovered anywhere.
It looks just like a solid piece of wood, and no
person can possibly open it but the owner. Price
3s., post free 3s. 6d.
THE MAGICIAN’S PACK OF FORCING
CARDS.—No conjuror with card tricks can pro-
perly perform without them. The most astound-
ing tricks can be performed with them. Very
superior cards, 2s. 6d., post free 3s.
DEMON HANDKERCHIEF.—Indispensable to
every conjuror. Watches, rings, coins, and any
articles placed under this handkerchief, instautly
disappear, although the handkerchief is thoroughly
shaken and shown to the audience each time.
Price 2s. Od., post free 3s.
THE MAGNETIC PACK OF FLYING CARD?.
—Can be made to run up and down the arm or
body, and elongated in the air two or three feet
apart in the most beautiful regularity without one
of them falling. Very astounding. Price 3s. 6d ,
post free 3s.
THE MAGIC DIE AND HANDKERCHIEF.-
A solid wooden die is placed under tb© haadker-
chief, and felt to be there by the audience, one of
whom may be allowed to hold it. The performer
exclaims, “ Presto I gone I ” and instantly takes
the handkerchief and shakes it to show the die has
vanished, and exhibits it thoroughly, whilst the
die itself is found Inside a canister or any other
article. Price 3s. 6d., post free 39. 63.
THE WONDERFUL JAPANESE DRAWER
BOX.-The performer sends round a prettyli (Aie
box to the company, which they fill with i u«p,
gloves, coins, &c. Directly the performer ti s sa
it in his hands, without removing it from stgnt,
the articles instantly vanish, and the drawer is
shown empty. Price Is. 6d., post fre©3j,
THE MAGIC DISSOLVING PACK OF CARDS.
—A pack of playing cards are shown to the au-
dience and then placed into a case just largo
enough to hold them. One of the audience instantly
after this is done, opens the case, and Hods it full
of sweets, and the cards vanished. Price Is. 6d.,
post free 2s.
THE MYSTERIOUS CANDLE AND BE-
WITCHED HANDKERCHIEF.—The performer
brings forward a candle out of a tight-fitting case
and lights it. He then borrows a lady’s handker-
chief, burns it to ashes in the candie, and places
the ashes and candle in the casa again. The lady
is then called on to open the case, which Is handed
to her. She does so, and finds her handkerchief
restored therein but the cand e entirely gone.
Very excellent trick. Price 38.6 i , p ost free 3s.
N.8.W. stamps taken at par, otaei colonies add
Id. to each Is.
Address all communications;
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT
BOX 641 G.P.O. 401 QBORQB-8T. SYDNEY.
Between King and Maraet Streets, opposite tbo
Royal Hotel, and no other address.
a W. ROBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle.' only 19a.
Small Bottle, , [ls.6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
Is. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT!
Is. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Botties, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GEN-IN FLASKS,
Is, 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke<s Prize Medal Brand,
In stone bottles and square bottles,
LABG1ST BIZI.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
C. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets’,
>♦0
sequently of tlie politicians of New South
Wales into two distinct parties representing,
as in all other constitutionally-governed
countries, the principles of inertness and of
movement. It is for want of this division,
and the consequent want of organisation,
that the forces of Liberalism, instead of
being directed to the blotting out of scan-
dalous laws and the enacting of wise ones,
are frittered away in insignificant skir-
mishes with no prospect of a general engage-
ment. But this taking of sides and sailing un-
der true colours will only be brought about,
as in Victoria, by a powerful journal which
lays down a comprehensive line of action,
and follows it through good report or ill. Like
the public mea of New South Wales, the
daily Press has no consistent policy, but
blows hot and cold, just as it thinks its
funds will be affected. Instead of endeavour-
ing to educate and lead public opinion, it
abjectly follows. Instead of boldly espousing*
“in scorn of consequence,” what it thinks
to be right, it hesitates and trims, lets “I
dare not wait upon I would,” and behaves
so like a mean huckster that people place no
Value on tremblingly-expressed opinions
which the next number may contradict.
Not till a journal such as we have indicated
is established, will New South Wales politics
rise above Government by picnic.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
iMtt. Ditins told the electors at Wagga Wagga
that the New South Wales Patent Law
Amending Dill was already in print and
was one of the three great measures to be
proceeded with by the new Parliament. If
this Bill is a specimen of the way the New South
Waks Ministry propose to “amend” defective
laws, it would be better to suffer such defects a
little longer than to add to and intensify
JB:31 will secure a patent in New South Wales now'
or, If an agent is employed, £5 5i. more for his fee
must be added, the Bill, “ which is alrc ady in
print,” offers a patent for the same length of time
—14 years—for £48, which, with a £5 5s. agent e
tee, would raise it to £81 3s, Here is the ir scale of
fees:—
On application £1
„ Grant (1st year) *
2nd, 3rd, and 4th years, each £3 0
ftth, 6th. and 7ch ,. „ £3 P •
6th to 14th years Inclusive, each £4 .. .. 38
Total £46
Or in a lamp sum after the first year to commute
yearly payments, £35. Who can deny, after this,
that colonial ingenuity and skill are not valued by
Government ? Hoes it not show that they have so ,
high an oplnion'of the inventive faculties of their
people that they declare themselves ready to
double the figure at which they have hitherto ap.
praised them? Another thought suggests itself
(and wo hope an explanation will be demanded
when the Bill comes before the Assembly) that a
very small proportion of the fees now paid find
their way into the Treasury. Various officials de-
rive very snug incomes from them—one £1100,
another £800 a year, and so on. If such little
salaries can be enjoyed on the 20 guineas patent
fee a simple-proportion sum wllllshow what may
be expected when that fee is raised to £40.
There is an absurdly low penalty fixed for vending
goods with fraudulent trado-marks-not exceeding
£5. That clause requires to le made more strin-
gent, and to be framed so as to touch the rascal
who introduces such goods into the colony and
not the, in many cases poor, retail dealer. Men
who deal wholesale must know very welt if those
from whom they buy are supplying (hem with
bona fide articles, and any good house in Eogland,
Europe, or America would as gladly co-op; rate
in obtaining the punishment of any person forg-
ing their trade-marks, or aiding and abetting the
offender by offering the spurious wares for sale,
as they would in detecting a man who might
forge their name to a cheque. There is but
little difference between the two crimes, or
If difference there be, the graver crime
in its ultimate consequences to the vic-
timised firm Is the trade-mark forgery. The
mess made of the Patents Bill shows that
among the ruling classes of New South Wales
there is not the slightest conception of the rights
of property In brain. Wealth, however obtained,
monopolises the protecting power of legislation:
anyone may steal the product of another’s brain-
wealth, and the ruling classes view the robbery, If
not with satisfaction, at least without any indigna-
tion whatever. If the spirit of Democracy were
present In New South Wales the inventive genius
of every man would be fully protected and ac-
knowledged, and this at the expense of the State
—for the benefits accruing to the whole population
Upon the discovery of any new and useful ap-
pliance are Incomparably greater than its value to
the inventor. No truly Democratic State would
ever allow its cleverest and best members to be
fleeced for the benefit of a few official drones. In
America and Victoria protection can be obtained
at an insignificant expense. In New South Wales
all Is trouble, expense, and uncertainty. During
the last month three Inventions have been taken
from Sydney to Victoria because the inventors
would not submit to be plundered in the mother-
colony.
The Sydney Hospital.
A1? the meeting of the Sydney Hospital Board last
week, a motion tabled by Mr. Josepiison brought
to light the manner in which public institutions
are “ run” in the interests of acllquo. Mr. Joseph-
SON considered that it would be advantageous to
the patients if the Board were to “ elect medical
gentlemen other than exclusively those who held
a British diploma.” Until that motion was tabled
not one in a thousand of the people of New South
tVales was aware that, in order to be allowed to
practise on the sick poor of Sydney, you must
have graduated In the British Islands. Consider-
ing the fame attained by the groat Continental
medical schools and the comprehensive nature
of the studies demanded by them, the Sydney prac
titioners may not have been so far wrong after al i
in barring foreign diplomas. It secured their own
ignorance from exposure. But what of the
patient’s welfare? Bah I Who ever knew a
doctor to care about a patient when a Chinese
wall of professional jealousy had to be propped
up ? “ The Secretary read a letter from the
honorary medical staff protesting against the pro-
position.” That is what the report says. Of
course such an important letter should have been
printed, so that we might see upon what grounds
the talented persons who at Elinburgh, Glasgow,
or Dublin, floundered through examinations which
German or French professors would set to first-
year students, objected to foreign competition.
It is indescribably droll to think of Glasgow and
Aberdeen looking down upon Paris and Berlin. The
fact that the Sydney practitioners who petitioned
the Hospital Board against the proposed innova-
tion cannot see the absn rd position they have taken
up shows that they are men who could graduate
at a Scotch school only. We have known many
young persons go home for instruction, and,
after a three years’ course of music-halls and
police-courts, return to Australia with original
views on pathology, coupled with the right to
append numerous letters to their names. It was
rumoured at the time—no doubt falsely—that the
homo professors, thinking the young men
intended to practise on aborigine?, confined the
Anal examination papers to questions concerning
the normal position of the spinal chord or the
symptomatology of ring-worm. And the chair-
man, Dr. Renwick, admitted that the Sydney Uni-
versity recognised the Universities of Paris and
Berlin. There’s condescension for you I Sacre !'
Why the Universities and medical schools of
France and Germany were keeping alive the lamp
of knowledge centuries before the grandfathers of
some colonial saw-boneses erected the first tri-
angles at Botany Bay.
Too Thin.
Before the address presented to Cardinal Mohan
(whom the Irlth Nationalists defied the Papacy to
appoint to Dublin) by theH.A.C.B. Society of New
South Wales, all other addresses have to conceal
their puny heads. Here is a junk from it:—
“ It would seem the climax of egotism in us. and
as absurd attempting to describe the many distin-
guished qualifications with which yeur Eminence
so pre-eminently adorns your exalted position as
to attempt
‘To gild refined gold, to paint the lily,
or
‘ To throw a perfume on the violet.’ ’
And so these cruel men leave us in the dark con-
cerning the accomplishments which so “pre-
eminently adorn ” the new Prince. But, In spite
of this reticence, some of His Eminence’s qualifi-
cations have leaked out. He is an authority on the
round-towers of Ireland, and, we believe, has
thrown light on some obscure points connected
with the “ collar of gold,” which Malachi is
credited with having “ won from the proud in-
vader.” A Us I To think of the misrepresentation,
the persecution, and the obloquy through which
the most gifted of mens child ran have had to pass,
and then of the incense which has been burnt at
commonplace shrines I One thing, at any rate,
is certain the Archleopiscopal “ refined gold’>
was not sufficiently pure nor the sacerdo-
tal violet enough perfumed for Paddy.
The fact is Pat has found out that
Rome does not believe in change—that her
Semper Eadem is no idle boast—and that so long as
she governs her children’s consciences she is not
particular who makes their laws. The Cardinal,
it is whispered, preferred home ruins to home rule,
and so we Had him amongst us to-day telling the
faithful how Leo XIII. can scarcely sleep of nights
thinking of his Australian children—a statement
which some of the “ children ” receive with a
scarcely perceptible elevation of the left eye-
brow.
The Queen, God Bless Her!
"The toast of 'The Queen’ was purposely
omitted from the list at the recent banquet of
the Secular Conference in Melbourne. The Con-
ference, after some discussion, decided to con-
firm a minute recording the fact.” The above
item of Intelligence, which went the rounds of the
Press last week, caused a flutter In the dovecots of
colonial “ loyalty.” The reason why is not plain.
The Conference was composed of men differing in
nationality and political sentiments. To the ex-
tent the toast had meaning it would have been a
provocation. On this account it may therefore
have been wise to omit it. Out of the omission,
however, a larger question grows. Why cannot
men meet together to eat and drink in mutual
admiration without having to swallow this
ancient custom at the same time? What do
the goblet and accompanying garrulity mean ?
As a woman, the Queen is entitled to
courtesies. But qualities make degrees In
the right to receive them. The name of George
Eliot creates a figure in the mind. The rank and
file of intellect bow before it. Florence Night-
ingale, Christina Rossetti, Harriet Marti-
neau, George Sand, Mrs. Browning, and many
others levy deservedly on the admiration of large
classes. Each class sees traits which fascinate the
intelligence.' The Queen is credited with none of
these traits. As a woman of mental force she is
not known. The talk Australian orators Indulge
in, while they stand with champagne-glasses in
their bands, is no more than gossip that has drib-
bled to them, through porous hang?rj-on to the
Throne. There is no evld ence before the public
that she is anything but a carefully-preserved,
elderly, matronly, simple-minded woman, with
intellect of a sluggish, Teutonic ordar and
sympathy strong only when family or rela-
tions require it. Her great wealth goes
on growing while the poverty she can see
from her palace windows goes on growing also.
As a woman she has done nothing to merit a
place beside such members of her sex as Mies
Martineau. Neither is she great as a Queen. In
that capacity what has she done ? The Napoleonic
query is pertinent. Elizabeth of England, An-
toinette of France, Maria Theresa of Austria,
and Catherine of Russia did things that arrest
the imagination. In direct relationship with their
subjects they were pernicious. But they were
pernicious because they possessed great qualities
which bad positions directed into wrong channels.
Xhero are such anomalies as great bad men and
groat bad women. Ssvere moralists make badness
negative greatness. They do it, however, by
ratiocination. The world is ruled less by ratio-
cination than by emotion. Popular feeling re-
sponds to greatness even whoa it is hostile. An
enemy who is greatly an enemy is more admir-
able than a friend who Is meanly a friend. No
ratiocination can destroy that sentiment. There
was, therefore, in the days when these women
drenched their subjectsln tears and blood, a basis
for admiration. The men they ruined, if the stuff
in them was heroic, were conscious of the great-
ness of the women. In Victoria there is not even
bad greatness. As she is a woman so she is a
Queen. There remains but the impersonal ground.
The Queen is taken as the representative of the
abstract principle of Royalty. To drink the toast
is, consequently, the duty of—now, whom ? By
bent, purpose, profession, and destiny, Australia
is Democratic. Only these among us who be-
lieve that Australians are Royalists can give
a toast with such sigsificance. Thera are,
no doubt, some with this belief. It may be
safe to reckon among the number those whose
ancestors had practical experience of the power
Royalty Is clothed with. Fascination of terror is
as potent as fascination of beauty. Strong mental
impressions are transmissible, and even after
several generations may be detected as tenden-
cies. But these people are not numerous or in-
fluential enough to compel Australia to open its
mouth and enthusiastically drink their toast while
it carries the meaning with which (judging from
the comments ordinarily appended to it by those
who propose it in public) it is usually invested.
To toast the People, the Nation, the Common-
wealth, is in accord with current intelligence. To
toait ihe elderly lady who is personally a medio-
crity and symbolically an antagonist to human
welfare, is the stultification of every Democratic
profession.
Mr. Foy—Hallelujah!
Mr. Mark Foy, whose draper’s shop somewhere
in Sydney is tbo only one kept open till 9 or 10
p m., evinces talents of a really high order. The
local Drapers’ Association sent him a deputation
the other day to induce him to close at the same
hour as others in the trade. Mark not only
refused, but turned the incident to good account
In the advertising columns of the B. News. He
apparently thinks that the night-work Imposed on
bis own (and 1cdirectly on hundreds of other em-
ployes) is at once atoned for by his unex-
ampled generosity in allowing his dependants
to come at noon two days out of the week.
This ingenuous young Victorian, with the
strangely Chinese appellation, says:—“I am the
most thoughtful employer in Pydney. . . .
I occasionally charter a steamer to convey
them (his employes) round the harbour on Sun-
days, after their church-time is over, for the pur-
pose of their inhaling the fresh sea air.” That
“after their church-time” is pleasant. It shows
that on the subject of Sabbath observance, at all
events, Mr. Foy Ib sound. Hallelujah I Still, it
might suggest itself to him that the girl who is on
her feet till 11 on Saturday night will find some-
thing bettor to do on Sunday morning than going
to church—unless, Indeed, she goes there to
pray for a fresh situation. We have a few
words to say on this matter, and they are
these: There will be no real freedom nor
well-being in the community until,legislation
steps in and says to greedy men, “You
shall not keep people employed nor keep your
shops open more than a certain number of hours
daily. If you do, you will be Imprisoned and kept
to hard labour. If you alone were concerned you
might keep your shutters down day and night.
But the welfare of society is involved. This is an
arrangement, did you say, between you and your
servants with which no other person has a right to
interfere? Not so. Precisely the same argument
was used by English manufacturers up to a few
years ago. The result was that women and chil-
dren were worked like beasts in factories and
mines until the low physique and the high
mortality among the tollers necessitated legisla-
tive interference. There is no freedom of
contract where the servant has to work as
long as, and at such times as, the em-
ployer wishes, or else starve. Your demand,
therefore, to be allowed to keep your employes at
work as long as you like cannot be admitted
unless it can be shown that their refusa's
would entail no hardship on them or upon
employes of other masters.” It is this now
exploded theory of “ freedom of contract," where
the employer could make terms which the
labourer was forced to accept, that has caused
most of the misery to be seen in the world to-day.
Again, in a certain town there is £1000 a year, say,
spent In drapery. There is but one draper. It Is
clear that whether he closes at 6oratl0p m.be
will secure all the drapery money. But a Mr. Mark
Foy comes to the town, and keeps open at night
“ making up ” for the extra hours by giving
the hands an occasional “ trip round the harbour
on Sunday after church time.” The £1000has now
to be shared between two, and it is obvious that
the tradesman who formerly closed at 6 will now
have to keep open as long as the new-comer, or
lose part of his trade. But as both together can-
not take more than the £1000, the only satisfaction
Mark Foy has is the knowledge that, without
benefiting himself, he has forced others to follow
his bad example. No, Mr. Foy. It is only by
drastic legislation that clever and plausible per-
sons like you can be reached, and the sooner that
legislation is introduced the better for the com-
munity and for humanity. Gkoros Dibbs is
right.
Tommy Athins.
On the subject of “medals,” a London paper
(Life) indulges in some harmless banter. It ap-
pears that the crying want of the British Army of
to-day is not for long-withheld decorations, but
for breasts broad enough to bear them. So nu-
merous, indeed, have become the round pieces of
stamped metal which—owing to our friendly in-
terference in the domestic affairs of the Abys-
slnlans, Afghans, Zulus, Egyptians, and Soudanese
—Tommy Atkins is entitled to hacg over the re-
gion of his heart that, big as that heart is, it is im‘
possible for it to afford room for all Either, there-
fore, the medals will require to be made the size
For continuation of “ Plain English,” see next page.


(“Plain English,” continued frompage 4.)
of threepenny pieces and hung on with wax-end,
or they must be allowed to cover some less
romantic portion of the human anatomy.
For the purpose of turning the profession
of arms into ridicule, it is not improbable
that many English Radicals will suggest
that, when decorations get too numerous to
be accommodated in front, they be disposed im-
partially over the holy. It is difficult to see how
this could be carried out without subjecting some
medals to unmerited humiliation. The subject
touched by Lite Is one full of Interest, not to the
army alone, but to the whole British race. The
history of national progress for the last hundred
years is well shown in tne treatment of the soldier
In those days and in these. Scarcely second to the
terrible experiences of the early convicts In New
South Wales was that through which the British
soldier passed when enlistment was for life,
and what he was short in food was made up
to him In floggings. A dreary, hopeless, unnatural
existence I The aristocracy was master of the
situation, and its rule was grim and bloody. Rich
merchants gave expensive feasts at which be-
dizened officers returned thanks for the Army In
generous wine. But the units of that Army,
whose prowess was langulshingly whispered by
half-naked women In London drawing-rooms,
were whipped, sometimes to death, for spending
an extra half-hour with their sweethearts. It
was thirty years after the Peninsular campaign
before the Duke of Wellington would permit the
issue of medals to the survivors of that incompar-
able force which looked unflinchingly in the faces
of the men who carried the “tricolour” from
Marengo to Wagram. Those were the days when
a regiment 1000 strong would embark for India,
and, after many years, seven or eight prematurely
old men, the sole suivivors, would return to get a
pension of 41. a day and tell how their comrades
had rotted around sweltering bungalows In Bengal.
But now all Is changed. Regiments are no longer
left to battle for the best part of a generation
against an Indian sun. The lash, for whose reten-
tion the “ Lords ” fought with such determination,
has passed away for ever. Had those who upheld
It been removed also, with a few strokes of the
“cat” to hasten their departure, the world would
be none the worse. Tommy Atkins can at last
hold up his head. His chief trouble now la to find
room for his medals. Should he succeed In doing
so without resorting to any unseemly expedients,
it is to be hoped he will remember that to the
Radicals of England he owes the right to wear
decorations and laugh at the triangles.
Joseph Symes says that the temperance
movement was originally started bv Free-tbinkers,
but when teetotallsm became respectable, the par-
sons took the credit of it as usual.
We clip this exquisite sentence from the
foot of a N.B.W. Mission manifesto, and print It
without italics or any comment whatever“ Every
opportunity will be Riven for personal intercourse
with the Clergy, either after the Services or by ap-
pointment.”
Said last week’s Protestant Standard
(Sydney) : “ The liberty- loving Orange institution,
with its open Bible, its glorious precepts, its trust
in God, is condemned by The Bulletin.” Let us
again print the foregoing (with oue little italicised
alteration of our own), and see how it reads
*• xhe liberty-loving Orange Institution, with its
open Bible, its glorious precepts, Its trust in God
(and in JOHN DAVIES) is condemned by SThe
Bulletin."
A high-toned N.Z. bank-manager has just
“cleared” with his neighbour’s wife. The lady
went first to Melbourne, on a trip, and was soon
followed by the banker, who got leave of absence.
The "guilty pair we believe that is the correct
t^rm-started overland for Sydney in company,
and stayed some days at an Albury hotel, where
they were recognised by a kind friend, who sent a
cable to the husband, whereupon “ the fat was in
the fire.” A few days later they took a second-
class passage, per sailing ship, from Melbourne to
London. He sacrificed a little billet of four
figures a year, and she a good home, several chil-
dren, and a respectable hubby worth £1500 a year.
And all for love!
Wolfe’s Schnapps stands alone without a
rival elixir in the catalogue of magnificent tonics.
What everybody says must be true. AH
who have used Wolfe’s Schnapps say it is the
best stimulant.
Full many an aching heart is sad,
AVlth weary sickness soro—
But clothed In tweed from Summerflold’s,
Man yearns for nothing more.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a delightful beverage
as agreeable to the taste as Its properties are bene-
ficial to the health.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the purest and. best
stimulant, tonic, diuretic, at present before toe
world.
How It Was —According to Dr. Moran.
“The Cardinal, in sincerely thanking the deputation for their congratulations, said Pope Leo had ever taken the deepest interest in his Australian children, and had
honoured them by calling him to Rome for the express purpose of conferring upon him the dignity of a I nnoe ol the Church.
[His Holiness is here seen lying awake, thinking about Australia when he ought to he asleep,]


The most suitable invjgorant, stimulant,
and protective is Wolfe s Schnapps. Ootaln the
genuine Wolfe s.
Lazy and dullfeelings always precede sick-
nes?. which nothing bat Hop Bitters will banish.
Get the genuine American. Btad
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the most celebrated
tonic and stimulant of this or any age. Be certain
that you obtain Wolfe s. certain
A.\ er s Cathartic Plls correct
larlties of the bowels, stimulate the appetite and
digestion, ana by their prompt and thorough
actim give tone and vigour to the whole physical
economy. v 1
Wolfe’s Schnapps is now the most popu-
drtn* In the world. Avoid other soWied
SCHNAPPS.
MaoLaughlin’s Bodega, 30S George-stree t
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncbuons, &c.*
The New York Daily Graphic of July 14th, 1884
t&ttZTS'ffZAt W0Lm SCHNi ™
Personal Items
“Lord Augustus Loftus,” says Sir John
Robertses, “ is the decent?st Governor we ever
had.”
Clarence Whistler, the champion wrestler,
died in Melbourne last week after a terrible
struggle with pleurisy.
Sydney University has one lady medical-
student. She has plenty of nerve, and Is com-
pelled to attend the anatomy classes with the male
sawboneses.
The son-in-law of a prominent Victorian
politician has “scooted,” leaving behind him £0000
liabilities, and assets consisting chUtiy of a few
baskefs-full of mining-scrip.
Sir John Robertson was wont to be called
the Knight of Clovelly. Since he haslitdy turned
bis attention to Government by nica'c th' y call
him the Knight of Gin and Clove-ily.
Dr. C. E. Rowling, of Parramatta, who
holds one or two Government medical ap-
pointments, was recently very ill, and reoorr,.d
dead in Sydney. Oa the very same day. live
doctors anplled personally at the cilice of the
Colonial Secretaiy for his bidet, cmch la life.
The doctor is still very much alive.
“ I could desire no higher 1 honour than to
be the Boswell of Australia’s greatest poet.”
writestlie “ Vagabond " In a Mcdbnurno pap=r. He
bad purposed to bring out In London an edition of
Gordon s ;works, but it transpire* ihat the pub-
lishers of the second edition of the poems have
copyrighted the book in England. The “ Vaga-
bond ” is now curious to kqow what (he Melbourne
printing firm paid Gordon for the monopoly.
The biggest “plunger” on the Melbourne
Cup had some heavy things to pull rff. Amongst
(hem was £35/ 00 on Grace Dirllng-tbe mare that
was second, but should have been tlrst 8Le would
have been so, it is said, but for a cut on the nose
received from the whip of tho winning jockey
This leviathan among backers inherlten £15,000 a
year from Ills father, who died butsome three years
back. The old knight expected a baronetcy, and
thinking it a certainty, left the large bulk of the
estate to the ton, who would, in that case, take
the title. He tuprorts the turf now instead of the
title, and is probably just as happy.
“Another man off to America!” The
good man gone wrong this time is one who, bred
to tlnacc ■, found that bo could not live an idle life
supported only by the voluntary contributions of
a wealthy wife who kept a too tight band upon
the purse-strings. Three years of this sort of
thing was enough and more enough for him.
No more will Colllns-street, Melbourne, see daily
his handsome form; no more will the belles
point him out as Mrs. So-and-So’s busbar d. He
has gone where be will be known as Mr. 8o-and-
e<o in his own right The amount be has taken
with him is variously stated, and report varies
also as to who it is that accompanies him on his
trave's.
Prince Waldemar of Denmark is a Pro-
testant—Princess Marie of Orleans a Catholic.
They are to be married. Tae Prince’s In-
come Is £3500 a year. Out of tbjs it is said he
will have to pay a lump sum of £5000 to the Pope for
leave to wed one of the Church s pet lambs. But,
hr sides this, he has to sign an agreement that all
the children ailslng from the union sha'l be
brought up staunch Romanics. It Is a dreary
prospect—that ot begetting children who have at
least a chance of heavenwhile you are sure of Sbeol
The only person who appears to come well out ot
the bargain Is the Pop j.' Should Marie be fruitful,
Mother Church gains In little Princes and
Princesses. Fruitful or not, the £5000 commission
Is safe. Smart man, Leo.
Among the great crowd of some hundred
and t.hl ty thousand at the Melbourne Gup were
two that clung very closely together. As neither
of tlum wtsof the sex ntedlog protection in a
crowd, it was the more remarkable that i hey
thus always kept side by side. It was not known
until afterwarcs that they were united by hand-
cuffs. Ai they have now gone together In the
Shannon, it may be told that they were a London
detective and a youth who had c immlttf d a heavy
forgery on a London bank. The pursuer arrived
about three weeks ago-just about a week after
the arrival of Iho defaulter. Nearly all the money
1 1 said to be recovered. The arrested one proved
robe veryta:re and manageable, and was thus
.'ratified with a s'ght of Melbourne's great show.
Just for safety-sake tae guar.Gan carried a re-
volver with him in a handy pocket.
That naive little woman, Mrs, Garland,
who edits the Carcoar (N.B.w.i Chronicle thus
ingenuously wrote the other day ot her husband,
who is now on©of the members for Carcoar:—“ It
li hardly necessary that we should declare the
i mior member for Carcoar to have teen our pet
v indidate. We know him as no other possibly
can. Concerning his ability the public are the best
Judges, but his private and domestic character are
such that we would be false to conviotlon if we
failed to declare him a true man, a faithful con-
sort, and a kind and Indulgent parent. It is with
no small degree of pride that we see him in the
honourable position that the people of the Carcoar
electorate have placed him in, and we feel grate-
ful to those amongst whom we have tolled for the
last 13 years for the Indirect honour they have
conferred upon theirs truly,— The Editress.”
The “ Langtry ” squabble between the
Karl of Lonsdale and Sir George Cehtwynd was
finally arranged, says an American paper, “by the
good offices of Lord Calthorpe and Lord Huntly.”
The latter nobleman is somewhat of an expert in
affaires de cvcur, and in this particular Instance
acted, probably, as agent for the Prince of Wales.
The Prince Is a boon companion of the Marquis of
Huntly and attended tbe notorious last bachelor
supper given on the eve of the little peer’s mar-
riage. Extraordinary tales are told of what hap-
pened on that festive occasion, but It doesn’t ao
to believe everything one hears. Anyway, the
time-honoured custom still adhered to by many
noblemen, of sleeping under the table the night
before marriage, was departed from by Lord
Huntly. The table, together with every other
article of furniture belonging to the dining-room,
was thrown out of the window by the noble
bacchanalians.
Tbe day before Princess Beatrice’s mar-
riage six raw-boned Highlanders started to pick
her a bouquet of white heatber. These Industrious
people would have been better employed wheeling
bricks. But bear a Conservative Eagllsh journal:
—“ Happy Is the married life of her who wears the
white heather at her wedding; and the most con-
spicuous liower in the Highland bouquet was a
sprig ot it plucked from the hills about Balmoral.
If this bouquet had uot arrived In time, the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury must have waited for It.
White heather Is Princess Beatrice’s ‘ luck,’ and It
was indispensable for her to hold It during the
ceremony.”—
The Northern Territory Times is run by
a Mr. V. L Salomon. Mr Solomon has, apparently,
on some late occasion, written something In com-
mendation 6f the Government Resident. The
North Australian, the local rival, thus pitilessly
tfibhets him Mr. Solomon is never so happy as
when he is dangling at the keels of the Resident.
We have read of of high intellect being re-
duced to the necessity of battering wicked and
foolish patrons ii return for the sustenance of
life. Statius fl Utering a tyrant and a minion of a
tyrant for a morsel of bread; Ariosto versifying
the whole genealogy of a niggardly patron; Tasso
extolling the heroic virtue ot the wretched
creature who locked him up in a mad-house.
These are but a few illustrations of the degrada-
tion to which some men have submitted, and Mr.
Solomon may take them as examples in writing in
bimilar strains of the Resident, in order to earn
the Government subsidy to his journal.” Mr.
Oa'ley can now go to England as soon as be likes.
While the editor of the Nokth Australian stays
on i he Island, we shall be sufficiently loaded with
spasmodic rhetoric.
About the finest specimen of muscular
Carlstianity in Australia is the Rev. J. Byng, of
Trinity (C E.), North Carlton, Victoria. Although
in the neighbourhood of fifty, he Is a vigorous
pedestrian, a strong swimmer, a sclent flo boxer,
and to sum up, a first-class all-round athlete. When
tho ’busmen’s strike was on Mr. Byng was the
flistto proto.t against the grinding exaction of
the Melbourne Omnibus and Tramway Company,
and bis advocacy had not a little to do with the
concessions granted to the hardest-worked class of
labouring men south of the Line. More than once
he has sc ted the part of the mediator between
capital and labor, and at the present time he is the
champion of short hours for shop assistants His
was tne hand—strong as a gladiator’s and tender
as a woman’s—that wiped tho death damp off poor
Whistler’s brow, and if man’s benison availeth
anything surely tho fervent “God bless you, Sir,
for all your good to me,” of the dying wrestler
will not fall unheeded. When it is added that as a
pulpit orator he ranks second to none in Vic-
toria, there is little wonder if many a modern
doubter who is privileged to hear him exclaims in
the words of Festus, “ Almostthou persuadest me
o be a C iristian.”
That dear old back-blocks “missionary,”
the Reverend J. J. Westwood, has, we read in the
Sydney Evening Nkw9, arrlv d in Corcstalkopnlls
from Queens a id “ in oonseq lecce of the drought,
and will thankfully receive subscriptions during
his stay in Sydney.” Now, El jah was a Town and
Country Missionary also, m his time, but that's
not the style he used to out up io the time of
drought. He wasn't the man to skip the drought-
oursed country a>.d stop at bang-up Colfee
Palaces in a city where the water was laid on,
until such time as the clouds opened out over the
parched plains, and the rain ooured down, and
every river ran a “ banker.” Ho was a man of far
more grit than that When the clouds closed
Elijah lit a fire underneath that rolled them up
like parchment on a hot pan, and tho rain deluged
the land, and 450 wandering preachers were killed
and the joy of the people knew no bounda. Elij ih
did all this and never asked for a single cent by
way of contribution, but to-day it's a case of no
pay no pray, and parsons neither stop a drought
nor slaughter eaca other, even though the whole
land should be howling for the blessings. Yes.
Mr Wtstwoodfs In Sydney on a holiday, and will
receive subscriptions This shows that, even
while on a holiday, he is ready to do the good
woik.
Thus a powerful London journal“ How
much naere acc >ptablo would be the news that
Her Majesty had attended iho funeral of one of
the humblest of her dependants, if It sometimes
occurred to the Queen to show similar respect
and honour to the memory of men of light and
learning. But It never do-s. At the best, an
empty carriage «r a representative, or a trumpery
wreath—the very sending of which is suggested
to Her Majesty by Sir Henry Poasonby—is the
only mark of ths Sovereign's appreciation of
departed worth. A man whose brilliant genius
has ssrved to win glory for the nation, and
Strengthen its hold upon the respect of the world,
may pass away to his long home, but the Queen
does net go forth to meet the funeral cnrUge, and
stand up in her carriage, with bowed head
and quivering Up?, as the hoarse goes by. The
Monarch of Great Britain and Ireland rrserves
this signal homage for the corpse of a gamekeeper.
Never let It be sail that we condemned Her
Majesty for this latest mark of her appreciation of
long and faithful service on the part of an under-
ling. What provokes us to anger is that the
Queens sympathies and activity are wholly de-
voted to the affairs of scullerymatds, her bare-
legged gillies, and her poor relations. Tho womanly
acts which are made so much of by some retailers
of news would be gracious indeed, and delightful
to read about, if they formed only the embroidery
to Her Majesty's loftier deeds. But they do not
The Quern identifies herself with the affairs of her
kitchen end outhouses, and ignores other duties
more becoming to a great monarch. Those who
refrain from mentioning these things are not the
Queen’s most loyal subjects.”
Gormley, one of the members returned to
the N.8. W. Assembly for the Murrumbidgee with
Premier Dibbs, will bo a caution to the reporters.
He has an eternal j aw that nothing can humble,
and a voice like unto that of the melooious mid-
night “ mopoke.” Harold Stephen, one of the
new members for Monaro, will now have a fair
show of piping his childish treble by the hour in
the gilded halls of legislation. Harold, who stood
in the interests of Parke?, for whom he has been
acting as a sort of agent, will be a great iaik. He
is a son of Milner Stephen, the faith-healer
(brother of Sir Alfred Stephen, the Lieutenant-
Governor of N.S.W.), and is not only a BplrltualUt,
but a novelist and dramatist. He will have a
glorious chance of toing the effect of hij works
of llatlon on the members of the House, and if
the Opposition should ever desire to do some
prolonged stonewalling Harold would be sim-
ply invaluable. What would be easier to
him than to rattle eff the whole of his thrill-
ing tale, “Saved by a King?” Usually
stonewall speeches are regarded as tho most tedi-
ous of all deliverances, but if Harold be the stone-
waller, members will not only crowd into the
House, hut will send for their fern ilo friends to
listen to the voice ot the charmer—we mean of
Monaro. But, by the way. It his is the voice of
his electorate. Monaro mint now be in a state of
mental juveoilty. Contrasting with the treble of
Mr. Stephen is the ocean-Jeep double bass of Mr.
Bourke, of Tam worth. He is an auctioneer, and
his lungs nre so powerful that no Sydney re-
porter need ever sro up to the House to hear him
speak The dulcet tones will resound with sufli-
cient distinctness in the remotest cellar at Manly.
Like M'Elhone. when he speaas iu the Assembly,
he will keep Macquarie-strtet awake, and thus
double the mortality at the metropolitan hospital.
air. James Alexander, secretary of the
Sydney branch of the New York Life Assurance
Company, and husband of Madame Marius, the
well-known vocalist, committed suicide last week
by shooting himself through the brain with a
pistol during the absence of his wife in Adelaide
on a professional tour. Only last year Mr. Alexan-
der was called to identify the body of Colonel Jef-
frie.*, tfce first secretary m Sydney of the company
above-mentioned, who also met with a violent end,
by falling over the rocks at Coogee. As is usual
In such case*, the motive which prompted Mr.
Alexander to take his o wa life did not transpire at
the inquest, and there has since been consider-
able speculation as to the cause of the fatal act,
which, it has been alleged, was in const quenceof a
letter received bv deceased from Madame Marius
This is not so. The relations between husband and
wife were of a most affectionate character,
and the unf rtunate gentleman succumbed, not to
domestic unhappiness, but to a financial misfor-
tune by which he thought his honour had been
compromised. He had arranged to hand over to a
company formed in Sydney a steam-ferry patent
acquired by him from an American friend. In the
promotion of this company there had been asso-
ciated with him IC rl Von Bieren, of the “Sydney
Powder Factory,’’ who the other day disappeared,
leaving behind him many lamenting creditors.
This man had been thoroughly trusted by Mr.
Alexander, who, on proceeoiog to transfer to the
company the patent-rights in question, was
thunderstruck to discover that Von Bieren, who
had been allowed to register the patents all over
the world, had taken them out in his own name,
thereby depriving d ceased of the power
—in the absence of Von Bieren—of dealing
with the property he had agreed to sell, and for
which he had already received a consideration he
was unable to repay. Stun? to madness by a re-
mark made by one of the shareholders, who said
that the affair had been deliberately arranged be-
tween Mr. Alexander and Yon Bieren, the former
blew out his own brains. Mr. Alexander formerly
occupied a high position in the service of the
Cunard Company In New York.
Mr. Martin Loughlin, as the winner of
that “blue ribbon of the turf’’-the Melbourne
Lup—Is now a public man. We knew him when
he was a digger at Ballarat. Though 56 years of
age, his straight figure, handsome and unwrinkled
iB.ce, would pass him for 40 or less. His big hit was
in the famous Egerton mine, which he purchased,
jointly with another speculator, for £13,000 some
eight years back. Within a fortnight of the pur-
chase heavy gold was struck, and then came the
long suit of Learmonth v. Bailey and another—to
upset the sale. The sale wasn't upset, however,
each party agreeing, after four years of litigation,
ta stay proceedings, paying some £50,000 of law
costs. Then came the breaking out of the famous
Kingston mines—headed by the Madame Berry. In
this famous claim Mr. Martin Loughlin owned a
fourth of the shares, but sold out in a
pet on the chairmanship, for which he was a candi-
date, being given to another. The Lough-
lin mine, in which he held also a large
interest, was named after him, but the lead ran
out very soon and the mine has long been ex-
hausted. Mr. Loughlin soj lurns at the Esplanade
Hotel, St. Hilda, a gtni.J, jovial, gentlemanly
bachelor, much envied by men and greatly ad-
mired bv wonr-a. Two years back he made a
European tour, but found no land having more
attractions for him than the ,'one in which he
has been so fortunate a speculator. No one de-
nies his right to the honors of a Melbourne Cup
winner, as he has been a straightforward sup-
porter of the turf for many years. His winnings
over the Cup are variously seated, but are not
thought to exceed £30,(X 0. After the defeat of
Sheet Anchor by Trenton on the Dsrby day, Mr.
Loughlin is said to have hedged off one-half or the
large turn for which he had backe t the favourite of
bis two horses—Sheet Anchor and Britisher—in the
Cup race.
From the Southern district of N.S.W.
there comes a tale of how one of the newlv-
gazetted Justices of the Peace fell to pieces be-
fore a Supreme Court Judge, to whom he had
gone for th<5 purpose of being sworn in. Tdb
usual original observations touching the weather
&o., having passed, the Judge handing the new
Solon a document, observed: "Now, Mr. Blank
will you he good enough to take this paper and
read the oath to which you will have to subscribe ”
This gave the law-dispenser of the future a bad
attack of the “shakes ’ at once. Green potato-
bugs seemed to bo crawling up bis legs, and centi-
pedes down his back, as he fumbled the paper
round for some saving sign which would show
him whether he held it upside down, or not, until
at last he faltered out: *• It’s queer, but I—I-don’t
seem to be able to make it out at ail sir ”
“Wha-a-t, sir,” exc’aimed the Judge, “can’t
you read?” • Ob, yes-ob, yes, sir-1 read rferht
enough, but-er-subject t’ biliousness, y know
and [happy thought] I’ve forgotten f bring mv
glasses. ’ Judge: **ln that case try mine,atdseeif
they II he.p you, Heretbe judicial gig-lamps were
handed over; more fumbling took place, and our
Jay Pay was beginning to think that honour might
be bought at top dear a price after all, when bo
struck happy thought No 2. and remarked “No
sir, they don’t seem tosnltmy focusatall, sir ” Bv
this time the Judge began to “smell a mouse ’
and good-natured!v replied, “Oh, very well if
you leally have had the misfoitnneto leave your
glasses at home, and can’t nad v Ithout them. [
will read th - oath, and you can reps at the words
after me.” Joy filled the soul <f the justice once
again, and having staggered through the formula
ho was hugging himself gleefully, when a fresh
horror appe red, ss he was asked to sign his name
and fill in the date. By the united e fforis of his rfg™t
hand, lower jaw, and two thlids of his by this
time per dulous tongue, this ornament to the Binch
managed to scratch bis name fairly well, but the
date pare looked like coining but a bird's eyp view
ot a 'troke of paralyse, and for all his Honor
could say to the contrary, might have been copied
from a Babylonian brick, or tne front ot a Chinese
.loss-house. And this is but one of the marv ig-
noramuses In whose hands an honest apppoint-
nient-by-meri.-only Government places the liberty
ot tne people.
It is quite r. freshing to notice the eager-
ness with which the little tittlebats of Melbourne
society rise at the bait of “ native talent.” Some-
one in soci .ty ’ has only to mention that a Vic-
torian-born youmnter takes kindly to the jews-
harpandasihsoiiptlon is immediately started to
supply the infant with a golden j iwsharp and the
services of a sbUled Hs. brew professor of that de-
hotftl)i?oiB8uriU?le Or tomeine else discovers
that a little Victorian maiden recites ■* Master we
are seven, with dramatic po v. r, and a committee
of ladies an •• geuU-men is lormud for the purpose
ot raising the necessary funds to build a theatre
for the sucking native tragedienne. Master Erm st
Hutcheson is a Victoria- and a “whale’’ at the
pianny. A few yi ars back a scheme was set afoot
to foster Ernest s musicii taste at the expense of
such as liked to come forward. A good many
kind folks rallied round tho standard of “native
talent, and a very respectab e sum was got toge-
ther. Master Erne st was to be “ flnishea’’ in G er-
many when his fingers were irng enough, and then
despatched uponatourround the worldthatallthe
nations might know that a Victorian could play
the piano. In the meantime society was to roll up
once a year to hear the prodigy perform. It has
* ?i U «’ an( * youthful performer has done all
taat his fingers permitted. But tho money origin-
ally subsertbed by the enthusiasts has proved in-
sufficient tor the realisation of their dreams, and
society is of opinion that Master H itcheson should
be handed oyer as a solemn charge to the nation.
or-n g ven for his benefit only brought In
£00, an amount which the Melbourne Piess regards
as no encouragement for • native talent ’’ to de-
velops liselt at all So now someone writes to tne
local D.T. and suggests that “ if all head masters of
s.ate schools will undertake to announce a penny
col lection, and if private schools (boys and girls)
make a sixpenny or shilling collection at once,
and once a year hereafter, there would be little
difficulty in raising the necessary funds.’’ The
writer concludes by ‘ hoping that this suggestion
may be carried out enthusiastically and soon.”
Well, we hote 1: may be carried out soon, because.
If there 8 any delay in the matter, other Victorian
geniuses may cron up and tbe people who are
running Ernest will experience tne evils of com-
petition. But, leriously, this coddlipg C f native
Industry ought to be discouraged. Suppose a little
Melbourne boy becomes learned in the game of
kriegspiel. We shall have the Victorians declaring
war against Russia, and soliciting the needfui to
provide the born warrior with an army.
' ♦ * *
G. R. Sims writes that he has been recom-
mended by tbe doctors to take a trip to Aus-
tralla.
I/Ul OUJUH J •
When Beatrice and Battenberg resolved to run
together,
Two things were badly wanted to make certain
that the honey-
Moon passed in pleasant dalliance—some income
and some heather—
The Scotchmen found the llowers and the English-
men the money.
A FALSE ALAEM.
“ Small-pox has appealed at St. Vincent’s Convent, Sydney.”
NUN: "IT S HERE.”
REVEREND MOTHER: 11 WHAT?”
NUN: “ SMALL-POX.”
R. M.: “BLESS ME, CHILD-HOW YOU FRIGHTENED ME ! I THOUGHT A MAN MUST
HAVE BROKEN IN.”


PE APES & SHAW’S
SFIIHC SHOW!
PEAPE8 and SHAW’S SPRING MILLINERY.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING COSTUMES.
PBAPBS and SHAW’S SPRING DRESS
FABRICS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING FABRIC
GLOVES.
PEAPES and SHAW'S SPRING SHIPMENT
KID GLOVES,
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING HOSIERY,
from J. and R. MORLBY’S.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
LACE GOODS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
EMBROIDERY.
PBAPBS and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
,PARASOLS.
CST" SPECIAL NOTICBI
All the above goods are
Now Open for Inspection.
Large Shipments
for other Departments are
CLOSE AT HAND,
and a constant flow of
NOVELTIES
will be opened up
DURING THE SEASON.
PBAPE8& SHAW,
IMPORTEPS and MANUFACTURERS,
324, 326, 328 George Street
Allen’s Black Wingen Oils.
THEY WORK LIKE A CHARM.
TO those who have been suffering from Rheu-
matism or Sciatica, we oomo with glaa tidings
of the wonderful cures that have, been effected by
CHAS. ALLEN’S BLACK WINGEN OILS. Num-
bers have been cured, and can attest to the gre at
and miraculous powers of these already famous
Oils.
There is now no reason why anybody should be
be racked wi h pain, when for the small sum of
2s. 6d„ a bottle of CHA8. ALLENS BLACK
WINGEN OILS may be obtained from any the
mist or storekeeper. On how many occasions,
when you have been laid up with a severe attach
of lumbago, would > ou have given anything to
get relief ; also, when you have been rendered
sleepless through neuralgia or toothache, have
you sought in vain for a cure. Buff, r no more :
keep the balm by you—a bottle of Chas. Allen’s
Black Wingen Oils. It is needless to further recom-
mend, as a simple trial will prove to the most
sceptical the merit of Al'en's Black Wingen Oils.
“TRF THEM.”
COSTELLO & GREY,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
ALLEN’S BLACK WING ON OILS, stand un
equalled for Sore S*vitlders, Sore Backs,
raddle girth, and wind Gfllis, Strains, Stakes
Sprains, Bruises, Sweat Boils, Fistula, Wounds of
ail descriptions No 'bus proprietor, carrier, o»
stockowner should be without them. They wll
heal any sore, no matter if freshly done or ol
years’ standing. No spell required to effect a cure
-TRY TEEM,”
May be obtained from Chemists and Storekeeperr.
COSTELLO &~GREY,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Agents.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jamib C jam,
TJ" a£Ld.ertalrEer,
84 HUNTER A PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NSATLY EXE OUT 2D.
N.B.—Hr. Erby was in the employ of the
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (161 yean;
Manager for over ten (ID years.
READ THIS!
GIPPSLANO HOP BITTERS.
Manufactured by
THE GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS CO.,
SALE.
Certificate by ffm, Johnson, Government Ana-
lytical Chemist :—
“ Government Ana’yt’cal Laboratory,
“Melbourne, July 14th, 1884.
“ I have examined Trood’s Hop Bitters (manu-
factured at Sale). They are remarkably pleasant
to the palate, and as a general tonic and promoter
of appetite for invalids and young people are no
doubt eicellent. The Hop Aroma is delicately
combined with a fragrant fruit flavour, producing
a really elegant preparation, which may be relied
on as beneficial to health and free from anything
deleterious.
(Signed) “ WM. JOHNSON,
“ Analytical Chemist.”
THESE celebrated Differs have been proved by
analysis to be a pure, del'cato, palatable com-
pound, and are invaluable in affording relief in all
cases of disorders of the blood, stomach, liver,
nerves, etc.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Will be found a perfect “ of Gilead” to all
who are suffering iruin shattered nerves, an over-
worked bra>n, or lassitude; they are, in fact,
nature’s brain and nerve food.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Are an excellent appetiser, and may be taken
with perfect safety by the most delicate invalids
and young people.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Enrich and purify the blood, and are an exquisite
tonic and stimulant. If you are sick, no matter
from what cause, use
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS.
The large and increasing consumption has
gained for the Gippsland Hop Bitters Manu-
facturing Co. a wide celebrity.
Beware or Imitations,
And use only those manufactured by the
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS CO.
They are pronounced to be the best and only genu-
ine Hop Bitteis manufactured in the colonies.
Sale, Nov. 11th.
THOMAS TROOD & CO.,
Pi ■ prietors.
To b" obtained from all the leading merchants,
chemists, and hotels in the colonies.
Sole Agent for Sydney—A. W. KHBSON, Foy’s
Chambers, Bond-street, Sydney.
X!nwalkSCi.x:
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
AUCTIONEERS, G RNKRAL COMMISSION
AO n NTS.
S.UAS of HORSES and PFDIGREE STOCK
n L 'l?, , d ? llv , at , the CITy HORSE and CATTLE
r .. ('ately occupied by Mr. Kiss). Also, sales
tim'w w 8 ln C o K at HOMBBU6H and CORPORA-
I IUfi i AKDo,
Ollire- 175 CASTLEREAQH STREET.
H
O L L O W A Y
S
PILLS.
A r r “iling rtmedy in all Derangemenf
the L VlfiK » nd wFOmaCK, t hey may be used
P-‘ fcct confidence by yourg and old.
Tb ir world-wide fame for the last fifty years is
a duar'itiic of ihelr t llioioy. Thousands of testi-
motials, Irem princes to peasant’, attest their
niarv ileus virtues.
Mir ufactun d only at 78 New Oxford- st , London
Fu'tha'eis should look to the Label on th
Box. s ai d Pots if the address is not 533 Oxford
streif, London, they ere spurious
f|AHE REMINGTON TYPE-AYR ITER.
ITS ADVANT tGK“ OVE n . THE PEN.
LEG I Hi I.I v Y, RAPIDITY. BASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
THE REM.NGTON TYPE-WRITER savr 8
labour, stationery, ar.d lime, writlr g much
faster than • xpert pe ntnen, ard condensing matter
to Icfs than oce-hi 11 the fpacj occupied by pen
writing. Ve.ut ful copies may be taken in the
usual manner is tho h tter-pref p. Merchant®,
hankers, s >11 i t n clervy'T er , editoisand author?,
re .rttts an . all men i f I u lne s should ueo the
lypt-wriler, and save mech valuable time.
Soli w holt sale and retail by the solo agents,
IMRaY and CO.,
85 Clare nce-street.
PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT-ELECTRIC BELTi?
MESSRS. NEILD and CO., on behalf of The
Magnetlcal-Electric Appliance Company,
earnestly desire to call the attention of the public
to the fact that, In consequence of the success
attending the sale of the above Company's Elec-
tric Belts, Corsets, &o, a so- called Caution has
been published, emanating from an agent for
Electric articles, who, prompted by a motive to
attempt to monopolise the s«le of such articles,
the principle of which we emphatically aesert has
been known to the world for at least twenty years
and are now being manufactured in Great Britain
by dozens of firms, and variously styled lor the
purposes of a trade mara only, but avowedly par-
taking of the same nature, being an adapta-
tion of the element of Magnetlcal Electricity,
We ask, therefore, those who desire to adopt
the treatment of Electricity for constitutional
or local derangements, to compare our Elec-
tric Belts, Corsets, &c, with those of other
manufacture, as they are undoubtedly of su-
perior Electrical Strength, design, quality of
material, and elegance of finish. The I5s,
Gent.’s Belt is the best ever offered to the public
for electrical strength *md quality. Gent.’s special-
power Electric Belts, 30s. These Belts are manu-
factured expreisly for tropical climates, and are
very durable, as also are our Electric Corsets,
Lung Invlgorators, Spire Bauds. &o.
■ICAjr
*
9?
Electric’’ Appliance Company's
ELECTRIC BELTS, Corset Lurg Invlgorators,
Spine Banc’s, Kneecaps, Insoles. &o, &c, is the
only perfect method for generating the curative
properties of the continuous current of Electri-
city, without the aid of batteries or use of acids,
without Incurring any risk of undue action upon
the meat delicate Invalid, and impait Health and
Vitality to ail who wear them.
The MAGNET ICAL ELECTRIC TREATMENT
Is now admitted by Medico-Electric Scientists, and
many leading PhjsJclans, to be the most valuable
Electrical Remedial Agent for the Cure of all
Nervous Diseases, Affections of tho Herert. Epl-
lepry, Spinal Crmplalnts, Rheumatism, Lumbsgo.
Sciatica, Paralys’s, Gcut, General Debility, Indi-
gestion. Female Complaints, &o., &c, and is now
adapted for tho Successful Treatment of all Lung
Troubles, hitherto without the domain of Electric
Agency.
One of (bo Sreclal Features rf this Treatment is
the MAGNBT1CAL HLKCTK1C COSSET, which
la unsurpas ed for its curative properties in all
female trouble 1 , and is of superior thape and
manufacture. Poca, 10), 15j , and 30 1.
The Guinea Special Power Ehctrlo Belt is the
same PS srld In England for £3 3s. Thousands of
people of all ranks in the United Kingdom have
testified to the beneficial results of the Magnetlcal
Electric Treatment; and T. siitnonlals from lead-
ing Medical and Scientific Men ate in our pos-
sr. salon,
GENTLEMENS BELTS are manufactured of
superior material, in tho shape of a riding belt,
and are very durable. Stud size of waist, outside
lb at garment. Price, J5>, and 30n ; if mailed, Is. 6J.
extra
LUNG INVIGOR. AT OPS 30j ;
KN EEC AIV, 7-). 61.; SPUNE BANDS, 10s,
INSOLES, Invaluabj* for cold feet, chilblains, and
defective circulation, (i I. Send size of boot, or
paper pattern of iturde (Is 61. for postage).
All correspondence treated with the greatest
despatch. Poet office orders to be made payable to
E S. NEILD & CO., 158 Pitt-strbet,
Sole Proprietors ** Magnetlcal Electric” Appliance
Company, London snd Sydney.
m
conomiCalfurniturIw economicalfurniture
Ill I -
■Vfrl
1ST THE LARGEST AND ONLY LEGITIMATE
TIME-PAYMENT FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THE COLONY.
365 PITT STREET.
If you wish to establish a name for your
house, sell the best brands— Wolfe's Schnapps
stands foremost.
J, TURNER ROR/NS ON & cv,’
TAILORING EHTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Georgo-stroot,
Established 116 k
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THK MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-clasj GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
QUOD FACIMUS VALOR FACIMU8.
(What we do we do well.)
TOUR PHOTO.—If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
counsel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can Inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co , which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in thelrfavour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potograph era.
Prices—C-D-V.,; Cabinets' 30s. per dozen.
OKEEI.OIAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES. SYDNEY ARCADE.
Mum uwn «icw<« bb« imiw,
S
HUNTER STREET.
Lightning and Gas isxplcslon Damages Paid.
BEST IN
THE WORLD
i
LOWEST
IN PRICE
OFFICE-31 LOMBARD ST. LONDON.
SCOTIAN HORIZONTAL ENGINES,?^ S°« « pJh & e ™!8'°
‘ALBION” U0NCSTR0KE HORIZONTAL ENGINES. a
■‘climax” Vertical engines 5 boilers.
'‘‘CLIMAX” PORTABLE -HOIST IN® ENGINES.
HORIZONTAL GOMPOUND LAUNCH ENGINES.
INVERTED COMPOUND MARINE ENGINES.
»• PORTABLE STEAM CRANES.
Vertical.eoRNisH.s marine boilers.
memWM
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIi: l lilllilll
6
,
LARGE STOCKSTOR FULL PARTICULARS AND PRICES APPLY TO
D.g: W.ROBERTSON.SYDNEY, SOLE AGENTS wNEW SOUTH WALES.,
J.W.SUTTtffi &CCL BRISBANE.SOLE AGENTS-"-QUEENSLAND-
ROBISON BROS.& CO. MELBOURNE. SOLE AGENTS -VICTORIA,.
THE LAST CHANCE.
This subdivision business is coining to a
head. All the freeholds availible are “syndi-
cated,” orjln a fair way of being so, and estate-
agents will soon require to seek other fields
in which to operate. We are going into that linr.
We have taken up a block of land at the Norih
Pole, which will be subdivided and sold as under.
Let us sing:—
Blow the trombone, beat the drum,
Let the blessed kingdom como;
Tell the clerk and artisan.
The gentleman and working man,
That wealth we’re freely offering now
To all who seek—we’ll show you how;
Boll up en masse, next Monday noon,
And b ook by p; ssengf r balloon—
To make men rich our sole ambition
In this, the North Pole subdivision.
A fortune there in ice alone
(The distiiot’s in the Frigid Zone),
And graziers see, with half an eye,
The k lorioua prospect by-and-bye—
You'Jl fret za your beef right on the station,
And ship to port of destination,
Toen thaw it out (advico we’re giving) -
No need to kill, just freeze it living.
Fish, flesh, and fowl will keep for ever—
No blow-Hies there, and hot winds never.
We offer lots to suit all classes-
■We offer homesteads to the masses.
Farms, town lots, and lots suburban;
Sites for villas, mansions urban,
Lots by bay and lots by ocean,
Beached by easy means of motion—
Post, and rail, and telegraph.
Call and get a lithograph.
Note the date. Free lunch and special
(Bead advertisements initial).
Ne’er before such chance was given,
Lots must soon Increase to seven-
Fold their presant market worth;
The climate can’t be beat on earth.
Ba'loon at 13, with sharp precision ;
Attend the Polar subdivision.
Free lunch 1 Ba'loon and right of vision! I
Bemember! I North Pole subdivision.
P.S.—Deep there you'll drink from beauty’s
chalice—
There dwells Aurora Borealis;
If ease you love you can't go wrong.
The nights up there are six months long.
Prince Albert Victor was entertained by
the Corporation of Sheffield a few weeks back.
The aldermen of the cutlery town don’t sit down
to dinner with a Prince every day of the week,
and they were a little bit hazy about the correct
method of showing loyalty. The Town Clerk,
fortunately, is a man of culture and light, and he
gave the Mayor a hint on table manneis when
royalty Is about The correct thing to do, ex-
plained the clerk, was to get one llnoer-glass and
dedicate that to the use of bis Boys! blghncsp.
They followed out the instructioos. A floger-
glass was procured, filled with rose-water, and
placed at the royal right band After the banquet
the Mayor freely expressed his disgust for tfce
Town Clerk. The rose-water, in the opinion of
the city fathers, was a failure. They had expected
Albert Victor was going to drink it. By the way,
it appears that the Duke of Norfolk sat ntxt to
the Prince, but, of course, he got no finger-glass.
Wbatan affront on England's premier dukel A
couple of centuries ago civil war might have re-
sulted from such an overs'ght.


Professional Directory.
GEORGE PE iRIMAN. Scene Painter, Theatre
Royal, Brisbane. Disengaged.
Th b a t b b royal.
Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and MtiflGBOTi.
Lessee, Mr, 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
Established Success of
WILLIAMSON. GARNER, and MU8Q ROVE’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING,
lODANTHB IOLANTHE
IOLANIHE lOLANiHB.
Great preparations are being made for the pro-
duction, on the evening of Saturday, November
Uth, of Gilbert and Sullivan’s Jaoane»e Opera,
Tlifi MIKADO; or, THE TOWN OF T1TIPU.
Admission : Dress Circle. 53.; Stalls, 3i.; Family
Circle, 3s. , ,, . _ , ,
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre daily from
ip till 5. No Free List.
New opera house.
Under the Lesseesbip and Management of
MAJERONI and WILSON.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING,
THE LAST NIGHT
ol Boucicault’s immensely successful sensation
drama,
THE STREETS OF NEW YORK.
TO MORROW (FRIDAY) EVENING,
COMPLIMENTARY RECOGNITION BENEFIT
tendered to
Mr. GEORGE DARRELL,
commencing with the farcical comedy of MATRI-
MONY. and concluding with Gen. Darrell s
drama, MAN AND WIFE.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Huenerbeln’a Music
Warehouse, 318 George-street. Tickets for all parts
of the house may bo obtained at Roberts , tobac-
conist, next theatre.
JOB BROWN, Business Manager for Mr. Darrell
Gaiety theatre.
Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
Manager for Mr. Solomon, Mr, B. N. Jones
Manager for Mr. Dampier, Mr. F, Gunther.
Crowded Houses to witness the new drama,
UNDER THE SOUTHERN CROSS.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
Mr. Fampler’s Australian Drama,
UNDER THE SOUTHERN CROSS.
HENRI MAUR (an artist).. .. Mr. DAMPIER,
Supported by the Full Company.
FRIDAY EVENING. NOVEMBER 13 h,
will be repeated Shakespeare's Masterpiece,
HAMLET HAVLET HAMLET
HAMLET HAMLET HaMLBT,
Received with enthusiasm. Numbers turned
away on each performance.
Prices—Boxes,£1 3j.; cioiestra chairs, Is,; stalls,
,3a.; parquette, 3i.; < a Pony, Is. No Free List.
Box plan now open at Mcholson and Co., Music
Warehouse, George street.
Academy of music.
Under the Management of
RTGNOLD. ALLISON, and HI8COCK8.
SECOND WEEK. GIGANTIC SUCCESS.
The Celebrated and Unrivalled
RICKARDS-LEETE COMBINATION.
Enthusiastic Reception Nightly of the Great
HARRY RICKARDS HARRY
RICKARDS HARRY RICKARDS,
nightly witnessed with enthushsm by
CROWDED HOUSES,
supported by his powerful company of
LONDON SPECIALTY ARII3TS,
who will appear in the Musical absurdity
BRIC-A-BRAC BHIC-A BRAG.
LIGHTNING CARTOONIST
Nightly Sketches National Portraits and leading
Sydney Celebrities.
Prices-4s., 3i., 2s„ and Is,
Box p'an at Nicholson and Co.’s Music Ware-
house, an George-street. No Free List.
Maniim ■ ''or Harry Rickards— Ruohan Hepburn.
Acting uiager .. ♦* *,Q, A. Coleman.
The Olympic
(late Old Masonic Hall, York-street).
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. M. L. Raphael.
Stage Manager . .. Mr. H. Trevorah.
Coolest place and best Entertainment In Sydney.
7th Week, and Brilliant Success of the
OLYMPIC BURLESQUE COMPANY.
Witnessed by crowded and enthusiastic audiences
nightly.
Last Two Nights of Byron’s successful burlesque.
LAST NIGHT DON JUAN. JfTNR..
and the sparkling comedy. WHO'S BA3Y ?
Million Prices—Stalls, 3s.; Gallery Is. Reserved
seats, at Nicholsons, 3s
Saturday. November 14, and until further notice,
will be produced Byron’s world-renowned Bur-
lesque, ORPHEUS, in which Miss Fanny Saroni
and Mr. Harry Sullivan, of the Fan on the Bristol
Company, will appear. Tois production will be
given with entire new scenery, new costumes, and
new and original music.
The best orchestra in Sydney, under tho direc-
tion of Mr. G. Rivers Allpress.
mHB ALHAMBRA MUSIC
I George-street, Hay market.
HALL
street, Hay market.
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING.
THE HOME OF MINSTRELSY and MIRTH.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
MINSTRELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
UNPARALLELED SUCCESS
Unparalleled Success of the
ALHAMBRA VARIETY COMPANY.
Refinement without Vulgarity.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
E P PS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING
COCOA
DR. BOYD,
63 CASTLBREAQH-8TBBET, SYDNEY
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours;
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday, Wednesday;
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Diseases a
Specialty.
Box 130 G.P.O.
FRYER’S CIRCUS,
Belmore Park.
TO-NIGHT. TO-NIGHT.
AN IMMENSE SUCCESS.
HUNDREDS UNABLE to OBTAIN ADMISSION.
THE HUGE TENT
packed with a
DELIGHTED AUDIENCE.
A POPULAR OVATION.
EVERY ACT RECEIVED
with
UNBOUNDED APPLAUSE.
The GRAND MILITARY DRILL.
The RIDING G'lATS.
The EXECUTION OF A CANINE CULPRIT.
The “SEE SAW.”
PONY SKIPPING THE ROPE,
The FLYING ARTILLERIST.
The CLOWN’S PET.
The MARVELS OF PERU.
The MUSICAL CLOWN.
And the world-famed Acrobats and Gymnasts.
Admission— 2s. 63., Is.
Doors open at 7.30, performance begins at 8
o’clock sharp ; carriages ordered at 10.
Special MATINEES, for Ladies and Children,
EVERY SATURDAY, at 3 p.m,
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, November 10 1886.
Tender? for public works and stn-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
oulars see Government Gazette, a die of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenden
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un<
less the terms of the notice are striotly complied
with.
Tho Government does not bind Itself to aooep'
the lowest or any tender.
LIMITED,
356 Goorge-stroet,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS,
and
MUSI C.
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W. H. PALING & Co.
350 Georgre-street, Sydney.
“THE LYCEUM
Newcastle,
SITUATED IN THE BEST PART OF THE CITY
It Is capable of seating 500 people,
and suitable for
MUSICAL & DRAMATIC ENTERTAINMENTS
The Stage (40ft. by 24ft.) Is furnished with
STOCK, SCENERY, &c.
For Terms, apply
COLIN CHRISTIE.
“The Lyceum,”
Newcastle.
TO WEAK men as
Buffering from the
effects of youthful
. . .. ... errors, early decay,
lost vitality, premature decline, nervous weak-
ness, etc., I will send you particulars ®f a
Certain, simple, and sure means of self cure,
Free of Charge. Address, iu confidence,
Prof. M. B. TAYLOR,
6S Elizabeth St.,
SYDNEY 1ST.3 W-
CONTINUED SUCCESS
£5
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
!
PACKED in CANY AS. and INSURED against
LOSS,
, c u ai T? a ? e P ftld by mall all over the colonies
by Coach, Raflway, or Steamer. 0100168
The £5 Bale system has been In operation for
years, dnrlng which time we have despatched over
faotk>n 10USand bale8 ' a11 givlr * 8 ' the greatest satls-
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever
and carriage arrangements quick and safe, *
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
£5 LADY’S BALE.
6 T,odieD’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 jonght-gowns
4 Ladles’ Camisoles
3 Ladles’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longcioth. and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the shove.
£B MOUHNING BALE,
25 yds. Bit. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 drz Crape Trimming
1 Black Sbawl
1 Cady's Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVES.
On receipt of 3a. jn
stamps, we send, pos t
free a pair of 2 or T
button kid orsilk Gloves
any i?i ze or c °lour, good
quality and fashionable.
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale oontain-
Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen. Christening
Kobe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of JE5.
15s.
Resend, carriage free,
a Bady s New Accouche-
meut Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
8tei8 ,or «"
DRESSMAKING.
W® havp ? large Dressmaking Department nre
hy a Jady of great experlenc“lnd shill
b Ki« a 5 P7 to for ? r ard patterns of the most fashion
able dress materials - Silks, Velvets &o —wifh
RILEY BROTHERS,
166 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Originatoig of the celebrated £5 Bales of Drapery.
J. noake,
320 ft 446 George Street,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
Just Unpacked, ex s.s. Rome,
12 Cases Rea / HAVANNA CIGARS
(Finest Brands), consisting of
“ANTONIO MURIA8 ”
“ VILLAK OF VILLAR8”
‘ HENRY CLAYS”
“REAL”CABANAS
“LARRANAQA”
“ RITICA ”
“ MORALES”
“ FLOR DE NARB8 ”
"PARTAGAS”
“ 1NTIMIDAD8”
“FLOR DE CUBA"
ESPANOLA ”
“LA CORONA”
J. NOAKE,
320 & 446 GEORGE STREET
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
Natnr* of Works and BuppUea
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received [it
this office.
Bridge over Blngwall Creek,
road Wardell to Broadwater
Construction of Wharf at War-
den, Richmond River
Construction of Wharf at Swan
Bay, Richmond River
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Goodooga
Additions Police Barracks, Graf-
ton I
Bridges in approach to Howlong
Prldge
Erection of Passenger Station,
Waiting Shed, &c , at Stan-
more
Erection of House for porter in
charge at Blackheath, G.W. i
Railway
Ere c ion of Passer ger Station at
Mlllthorpe, G W. Railway
Annual Contracts, Colonial Ar-
chitect’s Department. 1886
Erection of Lands and Survey
Offic e, Armldale
Supply of Small Stores, Harbors
and Rivers Department, 1886
Additions to Post and Telegraph
Office, Grafton
Bridge over WangooU Creek,
road Sheet of Bark via Wood’s
Flat to M‘Donald-road
Erection of Drivers’ Quarters,
Eveleigh. Contract No. 10
Supply of Twelve Portable
Water Tanks
Supply of Brushware. Iron-
decked Culverts, Ironmongery
Shipohandlery, Drain Pipes,
and Blue Metal, Roads Depart-
ment, 1886.
Construct on of Timber Boats
(clinker and carvel bulltl for
Roads Department, 1886
Tuesday,
November 17,
at 11 o’clock.
A
i
for Infants and Children.
Castorla cures Colic, Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation,
Gives healthy sleep and promotes digestion,
Without injurious medication.
Elliott Bros., Sydney, Agents.
“Castorla is so well adapted to children that
1 recommend it as superior to any prescription
known to me,” H. A. Archer, M. D., /
111 Oxford Street, New York. .
CHAS. OTTE & CO.,
Electrical Engineers,
113 Pitt Stkbet.
Electric Batteries for surgical and household use, Electric Bells
Private Telephones, Electric Lights, Lightning Conductors, Dyna-
mos, and all Electrical appliances fitted at the shortest notice at
25 per cent, under usual price. J
CHikS. OTTE & CO., 113 Pitt Street
Construction of Wharf at Bal-
ranald, Murrumbidgee River
Erection of Station Buildings,
&o , at Cargo-road and Bore-
pore, Orange to Molong Kail-
way
Erection of Station Buildings,
and Gatehouses at Ama -
roo, Orange to Molong Kail-
way
Erection of Post snd Telegraph
Office, Waverley
Bridge over Barwon River, at
Brewarrina
Bridge in approach to Moree
Bridge
Supply of Newcastle Coal for
Railway Department during
I860
Bridge over Shyer's Creek road,
Builahdelah to Upper Myall
Tuesday,
November 24,
at 11 o’clock.
Supply of Twelve Passenger
Engines
Erection of Now Gates, Garden
Palace Grounds
Tuesday,
December 1,
at 11 o’clock.
Repairs, &o., Telegraph Station,
Murrurundi
Additions, &c, Lockup, Cowra
Tuesday,
December 8,
At 11 o’clock.
Construction of Kailway from I
Pearce's Corner to the Nort h | Tuesday,
bhore, with a branch line for December 15
coal trallic to Bald’s Head | at 11 o’clock’
W. J. LYNE.
TO Country Journalists.-Leaders, Telegrams,
and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man or long experience, on moderate
terms. “ Beta,” Bulletin Office.


■
■
tw THIRTY SHILLINGS.
m~ THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
t r\HT8 triumph of musical Invention la acknow-
I lodged on all hands to he the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It Is a wonderful little instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes Its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 22 reeds, plays in three keys, and all the
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the inventor, the world
was first Indebted for the Organette; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
study, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of cost and crudeness.
It requires no skill to extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &c., &o., &o. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy.
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are seat with each
instrument, and are so plain that “ he who runs
may read.” It is best adapted to the kind of music
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; but It has also wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card-holder for convenience
in singing. It will be found invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one ; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
OT
474 GE0R6E STREET SYDNEY
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities—from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can offer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corre-
spondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with It, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by all educators and moralists
that music is the great refining influence, and
especially with children its effect for good is
boundless. The love for music which music in
the family engenders, is more potent In forming
dispositions and governing tempera than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
era, pastors, end parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other
wise hard task an easy one.
The price of the Autophone Is 30s.,
and where good music can be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autophone for 30s. we
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
ah orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it ou ;•
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogues of tunes at any time.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents tor Australia:
Oriental Gold Company.
George-street, Sydney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets.
Wolfe's Schnapps the greatest stimulant
and tonic in tho world. Beware of imitations.
Unsolicited testimonials from medical gentlemen
testify to the merits of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is particularly free from
fusil oil as it is well aged before being bottled.
There is no better judge for what is geod than
Germans—They always drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Ball Room Specialities,—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 60* Hunter-street. Sydney.*
My medical experience satisfies me that Wolfe’s
Schnapps is an excellent stimulant.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a standard medicinal beve-
rage, and is highly recommended by medical men.
Anything you require from Sydney for-
warded at cost price. No commission edarged
for buying. In extending our country and inter-
colonial business, which during the last three
years has made great headway, we are prepared
to purchase and forward to country residents, free
of commission charges, goods of any description,
never mind how small the value. No trouble is
spared to obtain for clients whatever they require,
at the lowest possible cost. Letters receive meet
prompt attention, and the goods or answers to
inquiries are forwarded by return. Our complete
knowledge of the markets of the city enables us
to extend to country buyers benefits which they
would not otherwise attain. Write for what you
require, and we will suit you. Note the Address:
JOHN J. MCINNE8 & CO„
Commission Merchants, 90 Pltt-street, Sydney.*
Wolfe's Schnapps is tho only genuine
Schnapps—Avoid all counterfeits and imitations.
Brandies and Whiskies are not at all as wel
adapted for this climate as Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Englishmen, Scotchmen, Irishmen, and Amori
cans all drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
I prefer Wolfe’s Schnapps to Brandy or Whisky
—It is a more wholesome spirit.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
T.iiTsi Royal—"loianthe- p. 8
Gaiety Theatre— 1 “ Under the Southern
Cross’” „
Tub Olympic—” Don Juan, Junior” <•
Opera House—" The Streets of New York”
Alhambra—Variety Company ««
Fryer’s Circus, Belmore Park u
Mr. Darrell is intensely loyal. Where he
gets a chance in bis plays he introduces a song,
an episode, or a speech to show how warmly his
heart beats towards the Crown and Constitution.
Where the chance does not come naturally he
bores for one. Many a fight he has to participate
in in consequence. A favourite outcome of the
boring is that someone asks for cheers for Her
Majesty. As a preliminary, a tipsy Irishman is
posted within convenient reach. When the cheers
die away the Irishman comes to realise that his
country has been insulted. He forthwith sallies
out with a stick or a brick, and the playwright
achieves what he regards as a loyal demonstration.
• • *
An onlooker doubts from time to time the
genuineness or Mr. Darrell's affectionate dis-
play. The cocstilution demonstrative loyalists
care most for is their own. The Crown that at-
tracts them is not the golden simulacrum of
supreme authority but the lustrous white five
shillings and its multiples. Yet whatever fustian
there may be in Mr. Darrell’s loyalty he proved in
Sydney Opera House on Monday night, the anni-
versary of the Prince of Wales’ birthday, that
ho entertains a truly sincere and deep respect for
the heir to the Throne. He did not play any of
his own dramas.
• * •
The piece presented was Boucicault’s
“Streets of New York.” It is well known, and
Mr. Darrell s style of playing the leading character
is familiar to moat. Badger, however improbable
a conception in the early stages, is clearly cut and
well built Skill and power were displayed in the
presentation. Mias Fiecher, as the unhappy
widow, and Mias Peachy as her daughter,
appeared to far greater advantage than on any
former occasion throughout the season. Most of
the rest played well. Mr. Ireland had to put on
the limp and worthless character of Paul Fair-
weather. Mother and sister ai e starving and pre-
pare to commit suicide. He can get no work, can
find no breac, and huddles himself up to starve
with them. He says, “Mother. I’ll never do any-
thing to dishonour the name.’’ The picture of a
long, wiry man, apparently about 35 years of age,
and evidently organically sound, looking at hia
mother and Bister dying for want of bread, and
lying down to die beside them, with “ Mother, 111
never dishonour tho name,” shows what a fetish
badly-interpreted moral laws have made of
Society. Why, the loon ought to have brought in
bread, even tnough he throttled the President of
tho United States for it. As social laws placed him
and his in that stress, without fault on his or their
part, ho ought to have, instead of whimpering
nlmeelf into eternity at the skirts of their shrouds,
turned cannibal and eaten the hide off Society.
* m *
Before next week’s issue of Tii b Bulletin
Mr. DarreU will have taken his departure Horn
Sydney. On Friday (to-morrow) a benefit will be
tendered to him. He has worked hard and has
many claims on sympathy and encouragement. It
is made known in the bills that four years ago he
wrote a drama foreshadowing the departure of an
Australian Contingent to do battle for the mother
country. Dailey, Strickland, or Darrell—which
person of this Holy Trinity shall history credit
with the origination of the idea ? There is internal
evidence to prove that tho expedition owed much
to a fancy like Darrell's.
♦ * * *
“Under the Southern Cross” is the work
of Mr. Dampier, who frames the plot upon twin
brothers and their adventures. Walter, one of
the twins, is a wholesale and retail emporium of
vice: he. with a Muirumbidgee “ whaler,” named
Cabbage-tree Bill, murders a man for his money,
and buys an annuity v 1th the proceeds of the
crime The whaler, in the first act, tracks Walter
the Wicked, and asks for a bigger share of the
“ loot.” Walter draws his shooting-iron with
that readiness customary with colonials, and rolls
C. B. Bill over. Frank Arnold, the other twin, is
poor, but passably honest, and has put his little
“pile” on Nevadas, or some oth r equally valu-
able Investment. Tho mine “ busts ” up, and
Frank applies to Walter for a little cheque till
the first of next month. Walter comes to Frank’s
house to arrange matters, and dies suddenly. The
singular likeness of the twins leads the local Kirby
to commit the little error of burying Frank the
living Instead of Walter the dead, or rather, the
former in order to save Walter’s annuity takes his
brother s name and attends his owe funeral. But
here a little difficulty occurs. Ironbark Ned,
another whaler, accuses Frank Arnold, who is now
Walter, of the murder committed by the Vice
Emporium, whose name he hss taken. Then Wal-
ter, who was formerly Frank, has to choose ba-
tween an assisted emigration to another world and
the loss of his annuity, by confessing himself to be
his brother, as he was before. In spite of
this he is condemned to do a tlght-rope dance
on his neck. Here Henri Maur comes in. He is
rather a bad lot, with a decided leaning to rum
and a strong leaning after imbibing it. But he
loves the surviving twin’s daughter, Ruby, with a
consuming love, and to save Frank conte-ses to
all the murders for which the latter has been con-
demned, and. in his turn, is brought before the
benevolent Judge, who prays over the delivery
of the sentence In tho usual pious manner. Before
the sentence is executed, however, Meg, a colonial
girl discovers that the murdered whaler was never
killed at all, but is still working havoc at the free-
lunch-bais. Henri Maur is, therefore, released,
and he and Ruby appear to be la for a honeymoon
trip to Europe, or, at least, Bondi, when the cur-
tain falls. #
1o gay that the plot is slightly improbable
is to do but faltt justice to the author. Nor is it
distinctly colonial, although much of the business
is redolent of the gum-tree, as, for instance,
when Corny O Hagan, a new chum, writing to tell
his father to come out, remarks, “They are mak-
ing men as Ignorant as you J.Ps every day.” On
the whole, the piece is. sui generis, of considerable
merit. Many of the situations are undeniably
strong, and the dialogue is exceptionally bright-
more attractive perhaps in the humorous than in
the pathetic part. This is usually the case. Stage
pathos does not admit of novelty, but the fields of
stage humour are unlimited and illimitable.
* * *
Alfred Boothman “doubles” the twin
parts with much skill, and dresses for each so
correctly, aud with such attention to detail, that
even the bald spot on the back of his head is the
whether he be Walter or Frank We fear
that Alfred is sinking under the weight of his
stage-villainy, for now, even in the street, his
countenance wears an expression of chronic
melancholy. Mr. Dampier, as Henri Maur, the
Bohemian, has a big chunk of the pathetic, and
his acting in the prison scene is indicative of
power. Mies Melville commended Ciara, to the
gallery especially; and Miss Dun pier was the
amorous Ruby. Mias Russell s “ I m a colonial, I
am.” is likely to be a catch-phrase. The piece is
well staged, and the prompter has gone lor a holi-
day. “Hamlet” will be reproduced on Friday,
and “The Phantom Ship” is to succeed the
“Southern Cross.” We desire to contradict a
rumour that "The Phantom Ship ’ is a skit on
the Manly Beach steamboat proprietary, nor does
it refer to HI.M.S. Wolverene.
* * * *
f Harry Rickards has only made a moderate
success of “Bric-a-Brac ” at Sydney Academy. He
would be a genius of superhuman skill if he could
do more. The m*n who wrote the piece ought to
do one more thing of equal merit, and appear in
each before a critical audience armed with a fair
quantity of antique eggs and an equal stock of
well-matured cabbages. [The writer means that
the audience should be armed.] The features of
the show are Harry’s singing, hdgar Austin’s car-
toons, and Nelly Milson’s legs. Each Is admirable
in its way, and each has its enthusiastic admirers.
• * *
“ Don Juan, Junior,” at the Sydney Olym-
pic, continues to draw very fair housts, aud will
run to the 14th November, when “ Orpheus” is to
follow, with the accession to the company
of Fannie Saronl and Harry Saroni, late of
the “Fun on the Bristol” crowd. As Don
Juan progresses, D’Arcy Stanfield manages to
bring Pedrillo Into Increasing prominence, es-
pecially in the opening scene, and Desperado s
burden of Iniquity Increases with every per-
formance. This is not quite what we wanted
to say, or at least it may betaken by the hyper-
critical to denote something different to what we
and Fred. Dark would desire, but let that pass.
Fred, Is one of the mildest of men on the block,
but on the stage he is a villain to whom felony Is a
pastime and murder a harmless post-prandial re-
creation. The piece goes down as smoothly as a
long beer In the throat of a free-luncher, but we
might suggest to one or two of the classic maidens
of the company that a little extra emphasis and
distinctness would be an improvement, as manv
of the more subtle puns lu the piece are lost to a
large portion of the audience.
♦ * *
“Who’s Baby ” (clumsy title, this) finishes
the show. Babies very frequently do appear at
most inopportune times and cause much trouble,
and occasionally law.proceedings, to their parents.
This is not precisely the case with this infant, who
is the innocent offspring of a butler aud house-
maid, who have married iu the absence of iheir
master, and their desire to conceal the fact and the
Infant are the ratson d’etre of the farce, D’Arcy
Stanfield nursed the child with an amount of skill
and gentleness, resulting possibly from long ex-
perience as a parlent,and dosed the baby (chopped
with an axe out of a “ back-log,” and beautified
subsequently) with paregoric or something of the
kiud iu a style whioh caused the mother of six in
the gallery to nudge her hub., and whisper audibly,
"See that, John; why can’t you do it as well as
that?” But John answered not, for he was con-
sumed with bitter envy.
ir * * *
The Lynch clan are at last fairly on their
way to Melbourne, playing as they go. On every
gum-tree stump and clothes-prop between Sydney
aud the Murray are posters saying the bandits are
coming that way. Round these notices wombats
and paddy-melons gather, and after giving their
views on travelling combinations, wind up with a
free fight. Harry and his people travel iastjle
in their own traps. If they do half as well in Mel-
bourne as in Sydney they can afford to throw up
the business and take to writing for the comic
papers.
* * * ♦
“Hamlet,” “Royal Pardon,” and “ Under
the Southern Cross,” each drew “standing-room
only ” houses at Sydney Gaiety on successive
nights. It was I a mixed crowd on Monday.
Simple evening-dress did not Impress the crowd
in any degree, for there were firemen in “ loud ”
uniforms, decorated with medals enough to load
the Contingent, and which, if given for saving life
at fires, would teud to show that one-half the in-
habitants of the known universe have been in
danger of destruction by a mundane Sheol at no
remote period. Then there were Highlanders, all
bare legs and the Scotch substitute for bustle,
and beside these there were a couple of Sal-
vationists, who had “parted,” presumably, with the
Idem of attacking Satan in what they perhaps con-
sider as one of his chief strongholds. Therefore,
our collar and tails did not win their customary
share of admiration.
* • • *
Mr. Holloway lias come back to Australia
once more, bringing with him a portmanteau full
of new plays. One of these is a delicious little
trifle of Frank Harvey’s, called a “ Mad Marriage.”
We pant to behold this. The heroine after out-
raging Nature by marrying a gibbering lunatic,
brings about his restoration to reason by a method
that is essentially feminine. Ia fact, she presents
her imbecile husband with a baby. This gives
the poor man such a violent surprise that his mind
acc.dentally recovers its balance. Whether the
arrival of number two knocks him silly again, the
play doesn't last long enough toexplaln.BAny way,
it ought to pro ve a big thing. Tne stage abounds
in men qualified to give a truthful impersonation
of an idiot.
* » * *
The “ Mikado,” which will ba given ia the
Sydney Royal on Saturday night, has been occupy-
ing the attention of some of the-American Judges.
In the United States Circuit Court, In the suit of
D Oyley Carte versus Duff, Judge Wallace ha*
decided that the performance of an orchestration
made independently from the published piano
score of the “Mikado ” violates the rights neither
of Sir Arthur Sullivan nor of the holder of the
American copyright. This (says the London Echo)
has never before been ruled upon, and it now
appears that anybody may freely produce the
“Mikado.”
41 ES 4t El
An English dramatic author has certainly
stolen a march on George Darrell by producing a
play called “The Day of Judgment.” We have
often thought of this title as just the thing for
one of George’s, and now another fellow has
cribbed It. This is vexing. But there are other
good titles still unappropriated. A while back wo
suggested to Mr. Darrell, through the respectful
medium of these columns, that “The Crack of
Doom” would sound like a thrilling melodrama.
Since then a more subtle idea has crept into our
cranium. George ought to write a play of gam-
bling Interest, with Its big scone laid at the card-
table. And he should call It—what? Not “A
Strong Suit,” or “A Cruel Cut,” or “Euchred,”
or “The Flush of Victory,” or “ A Wasted Heart."
No—those would makegood posters enough, but
we’ve one up our sleeve that beats ’em hollow.
“ The Last Trximp /’’—how would that do ?
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“J. W. Wilson ” (Perth, W.A.)”: The
Queensland native police force has been re-
constructed, not abolished, and is now known as
the “Queensland Native Trackers.” One of the new
arrangements U, we believe, that two white con-
stables, with a commanding officer, will be
stationed at each camp, and one of these con-
stables must accompany the officer on expeditions.
(2.) We don’t think it would be possible, without
political influence, to procure a commission....
“Murrurundl” You sing,
“ Do! the Blue Mountains in their scenes sublime.
Are more fantastic than views of any clime.”
Whereilpon, dear sir, we yowl thusly—
“ Lo I the Blue Mountains with their heights sub-
lime
Are far less rugoed than youf wretched rhyme
L. Mivart”: We have repeatedly stated that in
our opinion there is no sound argument s«ainst
the payment of members’ system. Mr. Edmund
Barton, from the Hast Sydney hustings, told an
elector that “ he did not think men should require
payment for their services.” “Then why do you
take £1500 a year as Speaker ?” indignantly queried
tho voter. We haven’t yet heard Mr. Barton s
reply; and we aren’t likely to, if we live as long as
the mythical Mr. Methusaloh ...." W.R”: We
should feel much kinder towards the old country
If she would hawk off certain of our prominent
politicians and make peers of them. We haven’t
an institution mean enough to do them justice
here. Not even the gaol — “J.A.F.”: Not good
enough, aud yet thou hast a pleasant wit....
“ Y.A.” (Parramatta) : Thanks. Mr. M’Govern
evidently has an uu-M’Governable temper—
" Alfred Hales" (Adelaide): Notwithstanding the
fact that you have gained prizes as a poet, and
that the Melbourne Sportsman does print your
lucubrations, we advise you to “ let up” upon the
lyre altogether if you can’t ladle out your verse
and your genius in equal quantities. In your
Caulfield Cup “ poem” your Muse jumps off from
scratch i
“ Like the bright front rank of a cavalry line.
How the silks and the satins glisten and shine.
This gives us a fair notion of what the balance of
the lyric will be, and prepares us for such deserlp-
tive flights as this:—
“ But Winchester leads, as they sweep past the
stand,
While Huxtable holds the colt well in hand;
He's too eager by half to last through the race,
And a mile and a quarter tells its tale on his
pace.”
Now, if Winchester could not gallop more evenly
than your poor Pegasus, the only wonder Is that
he ever went a hundred yards before his taU
pointed upward to the gleaming zenith— ' J.
Wightman”: As we know nothing about this
lottery, except that it was stopped by the At-
torney-General, we don’t car e to run into a possible
libel. He should write to one of the members
whose name appears on the prospectus. ..“ J.H.”:
Will try to work it up "J3.C.”: Not quite an
average contribution on a very much hackneyed
tneme “J. W. Fargus”: Queen Victoria, for 43
years, according to the “Pension List.” has re-
ceived £420,000 annually "Y.A.C.”: Mrs. Lang-
try is now 35.. .“C.C.J.”: Yes. The “ Order of tho
Thistle.” The Soudan donkey wears it whenever
he can “ R.A.8.”: Ihe proverb ls!-="A young
wife with an old man is like a bright light ia a Sica
room.’ “ J.R.D.” (Coonatnbie): You are wrong.
Douglas Sladen is not an Australian (for which
fact natives should dally thank a merciful heaven),
and he is not a poet—“J.F.”: You say that
squatters made those who wished to vote for
Kelly keep at work all day and sent all who would
plump for Jennings into town and “shouted” for
them. This has been done in every constituency
where the squatters had a special pet of their own.
....“ Giraffe”! Want of patriotism? Nonsense.
David spent two-and-saspence over last Mudgee
election. Was it likely that he oould be again
involved in such expenditufe within less than
three years ?....“ Subscriber ” iMerriwa)! Must be
3L years old and apply to the nearest Bench....
“ J.M.R”; Will consider....” Coogee”: You have a
splendid style of writing. Handwriting, we mean
“ Joey”; Nullumiter— nogo....“ J.M.”: Give the
pea a rest, and try the pickaxe — “ Velocipede ;
Sorry we can’t publish. What sort of a standard
of sobriety have you up there, when a Good
Templar Is allowed to get drunk three times a
week? “ Yo.t”: Thanks. Will try to utilise—
‘ F.G.F.” : Excellent. Btlt we are unselfish—.
“M.G.”: Sorry your verses are net quite good
enough. You wonder why the Orangemen
opposed Mr. Aobott. Because, we quote from the
Yellow Rag of the “th lust.:—“It (the Dibba’
Cabinet) is indeed a Ministry of a Popish personnel.
SirPatiick Jennings, who, for some reason with-
out any shown capacity lor office, has bem given
the most important office in the Cabinet, and Mr.
SlattOry, Minister for Justice, are both devoted
sons Of the Romish Ohurch, Rid will carry out her
mandates to the utmost of their power. Then the
Minister for Education has subscribed lately to
the Jesuits, of all people in the world, so he has
shown his readiness to bow down to Rome. The
Premier has done likewise, and actually gave up
his own office to please the favoured son of the
Romish Church, Sir Patrick; besides, he has en-
deatortred to please that Church by giving Mr.
Slattery and Mr. Dailey portfolios. He, therefore
ha', for the sake of office, bent his neck beneath
the heel of Rome. From such a combination
nothing but legislation inspired by St. Mary’s
can be expiated. The Cardinal will be the real
Premier, but not lor long.” A suitable reward
awaits, at this office, the man who cau show a
larger amount of len vy, hatred,[ malice, and all
manner of uncharltableness than is expressed in
this cutting from a religious paper. From such
religion. "Good Lord deliver us.”—“Oambe-
warra Skipper”; Your par.is a mystery; and a
mystery now only to be revealed to the
Corporation dustman “J.J.B.”: Next week....
“ M. Jackson ’ l We quite agree with you and the
Bishop of Melbourne. As the Bishop observes, no
commercial hawker ever told a lie. Every bag-
man is moral. Tnat is proved by the stories the
commercial-travellers tell....”Virginia Water":
Vou notice that there is some land for sale just
where the deputation asked for a new platform on
the suburban line. That Is no reason why you
should denounce the agitation as a rank swindle.
.. “J.H.J.”: Your comic sketch will not be
printed this week. Nor any other week, either....
“Poor Jack”: Poor joke ...“Onlooker” (Goul-
burn): Not of sufficient general Interest. Con-
cerning that Church row, considering that you
confess you don’t know anything about It, and
don’t know whioh is fight, your desire to en-
lighten our readers hardly seems reasonable.
When you gather a little more knowledge from
" the man who can talk any other ten stupid In six
hours, without saying a word of sense the whole
time,’’ you might write again “ Bush Rat.”
There is a good deal in what you say of the In-
tolerance of Irishmen both in religion and politics.
But it is certain that this Intolerance is largely due
to centuries of misgovernment. We think that if
Ireland were a self governing province like
N.S.W., the discontent with priestly Influence
would quickly arise, and Intolerance go down as
enlightened scepticism grew “ H. Wolff” (In-
vercargill) : As you will see by late advices from
“ home,” the Free-trade bladder is being pricked
cn all sides. The “ fair trade” advocated by Lord
Salisbury is merely a return to protection —
“ Well-wisher”: Thanks...” T. C.Moyer ”: Thanks
for suggestion, which will be duly considered —
“Tim Flannigan”: The fault of your screed is
that the humour is laboured and artificial. Screed
on application "J.P.B.” (Wilson’s Downfall):
Shall be glad to see you “ Nemo ” (Glebe):
Read the paragraph again “ G.J.M.”: The name
of the month that John Davies couldn’t spell was
“ January.” — “ J. S. Milward”: As a Democratic
paper, the Sydney Evening News Is a frost. It
is as insincere aud as popularity-hunting as John
Davies himself. It never yet advocated an honest
principle in the teeth of an adverse public opinion.
Mr. Dibbs was right in saying that any draper
who keeps hia shop open and makes his emplojAs
work at night, thus reviving in Sydney the old-
world slavish custom, is an enemy of the work-
man and ef the Commonwealth, and should be
treated accordingly. The woman who will buy at
night drapery or anything els® which can equally
well be bought In daylight, is cruel as a cat.


BRIEF MENTION.
Two Items. 8ir Alfred Stephen is once
more Acting-Governor of N.S.W. There are two
men under sentence of death.
A Melbourne clergyman has been lectur-
ing on “ Religious Failures.” We suppose he re-
fers to parsons who make a composition with
their creditors.
At the Newtown Police Court the other
D ,’ 8 £ t ” is reported to have said;
Solicitors, simply because they are members of
Parliament, would not inilaenoe me.” Was it
necessary to say so much, Mr, Mtares ? Oui
s excuse, s’ accuse!
The world is not all vi!e. While one out
«PBW ,r ?h 0t n hcv adult Population of Melbourne
, Hbm ? h tbe Cu P I , UD - Presbytery of th
llLn ' D ?2 nt £ l3r mot Jr * at the Assembi
Hah. Qne of the brethren .rushed In with tiju
winner just as they were polishing off the
doxology.
Another injustice. This time to England.
Molohll O’Brien, no less, rode the winnpr of the
Melbourne Cup. and his colours wi-re Kvardinal
and green!!! The Protestant Standard should
at once see to this. It is, of course, a direct result
of the arrival of Cardinal Moran. It is a result of
the importation of the Pope's blessing, it is a
result of a diabolical Jesuit conspiracy. The
Scarlet Woman is in it. “Cardinal ani green I”
Yerrahl
An injured husband who recently obtained
a divorce in 'ydiafly.advertisoi th it the co-respon-
dent (a Sjudan hero), “ if he still wishes for hia
(the husband's) address, can havesatne by applying
to Mr. Pitt, solicitor, Georga-strect.” Is this a case
of pistols for two, or the more prosaic question of
who s to pay the piper ?
i )r. Moran landed at Sydney last week
p;v sed to his carriage between rows of warriors—
cadets from a R C. College—clothed in English
uniform and armed with Saxon rifles. If the
Orangemen of 60 years ago could but have seen.m
a fiercely British community, cadets with carbines
and red coats forming a guard of honour instead
of a prison guard for an Irish Cardinal, they would
have thought that the first blast of Gabriel’s
trumpet couldn’t be much longer deferred.
A meeting of Teutons was held at Charters
Towers recently, in connection with electoral
morality. It was shown that two Scandinavian
wire-pullers bad offered to dispose of 30 of their
countrymea’a votes with a large parcel of German
ones to Mr. Brown's committee, for thosumof
£50. A motion was nssiod severely censuring the
enterprising pair. The gent'emea should icsj no
i ime In coming to Sydney. Charters Towers is too
small and unappreciative for genius like theirs.
The Melbourne Age is getting affected by
'he moon—or is being overcome by its bank-
balance. In a withering article on the ec'ion of
the Australian Secular Association in refraining
from drlnkirg to the longer life and better health
of Her Gracious Majesty, we find this statement-
In point of fact, it is untrue to say that the
Queen rules at all- she is the symbol of govern-
ment, nothing mare.” Turning to another page
°I t. he 8. ame issue, under another heading, we arn
edified to read the following piece of bosh:—“ The
line of Mary Stuaut has never ceased to be sove
reign, until it has become most precious to us in
the person of that great woman and great ruler
our present Queen, who has for seven times seven
years guided our destinies and handled the reins
of government with marvellous skill.” This is
the chameleon, the weather-cock which, when the
bigots howled loudest, refused to nrint advertise-
ments of any description lor the Secular Society
and, a little later on, published full accounts of the
sittings of the Conference. “ Most precious I ”
By deciding at Melbourne to remain on
ship all Sunday, Dr, Moran, according to the Tri-
bune, “failed In the obligation of attending
The Touchstone of AI.S.W. Politics.
•party. ' Uo.il th« it is impossible to o“ear°yVe»oe"K 1 ' !lu “« < “« to joln 81r John B » tOTti » 7 »
THE OPPOSITION LEADER [log); “NOW, ALL OF YOu BOYS THAT ARB GOING TO VOTE FOR ME WILL 8IGNIFT THE SAME BY OPENING YODR MOUTHS”


Divine service.” Writers should not expose their
ignorance like this. There was no necessity for
the new Cardinal to go to an opposition shop for
Divine service, seeing that he, himself, had plenty
of stock of a much superior description on board.
Who cares about putting himself under a compli-
ment to a neighbour for a mouthful of whisky,
when he has a still of bis own In the cellar at
heme ?
A lady has just passed Punch’s corner.
Her Improver has asserted its Independence and
gone crooked. She glides along In beauty like a
duck upon a lake, innocent of tbe accident. She
hears a deep-water sailor addressing his horsey
Iriend: "Jimmy, what’s the matter with that
craft with the blue head-lights as just passed on
the stabbord tack ? Her after-gear has all carried
away.” “Oh, git out,” the horsey one replies;
“ there’s nothin’ much wrong with her—her sur-
cingle's slipped and her blessed saddle’s cornin’
round.” And then she knew it wasn’t straight,
and the sunshine faded from the sky and the world
was no longer lovely. Oppressed by deep and
gloomy thoughts she hired a ’bus and went home.
Just 8s wa expected, the N.S.W. telegra-
phic system of payment by stamps only is giving
such universal satisfaction that in some places the
people are thinking seriously of presenting the
promoters of the scheme with a similar testl
monlai to that recently awarded to a Mongolian
duck-stealer at Lower Botany. A few days a-ro
the miserable supply of stamps ran out intbe
telegraph office of a certain Northern town, and a
telegram-sender, who wanted to insure a reply,
which he knew would be a long one, offered to
leave hi? gold watch as security. This was looked
upon by the high-toned lightning-dodger as an in-
sult to his dignity, and he angrily demanded if his
customer thought ho was la a Deity-condemned
pawnshop? The customer said, no, ha did not,
because, as a rule, pawnshops were conducted In a
proper business-like manner, while the sole desire
of some Government Departments seemed [to be
to cram as much Inconvenience and Incivility Into
the public as they could. The dot-and-dasher
asked the customer if he’d come out in the back-
yard and " ft R„” or repeat what he said. The cus-
tomer said he would. And now that station-
master wears a lovely partl-soloured agate on his
noblo brow, and a purple watch-pocket under his
left eye, and is so obsequiously polite that people
ride 2d miles in springless carts just to hear him
say ** Good morning.”
A little time ago the people of Wagga
memorialised the N.S W. Minister for Rabbits.
The petitioners, as In duty bound, did ever pray
that he would experiment with two bunny-in-
fested districts by turning loose KOOK) cats,
100,000native cats, and 200,000 Iguanas.' These.lt
was stated, would give the rabbits a similar
“ twlsht ” to that accorded the frogs and toads by
the late St. Patrick, and induce them to skip-such,
at any rate, as escaped assimilation by their
enemies, the cats and gobannas. There is not the
least doubt the rabbits would leave, and it is
equally certain the settlers would have to live In
trees. Hens, and their eggs, would be things of
the past; fruit and vegetables would be no more;
and the mfisio of the Tbomss-cat would super-
sede the lay of the laughing-jackass. Thegohanna,
living in ease and affluence, would possess the bur-
row of the departed bunny, and from this vantage
? round make occasional raids upon the cradles of
he free selectors, and while his progeny increased
and multiplied, there would be heard the voice of
those rural Kachaels mourning for their children,
and cursing the wiseacres who proposed to euro
hydrophobia by an injection of rattlesnake’s
venom. We have given the rabbit question serious
attention, and our Idea Is that strategy must be
resorted to. There are now a number of gentle-
men oast off by ungrateful constituencies from
the Parliamentary refuge. Let them ba subsidised
to go Into the rabbit dhtrlots and talk-talk of Lag-
land's greatness and Australia's glory, and all that
has been done for us by that dear old mother
country which Dailey recently saved from de-
struction by his chivalrous despatch of the Con-
tingent to the Soudan. Let them rant and rear
and saw the air, and If the rabbits won't quit after
three hours a deluge is the only thing to save this
bleeding land.
The far-reaching power of the Press, and
the necessity for advertising, if you would do a
good business, was brought home to us the other
day by a telegram. We give the message in full:
—"Cannibal Creek, May town (N. Queensland).
Editor, Bulletin, 21, Pitt street, Sydney.—
Oblige by sending, post, pair Scott's best-electric
corsets; size, 21in.; cheque posted.” There are
some curious circumstances connected with this
message. In the first place, the picture In The
Bulletin s advertising columns, inviting atten-
tion to the application of electricity to corsets some
time ago, was printed upside-down. When It Is
added that eur boss-printer is a hlghly-obsorvant
man, who began wedded life long before Sir
Henry Parkes left off beating cymbals for Chartist
processions, the fact of his making such a mis-
take—a mistake leading to the assumption that
ladies habitually stood on their huads to parform
their toilets—Is exceedingly (curious. The idea
of the ‘‘Cannibal Creek” person, too, that sup-
plying corsets Is a journalist's chief duty, is in-
structive. Prom tho very name, too, of the
Creek, one would think thet fresh corps®, rather
than a fre h corset, would be welcome. If thiegs
go on like this, the ( atmibal Creek people will
soon be atkiag for “swan-bill ’ stays and the
fashion plates out of Lk Polled. But perhaps
after all, tho saddest thing about tho order Is the
size—twenty-one indies. This shows that tho
primitive people at Cannibal Creek think that the
corset is something to be worn round the leg Use
a cricketer's nad. We have seen a few ladies from
that remote district, and can honestly say that be-
fore electric corsets can be supplied them the pre-
sent stock uf electricity In the world—at present
scarcely enough for everv day use—will require to
be largely augmented. P.S.—If our Par Northern
correspondent should again have any deli-
cate little commission of the kind, he
will, we beg to request, wire to Mr. K.
Burdett Smith (M.P.), whose gallanry is as well
known as his address, which Is King-street, Sydney.
The fact that the ladies of Cannibal Creek arenot
within the Maoleay electorate makes no difference
whatever.
Host Adams, of Buudaberg (Q.), who has
been down In Sydney for a couple of weeks, says
In a letter to a Northern paper that he heard such
speeches In the Sydney Domain as would in Bunda-
berg be followed by six months' imprisonment-
If Mr Adams would remember the cardinal differ-
ence between the two places he would not be bo
much astonished. In Sydney the public-houses
arc shut on Sundays; in Bundnborg, the freeman’s
right to get drunk is respected by the law.
At the St. Kilda (Melbourne) Police Court
a tragedy nearly came off the other day. A Ger-
man was charged with lighting a duel, in which
the principals were himself and hla own revolver.
This is our droll way of explaining an” attempted
suicide." But to get on with our tale. Well, the
chairman of the Bench expressed a wish to exa-
mine the revolver. While the "beak” was pen-
sively trilling with the trigger one of the six
chambers went off. But there the tragedy ends.
No one was hurt. The little leaden messenger of
destruction—that’s our droll way of saying bullet
—merely ** buried Itself In the lloor.” When we
remember bow easily it might have buried Itself
in one of the attendant policemen, we cannot but
feel that the ways of Providence are, at times,
truly mysterious. As It Is, .this story points no
moral.
Wales’ Birthday.
" Give me threepenn'orth of prawns
O! piscatorial purveyor; for unto us
this day a prince imperial was born, and
I fain would fish !"
CONGRATULATIONS.
It being a good drying day, our fashion-
editor took advantage of the holiday to
wash his only one.
Special steamers were announced to run
to Manly, where a Gorman band was to play
all day.
Tho steamers for the most part ran empty.
"You just stop at home,” said Mrs.
Nagsby to Mr. Nagsby, “ and spend a
happy peaceful holiday with your
family ! ”
Waterman : “It ain’t big
enough to take you all to once, that's a fact; but
might do it in three trips. It’s a ’oliday, you know, £
and you’ve nothing else to do, you see, and Middle ’Ar-
bour ain’t so far wen you get a
used to it."
Business was universally suspended for the day.
Put up the shutters, John Thomas, f or unto us this day a
prince was born. “


To Invigorate the system and rectify irregulari-
ties of the bowels, drink Wolee’s Schnapps.
B
BACH’S CONSULTATIONS.
SIR JOSEPH BANKS HANDICAP.
1030 Subj , 103, Bach, Now Open
1st Pnze
2nd ,,
3rd „
4th ,,
Starters ..
Non-star terj
£200
00
50
30
65
65
£5C0
Also. SUBMfiK CUP-1000 Subs,, 103. Each-
1st Horse ..
2nd i,
3rd „
Starters ..
Non starters
. £200
110
50
£500
TATTBRSALL CUP-2000 Subs, at £1 Kaoh
1st Horse * 10lH
,Jld
3rd „
Starters ...
Non-staiters
400
. 200
. 200
. 200
£2600
Address—BEACH care of J. J. Deeble. Derble’s
Hotel, King and Pitt streets, Sydney
register letters, and apply early, with sta P
envelope for reply. And thanks for patron s
received.
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
On Monday last a cloudless sky and fresh
north-easter—a whole-sail breeze for the sailing
craft, and not sufficient to interfere with the row-
ing races—left the Balmain Regatta people nothing
to growl at, so far as weather was concerned. The
principal race of the day, the senior fours, re-
sulted in a complete fiasco. Three crews started,
representing Sydney, Mercantile, and Balmain
Rowing Clubs. The two first-named led Balmain
to th« Island, Mercantile on the outside having a
slight lead, but not the clear length which would
have justified them in taking the Sydney mens
water—a course of action which resulted la a foul
the two boats remaining locked together while
Balmain passed them and opened out a command-
ing lead. When cleared, the Sydneyites went on in
nursuit, hut were unable to catch the suburbans,
who won with a length to the good. Mercan-
tile did not persevere, and finished a long
■wav astern. C. Messenger, Croad, Matthews, and
Pearce, started for the all-comers, in wager-boats,
but before the men had settled down to their
work, something wont wrong with Messenger s
right swivel, and he was compelled to retire,
leaving Pearce to complete the course some
miarter of a mile a head of his other opponents.
1 big fleffi started for the all-comers’ light skiff
ha* dicap, but Charles Messenger, with a steadier
nf 5Ub*.i romped over tbe course, and coached his
brother. H. Messenger, 15 h., who rowed in excel-
lent form, into second plare. J Thomson.
Middleton, Brett, and Sharland, started for the
senior scullers in wager-boats. Brett and Middle- j
ton fouled shortly after the start, by which Thom- i
sen and Sbarland obtained the lead. The gallant
little Thomson wore Shetland down, and having
condition on his side, Brett was unable to catch
him, and the Sydney man finished with Brett
ome lengths in his rear, Middleton some distance
behind Brett. Sharland did not complete the
course.
♦ * ♦
Constable Beadman won the bona fide
amateur junior outrigger race. When Constable
Beadman formed one of a crew which rowed at
the last Association regatta, he was protested
against by all the rowing clubs represented in the
race, but his entry was upheld by the Association.
Wo understood at the time that the Association
was of opinion that their definition of a bona fide
amateur would not allow of their ruling against a
policeman, but that they would lose no time in
drawing up a more stringent definition. Months,
boWever, have passed, a .d we still find Constable
Beadman contesting against wielders of the quill,
a fact which would imply that the welfare of the
bona fide amateurs is vested in any but the right
hands. On Saturday, George Robertson, of the
Glebe Rowing Club rowed in really good form,
an 1 led Beadman roui.d Sohnapper Island, but as
might be supposed, he proved no match In staying
power with ths constable, who beat him by a
leigth in the pull home. The farce has en-
dured long enough. There is now a working-
men’s club in Balmain, aed unless he Association
throw out a hint to Constable Beadman to “ move
on" to the shed now In course of erection, bona
fide amateurs should certainly take the matter in
the rown hands and refuse to start against him.
In the all-yachts handicap, Mr. Knox’s
Sirocco was unable to concede anything like the
15 minutes handicap to Dr. Milford’s Sao, which
won with something like five minutes to the food.
In the 30ft. half-deck class. Gelding proved the
cremated Nereus was no fluke, tor his last creation,
also named the Nereus, won cleverly from Don-
nelly and Sullivan’s last, the Clytio. The Nereus
is a beautiful little cratt, with polished rosewood
deck, and is not to be beaten in the harbour for
finish or speed. The Dreamland capsized before
picking up her full complement, and the 34 f t. race
fell through in consequence. _ Balmain Rowing
C ub made an easy win of the junior eights from
North Shore. Pixie won the over 20ft half-decked
handicap, from scratch. Balmain Rowing Club
won the maiden double sculls. Thomas Punch
carried off the “ canvasser ” race; Regina won the
16ft dingy race, sailed by amateurs; and the
Sophia won toe 16ft race for professionals. In
this race Donnelly’s last, Our Boys, sailed and
owned by George Fletcher, had a long lead, when
his mast-head carried away.
♦ * ♦
So Clarence Whistler, the great American
wrestler, has gone the way of all flesh. When we
saw Whistler, the first day he landed in Australis,
well in the twenties, with 40 odd inch bull
necte, and limbs in keeping, we thought Clarence
of all rren. good for a lengthy Grneoo-Roman with
the grim destroyer. Young M’Caffrey, who came,
over from the States under Whistler's wing, on
Saturday evening wrestled George Hopkins, Lan-
cashire style, for £35 a side, at the Lyceum Hall.
Newcastle. Bach man wore a black band, out of
respect for Whistler. Hopkins obtained two
straight falls, and won the match. M’Caffroy gave
away a couple of stone, Hopkins scaling 13st. 31b.
to the Yankee lad’s 10it. 31b.
♦ ♦ *
Glorious weather for the fourth and final
day of the Victorian Racing Club Spring meeting
on Saturday last Seven to four was the pries
quoted about Uraila for the Mares’ Produce
Stakes, but the filly run unkindly, and Remus
won a good race by a length from Arsenal, Ring-
master, three lengths away, third. Damocles de-
feated Telephone by a head for the Pleufington
Stakes; Dividend, third. The V.R.C. Handicap
looked a good thing for Sheet Anchor shortly
after entering the straight, but Brown and
Rose came with a rush and defeated the Cup
winner by a short length, Lesbla third. Lizstte
made an easy win of the Steeplechase from Bib
Cooper, Native third. The favourite Nordenfeidt,
led into the straight for tb e Canterbury Plate, but
Trenton caught him at tqre distance and won a
great race by a length, Isonomy nine lengths away
third ; and Ceris and Blue liaised the meet with aa
easy win of the Free Handicap from the Agent,
Irralee third.
m • *
Some of the Melbourne papers turned out
very tunny little sporting articles anent the Cup
race. The Herald, for instance, waxed wise on
tne subject of the time. Our contemporary
argued tnat because the time was half a second
shorter than Malua's—“This would make Grace
Darling as good as Malua was when he won lass
year.” This deduction appeared to puzzle the
Herald, Bo it did us, considering that Mr. IngUs’
great horse carried nearly two stone more than
did Grace Darling. Such crazy doctrine as this
goes far to explain the ridiculous mistakes that
outsiders are constantly making in estimating
horsBS’ form by gallops against the watch. The
weight carried never enters into their calcula-
tions.
• ♦ ♦
Sam Loates, one of tlie most successful of
English light-weight jockeys has been deprived of
his license for not riding “straight.” Tbe boy
must have done something uncommonly flagrant
to bring this about, for the eyes of the Jockey
Club are none too keen lu detecting “rop.ng. ’
However, no one is likely to waste sympathy over
the infant Samuel. *Only the other day begot into
trouble for striking a man across the face with his
riding-whip. Some of the Australian light-welghtg
are not altogether god-like, but. compared with
their old country confreres, they are models of
propriety and courteous little gentlemen.
• m •
Mr. Martin Loughlin pulled off £21,000 by
Sheet Anchor's victory in tbe Melbourne Cup.
Oat of this he had to pay the £2000 to nothing he
laid the jockey. A Melbourne police-sergeant won
£1500 by backing the double, Nordenfeidt and
Sheet Anchor.
■ • •
A little Cup-day idyl. His front name
was Mossy, and ne was one of the chosen people.
This, however, was his misfortune, not his fault.
If he had been allowed to chose for himself he
would have e eoted to be either a Battenberg
prince or a Highland gillie, for he was blessed
with all the laziness of the first, and the hairy
legs and repugnance to soap and water or the
other. He held a £500 double-Nordenfeldt and
Grace Darling. One *’leg” was in, and as the
horses tore into the straight for the Cup IIDish, he
stood on the front seat of the stand with
a cigar as big as a Fiji banana between
his teeth and puffed fiercely at it. The
closer the flutsh became, the faster and more
furiously did Mossy puff, until at last the atmos-
phere behind him became so full of smoke that
persons were in danger of suffocation. Still the
horses thundered along, and still Mossy puffed
UQtii, just as the race was over and the mare
beaten, a gentleman touched our hero on the
shoulder and sharply said, “ You mustn t smoke
here. You’re stifling all the ladles.” And then,
throwing down his cigar, Mossy wrung his hands,
aud exclaimed, 41 My Got I I v© lost ma double, an
now dey te.ls me I mushn't smoke. Un dey call
dis a frea country 1”
* * •
Grace Darling, who ran in at the end of
the Cup raca so dangerously near to winning, is
owned by two of the former proprietors of the
Melbourno Daily Telegraph. A pot of money
would have been lamed by them but for the un-
lucky knock on tbe nosa which Graca got from
Sheet Anchors jockey. The win by this grandly
galloping mare would have been second only in
popalwl:y to that of Nordenfeidt. Very few had
backed the winner, but that was from no silence
on the part of its owner, who had, for weeks m
advance, told his numerous friends of his great
expectations. In future Melbourno Cup races
perhaps other horses than the winners of the
Caulfield Cup and the Derby may get a better show
with backers.
• * »
The judging at the Flemington meeting
was about as bad as the luncheon arrangements.
The gentleman in the little box bas a lot to learn
yet There was a shade of excuse for him putting
up Uralla’s number for the Derby, but how he
could mistake Grace Darling's colours for those
of Blink Bonny in the Cup, is one of those things
no fellow can understand. Blink Bonny’s number
was up several seconds before the mistake was
rectified. In one nr two other races the poor man
seemed quite unable to place the second and third
straightaway; and if he gave no wrong decisions,
it was because finishes as a rule were not close.
- - *
The style in which Uraila won the Oaks
was a remarkable contrast to the mare’s form in
the Derby five days previously. The time too was
a good four seconds better than Nordenfeldfs, but
to this little importance ia to be attached. Talking
of[tlme, the Royal Park Stakes of two miles, which
Trenton won, took 4aaln. 19secs. to negotiate. For
the first three-quarters of a mile the five hoi&ei
were pulled one against the other. For a moment
it looked as though the field wou d be eased into a
walk as bas sometimes happened in England when
all the jockeys have received waiting instructions.
When racing did commence Trenton soon had his
opponents in trouble, and won In a canter.
Our Little Puzzle.
[THE PUZZLE IS TO FIND IN THE ABOVE PICTURE A FANCY PORTRAIT OF ONE OF THE MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT FOR A
SOUTHERN N.S.W. CONSTITUENCY.]


POISON IN THE CUT!
THE CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION’S
IlTDIiLIT
t:eas.
Gradually, but surely, since the
day when the Somersetshire far-
mer’s wife-having received a pre-
sent of the “TEA." that was then
an unknown luxury, presented It
to her husband carefully cooked,
in the form of a plate of cabbage—
the said Tea has assumed the po-
sition of the most important, and
certainly the healthiest of beve-
rages, “the Cup that Cheers but
not Im briates.” It is only of late
years, however, that tea drinkers
have been awakened to the fact
that there is danger even in That
Cup, and that the market may be
as readily fllled with deleterious
compounds under the name of
Tea, as it may with spurious and
poisonous wines or spirits.
It is to remove the risk of these
impositions that the
CALCUTTA TEA
ASSOCIATION
and its objects are now presented
to the public notice for the pur-
pose of supplying consumers with
PURE AND UNADULTE-
RATED INDIAN TEA,
beyond all suspicion of its being
in any way or in the slightest de-
gree tampered with. That there
exists a necessity for this project,
to prevent consumers from the
risk of drinking what is nothing
moro nor less than a Poison in its
most insidious and destructive
form, has been recently proved
beyond ail shadow of doubt.
The Victorian Press has, from
time to time, pointed out that
large quantities of teas imported
into this market from China were
adulterated to an extent that ren-
dered them nearly as injurious to
the consumers as the deadly
Opium,
Read the following report of the
Chief Analyst of the Technologi-
cal Museum, Melbourne, on 5435
half-chests, quarters and boxes of
CHINA TEA sold by auction in
Melbourne on last January: —
“All the samples are of very
inferior description, and are, in
my opinion, unlit for human con-
sumption. They all contain rot-
ten and exhausted leaves, leaves
that have none of the general
characters of tea-leaves, dust (not
tea dust), gum, starch and foreign
colour, seeds of various kinds,
stalks, bark, sand and earthy
matter, hair and other matter of
animal origin,
“J. CUSMO NEWBERY,
“B.Sc., C.M.G.”
Mr. Bunn, the recognised Tea
Analyst, reports on 975 packages
of China Tea received into this
market:—” It was difficult to find
a perfect and genuine tea leaf in
the samples, and that the stuff
consists for the most part of de-
cayed, exhausted, or foreign
(other than tea) leaves, foreign
stems, tea sweepings, held to-
gether in little nodules by starch,
paste and pieces of brick husk and
nut shells. All this rubbish was
laced with plumbago, to give it a
black appearance, and was totally
unlit for dietary purposes.”
You can now obtain
PURE TEA FROM INDIA,
A BRITISH POSSESSION,
without being dependent upon
foreigners in the first instance,
and being poisoned by them in the
second.
THE CALCUTTA TEA ASSO-
CIATION has been formed for
the purpose of offering to the
Merchants, Grocers, and Con-
sumers PURE INDIAN TEAS,
chosen for us by the CALCUTTA
TEA SYNDICATE, and guar-
anteed Free from all Mixture of
Chinese, Japan, or other deleteri-
ous Tea, as shown by the follow-
ing Letter from Messrs. James
Henty and Co., a firm of the
highest standing, and agents for
the Calcutta Tea Syndicate, Little
Collins-street
“ TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
CALCUTTA TLA ASSOLIA-
TION. x A
*•26 King-street, Melbourne.
“ At your request we have re-
peatedly inspected your large
stock of teas, and found same all
PURE INDIAN TEAS, selected
in India by the Calcutta Tea Syn-
dicate. — Yours, &c„
4 ‘ JAMES HENTY and Co.
“ p.g.—We have also transferred
to you the stock and sole agency
of Sibthoyp’s Indian Teas, as sup-
plied to visitors during the whole
of the International Exhibition.”
If stronger evidence be wanted
we can supply it. Read the fol-
lowing:—There can bo no stronger
testimony adduced to the unrival-
led superiority of our Indian Teas
over all other competitors. Messrs.
Newbery and Dunn, the Govern-
ment Analytical Chemists, report
“ 8 REPORt"oN THREE SAM PLES
OF INDIAN TEA RECEIVED
FROM THE CALCUTTA TEA
ASSOCIATION. u
“The above samples have been
carefully examined by us. They
are ABSOLUTELY PURE, and
we may add that even the lowest
i
14
m
■’i;
lib-2/6
JJ77,
‘hs \
tsM
im
ML' I"
Wc.
’■4.
w.
m
•$
M
K -:
i
Si
m
i
5
t’p-
im
m
&
K c '*
5/6 )b
10 lb
t*t«
:v;.v;
m
P/
e:
a
%
A
/
*Kr,
■
iSpi
m
ZtaiSa
m
£*8
■
<*
v
<r
j*
INOlAN TLALolATt
Vf,
m
Ll^-3/
3/
5
ST-hCr-,
i
11
5
3/6
E
quality of your Tea has a higfa0 r
extract than any Packet Teas w e
have examined.
“ J. COSMO NEWBERY.
“ FREDERICK DUNN.”
It will be thus seen that the
highest and best authority pro-
curable pronounces even our
lowest priced teas at 2s. 6d. per
lb. to be superior in purity and
analysis to any of these above
mentioned teas at 3s. 6d, per lb.
Further comment is superfluous.
The teas of the Calcutta Tea As-
sociation are the produce of up-
wards of 50 of the most celebrated
Indian tea estates, which, blended
toaether, make the most perfect
tea the world can produce. They
are blended by competent tea
tasters, assisted by analytical
chemists of the highest standing.
Every inducement is given to
the merchants and storekeepers
throughout the colonies to keep
our teas in stock, but should con-
sumers not be able to obtain them
from their regular grocer, they
can purchase at our wholesale
warehouses, as a sample, any
quantity from half a pound up-
Those living at a distance who
cannot be supplied locally can
have sent direct from the Mel-
bourne whole?ale warehouses any
quantity from 101b. weight up-
wards,,lreight and carriage free,
to the nearest port or railway
station on receipt of bank dralt
or post office order made payable
to the Calcutta Tea Association or
order.
Our teas are necked in and
Jib. packets, 5, 10 and 251b. tin
canister ; half-chests in lead of
401b and upwards.
The teas sent out by us, duty
paid in Victoria and New Soutn
Wales, are of three prices, and are
sold in any of the above size pack-
ages, at 2s 6d., 3s.. and 3*. 6d. per
lb. Sibthorp’s mixture at 3s. 8d.
per lb., in packages of not less
than 10lb.
On account of the difference in
duty the prices in New Zealand,
and Queensland are 2s. Os , 3s. 3d,
and 3s. 9d., per lb , duty paid.
When purchasing ask for
THE CALCUTTA TEA AS-
SOCIATION'S PURE
INDIAN TEAS.
See that you are supplied with
them, Don’t bw prevailed upon
to take any other tea If you can-
not be supplied in one store try
another.
' e ware of piracy and imitations.
All our leas are marked THE
CALCUTTA TE\ ASSOCIA-
TIONS PURE INDIAN TEAS,
'the price and weight, with in-
structions for brewing,are marked
on the end of each package.
Hitherto the Australians have
had no option, but were forced to
purchase trasa called lea which
was shipped here from China and
other ports; now they have nn
opportunity of purchasing the
pure Indian teas supplied by the
Calcutta Tea Association, which
is the most perfect tea that can
be produced.
There is no instance on record
of Indian Tea being adulterated.
We will, at the request of any of
our patrons, send, or allow them
to send, a sealed packet of our
teas to an analytical chemist, and
if found to be adulterated we will
forfeit JK500 to the chanties.
We are sorry to say that some
of the storekeepers who sell our
Teas try to prevail upon custo-
mers to purchase other Teas, for
the simple reason that they make
a larger profit.
The Teas of the Association nro
all labelled “THE CALCUTTA
TEA ASSOCIATION’S PURE
INDIAN TEA,” and the prlc.s
are marked on every package.
The public will please ask for
them, and take no others. They
are guaranteed pure and of the
highest class, and such Teas cau
only be supplied by an Association
having command of the produce
of not le s than Fifty Tea Estates,
which are blended so as to pro-
duce the most perfect teas iu the
world.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN
TO ALL PERSONS
Either
PACKING or SELLING TEAS
With an
IMITATION OF OUR
WRAPPERS
That they will be
P B. OSECUTED
And that this notice now glvbi
will he used to prove a guilt
knowledge against all person
either imitating our wrappers o
Belling teas in any wrapper with
colorable imitation of ours.
J. B. TAYLOR, Secretary.
CA LCUTTA TEA ASSOC1ATIO N
26 KING-8T., MELBOURNE,
PURE INDIAN TEA
Will 90 much further than the ordinary Teas, and consequently less need be used. It Is well to bear this in mind,
because when pure Indian Tea Is used too much may be put In the pot, and Its very goodness may create a prejudice
against It.
INDIAN TEA PROPERLY BLENDED,
As is so efficiently done by the CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION, is purer, stronger, more palatable, more economical, and in every
•way superior to the Chinese rival. Give the CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION’S TEAS a fair trial in the teapot. Use one-third
less for an Infusion than you would of China Tea. This means really a saving of one shilling in three in the prices. Ask your
grocer for the CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION'S PURE INDIAN TEAS, and give them an honest, unprejudiced trial, and we will
stake “ Lombard-street to a China orange ” that never again by choice will you revert to the shady, insipid, doctored teas of John
Chinaman, but will in future drink the
Calcutta Tea Association’s Pure, Unadulterated, Fragrant,
Full-Bodied Indian Teas.
made in the Indian Gardens of old John Bull.
BOLD BF ALL RESPECTABLE TEA DEALERS AND GROCERS IN ALL THE COLONIES,
TRY A W/b. TIN OF THIS TEA AND YOU WILL NEVER USE ANY OTHER SORT.
annulled wholesale by F. BOWMAN anil CO., Melbourne; WHYTE, COUNSELL and CO., Adelaide; NEILL BROS., Dunedin,N.Z.; JOHNSTON and CO., Wellington, NZ.;
Buppueu " aml wholesale Merchants In all the Colonics.
GEOEGE GRIFFITHS and CO., Merchants. Bridge-street, Sydney, have been appointed
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales.


The calm, soothing, but still invigorating
effect is peculiar only to Wolfe’s Schnapps. Ask
for Wolfe’s.
Why persist in drinking lemonsde manu-
factured from imported mostly adulterated “Oil
of Lemons,” if you can obtain a genuine article,
prepared from Australian grown lemons, at
Messrs. Dalm and Oertel, A3 rated Water and Cordial
Manufacturers, 403 Pitt-street ?*
Exhausted nature signifies by symptoms that
she needs aid and succour. Use Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Mb. DiCoubot Brownb (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,”
“ Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “ Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 53 Castle,
reagh-street, Sydney, vr Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps Is a tonic and stimulant
which cannot be surpassed. Ask for and obtain
Wolfe’s.
There is nothing known better calculated
to invigorate the constitution than Wolfe's
Schnapps.
1\HE “BEALE” HIGH-ARM PATENT SEW-
ING MACHINE.
MESSRS. BEALE and COMPANY take this op-
portunity of rendering cordial acknowledgments
to the public of New South Wales for the generous
measure of support accorded to them since their
entrance upon the Sewing Machine trade.
More than six years of unprecedented success
have amply vindicated that foresight which led
them to fix upon the “ Werthiem ” Machine, as
being undoubtedly the best fitted, at that time, by
its incomparable combination and balance of
power and quality, for the requirements of the
Australian people, who have justly given it the
name of “ Wonderful.” A verdict spontaneous
and unequivocal has been recorded in its favour.
The rapidity with which it has won its way to
general appreciation has only been equalled by the
steadiness and tenacity with which it has main-
tained its well-deserved popularity.
Year by year, however, instances come before a
careful man of business in which Improvements
can be made, to the manifest advantage of his
customers, here to save labour, there to make
work more simple; this appliance is too compli-
cated, that is not sufficiently perfected. Influenced
by these considerations, and impressed with the
belief that they might be able in the future to do
even better for their good friends than they have
done in the past, Messrs. Beale and Company have
not been slow In putting tneir idea to proof. In
May of the present year the principal of the Him
left for Europe with the avowed intention of de-
voting his long and varied experience to the pro-
duction of a Machine that should represent the
highest results up to the present attained by me-
chanics, and that should be suited in an eminent
degree to the requirements of the discerning Aus-
tralian public.
Late advices testify to his complete success, and
Messrs. Beale and Company have now the pleasure
to announce the advent of
THE “BEALE” HIGH-ABM SEWING MACHINE,
for which—built, as it is, under personal super-
vision, and to well-considered plana—they predict
a still more brilliant career than that which, under
their auspices, attended the “ Wonderful Wer-
thelm,” and for which they only need to ask “ a
fair field and no favour.”
Some advantages of the
BEALE HIGH-ARM PATENT SEWING
MACHINE
Efficiency Simplicity
Elegance Silence
Base. Strength.
THE MINUTEST INSPECTION IS DESIRED.
No Soaping of Seams.
No Sperm Candle Greasing.
No Basting or Tacking.
No Folding by Hand.
No Breaking of Cogs.
No Escaping of Shuttle.
No Breaking of Check Spring.
No Missing of Stitches.
No Moving of Work, Alteration of Tension, or
Breaking of Needles in crossing thick seams.
The “ Beal® ” High-arm Patent Machine will hem,
fell, bind, braid, cord, ruflle, quilt, gather, tuck,
embroider, and make Crewel-work, Ruchlpg,
Frilling, etc., automatically.
The “Beale” High-arm Patent Machine is the
best for the Family, the Dressmaker, the Tailor,
the Bootmaker, the Saddler, the Coachbullder, the
Tentmaker—in short, the best for every class of
work that can be named.
Very large engagements have been entered into
for the production of this magnificent machine,
and extensive shipments are arriving by the r.
and O, steamers Shannon and Ballaarat-
THE “ BEALE ” HIGH-ARM PATENT SEW-
ING MACHINE is now to be seen at our City baow
Rooms,
386 and 613 GEORGE STREET.
13 CENTRAL MARKETS,
151 OXFORD STREET.
Early inspeslion Invited.
TRAVELLERS and BRANCHES THROUGHOUT
THE COUNTRY.
Liberal terras of time-payment.
BEALE and COMPANY,
Also Sole Agents for the
•‘Wonderful Wertlieim” Sewing Machine,
And proprietors of
THE SWEET •• HAP8BURG ” PIANO,
and
THE “HAYDN” ORGAN.
Catalogues free on application.
A BITTER CUP.
Overnight we had declared that nothing
should ever induce us to undergo the agonies ot
another “ Cup.” The crush to get down was so
objectionable, the paddock so Impassable, refresh-
mentso unattainable on Cup day. Above all, the
company was so “ mixed. ’ There were a hundred
excellent reasons why we wouldn t go. Our mind
was quite made up when, in an unhappy moment,
we looked in at the Albion for a glass of water-
and something, and a cigar. We always use this
house since Lord St. Leonards stayed there. People
have detected a resemblance between ourselves
and the noble Peer, which is not altogether dis-
pleasing to us—hut this by the way. Somebody
gave us a tip. We didn’t ask for It, hut a fiend in
green and blue and bronze checks t who probably
mistook us for his Lordship, insisted upon men-
tioning that Trenton was a “ cop.” He didn’t say
Trenton, but disguised his meaning under the
flimsy veil of “ the New Zealand horse that won o’
Saturday.” We have always noticed that your
true sportsman imparts “information” in some
snob roundabout tashion as this, and the shaft of
the fiend in coat of many colours struck home. It
occurred to us that there was a fortune to be
made at backing horses, provided one always
picked the right ones, and the horse that “ won o’
Saturday” sounded very right. We thanked the
fiend and retired to rest, reserving to ourselves
the right to revoke our previously fixed and un-
alterable decision.
* * *
Next morning— the morning—we felt we
must bow to the will of fate. Almost uncon-
sciously we found ourselves looking out of window.
The idea that perhaps we might go IE it was a very
fine day occurred to us. The day was so wicke dly
fine that our last scruples melted in the sunshine.
With poor G ordon we felt
“The chances are I go where most men go.”
So wo went where most men went.
* • •
Not immediately, however. We like to
linger over our pleasures, and the joy of going to
the Cup chiefly consists in thinking about it. We
thought about it in connection with Trenton and
a modest competence for the rest of our days.
Before leaving home we had fully determined that
prosperity should not spoil us. The sudden change
of fortune which proves the ruin of so many men
we schooled ourselves to bear with calmness and
dignity. Wonderfully pleas mt were our medita-
tions as we put on one glove and strolled into
town. Forgive us for dwelling so minutely on
these matters. Our heart is full as we write, and
if the ink didn’t flow freely, tears would. It is
more profitable to relieve our feelings in ink.
* • •
From the railway station to the grand
stand at Flemlngton was a chaotic dream. Some
faint recollection of a deadly struggle at the
ticket-box hovers occasionally about our brain.
Wu have a vague notion that a score of us stoed
up In a smoking compartment, and that a plump
young creature In pink hung on to our arm to
steady herself every time the train showed symp-
toms of running off the line, which was about once
a minute. We take a sardonic delight In believing
that her "fellow” scowled at us from under a
sombrero hat. But to none of these circumstances
could we positively swear. Anyway, we got to
Flemlngton. Once fairly landed through the
gates we commenced to mingle with the giddy
throng. There was no esoapo from it—the giddy
throng was all over the place. It pervaded the
paddock, strutted in front of the stand, and lan-
guished on tho lawn. Som) of it was absorbed la
watching the vehicles that rattled down the mem-
bers’ drive. This seemed such an Innocent form
of recreation that we joined in. An air of “ortl-
ness” Is beginning to be noticeable about the
people who enjoy the entree to th? members’en-
closures which Is magnified In proportion to the
shabblness of their equipages. We were partlou-
tlcularly impressed by the ducal bearing
of a party who arrived in what looked
like the bottom hUf of a hearse with
seats arranged round the side. We were
just wandering if wouldn’t be a charnel-
house flavour about tne chicken aid tarn, when
the sight of Sir William Clarke’s four-ln-hand put
purer thoughts Into our mind. The rich baronet
handled the ribbons, anJ my la'y sat beside him.
Her costume, ladles, consisted of wondrous cream-
coloured mysteries draped over a pale pink satin
skirt. We are particular in description, because
the Melbourne dailies have returned it as being
something different. None of the other papers
either, have mentioned that Lady Clarke smiled,
Mitshedld. A chronicle is nothing if not complete
Tnen Sir Henry Loch and a blue-blooded crowd
arrived on the festive scene. Shade ot George
Washington I What a rush there was to see the
salt of the earth alight. Now. alighting grace-
fully from a drag is one of tho fine arts that Lady
Loch and her fair companions don’t appear to have
mastered. It would hardly be going beyond the
mark to say that the lady “ who so gracefully
reigns over Melbourne society. &o., &c.,” tumbled
down from the box-seat. Some of the younger
ladles were manifestly anxious about their boots.
Observing this confusion we turned away our
head and affected to study the distant landscape.
When equanimity was restored and the maidens’
carnation blushes ha 1 resolved themselves Into the
faintest roseate tints, hand-shaking commenced.
Much admiration was expressed at this. A lady
immediately behind us murmured, “How nicely
Lady Loch shakes hands 1” Then thrf vloa-rosals
waiked-oh, so affaoly—to the State-box. Strains
of music tilled the air, and the idolaters in the
utand stood up and worshipped. Meanwhile we
sat down on tho grass and wept. , . . By this
time the lawn was packed. Thus early In the day
men were beginning to wish they hadn t come.
Our heart bled for a lot of poor fellows wander-
ing about In hopeless search for seats for their
female relatives. But the girls were happy enough.
What oared they for scats—they were at the Cup.
That reflection, and a little light refreshment at
Intel vale, was all sufficient for them. We watched
some of these high mettled fillies capering about
on the grassy mead with tender Interest. The
young-especially glrls-are interesting. Manv of
thrill wcrG dnugbteis of «Tud&h-~ 6xtr6m6iy
nretty, but inclined to be stout.” Like Stephen's
mother, we don’t object to stoutnesi In modera-
tion Our railway companion In pink filtted by
with her “fellow.” They were engaged in alter-
cation, and her hasty, timid glance told us he was
wroth with the maid for clutching us so madly
by the atm when the train Jerked. Assuming a
Don Juaneaque demeanour wo made for the
paddock. # • *
Once in the paddock the darling wish of
ou>- heart w»s to back Trenton, and escape. The
h'-at was stlfl'ng, tho dust sickening, and the din
damnable. Yet we saw other men bearing these
discomforts with resignation. Actors galore were
there Billy Emerson was hard at work spotting
losers. Fhil. Day and Dot Bouclcault were in lov-
ing confab over a k’rect card. Lord Chancellor
Brough and the junior member of the/’trium-
virate ” appeared to bo wending their way to the
nearest bar. Even George Rlgnold was content to
be jostled by the vulgar herd. This last vision
mollified us somewhat. We rushed at a horsey In-
dividual, and enquired his views about the New
Zealand norse that won o’ Saturday. This gentle-
man reassured us by saying that Trenton must
win if be gets off.” We dug him in the ribs, and
suggested that ‘ wo must win if we get on. The
numerous play upon words convulsed him. we
did get on with a .Hebrew who laid us “ h eighty
noun’ to ten.” The first rung of Fortune’s ladder
was already gained. As the Hebrew handed us
our ticket we felt something akin to compassion
for him. It seemed like taking a mean advantage
of hlspnnocence. The sentiment was but short-
lived, however. We were shocked to discover
that his strong suit was laying deal ’uns. We saw
him take money about Halcyon for the Kensing-
ton Stakes after the colt’s number was erased
from the telegraph board. After this we took a
virtuously vindictive pleasure in the thought that
we bad marked that Hebrew for our Cup victim.
* , ♦ *
Subsequently we sank some of our pro-
spective winnings in oysters. The oyster bar, we
discovered, was the only place in the paddock
where one could breathe freely. Perhaps that
was because the bivalves were 3s. a dozen, and
much reduced in size by the sun rays. There was
bread and butter flung recklessly In with the
oysters, but we didn’t try it. We saw one man
trying it. Something in the expression of his eyes
warned ua not to repeat the experiment. For a
suitable sequel to this banquet we sojourned to a
drinklcg-shop for stout. From first to last we
spent three-quarters of an hour over getting that
drink. The Hurdle Race was run unheeded by us
as we steadily pressed nearer and nearer to the
coveted refreshment. On philanthropic principles
one could not object to this delay. We have
reason to believe that the remarkable sobriety of
the Flemlngton crowd was owing to the Insur-
mountable difficulties in the way of getting drunk.
It took on an average five hours to strike six
drinks. None were permitted to take a base
advantage of a front position by swallowing two
or three “ goes ” in succession. Any man attempt-
such a device would have been brained with a beei-
bottle by the thirsty multitude.
♦ * *
From lotion to lawn again was the next
stage. Fighting our way along the asphalted ter-
race we were alarmed to find an excited mob
gathered in front of the Governor’s box. What
could It mean ? Possibly his Excellency was get-
ting up a sweep. No—Sir Henry was not there at
all. The box was occupied by a few ladies and
two gentlemen. They seemed quiet and even
happy. We ventured to make Inquiry of a by-
stander. He curtly explained that the mob was
“ looking at ’em." His manner seemed to imply
that we ought to have known they were “ looking
at ’em,” and we felt abashed. We observed that a
supercilious young creature In a white dress grew
restive under the scrutiny of the pobulace. She
glanced scornfully below, and made an observa-
tion to Lady Loch, From the movement of her
lips we judged the observation to be “Low beasts I”
Her ladyship shrugged her shoulders as one who
would say: “ It is the penalty of true greatness, my
dear.” At that supreme moment we would wil-
lingly have given ten years of our life for the
privilege of posing for ten minutes in that box.
But it wasn’t to be, and we passed on to the lawn.
• • •
The show was now in full swing. Beauty
might be enjoyed in its various stages. In the
bud, full bloom, and the fall of the leaf. Beauty
was mostly sitting down. The unlucky matrons
who sported “ trained ” dresses were crushed and
disheartened, for Lady Loch wore a short costume.
The world has already learned that it was copper-
coloured. We enjoyed tho felicity of seeing the
copper-coloured costume cavaliered by a clean-
shaven gentleman In a white hat. We took him
for a high-toned chemist, but learned that he was
Sir William Robinson, Governor of South Aus-
tralia. By way of graceful compliment, we
whistled the air of his beautiful patriotic song as
he passed by—
“ Unfurl the flag, that all may see
Our proudest boast is liber-tee.”
Sir William seemed considerably affected. About
the ladies’ dresses. The general lack of style has
been seized upon by the Melbourne papers as an
excuse for grovel. In unmistakable dowdiness
we have been asked to discern “ the refining In-
fluence of Lady Loch.” It grieves us to admit
that we preferred Flemlngton lawn in the ante-
culture epoch. But, after all, what mattered these
things to us I Our business was with Trenton—not
toilets.
* ♦ «
At half-past 3 we made for the uncovered
stand, Immediately lu front of the historic Hill.
There was still half-an-hour to wait before our
“ fancy” could romp in, but time passed pleasantly.
The suu blazed upon the back of our bead and we
had no umbrella. Wo would permit no one In
front of us to hold up an umbrella. Republican
sentiments prevailed among us unfortunate ones,
and we were determined that all should run an
even risk of sunstroke. When the horses can-
tered by, a stout man on our left observed that it
seemed a very open race. We smiled contemp'
tuously. Soon the field was In the bands of Mr.
George Watson. We kept our glass on the rose
and black stripes, and speculated as to the exact
distance they would win by. Then the flag
dropped, and we said, “ They’re off.” Fifty thou-
sand of our fellow-creatures made the same re-
mark, and we felt that our Intelligence was hardly
treated with the particular consideration It de-
served. The horses swept by the stand, con-
tinued their mad career along the back of the
course, made the last turn, and raced straight for
home. Trenton wasn’t exactly In front, but t-’at
was of little import. Our faith in the fiend who
told us it was “ cop ” never swerved. Only when
the numbers went up did we lose our self-
possession, and, like Peter, begin to curse and
swear. All this while ihe stout man on our left
had behaved as decorously as a sphinx. We asked
him what he thought of it. He told us Sheet
Anchor suited him, that he was a Ballarat man,
and a friend of the owner. Consigning him to
Sheol for being so villainously happy, we plunged
our bands into our pockets and fled. Our dream
was over. We gazed moodily into the faces of
men we mot. Their dreams appeared to bs over,
too. We thought of the gay laughter that greeted
ihe smiling morn, and moralised, “Call no
man happy till he comes back from the
Cup.” The general depression of the people was
illustrated in the way they went home. The mul-
titude was greater, nut the pushing less, than in
happier years. A limp crowd is a saddening spec-
tacle. The papers will tell you that It wasacheery,
buoyant crowd, deliorbted with its day’s outing.
Don't believe them. Ninety-nine men out of every
hundred had lost money—were thirsty, hungry,
dusty, and fagged-out. Unless the stand accom-
modation at Flemlngton can be increased, the
glories of Cup Day will undoubtedly wane. We
are not alone In coming to this conclusion. We
asked others who hadn’t backed Sheet Anchor If
they would ever come to tho Cup again.
“ Tho dirges of their hopes the melancholy burden
bore
Of never—nevermore.”
We have since met the fiend in the many-coloured
coat, and he has expressed contrition for his
crime. However, he confidently looks forward to
having another “ cop ” next year. We trust it will
please Providence to cal) him away in the mean-
time
The Brunswick river, N.S.W., was, until
within toe last two or three years, but little known
save to th • cedar-getters who used its waters in
the portage of their rafts of logs. These were
floated to the mouth of the stream, and there
placed conveniently for the ships, which, when a
cargo was ready, put in and removed them to the
market. Of course the river has its bunyip, as
what respectable Australian watercourse has not ?
One night old Ned Dean and his mates were work-
ing a raft down stream, and passing a long sand-
spit had gone forward to shove her clear. A fugi-
tive from justice, a runaway horse-thief, was wait-
ing on the hank tor a chance to get across. As the
raft passed close by where he was standing h®
jumped aboard, and settled down on tho rearmost
logs. Ned, by-and-bye, chanced to look that way,
and saw in the pale moonlight a grim, ghostly
figure astride the log. He gave vent to a howl
which scared his comrades as badly as the Ban-
shee’s wait scares its hearer, and bounding into the
stream splashed ashore. The others looked, and
in a brief space the raft was deserted save by the
wandering outlaw. It was not until the police ar-
rived on the river-bank in the early morning that
Ned knew his passenger was of the earth earthly,
not, as he fondly imagined, a visitant from the un-
seen world. Ho is still doubtful, though, and
holds to the bunyip theory.
“Doctors differ.” They do, but the ex-
ception proves th© rule,—They all agree that
Wolfe's Schnapps is the best stimulant procur-
able.
Notice ! —Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Pitt-street.
Experience teaches that Wolfe’s Schnapps
is more suited to the Colonies than either brandy
or whisky.
Woman Items
“ Are Mr. and Mrs. Robinson on speaking
terms now ?” “ Oh, dear, no; at least, only by
telephone.”
His Honor : “ How old are you, madam ?”
Witness: “I have no personal knowledge of my
age, and hearsay testimony, I understand, is not
accepted In this court.” <
Remarks London Figaro ; — “ Perhaps
there is some excuse for men that, on the whole,
they have not so much faith as women. It would
not be correct to say that men loved less. For
every woman who loves deeply and truly there
are probably ten men. With women love is
generally a pastime; with men, it is frequently an
engrossing passion. In tho nature of things, men
have ruined more lives, but women have broken
more hearts. If men are more distrustful, it is
because they have been more often deceived.”
“ Girls at Melbourne Gymnasium take
wonderfully to fencing, and some of them are
adepts with the foil.” Ye gods I save us from a
wife educated at this establishment when we come
home from the lodge with pearl powder on our
coat and a patent, double-action midnight hiccup.
We don’t usually thirst for a “missus" who,
seizing a 38-lb rolling-pin and throwing herself
into posture, can spread our hair and skin over the
furniture according to the latest science. We
prefer the strong-minded female who aims at our
head and breaks the mirror.
Somebody remarks that a woman who
looks passably young in cream colour may possibly
look quite middle-aged in white. When the years
have been “ throwing white roses” at a face how-
ever charming, the owner would do well to avoid
the unfailing test offered by the proximity of a
mass of iwhite. Occasionally, Jhowever, the addi-
tion of a velvet collar and a similar admixture in
the bonnet has a modifying effect. The very high
semi-military collars, affected in some quarters,
though they have a certain style of their own, are
always unsuited to tho round white neck of a girl,
and in hot weather they have a painfully throttl-
ing aspect. But women never see these things
when their sole object is to be fashionable.
No woman can ever pray, with any vim,
while she is wearing her last year’s bonnet. Still
less can she pray while her hair is enclosed in the
useful, but unbecoming, curl-papers. There was
a suburban clergyman who but lately was em-
ployed in working up the parish for the coming
mission. Dally he went round to pray with and
exhort the brethren, and more especially the
slsteren of his flock. And one morning he called
upon a lady who was busy with the broom and
other domestic Implements, and her dress was in
keeping with the nature of her employment—im-
prover she had none, and her bang was still in
the chrysalis stage, for it had not yet been evolved
from curl-papers. These two knelt down to pray,
and though the good man beard the door open, he
heeded not, but still kept on with his petition.
Again the door opened, and when he had finished
his prayer, the lady was fully arrajed in silk and
other fine raiment, and the last bang was pulled
from its envelope as the maiden uttered a fervent
“Amen.” His revenge came on the following
Sunday, for his forty-minute denunciation of
womanly vanity was enough to arouse the un-
dying hatred of every milliner in Sydney.
Sydney will soon be visited by two petti-
coated celebrities—Mrs. Edith O’Gorman Auffray,
and Miss Tessle Chapman. Their proclivities are
heroically polemical. Both started by being nuns,
and both are on the platform now, wagging chins
over the mummeries of nunneries. They do not
run in tho same coupling, however. Mrs. Auffray
is a female Ohiniquy, while Miss Chapman Is a
female »ymea. Both are Irishwomen. The latter
is only 34 years of age, and is m jeh the more pleas-
ant every way. She hammers at the superstitions
of her old Church, but declares she knows nothing
about the immoralities her elderly fellow-lecturt s*
delights to describe. Although much abler she
does not draw so large a house. All our bald-
headed old men like listening to Mrs. Auffray. As
an instance of Miss Chapman’s pleasant wit, it Is
recorded that Thomas Bracken, who was lately In
Sydney, had advised her to give a course of lec-
tures upon the poets and humourists of Ireland.
Among authors he recommended to her as being
suitable for an entertaining course were Lover and
Lever. “ Ah, no,” replied Miss Chapman, I
should be sorry to countenance such a course as
‘ love her’ and ‘ leave her.’ ” Conventual, wasn’t
It?
A paragraph about widows. At last meet-
ing of the N.8.W. State Children's Relief Board,
an opinion given by Mr. Dailey, the late Attorney-
General, was read, to the effect that children
should not be boarded out to their own mothers,
even when these were deserving widows strug-
gling to avoid breaking up their homes, “ as such
a course would open tho door to the abuse of pub-
lic charity.” The President said“ This opinion
nad been obtained in reference to applications
from a number of poor women who could have
kept their children about them if they might have
received half the usual fees from the Department.”
Solomon may have had more style about his clothes
than the late Attorney-G eneral, but we doubt if
he could have delivered a more satisfactory
opinion, especially for the widows. All tho Widow
O’Brien has to do now, is to arrange that her 13
children may bo boarded out, not at half, but at
full fees, with her friend the Widow Muldoon;
while the Widow Muldoon can reciprocatelby hav-
ing her baker's dozen lodged with the Widdy
O'Brien on the same terms. Plain Bill may possess
diplomacy enough to smash the Mahdi, prevent
tor ever Australian federation, befool and over-
awe all the Continental rulers,'and “rescue Env.
land In her hour of need;” but he’ll have to liven
Widow OBrlen 7 before he oan out -Keneral the
THAT KISS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Who shall tell In cold words what a kisi Is ?
■ What rapture It Is to be kissed ?
’Tis the cheapest and sweetest of blisses—
When taken, one never Is missed.
We can give them away by the dozen—
The coffers seem never to fail
(But one’s mother-in-law or plain cousin,
They get them oft strained through the veil).
But the girl of one’s choice I oh, what rapture
It is when her kisses he steals 1
After making a fairly good capture
One doubts Is he head-up or heel*.
Sne begins in a short time to like it—
His arm to her taper waist slips,
You can bet in tho centre he’ll strike it,
And score off the red on her lips.
There are some who prefer osculation—
A tonier sample of bliss —
But it’s good enough here, on the station,
To hold her close up, and just “ kiss.’'
Yet there’s often a sting in the honey,
A penance for trivial sins,
That’s why bliss becomes blister—eh, sonny ?—
When kissing a mouthful of pins.
BEFORE CHURCH, TOO!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Softly she the anthem hums.
Gathering chrysanthemums;
Murmuring still the sacred air.
Plucks the dainty maidenhair.
Blossoms from the lemon tree,
And the bright anemone;
Searches all the cliffs along
For the clinging kurrajong;
Wonders where the wattles are t
Plucking blooms of waratah;
Flowers of sarsaparilla’s vine
With white daisies intertwine,
Violets white and violets blue
Foil the scented daphne’s hue,
Blossoms from the lilac tree
Blend with pinks and plcotee.
Bunchy little China roses
Fringe the daintiest of posies.
Cross the lawn her little feet.
With her bouquet now complete;
Seated on a garden chair,
Ponto lies beside her there;
Still she bums the sacred air
’Mid tho blending perfumes rare.
And the hornet sailing by,
Murmuring his melody.
Gazes with a wistful eye—
Well he might, so fair is she.
Shrill her scream rings on the air.
Through tho morning, loud and clear—
Stops the anthem, sounds a swear—
The hornet’s kissed her off-side ear.


COMPASNONI GATERIN6 GO., LIMITED.
T ctt , PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 9 7
HE oldest and leading Catering Establishment In N.8.W. Caterers tn Rio tu„
Municipal Council of 8yd. ey, tho A.J.C., City Club, Ac.. &o. 8 t0 HlB Wor8hlp tbe M * yor ’
Xne Dining Saloons for Ladies and Gentlemen are the Finest Toott warn i
„ FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar—G^^Wln’e^iot 0^684 lDthe oolony '
T , G^ r f L . R00M now open A Grill can be had at any time from8 a m Vn n n ™ Mia
Theatres. Select your own steak, 4c., and scu It grilled In the room r °Thi«
JL
THE SYDNEY SPORTS
DEPOT.
389 GEORGB-STREET SYDNEY
(Opposite Royal Hotel.)
BICYCLES, TRICYCLES.
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles
and Tricycles
Have Evert Improvement.
GUR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadster.
THE UNIVERSAL CLUB
BICYCLE,
1885 Universal Club, a thoroughly reliable and easy-running
machine. Bali bearings to both wheels, and improvements.
fitted with Improved Bail Bear-
ings to front and back wheels,
Hollow Forks, Patent Head and
Detachable Bent Handle Bar.
Easy bdide Spring, Hubs Platoa,
Black Enamolled Spokes,
Price, *13 lOs. At the price
we defy competition.
JANES MARTIN A COMPANY, 388 Gnorga-st., Sydney.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
OWING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
.Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
a^B^L 7 T 0Un ,$f in ?’ Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithimr
;, Qaatlttmg, Tank and Girder Building, Electrics and Pneumatic Bell-titting *
of every description.
DOULTON’S "FLUSH-OUT,” “ VAL^i# E J T^^° &BT8 ’ “ VACU ™ ” WATER-WASTE
, Brass and
Plumbing,
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Am Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 8 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application
m
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpasse
Crispness distinguish Wilsoa’s Ame
rican " Extra Toast ” BISCUITS. Fo
lu , nch ®on, tea, or dessert
nothing equals them. Delicious witl
milk, supeib with wine, and incomparlbl
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street. Sydney
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing and thirst-
quenching properties of this worid-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage In the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE, which is to bo obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTBLL & CO..
Sole Agents
JAihc diffn e S
.Mctsjiei .
&
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC In the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestra] and Brass Band Music, In variety-
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Carls,
engraved or printed. Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed In best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, In parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Gases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
Music and Books bound In any style, cheap.
Christmas and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock.
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most Important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograpb
t ikes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the. cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
nd and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM - BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
ARTIFICIALTEETH
rOMPi-ETESFT
M ARSHALL BP.O?
DENT ISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
CLEARANCE SALE. BONA FIDE.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-at., Sydney
(Established 1860).
FRONT PREMISES having BEEN CONDEMNED,
the
WHOLE STOCK MUST BE CLEARED
AT A SACRIFICE,
SALE CAN ONLY LAST ONE MONTH.
NOTE-ONE MONTH ONLY.
i r
M U IT I
\ fee -! S. r OCK,
CLEARED.
BEDSTEADS
BEDDING
COTS
GLASSES
FURNITURE
CHAIRS
BLANKETS
QUILTS
£15 000.’
J I
MUST BE CLEARED
to admit of
NEW PREMISES BEiNO ERECTED,
for which tenders have been called
SALE CAN ONLY LAST ONE MON’ H,
So Purchase Early,
BARGAINS I BARGAINS ! B AROAINS I
at
J- Lawler's,
60S GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PRANG’S
CHRISTMAS CARDS
AND
CHRISTMAS SATIN ART PRINTS.
ALL STATIONERS
Sole Agents, ROBERT JOLLEY & CO.
MELBOURNE anil SYDNEY.
E™° D D mB(PEMEL]-.’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERT GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
881 deorre>street t Sydney.
a a Ha _ _ ■ _ \ v\vcv\gy
PAUL LIEBEWip
UNLIKE OTHER
DOES NOT
FERHENL^J
DR. THOMAS
may be consulted on
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affections
Medioal Establishment, 203 Elizabeth street,
near Bathurst-slreet.
Hours : 9 till 10 daily.
Dr. Thomas Is the only medical man advertising
In Australia who has passed the degrees of an Eng-
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations passed
-Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians
London. 18«4; Member of the Royal College of
Surgeons, London. U59.
AYER’S PILLS.
A largo proportion of the diseases which
cause human suffering result from derange,
ment of the stomach, bowels, and liver.
• Ayer’s Cathartic Pills act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused by their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt, and
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of these
Pills by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation in
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
substances only, and are absolutely free from
calomel or any other injurious ingredient.
A Sufferer from Headache writes:
“Ayer's Pills are invaluable tome, and
are my constant companion. I have been
a severe sufferer from Headache, and your
Pills are the only thing I could look to
lor relief. One dose will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. They
are the most effective and the easiest physic
I have ever found. It is a pleasure to me to
speak in their praise, and I always do so
when occasion offers,
W. L. Page, of W. L. Page & Bro.”
Fraskliu St., Richmond,Ya., June 3,1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Pills In number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. We constantly keep them
on hand at our home, and prize them as a
pleasant, safe, and reliable family medicine.
FOR DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable.
„ . m J. T. Hayes.”
Mexia, Texas, June 17,1882.
The Rev. Francis B. Harlowe, writing
from Atlanta, Ga ., says: “ For some years
past I have been subject to constipation,
from which, in spite of the use of medi-
cines of various kinds, I suffered increasing
inconvenience, until some months ago 1
began taking Ayer’s Pills, They have
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
have vastly improved my general health.”
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by tbeir prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to the
whole Physical economy.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J.C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass,
Sold by all Druggists.
YOUNG,
OLD, AND
MIDDLE-
AGED. I Ears, or any scrofulous "or ’syph-
ilitic taint, may be made ‘
by its use.
Sold by all Druggists; $1, six bottles for $5.
ELLIOTT BROS, and 8. HOFFNUNG & CO.
Wholesale Agents.
All experience the wonderful
beneficiivl effects of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
f scrofulous or syph-
le healthy and strong
aftm before liOwSTAOHS and WHISEEES. «tron3 after
Boyd'i Beard FHxir did thin,and
•ciU do it on cither bald head or
bare fare, pa,res heavy Moris,
tache infrinnVto 4 weeks and never
jails, SO,000 young men already
wear full beards, having used 1 to Copyrighted.
3 pkts. JVd injury , easily applied, sertain in effect. Packets 1«. 6d.
each, 3 for 3s. 6 d.,post paid, sent under cover, free from observation.
Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent, Box 730, G.P.O. . Sy. ’ney, v & If’-
Copyrighted.
WILLIAM BALL,
THE “PROFESSIONAL” AND PHARMACEU-
TICAL CHEMIST.
61 Bourke-street East, Melbourne.
THE Toilet and Theatrical Requisites, manu-
factured by W Ball, are composed of the
purest ingredients, and are guaranteed not to
cause the least injury to the most delicate skin.
There are few ladies now, either life
or of the Theatrical Profession, who do not look
upon the
BLOOM OF PEACHES
(REGISTERED)
as the one article that is perfectly safe and satis-
factory to use either for the
THEATRE, BALLROOM, OR PROMENADE.
W
Pa
Our. Cupids Manufacturing Bloom of Peaches
“Dear Sir,—I consider your ‘ make up perfect,
and should never think of using anything else
while it is poesibU to obtain it.—Yours truly,
Ed. Farley.”
The following ladies and gentlemen have also
written, sptaking in the highest terms of these
Toilet Requisites Mesfames Louise Pomeroy,
Alice Deorwyoe, Myra Kemble, Eva Davenport,
Roland v\ att Phil ips, etc., etc.; Messieuis George
Tithcradge, George Rignold, Sheridan, Henry
Hodgton, W. J. Holloway, Fred. Marshall, Brian
Darley, Frank Cates, etc.
bTo be obtained of all Chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
Wholesale Agents, N.S W.;
Messrs. PROSSER & CO., Sydney.
C. F. PRIDDY ft CO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
B~g to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th,
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.30 p.m.: Saturdays as usual at II p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street
LIAS
UMBR
8TUDT JtOUNUkf
and
HaveyourUmbreha Framer
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and madt
equal to New, at
J< SULLIVAN'S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
. Parasols made to match oos-
ji cumes. Repairs neatly ezc.
IBtU
,®- B - ■oDim,
. FIREARMS,
Sakers^ 111 ' by the m ° 8t celebrated English
a^/nfnf 1 h»wJ F k 8 to a his customers
rscttnathe has been appointed AGENT for
don- THOS^iNnV ® T IGi * Y & C0 - Lon '
SON., London; JOSEPH
CO., London 5 OSBORNE
BGS8Y^CO.!Loid?m Tf ° r tb ° emlnent flrm
Ga k?n^^ 8 ’sS u ii Cases .’ Cartridge Belts, Ac., and all
k l n ,i 8 n °A,? por^ ™ en 8, Req for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 George.*!., Sydney,
Where Inspection is Invited.
Beea hunting for ease ail my life, and found
last with the Argosy Braces at G owing Bros
4
2S
IB
*0
■ ,* •
"
'//*
V
%
Id
w
COWING BK08.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Contfgn-
ment of the genuine
JLrgoBy Braces I
Argosy Braces, 2s. 6d.. 8s., 8s. 6d..* 4s. fl
GOWING BROS.,
MIN’S MERGERS, HATTERS. OUTFITTERS, tr
S82 and 498 6rar*i.itr M t.


JIONITUB 1 8 HOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney,
Hall furniture,
CHAIRS, LABOR A
HATSTAND8, and
-BSORTMKNT.
AiAP UOOa IjUU IV IjA fn KcS. DJ3
DING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, In EXQUISITE
teste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection. Bradley. Newton, and Lamb.
CUba &o7
nYXon,™LS GAWT> iUBt reCelTed - Br^ay ’
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
reoms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and. LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets. Sydney.
BTIIGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprisinir ward-
robe, J 1j , T -
onest drawers, washstand. dressing table and
glass, and twe chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
JJBDROOM SUITES
Designs).—WARD
(Fashionable
>ROBE, 4ft.,
ISTAND, wli
plato-glass doer; WASHSTAN~, aiiJlv wo
and tile back and Towol rail; TOILET TABLE,
Early English
—, with silvered
with marble top
with swing glass attached ; >BDESTAL“cUp!
BOARD, and § CANE SEAT (JhaIRS. 16 guineas.
BRADLEY. NEWTON. andlxAMB.
C H ®AP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 37s. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.:
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s :
9® dar from 80s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, k LAMB, Spring and O’Connell street?.
jDQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Case. Free at rail or wharves for cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
M/l AS Y CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
JCJ rooms. New designs covered to order In any
material.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and restful,
a speciality. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O'Connell-street.
D
RA WING-ROOM CABINETS.—Early English,
Anglo-Japanese, and Cbinnendale designs.
Just opened, BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sts.
Drawing-room furniturk.—The latest
development of fashion. ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically Inlaid with
coloured woods. Exqusite examples are now on
view In our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and L4MB.
Elegant novelties in bedkoom fur-
nit ore. full suites. InSATINWOOD, ROSE-
WOOD, and other CHOICE WOODS, richly inlaid.
Will well repay inspection.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-st.
FOLDING-SCREENS (3 and 4 told) for the Draw-
ing and Dining Rooms and Office. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
ARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairs,
\X INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
Rattan verandah lounges. 203. ; and
large variety of Chairs, &c ; special designs,
extra quality. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sts.
TV!"ARBLB-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
1YJ_ SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurant?,
smoking rooms, Ac.
Self-adjusting hammock ohail-
Patented.
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at tho will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet Ingenious In Its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, Instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It Is superior
to anything yet invented for tho lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort Is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four Inches in thickness
when fc ided. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing In canvas, If required,
2 s. Sd. extra.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb.
RON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB. Spring & O’Connell sts.
BRADLEY, NEWTON^
COPYING PRESSES,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
WALL MIRRORS and BRACKETS—Novelties
in plush and velvets and In all woods,
from 5/6.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled In colours. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
CHAIRS; BIDETS, with PAN;
Shaving Stands. Bradley, Newton, & Limb
rAPANESK BLINDS (extra quality), fitted with
pulleys and cords, 6x8 9/6: 8x8.11/-; 9x8,
/-; 10 x 8.14/-; 13 x 8, 16/6; 13 x 10 30/
BR\<<LhY, iM to W ( ON, a d LAMB
"CE CHESTS, with CDPBO 4 RDS, all sizes. from
37s Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Spring and
Connell streets.
FU KNITUKB-THE LAKGEST a 1 OCK IN THE
COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
Sprlogiand O'Connell streets.
SOCIAL
The last of a series of socials organised by
a few lovers of Terpsichore was held in Needs'
Rooms on Wednesday, the 28th ultimo. About
120 were present, and made the most of this last
gathering of the season. Two sisters, looking
fresh and sweet in pure white, came from Hun-
ter’s Hill, and Ashfleld sent a good-looking
maiden la cream and cardinal ;'her newly wedded
sister wore black satin and old-gold ribbons; Miss
Grey, a pink costume; Miss Moses, white and blue;
Mias l»avls, prune satin and cream lace; Mias
Maunsell, cardinal and cream; Miss Goodman wore
cardinal and white, and danced industriously; the
pretty little fiancee of a” braw Scotchman” was
tastefully attired in a handsome costume of white
Indian silk, lace and pink ribbons; Mrs. Rainford
wore a handsome dress of pale-blue and swans-
down, and attracted much admiration. One
o’clock saw the last dance.
• * m
A concert was given in the Glebe Town
Hall, on Tuesday, the 3rd Inst, in aid of the West-
minster Cricket Club. There were no particular
pointsabout this here concert more than any other
concert, excepting that some of the members of
the Metropolitan Liedertafel rendered good ser-
vice, and Mr. T. H. Rainford sang a couple of solos
capitally.
« « «
Brisbane has its Liedertafel now, and the
concert given by the Society on Wednesday, the
4th instant, was very creditable. They have no
orchestra as yet, but a tolerably good flautist
played an obligato to Mr. H. P. Sankey’s solo,
“Life's twilight,” very nicely. The hon. pianist,
Mr. W. A Cattiscd, played a solo to a very audible
street accompaniment of “ Sheep trotters all hot.”
which was funuy, to say the least of it. Mr. and
Mrs. Baumann (nee Pattie Browne) sang a duet,
she looking as fascinating as ever in a white gown
with high collar, aud cluster of pale pink rosea ou
one shoulder. The choruses were given fairly
well under Mr. Pollard’s baton, and tho Governor
sat it all out aud then stated to chat a little with
some of the people before leaving the hall. r i he
Town Hall was crowded, of course, and full dress
was universal.
* * ♦
At last th ere is going t o be an attemp t made
to abolish the tedious funereal-like dinners,
which have prevailed so long. The Prince of
Wales has announced his Intention of curtailing
the length of time spent over them next season,
and if success attends bis efforts it will be a real
matter of rejoicing. The Prince hates to “go
slow,” and tried his utmost this season to reinstate
the fast waltz, but the Princess stuck to the slow
waltz, consequently the latter Is still In vogue In
the best society. This latter piece of Information
Is specially written for the edification ot the
Waterloo and Newtown Social Clubs.
♦ * ♦
Considerable curiosity has been felt re-
f arding the much-talked-of “ Mikado ’’ dresses, so
he Sydney Royal management, with their usual
consideration, have been exhibiting this week. In
Paling s window, a portion of the celebrated ward-
robe. Only three genuine sets of these gowns
exist, the others being merely Imitations. These,
however, are the real articles, and are worth a
closer Inspection than will be obtainable In the
Royal on Saturday night. There is an elaborate
robe of black satin beautifully embroidered in gold
which Is simply a blaze of glory. Another has a
loose pink satin skirt, richly toned by amber
Japanese embroidery In slight relief. Over this is
worn a ruby velvet cloak lined with pink satin,
also embroidered in gold— birds, leaves, and flowers
being intermixed in true Japanese style. Cherry-
coloured satin is utilised for a sword belt, aud
divers gold cords and tassels finish this exquisite
piece of Japanese work. The next question is:
“ Who’s going to wear these princely robes on
Saturday night ? ’ Nous verrons.
* * •
The Owl Club ball masque, heM in the
Melbourne Exhibition building on the 5th Inst.,
was a big success, about 500 couples being present.
The prize for the most original character was
carried off by Miss Winter, the eldest daughter of
Mr. 8. V. Winter, of the Herald and Sportsman,
and for once nobody que tloued the justice of
the award Miss Winter appeared as the Spirit of
the Times— sport. The dress consisted ot a pink
satin bodice, gold cap and sash-Grace Darling's
colours On the front of the bodice was a por-
trait ot Nordemeldt, and on the back was Ring-
master. One sleeve was decorated with a painting
of a footballer in the South Melbourne colours
and an Australian Eleven cricketer ; upon the
otner, an Essendon footballer and a lacrosse
player were represented. On the front of the
skirt was a likeness of Mr. George Watson, and
underneath was the finish for the Gup, showing
the three placed horses. A group of jockeys
were painted on the hem of the skirt, all. being
very true likenesses. The back ot the skirt
showed a sketch of the finish of the Caulfield Cup,
with Grace Darling and Britisher—and around
these were portraits of Archer, Whistler, and
Beach, each with his national Hag; Dlnnle and
Miller wrestling, the champion bicyclist, quoit
ana billiard players, &o. On one side of the skirt
were painted the Puritan and the Genesta, the two
yachts which recently competed in the great in-
ternational yacht race, aud on the other was Ban-
ner, the veteran slipper, with two greyhounds In
leash. Baneath these, copies of the Sportsman
had been printed, containing portraits ot Mr.
Byron Moote, secretary of the V.R C., the Hon.
James White, and Corrigan, the jockey. The fan
was a light lawn-tennis racquet, covered with
geranium satin, on which a palmed scene showed
ladies playing tennis and croquet. The costume,
which was really unique, was designed and painted
by Mr. George Ward, a compositor In the Herald
office.
♦ ♦ ♦
A successful ball was given in the Odd-
fellows’ Hall. Grenfell, on the evening of the 4th
Inst., by Mr. Vaughan, the newly-elected member
for that township.
• • •
A dramatic and musical entertainment
was given by some lady and gentlemen amateurs
at Raymond Terrace one night last week. A
fashionable audience witnessed the performance,
and were fairly well satisfied.
• ■ •
The Thistle Club had a pleasant gathering
at the Association Grouncs on Prince of Wales’
Birthday. A good number sat down to a sump-
tuous luncheon. ,anu apparently enjoyed them-
selves. The only hitch In the performance was
that everybody wanted to propose a toast at one
and the same time, which was somewhat confus-
ing. The various sports were entered Into with
spirit — much spirit — and the day ended as
pleasantly as it began.
■ • •
On Monday, the 2nd of November, the
quiet little suburb of Brunswick, Victoria, had a
liitle excitement when the marriage ot Captain
Loitus and Miss E A. Labertouche, second daugh-
ter of Mr. P. P. Labertouche, Secretary of Rail-
ways (Victoria), was performed In the parish
church by tno Reverend C. P M Bardin, M.A.,
cousin of the bride s father, who had, In
the same church, christened the bride, whose
intimate Irienos only attended the wedding
Mr H A. Unwin acted as beet man. Amo, g
the guetts were Mr. Laidley and Mrs.
Orr, of Sydney. The bride, whose charms
are well known in Sydney, wore an ex-
quislte.y simple drrss ot white wainsouk
muslin, wuh deep flounces of line embroi-
deiy; trimmings ot a simil-r character were in-
serted In the sleeves and bodice; bonnet, a net-
work of pearls, with white aigrette. Her sister,
the only bridesmaid, wore a ficelle lace skirt, with
fawn satin bodice and drapery; fawn bonnet, with
gold aigrette and flowers. Bride and bridesmaid
carried lovely bouquets. Mrs. Labertouche wore
a gown of mignonette satin, with bonnet of black
lace awd gold beads. Mrs. J. Lempriere wore a
brown velvet, the skirt of silk, draped with fawn-
coloured silk guipure. the bridal presents were
numerous and handsome. After the ceremony,
the party adjourned to the residence of the brlce’s
parents, East Melbourne, where luncheon was
provided. At about 5 p.m., the happy couple
started for Mordiallcc, amidst showers ot rice and
hearty good wishes from all present. Captain and
Mrs. Loftus started for Europe, on Saturday, the
5th November, by the M.M. Tarra. The bride
travelled In an exquisitely-fitting sailor costume
of small-checked cloth—hat to match.
* ♦ *
The delightful feature of Melbourne Go-
vernment House “ At Homes” under the present
regime is their freedom trom the starchiness and
conventional forms which assassinate enjoyment.
That which was held on the 30th ot last month
proved no exception to the rule. Some of the
most noticeable dresses were the following;—
Lady Loch’s beautiful cream Indian muslin,
gracefully draped with lovely cream lace, and lace
bonnet composed entirely of pearls, cream
feathers, with cream parasol; Lady Clarke wore
steel-grey satin, panels of pale-blue and steel em-
broidery, and pale-blue bonnet; Lady Stawell was
In brown satin, front ot skirt of fawn lace, with
brown bonnet of lace and pink roses; Mrs.
Donald Wallace wore a dark-green skirt, with
flounces ot green laee and toque bat in a lighter
shade of green; the Misses Loch were in pretty
blue cashmeres trimmed with white lace, and
white bats with long feathers. Amongst the
guests were—Mr. ana Mrs. Septimus Stephen,
Miss Stephen, Captain Loftus, Mr. Laidley, Mrs.
James White, Mrs. W. Cooper, Colonel Bingham,
Captain Miiward, Miss Clara Manning (who is a
guest at Government House), Miss Orr, Miss Hill,
Miss Fischer, Mrs. and the Misses Labertouche,
Mrs. Frank Stephen, Mrs. and the Misses Hogg,
Captain and Mrs. thomas, Mr. and Mrs. A. Biaca-
wood. Oa Sunday, November 1st, there was also
a large luncheon party at Government House,
which Included Admiral Tryon, Captain Lake,
Captain Loitus, Mr. Laiuley, and the Misses Laber-
touche.
♦ * •
His Excellency Sir Hnrey Loch and Lady
Loch gave a bail at Government House ou Wed-
nesday evening, 4th November. Over 150 guests
were present. The company was a most alstln-
guished one, Including Sir William Robinson
(Governor of 8.A.), Sir F. «. Broome (Governor of
W.A.), Admiral Tiyon ana officers of H.M.8.
Nelson. Tnere was every Incentive to enjoyment
—splendid floor, capital music, and charming
people. Lady Loch was attired In a very elegant
demi-tralu toilet entirely composed of a rloh, ruby-
shaded salmon-pink, the front being veiled with a
tinted beige-coloured lace. The low-eut corsage
was finished off with a bertha of the same effective
lace; headdress of lace and feathers. Mrs. Joseph
Clarke’s toilet of blue satin brocade with feathers
In grey, was most effective, and her matchless
diamonds suited her admirably. Lady Clarke wore
a skirt of pink tulle over pink moire with bodice
ITont-drapery [and sash of brocaded satin. Lady
Scratchley wore a bodice of blue over a small
patterned silk skirt. Mrs. A. Blackwood wore au
exceptionally pretty and effective gown of white
silk, trimmed and veiled with tulle, the front
being covered with exquisitely-arranged sprays of
red currants and green metallic leaves; the cor-
sage trimmed to correspond. Miss Buaolcault's
dress of dark ruby surah was most becoming.
Miss Genevieve Ward wore a handsome and be-
coming toilet of a rich cream brocade. One of the
handsomest dresses in the room was worn by Miss
Tyson—composed of amber tulle with corsage and
tablier ot cloth of gold brocade. Miss Stephen’s
dress ot nun’s voile and satin suited the wearer
admirably, while Miss neatrlce Stephen’s dress of
satlu.was much admired for its elegance.
SOCIAL FIXTURBS.
Picnic to His Worship the Mayor by
the citlz;ns of Sycney, Botany. ..November 21
Wednesday, November 11.
Dear Peg,— This has been a momentous week of
large and small matters. FIfst,, of course. In
people’s thoughts was the Melbourne Cup, which
shone with a reflected (or more correctly speaking,
telegraphic) glory upon the many unfortunate
ones here, whom opportunity did not allow to
swell the lists of the 25 000 Melbourne visitors!
Were you not disappointed to And Nordenfeldt
failed to prove himself the best “gun” after all, nor
even the second, nor tho third, but only the
fourth ? We all thought his victory a foregone
conclusion, which just goes to prove that nothing
is so stable as the unstable I And proves, too, you
will say, that ladies know nothing about these
things! What a glorious time the bookmakers
must be having this Spring I First at Caulfield, and
now at the Cup. The equine Grace Darling has
been as great a salvation to that fraternity as
was the lighthouse keeper’s real daughter to the
shipwrecked crew ages ago! I don’t think dress
on Cup Day is quite so openly extravagant as it
used to be. We no longer hear of wealthy citizen-
esses going clad in white satin and diamonds, or
Bheli-pink satin and seed-pearl fringe that dropped
some of its costly beads at every step. I like the
regal way in which things are done at Government
House, Melbourne. Lady Loch, a clever woman
of the world, full of tact and kindly consideration,
never seems to forget to sink her own indivi-
duality while asserting the vice-royalty of the
situation. Thus at her own large ball the other
night, instead of receiving her guests in the usual
semi-informal manner, the House party entered
the ball-room in procession, two and two, accord-
ing to precedence of rank and station. It is a
small matter, perhaps, but it adds to the impres-
siveness of the whole, and ex pede hercuUm, you
know.
On Wednesday, the Roman Catholic portion of
the city was en file, and excessively jubilant over
the return of their whilom Archbishop, now Car-
dinal, Moran. Of course there was the inevitable
delay somewhere, and the Liguria did not reach
the Heads till 1 o’clock p.m., so it was quite 3
before the triumphal procession was fairly in
motion. The "wearing of the green” was very
mm h the order of the day. There were not many
private carriages, and these were mostly filled with
ecclesiastical dignitaries. Last of all came the
Cardinal, In glowing red robes and Cardinal’s hat.
This last much-prized article is more historic than
artistic—more unique than becoming. For (horrid
taste I) the plush of the hat and the silk of the
robe are quite different shades of the same
colour! It is grievous to have such positive evi-
dence of the lack of feminine judgment to correct
so glaring a conjunction! However, bis Eminence
the < ardinal was evidently hapuily oblivious of
this fact, and lot ked both sunburnt and beaming
There was a pleasant expr.sslon ot amusement
on his face, as if the pt-opie s cnet-rs and en-
thusiasm were, to him, the present echo of am-
bition’s less exalted days, when the symbol of
power was only a shadowy outline of a possible
substance.
I hear Miss Rachel Gray has fixed her annual
Invitation concert for Thursday, 25th, The orches-
tra and the choruses will be unusually strong, and
the music In preparation correspondingly good,
while the number of Invitations Issued will far ex-
ceed the usual number. As Miss Gray’s class in-
cludes several Liedertafel members, besides many
accomplished singers, It goes without saying that
the concert is certain to be a musical treat to the
favoured audience.
r X our , !oyal spirit will gladly learn that Lady
Lore us Is not quitting our shores without bearing
with her a small memento of her six years’sojourn
here—for on Saturday morning a few ladies,
a™°ng whom were Lady Stephen, Lady Hav, Lady
Martin, and Lady Manning, went to Government
House, and presented her ladyship with a beauti-
ful bracelet, valued at £125. Lady Loftus was very
much pleased at the delicate attention.
‘‘ Farewell, a long farewell, to all my greatness.”
These words came flashing Into my mind with an
appropriate sense of fitness as I listened to a vivid
account of the closing scenes of the Loftus regime
here, told by a friend, who did not mind the dis-
agreeables of a public holiday to the end that he
“fight be among the last to wish the Governor "God
speed” on his homeward way. The railway station
was fairly crowded by a most orderly moh. But
they were, for the most part, holiday-seekers
whom accident landed at the' station conveniently
near the time, many of them laden with bunches
of ferns and flannel-flowers. Our “ ’Arrys” and
Arriets” were much to the fore. The special
train was ready In waiting for a long time before
the salvo of 17 guns from Dawes’ Battery an-
nounced that Lord Augustus Loftus had quitted
Government House for ever, and groups of gen-
tlemen began to thicken round the carriage In the
open space kept clear of Intruders by the police.
Of course there were the Inevitable cries of “ Here
they come” from small boys long before they did
cfTne, and a general stir was caused by the arrival
of a body of the Permanent Artillery and their band
who were drawn up to receive their Excellencies.
At lasq just a little before six, a detach meat of
Sydney Lancers were seen approaching (In very
bad line, by the way), and after them the Govern-
ment House carriage, in which sat Lord and Lady
Augustus LoHus, Mr. Unwin, and Mr. Gar-
bett. Lady Loftus wore black with dull
yellow feathers la her bonnet—a meagre
description, you will say. but remember,
not all men are observant of such matters. As
they drove quickly through the crown they were
cheered, and looked their appreciation In smiles
and bows. The guard of honour presented arms,
the band played “ God Save the Queen,” and then
began the handshakings and farewell words, which
lasted while the band struck up “ Auld Lang
Syne,” then “ Home, Sweet Home,” and finally, as
the train moved out of the station, “ God Save the
Queen” again. It is said that there was a
oecided touch of Irony In the tones of “ Auld Lang
Syne,” but “ Home, Sweet Home ” drew a sympa-
thetic sigh from most present, when they looked at
the old people and remembered how little of their
lives had been spent in England, and that now they
were going with small means and little other hope
than to lay their bones among their fathers! Per-
haps, after al), this has been a very Sahara to them.
The last seen of Lord Augustus was his white,
benevolent head and portly form standing at the
entrance of the saloon carriage bowing most glee-
fully to the crowd, who gathered up their good
feeling for one parting cheer, which however did
not rend the sky. On Tuesday, Sir Alfred Stephen
was sworn in as locum tenens until Lord Carlngton
arrives.
A marriage is announced to take place this
month between Mr. Thomas Mackenzie, youngest
sun of Henry Mackenzie, Esq., and Miss Marian
Prlddle, second daughter of the Rev. Charles
Prlddle, incumbent of 8t. Paul’s, Liverpool,
N.8.W.
An engagement is announced between Dr.
Robert Bowker, eldest son of Dr. Bowker, Avooa,
Darling Point, and Mrs. Bayly, widow of the late
Paget Bayly, Ksq., and eldest daughter of the late
Hon. J. Marks, M.L.C., of Glenrock, Double Bay.
CORRA LYNN.
Thus a correspondent, whose morals, it
will be observed, are absolutely shocking:—
Speak gently; it is better far to rule by love
than fearSo the dear deluded poet of the Irish
National school-book wrote. After years of
patient observation and practical experiment
with both methods, we find that fear is the right-
bower, and love a suit card of no value. * Love
rules the court, the camp,’ &o. We place our fore-
finger on the left-hand side of our organ of smell
and smile. Love rules the court. Step down any
morning to the city and observe the smiling sirens
as they glide from the giddy crowd of overnight
roysterers and toe the mark with a certainty
gained by long practice. Each one as she takes
the “flure” smiles upon his Washup—a smile
beaming with love — and heaves a sigh sa-
voured with affection and gin. ‘ Well, Marla;
here again ? ’ ‘ Fes, sir, but it’s all a mistake,
I .’ * Forty or seven.’ Love rules the court.
No, sir, the court rules love. But that is not what
we intended to tell you. Blacks, as a rule, ara
thieves. They steal anything which is of use to
its owner, on the off-chance of its some day being
of use to them. One of a Northern Territory
tribe stole an axe from Joe Breadon, an over-
lander. Joe knew the thief, but wished to estab-
lish a reputation among the dusky ’possum-
scoffers lor being of more than average intelli-
gence. He had just returned from town, and
brought back with him, amongst other things, a
three-foot tape measure, which, in addition to its
virtues as a reliable accountaot of the inches in
a lineal yard, was musically intelligent enough
to tinkle out the numbers of ‘ Home, sweet home.'
Joe strolled into the camp armed with the tape
and his revolver. * Which fe.low been stealem my
axe ?’ he enquired. ‘ Never me been see ’em, Joe.’
‘Me no been take ’em,’ &o. ‘All right,’ said Joe;
‘ this fellow been yabber long a me who been take
’em,’ and he touched off the tape. The first three
bars had scarcely been wafted through the sweet-
scented gldyas, ere Joe found himself playing to a
beggarly array of empty benches. The circus was
empty, the audience gone. Next morning the axe
was laid at the root of a tree, and from that time
to the present Joe and his belongings are tabu.
There is a moral contained in this little paragraph.
We have not time to unearth It, but the founda-
tion of the moral would be that we do
a great many things, and leave undone not
a tew, for fear. Men are honest, not because
they love right, but because they fear the
law. Pagans worship a devil of fear. Christians
worship a God of love, with a devil of fury as an
alternative; and young men are often kept true
to their rash vows of love, for fear ef the big
brother whom they couldn’t beat one side of. Re-
ligion is based on fear, morals are founded on fear,
civil and religious liberty are upheld on trestles of
fear, and if the foundations of fear were kicked
from under our gorgeous Constitution, Love
would lie bleeding in the ruins. And If this isn’t
a nice little paragraph about city misses, blacks,
drovers, axes, morals, and architecture, we fear
we must imbibe Inspiration off the ice with a
towel round it. At 11 o’clock, when the bright
sun shines on the yard-arm, we always ‘took a
leedlo somedlngs.’ ”
Invigorate the system with Wolfe’s
Schnapps If you would avoid bilious attacks.
Wolfe’s Schnapps.—No nervous suffeaer ever
tried this wholesome stimulant without being
thankful.
A CLEVER CHILD.
A little boy was told that he must never ask for
anything at the table, as it not good manners
to do so. The consequence was that he was fre-
quently overlooked. One day his father said,
"Johnny, bring me a bottle of the Anheuset
Busch St. Louis Lager Beer and a clean place.”
“Take my plate, pa; it Is clean;” and he added,
with a sigh, “ there has not been anything on it
yet ’ *
The popularity and enormous sales
Wolfe’s Schnapps testify its intrinsic merits.
Newspaper men are about the best Judges of a
food drink. They one and all appreciate Wolfe’s
CHNAPPS,


o
OAK ASTOR GRECIAN CHAIR,
Cane Seat,
Price only 3s. fld.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket only,
Universal Providers.
A CHANCE to secure a first-class
Farm at Gosford, for £15 per acre,
payable at the rate of 2s. per acre
per week and no interest, is an oppor-
tunity for a profitable investment that a
WISE MAN =£2
month a large number of actual set-
tlers availed themselves of this liberal
offer by the Vendors of the Model Farms,
nnnniiT Eloks com *
Mill III H | m enced improve-
UUUUII I meats on choice
lands, well adapted to dairy, live stock
and general farming purposes, from which
Al* f fl ■ ■ can be selected that
i* ft K IUl cannot be excelled
• fill 111 in the Australias,
FOR PARTICULARS, MAPS, ETC., WRITE TO
BOYD & KING,
AUCTIONEERS,
96 PITT STREET,
HORDERN’S
ON THE
Briclrfleld. Hill.
ODE STAY ME COESIT lUUTUIT.
/(?
C D
*'0
uO/,
%
»jV
'ft
Sta/s sent to any Railway Station
Free of Charge.
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
5Js lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 0d., 4s. lid., 5s. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., 8s. 6d., 9s. 6d,, 10s. 6d., 12s 6d
EDWARD HORDERN AND SON 9, 666 and 668 Brickfield H,H
N.».~ Orders from the Country will receive Immediate and careful attention.
Wolfe s Schnapps Is an agreeable remedy for
debility, biliousness, &c. Be sure you obtain
Wolfe’s.
Wolfe’s Schnapps strengthens and brace?
up the system against disease. Be sure you ob-
tain Wolfe’s.
I will go, said the lover, and ask her papa;
And although he’s a bit of a brute,
Though he may not like me, he is certain to smile,
On my superfine Summerfleld suit.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a great relief iu
Rheumatism, infinitely superior to brandy or
whisky.
Universal [use and popular approval have
indissolubly established the fame of Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
AH OLD GREEK
* allin £ in a steady, sullen
shower, in Melbourne, on Friday night Lst. Its
to ttm mirpn® ntratio ° 011 the business of wetting
maL every . liviD,f thln «t It came In con-
U J U8 aimost respect it. If we had
Hfj 1 8u ? h doggedness of purpose we might
nnlipon?an Wll( n * n<m8 what? Perhaps even a
these 3 thoughti U h We had not * Let u8 Bwe ®P &w *y
l«Jt„?n U * htl, J ll0ff yer. as we sild before, it
iDg i and —we had lent our umbrella. We
were, therefore, not surprised weather, for
we nave noticed, in the course of a chequered life
ia many lands, that the man who lends his um-
t>reli\.at aa y time of the year usually has to get
wet through at least once before the man he has
lent it to brings it cheerfully back with two ribs
broken and the mechanism of the handle ruined
tor ever. So, as we had to go out on Friday night
on a mission of duty, wo thought we m ght es well
take our wetting at once, and keep the rain ir im
hanging about in the sky in wait for us. Yet it
was a hard struggle to leave the bright Are—built
up or palings “shook" from the neighbours'
fences ny a red-heaaed female Troll a cross
eye, whom we retained in our employ -‘chiefly to
keep us in firewood and mussfis (which were
numerous and falny succulent about where
we lived). But duty drove us out that night.
And what to see, you ssk. I'o see, most
noble readers, the performance on a modern
stage of a drama written by a man whose bones
were dust ages before the painted Briton had been
made to die slowly by the Roman legionaries, so
that they might watch the colours fading out on
him as on a dying dolphin-before gas bills-before
bicycles—before Julius Cresar and umbrellas-be-
fore Dan. O Connor and goloshes. Think of it!
we felt as we walked to the Melbourne Town Hall,
where the performance was to take place, that we
were not merely walking through Space but
through Time. For every mile of the road a
thousand years with all their changing colours-
their gloom and glory—seemed to pass by us as a
panorama. The rain had, by the time we were
ready to start, cleared off, and left the night gray
and ghostly enough for any fantasy to seem real.
Three times we stopped to light our pipe upon the
road (think of the fine sense of the unities a mau
must have who would smoke a pice—and a clav
pipe at that I—on the way to see a Greek playl)
Xue first time, judging by the distance we hat yet
to go before reaching our destination, we were
helping King Alfred to burn griddle oakes-anon
fighting with the Paladins of Charlemagne in the
Pass of Roncesvalles, and exchanging regrets
concerning the lost literature of Greece with
the amiable Eglnhard, and then roaming
through the streets of Bagdad in company
with the great Haroun al Rasohid and
his resourceful Grand Vizier in search of adven-
tures. And still the years rolled by us with noise-
less motion till we found ourselves in a pleasant
porch drinking the vintage of the neighbourhood
—kept long, however, and of mellow flavour—
with a little fat man who would insist-on our
wearing a wreath of myrtle round our head and
had many stories to tell us about one Mmcenas
and another Virgllius, who were great men in
their way, to hear him speak. He had written
some tolerabiy good verse, too, this little fat man
—Quintus Horatius Flacous he called himself, we
believe—to Venus and others, and liked to recitei
and even sing, it at times. But we stayed not
overlong with him. The voice of a man speaking
strange and wonderful words In the market-place
smote upon our ears like the sound of a trumpet
of battle. And we knew It for the voice of him
who was once Paul of Tarsus. But the wind, as in
after times, carried away bis message, and we
walked on through the phantoms of the past till
we looked round again, and lo-the great Theatre
of Bacchus in Athens, and By the Furies, we had
forgotten our ticket I
* * *
Here was a pretty state of things ! We
had to walk back through over two thousand
years of history to get that wretched pasteboard -
for which we had to pay our good twenty shillings
of current money, however; not to mention-
eighteenpence we had to pay for a book of the
play, and a shilling we should have given the man
who took charge of our overcoat and hat
Suppose, on the return road, we should sed
again those tapestries of days gone by—but with
their backs turned to us, and the seams and broken
threads of the patterns that showed so fair in
front sticking out and hanging down sad and ugly
behind I Suppose we should see again all those
gnosts of the past, but turned inside out! It was a
fearful thought. Luckily we found our ticket
again in time, and more than in time, to watch
assembled Athens filing in. But the spell had
departed. We wore unmlstakaniy in the Town
Hall of Melbourne—a noble building in itself, but
a Manly Beach dust-box compared to the Theatre
of Bacchus, and in the midst of a crowd, not of
loose-robed Greek women and long-locked Greek
dandies, but of ladies equally free of the thraldom
of drapery about the arms and shoulders, and
gentlemen in dead black and staring white-
figures in two colours, who all rose as we came In,
and remained standing until after we had taken
our seat. The Governor came in at the same time
as we did. Ho is a fine-looking man, but did not
seem to be much noticed by the audience, we
thought. By the way, speaking of Greek women
at the theatre, we must not leave ourselves open
to be accused of Ignorance of the fact that
there is a difference among scholars as to whether
the Athenian ladles were allowed to enter the
theatre at all. Certainly they were not permitted
to be present at the performance of a comedy. No
wonder the ancients have been accounted wise in
all ages. But to continue. After the entrance of
ourselves, the Governor, and all the fashionables,
including our own Dan. O Connor-who has| a bet-
ter right to go and see a Greek play than ho ?—the
interest of the audience in fresh arrivals waned
somewhat, until the musical students entered in a
body (it is the fault of the langusge—not ours),
nnd their leader gravely spread their cheerful ban-
ner, with its device of the Death’s Head and Cross
Bones in white on a black ground, over the edge of
the lower balcony, where they took their seats like
a company of ravens waiting for something dead
to turn up. There was a considerable amount of
jewellery worn by the ladles present, and diamond
aigrettes and toques; of ostrich feathers glimmered
and waved all over the hall.
♦ * *
The play of “ Antigone” has beeen ana-
lysed enough already without our neeiing to give
our little version. We will only say. thereiore,
that, long before the action of the plot be-
gins, a learned Theban named Elipus kills bis
father and afterwards marries his mother—not
knowing either of them, of course, having been
left on a doorstep in a basket when of tender
years. For this crime a pestilence falls upon the
land, and Edlpus discovers what he has done, upon
whigh he. very properly, puts his eyes out. lie Is
afterwards driven from the country by his two
sons, who agree to reign alternately over Thebes.
At the end of his period of office the elder, na-
turally enough, objects to give up the throne, and
the younger then goes away and collects a crowd
of hungry Argive banditti (hence the phrase
hollow Argos" so often found in the early Greek
poets—hollow because the Argives were always
hungry. The Professor of Classics at the Sydney
University Is welcome to adopt this new reading
as his own if he likes it) with which he besieges
Thebes until bis elder brother comes out and kills
him and gets killed himself, leaving a clear stage
for the action of the second play of the great
Sophoclean trilogy—the noble “ Antigone.”
♦ • •
Tlj© morning papers have, of course, ex-
haustively explained the Greek horror of neglect-
ing due rites and honours to the dead. We have
no book of reference beside us at the present mo-
ment, and cannot procure one, it being somewhere
about the first hour of dawn and confoundedly
cold: but we remember that in the historic timeis
of Greece-and we believe in the very same year
in which a play of Sophocles was brought out in
the Theatre of Bacchus—a Greek admiral was con-
demned to death for leaving behind him unburied |
the bodies of his countrymen slain in battle. In
these days, of course, we find it hard to think I
■even for a few hours in this ancient groove. We
Are apt to think that if a man is fairly put under I
nf h n he Q l8^ dead ’ what that most
?®P lal v. of , .i® 11 Sydney undertakers, Kirby
(who burled our last mother-in-law), calls
? o,? ner ’ e u K ht to be satisfied, and that,
In any case. If there Is nobody by to do it, and he
wants to be burled so badly, he ought to get up
?hl b f Ury himS8lt , We have no great sympathy,
therefore, as moderns, for the trouble ot Anti-
*™e. concerning the unhurled body of her
P pother Poly nices, when It goes so far as to ac-
pi^n|I y hanging herself to avoid a death of slow
starvation on hlsacpount. but when we endeavour
thJ? r r ?f ourselves en rapport with the feelings ot
°jd tlAe, the self-sacrificing nobleness and
peauty of Antigone s character shines out on us
through the mist of the ages and the unexpected
forgotten 1eyes lD & Way lbat ‘ 0nC9 felt * iB never
■ • •
Creon, the tyrant of Thebes, condemn*
Antigone to be immured la a cavern till sne dies
or starvation, because she has dared to defy bis
decrees against the burial of her brother Polynlces.
A nice old gentleman to live with, this Creon, evi
dently. Antigone stands calm, and ready to abide
the consequence of her act, but-llke a true
woman—she lets Creon know what she thinks of
him before her tongue Is forever si'enced.
Hcemon, the son of Creon and the lover of An-
tigone, then comes upon the scene, and begs his
father to spare her life. But that Is not the sort
of man that Green Is. He oids his son begone, and
Hoeoaongoes. Fireslas, the blind prophet, then
arrives, and foretells the woes which shall fall
upon the head of Creon—much to the apparent
gratification of the Chorus, who, when Creon does
‘b™ p ft d luck, turn round and dance on him.
me bad luck Is not long ciming. A messenger
rushes In, and Informs the King that the de*d
body of bis son has been discovered, pierced with
hxs own sword, lying beside the dead body of An-
tigone, hanged with her own zone. This would
seem misfortune enough for one day, but the
messenger is a glutton in the way of dismal news,
and as soon as he has delivered his message, darts
P at , a ? aln » returning soon after, hilarious with the
Intelligence that Eurydioe, the wife of Creon, has
destroyed herself, after enning her husband. The
messenger then seems temporarily satisfied, and
Creon goes out Into the dim glooms beyond, lol-
lowipg the dead body of bis son. It Is Impossible
to help pitying him when this awful avalanobe of
calamities falls upon his head. Bat the messenger
we can never forgive.
w 6 •
The first of the choruses —which were
sung in the Town Hall, by a hundred Lledertafelers
dfessed in white rubes, with blue and red mantles
ot a somewhat dazing, hue—w«s the splendid
JP arc hi " Orb of Helios.” The music to
which this Is sung is rapid and rashlng, and lifts
tae listener upon its billows till he is lost and
whirled away with It. And, by the wav, we may
say here, that many critics say that Mende ssohn
made a failure ot this muslc-that It is nothing
like what the music of Greece was. But it has
been claimed that he never intended It to be any-
thing more than a modern clothing of sound for
Greek verse. Anyhow, it can scarcely matter
much, ai it Is admitted on all sides that there is
not the faintest possibility of anyone ever dls-
covering what the nature of Greek music really
was. De Qulnoey did not like the Mendelssotm
music, but De Qulncey was inclined at times to be
nypercrltlcal and of malicious design. AnyUow.lt
is now over 40 years since he Journeyed to Edln-
DurjffQ to see Miss Fduoit in the character since
taken by Miss Ward, and his strictures on the
music do not seem to have made much impression
on the public. It is a melancholy evidence of the
little heed paid to the protests of even great
authors that this very same music has been played
whenever the “ Antigone” has been played
ever since. The next chorus. 1 shows Sophocles In
the guise of a moralist lathe strophe, ‘‘Wonders la
Nature. ’ A competent critic says of the music of
this chorus that it is “ thoroughly Mendelssohn Ian
and less striking than most of the work, though
replete with easily-flowing melody. A striking
point is made near the end where all the volets
unite to pronounce the curse pianissimo." It de-
cidedly is striking to hoar a hundred hisses in one
succeeding a sudden pause of silence. Several
beautiful choruses succeed this, notably ‘‘Koval
Dame. ’ and “ How happy they.” The “ Koyal
Danas we personally liked about the least, though
it is said to be one of the finest la the piece But
It takes long education In classical music to form a
taste for music of this sort* The great caorus,
and one which almost lifted the audience
off their feet, Is the “ Hymn to Bacchus.” A
magnificent chorus and here magnificently given.
But we must make haste to finish. Cleon goes out
utterly broken In spirit at the last, saying, “Take
hence a man the shadow of himself," and the
chorus, always ready to point a moral out of
everthlng, a sort of Theban Job’s comforters In
fact, wind up the drama with a strophe suggestive
ot the somewhat familiar fact that, if a man will
be virtuous for the whole of his life, he may have
a chance to be happy during some of It. and then
the curtain falls, or rather the chorus goes and the
plays ends.
♦ * ♦
There is not mnoh to say about the acting
her®. The personation of Miss Ward struck us as
being fine, but too powerful. Antlgoue Is of a
firm nature—capable ot great love and great sacri-
fice—but still she Is a young maiden. In the latter
respect, Miss Ward hardly gives us a fair impres-
sion of budding Theban beauty. However, it Is
absurd to attempt to criticise tbi* performance on
ordinary grounds. To see It Is a unique experience
la a lifetime. And considering the nobly charl-
table conduct of Miss Ward it would be ungracious.
If even true, to say that the performance was not
very fine. Mr. Vernon made a sp endld Creon.
He was a king, every Inch of him - and there are a
good many. As for Hoomoa (Mr. Cust), he
lisped too much, bui atoned for this somewhat by
his early death. Mr. A. K. Laurence (Tiresias), and
Mr. Alec Mayne (Phoclon) were exceedingly good
in their parts. Mr. John Robson (Cleon) owes his
present safety of life and limb to the presence of
His Excellency and party. At least, so we coined
from the remarks of several persons around
us. He was the Brlnger of Sad Tidings whom
we referred to further back. Miss Nellie
Veltoh as lemene and Mrs. George Gordon as
Euryoloe were remarkable, the first for her fine
voice and generally good, but occasionally far too
bad elocution, and the latter for the striking ap-
pearance of her costume—a gown of light w nlte-
green, over which bung a mantle (flung back over
er shoulders) of the very darkest of green fas-
tened by a large square clasp of stone. Three
bands of green of a hue between those of the
mantle and gown bound her hair, which was
dressed In the usual Greek fashion. The effect
was very fine—especially as a contrast to the wnlte
and gold of the gown of Antigone. There Is no-
thing more for us to say, except that the singing
of the Lledertafel gentlemen—who looked extra-
ordinarily funny Greeks—was splendid. We would
not have missed the time we had on Friday night
for a moderate fortune. The after-proceedings
consisted of speeches and presentations to Mies
Ward, about which everybody has read by now.
After we rose up to go we noticed that no further
interest seomed to be taken In the proceedings.
The Governor also went out at the same time. Jt
does seem curious how little attention the people
pay to him and how much to a comparative
stranger. But they like to encourage modest
genius, these Melbourne people.
Thursday's racing at Flemington was with-
8?eeves Ce °H<«w?im moro crape on the Jockeys’
?in^ V in fh’rv V l am ? I eaoaped w ' 1(>n Grace Dar-
nnfr tell m the V eteran Stakes will alwavs rtm»in
H mar h vel V After the field had
r'ita ln a blackened heap against the
fhlf'ha 8 »o? a, e U Ever y°“e ook it for granted
m a <Si^fr>r a ? d f ad ’ the accident occurred Im-
mediately in front of the stand It txoued vastly
more-sympathy than the Caulfield Cup tumble
Acme was abominably ridden in the Flyinsi
Stakes, but evidently the mare is not au east me
‘lightened out of hi!
life as he got into the saddle, and certainly not In
H?rPo *P rm for the job he had in hand A very
® :a mp of Ikd la Qorry, who rode Cerise
end Bine t > victory iu the succeeding race. If he
doesn t doyelope Into an artist wo shall be sur-
prised 1 he mannikin was as cool as a cucumber
on returning to scale.
The Cup Day descriptions given by the
Argus were this year from the pe i of Mr. Wll-
lou K nby (“Timotheus'), tho “ Vagabond, ’ and
Miss Genevieve Ward. These joint efforts were
q ulte a substitute for the intended article which
satawasto have given us. “ Timotheus” might
have quoted rightly from Macaulay's “ Horatiua,”
and not have made two big blunders In only four
lines, gala will, likely enough, have finished his
Australasian tour with New Zealand, as It is re-
ported he Intends doing India during the cool
season. As such season is only found In the months
ot November, December, January, and February,
he will have no time to lose in getting there and
getting through the necessarily extensive tour 'cf
Hindustan.
“The athlete nurtured for the Olympian
games, gains strength at lea*t for life,” says Bul-
**eJ- v, But no . t alwa ys so, unless the strength of
body be equalled by controlling strength of mind.
Too many of our strong men give evidence
enough of that truth. To the list must now be
added poor Ciarenci Whistler as but another In-
stance of the tricks which athletes will play with
their strength. Topham, the atrong man of our
grandfathers’ days, made a similar miserable end-
ing. So also did Sergt.-Major M Lean, a Hercules
of a man, who kept me Bull and Mouth, in Mel-
bourne. some 29 years bick. It is a poor game to
try one’s strength against that of alcohol. ‘‘This
is the toughest wrestling I have had,” said
Whistler, when struggling for that recovery he
was not to get. His three weeks of fast life, after
winning the championship with Donald Dlnnle
and Miller, reads dismally ladeed. Thirty botch s
of champagne aday, with intermittent cold bathe,
was killing work, but wbat doubtlessly more in-
flamed the Intestines was the mad work of chewing
up the wine-cup and swallowing the trlturabd
glass. Inflammation, fever, delirium, and death
followed naturally enough on such insane 1 Teaks.
Sayers and Heenan, those athletes of 20 years ago,
would probably be yet hale and hearty had they
been but weaker men—or men of strength ef
mind equal to their muscle.
The exceptional increase In the sale of Wolfe's
Schnapps may be attributed to its marked superi-
ority over other Spirits.
Bodily comfort Is the accompaniment of health-
ful vigour, and it will return when Wolfe's
Schnapps Is employes.
1 do not seek to offer thee,
A simple love like mine,
Nor lay it as the rose is laid
On some romantic shrine;
Yet would I tell, this like romance
Will make thy bosom glow.
That If you want well-fitting pants
Try Summeifleld and Co.*
A great revolution in the use of spirits has
taken place— Wolfe's Schnapps has taken the
place of the best brandies.
“Honesty is the best policy.” If every-
body thought so Wolfe’s Schnapps would not be
imitated as it is.


Political Points
“There are 015,000,000 persona more or less
Tnder England’s political .control. Of these only
40 000 COO profess Christianity. Cannot someone
calculate how many practise it?
The Hobson Bay Railway (Vie.) fell from a
nroflt of 0 per cent, to a profit of l}4 per cent,
under political management. Under Mr. Spelffht
ii nd his coin misBionors last years returns show a
profit of 5J-.J per-cent.
It is a striking anomaly in the existing
system of Parliamentary representation that the
;>,M members who suppoited the Gladstone Govern-
ment in the recent fatal Budget division repre-
sented I 777,839 electors, while the Conservative
260 who voted against the Ministers and
them represented only 843,566 electors! When
universal suffrage does como-ic must come within
ten years —what a cropper the Tories will get alter
a lair re-distribution of seats!
The Evangelical Standard, an intoler-
ant religious rag, which, if not actually owned by
tne reverend papa of Sam Griffith, the present
Queensland Premier, is at least entirely runi in
tnut rtaint’s Interest, has been getting ■*
worth of Government advts., while
Messenger, which does not meddle with
got £13 iIs. 91., and'the Australian, the R.O.
organ, only £6 3?. “ Honour thy father and his
drafts on the Treasury.” Humph 1
The Cootamundra Herald alleges that
the friends of the N.S.W. Attorney-General, Mr.
Want, during the recent election, resorted whole-
sale to corrupt practices; that Mr. Phillips friends
at Guudagai, after but a few days search, dis-
c jvered no fewer than 111 cases of double voting
and impersonation between Gundagai,
aid Cootamundra; and that Mr. Want himself
should be well ashamed of such an outrage upon
the laws he is expected to conserve.
The Austral isi an considers the new
Assembly of N.S.W. a decidedly heterogeneous
body, having no distinct Idea as to Its mission, or
the measures it ought to give its mind <o. With
regard to the position of Sir Henry Parkes, it
thinks that, in such an Assembly, the man whom
the public have been accustomed to see leading in
the oast, may take the command upon himself
almost as a matter of right. The Australasian
predicts Parkes return to power—and thereby
shows how little It knows about the matter.
Messrs. Bolton and Gormley, returned for
tha Murrumbidgee, are both pledged to a land tax.
la that electorate a decided move has been made
in the direction of land nationalisation, and te. rifle
efforts wero made to keep out Mr. Douglas, who,
as a largo land owner, was naturally opposed to
the policy of making land bear Its fair burden ot
taxation. Even Mr. Dibhs was strongly supported
in order that the land king might he kept out. In
Wagga, there were very few votes difference he-
t ween the elected three, while Douglas could only
secure a paltry 231.
Mr. James Service is seldom funny—inten-
tionally. Io was probably against his will that
James came out as a humourist in discussing the
necessity for providing his beloved Governor Sir
Henry Loeh-wlth a summer residence. 8am
James, “ While ordinary private gentlemen were
able to get away from town for a few weeks dur-
ing the summer months, the Governor could not
do so unless he provided for himself,
what a cruel fate for a governor-to have to pro-
vide for himself. Do “ordinary private gentle-
men ” take a trip on public subscriptions, or was
thu Victorian Premier seeaing to remind honour-
able members that, as they sent Graham Bany to
Yurrupat tha country’s expanse, they ought to
and the “ needful ” for Sir Henry country excur-
sions I
Diplomacy, the wise it call. Corruption .
fob; a fleo for the phnse. Sir Henry Parses pro-
raised the St Leonards electors a bridge. He
topped the poll. Premier Dlbbs promised the
Murrumbidgee mopokes free pisses when they
desired to interview him in Sydney. He won,
hands down. Four special trains were run from
Sydney to Duboo and back for the convenience of
Sir Patrick Jennings while the Bogan campaign
was on, and St. Gregory’s representative just man-
aged to get home by naif a head. And now the
South-western section of the free-and independent
are painting their end of the country red because
Gundagai. Burrowa, and Wagga are all repre-
sented by portfolloed gentlemen. The poet was
sound for once. “There’s nothing true hut
“ Cnimsie cannot speak, but he is a great
fhlnkir [Like the sailor's parrot.-Ed. B.]
His clear, comprehensive judgment is re-
lied upon by several members of the House, "who
never trouble to sit out a debate, but come in
when the division bell rings, and vote as he does.
Without him I cannot be half as useful to you In
the future as I have been In the past. Reject him,
and you cut off mv right arm He is my help-
meet ” Thus tt B. Wilkinson in his address at
Nvmagee N.S W. We are at a loss to think
-why the’working men. after hearing all this,
should seek to separate this very agreeable pair
Whv they, in their usual hard-beaded obstinate
wav should vote in a body fora Democratic cm-
didato-a man who advocated payment of mem-
beta and mining on private property. We, how-
ever congratulate tne “ uopah ten of Balranald
and their -‘independent” hangers-on, upon hav-
ing secured toe return of Mr. and (the political)
•*> Mrs. Wilkinson.”
The 8. A. Parliament has passed a Customs
Tariff Act Which imposes absolutely protective
duties on a I articles that arelik iv to be mar .i-
iacturod In the colony 1’he measure, which has
veceived a largo amount of attention with a vi iw
to make it perfect, is formulated mainly on iha
- laborate report of the Victorian Tariff Consm s
sion It is not so long since wo remember
the ponderous Allerdala Grainger being laugh d
down in the Adelaido Town Hall when he at-
tempted to advocate Protection. Queensland
is sure to folhw suit la the course of a
few years, and then N AW. will be the
only colony of th-* group left In pursuit of the
nollcy of neglecting industries and resources
which, properly fostered under a judicious system
of Protection, would enable her to outrival all the
other colonies combined In population, wealth,
and general importance. However, enormously-
increaaiDg expenditure and rapidly-declining re-
venue from the source mainly relied on in the past
—the sale of land-must In N.S.W. bring: about one
of two things, and that very soon—there must be
all-round retrenchment to a serious extent and con-
sequent depression, or N.S.W. must, with as good
grace as she can, acknowledge the wisdom of her
neighbours on all sides in the matter of encourag-
ing local enterprise.
The N.S.W, Premier can cite Scripture for
his purpose. In thanking the Wagga people for
his election he modestly remarkedYes, Jen-
tel-men 1 one of the most beautiful parables
taught in Holy Writ is that in which a certain
mauls supposed to have gone from Jericho to
Jerusalem, and, as we are told, he feb among
thieves. We are also taught in the great Christian
lesson which follows that this person, sorely
wounded by the thieves \fho fell upon him, after-
wards fell into the hands of a good Samaritan.
(Cheers.) Gentlemen, I hive been that wounded
man. I was fallen upon by political thieves-(cheers)
but that good Samaritan, the electorate of Murrum-
bidgee, has poured oil and wine into my wounds.”
[Cheers, and an ammoniaphoned voice. “ Oh, blash
er wine. Gish beer. '] “ And in so doing it has re-
turned me to my position, and it has vindicated
the honour of the country. (Cheers.) And while I
give the Murrumbidgee electors the credit of
being the good Samaritan, according to the parable
laid down in Holy Writ, 1 need not say to you who
the political thief In the business was.” (Cheers,
and cries of “ We all know hlm,”“ Parkes, Parkes;
three groans for Parkes,” and so on to the end of
thefchapter.) This kind of Biblical Bill[ngsgate
comes well from a political leader who only the
other day apologised by advertisement for his own
bad language. The N.S.W. Government allegories
aren't up to the mark. Mr. Dibbs talks about the
man in the Scriptures who ” went from Jericho to
Jerusalem;” whereas the fact Is that he, the Pre-
mier has of late completely ” gone to Jericho —
having been kicked out of Sydney, the political
Jerusalem. Furthermore, we don’t think much
Of the idea that Mr. Dibbs has “ fallen among
thieves.” That, according to a lot of people, has
been the fate of poor littki N.S.W.
THE LAND OF THE CROCODILE.
BY MAROOGALINE.
I Among the pioneer settlers of Queensland
“ Old Tom Boulton,” brother-in-law of the Hon
mmy Taylor, once a partner of that squatting
dentate. There was a time when Tom esti-
ated his actual value at £50,000, but “ Adversity,
0 Iron-handed daughter of Jove, selected him
a partner in the wild life dance, and Tom never
covered from that fatal embrace. But he is one
the “ silently heroic men,” who patiently en-
ire, as the brave of all ages have done, honestly
anding by whatever post of duty fate assigns
them, and finally sinking quietly into the
atera of oblivion, without leaving a solitary
pple on the surface. I met Tom lately in a Far
orthern scrub, shooting scrub-hens and collect-
g orchids. He is one of the cheeriest and best-
itured of men, and the fountain of reminiscences
past events in Queensland history never runs
•y. Since that meeting, I have heard an anecdote
: Tom’s earlier days, when he thought once of
anding as member for Stanthorpe. He addressed
meeting of the local democracy, and at the con-
usion, an anxious elector enquired his views
1th jregard to the Deceased Wife’s Sister Bill,
als question came near to knocking Tom clean
it in one round, but he recovered, and rose at
ice magnificently to the occasion. He said, "This
a subject on which I ve had little experience,
never proposed but twice, and the replies I got
Itfened me for a lifetime. But still my opinion
that every man ought to have a perfect right to
arry who he (blanked) well pleasesll” Loud
id prolonged cheers!
♦ * *
Recently, in Townsville (Q.), there was a
iv and festive Hibernian wedoing, and an old
lend of the bridegroom was chosen to propose
is health. He rose to do so in an elaborately-pre-
ired speech, but memory disastrously failed him
; the starting-point. Poising his glass aloft, he
ild, “ On this auspicious occasion, er—er—on this
aspiclous occasion, er—er—I —but, in any case,
om Byan, here’s good luck to yez I ”
* * *
This rivals an eloquent speech I once heard
•om a genial Hibernian called suddenly to re-
aond at a race-dinner: “Ladles an’ glntlemin,
intlemin an’ min, we’re had grand races here
als year, we had grand races lasht year, an’, plaze
od, we’ll hev grand races next year! Glntlemin
n’ ladies an’ min—Oim done I ”
• • •
So Sir Henry Parkes, the venerable old
'alinurus of the State trireme, after tumbling
verboard at various stages of the voyage is
noe more on dock striking a bee-line for the
udder I A month ago I heard the following anec
ote of the veteran legislator, from a man who
as known him for over 40 years. About the
ear 1853 a deputation waited on Governor Dltzroy
rith regard to some grievance of the working
lasses. When that deputation was leaving, the
lovernor said to B. Deas Thompson, then Colonial
ecretary, "Those men will make their mark In
he future history of N.8.W.” The two leaders
t that deputation were Henry Parkes and Richard
ones. Afterwards Jones became Colonial Trea-
uri r, and he was the man who started the Mait-
md Mercury about the same time that Parkes
tarted the Empire. What Henry Parkes became
j printed in bill-poster type across the historic
iage of the past 30 years. It is also printed in
ora? other places.
■ * •
A few weeks ago the Queensland Minister
or Works, “ Did Miles,” occupied the chair at a
emperance demonstration, and pictured, in the
ed colours of a Hadesian sunset, the Gorgon Rum-
lend striding iron-shod across the world, scattering
lllmitable desolation and empty bottles among
he human race And last Friday I sat in the pri-
rate gallery of the Assembly, and saw William
tand on his feet for a quarter of an hour to pro-
est against the Speaker taking a part In the de-
lates and deliver a speech that was a wild whirl-
viad of disjointed sentences, and a simoom of
llogicai and ungrammatical chaos seldom heard
lutaide the sick room of a patient in the delirious
tage of Palmer River fever. The explanation is
hat Morehead, when in the refreshment room
ibout an hour before, had, with diabolical intent,
implied a lot of whisky into Miles' sodawater, and
he veteran drank off the obnoxious mixture be-
ore discovering the fraud. Miles now oontem-
jlates the introduction of a Bill treating whisky
is a po'sonous drug not to be sold until after 10
j’clock at night.
♦ * ♦
Our old friend, the Hon. P. Perkins—the
man of many shipwrecks—was lately on a visit to
lownsville. He was there when the Warrego
passed on her way South, and a dark rumour
spread that Perkins was coming on board. The
passengers at once assembled, some with their
luggage and some with revolvers and New Guinea
clubs, and Intimated to Captain Phillips that if
Perkins were allowed on that steamer, one-half of
them would go ashore and the other half would
deluge the ship with blood But P. P. was not
reacy for the W irrego, and she went calmly on
her voyage; the only ruffle on the general placidity
being a rumour that Perklus was smuggled on
board in a furuicure-case and stowed in tne after-
, latun.
About three weeks ago there was a peculiar
incident on board of one of the Northern steamers
returning from Co'iktown. Several ladies were
reclining asleep on deck chairs, and a well-known
C carters Towers resident, relative of a prominent
statesman, walked deliberately to one of them and
kiss d her, though she was a total stranger to h.m.
Sitting beside tne lady was Mrs. , a temperance
lecturers, and she gallantly struck him fun in the
face with her hand-bag, knocking him backwards
and taking the starch out of him considerably.
Along with this amorous and wealthy Northerner
was another Individual acting as alder and abettor,
but when the action became known to the male
passengers there was a general feeling of so
decided a character that the Charters Towers man
and his chum retired to their cabins and mutually
agreed to be sea-sick for the rest of the journey.
The captain also acted with decision, and after a
vigorous expression of opinion came near to
ordering them both forward. The male relatives
of the lady have, doubtless, yet to perform a small
part in the programme.
A certain South Queensland weekly is
edited chiefly by the wife of the editor. He is
a comparatively young man, “as smooth as
Hebe’s his unrazored lips,” and she a matron of
mature years and long experience. She has a
weakness for meat pies. Every morning she comes
down to the office with ter mind stored with now
ideas and a handbag full of Melton pits to supply
vacuum in the epigastric region. A woman’s diges-
tive apparatus cannot—like a steam engine—bo
calculated at so many horse power, but the belief
among the most observant of human philosophers
is that the gastric machinery of an average female
bears the same comparison to that of an average
male that an Orient liner bears to an ordinary
steam launch—that, in fact, a man’s wife could eat
him into his grave at any time if engaged on a
level “go-as-you-please’’ competition, [f am writ-
ing thla while the sleeping partner in my domestic
firm is away for a week at tke seaside ] A few
days ago, the day the leader is usually written, a
retriever dog called in to see the editor, with an
article on poisoned baits. There was no one in
the office, so the intelligent dog took two of the
Melton pies, believing them to be a free lunch for
amateur poets and the authors of pro bono publico
letters, and went home. Next day the paper
appeared without a leader, but there were two
paragraphs characterised by extreme ferocity, de-
nouncing the police for not protecting the public
by indiscriminately slaughtering stray dogs,
without regard to sex, age, or nationality.
♦ * ♦
One of the recently-appointed Com-
missioners under the new Queensland Land Act, is
a gentleman who once occupied a seat in the
Legislature. He called one day on Miles, the
Minister for Works, with regard to some griev-
ances ot the inhabitants of the Arcadian town-
ship of Springaure Miles listened patiently to
the impeachment ©f the Ministry by the ambas-
sador fro the advocates ot repair? to thelocd
Court-house, and a grant for a new cemetery, and
replied in exactly the following sentence “ I
have a good mind to kick you out of the
office ” “ For what reason said the astounded
redressor of local wrongs. “ Because you have the
impudence to take ms for a fool!” said
the irate Caledonian politician, and then the inter-
view abruptly terminated, and Springsure has ever
since been regarded as a bigoted stronghold of the
Opposition. #
One of the North Queensland pioneer
bushmen has just gone to his long home at Port
Douglas. I refer to McMahon, the genial host of
the Exchange, a warm-hearted, impulsive Irish-
man. Poor Mac., he saw some rough work
in the old days, and was out on the Daw-
son in the time of the Frazer murders.
A volume of reminiscences by such a man
would be worth reading. Poor Mao. I I mentioned
in my last contribution his partiality for * thim
triangular Parllamlnts,’’ and this recalls to mind
one occasion, in the primitive days of Port
Douglas, when Kutherford, the chemist, in a lit
of patriotic and philanthropic enthusiasm, started
to take the levels of the streets with a gin case and
a spirit level. “Hould on there,” said Mac.,
“thim sthreets’ll require to be llvllledonthe shlan-
ticularl” Mac. wanted to knock geometry clean
out ia one round by the introduction of a flat
curve. He was one of the few pioneer bushmen
who had a kindly feeling for the blacks, and he
told me he never killed one during the whole of
his experience among the wildest myalls in the
early days '
“Yours is a very dangerous occupation,
said the phiianthoplst to the policeman. “Yes.”
replied the policeman, carelessly. ** Officers are
sometimes kilted while In the discharge of tnelr
duty," continue! the philanthropist. "Yaaa,”
yawned the policeman. “You're not afraid of
death, then?” “Certainly not: our clergyman
says death is only a sleep, and I ain't afraid of
sleep.”
A new evening daily appears now in Mel-
bourne to take the place of the defunct World,
which proved such a heavy loss to its principal
backer. The Daily News, as the new-comer is
called, is one of the speculations of Mr. Nathaniel
Levi, who rents the principal part ©f the railway
advertising rights irom Government. Mr. Levi
has done weU at this—has given balls, at his own
cost, at the Town Hall, and stood, unsuccessfully,
several elections for East and West Melbourne.
Advertising p»ys well and not least to the
blllsticker. Mr. Isaac Roff, who has most of the
Melbourne business in hand, was formerly a tailor
in Queen-street. He left the thimble and the shears
for the paste-pot some twenty years ago, and
doea’nt regret it. He has largely Invested in Mel-
bourne and suburban building lots, but not to
build upon. He knew a better paylug game than
bricks and mortar. He puts up a high paling fence
around the land a-id lets it out for bills and adver-
tisements More money is to be made by that busi-
ness than by costly buildings and shuffling tenants.
Even in Collins-street an otherwise vacant block
is put to this blll-itlcking purpose. Roll is now a
wealthy man. and can, if he likes, retire and run
Sir Samuel Wilson for a baronetcy.
A good Melbourne friend of ours lives in a
popular hotel. He says that he prefers it to pi i-
vate lodgings because more of life. This
is what he saw upon the Cup Day—when the heat
of the weather and ill-luck in several sweeps led
to his staying away from Flemlngton. At 3 p.m.
he found but four people in the hotel. Of those
was the “ boots” who was playing the piano (and
very well too) in the drawing-room. Explanation
that he had been a bluocoat school-boy when at
home. In the bar was one barmaid only—fast
asleep. Explanation that heat of the day had
overcome Per. In the billiard-room was deputy-
assis ant bllliard-marker-also asleep. Explana-
tion that he bad bad little or no sleep the night
betoro. Tne fourth individual was found running
about upon the roof, and in a state of nudity and
insanity. Explanation that he had come down
from the country, had been cleaned out of his
money and jewellery, and hooussed with some
braln-aifectiug drink. With the assistance of the
musical “ boots ” and tho awakened billiard-
marker the maniac was saved from his contem-
plated suicide and >rot off to the hospital. Our
friend says he thinks he thus got a share of ex-
citements sufficient for the day.
Melbourne Cup-Day is bound to decrease
in popularity with those who go to see horse-
racing. Also with those who expect an enjoyable
holiday. Likewise with those who expect to get
anything to eat or drink. Also with those who,
leg-weary for awhile, desire the rest afforded by
a seat. The grand stand is now virtually given
up to the ladles, and is not largo enough to hold a
third of those wanting seats in it. Men used to be
able to go upon the Hill to see the Cup-race, but
the privilege of a “pats’’ from the stand to the
Hill is now denied to ihe lawn-frequenters. To
get luncheon is a struggle and a failure with most
people, and a very unsatisfactory success with
the others. Unless a man be one of the sons of
Anak in height, he has but small chance of seeing
any race from the lawn. As for the upper stand,
he must, to get a teat there, secure it by sitting in
the broiling sun for a full half-hour before a race
begins. Melbourne's famous Cup Day meeting
eems likely to be killed by
vnd choked to death by the increasing number of
thousands for whom the wit of the stewards seems
mable to And accommodation. What appears to
be wanted is something la the Roman amphi-
theatre stylo, if people are to have anything for
their money beyond a bewildering overcrowding
and cashing. When Its attractloas fall with
womankind Its decline has begun. A golden-
haired beauty, to hand lately from London, ex-
pected much pleasure from her visit to the famous
meeting of which she had beard so much. She
condemns it, however, as a “ bore, great bother,
and disappointment.” “Shouldn’t think of going
again,” is her conclusion to the whole matter.
This is sad.
" THE BEAUTEOUS TERRORIST. ”
The first and largest poem in this little
book is called “The Beauteous Terrorist.” Told
In prose the story is that a yountr Russian lady,
Sophia Perovskaia, connected herself with the
revolutionary party lu nor country. She was of
distinguished family, was highly cultured, and
possessed brilliant beapty. She placed all on the
altar of patriotism. She was present in council
with “the men who laid the mine whose nitric
breath blow the tyrant from the world.”
Her voice was “like a holy bell calling to
highest sacrifice.” She was, as is stated in “Under-
ground Russia,” captured, tried, and executed.
♦ • •
We approached the reading of the book
now under notice, with vivid memories of the
magnificent Hues devoted by the poet of the Sierras
to the fate of this dead Russian heroine. The
theme was a good one for a poet to lay hold of.
Tne writer who can find a good theme gives the
first proof of his possession of art. But there are
writers who make the giving of first
proofs a speciality. It absorbs all their
Intellect. This poet does not enhanco the
Interest of the prose narrative. There is n®
music in the verses. They are without heat or
colour. The writer has no wings. Phrases show
a hate of tyrants and love of freemen. But the
hate is wunout tusks and talons, and the love is
without lips and eyes. Neither counts for any-
thing in the strife ot life.
■ • •
The rest of the volume is made up of short
poems. Some of these are moderately fair. As a
rule, however, the imagination displayed is of an
attenuated, shrivelled, starved character. The
author has been over the Blue Mountains to little
purpose. The jingles he gives about them are
mellow, but they would have carried as mueh
original thought had he stayed in his cradle and
got someone to read Emerson to him. The little
ripple of antl-soclableness has been done by every-
body that ever climbed a hill. If a line or two in
“ Solitude’ reminds one of Emerson, a line or two
In “ Gone” reminds one of Byron. Wherever a
line or two has a streak of valuable meaning one
is reminded of someone. It would be well were it
always Emerson and Byron who are evoked. But
even Tom Moore and Ktrke White leave their
graves and look in upon the reader. The lines
that do not remind one of anyone, the author
should be urged to expunge. For instance, ho
finds himself away up in the region of Mount Vic-
toria, where a man’s heart, if It be a healthy one,
beats sympathetically with the white light
from the skies and the green gloom from the fern-
clothed gorges, and these are the distichs of ditch-
water sentiment he manufactures to celebrate the
occasion—
“ The situation, dearie,
Might be far less snug and cheery.
You and I are satisfied
To be safely housed together,
Independent of the weather-
independent ot the haughty
Hectoring world that is so naughty.”
• • »
In many pieces the workmanship of the
composition shows considerable skill. Lyrical
sweetness Is frequently encountered. In “ Bound-
ing o'er the Summer sea,” we have the verse—
“ Will they meet us, child and wife,
Bud and rose, bud and rose ?
He who counts the sands of life
Only knows, only knows 1 ”
That is well put. “ Ragged Jane,” despite hack-
neyed metre, also exhibits deftness of hand But
then there come Intolerable rhymes which show
the author either has no ear at all, or ears too long
for a human singer. He couples knew—view,
moon—tune, dawn—morn, unspeakable—beauti-
ful, and many other ill-assorted sounds. From the
dates to some of the poems he must be a quarter
of a century at the verso-making business, and
persistence In atrocities like these gives a note of
character.
• 9 *
On the whole, however, the author appears
to be a well-informed, educated person. His in-
tentions are manifestly honourable. If he write
no more poetry we know no reason why the cus-
tomary epitaph should be denied him when he
dies.
• “The Beauteoua Terrorist and Other Poems,”
by “A Wanderer.” George Robertson and Co.,
Sydney and Melbourne. 1885.
We like to read notices about the Aus-
tralians and their capitals in the leading London
papers. The Saturday Review writes of Mel-
bourne in an article headed ‘ A City of One
Generation,” and tells us much which is novel.
Australians have, to the writer’s surprise, *' no
distinctive brogue, accent, or burr, but a very
distinct physiognomy.” Both these stated facts are
new to us; also that "though fond of sport they are
very religious.” Likewise that “ they are exceed-
ingly sober—a drunken man being rarely visible
in their streets!” This took our breath away for
a time, but we read oni "Their criminal class ia
larger in proportion than that of any other colony.’ *
We thought of stopping at this for a finish, but
found something easier to let down upjn—viz.,
“ their city is cheaper for a visitor to make stay
in than any of similar slzs in Europe. Ladies do
not dress as in England, and the stranger cannot
but remark the costume and appearance of the
ordinary Melbournian female.” The double mean-
ing in which the word "ordinary” can be used
leaves us in doubt, but we hope for the best.
Two months for insulting the Governor’s
orderly. Such was the sentence passed on a poor
devil who ventured to make a very harmless re-
mark unon the personal appearance of that
august Victorian official. Tears ago Hindley-
street, Adelaide, was not the well-kept thorough-
fare it is at present. It was a bog, and many a
whip-handle was broken, and many a volley of
wily words was fired In that same street by the
bullock-waggon engineers whom business or load-
ing led thither. Pleasure leads folk to that quarter
now—the theatre Is there, the Exchange Is there,
and at nighc the life of the city centres and surges
on Its sidewalk. Thirty or 40 years ago, a man who
would go down Hindley-street for pleasure, had
only one other place to go in search of pastime.
The name of that other place Is not to be found in
the revised edition of the New Testament.
Governor Hlndmarsh sat on the box, In the days
we write of, and piloted the old *• Democracy ”
coach over many a nasty patch in the road to ad-
vancement. One day a waggoner was labouring
up Hindley-street loaded with rations and pro-
fanity. Ho is an M.L.A. now, and he only swears in
dissyllables. Then he could curse In words of four
syllables, each as long as "accommodation.” He
was working through all right, slowly but cer-
tainly; profanity and perspiration leaked out of
him at every pore, he was both sides of his team
at once, bis wnlp volleyed and banged, hair and
hide flew, and all was serene and lovely. Governor
Hlndmarsh turned the King William street corner
just as the off-side wheel sunk to the bed and there
was danger of a stoppage. Tna engineer flew
round then How he sworel Tae Governor
could handle his adj ctives nretty fairly, but this
man. could &lve him 75 in 100 Ho was amazed,
spell-bound; his ears were ravished; he noted
some of the choicest words for future use, and
then the duties of tbe Governor triumphed over
the feelings of the man. He approached, “My
man, you should not use suih awful language.”
The bullocky gazed pityingly upon him—" Awful
language, en ? Well, now, look here: If I wasn’t In
a town, 1 would swear. But, anyway, who
are you ? You can go to , unless you can drive
these bullocks out of this God-forgotten,
sanguinary, tlamlng mud-hole.” "My good man,
I am the Governor.” “Oh, you are, are you?
Well you mind and keep that billet; it’s a
food one; better than poddy-punching. Lookout,
wantto gee—’em off a bit." And he wasn’t hanged
—didn’t even get flogged, and a careful study
of the records does not reveal any account of his
being secluded from the vulgar gaze for two
months. What are we coming to ?
“DO RIGHT AND FEAR NOT.”
Had you been true and leal, Wright,
We had not let you go; ,
That wheel within a wheel, Wright,
At length has brought you woe.
’Tis hard a mm must part, Wright,
With friends whom be holds dear;
But too much horse aud cart, Wright
Has euchred you, we lear.
The wisest sometimes trip, Wright;
The greed for fame is strong;
Your friends within the ship, Wright
All hold tnat right was wrong.
“ My public day is ended.”
Ad interim, good Wright;
Though said, that's not intended—
If so, good Wright, good night.


Never Travel Without It.
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS
ALLNOXIOUS INSECTS.
FLEAS.FLIES. BEETLES MOSCtU ITOES
COCKROACHES <VF C RA C AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESS TO BIRDS DOGS
*
M
w.
&
A
O
FOWLS OROTHER^ES
ANIMALS
s>V
* cV o'
j*VV
SOLD
IN TINS
«&•
■«*. x
*
>c/14^V'" 1,uupwards
dr Jf byALLCHEM1 STS
AND STOREKEEPERS
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
Giticura
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseaaea of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautitiers, externally.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians ; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
It. Town A Co., l.'ew for.'h TVales.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or auy other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 13 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle. ',
Prepared ev the
Potter r>rur • & Chemical Co., Jtostou, U.S.A.
SCHOTT <SE. OO.,
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY 1IIB QUEEN,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, H.S.W ;
Also, at London, Mayence, Paris, and Brussels.
I3T LARGEST STOCK IN TSE COLONIES.
Alex. Borthwick.
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c.
201. Ci-eorgre-st., S3rd.aa.03r.
Wanted in Every Souse.
Wanted in Every House.
TJclo SSellaTol© Bvigrgries!
PROCURABLB ONLY AT THB
AMERICAN CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Buck board Woonons.
tar BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING*, Merchant A Importer,
S3 A 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
BIS, nurniM, al CO,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
w, mm, ui mn
J
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS.
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDER8’
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, fto.
BAB, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARB
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACK8
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
M-Mf
P 0 «TAaL &E tJ g
and SBM1-I
GINKS
VERTICAL and HOE1
ZONTAL BOI1
'fit PUMP? “ d ° the
LATHES, PLANING
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRAS
1Y
FOUNDR1
PATENT ROLL
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, *0.
“'S'f *'
~ price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
Head Warehouse - - 64 YORK STREET,
- - - - HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR,
London Offloo •
H QBAOECHURCH STRUT,
CONQUEROR .
se*
~ Coffui toR „
-.- tobacco_J,1.^
YANKEE DOODLE
■P
so^ s
m
SON
vsy
TWIST & PLUG
mvanH M. CflHS Qurinaw possess the largest Factory, Manufacture more
UIJlOUiB wj U,,C J 9 Tobacco, and consume more American Leaf,
than any factory in the southern hemisphere.
YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR, Sir Roger, Champion, and Dlxson’s Cut Tobaccos.
Da.rliELg' HaiTooto.! Hotel,
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Railway Gates).
STEPHEN HOPKINS (Late of Wagga "Wagga), Proprietor.
mr ESPECIAL ACCOMMODATION FOR COUNTRY VISITORS.
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
v LUNCHEON and refreshment booms for ladibs and OBNTLBMEN.
s
ENT POST FREE FOR la. STAMPS.
Social Science.
TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders, Chronic
’» 33ases, Impediments to Marriage, &c.. How to
i i >ose a partner for life so as to live happy, How
t) Regain and Preserve your Health, &c.
Address—R. T. SELBY - , M.H., Devonshlro-street,
3 irry Hills, Sydney.
ANHOODt RESTOREDI
A Clergyman having tried every known rented)
a fortheCUREofNERVOUSEXHAUS-
TION, PREMATURE DECAY, &c., has at
laat discovered a simple SELF-CURE, which, fof
;he sake of suffering humanity, he will send FREE
•ring
Ate Prescription which CURED him.
vith self-addressed stamped envelope—
Address)
Dr. E. A. CLARKE) P.O. Box 392. Sydney.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that It Is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by EUiott Bros, and E. 1 Prosser
and Co., Pltt-atreet; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J.BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, JKedfern.
Xjin,.erx (3-loss


REMEMBER THIS,
IE YOU ARE SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature In making you well
again when all else fails. •
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
Buffering from any of tho numerous
diseases of stomach or bowels, it is
your own fault if you remain 111, for
American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy In all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
In Gilead ” in the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of malarial,
epidemic, bilious and Intermittent
fevers—by the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERf.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
fool miserable generally, American HOP
BITTERS will give you fair skin, rich
blood, the sweetest breath, health, and
comfort. In short, they cure ALL
Diseases of the Stomach, Bowels,
Blood, Liver, Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
£500
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or Inju-
rious found in them.
That poor, bed-ridden. Invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
American Hop Bitters, costing but a
trifle.
Will you let them suffer r
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
American Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
%W Bee If the name of Dr. Soule is blown
In every bottle, If not It Is counterfeit.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital ... £100,000.
Head Office : Melbourne.
New South Branch ; 171 Castlereagh-street.
Victorian Directors;
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P.,
Chairman
Hon. J. P. Levlen, M.P.
Thomas Learmonth, Esq.
N. 8. Wales Directors.
Andrew Town, J.P„ Esq.
Prank Cowley, Esq.
George 8. Yeo, Esq.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
Causes on land, rail, or at sea.
Marine Risks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted.
The only Live Stock Insurance Society In the
olonles.
Pull particulars can be obtained from the under-
signed.
Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
A. J. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.
Office, 171 Oastlereagh-street.
E
A U D X
4711
COLOGNE.
4711.
Established 1793.
G oil Medal, Moscow. 1872; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1878
TblsEau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for Its superior sweetness, strength,
and invigorating qualities; excelling all other com-
petitors.
It has become the groat favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the rflite of
Europe. , ,,
The large and constantly Increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Bau de Cologne, not only In
Europe, but also In North and South America
India, and Australia, Is further undeniable evi-
dence of Its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number—4711 changed Into 7411, 1147, 4117, Mo., &o.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medalat the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
street, Sydney.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists.
id Storekeepers, in town and country.
W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and S7DNE7.
Catalogue i,
Catalogues
POST PBBl.
W. WALKER
and SONS
I
are one or the
Larsrost
Stockholder*
and
Mawfactunr*
m
Ws
■irh'Oiau
FURNITURE
ha
ENGLAND.
POST FREE.
ALL STOCK
ih their
.Sidney
■evil
Supplied
DIXflOl
trom their
London
Manufactory
and Lateat
London Style*
GUAHIMBID
SYDNEY BRANCH!:
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
SOLE IMPORTER OP
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 FITT STREET.
tiULiC JUR
SMITH OEGAIT.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
■
w
Depot for the World’s Patented Articles
GEORGE ST.* Opp. Wynyard St.
r AMERICAN
NOVELTY CO.
FANCY GOODS
wmm. NOVELTIES
' II'IL
Bring your Wife and Children with you.
Nobody pressed to buy.
\\/’ANTED a number of Gentlemen who will have their
* V heads shaved as above, and guarantee to attend all
meetings and side-walk gatherings. "ALARY LIBERAL.
DSE PEARL CEMENT feJfJSA
but Iron. Is. Bottle.
TOOTHACHE CVS
afraid tc use it freely. Nc trouble to the Teeth. Is. Bottle.
Sa/t Rheum or Eczema, Psoriasis
Scall head, infantile or birth humours and every
form of itching’, scaly-pimply, scrofulous, In-
berlted, contagious and copper colored-diseases of
the blood, skin and scalp, with loss of hair, are posi-
tively cured by Ctjticuba Resolvent, the new
blood purl tier, inte rnally, and Cuticuba and Ctm-
cdha Boap, the great skin cures and beautlflers,
externally, when all known remedies and the best
physicians fail.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a noble exception to
the spirits of the day. Always ask for Wolfe's.
Why be sick and ailing when Hop Bitters
will surely cure you i None genuine but male by
American Co. Bead and know
Invigorate the system with Wolfe’s
Schnapps, the purest stimulant in the world.
OFFORD & CO.’S HA1S
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
Next to Eoyal Hotel, and at 652 George Street.
Old Dawvid Whittoek, of Balolutba,
N.Z., was recently a passenger from Dunedin to
Wellington along with the Invercaglll Brass
Band, who were on their way to take part in a
musical competition in connection with the N.Z.
Exhibition. After the band had pretty well re-
covered its health, and was able to do a bit of
tooting and thumping on dock, Mr. Whittoek per-
suaded the leader to “ gie them some o’ theauld
Soots’ tunes their mlthers used tae croon lang
syne in bonny Scotland ” When the performance
was finished, Dawvid got up on the bridge beside
the captain, and after takkln’ a pull at a flask of
whusky, he thus *• sklted ’ to the Invercagillites: -
“ Men and bretheren frae Invercaurglll and pairts
adjacent,—Are ye bearin’ ? Here stand I,
Dawvid Whittoek, malrchent, from the Clootha,
five feet sax an’ three-quarters in my stockln’s,
and hero's the gawlant captain o’ this noble
shup — God bless him I —a better or malr
skilful commander does na leeve on this side
o' Jordan or the ither. Are ye heatin’? And
there’s your eels a lot o’ fine lookln chlels frae the
Sooth— though some o’ ye are white aboot the
gills after last nioht’s storm —I wiz ralther
queer mysel. But, hoosomever, here we are met
together—are ye hearin? an’ I’vejoostgotthlstae
say that gif ye dlnna win the first prize at the oom-
peeteeshyn I’m sair cheated. And as I said afore
J) n ye, are ye bearin’? a finer lookin’lot o’
chaps I’ve never come across; an’ its joost real
grand to hear ye tootin’ and puffin’ and blawln’
and thumpin’—are ye bearin’ ? When I left hame
the wife said tae me, * Gude man,’ says she, * whit-
ever ye do on boord ship, dinna drink whisky or
ye’ll get fou wl naething in ye’r stammack, and I’ve
releegiously abstained till this vera m nute, but
noo a’le joost hae a nup—and, are ye bearin’?—
here’s a’jye’r vera gude healths.” So saying Dawvid
took a long pull and a strong pull at his flask, and
then handed it to the captain with the remark,
” Noo, Cap, ye’ve heerd me mak a speech, whit’s
ye’r honest opeenlon o’t? Wls’na yon joost real
grand? Are ve hearln ? Dldna I come oot
line wi’t." The Captain took the proffered flask,
field it up between his left eye and the shining
summit of Mount Cook, and then, tossing it lightly
overboard, replied—‘‘Take my solemn affidavit,
Mr. Whittoek, there’s not another man on board
this steamer could have made such a speech—not
one but yourself.”
Vox Popull.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Where is the soul that will speak out,
Denouncing wrong where’er it rules:
Nor heed the angry bigots’ shout—
The braying of the gilded fools
That in the highest places throng,
With fulsome lips to flatter those
To whom the gifts of power belong.
But not the sense that well bestows ?
Speak outl Speak out! ’gainst tyrants all,
Who trample on the people’s right,
Or hold the numan mind in thrall
To stop the soul’s ascendant flight—
Til', trembling as at earthquake’s sounJ,
They fly from their usurped place;
Then Freedom, from their thongs unbound,
Shall lift to heaven a smiling face.
Too long we bear the yoke and bend
Before the meanest of our kind-
le there no prophet now to rend
The silence ? None, like Milton blind,
To speak against oppression’s wrong,
And shatter statesmens’ sophistries,
Or rouse the nations with a song
As fierce as France’s Marseillaise ?
Dumb dogs they who should be first
To call on heav’n’s avenging hand
To smite the things that are acours’t.
The drones that batten on the land—
The idle priest so smooth and sleek,
Who lulls the conscience to false peace,
Who knows the truth, but will not speak,
L ist Mammon’s ample off’rings cease.
The titled wretch of lust and pride.
Who wantons at the people’s cost—
The lord of lands and manors wide
Their unresisting, sirps have lost—
Who dwells at ease in gilded halls.
While starving millions pine and die
Where gaping roofs and oozing walls
Surround dark dens of infamy.
L’Envoi.
The rising tide of human wrath,
Loud-echoing from the old-world shore
Is voice prophetic in the path
Of one who comes earth to restore:
Feroha' ee the Christ of all mankind
incarnate of a deathless hope
That every wrong redress shall find
When Reason’s sway hath boundless scope.
F.D.


A BOON TO THOUSANDS I
Manhood and Vigour of Youth
Restored in Four Weeks
I
DR. RICORDS
ESSENCE OF LIFE
tutor** manhood to the most shattered «»m
itltotion from whatever cause arising, in FOUR WEEKS, _
failure i» impossible if taken according to the printed di-
rection*. which are very simple, and require no Restraint or
hindrance from business. ...
This invaluable remedy affords relief, and permanently
enres *11 who suffer wasting and withering of the nerves and
■oscular tissues, Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Disturbed
5" 5 Trembling Sensations, Dirxiness, Spermatorrhoea, all
Urinary Deposits, which cause incapacity and degeneracy,
total and partial prostration, and every other exhaustive de-
rangement of the system ; regenerating all the important
elements of th* human frame, and enabling man to fulfil his
„o(t sacred obligations. ... , , ,,.
Ife oases at iss., or four quantities in one for j«s.; K by
-.each, *»- Id. ... : ,
NATURE’S GREAT REMEDY!
DR. RICORDS
SANATIVE PILLS
Par strengthening the system, purifying the blood, regulating
ike bowels, and removing all vitiated humours, bilious and
Liver Complaints, Rheumatism, Gout, _ Scorbutic Affections,
Costiveness. Skin Eruptions, and all diseases of the nervous
.... j_
svstem. Tkis never-failing remedy affords at once
lease of life to the sickly and aged of both sexes, im;
t beautiful and clear complexion, a sure star
strength, and vigour. Price, ts. i by poet, td
new
•sin.
AGENT* FOR SVLNftt
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 OOTJLBVRN STREET,
On* Doo* from Guoaou Sra*»T South,
Aid may be had of most Chemists. Q
Parcel* packed securely and fr*e frtm eteervatlen, tint U
Queensland, New Zealand, or anu part of “•
Oolonlee, on receipt of Pott Office Ordei
the Australian
fee or Stamps.
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
tbst Vitality, ffeCi ; ‘A simple and positive
InbatiS of Self-Cure, by an eminent
Trench Hospital Physician- Sent Free
Medico, P.O. Box 766. Sydney.
CIENCB
or
life
F
A&rfeat MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
fekltitttsted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Yout h, and the untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses may b<
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Lift
or Self Preservation. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions foi
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. 300 pa go a, bound in beautiful French cloth,
full gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
anyother soldin tho country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, .8 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the IfatiotiiU Medical
Association, to the officers of Which he befgfS.
The Science of Life should be head by the young fox
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
411. —iiVniioh Lancet. •
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As- UP A i
sociation, or Dr. W. R. Parker, No. 69 Hunter f| L A L
Street,Sydney, N.S.W. Theauthormay TUVOri T
. .consulted on all diseases requiring I M I Ot-Ll
skill, secrecy, and experience.
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The beat known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
•v- URALG1A, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC IE,
RAINSj BRUISES, JURNS. SCALP I, &c and
*kea internally cures DIARRHOEA, B YSEMj.^RY,
CRAMPS; COLIC, and all other lutfcrms aches
ind pains, ,
Price, S/- ioM 15Verywliere.
0. E. MOULTON, sole PROPfllTOR.
MELBOXJICISrid JLNJD L .DNEY,
I
trade MARK-“ TONIC NERVINE.”
A BAFB, CkktaIN. & SPEED V CUKE lor Ner-
Tons and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, aa Neuralgia,
toothache. Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
By its tonic and soothing effects It at once
removes all craving tor Alcohol. By Its richness
phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
«nor and gives vigour to the whole system.
£noe, 4s. fid., or 85s. a case Sold everywhere.
Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS, Registered
lemigts, 104 and 106 Market-street, near Hyde
t Sydney, and 5 Pltt-street. :OiTuul»*--nu*T.
; ( i -All imitations Illegal. TAKE NO bC BSTL
pi A U T I 0 V
NOTICE TO THE PUBLIC.
In consequence of an attempt to substitute in-
ferior and spurious articles for “ Dr. Scott’s Elec-
tric,” the Pall Mall Electric Association, 54, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, desire to caution the public
against purchasing any counterfeit of the follow-
ing goods “ Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets, Dr.
Scott’s Electric Belts, Dr. scott’s Electric Hair,
Flesh, or Tooth Brushes, Dr. Scott’s Galvanic
Genei ators, and Dr. Scott’s Electric Insoles ’
Every genuine article bears the word “ Electric”
and the name of Dr. Scott, as also does the box
containing same. The extent of our trade, and the
marked appreciation of the public having induced
certain parties to manufacture a line of worthless
goods, having something of the general form and
external appearance of ours, and variously styled
11 Magneto -Electric or Electric Magnetic,’
we respectfully ask that parties who have been
influenced by the many testimonials we publish,
all of which are strictly genuine, or the universal
reputation of our goods, to give electricity a
trial, will see that the name of Dr. Scott and the
word 41 fileetfic” appear on every article purchased.
In addition to this, we have recently registered a
new trade mark—an oval label with our local
address, “Pall Mall Electric Association, 54, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, N.S.W,” in marginal lines,
encircling the device of a mailed hand holding a
group of thunderbolts
Is/ V'
mSfi
warJc
t R AB
*
2
X’
y/M
As we afe tile only parties in Australia importing
these goods direct from Dr. Scott, alld are prepared
to guaiantee the genuineness of every article
bearing this label, we advise purchasers to sec
personally that this trade mark invariably appears
on any and evety Electric Corset, Belt, Insole,
Generator, Hair. Flesh, or Tooth Brush, they may
desire to purchase. This borne in mind, much
vexation and disappolntmt ut will be saved ; and
we respectfully request th ,t any person who has
been induced to buy any of tbose imitations under
the impression that they were Dr. Scott's Electric,
will at once communicate With us.
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, tad aidiisg by ; he
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continenta
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial?
&
I
MM
s
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
licians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &c., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
s. d.
No. 1
No. 2
No. 3
So. 5
leotric Belts..
..6 6
... 8 6
.. 10 6
.. 15 0
.. 15 0
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d, added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece ©f common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
me am,
64 iargaret-strast,
SYDNEY,
P.O, Box 221,
WAREHOUSES. SYDNEY.
Hit New ZtiU Loan an! Mmililt Agency Cotjaij
(LIMITED),
HEAD OFFICE ... .. - ... LONDON.
Ostpatsil - - £3,500,000.
THIS COMPANY WILL CONTINUE TO DISPLAY AND SELL
WOOL!
ON THE MELBOURNE SYSTEM,
•At their Magnificent Warehouses,
BEID&E STREET,
SYDNEY.
ty EVERY LOT WILL BE CAREFULLY VALUED, AND SPECIAL ATTENTION WILL BE
BESTOWED UPON SMALL FARMERS’ PARCELS, WHICH WILL BE PLACED ON A FOOTING
OF EQUALITY WITH THE LARGE CLIPS.
If reserves are not reached, the nominal charge of one shilling per hale only will be made.
SHEEPSKINS AND HIDES, EVERY FRIDAY.
WOOL SALES, EVERY TUESDAY.
Way Bills and all information can be obtained on application, or will be sent by return of post,
H. H. LANG, Produce Manager.
Sydney Wool and Grain Warehouses.
tri
■
"‘"I,,
* .1
f
\ \
> i
W
4.
- f- -
w
'
if
■4
Mi
o
ay
NEW AND INGENIOUS READY-ACTING DOG-TAIL AND CAMERA ATTACHMENT, FO
TOURISTS.
A patent is now pending by the Inventors.
They claim the dog’s tail and the instantaneous shutter, also the combination of the shutter aud
dog’s tail, also the whole dog, and the general application, in the manner substantially and for
the purpose described.
ray U iclitner,
32 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, in great variety, from £3. Catalogues post free.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
SOLE AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID In the Market,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies.
Caterer and Confectioner,
654 GEORGE STREET.
|ar WEDDINGS, BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIES A SPECIALITY.


THIS WICKED WORLD.
“Undxsiflsed kid is the favourite material
for Bllppeii,” says a fashion journal. It maybe
added that slippers are not a favourite material
■with the undressed kid.. ."Take a sherry cob-
bler,” raid the captain of the ship to a sea-sick
passenger. "Will It be of any benefit?” moaned
the passenger. " Oh, no. not any particular bene-
fit, perhaps, but it tastes just as good coming up as
going down.”....At a negro wedding, when the
minister read the words: “Love, honour and
obey,” the groom interrupted him, and said:
"Read that agin, sah; read It wunoe mo’, so’s de
lady kin ketch de full solemnity of de meanin’.
I’se been married befo’.”... An English railway
company has supplied all Its employes with red
neok-oloths, the wearing of which is compulsory.
The object is to furnish porters, guards, or switch-
men with red flags that are always at hand, and
can bo employed in the event of any sudden acci-
dent. Green trousers should also be served out;
then every man would be his own signal-box—
The “ girl of the period ” must be a good house-
keeper: she make so much bustle about a little
waist—Professor Gower suggests that by means
of aerostats explosions of 100-pound shells of gun-
cotton might be arranged over tho enemy’s post
tlon. Summarizing his proposals, the lecturer
said“ In brief, I propose to you a warfare by
gun-cotton and hydrogen, to make the loss of an
army a result of Its meetlnor an opposing wind,
to destroy the security of fortified positions, and
finally to show, upon the simplest principles of
■elf-preservation, that nations must keep peace
and great armies be disbanded.” The Bazaar,
an English publication, announces that an eccle-
siastic wishes to exchange a “Cassock, new; fit
gentleman about 5ft. (iln., for a ‘ pedigree pup.’ ”
And yet we are told that vestments and church
clothing generally have a special sanctity about
them. Perhaps, though, " pedigree pups ” are
equally blessed An enamoured youth visited
his sweetheart the other evening. The night was
warm, and he found her fast asleep on a lounge.
After gazing for some moments In rapture at the
Bleeping beauty, he conceived a brilliant Idea.
Taking a rosebud from his buttonhole he pro-
ceeded to pin It to her gently-heaving bosom be-
fore waking her. No sooner, however, had he in-
serted the pin than a loud hissing sound was
heard, and one side of the lovely bust soon became
as fiat as if an elephant had trodden upon it, while
the other still retained its Hogarthian curve and
fulness. It was only a patent pad he bad punc-
tured, but at present his relations with the fair one
to use adiplomatloterm, are "somewhat strained ”
..On the opening day of last Wimbledon meeting a
tall, brawny Scotchman turned up at the camp
bookstall and asked for a paper. He was served,
and then producing a coin from bis pocket, said:
** Look here, young man, ye gle me a bad penny
last year, and I hae saved It for ye.” The penny
was a French copper, which would not pass muster
In Scotland.... A Complicated Question.—"Mama,
■aid a small boy who has a very recent brother,
“did Adam and Eve have babies? Oh. yes.
Don’t you remember the story of Cain killing
Abel ? 1 They were little babies at one time.
" Yes. I s’pose they were,” went on the little boy,
thoughtfully, "but what gets me is, If Adam was
the first man and Eve the first woman, where the
doctor comes in who furnished the babies
win*! hov: “They say you are a coward, a liar.
Second hoy: "Do you know what
L* pall vou?’ First hoy: "What?” Second
hov* “They don’t call, they just whistle,”-Texas
wftinas “ If I stand on my head,” said Fllpklns,
Sv UP to the boys with the air of a man who
a poser—" If I stand on my head the blood
alfrushes mto my head, don’t it ?’ No one ven-
tured to contradict him. "Now,” continued he,
triumphantly. “when I stand on my feet, why
blood all rush into my feet ? ’ “ Because,”
replied Mies Coshannlgan’s brother, " because,
pXklne your feet are not empty.”... It is said
Princess Beatrice’s eldest sister refused to eat any
nfthebridal cake. This seems to corroborate the
ofoiBnifintthat Beatrice baked her own cake....
An actress has written a novel called “ After All.
Variate female 1 When an actress gets “after
aU ” 8he®s bound to catch some of them. The sequel
tJll, “Divorce.”....In America they have de-
eded that it is illegal for a man to insure the life
nfhia mother-in-law Dr. Slgmundy, of Vienna,
who published a book of directions for climbing
Alps with safety, has tumbled and broken his
neck!.IT- A half -holiday is better than no loaf...
Thus a Yankee bard :—
" There was an old lady named Guelph,
Exceedingly fond of the puelph;
She ruled a great people,
Was stiff as a steeple.
And kept, all the time, to horsuelph.”
Frivolous: Young Lady (to male companion):
"How deep Is this hole?” M.C.: “Never been
measured. Mies.” Frivolous Y. L,: “Suppose I
ST l down there, where do you suppose 1
: "That depends, Miss, upon
Hpwvnn have lived in this world.”....From the
Joth of May, 1881, to August 8,1885, a soldier named
Camille Martin lay In the military hospital at
Vienna, suffering from catalepsy. All the re-
sources of medical science were applied to his
case without apparent improvement until the date
last named, when the doctors ordered that a bag-
pipe be played near his bed. The effect was
magical. Consciousness was restored immediately.
— Englishmen ventured to play tennis at Sonwal-
bach. Germany, without their coats. This so
shocked the native sense of morality that an in-
fluential deputation of ladles requested the Mayor
to forbid the Indecency. But the Mayor declined
to Interfere, giving It as his opinion that indecency
was an indispensable part of all Eagllsh games
— “O where does beauty linger?” demanded a
poetess. As a usual thing, she lingers In the par-
lour until her mother has cleaned up the kitchen.
— The other day, the mad King Ludwig of Bava-
ria had the entire Royal Opera Company vac-
cinated, and "Faust” was rendered by a Mar-
guerite and all the principal characters with their
arms in slings — A truly pathetic appeal has been
addressed by some of the Colchester (Eng.) clergy
tojthelr flocks. The charitably-disposed are warned
that “foreign hrorzo moneys” are not legal
tender, and "can be parted with only with great
difficulty and at great loss,” and congregations are
accordingly entreated to make their almoin the
current coin of tho realm and eschew these spuri-
ous tokens... Young men sow wildcats
single life, but women Row more tares after
marriage tlun before Tne services of Henry
Ward Beecher, who is now 73, and is getting
“ queerer” as he grows older, are going to be dis-
pe Eed with bv his congregation. He is not to bo
abruptly " sacked,” but will be "eliminated by
degrees.” He is always financially behind, and his
capacity for gettiig into debt increases with his
years and the amount of his income, ...Meltzer,
special correspondent of the N.Y. Herald in the
cbolera-strlcken districts of Spain, describes his
instructions as delivered by Mr. Bonnett. “ Go,”
said the proprietor of the Herald, “ into the
thick of it, and wire fully. Oive us timely notice,
if you are likely to die, so that another may take
your place and preserve continuity!” Meltzer,
at latest, awaited orders to remain In Spain
to follow the progress of the revolution
and record the downfall of the monarchy
The “rage for soe.cu’ation, ’’ generally comes after
the speculation Frenchman (to Kentucky citi-
zen): “Yen ze friend ask you ze invite to take ze
drink vlsky, what you say in Anglais ? ” Citizen:
"Don’t care if I do." Frenchman: "Doncar fldo,
oui! Bat ven you refuse ze Invite, zen vat you
say in Anglais?” Citizen: “ Well—er-I guess
you’ve got me now, Frenchy.”,.. “ Prisoner, why
did you follow this man, and kick him so shame-
fully?” “lam very sorry, yer worship, I yv&B a
little drunk, and thought he was my wife.”
Young Perkins (exasperated): "Ethel, in a few
days I will be far, far away.” Ethel (languidly):
“How far?” Young Perkins (desperately): “I
know not—thousands of miles, perhaps. To-mor-
row night 1 shall leave this house, perhaps for
ever.” Ethel (with Interest): “What’s the matter
with you to night that you should give
to-morrow night the preference?”. — Steam-
drawn tramcarsare not for cities S vdneyites should
well know. An engine on the Manchester tram-
way broke from Its moorings and started suddenly
down the streets. The driver was unable to con-
trol It, and It was not stopped until It had killed
two men and two horses. They are wiser In Mel-
bourne than to stand steam motors to their tram-
cars—only horse and cable traction being allowed.
Steam-engines are out of place In cities among
men, women, children, and horse-drawn vehicles ..
A simple-minded curate attended a dinner in the
course of which a glass of milk punch was quietly
set down by each plate. In silence and happiness
this new Vicar of Wakefield quaffed his goblet,
and then said to the hostess: “ Madam, you should
daily thank God for such a good cow.” — Old
maids like cats because, having no husbands, they
take to the next most treacherous animal — The
only organ without stops is woman’s organ of
sneech. A Sorrento (Vic.) woman was struck
dumb on seeing a black snake. An association of
married men will soon be formed to breed black
snakes “ Q. e, o, r, g. e,” remarked the German
gentleman, "spells Chorcb. C, h, u, r, c. h—dot
spells chorch, too. J, u. d, g, e—und dot spells
chorchl Now vot kind of adorn longvidge vos
dis ?" Brown says his wife is like a concertina.
She makes mostnolse when hetrlesto shut her up,
— The King of Dahomey has a large heart,
lively affections, and an expansive bosom. Last
year he was the happy husband of 3000 wives. But
discovering recently he still had sufficient wealth
of love to cherish a few more of the softer sex, he
espoused another odd 50—One of the principal
confectioners In Paris, summoned to a chateau to
prepare a wedding feast, has committed suicide
because dishes from his Paris establishment
missed the train. He was found dead, In his band
a slip of paper:—" 1 have done this because no one
will help me in my trouble.” Lord Rosebery is
having a picture of Bismarck painted by the cele-
brated Lenbach, of Munich. Bismarck never
gives a sitting to an artist, but he invites Lenbach
(who is a favourite) to Varzln, when the latter
catches his various expressions as opportunity
serves, and afterwards reproduces them from me-
mory President Cleveland’s blue-stocking
sister Is writing a novel In which her brother
will be the hero. Cannot some woman
give us a novel with her husband as hero ?
The Continental newspapers describe the Prince
of Wales as “a jolly good fellow.” The women
vote him a handsome man, but a trifle too stout
for the purposes of romance We read in a
“ loyal ” English paper the astounding news that
the Prince of Wales has been “ steering his own
yacht with his own hand.” We suppose he couldn’t
steer It with anybody else’s own hand, or with his
foot, or with the back of bis bead. If be had
hauled down the raalnbrace by shooting the taff-
rall, come up to the wind by flinging the marlin-
spike out of the port tack, and then steered his
yacht with his big toe, while he unloosed the
jibbootn with the clew-lines by means of his teeth,
just as he weighed the anchor on his eyelids, we
should have thrown up our cap with the rest. But
merely to "steer his yacht with his own hand!’
It’s a case once more of “Jerniganl JerniganI
Jernigao! bring me my garters.”—“ Pa, who was
Shylock ?” Paterfamilias (with a look of virtuous
surprise and holy horror): "Great goodness, boy,
you attend church and Sunday school every week
and don’t know who Shylock was! Go and read
your Bible, sir, at ones.” ...“Miss Florence, do
you love beasts?” “Am I to consider that as a
proposal, sir?” She: “What are you thinking
about?” He: "Nothing.” She: "Egotist.”—
Speaking of our coming King, an English society
paper says:—" He has shown himself the worthy
son of an august father, tho apt disciple of a great
master. He has grasped not only the letter, but
the spirit of the paternal example.” If this is the
case, it is high time that "For Nothing” be
added to the inscription on the statue in Hyde
Park, Sydney Rome is to he made a seaport and
two pioneer boats have been built in England to
plough the turbid waters of the'i iber. Think of
driving down to the Janiculum landing-stage,
past the Sybllllne Seating Rink and the Vatican
bonded stores, and joining the s s. Cicero for Genoa I
Shade of Horatius Codes, can such things be ? ...
Mr. Gower, a scientist who made wealth by per-
fecting tho telephone, has met with a strange fate.
He turned his Inventive mind to improvements in
aerial navigation. He had made five successful
trips from England to France, and was trying dif-
ferent methods of balloon-steering. His last trial
was made on 18th July, when he went up at Caer-
bourg, intending to cross the English Channel. As
up to 18th September nothing had been heard of
him, he is given up as lost. The supposition that
he has got to tho moon or landed in an ,ther pi met
will not probably weigh much with the Probate
Court, who will now be asked to administer his
estate .. A ne» trial has been moved for in
Kansas on the ground of "undue influence exer-
cised by one of the jurymen by means of public.
prayer In the jury room ” One-third of the
French viueyans were destroyed by the phyl-
loxera last year. The quantity of wine produced
in France was greater b i a third than in previous
years. Chew these facts.. .In London, lately, a
German bearing the suspicious name of Barak
was arrested for vagrancy. The German Consul
refused tco assist him, because he sail there were
already too many poverty-stricken Germans
domiciled in E igl md. He evidenty referred to
the German princes—Battenberg, Teck and Co.
She was a fat old party, and we who were
in the front of the crush, gave way for her that she
might see the Kyardlnal. “ Ah I” she exclaimed,
“ that’s Hts Imminence, is it ? Shure It’s ’the first
Kyardinal I ivver saw—thanki be to God 1” she
devoutly added.
An old English will, lately perused, enjoins
that on each anniversary of the testator’s death,
30 Irishmen shall be summoned to his tomb and
there have £10 worth of whisky divided amongst
them. Each man Is to be provided with a staff and
a knife, and be made to drink the liquor on the
spot. Tho tsstator charitably adds,—“ Knowing
what I know of the Irish character, I think they
will destroy each other, so that In the course of
time the whole race will he exterminated.”
At last cottiraibtee meeting, the secretary
of Sydney Hospital reported that Nurse Levy, who
had been ask sd to “clear,” defied anyone to re-
move her, and said she was acting on the advice of
an influential member of the board of directors
(whom she did not name,) but who had promised
to “ see her through”). Whereupon, according to
the 8 M. Herald, Mr. Director Hablgall arose
and remarked that “ he did not know the young
lady at all—in f act, he had never to h ! s knowledge
seen her.” Qui s'excuse s'accusc, Frawncis. No-
body appears to have said you did know Miss
Levy-
Love recompensed.—It was in a young
ladies’ seminary, and the theme was “ Love Re-
compensed.” Here is the prize essay handed in by
a little girl of 11:—“ There was once a young and
handsome youth and a beautiful girl, and they
loved each other; but he was poor, and they were
not allowed to marry. One day he became very
rich, and they were married. They longed for
children, but time went on, and they had none.
Just then a war broke out, and the young man
was called out to fight for his country. In the
battle he was taken prisoner and shut un in the
dungeon for seven years, and all this time he
thought fondly of his wife. At last he returned
home, and how shall I describe his joy when on
meeting his wife she presented him with seven
children which she had had during his absonce ?
Thus love was recompensed I”
The mighty youth of Timothy O’Brien, of
Melbourne, Is now mewed In Pentridge Pilson.
Passing down the street a few days ago, the roving
eye of Tim fell upon a case of whisky which lay
upon the footpath in front of a spirit-store. The
potentialities of fun contained in that case made a
deep Impression upon Tim’s intellect, and, with-
out saying a word to anyone, he manfully
shouldered It and marched off, musing as he went
on the unspeakable spree that he was just about
to enter on. The sordid proprietor, however,
I looked upon the thing in a different light, and had
j poor Tim trundled off to the station before he had
time to even sample his spoil. There Is a moral to
be drawn from this melancholy case. Lot us give
it in rhyme:—
“Editor Bulletin.—Sir,—In your issue of
October 31, you say, ‘The delicate question as to
how men come by bald heads Is the subject of
warm controversy at the p-esent time in Rock-
hampton (Q.) ’ This question was settled s ine
time ago by the Burlington Hawkeye, from
which I quote:—* The cause of baldness is the
habit men have of pulling their shirts and night-
shirts off over their heals. There are some who
will laugh at this Idea, but It Is not intended that
they should, as this is not a funny article. This is
business. The pulling of a shirt or night-shirt off
over the head causes friction on the scalp, which
In time sears the roots of the hair and leaves a
barren plain, a Sahara, for ever after. Suppose
the night shirt comes to a man’s feet, there is from
live to six feet of tail to be drawn over the tender
hair, which, kept up for a series of years, would
wear out any head of hair. Add to this the friction
from taking off the shirt, and then the natural
scratching of the head for Ideas, &c.,and the hair has
no rest, and the wonder is there is a man left who
has a spear of hair on his head. Now the preventive
is for men to walk out of their night-shirts the front
way. Women are never bald, and some sneering
men account for the fact by claiming that women
do not have brain enough to become bald. That
is a lie. Women have more brain and a belter
quality than any bald-headed man on earth. But
they do not wear their hair off by pulling their
garments over the head. They walk out
of their garments into the light of day and
never disturb a hair. This we state upon
Information and belief, and If we are wrong we
can easily bo corrected. It is alleged that they got
out of their dry goods different from men, and
thereby make a great saving in hair. Taking ali
the facts, there is only one sensible way for men
who desire to retain their hair, and that is to break
off the destructive habit of pulling their garments
off over their heads.’-
-KALULA.”
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN.
Philosophers of all time have engaged their
imagination upon the fascinating ideal of a perfect
humanity. Plato’s “Model Republic,” Bacon’s
New Atlantis,” More’s “Utopia,” Sidney’s
‘Arcadia,” were all so many dreams of generous
minds for the recomposition of society. Practical
men, and those upon whom the lessons of history
have an effect, know that these pleasant visions
are wholly impossible of accomplishment. The
Brook Farm episode of Hawthorne’s life is an
instance of the utter impracticability of modelling
society upon arbitrary principles of conduct.
Circumstances cannot be controlled, even were it
possible to wholly govern temperament. We must
take the world as it is, and watt for the outcome.
The brotherhood of man, regarded as a political,
social, or religious possibility, is certainly very
remote. “ Vested interests” are largely superior
to generous sentiments; and the great fact re-
mains that, as humanity is constituted, personal
selfishness may be considered to be its motive
force and character.
And yet we have before us a brotherhood by
man. which, ancient as tradition itself, remains at
this hour true to those sublime principles upon
which Its founders built it. In Freemasonry,
Indeed, we behold the accomplishment of the only
human brotherhood which is possible. Charity,
that Divine principle, is its life,: and of the Free-
mason may be quoted from Popo’s * Essay on
Man ”—
“ In faith and hope the world will disagree,
But all mankind’s concern Is charity.”
Freemasons In this part of the world know and
esteem Mr. H. G. Crocker, editor of the Masonic
Journal of Melbourne, as a faithful brother of
their Order. They wid rej dee. therefore, to learn
that he is fast recovering his health. For fifteen
years he had been a martyr to liver and kidney
troub'es. His agonies of mind and body had been
great, and it is scarcely to be wondered at that,
finding little or no relief from medical aid, he had
well nigh given up lus case as hopeless. Fortu-
nately, he resolved to try what Warner’s Safe
Caye could do for him. He now testifies as fol-
lows:— 1 "About the 10 ;h July last I began the use
of Warner’s Safe Cure and Safe Pills, and from
that time to this have been free from pain of all
kind. I have purposely refrained from giving
expression to the merits of these preparations
before this to thoroughly sitisfy myself that they
had done what was claimed for them. Knowing
this. I recommend Warner’s Safe Remedies.” Mr.
Crocker is only one of many eminent Freemasons
who have been.brought back to health and re-
newed usefulness to the cause of the brotherhood
of man by the use of that which is within the
reach of all.
Printed and Published by Tm Bulletin News*
aaper Oc. 'Limited), H Pltt-st.. Sydney, N.8.W,
Ye men who drink, just pause and think
If drinking is a good or bad thing.
We think you would not call it good,
And that you could not if you would;
But drinking spirits Is a mad thing.
Tim found It risky—
His drink was whisky,
And he’s In gaol. The moral’s clear—
If you drink anything, drink beer
(Just ask tho mighty brewer, Farrell!)
Poor Tim got into such a coll
Through loading up with fusel oil;
If he drank beer, then it is clear
He would be now In better cheer.
For he could hardly carry off a barrel!
In Queensland it is a tie which subject is the more important—the introduction of Javanese labour or prayers for rain. The prolonged drought is put down to various
causes. Many people attribute it to the manner in which the labour traffic has been carried on. But, if murdering blacks caused drought, New South Wales would now be
a desert This is the wail that the want of water squeezes out of a Queensland religious journal“ Actually we have had a number of years of drought, and during that
time repeated and earnest supplications have been presented to Almighty God to remove the infliction. These are facts; and one potent fact is the drought is apparently
as vigorous now as ever, and likely to continue. As already stated, we believe in prayer, and we believe in prayer for rain; but, in the face of the plain fact that our peti-
tions do not meet with the wished-for response, there is every reason to believe that something is wrong. Not doubting the efficacy of prayer, the want must be with the
petitioners themselves.” In this matter, as in many others, the Chinese are far ahead of us. We’ve seen these almond-eye! inoffensive-looking Mongolians burning tapers
by the dozen before a big “ Joss,” and chopping off roosters’ heads by the score in order get a change of weather. At last, when the lights were out and the poultry eaten
even Eastern patience had to give way. If “Joss ” wouldn’t change the wind they weren’t going to let him sit there enjoying himself. Throwing a noose deftly round
his neck they soon had him off his perch anti performing an involuntary tour of the building—six stout Chinese pulling the rope, while as many were behind pushing Dur-
ing the procession the figure was subjected to bitter recriminations and assaults of an aggravated character. You can’t teach Chinamen much.
A little “ jook..”
A great big horse;
A steeplechase
O’er Melbourne’s course.
A little jump,
A great big fall;
A hurdle down,
And that is all—
Except, their joins
The angel choir,
A cherub “jock.,”
With brand-new lyre.
