

THE BULLETIN
VoL 2. —No. 103.—New Seriee.
SATURDAY, MAY 2, 1885.
Mm-M.
The Bulletin.
' - SATURDAY, MAY 3, 1885.
The Dailies’ Dilemma
The woe-begone condition to which our
daily contemporaries are reduced on realiz.
ing the sad fate of the New South Wales
Contingent, is food for the laughter of the
gods. Had every man in the force been
slaughtered, or had every man returned
each with his rifle-stock corrugated with
notches representing the number of foes he
had slain, the dailies would have been in the
highest state of Jingoistic exaltation. But
when it became evident that “our boys”
were to be sent back to us uninjured, and
without having wrought injury upon any-
thing more formidable than tinned beef,
the “Patriotic” journals are quite crest-
fallen. Nobody having been massacred on
one side or the other, the bloodthirsty S.M.
Herald becomes positively lugubrious, the
Evening News disconsolately strives to dis-
count, by anticipation, the ridicule which it
perceives to be its inevitable portion, and
the Daily Telegraph gees metaphorically
upon its marrowbones and whines pitifully
that it never said that the Contingent would
be of any service. In this humble excuse
the S. M. Herald itself joins, and the con-
tortions of the trio of papers, but yesterday
bursting with the inflation of spurious
patriotism and militant exaggeration, are
of a character to bring tears of laughter to
every eje. We had estimated that nothing
could exceed the feverish anxiety which
■was displayed to magnify the importance of
the succour to England, and the desperate
necessity that there was for rendering that
help without a moment’s delay. So urgent
was the case, and so extreme the emergency,
that it justified, we were told, a disregard of
all constitutional procedure. The Ministry,
the public was bouncibly requested to ob-
serve was fully warranted by the extremity
and urgency of the peril to the mother
country, in acting without the concurrence
of the Parliament and in breaking down the
limitations on their power of action which
were provided in the Constitution as a safe-
guard for the people of the colony against
iust such precipitation as then occurred.
♦ ♦ ♦
Now, however, the v<ry organs which
insisted on that urgency, and exaggerated
that extremity of need as a justification for
the unconstitutional deed of Dalley, are
explaining with embarrassed fervour that
they never said that England required help,
or that there was any extremity whatever.
They nevertheless, feel themselves in so dip.
tresBing a quandary that they cannot help
shewing the agitation which afflicts them;
and are unable to conceal that at the present
time they wish the Contingent were at
Jericho-or at least in Afghanistan. They
shew themselves extremely sore and irritated
because the men have the perversity not to
wish to go to Jericho, and with theexception
of a handful, are so weary and sick of the
whole fiasco and farce, that they are deter-
mined to have done with this military busi-
ness and come back to their homes. The
temper of the New South Wales Contingent
in this particular seems to have been par-
ticularly galling to the Imperial authorities
—who had, doubtless, believed all that Dal-
ley and the dailies stuffed them with re-
specting the intensity and unanimity of the
popular feeling, and the heroic determma-
tion of everybody to share every war of
England, good or bad, at any sacriflce what-
ever The flow of honied phrases has been
suddenly shut off. The slobber of over-
ripe compliments — compliments which,
f lavished upon any particular regiment in
the regular service, would have astonished
the British public and convulsed the rest of
the army—has sharply changed to some-
thing very like insult. The colonials
have, according to the terms of a cabled
message, been curtly told that if they refuse
to voluvtt°er for service in India they will
be disbanded. We don’t see how our
brethren have merited this affront. Nobody
imagines that they had any responsibility
for the foolish vapourings of the Ministry
and the daily Press. They were men who
wanted a change and a bit of excitement,
and the chance of getting it In the shape of
a fight, with pay, and praise, and glory
thrown in, was too grand a “ throw in” to
be neglected. Nobody supposes that they
were philosophers who had pondered over
their obligations and their duty to the
mother country or to this colony. As a
matter of fact, all the philosophers and
high patriotic moralisers, from Mr. Dalley
and tho Editor of the Herald, down to
Ninny Melville and “ the Little Boy at
Manly,” stayed at home with extraordinary
unanimity.
• * *
The adventurous fellows who enlisted had
no voice in all the splendid things which were
said in theirhehalf. They were spoiling for a
fight, and, had they been favoured by a
bountiful Providence with the chance, they
would have comported themselves with al 1
the Han and resolution which is ordinarily
exhibited by raw troops under fire for the
llrst time—probably with rather more spirit
than with rather less. But they had not
thought the matter out very exhaustively.
With their eyes fixed on Glory, and with
every assurance from Dallev and the
dallies that they were assured no less a slice
of that commodity than to save the British
Empire in her hour of peril, they did not
permit their minds to dwell upon such possi-
ble eventualities as their not being required
at all, and having to march and counter-
march and guard navvies engaged in the
enspiriting occupation of railway-making,
with water bad and scanty, under a blazing
sun. They could have stood the thirst and
the marching, provided the glory had been
thrown in in handsome lumps. But all
botheration and no glory 1 Their experience
lasted long enough to teach them the differ-
ence between romance and reality, and to
appreciate the fact that no matter how
fluently editors may write, the soldier's lot
is, like that of the operatic policeman, ‘‘not
a happy one.” But they have by no means
deserved the sudden contumely from the
War Office. Much allowance may be made
for the military officials. They had been so
gulled by Dalley and the dailies that they
had really believed that all Australians were
born fools, and really ready to sacrifice uot
only the Constitution under which they
lived, but all their peaceful progress and
personal comfort in order to have the honour
of providing a fresh recruiting ground for
feeding the maw of Moloch, whenever the
1 ruling classes of the old country thought it
suited them to engage in a bloody war. It
was, doubtless, an irritating thing to dis-
cover that even the thoughtless and reck-
less, who rushed to enlist at the first impulse
had a lot of solid oommonsense under their
superficial levity, and were quite capable of
realizing that the career of even a luckless
man in a peaceful and prosperous colony is
infinitely preferable to the best luck which
a common soldier may hope for.
» • *
We shall be glad to see our 700 adult males
back again among our population, and es-
pecially glad that they will return with
hands free from the indelible stain of the
blood of patriots. According to present ap-
pearances, their luck may, perhaps; change
once they get buck to their own litnd, and it
may be their fortune to be to Australia what
the Arabs are to the Soudan, the devoted
and patriotic defenders of their country
against a foreign and unprovoked aggrea •
sion.
* • •
It is useless for the Jingo journals tC
attempt to writhe out of their mortifying
situation. It is useless for theiti to proclaim
now that they never pretended thitt Etlg-
land needed the help which has proved sd
uncalled for. They will thus merely shift
on to the other horn of the dilemma which
tortures them. If there was no desperate
necessity, then there was no justifloatioh
for the unconstitutional proceedings of Mr.
Dallby and his abettors. Of course therd
was no extreme need, and the old country
was in no stress. But the Government and
the Press apologists affirmed both positions.
• • •
In the very first paragraph published by
the S. M. Herald accompanying Mr.
ley's minute to the Executive Council; it
was particularly stated that—
“The Government, In making this (.ffertothd
Imperial Government, desires to testify to thh
readiness of the Australian colonies to give instant
and practical help to the Empire in its emergency.”
And in the first leading article in which the
same journal dealt with the project, it de-
clared that—
“ The making of the offer implied the belief that
something in the nature of an emergency had
arisen; and that the prompt appearance at Suakim
of even so small a force as we could afford to
send, would be of great value at a critical mo-
ment. In that belief . and the probable around fot
it, lie the justification of the action of the Ooverri •
ment ; and that is substantially the answer to Sif
Henry Pahkes’ letter in Saturday’s Herald.”
Just so. And that being the case, what has
now become of the justification 7 Strug- 1
gling now in vain. It will always be easy to
pin the three Jingo papers to the wall as rt
gamekeeper pins up vermin, by transfixing
them with what they wrote in the first heat
of their frenzy
♦ » ♦
And the same is true of the so-called
Patriotic Fund. Of late—thatis to say, since
qualms have arisen in the minds of the
promotors of this collection—it has beea
customary to refer to it as a purely charit-
able affair, not pledging its subscribers to
any endorsement of the acts of the Govern-
ment or to any acquiescence in the thirst
for blood and revenge and war. It is denied
that it ever was justly susceptable of being
so construed, and—well, we proceed to quote
from the invaluable columns of the S.M»
Herald of February last:—
“It seems likely that the requisite funds for the ex-
pedition will be pr ovided by public subscription
without the necessity for the imposition of fresh
taxation. In addition to the offers already re-
ceived and announced by us, the Acting-Colonial
Secretary yesterday morning received a note
from Mr. Daniel Cooper, eldest son of Sit
Daniel Cooper, enclosing a cheque for £1000
and written in the following terms:—’Dear Mr.
Dalley,— Will the enclosed cheque for £1000 be
of any assistance In defraying the expenses of out
New South Wales forces in Egypt f If so, I give it
with much pleasure, and must congratulate you
on your brilliant idea of offering our help to the
i old country, and on the enthusiasm it has pro*
GENERAL KOMAROFF,
Commander of the Russian Troops on the Afghan Frontier.


duoed both here and in England.’ Mr. Dalley
also received the following letter from Mr. James
Rending Fairfax:— ‘I beg to offer towards the
fund for defraying the expenses of the New South
Wales military forces to Egypt the sum of £1000
per annum for three years if needful. Should it
be any convenience to you, I would reieive offers
and amounts of contributions, and make public
announoements of the same, free of all
cost,’to the fund.— I have, &o., .1. R. Fairfax..
Mr. Hutchinson, the member for Balmain,
called on the Acting Colonial Secretary yesterday
morning, and offered £100 as a first contribution
towards the same object. Mr. W. H. Pigott, the late
member for Canterbury, has also written to Mr.
Dalley, offering a first contribution of £100 for
the same purpose. The proprietors of the Evening
News and Town and Country Journal have
likewise offered a contribution of £1000 a year to
the Patriotic Fund. Messrs. Walsh and Rennie.
whose establishment for meat preserving at Botany
Bay is well known, have offered to supply large
quantities of their preserved meats, soups, anl
tongues for the expedition—[Not for the widows
and orphans— they, were not going to Egypt t6 get
the meat].—and Mr. Wearne made a, similar offer
with regard to large quantities of flour, forage,
&c., and also tended his services in assisting the
Government to procure whatever was necessary
at the lowest possible prices. We are desired to
state that as it has been intimated that a public
meeting will be held under the presidency of the
Mayor, on Friday, to take steps for the establish-
ment of a patriotic fund, all sums forwarded to
the Government will be detained until honorary
treasurers are appointed, as this is a matter with
which the Government itself cannot deal. At the
public meeting the first resolution will be moved
by Sir James Martin.”
Tliere can be no mistake about these
subscriptions, anyhow, and if the ques-
tion of refunding to contributors who
meant only to provide for possible
widows and orphans, has to be settled, we
trust that nothing will be entertained that
would have the effect of baulking those
patriots who were so eager to voluntarily
tax themselves, distinctly to provide blood-
money. There are no widows and orphans,
except the relicts of Private Jbnks’ wounded
toe, and the desolated insects which may
have been bereaved when Private Binks
received his now historical scalp wound from
a spent bullet. But there have been plenty of
expenses, and the blood-money contribu-
tions fairly belong to the Treasury.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Cost of War.—The Unpresented Bill.
Those people who are throwing up their caps
over the glorious martial spirit which was aroused
by the astute political coup of the Soudan, figured
out the cost in one way, but common sense figures
it otit in aeothcr. We can ascertain approxi
mately what the maintenance of 800 men and a few
hundred horses will come to per annum, and we
can add to that the ten? of thousands of pounds
subscribed to the Patriotic Fund, much of it by
gentlemen who are not conspicuous for their
lavish charity near home, but when we recollect
the physical suffering, the broken-up homes, and
the incalculable waste to the world of withdrawing
thousands of men from reproductive work to eat
our food, and fire away our powder, and keep
thousands of others making tools of war with no
other obvious benefit tl an to build up fortunes
for a few K rupps, Armstrongs, and army-con-
tractors, we begin to enquire what contin-
gency short of an invasion can justify us
in squandering our resources in such a
way? The eloquent Dalley and some of the
Australian Press assure us that our expedition has
gained the admiration of—whom ? A handful of
military men in England who never smelt powder,
and a few newspaper writers always on the look-
out for some new thing. We are told that we
have drawn the eyes of the world upon us, and
doubtless we have, and we don’t think we need
feel very big to observe the cynical twinkle in
those eyes as they look down upon us. Possibly
we shall understand this better if we repeat Mr.
Dalley’s experiment a few times. The credit of
Australia has always stood high, but it was known
to the world that our borrowed moneys were
spent in improving our estate. Very probably,
alio, if we were short of money to-morrow for
purposes of defence our creditors would not fail
to lend us a few millions toimpro.o their own
security for past loans. But, let it be once known
that at the caprice of a politician we may be
packed off buccaneering and committed to cam-
paigns in the Soudan, or Kamtschatka, that may
last for years, what show then will we have of
obtaining from the holders of the money-bags of
the world the accommodation we need? Our
credit will go down to that of the paltry littlj
American republics, and great public works ur-
gently needed,and certain to be reproductive, will
bo kept back for years. Those people, therefore,
who tot up the glory and the fame and set down in
a neat row ot figures what one such expedition
costs, should remember that this is only the first,
and is now a precedent. Very unscrupulous men
have hold high power in these colonies, and will
do so again. Our reward will be the temporary
elevation to notoriety of some needy adventurer,
the flashy applause of a few people whose praise
wc don’t want, and the damaged credit that always
attends a people liable to plunge at any time into
squabbles they have no business to meddle with.
An Outraged Parliament.
Certain of our contemporaries, who strained
every nerve to secure Sir Henry Parke’s rejec-
tion at Argyle, and who prophesied that “ the old
flag would pull Mr, Osborne through,” have, since
their lamentable failure to avert the defeat of their
nominee, clamoured loudly for the impeachment
of the successful candidate for alleged Parliament-
ary libels. In his famous valedictory epistle to
the Tenterfleldians, Sir Henry Parkes expressed
his conviction that Parliament was so far dis-
honest that personal gain swayed the votes of the
members far more than patriotism. He went so
far as to hint that the concession of local railways )
with their consequential array of advantages in
the shape of resumptions and compensations, was
an indisputable motive-power in securing and re-
taining party-allegiance. It is this accusation
which is in this particular “the head and front of
Sir Henry’s offending.” The Evening News
labours hard and long to show that he should be
expelled from the House for libelling its members,
and almost indecently applauds Mr. Dibbs for
giving a semi-promise that the utterance would
be challenged in the House. Now, whilst admit-
ting that "servile majorities” may have been re-
tained by similar processes by the Administration
which Sir Henry bo long guided, yet there is
nothing in his present remarks which he was not
entitled to say, if ho believed in its truth. Other
men besides Sir Henry Parkes have long ago
arrived at the same conclusion of all colonial
Parliaments, and notoriously so ot the present
social and commercial convention, mis-styled a
Parliament. If Mr. Dibbs is as wise as he is
haughty, he will hesitate to invite Sir Henry
Parkes to prove his words. It would be awkward
for the Government and their supporters if Sir
Henry should prove them, and certainly he has
much substantial suspicion on which charges may
be more easily formulated than disproved. He
may.poipt to the fact that the squatters, almost to
a man, adhered to the present Government all
through the Parliament, and that the delay in
bringing the rnagnurn opus.of a new; Land Act into
operation is (with free-selection suspended) a
squatter’s Paradise. He may enumerate other mem-
bers iy,ho have never voted against the Govern-
ment,sinoe its formation, and, whose districts have
been individually benefited by railway proposals
of doubtful national advantage. He may cate-
gorically distinguish supporters of the Govern-
ment who have bartered the lip-loyal principles of
a life-time for a donation of £300 per annum , or
1 who have performed a political somersault to
evade criminal prosecution against the hirers of
dummies, or who have had dangerous local op.
ponents or liege local friends translated to the
harmless atmosphere of the Upper House; or he
may point to the persons whose relatives made a
handsome percentage out of the worthless dump-
ears, purchased after wholesale condemnation by
the responsible officers of the Department. Ali
this he may do, and there will be people suspicious
enough of political morality to believe that his
remarks are not without some foundation. On
the other hand, what appropriateness Is there
in the tribunal before which it is proposed to
arraign the ex-Premier ? Those whom he accuses
of corruption are to be invited to pronounce their
verdict upon the accuracy of his charges. Is it
usual to allow accused persons to pass sentence
upon their accuser ? On the other hand, there is
an Imperial tribunal, to which the counter-accusa-
tions of corruption and wholesale libel may and
must be relegated. Both the ex-Premier and those
whom he accuses must soon appear at the bar of
public opinion, for the general election is immi-
nent. The electors will then hear the evidence and
pass sentence upon—the guilty persons.
To Save Dailey!
Rather than face the ridicule which the complete
contradiction of all his declarations and magnifi-
cent predictions with respect to the necessity for
despatching a Contingent to the Soudan has
brought upon his head, Dictator Dalley, like a
ruined gambler, has staked his all upon a final
coup. Or, stayl The figure is Imperfect. It is
not his all that Mr. Dalley has staked. It is the
countr’ys fortunes which he has thrown to the
hazard. In desperation at the utter collapse of all
his hopes in the Soudan, he takes encouragement
from the servile acquiescence of the majority in
Parliament in his first outrage upon our constitu-
tional form of Government, and perpetuates a
fresh outrage. The plea of emergency, which—
though now proved to be false — served
him in the first instance, cannot be adduced
now. Seven hundred partially disciplined men
cannot be regarded as more than a drop
in the bucket, when in connection with the
forces which Great Britain will put into the field
to confront the power of Russia. It cannot even
be pretended this time that it is to save England
that our Constitution is again sacrificed. But evi-
dently it is to attain some end equally vital in the
estimation of Mr. Dalley. There is no difficulty
In concluding what that object is. It is not to
save England, but it is to save Mr. Dalley. To
attain that magnificent object all other considera-
tions are thrust aside. Parliament is once again
reduced to the status of an institution for record-
ing the decrees of Dictator Dalley. The very
men are to be Intimidated, or cajoled, or bribed
into “volunteering” against their own inclina-
tions. It was amusing to read the “special”
to the Evening News, which stated that all
the men were likely to “volunteer” if ordered!
Our own war correspondent with the Contingent,
and also the special of the Evening News, had
announced the previous day by cable that only a
few of the men of the Contingent were willing to
serve in India, and that the great majority were
anxious to return to the colony. And in the face
ot that fact, Mr. Dalley cables an offer of their
services to the Imperial Government, and wires
their Commander to “ invite ” them to volunteer.
This is all of a piece with iho “ invitation ” offered
to the railway servants to contribute a day’s pay.
The majority In the Assembly devoured its first
slice of humble pie with so much gusto that
Mr. Dalley evidently reckons that there is
no dirt he cannot induce them to eat. But
the case is increasingly serious. No man can
foresee what the effect of the coming war
will be upon this community. It is well known
to every business man that ever since the
first threatenings of rupture with Russia, there
has been stagnation in the stock and share market-
For weeks past there have been no transactions
worth quoting, and holders of capital have been
holding back from investments of all kinds. With
a collapse of business among the possibilities of
the epoch, with the certainty of heavy augmenta-
tion of taxation to defray the cost of mere neces-
sary preparations for defence of our own colony,
this is no time to burden the community with the
expense of a Contingent despatched in time of
prosperity and peace, and paid—not as Great
Britain, the wealthiest community in the world
pays her best troops-but at fancy rates, which, if
given to any considerable force, would swamp the
finances of England itself.
A Judicious Choice.
Should war actually be declared—we write while
the event yet trembles in the balance—the future
historian will read with amazement that among
the first steps taken by the Government of N. 8.
Wales to prepare for defence was to put them-
selves in the hands of their Chief Justice. With
the first lawyer in the colony in charge of the
land defences, it would be but appropriate to have
the principal parson at the head of the naval ones 1
Bishop Barry should be placed in command of the
Wolverene without delay, and Baron Miklouho
Maclay, the eminent naturalist, who has so
long enjoyed the advantages of an observa-
tory-museum the wise call it—in the midst
of the fortifications, might, with similar appropri-
ateness, be placed at the head of the secret intel-
ligence department; while Mr. Thomas Walker
could fitly be Invited to discharge the functions
to be vacated by the Primate, and the “ Little Boy
at Manly ” be elevated, with the assistance of a
baby’s chair, to the judicial Bench. We are
aware that Sir James Martin has always been
moved by a strong enthusiasm for military mat.,
ters, but so has Mr. Frank Warden, and the
training of these rival authorities has been on an
equality. True, Sir James has had opportunities'
of carrying his theories into practice, which
have been denied to his accomplished rival,-
and the fortifications which have, for some
years, extracted the warmest encomiums and
the most sincere expressions of satisfaction 1
from every foreign officer who has visited the
port, were constructed at his instance But we
know these forts, and have always comprehended
the unlimited satisfaction they have afforded to-
foreign officers. They are, we grant, well placed.
But, against that, they are designed with such
profound science that, should a shell lodge in one
of them, the splinters from the sandstone rock
will multiply the effects ten-fold, while the pas.
sages for the shelter of the men, being nicely clean*
cut, will make fragmcvkfca dodge round the shelter-
ing angles as neatly as billiard-balls off the cushion
of a table. There is also one peculiarly splendid ex-
emplification of the warrior-lawyer’s genius for
fortification at George’s Head, where the
arrangements are so artfully planned that
the principal magazine is located in the
rear of the battery in so admirably chosen
a position as to be precisely in the line of flre t
and to receive every shot and shell aimed
at the battery, but flying a shade too high. To
remedy this trifling defect, it has occurred to some
kindred genius to raise on the parapet of the bat •
tery itself certain earthern mounds or “ traverses ”
to intercept such missiles; and these mounds have
regularly been pointed out to foreign visitors as
triumphant examples of military engineering, and
observed with rapture by the visitors as admirably
calculated to serve as land marks to show attack-
ing artillerists the precise direction and elevation >
required in order to drop a shell into the maga-
zine.'lOa second thoughts, we are surprised that
in selecting a colleague to assist them with his pro.
found knowledge of fortification, the Government
chose the Chief Justice, and overlooked the ob-
vious claims of the “Little Boy at Manly,” who has '
in quite recent times constructed numberless for-
tresses on the beach of that position, with his little
spade.
MRS KEEP.
MRS. BURTON.
HENRY KEEP (The Victim.)
The Maitland Poisoners a (Sè next page.)


Volunteers.
Mr. Dalleys offer of trained troops for service
in the Soudan was a bold one. His proposal to
allow those troops to volunteer for service in
India or any place where they may be required,
and still retain them on the colonial pay-sheet, is
more than bold—it is audacity itself. But it is with
the word “volunteer” we would deal. Late tele-
grams from the Contingent have shown, what was
only to be expected—that the men, seeing no pros-
pect of active service, seeing nothing before them
but inglorious inaction in a sweltering climate,
were anxious to return. They went to fight,
not to rot. They volunteered for a cer-
tain service—to open up a fresh route to
the Nile, and assist in re-taking Khartoum-
That object has fallen through, and now they are
to be graciously permitted to turn east to Af-
ghanistan, Situated as the Contingent is, the ex-
pression “permitted to volunteer” is a simple
mockery. With all the officers and some of the
men anxious to go to India, how can the others
hold back ? The case really becomes one of “no
compulsion, but you must.” We can easily fancy
the position in which the malcontents—those de-
sirous of returning home—would be placed. Life
would be made so unpleasant for them that a
change of any description would be a relief.
We saw what “ volunteering ” meant dur-
ing the Crimean War. Then it was com-
mon for militia regiments to be mustered
and when the commanding officer had ex-
plained to them what undiluted scoundrels the
Russians were, he would add, “ And now, my
brave lads, anyone wishing to serve his Queen and
country in the Crimea will step to the front.” A
lew cUtf e ° yokels, half-sodden with beer, would
zig-zag to the front. Then the officers (all of
whom would receive commissions in the event of i
getting a certain number of men to join) passed
through the ranks, expostulating, menacing, ridi-
culing the others for their lukewarmness, till the
men followed like sheep. Then word was wired '
to the War Office that “ the First Regiment of
Surrey Slashers (IMlitia) have unanimously volun-
teered for Service abroad. God save the Queen.”
Yes, we know what volunteering means—and we
have a suspicion that D alley does.
There are 27 banka trading in the Austra-
lasian colonies (Western Australia not included).
The total paid-up capital is £14 839,333; reserved
profits, £6,551 638; the capital and reserved profits,
total ;£31 380,900; average of last half-yearly divi-
dend, £13 5s. 103. per cent. The total assets of the
banks are over £115 000 000, and the total liabilities
do not exceed £88,500,000.
Sala’s name, read backwards, is “Alas!
and in Melbourne he quarrelled with the Yorick
Club. “ Alas, poor Yorick I ”
PATRIOTIC ODE,
Sons of Australia’s faithful land.
Arise and arm! Put forth your might,
In battle’s ranks now firmly stand,
Strike for your homes! Defend the right 1
Peace long has blessed your happy homes,
And crowned with wealth the fertile plain;
But now ’tie said the foeman comes,
And ruin follows in his train.
We all are free—shall we be slaves,
’Reft of the rights our sires have won ?
Base thought, avaunt! There may be graves,
But never chains ’neath Austral’s sun.
Arm I Arm 1 ye freemen I Right shall speed
Tour shots against the ruthless foel
And if good winter suits you need
Just call on Summerfield and Co.*
Hiarini's Circus and Menagerie
THE MAITLAND POISONERS
In this issue we give the portraits of Mrs.
Sarah Keep, aged 34, and her step-grandmother,
Mrs. Mary Barton, who are now lying under sen-
tence of death at Maitland. Women are the cooks
and nurses of the community, and this wretched
pair took advantage of their position to de-
liberately put strychnine first into the food and
then into the medicine of the husband of the
younger convict, who, at the time, had not been
married more than six months to her unhappy
victim. The culprits were tried twice, and twice
the hearing resulted in a disagreement of the jury;
on the third occasion of their being brought to
the Supreme Court bar (before the stern Mr. Jus-
tice Windeyer, whom they appeared to dread, and
whom they strenuously endeavoured to avoid),
they wore, after a most exhaustive and careful
trial, found guilty by the jury, who came to a
decision in less than an hour and au half from the
time they left the court. The elder prisoner, Mrs.
Burton, is a masculine, determined-looking wo-
man in appearance, with dark hair turning grey,
and is of a swarthy complexion. Mrs. Keep's face
presents quite a contrast, being broad and stupid
In expression. She has a sullen, vicious look,
which quite accords with the character given her
by those who know her. A more horrible case of
cold-blooded secret poisoning for the sake of gain
(and murder for such a motive Is utterly Incapable
of extenuation) is not recorded in the annals of
crime. So far as anything in this world can be
certain, the charge has been clearly sheeted home
and proved to the hilt. Immediately after Keep’s
death, the elder prisoner told Drs. Howe and
Pierco that she thought deceased had poisoned
himself with strychnine-a criminating expression
on her part, in face of her statement afterwards
that she had never seen anyone die from strych-
nine poisoning. Two extraordinary circumstances
affecting Mrs. Keep were, firstly, that she refused
to attend her husband’s funeral, and expressed
her intention to a neighbour of marrying again In
three months; and, secondly, that when she
returned to her mother-in-law a medical book she
had lent her some time before, two pages of the
book were turned down—pages in which were
detailed the effects on the human system of the
two deadly poisons nux vomica and strych-
nine, two-tenths of a grain of which latter
were recovered from the stomach of the
dead man by the Government analyst. There
seems to be a general opinion that the death
penalty will be remitted by the Executive; but
while the more gentle customs of these latter
days preclude the possibility of anyone crying
aloud on such an occasion for the blood of two
miserable women, as might have been the case in
years gone by, it is logically clear that by repriev-
ing! these criminals; the Governor wouldl irre-
vocably establish the principle that capital
punishment has been abolished, so far as
the sex is concerned —for if women who
coolly conspire to poison a man for the sake
of his money are to be] reprieved, for what
other crime can any woman possibly be hanged ?
In England such offences are the only ones for
which women are now ever subjected to the capital
penalty ; the lest instance of the carrying into
effect of the death-sentence on a woman in the
old country being, we believe the case in which a
Mrs. Flanagan and another female offender were
executed together, at Liverpool, some 18 months
ago, for having poisoned the husband of the for-
mer. The question before the Executive now is
—Is it or is it not desirab.0 that all intending
female poisoners in New< South Wales should be
officially informed that licenses to poison their
husbands without incurring the death-penalty are
now issued from Govemmoat.House ?
13. Is it to be wondered at that Mr, Hapworth’s
dreams that night were rather more startling than
agreeable ?
12. At the conclusion of the performance he
waited outside the tent to watch for the person ’who
had so grossly insulted his dignity; but as clowns do
not usually wear their ring costume on the street
Mr. H. failed to identify the offender.
11. Volunteers being called for to ride the trick donkey, Mr
Hapworth came forward to make an ass of himself, as usual.
Ihe other donkey won in a single round.
10. Great delight of Hapworth with the
doings, on a bare-backed horse, of a young
lady with little or nothing upon her own
back. Had often seen Mrs. Hapworth go
through her “ hoops,” but never in that
fashion.
9. “ Call that an INVISIBLE
wire! Why here I’ve been
looking as hard as ever I can
and don’t see any invisible
wire.”
6. While the circus performance was in progress, a person
in an unusual garb addressed some rather personal remarks
to Mr. Hapworth, of which he resolved to “ take notice "
when the show was over.
7. Mem.—"When the lion is
suddenly aroused from his slum-
bers, the first thing he does is
utter a horrible roar, and destroy
your new guinea umbrella."
6. “ Wonder what he will do
if I just wake him. up ?” quoth
Hapworth, who was fond of
studjing the habits of wild ani-
mals.
5. Then it was not
Mr Hapworth’s long-
lost brother, after all.
4. If the elephant found only tobacco
crumbs in Mr. Hapworth's pocket, it cer-
tainly was not Mr. H.’s fault if it made
the elephant sneeze
3. Once inside the tent, he
bung his hat upon the first
peg he came to. Gentlemanly
stanger (doubtless Mr. Chia-
rini himself) informs him
that the etiquette of mena-
geries permits gentlemen
to wear their hats.
2. So at last he resolved to go and see for himself.
1. Mr. H epworth's attention had often been attracted
by certain highly-coloured posters. “If those are only
pictures of it, what must the reality be ? ”


Personal Items
The “Jaynil” was “walked off on his ear”
from the reporters’ gallery on Saturday last.
Mr. John Dillon, ex-S.M, and at present
Crown Prosecutor, is reported to be seriously 111
from a pulmonary affection.
Mr. A. G. Taylor, M.L. A., goes to England
In three or four months to conduct his Parlia-
mentary cases before the Privy Council.
Frank Warden, the ex-forger, is now glory-
grinding up north, and says he intends “ driving
the devil from Braldwood.” From this we infer
that Frank moans to put the bit into his own
mouth.
A dastardly person, calling himself “ Pik-
kax,” la permitted to say In the Evening News
that the once reverend John Osborne “ Is quite as
Unfettered In bis ideas about the grammatical con-
struction of sentences as he is about the putting
together of a Christian platform.”
“Prisoner,” said the facetious Judge Paul
Of Queensland, to a prisoner who, on Friday
was, in the face of very strong c vldence, acquitted
Of stealing a keg of whisky, “ Prisoner, you are
discharged, and if you want to continue your
Offences, you had better remain in Toowoomba.”
The South Australian Attorney-General
“ has made a bid for popularity by enlisting as a
private of volunteers.” The Attorney-General of
N.8. Wales has made a bid for popularity by sacri-
ficing, like the American humourist’s hero, all his
friends of the Contingent — barring the brave
“Little Boy at Manly”—for the honour of hla
country. Should Dailey ever become a warrior,
we'll have either to shorten the sword or lengthen
his legs.
Since Mr. B.O. Holtermann, M.P., is getting
better, we might reasonably in so many words
express our astonishment that the hon. gentleman
was ever taken ill at a 1. It Is now well known
that Mr. Holtermann Is “president” of a “surgical
Infirmary,” and it would be only a fair thing to
cry, “ Cure thyself.” But we don’t; for the cause
of Mr. Holtermann’s illness is painfully patent to
tls. .. . However, that’s the last bottle of
home-made Elixir or Immortality that he'll ever
take.
The Prince of Wales, we read, paid a visit
to the London Stock Exchange a few weeks back,
and met with one of the noisy, ultra-loyal demon-
stations so dear to the hearts of “ bull ” and
“ bear.” The members of the “house” sang the
National Anthem;and “God bless the Prince of
Wales,” to the accompaniment of their own
amateur brass band. How truly beautiful, and
what a characteristic manifestation of the
"loyalty” of the hour I A parcel of stock-jobbers
blowing their own trumpets!
The Honourable Bray — fine suggestive
name—late Premier of South Australia, was lately
in London and installed himself at Edwards’ Hotel,
Hanover Square, right opposite that swell mar-
riage-shop, St. George’s. Ilray, it is understood,
located his sacred anatomy in the very rooms
occupied by the late Earl of Boaconsfleld after the
death of his wife, and from which he removed
into Curzon-street, Mayfair, whore he died. From
the front window Bray looked out on the statue of
one William Pitt. Bray’s head is now bigger by
three sizes than when he left Adelaide for Eng-
land.
We don’t envy Sir Alfred Roberts his
knighthood, neither do we grudge it him. But
We envy him his fame as the founder of the
“Prince Alfred ” Hospital, Sydney, which has cost
Borne £163,000, and is not only the most noble
charitable Institution in Australasia, but is one of
the most “ modern ” and best fitted hospitals in
the world. It's by no means likely that this splen-
did institution will in any way be regarded by pos-
terity as a monument of the close-fisted German
personage after whom It was ostensibly named.
We choose to call <t, not the Prince Alfred Hos-
pital, but the Sir Alfred Hospital.
How is it that Lieutenant Morris, of the Per-
manent Artillery (son of Mr. Augustus Morris,
C.M.G., Dailey’s fidus Achates), the other “little
boy from Manly,” who, a year or so since, got a
commission for which scores of men who had
seen service applied, wasn’t sent to the Soudan ?
And as his appointment was made contingent on
his passing an examination “ within 13 months,”
and as almost two years have now elapsed, we
shall be glad to hear whether Lieutenant Morris
has got through the examination aforesaid. And
isn’t it true that several of the unsuccessful appli-
cants for the appointment held by Lieutenant
Morris have gone to the Soudan with our warriors ?
Joe Bell, a well-known Sandhurst reefer,
died the other day, leaving property worth over
£150,000. His only daughter, 11 years of age, is the
sole Inheritor of the fortune amassed as the result
of the retiring Joe’s luck, thrift, industry, and per-
severance. He was the pioneer of the celebrated
Garden Gully reef, In which he always had great
faith. It is related of him that only a few days
before gold was struck in Bell and Watson’s claim
in 1870, and an Impetus was given to mining such
as had never before been experienced in Bendigo
—when every man and woman in the district had
a pocketful of scrip which was worth thousands
to-day, and a month hence not the paper on which
It was printed—Joe had to pawn nearly all his be-
longings to raise money to purchase candles and
powder.
Through what occult influences, we want
to know, did M’Mahon, late Mayor of Petersham,
convicted some time since on very clear evidence
of having forged a will, and tried to rob both the
living and the dead, get out pf gaol ? Mr. M’Mahon
was sentenced to either five or seven years’ 1m-
firl8onment, and considering bis position he should,
' guilty, have got 14. Perhaps some member of
Assembly will move for the papers in the case,
so that people may learn all about it, and know
why the “Justice ’or “mercy” extended to the
forger M’Mahon should not bo vouchsafed to the
incarcerated arsonist Monsieur Bechet, who was
so cock-sure of being acquitted that he ordered
for the evening of his trial a Lucullian dinner,
which he was doomed never to oat, and of whose
Innocence quite a number of reputable people are
convinced to this day.
A North Queensland man made our friend,
W. P. Morgan, the bearer of a letter of introduc-
tion to his brother, a London financial magistrate.
One day Morgan dropped in at the bank and
presented his credential. He got a stiff reception.
The great man didn’t even invite him to sit down.
At last the magnate unbent to the extent of say-
ing: “And how did you leave my brother, sir?”
41 Well,” replied Morgan, looking first up at the
frescoed ceiling of the manager's parlour and then
down at the fair round “ corporation” of the
manager himself—” the last time I saw your
brother he was in gaol on a charge of having tried
to cut his throat. I have the honour to wish you
a very good morning.” “ Had him on toast,”
chuckled Morgan to the friend who had been wait-
ing for him outside, “ I didn’t stay another second,
but I’ll swear that fetched him off his perch.”
The Earl of Durham, whose joyless honey-
moon has been so fully discussed in the Divorce
Court, was “ talked about ” some four or five years
back in connection with the much photographed
opera-bouffer, Violet Cameron. People said that
the nob e Earl was going to make a mesalliance
by converting the sweet Violet into a Countess,
but, somehow, the affair fizzled. Perhaps he’s
sorry that It did, now. Giving evidence in the re-
cent case, the Earl said: “On the night of my
marriage I came to the conclusion that my wife
was an idiot.” It’s pretty certain that he wouldn’t
have found the actress an idiot under the same in-
teresting circumstances. By the way. Miss Cameron
is a niece of our old-time friend, the once young
and charming Lydia Thompson, and would have to
plead guilty, we believe, to the same respectable
but unromantic surnam , as is borne by her vola-
tile aunt. But what’s in a name ? Verdi isn’t any
the less lovely because his rightful cognomen is
Green.
Colonel Ellis, an equerry of the Prince of
Wales, has been taught by a British jury that the
Queen’s highway is not the especial property of
such as neither toil nor spin. The Colonel gave a
dinner party at his London mansion, and his
flunkeys laid down the inevitable strip of crimson
carpet from doorway to roadway, that the
warrior’s guests might keep their daiaty tootsies
free from the dirt of the streets. Over this strip
of carpet a Mrs. Watson—poorer, but probably
quite as honest as the Colonel—fell, and hurt her
plebeian yes, legs. The good gentleman,
rather than pay a doctor’s bill and modest com-
pensation to his royal master’s future subject,
elected to go to law, with the result that a jury
found for Mrs. W. and £50 damages. The Colonel
appealed, but the verdict was upheld. The readi-
ness of English “ swells ” to spend £500 in a des-
perate endeavour to chouse one of the vulgar
herd out of a “ fiver ” is a beautiful illustration of
the “hereditary courage’ which fashionable
papers so dearly love to dwell upon. By the way,
while the equerry was squabbling over the “ fifty”
the Prince was presiding over the Royal Commis-
sion on the housing of the London poor. ~
Sir Arthur Palmer, of Queensland, is once
more in our midst. There is nothing very signifi-
cant in this fact, but we make use of it as an intro-
duction to a par. to show that the much-maligned
comps, are not the only persons who make mis-
takes. On one occasion Sir Arthur was orating on
the demerits of “Sally Jones’—the said “Sally
Jones” being a tug, mud-punt, or something else
afloat, and fie made some reference to “devil
bolts ”—a technical term. The remark was re-
ported as follows in next day’s Hansard:—” Sally
Jones is ‘ gone to the devil.’” On the following
night Sir Arthur rose in his place and with a fierce
glare directed towards the reporters’ box, said,
“There Is some devil up there who is gone on
Sally Jones.” The genial Jones of the Hansard
staff was in the box at the time and he suffered
from gout for a week afterwards. On another
occasion Sir Arthur talked about ‘‘chippin’ por-
ridge.” The intelligent reporter produced Instead
the words “chicken-pox.” This gave Sir Arthur
an opportunity to rail at his pet aversion—a re-
porter—and, with fiery indignation, he said, “If
the wooden-headed reporter who took down my
speech last night gets an attack of chicken-pox
and dies, the world will not be a. loser.” That
reporter still lives.
Mr. William Barnes, of Melbourne, who
has been diverting us for some months, is now, we
see, in a fair way of being relegated below, shortly,
for the exclusive entertainment of the Shroud
subscribers. Mr. Barnes will certainly be hanged,
because otherwise the thing would have a tame
ending, and the Melbourne mob would bo natur-
ally indignant at being diddled out of their little
cold drawn body. As William, we learn, is paying
much attention to the ministrations of the Church
of England minister, he need, of course, have
no fears about an uncomfortable future; and
this reminds us that we should like to hear
Mr. Barnes pipe his little prayer, and behold
him, as the sun is setting in the usual way, turn
his sad gaze upon the little bird that comes to his
cell window and chirrups notes of comfort. Talk-
ing of birds r and criminals reminds us of Wain-
wright and his girl. The latter, it will be remem-
bered, was released, after one or two remands,
enveloped in a highly sentimental halo. When
the prison matron was apprised of the morning
Annie was to be released, she got a pair of steps
and hoisted up from the outside a staggering old
pigeon into the poor prisoner’s window. This
caused her, later, when surrounded by reporters,
to say: “I suffered terrible—terrible I but when I
saw the robin come to cheer me, I knowed I was
agoin’ to be let go.”
Now that the Qovernii.ent have under-
taken to make the delivery of physiological lec-
tures a crime, and are prosecuting Mr. Thomas
Walker for illustrating his lectures with diagrams,
which may be bought for a few shliT.ngs, on a
smaller scale, in quite a number of medical works,
It is interesting ro hear that Mrs. Potts, who lec-
tured here to women in a similar vein to Mr.
Walker's lectures to men, is pursuing her wild
career in London with great success. The Court
JOURNAL (I) says:—“Mrs. A. M. Longshore Potts,
M.l)., delivered the second of the series of lectures
to ladies only at St. James’ Hall, Piccadilly, on
Tuesday afternoon last, a large audience, com-
posed of the eliti of London society, being present.
Upon the stage a framework was erected, from
which were suspended numerous oil-paintings re
presenting various parts of the human body.
Two skeletons occupied prominent positions at
the front of the stage, while two tables were
covered with skulls and bones. Several elegant
bouquets served to intensify rather than lighten
the grimness of the surroundings. The speaker
was dressed in a rich costume of black velvet
en traine , trimmed with lace and jet, with old
Irish point stomacher and cuffs, and diamond
ornaments. She wore a Marie Stuart cap, from
which gleamed a magnificent solitaire. Her lec-
tures are thoroughly orthodox and scientific.”
That’s where Tom Walker makes a mistake. He
should be thoroughly orthodox, and then he could
■exhibit any illustrations he pleases. We don’t
believe he would be interfered with even if he
exhibited illustrations to the Old Testament—say.
At any rate, we never heard of anyone being pro-
secuted for selling the book in which these things
are contained.
The Ameer of Afghanistan, whose portrait
we present, has become an important figure In
the eyes of the world since he signalised his re-
turn to his own dominions, after figuring as a
sort of dependant at the Durbar of the Governor-
General of India, by announcing his resolution to
preserve the entire independence of his land. It will
be remembered that Abdurrahman was scarcely
safe back in his kingdom before he discarded
the complaisant tone which he had sagaciously
enough adopted while in the hands of an authority
whicn has never been over-nice in its methods of
dealing with native Princes who seemed likely to
prove intractable. Once safe among his own sub-
jects, he declare 1 that he would not consent to
the advance of British troops to defend his
frontier against the Russians. Thereupon he
has been denounced as “disloyal,” and written
of as though he were a tributary Prince,
and his kingdom a dependency of India. As a
matter of fact, the Independence of Afghanistan
is precisely what England is preparing for war
ostensibly to defend against the encroachments
of Russia. And no reader of Indian history can
feel surprised at an energetic sovereign, as
Abdurranman is said to be, declining the danger-
ous resource of a British friendly occupation of
his country and fortresses. Experience has taught
all Eastern Princes that nothing in the world l s
harder to get rid of than the benevolent patronage
of Groat Britain, and that a friendly intervention
against an external enemy almost invariably
develops into a permanent occupation of the State
so favoured, and the degradation of its native
ruler into a mere salaried nonentity. Abdurrah-
man may possibly be the tool of Russia. But
equally possibly he may be a clear-headed man,
who recognises the friendship of Great Britain
as quite as dangerous to him as the en-
mity of either that nation or of Russia. In
that case his present attitude may be perfectly
natural and intelligible. “ Give me arms and am-
munition,” he says, “ and I will defend my own
country.” This should suit well enough, and
even should he design to turn the weapons we are
asked to furnish against ourselves, we are
able to stand the brunt, though all Russia be
at his back. If not It is time we recog-
nised that ihe meteor-flag has had its day.
Abdurrahman Khan is a grandson of Dost Maho-
med, being the eldest son of his eldest son, Afzul
Khan. As, however, Eastern rulers are not wont
to be guided by the law of primogeniture in their
choice of a successor, but elect their favourite son
as their heir, Dost Mahomed nominated the late
Shere All, who accordingly ascended the throne on
bis father's death ia 1863. At that time Afzul
Khan was Governor of Balkb, and together
with his brother, Azina Khau, and his son,
Abdurrahman, headed an insurrection, and drove
Shere Ali from Cabul. Atzul was then ac-
knowledged Ameer, his success being in a great
measure due to the military prowess of Ab-
durrahman, who had defeated Shere Ali’s troops
on several occasions, and noteworthily at
Shaikpore. Afzul Khan died in 1867, was sue
ceeded by Azim Khan, while Abdurrahman re-
tired to Balkh. Shere Ali, however, in bis
turn raised an army, and, defeating both
the new Ameer and Abdurrahman, occupied
Cabul, and was acknowledged Ameer. Abdurrah-
man lied to Bokhara, and took refuge with his
father-in-law, the Ameer, whose daughter he had
married, and from that time until the close of
1879 he remained there under Russian protection.
Upon the deposition of Yakoob Khan, however,
he crossed the Russian frontier, and organising a
small forco in Turkestan, slowly advanced towards
Cabul. As he was known to be a man of consider-
able intelligence and force of character, and as
Afghanistan eminently needed such a man for its
ruler, the Indian Government opened negotiations
with him, which resulted in our recognising his
claims to the throne, and he was publicly acknow
lodged Ameer In a Durbar held In Cabul on 22na
July, 1880. He Is described by those who have
seen him as a fine, handsome man, about 45 yea«
of age, and one of the emissaries sent to treat with
him, describes him as “by far the most civilised
courteous, and intelligent Afghan he has eve*’
met. or
The Rev. Henry Bath has been called by
fp r r <^1^ en a C nH t °w e pres v! dent of the Wesleyan Con-
rerence, and Harry bosses people round as be-
comes so powerful a dignitary. He gave St. Kllda
the a Rev J h N r . eceilt, 7' heD prohibited
tne Rev. J. N. Harle from lecturing to the locals
on mesmerism. It seems that the Rev. Harlela
possessed of mesmeric power, and has often given
the followers of Jack Wesley a little discourse on
this question. He finds mesmerism as curative as
Thumper Dowle’s faith-healing, ami hw «y|d
his flock the cost of doctors’ work by flx-
fho iorfri ea ?l e eye on them and starting them into
fo h nJ a ° d of trance. It was he who discovered the
clairvoyant of whom the Victorian naoera
p ri l?* led 80 seriously a short time back. She saw
Gordon in a mesmeric send-off. He was imprl-
i 11 k ca , v ®, an<J * though not dead, appeared to
be badly broken up. Her account of the General’s
late does not tally with the only authentic report!
we can say is that the only authentic must have
M mi8 Q . a clairvoyant cann t lie. Well, to
get to Mi. Harle s lecture, it was to contain full
particulars of this lady’s peculiar gift, a few words
on phrenology, and wind up with a prayer, and
consequently drew a big house. But when the
stepped on to the platform, he looked as
a * If bis mother-in-law had come to stop
a n “°° th ' and informed his audience that Boss
Bath had put one of his dust shovels down on the
l? 0 C ( t « U /?; a P d f ha( ? 8ta £ ed that if he l Mr - Harle) per-
sisted in lecturing he would have to roll up his
drum and quit the ministry. When the au-
dience heard this It swore, and howled for Bath’s
head on a pick-point, and then fervently requested
to move on with his remarks, adding
tnat if that other party came nosing round there
Interrupting things It d sweep the chimney with
him« But Harle said it couldn’t be done, he must
2 , Man, turn down the gas, and pass
back their shillings.” And now the Right Rev.
Henry Bath, President of the Wesleyan Conference
(we think that s all of him), stands a good chance
for a bath in a gutter next time he shows his sanc-
timonious mug out St. Kilda way.
The most humorous thing we have read
8 ome time is Ithe paragraph in Saturday’s
HERALD re the departure of “Mr. Edward Han-
ian, who, according to Granny, says that ho
almost dreads the interviewing he will have to
undergo in America at the hands of press-writers*
many of whom he describes as possessing no re-
gBrd for the sanctity of private life, and as push-
ing themselves into all kinds of places at the most
unseasonable hours.” Now, when “Mr. Edward
Hanlan was cock of the walk, and was grovelled
a PA sl ,?. bb ? re< l °': er by all sorts of scribes, he
dldn t talk about his sanctified ” private life —
which, by the way, was spent in his “pub.” Ed-
ward, it s the way of the world. Mr. William Beach,
who has supplanted you as the god of the nations of
the earth, doesn’t talk about the sanctity of hi*
private life, or grumble because he Is pursued by
the reporters. Edward, It is one thing to be Inter-
viewed by the newspapers when you are C»sar,.
and quite another thing to be looked up by then*
when you are Ciesar’s chopping-block or a captive
at one of Ciusar s triumphs In the streets of Rome.
The grapes are sour, Edward. And as to the holy
Herald authorities, who in a tone of such sweet
approval, make their paper the medium of the
groans of the vanquished champion-how ia it that
but a day or two ago they printed in one ol then?
papers a column and a-hai( of drivelling, pul-
ing balderdash, in which the “sanctity ” of the
private life of the now canonised and deified
Beach was pried into?-in which we learned how,
when Beach was young, he bathed his little shapely
limbs in the limpid waters of Illawarra, or some-
where—how his mother (God bless her I) was the
handsomest woman of all time, more beautiful
than Cleopatra and braver than Cornelia— how
she dandled in her Juno-like arms the child
who was to become the Champion of the World
passed her taper U gers through
the rich curls of his amaranthine hair? Yahl
Likewise pouf I What are you giving us.
Granny, you mummified old hypocrite f
You know perfectly well that It isn’t the
sanctity ” of a man’s private life that he objects
. invaded. It’s the villainy and meanness
of his character that he would preserve from the
ABDURRAHMAN KHAN, AMEER OP AFGHANISTAN.
MAJOR-GEN. SIR PETER LUMSDEN,
British Commissioner to Settle
the Afghan Frontier.
TWEEDLEDUM VICE TWEEDLEDEE.
Our Lord Augustus bids good-bye
To “Sunny New South Wales”—
The dock where tattered lords hips try
To mend their broken sails.
So hold your tongues, ye bitter oteyt
Of cynical appraisers.
Who say his spirit never flevt
Beyond a chicken-raiser’s.
And let his lordship, like the rest
Of Civil pension-getters—
Go clucking to the native nest, 1
And squat among the feathers.
For know that ere he quits the board.
Her Majesty—God bless her—
Has given us another lord
To be his great successor.
What matter If his name denies
A mighty kin and kith.
Lord Carrington, to common eyes.
Looks better than Lord Smith.
What matter If his talents be
Like those of Johnny Horner,
His lordship has ability
In whipping round a corner.
What though the twain have nought to boast
In Governmental lore,
If Gus. can run a cochin roost
And Smith a coach and four ?


NOTICE.
THE PARTNERSHIP hitherto existing between
the undersigned, trading as “ Batson and
Atwater,” Printers and Publishers, has this day
been dissolved by mutual consent.
Dated Sad April, 1885.
(Signed) CHAS. BATSON.
F. A. ATWATER.
On and after this date the business of Printers,
Binders, and General Publishers, heretofore car-
ried on by Charles Batson and Frederic Augustus
Atwater, under the style of “ Uatson and Atwater,”
at 195 Clarence-street, Sydney, will be carried on
at the same premises by the undersigned Charles
Batson, Frank M'Neil, and Frank Coffee, under the
style of “ Batson and Company.” All debts owing
to or by the late firm of ‘‘Batson and Atwater ’
must be paid and rendered to the said firm of
“ Batson and Company ” on or before the first
day of May, 1885.
Dated 2nd April, 1885.
CHAS. RATSON.
FRANK M.NB1L.
FRANK COFFEE.
Nervous debility, lost vitality,
Weakness, and Premature Decay.—A favour-
ite Prescription of an eminent French Hospital
Physician for simple self-cure. Sent free to any
sufferer. Send your address, on a stamped enve-
lope, C. C. W., Box 766, G.P.O., Sydney.
Bavarian n nn
itters. nur
bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of the b'st Bavarian Hops. Superior to any
other.
They take the first place wherever tried, and are
well authenticated by eminent medical men acd
well-known analysts.
Head the reports and testimony which accom*
pany each bottle, and do not forget to make a
trial of BAVAUIAN HOP Bitters.
I nrkrk domestic paper fashions
shown in our Illustrated Catalouge
Pbicb, Threepence ; by Post, Fourpence.
CHAFFEL A CO.,
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern and General Sewing-machine
Agency,
746 GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and all fittings, Ac., kept in
stock.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TUBE
HOTEL, which is now kept by
The “LOUIS"
VELVETEEN. .
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
' for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
mav be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of " Louis,”
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
post free on
application.
Vi?
%
i
A
for Infants and Children.
Castoria cures Colic, Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation,
Gives healthy sleep and promotes digestion,
Without injurious medication.
“Castoria is so well adapted to children that
I recommend it as superior to any prescription
known to mo.” H. A. Akchek, M. D. t
111 Oxford Street, New York,
Elliott Bros., Sydney, Agents.
BOXTRKE,
“ SttS?or D fSSSL
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor
OBTAINABLE PROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARI ELL’S
BISCUITS AND CAKES, TREACLE AND GOLDEN SIRUP,
_ ■ ■■ _ ■■ ■
Self-raising /Erated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
8 .. A.
a7fi of this cynical and cruel world. At least,
♦hit’s the way with ourselves, who, unhappily, are
♦.nt on a good, holy, Congregational two-penny
aner every man Jack on which, from the pro-
prietors downwards (or upwards), owns a trunk-
ful of halos and a drayload of golden harps.
'the eterndl fitness of things was illus-
trated the other day when the meeting to femodel
tKe University Musical Society voted Professor
r iirney to preside over it. There is a true story
t-id about the Professor’s appreciative and ex-
haustive knowledge of all things pertaining to
music which is worth recalling in this connection.
At a piano recital given in Paling’s rooms by a dis-
tinguished virtuoso— we think it was Ketten-a
j Q several movements was at the end
nf the programme, and when the performer had
hanged off the last chord of the ailetfro con fuoco,
and paused a moment to let the effect sink into
the oensoriums of the assemblage of coanoscenti
and amateurs, before proceeding with the andante
run gentimento, Professor Gurney rose in a dig-
nified manner and commenced to make a flowery
little buttercup of a speech about the intellectual
anioyment all had experienced, and so on. The
Profound astonishment on the countenance of the
amazed performer, and the movement of mingled
surprise and amusement by the entire audience,
anprl°ed the orator that there was a hitch some-
where, and yielding to an inward conviction or an
external impulse applied to his coat-tails sat down,
explaining that he had been under the impression
that the “ piece” just played had been “ God Save
the Queen.”- The patriotism of some people closely
resembles their musical knowledge in beginning
and ending with “God Save the Queen ; bom!
bom I!” and we learn with admiration that Pro-
fessor Gurney is now at the head of the move-
ment for establishing a Sydney University Volun-
teer Corps. “God Save the Queen” is a potent
melody with which the true-born Briton settles
all tough questions, squelches his enemies, and
drowns the voice of everyone who isn’t bumptious
enough to believe that one undisciplined English-
man can easily boat a dozen well-drilled Russians.
Still, the thought makes us sad. We like to think,
when we feast our eyes upon the typical pay-
thriot, that his soul would be thrilled to ecstasy by
Britannia rules the waves,” and that he’d never
mistake “ Boyne Water ” for “ Dreamland ” or
» The wind that shakes the barley.” We once had
a friend. He was a burglar, and when he played
the organ the tears rolled down his cheeks.
Henniker Seaton*s collection of Austra-
lasian books, pictures, maps, and historical docu-
ments is absolutely unique, and comprises some-
thing like 4500 volumes, a catalogue of which will,
we hear, shortly be published. J. H. H., who is
still as enthusiastic as ever, has for years ran-
sacked not only London and the provinces in
search of Australian literary treasure, but he has
also drawn extensively upon France, Germany,
Spain, and Holland, in which latter country he has
fallen upon veritable prizes in the shape of curious
old tomes— beautifully-coloured, hand-drawn maps
of centuries ago, wherein one perceives that Aus-
tralia, New Zealand, and New Guinea are
all one country undivided by the tea—maps
wherein the unexplored and unknown spaces
are filled up by quain pictures of grim
griffins and horrible sea - monsters ; books
containing all sorts of queer information-tell-
ing one, for instance, that the inhabitants if
the mysterious country just named Australia
wear tails and are',hermaphrodites. Then there are
splendidly preserved copies of the voyages of all
the old explorers—French, Dutch, Spanish, and
English—and hand-sketches and prints without
number relating to the dawn of our history as a
separate people; nearly everything that has been
written in the European languages about our
natural history and ethnology; rare pamphlets
and fragments which will be priceless in the time
to come; suppressed Government documents
(ferreted out by the ingenious and subtle Henni-
ker), and ranging (say) from the report of Parkes’
Select Committee on the bogus “ Fenian conspi-
racy ” in N.8. Wales to printed slips bearing on
the secret history of the Victorian “ Black AVed-
nesday.” The other day J.H.H. secured the
Sunderland Library copy of “White’s Voyage”
(Kalthcebur’s binding) containing a supplement,
dated 1794, of 136 leaves, entitled, “Letters and
Extracts of Letters from Governor Phillip to
Lord Sydney.” Again, one of the very scarce
works on Australia is “Mann’s New South
Wales,” a quarto dated 1810 and containing
four large coloured engravings of Sydney
harbour. A bookseller sent Henniker a note say-
ing that he had on hand two old water-colours of
Sydney, and these, which were at once bought by
J. H. H. for a couple of guineas, proved to be
Mann’s original pictures, from which the engrav-
ings were made. In Mann’s book the pictures are
divided into four, whereas the complete originals
are only two in number. Mann's book is so scarce
that Mr. Dymock, of the Pltt-street Arcade,
Sydney, had the pictures re-engraved last year.
At a sale of goods belonging to a recently-deceased
old Tasmanian colonist in London, the other day,
Mr. Heaton bought books and records which are
absolutely beyond price.
Hughey M‘Coll, the late member for Man-
durang and “Watter,” has gone where we hope
there is plenty of that fluid, and there is no Argus
to sneer. A real character was Hughey; a man
who, throughout a long existence, had ever a
struggle with an unkind world. A printer by
trade, he came out to Melbourne in the fifties, ana
started a little paper, which, like most of his under-
takings, did not succeed, Then he found his way
to Bendigo and tried various vocations there. His
friends wondered how he did it, but he managed
to get along somehow. He always was a talker;
very fervid and would-be pathetic, but almost
always succeeding only in reaching bathos. He
ever had an eye to a seat in Parliament. Some-
where in the sixties he stood for Sandhurst against
Screechowl Mackay (he who started the Rttm
and the Shroud in this city), but was badly beaten.
Thenthe’great mining mania came up, and Hughey
plunged into it and became a legal manager for
public companies. He had great trouble when
the Beehive fire occurred and the records of bis
companies were burnt; but eventually he got
things clear. After this, he fell in with the famous
engineer Dods, and the two originated that won-
derful idea, the “ Great North-Western CanawJ,”
which for years supplied Punch and the Arguo
with their standing jokes. The “half-a-croon”
calls in the company that was formed to carry out
that magnificent dream supplied Mr. M'Coll’s
enemies with an eternal fund of merriment,
and they alleged he lived on the two-and-slx-
pences. No one knows what became of that
company } its calls went to pay the secre-
tary (Mr. M'Coll) and the expenses. Yet that
company and the never-ceasing agitation Mr.
M'Coll kept up for a water supply to the northern
areas secured him a seat in Parliament. And then
did not the funny-looking old man go In bald-
headed for “ watter 1" In season andlout of season
he would introduce the topic. Were a vote of
want of confidence to be brought forward, a
deficit to be made up, or fresh taxation to be im-
posed, when Mr. M'Coll got up to speak he was
sure, after a few remarks on the subject in hand,
to plunge into “watter,” amid the roars of the
Assembly, and to declare that every evil arose
through the “ Great North-Western Oanaal” not
being authorised. Still, the remarkable thing
is that, although Mr. M'Coll was set dowu
as a “ crank ” on the subject of water,
to him, and to him alone, is due the great
progress Victoria has made in water supply
and irrigation, a wave of which has oven reached
this colony. Other men took the lead of Mr.
M'Coll’s hand’s, finding how good the cry was, and
the old man who had for years fought the battle
alone and derided was not even put on the com-
mission. The story of his career shows what a
man can do in awakening the peopl e to the im-
portance of a great public want, even if he is
eccentric and does not choose the best methods.
It also shows that the much-extolled “ moderate”
man is not the one to grapple with great evils and
great wants, and also that the reward Is not always
to the originator. Vote, Hugh M'Coll. May the
turf press lightly on your bones I
Mr. H. M. Chester, of New Guinea annexa-
tion celebrity, who has for long been P.M. at
Thursday Island (which is out of the reach of the
telegraph), has been removed on the petition of
the inhabitants, who considered that he had too
autocratically exercised his authority. He has
now been appointed to Geraldton, Johnstone
River, and is succeeded at Thursday Island by the
Hon. John Douglas, C S M.G , ex-Premler of Queens-
land. Chester is a bluff, hearty fellow, staunch as
a bull dog, and true as steel to a friend or a prin-
ciple. It was he who performed the historical
function of hoisting the British flag at Mew
Guinea when Sir Thomas MTlwralth made up his
mind to force the hand of “that old woman,’’ Lord
Derby, by annexing the island first and asking
leave of the Imperial Government afterwards.
Chester was a lieutenant of the Hon. EiSt India
Company’s fleet until that was abolished after the
Indian Mutiny, and then he went to Queensland,
where begot a billet as land agent and C.P.S. at
Gladstone, and came in collision with A. H.
Palmer, now Sir Arthur, another of the bull-
dog breed, and bounceable at that. He and
Chester had some rows at election times, and
when Palmer became a member of the Queensland
Government, Chester’s career became consider-
ably chequered. But, although his cilice was
abolished, he kept his pecker up and made a good
fight. At one time he and General Bennett, the
hearty American Brigadier, well-known to Sydney
folks as the frequent chairman of 4th of July
banquets, leased the Brisbane Theatre with hotel
attached. They tossed up to decide which of
them should suffer the social infliction of having
his name in the license and over the door. This
didn’t last long, however, for Chester waa ap-
E ointed Police Magistrate at Somerset, Toms
traits, as successor to Frank Jardlne. the ex-
plorer of York's Peninsula, only to be displaced
again, and Frank reinstated, when Palmer one i
more got into office. However, he was perma-
nently re-appointed before long, and Frank Ja'-
dine concentrated his whole energies on the pearl-
fishing. The Hon. John Douglas, who now suc-
ceeds Chester at Thursday Island, to which place
the Somerset establishment was some years ago
shifted, is well known both in this colony and
Queensland, having been member of the N. 8.
Wales Assembly before the separation of Queens-
land, and a prominent member of the Parliament
of the younger colony pretty nearly ever since,
besides having been Premier of one Administra-
tion. He has not been a fortunate man in the
money-grubbing sense. But ho has always been
an honourable and upright gentleman. We have
known him for about four-and-twenty years.
Curiously enough, he was the first man in Aus-
tralia to do us a kindness, so we owe him one. In
1860, just after landing, we were putting up in the
same house with Mr. Douglas, and on the point ot
starting to Join a party travelling with sheep from
a point inland from Rockhampton to form a sta-
tion further north. When Mr. Douglas under-
stood our destination, he, in the kindest way, gave
us a letter of Introduction to Mr. Jardlne, Frank s
father, then Police Magistrate at Rockhampton,
with a request that Mr. Jardine would place at our
disposal a horss belonging to Mr. Douglas, then in
Mr. Jardine’s paddock. This was a kindly act to
a young fellow, and it is characteristic of John
Douglas’ disposition as known to us ever since.
• •
That well-known artist and travelling cor-
respondent, Mr. C. H. Topham (“The Raven ) has
just returned to Sydney, after a year s absence in
England. * * *
Commodore Erskine has been made a Lord
of the Admiralty.... Of the 11 officers who died at
Abu Klea, seven were Irishmen— Pen Oliver,
author of “ Charley Kingston s Aunt, is identical
with Sir Henry Thompson, the eminent surgeon.
So the Queen is about to publish a selection of
the speeches (as reported) of the late Duke of
Albany Martin Tupper is said to be in very
poor circumstances in London. And yet he writes
poems for an Adelaide paper! There is some
mystery here....The Marquis of Lome has lately
been admitted into the Tin Plate Worker s Com-
pany. He will probably make a better figure as a
tin-plate worker than he did as a poet, or as
Governor of Canada.


Professional Directory.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
olalty Union. Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hlaoocks..
W HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’ Federal
• Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
Sydney
TO AMATEUR THEATRICALS.—Scenery Sup-
plied or Lent. G. Perriman, Scene Painter,
No. 7, back of Academy of Music, Castlereagh-st,
T
HEATRE ROYAL.
Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musorovb.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Doors open at 7.30, commence at 8. Carriages, 10.30.
Twelfth Week, and established Success of the
Royal Dramatic Company.
THIS EVENING at 8 precisely,
Burnand’s Favourite Comedy in Three Acts,
BETSY BETSY BETSY BETSY
BETSY BBTSY BETSY BETSY
■ BBTSY BETSY BBTSY BETSY
with a
POWERFUL CAST and NEW SCENERY by
GORDON and HENNINGS.
Furniture and appointments from Hamilton ard
Co., Globe Furniture Warehouse, Park and Castle-
reagh-streets.
Prices of Admission: Diess Circle, 5s.; Stalls,
3b. ; Family Circle. 2s.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Bastway’s
Hotel. Box office open dally from 11 till 4.
NEW OPERA HOUSE.
Lessees, Messrs. E. Majeronl and W. J. Wilson.
Under the Management of Rignold and Allison.
Stage Manager Mr. J. F. Cathcart.
Enthusiastic success of Miss JEFFREYS LEWIS,
who last night scored a decided triumph In her
great Impersonation of
ODETTE.
which is received nightly by crowded houses with
deafening applause and screams of laughter.
Plan at Huenerbein’s. Treasurer, G. A Coleman.
0 A D E M Y
Lessee and Manager .
OF M D 8 1 C,
Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
48th Week, and Continued Success of
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION
Every Evening in their Refined and Amusing
Entertainmen t.
H.M.S. (HOPPER BARflE) PiN~A-4.
Admission, 4s.. 3s„ 2s.. and Is. Box Plan at
Paling’s. Carriages at 10.15.
A I B T Y T HEAT R E I
Lessee B. N. Jones.
Proprietor and Manager .. Wm .Emerson.
Business Manager .. .. Wm A. Jinkins.
“This Theatre appsara to have taken a new
lease of public favour, for ever since the Minstrels
commenced their season the other week the house
has been crammed every evening, standing room
very often being accepted by many, to the disap-
pointing alternative of being left out in the cold
altogether.”
Emerson’s RTinstrels!
“The whole performance literally teemed with
enjoyable comicalities, local hits, &o,, and as for
the dancing, it Is by no means exaggeration or
fulsome puff to say that the Emerson's Minstrels
are second to no other troupe in cither England or
America. Mr. Emerson’s laughable impersonation
of ‘Moriarty ’ is undoubtedly one of the strongest
features in the entertainment.”
rsr SPECIAL NOTICE.
Our Popular Prices: Orchestra Stalls, 4l; Stalls’
3s.; Balcony, Is.
Doors open at 7; overture at 8.
Carriages may be ordered for 10 30 p.m. Box
Office now open at Nicholson and Cj.'s, where
seats may be secured six days in advance.
rpi HEATRE ROYAL.
MR. THOMAS WALKER S
COURSE OF SUNDAY EVENING LECTURES
Subject for Sunday Evening next,
“ The Rev. T. R. MALTH US,
and the
POPULATION QUESTION.”
Lectures every Sunday on Liberal Subjects.
Questions answered at the close.
Vocal aud Instrumental Selections will be ren-
dered prior to the lecture. Commence 7 15.
[A CARD]
THE Committee of the ORIENTAL CRICKET
CLUB beg to inform their many friends and
supporters that they intend holding their
Third Annual Picnic
to TENNYSON. Parramatta River,
On SATURDAY AFTERNOON, May 9 next.
Tickets, Is. 61. each, to be had from any of the
members. R. A. WARREN, Hon. Sec.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 25th April, 1885.
TENDERS FOR WEATHER SHED AND IM-
PROVEMENTS.
rW ENDER8 are Invited for Erecting of a
Weathershed and for Improvements at the
Leichhardt Public School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
Of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Weathershed
and Improvements, Leichhardt Public School,”
must be lodged with the Under-Secretary, Depart-
moot of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock
a.m., on Monday, the 11th May, 1885.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
Sydney Pharmacy.
76 HUNTER STREET,
Opposite Tramway, Elizabeth Street.
PHYSICIANS’ PRESCRIPTIONS carefully pre-
pared with Drugs of the purest quality.
French Indiarubber Goods, Ladies’ Abdominal
Supports and Pessaries. Syringes and Enemas of
every description, always in stock.
Country Orders promptly executed.
H. P. SABIEL, M.P.S., Mgr.
POSITIVE CURE WITHOUT MEDICINE.
Registered,
One box will cure the most obstinate case, acute
or chronic, in four days or less. Dr. BAYLEY’S
SOLUBLE MEDICATED BOUGIES (Eucalyptal).
No nauseous doses of cubebs, capaiba, or oil of
sandlewood, that are certain to produce dyspepsia
by destroying the coatings of the stomach Price
£1 la.; mailed on receipt of price. Address P.U.
Box 823, Sydney. ■
PRICE LISTS POST FREE. TWENTY PER CENT. UNDER
ANY SYDNEY HOUSE.
VENET1A WAJLTZ:
Th* Air to hr wnU morion. Oisoum to»Tin
P/3 cantabtU
m
Pert
Pad
ftz >
Pert.
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &c.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &o.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues will be ready in a few days and
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Boobs for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels.
. ■ upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &c.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
ziSubscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograph
tokesoff 3000copies ; the Berrygraph, th3 cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies,
S nd and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM ~BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
A Bazaar & Art Union
IN connection with the Union Masonic Lodge
of Berrima, 981 B.C., in aid of the
WIDOW AND ORPHAN FUND,
under the patronage of the District Grand Master.
John Williams, Esq., of the District Grand Lodge.
English Constitution,
£7000 Worth of Works of
Art, Pictures, &c.,
to be disposed of in Shares of £1 each on the Art
Union Principle, and to be drawn for at Moss Yak,
time and place of which will be given in public
Press, and the drawing will be under the super-
vision of the following gentlemen, who have
kindly offered to act :—
John Williams, Esq.
I. S. Ponder, Esq.
Jas. Taylor, Fsq.
W. McCourt, Esq.
1st Prize—Picture, &o., valued at
3nd-
3 rd—
4th—
5th-
6 th—
7th—
8th—
9th—
10th-
Hth—
13th—
13th—
14th—
From 14 to 34—10 prizes of £20 each.
100 Prizes—Pictures, valued at £3 each.
Tickets will be forwarded by the Secretary, on
receipt of £1.
J. S. HYAMS,
£3(00
1300
700
500
370
300
300
300
200
300
130
100
100
100
F. A. WRIGHT.
£400 WORTH OF STEEL ANGLOS TO PICK FROM.
J. STAJNliEY,
CONCERTINA DOCTOR,
BATHURST.
. V .
V,
OUT OP HUNDREDS RECEIVED, HERE 18
ONE TESTIMONIAL.
„t . . "Aprils, 1885.
I received the concertina about six weeks ago,
and there is no mistake about it, she is a beauty.
Your Invention of screwing the levers down is a
grand idea. The day I got the concertina, it was
lOOdeg. in the shade, yet the heat did not take any
effect on it, travelling in the sun. Everyone that
hears it says she is a credit to you. Hoping you
receive the custom you deserve, I will do the best
I can for you.
; , *’Robert Grant.
Burrawang Station, via Forbes
“P-8.—It sounds twice as loud as any Sydney
one.”
H
IS GRACE THE ARCHBISHOP
SYDNEY
WILL BLESS AND LAY
the
FOUNDATION STONE
of the
NEW SCHOOLS
at
ST. VINCENT’S CONVENT,
Victoria street.
On SUNDAY, 3rd MAT,
at 3.30 p.m.
OP
FOR OLD
and
YOUNG.
AUSTRALIAN
u MAGICAL
VI DEPOT.
Magic, and Mystery.
A BOOK CONTAINING OVER 250 TRICKS AND
DELUSIONS WITH CARDS, DICE, AND
. „ CONJURING APPARATUS,
all illustrated with wood blocks and diagrams,
forming the most complete collection of its kind
ever offered to the Australian public. Mailed free
to any address in New South Wales for 7d, stamps;
intercolonial 8J.
THE VANISHING EGG BOX—To make an egg
disappear at pleasure, 3i 6d, post free 33.
THE MAGIC CASK AND FAIRY BELL-A
beautiful trick, 3s, by pest 4s.
THE GOLDEN EGG—An ordinary egg is first
gilded, then disappears, and is Anally restored to
its original purity, 3s 6d, post free 4s fid.
THE DISAPPEARING CARD BOX-A very
clever little trick, so simple that a child five years
old can manipulate it. price Is, post free Is fid.
THE GREAT HAT AND DIE TRICK—A solid
die 2 inches square passes completely through a
gentleman's hat and is found inside. A very clever
trick. Price Is fid, post tree 2s.
THE MAGIC DISSOLVING PACK OP CARDS
—A pack of playing cards are shown to the audience
then placed in a case just large enough to
hold them. One of the audience, instantly after
this is done, opans the case, and finds it full of
sweets and the cards vanished. Price Is fid, post
free 2*.
THE GREAT NOSE AND TWINE TRICK—
The performer first bores a hole through a gentle-
man’s nose with a bradawl and then passes a piece
of twine through in a frame. Very lai ghable.
Price 2?, post free 2s 6 L
THE WIZAIVD
OF THE NORTH’S
CHANGEABLE
PACK OF CARDS.
The Cards change from
Red to Black, from Eights
to Peuoes, and back again
at the pleasure of the per-
former. These tricks elicit
exclamations of surprise
and wonder from all who
witness them. Post free, with FULL INSTRUC-
TIONS, Is 2d.
The “Multiplex” Puzzle contains no less than
50 distinct entertaining and instructive problems.
In handsome case with diagram; Is fid, post free.
Pharaoh’s Serpent’s Eggs, the size of a pea, from
which a fiery serpent 2 feet long uncoils, Is per
doz , by post Is Sd.
I’m a Daddy; I’m In Love; The Mother-in-law;
Im a Farder: and Before and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever issued, 5 in each set.
Price, fid per set, or 5 sets for 2s, by post 2s 3d.
American Comic Pictures, 14 x 18 Inches, Sport-
ing Scenes, &o., &o., very funny, highly coloured.
Is each, by post Is 3d; or 8s per doz.; post free,
8s fid.
Oleographs, 24 x 38, beautifully coloured. The
Lord’s Supper, Rock of Ages, Faith, Hope, and
Charity, Beatrice de Cenci, The Little Pets, Uncle
Tom’s Cabin, Sherman’s March to the Sea, and
many others, all reduced to 5s, post free. Original
cost, 10a fid.
FINE STEEL ENGRAVINGS.
Life’s Morning and Evening, The Orphan’s Res-
cue, Lead Me to the Rock. Woodland Hours,
Homeward (A. Stein—copied), These are My
Jewels, The Faithful Wife, An Armful, The First
Love, Spring Time of Life; 3s fid each, post free
3s 8d. These Engravings are really first-class and
worth twice tae money asked.
Also, a great number of Tricks, Novelties, &c., a
full description of which will be found in the
book
MAGIC, MIRTH, and MYSTERY.
N.S.W. stamps taken at par.; from other colo-
nies. add Id to each shilling. Post office orders pre-
ferable. Address a I orders plainly, AUSTRALIAN
MAGICAL DEPOT, 401 Georgc-street, Box 841,
G.P.O., Sydney.
K/£
cm
or
UFB
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORE on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
or excesses maybe
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensarv Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Seif Preservation. A book for every man. young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
So found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. 300 pages, bound in beautiful French cloth
tull gilt; guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country, for 2 guineas, or the inonW
will be refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal n-warded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should he road by the vomit? for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all. —London Lancet.
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As- Mr l |
sociatiou, or Dr. W. E. Parker. No. 6d Hunter H t A L
Street, Sydney, N. 8. W. Theauthormoy TLiVOCI T
v?..? onsulte d On all diseases requiring I f| I uLLr
skill, secrecy, and experience.
Members of the theatrical profession, and
a number of others in Australia, will learn with
regret that Mr. Milton C. Speer, a young American
Journalist of rare ability, who for a short time was
the dramatic representative of this journal, died
shortly after his return to the States. Mr. Speer
was one of the ablest all-round journalists whom
it has ever been our lot to meet, and to a combined
command of humour and pathos In his writings,
he added an uprightness of principle, a kindness
of heart, and a genuine conscientiousness, which
won for him a wide cirele of friends. When he
joined our staff, he was pursuing a plan of seeing
the world, working his way with his pen, and had
it in contemplation to visit Europe. But his health
was already affected, although neither he nor his
acquaintances recognised the fact that he was
in the first stages of a galloping consumption,
the malady to which he succumbed. The San
Francisco Chronicle records his literary career
and his death in the following terms:—“ News has
been received of the death, on March 6th, in the
Sisters’ Hospital, at Butte, M.I., of Milton C. Speer,
a brilliant young journalist, who was formerly
engaged on the staff of the Chronicle. Mr.
Speer was born in Butler County, Pa , on March
3,185)3, but received his education and spent most
of bis early life in Iowa. He had but recently
returned from Australia, whither he had voyaged
in search of health, but the lung trouble from
which he was suffering determined him to return
to this country, and seek the bracing atmosphere
of Montana. At Butte he became worse, and was
finally removed to the Sisters’ Hospital, where he
died. He was well-known in Chicago and St.
Louis, having occupied a reportorlai position
on the Chicago Daily News, and editorial
positions on the St. Louis Globe-Democrat,
and the Evening Chronicle of that city.”
It is a remarkable fact that in this city Mr. Speer
tendered his services to each of the daily papers
without success, and that it was The Bulletin
only which afforded him an opportunity of shew-
ing his qualifications, and which consequently had
the advantage of his remarkable abilities. • The
decay of Mr. Speer’s health alone terminated a
connection to which we shall ever look back with
pride and pleasure, and one which partook more
of the character of a close personal friendship than
of any other relation.
The first letter we received from oup
special correspondent with the N. S. Wales Con-
tingent was disappointingly brief. The reason we
quite understood; but, as some of our readers
may not have remembered all the circum-
stances, we publish the following extracts from a
note just to hand from Mr. Melvin, which shows
the disadvantages under which belaboured during
the voyage, as compared with other correspon-
dents, and which speaks with equal distinctness
for the pluck with which he faced the exigencies
of his exceptional position:—
“S.S. IBERIA
“Aden, March 26,1885.
Trail), Esq., Sydney. t
“Dear Sir,—Just a word or two to say that I
had found it absolutely necessary to keep my
Identity unknown throughout the voyage. Have
consequently had to work 14 hours a day on deck
and as storeman. Have.jnotwlthstandlng, found
time to write a few letters in secret. Any attempt
at sketching on deck was out of the question, so I
made the acquaintance of (an olHcer of the
corps), and banded him your letter of introduc-
tion. He was glad to learn that a representative
of The Bulletin was with the expedition, as he
had intended writing you from Suaklm that he
would be unable to act as a correspondent. He
said, however, that sketching for us was a thing
he could more easily overtake, and promisedito
give me a series by last night. I have not received
them from him yet, but hope I will in time to send
on shore with the purser. Am longing for the
time when I will be able to appear In my true
character, and in a position, consequently, to do
justice both to the papers I represont and myself.
Will write you more fully from Suaklm.
“ Yours, obediently.
"J. D. MELVIN."
Extract from 8. M. Herald cable:—“The
whole of the contingent are willing to volun-
teer tor India, if ordered.”
The Tories have discovered that the initials
G.O.M., which represent the Grand Old Man, stand
also for “ Gordon’s Only Murderer.”
The Government arc going to prosecute
Walker for preaching Malthusianism. They con-
sider that the tram affords a quite sufficient check
on the increase of population.
In the Intercolonial eight-oar race, the
lightest crew won. The aggregate weights of the
crews, exclusive of the coxswains, were—Queens-
land, (K)3t. 71b.; Victoria. W»4t. 11 lb.; Tasmania,
89st.; Now South Wales, 87st. 101b.
A correspondent pertinently enquires how
it is that the proprietors of such licenced houses in
the city as Roberts’ have not yet been made to
comply with the provisions of the lav as to accom-
modation ? He points out that the police and Cor-
poration have stringently applied tne rules of the
new enactment to all suburban and to most city
hotels, and remarks that what is law for one should
be law for another. Can anybody answer this
question.
“Horatius,” said the schoolmistress to a
nlne-year-old boy with two imposing freckles on
his noso and two equally imposing freckles on the
knees of his trousers,!" Horatius, please form a
sentence with the word ‘toward’ in it, and write
the sentence on the board.” Horatius went to the
blackboard, and after much scratching of head
and friction of brain, printed with the crayon in
letters that looked like a lot of half-feathered
Shanghai chickens running after a piece of dough,
the following sentence:—"I toward my trousers. ’
As the despatch of our brave boys, the
Australian!Contingent,to the Soudan, is the mark,
according to the Big Boy of Manly, of the most
important era In Australian history, why not date
the annals of our country from this eventful
year ? Thus, for Instance, 1886 would be a.d. 1 (In
the year of our Dailey 1), and preceding dates
could fittingly be spoken of as b u o (before Dai-
ley’s Offer). Then instead of teaching our chil-
dren that Captain Cook discovered this territory
in a.d. 1770, we could allude to that remarkable
year as b.d.o. 115. If this plan were adopted by
the Jingoes they would cause the memory of
the famous offer and despatch to be evergreen in
the minds of their descendants.


Oriental Gold
Is the latest discovery of Solbnce and the grandest
achievement of the alchemist’s art. It looks like
gold. It is as heavy as gold, and it is more enduring.
None but an expert can detect the difference, and,
then only bylthe severestltests. Ornaments made
from this new composition are equal in design and
general appearance to .those made of the finest
18-cafat gold, and yet we sell them at but a tithe
oflthe CoSt of the genuine goods.
Remember that we do not pretend that Oriental
Gold is anything but a composition of puremetals;
but we do aihrm that it is so perfect an imitation
of the sterling gold as to almost defy detection.
Jewellery made of it may be worn anywhere, and
the closest inspection will only strengthen the con-
viction that it is real gold. So perfect is it, and so
large has our trade become, that jewellers through-
out the colonies are complaining of the dullness in
trade, and are constantly writing to us to secure
our goods for their own customers. But as we are
Sole Agents for these colonies, we prefer to deal
directly with the public. All of our Oriental Gold
Jewellery is made to our order, and is stamped
with our trade mark. You can order anything
from a Scarf Pin to a Watch and Chain, and it will
be sent Post Free, and at our risk, on receipt of
price.
PRICE LIST.
Ladles’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double elides and tassels, 16s., 20s.. and 25s. each.
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 6s., 6s., 7s. 6d., os.,
8s. 6d., 9s.. and Ids a pair.
Ladles’ choice Necklets, from 12s. fid. to 30s.
Ladies’ very handsome Necklets, set in splendid
Alaska Diamonds, £2 Ids. to £5 5s.
Ladies’ elegant Bangles, 7s. to 15s. a pair.
Ladies’ handsome Cloak Clasps, 15s. to 90s.
Ladies’ very best American Rolled Gold Chate-
laines, 30s. each.
Ladies’ choice Lockets and Necklets, 178. fid., 20s- %
22s. fid., 35s., 27s. fid., 30s., 35s., and 40s.
Handsome Gem Rings, 7s. fid., 8s. fid., 10s., 15s., 20s.,
and 30s. each.
Elegant Keepers, Wedding Bings, and Fanes
Rings, from 3s fid. to 8s. fid. each.
Solid Gold Wedding and Keeper Rings, 10s. each.
Solid Gold Wedding and Keeper Rings, 18 carat,
ball marked, 31s. each.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Lockets, from
8s. fid. to 35s. each.
Elegant Crosses, in Oriental Gold, from 10s to 30s.
Ladies’ Bangles, in Sterling Silver, warranted,
from fis fid. to 103.
Ladles’ Handsome Bracelets, in Sterling Silver,
hall marked, 17?. fid. to 40s. each.
Brooches, in Sterling Silver, from 7s. fid. to 80s.
Brooch and Earrings, in Sterling Silver, from 10a.
to 40s.
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3s. fid. each.
Ladies’ Lockets, in Sterling Silver, hall marked,
from 19s. to 35s. each.
Ladies’ Alberts, in Sterllhg Silver, from 40s.
each.
Qent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £2 2 0
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless .. £2 5 0
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tassells £2 15 0
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless ... ;. .. .. ..£3 0 0
These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in bunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert ..£450
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balance,
with Oriental Gold Albert £6 6 0
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers .. ... ' .. .. £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance ..£660
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert.. ..’ .. ..£3 3 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert £4 15 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch,
sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph,
with Oriental Gold Albert • • •• •• £6 6 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
graae .. . .■ .. .. .. .. £o 6 ft
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Qold Chain
and Locket .. ... £10 10 0
We Import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of ail the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
fdve as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £3
a most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £10.
Gent's Oriental Gold Alaska DiamondRings, fis. fid.,
7s. fid., 8s. fid., and 10s. each.
Gent’s’ Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond and Ruby
Rings, 7s. fid. and fis. fick, each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, plain half, round
buckle, flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck
rings, &c„ &o„ from 5a. w 8s. fid. each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 7s„ 7s. fid., 8s., 8s. fid., 9s., 10s.,
and 13s. fid. per set.
Same as above, only half sets, 3s., 4s., and 6s. per
Very latest American Patent Spring Solitaire
Suites, 10s. per set.
Gent's elegant Seals, real stones, 7s. fid., 8s., 9s.,
10s., and 13s. fid. each.
Gent’s elegant Compasses, latest designs. 8s., 10s.
and 13s. fid. each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, handsome patterns,
fis. fid. and 10s. each;
Gent’s very latest American Rolled Gold Alberts,
made specially to our order, 17s. fid., 20s„ 25s.,
8>qcI 30s each.
Gents’ handsome Scarf Pins, from 2s. fid. to 12s. fid.
Gents’ Scarf Rings, 8s. each.
Very best American Pencil Cases, from 5s. to
13s. fid.
Gents' Hair Guards, 15 carat Gold Mounts, 30s. each
Gents’ Sterling Silver Alberts, from 12s. fid, to 30s.
each.
Gents’ Match Boxes, 8s. fid. each.
Gents’ Sovereign Purses, 7s.fid. each.
Ladies’ handsome Brooch and Earring Suites, from
8s. fid. to 35s. per set.
Richly-chased and eijgraved Bracelets, from 13s,
fid. to 40s.
Elegant Brooches, from 5s. to 30*. each.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Qold Alberts, 7s. fid.,
8s. fid. and 10s. each.
SPECIALLY OBSERVE.
Should you be dissatisfied with your Investment
after inspecting the articles, re-pack them at once
and send them back to us. If this is done within
two days-or where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured -we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will refund the
money for the articles.not retained. Fair dealing
is our motto, and we bind ourselves to give satis-
faction. Examine our catalogue, and send in your
order for what you may require.
Remember the Address :
474 George Street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS,
Sydnsy.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
HOTAir-“ Betsy ” p. 8
opera House—“ Odette 1 ’ »
oaiety Theatre—Emerson’s Minstrels
academy of Music—Hiscocks’ F. Minstrels ,«
CBXAEXhi's Circus—Belmore Park ..
Friday and an indifferent house saw the
mat of “Tho Professor” at the Royal, while
Saturday and a crush saw the first of “ Betsy.’ It
time since poor Marshall, as the Tutor
nawson, kept Sydney audiences in hysterica.
•*Betsy” is one of Burnand’s Innumerable adap-
tations from the French. Next to writing a play
tourself, the pleasantest thing is to steal one. It
u the most profitable, too. And when you not
only purloin it, but spoil it in the stealing, then it
Ji nearly time to die, for you’ve cleared the highest
«iil in the fence of literary greatness. So we get
hack to “ Betsy.” No dullness-no difficulty in
changing Gaulish lingual delicacy to SaXon rough-
«nd-tumble-cpuld entirely destroy the sprlghtli-
of the dialogue or the absurdity of the situa-
IIODB. , ,
Betsy (Miss Mayor) is a housemaid in the
employ of Mr. Birkett. The Birketts % ere ct mere
«re asses of a pronounced type. The old man roads
about a score of newspapers a day concerning the
state of parties. Even with this provocative to
idiocy he manages to worry along without betray-
ing any symptoms unnecessarily blood-thirsty —
nothing beyond glaring at his wife and spurning
all domestic blandishments. In this he differs
from a friend of ours—living on the fiat below us
-who daily goes mad on one journal alone. It
reconciles us to our daily toll to look ofit from our
eyrie—they’ve jammed us next to the garret—at 5
p m.. and see the pther lodgers sneak into the
house. When they remain we know that this one-
paper maniac hasn’t yet read the Evening New§.
But when they shoot out in a disorganized mob,
with their hats sitting on them sideways, and their
clothes aimlessly Happing about them in tatters,
we surmise that the single-journal chap has just
finished the “ Brevities,” and is “ugly.”
* * *
The Birketts have one boy—“Dolly ” (Mr.
Hans Phillips). He is a daisy. His mother fears
he’s consumptive, although the lout has an appe-
tite like a camel: and frbm his infandy never
missed a meal. He’s never suffered to go out
without a cholera-belt and wool in his ears. Betsy
gets round this youth—get’s him to sign (by mis-
take) “I love you, and will marry you only,” or
gome stuff of similar originality on the back of her
" carte,” and then the fun begins. In this character
we didn’t like Miss Mayor at all. We think she has
failed to grasp the situation and hold it—that she
is too pert and forward a minx—that the way she
stands with her hands stuck in her apron pockets
and shovels “cheek” into her employers, would
justify them in bundling her out of the house and
flinging her bundle after her. We doubt if her
conception of Betsy is the same as the author’s.
With youth, good looks, and a pleasing, penetra-
tive Voice on her side, she can take a lot of liber-
ties which others, less generously endowed, have
to forego. But, enough. She is foiled, in spite of
the fact that her sweetheart is a corporal in the
"Guards,” who could, probably, with one hand,
dust the floor with the whole Birkett family.
* * ♦
Mrs. B. persuades her husband to employ
a tutor for “ Dolly,” and allow the lad’s cousin,
Dick Talbot (Mr. Brown), to share his studies.
Redwood Is the tutor. It was formerly Marshal! s
great character. We think we've already said
that, within certain limits, Redwood is a sound
actor. He has odd peculiarities of voice and gait,
which never leave him. Compared with Marshall's,
Bis tutor was a CjS6 of e'est 1)on,maisce n’estpas
chic. Morality was his strong point—he’d but
lately run away from his wife. Most moral men
do that—except when the wives don’t give them
the chance but run away first. Just in front of
us sat a leading lady at whose theatre it was an
‘ off” night. The way she laughed at Redwood’s
improvement on Ollendorff’s method of teaching
French convinced us that she (like ourselves) had
been through tho mill of ‘ Have you a wish for the
leg-o-mutton of the butcher ? No, we are chiefly
‘ shook ’ on the last of the bootmaker.” Then we
bad an Irish Captain (M’ManUi— Titheradge) and bis
wife, Miss Mortyne. Some of the situations in
which they figured were screamingly droll. If you
ask us in what we like Titheradge, we'd have some
difficulty in saying. But if you ask why we like
him at ail we could give a lot of reasons. Among
othors-he never “ overdoes” a part. This was
very noticeable in bis Captain M'Manus. A less
competent or careful actor would have given
the Captain the manners of a “ bruiser” and the
brogue of a Bosjesman, There was, of course, a
slight accent—just enough to show that he wasn’t
nurtured in “ Seven Dials” nor pampered with the
luxuries of the " New Cut ’—but not enough to
convict him as a dynamitard. The ordinary stage
representation ot the Celtic peasant is stupid
enough, but ofSthe Celtic gentleman it is simply
idiotic. And Misi Mortyne? With such a wife-
bit of a Home Ruler ai she was—M’Manus should
never have stopped out after 10 nor hinted at a
latch-key. , * ,
Mr. Brown made the most of Dick Talbot
—• Dolly’s” fellow-student. It was nice to see the
respect ne entertained for learning-almost tying
that of the Melbourne University undergraduates
who lately “ goosed ” the Chancellor. He had
a fair knowledge of distance, too, and seldom
missed the tutor's person when he shied * book
his way. Madame Polenta (Miss D’Arcy Read—
Dawson’s grass-widow) had a few words to say,
which she said without creating any violent feel-
ing either of appreciation or revulsion. Her hus-
band adowed her £5 a month (how he “ raised ” it
is the “boss” mystery of the piece), which she
appeared to have invested in tow and oid news-
papers and carried on the small of her back. Two
other ladies, a fiunkey, and a barber, completed
tie cast. Their efforts require no special notice.
« * • »
Hiscocks’ now sport four corner-men —
Moynham and Warner having been sworn in as
assistants to Bent and Keenan. It is well to pro
mote men, but in most cases it would be well to
keep them closely muzzled for the first three or
four jears (say) after promotion. There was a
good house (Friday), ana the people seemed to be
enjoying themselves innocently enough till Moyr -
ham tired into them: “Bee ae gal 1 was walkin’
with? Neck-lace, watch, black dress-I gav’er ’em
all. Pair o’black eyes ? Igav'er dem, too.” At
this primeval joke a strong ebb feeling set in.
Strong men looked broken up, and some women in
front began to cry. Another outrage would have
created a riot, but, fortunately, Keenan struck up
“Mary lit the fire with kerosene,” when the
females dried their eyes and the men’s threatening
looks relaxed.
« * •
Porter sang very weU—Brabam, as usual.
Then it was Warner’s turn, and he chirruped
“ Only what I’ve been told, you know.” In con-
nection with this singular production, the funniest
thing is that it appears on the bills as a " comic ”
song. The man who called it that was a born
humorist—a bigger wag than General Graham,
who wouldn’t send “ our boys ” to the front be-
cause they had to take their tea without milk that
morning. Even Amery, with his grand voice and
fine song, could scarcely restore the good humour.
Bent followed up with “This old hat,” when the
four corner men, each crowned with a deplorable
“tile,” advanced, retired, and at last found their
seats,’ after various curvettings of a laughable
kind. Ueaumont Read was down for “Doily
May,” but didn’t appear, his place being taken by
the bi-voeal Carroll.
• * *
Our late notices of Hiscocks’ crowd have
probably been influenced by the length of their
season. You can always hear a good song with
pleasure, and so, when Amery, or Braham, or
Porter “ show off,” with Nick (the best all-round
nigger “ faking ” man this side of Spitzbergen) to
lead the accompaniment, you listen night alter
night, and applaud. But it is another thing al
gether to have shovelled Into you at every sitting
the same broken-down, knock-kneed, dpavined,
cataleptic joke that caused the Wandering Jew to
be shot out of Palestine and that is the first salute
that greets a traveller when crawling into an Es-
quimaux hut or making for the shelter of a South
Sea Island palm tree.
* * * »
It was on Saturday night Emerson’s
people changed their bill. We shall speak of the
new one next week. Of the old, we can only re-
peat that it pleased and paid. There is one word
universally used in America, but which always
sends an unpleasant shock through a British or
colonial audience. It is the word “bug.” You
hear it at the Royal in the “ Professor,” while at
Emerson’s there’s a “ run ” on it. There’s really
no reason why it should be more objectionable
than “ butterfly ” or “ blue-bottle,” but—it is. In
the English edition of Poe’s works the “ Golden
Bug” appears as the “Golden Beetle,” and, while
a well-bred American woman would use, without
hesitation., this voracious brute’s monosyllabic
name, an English gentlewoman would as soon eat
with her knife or pick her teeth with her fork.
* * * *
Sala— the Q.A.S. of our infaiicy- opened
on Tuesday with “Russia.” There are many
things connected with ueorge Augustus’ views
with which we disagree, but (we’ve “front” enough
to disbelieve anybody) we’re prepared to fight
anyone who says he’s inaudable or prosy. And so
that short, stout man, with the face and paunch
suggestive of years of good dinners and rare
wines, has sat and talked with Emperors and
Kings, asked them questions, demanded their
views, maybe just as an East Sydney or Mudgee
elector might want to know Dan. O’Connor’s
opinion on the rise in cat’s meat, or A. G. Taylor’s
speculations on the Speaker’s wig!
m m *
What does George A. know about Russia ?
A great deal. What does he think about it ? Not
touch. He thinks, like Napoleon, that a scraped
Russian is a Tartar, and a bad Tartar at that. But
it is very doubtfu'jjwhether the veneer is much
thicker on the Western European, or, whether,
when removed, the savage below is not just as big
a Tartar as the other. The cruelty of the Russians
was touched upon. We smiled at this part, and
when the lectmer told of the way the soldiers
were “ chivvied ” and whacked, we ” larfed.” We
were about to wedge in here something about the
treatment we saw ladled out to the British warrior,
but it will be found elsewhere. He was rough on
tthe Russian Church and priests, and then we could
bold in our mirth no longer, but bad to start for
the door at the Invitation of a policeman. For
there—right in front of G. A. 8 , and reciving the
statements with a five-inch smile—was the Bishop
of Sydney. It was easy to see that his Lordship was
smiling complacently at the thought that the
Church he “ bossed ’ could, at all events, show
clean hands—never drove steel wedges into men’s
boots (while they were on), nor slit their noses, nor
nailed their ears to gaol doors, nor did anything
like the bad Russians. Whoopi
• • •
We paused at the door and slid into a seat,
promising to conduct ourselves. But what fol-
lowed nearly resdlted in our having to stand on
our head in the vestibule. For the perfidy of
Russian monarcbs, and soldiers, and statesmen
was held up to scorn. You can never believe
them. You could always believe Disraeli when
ho went to Berlin to bring home " peace with
honour,” but forgot to tell his admirers that in
his breeches pocket was a nice little secret under-
standing between himself and Russia. And you
I could admire former statesmen who murdered
thousands of Chinese because they wouldn't eat
1 opium j or reverence a brave general who, the
other day, offered a few thousand pounds for a
brave patriot’s head. But they were not Russians.
Ah! these Muscovites are a bad, cruel, designing
loti
I ...
Then the lecturer told us Peter the Great
(Gods! that such vermin should be called “Great”)
built Petersburg in order to have a window look-
ing out on Europe, and that Muscovy is now
anxious to have a window overlooking Afghanis-
tan. To us it appears that if we're not careful,
she’ll not only have a window but a whole shop
front. There is but one way, and one way alone,
of flinging Russia back—and it is just the means
that England would rather lose India than adopt.
It is, not to trust for safety to the very lowest
strata of society whom hunger or crime forces
into the ranks, but to make military service obli-
gatory. Then, and not till then, will Britain be
able to laugh at Russia’s endeavours to “ go south
and take up land.”
• • « •
Empty seats and pronounced gloom wel-
comed Miss Jeffreys Lewis’ first Sydney appear-
ance. “ Odette,” in which she appeared, is a
translation, adaptation, and mutilation of M.
Sardou’s original. It Is the story of a woman who
loved her child, doated ou her husband, and
adored her lover. The HUbald says she “ had
been indiscreet but not criminal,” and that here
marl was “ rather priggish,” Considering that she
stowed her lover in the house when her husband
was away, and that, when the latter returned un-
expectedly towards morning and banged at her
chamber-door, she, thinking it was the other
fellow, tUme out in dishabille and told him not to
make a noise like a battering-ram—that, after
this, she travelled fifteen years or so with
a professional thief (a “ spieler ” who cbuld turn
up the king every go at icarU, or the “joker ” at
out-throat), who caressed her when he won, and
walloped her when he lost, the world should be
pardoned for thinking her virtue a little
“ crooked.” Her purity is obvious enough to the
Herald man, but her husband is more difficult to
please, and so shunts her into the street. It was
after this she takes up with the chevalier d’indus-
trie, who manipulated the “ flats,” and goes the
grand round of European capitals, having Russian
and Austrian Grand Dukes playing leap-frog over
one another to be first at her “ at homes ” in
Petersburg and Vienna, and English Bishops
tumbling over each other to pick up the hair-pin
she dropped at her London receptions.
• • •
After 15 years of this idyllic life, helped
out by hypodermic injections of morphia, and
copious draughts of ” black drop,” she thinks it
t : me to look up her child. During this period the
infant had developed into a rather angular young
lady, who loved her father, the Count de Clermont
Latour (no less) with absorbing affection, and
-parted her hair on one side. But she loved another
—they always do. De Meryan (Mr. George Forbes)
was the lucky dog. When you saw him wriggling
into his “ loud ” domino to take part in the Carni-
val at Nice—saw how the disguise had worked
itself into a knot across bis shoulders, till an atten-
dant stepped forward to explain that he was try-
ing to jam bis left arm into the pocket instead of
the sleeve—you could admire the girl’s pluck in
still loving him. But there is a bar to their mar-
riage. De Meryan’s mother is proud. She will not
let her darling boy (the audience appear anxious
to smother him) wed one whose mother has been
“indiscreet but not criminal”—one who is sidling
through Europe with a card-sharper for a “ fancy
man.” Odette must promise never to return to
France. For this she is to be allowed as much
money as would purchase a Woolloomooloo block.
It is in the third act that these conditions are
S laced before her by her husband. This scene is
le strongest in the whole piece, and for it Miss
Lewis and Mr. Glover received well-merited
applause.
♦ ♦ ♦
The end of it all is that Odette has an
interview with her daughter, agrees to the condi-
tions, goes into a convent, attends confess! m
every morning, knocks off morphia, enters on a
course of diet calculated to tone down the pro-
toplasm due to fifteen years of champagne and
spring chicken, and is probably still alive. In the
original we believe she poisons herself. But
British audiences won’t stand poison. They’d
sooner see her thrown into a threshing-machine.
De Meryan and Berangere (Odette’s kid) get mar-
ried. We trust they were happy, but—from what
we saw of them—we have our doubts. The others
scatter. Nobody knows what becomes of them,
and few care.
* * *
We may sa£ at onee that there is a good
deal of all-round Injustice done by presenting to
strange audiences these society plays, where the
whole piece depends on maritdl infidelity. The
first injustice is to the authors whose works are
cut up, toned down, robbed of all the nuandes of
dialogue for the purpose of making them accept-
able to people who have—or at least pretend to
have-different social usuages. The next injustice
la to the strange people, who have presented to
them plavs which preserve few of the good points
but all the bad ones of the originals, and the
third is to the actors themselves. It is just the
same with French translations from the English.
We’ve seen a French Macbeth, where “Come on,
Macduff.” was happily rendered, *' Prene » garde’
M’sier Macduff.
9
But of the actors. Miss Lewis has an ele-
gant presence, and a pleasant voice with distinct
articulation. Her acting, too, is throughout good,
and occasionally fine. In the scene In the third
act, where she rejects the conditions proposed bv
her husband, she was at her best. Mr. Glover—
her husband—has everything in his favour-ap-
pearance. voice, training—and makes the most of
them. One critic says that his elocution is “a
combination of preaching and lecturing.” It may
be—but we could stand a number of similar com-*
binatlons. Wonder how some people would speak
if they found a strange man loafing about their
wife’s bedroom ? “ Don’t you come here again,
or ’twill be worse for you,” perhaps, Phil. Day
was a man about town, saturated with the
aphorisms of La Rochefoucauld. He is supposed
to have all the graces of a French gentleman,
and that’s just why we are pining to see Sardou’s
original of Day’s “ I'm Only a Little ’Un.” Car-
dailham (Mr. Rogers - Odette’s lover) was fortu-
nately p\ft out of the road—killed or something-
early id the first act. Thu only feeling he excited
in our mind was one of surprise at Odette's leaving
her husband and “freezing” to him. But there—
you never know women. Tltanla took to “ Bully
Bottom.” Solange Novaro (Juliette) Was in frilled
frocks when Phillip La Hoche (Whyte), a grown-
up dandy, fell in love with, and waited for her.
Her principal trouble when they got married, was
thinking of what he was doing while she was
growing up. He told her! I!
• • •
There was a baby in fthe first act. Ever
since Mrs. Marcus Clarke “ got at ” us in “ Conf u
sion” with a lath baby stuffed with tow, our faith
in stage infants has been undermined. It was
Odette’s child, and as she grew up, with her grand-
mother, was continually asking to see her mother’s
grave. But the old damn was wily, and said the
mother was drowned. We’ve always admired the
easy way old ladies put you off the scent when
they’ve a mind to. It was the first night of
“ Odette,” and so there was an excuse for the part
the prompter took la the piece, and for Miss
Lewis’ occasional shuffles towards the wings to
know what the —- was up behind.
* * * »
On Saturday, the 16th of May, Mrs. Marcus
Clarke takes her benefit. The programme is a
well-chosen one, and among the items is “A
Daughter of Eve,” written by her late husband,
whose status as the first of Australian litterateurs
still remains unchallenged, and whoso early death
was a loss to Australian letters. With a good pro-
gramme, good actors, and the best of objects, we
hope to see a packed bouse and bear that Mrs.
Clarke has received a big draft- payable at sight.
♦ * * *
Willie Fxear, of the “ Fun on the Bristol”
troupe, came around on Tuesday and told us that
his crush intend paying us another visit eolne-
where in May* May they have as good a time here
as they had last year, and may May Livingstone
be just as jolly—that’s all.
• • • «
It was at Kempsey the Clara Stephenson
Dramatic Company hafi their latest success.
Charley Bersford and Clara “ broke up” the first
two acta of “ Macbeth ” with terrible slaughter.
The stage was bigger than the lid of a soap-box,
but not so large as a carpet. “ Aladdin” followed,
and—this was at Charley’s benefit—then C. came
forward, and we believe this Is pretty nearly what
he said:—” Ladies and Gentlemen,—Thirly-one
years have gone by since I first adopted the dra-
matic profession, and, m spite of all my ups and
downs, I love it. I am an old—I mean middle-aged
—colonial, and, like all other colonial actors, I’ve
had to suffer in consequence of the demand for
everything American. The colonial city theatres
are now supplied with ready-made scenery, ready-
made appointments, and ready-made actors—Im-
ported in blocks from America, and these people
who have the theatres—Musgrove, or whatever
his name is,”—Charley forgot (yah!)—“Garner, and
Mr. Jimmy Williamson despise all colonials and
everything colonial. I am a far better actor than
this Williamson—have forgotten more than he
ever knew. (Tremendous cheering.) And so we
have to go on’the wallaby’ or as ‘supes.’ That
being the case, we are here. You have seen Miss
Stephenson to-night In one ;of her best parts, and.
as we play a few nights longer, you will, by that
time, have had a chance of seeing all her parts.”
(Uproarious yells)
* * * «
When last heard of, DUuning was “ knock-
ing ’em ” in Brisbane—opening with “ Les Man-
teaux Noirs.” The opening night was an immense
success, with one trifling drawbaok-the money
had to be returned. This was due to the principals
not having arrived, and it was too much to expect
Dunning and Macallum to go through all the
parts themselves on such short notice. Appleby
appears to be first favourite, but we fancy Lore-
dan’s secession will be felt by-and-bye.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
A correspondent wishes to communicate
with “ Chas. Fuller,” of the late Stray Leaves Com-
pany ...“William Evans": Held over for illus-
tration. Look out for it soon “Inquirer”:
You wish to know whether “ Englishmen or Irish-
men are in the majority in the Royal Irish Con-
stabulary.” For one Englishman there are about
a hundred Irishmen in the force. We ought to
know, for a mob of them searched us once for
dynamite, and there wasn’t a man among ’em that
hadn’t hair on his teeth....” Nervous One”: The
nearest respectable practitioner will give you
sound advice. The symptoms are by no means
uncommon. Tea, coifee, opium, and tobacco are
so many poisons in your case “ Fair Play”
(Townsville): We’ve tried different lawyers, and
the least put down as damages in the event of
publishing your letter was £100.000. But, be-
sides, we think it a mean letter, as well as a—im-
pertinent one “James A. Cameron”: James,
your head’s unwell—you’ve too much hair on it,
old man. Get it cut short. A razor then passeu
lightly over it will relieve you. Trust us—we’ve
been that way ourselves....” Rob Roy”: Received,
Very good, — “Frank Hill”; Received. Too
diffuse—“W.J.8.” : Pendjeh is, we suppose,
now a Russian dependjehncy “T.R.”: A re-
gular practitioner is always to be preferred.
We believe the parties are reliable, how-
ever. About the appliance we can't speak
“R. Scott”: You are only one among numerous
subscribers to the Marcus Clarke Memorial Volume.
The whole business was muddled, somehow. We
don’t know the details. But we do know
that hundreds of unbound copies of the bcok
in sheets are lying in the cellars of the
printers, Cameron, Lang and Co., at Melbourne
“Vulcan”: Forcible. Will consider for next
issue—"F. O.”: Held over “Carolus”: Excel-
lent. But why not try your band on some distinc-
tively colonial subject ? “ Gambusino ”: If your
Erose is as good as your verse, we shall be glad to
ave it.... “ T. C. B.”: Thanks. Very good, indeed.


PEPPER AND SALT.
It was frigid noonday, and Alfred’s chief
editor was about to join issue with a mysterious
mess of pottage, and a still more mysterious pot of
message, both surreptitiously smuggled past the
noses of the hungrier members of the staff. The
meal was rudely interrupted by the semi-burglari-
ous entrance of a butcher’s assistant radiant in
gore and grease. “ How’s the poetry market ?”
asked the intruder. “ Too late,” said the chief
editor; “the ‘Poet’s Corner’ is rented for the
quarter to a tripe-and-offal auctioneer at W ater-
loo.” “ Rented I Blooming well rented, eh?
Why I thought poetry was a source of wealth
to—.” “So it is, my boy,” said the editor, hun-
grily eyeing his mildewing repast ; “ payable
strictly In advance, and from present indications I
feel justified In inviting tenders for next quarter's
space.” “My eye I” exclaimed the slaughterer’s
supernumerary; “but what does the poet get for his
sanguinary trouble ?” “ The glory, young man,
the glory, the whole glory, and nothing but the
glory—no mean consideration when you consider
that the circulation of the Jernil is 100,000,000.”
“Whew! And what length of time do you
compute would elapse ere a poet, on those terms t
would be enabled to retire in comfort—up King-
street ?” “That,” said the editor, thoughtfully,
“would, I should say, depend on his capacity for
jerking off verse and his thirst for glory. Success
is Intoxicating, too, you know, and I have known
several promising poets who, at quite an early
stage in their career, abandoned themselves to
revelry.” “But,” said the young man, implor-
ingly, “ are there no other conditions under which
you would consent to accept verses?” “Ah, I
will deal magnanimously with you. Bring me a
cubic foot or poetry, a splodge of saveloy, a junk
of liver, two bullocks’ hearts, and a ram f s kidney,
and I’ll endeavour to find room for the lot.” Sa-
laaming profoundly at the magnanimity of the
generous litterateur, the butcher s hack ran down
the steps three at a time, and is since reported by
the staff’s scout to be hunting up the stipulated
quid pro quo.
“ Hallo ! What are those
fellows of ours doing in that car-
penter’s shed ?” asked a visitor to
Suakim of an Imperial officer, point-
ing to about 100 of the Contingent
who were busily employed splitting
up pine into sharp - ended pegs.
“Hush!” said the other, drawing
him away— “ don’t let them hear
you, or they might grow discon-
tented. You see, they think they’re
making torpedo plugs —” "And
are they not ? ” “ Pooh I there’s no
such a thing as a torpedo plug,”
laughed the Imperial officer; “the
fact is ’’—here he sunk his voice to
a whisper—" they’re busy on a load
of toothpicks to conciliate the
friendly natives with.” “ You don’t
say so I ” said the visitor. “ But
that party of our troops who are
hard at work digging—there's ‘ the
Palmer-street Pet’ going In at a
great rate — they are doubtless
” " Chut I or they’ll hear you I”
exclaimed the Imperial officer.
“ They think—excuse me, it wasn’t
a laugh but a cough—that they’re
marking an outer line ot fortifi-
cations.” “ Oh, they think that, do
they?” said the now rather per-
turbed Australian. “Ye s," re-
joined the Imperial officer ; “ a
little diplomacy is everything. Just
watch how they’re cutting in.
Every man seems to think that his
especial shovel is going to save the
citadel. Just fancy what sort of a
dockyard - stroke we should have,
did they know they were digging
graves for camels ?” “ And to
think,” murmured the Australian,
as he tottered away, “ that many a
one of these gallant fellows has left
his snug -little shoe-shop, and his
wife and five children for—this I”
From the Candelo Candle we learn that
subscriptions to that paper are now due, and that
the money was never more acceptable than it
would be now, and to that extent we see nothing
original in the remark. But a paper cannot keep
abreast of the frenzied progress of Candelo unless
it reeks with tbo ferment of the time; and, con-
sequently, we have it in black and white that “a
large flock of crows recently crossed from Kiandra
to Adamlnaby and Jindabine. At the latter place,
one of the crows carried off a pet duck that Mr,
William Bottom had had for 19 years, the
duck offering no opposition.” Later accounts
from the police, who started out in hot
pursuit, give some details of the duck’s last
hours. He was fixed in the fork of a tree. The
old King Crow sat opposite, and eyed him judi-
ciously; whilst the others sat round polishing
their beaks. “ Prisoner at the bar,” said the Judge,
“ you are about to take the fortunes of war. I re*
gret that you are not as fat as I could wish: but
still there ought to be some fair pickings under
your wing. And may the Lord have mercy on
your soul.” “ Stay,” cried the duck, “ I must get
back to my office, or the paper can’t come out.’’
** What paper ?” asked his Honor. “ The Candelo
Union” was the desperate reply. “ Prisoner,” said
the Judge, taking a preliminary mouthful out of
his thigh, “ you go to your Maker with a lie in
your bill. You might be editor of the Moruya
Examiner, but”—and here he wrenched off a
wing—“ I am the editor of the Candelo Union.”
Alfred Gibson, of Collingwood, is subject
to ague, and when the flte take him he shakes—
for beers—as that seductive beverage is a sove-
reign (or threepenny) remedy for his bad spells.
At least this was the plea put before their
Wasbups by Alf.’s missus, when they stood him as
an habitual drunk. Her little caper worked well,
the “Binoh” probably remembered how often a
gallon of egg-flip had soothed its troubled nerves;
so it loosed the poor sufferer on to the world once
more, and Alfred went and soaked In his
medicine, till he thought his head was a
steam hammer, and tried to butt in a brick
wall. A few days later the ague-smitten one
was found by a constable, the centre of an admir-
ing crowd of spectators, who vociferously ap-
plauded his efforts to crawl up a six-inch box
drain. Alf. was run in again, and accused of being
drunk and disorderly. Six previous convictions
were recorded against him, and things looked
straight at three weeks or a fiver, especially as he
did not trot out the ague idea; but ho mentioned
in a casual sort of way that he was a prominent
member of the Salvation Army, and the Bench
passed the case on for seven days to allow prisoner
time to leave Colllngwood. Wo consider that
statement of Alfred’s a clear proof that his ague
dodge was faked up. There’s hell enough in one
Army meeting to cure all the ague in Queensland.
And he should have been made to serve his time,
just as we would have to.
We are indebted to an esteemed minister
(the second since Mr. Jefferis that we have oon_
verted) for the following extract from a letter
written him by a friend (one of the chaplains,
probably) who was on board the Iberia:—. .
I know you’re Just the [erasure] boy to enjoy what
I am going to tell you, and this I judge from the
extreme fondness you exhibited for killing your
guinea-pigs with blunt penknives when we were
at school. Well, the noble [erasure] Contingent
suffered [erasure] from sea-sickness. Talk of
soldiers I Why, when paraded in the harbour, they
were nothing but a blubber militia, stuffed to the
swallow with beer, rum, fruit, mutton pies, hard
eggs, flask-brandy, cold sausages, and portergaff.
Around each particular man floated an aroma like
that of a particular cookshop with a public-
house next door, while to pass on the lee
side of the colour-sergeant was as good as
a plate of soup. You can just imagine how
they suffered! The men were so bad that
all discipline had to be suspended; one of [the re-
sults of which is the following dialogue, which I
heard, a few days later, in the ’tween decks:—Ser-
geant (to private in top bunk): ‘Now then, Peter-
kin, you must come out of that, and get ready for
parade.’ Peterkin: ‘ Who are you a mustin of ? I
ain’t agoin’ to take [none o’ your lip, Jack the
Milkman.’ Sergeant (much discomfited): ‘But
I’ve got to doit, William.’ Peterkin: ‘Well, you
needn’t trouble. I’m agoin to get up when I ’ears
the ’orn, and until I ’ears the [erasure] ’orn I’m
agoing to stop .where I am. There I' But they
were really bad, poor fellows. Nothing, during
the rough weather, would rouse them but rum—
and duff. The effect of the latter was magical.
Gaunt shadows, clothed in a helmet, a pair
of drawers, and one boot, would clamber
out of bunks and hammocks, and aim in
oblique lines for their mess tables. Then,
armed with a chunk of duff, each man would pre-
pare to Journey back. Then came the [erasure]
fun! You never saw such a [erasure] lark in all
your life. Hardly had he started from the table
back to his bunk, when the horror of each soldier’s
position was revealed to him! He had to return
from whence he came, bearing a chunk of hot duff
upon a beef plate. Not one in 10 ever got back
with his duff. One day I saw seventeen of the
[erasure] all of a heap in a corner—a heaving mass
of boots, duff, helmets, drawers, odd socks, and
curses. I was present at the first parade after sea-
sickness, when Private Gumboil, 109, had on 17’8
helmet, 45’s belt, 30’s knapsack, and a pair of
his own patent leather shoes. Think of thatl The
[erasure] aralootl There’s only one thing more
that will interest you. When we were nearing
Aden, the Colonel ordered a general parade in full
uniform. The [erasure] warriors came up with
grins on ’em like cheese-gashes, and when they
were got into a line that was first cousin to a rain-
bow, the Colonel said: ‘Soldiers of New South
Wales I [The army looked upon him with coun-
tenances beaming with satisfaction] Such has
been your discipline on board this ship that if I
had done my duty to my Queen and country, not a
msm of you would ever have landed in Egypt,
Now, go and burrow!’ ”
* * *
One of our morning contemporaries con-
veys to us the terrific intelligence that “ more fast
night-houses are breaking out.” That’s not very
surprising, anyhow. Walk about Sydney any
evening and consider where you can obtain a cool
drink in a cool room, and smoke your cigar with-
out being accosted by drunken fools, who, in thei
sober senses would as soon think of shaking hands
with the Angel Gabriel. There is non©I You must
go into a bin called a “sixpenny-bar,” and choke
until the red-knuckled handmaid has supplied you
with your “poison.” You look round—there is
not even a place to sit down in; but as a set-off
against this there are any number of salt sprats in
a tin on the counter I Then, just before you g 0
it’s a hundred to one if a head is not poked
in at the door and a voice says — “ g eeQ
’Arry ter-noite ? ” and she will reply sadly
(but with interest): “Yus! his hup at the
“Busters.”’ Then you, too, dive out with
blinded eyes, and a tongue like a sponge. Walk
into any of the best-known of the public-houses—
what do you see and find ? Dingy bars, crazy f Ur .
nlture, filthy floors, and assertive incivility. Why
we know a young French Count who, when] he
entered the Anythlnyoullke Hotel, and, sitting
himself at a sticky marble table, said: “ Waitaire
if you please bring to me some orgeat and water
of seltz with ice in him.” The waiter looked
down at the foreign gentleman speechless with
surprise. Recovering himself directly, however
he said to the guest, in a whisper: “ I think, young’
man, you’d better go somewhere where you’re
known and the Frenchman saw him that night
no more. But, of course, there are exceptions
Take, for instance, the noble public palace
run by the present chief of the L.Y.G.A. of
this city. Here we see a difference, indeed I How
the warm light there, in those gorgeous saloons
darts in prismatic flashes from each crystal
dole, betraying to the delighted gaze of the
stranger the carved and gilded cornices, and the
superb lace curtains which, toned down by velvet
draperies, mask the casements against the gaze of
the outside vulgar. It is here that you can sip
your mazagran, revel in your sobert, and obtained
can be, from skilled and bejewelled hands, the
seductive absinthe gomme and the petit verre of
Chartreuse verte which, when on the bully vards
used so to delight you. You sink on a divan’
lulled to partial slumber by the plashing of a foun-
tain, only to be awakened by the strains of music
which [Forty lines cut out, by order.—
!’.:tn'teb.] We now come to—[Another item.—
-u. B.]
If you knew as much as we
did about things you would not be
a bit afraid of Mother Gordon an d
the 1 “ G.F.S.” A morning or two
before hiring day, just pervade the
depdt got up in tight pants, a shiny
bell-topper worn well over the left
eye, a red tie with a brass pin, and
lots of well-greased hair twisted
into “ curls ” at the back and
trained as “ aggerawaters ” round
the ears in front. Hold a pliable
cane with a gilt nob in your hand,
and when you see any of the “sen-
sitive ” young women, either com-
ing or going, shoot your linen vio-
lently, and give it gently round
that you are a rich young widower
in search of a slave for every de-
partment of your mansion. Then,
when the fatal day comes round,
you will find that none of these
girls has a Society that is “ friendly’
or otherwise, an uncle, or a sister.
Why, the last time we went to hire
a parlour-maid in that guise, a girl
from Northampton pretended she
didn’t know her own brother, until
she found we had engaged some-
body else. You try it. If you’ll
call round, we’ll lend you the get-
up—or you can get it yourself, if
you like. It’s in the pump-cup-
board, just near where the big black
dog is. It looks Splendid—but— er—
if you’ve an airy habit of hitching
up your coat-tails, you had better
stand with your back to a dead wall
as much as possible while you are
entertaining society with your con-
versation. We're the one’s to bust
up a “grinding monopoly I”
♦ * *
It is only when a man has one
rib sticking into his liver, and an-
other wearing a hole in his shirt,
that he ever looks at the patent
medicine ads. Having had a slight
difference with a steam winch lately
we have studied medicine very in-
tently, and were at ;last captivated by an an-
nouncement, ; beaded—“ A Popular Composer's
Verdict,” and concluding with the following ex-
planatory foot-note:—“Mr. Summers Brown is the
writer and composer of the popular patriotic song,
‘ Our Brave Boys at the Front,’ which is causing
such a furore amongst the well-wishers of the
N.S.W. Contingent,”—But come. Summers, sit
down at the Bord whi'e we sing a bit. The
same old bass will do—
A few days ago, when the dynamite scare
was at its height, an order went forth to the town
and country police to keep an eye on all “Irish
men with suspicious bags,” A few days subsel
quent to the Issuing of this manifesto, Sergeant
O’Shaoabaok, with his mind on this order “ intint,’,
strode up and down the Jumbuckville platform
awaiting the arrival of the Sydney train. When
it drew up, there alighted from a first-class car-
riage a nattily-dressed gentleman in a bell-topper,
with unmistakably Milesian features, who carried
a black bag, which seemed to be uncommonly
weighty. “Good mornin,’sarjlnt,” said the new
arrival, cheerily; “beautiful weather." The ser-
geant gazed at the speaker and then at the bag
and was dumb. He could only mumble to himself
the words contained in the PotjIce Gazette —“ all
Irishmen with suspicious bags.” He quickly fol-
lowed the stranger out, when that person once
more accosted him. “Which is the Coort House,
sarjint?” asked he. "On the top of the hill,’
gasped the policeman. “ I s’pose ye’ve a foine
cellar there, eh ? ” said the stranger, with a laugh'
The unhappy officer looked first at the bag and
AD HOMINEM.
O Rot, ambrosial Rot, fain would I wing
My way up to thy Himaleh, and sing
With thee, the Tenth Muse, of this age begot—
An age of promise, now ail gone to pot.
Alike the Press, the pulpit, and the stage,
Of wars and tumults, and of bloodshed rage.
While modest Peace her gentle face must hide
That strumpet War may flaunt in all her pride.
See in his den the editor profound,
Whom subtle paste and scissors grim surround.
Sit through the night to hear the latest news
Of murdered Arabs, or some Russian ruse;
Failing which items in the telegram,
He shuts up shop, and straight begins to damn.
“ Give me a war,” he cries, “ a good fat war,
That I may hear the swishing scimitar,
The thundering cannon, and the chargers’ neigh,
The crash and tumult of the bloody fray;
Tell me of men and horses crushed pell mell—
There’s something, then, to make the paper sell;
Some broken hearts and groans there’s sure to be.
My paper ‘ hums,’ so what is that to me ?
The Employment of Lady Commercial Travellers.
TERRIBLE (BUT PROBABLE) RESULTS.
I'll show by leaders that our cause is sound,
And for a short ad. o’er it charge a pound;
And when the list of wounded is to hand,
And those whose bones bleach on a foreign strand,
I’ll show by logic that there’s ground for hope,
Then call attention to some patent soap.”
Now the smug prelate wales his smuggled screed,
Gives out his text, and straight begins to read
How Moses led the Iraelitlsh horde
| To slaughter all who did not know the Lord,
And seize with godly zeal each fertile tract,
And make the sword do for a Torrens’ Act.
How Joshua, wishing to keep up the fun
Of slaughtering Hlttites, quarantined the sun;
Or how King David, after God’s own heart,
Murdered at large, and plundered in each part.
No more the old, old tale of peace on earth,
Once heard when angels choired the heavenly
birth;
The God of Battles now ascends his throne,
And views the slaughter, hears the wounded
, groan,
And for the holy sound of prayer and praise
Receives, instead, a Christian Marseillaise;
| Sees from his height, the mitred bishops’ bawl
That “ they who in their country’s quarrel fall
Receive our blessing in this ruthless fight,
Don’t mind its ruthlessness; we’ll make it right.”
Nor need we turn to holy men alone
To get for bread a good square meal of stone.
Now the hoarse patriots raise their voices high,
To send their brethren to Soudan to die;
And whilst their shouts ring in the horrid fray,
The patriots murmur “ Brethren, let us pray,”
And men whose souls were never known to yearn
To do one single living man a turn.
Or help some struggler in financial wreck
Now feel for dead men, and send in their cheque.
Then turn to where the politician prates
Of Russian intrigue and the state of States;
Of Dailey, versed in European schemes,
How Gladstone cogitates, and Bismarck dreams,
How Wolseley, Stewart, Graham—all are wrong,
And only need a corps seven hundred strong,
Filled to the ears with true colonial dash,
To send the Mahdi to immortal smash.
Of such as these, O Muse, fain would we sing,
And, praising humbug, make the welken ring;
Some say they worship loyalty; I’ll not;
For thou their goddess art, immortal Rot I
TO SUMMERS BROWN
[Respectfully].
The laurel wreath has come, enfang LI! Ed, B,]
To glory it has lured you:
You rubbed the ile well in, and bang!
Of skeeter bites It cured you 1
We’U buy some; it might make us do
Verse soft and sweet as Moser;
It must do that, for it’s made you
“ A popular composer.”


then at the new-comer, but could only nod
feebly. “And a way in ye don’t tell every-
body,” laughed the stranger. “ Never mind
_ x'U find it.” The sergeant turned green.
g e realised his position thus: While other
gallant officers had been in the position of facing
dynamltards— they had been sane ones; while
there was he, Sergeant O’Shacaback, left alone to
couple with an insane votary of O’Donovan
Bossa! And as he marked how the mad dyna-
miter swung his infernal bag, how he longed, how
he prayed for a sane one. " Ye’d best let me carry
your bag for yez,” at length the officer said, In a
thick voice. “ Thank ye kindly; but may be ye’d
folnd It heavy. Ha, ha,” he laughed, as he gave
the bag a demoniac swing—” lots, of reports in
you, ye mouldy ould villln.” The sergeant
clutched the bag with a mighty effort, and looked
hurriedly around. In vain. His two aides were
at the Ten Mile, putting down crime through the
medium of skittles. Ha! here they were op-
posite the P.M.’s residence I “ Would the
stranger wait a minnit woile he schpoke wld
a gentleman ? ” The nitro-glycerineite laugh-
ffigly assented, and sat himself down on a
sent In the verandah, crying to the sergeant
as he knocked at the door, “ Don’t you lit that bag
dhrop, moind ye, or something might happen to
the country.” With a livid countenance the
officer set the bag gingerly down in a corner of
the verandah and went inside. In about half-an
hour he came out, accompanied by a tall gentle-
man with drooping whiskers and a scared counten-
ance. By this time the malefactor had strolled
out into the road, and was engaged in instructing
the youth of the township in the mysteries of
that popular game “Who can tell the biggest lie,”
for bull’s-eye pools. “Where is he?” whispered
the P.M, breathlessly. At this moment the bell-
toppered dynamitard looked round. “ Ye'd better
bring me satchel out, sergeant, dear,” he cried;
“ for what’s in in might disagree with some peo-
ple.” “ Take thed—d thing off my verandah, ser-
geant, immediately, and go out with me to this
man,” cried the P.M. They wa ked slowly down
the walk, clicked the gate, and stole softly upon
the dread destroyer, who was quaffing ginger beer,
which had been, apparently, just fetched by
the most promising boy of the B.L. school
Suddenly he rose, and faced about. “ Put yer
hands up, or I folre!” cried the sergeant, covering
him. “WhatI Terence!” cried the stranger, as
his eyes lighted on the P.M. “What! Mike!”
cried the P.M., motioning the sergeant back.
“ Which is the blaygalrd’s other neem ?” cried the
sergeant, advancing once more. “ He’ll tell you
up at the Court House. But there, officer, to put
you out of all suspense, let me at once proclaim
our visitor’s titles.” The sergeant advanced, still
eager for a grip. “ This is Terence O’Riley—[“ A
murthorin’ name, thin,” Interjected the officer] —
our Crown Prosecutor. And now, sergeant,” con-
tinned the P.M., “you had better go home and get
your tea, and take care the gunpowder don’t blow
the lid off.” We understand that since this
episode the active and intelligent officer in ques-
tion has been promoted to the sole charge of one
of the metropolitan dead-houses, with a special
mission to prevent the corpses cheating at
dominoes.
• ♦ *
The court-martial on Bugler Berkley on
board the Iberia was a great lark. It seems that <
the valiant horn-blower was bugler of the guard 1
one night, and when the time came for trotleing
on his trumpet, he was found fast asleep in a coil
of rope at the other end of the vessel; having, to
show that his sympathies were still, to some ex-
tent, with the expedition, left his accoutrements
in the place where he should have been blasting
on his horn. Major Kyer, Captain Kyngdon, and
those two Bayards, Lieutenants Burnside and
Airey, were the judges, and everything was con-
ducted in the saloon with the utmost solemnity—
the majesty of the picture being only marred by
the scuffling of the officers up on deck in their en-
deavours to get a look through the sky-light -
Here’s some of it:—Major Kyer (to prisoner):
*' You have pleaded guilty to a serious dereliction
of duty.” Prisoner (in great terror): “I didn't
plead guilty to all that, sir I” Major K, (Irate):
“ You did, sir; don’t contradict me.” Lieutenant
Alrey: “How dare you contradict the President! ’
Prisoner; “ Well, when I met the man at Chowder
Bay, he said Captain Kyngdon: “Man at
Chowder Bay I” Prisoner: “Yes; he got me tight
and kidded me to leave the band and join
this fake.” Major Kyer: “Fake!” Prisoner:
“Yes. Said all I would have to do was blow
“ The Bulletin ” Waxworks.
A. CHEERFUL DEPARTMENT.
No. 1. A Crown Minister and M.L.A. appearing before his constituents with a leal champagne bottle. 2. Allegorical figure “ Education.” 3. Captain Kidd.
4. Father Time. 5. Moses agoing to strike the Rock. 7. Sleeping Beauty.
B. CHAMBER OF HORRORS.
No. 8. The editor of the Rum reading an editorial on war to a Particular Friend. 9. A N.B.W. politician. Wind this figure up, and it will talk for three hours
and fifteen minutes on any subject. 10. Raised from the Dead 11. An Egyptian Mummy. 12. The Soudan Contingent badly flattened out. 13. Encourage-
ment of Colonial Art. 14. Legs of a Mudgee Politician. o .


A dammed nuisance—Sydney’s wretched
water supply.
From the Evening News:— “The Usual
Contingent.—Thirty-four males and nine females
were fined as usual for having been drunk.” “The
usual contingent! ”
when 1 was told. And now look at It! Oh
Mr. President .” Mayor K.: " Well, prisoner ?’’
Prisoner: “Look here! Let me go. I don’t want
any glory—my head’s too weak to stand it. Come I
I’ll give £5 to a substitute, and teach Mm how to
double-tongue on the Instrument, if you strike my
name otf this noble army’s Immortal roll. Let me
o* at Suakim, for there me and another one who’s
going to desert la going to start a cook-shop.”
Major K.: “Prisoner, you’re an impudent fellow
and a disgrace to the service—.” Prisoner
breaking in): “ I know I am. I’ve felt too mean
for such a turn-out as this all along. That’s rlght i
Major, drum me out; I’ll go; and, as for a drop of
beer for the drummers, they—.” Major K.;
k * The sentence of this court Is that you be sent
to gaol and imprisoned with hard labour for 56
days.” Piisoner: “Gaol! Then you’ll have to
turn her round. Thank you, great commanders!
I can negotiate that little dose with Mr. Head
quite comfortable. Ah! (falling on one knee)
once again I’ll have my little korfee storl next
but one to the ware’us of the Dublin Jew 1” A
few minutes later, when huddled up with a couple
of other malcontents in the fore-peak under a
heavy guard, the true situation dawned on him,
and from that time forward he actually barked at
anything military that came near him.
And I wishes as I was among yer—
Lord I I must a been clean off my dot,
When I listened to all that they sung yer
’Bout glory, and all that ere rot,
How we’d add to our country’s fame
By our pluck—yah I It makes me feel sick
When I thinks of my own Mary Jane
A reading my deeds —with a pick,
For I blushes to tell yer, old man,
As soon as our boys was all landed,
All eager to fight in the wan,
A shovel and pick we was handed;
Yes, me, as the donors all clung to
The night of our great partin’ spree;
Me, as the book&ja was fiung to
From the barracks to Circular Quay.
Just imagin’ my ’orror, old pal,
Can be trhsted to ‘ kibosh ’ the niggers.”
Then Jups and I ses, “Now, look here,
You’re so proud of yer arms and yer drill,
Just reverse matters; j/ott take the spear,
And I’ll eUt all the niggers you kill.”
That just touched him up on the raw,
’Cos he knew I was pretty near right;
And there’s something else needful in war
Besides the mere courage to light,
And I ’opes if we does meet the fOe,
That our colours to vlct’ry we’ll carry—
But there’s one who’s not anxious to go,
And he signs, yours dejectedly,
’ARRY.
MEMENTO MORI.
Two married women of Melbourne,
named respectively at the font Elizabeth and
Bothjthe parties shook
Fists, no doubt j
Sal, a hamuier took,
Laid Liz. out.
This finishes the story of Elizabeth and Sally,
Which shows us all as plainly, friends, as any-
thing can show,
That no fixity of tenure have wo in this tearful
valley,
Though a splendid Torrens’ title in the torrid
ellme below. *
The humble little incident that furnishes the text
for
These modest, moral verses illustrates another
thing,
A Fizzle.
MRS. N. S. WALES: “YES, WILLIAM, IT MADE A LOUD POP, AND BROKE THE MIRROR, BUT IT’S VERY FLAT, AFTER ALL.”
WILLIAM B. D. (Substitute Butler): “AH, BUT WAIT TILL I SHAKE THE BOTTLE AGAIN, THE INDIAN-WAY!”
’ARRY AT THE SOUDAN.
Dear Charlie,
These few lines comes, ’oping
As you and the boys is all right.
I pioters yer pltching'and smoking
Around the old corner to-night;
At ’aving to work like a J
After all as I pitched to the gal
’Bout sharing the glorious fray; A
Seems to me as it’s all a mistake,
And we started on this little game
For some artful perlictical fake.
And there’s others as thinks just the same.
It was all bloomin’ kid of old Graham
To spout as we’d just come in time
To march on the Harabs, aud slay ’em—
Then put us to work on the line I
Why, one of them Guards told mfl straight—
Says he, “ We admire all yer pluck
And yer knowledge of picks, which is great;
But as solgers, yer haven’t no luck.
’Spose yer thort there wos nothin’ to do
But to load up and pull at yer triggers;
But there’s lots more to learn before you
Sarah, had a dispute concerning the dividing fence
of their yard the other day. The dialectic victor
(Elizabeth) is not expected to recover. This littl e
incident shows us what small store we should set
by this sinful world, seeing what short notice we
require to quit it. While in this vein of moral-
ising our thoughts naturally ripple into rhyme'
So let them rip—that is to say, ripple:—
Humph 1 Arouse the lay I
Let it trip I
Make it hum! Away!
* Give it lip!
Quarrel over fence.
Had these two,
How it did commence
No one knew.
That we should be ever ready to swop this world
for the next, for
The Wow that kills a beggar Will as surely corpse a
king!
And—rememb’ring this—we all should treat our
neighbour as a brother.
His organ of benevolence has but to go awry,
As any time it might (we’ie at the mercy of each
other I),
And—we’re plunging down to Hades, or a-lad-
dering up the sky!


POISON IN THE CUP!
THE CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATIONS
:p-cr:n,E ixtoi.a.xt
Gradually, but surely, since the
day when the Somersetshire far-
mer’s wife-having received a pre-
sent of the “TEA’ t that was then
an unknown luxury, presented it
to her husband carefully cooked,
In the form of a plate of cabbage—
the said Tea has assumed the po-
sition of the most important, and
certainly the healthiest of beve-
rages, “the Cup that Cheers but
not Inebriates.” It is only of late
years, however, that tea drinkers
have been awakened to the fact
that there is danger even in That
Cup, and that the market may be
as readily filled with deleterious
compounds under the name of
Tea, as it may with spurious and
poisonous wines or spirits.
It is to remove the risk of these
impositions taat the
CALCUTTA TEA
ASSOCIATION
and its objects are now presented
to the public notice for the pur-
pose of supplying consumers with
PURE AND UNADULTE-
RATED INDIAN TEA,
beyond all suspicion of its being
in any way'or in the slightest de-
gree tampered with. That there
exists a necessity for this project,
to prevent consumers from the
risk of drinking what is nothing
more nor i ess than a Poison in its
most insidious and destructive
form, has been recently proved
beyond all shadow of doubt.
“The Victorian Press has. from
time to time, pointed out that
large quantities of teas imported
into this market from China were
adulterated to an extent that ren-
dered them nearly as injurious to
the consumers as the deadly
Opium.
Read the folio wing report of the
Chief Analyst of the Technologi-
cal Museum, Melbourne, on 5435
half-chests, quarters and boxes of
CHINA I'GA sold by auction in
Melbourne on last January:—
“All the samples are of very
inferior description, and are, in
my opinion, unfit for human con-
sumption They all contain rot-
ten and exhausted leaves, leaves
that have none of the general
characters of tea-leaves, dust (not
tea dust), gum, starch and foreign
colour, seeds of various kinds,
stalks, bark, sand and earthy
matter, hair and other matter of
animal origin.
"J. COSMO NEWBERY,'
“3. Sc , C.M.G.”
Mr. Dunn, the recognised Tea
Analyst, reports on 975 packages
of China Tea received into this
market:—“It was difficult to find
a perfect and genuine tea leaf in
the samples, and that the stuff
consists for the most part of de-
cayed, exhausted, or foreign
(other than tea) leaves, foreign
stems, tea sweepings, held to-
gether in little nodules by starch,
paste and pieces of brick husk and
nut shells. All this rubbish was
faced with plumbago, to give it a
black appearance, and was totally
unfit for dietary purposes.”
You can now obtain
PURE TEA FROM INDIA,
A BRITISH POSSESSION,
without being dependent upon
foreigners in ihe first instance,
and being poisoned by them in the
second.
TH R CALCUTTA TEA ASSO-
CIATION has been formed for
the purpose of offering to the
Merchants, Grocers, and Con-
sumers PURE INDIAN TEAS,
chosen for us by the CA LCUTTA
TEA SYNDICATE, and guar-
anteed Free from all Mixture of
Chinese, Japan, or other deleteri-
ous Tea, as shown by the follow-
ing Letter fr('m Messrs. James
Henty and Co., a firm of the
highest standing, and agents for
the Calcutta Tea Syndicate, Little
Collins-strect West:—
“TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIA-
TION.
“26 King-street, Melbourne.
“At your request we have re-
peatedly inspected your large
stock of teas, and found same all
PURE INDIAN TEAS, selected
in India by the Calcutta Tea Syn-
dicate.—Yours, &e.,
“JAMES HENTY and Co.
“P.S.-We have also transferred
to you the stock and sole agency
of Sibthorp’s Indian Teas, as sup-
plied to visitors during the whole
of the International Exhibition.”
If stronger evidence be wanted
we can supply it. Read the fol-
lowing;—There can benostronger
testimony adduced to the unrival-
led superiority of our Indian Teas
over all other competitors. Messrs.
Newbery and Dunn, the Govern-
ment Analytical Chemists, report
as follows:—
“REPORT ON THREE SAMPLES
OF INDIAN TEA RECEIVED.
FROM THE CALCUTTA TEA
ASSOCIATION.
“The above samples have been j
carefully examined by us. They
are ABSOLUTELY PURE, and
we may add that even the lowest
P ..i
S3
A. ,
B*
A
Jpc
A
lit-2/p
&
MSS
7S
5?
fa
%
wa
■ -
!
G4
z<f
*
■ itr
m
, &&**
/ ’ ■'>
£
wJHa
£
w\
%
<5
%
sa
z
y
dT
umui
2$
ifS£l iitlsr
5
3
3/
5
3/6
5«>
PURE INDIAN TEA
Will go much further than the ordinary Teas, and consequently less need he used. It Is well to hear this in mind,
because when pure Indian Tea Is used too much may he put In the pot, and Its very goodness may create a pre|ndiee
against It.
INDIAN TEA PROPERLY BLENDED,
As is so efficiently done toy the CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION, is purer, stronger, more palatable, more economical, and in everv
way superior to the Chinese rival. Give the CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION’S TEAS a Jair (rial in the teapot. Use one-third
less for an infusion than yon would of China Tea. This means really a saving of one shilling in three in the nrices Ask vrmr
grocer for the CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION'S PUKE INDIAN TEAS, and give them an honest, unprejudiced trial and we will
stake “Lombard-street to a China orange ” that never again by choice will you revert to the shady, Insipid, doctored’teas of John
Chinaman, but will in future drink the
Calcutta Tea Association’s Pure, Undulterated, Fragrant
Full-Bodied Teas.
.Hade in the Indian Gardens of old John Bull.
SOLD BY ALL RESPECTABLE TEA DEALERS AND GRUCERS IN ALL THE COLONIES,
quality of your Tea has a highe r
extract than any Packet Teas w e
have examined.
“ J. COSMO NEWBERY.
“ FREDERICK DUNN.”
It will be thus seen that the
highest and best authority pro-
curable pronounces even our
lowest priced teas at 2s. 6d. per
lb. to be superior in purity and
analysis to any of those above
mentioned teas at 3s. 6d. per lb.
Further comment is superiluous.
The teas of the Calcutta Tea As-
sociation are the produce of up-
wards of 5 Oof the moat celebrated
Indian tea estates, which, blended
together, make the most perfect
tea the world can produce. They
are blended by competent tea
tasters, assisted by analytical
chemists of the highest standing.
Every inducement is given to
the merchants and storekeepers
throughout the colonies to keep
our teas in stock, but should con-
sumers not be able to obtain them
from their regular grocer, they
can purchase at our wholesale
warehouses, as a sample, any
quantity from half a pound up-
wards.
Those living at a distance who
cannot be supplied locally can
have sent direct from the Mel-
bourne wholesale warehouses any
quantity from 101b. weight up-
wards, freight and carriage free,
to the nearest port or rallwav
station on receipt of bank draft
or post ollice order made payable
to the Calcutta Tea Association or
order.
Our teas are packed in and
Jib. packets, 5, 10 and 251b. tin
canister ; half-chests in lead of
401b and upwards.
The teas sent out by us, duty
paid in Victoria and New South
Wales, are of three prices, and are
sold in any of the abovesize pack-
ages, at 2s 6d., 3s., and 3*.Bd. per
lb. Sibthorp's mixture at 3s. 6d.
per lb., in packages of not less
than 10lb.
On account of the difference in
duty the prices in New Zealand,
and Queensland are 3s. 9s , 3s. 3d,
and 3s. 9d., per lb , duty paid.
When purchasing ask for
THE CALCUTTA TEA AS-
SOCIATION'S PURE
INDIAN TEAS.
See that you are supplied with
them, Don’t be prevailed upon
to take any other tea. If you can-
not be supplied in one store try
another.
i e ware of piracy and imitations.
All our teas are marked THE
CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIA-
TION S PURE INDIAN TEAS.
'J he price and weight, with in-
structions for brewing,are marked
on the end of each package.
Hitherto the Australians have
had no option, but were forced to
purchase trash called tea which
was shipped here from China and
other ports; now they have an
opportunity of purchasing the
pure Indian teas supplied by the
Calcutta Tea .Association, which
is the most perfect tea that can
be produced.
There is no instance on record
of Indian Tea being adulterated.
We will, at the request ot any of
our patrons, send, or allow ihem
to send, a sealed packet of our
teas to an analytical chemist, and
If found to be adulterated we will
forfeit Jt500 to the vitalities.
We are sorry to say that some
of the storekeepers who sell our
Teas try to prevail upon custo-
mers to purchase other Teas, lor
the simple reason that they make
a larger profit.
The Teas of the Association are
all labelled “THE CALCUTTA
TEA ASSOCIATION’S PURE
INDIAN T EA,” and the prices
are marked on every package.
The public will pleaae ask for
them, and take no others. They
are guaranteed pure and of the
highest class, and Such Teas cum
only be supplied by an Association
having command of the produce
of not le s than Fifty Tea Estates,
which are blended so as to pro-
duce the most perfect teas in the
world.
NOTICE IS HEREBV6IVEN
TO ALL PERSONS
Either
PACKING or SELLING TEAS
With an
IMITATION OF OUR
WRAPPERS
That they will bo
PR OSECUTED.
And that this notice now given
will be used to prove a guilty
knowledge against all persons
either imitating our wrappers or
selling teas In any wrapper with a
colorable imitation of ours. .
J. B. TAYLOR, Secretary,
CA LCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION
38 K1NG-RT., MELBOURNE.
TRY A 10!b. TIN OF THIS TEA AND YOU WILL NEVER USE ANY OTHER SORT.
CHARLES GRIFFITHS and CO., Sydney, have been appointed Sole Wholesale Agents
/ for New South Wales.


Tbe latest in dinner sets is the Hampden,
Derby, and WoJseley ; and besides there is an
unequalled choice of others; also, chambers, &o.,
tea and breakfast sets, dessert sets and plates. All
at Bray’s, 403 and 404 George-street.*
Westfield, Mass, February 18,1883.—Dr. J
0. Aybb and Co.—Gentleman,—About five years
ago I had a very bad cough, and tried several
remedies without any relief, until I was advised
by Mr. Whitney, druggist, of Gouverneur, N.Y„
to try your Cherry Pectoral, which I did, and
before I had taken half a bottle I was entirely
cured.—Yours, &c , Charles Meacham.
John Chinaman can do something beyond
growing vegetables. He can stop Her Majesty’s
malls, as seen by the delayed departure of the
Zdalandia. Not many years ago this was a capital
offence, and had our pig-tailed friends performed
the act which they have now been the means of
bringing about, they would doubtless have made
acquaintance with a hempen collar, and have
suffered a dislocation of their celestial necks,
However, “ It’s an ill wind that blows no one any
good.” and “What is one man’s meat Is another
man’s poison.” Bather a vulgar way of putting
It. but a singularly expressive one, and it serves a
turn for the nonce. A big order for American
stores was In course of preparation for the May
mall by Anthony Hordern and Sons, but the delay
above mentioned has enabled them to do a good
stroke and get it away per Zealandia, so that, in
addition to providing vegetables, the industrious
Chinamen will in a way help to cook them.*
“ BEACH’S ”
CONSULTATION
ON
Adelaide Cup, May 7.
Birthday Cup, May 25.
500 SOYS.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10s. BACH.
BBACH,”
Care of J. G. Deeble,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We 'hall be glad to have uv by
u«r«tarie» of racing club* and manager' of
iportina event»in general.]
racing. , „ „
Western Downs J.C. (Tambo, Q.) Annual..May 13,14
Cant erburyJPark B.C May lb
Wo 1 i on gong T.C. (Autumn)....! ”!!!!! V. \! May f
Walkcrston (nr. Mackay ,Q.) K.C. Annual...May-o
Blac call RC inne ’ao
Rosehlll K.C
Walgett K.C Tiilv 18
Rosehlll R.C^... • *“
Rosehlll R.C Decern her m
AQUATICS.
North Shore R.C. Regatta May 2
G.R.S. Scratch Double Sculls
Matterson v. Messenger May
ATHLETICS.
Eastern Suburbs Amateur Sports
Ashfleld Amateur Athletic Club May Itt
’CYCLING. 4
Sydney Bicycle Club (Annual R M.)-.-- August 22
Suburban Bicycle Club (Annual R.M.) May 9
THB BING. „ , „
Miller and Foley’s Competitions... April 30, May 1, ~
8.A.B. Club Competition fima 30
Foley v. Farnan JuneJU
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Boxing has taken a new lease of life in the
colonies. , .. . .
Dr Chine, the younger, says he now thinks
that at the finish of an intercolonial boat race no
fellow should get so excited as to clutch firmly in
his right hand a steam-pipe.
« J. Henderson, of the Melbourne Bicycle
Club has beeh, astonishing the Vandemonians
From Hobart we learn that he is credited with
having trundled 100 miles in 9h. «4^tnin.
A scratch double-scull race will be rowed
next Saturday in connection with the Glebe llow-
imr Club. The|c urse will be in Johnston s Bay,
ami some eight crews are likely to compete.
Whv did the Tasmanian tight-oar crew
wear crosses on the backs Instead ot on the breasts
nt their ierseys? Was it that the two leading
crews might have a good view of the decorations ?
One of the most lovely tints wo have ever
seen—a tint lovelier than anything in any sunset—
was the pea-green colour in the face of No. i in the
Victorian eight-oar on Saturday, after two miles
and a-balf had been travelled.
The International Rugby football match
between Scotland and Ireland, at Edinburgh,
March 7, ended In the Scots winning by a goal and
two tries to nil. Of the previous matches, Scot-
land had won seven and Ireland one.
tin Saturday last crews from the British
ship Illver Indus and American shin Quickstep
competed in a boat race over a mile and a half
course, In Newcastle Harbour, when the Union
Jack finished in front of the Stars and Stripes by
four lengths.
A dog named Ballangeiob, that lately
pulled off a big coursing event in B °f‘ a ud 1 boa8t8
a couple of curious canine progenitors, for the
one is blind and the other has only three legs.
Under these uncommon conditions of parentage,
it is hardly surprising to learn that Ballangeiob is
himself deaf and dumb.
Entries for the third annual race meeting
of the Suburban Bicycle Club close on Saturday
next, and, If handsome prizes hold out any induce-
ment to our amateur athletes, wo feel pretty cer-
tain the card will HU up well. The meet takes place
on May 9th, when nine events will be run off, the
principal being the five-miles Ciub Championship,
and Uve-mllcs’ Intercolonial Challenge Cup, for
trophy valued at 75 guineas.
On Saturday in the Intercolonial Eight-
oar contest, the N.S.W. crew, Messrs. N. Johnson,
R. Moppett, G. Seale. B. P. Simpson, F A. Brodie,
.1 E-HlKennedy, S.H. Martin, and C. A. Bros rowed
a race to be remembered. Their form was almost
perfect, and though pulling a stern chase as far as
Tennyson, they never lost it for a stroke between
the starting buoy and the Brothers.
The game waste bealevelSO up, the stxiker
cave the customary miss, and then did his oppo-
nent go in, and, getting the balls into position, run
rhrht out, to the joy of his backers and the chagrin
of his layers, who were wild with rage, save one.
And he approached the beaten man and cordially
said* “Never mind, old man, better Iuck next
time. Anyone could see that you were dead out
of form toi-day.”
What Bill Beach said : to Ned Hanlan on
the latter'B presentation night was: Orl I kin
«v Mlstur Hanlan, is as ’ow I hopes you’ll git
safe an’ And th’ missus an’ th’ young unaorl
rite® And what the Evenooze said on the fol-
, was* “The Dapto demon made a
ISoe-h tlmrougtly characteristic of the man.’’
Xr height! depth, length, breath and general
of appearance?, that 8 about the most
fu“ Is e fu. libel ever perpetrated this side of the
equinoctial line.
Mr Dibbs deserves all praise for the stand
he made in connection with the new regulations
ho mane following races on the champion
time Tasmania and Queensland
have had on Saturday with four or five
steamers chasing them up, eager to get close up
to the leaders. As it was, the course was well
kept throughout, the only steamer following the
competitors kept at a respectful distance, and the
race passed off without a hitch. Under the old
regulations, ten chances to one the Queenslanders
would have been swamped.
As a rule, circus shows of the “ noble art ”
are about as lively as cne of Kirby’s best, but the
three nights’ boxing at Chiarini’s promises to turn
out a bit of the real material. For the light
weights, Powell, Hall, and King have entered,
with many others; the middle weights will, no
doubt, show some good sparring; and, we under-
stand, the big guns will have amongst their num-
ber big Jackson, who recently boxed Farnan. In
the hands of Miller and Foley the affair is sure to
be well conducted, and we hope to see these con-
tests become as popular in Sydney as they are in
England at the present time.
Fine weather, large attendance, and small
fields at the Murrumbidgee Turf Club Autumn
Meeting on Wednesday and Thursday last. The
meet opened with the Mares’ Produce Stakes,
which fell an easy victory to Eagle Grange; Miss
Livingstone won the Selling Plate; Minerva de-
feated impulse for the Autumn Handicap,
Thackambau third; Lstitia won the Hurdle Race;
and Favour won the Flying Handicap. Weather
favourable on the second day, when Sir Harry
beat Anglo-Saxon for the Soiling Hurdle Race;
Impulse floored Minerva in the Autumn Bracelet;
Louise won the Prince of Wales Stakes; and stu-
dent finished ahead of Omadhaun for the Open
Handicap.
Some time since we stated our opinion
that a well-conducted Queensbury contest would
prove a big boom In Sydney, and we are pleased
the first effort in that line has been placed in good
hands, fn connection with Chiarml’s circus,
“ Professor ” Miller and Lawrence Foley will hold
a boxing competition -for light weights, 10st. and
under; middle weights, list. 41b, and under; and
heavy weights; to eventuate on April 30, May 1
and 2. A money prize and gold medal will be given
in each case, and a chance will be given the general
public of seeing some first-class boxing under
circumstances altogether different from those
which generally surround such exhibitions.
Splendid weather and large fields at the
Victoria Amateur Turf Club Meeting on Satur-
day last, when Warina carried off the Selling Race;
Minerva defeated Chatsworth by a length for the
Handicap Hurdle Race; and the Glen Huntley
Handicap fell a victory to Uncas, half a length
away from Duration. The Handicap Steeplechase,
for which Granville came in first, was declared no
race, owing to the jockeys having taken to the
newly-made steeplechase course in place of the
straight running; and, on the race being run pff,
Granville again took pride of place, defeating
Native by a head. Topaz won the Armidale Han-
dicap, two lengths away from St. Lawrence, and
brought the day’s sport to a conclusion.
The opening meeting of the New South
Wales Coursing Club, run off on Mr, R. L. Tooth’s
private ground near Bowral, was brought to a
conclusion on Thursday last when the Bowral
Stakes fell to Mr. E. Bladon’s bd and wb Bounty,
Lelex—Daisy, which beat Mr. H. E. Lord’s b b p
Llanelly, Lelex-Lollie. The Bridge Park Cup re-
suited in a division between Mr. H. E. Lord 8 bd d
Lord Lyon, Lelex—LoUle, and his fb Beehive, Hop-
market—Daisy. The Derbv fell to Mr. E. Bladon’s
bk d Birthright, Sentry Go—Crocus, which beat
Messrs. Skarratt and Co.’s bd d Peaceful Joe,
Bashful Jerry—Blue Lookout; and the Oaks was
won by Mr. H, M’Quade’s f and w b Heyday,
Sentry Go-Kip, which defeated Mr. E. Bladon’s
b b Blue Pill, Sentry Go—Crocus.
Champion Beach and lovely weather went
a long way towards making a success of the New-
castle Mercantile Rowing Club Regatta on Thurs-
day last. Esmond Hannell won the ualr sculls in
club skiffs; the race for youths m dlngies fell to
W. Hurst; the Namoi won the sailing event for
watermen’s skiffs; Holcomb and Fetherston won
the double sculls in club skiffs; MeroantlleRowing
Club defeated Newcastle K.C. for the maiden
fours; the international four-oared race for ships’
boats was won by tho men of the Brlt'sh ship
River Indus, who beat the Quickstep (American)
crow by four lengths; and a race for club fours
from the M.R.C. brought the day’s sport to a con-
clusion. During the afternoon, Beach and Mes-
senger showed out on the water, and fairly
“brought down the house.”
As we are alive! we thought the Haitian
ben. would shut the whole thing up, and peace
would reign again in the kingdom of Navarre.
We had almost made up our minds, indeed, that
the day had arrived when we might once more get
a boat and take the missuB and the kids for a pull
up the Parramatta River without risk either of
being swamped by steamers or flouted by brandied
"books” and drunken sbopboys. It seems not,
however, lor in a condition of goose-flesh we an-
nounce that true lovers of rowing are now actively
endeavouring to bring about a match between
Beach and HearnlH But, cornel—
If rises up Aquaria,
Of her we 11 be a shunter;
We’re sick of Bully Beach, and of
This Hearn we’ll be a Hunter.
On Friday evening a select few assembled
in “Tom Crlbb’s Parlour” at Larry Foley’s White
Horse Hotel, when a couple of good sets-to took
place. The first was a four-round Queensbury
between Jack Hall, a recently-arrived English
light-weight, and “ Curly ” Ellison, a local light of
similar calibre. Hall proved his superiority in the
first round, and, doing as he liked all through, it
looked as if he only allowed his man to finish the
four rounds on sufferance. The second affair was
an impromptu between a couple of lads picked up
in the room, and, as is often the case in these
shows, turned out a slashing affair. The men
were very equally matched, and, after three
Dunds of q lick, hard fighting, the lookors-ou
were unanimous in opinion that it was a bout of
the description often read about but seldom seen.
“Fish” Smart, the champion English
skater, has been tried against the Dutchmen, and
found wanting, A few—very few—people at home
cherished tho notion that Smart was the fastest
runner on skates that the world had ever seen. It
was an absurd i’dea, considering the slight oppor-
tunlties for skating which an English winter
affords, and the limited number of men who are
able to take advantage of them, but, for all that,
Fish, as the local champion, did acquire a certain
sort of reputation. Since he has been sent over to
Amsterdam to take part In a skating competition,
and met Mynheers who caa distance him, his old
admirers have awakened to the fact tiat England
is not a skating country. In Holland, Norway, or
Russia there must be hundreds of men that could
beat any champion like Smart, whose practise has
been dependant on the eccentricities of an Eng-
lish climate, but if John Bull wants to whip crea-
tion in this branch of sport, he might find one of
his Canadian offspring equal to tha task. Hanlan
can skate like an angel.
“ The other evening,” writes a correspon-
dent, “ some people were lounging in the bar of
the Whke Horse, when the subject of animal
magnetism was broached. After hearing the
opinion of some half dozen persons iu the room,
the worthy host remarked he was ‘ rather good in
that line himself,’ and offered to wager that he
could take a man outside to the kerbstone, place
such man’s finger on his nose, and provided the
finger was not removed from the nasal organ, the
one operated upon would not be able to follow
him (Lawrence Foley, Esq.) back to the room
until permission was given him. A victim stepped
forth, and stated his conviction that ho did not
think anyone could exert such power over him.
Whereupon Larry led him gently forth, and,
placing the victim's arm around an awning post,
put his finger on his nose, and desiring him to
follow inside, left him to his meditations.
He came in some minutes afterwards, and.
observing that he ‘ didn’t exactly feel equal
to pulling up the post,’ paid for the drinks
cheerfully.”
Lovely weather and an interesting day’s
sport drew together some 15C0 spectators, the
gentler sex being well represented, to the Newing-
ton College grounds on Saturday last, when the
Amateur Athletic Club, la connection with the
College, breught off their tenth meeting. The
220yds. fiat race fell to T. Dadswell (10yds ); T. W.
Wildie (18yds.) won the quarter mile handicap; T.
P. Carr threw the cricket ball 89yds.; O. T.
Dadswell (13yds.) proved the best boy under
13 years over 150yds. ; W. Morris won the high
Jump with 4ft. 7in.; G. Nlcholls. won the
120yds. hurdle race for boys under 15; 8. Falliok
made the best drop kick at goal; the President’s
Cup, 150yds , fell to A. Burke (2Cyds.); C. E. Purser
(4yds,) won the “Old Boys” 150yds; W. Morris
proved the best 120yds. hurdle racer; the one mile
walk for “th6 Master’s Cup” was won by W.
Clark (300yds.); V. M. White, King’s School, won
the All Schools’ Championship ; J. H, Miller (35
yds.) carried off the 230yds. flat race; C. E. Purser
(5yds.) won the visitors’ 150yds.; W. Shaw (15yds.)
won the boys under 15 quarter-mile; Warren
(6yds ) won the 100yds; W. Nichols (30yds.) won the
half mile handicap; A. James (300yds.) secured the
mile race for Head Master’s Cup; and a tug of war
brought a varied programme to a conclusion.
Lees has flown at rather high game in
making a match with Farnan, and we fancy he
would have done better to work his way more
gradually up the pugilistic ladder of fame. When
we saw Lees he was quick shooting out his left,
but he was deficient in the use of his right. Since
then, however, we hear he has improved vastly, as
he would undoubtedly require to do to beat Far-
nan. The Melbourne man it a perfect Hercules on
a small scale, and a “glutton” for punishment;
the man who beats him must have an effective
right, and fight for points. His bouts with Jackson
showed what effect flush-hits with the left had upon
him. Times out of number the darkle countered
him with the left in tho middle of the head, and.
although he looked a bit dazed at the end
of the first round, Jackson was devoid of
hitting power with the right to knock him
out. It was not till this point Farnan made
any show, and, as Jackson commenced to
tire, he accepted] the left-handers which were
losing their steam, and responded with terrific
right handed rib-winders which soon finished the
darkle. The result of the coming battle depends
upon the progress Lees has made in the use of his
right; but, whichever way It goes he is tolerably
sure to take the lead in the first couple of rounds.
Local sporting men will think it a pity the affair
comes off in Melbourne Instead of Sydney.
The Rowing Association may shake hands
with Itself over the pecuniary results of last
Saturday’s race, judging from the number of
“pounders” who put in an appearance on their
boat, and we trust to hear that that body, which
has been so poorly supported by the general
pub'ic, has at last “ pulled together" with no one
to thank but Its own members. When the Inflex-
ible started from the Quay, fltted up in the same
manner as she was for the Beaoh-Hanlan race, she
looked as If a colony of bees had settled down on
her; and the hearts of the three ladles who pat-
ronised her must have sunk In their gentle bosoms
when they calculated the chances of getting even
a glimpse of the rival eights. Arrived at the start-
ing point, the mud-hook was dropped in a line
with the four starting buoys (some 100 yards short
of the usual course), which were so well laid that
it was a moot point on board which position had
the advantage. Beach considered the southern
station (Tasmania) had fully a length advantage,
but we could not exactly see it in the same light,
as the Bananamen on the northern shore were out
of.the tide and what little north-easter there was.
and bad a deal the best when it came to the bit of
turn at the beacon. The Queenslanders were the
first to show out, and the others were not long in
following suit, Sydney being by far the most tak-
ing as they rowed up to their buoy. The Tas-
manians were the last to take up position, and
they were shouted to from the steamer, but they
might as well have tried to turn a donkey from
his feed as to hurry up such an old stager a« Shar-
land, who slowly backed down in splendid position
for a start. There was just sufficient ripple on the
water from a light north-easter to liven it up a
bit. but the tide was running up like a mill sluice,
and Mr. Anslow, from the bow of the steamer,
was particularly happy in the moment he chose
for the dropping of his red flag and firing off his
pistol. “ what a grand sight I” burst from the
steamer, as the four eights dashed from their
moorings, and commenced the critical struggle
which was destined to result in a victory for
N.S.W. over the sister colonies of Victoria,
Queensland, and Tasmania. The boats were
stationed, Tasmania on the southern buoy, then
Victoria, next N.S.W, while the Queenslanders
had inside running on the northern side. Tasma-
nia appeared to get away a shade the best, but
before many lengths had been covered the two
blues In the centre commenced to draw out, and it
was soon seen that the contest would resolve itself
Into a fight between (he pair. Melbourne then
commenced to draw away, and, notwithstanding
Sydney was pulling a shade the faster stroke, had
a slight lead past Uhr’s in Imin. 35sec., and, getting
still further away, had a full half length to the
good at the mile beacon, which was shot in 5min.
30sec. Melbourne still further increased her ad*
vantage, and, before reaching Putney (8mln.
45sec ), appeared from the steamer to have fully a
length the better of it; Queensland and Tasmania,
the latter being steered in an execrable manner,
toiling along plucklly, hut hopelessly, in the
rear. Melbourne showed fair form, “kicking”
their stretchers in the style peculiar to the Cab-
bagegardenopoiitans, in great contrast to the
Welshmen, who sat their boat without a quiver,
rowing a long sweeping stroke in admirable form.
For some distance it was seen that the space be-
tween the boats remained unaltered, but soon a
big shout went up as Bros quickened a shade, and
his crew responding as one man, the cornstalk
boat commenced, foot by foot, to pull upon the
leader. Gamely the “gumsuckers” responded,
but it was to no purpose, as the Welshmen con-
tinued to lessen the gap, which they wiped out by
the time Tennyson was passed iu llmin. 12jec.
Sydney then went away from her rival, and after
this, the race, so far as the two leading boats were
concerned, needs no description, as Sydney gradu-
ally crept away, and won a grand race by a length
and a half. The times for the various points after
passing Tennyson wore Cabaritta, 14min. lOsec.:
Gladesville, 15min. 23960.; One Man Wharf, 17min.
35seo.; and the whole course in 19min. 53sec. Tas-
mania and Queensland made a great bid for third
place, the struggle ending in favour of the Tas-
manians, and had the latter not been steered in
such a gruelling manner, it was the general opinion
that they would not have been far off second place
at the finish. After passing Putney they worked
the southern shore—the correct one for the strong
flood tide which was running up—a course which
N.S.W. would no doubt have taken if they eould
have got clear of the Victorians. On Saturday
evening the usual dinner was given, when the
Hon. George Thornton presented each of the
members of the winning crew with a gold medal.
JUST LIKE THE MEN.
Sister: “Why do you think Mrs. Begfull
is so awfully poor?’’
Brother: “Confound it, didn’t she say
she had to let out all her dresses!”
A BIT OUT.
MR. NEWCHUM: “CONFOUNDED HARD MOUTH THIS BRUTE HAS, TO BE SURE.”
SUPREME CHEEK.
Advertising Fiend : “ I’ll just go for
that adverting space bald-headed.”
RACECOURSE REVERIE.
(BY A SPORTING OLD BACHELOR.)
Was lovely woman msde for man ?
I’m halt inclined to doubt It—
Yet love pervades the mighty plan,
It cannot do without it.
Oh, why did Nature love implant—
She surely should repent it—
And not the lovely object grant
Whereon the soul may spend it ?
’Tls said that In the human race
The sexes are a match,
Yet some can never gain a place,
Or even leave the scratch.
And here am I, by fateful force,
Cut out of Cupid’s prize,
While hundreds car ter round the course
Before mine envious eyes.
I feel as lit as all the rest,
As eager for the start.
Enjoy the sport with keenly zest,
In quite as good a heart.
And through the panting, struggling crush—
If it be not too late—
I yet may come in with a rush
And take a Maiden Plate.
’Tis true, I’m sadly handicapped—
As well be in a sack—
Old Time, the steward’s fairly clapped
His impost on my back.
The galling load my soul defies,
And thus my spirit speaks—
Go, enter for the widows’ prize,
The Consolation Stakes.


COMPAGNONI CATERING GO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. * 1
TlflE oldMt and leading Catering Establishment In N.8.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor,
Municipal Council of Sydney, the A.J.C., City Club, Ac . &o
Tne Dining Saloons for and Gentlemen are the Finest, Cooixest, and loftiest in the colony.
(}D TT T M A E ftriii D iiFl Private Bar-Good Wine List.
GRILL RGGM now open. A GriU can be had at any tlmo from 8 a.m. to 11 pm. (after the
0Ur steak, &c., and sec it grilled in the room. This is one of tne acquisitions
and t ntv J nn e waut ’ InBpection invited Club rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Cluo
and City Club, upstairs. E> D. TOLL E MAC HE, General Mannarer.
Bray Liclitner,
32 O CONNELI/fSTEEET, SYDNEY,
IMPORTERS OF SUPPLIES
mm
%
e
to .to
3
a
53 s.
to 5
C
C"l - ~
EL
o-
U4
S:
5 5
5L
-c:
=5.
EL
n
Q.
C
C»a
.-.
-o
=L
C>
to
£
■,/
7a
f
55
7y/.i
Catalogues post free
TO ANY PART OF
AUSTRALIA.
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, best,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Cample- e Photographic Equipments, with fun instructions for Novices,
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY’
Established 1872.
with power to increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES— 30 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
IJ10 ALL WOMEN.
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERT
IN SOAP I
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with it;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
6d. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE. STREET. SYDNEY.
BJ*' auk
MKNC)SuFli
f" ~
e only infallible remedy for
/ERybi/sJJEBiliyY:
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustlve derangement of the system: regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 13s., or four quantities is one for
66s.; if by coach, 3s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,!
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulbum-
street. One Door from Oeorge-atreet South.
AYER’S
Hair Vigor
restores, with the gloss and freshness of
youth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
brown color, or deep black, as may he desired.
By its use light or red hair may be darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not always, cured.
It checks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. It
prevents and cures scurf and dandruff, and
heals nearly every disease peculiar to the
scalp. As a Ladies’ Hair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume.
Mr, C, P. Bricher writes from Kirby, O..
July 3,1882 : “ Last fall my hair commenced
falling out, and in a short time 1 became
nearly bald. I used part of a bottle of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a new growth. I
have now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but tor the
use of your preparation 1 should have been
entirely’bald.”
J. W. BowBn, proprietor of the McArthur
(Ohio) Enquirer, says : “Ayer’s Hair Vigor
is a most excellent preparation for the hair.
I speak of it from my own experience. Its
use promotes the growth of new hair, and
makes it glossy and soft. The Vigor is also
a sure cure for dandruff. Not within my
knowledge has the preparation ever failed
to give entire satisfaction.”
Mr. Angus Fairbairn, leader of the
celebrated “ Fairbairn Family ” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from Boston, Mass., Ech. 0,
1880: “ Ever since my hair began to give sil-
very evidence of ‘the change which fleeting
time procureth, I have used Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, and so have been able to maintain
an appearance of youthfulness — a matter of
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors, actors, and in fact every one who lives
in the eyes of the public.”
Mrs. O. A. Prescott, writing from 18 Elm
St., Charlestown, Mass., April 14, 1882, says :
“ Two years ago about two-thirds of my hair
came off. It thinned very rapidly, and I was
fast growing bald. On using Ayer’s Hair
Vigor the falling stopped and a new growth
commenced, and in about a month my head
was completely covered with short hair. It
has continued to grow, and is now as good as
before it fell. I regularly used but one bottle
of the Vigor, but now use it occasionally as
a dressing.”
We have hundreds of similar testimonials
to the efficacy of Ayer’s Hair Vigor. It
needs but a trial to convince the most skepti-
cal of its value.
PREPARED BY &
Dp J C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT BROS, and 8. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
w. mTwallace,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
Enalleh Papers and Magazines received by
every Mall.
&OTAL ARCADE, GEORGE 8T„ 4M SYDNEY.
First Fire Society established in me coiony on
the Mutual principle, giving’ policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from
all liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire Insurance at lowest rates.
Head Offices. ®*£S)
THE LATEST WO«KS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Offlces-PITT and KING STREETS.
INTENDING VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
Should Carefully Preserve thl§ Notice.
"THE WONDER” COACH
CARRIED 1920 PASSENGERS LAST SEASON.
Mr. P. J. Rumney, of “ RIDGE’S FOOD ” fame
is again running bis celebrated four-horse Stage
Coach, “THE WONDER,” between London and
St. Albans, leaving Hatchett’s Hotel, in Piccadilly,
London, every morning at 10 45 returning to Pic-
cadilly at 6.15 p m.
Ample time is allowed at St. Albans for lunch
and for passengers to inspect the CATHEDRAL,
which is one of the FINEST and OLDEST IN THE
WORLD.
The trip is one of the most delightful that can be
taken, and the price charged for the return fare is
fifteen shillings.
For Time Cards and other particulars apply to
* WONDER” Coach Office, Hatchett’s Hotel,
Piccadilly, London, England.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
IMfim i PJM1E.
IRON, BRA^^and^HCKEL-PLATED
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRA88B8 j
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&o., &o.
BLAKE’S IMPROVED
STEAM PUMPS.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
17 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE ABOV El-
and have In Stock and to arrlve-
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING PUMP
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
6BND FOR PRICKS AND ALL PARTICULARS
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FREE,
wJi KOMTASMaadWSIsmS. gjfr
Boyd’* Beard Elixir did thin,and _
sdU d? it on cither bald head or
m
fm cet heary ifoui
tare Jare, X ‘
kTV tarhe in frnmZto 4 wee/, andnn er — rj*
Jaile, »,,U00 young men “Irtady C
ed. wear fall bear As, having v*ea i M
o njury,
DR. BOYD
Y^lit>'[SPECIALIST,
Graduate In Medicine and Surgery, Registered
Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours : 10 a.m. to 4 p.m,, 7 to 9 on Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday Evenings.
Ladles’ Waiting Room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
11,52 Castlercagh-street (upstairs.)
Rend for Free Trent!on Vitality and Nervous
Debility, Diseases of Women.
Illustrated Works on Deformities, Electricity
and Its Application. Hernia (ruptures). Varicocele,
ko., ko.
Address—Australian Medical and Surgical In-
firmary, Sydney ; or B. 0. HOLTERMANN, Esq.,
M.P., President, Box 120. G.P.O.
Consultation Free by mall or In person.
Deformities, Specific. Female, and Nervous
Diseases, a Specialty.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
TJxi-d.erta.3rer,
8 84 HUNTER * PHIL,LIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years: also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found it at
last with the Argosy Braces at Qowlng Bros.
'/*
S,
W/.
m
/y
v I
m
GOWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
.Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. Gd.. 3s , 3s. Gd., & 4s. 6
GOWING BROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS,A
332 and 408 Gcorgc-strect.
Watch and CIockmaKer to the Victorian
Government.
T. GAUNT
Watchmaker;,
GOLDSMITH,
JEWELLER MI 0FT1CM.
297 and 299
George Street,
BLEND
MARK
-A
COLLIE BLEND WHI8KT.-This la ft B‘ END
of the PUREST MATURED Whiakles, coru-
nning fulness of body, with piquancy and delict <?y
>f taste and flavour. OATTELL St OO.. Solf
Lgenta.
WASTE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher. BuLpartr
Office.


H
URNITUK1 SHOW ROOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LA|[B,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sidney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTAND8, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library furniture, centre and side
. TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; -well worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China. &c.
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
ARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for dubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, Ac.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Gruit variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON.
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
171 IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
2J Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. Th© lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 30s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 13s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
OQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
ewOll strong, and durable. Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
o
CCASIONAL TABLES, ele L
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush,
finished in
f'lHlflrONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
\J just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
CrConnell-streot.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-street.
T|BAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
JU A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES,
Prices, from 13s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and Inex-
penslve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O'Connell-st.
OILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-strcet.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
sorew, from 5 feet long and up to SO feet.
D
1 ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIIi-
Fatented.
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining apd vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It Is simple, yet ingenious in Its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained. Instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of be body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames arc of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four Inches in thickness
when ft Jded. Price 80s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
3s. Sd. extra.
B
AGATBLLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
FRAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room furni-
ture, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
BD8TBAD8, nickel-plated and black and brass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
B
B
EDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rate?.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell and Spring streets.
W
A8HSTAND8, with marble, from 2Ss. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, SOs; Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-stroet.
SENT WOOD FURNITURE.—A very compl
Assortment; best make, lowest prices.
The Malpas divorce case cost the “ success-
ful" petitioner £5000, and he has not yet done
with the courts.
Our readers will notice by our advertising
columns that the well-known firm of Messrs.
Nicholson and Co., Piano and Music Warehouse-
men, 335 George-street, are appointed sole agents
in Australia and New Zealand for the famous
Bechsteln Pianos. This enterprising firm have
also purchased those splendidly-situated premises
at the corner of King and George-streets, known
as Coif’s Corner, and intend making same one of
the most complete establishments of the kind in
Australia. Mr. Nicholson, senior, is now in Eur-
ope personally selecting all the latest and best
novelties connected with the trade. So the Sydney
people may look forward to being able to obtain
at “Nicholsons" ah they may require,*
SOCIAL
“It’s an ill wind that blows nobody any
good,” remarked Hanlan. on Saturday, as he was
taken up the Parramatta River to see the bout-race.
His remark referred to the dispute of the hands
belonging to the Zealandia, which caused the
steamer to be kept in port till Sunday morning,
instead of Thursday, and thus giving the great
man the unexpected pleasure (he said it was a
pleasure) of witnessing the eight-oar race. A few
gentlemen chartered a boat with the intention of
taking the sculler on to the Zealandia In proper
champagne style, but as it was notified that the
steamer couldn’t get off after all till midnight, the
happy thought struck them that they would steam
up the river and see the race. About thirty of
Hanlan’s friends were invited to join in the fun,
with just a small sprinkling of ladies. A plea-
sant afternoon was spent, and when the race
was over (which the Canadian vowed he wouldn t
have missed seeing for a cool hundred) tracks were
made for the Zealandia, where he wad formally
put aboard amidst much cheering and speechlng.
Beach was called upon to go through another
agony, which he did right manfully, and then the
celebrated guest made his farewell speech. After
thanking Mr. Alcock and several more friends for
their kindness to him during his sojourn in Sydney,
he put in a nice little bit of sugar for the ladies, to
whom he declared it had always been his aim to
behave in such a manner that they would never
feel ashamed of speaking to Edward Hanlan any-
where. Just herea lady elbowed her way through
the crowd of listeners, and pinned to the speaker’s
coat a bunch of flowers tied with his colours. It
was a shabby little bunch, but the act came
straight from the heart, and, anyhow, floweri
on board a steamer are a scarce commodity.
The episode interrupted the flow of the speech for
a minute, and when it was resumed a voice from
a boat alongside shouted, “Just turn round, old
man, and let’s have one more look at your face;
I’m an American, and would like to say good-
bje,”but nobody seemed to heed the appeal, or
perhaps they didn't hear it; so this enthusiatlc
countryman, who wasn’t to be done out of his last
look, clambered up the side of the steamer, and,
dolling his cap, shouted a lusty “ Good-bye, sir.”
Hanlan is quite an adept at making a speech now.
and his last was so thickly sprinkled with pretty
compliments about us Sydney folk, that we
couldn’t avoid feeling serry at parting with so ap-
preciative and grateful a visitor. At sundown,
speeches and champagne were finished, and Cir-
cular Quay was reached In ample time to enable
everybody to finish the day’s pleasuring at either
theatre or minstrels. We believe Hanlan honoured
Hiscocks’ Federals.
» • •
The Newington College boys held their
annual sports at Stanmore on Saturday last, which
were well patronised by their, and other boys’,
sisters. One of the handsomest dresses worn was
a cardinal silk, the front of the skirt being flounced
to the waist with rich white lace. A brown and
gold striped silk skirt, with a plain brown silk
polonaise, looked neat. Even vet we have not
seen the last of that odious crushed-strawberry
colour, and the wonder is how pretty girls can
justify themselves in spoiling their beauty by
choosing so unbecoming and unbeautlful a shade.
Just a sensation here and there on a black or a
white dress, is not altogether unpleasing, but
a whole cpstume of crushed-strawberry is not
in good taste. Two young ladies on Saturday
were conspicuous by their satin dresses in this
colour, and we are bound to confess that their
figures and faces deserved better treatment. A
maize skirt with green checked polonaise was ex-
ceedingly pretty, and a ruby velvet with satin
ruchings was very rich. A stylish dress was a
coffee-coloured satin bodice with skirt profusely
trimmed with lace. From Maodonaldtown came
two young ladies in cashmere dresses of a mush-
room shade with lace trimmings, which were both
neat and stylish. Chrysanthamums in every shade
were worn at the throat or In the belt, and a few
eatly caue'llas were aso to be seen.
♦ • •
The Engine Drivers’ and Firemen’s Asso-
ciation held their tenth annual meeting last Thurs-
day, and about 130 sat down to a dinner in the
New Masonic Hall, Castlereagh-street. Represen-
tatives from the other colonies were present, and
the chair was filled by Mr. Bland, the President.
The Commissioner for Railways (Mr. Goodchap),
in a lengthy speech, congratulated the Association
upon the efficiency and general bearing of the
members, and impressed upon his hearers the
necessity of being careful and attentive to their
difficult and responsible duties. The toasts were
so numerous and the songs and recitations so
freely given, that the hour for parting was ex-
tended beyond the 24, everybody seeming to be
well satisfied with the night’s diversion.
* * •
We have been asked to deny the state-
ment made in this page a few weeks back that
a young lady played the concertina at a
concert given at Uarcoar. We have ample
proof that our reporter was entirely wrong in
asserting such a thing, still, at the same time,
there is not the slightest dsubt that he erred
through Ignorance, and not through malice, as
those most nearly concerned seem to suspect. To
play a concertina well is a nice and uncommon
accomplishment, and one of our best amateur
pianists in Sydney does not deem it infra dig to
play a concertina obligato at a public concert
occasionally. Where, then, is the malice in accus-
ing a young lady of possessing so rare an accom-
plishment if she is innocent of it ? Many a young
lady would bo silently thankful for such easily-
gotten fame. Of course, when a reporter shows
such crass ignorance that ho is unable to distin-
guish a concertina from a piano or organ, it is
time to decline his services. We have declined
them, and trust that will give satisfaction to the
young lady who does not play the concertina.
• • *
Grafton boasts a Theatre Royal, and ’twas
here the rowing club’s, fancy dress ball was held
the other night. Mies Keegan, as a Highland lassie,
created a sensation—favourable, of course, and
Miss J. M’Dougal!, in a robe of white swancloth,
intended to represent Ancient Greece, looked well,
and was much admired. Miss Bergln, from
Woollahra, gave a tasteful representation of Un-
dine in a dress of pale green satin, studded with
oroal, sheila, and seaweed, and a long vreen veil. A
Grafton favourite. Miss Jeanle Greer was a pretty
Daughter of the Regiment. Mrs. Keegan made
an admirable Mary Queen of Soots, and Dolly Yar-
den, America, Rowing, Coming through the Rye,
all came in for their share of admiration. Faust
didn’t pad his legs sufficiently carefully, for, before
morning, his calves were somewhere in the region
of his heels—otherwise he dressed the character
well. Wo also noticed a Bulgarian Gentleman,
William Tell, a Graduate, and a Knight Templar,
hut when will somebody think of something fresh
in the fancy dress line ?
♦ * *
Mrs. and Mrs. Hunt, of the Oxford, gave
Hanlan a farewell ball in the New Masonic Hall
last Wednesday week. About 200 guests were in-
vited, amongst whom was a great proportion of
bonifaces, sporting men, and Masons, Mr. Hunt
himself being a leading light in the latter craft.
Mrs. Hunt looked very handsome in a cream cos-
tume, with beautiful diamond jewellery. Miss
Hunt wore a simple, but suitable, dress of pure
white, adorned with pale-blue velvet bows. The
handsomest dress was worn by Miss Myra Kemble,
and was composed of beautiful white Merveilleux
satin, trimmed with real lace, and on the corsage
were several handsome olive-green ostrich plumes.
Mrs Siegel s dress was of brown velvet, with pro-
fuse trimmings of old gold lace, high Elzabethian
collar edged with pearls. Miss Jeffreys Lewis wore
black lace, as did also Mrs. Alison, Mrs. Alcock, Miss
Prescott, and Mrs. Hiscocks. Mrs. Jennings wore
A striking costume of green shot satin and crimson
embossed velvet, A lady from Coogee chose a
pale fawn-coloured costume, which looked ex-
tremely stylish. Hanlan and Beach, of course,
adorned the ball room, the former appearing to be
In particularly good spirits, and dancing much with
little Miss Olive Watson. Beach was content with
dancing only in the square dances, and we sin-
cerely hope he will over continue to confine himself
to things that are “square.” The provisioning and
liquors were especially good, and dancing was
kept up till nearly 4 o’clock next day. Mr. Hunt
chartered a special steamer 'o take himself, Beach,
and other guests up to the Newcastle regatta
straight from the ball as soon as festivities ceased.
♦ ♦ *
Having given six complimentary perform-
ances, the Balmain Amateur Dramatic Club
thought they were justified in charging for once.
And so they were, for they have been liberal and
painstaking in catering drama for the Balmain
public, who. on Friday night, mustered and filled
the hall. This display ot gratitude was, as Mr.
Alf. Perry observed in an interim speech, very
gratifying to the Club; and they intend hence-
forward to give at least four performances every
year, one, if necessary, being charged admission to
cover bare expenses, and the others all compli-
mentary. The Club promises to produce the best
and latest plays from home. Friday’s performance
was the fine comedy “ Caste,” in three acts, Mr.
Frank Smith taking the part of George D’Alroy;
and Mr. Walter Perdriau that of Captain Hautree.
Occasionally, throughout the piece, the prompter
was called on oftener than should be, though the
actors concealed any little halts in the dialogue
with considerable adroitness. Miss Creo Stanley
came on as the Marquise de St. Maur; though the
gilt of the play was, of course, divided by those
dazzling young persons Misses Carrie Moran and
Bertie Phillips, as Polly and Esther Eccles. The
former was remarkable for a sprightly demeanour
which almost bordered on sauciness; and the
serenity of her smile was only equalled by the
cheerfulness with which she submitted to Sam
Gerridge’s marks of affection. This lively young
gasfltter was personated by Mr. Frank Jones, who
rollicked with a humour contagious enough to
keep the audience pleased, and to fairly ex-
cuse the hearty way he helped himself to
Polly’s charms every time he got a chance. Miss
Phillips acted admirably. Several times, in her
most pathetic parts, either old Eocles or the irre-
pressible Sam were acting diversions at the other
end of the stage, and the laughing which these
caused at wrong moments might have discon-
certed even a more experienced actress. But Miss
Phillips acted well, and moreover, dressed with
peculiar elegance for her different scenes. The
valet was just long enough on to disclose the
features of Mr, Frank Peers; and old Bodes was
done by Mr. W. Walker, who fully portrayed the
old villain’s meanness and dirt. Some splendid
bouquets were thrown to the ladies during the
evening, and the orchestra business was done by
Mr. Hopson’s amateur instrumentalists.
* * ♦
The annual ball at Cunningham Plains
was held on the 24th Instant, and was exceedingly
delightful. The great majority of the dancers
wore fancy costumes, and everything passed off
admirably, though not until 6 o’clock in the morn-
ing. The guests were from all along the railway
line from Sydney to Wagga, and one was actually
from Brisbane, while tbe Mahdi himself made a
Soudan rush to the entertainment, and was much
admired for the richness of his hide. The queen
dancer of the ball was a Shepherdess from arcadian
Yass, who was, herself, shepherded a great deal by
many swains; and the charming Countess in the
pink satin skirt and hunting cap attracted a large
field. Evangeline looked angeline, and a French
Girl looked what she is, and what all admired. “ A
Hundred Years Ago ” was too pretty to be so old,
and did not deceive anybody as to her attractions.
Gainsborough was envied his Duchess of Devon-
shire by several artistes, and the Huguenot Girl
charmed all. Had there been a little more light in
the ball and supper rooms, everybody would have
been still more delighted if that were' possible,
though we think it hardly was.
* * *
Rinking has already commenced its season
in some of the suburbs, but it is to be hoped that
the noisy, senseless amusement will never become
such a craze here as it is at present in America.
An American girl, the other day, traded her en-
gagement ring for a pair of roller skates, and
when a girl is brought to that, she must have the
disease prett bad.
\
\ ♦ •
Rinking ivivus! In Woollahra, of
course, where has always been a favourite pas-
time during t winters. This year again the
Private Rink h.d been formed in St. Matthias’
Hall. The bitter coidion Monday night proved quite
firovocative of desperate exertions, and although
t was the first gathering of the season, the large
number present, including ladies, showed how
popular the Rink still is. A meeting was held
during the evening to consider the management,
and it was resolved to admit visitors on the intro-
duction of members and payment of a small fee.
Ska'esare not on hire, each member providing his
own, but there are generally a few spare pair
about—especially for those welcome visitors, ,c the
fair.” The rumbling continued till 10 o’clock, and
will start again next Monday about half-past 7.
* * » *
The ladles distinguished themselves by
their tasteful costumes at the jMudgee races last
Thursday and Friday. Crowds of visitors attended,
and the weather was charming Mr. W. Fraser
Martin, who, with Mr, Nicholas Hawken, took a
prominent part in petitioning the Governor to
exert his authority in thwarting Mr. Dailey’s
scheme for sending our troops to the Soudan, was
banqueted last Tuesday evening by a number of
his admirers.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
[Note.—Social items, in order to ensure inser-
tion tor the current week, should be to hand no
later than Tuesday.]
“Alicia”: It wouldn’t be advisable to entirely
discard the “ tiresome machine” yet awhile, for
in doing so you would be conspicuous, and that
wouldn't be good form. Wear It as small as
you conveniently can. Of this be assured—
that it is growing slowly bufsurely more out of
favour every day....“ Adele”: jTho "basket
plait” Is the common plait of three, the first
kind you learnt to make, you know. For
dressing the hair in the new style the plaits
should be as loose as possible —“ C J”: Your
conundrum on the Hanlan-Beach race wasn’t
very good—not much better, in fact, than the
one which took the prize the other night. ...
“ K.”: Report already received re the Balmain
Amateur Dramatic Show. Thanks..,." Clytie”:
Obliged to focus your matter. Not of sufficient
importance for expansion.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Newtown Social May 1.
Eastern Suburbs Amateur Athletic Club
Sports May 3
Oriental C.C. Picnic, Tennyson May fl
Sydney Owl Club Ball, Town Hall June 18
Glebe Rowing Club Annual Ball June 5
Sydney, Wednesday.!
Dearest Belle, —Do you like lectures, dear ? i
do not, as a rule; indeed, I did my very utmost to
avoid going to one last week, but when I was told
that everybody was to be there, and that if I did
not go I should be quite unfashionable, I smothered
my Inclination to stay at home, and sallied forth
to brave the tedious dry lecture. But it was
neither tedious nor dry, for Mr. Sala has such a
happy way of chaining one’s attention, and is so
brimful of anecdotes, that really and truly I en-
joyed every inch of it. As many as could get into
the Protestant Hall, got, last Tuesday night week,
and, however luke-warm the reception this much-
informed and much-travelled hero experienced in
Melbourne, he has surely had nothing to complain
of here. He has been our principal “ draw ’’the
week through, and has been, I believe. Induced to
give three extra lectures before taking his depar-
ture. Mr. Sala differs from Archibald Forbes, in
delivering his lectures entirely from memory, with
j ust the assistance here and there of a date or name.
It gives him a much more free and chatty style and
is altogether nicer. But I am not going to tell you
any more about lectures, as I know full well how
difficult it will be for you to conceive them in-
teresting to us girls. A week ago I was sceptical
upon the point myself, whilst now you see me
wholly and completely convinced that it Is quite
possible for a lecture to be utterly devoid of even
a suspicion of boredom.
As I was walking up George-street last Monday
I observed a crowd of girls glaring into Noake,
the tobacconist’s window. What could they be
looking at? Surely it could not be that all these
fair creatures were cigarette smokers, and were
simply examining the brands in the window be-
fore entering the shop to make their purchases ?
And yet since it has been published that the
Princess Louise is an inveterate smoker, I thought
it not quite unlikely that these fashion slaves were
apeing the Princess. My woman’s curiosity
craved to be satisfied, so, as I passed, I glanced
over a shoulder knd drew a deep breath of relief,
when I discovered the magnet in the win-
dow. It was no less than a beautiful bed
of pure white chrysanthamums, with the name
of some favourite tobacco or cigar (I for-
get which) picked out In red and yellow
.'lowers of the same species. The pretty device
was bordered with beautiful ferns, and as I looked
and admired, I no longer wondered at seeing so
many pretty girls around the window of a tobac-
conist’s shop. Their love of gating upon what was
beautiful, you see, dear, overcame their scruples,
and the fitness of things was for the nonce disre-
garded.
We have had a glorious weeXof shopping, for at
last the new season’s goods are on view. Not that
shopping in Sydney is always a pleasant duty, for
occasionally a mao is told off to serve you who is
far more intent upon what is going on at the op-
posite counter than upon attending to your wants,
and who doesn’t forbear to give signs of inflam-
mation of the temper if you are not at once satis-
fied with what he shows you. This isn’t pleasant,
as you may be sure, and is often the cause of in-
ducing timid little shoppers, who become op-
pressed with the idea that they are giving trouble,
to take articles or material wholly unsuitable to
their purposes. But, although our complaints
against his counter-jumpership are often loud and
bitter, still it must be owned that he, on his part,
is occasionally the Injure! one. For instance, an
old lady yesterday asked to see some buttons.
In order that she might have her choice
of style and colour, she was shown the book of
samples, but when she had given them one con-
temptuous glance,, she rose from her chair and
declared she would never patronise a shop again
where she could obtain nothing but odd buttons.
“ Why, there aren’t two alike In the lot,” quoth
the old dame, and the volley of abuse she
showered upon the unfortunate man’s head was
something to remember. When he could get a
hearing, he wedged in a sentence to the effect that
he could supply as many buttons of one sort as
would be required, and succeeded at last in in-
ducing the irate old lady to make a choice from
the pattern-book. And one day we were all
amused when the same class of womanhood came
into Paling’s warehouse and demanded a piece
called “ The Overturn to Oympte.” She was told
very civilly thatspch a piece was unknown to the
firm, but if she would give the name of the com-
poser they would do their best to obtain it for her.
Well, I don’t know who done it, I only know
that s the name my Maria told me to ask for.”
Again she was assured that no such composition
was on the list, arid was politely advised to return
home and get “ Maria ” to write the name of the
piece down for her. Presently she returned with
a slip of paper, upon which was written “ The
Overture to Nyarhpa The piece was soon pro-
duced, but Instead of being embarrassed on ac-
count of her stupidity, here, again, abuse was
freely served to the innocent shopman, for giving
her the trouble of going home when the piece was
in the shop all the time. But I fear I shan’t have
time to tell you what we saw in the shops, if I do
not quit talking of the saucy, indifferent counter-
jumper and his trials. To begin with then, I must
tell you that, for the coming ball season, the beau-
tiful and varied materials for dresses are more
elaborate and expensive than ever. I was shown
a most exquisite dress at one of our well-known
establishments this week. The material was a fine,
but all too perishable, white tulle, with charming
little sprays of pressed violets and green leaves
glued on in some cunning manner. The effect was
superb. But the cost I I daren’t think of it. Then
there is the tulle hung with white or coloured
chenille tufts, which is also very lovely and very
costly. As for walking dresses, I shall have more
to teil you about them next week, as I have been
promised a view of the very latest materials and
fashions before they are exhibited to the vulgar
gaze. And just here, before I forget to tell you, if
you want to be in the very latest fashion, have
your notepaper to simulate a hem-stitched hand-
kerchief, with your crest or monogram in one
corner. What next ? you will exclaim, and I quite
agree with you. What next, indeed I
You remember my telling you about the enor-
mous smelling-bottles ladies of fashion carry
about with them now ?-some so large that many
were the ill-natured speculations as to whether
the contents were really smelling-salts or some-
thing stronger still. Well, although doctors main-
tained that smelling-salts, when constantly used,
were injurious to the health, no heed was paid to
the advice, and the large, horn-shaped bottles
were still slung on to the belt, or chatelaine, in de-
fiance of all. But the other day somebody dis-
covered that the ammonia inclined to redden the
nose, and now they say that the smelling-bottle,
large or small, is wholly and irrevocably banished.
Funny, isn’t it, that we have a greater horror of
red noses than bad health ?
Now, I don’t want you to tell any of my friends,
but I actually went to the eight-oar race on Satur-
(Continued on next page.)


BECHSTEIN PIANOS !
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT.
Messrs. Nicholson & Co.
have great pleasure in informing their numerous friends that they have secured, through
the intercession of their Mr. NICHOLSON, who is now in Germany, the SOLE AGENCY
for the whole of Australia, Tasmania, and New Zealand, for
Util’: Migiibt ml UiepU Finns.
THE BECHSTEIN PIANOS ARE MANUFACTURED IN BERLIN.
The two factories there, employing over 500 workmen, are now the most extensive and
t> e8t organised In Europe. All modern inventions and improvements, many of which are
Mr. Bechstein’s own, are utilised, and the number of instruments produced yearly far
exceeds that of any other manufactory in Europe.
The exceptionally unanimous opinion of all the highest authorities as to the tone and
quality of these instruments, as evidenced by the accompanying letters, is better testi-
we could say As a matter of fact, however, the BECH-
STE1N PIANOS are now used in over 600 Public Concerts annually, and are used almost
exclusively by all the eminent players.
Mr, BECHSTEIN has had the honour of supplying his instruments to Her Majesty
the Queen of England, His Majesty the Bmpercr of Germany, His Majesty the Emperor
oi Russia, His Majesty the King of Bavaria, Her Majesty the Queen of' Wurtemberg, Her
Imperial and Royal Highness the Crown Princess of Germany (Princess Royal of Great
Britain), Her Imperial and Royal Highness the Princess Helene of Russia, Her Imperial
and Royid Highness-the Duchess of Edinburgh, Her Royal Highness the Duchess ot Con-
naught, Her Royal Highness the Princess Elizabeth ot Prussia, His Royal Highness the
Prince Frederick Charles of Prussia, His Royal Highness the Duke of Mecklenburg-
Schwenn, His Royal Highness the Duke of Meoklenburg-Strelitz, His Royal Highness the
Duke of Baden, His Royal Highness Prince Henry of the Netherlands, Her Royal High-
ness the Grand Guchess of Saxe-Weimar. His Serene Highness the Duke of Saxe-Meiningen.
His Serene Highness Prince Bismarck, His Serene Highness Prince Hohenlohe, His Serene
Highness Prince Schonburg Beuthen, His Serene Highness the Dcke of Ratibor, His
Serene Highness the Duke of Sagan, Her Serene Highness the Duchess of Augustenburg,
cCC., &0.
The BECHSTEIN PIANO is used in Concerts In every country by all the leading
artists. Amongst others by Dr. H. Von Bulow, Anton Von Rubinstein, Abbe F. Liszt
Carl Tausig, A. Dreyschock. N Rubinstein. C. Heyman, Professor Barth, Eugen D’Albert
Charles Halle, Camille Saint-Saens, Xaver Scharweuka, Josef Wieniawsky, Johannes
Brahms, Professor Joachim, Professor Raff. Professor Henselt, W. Rummel. Professor
Kullak Professor Klingworth, Leonh. E. Bach, Madame Menter, Madame Essiooff
Mdlle. Krebs,'Mdlle. Janotha, Mdlle. Timanoff, &c., &c.
The BECHSTEIN PIANOS have been introduced into the following well-known
concerts in EuropeMonday and Saturday Popular, Philharmonic Society Crystal
Palace, Musical Union, Richter Concerts, the Promenade Concerts, Covent Garden Dr H l
von Bulow’s, and Mdlle. Jonatha’s Recitals, Mr. Chappell’s, Denmark Hill Concerts. ’&c*
Dr. H. von. Bulow, Ant. von Rubinstein, Charles Halle, C. Heyman, Madame Menter’
Madame Essipoff. and many others use exclusively on their concert tours the Beohstein
inftruments. “Bechstein Pianos are sounding benefactions to the musical world
Richard Warner.
Messrs. NICHOLSON and CO. are now receiving a Splendid Assortment of these
Famous Instruments, Beohstein Cottage Pianos, Bechstein Small Grands, Bechstein Seml-
Qrands, Bechstein Concert Grands. No other maker in the world equals Bechstein.
Wicholson Co.,
Sole Agents for BECHSTEIN, and from whom all particulars and prices may be
obtained.
Tasmania is putting [her best Legge for-
ward la defence matters.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated wltt
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance In display
consummated. 604 Hunter-street, Sydney.*
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKED CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MAN DTACTURBR8.
VT Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS tc
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
Annual Income exceeds One Million*
Lightning and Gas Paid.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, . 4s. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
... • 3hi b'-.-iyf !-m j . ; ■■
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOB INVALIDS.
A J8TRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. 0d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDQEE PORT,
2s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT
2s. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN-IN FLASKS,
ls«9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke s Prize Medal Brand,
In stone bottles and square bottles,
LABOB8T SIZE,
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
leorge and Markot Streets,
SYDNEY.
HORDERN’S
' ON THE
- Brickfield. Hill.
m STAY MI CHUT DEPARTMEIT.
/(?
C 0
Ufa
'
UO
/ r
/ '
>
rs
»
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Free of Charge.
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
23. lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4?. lid., 5s. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. Gd., 8s. 6d., 9s. Gd., 10s. 6d., 12s 6
EDWARD HORDERN AND SON*, 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill.
N.*.—Orders from the Country will receive Immediate and careful attention.
day. Seeing that nearly everybody wore the N.
S. Wales colour, I thought the others would feel
bad If no one stood by them, so I chose that of
the Queensland “ boys.” You may be quite sure I
felt not a little chagrined when my choice came in
last, and I was coward enough to tear my ribbons
off and throw them into the river as soon as I saw
how matters were going. Everybody said it was
as pretty a race as had ever been rowed here, so I
suppose it was through not having any means of
comparison I can give no opinion upon the matter.
Several of the Queensland “boys” have been round
to see me, and they are just as nice as ever they
were. There id> something so manly and un-town-
like about them, which is quite refreshing to us
here. By the way, most of them wished to be re-
membered kindly to you, dear.
When I have told you that our new Town Hall
clock and chimes were started by his W orshlp the
Mayor last Friday morning, I think I have ex-
hausted all my news.
So remain,
Ever your loving,
MAB.
With The Contingent.
[FROM OUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT.]
S.S. IBERIA,
Off Cape Leuwln,
Tuesday, 10th March.
the arrangement was that I should board the
Iberia after dark on the eve of her departure for
Suakim, and at 9 p.m. on Monday, 2nd March, I and
the two friends who had fought so hard and nego-
tiated so shrewdly for my passage with the troops,
were picking our way discreetly along the Circular
Quay, afraid lest a hitch might occur at the last
moment, and more particularly that we might be
recognised and foiled. We approached the troop-
ship with a cautiousness) that would have done
credit to three thoroughbred conspirators. The
more favoured correspondents appointed to ac-
pany the Contingent were doubtless enjoying at
this moment valedictory dinners, and listening to
the encouraging words of a host of friends. All I
had was a whispered “ Good-bye," and a “ God
bless you,” from my two companions, as they
shook me by the hand and left me on the deck of
the Orient Liner. There was, however, a warmth
and genuineness in their grip, and a sincerity and
a depth of meaning in their whispered farewells
that were worth more to me than a score of festive
entertainments, or of conventional leave-takings;
in addition to that, there was a smack of novelty
in the method of my departure which had a charm
of its own.
I presented myself to the purser as the new
general servant, or junior steward of the vessel-I
had been articled as such at the magnificent
remuneration of a shilling a month. The
purser, a smart, active little fellow with a
quick eye and a business-like capacity of saying a
great deal in a few words, was apparently satisfied
with my physical appearance, and, telling me
where to find my bunk, ordered me to assist next
morning in the storeroom. The following morn-
ing accordingly found me In harness as assistant-
storekeeper. During the day I was rigged out in
the ship’s uniform, and my donning of the peaked
cap and blue twill suit with white pearl buttons
wap a metamorphosis well calculated to deceive
even personal friends. I could not, however,
trust entirely to this disguise, so when the hour
for the embarkation of the troops arrived, I took
an opportunity of secreting myself for the time
being amongst the bags, cases, and hampers
Stowed away in the inner part of the storeroom.
Groping about in almost utter darkness, I dis-
covered a small recess well aired by a ventilator,
and, so as to avoid any risk of being recognised,
lay concealed there until the ships got ufider
Weigh; during the voyage from Circular Quay
to Adelaide I kept in strict official seclusion, either
at my duties in the storeroom, in temporary hid-
ing, or in my bunk. I might have ventured fre-
quently on deck so as to have given a full ac-
count of the voyage to Adelaide, but I
doubted if that game would be worth the candle.
There were persons on board who were intimately
acquainted with me, and if, through foolhardiness,
1 had been identified and sent ashore at Adelaide,
I would have felt unable to justify my conduct,
and certainly would never have forgiven myself.
Besides, I knew The Bulletin had made special
provision for obtaining a graphic description of
the now historical departure of the transports
from Port Jackson, and also that for the first few
days at least the aspect of affairs on board would
be characterised chieily by sea-sickness and inac-
tivity. For these reasons I considered that the
wisest CDurse to follow was the one I adopted.
For five days and nights, then, I was in a state of
social solitude. When tolling in the store room,
serving out dry stores, lifting and carrying bags of
potatoes, sugar, onions, peas, and flour like a
wharf labourer, opening and distributing cases of
pickles, jams, and tinned condiments, and excavat-
ing boxes of preserved meat from the lower
regions of the back cellar, I certainly was favoured
with the presence of the storekeeper, the purser,
the chief steward, and others, but to me they were
not companions, only task masters. Gradually, how-
ever, they softened towards me, and rewarded my
efforts to please with a complimentary or en-
couraging word. By the end of the week I was
thoroughly posted up in my duties, and could,
without instruction, supply the requisitions sent
down by the steward, cook, pantryman, and
baker; but this I had only to do when the store-
man was otherwise engaged. By the sweat of my
brow I certainly more than earned my meals
and my shilling a month. For my meals I had to go
to the pantry, and my dining-room was the saloon
square, with a barrel or box for a table, and
another for a seat; then back as quickly as pos-
sible to the storeroom, and at work again.
Even after dark it was too risky to venture on
either the main or the upper deck, for there I
would be exposed to the glare of the oil lamps and
electric light, so until after leaving Adelaide, I
passed most of my evenings between sundown
and bedtime in a corner near the storeroom. This
Place was about 4ft. square and between decks,
out it was filled up to within 3ft. of the roof with
bags of sugar, and half the remaining space was
taken up by a seaman’s chest; the back wall and
one of the side walls were formed by wooden par-
titions, while the other side was closed up with a
Pile of bags of flour, and I blocked up tbe front
myself with empty hampers. Without light to
read or write I lay dreaming the time away as
patiently as I could, and realised something, I
fancied, of the feelings of a prisoner undergoing
solitary confinement. The atmosphere was laden
with an indescribable odour, in which the smells
arising from onions, cheese, flour, decaying fruit,
«c., were strangely blended. This would have
been unbearable but for the pure refreshing ozone
distributed by a. neighbouring ventilator. My
only companions were two playful kitttsns just
big enough to frighten the rats away to other
Parts of the vessel.
Although in darkness and solitude I was not in
silence. There was a perpetual creaking amongst
toe oases and hampers in the hold, as their centre
or gravity changed with the rolling of tbe ship,
tbe thudding of tbe mighty engine amidships re-
verberated through the hold. The swash of tbe
water as we ploughed through it was also dis-
tinctly audible, and the revolving of the propeller
®”b Q ded like distant thunder in our rear. Now
ana again shrill bugle calls penetrated from the
upper deck to the place of my retreat. My only
otner amusement here was watching a glimmer of
v 1 ®b* ;nc baht that played on distant hampers and
ootties, and by means of it I conjured up to my
magination pictures of iairy-land that 1 flatter
would have passed muster for a Christmas
pantomime.
8 2 7 ent the days and the nights until we
?Pj?F oa ch e d the Backstairs Passage, where the
weibgufue aqd Adelaide mails had to be picked up.
My evening roost was in proximity to the saloon,
and, on Friday night, the sounds from that direc-
tion were of such a pron Duncedly convivial
character that I guessed (correctly) we were ap-
proaohlng the coast, and about to land the Hon.
Mr. Wright, of N.8.W., who had accompanied the
officers from Sydney. There were speeches and
songs and cheering, about all of which, no doubt,
you have long since heard. Then we dropped
anchor In the middle of the night, the tender with
the mails came alongside, and several other
steamers cruised around us cheering the Contin-
gent enthusiastically, and Illuminating the night
with rockets and other fireworks. From the South
Australian forces a handsome present of fruit was
received, and what continues fresh is now
being Immensely enjoyed by the troops on
board. Two members of the Adelaide force
attempted to steal away with the Contingent
They came on board in uniform, in the hope of
being able to remain without being disturbed or
discovered until too late to be landed, but,
although their ruse was a good one, it broke down
through one little oversight—they omitted to take
the spikes out of their helmets, and these little
bits of metal. Hashing in the lamp-light, betrayed
them as they were strolling on the deck, and they
were at onoe marched off the transport. Another
determined attempt to join the Contingent was
made by a diminutive Adelaide boy. He got on
board, but was caught in the act of stowing him-
self away. Sent off on one of the steamers, he
came back again in a rowing boat, but was again
baulked by being refused admission to the deck.
At 4 o’clock on Saturday morning we tripped
anchor again, and resumed our voyage. I conse-
quently feel more at freedom, and mix with the
troops in my leisure hours. My fellow Pressmen
on board pass me frequently on deck, but as yet
none of them have recognised me in my present
nautical garb, and I am in no hurry to declare
myself.
J. D. MELVIN.


A Fireman loses his hair
and recovers it.
A year and a half ago last July my hair began
to fall off, leaving on the back of my head a 80*“
bare spot which gradually enlarged until a
measured two or three inches. Another bare spca
appeared on the top of my head. My hair became
so dry and lifeless that I could pull out large
quantities without feeling it. After failing to re-
ceive any benefit from other remedies I began m
use of the Cdticdha Remedies, Cuticuba
Coticura Soap externally and the resolve*
internally, which in about tour months’ time com
pletely reproduced my hair on every part or mi
scalp, and it is now as thick and strong as It eve
was. FRANK A. BEAN, Steam Fire Engine No.
Boston.
I certify to the truth of the above. M. B. hi
ball, Foreman No. 6.
All your own fault if you remain sick o
out of health, when you can get Hop Bitters
by American Co. Read.
Family Wines and Spirits, of re jj, s fL
quality, may be purchased from Hookings »
Co., 143, Htt-streat.* . ,
As a bird must have a cage, so marne
folks must have a home. Home wants are nu
berless, but many of them are obtainable »
large variety at Bray Brothers, China and u
Importers, near King-street, than elsewhere.
The suicidal policy of the patent medici
manufacturer lies In his end and aim to convu*
the people that his nostrum is a cun he so
panacea for every evil. No preparation can u
catholic as to be universally efficacious, w cm
Schnapps does not pretend to relieve a “ ge
but possesses In Its line undeniable virtues,
sure you obtain Wolfe’s Schnapps.
nr© you uuutiu woue a oouuuppo* -
Scrofula.—We presume that very jnaui
who read this paragraph will not believe us “j
we assert that there is not one person in a “V“yf
who is not more or less effected with scrotum-
course there are some much more so tnan c the
Vtii 4 m n rvnnnf nn Inca <1 on’rOO fhfl TirfiSGDC6 V" -11
but in a greater or less degree the P re ®®°, ce < rr 0 $11
scrofulous virus may be called universal. a we
scrofulous virus may be called umversai.
who wish to cleanse their blood
recommend BRISTOL’S
the safest, it is the surest, aod it is the speed
ftU remedies,
Political Points
Every Don Quixote should have his
Sancho Panza. But in recent banquets to the
Government Mr. Dailey has been invariably ac-
companied bath by Mr. Melville and Mr. Lus-
combe.
Luscombe was wending his way to tho
’Ouse one evening last session, when, in Macquarle-
street, he met a country member—supposed by the
profane tone A. G. Jones. “Thank you—thank
you, Luscombe I” cried the hon. member, shaking
hands effusively. “ May I ask —” “Thank you.
dear boy,” cried the country member; “thank
you for—many a good sleep 1 ”
Toby is unwell. When he wakes up at
night now he sees these words written in letters
of fire on tho wall: “ Again I hath, Mr. Speaker,
what right the Aotin’-Kolonian Secketary had to
haot without the sanction of this honourable,
’Ouse?’ On beholding this grim legend he—no
he doesn’t swear; but ne gets out his little book,
and prays that be may never slay in cold blood a
working-man’s candidate.
I f Is there any truth in the rumour that
certain creature comforts, such as pipes, tobacco,
boots, grog, meats, jams, &c., which were distinctly
understood by a guileless public to be free gifts
donated for the benefit of our Soudan heroes, had
to be paid for at cost price out of the Treasury
coffers ? It is alleged that one of the first com-
plaints received from the seat of war was in refer-
ence to the Australian horses shipped, and yet it is
now reported that these animals cost the country
from £35 to £30 a piece.
It is rumoured in political circles that
Messrs O’Oonnor and Cameron intend, at the next
election, to desert their old constituency—West
Sydney—and to try their fortunes at Northumber-
land. It is said that Dan. hopes to win the favour
of the miners by his fiery oratory, and that Angus
is sure of displacing either Mr. Melville or Mr.
Luscombe, by reason of the powerful support
which will be accorded to him by his bosom friend,
Mr. Fletcher, who is a great favourite among the
working classes in the coal district.
Inquiries are being made by persons in-
terested as to when it Is probable that the Water
Commission will present a progress report. It is
alleged that the Commission Is, or ought to be, in
a position to report on a number of matters to
which it is advisable that immediate attention
should be given, and that the reason why such a
report has not been forthcoming ere this is, that
the Commission is not by any means a happy
family, there being, it is said, a strong feeling of
jealousy between the political and the professional
members. If, on enquiry, this should.be found to
be the case, the Government ought to at once
cancel the Commission.
“You have volunteered,” said Lord
Augustus Loftus, “ to assist the Imperial forces in a
bitter struggle for the suppression of unspeakable
cruelty, and for the establishment of law and
order In a misgoverned country. Countless as
have been the occasions when the blood and trea-
sure of England have been poured out freely to
protect the feeble, to shield the defenceless, or to
maintain right, there has never been one in which
humanity has been more deeply Interested in the
triumph of the arms of England than the cause
which you have heroically resolved to uphold by
your valour.” Truth justly remarks that “as a
poetical description of the Soudan war, this is pro-
bably unique in the history of exaggeration.”
Mr. Dailey is still as ubiquitously omnis-
cient as ever. Last week be corresponded with
Bishop Barry anent the O.F S. difficulty; benignly
lent his gracious patronage to South’s panorama
of the Soudan war; supplied the Minister for
Mines with a statistical statement regarding the
Prince Alfred Hospital; and Influenced tho In-
spector-General of Police to promote the police
who shot the Coonamble escapees. In the last lot
the promotion should have been made through the
ordinary official channel unobtrusively, but Mr.
Dallev. with his recently-developing talent for
popularity-hunting, must shine in it or know the
reason why. The lengthy adulatory paragraphs
in the Rum and Herald concerning Mr. Dailey’s
action in the matter appeared on the same morn-
ing, and were identical in wording. They were,
therefore, either dictated by the big boy from
Manly himself, or else by one of his official boot-
polishers.
The Penny Morning Rodent has grave
doubts about the Ameer's loyalty to England.
Tae situation of the unfortunate prince is this:
The Czar has 60,000 soldiers on the frontiers of, and
In, his kingdom; they have killed the ornamental
part of his army, and taken away all the little guns
he was so fond of. As the British army is at the
present time tilting at a lot of spear-armed, melon-
and-sherbet-fed blacks in the Soudan, and can’t
even send as much as an ice-cream cart yet awhile
to his assistance, it is, of course, the precise
moment in which we are to expect Abdurrahman
to be effusive in his professions of loyalty to Eng-
land 1 It is all very well for Sala to say that Russia,
being trebly bankrupt, can’t go to war; this is a
comfortable little theory of the hot water bottle
and warming-pan order. We have only to quote
Dan. O’Connor and exclaim—" What does the Czar
want with money for warfare, when it is well
known that any Russian soldier can live on a
candle a day! ” History tells us that no great war
ever ended for want of money. ,
It is time somebody gave Ninian Melville
a piece of advice. Burning him in effigy was not
giving it. A man who believes in a personal burn-
ing, instinctively laughs to scorn the burning of a
straw simulacrum. Ninian believes in a personal
burning. Not of himself; oh, no, he leads the
elect; but of you and us, dear reader, who when
he lifts the Bible to Jaw, say ho ought to go round
the town on the toes of the citizens’ boots. Ninian
used to sit astride on the top rung of the municipal
ladder in Newtown. That is the suburb in which
the great little man resides, and in which, with the
sweat of his brows, he labours till 4 o’clock in each
afternoon measuring the dead. The survivors in
Newtown came to know him well. The dead also
were bound to form an opinion. But the dead
couldn’t kick him. So the living did. They kicked
him off the rung, clean out of the municipal
chamber. Ninian said they would be sorry for it,
but they laughed Ho is waiting till the Day of
Judgment to take a hand in damning them all.
Won't there be frizzling if Ninian can get using
his vote and influence? Bis Newcastle consti-
tuents wanted him to vote against murder in the
.Soudan. But Ninian voted for it, and then brought
them up a Bible in a few days after, and told them
all about God and love and the of jsspar
and the thrones of gold and the forthcoming
general election.
For a piece of oool assurance commend us
to the action of Jimmy M’Coll, in connection with
tae recant Mandura ug (Vtc.) election. No sooner
was the death of the great “canawl ’ enthusiast —
Hugh M’Coll—announced, than about a dozen per-
sons intimated r.heir d sire to fill the vacant place
in the Asstmbly. Among these was Jimmy
M‘Coll, an insignificant, nervous, little man who
does not possess one-tenth as much brains as his
father did—as, despite his eccentricities, it must
b 3 said that Hugh was an able man, although it is
a q uestion whether he did ngt frequently misapply
his ability. Of course no one could object to the
son seeking to gain the position formerly held by
his father, but the reason advanced by Jimmy why
he should get the coveted honour and—£300 a year,
a free railway pass, and free postage “ to consti-
tuents on public business,” is altogether unique.
He said “It was my father’s most cherished wish
that I should take his place, and if a promise he
made that I shall not be opposed, I am quite will-
ing to offer myself for election.” “Our boy,
’Arry ”—as the Cornish miners call Mr. H. R. Wil-
liams, who was Minister for Mines in the O’Logh-
len Government—and the other candidates could
not see their r ay clear to accede to Jimmy s
modest request, so he at once backed out of the
business. The “ celestial coursers ” would have to
travel very fast to outpace the old man if he could
possibly return to this sublunary sphere to rate
his son for his want of pluck.
England in general, and its Grand Old Man
In particular, were thrown Into a fever last week
bv the receipt of a cable message. It came from
Echuca. The residents clubbed together and sent
off the following wire: Profound disgust felt
pusillanimous action British Government sur-
rendering to Russia.” After that it seemed super-
fluous to rebuke the aged Premier farther, but at
the earnest request of one of our bards, we did
consent to wire home a sort of poetical post-
script:—
The Book of Exodus says somewhere that
while the Angel was going through Egypt killing
all the first-born of the Egyptians, Moses’s mob
were adjured to have a feast and “eat quickly
with loins girded.” There is a picture of this
somewhere, in which the children of Israel are de-
Sicted standing up before the Passover, the first
;abbl (Moses, perhaps) prepared with his hands to
carve a cooked sheep, and looking enquiringly at
his satellites, who, however, are more interested
in watching the flight of the Destroying Angel
than in discussing boiled mutton, Innocent, doubt-
less, amidst all the excitement, of either melted
butter or capers. In the picture the faces of the
banquetters are stern and savage, and though we
have read ail Of both books of Exodus (except those
Eortlons especially reserved for “ grown-ups ”) we
ave been uhahle to detect one single passage
in which the children express any sympathy with
the poor Egyptians In their troubles, though they
must have known that the unhappy people were
only suffering for the timber-headed obstinacy of
Pharaoh. How history repeats Itself I Whoever
hears a word of commiseration for the poor Egyp-
tians of to-day, who are sent periodically out to
be butchered for a Mahdi’s holiday, just to keep a
sensual young rascal, who is the tool of England,
on the throne. As, however, success has not in-
variably attended the Khedive’s arms, It seems
almost time for some one to suggest another mode
of keeping Prince Tewflk encrowned. We have,
of eourse, our little suggestion all piping hot.
Let us but get the consent of the British Govern-
ment and-we’ll make his crown a fixture in a
trice. All we want Is a tenpenny nail—Oh I and
yes I—a pole-axe.
BILLIARDS.
Woman Items
At his wife’s funeral his friends tried to
comfort him. “Poor woman,” he said betwean
his sobs, “ it’s the first time we’ve been together
without quarreling.”
An English lady recently refused to have
her baby vaccinated with virus from the arm of a
grandchild of Mr. Gladstone, as all her family were
Conservatives, and she did not wish the taint of
Mr. Gladstone s Liberalism introduced into it.
An English writer says that women move
in too small a circle. Just fancy that now. The
criticism can only apply to English ladies, for out
here, if they take to moving In larger “ circles ”
than they do at present, doors and pathways must
be enlarged in proportion.
An English writer says that women
*• should observe more.” The scribe must be a
bachelor. When a man comes home from the
lodge at 3 a.m., and tries to explain why it took
him four hours to walk a hundred yards, the less
his wife observes the better for both parties.
According to the News, a Victorian girl
arrived in Albury saying she had £3000 in her own
right and meant to marry a certain young local
lawyer. She got a wedding dress, trousseau (in-
cluding £00 worth of linen) on credit, and then
cleared out with the landlady’s clothes. The
lawyer is said to be inconsolable. However be has
his remedy. He can “ take the cake.”
O’Donovan Rossa seems likely to have a
lively time of it. Miss Dudley confided to Fred
Archer, In America, her intention of taking an
office next to the dynamiter, directly she gets her
release, and “ frightening him to death.” Ye gods I
The poor beggar will endure all the tortures of
hell every time the fair shootist blows her shapely
little nose. He’ll think its that revolver going off
agair.
Among 'the multitudinous extras for
which the British taxpayer has to pay in connec-
tion with the Queen’s establishment Is a private
Rryal Band. In the list of performers” are a
number of extra trumpeters, many of whom are
ladies, who, indeed, don’t play the brass instru-
ment, but whose appointment is a dodge to secure
to them £40 par annum. Probably the job is not
so gross as would appear at first. Doubtless, these
ladles really earn their money by blowing the
Queen’s trumpet.
There’s nothing like a marriage. We said
so 35 years ago when we went up with our eighth
before Dr. Lang, and “ promised and vowed like
a good un.” And it comes to us like a dream how
the worthy divine, as we knelt reverently down,
pretending not to hear the best man’s hiccup and
the bridesmaid’s gasp, after counting the money
out slowly, suddenly exclaimed: “ Nae, ye
deon’tl Here’s a hauf-croon with a hole in it. The
laird maun hae his aln.”
Beaconsfield didn’t think highly of women.
A curious manuscript book written by him has
turaec|up, and foontains a lot of mysogenistlcal
epigrams. Here are a few: “A beauty without
wit seems to me to resemble a bait without any
hook in it.” ‘‘There is no marriage in Heaven;
neither is there any heaven in marriage. Marriage
is much like a spacious birdcage set in a garden on a
winter day. The ins would be out and the outs
would be in.” “ It Is often not until a woman feels
that she is too old to be loved by man that she
seeks to be loved by God.” “ It does not speak well
for the fairer sex that, as a rule, he best succeeds
aoittur women that dm the lowest opinion o S
them. A man will return rather to her who has
deceived him than to her whom he has deceived.
A woman may not have a religion, yet she always
has a deity. Coquettes give their blossoms to
their lovers and their thorns to their husbands.
The word ‘curious’ means quaint as well as in-
quisitive. Woman, in both senses of the word, is a
curious animal.” “ Of all the women I have
known I chiefly remember those who forget them-
selves.” “ A blush often announces the departure
as well as the arrival of sha ue.” “A woman is
flattered even by the love of a beggar in rags.”
How soon after thb clods are over us are
we forgotten I The most illustrious of us are re-
membered but for a day. We see by the American
papers that the widow of a General who has, per-
haps, seen more service and fought in mose land;
than any living soldier, is about to be married in
New York to Count Rosebud, a very small man.
When the old General lay dying, he called his wife
to his bedside, and said, “Alas, Minnie, what avails
all the turmoil and the strife ? We come to this
at last. A few short years, and you will be laid at
my side. ’ “Oh. don’t say that,” sobbed the poor
little woman; I may live many years yet.” “Ah,
well,” said the old warrior, “ let me gaze on that
sword once more,” and the weeping attendant
handed him one the size of a carving knife.
Brandishing it aloft, he gasped, “ Will you marry
again ? ”. The poor thing, all confused, blubbered
out, It I can find a man of your stature.” “ Then
1 die happy,” he said, as his jaw dropped. “ What’s
his length ? ” she said to the undertaker. “ You’ll
never meet his equal,” replied the dismal man.
“I’ll try,” she said. “What’s his length?” “The
General measures 30 inches, ’ ’ was the reply. “ I’ll
try,” she said again. “I know one. General
Thumb Is not the only man in the world.”
The new Lear turned up in a Melbourne
police court the other day. He was there upon
the invitation of his wife, from whom he had
turned away in wrath, leaving her an allowance
of flour and firewood, and three half-crowns a
week. She came to state that she had comforted
her sad heart with cakes till all the flour was done,
and rejoiced in the blaze till the firewood had also
passed away like a vision. Therefore, she wanted
more, also more money. She further insinuated
that the husband was living in a state of sinful
revelry and glee with a wicked woman, who had
whole stacks of firewood, and, figuratively speak-
ing, owned a flourmill. The husband, in defence,
stated that all his means was 15s. a week
from a son who rented his house.
did not live with another woman; but, as
he had children all over the country, he
went from place to place and stayed with
them.” A subdued snigger pervaded the court as
he made his statement, which was promptly
checked by the constable, who then stuffed bis
beard in his mouth and Immediately evinced
alarming symptoms of apoplexy. The gay bus-
band was ordered to pay 15s. a week to his wire.
Thls’ls, Indeed, a vale of tears—for husbands. LSt
us rejoice that there is no marrying or giving in
marriage in Heiven. Acute theologians have bem
ere now that is in reality the chief, if not the only
feature, which distinguishes it from the other
place. It is enough.
1. Nothing like chalking your cue well.
2. Which is the longest cue?
3. I always like to begin.
4. So awkwardly under the cushion.
5. Science.
G. By Jove, it’s a miss.
7. Confound the ball!
8. Easy enough.
9. I don’t think you can do it.
10. You must keep one leg on the ground.
u. Congratulate you.
Come, Grand Old Man I let party fear
To patriotic cluck give Place-
Strike one bold blow for England dear,
And all the poltrooned past efface.
[“Poltrooned past” must have made the old man
sit up— Ed. B ]
The line thou has pursued of late,
To thee though seeming wise and just,
Has made (we’re very grieved to state)
Eohuca feel profound disgust.
This message wired across the main,
By men with heavenly ardour stirred,
Will not, we hope, be all in vain
(Just fancy what It cost per word I)
Go, beard the bear, and never flinch,
Thy sons are strong, thy cause is just—
Remember, It you yield one Inch,
Echuca feels profound disgust.
“THEM KEYS.”
Where Is now that horrid store key 1
I saw it, where ? not long ago.
Perbaps I left it in the door, seel
Is it in my pocket ? No.
No potatoes out for dinner.
And It’s time they were put on 1
My husband says I am “ a sinner,”
Because the key is lost anon.
He says “ the soap is always wasted,
Leaving it in baby’s tub,
That its end is thereby hasted.”
_IS he right ? Ah I there’s the rub I
Men are captious, overbearing,
No allowance make for us;
They, I can’t avoid declaring.
Of mere trifles make a fuss.
A BORN WIFI.
SA.UCY, BUT SWEET.
He— “ Come, little girl, sing me a nice song.’t
She— “ Will you accompany me ? ”
He— “ Certainly.”
She—“ Well, let’s go ’round the corner then,
and get some lollies.”


A new discovery.— Hoffman’s Eucalyptol
(registered) “ Mixture and Injection.” They will
positively cure all kidney diseases and disorders,
all urinary complaints and discharges, irritation,
scalding, inflammation, gravel, pains in the back,
&c. A case incurable in nine months was actually
cured in eight days with Hoffmann’s Eucalyptol
Injection (“purely vegetable”). Hoffmans Eu-
calvptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
no sandalwood, no balsam, or anything Injurious
to the most delicate constitution of either sex.
Ask for Hoffman’s, and take no substitute.
Wholesale: B. Prosser and Co.; Elliott Bros. He-
tail: All principal chemists and storekeepers
Price, ift. Cu. ana Us. Gd.*
BRIEF MENTION.
Soudan—Sedan.
Cyprus—Cypress.
The “False Prophet” v. John Bull—the
Mahdi versus the Tardy.
Bismarck is the man of Blood and Iron.
Derby is the man of Branoy and 8oda.
Said a Domain orator last Sunday: “I
’olds to my ’ell, and then I knows where I ham.”
Mr. Abigail, the teetotal M.L.A., addresses
the Herald on the oyster-culture question. Now,
tell us. Abigail, what are oysters without bottled
stout ?
In order to burst the thing up at once, we
sternly tell the people who are advertising for
“dry, airy cellars,” that we’re down to what
hey’re up to I
When you read that Osman Digna’s in-
fantry made “ a reconnaisance in force,” now,
you can j ust translate It into “three friendly Arabs
came do wn to water one goat. ,
A rising of selectors is reported at Monaro.
The Cooma Carlisle tries to make out that this
is a political rising. We know better. The selec-
tors sat on a nest of “ soger ants.” '
The in the desert are said to drink
only once in two days. If some people followed
tho same practice, glasses would have to be as
long as a sower pipe, and nearly as large in dia-
meter.
So Sir James Martin is about to leave his
court and concentrate himself upon the harbour
defences. Sir James is a real Milesian. Whenever
he scents a row he sticks up his bristles and begins
to snort.
All doubts were at once dispelled about
gala’s being the greatest journalist in the world
when it became generally known throughout the
city that he had been met at the statlou by Dan.
O’Connor.
An Australian Balloon Corps for Afghanis-
tan is projected. Tho Acting Chief Secretary has
generously offered to find the necessary gas. A
similar offer from the Evunnooze proprietors was
scornfully rejected.
The Anti-Deists seek to expunge from the
languages of nations all words relating to the
Deity. If this were done, the vocabulary of the
average member of Parliament would be curtailed
to an alarming extent.
When the “ Brevity ” man of the Evening
News read that Mark Twain was coming to Aus-
tralia, bis jaw fell and he offered to do the job for
ten shillings a week less. "There’s no room for
two of us here,” he argued.
A Melbourne gentleman has been deliver-
ing leotureson “Tne Monk who shook tho World.”
We should l.ke to meet that monk; perhaps he
could put us in the way of finding the nun who
“ shook ” our best umbrella.
The Herald’s “Stella” says that Mr.
Albert Menier’s guests s it clown, after the amateur
circus, to a feast worthy of “ Lucellus.” The fact
has been forced on our notice that “ Stella ”
doesn’t writs half so well since she died.
The Alexandria and Yea Advertiser con-
tains a long report on the hospital, by “Btlaam.”
We reed it through, and feel convinced that the
riom de plume is a mere thin and unmanly disguise.
Why not give the poor beast the credit of his
writings ?
The Sjdney correspondent of the Coota-
munda Halo says that on a recent occasion “he
rose with the rooster in a neighbour’s backyard.”
Pretty rough on the rooster to have such a sleep-
ing companion. Clearly the scribe was a bit off his
perch that time.
“The gieatest activity,” says the B. News,
“prevails in the Department ot theN.S.W. Min-
ister for War.” Which, we suppose, means that
the “Little Boy at Manly” is sent to bed half an
hour earlier, so as he may arise in time to fix up
the destinies of this great nation.
A correspondent of the Evening Neavs
signs hlmseif “Alderman Weeks White.” We
offer Mr. White two-and-sixpence for a letter
fully explaining why he asperses his character by
thus proclaiming himself alderman. How many
weeks has the alderman been white ?
Friday’s Evening Neavs announces that
“war is inevitable,” and that “preparations are
being made for a Bloody Conflict.” WeTe glad to
observe that the Neavs editor is gradually getting
civilised. In days ot yore he would have said
hat they were readying up for a sanguinary row.
“All the officers of the Australian Con-
ingent have volunteered for India”—Dally
apCr With admiration at this act.
We own we are struck dumb;
We understand, however, that
Jerusalem looks glum,
last week Mr. Gorrick, barrister, said in
court that a certain Newcastle policeman was
“ one of the most obnoxious officers that ever
lived.” Next day he apologised, and said the con-
stable was efficient and guileless. Will the re-
spected officer please call ? We want to shake
hands with a guileless policeman,
“ Who left that money on the desk,
wifev ?” said the young proprietor of a country
naner to the partner of his troubles. "I have
been wondering about that myself, dear,” she re-
ailed • “but I think it must have been either a
subscriber or a ghost.” “Thank God,” he joy-
fully exclaimed, “ there is a future state.”
Apropos of the sending of the Contingent
to the Soudan, Truth makes remarks to the
effect that, after living in a state of primal inno-
cence for 30 years or so, the inhabitants of Botany
Bay hearing that there Is a crib to be cracked,
suddenly become true to their instincts and hurry
off to the other side of the world to do the job.
Since the man who was hauled off Clon-
tarf lawn iu the presence of a crowd ot his friends,
dragged on board the steamer, and subsequently
taken to the police station, has learned through
the I G of Police that "the constable regretted
his mistake,” he has been so puffed out with joy,
that he has not been able to keep a button on his
waistcoat.
“ As soon as war is declared the news will
be given to the public by the Evening News,” says
that brilliant journal. We should think it will.
Indeed, considering that whenever Larry Bourke,
of Dead Horse Gully, “bashes” Mrs, M’Olnms, or
“taps the claret” of Mick Delaney, a half-column
message is Hashed alot g the wires by Alfred’s
D.H.G. correspondent.
Alfred’s Cairo correspondent spells every
French word In one p> r. wrong, and talks about a
“Parisiancompany playing at (sic) opera-boufle,”
and goes on to say tbat he would shock our morals
if he told us about the cafischantant (sic). In fact,
a careful perusal ot the article leads one to the
conclusion that the writer must have learned his
French i rom a Dutch oven.
High-street, at Penrith, is breaking up
rapidly opposite tho local newspaper office. This
is accounted for by the number of people who
crowd round there trying to get a sight of the
editor and Paris correspondent. It is rumoured
in the district that one is a bunyip and the other a
“gohanna.” A Penrith speculator offers to bet
that they are both wombats. He says he has seen
them.
A duel, resulting fatally, has been fought
between two young Frenchmen, in a meadow near
Lyons They fought for the sake ot a fair lady,
and one them killed a cow which was grazing
peacefully in the vicinity. All parties concerned
were satisfied, save only the owner ot the cow, for
the combatants fled after wiping out their respec-
tive Insults In tho Innocent blood of the quad-
ruped.
The staff of the “ leading” paper of Ade-
laide, the BEmSTEii— an oxjtct, analogue of our
S. M. herald -nave been dtaered by the saintly
proprietors to attire themselves in that descrip-
tion of long-tailed black coat commonly known
as the “hallelujah garment.” By their fan-tail
bangers shall you know them. It is well, O
pakeha. No more shall the wolf prowl round In
the vestments of the sheep.
There’s a man just been committed for
robbing M. A. Cleary, of the St. Leonards Re-
corder, of a guinea The only fault ever put
down to the North Shore editors—even by their
enemies—is that of having too much money. We
wonder, by the way, some one else don’t start a
caper North Shore way. If he did, and watched
it well, and worked it cheaply, he might (with
sobriety) become, in a decade or two, almost as
rich as our friend Cleary.
Happy Dailey! Praise from Sir Hubert
Stanley is praise indeed, but what in this world
can equal the ecstatic bliss our little Dictator must
feel when he learns from the Corlnda and Wool-
goolah correspondent of the only Jernil that
“there are no oppositionists here to Dailey’s splen-
did coup, which has preoipated this country into a
nation.” Or, in other words, the shepherd has gone
up to the head station after rations, and, conse-
quently, the blackfellows’ camp is now deserted.
He was a stranger in—well, call it -Spits-
bergen, and having planked down his coin, the
Model Lodging-House keeper led him over to a
most odoriferous trough and observed: “That’s
where you’ll have t’ wash.” “ Indeed,” replied the
other, Innocently, “ and where do the lodgers clean
themselves after they’ve washed here ?” But the
keeper, after staring fixedly at the new-comer to
ascertain if he was very mad, simply muttered,
“Well, I'm d ,” and then went on his way
rejoicing.
There was a chemist once, in Queensland,
with a taste for literature, and he was appointed
by the agent (who could only make his “mark”
after severe struggles) correspondent for the
Down and Gumtreb. For three long years he
wrote with all the delicate fancy of a virgin brain
—“telling” when on a cattle sale, “pathetic”
when on the pound. All his galimatias “appeared,”
the most cordial relations existed between him
and the proprietors, and, when the three years
were a little more than done, he pot—a letter of
thanks?—a Christmas card? —a fishing-rod ? —a
mule? A bill for hts paper I Since this, when he
has felt like writing, he has dasned off, if not a
sonnet to his girl, at least a prescription for the
proprietors.
The Greymouth correspondent of the
Down and Qumtree Jehnil Is lit to run rings
round Ananias, or even to give Sapphira ten on
the slate and force a naked blush from her menda-
cious modesty. In a recent communication he
says that the population of Greymouth is 7009, and
that it exports millions of tons of coal annually.
Statistics show that the population of Greymouth
is 4500, and that the annual export is nearly 150,000
tons a year. How the millions dwindle under tho
crystalline crucible of plain fact!
Is it come to this? A Queensland journal
gives tons of jam to the Juno Company. Because
of the eloquent; acting of its members ? Oh, dfar.
no. Simply because they squared up their little
accounts. The editor of a sheet up there, moved
by the fact alluded to, on being asked what a phe-
nomenon was, answered, “ A dramatic company
that pays cash for its advertising.” But then, you
know, the literary civilizers of the back blocks are
often content to accept kisses instead of cash from
the histrionic stars which shine on the “Never-
never.”
Prom the Nepean Times “ Our corres-
pondent in the Soudan has sally neglected us.
We have not heard from him since his arrival at
Suakim.” Dare say not. Boot-cleaning is much too
important work to be neglected for the sake of
telling six people about the Soudan. This literary
miracle (the Times) is great on correspondents. It
has, and here we feel that we are risking our re-
putation for 40 o p. veracity, a “ Paris correspon-
dent,” who employ's himself, when not turning the
mangle, in writing of French affairs at Croagin-
golong.
At Albury Assizes there was a clear-sheet,
and so they presented to Sir (Joseph) George lanes
a pair of No. 14 white kid gloves. Once there was
a sheriff who. as he handed the "kids ” to a well-
known hanging Judge, neatly remarked that his
Honor would, no doubt, remember that session
With pleasure, as it was onO whibh boUld ndt possi-
bly be followed by annoying petitions for the
reprieve of condemned criminals. Had such a rude
thing been said to an ex-Judge we know, he’d
have screwed his head sideways, twiddled his
thumbs, and turned pea-green.
Mr. J. H. Young writes to the Rum, mar-
velling at Granny’s “change of face” on the
Soudan question. What a ninny he is I Did it
never occur to him that while one lot of the old
women are washing their petticoats, another batch
has got to be laid on by the proprietary ? This
time they Avere evidently not properly sorted out,
and we expect that the “Biblical Essay,” and
“Sunshine for Children” crowd are having a go-
in just now. Anyhow, you can’t expect Granny
to be tied down to one opinion, even though she
possess, as is craftily suspected, but one idea.
" One of the multitudinous patriotic bards
has written in a Victorian paper an Australian
anthem, the chorus of which is:—
" Then pass it round, and to the winds
Our little feuds we’ll toss,
A toast for all with three times three—
* Australia’s Southern Cross.’ ”
Which suggests—
Why “ pass it round ? ” and why, pray, choose—
O bard of pothouse bars 1
The Cross as subject for .your Muse,
While you can have “three stars.”
It was an awful moment. Such of the
Contingent as were out of the lock-up had
“ fallen in” with the regulars, and were momen-
tarily expecting the hoarse word ot command,
when Full-private Gaskins (of Woolloomooloo-lane)
made a step forward, and said, “ Sergeant, can I
fallout?” “ What for ?” asked the officer. “I
want to get the hot-water-tin for my feet; I suf-
fer so from the Harab Jems.” “Very well; and
while you’re about it you can just as well ask one
of the camp orderlies for them scented sachets
that s ’mongst my cambric handkerchiefs. Cor-
poral M’Swiper drank all the owde kolong.”
Things are beginning to look pretty sick
with our Contingent, and their chances of obtain-
ing a glorious death on the field of battle appear to
be diminishing dally. First we were called upon
to admire their masterly Inactivity at Suakim,
then we were requested to extol their prowess at
clearing scrub; later, a telegram wnS Hashed across
the seas to the effect that our troops had accom-
plished a “nine hours’ march,” and they were
nearly illuminating the city. Then right on top of
this glory it is reported that Dailey's splendid
body of men ” are to be withdrawn from the cam-
paign and to summer at Cyprus, which is about as
near Khartoum as ever they'll get. This is, of
course, only preparatory to our heroes being re-
turned to their disgusted wives and families.
Hibernian wit is never at fault. Up in
Riverina, when the grasshopper season is on, the
fowls have a grand time of it. Last year, when
the pioneers of the grasshopper army had begun
to skirmish, as a traveller passed a tent-house on
the roadside, he noticed the fowls engaged in hop-
ping after the hoppers. The hens maoe a fair
average, but the unwieldy ducks captured only
an odd, thoughtless gryllus. The owner of the
poultry, an Irishwoman with a face like a full
moon, sat at her door watching the sport. ‘ A fine
time for your fowls, ma’am,” said the traveller;
“they’ll soon be fat at this rate.” “Ah, thin,
sorr,” was the reply, “I don’t know about that;
for the ounce in flesh they put on thim they lose
two by the jumpin’ they have to do, the crathurs.’
“ In the pocket were found 5d. in coppers,
a knife, a wooden pipe, a latch-key. . . There
were no papers that would lead to his identifica-
tion.” Extract from a Melbourne caper concern-
ing a recent suicide in the Yarra. This shows you
how little they care for one dead man more or
less. Could *he police not have made enquiries
about him at some of the newspaper offices ? The
contents of his pockets should have been Instant
proof to them that he had been a reporter. No
one but a reporter would have carried ouch a col-
lection. The fact that he carried no papers in his
pocket was nothing—or rather it was another clue.
He must have belonged to the HER add. and re-
tained sufficient recollections of ancient decency
to be ashamed to be found dead with it in his
pocket.
In the columns of Saturday's Nooze ap-
pears Int'elirg’cntfo of the following tragic events:
—The murder of a policeman by a champion roost-
rohher; the prosecution of a horrible hag for sell-
ing decoctions of blue worms, stewed puppies, and
badgers’ dung; and the Inoculation of glanders
from two horses to a man and wife. These ref rest-
ing items occurred respectively in Worcester
Paris, and San Francisco, to which regions the
Nooze flies for sensational titbits with which to
recreate its intellectual readers. This is the jour-
nal whose talented proprietary claimed, at Quong
Tart’s banquet, that the duties performed by the
Press were among the noblest any profession
could take in hand. It is pretty evident that all
that some litterateurs take in hand are a pair of
scissors and a muck rake.
‘ Let me see,” said the Morpeth man,
scratching the bald patch that covers a Shakes-
pearian Intellect; “ I’ve got in all about that scan-
dalous dog fight; I’ve.touched up Morgan’s big
pumpkin, and given him an inch more than any
other pumpkin in the district; I’ve fixed up that
reveluf ronary proposal of Alderman Stubbs’about
removing the lamp in Muggle-street, and now what
the deuce will I do for a leader ? Politics is dead,
the war column is full, and in commerce or his-
tory or geography I’m out of it.” He then vended
a dog-form, and went across. As he set down
the pewter and wiped his mouth, he said, signifl-
cantly, to the landlord: “ Don’t speak; I’ve got an
idea,” and stalked with a firm tread into his sanc-
tum, and went off with a rush. “ The duplicity of
Muscovite policy, whether regarded, &c., &c.”
“ Zealandia ” wishes to know who is the
author of a song commencing—
“ A death on the ocean wave,
And a grave in the rolling deep.
For the skipper whose owners save
On a foreign crew dirt-cheap!
I’ve French, Dutch, Turk, and Greek,
Swede, Fin, and vile Chinee—
And all the Jingoes they speak
Are Choctaw talk to me!
So a death on the ocean ware,
And a grave in the rolling deep.
When I’m knived or Knocked on the head,
Some night, when no watch I keep,”
Blest if we know. The sentiments are not unlike
those of E. W. O'Sullivan, but the gurgly rhythm
could only come from Scott—or SJaden.
The respectable individual who did the
Iberia for the Herald, in allusion to the dog’s
appearance at grog time, exclaims — “ He is
evidently no lime-juicer.” This was, of course,
meant for a mild little temperance joke. The word
“lime-juicer” has, unfortunately tor the writer,
no connection whatever with either abstinence or
its opposite. It was the nick-name given to Eng-
lish seaman by American sailors before the latter
were compelled (as the English were) to drink their
gill of lime-juice daily at eight bells. And while
the highly respectable young man of the Herald
(he talks about the “Sabbath,” so he must be
highly respectable!) is staggering beneath this
blow, let us ask him what he means by companies
appearing on bath parade, and “getting well
scoured by the hose.” The Herald man is evi-
dently a fatally facile writer. His pen runs ahead
of the Wave of his brain.
“You write for the Press, do you not?”
said Inspector Seymour, to a shade that had glided
up to the fish market for a few whiting. “ Can
you doubt it?” said the shadow, fitting his fist
Into one of the hollows of his eyes, and hanging
his hat on his right cheek-bone. “Just so,” said
the inspector. “Then if you want to recuperate.
Wollongong’s the place for you. Lovely eggs
—(smack!)—butter—(smack!)—oceans of milk—
(smack!)—all dirt cheap. It’s the Canaan of tho
coast. Go there, my boy; God bless you! Now,
then, gentlemen—stand back, Constantinople!
—what shall we say for these five squire ? ”
That night the shadow started for the land of
plenty. He broke a rib on the passage; he didn’t
mind that: the man in the top bunk put his foot
through his lugaage; he didn’t mind that either;
but what a bit upset him was, when he landed, to
find board at the hotels two guineas a week, eggs
fourpence apiece, and not a drop of milk in the
town.
Following up their gory career for the
pacification of the Soudan, and the Christianising
of the Mahdi, and the starvation of Osman Dlgna,
our gallant countrymen have gone out into the
wilderness with their lives in their hands, and
captured 800 goats, after a desperate conflict, in
which one side lost their temper, and made
prisoners of three Arab shepherds, who had drawn
up in the form of a hollow square (on their hands
and knees) at the back of three determined billy
goats. The Scots Guards and the contingents
rode the animals back to camp, and having
posted a strong guard around the prisoners, sat
down in that howling wilderness each man with a
pannikin half full of patriotic rum, milked in the
nutritious beverage, and slept with the rum and
milk in their insides, and dreamt of home and
beauty, holding a revolver in one hand and a
goat’s hind leg in tho other, so as to have her safe
in the morning. Until actual hostilities commence
each soldier will lead his goat alongside him by
means of a strap round its neck attached to the
warriors belt. .
ABOVE SUSPICION.
APPLICANT FOR POSITION: “I UNDERSTAND THAT YOU NEED A CASHIER.”
BANKER: “YES, SIR. HAVE YOU A WIDOWED MOTHER TO SUPPORT?”
APPLICANT: “NO, SIR.”
BANKER: “DO YOU SMOKE, CHEW, DRINK, SWEAR, AND PLAY CARDS?”
APPLICANT: “YES, SIR.”
BANKER: “EVER BEEN CONNECTED WITH A SUNDAY-SCHOOL AS TEACHER OR
SUPERINTENDANT ?”
APPLICANT: “NO, SIR.”
BANKER: “WHAT CHURCH DO YOU BELONG TO?”
APPLICANT: “NEVER GO TO CHURCH AT ALL.”
BANKER: “VERY WELL, SIR, YOU ARE ENGAGED TO GO TO WORK AT ONCE.” ( And
the firm congratulate themselves upon securing a man in whom they can place implicit confidence )
FROM THE LAST NOVEL.
“ A large lock on the top of a very high
forehead gave him a singular appearance.”


DR.SCOTT'S
'1
m
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by the
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
If you have any pain, ache, or ill-feeling
from any cause; if you seem “‘pretty well,”
yet lack energy and do not “feel up to the
mark;” if you suffer from disease, we beg
you to at once try these remarkable cura-
tives. They cannot and do not injure like
medicine. Always doing good, never barm.
There is no shock or sensation felt in wear-
ing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during the
first hour they are worn their wonderful
curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all
the old-time health and good-feeling come
back. They are constructed on scientific
princ'ples, imparting an exhilarating,
health-giving current to the whole system.
Professional men assert that there is hardly
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily
practise the same, as your own pfiysician
will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance
from those usually worn, as we substitute
our flat steel magnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in quality and design.
They are elegant in shape and finish, made
after the best French patterns, and war-
ranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents.
Dr . Scoffs Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for tepinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &c., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing eases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece of common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P.O.O,, stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
m mun,
54 Margaret-sfreet,
SYDNEY,
P.O, Bos m,
1 HE KOOKABURRA.
A call to arms— “ John, take the baby!”
Alice (who has been taught that God sees
everything-);— “I don’t sink dat Dod's eye could
see ze butter on dat bwead.”
Professor in Moral Philosophy :Mrs. R.,
what end has a mother in view when she punishes
her child ? ’ Mrs. R. blushed and sat down.
‘ Have you any breakfast eggs, Mr. Dor-
sett?" “Yes, ma’am, all my eggs are breakfust;
you break ’em fust, and eat ’em afterwards,”
“ Whenever you speak, tell the truth,”
said an ancient philosopher, if this principle were
to prevail now, silence in this country would be so
thick that you could cut it with a case-knife.
“Poor Hobbs, how I pity him!" “What
for ?” “His wife talks him neanyitodeath. Shelsas
bad as two women.” “ 1 don’t see what you bate
your conclusions on.” “ Why, she has a double
chin.”
“You are very handsome,” said a getleman
to his pretty cousin. “Ah,” said she, “ so you
would say if you did not think so.” “And so you
would think,” rejoined he “though I should not
say so.”
Snobberton; “Ah, Dudley, I understand
you are to be congratulated. Is the fair one
pretty?” Dudley: “ N-u-no. Can't say she is.”
Snobberton : * Good iigure? ” Dudley: “Y-ye-es!
Bout thirty thousand."
After supper at a ball—George Brown :
“Without joking,Ellen, Ido really adore you. When
Hook at you there is such a commotion in my
breast ” Ellen: “And in mine, too, George. I
really think it must be the lobster salad.”
All the managing mammas among the
English nobility are arranging to bring out their
“ buds ” simultaneously with the Prince of Wales’s
two daughters, respectively seventeen and sixteen,
who will be launched on the sea of English society
in the comlrg season.
Little girl: “Papa, did mamma say yes to
you right off when you asked her to marry you ?”
Papa: “ Certainly she did.” Little girl: “Why
don’t she sav yes now just as quick when you ask
her to do things?” Papa: “ Mamma’s hearing is
not as good now, darling—that’s all.”
The minister of a rural parish having
neglected to pray for rain in time of drought, a
deputation was appointed to wait upon him, and
remonstrate with him on the subject. After hear-
ing what they had got to say, he replied, “Wee),
weel, I'll pray for rain to please ye ; but the feint
a drap ye’ll get till the change o’ the moon,”
“ Officer, what is the charge against this
woman?" asked the magistrate. “That’s no
woman, your Honour; that’s a man dressed up in
woman s clothes.” “ How do you know ?" “Why,
I watched him on the street, and he passed four
women with new winter cloaks on, and never
turned around to look at them.” “ Forty shillings
and costs.”
At the opera two ladies are bringing their
opera-glassestobearonathlrd-a brunette of ma-
ture years made beautiful with superb diamonds.
“Look,” said one, “it is the Countess X—. Her hair
is jet black, and I am sure it was gray last year.”
“ Very true, my dear. But you forgot that she
is in mourning. She lost her brother some moaths
ago.”-
A mendicant was in the habit of calling at
the office of a local lawyer and receiving a small
sum on account of former acquaintance. Last
week the mendicant cilled as usual, but t he lawyer
said : “ I can’t assist you any longer, as I’ve got a
wife now, and need ail the money I can lay my
hands on.” “ Weil, now, that’s coming it a little
too strong. Here you actually go and get married
at my expense.”
HAYDN ORGANS,
Manufactured in America solely for and
imported by ,
BEALE AND COMPANY
Show Rooms—
SYDNEY;
388 George-st., between King-st. and Post Office.
813 Goorge-street (Brickfield-hill).
151 Oxford-street.
THE
HAYDN ORGANS
Are manufactured to the order of Messrs. Beale
and Company expressly to suit the Australian
climates. They are in advance of all others in the
respect of complete efficiency combined with per-
fect simplicity of construction. Under no circum-
stances will they ever require tuning, therefore
buyers should not allow any person to tinker with
them in any way. By removing two screws at the
back, the mechanism is laid bare. It will at once
be seen that the method employed is scientific,
direct, and simple, whilst the materials are
throughout of the very best. Durability is the
object sought and obtained. The makers have
produced over one hundred thousand organs, and
enjoy the highest celebrity for excellent and faith-
ful workmanship.
We have just landed, ex the Saint Mildred, a
large shipment of these fine instruments, includ-
ing a new line at a lower price than we have
hitherto been enabled to offer them.
For the sum of Twenty Guineas cash, or on
easy terms, we can now supply a genuine
HAYDN ORGAN,
of full power; sweet, clear, and sonorous tone;
constructed in the most substantial and durable
manner; of bold and tasteful design; and forming
a tall and elegant piece of furniture. Bach instru-
ment has two sets of Roods (81 in all), and five
stop?, viz.: Diapason, Harmonic, Sub-bass, Cla-
rionet, and Dulciana; in addition to mechanical
sub-bass, octave coupler, and grand organ knee
stop (throwing on the full power of the organ).
LIBERAL TERMS OF TIME-PAYMENT.
BEALE & COMPANY
SYDNEY and BRISBANE.
T. GEORGE’S HALL,
3 Melbourne.
Lessees Clark and Ryman.
OPEN ALL THE YEAR ROUND. -
First-class Artists, Novelties, Combinations—
either Musical, Dramatic, Minstrel, or Operatic—
treated with.
Silence a respectful negative.
This popular piaoo of amusement is now in its
full tide of success—houses packed to the doors
nightly. Pronounced by the Press, public, and
profession to be the best entertainment ever seen
in Melbourne.
Notice.—The title of “Red Stockings” has
been duly registered, and anyone Infringing this
title will be prosecuted according to law.
JOHN FANNING,
Business Manager.
A POPULAR MINSTREL MADE HAPPY;
OR, FROM JEST TO EARNEST.
“ For seven years,” writes Mr. Horace Bent, of
the Federal Minstrels, “I have suffered from an
acute neuralgic affection of the right fence and
rheumatic gout, which became so severe during
our season at the ‘ Gaiety ’ in September, ’83, that
was obliged to relinguish the active duties of my
profession and keep my room for a couple of days.
I had tried several strong liniments at various
times, some of which gave mo partial relief. In
the course of my lecture and sketches I had fre-
quently mentioned, jocularly, St, Jacobs Oil; but
it never occurred to me to apply it to my own ail-
ments until a friend who happened to be in my
room whilst I was complaining of intense pain re-
minded me of its claims, and sent out for a bottle
right away. I u?ed a little of it immediately, and
found instant re ief, repeating the application
again later on in the evening. From that night 1
have never felt either the neuralgic affection of
the knee or the rh§umatic aout return, and I
would have sent you this acknowledgment earlier
but I thought it best to thoroughly establish the
permanence of the effect; and have to subscribe
myself a tlrm believer in the virtues of St. Jacobs
Oil.”
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.S.W.
price 3s. 6d. per bottle.
A trifling correspondent writes us that
the shells which the Russians wish to associate
with our conks are not to be found within the
whole range of conoholrgy.
One Chinaman assaulted another Buddhist
in Little Bourke-street, Melbourne, the other day.
The report of the case in the Sydney Evening
News was headed “Cruel Hatchet Work.” Toe
journal sent the wrong correspondent to the
Soudan.
Vanity Fair says G. V. Brooke would
have bien a good actor, minus the whisky. Those
who remember him will think he never acted so
well as joins whisky. However, that was not his
tipple, whisky not being popular in the old days.
He took brandy.
Shiiley, an Eaglehawk (Vic.) miner, fell
24ft. from a shaft-ladder on to the very spot where
his two fuses were fizzing and approaching the
dynamite charges. One ot them was extinguished
by his own body coming into violent contact with
it, and, with brilliant presence of mind, although
severely hurt, he stretched out his band and
plucked the other burning fuse from the charge.
From a clergyman to thesecretary. School
of Arts:—“I sent my servant for a volume of
Paley’s ‘Moral Philosophy.’ but I find you have
sent me a work called ‘Moths,’ by mistake, in-
stead. Kindly rectify the error, by bearer,—A. dk
Ckespiony Bung, M.A. P.S.—I have somehow
mislaid the work ‘Moths,’ but will send it to you
as soon as found.—A. he C. B ” The rev. gentle-
man took “ Chandos ” the next time, because he
understood it was the experiences of a clergyman
on the banks of the Ganges!
Everything good passes away and only the
evil remains. That must have been the conclusion
of the land sale loafers when the frugal auction-
eers discontinued the free luncheons and deter-
mined to hold the sales after 3 o’clock. The free
passes still remain, but, alas! thelrae lunches and
the cheap drinks are no more! Here is another
injustice to those who neither toil nor spin. At
the Kogarah land sale last Saturday not even a
drink of water could be had. No beer, no water,
nonuflinl But more reforms are required. Why
should a host of larrikins get the free passes, and
jump the best seats in the trains ?
Things seem to he pretty lively in Cobar.
Mr. Mackleson was going up the other day to his
claim when he fell down a shaft 80:t. deep.
Aroused by the bowlings of his little dog, M. M.
was got out apparently little the worse, for “ he
insisted upon walking unaided, but died next day.”
While preparations were being made for the re-
lease ot his master, the little dog fell down a shaft
70ft. deep, but was got out “ not a scratch the
worse.” A boy that afternoon, while wending his
way to the scene of these horrors fell down a shaft
93ft. deep, but dragged himself through a tunnel
to the river, which he reached just as two
of bis search-party fell down a shaft 40ft.
and sustained serious injuries! Tneir groaning
being painful to hear, a w-fll-known miner at once
started off for a doctor, but before he had got
100 yards on his road he fell down a shaft 50ft.
deep, and shattered his little floger; and then,
strange to say, the trooper who came with a rope
to rescue the miner, and had almost reached the
spot, had his attention distracted by a magpie, and
fell down a shaft 100ft. deep, where he lies. By
last accounts, though, he was cheerful. “Lower
me down something to eat,” he roared. “This is
the first time since I’ve been in this district that
I’ve had plenty of water.”
Place: Brigade Office, Titnbuctoo. Time:
Anno Domini 1. Colonel, to telegraph clerk;
“ Wire at once to officers commanding batteries,
and request them to state: 1st. Total number or
men in each battery. 2nd. Number of men who
have passed 12 and 18 ton gun-drill.” Half an hour
later. Clerk enters and hands message to Colonel,
who reads:—
Total No. in Battery: No. of men passed 18 and
13 ton drill;
No. 1 Battery 08 7
No. 3 Battery 0(1 11
No. 3 Battery 00 8
and exclaims. “Good God! this will never do
Wire at once, and tell them the information is re-
quired to answer a question to be askedin the House
this evening." Clerk does so, and in five minutes
hands the following amended statement in:—
Total No. in Battery: I No. of men who have
I passed 18 and 13 ton drill:
No. 1 Battery 98 01
No, 2 Battery 98 I 92
No. 3 Battery 00 | 07.
N.B.—Officers commanding batteries beg to state
for information ot officers commanding artillery,
that those men in their respective batteries who
have not passed their drills as stated above, are all
recruits of only a few days standing. Thus it was
five years ago. Is it so now ?
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Unhonoured and Unsung.
Blue eyes the vaunted of music and song,
Beauty to brown eyes doth ever belong,
Grey eyes that shine with a homelier grace,
Hazel eyes glancing from love-lighted face,
Violet, liquid in passion’s deep stream,
And dark eyes, illumed by a heart-scorching
gleam,
The bards have repeatedly sung ot the lot.
But there’s phases of vision they rather would not,
For poet ne’er sung of the eye above par.
And its somnolent light when the lid is ajar,
Or the fruitful suggestiveness ever th »t lies,
Enshrined in the depths of a “ pair of black eyes.
TASMANITE.
Heaven Helps Those who Help Themselves.
There’s a wail from the cities, a cry from the fens,
Of multitudes weary ac d sad,
There are deep threats of vengeance from green
Scottish glens.
Where all save poor mortals are glad.
There’s a cry reaches Heaven from thousands
below— . „ „
“How long shall our sufferings be?
And the Lord seems to answer— Until landlords
go. x „
When you start you can count upon me.
E. D.
Townsville, March 33.
Conscience.
When the world pours its praise in thine ear,
See thou upbraid thyself with voice as clear
As an informing angel's. Forget not then
The low designs which, to still meaner men,
Appear unchallengeably godlike; nor the deed
Dishonest, wrenched it may be by direst need,
But still dishonest; nor the secret shame.
Soiling the ostensible grandeur of thy name;
Nor stifled sighs of the Divine; nor lewd
Joyings permitted eapy rectitude;
Nor the vile cowardice and smug deceit
Forming the usual pathway of thy feet
Where all seems fair and noble. This is thy hell.
But, thus, though Truth annihilate thee, it shall be
well.
Sabbath Observance.
I think it very hard that people may
Not pass the Sabbath as they think most fit,
A man may not be cheerful on that day
But he is instantly reproved for it.
“ You must be sad and sorrowful,” they say,
“The shadow of a smile should never tilt
Across your features; you to church must go—
Eyes full of tears and faces full of woe I
There be some creatures on this beauteous earth,
Which God in His munificence hath given,
Who have a horror of all kinds of mirth
As something sinful in the eyes of heaven;
And since this glorious creation's birth
These sanctimonious hypocrites have striven
To pave the pathway to eternal bliss
By making something like a hell of this.
These “ Privy Councillors of God ” would cram
Down people’s throats this melancholy tale:
That if we ride on Sunday in the tram,
Or go a little out of town by rail,
The Maker of the universe will damn
iOur souls beyond redemption’s farthest pale;
And if we dare to stay away from church
He’ll leave our souls for ever in the lurch.
If they could carry out each pious caper
They would not scruple to deprive us quite
Of everything, except that empty vapour
Which they call “ preaching ’’—and they call it
right!
They’d rob us of our Monday morning s paper.
Because the printer works on Sunday night,
And drive us all to church, wherever found.
As Hood remarks, “like cattle to the pound.”
And in thoir zealousness they fain would stay
The malls from coming into port on Sunday,
Thus missives from the dear ones far away
Would be delayed at least another one day.
" But what’s the odds ? ” these pious erdatures say,
“ Would they not be as weloome on the Mon-
day ? ”
And thus, to suit the whims of two or three men,
We’d wrong ourselves, besides a host of seamen.
Your model saints, of the prevailing school,
In fire and brimstone absolutely revel,
And ’tis the almost universal rule
To guage mankind with their own spirit-level.
They tell us, while a pious face they pull.
That we are on the high road to the devil,
And speak of those who dare to eat hot dinners
On Sunday as the very worst of sinners.
And others tell us, If we die without
Being by holy dispensation shriven,
Without the slightest shadow of a doubt
Our erring souls can never enter heaven.
They further tell us we are doomed throughout
Eternity to fizzle, unforgiven I
The wonder is that people can be brought
To entertain so blasphemous a thought!
Out on such doctrines I I would rather die
A hopeless, unbelieving infidel
Than charge the Ruler of the earth and sky
With crimes that would degrade the “ king of
hell!”
What punishment is there for those who try
To libel their Creator as they tell
Such hideous tales, with melancholy dole.
And dare to juggle with the human soul ?
Your pious, sleek, self-constituted saint,
Within the sacred sanctuary stands,
And looking sick, as if about to faint.
Turns up his eyes and then turns up his hands,
And then proceeds familiarly to paint
A being whom he little understands,
And labours hard in the attempt to prove
A God of hate and terror, not of love.
Give me the broad green fields and meadows
fair,
To kneel with reverence at Nature’s shrine,
To breathe the incense of the summer air
In the sweet presence of a power Divine;
To contemplate my great Creator’s care
In every flower that grows—such Joy be mine!
To trace on every hand, around, above,
The proofs of His immeasurable love.
Within the circle of this world’s vast round,
It is the sweetest joy of all to me
To roam amid the forest’s depths profound;
Or by the margin of the lonely sea.
To listen to the wave’s mysterious sound,
That seems to whisper of eternity;
And seek, where human foot hath seldom trod,
The “ way through Nature up to Nature's God.”
I love the giant hills, the grassy plain,
Where Nature’s sweetest flowers their buds un-
fold;
I love the sunshine and the gentle rain,
With all the fervent love my heart can hold;
I love to see the flelds of yellow grain,
Waved by the breezes, like a sea of gold.
For these are God’s interpreters, that teach
Truths far beyond your narrow bigot’s reach.
I love to stand beneath the drooping eaves.
To watch the green boughs waving to and fro—
To listen to the whisper of the leaves
That kiss the wanton breezes as they go;
And meditating thus, my heart receives
My Maker's impress, and I learn to know
In birds, and brooks, and flowers, and waving
The author and the keeper of all these.
I love to listen unto Nature’s choir,
D iwn where the pine-tree shadows hardly move,
To hear the anthem, swelling ever higher.
Awake the slumbering echoes of the grove.
And oftentimes in secret I retire,
To own the boundless measure of his love.
Think you the prayer that rises from the sod
Is aught the less acceptable to God ?
Mankind so proud, so frivolous and vaio.
May learn a lesson from the simple flowers
That bloom in sweet profusion on the plain
To beautify and cheer this world of our;
See how they look up, smiling through the rain,
To thank the Giver of the golden showers!
These tender flowers remind us as they grow,
Of one who loved and blessed them long ago.
There's not a tiny rivulet that springs
That does not tell us of a Father’s care.
But rushes into life, and laughs and sings.
To find that He has made the world so fair.
There’s not a feathered chorister that wings
It’s flight upon the bosom of the air,
But sings a pican to it’s Maker's name
That puts man’s laboured efforts all to shame.
Then let your narrow-minded bigots prate,
With all the impotence and cant they may.
And paint the horrors of a future state
To scare the courage of a child away 1
The Christian spirit can with patience wait,
Until the drawing of a better day,
When pride and pomp shall fade, and churches be
The shrine of love and truth and charity.
JAMES ROBERTSON.
T.maru, N.Z.


19
m
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
w
>
Scrofula on Neck,
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
Disfiguring humors, Humiliating Emp
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Ijoss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticuba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticuba and Cuticuba Soap, the
groat Skin Cures and Beautiliers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticuba Soap and a single application of
Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticuba Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat tins story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shim public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; nave had the bust phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.’’
Austbalian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
nUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
W fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses/tho Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cnticura, the Geeat Skin Cube (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin u'nd Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticuba, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiliers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by nil retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticuba, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticuba Soap, 25 cents; Cdticuba’Bhav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticuba Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Pbepaeed bt the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, V.S.A.
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.
W. H. PALING
AND CO. (Limited),
DIRECT ATTENTION TO THEIR UNRIVALLED STOCK
Pianos, Organs, Music, etc .
Comprising over 800 Instruments, by the BEST MAKERS, English, French, American,
and German, in New and Elegant Designs, and with all the Latest Improvements.
Buyers have the opportunity of securing an
EXCELLENT and LASTING INSTRUMENT
* ' AT A
VERY MODERATE PRICE,
Either for Cash or on the
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM!
every instrument guaranteed.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES POST FREE.
V. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
366 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
J-A-C3T
A.J.O. O.IGAE DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON.
91 King-street.
mr N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
READ THIS I
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Sliver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£8 lOs. each,
Warranted for three years,
CAN BK BOUGHT AT
269 PHt-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SZMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
PUBLIC NOTICE.
Marshall’s Artificial Teeth.
MARSHALL BROTHERS, Dentists, owing to
the great increase of their dentistry prac-
tice. have also taken extensive premises at 133
ELIZABETH STREET, Hydo Park. They Still
continue to inseit teeth at the same enormously
reduced price as before, namely, £S i»er set,
upper and lower, which are precisely the same
prize medal teeth advertised by other Aims.
Marshall Brothers gurantee these to be equal In
every way, both for quality, fit, and appearance,
to those inserted by hundreds of dentists (with a
limited practice), who charge double and treble
this amount. The public may doubt this, but
Mar.-hall Brothers offer .£900 to any person who
can prove this statement untrue. Consultation
free. Painless extraction by the aid of nitrous
oxide gas. MARSHALL BROTHERS, American
Dentists, IS) Blizabeth-street, Hyde Park, and
Market-sti'eet. N.B.—All trams stop at the dcor.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GENT.’S 50, Is. 6d.; 100, 3s, 6d.
LADIES’ 50, 2s. Od.; 100, 3s, 0£.
Address, 6d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. 6d,; 260, 6s. 6d.; 500, 10s.; 1000, 15s.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
I3P" Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
TEE lEtflSDPP1I ED.,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
M. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS.
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street*)
From the Strand, London.
s
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 354 and 366 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the late Mr
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manaobb.
. , and CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
icon, ill, d IMB mu,
Importers of
8TE^r F WAV N 5^T?nTi^o E^xT^.L^. d t , RE 9 UI8ITES ’ WOOD - WORKINO MACHINERY
KA1L Mm^NO N rRnsnf^vri CON PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS,
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBGILDERS’
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &c.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACK8
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
SiiMnsTc
if?
PORTABLE, FUSED
and SEMI-FIXED EN-
GINES
VERTICAL and HORI-
ZONTAL BOILERS
TEAM
PUMPS
and other
LATHES, PLANING,
SHAPING, SCREW-
WmoW WGjjj.nd,DBILLINO
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, &o.
|*“ Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Offloe
- 54 YORK STREET.
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR
SYDNEY.
■ - - 86 GBACEOHUHOa STREET,


W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and STDNET.
Catalogues
POST FREE.
W. WALKER
and SONS
are ode of the
Largest
mistiuTi u -
Stockholders
tad
Manufacturer*
Hifh-cmn
FURNITURE
[1
ENGLAND.
Catalogues
POST FREE.
ALL STOCK
In their
.SYDNEY
HOUSE
Supplied
DIRECT
*rom their
Loudon
Manufactory,
and Latest
London Styles
Guaranteed
SYDNEY BRANCH;
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robo Makers.
Trousers from 21s. to 40s.
f N.B.—Mr. 8HEARf?BY, for the last five years, was HEAD (JOTTER at Farmer and Co.
w, Sheaksby & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st,
READ IT ALL.
It may Save your Llfo-
AME RICAN CO.’S
Hop Bitten
ABB
The Purest and Best
Medicine erer made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
“The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘ and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
• and most effective curative properties
• of aU other bitters, being the greatest
• Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘and life and health restoring agent on
‘earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘ irregularities of the Blood, Stomach,
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
• highly curative, tome, and stimulating,
‘ without intoxicating. ’
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use thoBittcrs at
•once. It may safe your hfe. Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
• friends suffer, but use and urge them to
•use the American Co. |Hop Bttters.
“Remember, these Hop Bitters are
• no vile, drugged, drunken nostrum,
•but the purest and best Medicine
• ever made, and no person or family
• should be without it.”
0f gee that the name Dr. Soule Is blown
i every bottle, none other genuine.
WeakNervousMen
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay and
failure to perform life’s duties
properly are caused by ex-
cesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
>The Marston Bolus.
Neither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment
of Nervous Debility and Physical Decay is
uniformly successful because based on perfect
diagnosis, new and direct methods and absolute
thoroughness. Full information and illustrated
treatise sent free (scaled).
Address— Doctor J. O Connell,-
P.0. Box 166. 52 Castlcmgh St., Sydney.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Allen’s Black Wlngen Oils.
THEY WORK LIKE A CHARM.
1AO those who have been suffering from Rheu-
matism or Sciatica, we come with glaa tidings
af the wonderful cures that have been effected by
□HAS. ALLEN’S BLACK WINOEN OILS: Num-
bers have been cured, and can attest to the Rreat
and miraculous powers of these already famous
° There Is now no reason why anybody should be
be racked wi h pain, when lor the small sum of
3g. 6d„ a bottle of CHA8. ALLEN S BLACK
WINOEN OILS may be obtained from any che-
mist or storekeeper. On how many occasions,
when you have been laid up with a severe attack
of lumbago, would you have given anything to
get rfelief; also, when you have been rendered
sleepless through neuralgia or toothache, have
you shught In vain for a cure. Suffer no more :
keep the balm by you-a bottle of Chas. Allen s
Black Wlngen Oils. It is needless to further recom-
mend, as a simple trial will prove to the most
sceptical the merit of Allen’s Black Wlngen Ol's.
“TRF THEM.”
COSTELLO & GREY,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Bole Agents.
ALLEN’S BLACK WINGEN OILS, stand un-
equalled for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
saddle girth, and wind Galls, Strains, Stakes,
Sprains, Bruises, Sweat Bolls, Fistula, Wounds of
all descriptions No ’bus proprietor, carrier, or
stockowner should be without them. They will
heal any sore, no matter if freshly done or of
years’ standing. No spell required to effect a cure.
“TRY THEM,” >.
r’ Be obtained.from Chemists and Storekeepers.
COSTELLO &"GEEY,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
E
A U D E
4711
COLOGNE,
4711.
Established 1793.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1873; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873
This Bau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last w years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for Its superior sweetness, strength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
mit has become the great favourite of the public,
and Is extensively patronised by the elite or
and constantly Increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Bau de Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also In North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of Its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious Imitations with the genuine
number-4711 changed,Into 7411, 1147, 4117, &c, &c.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medafat the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and markqd 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT 1 BROTHERS, Pltt-
street, Sydney.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
vnd Storekeepers, in town and country.
Mb. PbCoubot Brown* (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of
Wales). Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide, and Manual of
Minerals ” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mi Agent! mfvy be consulted on every
skflU a matter of in the Doj artments and
Supremo Court.*
WATCHES i
'COMPENSATION BALANCE
BOTKB»«a JEWELLED WATCHES
, r ok ANT. you will never want another, as
they are, without doubt, the Best Watches In the
for 5 years. Price, only £6 10s.
a „o.t free to any part of the country. Special
Sent to country order,.
c. GRANT, Watchmaker,
594 George Street, Sydney.
Established 1880.
Sisswsr'—
__ _ MODINI,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS.
manufactured by the most celebrated English
tnftlcflrs.
O B M- further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms:—JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
dons THOS. BLAND & SON.. London: JOSEPH
x.Ai.q & SON, London ; CHAS. OSBORNE &
° G,’ AGENT for the eminent firm of
BOSSY & CO., London.
Gune Bars, Gun Cases. Cartridge Bolts, &e.. and a’l
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the held.
ah Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 Georiie.st.p Sydney,
Where Inspection is Invited.
MULE IMPORTER uif
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCES
107 PITT STREET.
SOL.E AGENT FOR THE
SMITH ORGAN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 FITT STREET
-4--..-
Ml
IIIIIIII|||I!IIIIIII!IIIIIHIIII1IIIIHIIIIIII1HIIHIIIIIIIIIi
. rm r<v.vn<.t
•r-
m
BARGAINS! BARGAINS!! BARGAINS!!
Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale..
SOSSiiLIS, LLOTD CO-
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO, ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
Ladies should secure the_
CHEAP LACES AND UNDERCLOTHING AT ROSSALIE, LLOYD Sc CO.’S SALE.
4s. In the pound taken off your Bill.
Thousands of Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laces.
Remnants of Ribbons. Remnants of Ribbons. Summer Millinery. Summer Millinery.
A MAGNIFICENT STOCK ALL INCLUDED IN THE SALE.
. , - V . ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
Umbrellas. Umbrellas. Parasols. Parasols.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.,
NEAR THE GENERAL POST OFFICE.
Carnrick’s Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk
(Composed of about equal proportions of Pure Cod Liver Oil and Condensed Milk digested),
-m affords us much pleasure to announce to the Medical Profession and the Public that we have sue-
needed in combining these nutritive substances Into a permanent, palatable, and easily assimilable
/orrre. Xitrer Oil and Milk has the following advantages over the Plain Oil and the
rmSmi now in use 1st. Plain Cod Liver Oil is unpalatable to most persons, but in combinat on
with Sensed ( digested ) milk, as exhibited in this preparation, it wi 1 usually be taken by the youngest
liwwthH relish 2nd, Oils are prepared for assimilation principally in the duodenum ; consequently
ChildtWttaareilBU. H „. h nn im(1 Milk in nJl T.ivf.T
{ha Vm in si nnso f * Cod'lLi ve r 6 i L ” 4 th" Tt7s well known that the Emulsions of Cod Liver Oil usually
oonS from CO to 75 per cent, of water. Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk contains 52 per cent, of
PrTrt T.lvet Oil and In the place of water we use condensed milk, reduced in vacuo in our labor*-
Forv The milk"s condensed to the consistency of the Cod Liver Oil, and when combined, as m
vIJtnnized Cod Liver Oil and Milk, It forms one of the nust pleasant and nutritious compounds that
oan be conceived or produced.
This Preparation is acknowledged far superior to any of the Cod Liver Oil Emulsions over
introduced, it being already digested, It may be retained on the weakest stomach.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with Tl Ye OP R O SP HITES OF LIME AND
SODA. To be obtained of the Principal Chemists and Druggists in the colonies.
The Maltine Manufacturing Co., Lim , 24 aud 25 Hait-st., Bloomabury, London, W.C
wholesale Aurents in the Colonies ;—Elliott Bros.. Syc
co Melbourne; Rocke, Tompsitt. & Co., Melbo
Eanfdiug & Co.! Adelaide; A. M. Bicklord & Co.. Adelald
Bros!&fi<?. Brisbane; New Zealand Drug Co., Brisbane.
Samples and Fu'l Particulars may be obtained of
w. T. PALMER, 104 King-street, Sydney.
THE SURVIVOR’S STORY-As IT MIGHT HAVE
BEEN.
(After Walter Thornbury.)
By famed Khartoum, ’twas there one day-a
Auatralhi’s h tVoors in hollow square, returning
Black 3 hosts were tossing their sabres to
When*1 heard a lad's voice say, “My mates,
teach me the way to die.
’Twas a youthful bugler with his thigh torn ter-
Yet sttll^he 7 feebly blew his blast as tho’ the
Anda^Xck W fierce, wild horse burst
He said 1 , 1 " Oh! men from the Sunny South, teach
me the way to die.
.. My mother has no other sons, no other help than
And nowfupon these burning sands, my blood
And oh, W life’s^ weet?’’' the brave lad moaned,
“fair is Australia's sky; „ ,
Then comrades from the Sunny South, teach me
the way to die.”
I saw Ned Blun f from the Irohbarks looking so
I heard 6 V?i kfjaclr from the Currajung cursing
I saw Black Tom from Dead Horse Creek wiping
As stlh the “ Oh, my mates, teach
me the way to die.”
Then* with a curse on Dailey's head, they strode
j. witlf hip, had neither strength
The was Hell-fire Jack—he bade
As Imsaid?" from the Sunny South,
teach you the way to die.’
1 saw that flght-Iseelt yet; it was a fearful
I saw Australia's bravest troops not slowly
shot ftWfl Vi
But as they fell, as fall the brave, they gave no
sign nor sigh, , , ,
But said, “ We men have got to teach the lad
there how to die.
They found him on the morrow stretched on a
heap of dead, . , ,
His hand in Hell-fire Jack’s was clenched, who
at his bidding bled,
They raised a stone above him, they closed his
dauntless eye; , .
On the stone they cut, “ By Dailey doomed, by
Dailey sent to die.”
P.


-A.TorstlxsuccL’s
Fills
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy 1
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
tar 308 GEORGE STREET.
m
V
s
NAM
On
•CBLBBRfW*
0 *fcScotcKWl^
U:
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
dPIBIT MER-
CHANT.
BOLBAGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGBN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
APPLICATION.
'MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE
THE
In Davis Sewing Uk
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever introduced into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, EASY TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine in the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modem
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS in Town and Country.
tstr Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE tc
any part of the colony.
B. O. Holtermann & Co.,
Sole Agents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
G. F. PRIDDY & CO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7lh i
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.30 p.m.: Saturdays as utual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
A. & C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
818 GEORGE STREET,
, Next Peapes and Shaw.
jar* The most liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
JL. & C. Huenorbein,
818 GEORGE STREET.
W. H. CHARD AND CO.
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
LIBERAL ADVANCES made on WOOL er
other PRODUCE chipped to their London
Agents, Messrs. Redfem, Alexander and Co., 3
Great Winchester-street, B.C.
The Cartful Personal Supervision of this well-
known firm is given to all consignment?.
DENTIST.
(Of America)
G UARANTEES
Fsritoi Fit and lUaiia
|W PRICES MODERATE.
Corner George and Market Streets
OVER HUNTER’S BOOT PALACP.
COOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 Greorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
NO MORE CORNS 1
CORNS AND WANTS removed without pain
by the use of Palmer’s Painless, Harmless,
and Effectual CORN AND WART REMO\ BR.
This preparation is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If applied accord-
ing to the directions, It will effectually remove
them in from six to eight days.
PALMER’S
2Sgl FACUE CURA )K
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Local.
This most wonderful Preparation has surpassed
all others in speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
how long or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed in producing the desired re-
sults: and it can be most confidently recomme-ded.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general stores: wholesale by Messrs Elliott Bros.,
Sydney : E. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; relton.
Grim wade, and Co., Melbourne; Kempthorne and
Prosser, Dunedin.
NEUSTADT CO.,
COMPLETE
FURNISHERS,
39, 154, 156, & 158 OXFORD-ST J
SYDNEY.
r HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERT REQUISITE,
Either tor Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash. Purchasers.
MANHOOD RESTORED 1
A Clergyman having tried every known
remedy for the Cure of Nervous Exhaustion,
Premature Decay, &c , has at last discovered a
fimple Self-Cure, which for the sake of suffering
humanity, be will send FREE the Prescription
which CURED him. Address, with self-addressed
stamped envelope—
Dr. B. A CLARKE, P O. Box 393, Sydney.
ROWLANDS ODONTO is the best, pur-
est. and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious lor polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-grltty tooth powder; such Row-
lands’ Odnnto has always proved itself to bo.
ROWLAND V EUKONIA is a beautifully
mre, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and has
fately been much improved. Each box has Inside
lid a certificate of purity from Dr, Redwood,
- - ~ ~ • - gold in three tins : white, rose,
fa
the
Ph.D., F.C.8., &c.
and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now
he also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited”for fab or golden-haired children and per-
S °Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ ar-
ticles, ot 80, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
snurious worthless imitations „ n
Wholesale and Retail Agents, Elliott Bros,, B.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Compagnonl's.)
Tn I? undersigned, recognising the want of a
FIRST CLASS TAILORING ESTABLISH-
mt have OPENED the premises lately occu-
Xh tin Bank of Australasia, at 168 PITT-
HTRPET 1 (THE WEST FND HOUS%) where they
fnt?nd to ( carry on a High-class and Fashionable
T The' nubile may feel assured that we shall be
able to maintain a high standard, when wo state
that our°Mr. Ward has had some years’ experience
in the best houses in London, Paris, as well as in
Sydney Bsteblishmente namely, Farmer
and Co.’s and David Jones and Co. s.
Our Mr. Wilson has had fully 30 years’ expe-
rience In the Australian trade, and has just re-
■Rncland, where he visited all the
nrlncR.plWoollenMills, including that of Hud-
d ere field as well as V(e»t of England and Scotch
Mills TWs will be a sufficient guarantee that the
tastes and requirements of the public will receive
the attention they deserve.
In conclusion, we desire to say that we hope to
obtain a fair Phare of patronage, in return for
we guarantee first-class work, all hand-
made, well shrunk, perfect fit, and all in the latest
London and Paris styles.
Soliciting a trial, we remain,’
Very truly yours,
FREDERICK WILSON,
HUGH WARD,
Fashionable Tailors, Robe and Habit Makers.
West End House,
168 Pltt-strect, Sydney.
Sulpholine
Lotion,
THE CURE FOR SKIN DISEASES!
Tn a few davs Eruptions, Pimples, r Blotches entirely
fade away Beautifully fragrant. Perfectly harm-
less Cures old-standing Skin Diseases. Astonish-
ing results follow. It removes every kind, of
Eruption, Spot, or Blemish, and renders the skin
Hear, smooth, supple, and healthy. Sulpholine
Tuition is sold by most Chemists. Bottles, *s 9 d
Sch? Made only by J. PEPPEK and Co., London
PEPPER’S
QUININE & IRON
he& “ e k«t.
feREAT BODILY STRENGTH I
GREAT NERVE STRENGTH 1
GREAT MENTAL STRENGTH I
HERAT DIGESTIVE STRENGTH follows the u*o
& PEPPBIP8 QUININE and IRON TONIC.. It
promotes appetite, dispels languor, depression,
Is a remedy for Neuralgia, Chest affections,
and wasting diseases. Bottles, 33 doses. Sold by
Chemists everywhere. Insist on having Pepper s
Made solely b7 J. PEPPER and Co.. London
Specially suitable for the colonies.
XdOd3s3rer’s
SULPHUR
hair restorer
THE BEST. THE SAFEST. THE CHEAPEST.
Restores the Colour in a few applications.
Large Bottles. Is. 6d. Made In London.
MASON BROTHERS
EXHIBI
LIMITED,
14 and 16 Spring Street
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
GLASS, CHINA
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. G A YEN’S
SohnapfB md Geneva
A MCLV N a nd SON*
Kdinbu gn Pale 4 ,e.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDN EY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The oest known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
Jf.-UR ALG1A s HEADACHE, TOOTHAC /E,
RAINS, BRUISES, 3URNS. SCALP J, &c and
jefcen Internally cures DIARRHtEA, PYSE Y,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other >utfcrn ■ aches
Mid pains -
Price 2/- SoldEveryw3i«re,
fl. £. MOULTON. SOLE PROP l OR
M EJ 3 O XT lv 1ST I.’ AND 33INEY.
PAINT
vl wAh ■ FA
TONlt NERVINE
tiHO I8T1R6D*
a « a TTR CERTAIN. & SPEEDY CURB for Ner-
i and General Debility, and all complaints
hat spring from lack of nerve force. as
footbache, Nervousness, IndieeBtion, Lom o
knoctite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Jomplaints, Loss of Vital Power, &c. By tonic
md soothing effects it at once removes all craving
or AicoholV By it* richness in^ b S S ?R8H a L I?8
ither powerful vitalising elements, MARSH ALL o
CONIC NERVINE nourishes and Elves vigour W
ho whole svstom. Price, 4s. 6d., or 35s. a case,
jole Proprietors,MARSHALL
danufacturlng and consult Ing Chemlstt, 104 and
DC Market-street. near H a % Bar k, Sydney ,wia
iPltt-street, Circular-quay. TAKE NO SUB8T1
?UTE.
ns for Trophies |[
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
iWVWW^^
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
S
<*
a> u>
o w
||§
III
WWW
5e »
8
D4
<x>
to
CA
*
S
O
n
4
I
\
ift
<
Pfl
;n
r
3
P
red
3
a
A
1
ft
&
KtN!
ir
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
ZRellaTbl©
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIA-M FLEMING)-, Merchant & Importer
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)


£ a.
d.
To
1*
II
salary of bard with gloomy view of
life (sum not stated, for vailous
reasons, but party in Question paid
like a Persian Satrap)
Salary of bard, with hilarious ditto
(sum not stated for similar reasons,
but salary princely) „ . .
Cash advanced for burial of aunt of'
gloomy bard
0
0
”
p.tto for ditto of grandmother of
hilarious ditto
5 0
0
«•
Cash paid for balling out former
alter funeral •-
0 5
0
”
Cash ditio for ditto tatter, morning
after funeral • •
0 5
0
••
Hill for breaking glass sides of
hOAISQ •• ■ • ••• ••
Injury to knee ot off-lead*r and
snouldtr of near-leader of said
hearse through racing with milk
unit
3 0
0
ft
7 0
0
Total
£ao 10 0
l^BS
0 10
0
Total
£111 15
0
By credit. One colfio of ttBb
£0 15
u
£ s.
d.
To three bottle* of Klnaban s, supplied
to Irish Proxr
0 1H
n
.. Hate-glass window smashed by name
5 0
0
Fine paid for breaking bead of Dutch-
man with decanter
1 0
0
„ Ditto for destroying policeman a uni-
form ..
a o
0
„ Dottio rum supplied to lllbern'an
representative
o ;j
6
„ Flue imid for blacking the eyes or
man wbo called the editor of this
paper a philosopor
,, Case whisky supplied to Celtic am-
bassador in oonuectlou with wake
of uncle of same
l) 10
0
3 0
0
„ Doctor's bill in consequence of ditto
a o
tl
Totil
£15 8 0
Mashers. —The best and lightest are made by
Oflord, Hatter, 652 Goorge-street. Brickfield Hill. 1 *
Parents, do not use vile drugs or nostrums
in your families, but use pure Hop Bitters made
only by American Co. See and Bead.
Printed and Published by The Bhli.btin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 24 Pitt-el.. Sydney. N.S.W
OUR TROUBLES.
We were lately looking oyer a statement
of our expenses In connection ■with the weekly ap-
pearance of this modest little journal. We do not
wish to make a parade of our responsibilities
before our readers, but we think it possible that
some fruitless ambitious and vain desires may be
nipped in the bud (if we may be permitted to use
such a novel figure of speech) by a plain prrsent-
ment of facts. We have noticed that many young
and even middle-aged men of an unhappy frame
of mind have yearnings to start papers. Perhaps
the following few particulars will tend to dis-
courage them. We are only mentioning certain
odd items of the unexpectable (pardon us, but we
intend to make this language plastic or hire a
language for ourselves) class, and, of course, omit
the usual e>penses. Here you are:—
This in one week, mark you, independent
of salaries. You will, perhaps, bo puzzled at the
mixture of llsh a d funerals. 80 were wo. The
fact is, the two lUrds (usuilly bitter enemies)
made an offensive league agaii.st us lor ore?, and
each had a death in his house the same day. We
thought the coincidence curious, but concluded
that Providence knew it? own business best, and
advanced them the burial fees with 1 he result you
have seen. Of course nobody was dead, but they
carried out the swindle so far as to taue a hearse
and follow it in a cab with every symptom of in-
consolable grief. The hearse was Ailed with beer
and bait. They went fishing out by the Botany
pier, and were so far successful that they filled the
coffin with black fish and bream in two hours. The
rest of the afternoon they spent at the pavilion.
They were arrested at the door of the Shbodd
office while insisting that they bad come by
agreement to carry away the editor and staff.
The milk - cart episode occurred previously.
The hearse, with the coffin of fish Inside
it, was taken round to the undertaker, from
whom they had hired It. It appears they had
also driven around the suburbs, and called at vari-
ous houses which appeared to be in mourning, and
had offered to convey the presumed corpse at half
price to the cemetery—a proposal which, we are
pleased to say, was unanimously rejected, with
remarks bordering upon the aggressive. Yet, we
could not help smiling at this idea, reprehensible
as it was Fancy a hearse calling round upon you
as regularly affa bread-cartl We have a nebulous
notion that funeral festivities will be brought
down to this at last. It is a practical age, you
know, and the hearse runs side by side with the
meat-van, and is in amicable contact with the
beer-dray, almost every day in almost every
street. But to return—as the medical students
would say—to our subjects. They were looked up,
and we had to ball them out, and also to
pay the undertaker for the damage done
to his horses and his hearse. He was a genial
fellow, and we did not begrudge it to him;
—but we deducted it from the monthly rum al-
lowance of the bards. Our readers may wonder
why we put up with this sort of thing. We do
ourselves sometimes, but the truth is that, though
we have tried two hemispheres, we have found it
impossible to secure such ghoulish gloom and
utterly heathenish hilarity, combined with such a
gift of unfailing rhyme, as is possessed by the two
Bards in question. Therefore we have tolhumour
them. You will observe that it costs a good deal
to humour them. And, referring to the rum al-
lowance, it is a curious fact that the Bard of Gloom
requires more rum to sink him dawn to the char-
nel depths in which his genius has freest play than
the Bard of Joy requires to rocket him up to the
pitch of maniac glee in which his soul delights.
There is, probably, a psychological reason for this,
but, in consequence of a pressure of invitations to
drink, we are reluctantly compelled to refrain from
unearthing it. This mention of invitations to
drink reminds us of another item in our expenses.
A ourioui item, too, you will call it, we think.
Well, you see, every man that called upon us
seemed to deem it his duty to ask us to come out
and have something—in accordance, wo suppose,
with the popular prejudice that a writer, to be full
of wisdom, must be lull of whisky. We were nbt
long in discovering that the strain upon our con-
stitution was too great. Whisky is well enough
as a relaxation, but it is a mistake as a business—
to the imbiber, we mean. So we cast our eye
around (a ludicrous metaphor this!) and settled
upon a boggle-eyed Irishman whom no demijohn
could daunt and who could face a keg of kerosene
with a defiant demeanour, not to mention that we
have seen him come off victorious, if slightly
shaken, from a duel with a distillery. Him we
engaged to drink for us upon all occasions. And
we cannot say that we found him unreliable or
inclined to shuk his duties. On the contrary, he
soon gave us to understand that what we thought
riot and dissipation, would be looked upon as rea-
sonable revelry for Infants, but a studied insult
to grown men in his country. Here is one of the
weekly bills (the last) we had to pay for him. We
may state that the average quantity of gratuitous
liquor he took in our behalf was about two gal-
lons of beer and half a gallon of mixed spirits
per diem:—
This, with his weekly stipend, would make pretty
nearly the salary of a Minister of tho Crown. The
last two items permanently catalepsed us as far as
ho was concerned. We could have stood the rest,
hut the case of whisky for a wake which we knew
to be fictitious and the doctor’s bill for the dress-
ing of wounds which we subsequently discovered
to be the result of an invitation to the general
public to walk about at pleasure on the conclusion
of his coat were too much for us. We determined
to do our own drinkintr in future, or at least till
we could get a less bellicose representative to do
It for us. The position, wo may say by way of ad-
vertisement, is stiil open, but only certiBoated
Quakers need apply, Before we finish, however,
we feel it Incumbent upon us to state that our
Milesian friend incurred the ten-shilling fine for
blacking the eyes of a man who had called us a
philosopher more through generous impe
tuoslty than through ignorance. He did not
stop to wi Igh words. He simply caught, at
the expression “ Phil,” and concluded that th'e
trisyllable which followed was a new name for a
mug, or, peradventure, a pewter. Thereupon, he
proned his man to the earth. But, for all that, he
was too vivacious for us. Where ho is now we are
not in a position (fine old easy phrases those—may
the Heavens be his four-poster who first invented
them!) to state with accuracy, but we believe he
is secreted somewhere in the wilds of Mossman’s
Bay. Great place that, by the way. There was a
poet who lived down there at one time. He is now
sleeping serenely in the Waverley cemetery, with
tbe bills of all his creditors pasted neatly on his
headstone-or rather, we should say his head-
batten, seeing its predominant element is pine,
with a dash of tar. No bad Idea this for creditors.
If you can’t get a man to pay you while he is alive,
affix your bill to his monument, and that will be
the first thing he will see at tho Resurrection. Of
course, that Is supposing the monument will
remain Intact until then. But it won't. Hardly.
We have seen the once hallowed graves of the
great and high ploughed over with a plough—aye,
and producing potatoes as big as skulls. This is
what you mighji not think it to be-truth. Yet it
is truth. We have seen the potatoes, and they had
a sepulchral similarity to skulls. What were we
talking about ? It is a weakness of ours, when-
ever we start to write upon a serious subject to
wander off intoiiilarlous byeways of thought. Of
course—the Irishman and the two Bards, <,nd our
expenses. We see the whole phantasmagoria. We
have only given one or two specimens of the kind
of tribulation with which we have to wrestle every
week. If we gave all, the aspirants to the pro-
prietorship of periodicals would hang themselves
with carpet snakes. Happy thought I What an
appropriate end for a disappointed and, ergo, dip-
somaniac journalist. Now you know some of our
troubles.
A descendant of one of the Doges of
Venice wheeled his little apple-cart into the
Domain last Sunday, and while the Evangelists
poured forth Gospel, the police were instructed to
pour forth law. as per Moses, annotated by Charles
11, in re Sabbath-breaking. Koberio della Murphy,
No. 50001a the foorce, walked up to this scion of
an ancient house, pulled out his note-book, and
ashed in pure Tuscan, “ Fwhafs yer name ? ”
Bebastiano della Garibaldi delta Sacramento,”
said the Italian. “Say it again!” wetting his
pencil in his mouth, and eyeing the alien as the
crowd pressed round. “ Sacramento della hello
rorsa mla cimarad’ Italiano ed 11 ah cho morte.”
*' Howld an now wit’yer I-talyen. Ter selling fruit
av a Sunday, and I want yer addhress. Where d’ye
live?” “Oh, I not speak of ze Inglis langvitch,
ma>s, quand js quittals la Normandie, je, m’en vais
in Languedoc.” (“In the dock. An old offender,
for sartiu,” goes down in the note-book. Crowd
beginning to snigger.) “ Now, Mister I-talyen,
ye’ve tried a bit of French an me. I ask ye agin,
fwhai’s your name, and divila ane of me’Jl stand
any more of your yabber. Yer name ?” “ Sebas-
tiano della ” “ Never moind now,” roared
Roberto, staggered to death with the Italian and
the jeers of tbe crowd; “ when 1 want you I know
where to drap an you,” and went off. The Italian
lifted his barrow, and, wheeling off towards a
better spot, remarked to the crowd, “ Faith, now,
if its I-talyen he wants, it’s an Antrim man can
give it him, musha.”
The English executioner, Mr. Berry, of
Bradford, has improved on hemp, which In the
days of Calcraft and Marwood was thought good
enough for murderers. In a recent interview Mr.
Berry (who is “a strapping young man of eight
and twenty”) remarked that he always used
Italian silk twined into a cord five-eights of an
inch in thickness, with a slender, close-sliding ring
for the noose. That balf-minute on the trap
when, as Sydney Smith says, “ Society is revenged
on the murderer, while the hangman’s cold fingers
are fumbling at his throat,” would lose some of
its unpleasantness, maybe, if the culprit only
knew he had a silken “comforter” round his
neck, for the first time, perhaps—and the last I It
may be of interest in this connection to note how
much the hangman gets for each “job,” His old
wages in the times of Tyburn Tree used to be
thlrteenpence-half-penny—the value of a Scottish
mark. Nowadays he receives fourteen and six-
pence, of which seven and sixpence is the fc.e for
the actual execution, four and sixpence for strip-
ping the body, and half a crown lor the use of the
shell in which the coroner’s jury view the body,
in the days of the axe and block on Tower-hill
the nobleman who was to be beheaded'was ex-
pected-noblesse oblige— to “tip” the executioner
from £7 to £10, according to rank-baron, earl,
marquis, duke. As to perquisites in the present
day, any visitor to the Chamber of Horrors at the
Waxworks knows what becomes of the hangman’s
perquisites. Now that we know exactly what the
British hangman is paid by the people, we may as
well set about considering whether Mr. Howard,
the N.S.W. executioner, should not “ suffer ” re-
duction in his snug official screw of £150 a year
11 reg’lar.” The noseless Mr. Howard, by the way,
has an “assistant a person with a hideous beard
of cobbler's-wax colour, who, we see, enjoys a
salary, also “reg’lar,” of 50s. per week. Isn’t it
just about time that, with a view of getting away
as far as possible from the horrible and bloody
traditions of “our ancestors,” we paid eff these
odious judicial chokers and sent them about their
business ? New South Wales now is, or should be,
a somewhat civilised place, and all our hanging
shouldn't cost us much more than (say) a sove-
reign a week, rope included. That would be a
liberal allowance. We strongly object to an alto-
gether unnecessary neck-stretching staff being
kept up by the country at a cost of £370 per an-
num and “extras.” Our hangmen aren’t useful,
and as to being ornamental, why they’re more
ghastly and nighttnareish-looking persons than
were ever dreamt of by even Milton after a lat«
Christmas dinner, or by Dant5 after a supper of
devilled pork bones and porter.
Mrs. General Booth has issued a tract on
“the responsibility of Christians with respect to
the Salvation Army.” She asks the Christian she 1
has been pleased to button-hole: “Do you eveF
lift up your eyes to behold the godless multitudes-
who never come near your place nor any otheX
where God and Eternity are put before them ? Do
you ever think of the awful fact that 90 out of
every 100 of your fellow-countrymen and women
never cross the threshold of any place where God
is mentioned? 00 out of every 100 of the inhabi-
tants of your town or city never go into a place
of worship.” This is what agitates Mrs. Booth.
She thinks the 00 who do not go to church
are hopelessly lost, and that possibly only h
small fraction even of the 10, who do occa-
sionally enter a place of worship—those who,
to use the popular phrase of her class, have
found Christ-stand any show at all of getting
saved. She reminds one of the old Scotch woni»»
who thought all the world lost except the mem-
bers of her own sect, who numbered exactly
three - herself, the minister, and the presenter,
Of tnese she said the precentor had no laitb, the
minister was far from sound, and there was just
herself left to claim the reward. What monstrous
nonsense it is to suppose that the uncounted mil-
lions who have lived on the earth since the begin-
ning of time are all to be lost except the compara-
tively few and insignificant number who have at-
teided church and professed to bo converted!
And how many of these are mere hypocrites play-
ir g a part for their worldly profit! Are the ill-clad,
ill-housed, hard-worked, half-starved millions, who
have no Sunday clothes to go to church in,
whose long-suffering patienea under gross iti«
justice, is one of the most sublime spectacles of
the present day, to be all damned, and nobody
saved but a few respectable church-goers and
Salvation Army soldiers? Are Darwin, Carlyle,
Tyndall, Huxley," Herbert Spencer, Renan, and
Emerson doomed to eternal perdition, and nobody
to be saved but General Booth, the late John
Brown, ;her Majesty the Queen, and fa few other
distinguished or insignificant Christians? Is not
Mrs. Booth’s attitude on this matter exactly
that of the Pharisee who thanked God he was not
as other people, or even as the poor publican—the
man who didn’t attend church in his time ? What,
if the 90 who do not attend church are more
pleasing, as a whole, in the sight of heaven than
the ten who do ? Christ said in a sermon, now
well-nigh forgotten, “JBlessed are the poor in
spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of Heaven.” The
poor in spirit are usually the poor in purse as well.
The Great Teacher did not say they had to attend
church, chapel, or Salvation Army drill-shed to
qualify them for this Inheritance, The ninety or
the “godless multitude,” about whose fate Mrs.
Booth is so terribly agitated, are the poor above-
mentioned, and they have a higher authority than
hers for believing they will fare better in the next
world than will the wealthy few who attend
church. Let her read the parable of Dives and
Lazarus, and ponder the matter of the camel and
the needle’s eye. Mrs. Booth’s tract concludes
with the usual appeal for money—more money—
ostensibly for the “ saving of precious souls,” in
reality to increase the power, authority, and bank
balances of the Booth family.
Through the Anglican porch of the edifice
six Sydney Chinese made their way into the great
temple of Christianity the other day. Catholics
say that this entrance is but a side door, leading to
the “ pit” only, and that people taking that road
can never expect to get as far as the dress circle.
Anglicans, on the other hand, hold out that it is
the shortest cut to the stage—the nearest way to
the orchestra—the best track to the green room.
If it lay between the Episcopalians and the
Romans, some middle course or no man's ground
would, probably, have been discovered before
this, but ever since the former declined to go in
by the main entrance and knocked in a vestibule
of their own, dissatisfied spirits among them have,
from year to year, kept on claiming the same right
as English Harry, and broaching little holes of ad-
mission through, until now many good judges say
the building is undermined and unsafe. Rowdy
characters, calling themselves Presbyterians,
Methodists, Congregationallsts, Christadolphians,
and a number of other uncouth names, have now
wee entrances of their own—some not much better
than burrows-and put on as much frills as the
original lessees. The latter still stick to the big
entrance. The first split among the claimants
was the biggest one of all, and things Were
made very lively for the early secessionists
before their vestibule was properly finished.
They, in their turn, passed on the “ liveliness ” to
the little fellows who thought to get in by shifting
a stone or scraping away some of the mortar. And
this brings us back to the 6 Chinamen who crawled
into the establishment tbe other day. Bishop
Barry helped them in, and, after sprinkling them
well with clean water—to which, as a race, they
eppear to have a deep-rooted aversion—devoted
some two hours to explaining to them things of
which they had but an imperfect knowledge when
he began and none at all when he finished. Of
the “Queen of Sciences,” as theology has been
felicitously called, this is the most engaging
characteristic—whatever little you know of it at
the start is converted into crassest ignorance by
the time you’ve quite mastered it. The good
Bishop spoke of many things-the Australian
aborigines, among others. He said: “Unhappily,
it is impossible to doubt that, in the past, we have
incurred grievous responsibility In connection
with these tribes.” Neat way of putting it, Isn’t
it ? Fastidious, indeed, would be the susceptibili-
ties that these pretty words would offend. Unfor-
tunately, responsibility and niggers nearly always
run coupled. But even this has its advantages. By
shunting the blacks you shunt the responsibility.
And they were “ improved off ” in a manner that
—now they’re gone—makes Dr. Barry weep, but
never pumped a tear from his predecessors. “In-
curred grievous responsibility! ” We’ve seen Billy
Emerson, Sam Keenan, and Phil. Day (pardon,
Phil.) lately, but their best efforts were drivel
beside the inspired drollery of that “grievous
responsibility’’—considering that, in the congre-
gation were, possibly, the daintily-reared sons of
those who murdered whole tribes for spearing a
sheep, or gave poisoned Hour to hundreds for
hanging round the “station” and purloining a
shirt! Why, the very men themselves might have
been there. But, enough. Th8 six Chinese were
baptised into the religion of One who knew noth-
ing of “subject races”—of One who, if alive to-
day, would weep, not for the errors of the ignor-
ant, but for the cheek of the learned. Some of
those converts have signified their intention to
live out Woollahra way—at least, we suppose so,
from the number of extra men who’ve been hired
to look after hen-roosts.
Another favourite is the embroidered jersey, which, for comfort and elegance, ex T
cels all others, and can be worn with pipes of any material, from light muslin down to
the heaviest velvet.
One of the most stylish jackets at present in vogue is shown above. The full vest
is carried below the imitation Swiss belt, and the cut-away jacket, which is made of
Ottoman cloth, fits close in to the figure.
