

THE BULLETIN
Val. 3.—No. 121—Now Ssrlei.
SATURDAY. SEPTEMBER 5, 1885.
Frleo—<NU
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1885.
A Nominee Council.
“Representative Government is merely
on its trial,” or something to that purpose.
Prince Albert (“ the Good ”) is supposed to
have said more than a generation ago. So
far, the trial has gone in its favour. The
changes in the form of Government that
have occurred since the Prince Consort’s
day have all been in the direction of Consti-
tutionalism. The popular voice in France,
Germany, Italy, and Austro-Hungary has
less difficulty in making itself heard and
obeyed than it had 30 or 40 years ago. To
the various Australian colonies, too, have
been given constitutions second to none for
freedom and breadth. If these changes do
not prove the superiority of Democracy to
Autocracy, they at least show that the cur-
rent of change is setting towards the former
—that the belief that popular govern-
ment is better than personal is a growing
one. To live under laws passed by two
Houses of Parliament, and not by a com-
paratively irresponsible clique, appears to
be the goal to which all progressive states
are striving. That two Houses should be
generally chosen instead of one, merely
shows the tendency of men to run in old
grooves. The argument for two is unsound,
while the working is cumbrous and often
unsatisfactory. Taking the British Parlia-
ment as an example, it is demonstrable that
popular rights and well-being would be
more advanced in England to-day if no Up-
per Chamber existed, whose action has
nearly always been confined to thwarting the
wishes of the great majority of the nation,
For hundreds of years the British people
have won no concession which has not been
stubbornly resisted, even to the verge of
civil war, by the House of Lords. How the
advocates of a system which has so fre-
quently imperilled the safety of a nation
can still worship at such a shrine, is one of
the curiosities of government. But it is not
so much the principle of the bi-cameral
system we have to consider in this article.
It is with the composition of Upper Houses,
particularly that of New South Wales, we
would deal. This we do in view of the
decision of our Cabinet to add to the legis-
lative Council a number of persons whose
names are still unknown to, or have been
forgotten by, the public.
* * *
With the exception of Great Britain and
of Austro-Hungary, the Higher Chambers
in all the great states and in most of the
small ones, are elective. Indeed, in the
Austrian Empire, the highest congress of
all—the Delegations—is elective, consisting
of 120 members, half Austrian, half Hun-
garian. It attends to matters affecting the
whole empire, just as the Washington Con-
gress governs the Union without meddling
with the local autonomy of the individual
states. But the two great divisions, Austria
proper and Hungary, of which this com-
posite country consists, have each two
Chambers in which the principle of heredity
has as important a place as in the British
Islands. In France, Germany, and the United
States, the Senates are wholly elective, while,
if we come nearer home, we find the Upper
House of Victoria constructed on a pattern
precisely similar to that of America, except
in the method of election. Assuming then
that the necessity for a second Chamber
exists, its composition is the next thing to
be considered. We have the hereditary, th®
elective, and the nominee systems from
which to choose. A fourth, partly elective
and partly nominee, finds favour with many,
and ip in operation in some colonies. It is
not too much to say that in choosing the
nominee system, or having had it chosen
for her, New South Wales has adopted one of
the worst. In absurdity it ties the hereditary
plan. It would, of course, be impossible to
establish the latter in a country like this,
where democracy is so virile. But the re-
tention of the nominee method retains
nearly all the vices of the hereditary one
witn few of its advantages. In modern
Britain, which prides itself on being in the
van of progress, nothing appears so incon-
gruous and, indeed, ridiculous, as a pageant
of the Lords. To see a number of not over-
wise men of all agesj from the stripling fresh
from school to the old man in his second
childhood, gravely marching, bowing and
gesticulating in variegated dresses of an-
tique pattern, while their old world mum-
mery is punctuated by the unceasing roar
of a mighty metropolis, is a sight provoca-
tive of sadness and of mirth. In the age of
electricity, the telephone, and the spectrum,
with thousands of sharp-witted students
rummaging Nature’s lumber-rooms for
fresh facts, and with philosphers laying
bare the springs of social, political, and re-
ligious life, the sight of Monarch, princes,
peers, and bishops in barbaric trappings
and “ loud” ribbons brings home to the
mind the truth of the statement that men
are but children of a larger growth* and,
even in old age. can witn difficulty be per-
suaded to lay aside the toys and rattles that
so amused them in infancy. Such a system
of ceremonial trumpery could not live in
Australia. Ridicule would kill it. In con-
sidering, therefore, the proper Constitution
for a colonial Upper House, the hereditary
and ornamental principle may be laid aside.
We are thus thrown back on the elective
and tbe nominee methods for choice.
• • *
To be of use at all an Upper Chamber
should have some power. If its duties consist
merely in registering the decrees of the
other legislative branch, it ceases to have a
raison d'etre. A clerk on a moderate salary
could perform this function more satisfac-
torily and with greater expedition. Its
supposed usefulness depends on its power to
stay hasty legislation. Take away the
power and you take away the attributed
usefulness." But a nominee Chamber, the
number of whose members can be inde-
finitely increased, possesses no such strength.
If it reject a measure passed by the other
Chamber, there is nothing but the Gover-
nor’s non-acoeptanoe to prevent the Minis-
try from swamping it with fresh mem-
bers prepared to vote as they are
told. And should the Governor withhold
his consent he would have to find fresh ad-
visers. If the members of the Council are
limited, the matter is not mended. It is but
complicated. For now, being appointed for
life or for a term of years, they could bring
legislation to a complete standstill. Sup-
pose, for instance, the Legislative Council
of New South Wales consisted of 100 mem-
bers appointed for life, and that no addition
could be made to the number. The result
would be that every law passed by the As-
sembly could be blocked above. All power
if not of initiating or altering, at least of
stopping legislation, would be in their
hands. If, again, the numbers are capable
of indefinite expansion, there is but the
mere semblance of power left to the Council,
but no reality. Thus a nominee Chamber
places the country on the horns of an ex-
ceedingly unpleasant dilemma. Restrict its
numbers, and you make it supreme; ex-
pand them, and you put its head upon a
pole. This by no means exhausts the objec-
tions to the system. There are other and
graver reasons against it. The principle of
placing power in the hands of persons who
cannot be called to account for its abuse is
wrong in theory, and may become extremely
vicious in practice. It is directly antago-
nistic to the spirit of the political axiom
that all power springs from the people and
must be returned to them when they de-
mand it.
* * •
Admitting, then, the expediency of divid-
ing the legislature into two sections, the
question of the best means for making those
branches work harmoniously suggests
itself. This is accomplished in New South
Wales by means of a Legislative Council,
whose views, one way or the other, are of
little interest to the community, as they
can be changed by the infusion of fresh
blood. What useful office a Chamber of
this description performs at all, it would be
difficult to say. Let us now turn to Vic-
toria. Some years ago, under an Elective
Council, society was brought within measur-
able distance of the gravest disturbances.
Such could not have occurred in New South
Wales. Had Mr. Berry been our Premier,
no occasion for a reference to broken heads
and naming houses would have arisen. The
First Chamber would have been crammed
with partisans ready to pass any measure
the Chief desired. This may appear to
favour our method, whereas it merely shows
that, with u?, there is no power in the
Council to stop, for any length optima, an
objectionable measure. If, as we said before,
the bicameral method of government is not
to be a mere sham, each chamber must have
functions, and must have, besides, in the
performance of its funqtions, complete
freedom from interference. With the
nominee system, this is impossible. Either
the members are limited when the Upper
House becomes master of the situation, or
else unlimited, when it practically ceases to
have any voice. In the one case, the Assem-
bly is wiped cut-in the other, the Council,
however bold a front it present, has feet of
the softest clay.
* • «
To invest with legislative functions any
body of men, however honorable, while
freeing them from all responsibility for the
manner iu which they use their trust, is a
blunder. It is opposed to common-sense
And, if the power to do harm is taken from
them, the power to do good goes with it
From a logical standpoint, the system has
not a leg to rest on. From a nominee Cham-
ber men are excluded who, with an elective
house, would be some of its ablest members .
while others have seats who could not com-
mand sufficient votes at a popular election
to save their deposit-money. We know able
and upright men in the Legislative Council
of Victoria—men of good report and un-
blemished reputation—who in New South
Wales would never find seats in the higher
branch of the Legislature. With us there
are “ honourables ” who in, consequence of
their innate opposition to change, or of
some of their public or private doings,
would never find a constituency to elect
them. The abuses of an elective system are
trifling compared with those which grow
and flourish under a nominee one. So long
as Ministers have the power to reward poli-
tical hacks or men whose only aim in life is
to accumulate wealth, go long will political
dodgery and weighty money-bags be re-
warded. II we are to have th© bicameral
BUSKIN.


A NEW BOOK.
250 Tricks and
WITH
Delusions
CARDS, DICE, and CONJURING APPARATUS.
and also containing' over 100 trioks and deceptions
with cards, Illustrated with blocks and diagrams,
fully explained, simplified, and adapted for home
amusement and social entertainments, forming
the most complete collection of its kind ever
offered to the Australian public. Mailed free ta
any address ONE SHILLING.
THE WIZARD’S CHANGEABLE CARDS.
These cards change from Red to Black, from
eights to deuces and back again at the pleasure of
the performer, and elicit exclamations of wonder
and surprise from all who witness them. Post
free, with full Instructions. Is. 2d.
COMIC CARICATURES.
“I’maFadder,” “I’m in love,” “I’m a Daddy,”
“Before and After Marriage,” “The Mother-In-
Law.” Five separate sets, each set consisting of
five character sketchings that have convulsed with
laughter every gathering at which they have
appeared. Price, post free. Is. 2d.
WONDERFUL JAPANESE DRAWER BOX.
The performer sends round a pretty little box to
the company, which they fill with rings, coins, etc.
Directly the performer takes it in his hand the
articles instantly vanish and the drawer is shown
empty. Price 2s.. post free.
0T GIVEN AWAY 1
Cut this advertisement out and post it to us, en-
closing 5s. in stamps, or a P.O. order for 5s., and
we will send you by return of post the above-men-
tioned goods, together with either of the follow-
ing articles
A LADY’S HANDSOME BROOCH or EARRINGS
GENT’S SCARF PIN or SET OF SCREW STUDS
of the finest American Roll-plate Gold, guaranteed
to stand the acid test, and to wear for 10 years,
alone worth double the money, for which we
MAKE NO CHARGE.
N.S.W. stamps taken at par, other colonies add
Id. to each Is.
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT.
BOX 641 G.P.O. 401 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
J, TURNER ROBINSON A CO.S'
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT PROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENT'16 to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perMQt fit
guaranteed.
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only .9s.
Small Bottle, , is. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. fid. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT.
U. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
If. 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henkes Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST BIZI,
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts,
C. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
Thb Rates or Subscription to Thb Bulletin
are—For one year, 84s.; half-year, 18a. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
Thb Advertising Ratbs are 5s. per Inch:
special positions in the paper 7s. 8d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions!
15 per cent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under Ml, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Insist upon having the genuine Schnapps,
which bears the name “Wolfe's Schnapps ” on
the label.
To make a good Custard you should use Klngs-
foad’s Oswego Cornflour.
Don’t physio, for it weakens and destroys,
but use Hop Bitters that builds up I (Take none
but American Co.’s.) Bead.
Ball Boom Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 60t Hunter-street, Sydney.*
Beneath the starry dome of night,
A dying warrior lay;
He knew that soon bis frame should be
A lifeless lump of clay.
“Thank Heaven,” ho cried, “ my honour’s clear;
No bayonet thrust can kill
That reputation which in death
Enfolds my memory still.
“ And yet ’tis hard to die. Oh, would
That once more 1 might go
To Pitt-street for another suit
From Summesfield and Co.’’*
Just give Klngsford’s Oswego Cornflour a trial
when you are next cooking.
The gates of all the marts of the world are
open to Wolfe's Schnapps, because it is the
purest spirit kh<mo«
For Flee, Puddings, Custards, Blancmanges, &c.,
CJfallour,
method of government, we ought at
least to have it in ita least objection-
able form and not in that which is em-
phatically condemned by experience and re-
pugnant to common-sense. Let us have it
jn the form which will give us legislators in
the prime of life, and who will perform their
duties subject to the approval or censure of
vigilant electors, and not in the shape which
permits men nearing their dotage to shuffle
through tho country’s business as caprice or
failing powers dictate.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Judicial Oaths.
The world has changed much since the Chief
Justice of N.8.W. was “alittle child.” When
he lisped prayers at the maternal knee, everyone
who climbed the witness-box in our Courts of law
kissed the Bible as a preliminary to being be-
lieved. His Honor regrets the departure of these
old days. Impudent people, he says, now ask to
be believed without kissing the Book, and, what
is worse, the Legislature has in certain oases made
provision to humour the impudence. To his
Honor, this is a sign of fatal decadence. But the
first thing that presents Itself for reflection is that
the decadence has been fulfilling Itself in the life-
time of Sir James and others like him, and that If
it be real, then these eminent old men have not
succeeded in making the world the better for their
influential lives. We don’t press that, however.
We don’t think the alleged decadence real. We don’t
think it a decadence at all. On the contrary, we
think it a step upwards in the scheme of civilisation.
Otherstepa are over this. In time, they, too, will
be mounted. Not the “ impudent ” people only
will be excused from kissing the Bible when a
Judge calls on them to tell the truth. All whose
lives have not made them objects of public dis-
trust will give their evidence, and will bo pre-
sumed to give it truly, without having a threat of
damnation shoved under their chins. By that
time it will be admitted that the threat of damna-
tion frustrates the intention of no one who makes
up his mind to lie. It is unnecessary to leaven
the discussion with questions of religious sentl.
ment. By doing that the Chief Justice and others
irritate. Tho discussion centres Itself in social
ethics. Except in the use of the Book, there is
nothing distinctly Christian about the matter.
Antecedently to Christian times, there were Judi.
cial oaths. Against these, as against the present
formula/modern reformers would, did they arise,
direct themselves. In countries Christianity has
not penetrated, there are judicial oaths. The
Buddhist blows out a candle. The Confu-
oian outs the head off a cook. The Brahmin
breaks a saucer. The Christian kisses the Bible*
It is not against the kissing of the Bible that
advocates for the abolition of judicial oaths con-
tend. The contention lies against any formula
that symbolises the belief of only a part of the
community. In as far as the mere osculation is
concerned, there is nothing to hinder the unbe-
liever from kissing the Bible as often as asked. To
him it is not sacred. To him it is only a book.
But, as a citizen, he objects to it because it is the
symbol of the faith of a dominant party who, by
forcing it to his lips, compel him to admit the
ascendency of their views. He would similarly
object to tho blowing out of a candle, the cutting
off of a cock’s head, or the breaking of a saucer.
In what manner will reverence towards Brahma
be lessened if saucers be not broken ? In what
manner will reverence towards Christianity be
affected if men, coming forward to make a state-
ment, do not kiss the Bible ? As a matter of social
ethics, the essential object is to bind a witness to
the truth. Can he be bound by forcing him
through a formula in which he does not be-
lieve ? The end is more reasonably approached
by the exhibition of legal penalties. Numerous
classes in England have stood exempt from
oaths this generation back. Moravians, Quakers,
and various others have not kissed books. Atheists
are not asked to kiss the Bible now. Yet there is
no recorded increase of cases of false witnessing.
Among the exempted classes we do not remember
any oases being recorded at all. It is erroneous to
suppose a man more afraid of judgment hereafter
than of judgment here. There is Scriptural war*
rant for saying that believers commit seven times
a day offences that are taken cognisance of in the
unseen world alone. Now, observe how these
very offenders will studiously avoid an offence
which would cost them 5j. and costs in a police
court. The advocates for brandishing divine
punishments should bear this human trait in mind.
Carlyle tells of an old lady who had tattled
about a neighbour’s character. When dying, she
was exhorted to make amends by confessing that
her stories were false. “ Me I” cried the old sinner;
“ what is my soul to the honour of my family?”
She is not a lost type. But if formulae
must ‘.be upheld they should correspond with
the religious idiosyncrasies of the swearers. A
swearer whose interest is at stake distinguishes
obligation! very nicely. In Hlndostan they dis-
criminate most carefully, and give the man who
believes in the saucer a saucer and the man who
believes in the cock a cock. The Bible sworn upon
18 a Protestant one. Law is said not to command
great respect in Ireland, Many Irishmen don’t
feel that thoy are held by a kiss of “ the impos-
thure." One exemplar, when cross-examined
about each of his shady statements, persisted in
swearing “ it’s thrue.” He had his finger through
a buttonhole. “ Ken ye not,’ ’ said a pious though
heterodox Highlander, “ that there is a hantle of
difference between blawing on a buke and damn-
ing one’s aln saul ?” Between the pious people
who brave the risks of the hereafter and the pious
people who think the particular Bible offered to
them is adulterated, there is plenty of room for
dashing careers of perjury. And the careers are
in many cases dashing. The interests of Chris-
tianity would be served rather than Injured by the
abolition of judicial oaths. Contempt leads to de-
struction. Finally, atheists escape kissing the
Bible in New South Wales, but only by making a
public profession of disbelief in It. Now, we have
outlived religious tests. They are abolished. For
no civil function is a man asked to state his reli-
gious convictions. Why, then, should he be
obliged, before being allowed to tell the truth n a
tfrart 9f law, to make public PHtfcesMa big Is''
religious conviction ? It looks like an unworthy
attempt to make the path of heterodoxy as rough
as possible. The law that protects a man in keep-
ing his religious opinions to himself should also
protect him when he desires to keep his irreligious
ones to himself.
Clericalism and University Management.
Sir Jambs Martin's decision to contest the vacant
seat in the Senate of the Sydney University will
give general satisfaction. The candidature of Drl
Barry, the local head of the Anglican Church,
bad been kept industriously in the front. Those
who put him forward did it in a fashion that im-
plied that the Bishop's elevated position in the
colony made any attempt at opposition indecorous.
No doubt Dr. Barry is admirably suited for work
In our University. But, to most people, Dr.
Barry is not simply a scholar. He cannot, if
placed in competition with laymen, divest
himself of his episcopal character. That
character bestows influence. This explains
the attitude of those who presented him
for the appointment,' and who remonstrated
in tones of vexation when a disposition to contest
the candidature was manifested. They were ap-
parently affected by his influence as head of the
Anglican denomination. It was hard to check-
mate this without secerning to exhibit intolerance
or bigotry. Judge Windeybb, to whom is attri-
buted mastery of the situation by inducing the
Chief Justice to allow himself to be put it nomina-
tion, solved the difficulty creditably. Sir James
Martin is himself a staunch churchman. Dr,
Barry retires, not before an atheistical or secu-
larist rival, but before an upholder of laws,
human and divine, as bold as the Bishop him-
self. That is a vast gain to the principle
of secularisation in education. It effectually
extinguishes clerical pretension; while, at the
same time, it deprives the defeated party of
the power to impute to Secularism bigotry or in.
tolerance. The University may congratulate
itself on this easy way out of what would here-
after be found a bad position. In the Melbourne
University they were not so lucky. The objec-
tions urged against the election of Bishop Moou-
hocse were not successful. The result is that the
Influence of the Anglican Church in the manage,
ment of the institution, has been charged with
counting for a good deal. Three Anglican canon 8
have been appointed to examinerships since that
date. Some time ago, the Melbourne Age de-
clared the complexion of things to be such as
required investigation. The argument on which
supporters of clerical appointments in Uni-
versities rely, is that it is unfair to make
a man's religious profession a disability. The
argument, though killed in Melbourne, has
been galvanised for service in Sydney. The
Evening News urges it as incontrovertible.
But it there be any validity in it, why is not a
cleric eligible for State School employment;? The
disability here is not supposed to be unfair. The
University is the highest State School in the
colony. Analogy suggests lay control. Consis-
tency demands it. It is not necessary, as Dr.
Barry has withdrawn, to press what is a still
weightier objection to the admission of clerical
influences into University management. The
admission of one ecclesiastical dignitary must
lead to that of another. It cannot be forced upon
the people that the only eligible dignitary is the
Anglican one. Hence the war of creeds is fore-
shadowed. Judge Windeyer and those acting
with him merit the thanks of the community for
having saved the colony from the seeds of evil.
Irish Independence
Legislative independence—or a return to the
Parliament of Grattan— is the chief, indeed the
only, plank in Mr. Parnell's platform. At this
many journals atfect surprise-why, it would be
bard to say. Over a hundred years ago the people
of Ireland wrung from the British Government
assent to the principle that the Monarch, Lords,
and Commons of the smaller island could alone
make laws for that country. For 18 years Ithere
followed a term of unexampled prosperity, which
was brought to a close by a plese of political ras-
cality that stands a head and shoulders above all
competitors. By a system of wholesale bribery
and corruption which could bold its own in any
company, Gastlerbagh carried the Act of Union,
from which the most lamentable results have
flowed. This statesman subsequently cut his
throat, having, as Btron remarks, first out his
country’s. Honey, titles, ribbons, and stars were
lavishly distributed among Irishmen for hav-
ing sold their fatherland. It is to get back the
quasi-Independence of which they were robbed
85 years ago that Mr. Parnell and his fol-
lowers are now battling. That they wilj
succeed is the hope of many liberal-minded
men, whether they hail from the Thames,
the Tweed or the Shannon. Colonial journals,
with few exceptions, affect to believe that it
is at complete Independence Mr. Parnell
aims. Such a supposition is absurd on the face of
it. He has no desire to have an Irish army and
navy—a Court at home and ambassadors abroad.
The day for small powers is passing away. An in-
dependent Ireland would have no weight in
European councils. Let her be ever so prosper-
ous, she could never hope to rival Great Brlta'n
in population or in power; never hope to take a
hand opposed to England in European complica-
tions. The type of freedom Mr. Parnell has at
heart is that with which we are so familiar in Aus-
tralia, rather than that of an American State.
There are some fundamental differences be-
tween the measure of freedom enjoyed
by New South Wales, for instance, and the
state of Pennsylvania, This latter cannot coin
money, raise an army, interfere with the tariff,
or do various other things within the power of the
colonies. There is no doubt that the withholding
of legislative independen ce from Ireland has been
fraught with the most pernicious consequences,
not alone to the country itself, but to the Empire.
So long as it is denied, so long will the unhappy
country be “poor and discontented.” All measures
of relief short of this cardinal one have signally
failed. The time is at hand when it will be tried
with a result which will suggest to those who now
oppose it that their vaticinations were shadowy
and unreal.
TO CORRESPONDENTS .
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“ M. Dodds Pooh! You have in Sydney
a St. Joseph’s Building Society; why shouldn t
you have a St. Josephs Baby-farm? Answer at
once, please “C.W.8.”: True as Gospel. We
ourselves have known more than one medical
superintendent of a Victorian Lunatic Asylum
who was mad. How can it be helped? —
“ W. O’N.” (Narromine): We can’t undertake to
open our columns for such a discussion. Space is
too valuable. If you write attractively enough,
you may contribute short articles— “ E.R.”;
Glory has come down in the market. In six
months from now every Sydney “ lancer ” will
have bis breast so covered with medals that the
N.8.W. war-office will have to hang a plate like a
fire-insurance badge on the warrior’s breast with
the notification “ Look behind,” where the addi-
tional trophies of valour may be seen .. “ A.M. J.”;
We still think the Pall Mall articles should not
have been re-publishtd here. Their publication
was justifiable in England, where the state of
things they denounce exists. Dirt is “matter
out of place,” The Pall Mall articles are
out of place here, and are dirt in Sydney....
“ Enquirer A candidate for the N.8. W. Assembly
need not have freehold (or any other) estate. He
must be naturalised, need not necessarily be an
elector, and must not be the the holder of any
pension from the Imperial Government, or be
the holder of any office of emolument from the
Crown. For the N.8.W. Council the one great
qualification is servility and tho non-possession of
brains “J. W. Watson” You are evidently a
moat prejudiced person. The Irish—you are no
doubt a Scotch-Irishman, who cherishes (owing
either to your bigotry or your ignorance) little
love for Irish national aspirations—the Irish are
now beginning to play the game that the other
side has played so successfully for five or six hun-
dred years. Divide et impera is their motto. They
will allow neither the Conservatives nor tho
Liberals to rule in peace until the same privileges
enjoyed by Canada and the Australian colonies are
given to Ireland ” W.P.” (Brisbane): Thanks.
Mr. Traill, who is now in England, has been
absent from Sydney three months....” J.P.B.”;
Not this time. “Fossicker Dick” is far below
Sour best Read “ Foesicker Jack” in this
sue....“M. Angelo”; Your sketches and your
letter are very stupid.... “Bdrio H.”; Nice verse,
but not enough point. Or rather it was all point-
position without magnitude. It has a position
now in the W.P B ...“May Den”: Your poems
have so much that is attractive about them that
we will try to polish them for publication —
“Milk” (Newcastle); Your joke is nothing if not
nasty. We believe it is both “ Special Trains ”:
You write on both sides of your paper, with a
blunt pencil, and la a running hand. Life is too
short to permit of our deciphering such screeds....
“Melbourne”: You misunderstand us somewhat.
One of the strongest points in favour of Parkcs is
that he has always sided with the Liberals as
against the Conservatives. ...“B. Maiston”: In
point of fact “ Called Back ” was Hugh Conway s
last serious effort. In the flush excited by this he
threw off “ Dark Days,” running it in the channel
he had found so successful. For most, if not all
of the rest, he went to his shoe-trunk. He under-
took unlimited engagements, for his trunk had an
unlimited supply of rejected manuscripts. Editors
now fight for the very work they rejected
before the author achieved a name
“H. Marque”: You say, “As the photo’s father
was the son to the man’s (who saw it's) father, the
photo, must have represented the man’s (who saw
it’s) son.” Quite so. Please send us some more of
that sort of thing....”J.T.”: Thanks for your
pars, several of which we use... “J.H.C.”: Mayor
—no, thanks “A. Woodhouse”: Declined. If
you send on such occasions stamped, addressed
envelope MS. will be returned — ” Nemon ”: You
ask us to eliminate any scurrilous portions of your
MS. We did so, and then had nothing left but the
signature...“G.H.B.”; No, we won’t insert it. We
don’t want to be inserted in the Supreme Court....
“J. B. Long”: We have It under Gordon’s own
hand that he destroyed all the irrigation-wheels
along 200 miles of the Nile’s banks. A more infa-
mous act was never authorised by a man wearing
a British uniform. Gordon ordered the destruc-
tion of these wheels that famine might come upon
the land. In such cowardly and despicab e deeds
the alleged Democracy of N.S.W. has been an
accessory after the fact. We remember reading
that John Mitchell, who. during the American
Civil War, did an act similar to Gordon’s, was
arrested at the close of the conflict, and only
escaped execution through the influence of the
leading Irishmen who bad fought under theFederal
colours....“H.H.C.”: What literary museum of
antiquity have you been exploring? One only of
your stories is new, and there is nothing in it—
“ E.8.8.”: We don’t know why the Bathurst magi-
strates should have refused to present an address
to Lord Augustus on the occasion of his trip to
Bourke. Perhaps Batbunt people haven’t yet in-
terested themselves about incubators. ..“E.J.O.”:
Thanks. We suppose, however, that the real rea-
son for Colonel Richardson’s promotion to a
Major-Generalship was the brilliant evolutionary
display made by him "in the presence of General
Frsemantle “ W.W.J.”; Allowing a rabid teeto-
taller to sit as a licensing magistrate, is as absurd
as allowing a man who has openly avowed that he
regards judicial banging ss murder, to sit as a
juror in a capital case...“ Ada E.S.”: No, madame,
it won’t do. Our readers like it strong, but this,
concerning a bush fire, 38 too fervent. You say;
“ tremulous tongues of forked fire enveloped each
erect eucalyptus, and made it minister to the
greedy appetite of tho ferocious flame.” This, by
the way, is just what happened when we lit the
gas with your sketch.


Kingsfords Oswego Cornflour made of American
Indian Corn, pure and unadulterated.
Every year Wolfe's Schnapps gains in
favour with a discerning public, while other
liquors are cast into oblivion.
For Blancmanges, Kingaford’s Oswego Cornflour
cannot be surpassed.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is sold by every respect-
able publican. Accept no other.
Art Union of Moss Vale, in aid of Widow
and Orpan Fund of Berrlma Masonic Lodge.
Tickets, 30s. Will shortly be drawn. Apply at
once for tickets. J. B. Uyams, Bee., Mosa Vale.*
Ruskin.
Mr. John Ruskin, a portrait of whom appears on
the first page of to-day’s issue of The Bulletin,
is the son of a London wine merchant. He is now
in his 67th year. His health, never robust, has
been long declining, and was, Australia has been
informed by cablegram?, lately so bad as to excite
alarm among his extensive circle of friends and
admirers. Mr. Ruskin is looked upon as one of
the best masters of style in the English language.
His is the antithesis to that of Macaulay. The
periods abound in phrases, clauses, and related
sentences. Although often involved, the thought,
as with John Henry Newman, glitters above the
intricately-disposed phalanx of words. Some say
of him, as ot Carlyle, that he can no more reason
than a wild ox. Ket even these admit that he is
strongly persuasive. Charlotte Bronte called him
“ the consecrated priest of the ideal and abstract.”
His nature is religious. Yet he Is heterodox. He
was sent to Oxford to study for the Anglican
Church. He was an only child, and father and
mother had set their hearts on seeing him or-
dained. He wrote a poem Instead of taking
orders, and left the University with the impression
that there was something wrong about modern
Christianity. He went to Italy and devoted him-
self to Art. His essays on “Modern Painters”
won him an immediate reputation, and led to his
appointment as Slade Professor of Fine Art at
Oxford. He also studied architecture, and in a
number of works idealised his apparently dry
subject. But his heart was always among men.
He argued for a more equitable relationship be-
tween the various classes ot society. The rules
laid down by political economists he calls the
Devil's work. The editor of theCouNHiLL Maga-
zine gave him space to explain his views on this
head, but, after four instalments, appealed to him,
as the editor of Frazer did to Carlyle in the early
time. These articles are now published under the
title of “Unto the Last,” and constitute very
stimulating reading. “ Fors Clavlgera ” is a series
of reflections and addresses directed In periodical
form to the working classes. The paragraphs
shine with broken splendours. It is hard
to estimate the effect of Ruskin upon his
time, or to designate his future position
in English literature. He, Carlyle, and Emer-
son are a trinity about whose power there
will always be difference of opinion. For
the present it is enough to note that Buskin's
views on the relations between the rulers and sub-
jects of society are in accord with the principles of
the rising school. Personally he is eminently
charitable. He inherited considerable wealth, and
lain receipt of £5000 a year from Oxford. He
hopes to die with only as much as will decently
bury him. The rest he dispenses by scale, year
alter year. He went about London at one time,
when distress was abnormal, and privately slipped
envelopes containing donations under the doors
of poor people. On this account his relatives
moved in the Courts to have him pronounced in-
sane I His manners are amiable, though peculiar,
his honour is untarnished, his knowledge of line
art unrivalled among Englishmen, and his skill in
constructing musical sentences and vitalising
them with original thought, a manifestation of a
high order of genius.
Mrs. Kilminster, of the Clarendon, Manly
Beach, has issued numerous invitations tor a ball
to be given on Friday night (to-morrow), in order
to celebrate the opening of her recently-extended
premises.
A burglar went in among the Sydney Sal-
vationists one night last week and began to
hammer his head against the form. His pocket
was full of skeleton keys. The percussion of the
two wooden things convinced Captain Meale that
the desperado wanted to enter the brigade of
grace, but feared he would be “ chucked out ” if he
tried. “ I went up to him,” says the Captain, “and
mentioned the word ‘ whosoever.’ The burglar
quickly said, ‘ Is that in the Bible?’ I said yes. He
scarcely could believe my words, and asked to see
the Bible and then he would believe It. Directly
his eyes caught the word ‘whosoever’ he cried,
‘That's me I’” Charles Dickens has Invented no
character with so comprehensive a cognomen as
that. So much for having a head one can hammer
against a form. Get a head like the burglar’s, and
you’ll think that you, too, are “ Whosoever.”
My courage strengthened as I gazed;
The words came rushing to my lips;
The old, old tale of love was told;
She glanced down at her finger tips.
And then replied in accents low.
While she her modest eyes cast down,
“Next time, Jack, go to Summbrfield,
He sells the daisiest pants in town.”*
Sober passenger (angrily); “Look where
you step, man 1 ” Tipsy passenger (apologetic-
ally): “Y-yes, Ido; the tr-rouble is to—hie—step
where I look.”
The Victorian Legislative Assembly has
again passed a BUI for amalgamating the profes-
sions of attorneys and barristers. Whether the
Council will again throw it out by one vote only
remains to be seen.
It is said that the salvage crew sent on
board the wrecked Cahors, after Inspecting a
number of small tins, decided that the contents
were of no value and should bo thrown over-
board, to the intense delight of the purchaser of
the purchasers who afterwards discovered that £700
worth of opium had been thrown into the sea.
It is known that in many oases the
advances got by N.S.W. squatters on their clips
from Financial Associations, are far in advance of
returns on sales in England, and heavy refunds
will have to be faced. With runs out In two,
increased rentals, reduced grazing areas, and
diminished tlooks, &o. &o, the outlook is very
blue indeed.
At the recent luncheon of the Australian
Bbeep-breeders’ Association in Melbourne, Mr.
Thomas Dowling is reported by the Argus to
have said;—“ Sheep-breeding is essentially apro-
gressive science— there is no standing stiil in it—we
must either go forward, or go hue/..” These are
weighty words, especially those which we have
taken the liberty of italicising. When sheep-
breeding progresses backwards, we shall be glad
to hear of the developments that may be confi-
dently awaited.
Referring to Sir Henry Parkes’assertion,
that the religion of the majority is always to be
“spoken of with respect and deference,” the
Sydney Tribune thus vigorously handles the
question '“ How will the assertion apply to the
case of a certain Galilean reformer who denounced
in no measured language the errors, the dead for-
malism, and the corrupt hypocrisy of the orthodox
majority in his land nearly 1U00 years ago ? He was
condemned as a blasphemer by the rulers and high
priests of bis day on exactly the same grounds as
those adduced by Sir Henry Parkes to silence the
oritios and the heterodox now.” And, again, in
reference to the opinion out of which the assertion
grows, the Tribune says :—“It justifies the exe-
cution of Socrates ; it j ustlfies toe condemnation
of Jesus Christ; it justifies the persecution of
Christianity by the Roman emperors,” and, in fact,
all persecutions. We have otter), in these pages,
lamented the tottering Imbeoilltv which shook
the Town and Country and Sydney Mail when
any question vitally alfectlng the mental life of
the public arose. If the Tribune goes on in tbis
style it will find readers.
BRUNTON STEPHENS' POEMS
When one reads a well-written short poem
one instinctively asks whether the writer can do
muoh like that. The presumption Is that he can.
The maker of a star may make a
trembling spdek In the zenith is proof that he car-
ries light and can shed it. Some writers of one or
two good short poems rest there. Something tires
5r deters them. Others try an epic. They are not
tired or deterred, but their readers are. Jit* 1 *
others try an elaborate effusion, forth oojmes
abundant power. The sky breaks into brightness.
Eyes look up aud are glad.
* • •
Mr. Stephens is well known throughout
Australia as the writer of several pieces of good
MR. BRUNTON STEPHENS.
verse. Seven or eight years ago he contributed
striking rhymes to a Melbourne paper. In a Bris-
bane weekly he was also frequently found. Those
pieces are included in this volume. But. In the
volume is a poem of over 1000 lint s. It appeared
in England 14 years ago under the name of Con-
vict Once.” The first verse has been re-wrltten
for this edition. The alterations are improve-
ments. It is by this poem chiefly Mr.
Stephens’ place in literature will be defined.
“ Convict Once ” aims high. It is built on
difficult metre. Its divisions are carefully planned.
The elaborations are deftly effected. It is largely
introspective. It probes, searches the sympathies
of the reader. It enlists bis Intellect. Hero and
there its demands upon reflective ability are
severe. It is sometimes a pageant of words. The
eyes see colour and motion. The reader, if a
nainter or poet, feels the fascination. If neither,
he wonders and sleeps. Abandon is lacking. The
manufacture of phrases goes on. The poet knows
whither he soars. Mr. Stephens clinks tell
that he feels himself quite safe. The highest poet,
like the orator, does not tell that. He does not
know whither he goes. Swinburne is intoxicated.
Men deficient in intellectual abandon are aliens in
the realm of imagination. Still “ Convict Once
is the best sustained poem written by any writer
connected with Australia. Kendall is superior in
some keys, Gordon in others; but, where the de-
slim is large, Mr. Stephens surpasses both in con-
structive skill and finished workmanship.
• • •
Mr Stephens brings to his work special
advantages; He is a scholar. It is true a man
mav write some poetry without being a scholar.
t vttnn savs a man may have so many books on
the top of his head that his brain will not be able
to move But that is crass. Knowledge is not
knowledge unless it be assimilated. If assimilated,
a man cannot have too much on the top of his
head or anywhere else. Scholarship is the crown
of knowledge. It is right enough to talk of the
niain blunt man. Physical man is likened to a
forked radish with bandy legs. It is the arts of
civilisation that make him presentable. The plain,
bluntmaniB mentally what the forked radish is
nhvaically. They are naked. Men who speak in
letters should do so in the raiment of the schools.
• • •
There is a large admixture of humour in
Mr. Stephens' nature. It gets play in his short
It often manifests itself in puns. In the
“ (fhfnee Cook ” the magistrate’s “justice robbed
hia neace.” In the companion poem, when the
mistress has been sickened with puppies cooked
up 8 as babbits, the poet works in “Sick transit
rabbit-pie.” Remembering that black gins have
little or no calves on their legs, the reader will
note in the poem on the black gin that “ her calves
wantre-TeaWng.” Elsewhere it is observed of
her husband that “it was not calf love that seized
him ” We don’t cite these as proofs of the
noet’s genius, but they show his versatility,
Mr. Stephens employs his scientific knowledge
fr>V mi rnoses of inn very often. The human
intereet P with which the Darwins, Tyndalls, and
WnVlovs have invested natural science has started
a host of wits to stick jokes into it. America is
full of these wits. You know them in the first
w They want to show how two cells of proto-
plasm courted. The first wit had something to say
for himself, like the first boy who stood on his
head. The rest are Imitators Mr. Stephens’
“Power of Science" has good points, but the
little Punchs and the lesser Judys have been all
stabbing away.
* v *
It is hard for a man of intellect to let
religious questions wholly alone. Mr. Stephens
nv.ts among them. He is restrained. His tone is
Peaceful but lacks clearness. The “ Story of a
ioul ’’ abounds with thought. But the thought is
not settled. Truth and Beauty are set at issue.
The soul ascends to Truth, but finds it must perish
without Beauty. It. therefore, resigns itself to
Beauty. In a certain fleshly sense, there is a
thread of reason here. But the poem propels into
a solrlt-realm. In that realm there Is no conceiv-
able difference between Truth and Beauty. In a
spiritual sense there cannot be an ascent from
Beauty to Truth, or a descent from Truth to
Beauty, for they are one and indivisible. The
“Ancel of the Doves ” mixes doctrine and fable.
We have a mythic Dove and a historic Baptism.
Which does the author present as fact? “Mute
Discourse” is sad, apologetic. There is much
tenderness in it, and a great desire to hurt no one s
suscanttbilities. The meaning most people will
take from “The Spirit and the Star” is that
the Star S Faith and that the Spirit lost it. The
poem is a cry to get it back. This represents
an unsettled spiritual vision. Artistically there
set ms to be confusion. The idea of sex is intro-
duced The spirit is shadowed forth as that cf a
man "To the Star femininity is given. There is a
sweet nale light on its face. Its words are in-
stinct with quiet delight. On its brow and breast
Is peace. It is white-rose girdled and white rose
wreathed. The Spirit, manifesting the value
it places on the lost Star, declares it would take on
exchange “no sun-god sphere.” Of course not.
But what about another sphere with feminine
attributes ?
t • •
The author’s technical skill is hue.
Rhvthm. rhyme, ieius are almost uniformly
accurate. Scansion of the first feet in the first
and third lines of some of the short poems reveals
flaws In “Big Ben,” trisyllables do duty
for dissyllables. It is only in such small
things negligence is observable. No Aus-
tralian poet has attended so minutely to me-
chanical construction. He hts his gem into
prepared surroundings. He does not exhale Aus-
» “ Convict Once” and Other Poems, by J. Bruntpn
Stephens, Melbourne; G. Robertson and Co.
1885.
tralian suggestiveness, as Kendall does. He
searches for It, sits down before It, paints it, and
then exhibits. His “ Black Gin” is a likeness. The
poet did not simply hear of her or see her in a
museum. She stood flat-nosed and thick-lipped
before him, and he studied her. “The Picca-
ninny ” is also a likeness.
m m ■ m
This volume of Australian poetry is the
most valuable so far issued in the colonies. It
contains a great deal of artistic writing; it con-
tains nothing of which the author need feel
ashamed. It is a substantial contribution to our
literature. The publishers have done their part to
correspond. Internally and externally the book is
a credit to all concerned, and every colonial who
admires high imaginings and polished verse
should possess it.
A PARENT’S COUNSEL.
Shakey, take a fader’s piessmg,
Take it, for you ket it sheap,
Go in hot for making money,
Go in for to make a heap
Don’ you do no dings vot ’s grooked,
Don’ you do no dings vot/s mean-™.
Aber rake right in. dot boodle.
Qviel, calm and all serene.
Don’ you lend youi gash to no one.
Not for less .dan ten per cent—.
Don’ you make no yild expenses—
Dot's de ,vay de.money yent
And, I.tells you, little Shakey,
Put dis varnmg in your ear->>
fce a man of puness honors-
/ail but tvice a year)
Old Fossicker Jack.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tls a desolate picture, whose colour is dead
Since the red golden glow of the sunset has tied,
And the fast-coming gloom spreads a mantling
pall
Over tree-stumps and earth-mounds, o’er shanties
and all;
There are treacherous, grass-hidden pitfalls
around.
And ash heaps and charred fragments litter the
ground.
Yet here was prosperity—twenty years back—
And here is its remnant—Old Fossioker Jack.
Like a ghost in the gloom, from the yellow-
mouthed bole
Where he wrings from the tough clay the day’s
meagre dole,
He moves to bis tattered tent there by the creek,
Where the ruined brick chimney atfords it a
Now a column of smoke, then the name's ruddy
light
Throws its health-epelng glow on his face thin and
white,
As be bends his old body, or straightens his back,
For a tbree-soorc-and-tenner is Fossioker Jack.
Unvaried his fare though its items are three,
Shin-beef or scragged mutton, with damper and
Unshackled by irksome society’s gripe.
His thoughts travel back on the clouds of his pipe
Tlii they rest upon Quartzville, ten miles to the
West,
And be pictures the bar of the gay "Digger’s
Rest.”
Then with dark retrospection his brow gathers
black,
For the landlord has fattened on Fossioker Jack,
By sunrise the morrow old Jack may bo found
Like a gnome in the catacombed depths of the
ground—
And the sound of his pick, like a dull muffled
knock,
Will be heard on the surface from pillar and
block;
Or, down by the red puddled waterhole’a bank,
Where tailing-heaps show through the reeds long
and rank,
The rock of bis cradle but seldom grows slack,
For a constant old toiler is Fossioker Jack.
A constant old toiler, case-hardened and grim-
iron-grey haired, round-shouldered, uosuppie of
limb —
From the birth of each day to its wearisome
close,
To his toil, ill-requited, he steadfastly goes;
His legs cased in sackcloth, convenie ntly tied,
His boots a Joint marvel of thongs and raw hide,!
His jumper a patchwork “Dunn’s superfine ”
Like a harlequin mud-stained is Foss'icker Jack.
He can tell where the first shaft went down on the
gold,
Of the bottles that crashed as the red Hag un-
rolled ;
He can point where the pegs stood like ninepins
around—
Where a thousand strong miners at windlasses
wound;
He can tell of the long-booted, sashed crowd at
night,
Who swaggered in bar-rooms, or rushed to the
fight
When he stood fifty rounds with “the Cook’s
River Crack ” —
For an excellent “ has been ” is Fossioker Jack.
He can tell of the grim law that sobered the Flat,
Of the rough court that eax--marked the mate-
robber Mat;
He can tell of the poker-" school’s ” nocturnal
din,
Of the peace that went out, when its " guardians ’*
came in;
How the church and the dancing-den grow side by
side I
Of the buildings that sprung as prosperity died;
He can tell lengthy stories of Bendigo Mao—
For a trifle discursive is Fossioker Jack.
He may tell, as he ransacks bis fertile old brain,
How the dull, mounded dirt-piles shone gold In
the rain—
How he delved in the debris round each buried
prop
Of the claim that was erstwhile “ The Jeweller’s
Shop;”
For he wistfully bangs round each once golden
spot.
And hopefully toils, never heeding his lot—
Ever trustful that fortune may show him the
track,
For an optimist scarecrow id Fossioker Jack.
He may tell bow advancement came on as It
should,
As the iron-bound windlass succeeded the wood—
How the horse-power derrick and pulley came in,
Then went to the past for the engine or whim—
How the red-sbirted dandies collapsed to the jeers
Of the fellows berigged by the needle and
shears-
How the lead dutfered out, then the rush away
• back,
Leaving all to the puddlers and Fossioker Jack.
Thus, hunting the earth-moving metal that hides
In the “ headings ” or “ tailings,” or " bottom” or
Old Jack’s hurried on, ’mid the dull march of
years,
Unheeding the crowd, or its smiles or its tears;
Though he toll but for “tucker,” for him it is best,
For his luck goes to fatten mine host of "The
Rest; ”
Oh, a portrait fit-framed in prosperity’s wrack.
Is the case-hardened circa se of Fossioker Jack.
A good-night to you, Jaok, in your sack stretcher
bunk.
Is your brain “ on the gutter ”—a fanciful
"drunk?”
Have your paanlrgs to-day made the tucker-bag «
right ?
For 'tls only that trouble may vex you at night;
Sleep on, nor give thought to your profitless
quest;
Give your aged limbs ease in the true Digger's
Rest,
For time soon shall pass you from toil and its rack.
To your great Mother’s bosom, Old Fosslckor
Jack.
’Tis a desolate picture, whose colour is dead,
Since the red golden hue of the sunset has sped,
And the fast coming gloom drops its mantling
pall
O’er tree-stumps and earth-mounds, charred ruins
and all; ' v/' ■
There are treacherous, grass-hidden pitfalls
around, ...
And ashes and broken glass cumber the ground;
Yet golden prosperity, twenty years back,
Came here, and has left but—Old Fossioker Jack.
J. M.
Tasmania, 8 th August, 1885.
The Drover's Aimless Life.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He leaps from the damp ground yawning,
And, yawning, opa’s his eyes,
Sees another day a-dawning,
The sun about to rise—
And, rising, gild the shies.
He sits on his stock-horse thinking;
And, thinking, cracks his whip;
Sol through the trees keeps blinking
Rays which, with many a skip,
Into fern-clad gullies dip.
He sits by the camp-fire smoking;
And, smoking, thinks of the past.
Around him his mates are joking
Unheeded. The light fades fast,
The day is dead at last.
Hearts are Trumps.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She has a pair ofjsoft brown eyes,
So strangely meek!
That I had never dared surmise
That she could cheat.
Yet. as I sat beneath her spell—
The game was Najv-
She took an aoe, 1 grieve to tell,
From off her lap;
And whispering “ Do not tell, 1 pray
(That would be mean ”)
She slyly changed a deuce and trey.
For king and queen.
Then, peeping o’er my band to see
What / had got.
She shyly said, “ I can’t go three,”
And went the lot.
She won, and with a dainty grace
She scooped the plate,
Then smiled at me, and, in her face,
I read my fate.
And, though the gorgeous hands she played
Quite startled me,
And would, I’m sure, have sore dismayed
Bret Harte’s “ Chinee,”
I p lid the coin without remark,
For her dear sake.
But, ah I those eyes bad raked my heart
la with the stake.
And she shall answer yea or nay,
When next we meet.
But ah 1 I fear to show my play,
She's such a cheat!
H. H. C.
Posthumous Memories.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wonder who will think of me
When in the ground I lie,
When the weary brain has ceased to throb,
And the wearier heart to sigh,
And I’m gone to join the " infant class ”
In the other purer sphere,
To begin to learn that good Is not
What they taught me it was here.
Men call you “brother" only when
Your stammerings with their's rhyme,
When you sing a song for human oars,
As you dauoe in a shadow mime.
What care I then for the world’s record,
Defaced, misunderstood,
If but by those who know mo well,
My name is well beloved?
The Christian, if he be a friend,
My loss will often prove,
Forgetting creeds he’ll freely vouch
That I owe him naught but love.
But, ah! my oft-recurring name
Will sharp remorse instil
Into the heart of the Jew who holds
My long dishonoured MU.
HENRY O'DONNELL.
Adelaide.
A DANCE OF DEATH.
At Rose Bay, Sydney, the other day,
Samuel Clarke was found hanging from the limb
of a tree. The jury said be was dead, and exoner-
ated the bough from all blame—
A quiet man was Mr. Clarke,
He hated vulgar row.
So went into the Rose Bay park
To make his final bow
To life and all its vanities—
Love, liquor, law, and hope—
Escape from such inanities
Is easy with a rope.
Around the middle of the limb
He hitched one end, and now
All Nature seemed to dance for him
As he danced on that bough.
♦ • * •
Trees, ocean, rocks “ chasEtSe,” advance,
The while he gasps for breath;
At last he sees his only chance—
To take a partner in the dance—
His partner's name was Death I


Personal Items
The Queen of Italy writes, not for publi-
cation, but for her own amusement. Puck com-
raends the example of the Queen to its friend,
Lord Tennyson.
Sir Arthur Sullivan has made a request
that, in America, the title be omitted from pro-
grammcs where his name appears. The authorized
editions of "The Mikado" omit the prefix “ sir"
in his name.
Mr. Gladstone invited Lord Tennyson to
drive with him the day after ids ministerial de-
feat. Mr. Gladstone wouli apparently do most
anything to prevent his Lordship from writing
poem about him.
The Queen is in a great way with the
Grown Prince and Princess Victor!* because they
won t take cognizance of the Bat. marriage. She
seems to forget that Prince William-Henry ap-
parently “ knows the party.”
The will of the late Sir Wigram Allen, of
Sydney, has been proved under £309 000. We are
not surprised to hear that Sir Wlgram left all his
money to his family, and made no bequests for
charitable or public purposes.
Those who publish reflections on the Prince
of Wales, in connection with the Pall Mall.
should be, the Melbourne Argus says. “ pursued
by the direst pains and penalties." " Wales” has a
very fair show of pursuing. But then—he don't
pursue.
The Duchess of Edinburgh, writes “ Cock-
aigne,’’ is a most curious eater. Her appetite is
simply ravenous, and when she dines out she eats
so much more than every one else that she is
always the last, only that people pretend to go on
and humbug with the food on their plates till she
is done.
“Do you ever have a dreadful tired feel-
ing come over you ?” asked L. L. Smith of a young
man who had visited him siylng he didn’t feel
well. ‘ Ob, yes; often,” replied the young man
You must continue the medicine I’ll give you"
How often do you experience this tired feeling ? '
‘Every time I see your advertisement in the
country papers.”
Vanity Fair affirms, and with an air of
great signiflcance.thatMrs.Giadstone winks When-
ever the ex-Premier declares, in Homeric phrase
that his health is so poor that he must certninlv
retire from public life, the muscles of Mrs Glad-
stone's left eyelid become instantly contracted
and the appearance of the half-closed orb gives
one the Impression of Incredulity. K
♦J he , L,I £ D^ DANT of New Caledonia
Tor^,o^ a i¥b‘( D ?; v d °ver there who, on the 17th
a !7*. I 88 ** became the father of three fine
boys, pleiDR de vie et de sante." On the 29th
December 1884, his wife presented him with two
b i? ys ’ tt . u8sl ®olldes queleurs.alnes ” That’s
*i. cr ?, re °ord. The old man Is now longing for
time when he will put the uniform of the
Kepubllc on these live sons born in one year.
The Narrabri World hears of the death of
poor “ Sllverleaf.” Many a quire of paper her un
and down-strokes covered for the provincial
Queensland Frees. She ran great enterprises In an
Ipswich Journal, and from time to time figured in
the literary columns of the papers of the capital.
There was promise in some of what she wrote. She
was the wife of Mr. George A. Lloyd, of Coon-
amble, and If the World has heard rightly, she
died there last week.
Mr. A. L. Matts, the son of a home-country
clergyman, was known in Melbourne as a writer
of considerable vigour. Some articles in the Age
attributed to his pen wore polished and forcible.
Mr. Matts was ordered a sea-trip about throe
months ago. He Just reached bis old home in the
North of Ireland when time was up and his pil-
grlmage ended. He had battled bravely against
consumption for years, and his death is deeply
regretted by his old comrades of the pen In Mel-
bourne and Sydney.
Among the many curious revelations in
Karoline Bauer’s Memoirs-a work which should
be read by every one desirous of cultivating a
grovelling respect for the House of Bruns wick-
la the fact of Bismarck’s Bohemian origin. Curious
enough, in this age of nationalities, while the
“resurrectionists’’ of Italy, Cavour and Garibaldi,
were both of Teutonic extraction, that the
“unifier” of Germany should be of Slav blood.
Physiognomists cannot fail to recognise the pure
Slavonic type in Bismarck’s caricaluresque fea-
tures.
Judge Williams, of Melbourne, had a father
sitting there aforetime. His successor is given
sometimes to interrupting counsel in their argu-
ments, and they don’t always like it. The inter-
ruptions ss often as not arise from want of
a little patlenoe. Said a counsel the other day,
when thus interrupted: “Your Honor’s father
usually understood me by tho time I bad concluded
my remarks, but really your Honor’s quickness of
apprehension quite forestalls me; if your Honor
will but hear me through, I shall not be misunder-
stood.” His Honor collapsed.
The Archbishop of Canterbury has decreed
that clergymen ordained for work In the colonies
shall be Ineligible for church work In England.
We do not meet the decree with regret. Yet we
meet It with an interrogation. Does bis Reverence
affirm that clerics sent to the colonies are inferior
secularly and theologically to those ordained for
home service ? IE not. ho is a narrow-minded em-
ployer. If he does, the colonies should not accept
men ordained by him for service abroad. We
always have looked with suspicion upon mixed
pickles labelled: " Specially Prepared for Exporta-
tion.” '
"WANTED. EDI FOR, single man, wages
»» commence with £3 week. Apply George
Birney, Irish-Australian World, Nar-
rabri.”
Look at this now! Three pounds a week, and the
Narrabri World, too; a paper one would feel
almost inclined to edit for nothing. Now we know
what country editors really do get "to commence
with.” we are not surprised at one, with a family,
being in a position to feed his kids on damper and
dripping, while he and the mitsus live on sample
pumpkins and burgoo.
“ The Vagabond” has induced the people
of Townsville (Q.) to Inaugurate a Gordon Club
After the inauguration the members began to dis-
cuss the character of their patron saint. It was
then found some had given in their names, believ-
ing they were going under the protection of the
ahade of General Gordon, whereas others thought
they were paying a tribute to the Melbourne poet
of that name. It was, of course, the poet that J ulian
had in his head. One peacemaker said it was all
tho same, provided the entrance fee be moderate
and the liquors good. To the general and the poet
it certainly is the same.
It looks like the writing of J. G. O’Con-
nor. At all events, it is in the Express. Here it
goes:—“Nor will any quantity of bolstering up
by imprudent and admiring friends serve to place
on the same pedestal the Queen-land bard [Brun-
ton Stephensl, some of whose verses are very re-
spectable indeed, but which lack the rugged
grandeur of Harpur's poetry as plainly and unmis-
takably as they do the tire of Gordon and the deep
wild music of him who sleeps in God’s Acre out by
the‘illimitable sea.”’ We d like to know If this
writer has really read ” Convict Once.” Has ho
only read the “ Chinee Cook ” au4 (ha hit# that ap-
pawed&tfle AwmaiASiANi ' r
Owen Tudor Lloyd is in Charleville now,
He Is perspiring in Central Queensland. You don’t
know Owen Tudor. Did you never hear of King
Cwmybrghumn y Well, Mr. Lloyd comes in a
direct line from that Welsh potentate. When we
know him he was in Gayndah. He had condes-
cended to take a light spell of employment from
Under secretary Anderson, and used to walk
about that bucolic village smelinglike Rlmmell’s
scent shop in the Strand. Well, he Is In Charleville
now. The chief thing we wanted to say is that he
Is, In conjunction with the editor of the Charle-
ville Times, writing a novel. It will appear in the
Charleville Times. Ha, ha I We don’t subscribe.
We’re in luck for once.
Sara Bernhardt, who has been staying at
the Star and Garter Hotel, Richmond, London,
recently lost her way, while going home after the
night’s performance. At last she and her com-
panion fell in with a policeman, who volunteered
to show them the Richmond road, along which
they walked a long way with him, until, by extra-
ordinary chance, they met a fire-engine returning
from its duties at a small 2re in the neighbour-
hood. This was bailed, and for a consideration
drove them to the Star and Garter, where the
Empress Theodora arrived on this extraordinary
conveyance at 4 o'clock in the morning. Which
incident recalls the adventure of Mr. Gatehouse,
who, when Mayor of Melbourne a few years ago,
had a habit of going home to his suburban man-
sion in the small hours on a saveloy-machine.
William T. Stead, the editor of the cele-
brated Pall Mall Gazette, is about 33 years of
age, a slim, wiry, nervous man, with push and
energy stamped upon his brow. The son of a
Congregatlonallst minister, he was born at
Howden-on-Tyne, and at first floated on the world
as junior clerk in a shipping office. As a boy he
was passionately fond of reading, especially of
history. When a young man he was offered and
accepted a position on the Northern Echo, a
dally published at Newcastle. When John Morley
accepted the editorship of the Pall Mall Ga-
zette he chose Mr. Stead as his flrst-lieutenant, and
so faithfully and successfully did Mr. Stead 1 uitill
his duties that when Mr. Morley resigned the
editorial chair the proprietor of the Gazette
made Mr. Stead Mr. Morley’s successor. This
position Mr. Stead has ever since occupied.
Poor Valentine Brown, of whom we sung
so plaintively in last week’s issue, has had more
trouble. He baa lost his action against Melbourne
Punch at the cost, we fear, of a large portion of
the “compensation" received for being removed
from the General Post Office as a “deadhead.”
Yet Yal. had good cause for complaint against the
depressing little journal. The ex-clerk was renre-
sented in a cartoon as standing outside the Post
Office with his tongue out — a human stamp-
wetter—and underneath was the remark tb at
“ every man has his use.” Independant of being
made the scapegoat of such a wretched aged
“wheeze” as this, Val. has a right to feel indig-
nant. There are other and better uses to which
Punch might have assigned him. He might have
been depicted, for instance, as a contributor to
that stomach-aching journal, sitting in the office
with a well-thumbed “Joe Miller.”
A short time ago Olivier Pain, the Radical
journalist, whose services were of much value to
the Mahdi, was made to figure in several of the
Australian newspapers as a scoundrel of a pecu-
liarly conscienceless stamp. Among other things,
he was said to have personated, with the object of
acquiring information which he could sell, a
Roman Catholic bishop. In this character he cele-
brated Mass at Pondicherry and administered
Communion to several members of the congrega-
tion. This narrative was supposed to illustrate
the natural qualities of a mind capable of favour-
ing the Mahdi and wishing well to Radical politics.
But it now transpires that the impersonator was
not Olivier Pain. Hxg name la Kanovicks. He is a
aa4 we eoa of a wUway employ*, He is
at present under arrest at Coobin. It is to be
hoped the sermonising newspapers will hurry up
with the amende to the memory of Fain. The
Queenslander was especially serious in its moral-
ising. It ought to show as much anxiety to clean a
man as to soil him.
“A little more than kin,” in the length of
his name, ‘‘but not less kind,” is Mr. Nathaniel
Kinsman. He follows the avocation of an auc-
tioneer, and practises as successor in the doings
of the Gretna Green blacksmith in a bye-street in
Fitzroy, Melbourne. The number of marriages he
makes is quite alarming, and he is proud in pro-
claiming it. He is bishop, or head-pastor, of a
religious body called the •* Free Church of Eng-
land”—a small community like that of the “Gos-
gel Gropers ” and the '* Independent Howlers.”
[e is always on band, day and night, for this
clerical business, to which his auctioneering and
furniture-dealing is quite secondary. Mr. Mur-
doch, the cricketer, availed himself, a while ago,
of our Kinsman's friendly aid So did a youth
named Wilkinson, who has occupied the Melbourne
Court for four days in trying to prove that he
considered such a marriage made bv him in 1880
‘‘merely a joke.” The jury hestold him, in re-
fusing him a divorce, that it was no Joke, and has
saddled him with some £500 of law costa, in addition
to the further trouble of providing tor the future
for his wife and caild. It is well to take people
while they are in humour—for matrimony as for
other things. In that regard Nathaniels
free-and-easy church Is but interloping on
the doings of our friends the Presbyterians
who similarly allow the quick tying of knots by
the tongue that cannot be untied by the teeth.
The N.8.W. Ministry, during their nego-
tiations with the Governor on the subject of the
appointments to the Upper House, have had, it is
said, a good deal of trouble with Lord Augustus
Loftus, who appears to be most anxious that his
A.D.C., Lieutenant Nathan, should be made a cap-
tain In the colonial forces. The story goes that
His Excellency, in view of his approaching depar-
ture for England, evinces a very strong desire to
provide for his faithful retainer, the gallant war-
rior in question, and an equally strong disinclina-
tion to enthusiastically fall in with the views of
the Ministry concerning the Legislative Council
nominations so long as the members of the Go-
vernment do not meet his wishes with respect to
the distinguished Lieutenant, whose promotion
the Cabinet are said to oppose. By the way, Mr.
Nathan was one of those “ mentioned ” in the now
historic despatches. How the glory-covered names
cabled all the way from England last week were
engineered into the roll of specially eminent goat-
murderers is a deep and bloody mystery; how it
was so arranged that the strictly colonial billy-
slayers are found covered with laurels and the ex-
Imperlal ollicers and men serving with our donkey-
annexing brigade are left out in the cold, unre-
garded and unnoticed, is a conundrum which shall
only be solved when the ass hath ceased to bray,
the colonial politician to hunt for his baronetcy,
the William-goat to eat posters off hoardings, and
when the sea shall have given up its dead.
The “Vagabond” has been lecturing at
Charters Towers, and is thus “sent along” by
the remorseless Thadeus O’Earns:—“Mr. Julian
Thomas lectured last night on ‘Convicts and
Cannibals ’ in the School of Arts to ‘ a beggarly
account of empty benches.’ There were not more
than 30 people present, and many of them were
‘dead-heads.’ There was nothing new in the
matter of the lecture, bis personal adventures
may have an intense interest for himself, but they
fall flat on a general audience, Mr. Thomas was a
Yankee last night with his distinguished friend of
great resources, Stodardt. Six years ago, when he
was here, he hailed from Worcestershire. Mr.
Thomas has a ponderous, elephantine manner, and
declaims his thread-papery and commonplace
ideas in a voice worthy of a South Sea missionary
la it# ‘ eaufflebuating ’ and lachrymose cadences,
The small audience had, no doubt, a depressing
effect, and produced this melting mood. It
is a pity Mr. Thomas did not bring one or two
Polynesian squaws along and dress them up for
the occasion. They might have attracted a larger
audience. There were some humorous touches in
the lectures, but the plums were very rare. There
were around some of the undoubted facts he men-
tioned those delicate embellishments of fancy for
which the ‘ Vagabond ’ is famous. .... Mr.
Thomas, as a lecturer. Is not a success. His audi-
ences have no faith iu his wonderful stories of the
darbies, kings, and Communists he has met. His
proper role is that of a Pressman. He can write, if
not profoundly on political subjects, pleasantly
and airily on social and everyday life. He is a bon
camarade and a jolly good fellow, but as a lec-
turer he is a failure.”
A true disoiple. The chief hawker of the
War Cry, in a Western town of N.8 w,, is an
ex-bank manager, who gave up a good home and
some per annum to preach the Gits pel. He
was fined the other day for holding forth in the
main street of the town and obstructing the
thoroughfare. Before he left the bmk he sorely
perplexed his directors, as he argued that his con-
science would not allow him to obey their instruc-
tions. Here, dearly beloved friends, is a true
Christian, and yet see how this so-called Christian
world derides him I He is one of the few men ue
envy, even as we envy the faith of the Arab who,
believing that if he dies fighting he is received
Into the bosom of, the Prophet, strikes for bis
Fatherland, and rushes through the Martini
bullets on to the British squares. The bank
manager has “ given up all” ana follows the Master,
perhaps with tattered clothes and shoeless)y
through the rain and the heat; the fat, bkck-
coated clerics at whom (so long as they live in
luxury and travel first-class on holiday trips in the
mail-boat saloons, and dress their wives in the
height of fashion, and, in general terms, “make
friends unto themselvesof the mammon of unright-
eousness”) we shall always jeer—these clerics fol-
low the Master too. They follow Him, as the French
cynic said, in broughams. What a glorious thing
is such faith as that of the simple ex-bank-
manager who, declining any longer to sit with and
obey the behests of the Scribes and the Pharisees,
puts his trust in the Son of the Carpenter and sets
out upon the stony path to help those who have
fallen by the way I Here is a lesson for the priests
and parsons who mortify the flesh with roast tur-
key and old port and act (90 cent, of them) as
though they were already in Heaven.
Ex-Hon. Richard Richardson, the Holy-
Joe of the Victorian Legislature, is deeply grate-
ful to tho Government for the manner in which
they shirked their duty and ignored the report of
the Board that found that Mr. Richardson had
been guilty of conduct calculated to destroy con-
fidence in him as a magistrate. This ex-J.P. Is
one of the three senators who went in bald-headed
for the new Berry Licensing Bill. It is a better
measure, heavers, than Ministers have represented
it to be. This Is gratitude with a vengeance.
Richardson seems to regard the recent expose in
his case as a nine-days’wonder; because, for the
nine sitting days after he had been tried and con-
demned, he remained silent in the House, and
when he rose to speak in support of the Minis-
terial scheme, he had the ineffable impudence to
assume the role of an advocate of morality I
“ Drink,” he declared, •• was the cause of all evil,”
and yet he himself is a born teetotaler and has been
for years a lay preacher. What amused the House
most was Richardson’s statement that ‘‘a man
who takes a glass or two in moderation may be as
good a man as himself—perhaps better,” as if such
a thing could really be possible He was loud in
expressing his approval of the 39fch section of the
new Act, which calls upon Licensed Victuallers
to prove their innocence instead of making it in-
cumbent on their accuser to prove their guilt.
"This departure from the principle that a man
should be regarded as innocent until his guilt was
proved ” met with Mr. Richardson’s hearty ap-
proval. The Government will have a “close
shave ” in the division on the third reading of the
Bill, and they can reckon safely on this worthy's
vote, although there are persons who declare that
hissunport has been purchased at the expense of
their Parliamentary honour.
Live lords soon make themselves known
when they v'Sit Australia. Lord St. Leonards, on
a visit to Melbourne, objected to the early closing
of hotels. He kicked in the back door of the
Albion, in Bourke-street, to gain access to the bar.
The policeman who found him there had difficulty
in removing him. All of which we know by the
landlord being summoned for late-hour dealings.
The case was dismissed when the landlord told his
trouble with this aristocratic customer. His lord-
ship keeps his name well before the public.
The last time on which we noticed it, it
was JP London papers. He had called at a
friend s house, and been demonstrative with the
housemaid—in his friend’s absence. A police-
court affair and some short seclusion from his
friends ensued; but it's only fair to say that had
he not been a lord, he would most likely have got
off with a small fine. Aristocratic eccentricity
characterises this bearer of a noble name. He
was reported to have applied for a billet as head
constable of the Birmingham police at one time.
He took nothing, we believe, under his father’s
will. About that will itself there was much
trouble, as someooe or other had, it was said,
destroyed it. The Court allowed the issue of the
probate on a draft copy of it, so that the loss of
the will did not help in proving the intestacy of
tne former Lord Chancellor. It seems only as of
yesterday that we were present at the first elec-
tion to Parliament of Mr, Sugden, as the first Lord
St. Leonards was then called. Some one in the
crowd at this (hustings) election, called out
soap and “ lather,” to disconcert the candidate.
1 thank my friend for thus reminding me of mv
humble origin,” he said; “it is true I am the son
of a barber, and once helped in the shop. Tne
difference between myself and tho one who so
reminds me of these tacts is that, had he been so
situated he would have remained a barber, while I
have, by my own exertions, the honour of now
asking your suffrages as a candidate for Parlia-
ment.
Hangman Jones, the greatest Jones in
Victoria now, has got a grievance. It seems that
one Ward was allotted two years' gaol at Sand-
hurst, and ordered to be livened up occasionally
by the domestic feline of the nine terminal ap-
pendages just to keep him from getting too com-
fortable like. Well, instead of cailing in the only
Jones to perform this delicate attention, a warder
of the gaol served it out to Mr Ward. And now
Her Majesty’s hangman, Jones, says that was Ms
little perquisite, and they can get some other man
to do “ the trick” if he is to be robbed of the tit-
bits and his official status interfered with. The
local warders are cutting up rough also. They
consider that their dignity has been lowered
by one of their number condescending to
perform flagellator’s duties. We aro inter-
ested at hearing that a gaol warder has a
Stock of dignity for hitherto, wo have drawn
tho lino at policemen. And, by tho way, wo were
the other day going for a walk, and had proceeded
up King-street, Sydney, as far as St. James'
Church, with the intention of strolling into the
Domain, when we were overtaken by the noseless
hangman mounted upon a pale horse. The dread
official, who seemed much pleased with himself
wore a new fight tweed sult-he had just been paid
for killing Johns —and though ho looked respect-
able enough to associate with even the Lieutenant
Governor, we allowed our superstitions to get the
better ot us, and chose to regard his appear-
ance as an omen. So we turned upon our heel
and walked back, and, lo, we had not gone 40
yards ere we met the flogger, who had his eye
fixed—we thought somewhat enviously—upon the
finisher of the Jaw, whose annual stipend amounts
to ±150 per annum, and ptrqulsit-s. We chose to
regard our rencontre with the tiagellator as another
omen, and so again changed our course and
walked for some time up and down a number ot
streets, the houses of which for the most part had
on their window-sills expectant milk jugs, the
sight whereof depressed us much, aud set us
moralising on the subject of contracting matri-
mony upon a small income.
The London correspondent of a S.F. paper
thus airily and Irreverently gossips about “ Tum-
iny (the Prince of Wales) an4 certain of tug
AN OFFICIAL DUMMY.
THE N.8.W. POSTMASTER GENERAL IS THE ONLY COLONIAL REPRESENTATIVE WHO
OBJECTS TO THE ANQLO-AU8TRALIAN PARCBLS-POST-HE CONSIDERS THE PRO-
POSALS PREMATURE.
The Sydney Evening News says that the N S.W, Post-offlca is conducted on “ wooden
principles,” and that Mr. Norton holds the “portfolio accorded to the member of
the Government most likely to be a dummy.”


READ THIS!
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS,
Manufactured by
THE GIPPSLAND HOP BIT TEH 3 00.,
[SALE.
Certificate by Wm. Johnson, Government Ana*
lytlcil Chemist
“Government Analytical Laboratory,
•‘Melbourne, July 14tb,1684.
" I have examined Trood's Hop Hitters (manu*
factured at sale). They are remarkably pleasant
to the palate, and as a general tonic and promoter
M 0r . in X. a 1 ,,d8 and young people are no
doubt excellent, ’lie Hep Ar ms is delicately
combined with a fragrant fruit ilavour, producing
a really elegmt preparation, which may 'he relied
al bea^ca and free from anything
(Signed) « WM. J0HN30N,
T“ Analytical Chemist."
HE3E celebrated Bitters have been proved by
an “ly 8ls to be a pure,delicate, paiatableoom*
8re Invaluable in alfording relief in all
ner\ms° ctc l80r^erJ °* b^ood ’ stomach, liver,
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
„.^ i !! befc ii m ? aperfecfc “ 1{a,m of Gilead" to all
w!,’riroa e Storing irom shattered nerves, an over*
worked brain, or lassitude; they are, in fact,
nature s brain and nerve food. ’
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
excellent appetiser, and may be taken
aDd yo 8 ung C pe 8 oSlef by th6 m ° 8t delicate ln ' a " ds
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTBHS
Enrich and purify the blood, and are an cxouisitd
fr±t r ] d . 8ti “ ulanf - If you are sick, no matte?
from what cause, use “
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS.
gaTned 1 fof%h^ D ri™T !a !i lD S consumption h&s
f"fu e H.?Jo! h .v:;S;5H^ op “ tterj M “ u -
Beware of Imitations,
And use only those manufactured by th*
GIPPSL4ND HOP BITTERS CO.
They are pronounced to be the best and nnir.. n «
ine Hop B.tters manufactured In the colonies. 60 **
Sale, Nov. llth
THOMAS THOOD & CO..
Proprietors.
.■aaffaass a aas*
0
o
////> *
T°.» Journalists. —Leaders, Telegram
and Sydney Letters, supplied by comnofm
l™ ry fiFl experience, on ?n“dera
terms. Beta," Bulletin Office. ra
Depot teiie World’s Patented Article
GEORGE ST., Opp. Wynyard St.
" AMERICAN
NOVELTY CO.
FANCY GOODS,
NOVELTIES d|
■ m
Brins’ your Wife and Children with you.
Nobody pressed to buy
WANTED a number of Gentlemen who will have their
’ » heads shaved as above, and guarantee to attend all
meetings and side-walk gatherings. TJAhAHY LIBERAL.
BSE PEARL CEMENT fcrST'-ffSieSS
but Iron. Is. Bottle.
TCOTHJCHE TIHCTDRE.— X : “Stir SSS
afraid tc use it freely. Nc trouble to the Teeth. Is. Bottle.
STAR & GARTER FAMILY HOTEL
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
fT1 H |S Hotel la centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office Theatre Tram™*,
JL Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen Flrat-e InsawInMonT« y i
The most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city. Mrst-class Wines and Spirits
WOEKS LIKE A OHAEM.”
===
===
ii
AVOID COMPLICATED BRACES.
it
91
II
THE
GREATEST EASE.
STRONGEST WEAR. PERFECT COMFORT.
SIMPLEST & BEST.
WHOLESALE ONLY,
WELCH, MAEGETSON & Co., 16 & 17 CHEAPSIDE, LONDON E.O.
AND OP ’
_ W. BENNY FINDLAY & BRO., Melbourne & Sydney.
Wolfe’s Schnapps. Only those who never
used the genuine article are imposed upon.
For light pastry, cakes, &o., just try Kingsford’s
Oswego Cornflour.
Hurrying along King-street towards the
trani, be was suddenly brought up by colliding
with a geotjeman hastening into a cab. Result ;
the overturning of a large portion of crockery
meant as a surprise for his dear little woman.
Gentleman apologised, and insisted on the unfor-
tunate person riding with him to Bray Bros. China
(Stores, George-street, to repiy.cs damage?.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps and water make thebest
gnd most agreeable drink in hot weather.
friends as seen on a recent public occasion:—
‘‘Among the many beauties was Mrs. Calely.
Unlike the majority of the others, her dress was of
the simplest. But It was none the less beautiful.
White cotton It was; no more. But the queenly
fltfure and sweet face of the wearer needed no
adjunct of dress to set off either. Mrs. Calely is
renowned for more than beauty. She is the first
plain ‘ Mrs.’ who has ever had the audacity to snub
‘Tummy.’ I think I told you of this some time
ago, so I heed not repeat it in cxtcnso. Suffice it to
say that the amorous Prince tried to flirt with her,
but his advances were met with the coldest in-
difference and disdain. The Countess of Dudley
had done the same sort of thing before her. But
a countess could do what a ‘ Mrs.’ couldn't, parti-
cularly when the said * Mrs.’ was but a tradesman’s
daughter, for, be it known that Mrs. Calely was
Miss Chappell, whose father is the well-known
Bond-street music seller. However, she married
an officer in the Life Guards, and that gave her
position. Yet, after all, it seems strange that so
much store should be placed on a woman’s
resistance of the Prince of Wales. It Is not a
very high commentary on the virtue of the
English upner classes, is it ? One would not think
so, certainly. Still people talk of such things
as though it were almost a woman’s duty as
a subject to submit to the erotic ‘Tummy.’
At all events, they say, * What woman wouldn’t be
dazz’ed by his notice?’ and being dazzled is a
mild way of putting it. But throwing aside
all ideas of womanly virtue and high princi-
ple, and taking lower ground altogether, what
surprises me is that women are not disgusted with
the Prince of Wales as a wooer. If you didn’t
know who he was, you’d think him about the last
man who would attempt the role of gallant. With
his short legs and arms, and round, burly stomach,
he is heavily handicapped on ‘ shape,’ while his
short neck, smirking, grinning face, and droop-
cornered cunning eyes, are not the sort of attrac-
tions which captivate women. I repeat, if you
didn’t know Albert Edward by sight, and met him
walking in the street, you'd think he was the com-
monest, most ordinary-looking German Jew. He
has the peculiar, quick shifting about of hands
and arms, the set of head slightly on one side, and
—as I say—the half-shut-eyed smirking grin which
distinguishes so many of that race.”
The Rev. J. W. In gl is, the Presbyterian
Apostle of Ballarat, who has at last kicked the
entire bottom out of his reputation, is far from
being so dull a man as the average parson. His
very offence shows a capability to appreciate in-
tellectual work of a high order. It also shows the
radical soundness of the man's judgment. Further,
it evinces his zeal in the service of his flock. He
saw in Dean Alford’s writings saving erudition.
His judgment told him be could do nothing so
good Zealous to save his flock, he therefore
thieved. St. Paul said he was willing to be
anathema for his brethern. St. Francis said he
himself was willing to go to hell, if by doing so he
could save others. Thus it was. Thus it is that
the Rev logits stands with the bottom out of bis
reputation. But besides this speelea of heroism
he p >8865898 large natural endowments. He is
among the few good deelaimera we hear in pulpits
He is old, but hts voice has great volume. He is
tempestuous, impassioned, soul-stirring He is a
master of modulation. His oratory is of the old
school—which is certainly a far batter one than
the present. He tends slightly to the flap-doodle
style. His accent is strengthened with a strong
Cil-Jdonian burr. Ho also enjoys a mea-
sure of quaint, sly humour We have heard
him in circumstances in which he could
not have rifled an absent man’s skull. We re-
member him in the Melbourne Town Hall treating
Mr. Graham Barry to a parcel of caustic allusions
referring to political consistency, and our com-
ment In these pages then was that had Mr. Inglia
takea to tae political platform instead of to the
pulpit, he would have made his influence felt. The
mm is now down, and there can be no doubt that
he plagiarised from Dean Alford. But as a
preacher he is st' 11 better than most of his confreres.
Wo incline to think it was the knowledge of his
high elocutionary powers that tempted him to
f, cj?.b” specially good matter. Few of those who sit
Upon him are eo tempted. Poor parsrn ! Eighteen
years ago he committed the theft He got off.
Ten years ago he fell again. Ho had to mount the
pillory, but crept down after a while and was for-
g ven. H; has now fa'len once mo e. About six
months ago he was invited up to take charge of a
church in Sydney. He was offered something like
£801 a year, but he loved Ballarat so fondly that,
(h .ugh bis salary 1? some hundreds less, he de-
clared he would stay there and save the dear souls
ho has known this last quarter of a century.
Ehtu! Hold the ilm of your reputation tightly,
old man It is all of it that remains.
‘ Victor Hugo in his death ” (says a writer
la the Nineteenth Century) “his caused pain-
ful disappointment to the scientific minds of the
century. This man, who was so noisily and per-
sistently represented as being the leader and
master of the contemporary movement in science,
has, bv bis o wp words, given the lie to the passion-
al affirmations of his disciples; since, by a special
claus" in his will, ho has shirked the investigation
of science, and prohibited the autopsy which
might have thrown such brilliant light on the
obscure points of the working of the cerebral
apparatus. Are the doctrines of Broca true ? Are
Kussmaul’s doctrines on cerebral localisation cor-
rect? What better trial and what better proof
could one have found than that which might have
been afforded bv the examination of the contents
of the skull of Victor Hugo ? Every circumstance
concurred to insure the success and efficiency of
the experiment. We might have detected tbe
exact relations which existed between the poet's
works and the circumvolutions of his brain Verse
by verse, cell by cell, we might, by carefully con-
trolled Investigation, have succeeded at last in
d seovering something of that secret mechanism
of thought of which we have the manifestation
without ever knowing anything precise about Its
formation. Nor is it, perhaps, presumptuous to
believe that by a double process of physiological
and literary observation we might have elicited
iome law which would have for ever enlightened
the future on the obscurities of a question about
which the most practised experts and the most
acute psychologists hesitate and contradict each
other. But, no; Victor Hugo has refused to sub-
mit his body to tnese luminous enquiries. Victor
Hugo, who was represented as being such an ex-
traordinary innovator, as having an intellect so
free from all prejudices and ail preconceived ideas,
has yielded to speculations of a purely theological
order, and, a spiritualist even in death, he has
turned away from science and refused to
allow bis corpse to serve for the indispens-
able demonstration which was so impatiently
expected. Victor Hugo, who was always talking
about giving light, ha* voluntarily contributed
towards leaving in darkneis one of the most
curious points in anthropology. Was it pride ?
Was it weakness? Did he believe himself to bp
above explanation ? Did he think that his genius
Bad no account to render to the histologist, and no
Judgments to accept from the tribunal of science ?
Or else, convinced by the doctrine of Flourens
that genius is a lesion, vyas he afraid to giya to the
©Squished world the spectre 0 f an infirmity
duly ascertained and of a mainly which would
have been described in an irrefutable official pa-
port? However, the fact remains that we are
Hbliged to rasiga ourselves to entire ignorance as
to the localisation of the creative faculty in Victor
Hugo and that we ara ignorant of the peculiar
modification of their substance which enabled the
lobes of his brain to produce so many masterpieces
and to secrete Eooonslderablaanumber of words.”
Potts, the Reformer.
Editor Bulletin—Sir,— As a poor country par-
son, I am not a subscriber to The Bulletin, but
I sometimes get the opportunity of looking into a
copy. I feel moved to write and hall you as a
teacher of the new phase of Christianity which is
now breaking upon the world, and which, when
well understood and accepted, will be a blessing to
the whole of mankind. The author of “Eooe
Homo ” shows that the “ enthusiasm of humanity ”
was a main end of Christ’s teaching. Every per-
son who helps to
“ Put down the passions that make earth hell 1
Down with ambition, avarice, pride
Jealousy down I cut off from the mind
The bitter springs of anger and fear;
Down, too. down at your own fireside,
With the evil tongue and the evil ear,
For each is at war with mankind ”
is a spreader of the true gospel, which is, In short,
that all who become followers of love to man-
kind are thereby set free from the bondage to self,
which is the true tyrant and oppressor of
humanity. Such articles as that uuon “The
Millennium,” which, in a late issue of The
Bulletin enclosed a portrait of Henry George,
the man with a head like the dome of St. Paul’s,”
has the true ring of the Gospel, such as we par-
sons seldom manage, I lear, to put into our ser-
mons. But (always a but I) is it essential, or even
desirable—as in an article in which you scarify the
practice of glorifying men because they have
made money, and appeal with great effect to
Thackeray’s “Biok of Snobs”-is it essential to
remind lovers of Dickens, by the tone of the
article, of the immortal Potts? Canon Free-
mantle, in his Bampton lectures, which, as pro-
fessed theological utterances, seem a decidedly
new departure, says: “One other thing is needed,
it is that those charged with the conduct of human
affairs, in whatever department, should themselves
recognise their office as a Christian ministry. This
does not imply merely that they should act
generally upon Christian principles, nor, on the
other band, that they should be constantly speak-
ing of Christianity in connection with their office,
but that they should cherish the lofty conception
of their office which the Christian ministry im-
plies, and should not shrink from asserting it when
needful. The pastors of the present day are
those who lead in all departments of human
life. It is hardly possible to say how greatly
their pastorate would grow In importance, were
it recognised by all as a Christian ministry.
There should be not only holy orders of bishops
and presbyters, but holy orders of artists and
poets, and teachers of science and statesmen.” He
might well have mentioned newspaper editors,
who are so rapidly becoming a predominating
power in the world. The secular Press generally
supports high and noble principles, though na-
turally coloured more or less deeply by the poli-
ties and private characters of its conductors.
While congratulating this order of pastors, and
wishing them widely-increased influence, may I
also express the hope that they may escape that
share of intolerance to opponents which they so
clearly see and steadily denounce among those
who have hitherto considered themselves exclu-
sively entitled to the pastoral office ? As Hood
wittily says: “If ‘their offence is rank ’should
mine be rancour ?”
Should you think this letter worthy of publica-
tion, allow me to subscribe myself
Yours truly, _
BAYARD.
LWe eh ould have liked our reverend correspondent
to be more explicit. We gather that he dislikes
tho tone of an article published by ua some time
aero on the adulation of wealth. He la vague.
Many think it a Christian duty to be vague
whenever crimes, private or public, or customs,
personal or national, are under question. We
don’t think such a thing a Christian duty. The
ardour of conviction may remind some of the
immortal Potts. That is an affair of literary
criticism. But less harm has been done by the
ardour of Potts than by the Pauline habit of
being all things to all men. That has made
Christianity a rag on every bush. The prostitute
and Prince can quote Scripture to suit their
ends. The Devil nlmself cm quote it. Under
moral vagueness, social vaguene?s, and political
vagueness, the world has grown rotten. Ouldi
says that clerics i ee no faults la rich patrons.
They, at all events, pretend they don’t see them,
and if forced to refer to them, remember, all at
once, the absolute necessity for a vigilant exer-
cise of Christian charity. That is what has
blighted the heart of the world. That is what
haa made men wage war against Christianity.
The Church should have been the one out-
spoken, unambiguous, unmuzzled organ of tho
race. She preferred remembering charity,
especially if sinners were powerful. There-
fore, she is being spat out everywhere.
Tennyson says the Churches killed Christ. We
think not. They keep Him alive and dress Him
fashionably in Anthony Hordern and Com-
p my’s or at Robertson and Moffatt’s. The
miracle-working carpenter of Nazareth had
a tongue that leaped to the scarification of hypo-
crites and whited sepulchres. To day He is
ordered to act like “a Christian gentleman,” es-
pecially when near the representative of a big
bank balance. What aggravates this travesty is
that those lecturing Christians do not lay
much stress on the necessity for Christian
chaiity if ragged vice be denounced warmly. It
is when vice in exalted station is attacked the
beautiful forbearance of the Christian gentleman
is held up for imitation. These lecturers would
consider their house contaminated if a ragged
profligate without rank or money entered the
family circle. If a wealthy, a titled man, say a
Prince, be known to be the moral destroyer of
defenceless little girls, those very lecturers will
too often vie to give their wives to him to hand
into dinner and their daughters to him to waltz.
The man who lifts up his voice against this is
reminded of Christian charity. ’‘Bayard” is
not specific. We therefore defend the general
principle that appears to trouble him. We think
the Christian Church should do the social work
some writers try to do. We think the Great
Founder of It would be with those writers
were He here to-day. It is a time for
swift and angry speech ; a time for tear-
ing off the rind from social falsehood
and impostures. That cannot be done by
“the beautiful forbearance of the Christian
gentleman.” You must quit this ethical figment
and model your conduct on the pattern of the
great Founder Himself, He was, no doubt, to
many an immortal Potts. He, looking at the
BmuK humbugs that carried shining reputations
for sanctity in His day, used often to forget
the beautiful forbearance of the Christian
gentleman,” and hit the shocked saints with
such exordiums as “ Woe to you, scribes and
pharisees!”— Ed. B.]
The “ Sydney Lancers ” (the “ Light
Horse”) spent a very pleasant evening at Bau-
mann’s caji a few nights ago. The occasion was a
dinner given to celebrate the formation of the
corps or rather Its change from dragoons to
lancers. The toasts of the Queen, the Governor,
and the newly-appointed officers having been duly
honoured, the health of the Minister for War
(Mr. Dailey) was proposed by Corporal Purves.
The corporal had known many War Ministers who
were so in name only—men who could discern no
difference between a shrapnel and a sap-roller.
With Mr. Dailey all this was changed. Directly he
saw a shell belched out by a mortar he could tell
the errand the missile was bent upon, the length
of fuse attached to It, the length of time it would
take before being parted in tiers, and tne idiosyn-
cracies of the gunner who fired it. (Cheers ) It
was said that Mr. Dailey was at borne in the
Cabinet. That he (Corporal H) was ready to
allow. But it was in the saddle the War Minis-
ter was at his best—there he was happiest.
And should the horse give a mild buck or two,
out of pure jocularity, the mastery possessed by
the Minister of the art of dismounting, and the
alacrity with which be carried his knowledge into
practice, fascinated all beholders (immense ap-
plause.) He (P.) had, therefore, great pleasure in
proposing the health of the Minister whose name
is now mentioned with respect, coupled with fear,
in European Cabinets. Mr. Dailey, in rising to
respond, received a perfect ovation. He said that
he did not pretend to the same mastery of the art
of war that Cmsar and Napoleon possessed (mur-
murs of dissent); still, if it came to a comparison
between himself and Wellington, or Moltke, he
would leave the public to decide. But bis chief
reason for being present was to impress upon
them the metamorphosis they had undergone
from hussars to lancers. He could not speak from
personal experience, but, according to those who
were qualified to judge, he believed that all merely
mundane pleasures were low and vulgar com-
pared with that of retaining a Arm hold
of one end of a 10ft, pole while a naked
nigger was wriggling on a blade at the other. In
such a case one might be said—in every-day lan-
guage—to have the right end of the stick. When
one considers the satisfaction that follows the
insinuation of even a butcher’s knife—a wretched
blade with but a few inches of handle—into an
enemy, some idea of the felicity of tickling him
with the end of a lance may be conceived. (Accla-
mation.) And if this dangerous weapon is effec-
tive in war, it is scarcely less useful in peace.
Without going too much into detail, he could
assure them that cows, goats, and even pigs will
ruminate before straying through the fences of
those members of the corps who bring their
weapons home with them. He would not detain
them much longer. Their commander, Captain
M Donald, was one of his oldest Irlends-one who
devoted himself to literature when not engaged In
war. Take him all round, he was one of the whitest
men he (Mr. Dailey) knew. (Great cheering.) One
word more and he had done. It was with refer-
ence to the horses. Colonel Ingersoll (here there
were signs of dissent), an American, citizen for
whose writings he, in common with Bishop Barry
and Sir James Martin, had the greatest reverence,
once said that if you would judge a man, observe
the way he treats his wife. (Here some signs of
unseemly levity appeared among the married
troopers) He (Mr. D) would say that, if you
would judge of a lancer's efficiency, remark how
he treats his horse. If he rubs the faithful animal
the wrong way with the curry-comb, or supplies
him with shavings instead of straw fora bed, or al-
ludes to him as a " moke,” that man will never
make a soldier. When the “ charge ’ is sounded that
lancer will always be found in the vicinity of the
canteen or foraging far in the rear. The only
thing to be done with men of this description is
either to drum them out, or, if they object to go,
deprive them of their lance and make them light
with a ecythe. (A settled gloom seemed to fall en
the company at this stage, during which the War
Minister resumed his seat.) General Klchardson
made some instructive observations on discipline,
concluding with a hearty recognition of the special
providence presiding over the affairs of N.8.W.,
as shown by the fact of Mr. Dailey’s being at the
head of the War Dep irtment during a grave crisis.
Shortly after the meeting broke up a little noisily


JVA.8T CYCLING MEET OF THE SEASON.
The Orlentaj and Sydney Bicycle and
GRAND FANCY DREPS^n^CHAMPION RACES
will b® held on the .
ASSOCIATION GROUND, MOORE PARK,
SATURDAY, 12th SEPTEMBER, 1885.
Greatest Novelty ot the Year.
Entries close Friday, 4th Instant, with J. B.
Welllngs, 12 Pitt-street.
HOMAGE TO THE MEMORY OF VICTOR
HUGO.
THE FRENCH ASSOCIATION of Sydney begs
to inform friends and sympathisers, that a
LITERARY AND MUSICAL ENTER-
TAINMENT.
In aid of the
CHARITIES OF SYDNEY,
will bo given, under Distinguished Patronage,
On TUESDAY, 8th SEPTEMBER,
at 8 p.m., in the
OLD MASONIC HALL, YORK STREET.
Mons, J. Decoukt, Consul de France, will occupy
the chair.
For the Committee.
Dr. L. LAURE,
HENRY uONNABD.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney. 25th August, 1885.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will bo announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
Tho Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Oates to which
Tenders can be
received a
this office.
Additions to Refreshment and
Accommodation Room?, Har-
den, (!. 8. Railway
Erection of Cottages, Garden
Island
Additions to Public Instruction
Department, Bridge-street
Repairs, &c., ” Garryowen”
House, Callan Park Asylum
Construction of Wrought and
Cast Ironwork for Superstruc-
ture of Bridge under Great U
Southern Railway, at 245 miles
12 chains
Supply of 480 Tons Pig Lead, I
Sydney Wnttr Supply
Bridge over Yarreln Creek, road I
Moama to Mjulamein
Construction of htorm Water |
Sower, Dowling-street, Red-1
fern and Waterloo
Construction of Punt at Bate- |
man’s Hay I
Bridge over Double Creek, road I
Bega to Brogo
Construction of Covered Service I
Reservoir, near WaUsend
Construction of Wnarf, Field of I
Mars, Lane Cove River.
Erection of bbeds, &C. Water I
Police Barracks, Newcastle |
Tuesday,
September 8,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
September 15,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
September 21,
at 11 o'clck.
F. A. WRIGfc T.
Miss Annetta Scar!
HAVING rested her voice for six months, after
a long and successful tour through New
Zealand, would be happy to
RESUME HER PROFESSIONAL DUTIES ON
THE STAGE ONCE MOHK.
0F“ Line of Business Opera Bouffe, Concerts,
Burlesques.
This young lady artiste, being an eminent musi-
cian, would have no objection to travel with a
first-class company as Pianist.
All theatrical managers please addrers letters,
for the present. Post Office, Young.
“THE LYCEUM,’’
Newcastle,
SITUATED IN THE BEST PART OP THE CITT
It is capable of seating 500 people,
and suitable for
MUSICAL & DRAMATIC ENTERTAINMENTS.
The Stage (40ft. by 24ft.) is furnished with
STOCK, SCENERY, See.
For Terms, apply
COLIN CHRISTIE,
“The Lyceum,”
Newcastle.
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
AUCTIONEERS, GENERAL COMMISSI ON
AG h NTS.
SALES of HORSES and PEDIGREE STOCK
held dally at the CITY HORSE and CATTLE
BAZAAR (lately occupied by Mr. Kiss). Also, sales
of PAT STOCK at HOMEBUSH and CORPORA-
TION YARDS.
Office-175 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
Professional Directory.
GEORGE PB IHIMAN. Scene Painter, Theatre
Royal, Brisbane. Disengaged.
MISS EDITH PENDER having concluded her
eDffaRrment as Prlma D >nna to the Leon
Caron Opera Company, is now open tor engage-
ment. Address care of H. Trevorah, •>.{-! George-
street.
mHBATRB R O YAL.
Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, G vrnkb and Musgbov*.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
Acting Manager. H. H. Vir coat.
BoUClCAULT SEASON
of
THIRTY-ONE NIGHTS ONLY.
The foremost Author and Actor of his time,
Mr, BOUOfCAULT,
in Plays and Characters of bia own creation.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING. SEPTEMBER 1,
at 8 o'clock. Bondcault’siamous drama, in 3 acts,
THE 8HAUGI1RAUN
THE 8HAUQHRAUN
Mr. BoucicaultasConn; Mr. Dion Bouclcault, Jun.,
s« Harvey huff; Miss Boucicaultas Moya,
Entirely new scenery by Gordon and Hennings.
Prices of Admission: Dress Circle 6s.; Stalls, 3s.;
Family Circle, 2a. . _ .
Tickets for all part* of the house at Eastway 8
Hotel. „ ,
Box plan open at theatre from 11 till 4. No free
list. Agent for Mr. 11 mejcault, Mr. W. Mactnahon.
K W OPERA HOUSE.
Under the Lesseeshlpand Management of
MAJEHONI and WILSON.
THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER 3,
FOR THREE NIGHTS ONLY
FOR THREE NIGHTS ONLY.
LA EILLE DE MADAME ANGOT
LA FILLB 1>K MADAME ANGOT
LA FILLK DE MADAME ANGOT
LA FILLE DE MADAME ANG JT.
N
SPLENDID CHORUS and GRAND ORCHESTRA,
under the C mductorahlp of
Mr. LUSCOMBE 8EARELLE.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Huenerbeln’a Music
Warehouse, 318 George-street. Tickets for all parts
of the house may be obtained at Roberts , tobac-
conist, next theatre.
*T e ~W OPERA HOUSE.
IN SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, at 2 30.
GRAND <'JMPLIMENTARY MATINEE,
Tenderel by the Members of the Music il Profes-
sion to the distinguished composer, conductor,
and celebrated violinist,
Mons. LEON C IRON.
Kindlv assisted by Mdme. Charbonnet-K«llermann,
MiesGracio Plalsted, Mr. C. Harding (oy kind per-
mission of Messrs. Wilson and Majeroni), Signora
L P Pabrls, Mrs. Atkinson, Messrs. T. F. Halle-
well, Percy Shannon, C. Huenerbein, and a grand
combined orchestra.of^Sti.
The magnificent Biohsteln Grand Piano used,
kindly lent by Meesis. Nicholson.
Programme in Friday and Saturday’s papers.
Box plan at Messrs. Huenerbein’s. Tickets at
Messrs. Paling and Co.’s and at Messrs. Nicholson
and Co. s.
Dress Circle, 5}.; Stalls, 3«,; Family Circle, 2s,
tetof 5 tickets, £1 Is.
G
A I B T y
1 H BAT R E 1
lessees Messss. CLARK and RYMAN.
icting Manager .. A. LITHERLAND CUNARD.
SATURDAY. SEPTEMB4R ft.
1RAND OPENING NIGHT of the Latest and
Greatest Succ< 68 from St. George's Hall. Mel-
bourne. afteraeomrecutlverunof bid Nights.
1PKRA, COMEDY. & MINSTRELSY CjMBINED.
< GaRDEM PARTY". 1
The largest accumulation of artists
ever presented to an audisr c i.
The Corner Men cannot bo r xcelU d.
The Quartette the best In the
; colonies.
' The Female Impersonators are
• really exquisite.
The Ladles, 20 in number, the pret-
tiest created. I <*>
The Orchestra is a full and |
lhH [ efficient one. j
And the opening programme will be published
i Next Saturday's papers. , „ . „
The Box Plan is at Huenerbein s Music Saloon.
30
5 <5
JO
DO
ccc
aa
hi
I o
I OS'S
I —
I L?
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George street, Haymarket.
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
CROWDED and FASHIONABLE AUDIENCES.
IMMENSE SUCCESS IMMENSE SUCCESS
of
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY COMPANY.
Pronounced by the Press and Public the most re-
fined Entertainment given in Sydney. Minstrelsy,
Olio, Farce, Every Evening.
Walter P. Keen, the Eminent Victl Comedian,
will sing rew version, wr tten and competed by
him, of “Brown upside down.”
The whole terminating with the screaming Farce,
“THE LETTER CARRIERS,’’
Gentlemen ushers la attendance.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
CH AS. AUSTIN, Business Manager.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
AOADBMY OF MUSIC.
Lessee ana Manager .. F. C. Hlscooks.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS of
THE GRAND DOUBLE COMPANY,
LEON and CUSHMAN COMBINATION
in conjunction with
HISCOCK’S FEDERAL MINSTRELS.
The performance concluding with Leon and Cush-
man’s Vaudeville, “ HIS GRACE The DUKE.”
Prices : Reserved Orchestra, 4i.; Stalls, 3.',; Par- i
quette, 34.; Gallery, Is. Plan box at Paling s. 1
'
AGENCY
C° IT
new
m
e|ala
ms*
m
■ k *■ tfSm.i ift
BGfo,W
1%:
m~r
---
SYPNg ¥,
Tilt lb Zealand Lou and Mercantile Agony Company
(LIMITED',
HEAD OFFICE ... LONDON.
Capital - - £3,500,000.
THIS CO'iPAN WILL CONTINUE TO DISPLAY AND SELL
WOOL!
ON THE MELBOURNE SYSTEM,
■At their Magnificent Warehouses,
3ESX3 DOE STREET,
SYDNEY.
««J^J5XJ ! &TL L0T WILL BE CAREFULLY VALUED, AND SPECIAL ATTENTION WILL RE
WHI0H WI “ BB PLiCED
If reserves are not reached, the nominal charge of one shilling per bale only will be made.
WOOL SALES, EVERY TUESDAY.
SHEEPSKINS AND HIDES, EVERY FRIDAY.
Way Bills and all information can be obtained on application, or will be sent by return of post.
Sydney Wool and Grain Warehouses.
H. H. LANG, Produce Manager.
dz> S3aua,zxi.roc3s:
Vnora’ 01/1 WT» — — X j w r i «r „ . _
3-Star 10-Years’Old Whiskies. The Oldest, Purest, and Most Mellow Imported. GOLD ME DA is r a
outta, N.Z. and 8. and W. Australia. HOLLAND & CO.'S OLD TOM GIN G H ADAMS lim
street, Sydney; and at Melbourne. Adelaide, and Brisbane, Agent. Klrker, Greer, & Co. (Ld.) Plt
THE SYDNEY SPUR.
DEPOT.
389 GBORGE-STREET SYDN
(Opposite Royal Hotel.)
BICYCLES, TRICYCLE
OtJft
1885 Pattern Bicyci
and Tricycles
Have Every Improvemen
OUR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadsi
THE UNIVERSAL
BICYCLE,
1885 Universal Club, a thoroughly reliable and easy-running
machine. Ball bearings to both wheels, and improvements.
fitted with Improved Ball
“gs to front and back m
U°i lo TT ?? rk8 ’ p atent Hes
Detachable Bent Handle
E ® s y 8 l lde Spring, Hubs I
Black Enamelled Spokes*
Price, *13 IDs. At th(
ve defy competition
JAMES MARTIN & COMPANY, 389 George-st., Sydney.
T3=lo 33ULgrgpi©© l
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS "
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES
D>klll<t.nla anil Eaala.n M.
California and Eastern Buckboard Waaoons
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING!, Merchant & Importer
22 & 24 Olarenoe-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.) 9
40s. per IVEoxitli
SECURES A
5-ACRE MODEL FARM.
All interested in Farming, Agriculture, Poultry, Pig, or Cattle
raising, should send for
“THE FARMERS’ AND SETTLERS’ GUIDE,”
containing 50 pages descriptive and useful information, profusely
illustrated with photographs. Sent post free to any address, hy
;BO"sriD ds march,
AUCTIONEERS,
86 Pitt Street, Sydney.


MS
1®" THIRTY SHILLINGS.
1ST THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
THIS triumph of musical invention is acknow-
ledged on all hands to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It is a wonderful little instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SI2ED FARLOUR ORGAN
and executes Its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 22 reeds, plays in three keys, and all thb
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the Inventor, the world
was first indebted for the Organette; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
study, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of cost and crudeness.
It requires no skill to extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &o., &c., &o. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy.
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that “ he who rUnS
may read.” It is best adapted to the kind of music
which suits an organ best, in which ehords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card-holder for convenience
in singing. It will be found invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel*
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies*
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO*,
OT
474 6E0R6E STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets*
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders havO
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities—from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can effer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corre-
spondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers
have written only to tell us how greatly they ar6
pleased with it, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by all educators and moralist
that music is the great refining influence, and
especially with children its effect for good IS
boundless. The love for music which music in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, end parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other
wise hard task an easy one.
The price of the AutophOne Is not.
and where good music can be procured for such A
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let bis household
be without it. With each Autopbone for 30s. w6
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tttnes may suit his fancy.
All orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogues of times at any tlmP.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents for Australia;
Oriental Gold Company.
474 Q-eorge-street, Sydney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
TMATR1 royal—“The Shaughraun” p. 8
Opera House—” La Fille de Madame Angot ” „
Gaiety Theatre—” Red Stockings” ,,
Alhambra— Variety Company „
Academy op Music— Minstrels „
We don’t mind telling you, in a spirit of
candour, that when it was announced that Mr.
Dion Boucicault was to open in the “Shaugh-
raun” at Sydney Theatre Royal, our feelings were
of a pensive nature. In a general way we hate
the “Shaughraun,” which is little other than a heap
of dramatic shreds and patches, strung together
with a cheerful disregard, alike of the spirit of
probabilities and the canons of art. The facili-
ties which are afforded Robert Ffolllot for esaape
are simply an insult to the meanest understand-
ing : when in the loek-up, for instance, the ser-
geant cheerfully undertakes to deliver a written
message from the prisoner to Conn, under the
flimsy guise of “a few coppers for the man who
Stayed the fiddle;” and In the next scene Robert
i to be seen walking about the wall of bis cell in
the tower, like a fly, playing at bo-peep with the
“Shaughraun," who is doing the same outside the
window, before, in order to effect the gallant
young gentleman’s escape, kicking a hole in the
tower wall large enough for a circus procession
to pass through. These are only a very few of
the things you have to swallow in the “ Shaugh-
raun,” and we confess we have found them con-
foundedly indigestible.
* * *
When we look back upon the 4=749 times
we have turned out to attend a representation of
this marvellous drama, we are like to put ashes on
our head. We never knew an actor arrive out
here yet who hadn’t Conn In his repertoire, and
nine-tenths of them had made it a “speciality,”
and had performed the part, amidst thunders of
applause, throughoutlthe length [and breadth of
the United States, Great Britain, and Ireland. One
miscreant in particular we shall never forgive.
He came here from ’Frisco with a jockey-cap and
a window-pane of the purest water in his shirt-
front. No one had been advised of his arrival, but
the gorgeousness of his talk procured at once an
engagement at the old Queen’s, where, so bard up
were they for novelties, they would have secured
the services, at any time, of either the mathemati-
cal goat or the three-headed fowl with avidity.
“Walt,” said this shocking impostor, “till I Jos’
fit me printin’ out. It’ll jes’ make the town
ark.” He opened in “ Hamlet,” whom he made
a poor creature who was evidently a victim to the
wiles of the advertising quacks, and who came on
to the battlements full to the throat with “tonic
essences ” and elixirs of life. He played the
melancholy Dane for one consecutive night, and
would have played it for two (so was his season
marked out) had he not found himself, during the
closet-scene on the second evening, knocked out
by a shoe from the gallery. His next appearance
was in “ Macbeth,” which he played to a scene of
uproarious merriment for four solid hours,
when it was announced that he would start for a
provincial tour, and prior to his departure take a
benefit in “The Shaughraun.” And he did, too.
It was a terrible evening 1 How shall we ever
forget Captain Molineauxina fireman’s coat and
white duck trousers, armed witb a scimetar used a
few nights before in “ Jessy Brown ?” And Conn I
What more abject spectacle In the world did he
present when he came on to talk to his mother
about the Squire’s horse, a flask of whisky, and a
mental blank I He only escaped death that night
by about two tons of scenery tailing on him in the
rescue scene, and it was amidst a scene of the
wildest rejoicings that the manager announced
Mr. Buffum was too seriously injured to be en-
abled to resume his part, but that in order not to
disappoint the audience he (the manager) would
assume the character (in the delineation of which
he bad attained some popularity), and thus the
play would proceed. After this miscreant came a
long line of dramatic cripples, all of whom were
either the “original Conn,” or bad “made the
character of the rollicking Irishman the study of a
life time; ’ and the list culminated in Jennie Lee,
whose performance, looked at from an artistic
point of view, was a pitiful spectacle. It is no
wonder, therefore, that the announcement of
“ The Shaughraun ” in any form conjures up feel-
ings in our bosom of an agonising character.
$ * ♦
There was a whole lot of curiosity centred
In the public mind respecting Mr. Dion Bouoi-
oault for many reasons, and, really, we think one
of the principal causes consisted in the fact that
Dion is getting on for 70 and is going to marry
somebody. It has long been Dion’s amiable
little weakness to make advertising capital out of
domestic climaxes, for we remember, long years
ago, in London, seeing on the walls or in the
papers the following, or a very similar announce-
ment;—
“ Princess Theatre.
GREAT ATTRACTION.
“ Engagement of Miss Agnes Roberson (Mrs. Dion
Boucicault) and Mr. Dion Boucicault.
A Card.
“The management have great pleasure in an-
nouncing that this gifted couple, having become
thoroughly reconciled, will appear nightly In a
round of Dion Bouclcault’s comedies and dramas.
No charge for booking. Gallery, 6d.”
It drew a lot of pioney, that did, though it was
generally understood that the reconciliation
“bust up” at the end of the season. In New
York the grand reconciliation business was
equally successful—the parquet being nightly
filled by the clergy, and all the women arriving
deluged in tears, each lady being armed with a
hand-bag full of holy texts to be let off in the
entr’ actes. But then, it must be remembered that
Miss Agnes Roberson was a lady clothed in smiles
and bung with graces.
♦ * •
However, it is only fair to Dion Bouoi-
cault to state that he stands in need of no such
adventitious aids to success as these, for it is an
undoubted fact that his Conn is a great and a con-
sistent performance throughout—brimming over
with vivacity, and abounding in light and shade;
while his by-play is all the white most excellently
whimsical. That he achieve d*.jrhrough the pure
force of merit, a great triumph on Saturday is
unquestionable, and no one congratulates the old
gentleman on his success! more heartily than we
flp. Hjs spn Djon ipade a bit of a hit, too, as
Harvey Duff, a police spy, and afforded a graceful
compliment to the management by making his
face up to resemble that of Goodman, the trea-
surer. Mr. Tltheradge (at whose appearance half
the house rose) played Captain Molineaux, and he
was attired In a soldier’s uniform which would
hav e raised a riot in the Deserted Village. There
was nothing congenial to him in the character,
which is that of a captain in tbe British Array,
With water on the brain, and consequently Mr. T.
only made a moderate success. Mr. J. P. Sutton
(imported) played the priest, Father Dolan,
and we make baste at once to state that
we are completely at issue with that gentle-
man as regards his conception of the character.
In a word. Mr. Sutton is intensely melodramatic,
and mouths and chews bis words at exciting
times in a very distressing manner. Still, though
106 don’t, the gods do like it, therefore let Mr. Sut-
ton pursue the even tenour of bis little way un-
ruffled and undaunted. Mr, Sutton, too, this re-
minds us, has a great deal about praying to God
and thanking heaven in his part, and this is apt to
jar upon tbe sensibilities of a great many people,
and especially upon those of the persons who know
from observation how little of heaven there is
banging about the precincts of a theatre.
♦ ♦ ♦
Delightful, though, is the Moya of Miss
Boucicault, who is a delicate little fairy, and
played charmingly, but we shall not forgive her
for not, during the ipng stage wait, giving us a
gintalc specimen of the song and dance of the
country. Claire Ffolliot (a Sligo lady) was enacted
by Miss Agnes Thomas, a lady of extreme slim-
ness, whose shoulders are at direct right angles,
and who has been gifted by divine providence
with an exceedingly large set of teeth. In addi-
tion to all this, Miss Thomas’s voice is exoeed-
ingly sharp; and her grey dress being tight-
fitting, she exhibited all tbe glories of a
figure of plank-like uniformity. Being never
in repose, but always demonstrative, Miss
Thomas’s efforts to please were sometimes
such as to afford positive pain to ourselves, and
the more especially so when she tried to be win-
ning. Miss Thorndyke played Arte O’Neal. She
is a tall, graceful young person of say 20, with a
classically out countenance, and a statuesque pre-
sence. She made her appearance In the first act as
a study in brick-dust, but so far as acting was con-
cerned was generally a stick all through the
drama. Flemming (who has a good time all
through the piece with the girls) made a pictur-
esque Roberts, and had evidently made his escape
from Australia in the uniform of a gun-room
steward, with &deeoUette waistcoat—just a little
bare place, you know, six inches from the chin
where the girl's ear goes. The rest call for no
special comment, and we have to thank Mr. Rice
for some mournful music. Mr. Rice’s music al-
ways is mournful, somehow. We suspect he has
composed a cantata, and that, in order to get the
orchestra perfect in it, he is dealing his immortal
work out to the audience, in slabs, nightly. But
then that is probably only our suspicion.
>♦ ♦ ♦
Some of the scenery was good, but the
shifting was of an hilarious character.
Just a line for little Mi Ills. He opens at
Bourke with Martin Hagan, Lucy Fraser, and
Jem Smith, on the 3rd, for three nights; and Fred,
if he watches it, should make a lot of money.
Our advice to him, however, is not to make his
entertainment so long. As an assistance, it would
be better if he did some of his characters in the
first part, sang his comic songs in the olio, and
wound up with his dolls. Everybody is a bore,
except Dailey, who speaks for his honour, no
matter how divertingly. The prices of admission
ought to run high, up there, during the opening—
when it costs 13s. lid. to be allowed to curl up on
a knobby billiard-table.
* * • •
After a most successful run, the “ Private
Secretary ” has been withdrawn from the Sydney
Gaiety, and Clarke and Hyman’s Redstocking
Minstrels opened there on Saturday night. The
last-named crowd have just completed a long
season in St. George’s Hall, Melbourne, and are
likely to do well in Sydney.
•» * * *
The old Masonic Hall, Sydney, will be
handed over to the contractors for the alterations
next week. It will be again open to the public on
the first Saturday in October.
• * * *
The Lynch family of Bellringers are
perambulating the suburbs. On Thursday, Sep-
tember 3, they appear at St. Matthias’ Hall, Pad-
dington; on Friday, at the Town Hall, Glebe; and
Saturday, September 5, both afternoon and even-
ing,' at the Oddfellows’ Hall, Newtown, They
have, so far, been able to secure good houses at
the suburban halls.
» » • «
“Mammon” knocked ’em pretty consider-
ably at the little Bijou, Melbourne, and Vernon
came in for a due allowance of “ butter ” from the
dailies. There were one or two alterations In the
cast since the piece had been put up in Sydney.
Miss Nellie Veitoh played the baronet’s daughter
in lieu of Miss Watts-Phillips. This was billed as
the “ lirst appearance on the Melbourne stage ” of
the innocent young Nellie, and—after the manner
of bill statements—wasn’t exactly correct. Miss
Veitch we remember to have seen sidle on to the
Theatre Royal stage one Good Friday, and recite
the story of the Crucifixion, by that rising author
St. Luke. She was then introduced to us as the
“gifted young Victorian elocutionist,” and in one
respect realised the description. Nellie was un-
deniably young—painfully young—but she wasn't
gifted. Opinions differ as to what is good elocu-
tion. Alfred Dampier is a perfect elocutionist for
pulpit purposes, but we prefer even the matter of
fact method of Vernon, when it comes to acting.
Now Nellie’s elocution doesn’t soar so high as
Dampier’s, but it is a perfect example of “The
boy stood on the burning deck ” style. As for her
business—well, she’s very young.
* * * »
At the Melbourne Wax-works they’ve got
in the flesh, not in wax—little Clara Crosbie, who
was lost in the bush for Lord knows how long,
and kept herself alive on a light diet of Salvation
Harmy hymns. Attracted by a picture in the
window, representing Clara in the last stage of
starvation and a tattered petticoat making ghastly
faces at a man on horseback, we strolled into the
show. Passing down an avenue of notabilities—
mostly dead, and all of them looking as though
they were—we cam® to a trunk of a tree, a fac
simile, the boss Informed us, of the unhappy child’s
enforced habitation. To our distress, we discovered
that it was untenanted by any emaciated Clara.
“ Where is she ?” we enquired, and then, sinking
our volcoi to a whisper, “ Has she at length
succumbed to her sufferings ?” The boss gave a
little sideway glance of suspicion. “There’s
Clara,” he said, and pointed to a fat little fairy
playing battledore and shuttlecock in close vici-
nity to tbe Kelly Gang. On examination, Clara
proved to be a nice, bright blaok-haired young
creature, who didn’t remember anything about
the 40 days and 40 nights in the wilderness, and
didn’t want to. “The artist who painted that
picture in the window just caught Clara’s expres-
flon, don’t you think?” we ventured to enquire.
The subject was so evidently distasteful to the
wax-works’ man that we slowly winked one eye at
the youthful Clara, and slunk silently out.
With quite a sense of shame do we clip an
obituary verse from the Melbourne Age, because
we’ve filled up so many little corners with these
poems at one time or another. Here, however, is
one which wo feel Impelled to slip in on account
of the awful Import of the second line;—
** God takes the good, too good on earth to stay,
And leaves the bad, too bad to take away.”
Now, dear friends, what a warning have you here
against the mistaken policy of being “ too bad.’’
God “ leaves” you if you are. Some light-hearted
followers of the flesh may exclaim: “ But I don’t
want to be taken away; I prefer to be left." Ah 1
dear friends, take not such false comfort to your
breasts. God leaves you, but you don’t get left
altogether. Ah I no.—
God takes the good; they’re not exactly fit
To stay on earth, and so they have to quit;
But as for those who give their lives to evil,
He don’t take them—but leaves ’em for the Devil.
Here is the very latest society story, it is
about an Australian, too, and so it must be true It
seems that one day, during his honeymoon, Prince
Battenberg came to town on business, dropping
the Princess at Windsor. While giving some in-
structlons to the tailor, there suddenly entered a
wealthy English gentleman with whom, in his poor
days, the Prince had been very friendly, in Ger-
many, and who was accompanied by a friend. They
exchanged greetings cordially, in French, and the
friend (fresh from Victorian pastures) was then in-
troduced. The Prince bowed slightly, but did not
speak. The Australian did, though I He said:
“Howyouvas? It been long time, hey, sin’ you
vas come down to der big schmoke mit der
missus. Yearmans peoples is joost mine sort. Tip
us your flipper, old stocking." The Prince tipped
it—but not quite in the manner expected. We
expect this will become a “ household word,” by-
and-bye; familiar in our mouths as—rum.
Klngsford’s Oswego Cornflour takes the full
flavour of every kind of Seasoning,
Fox the making of ourselves and places
attractive, we draw largely on the dressmaker,
tailor, and architect; but the potter must also be
used. What would your drawing-room, meal-
tables, bedrooms, and kitchen be without his aid.
His works, in many forms, can always be seen at
403 and 404 George-street, and for beauty and
variety cannot be equalled. See the sets for
dinner, tea, toilet, and other purposes, and the
ornate glassware, showing at Bray Bros., opposite
Joint Stock Bank.*
“A WOMAN’S REASON.”
TO HUMANITARIANS ABOUT GOING INTO THE COUNTRY.
Ouft AfcTISt I US AtTfiMPTSb TO PoftTHAV THE MELANCHOLY FaTC OF A PET CAT WHO WAS LEFT
Behind bv the Family,
ENBAOED HUSBAND: “NOW, WHY IN THUNDER DID YOU BUY SUCH STUFF FOR
THEM CHILDREN ?”
WIFE: “OH, BAKES ALIVE1 I HAD TO DO IT TO KEEP THEM QUIET.”
Second Day.
One Week*,
Ten Days
Two Weeks.
One Month.
Requies— Cat.


PEPPER AND SALT.
More joy for England. His Royal High-
ness, the Grand Dune of Hesse, is about to resign
and take up his residence in Great Britain. Abdi-
cating is no great sacrifice to him, anyhow, for his
revenue la not above 3j. a week, and he couldn’t,
for his life, get trusted for either a pair of boot-
laces or a pot of Nubian blacking throughout the
whole of his dukedom. He will, doubtless, be on
the matrimonial “ racket ” again, shortly; but we
fancy that after the disclosures by the late Princess
Alice, even the dowager duchesses will fight shy of
him. It is well known, now, that owing to H.R H.
being, during her life in Hesse-Cassel, always “ on
the game” in the cellar, she could not get a new
pair of drawing-room curtains, and when she
pinned up her skirts to dust the shepherdesses on
the parlour mantelpiece, you could sec a great
hole in her stocking I The Queen and Beatrice u;ed
to send the poor Princess all their cast-off petti-
coats and chemises (don’t blush, when they hang
them up in the Qeorge-street shop-windows—“ is.
Od. each, and the real * old point ’ given in ”) which
would have been a great boon to the Grand,
Duchess had she ever received them. But, alas
the villain still pursued her I When the first con-
signment arrived the Prince immediately pounced
upon the buck-basket, and asked a Jew, who was
in attendance on a “ lithul mathurth of bithynlth,’
what they were worth each. He said 8 florins, and
there being no advance on that amount, the Jew
paid the cash and made hastily off with the plun-
der. At this moment a loud shriek came from a
mullloned window of an unlit bedroom in the White
Tower. It was the ill-fated Princess, crying, as
She fell over her broom, “Thus does my dream of
linen fade into a reality of holland. Cruel 1 ’ ’
And all for pokarel On the whole, then, taking
these and other circumstances into consideration,
we don’t think that the Grand Duke will do much
In London. Of course, his acquaintance with the
" talent” would always get him his meals - money
and a shilling or two for a drink, but what’s that
for a man who alms at Empresses, and wants
“something” every two minutes? He needn’t
count on his compatriots either. Teck has got
nothing, and wouldn’t lend it if he had; while, if
Prince Christian were to lose the sword that he
keeps fastened to his bed with a dog-chain, he
would have to review the troops at Portsmouth
with a meat-axe. And you know what the Queen is!
But, perhaps, he’s coming over to marry her i
• • •
Look here—we’re just going to be straight
with you-we’ve got no fighting editor. Any man
can come to our office and talk till he falls down
stairs or dies. There are lots of listeners for him,
and when he goes tired on one he gets passed right
on till he has told the whole staff a different story.
The editor, here, is fonder far of the fish-shop than
of fighting, and we really don’t know any others
of us who wouldn’t rather go to the theatre by
way of Hongkong, than interview one of the
crushed in its Immediate vicinity. No paper has a
fighting editor. The papers that talk about their
lighting editors are very poor paunch indeed.
When we were up country once, a little " rag ” was
big upon this bellicose official; and one after-
noon wh lie the coach waited the quarter we looked
in to see him. We found two decrepit articles
working at their cases, one with a hare-lip, and
one with a wen. We tapped the paper, and said in
stern tones : " Our name is Jasper—Corlolanus
Jasper. We are a Karragonger, and blood
is what we chiefly live on. Sixteen num-
bers back you said the goat belonging to
our aunt here had eaten your Sunday dinner
when he wasn’t invited. That’s a double
insult, sirs I Why wasn’t he invited ? Now,” we
went on, “you talk a lot about your fighting,
editor—which of you is he?” They replied
“neither;” that the F. E. had been on a mad
drunk, and they had had to lock him in the coach-
house to prevent bloodshed. We said we preferred
him in that condition, and they both then starred
to unloose the tiger. But he never came, nor did
they return, either, for half-a-mlle out of town we
saw one of them Just crawling out of a hollow log
as the coach went by. We certainly did charter a
professional “ pug.” once to protect us, but as it
was his practice only to issue out of the public”
house when our head had been bashed on the kerb
for the 47th tlmo, we refused, after a brief period,
to further subsidise him. No, noble readers; no
paper has a fighting-editor. The fighting-editor,
dear boys and girls, is the policeman.
Fourteen years ago the Rev. J. W. Inglis,
of Ballarat, was " admonished” by the Presbytery
for palming off as original goods certain lectures
composed by a Dr. Frederick Huntington. A week
or two back the pious plagiarist was again “ ad-
monished” by his brethren for introducing some
discourses by Dean Alford as the bantlings of his
own Ballarat brain. On the very same day Joe
Symes was fined for publishing the Liberator.
without having entered into the required recog-
nisances. Now, if the Ballarat parson had “ run”
a piety publication without registering it, the
odds are 50 to 1 that he would have escaped prose-
cution; whereas if “ long Joseph” had advertised
someone’s else’s atheistical screeds as his ’en the
“ admonition” would have been nothing softer
than rotten eggs—and might have taken the form
of road metal. The moral is so obvious that we
feel it somewhat superfluous to again’empbasise the
practical wisdom of the good old Harmy exhor-
tation: “ Keep on believing, brothers.”
The question of the relative values of a
live 'un and a dead ’un appears to be pretty
clearly settled by an advertisement appearing In
the Melbourne Aqb. “Missing from his home,
Robert R., aged 77 years, height 5ft. 5in. Dressed,
dark overcoat, black felt hat, black and white
scarf, grey tweed trousers and vest, &o. Anyone
bringing him home will receive £50 reward; If
dead, £5 reward for his body.” We do think they
THE REVEREND BARARRAS.
Barabbas was a parson pure,
A fitting mark for adoration—
A Bible leech of mien demure.
“ Oh I save us from this sin abhorred ”
(Us meant, you know, the unbelieving).
But to this good Barabbas came
(This Bible leech, this Satan-smlter)
The yearning to attain the fame
Of being thought a clever writer;
And so he tacked his honoured name
To lectures by (we’ve done the same)
Not better men than he—but brighter.
He spotted one that charmed him quite
(This Bible leech, this soul physician).
Called “ What is wrong ’aint never right,”
Writ by a Dean of erudition;
And all his flock he would invite
To hear it. (By an oversight
He never asked the Dean’s permission.)
How vain, alas I are mortal schemes,
How liable to overturning!
Barabbas found his lofty dreams
Of posing as a man of learning
Dispelled. (Some fellow came, it seems.
Who “split” upon the parson’s themes,
The author’s name, and all concerning,)
“Faint Heart Ne’er Won,” &c.
ALFRED SYDNEY: "OH, THEN, IF YOU PREFER HIM, THAT IS ANOTHER MATTER. I WITHDRAW MY CLAIMS.”
Who, many years, had made the cure
Of souls his happy occupation ;
The sort of man, you may be sure,
Who filches thousands from damnation.
To hear Barabbas, glib of speech,
Admiring sheep were fond of flocking;
With winning smile he used to teach
That not to practise what you preach
Is altogether wrong and shocking;
And, as the plate went round to each,
Barabbas had a bulky stocking.
One sin, in whatsoever guise,
Barabbas had a special “ down ” on;
Forked lightning darted from his eyes
Whene’er he put his Sunday gown on
And burled anathemas at lies
(’Twas like a storm in summer skies—
His holy visage with that frown on).
And when he’d had his “go,” at Fraud,
And damned all methods of deceiving,
The vials of his wrath were poured
On such as were found out in thieving.
In melting tones he asked the Lord—
Then spake the sheep with sad accord,
In accents full of Christian feeling:
“ How oft has he, our own adored,
Discussed this matter with the Lord,
With eyes uplifted to the ceiling ?
Shall we mete out the same reward
We’d give to other men for stealing ? ’
They didn’t. They recalled to mind
His virtues, and his meek contrition;
And Mr B., we’re pleased to find,
Was sentenced to an “ admonition.”
’Twas well—if Mr. B. resigned
The next one (not so good and kind)
Might air Ms own derned composition.


might run to a “ tenner ” for the old gentleman’s
remains, but then, of course, there isn’t much of
him. Anyway, we hope the “fifty” will have to
be parted, and in order to push enquiries, have
pleasure in suggesting a poetical ad., which ought
to about fetch the ancient wanderer, if he's any-
where. We charge nothing for our advertise,
ment:—
Mr. Ebenezer Warley Billson, late of the
West Coast of Australia, is known as “One-eared
Ebenezer.” He flirted, not wisely but too well,
with the pretty 17-year-old daughter of one Mick
Blake. Ebenezer was of no particular creed*
but, finding himself in an out-of-the-way place,
where the Primitive Methodists had pretty good
tables, he at once wormed his way in, and being of
robust faith, was soon one of the loudest brethren
to wrestle with the Devil, and would walk down
the aisle with the air of a man who had been born
with a collection-plate in bis hand. Mr. Blake’ 8
daughter caught Ebenezer’s glittering eye, and he
“made up to her.” Her father, Mick, “fought
bitterly agin it,” but his second wife, who was the
girl’s stepmother, encouraged the affair, and Mick
had to collapse* But, learning that the gay Eb.
was a married man, he purchased a shtick of con-
siderable stoutness, and was home like lightning.
Bb. turned up as usual; but crawled home on all-
fours, with his head crushed, bis face reduced to
pulp, and three ribs crushed in. He lay in his hut
three weeks, and then disappeared one night. Mr.
Boyle’s house id now a model of peace, and that
gentleman himself exhibits, with great pleasure,
an ear which he carries in his pocket wrapped up
In a handful of sandy Whisker.—
Mr. Vincent Holt has published a charm-
ing little work entitled “ Why not eat insects ?”
We’ve read that work, and the effect has been
something wonderful. NO butchers’ bills, now;
no fish luncheons, no game suppers—nothing but
insects, and creeping things generally. One ad-
vantage of this kind of diet is in keeping the
doctor out of the house. You never need drugs
when you can get slugs. Splendid things for the
system are slugs. Pass the banjo, and we'll charm
the lizards (fattening for to-morrow’s breakfast)
with a little music:—
The Her. J. Byng has kindly undertaken
to point out a few of the “Perils of Melbourne.”
You know most of them already. For instance,
cigars, drinks, betting, billiards, and cards are
standing dishes of peril. Even oyster saloons, the
“snuggeries” of which Mr. Byng especially dis-
approves—sly dog I—even they have been men-
tioned In warning tones by other purists. But
Mr. Byng has struck out quite a new peril for
himself in “marine dancing.” After telling us
that “men’s passions are fired by promiscuous
dancing,” he adds: “but of all the free-and-easy
nasty dancing he ever witnessed, the scene on
board a steamer down the Bay last Queen’s Birth-
day was the most disgusting. They were mauling
and hugging one another like ourang-outangs.”
Without doubting for a moment that they did
maul and bug in a manner very tantalising to the
reverend spectator—who, probably, had no girl
with him—we must yet protest against dancing on
one of those venerable old steamers being classi-
fied as a "peril,” except to the steamer itself: -
When the noble Bat., on his engagement
with the Princess Beatrice being consummated,
discovered that they would have to be in everlast-
ing attendance on the Queen, be called his flancie
aside, and said: “I say, Bee, isn’t this playing it
pretty low on the groom ? Why, look here, hal f
the fun of the whole thing would be in us going
for a trip to Battenberg-Collopshosselheim, and
cutting a dash; they’d all go mad with envy. It’s the
funniest capital eve" you see. The castle has only
j three rooms, and one of ’em s a stable; and all my
brothers do all day loag is to fence for halfpenny
glasses of beer and toss for pipes of tobacco. Why,
we could drive,” he added, in dejected tones, “all
over the kingdom In two afternoons, and it's only
a penny an hour.” “Never mind; cheer up, old
fellow,” replied the Princess; “ there’s one advan-
tage, at any rate, for you in living with mother
——” “What’s that?” asked the groom-elect*
gloomily. ‘ 1 Why, you kno w, dear,” she ans wered,
“you won’t have to get up and take in the milk.”
[3uoh of our contemporaries as honour us by
copying this piece of fashionable intelligence into
their papers will kindly credit us with the same.
Choice bits like this don’t come by wire every day
from our s; eclal correspondent.—Bn. B ]
Ladies, when you are next cooking just give
Kingsford's Oswego Cornflour a trial.
BRIEF MENTION.
How’s this for low ? In a fashionable 8yd
ney suburban church a few Sawbatbs ago the con-
gregation was officially informed that its average
contributions for 400 well-to-do worshippers
amounted to the munificent sum of 3i. per Sun-
day’s service. This is just about half as much as
is scooped in on the same day by the little pub.
round the corner. When it comes to a matter of
monetary appreciation the Trewth is never in it
by the side of Tangle.
At Wages a Wagga, it appears, they eat
oleomargarine, and seem to have made it by coating
railway-grease and hair-oil with real butter.
This being found out by a man wh o bought 30s. lid.
worth of it (he must have been fond of butter!) he
prosecuted the vendor, and got him a month.
When in court, the prosecutor was much moved.
He said he was sorry for the prisoner’s 19 children,
but Justice must be done. He could have put up
with the railway-grease; but what he really
couldn’t stand was the hair-oil.
We see by the War Cbt that on Sunday,
at Nowra, they got “ three in tho fountain.” one
of whom was a Chinaman. We once knew a China-
man who “ travelled ” on being converted. To be
converted alone he charged 3s. 01. and lOlbs. of
flour; but if he’d got to “testify” he bad 3s. 6d.,
301bs. of flour, and a gill of rum. Walcha was the
last place we met. and there we said to him: “ You
no more sellee cabbages Sydney side ?” To which
the much-converted one replied, with great ani-
mation, “ You tinkey me damfoo I ”
From last Friday’s S. M. Herald:—
“ Blank —August 36. Blank, a native of Ham-
burg, and a worthy and esteemed Brother of the
R.A.O.B., 3, Nil Desperandum: died at the Coast
Hospital, Little Bay, In his 33rd year. May his
soul rest in peace. By order. 8. Leveson, hon.
sec.” "R.A.O B,” we [may Inform you, gentle
reader, means “ Royal AntedeluvIMlOrder of Buf-
faloes,” and it is by order of 8. Leveson, their hon.
secretary, that men’s souls “rest in peace” or
otherwise, now-a-dayp. We have it at last. Heaven
is but a matter of the “ R.A O.B.” and a shilling a
week.
The paper was at his feet, and he stood
before the cheval glass as usual, before starting
for his office, putting on the pearl cream, pencilling
his arched eyebrows, and indulging in other of
those little aids to beauty (quite unnecessary in
his easel) to which even the most lovely are ad-
dicted. “ Nine columns about him to-day,” he
said, with a groan; then executing a pas de rage
before the mirror, he cried: " I wish to heaven ne
would go homel’ Then he went down to his con-
vivial breakfast- a soda biscuit and a cup of green
(ei.
The Warrnambool Standard, one of the
eloquent organs of the Victorian yeomanry, thus
ploughs the resources of language in describing
a local concert:—“ The musical accompaniments
were most carefully and accurately rendered by
Mr. John Welsh on the violin, who came from
Warrnambool tor the purpose, with Mr. P. Carroll,
on a very powerful concertina ” This is the kind
of writing that gave the Evening News the first
great grip on the reading public of Sydney. Only
we know the lordly Alf. is kissing the hands of
duchesses in the metropolis of the world, wo
would have thought he had strayed down to
Warrnambool to "give pleasure to all.”
All the Bathurst (N.8.W.) pigs are dying
of diphtheria. Tae trouble has been the difficulty
of giving them their gargles. In the first place
you have to wake tne pig, soothingly; then “up-
end ” it against the wall of the hospital ward, and
finally administer the stuff gently in a bucket,
adjuring the patient at the same time not to swal-
low It. The operation, however, turned out to
have so many unexpected variations that, after
two dajs of hard gargling, volunteers couldn’t be
got for a pound a pig. They’re all dead now but a
big boar, who gargles three tlmei a day (after
three struggles and a death), with hie head on one
side and nis eyes turned up in ecstacy; but, as his
bill at the chemist’s, daily, is £1 3s.. his cost for
attendance £3 per diem, and his account for corn-
flour £1 8j. weekly, the Corporation are praying
to Heaven that he may die tool Men are howling
about scarcity of employment, yet they won’t
gargle a pig for a pound a “pop.” We wonder
what they will say when they hear of this at the
“statterr
Our Robert wore a black felt hat.
The scarf around his throat
Was white and black, and more than that,
He had an overcoat;
His trousers and his vest were grey,
His height was five feet five—
The sum of flfy pounds we’ll pay
For Robert “all alive.”
And, kindly note, you only need
Look out for aged men.
Since Robert’* years by seven exceed
The three score, plus the ten;
And if he’s dead, and you produce
His venerable cadlver.
It won’t, we fear, be any use,
But still—we’ll stand a “fiver.”
He thought, “'and Mick’s got coin for her,
And she’ll keep Ebenezer.
The day is fixed, and Michael's coin
We’ll spend in highest glee, sir.”
He little knew that Mick had bought
A stick, did Ebenezer.
He nimbly tripped up to the house,
And thought Mick was away, sir;
“ Hurrool an’ Is’t yersllf Is come 7
Take that, now, Ibbinazir,
“ An’ that, an* that, ye ould sphalpane,”
And blood flowed very free, sir;
And ’tis from Mick he got the name
Of One-eared Ebenezer.
THE SONG OF THE INSECTARIAN.
Roast beef and mutton, fare thee well I
Fat pig, renowned in fable.
So tempting to the taste and smell,
We’ve banished from our table;
No sign of joints upon our board,
Of game or fish shall you see—
Expensive viands we can’t afford,
While worms are cheap and Juicy.
Oh, Mr. Byng,
To you we sing
In mild expostulation,
And beg you be
Less frank and free
In dealing out damnation.
There may be vice
In billiards, dice,
In poker, or in euchre;
And add to those.
E’en dominoes,
If played for filthy lucre.
In theatres, bars,
Pipes, and cigars,
There may be aught unselfish,
And for your sake
No more we’ll take
An oyster, whelk, or crayfish.
But, taking trip
On pleasure ship,
Adown the bay so breezy,
Man—like the waves -
At times, behaves
A little free-and-easy.
In mazy dance
A girl may chance
To get a little squeezing,
The Sydney Baby Harvest.
ONE-EARED EENEZR,
Vain Scoffer, though you may deride
Our tastes as “ of the gutter,”
We beg to think you've never tried
A flea, with melted butter;
At once to insect joys you’d fly,
We’ll take our Alfred Davy,
If only you’d the pluck to try
A wasp in thickened gravy.
No need to say that bitter ale
(Bass—frothing and delicious)
Goes splendidly with scalloped snail
(This latter'? so delicious),
A liztrd beats the choicest fish—
An ant your palate tickles—
A beetle makes a splendid dish
With caterpillar pickles.
On butterflies we won't dilate,
Nor rave about cockroaches—
We haven't time, ’tis getting late,
Our dinner hour approaches;
Just ponder well on Vincent’s text,
Avoid the meat he vetoes,
And look us up on Sunday next,
To try some fried mosquitoes.
’Tis only fun,
And—ten to one—
She likes it—finds it pleasing.
So, though the way
They gambol may
Remind you of the monkeys—
Well, better hug,
And maul, and “ mug,”
Than smirk and fawn like flunkeys.
“ I’ve had no luck. This dlggln’s done.
It’s dash’d hard times for me, sir;
Let others starve, just as they please—
It's not for Ebenezer.
“ i’ll hie me to the Methodists
And bend a contrite knee, sir,
And sing and pray and see if they
Don’t feed up Ebenezer.
«I’d sing a hypm, expound a text,
And anything I’ll be, sir.
I’ll catechise, I’ll groan—it’s all
The same to Ebenezer.
“ The brethren all shall grant to me
Their hospltalitee, sir;
And pious sisters cook their best
For brother Ebenezer.”
So spoke this carnal-minded man,
Pretending sanctity, sir:
And might have done so to this day,
But love slew Ebenezer.
His marriage vows were all forgot,
“ Here nobody knows me, sir,”


The Prince of Wales has stopped taking
the Pall Mall Gazette. It is possible, however,
that be has done worse things than that.
The Melbourne D.T. says that the vigorous
denunciation of vice will always bo objected to by
two classes —the vicious, and the unhealthily vir-
tuous.
The Echo, the other day, gave a record of
the names of the women who edit newspapers. A
man in a tram searched but could not find the
name of the editor of the Echo among them.
More modesty.
The Wagga Wagga Advertiser says the
Sydney Echo Is “nothing, if not classical.” As-
suredly, then, the Echo is nothing. Its intellec-
tual complexion is that of Scriptural platitude
and literary stupidity.
Does the reader know the technical term
for a dead person whose life has been insured ? We
didn’t know It ourselves till a balance-sheet en-
lightened us this morning. The dead party is
termed a “ matured risk.
Blue Ribbon Clark says that “at a funeral
In Brisbane, the other day, the clergyman in at-
tendance was so intoxicated that he could not
read the service for the dead.” Well, why should
a drunken parson be able to read the burial
service ?
A Melbourne gentleman, after enquiring
“What is sin?” parcels it out into three lots.
Transgressions. Sins, and Iniquities. This is smart.
The “transgression” of the parson is the “sin’
of the churchwarden, and the sin of the church-
warden is the "iniquity ” of the poor devil in the
free seats.
The Harmy leaders have been around
Sydney. They travelled up Macquarie-street and
down College-street. They then went to the War
Cry office, and got the following beautiful prayer
Inserted in last Saturday’s issue:-"Oh, may God
help us to Jive that we may prove beneficial to this
half-damned city.”
"Yes,” he said, looking in the glass, and
tipping the <*ap over his left eye, and winking with
the right. “ Very neat, very neat indeed. Never
was better fitted. Always fancied red. 111 have
Dublin yet, though.” And then he roared down-
stairs—" Where’s ray shaving-water ? Is this the
way to treat a Kyardlnal ?”
THE SYDNEY BABY FARM.
When next your Infant son aunoys
As round the house he yells and prances:
Just send him to that farm for boys
That’s run by Joseph and by Francis.
When next you see the mite the chance is
He’s sharing your celestial joys.
The Evening News says—“The Afgansh
eat onions as we do apples.” Our readers will,
therefore, at once understand the cause of the
recent attacks by the Russians. They were
obliged to use their guns to keep the Afghans
from hailing distance. And now we can easily
believe Marvin’s statement that the Inhabitants of
Afghanistan are a strong race, and long-winded.
They never get out of breath.”
The Rev. T. J. Pepper prayed recently at
Townsville (Q.), that peace would crown the nego-
tiations between England and Russia. Should war
break out, however, he begged the Almighty to
help England. That is queer praying. It is un-
manly. Now, if the Almighty will not, after all
the entreaties, bring about peace, we think the
fair and square thing for Him to do Is to stand out
altogether, aud let the best nation win.
The editor of the Singleton Argus avers,
In his paper, that a black snake recently swal-
lowed a dog. Well, it’s several days now since
this was published, and we are perfectly con-
vinced that, while risking nothing on the snake s
account, anyone who journeyed up there would
be pretty sure to come across the dog In a high
state of reality—whatever might be the opinion of
the editor on the subject. With us, a talkative,
saucer-eyed bull-dog, with a camel s scornful
upper-lip, Is generally the first to come and the last
to go!
There has been a great accession lately to
the ranks of the idle in one of the towns of
Northern Queensland. Residents have tried
runainir them into gaol, but it is no use. They
come out and hang around for another whisky.
One philosopher suggests that they are too low
and mean to call men, and that a good way to
shame them out of the town would be to refer to
them, whether In society or before the Court, as
“ women.” He quotes Fenlmore Cooper in his
favour. Is that philosopher married? If he is,
for how much is his life insured ?
The S.M. Herald, after sitting on the
journalistic fence for nearly a fortnight, last
Saturday pronounced an opinion concerning the
Pall Mall Gazette, by commending the publi-
cation of its famous articles. This does not show
that the Gazette took the right course, but it does
show that the Herald (after careful observation!
has come to the conclusion that that course has
the support of the public. Thus does the “lead-
ing” daily of N.S.W., as a man who engineer,} a
barrow, follow closely In the rear of that popular
opinion which it professes to direct.
Disgusted with the run on the local Regis-
trar In a Western Queensland town, the Wesleyan
minister has offered to marry indigent couples for
nothing. The Registrar can now do nothing but
offer to do the same and give a cradle to be raffled
among every half-dozen pairs wh un he unites.
Apropos, poor old Bishop B , once of Sydney,
used to say that the meanest man be ever
met was a fellow who, after being “ spliced ” and
blessed for nothing, rounded the parson up in the
vestry and begged half-a-orown towards getting
lodgings for himself and his blushing bride.
A well-known Melbourne man the other
day lent a lazy, worthless acquaintance a pair of
opera-glasses. The borrower forgot to return
same to the owner, and when the latter learned
that his property had been pawned, he sent a note
to his kind friend asking him to forward the
pawn-ticket so that the glasses could be redeemed.
The borrower complied with the request, and on
the back of the ticket penned the following
words: "The fruitful source of crimo consists in
one man possessing in abundance that of which
another man la entirely destitute.” Thus, at last,
we have met the champion cool man.
Seymour L. Robinson, the young clerk who
robbed the Federal Bank, Melbourne, one day, and
admitted hla wickedness the next, deserves a little
commiseration. It was his unhappy fate to have
to sleep in a bank, by himself, on a salary of just
about “ thirty bob ” a week. Even that stipend
represented an increase of 75 per cent since enter-
ing the munificent employ of the bank, two years
previously. But perhaps if they had kept him at
the original £40 per annum, he would have been
now a respectable member of society, and on the
high road to fortune. The “rise” turned his
brain, we expect. Bank clerks are better without
" rises”—it they have any brains.
The Sydney Express sharpens its pious
tomahawk and goes for the S. M. Herald The
latter published, from its Roman correspondent, a
letter bristling with news about Irish prelates and
the Vatican. It goes without saying that the news
was unreliable. The Express, however, is not
content with calling the effusion a digest of
" venomous lies.” It adds that “ the lies must
have been known to be lies by the Herald’s edi-
torial staff.” That does not follow. Dulness to
discover truth and dulness to detect lies go to-
gether. We do not attribute personal cognisance
of guilt to the Herald in matters of the first
character. Why should we in matters of the
second ?
Captain Nicholas Tooth, of Maryborough
(Q.), orders bis officers to shave their ohins. He
leaves them the moustache and muttou-ohop
whisker, however. There is military fitness in
this. A Queensland soldier with hair hanging
from his chin would fall reasonably within the
scope of the Goat Act. Captain Nicholas Tcoth,
by the way, is not only a warrior but a wit. One
evening, some years ago, he sate at the same tea-
tire board with Jack Aunear, the railway contrac-
tor, who, thinning to make merry at hla expense,
proposed as a toast, "Tue two Nicks—Old Nick,
aud Nick Tooth.” Whereupon Nicholas arose in
bis might and solemnly toasted, " The two Jacks-
lack Annear aud Jack Ass.”
The Far Northern editors again. Thus
biays the Cooktown Macaulay:— *• The junior
cjiseman who runs the Times by blring
bard-up itinerants to turn his muddied gibberish
into orthographic mediocrity, calls his contem-
porary ‘a hound,’ &j.,and yet insults journalism
by his silly pretensions to be considered a pro-
fessor of Belles Lettres. Although now allowed to
wear stand-up collars, to part his hair in the
middle, and to squint at scullery maids, evidently
by language and instinct ho is still the ‘gutter-
gamin ’ of Mackay, and ‘the molly-ceddle devil of
Bowen,’ and is never likely to be anything better,
unless the rolling pin of the coming editress or the
toe of Ben Hill’s boot works a radical refor-
mation.”
You know the man that got the editorship
of that N.S.W. country paper. He showed us por-
tions of bis answer to the boss’s letter. One ques-
tion was—" W hat are your qualifications for the
post ? ” to which he returned the following digni-
fied reply—" I have been a pupil of zlhchylus the
greatest writer the world has seen. [ base my
writing-plan upon his gigantic philosophy.” Next
dav the following wire was received at the head
office—“You’re engaged. Gome immediately, and
bring the other gentlemen with you. Is be an
Irishman ? ” The lucky applicant is up there now,
all right, and when things begin to tone down a
bit, we expect to see his leaders on the “gory
Guelphs ” all come out in circus type, with a 31n.
scroll-border.
Lord St Leonards is undoubtedly “ going
it,” but they ought not to have rushed his name
into the papers in connection with such a plebeian
bit of business as a bar riot. It’s a slur on the
British peerage—it Is, indeed. And if Lord St.
Leonards did have a thirst on him after business
hours, why shouldn’t he be served I We have
always been under the impression that It was the
duty of every faithful subject of the Queen to
give her peers as much drink as they asked for.
There are plenty of ’em who’d be proud to do it,
if St. Leonards will only take the trouble to look
’em up. The proud peer has dropped into the
Wrong set. VYe know Bottle Sydney men who
would “ smile” for his Lordship till the crack of
doom if he patfomagd them with an occasional
“ d—n you. ’ * God bless the peerage I
We are sorry for old Symes, although he
is a bit of a bore, and one who
“ Goes at his tenses as though they were fences,”
In the papar; b'ut as the affair will probably result
in Joseph being able to put up another terrace, we
can’t say we have wept very, bitterly for him.
Here is a little tale—all thisyremlnds us about
Joseph. When Joe became a journalist, 7 he thought
it would be a fine thing to be tucompo., too. So be
bought a second bauu case of long primer, and
gave out he was going to deliver his articles to his
foreman In type. "It s as easy.’V'purred'Joe, " as
making a boot;” and sitting down before the
frame, he began on his copy. And to see him
work was beautiful; so quick, tool As fast as he
got the letter, or stop, or whatnot he wanted, he’d
drop the type into a little tin-pot, and when he
had done he called a boy dowopas imperiously as
possible, and handing him the pannikin, said,
“ Tell Mr. Jobson to let me havem proof of that as
soon as possible, and tell him I want to know how
he likes the title of the article.” He was setting
the next one—a crusher for Kerferd—In a water-
jug. when one of the bands looked in to,tell him
that the foreman had been called suddenly to
Aiabia, but trusted the management would for-
ward the amount of his wages to "Typo.,” G.P.O.,
Melb jurne.
“Money Makes the Mare Go.”
“ There is not a poor man in the list. The N.8.W. Legislative Assembly keeps touch of poverty, for poverty smacks of the people; but the N.S.W. Legislature
is the embodiment of wealth. The accession gazetted yesterday is an accession of many hundreds of thousands of pounds sterling to an institution which already Repre-
sented millions of money.”—D. T.


POISON IN THE
• ’ .' . v •
THE CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATIONS
X="CINDIAN
CUP!
TE-A-S.
quality of your Tea has a higher
extract than any Packet Teas we
have examined.
“ J. COSMO NEWBERY.
“ FREDERICK DUNN.”
It will be thus seen that the
highest and best authority pro-
curable pronounces even our
lowest priced teas at 2s. 6d. per
lb. to be superior In purity and
analysis to any of those above
mentioned teas at 3s. 6d. per lb.
Further comment is superfluous.
The teas of the Calcutta Tea As-
sociation are the produce of up-
wards of 50 of the most celebrated
Indian tea estates, which, blended
together, make the most perfect
tea the world can produce. They
are blended by competent tea
tasters, assisted by analytical
chemists of the highest standing.
Every Inducement is given to
the merchants and storekeepers
throughout the colonies to keep
our teas in stock, but should con-
sumers not be able to obtain them
from their regular grocer, they
can purchase at our wholesale
warehouses, as a sample, any
quantity from half a pound up-
wflrds.
Those living at a distance who
cannot be supplied locally can
have sent direct from the Mel-
bourne wholesale warehouses any
quantity from 101b. weight up-
wards,.freight and carriage free,
to the nearest port or railway
station on receipt of bank dralt
or post office order made payable
to the Calcutta Tea Association or
order.
Our teas are packed in J£lb. and
Jib. packets, 6, 10 and 251b. tin
canister ; half-chests in lead of
401b and upwards.
The teas sent out by us, duty
paid in Victoria and New Soutu
Wales, are of three prices, and are
sold in any of the above size pack-
ages, at 3s. 6d., 3s., and 3s. «d. per
lb. Sibthorp's mixture at 3s. 6d.
per lb., in packages of not less
than 101b.
On account of the difference ia
duty the prices in New Zealand,
and Queensland are 2s. 03,3s. 3d,
and 3s. 9d. t per ib , duty paid.
When purchasing ask for
THE CALCUTTA TEA AS-
SOCIATION'S PURE
INDIAN TEAS.
See that you are supplied with
them, Don’t bo prevailed upon
to take any other tea. If you can-
not be supplied in one store try
another.
ne ware of piracy and imitations.
All our teas are marked THE
CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIA-
TION’S PURE INDIAN TEAS.
The price and weight, with in-
structions for brewing,are marked
on the end of eaeh package.
Hitherto the Australians have
had no option, but were forced to
purchase trasn called tea which
was shipped here from China and
other ports; now they have an
opportunity of purchasing the
pure Indian teas supplied by the
Calcutta Tea Association, which
is the most perfect tea that can
be produced.
There is no Instance on record
of Indian Tea being adulterated.
We will, at the request of any of
our patrons, send, or allow them
to send, a sealed packet of our
teas to an analytical. chemist, and
if found to be adulterated we will
forfeit £500 to the charities.
We are sorry to say that some
of the storekeepers who sell our
Teas try to prevail upon custo-
mers to purchase other Teas, for
the simple reason that they make
a larger profit.
The Teas of the Association arc
all labelled “THE CALCUTTA
TEA ASSOCIATION’S PURE
INDIAN TEA,” and the prices
are marked on every package.
The public will please ask tor
them, and take no others. They
are guaranteed pure and of the
highest class, and such Teas can
only be supplied by an Association
having command of the produce
of not less than Fifty Tea Estates,
which are blended so as to pro-
duce the most perfect teas in the
world.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN
TO ALL PERSONS
Either
PACKING or BELLING TEAS
With an
IMITATION OF OUR
WRAPPERS
That they will be
PR OSECUTED.
And that this notice now given
will be used to prove a guilty
knowledge against all persons
either imitating our wrappers or
Belling teas in any wrapper with a
colorable imitation of ours.
J. B. TAYLOR, Secretary.
CA LCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION
28 KING-8T., MELBOURNE.
m fa
wd
IS
llb-2/C
: ji_
&/SI
::::::
es
m2tf
£££.
mmm
W£
9/7:
&/S
s
US
1
-:■
S5*
MmmM
m
.1 - ■•
teu<
Z4"M
7*Z C <
<3 3
-T
>•*
■
i’i
T?
*5
sA
£
%
<s
A
%
3>
«0
y.
%
A-%
«?
v
&
s
iNbiAN UAtJiAlc
iiiHfl
-0, •';
1
5 ,fc "3T
5MM
ila/iSiHH
«
«
Bi
5.^3/i
5»”2/6
PURE INDIAN TEA
Will so much further than the ordinary teas, and consequently less need be used. It Is well to bear this in
because when pure Indian Tea Is used too much may be put in the pot, audits very goodness may create a prejudice
against it. INDIAN TEA PROPERLY BLENDED,
As is BO efficiently done by the CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION, Is purer, stronger, more palatable, more economical, and In every
way superior to the Chinese rival. Give the CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION’S TEAS a lair trial in the teapot. Use one-third
ray superior to tne unmese rival, wive me iau/u ha ± no. noouwauun u T.v tn.ir
ess for an Infusion than yqu would a f/iaTo'nh J wYn
less lor an iniusiun inan ywu nuum in iiiuua i«t. uicauo icnuj ■> on.,u» v. — r v. —t
grocer for the CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION’S PURE INDIAN TEAS, and give them a ? honest, u ?P^^ d lc^ trial, and we will
stake “ Lombard-street to a China orange** that never again by choice will you revert to the shady, insipid, doctored teas ot John
Chinaman, but will in future drink the
Calcutta Tea Association’s Pure, Unadulterated, Fragrant,
Full-Bodied Indian Teas.
Made In the Indian Gardens of old John Bull.
SOLD BY ALL RESPECTABLE TEA DEALERS AND GROCERS IN ALL THE COLONIES,
Gradually, but surely, since the
day when the Somersetshire far-
mer’s wife- having received a pre-
sent of the “ TEa” that was then
an unknown luxury, presented it
to her husband carefully cooked.
In the form of a plate of cabbage—
the said Tea has assumed the po-
sition of the most Important, and
certainly the healthiest of beve-
rages, “the Cup that Cheers but
not Inebriates.” It is only of late
years, however, that tea drinkers
have been awakened to the fact
that there is danger even in That
Cup, and that the market may be
as readily filled with deleterious
compounds under the name of
Tea, as it may with spurious and
poisonous wines or spirits.
It is to remove the risk of these
impositions that the
CALCUTTA TEA
ASSOCIATION
and its objects are now presented
to the public notice for the pur-
pose of supplying consumers with
PURE AND UNADULTE-
RATED INDIAN TEA,
beyond all suspicion of its being
in any way or in the slightest de-
gree tampered with. That there
exists a necessity for this project,
to prevent consumers from the
risk of drinking what is nothing
more nor less than a Poison in its
most insidious and destructive
form, has been recently proved
beyond all shadow of doubt.
The Victorian Press has. from
time to time, pointed out that
large quantities of teas imported
into this market from China were
adulterated to an extent that ren-
dered them nearly as injurious to
the consumers as the deadly
the following report of the
Chief Analyst of the Technologi-
cal Museum, Melbourne, on 5435
half-chests, quarters and boxes of
CHINA IE a sold by auction in
Melbourne on last January!—
“ All the samples are of very
inferior description, and are, in
my opinion, unfit for human con-
sumption. They all contain rot-
ten and exhausted leaves, leaves
that have none of the general
characters of tea-leaves, dust (not
tea dust), gum, starch and foreign
colour, seeds of various kinds,
stalks, bark, sand and earthy
matter, hair and other matter of
.o‘m.1 orljWjQ NEWBEBY.'
" “B. 8C., C.M.G.”
Mr. Gunn, the recognised Tea
Analyst, reports on 9?5 packages
of China Tea received into this
market:-" It was difficult to find
a perfect and genuine tea leaf in
the samples, and that the stuff
consists for the most partofde-
cayed, exhausted, or foreign
(other than tea) leaves, foreign
stems, tea sweepings, held to-
gether in little nodules by starch,
paste and pieces of brick husk and
hut shells. All this rubbish was
faced with plumbago, to give it a
black appearance, and was totally
unfit for dietary purposes.
You can now obtain
URE TEA FROM INDIA,
A BRITISH POSSESSION,
ithout being dependent upon
•reigners in the first instance,
id being poisoned by them in the
icond.
fE CALCUTTA TEA ASSO-
CIATION has hem formed for
he purpose of offering to the
it/ UUI UVOKJ \fj 'SJJ -• •'■•W
lerchants, Grocers, and Con-
sumers PURE INDIAN
5 !
\EA SYNDICATE, and guar-
nteed Free from all Mixture of
hinese, Japan, or other deleteri-
Tea, as shown by the fUlow-
ig Letter from Messrs. James
r enty and Co,, a firm of the
- • n(i
: f11 u wnu . • r y
ihest standing, ayid agents for
b Calcutta Tea Syndicate, Little
Uins-street West:—
) the secretary of the
llcutta tea associa-
ON.
• 26 King-street, Melbourne.
Lt your request we have re-
;edly Inspected your large
k of teas, and found same all
IE INDIAN TEAS, selected
idia by the Calcutta Tea Syn-
HENTY and Co.
j g —We have also transferred
ou the stock and sole agency
bthorp’s Indian Teas, as sun-
iDtnui p o luumu "“<r
1 to visitors during the whole
he International Exhibition.
If stronger evidence be wanted
ge can supply it. Read the fol-
owing:—There can be no stronger
»stimony adduced to the unrival-
ed superiority of our Indian Teas
)ver all other competitors# Messrs.
Uewbery and Dunn, the Govern-
ment Analytical Chemists, report
ON THREE SAMPLES
OP INDIAN TEA RECEIVED
PROM THE CALCUTTA TEA
ASSOCIATION.
“The above samples have been
sarefully examined by us. They
ire ABSOLUTELY PURE, and
ve may add that even the lowest
TRY A 101b. TIN OF THIS TEA AND YOU WILL NEVER USE ANY OTHER SORT.
■unulled wholesale by R. BOWMAN and CO., Melbourne; WHITE, COUNSEL!, and CO., Adelaide; NEILL, BROS., Dunedin,N.*.; JOHNSTON and CO., Wellington, NZ.;
1 and by Wholesale Merchants In all the I o’onles.
GEORGE GRIFFITHS and CO., Merchants. Bridge-strcet, Sydney, have been appointed
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales.


BEALE & COMPANY.
BEALE & COMPANY
Beale & Company.
SYDNEY and BEISBANE.
SOLE IMPORTE38 OF THE
Swaet Hapsburg Piano,
SWEET “ HAPSBURG ” PIANO,
Which, by Judicious Selection and Addition of
y, alua . b ie Improvements, they have raised to
trail em i 0r * >09ltion amoD S Instruments in Aus-
The Principal of the Firm is at present Visiting
the Continent of Europe, and the
SHIPMENTS NOW ARRIVING
contain all the
VERY LATEST IMPROVEMENTS.
MORE ARE STLD THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY than of
ANY OTHER MARE.
Ever Growing and Wideuinsr Popularity Attested
by High Testimony Daily Volunteered.
BEALE (STCOMPANY
Will Deliver a
Swaet “Hapsburg” Piano
(CARRIAGE PAID)
To any Wharf or Railway station in New South
Wales upon the most
LIBERAL TERMS OF TIME-PAYMENT.
Catalogues Free on Application.
BEALE AMD COMPANY,
Sydney Show Rooms,
386 and 613 GEORGE STREET,
13 CENTRAL MARKETS,
151 OXFORD STREET.
BRANCHES and TRAVELLERS THROUGHOUT
THB ioOLONY.
A HOUSEHOLD BLESSING.
THE “PHOENIX ” M ANGLE AND WRINGER,
£4 2s. Gtl.
As go">d for one purpose ai the other, and per-
forming both operations in the most perfect wav
Framework of the strongest tubular iron, risk of
breakage almost nil, practically indestructible,
works with me greatest, tate and freedom. No
household should be without one. and thirry ptr
cent, may be saved by purchasing from
ANTHONY JHORBERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket only.
“ BEACH’S ”
CONSULTATION!
ON THE
Hawkesbury Handicap, Metropolitan and
Melbourne Cup,
NOW OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10s. EACH.
First Horse, £330.
Address—
“ BEACH,”
Care of J. G. Deebje,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney
Please apply early.
m
5M
‘If I
8 If
i/ldL*
Sydney Bottling Co.
Ale & Porter Bottlers,
late
Macquarie place.
PHILLIPS & COMPANY,
418 George- Street,
Sydney.
Ale: Quarts, 7/-; pints, 4/6
Porter: Quarts, 7/; pints. 4/6
Trade Liberally dealt with.
TERMS-CASH.
Kingstord’s Oswego Cornflour has no equal in
the world.
Imitations of the jrenuine Wolfe's
Schnapps are more or less adulterated fiery com-
pounds. Therefore shun them.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We thaU be guM to nave thie tnaem potted «p a
leeretariet of racing elubt and managers e>
sporting event* in general}
RACING.
Tattersall's (August Meeting) August 29
Elsternwiok Park • ■ A.ugust 29
Adelaid- R.C Septemb.-r 1
Clonourry J.C September 3
Cairns J.C. (Q ) September 2. 3
Wild River J.C. (Q.) September 2 3
Canterbury Park R.C September 5
Gymple J.C. fQ.) September 9.10
Beenleigh (Q ) Raees, September 36
Uawkesbury (Spring) September 10 12
A J.C. (Spring) September 19, 22, 24. 36
Cooktown T.C September 22.23
Dubbo J.C September 30, October 1
Ballarat Hunt and T.C — October 1, 2
Melbourne H.C October 3
Rose hill R.C ..Octobers
Mudgee Tattersall’s R.C. (Spring) October 8.9
Sydney Turf Club • • .October
Victoria A.T.C. (Spring) October 10,17
Berrima District R.C October 13,14
Eureka T.C October 14
Canterbury Park R.C .October 17
Wollongong T.C October 21, 23
Moonee Valley October 24
V.R.C. Spring October 31, November 3, 5, 7
Queensland T C November ( . 9
Liverpool J.C November 9
Willlamstown R.C. V.) N °
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C. Spring...November 10,13.13
Nerandera J C November 13.13
Murrumbidgee T.C. (Spring)....November 18,19, 20
Yerong Creek November
Rookampton (J.C November 25, 28
Gunnedah (Annual) November Jy
Narrabrl J.C December 2.3
Brisbane Tattersall’s December 10
Canterbury Park R.C ... December 19
A.J.C. (Summer) December 26
Victoria A.T.C. (Summer) December 36
RoaehUl R.C December 28
V.B.C. (Summer) January 1
Tattersall’s (Annual) January 1
AQUATICS. „ ,
Sydney R.C. Regatta. Parramatta River —Sept. 5
Glebe R.C. Trial Pairs Septembers
North Shore R O. Regatta September 19
Backhouse v. Nelson September 19
Newcastle R.C. Regatta September
Lake George Regatta October
Davis v. Mftcl.Nan, at Woodburn October
New South Wales R A Regatta October 3
M.H.C. Branch Regatta October 17
Double Bay Regatta October 31
ATHLETICS.
Mudgee Sheffield Handicap September 9
E 8 A.A C. Sports September 26
Newcastle Cricket and Football Club’s
Sports September 26
Eight Hours’ Art Union and Sports, Agri-
cultural Snooty's Grouuds.... October i
’CYCLING.
Redfern B C. Road Kaco from Windsor to
Sydney September 5
Newciatle Q.C. Road Race from Newcastle
to Wallsend and back September 5
Oriental UO and Sydney T C. Joint Race
Meetlcg, Association C.icket Ground..Sent. 12
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
As a rule, the S. M. Hkhald ignores all
mention of matters pugilistic, but when the Old
Lady does launch forth on these matters, she is
certainly original. In Piiday’s irsue she givesan
account of the benefit to Jack Hall, which even-
tuated on the previous Tuesday evening at Foley’s
Athletic Hall at the White Horse Hotel Bald
Granny ; The entertainment, whi h was a
varied one,coml tlrg rf sirsle stick play, fencing,
and boxlrg. was terminated with a scientific dis-
play with me gloves b« tween the champion sma-
lt ur of Sydney and the benefleiaire ” Now, as a
matter of fact, there was ub single stick play, and
no fencing, the only re lef to the boxing being a
sorg and datce by a versatile young parry by the
name of Lawson,
• • »
It seems peculiar that practices which in
horse-iaoing, footracing, and aquatics would meet
with Instant disqualifies ion, should be winktdat
and looked upon as the correct thing In cycling
circles. The running at the r< cent Sydney meet-
ings has shown that a wheelman may start in a
race purely on the cutting-out raket, and without
even making ft show of trying to win In one of
the daillf* lest week we noticed it coolly stated
that many men entered at the Sydi ey Club meet-
ing merely went to “feel the track,” and reserved
themselves for their final running at the Union
meeting on the following Saturday. The pacer in
question did not write In this strain with the idea
of showing the unfairness ot such practices, but
urged it as an additional attraction to the Union
races. The state of Sydney cycling is completely
rotten, and demandsthat the Union bo run under
an entirely new constitution. As matters stand at
present, tho worst class of professional pedestrian-
ism has little to fear from a comparison with
Sydney cycling.
• •
Richard Matthews, the American boxer,
has had a lively time of it In N Z., and whatever
he may do when pitted against a really good man,
he certainly makes short work of all the Maorl-
ianders who are brought before him. Matthews
latest exploit is the knocking out of W. Wilkinson,
at Auckland, in the Lorne-street Hall, before a very
large assemblage. Matthews has beaten the fol-
lowing men since his advent in Australia and New
Zealand:-At Adelaide, S.A , on February 11th,
1882, beat James M’Nalty, bare knuckles; at Bom-
bala, N.8.W, 23rd November, 1833, Prank Qrear,
•with natures weapons; at Dunedin, NZ, 16th
March, 18i5, Pettengell with soft gloves ; ac New-
castle, N.b.W., April 4, 1885, Pat Walsh, bare
knuckles; at Auckland, NZ, E. Donovan, with
gloves; Hurcomb’s “Unknown;” W. Bowe, of
Timaru ; on 4th July, W. Piynn, at Dune-
din ; on 24th July again beat Flynn ; beat J.
O’Neill on 25th July at Hokitika; and on 1st
August knocked out M. O’Loughlin in four
rounds. Matthews contemplates a visit to Sydney
shortls where we daresay he will find a tougher
bit of work before him than he has as yet dropped
across in the land of the Moa.
• • •
How long will it be before we again have
a professional sculling race on the Parramatta?
Just as we were looking forward to a good set-to
between Matterson and Kemp, the latter must
needs go crooked and forfeit to Matterson, and if
rumours may be depended upon, the Matterson
party were not sorry, as the young Clarence River
man was anything but well himself. The next
best thing is the race between Nelson and Back-
house, to come off on the 19th September next.
The “dark ’un,” Backhouse, is said to have come
from the Braidwood district, and so far has been
doing his rows from Reid and Steven’s shed in
Johnston’s Bay. Glebe Point; but, in these days of
“foxing,” it is bard to say what to think of him.
We have seen him out several times, and on one
occasion, he did a really good piece of rowing.
There is plenty money at his back, and should he
show to advantage in his coming trouble, he will
find a good sportsman behind him, should be wish
to ttv at higher game. We have heard that Charles
Messenger has been asked to look after him up the
river but before this appears in print all that may
fce settled, and the pair may bo located in training
quarters. #
Daniel O’Leary, the sawdust-worrier, who
ylslted us some time since, has delivered himself
tuusly;—“The best record made by a go-as-you-
please man was scored by Fitzgerald when he
made 610 miles In six days, when Rowell at the
same time scored 601 miles. The best heel-and-toe
record for six days I m«da In 1878, when I won the
Astley belt In London and made 50134 miles There
were 19 Englishmen In the race, and I nlone repre-
sented America The year before Weston and I
walked fo- $3000 a side In London, and I downed
him. He was backed by Sir John Astley, and I
by Mr. Hake, of Liverpool. For the week’s work
I received a cheque on the Bank of London for
$14,000 It was a good week’s work, and I wouldn’t
mind repeating It. The winner received two-
ihirds of the receipts after paying expenses. 1
made 530 and Weston 510 miles In Chicago, Wes-
ton and I walked for the championship, and
divided the gate money, $11,000 even. I made 503
miles and Weston 45134. The championship at that
time was worth a great deal to me I think Wes-
ton and I will have another race some time next
fall, either in New York, Chicago, St. Louis, or
San Francisco, Weston is still a good man. He is
as sprightly as the best, and has caused more in-
terest in walking than any other man in the coun-
try. Of all the trampers living, the only one that
is wealthy is Rowell, and he is probably worth
$80 000. He handles it very carefully, and never
speculates. Six years ago I had $150,000. I was
not satisfied. T wanted to be a Vanderbilt or a
Gould, and began to dabble in stocks, and, as a
result, dropped ray bundle, but I never played a
card for money in my life or • bucked the tiger.’ I
have walked since July 14, 1874, 75,(00 miles in
matches and exhibitions in this county, England,
Ireland, and Australia. I have crossed the Atlantic
each way 16 times since 1876, and intend to return
to Australia next December, 1885. There are no
people on the face of the earth as good athletes as
the Australians. They pay a great deal of atten-
tion to football, boating, coursing, and cricketing,
and there are few people that can beat them at
any one of these games. The atmosphere there is
especially adapted to athletic exercises. I never
saw a man troubled with rheumatism or consump-
tion.” There’s something wrong here. Edward
Hanlan said the climate was so enervating, he had
to live in a cellar. However, they all seem to
agree that Australia is the sportsman’s paradise.
■ • *
Tattersall’s meeting at Randwick on
Saturday last proved a big boom, so far as the
racecourse proper was concerned, but the sand-
storm on the road to and from was—there being,
as usual, no watercarts—a “ perfect terror.” The
sport opened with the Hurdle race, which fell a
victory to Dr. Cortls’ Confidence, who defeated
Belle Brandon by three-quarters of a length after
a good finish. The Tramway Handicap was won
by Farewell from Prodigal; Wanda being
beaten on the post for second place; and
Tilda made a very easy victory for the
Selling race from Rosinante, old Terminus
running into a place. No less than twenty-eight
youngsters sported silk for Tatters ill’s Two-ycar-
old Stakes, but owing to a bad start, the race was
robbed of most of its interest. Signorina and
Halcyon got clean away at the start, and were
never interfered with. Halcyon getting the better
of the filly when a couple of hundred yards from
home, and winning with a length to the good. The
day’s racing was brought to a finish with the Lof cus
Handicap, which was won easily by Mr. W. A.
Long’s Comet, from Happy Thought, Folly third.
The Sydney Association Ground was fairly
attended on the occasion of the Cycling Union
meeting, but, in comparison to the attendance on
the previous Saturday, it looked pretty well
deserted. The event of the afternoon was looked
upon as Shackelford’s mile in the stat d time
of 2min. 53 3 5sec. in the first heat of the
mile handicap. Several watches made it over
3min., and as Shackelford had to pass all
his field wide of the posts, we are inclined to
think this time more correct than the stated 2 nia
53 3 5iec. The m le mald-.n handicap fell to W. H.
Ballard, from scratch; J. Phizackerly (50 yds.) won
the mile “Safety” race from Chapman; R. C.
Robertson (10 vds ) won the 150 yds. foot-rac=; K.
C. Hughes (160 yds.) carried off the mile bicycle
handicap; champion Bennett made an oasy win of
the three miles bicycle handicap; Lambton annexed
the mile without handles: Shackelford won the
half-mile flutter from his fellow-countryman,
Foulkes; W. J. Elliott, from Victoria (230 yds ),
scored a victory in the three miles handicap: and
C. Dwyer (50 yds.) won the miletricycle handicap
Both Shackelford and C. R. Wood started from
scratch for the three miles, and apparently made a
match of it between themselves without troubling
about first place. In the set-to at the finish Wood
showed he had the “foot” of the Wtishma , the
pair racing home at a rare bat, a little ahead.
* * *
Mr. Henry Chaplin, M.P.—now an impor-
tant member of the now Salisbury Government-
must have made an Immense sum of money. The
hundred thousand pounds which Hermit won for
his owner over the Derby of 1867 has been more
ban doubled by his valiant doings as a stud horse.
The last sale of Mr. Chaplin’s yearlings—mainly
the progeny of Hermit—realised an average of.
1630 gulnes. A Ally, by Hermit out of Adelaide,
fetched the fancy Agure of 3900 guineas, being
only 3C0 guineas more than was oaid for her own
sister in 1882. This latter was Queen Adelaide,
who came la third for the Derby of last year.
Although these prices are the highest ever paid for
yearling Allies, we fancy the Agure has been ex-
ceeded for colts. Unless our memory is much at
fault, Robert Peck once gave 4000 guineas for a
yearling named Maximilian, whose career was as
disastrous a failure as that of the Mexican Em-
peror himself.
• • •
The Hanlan-Teemer five event match is
not coming off after all, and Hanlan is receiving
some rather rough handling from the Press over the
affair. Itappearsthe dates were Axed upon, when
Hanlan asked for a postponement on account of bis
being unable to get a boat from the builders, but
at the same time Hanlan was rowing exhibition
races with Lee. Then Teemer put in his deposit
and, when the Canadian was asked to do likewise,
ho is represented as having drawn out of the match
for the stated reason that his friends thought the
Ave events looked too much like a crooked affair.
However, it is said Raman about this time offered
to row Ross either at Oak Point or at Manhattan
Beach, and in this connection a Yankee paper
says: ,l If Hanlan, as represented, has proposed to
row Roes either at Oak Point or Manhattan Beach,
Coney Island, he must have forgotten one place—
Madlson-tquare Garden. It may be objected that,
although it will hold a great many spectators, the
Garden is not the best course in the world for a
true test of carlo prowess. Neither is Oak Point
nor Manhattan Beach. All either Is At for in the
shellboat line is to draw a crowd.”
• • •
Ernest W. Moon, who is stated in the
Vankee papers to be the ‘ special” of the Aus-
tralian Sportsman, and the representative of J,
G. Decble, upon his arrival in the States sent the
following speclAo challenge to Richard K. Fox of
New York:—“ 1 will back William Beach to row
any man for £1003 a-side, and allow him £200 ex-
penses. or for £500 and allow him £100 expenses,
or £103 for every £100 they may put up. Of course
you know we will treat any man well that may be
bold enough to come to this country. This com-
mission is also in consideration that my friend
Beach shall meet with no affliction in the mean-
time.” As Teemer’s races with Hanlan are stated
to be “off,” we should not be at all surprised if
Fox, who appears ready at all times to back any-
one or anything for any number of dollars, takes
up the challenge and sends Teemer over to row
Baach for the Championship. Pox owns the N.Y.
Police Gazette, woich paper remarhed In a re-
cent issue:—“I think it Is absurd for Wm. Beach
to suppose he can style himself champion single-
scull oarsman of world and refuse to row for
the title. Richard K. Fox offers to back Hanlan
to row Beach for $5000a-side, and allow him $1000
for expenses to como to this country to row the
rrc?. Beach may refuse to accept the challenge,
but in doing so he forfeits the championship ol
the world.” The scribe who indited those lines
must have “ had ’em ” very badly.
• • •
There is something highly amusing about
the way in which Crossland, the “doubtful”
Lancashire bowler has received his quietus. The
Lancashire County Club declined to withdraw the
man from their team on the ground of his throw-
ing, and offered to refer the question to the Mary-
lebone Club, at the same time pointing out that
Crcssland had repeatedly played in M.C C matches
without being “no-balled" by their umpires
That the head cricketing tribunal could have de-
cided against Crossland, seeing that they had pre
viouily countenanced his “chuck,” is hardly likely,
but they have managed to extlnguisn the Lanca-
shire man's llaht by means of a fortuitous little side
wind Crossland was born in Nottinghamshire,
and the fact of him taking up his quarters there
sometimes during the winter months, enabled the
objection to be raised that he had not resided for
a sufficiently long consecutive period in Lanca-
shire to be qualified to play for his adopted county.
This objection-which in 99 cases out of 100 would
have been pooh-poohed—the M.C.C. have main-
tained. As Nottinghamshire won’t have Crossland,
that bite noir of English cricket is effectually shut
out from public matches for a season or two, and
will be denied the felicity of “shying” at the next
Australian team.
♦ ♦ *
In another column we give particulars of
the glove-fight between English Jack Hall and
colonial George Powell, for the light-weight cham-
pionship of Australia
A QUESTION OE PHONETICS.
ARDENT BLUE RIBBONITE (who has caught a friend slightly sober and lectured him for ha'f-an-
hour on the horrors of intemperance): “AND NOW, MY DEAR FRIEND, I HOPE YOU
WILL COINCIDE WITH ME ”
FRIEND (slightly sober): “GO INSHIDB WITH YOU1 WHY SHERTINLY (hie.)


Bray <S& Laiclitner,
32 O CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
GOMPAGNONI CATERING CO. } LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE oldest and leading Catering Establishment In N.8.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor,
Municipal Council of 8yd ey, the A.J.C., City Club, vo., &o.
Tne Din mg Saloons for Ladies and Gentlemen are the Finest, Coollest, and loftiest in the colony.
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar—Good Wine List,
par GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. (after the
Theatres. Select your own steak, Ac., and see it grilled In the room. This Is one of the acquisitions
nr the city, and a long-felt waut. Inspection invited Club rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Clue
and City Club, upstairs. Bi D. TOLLED! AC HE, General Manager,
IMPORTERS.,OF SUPPLIES
©\
-o
\D
L
Ss
0\T
v
09
'to
a i«i
to .C
$S3
8 2
5L
to ??
■S'*
&c
S'*
to-
U4
CL
.to
C
a
a.
a.
N
•2
c
s.
c
m
pi
<L
m
a;
\
5L
■//-'
&
111
Li
■PM
£
7a
oys*
Catalogues post free
w :to any part op
4T*.I AUSTRALIA.
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, best,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments, wlth mu uutmetion. for Novie*,:
ITi
BULL DOO ALB.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
1HE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
• | quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
T
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO.,
Bole Agents.
VENETIA WALTZ:
-T
tea.
wM/'ILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
VV of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &0.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues will be ready in a few days and
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed. Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most Important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograpn
takes off 3000 copies; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILUAM~BULLARD P
842 GEORGE STREET.
ARTIFICIALTEETH
roMPLETESFT
marshall’bro:
DENTISTS
133 ELI Z ABETH ST
N°
TICE TO THE TRADE
Now landing ex Late Arrivals.
half-tester nickel bedsteads.
HALF-TESTER BRASS BEDSTEADS.
HALF-TESTER IRON BEDSTEADS.
STUMP BEDSTEADS.
FRENCH BEDSTEADS.
BLACK and GOLD BEDSTEADS.
BLACK and BRASS BEDSTEADS.
50 Cases of No. 14 AUSTRIAN CHAIRS.
450 Cases of AMERICAN CHAIRS.
7C0 Bales of BEST JAVA KAPOK.
10 Bales of COTTON FLOCK.
20 Bales of CURLED HAIR.
10 Cases of TOILET GLASSES (Assorted).
20 Cases of ROWCL1FFE SPRING MATTRESSES
15 Bales of BLACK CURLED FIBRE.
13 Bales of WHITE WOOL FLOCK,
J. LAWLER,
608 George-&t., Sidney,
IMPORTER of FURNITURE. UPHOLSTERER,
and BEDDING MANUFACTURER.
|1 O ALL W O M B N
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
or TKY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERT
IN SOAP 1
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with it;
HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
tr Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
6d. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GBNT.’S ... .. ... 60, Is. 6d.; 100, as. 6d.
LADIES’ 60, as. Od.; 100, 3a. Od.
Address. 6d. extra.
■eat Business Cards.
100, 88. 6d,; 860, 6s. 6d.; 600, 10s.; 1000, 16s.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATS.
Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
m mci cm co.,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral.
No other complaints are so insidious in their
attack as those affecting the throat and lungs;
none so trifled with by the majority of suffer-
ers. The ordinary cough or cold, resulting
perhaps from a trifling or unconscious ex-
posure, is often but the beginning of a fatal
sickness. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral has
well proven its efficacy in a forty years’ fight
with throat and lung diseases, and should bo
taken in all cases without delay.
A Terrible Cougli Cured.
“ In 18571 took a severe cold, which affected
my lungs. I had a terrible cough, and passed
night after night without sleep. The doctors
gave me up. I tried Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, which relieved my lungs, induced
sleep, and afforded me the rest necessary
for the recovery of my strength. By the
continued use of the Pectoral a perma-
nent cure was effected. I am now C2 years
old, hale and hearty, and am satisfied your
Cherry Pectoral saved me,
Horace Fairbrother.”
Rockingham, Vt., July 15, 1882.
® Croup. — A Mother’s Tribute.
“While in the country last winter my little
boy, three years old, was taken ill with croup;
it seemed as if he would die from strangu-
lation. One of the family suggested the use
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, a bottle of
which was always kept in the house. This
was tried in small and frequent doses, and
to our delight in less than half an hour the
little patient was breathing easily. The doc-
tor said that the Cherry Pectoral had
saved my darling’s life. Can you wonder at
our gratitude ? Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Emma Gedney.”
159 West 128th St., New York, May 1C, 1882.
“ I have used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
in my family for several years, and do not
hesitate to pronounce it the most effectual
remedy for coughs and colds we have ever
tried. A. J. CRANE.”
Lake Crystal, Minn., March 13,1882.
“ I suffered for eight years from Bronchitis,
and after trying many remedies with no suc-
cess, I was cured by the use of Ayer’s Cher-
ry Pectoral. Joseph Walden.”
Byhalia, Miss., April 6,1882.
“I cannot say enough in praise of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral, believing as I do that
but for its use I should long since have died
from lung troubles. E. Bragdon.”
Palestine, Texas, April 22, 1882.
No case of an affection of the throat or
lungs exists which cannot be greatly relieved
by the use of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
and it will always cure when the disease is
not already beyond the control of medicine.
A prepared by (s
DrJ.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
,,N Sold by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT BEOS, and 8. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
AFTEH before uOUSTAOHfl and WHI3EEE2. before after
Boyd’s Beard F.lixirdid this, and
will do it on either bald head or
bare face. Fo\ cea heavy Move-
tacheinfromStoAtoeekHandncver .
fails, 20,000 young men already
wear full beards, having used 1 to
3 pkts. Ab injury, easily applied, certain in effect, _
each , 3 for 3«. 6 d., post paid , sent under cover, free from observation.
f/Lddress, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent, Box 730, O.P.O., Sydney, N.8. FT*
Copyrighted .
Copyrighted
Backets 1«. Get
THE LATEST W9*KS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
Bavarian
ITTEBS.
HOP
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of the best Bavarian Hops. Superior to any
other.
They take the first place wherever tried, and are
well authenticated by eminent medical men and
well-known analysts.
Read the reports and testimony which aooom
pany each bottle, and do not forget to make a
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
P. KIRBY,
Prom the late Mr. James Cubtu,
TJr5.d.ertaJser,
84 HUNTER * PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NSATLT EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (18) yean;
Manager for over ten (10) years.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found
last with the Argosy Braces at Cowing Bros.
\
1
•in'
n
PM
GOWING BROS.
Have Just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces I
Argosy Braces, 2s. 6d.. 3s., 3s. 04-.* 4s. 8
gowhkTbrgs.,
MEN’S MERGERS, HATTERS. OUTFITTERS, ft
882 and 488 Gsorge-siraet,
WILLIAM BALL,
THE “ PROFESSIONAL ” AND PHARMACEU-
TICAL CHEMIST.
61 Bourkb-stueet East, Melbourne.
THE Toilet and Theatrical Requisites, manu-
factured by W. Ball, are composed of the
purest ingredients, and are guaranteed not to
cause the least injury to the most delicate skin..
There are few ladies now, either in private life
or of the Theatrical Profession, who do not look
upon the
BLOOM OF PEACHES
(REGISTERED)
as the one article that Is perfectly safe and satis-
factory to use either for the
THEATRE, BALLROOM, OR PROMENADE.
$
i3H
-s
Our Cupids Manufacturing Bloom of Peaches
“ Dear Sir,—I consider your ‘ make-up' perfect,
and should never think of using anything else
while it Is possible to obtain it.—Yours truly,
Ed. Parley.”
The following ladies and gentlemen have also
written, speaking in the highest terms of thete
Toilet Requisites Mesdames Louise Pomeroy,
Alice Deorwyne, Myra Kemble, Eva Davenport,
Roland Watt Phillips, etc., etc.; Messieurs George
Titheradge, George Rignold, Sheridan, Henry
Hodgson. W. J. Holloway, Fred. Marshall, Brian
Darley, Frank Cates, etc.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
Wholesale Agents, N.S.W,:
Messrs. PROSSER & CO., Sydney.
G. F. PRIDDY & CO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.30 p.m.: Saturdays as usual at II p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
OTUDY ECONOMY
P and
HaveyourU mbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’13
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst 8U
Parasols made to match cos
tumes. Repairs neatly ext-
ents*


F
URNITUB1 IHOW ROOM
BRADLBT, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring: streets, Sydney.
JJALL . JTURNITURB, HAT6TAND8.
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
T IBRART FURNITURE, CENTRE and BID1
JLi TABLES. BOOKCASES. SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, fashionably uphoi-
stered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
WALL CABINETS (or Choice China, Ac.
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
IVTOVEXTIBS In BOUDOIR and BOW WINDOW
ANI SUITES. Bradley. Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feot
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Givat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON/
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
E
.1IGHT-POUND BEDROOM
't Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward
SUITES.—The
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile hack and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD. and S CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10a.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 12a. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.: Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, froml0s.6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
3
OOK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oWOO strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
AAYERMANTKL MIRRORS, Handsome Pashlon-
able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also In Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished In
Embroidery, Plush, &o.
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
O’Connell-street.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Oonnell-street.
TfcRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL OHAIR8.-
AJ A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND.
marble top, 80s the pair.
TT1ULL SUITES for DINING -BOOM- 8IDB-
JD BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Coanell-Btreet.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
serew, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet.
S
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK GHA1K-
Patented.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in any
material.
S'
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
B
AGATBLLK BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
1RAMBWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
F 1
and other designs, which can be upholstered In
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
XTIRAMBWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
Jj TURB, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
Walnut, and Manogauy. tub voter utsar kkal
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery,
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Gonnell-streets.
B
BDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
B
BDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell and Spring streets.
W
A8HSTAND8, with marble, from 25s. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
■ AWN and PARK SEATS 6 feet long. Rustic
I M Cast-iron Standards, 15a. each. Bradley, New-
ton. and Lamb.
[ENT WOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment; beet nuke, lowest prices.
SOCIAL
As might have been expected, the circle fit
the Sydney Royal, on the occasion of Bbuoicault s
opening night, on Saturday, presented a brilliant
appearance. What peculiar fascination is there
about an opening night which makes everybody
wish to be present ? There is every chance that
the play will run more smoothly on subsequent
nights, and yet to get seats for the first night of
either opera or drama seems to be everybody's
aim. It’s just the same all over the world,
and can only be put down to impatient curi-
osity. But the ladies don’t forget to attend
to their toilettes on these particular occa-
sions, and on Saturday some exceedingly
pretty dresses on handsome ladies brightened the
circle considerably. Mrs. Moulton wore a pink
Satin gown, the square bodice and strap-sleeves
being filled in with cream lace, which had a nice
effect. A bazel-eyed blonde had suited her style
of beauty with a pale-blue plush dress over which
She occasionally drew a handsome white opera-
cloak. A tall, comely girl, who seemed to relish
the play, struck out a little in her conception of a
costume. The skirt was of black Brussels net,
and the black satin Swiss bodice was filled in from
bust to neck with soft white muslin; waist-band
ahd flowing streamers of pure white satin ribbon—
rather a Puritanical effect, but refreshing withal,
seen as it was amongst all the colours of the rain-
bow. A sweet little thing with a head “ covered
over with curls ” bad on a simple, but tasteful,
white lace di-ess with white Brussells net fichu
crossed over the chest and fastened with a large
cluster of snowdrops. A trio, presumably sisters,
all wore black dresses, out low and sleeveless, with
handsome sprays of natural flowers across the
shoulder; out steel ornaments in the hair, which
glistened and scintillated like diamonds. It .may
be remarked, en passant, that steel now forms an
important part in ladies’ full-dress attire, being
shown in either necklets, bead ornaments, buckles,
or buttons, and the best goods in this material are
really effective. Now that the milder atmosphere
permits of the disoardanoe of the heavy velvet or
plush opera cloaks, we begin to see the,dainty net-
work chenille shoulder capes, Indian shawls, and
pretty embroidered cashmere cloaks. The new
canvas, too, which seems determined to have a
finger in ever? pie this season, was very prettily
shown in an opera-cloak on Saturday night. The
ground work was cream, over which was strewn a
beautiful pattern of pink rosebuds, and round the
edge of the cape was a ruching of cream lace, upon
which wfere painted very miniature buds. Painted
lace is to be very fashionable this year.
• ■ *
Of course nobody expected to see such
a magnificent crowd at the Sydney Bicycle
meeting last Saturday as that of the pre-
ilous week. Rival diversions and hot winds
ept half a score of thousands away, and
few of the ladles who did attend showed
such tasteful costumes as they hate given
us a right to expect. Tnere was an old gold dress
trimmed with coffee lace, which was rather nice,
and was worn with a straw hat trimmed with
orange feathers. A ballroom-looking costume
was of pale-blue satin and white lace, and
straw hat adorned with a long white feather.
A pretty quaint - looking dress was of slate-
coloured veiling with pink sash and bonnet.
Atrocious taste was shown in a skirt of crim-
son satin, brown velvet bodice, and old gold
sash —even the hot wind was refreshing after
contemplating this decidedly strong combination.
Bashes were in great favour. A shot-silk dress,
51th wide sash of same colour, looked very stylish;
rs. Moulton wore a dark-green silk dress, with
handsome inlets of eream lace down the sides of
skirt. A cream canvas dress looked very season-
able, and indeed, in conjunction with the dainty
little straw sailor bat, trimmed with gauze ribbon,
Sks certainly one of the prettiest costumes on the
wn; a buff-coloured silk, with violet velvet vest,
was pleasing, but was spoilt by the heavy bonnet*
which was entirely out of keeping with the dress.
♦ * *
The Parramatta Union Glee Club gave
their first concert on Tuesday last in the local
Town Hall to a large audience. Reversing the
general order of things, the gallery in that im-
posing building, though in the extreme rear of
the room, is considered the aristocratic position
and cushioned accordingly, and as this same gal-
lery is inadequate to hold half the patricians of
Parramatta, a general rush is made as soon as the
doors are open by those whose desire to be cons -
dered amongst the aristocracy overcomes their
Sood manners. But to the concert. Mr. C. H.
pi' r, the conductor and chief promoter of the
Club received a he xty welcome upon coming for-
ward, and the half-dozen glees which were given
during the evening were alike creditable to him and
singers. Miss Tunks and Miss E. M’Manus sang
nicely and were encored, the latter lady receiving
a floral tribute after giving Plnsutl’s ‘‘The Night-
less Land.” Other successful vocalists were Miss
J. Goodwin, Messrs. Ferguson, Vleusseux, and
Davis, and some excellent Instrumental music was
contributed by Miss Barker and Miss A. Spier, and
in addition to conducting, Mr. Spier Joined Mr.
Vleusseux in the duet “Flow, gentle Deva. ’
Several tasteful dresses were seen amongst singeis
and audience—the platform belle being a young
lady in a black velvet bodice over a pink satin
skirt. Another maiden from the Manning River
looked very in a maroon costume. A singer,
in light-blue satin over a cream skirt, and two
sisters in pale-blue, from Cidderton, bad also many
admirers The success of the concert should cer-
tainly tend to increase the membership of the
Club,
♦ ♦ *
The ball in aid of the Mechanics’ Institute,
Junee Junction, toek place in the Assembly Hall,
on the 10th lost., and was attended by about 70
people. A start was made about 9 o’clock, and
dancing kept up with unflagging spirit until the
“ wee sma’ hours.” Amongst the ladies’ dresses,
the most worthy of mention were—Miss Cooney’s
cerise satin bodice, cut square, over a cream satin
skirt; Miss Sawyer, white satin, with white water-
fall back; Miss Flddes, pale blue veiling and lace;
Miss Killmlnster, pale blue satin, low neck, and
short sleeves ; Mrs. Donelly, ruby velvet bodice
over black broche skirt; Mrs. Humphrey, ruby
and cream lace; Mrs. Bough, black broche;
Mrs. Lincoln (Wagga), black satin; Miss Wilson,
pink veiling and lace; Miss Roberts, stone-coloured
satin profusely trimmed with rich lace; Miss Mul-
lane, old gold and black satin; Mrs. Seignior, ruby
and cream lace; Miss King, cerise satin bodice
over skirt of cream oatmeal cloth; Miss Lewis,
electric-blue satin with spangled trimmings; Mrs.
Lawless was bewitching in claret velvet bodice cut
square, and maize-coloured skirt trimmed wltn
gold lace and convolvuli. Miss Whight was
exceedingly pretty in cerise satin bodice over
cream satin skirt; and her sister very pretty in
pale blue broche.
* * *
The grounds and pavilion of Bronte, Wa-
verley, were opened on Saturday last. Probably
nobody knows where Bronte is, or how to get
there. For the benefit, therefore, of these igno-
ramuses we will direct how to arrive at this Ely-
sium. After alighting from the tram at the Wa-
verley terminus, the pleasure-seeker turns to the
left several times, and occasionally to the right,
till he comes to a lane which looks as if it led to
something or other. And it does lead to some-
thing—it leads to "shady trees and babbling
brook,” at least the trees would have been
shady If they hadn’t been cut down, and
the brook would have babbled had it not
run dry. But. at all events, after a hot.
dusty trudge, the Eden is reached at last, and
consists of a pavilion on a knoll, with a well-
greased floor (the pavilion, not the knoll), a small
wooden cottage lying to the right of it, whilst
numerous hen-oorps and other domesticities lend
a tone to the scene. Bronte M decidedly rustic,
but, judging* by the numbers of people who hur-
tied up hill and down dale last Saturday afternoon
in order to join in the festivities attendant on the
opening, and who, upon arrival, were covered
with dust and perspiration in their wild efforts to
be in time for the first dance in the brand new
pavilion, it seems as if it is going to be a popular
resort. A nice sandy beach fronts the grounds,
and the musical roar of the ocean was only rivalled
by the dulcet tones of the cornet and ham Inside
the pavilion.
* if *
The Mutual Imjis gave their first invita-
tion matinee in their rooms, Pitt-street, last Wed-
nesday afternoon. These Imps are cunning fel-
lows. for they see the wisdom of giving an
entertainment occasionally to their wives and
other female friends to compensate them for their
absence every Sunday evening. And they would
try and make out to these trusting females
that their Sunday evening programmes con-
sists of nothing more nor less than that pre-
sented to the guests on Wednesday—i e., songs,
recitations, sponge-cake, and coffee. It was
a pleasant little entertainment. Phil. Day
recited, and Sister Alpress played the violin.
Brother Gilpin sang two songs exceedingly well,
Warner sent the ladles into convulsions, and
Fred. Mlllis gave a remarkably clever ven-
triloqulal entertainment. And Mr. Hart sang his
everlasting laughing song, which is growing
rather threadbare, and two ladies warbled a duet.
Last but surely not least, Miss Savllle, of the
Opera House, gave a nice vocal solo. Refresh-
ments were handed round during the interval.
The recitation entitled “ A Portrait,” was one of
the gems of the entertainment.
• ♦ *
Notwithstanding the many counter at-
tractions, Sydney University Hall was well filled on
Saturday afternoon, when Mr. Hector M'Lean
gave another organ recital. The organist was at
bis best on bis favourite instrument, his solo from
Gounod’s “Redemption” being enthusiastically
received. The programme was well varied, and,
as might have been expected, “ Populaire ” came
in for its share of attention. What would a re-
cital be without an item from this celebrated
opera.
• ♦ •
The annual ball in connection with the
local quadrille assembly, which came off in the
hall of the School of Arts, Molong, on the 19th
ult., was the most successful ever held in the
district. A great many appeared in fancy cos-
tumes, and the honour of belle was cordially
voted to Miss Sarah Durach. The best fancy dress
was that of Esmeralda, worn by Miss Moss. Others
noticeable among the ladies were the Misses Frost,
Bowder Davis, and Lahernan. of Orange, and the
Misses Bowler, Durach, Horsely, and Clarke. First
among the gents must be mentioned Mr Phillips,
as Don Cassar de Bazan; next came King of Spain,
Mr. Bowler; Sailor, Mr. Durach; Jockey, Mr.
Strickland, and many others. Good music, good
dancing, and good fellowship made the affair a
complete success.
* • ♦
On Wednesday evening, the 26th ult.. at
the local School of Arts, the Botany Social Club
held their tenth dance of the season, which, like
its predecessors, was very enjoyable, Mrs. Maddl-
son appeared in a cream satin skirt, trimmed with
pale-pink satin and cream Spanish lace, pink satin
bodice m ade high to the neck, and short sleeves
embellished with lace and silver fringe, long
cream gloves '.and silver bangles completed
the costume. A dark maiden from Darling-
hurst wore a fresh-looking dress composed
of cream veiling skirt rlcnly trimmed with
deep cream lace, the bodice of cream satin
laced down the front, and on the left shoulder
were fastened pink and cream aigrettes. Her
sister was tastefully attired in cream skirt trimmed
with ficelle lace, and ruby velvet bodice trimmed
with lace in harmony with skirt; cardinal silk
gloves. Miss de Boos looked very nice in a maize
costume of muslin and satin, skirt nicely relieved
with pink ribbon loops, and the satin bodice with
Spanish lace garniture was finished off with a spray
of flowers on the left shoulder. A blonde hailing
from Surry Hi 11s donned a striking dress of crushed
strawberry satin, a flounce of ficelle round the
edge of the skirt, and drapery and bodice edged
with gold fringe. Miss Walsh looked well in a
tasteful costume of cream cashmere trimmed with
cream lace, having on one side of skirt a prettily
devised full drapery; the low-cut bodice was
adorned with a handsome cluster of flowers. Mrs.
Martin wore a very neat and becoming costume of
dove-coloured cashmere embellished with rose-
piuk ribbon bows; Miss Qeddes, charming in white
muslin skirt and satin bodice trimmed with white
lace and loops of blue and white satin ribbon, pale
blue aigrettes, and silver drops In the hair.
Another noticeable dress was a combination of
black velvet and silk, the front of skirt being
richly draped with crewel work, and fringe to
match; a bunch of snowdrops was worn at the
throat. Dancing ceased at midnight, when city
visitors were conveyed back to town by special
tram.
• • •
The second dance of the Hunter’s Hill
Private Socials came off last Friday at the Town
Hall of that suburb. Dancing commenced at 8.30
p.m. and was kept up with great vigour till 2 a.m.
The affair, without being pretentious, was In
every way enjoyable. Miss Reeves wore a nice
black net skirt over a black silk slip, studded here
and there with bows of a dead gold colour; pink
satin draped one side of the skirt, whilst the other
was caught up with a spray of roses. Mrs. Oatley
wore a rich blue silk garnished with tufts of
ostrich feathers; Mrs. Davenport, port-wine-
coloured velvet and pink satin; Miss Davenport,
white Ipdlan muslin and lavender trimming; Miss
Dance, light blue and white lace; Miss Turner,
cool-looking in white spotted tulle ; a pretty
little lady from Woollahra wore a skirt of cream
veiling and satin bodice, out square, with short
sleeves, trimmed with lilies of the valley. The
music was provided by different members of the
Club, Mr. Oatley being, perhaps, the most ener-
getic member of all.
♦ ♦ *
Mons. Edouard Mathe held his first con-
cert at the new Masonic Hall last Tuesday even-
ing, and if the audience wasn’t very large. It was,
at any rate, appreciative, i’he yoilng artist gave
as his opening solo, the “ Moonlight ” sonata, a
piece which was well calculated to display his
faultless execution. His reading of some passages
is rather eccentric, but, to us, fresh and interest-
ing. Mons. Mathe has the pure Conservatoire
style of “ lifting ” the fingers, which is the
secret of giving prominence to the air over
the accompaniment, and, indeed, to observe
his finger - work is a study in Itself. His
strength of wrist was shown in Liszt’s “ Melo-
die Honerolse en Octaves.” and in his tran-
scription on “ Travlata,” he brought out a reserve
force which we never dreamed he possessed. A
novelty was his improvisation on an air suggested
by any one of the audience. He was handed the
“ Blue Bells of Scotland,” and although no one
can deny that Mons. Maths’s Impromptu transcrip-
tlve powers are far above the average, still truth
compels us to admit that we detected nothing
strikingly original in the treatment. It seemed
also to us that the artist showed a nervous haste
to get through his self-imposed task, which told
greatly against him. Mrs. Atkinson, who looked
queenly in a robe and long train of white satin,
with a bunch of blush roses on the corsage, wr.s
not In her best voice. Her solo from “ Faust ”
was certainly pleasing, but her second choice from
“ Carmen” was ill-advised. In this her sympathe-
tic voice hadn’t a chance to display itself; yet,
spite of shortcomings, the applause which fol-
lowed her solo was hearty and persistent,
but with charming modesty, which might
be a lesson to many, the lady declined to
answer the encore. Mons. de Willimoff gave
the now oft-heard Mendelssohn concerto, but
he knew as well as did his hearers that be fell
something short of himself. His tone was pure,
as'usual, but he showed uncertainty here andithere,
which, to those who have heard him at his best,
was astonishing—and when will he get someone to
turn his leaves when he plays from music ? When
the turning comes on in the middle of a phrase
the break off necessary for the violinist to turn
over is quite distressing. Mons. Matlffi is a decided
acquisition in Sydney, and should feel flattered
at the reception he received at this bis first
concert.
♦ ♦ ♦
The Maoquarie-street Asylum, at Parra
matta was the one to benefit on Saturday last by
the charitable kindness of Messrs. Quong Tart,
Badger?, Butcher, Grey, and numerous ladles.
The programme carried out was almost identical
with that at the other asylum on the previous
Saturday, and the ladies who were unable to give
their presence at the Asylum sent magnificent
baskets of flowers to the railway station to be
taken to the old people as their offering.
* * *
Mona. Leon Caron, composer, conductor,
and violinist, takes a benefit matinee at the Opera
House next Saturday afternoon. The chief owners
of musical talent in Sydney have come forward
and tendered their service for the occasion, so an
attractive and varied programme has been drawn
out. One of the principal items will be Mons.
Caron’s Violin Concerto, with piano and orchestral
accompaniment, Madame Charbonnet-Kellermann
taking the piano part. The Concerto is really a
fine composition, and proves Mona. Caron to be a
composer of no mean order. We expect to see
the Opera House packed on this occasion.
* * *
When we stated in last week’s issue that
the employes of Messrs. Anthony Hordern had
been for a picnic on the harbour on the 22nd, it
should have been the employes of Messrs. John
Hordern, of Pltt-street.
* ♦ ♦
A concert was given in the Newtown
Town Hall last Wednesday in aid of the Port Dar-
win Mission, but evidently the Newtown folk
don’t care a rap about the “ mission,” for the
audience was decidedly meagre. Mrs. Ullmann
sang and accompanied herself upon the harp very
sweetly, and Miss Cowley sang “Pierrot” in her
own conscientious way. Mr. J. Thompson Brown
sang the “ Pilgrim,” and Mr. Hugh Duff presided
at the piano.
♦ ♦ ♦
A very enjoyable social evening was spent
at the Post Office. Forbes, last Thursday evening
by nearly all the young people in the Lachlan
metropolis who have not yet said “I will.” The
presence of a handsome clergyman filled all the
girls’ hearts with joy. The belle was a fair resi-
dent from Templar-street, and a lively little
dancer was from Albion’s shores. A lady from
Quarry Hill was much sought after.
The Manly Wild Flower Show promises to
be a big success this year, and is to bo opened on
the 10th of the month.
♦ ♦ *
In order to do homage bo the memory of
Victor Hugo, our French citizens have organised
a literary and musical soiree, which is to be held
in the old Masonic Hall, York-street, next Tuesday
evening, the 8th. Dr. L. Laure la acting as presi-
dent, Mons. Henry Bonnard vice-president, and
Mons. de Court, Consul for France, takes the chair.
A large attendance is anticipated.
(Continued on next page.)
ARDENT DEVOTION.
‘ YOU HAVE A DEVOTED HUSBAND, MRS, DB SILVA.”
“ I SHOULD SAY I HAD ! HE IS THE DEAREST MAN IN THE WORLD. WHY, DO YOU
KNOW, WHEN I WAS HOME FOB A VISIT LAST YEAR HE LOST TEN POUNDS IN
WEIGHT. WASN’T THAT NICE ? ”


Every grocer keeps Klngsford’s Oswego Corn
flour done up In and Ub.-paokets,
Notice I—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings. 143 Pitt-street.
Mb. DbOoubot Bbownb (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales). Author of the Miners’ Handy Book,”
"Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and "Manual of
Minerals.” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 63 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, ear Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, I WT Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record In the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
Ladies, if you want yeflr Pastry light, use Klngs-
ford’s Oswego Cornflour.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 35 th August, 1886.
TENDERS FOR ADDITIONS.
RENDERS are invited for Additions to the
JL Public School Buildings at Granville-
Plans and Specifications m -y be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Department
of Public Instruction, Sydney; and at the Gran-
ville Public School, on application to the Teacher,
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Additions,
Granville Public School,” must be lodged with
the Under Secretary, Department of Public In*
struction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m„ on Wednes-
day, 10th Semptember, 1886.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 35th August, 1886.
TENDERS FOR PUBLIC SCHOOL BUILDING
fTlENDBRS are invited for the Erection of a
New Building for the Sylvania Public School,
George’s River.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Department
of Public Instruction, Sydney,
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for New Building’
Sylvania Public School,” must be lodged with the
Under Secretary, Department of Public Instruc-
tion, at or before 10 o’clock a.m.,on Monday, the
llth September, 1886.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
W. J. TRlCftBTT.
KIngsford’s Oswego Cornflour superior to all
similar articles in the market.
A NEW DISCOVERY.—Hoffman’s Buoalyptol
(registered) “Mixtureand Injection.” They will
positively cure all kidney diseases and disorders,
all urinary complaints and discharges, Irritation,
scalding, inflammation, gravel, pains in the back,
&c. A case incurable in nine months was actually
cured in eight days with Hoffmann’s Buoalyptol
Injection (“ purely vegetable ”). Hoffman's Eu-
calyptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
no sandalwood, no balsam, or anything Injurious
to the most delicate constitution of either sex.
Ask for Hoffman’s, and take no substitute.
Wholesale: E. Prosser and Co.; Blliott Bros. Re-
tail : All principal chemists and storekeepers
Price. 2s. 6a. and 3s. 6d.*
HORDERN’S
ON THE
Eric Afield. Hill.
OUH STAY MD OORSIT DEFARTMLHT.
I
CO
O
#'0
JO
%
9
#
WllM
is
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Free or Charge.
I Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
2s. lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., 5s. (id., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., 8s. 6d„ 9s. 6d„ 10s. 6d., 12s 6
| EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS, 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill.
—Orders from the Country will receive Immediate and earetul attenfc to
The second annual fancy drees ball in
connection with the Albert Park Slowing Club,
Melbourne, came off in the South Melbourne
Town Hall last month. Some of the best dresses
worn were the following“ Miss M’Queen, High-
land Lass; Miss M’Neil, Norman Feasant; Miss
lEldred, a Shepherdess, in a crimson striped satin
(petticoat, black velvet bodice profusely trimmed
-with feonlton lace, and cap to match.: Miss P.
fowling, Romp x Miss L. Crottey, British Flag, red,
■w*l*rce and blue dress with red cap; Miss M. Wat-
son, Daughter of the Regiment; Miss Lawson,
Flower Girl; Miss Goudie, Winter; Miss Jamieson,
Peasant Girl, blue satin bodice, scarlet skirt and
cap: Miss Bulston, Spanish Lady; Miss Henpessy,
Carmen, pale pink frock, trimmed with spangles,
pearls, and lace: Mr. J. Eldred, Sailor; Mr.'D;
Goveciie, Chinaman; Mr. Carrot, Mexican Sailor;
Mr. S. GoWdie, Sailor; Mr. G. R. Tidiman, Jack
Tar; Mr. F. A. Abbott Hussar.
* * • v
On Tuesday evening, the 25th ult., a most
enjoyable juvenile fancy dress ball was given by
Mr. and Mrs. Garrick- at their residence, Passy,
Hunter's Hill. The dresses of the little ones were
■exceptionally good and varied, the daughters of
the bouse making charming Amasons, one la blue
add the other in cream, the dresses being per-
fectly carried out In eyery detail. Master
Garrick was a perfect harlequin, even tb
the Hat sword and mask, A Spanish water-
seller was much admired, likewise a charming
little beauty in a court dress, who managed her
Uowing train and flowing skirts as if she were to
the nianner born. The son of the local medico
was the most admired amongst the very small
ones, although an Archer, a costume from
*‘Iolanthe,” and an Italian Musician came in for.
their share of admiration. There were also a
number of pretty Peasant Girls and little Pages.
Amongst the little ladies of more mature years,
we noticed Hebe, Amy Upbeart, Blue China, and a
■copy of Mrs. Langtry’s dress in “She Stoops to
Conquer.” A good baud added considerably to
the enjoyment of the little ones, and a number of
naval officers in their gay uniforms lent an extra
dash of brightness to the scene. After the children
had been regaled with all the good things Com-
pagnoni knows how to provide, they retired to
their an-Hg little cots to dream of their first ball.
♦ * ♦ -
A correspondent writes directing our at-
tention to the increasing rowdyism at our balls and
assemblies, and says if some means are not soon
taken to check the evil, decent folk will come to
prefer staying at home by their “ain fireside.”
The root of the evil is to be found in the indis-
criminate sale of tickets.
* * ♦
The first popular concert of the Raymond
’Terrace Musical Union was given in their School of
Arts last Monday week, and the programme of
Kwmt®-S6ven items, exclusive of encores, was re-
ceived with proper enthusiasm. Mr. J. A. Wlnney,
•conductor of the society, obtained a good recep-
tion, and the rendition by the society of the
various glees reflected great credit upon him.
* « m #
St. Vincent’s Ball will not be held this
year. The Archbishop was in earnest, bad luck
to Bachelors’ Bali at Port Darwin lately,
great suooess....In honour of the marriage of Miss
Annie Mort to the very Rev. Dr. Selwyn, in Eng-
land, last Saturday, a grand ball was given to all
the employees on the estate, Bodalia, on the same
day. A cablegram was sent to the bride early in
the day by the employees, wishing her all happi-
ness, &c. Great festivities Miss Greig, daughter
of the late Mr. B. D. Greig, of Melbourne, was, on
the 35th ult., in London, married to Mr. George
Cole, *, ’. .
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
[Note.— Social items, in order to ensure inser-
tion for the current week, should be to hand no
later than Tuesday.]
“Crushed Strawberry”: Someone else stole a
march on you this time. Thanks, all the same.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Grand Entertainment, Vic. Theatre, :
Parramatta, of “Richelieu”....September3.
Mayor of Petersham’s Ball. Petersham
Mons. Leon Caron’s Benefit Matinee,
Opera House .....September 5
Literary and MuslcalSoiree, in me-
mory of Victor Hugo, Old Ma-
sonic Hall September 8.
Manly Wild Flower Show. September 10.
First Ball of the Bosehill Private
Quadrille Club, Masonic Hall,
Parramatta ; September 11.
Last Bicycle Race Meeting of the sea-
son, Moore Park September 13.
Town Hall Septembers!.
Eureka Annual Ball, Professor West's
Academy September 29.
Railway Officers’ Picnic, Botany.... ..September 30.
Plain and Fancy Dress Ball tendered •
to Mrs. Martin by her pupils and
friends at the Dancing Academy..September 30.
Dear Peg,-There is grief and consternation
immeasurable in the feminine hearts of “ Ye
Great Citle ” over the approaching departure of
H.M, fleet now in harbour, on an indefinite cruise
of some months. These waters will knojr them
no more for a space after the end of this week.
How will it be possible to fill the vacuum of epau-
lettes and brass buttons! True, the Diamond and
Opal are at last relieved of the tedium of watch-
ing the long sandy stretch of Albany’s shores; or
looking with dragon eyes across the limitless
ocean to catch first sight of the Russian Bear,
and are timed to arrive here in a few days. But
with the best will in the world they cannot hope
to fill the void of the ubiquitous, all-embracing
fieet! Take heart of grace, fair ladies and guile-
less maidens. It is hoped, whispered, assured,
that our gallant Admiral is a man of peace, as
well as of war, and delights in “ Ye manlle sportes
of ye equine races,” and will not fail to drop
anchor in Farm Cove in time for Randwiok and
the club balls. It he fails, then woe to the butter-
fly flirt, who looks not beyond the present, and
while enjoying a monopoly of ephemeral blue and
gold, has scorned the enduring civilian black; has
cast to the winds prudential warnings of the time
when the erstwhile adorer finds “ metal more
attractive ” in Brisbane, Melbourne, or alluring
Pobart, Sydney bat given and received the first
embrace, it is true—but remember I it is the last
that lives greenest in the memory.
» ♦ ♦
Mrs. Henry White, of Calingra,, Ocean-street*
gave a very pleasant dance on Tuesday evening,
August 35th. The large, lofty ball-room lately
added to the house was prettily decorated with
bunting, tastefully draped against the faint shell-
pink walls, or fine engravings which here
and there broke the monotony of flags and plasters
with a refreshingly artistic touch. The dimly-
lighted conservatory, which formed “ means to an
end” from the reception to the ball-room, was an
admirable lounge for the partnerless men, of
whom there were enough to walk, enough to talk,
and enough to stand still. Such a field day for the
ladies was neither overlooked nor neglected.
Among the guests were-Mrs. James White, Mrs.
Stangar-Leathes, Miss Stangar-Leathes, MissShuf-
frey, Mr. Walter Watt, the Mimes Watti Mrs Nott,
Miss Durham, Miss Morelng, the Misses Manning,
Miss Watchorn, of Hobart, Miss BornatJ, of
Hobart, Mr. and Mrs. Pritchards, Dh and Mfs
Faithful!, Mr. and Mrs. Harris Dr. Evans, Messrs.
Scott, Mr., Hutton, Captalh Pise (H.M.S. Swinger),
Captain KlngdOn* Mr. Wynne, Mr. H. Lamb,
Messrs. E. aha A. Cox, Mr. W. Watt, Mr. Cornish,
Mr. White, Mr. Samuels, Mr. Cltve-Smlth, Mr. A.
gordon, Mr. Layard, Vice-Consul for Noumea,
o. The hostess wore a short white satin dress,
draped with beautiful Honlton lace; Miss White,
black, with silver passementerie trimming on the
satin bodice; Miss M'Mlllan, Mrs. H. White’s
sister, oream satin and gold bullion fringe; Mrs.
James White, a very handsome embossed satin of
pale pink, covered with delicate cream-lace
flounoes; ornaments, diamonds end rubles; a
pretty woman wore a handsome gown of corded
silk of the palest indefinite green and
ficelle lace caught up with posies of pansies;
Miss Bernard, a striking combination of pink
and garnet; garnet ornaments. Mrs. Stangar-
Leathes, In blaok velvet; Miss Stangar-Leathes, a
brunette, In cardinal Satlh and narrow lace
flounoes. Miss Watt was a vision in eau-de-nii
satin clouded in diaphanous white tulle, the
pointed bertha and thickly-folded front drapery
shimmering with crystal bvadB. Miss Florence
Watt looked exceedingly pretty in white tulle, the
finely plaited flounces edged with rows of white
satin ribbon. Another effective dress was of
cream satin with a gold-braided front. Dancing
was continued with great vigour till about half-
past one to excellent music.
Mrs. T. A. Dlbbs entertained a large number of
guests at a ball ou Wednesday evening, Aug. 26, at
her residence Graythwaltev St. Leonards. The
rooms and enclosed Verandah were prettily deco-
rated with flags, while the Inevitable Chinese lan-
terns casta dim*religious llgnt over promenade
and approaches. The drawing-room was the re-
oeptlon-room, while a large double room opposite
formed a delightful temple of Terpsichore, at
whose shrine, so to speak, were offered up lovely
floral decorations—one being a bank of arum
lilies and their leaves, cool, white, and Australian;
the others a bank of violets, snowflakes, primrose B,
and large yellow narcissus, with an appropriate
background of green. Among the guests were
Dr. and Mrs. Kingdon, Mr. and Mrs. Arthur
Docker, Mrs. Capo, the Misses Searvell, Mr. and
the Misses Massle, [Mrs. Lee-Lord, Mies Street,
Mr. and Mrs. Gaden, the Mieses Gaden, Mr. C.
Gaden, Miss M’Farland, Miss Chadwick, Mies Far-
ouhar. Miss Kodd, Miss Smith, Captain Pike, Mr.
W. Mitchell, Mr. Craddock, Mr. Wylde, Mr. T.
Docker, Mr. A. Gordon, Mr. Cookshott, Mr. Barker’
etc., making in all about 150 guests! Mrs. Dibbs
wore a combination of cardinal'and black; Miss
Dibbs, white net with white satin drapery and
bodice, the only|touoh of colour being a wreath of
hyacinths, and pink flowers across the bertha.
The Misses Agnes and Nellie Dibbs, were similarly
attired in pure white; Miss Street, cardinal satin,
the bodice studded with white daisies; Miss
M’Farland, a becoming black gown, turned down
with Maltese lace; Miss Rodd was pretty in blaok,
with a wreath of yellow flowers: Miss Kingdon,
oream lace underskirt, with quaint, pink-flowered
top; Miss Farquhar, a soft oream dress, with deep
heliotrope sasn; Miss Massle, black; Miss Chad-
wick. chenille-spotted net and satin body; Mias
Smith, cream dress and Roman scarf. At half-
past 3 a.tn., Mr. Dibbs launch, the Eva, conveyed
town guests back to Sydney.
Mrs. Busby, of Redleaf, Double Bay, gave a very
pleasant water plonlo on Saturday afternoon. The
Masootte conveyed the party up Middle Harbour,
where they had tea picnic fashion, and returned
to town about 6 o’clock. The guests, numbering
about 40, Included General and Mrs. Carnegie.
Captain and Mrs. Penrose, Mr. and Mrs. Cecil
Darley, Mrs. Close, Mrs. Butters, Mrs. Ford, Miss
Alison, Mr. J. Alison, Mr. 0. Alison, Mr. M’Naugh-
ton. Mr. Merewether, the Misses Darley, the Misses
Massle Miss Campbell, Miss Chadwick, the Misses
Milne, Miss Lamb, Mils Heath, Mr. Armstrong,
Mr. Newberry, &o.
An engagement Is announced between Mr.
Charles Gaden son of Mr. T. B. Gaden, of Brisbane
House. North Shore, and Miss Dibbs, eldest daugh-
ter of T. A. Dibbs, Esq., of Graythwaite. St. Leo-
nards, North Shore, and manager of the Commer-
cial Bank. The marriage is fixed to take place
sometime in November.
Mrs Barry gave a small “ at home ” on Thura-
dav 37th, when the invitations were limited to
ladles. Another and larger one is fixed for Satur-
day, September 6.
Mra. Wrench, of Caradon, Albert-street, Wool-
lahra. gave a pleasant dance on Friday evening,
August 38. It was presumably a juvenile party,
but Included many grown-up, 8 o’clock arrivals.
Taste thougbtiand wealth formed a successful
trio In the decorations of flags, flowers, ever-
greens, palms, and Chinese lanterns, that turned
the enclosed verandah Into a soft, dimly-lit con-
servatory with comfortable Ute-a-tite lounges;
that defined the carriage drive with a circle of
fantastic fire-balls bobbing in the soft night wind;
and oast a dim red light over the luxurious recep-
tion-rooms, so forming a harmonious foil to
the white brilliance of the ballroom. Among
many others who responded to Mrs. Wrench s
invitation were Colonel Roberts, Miss and Master
Roberts, Major and Mrs. Alrey, the Misses
Airev. Captain Alrey, Mr. and Mrs. B. Lord, Mrs.
and Mtes GUles. Mrs. G. B. Simpson, Miss Hogg,
Mrs Frisby. Miss Qarney, Miss Gilder, the Misses
Gore, the Misses Cox, Miss Minnie Read, Miss Hills,
Miss Mabel Laldley, Mr. and Miss F. Watt,
Captain Lake. Captain Hamilton, Captain
Guinn. Lieutenant Reynolds, Lieutenant Field,
Hon. Lieutenant Boyle, Mr. Onslow, Mr. Blacuett,
Mr Kay, Mr. Bernard (H.M.S. Nelson), Cap-
tain Paul (H.M.8. Miranda), Captain Pike (H.M.S.
Harrier) Captain Marks (H.M.S. Swinger), Captain
Cross (H!m!s. Undine), Mr. W. Mitchell, Mr. Unwin,
Mr Lord and Dr. Cox, about 100 altogether being
present Some of the frocks worn by the small
maidens were exceedingly becoming. Nearly all
wore white in some soft cllnging-material with
short full bodices, relieved sometimes by cardinal
or pale-blue sashes, but more often only with
white satin ribbon, or broad sashes, the hair either
plaited in one long plait, or hanging loose. The
youngest of tho hostess wore Quite the
prettiest frock in the room-a soft deau-white
canvas material, simply made up with white saun
ribbon and lace, shoes and stockings to match.
Two tiny tiaxen-baired sisters in blue and white
danced beautifully together. A dark-haired giil
looked ss if she had been living among the fairies,
and htd forgotten to change her airy, fairy count-
loss skirts of whito not whon sho roturntd. to sub-
stantial life. A tall slim girl was dressed in a v-ry
n -etty frock of pale pink, the high V-ehaj ed booy
owned neither lace nor frill, but was finished
round the neck by folds of the stuff laid ou Ker-
chief fashion; the skirt had a short top drapery,
and several rows of satin ribbon round tbe bot-
tom. Its telling effect lay in its simplicity.
Until ha.f - past ten it was the children’s
hour—then they had supper and departed
Mrs. Wrench wore a short, graceful dress
of cream lace over satin, finished with broad
moire draping, the bodice of gold embossed satin.
Miss Throckmorton, high blaok satin and
with jetted front; Miss Tessa Thioekmorton, is
striped white satin and lace; Miss Gore looked
well In pale-pink satin; her sister wore oream
satin apd .Maltese lac?. An exceedingly fair
widow wore pale-blue and cream, with lovely
ornaments of diamonds, pearls, and sapphires;
Mrs. Frlsby wore a soft white crepe dress; Miss
Hogg, a tres decotlettee gown of pale-blue satin,
wlth’jetted tablier of white lace; Miss Cox, in pink
canvas; Mrs. Gilles, in black; Mrs. Simpson, black
velvet court train over paie-pink figured skirt.
Dancing was kept up till half-past one. The
supper was perfect as Gunsler could make it, and
looked exceedingly pretty, arranged with quanti-
ties of lovely flowers.
Among the passengers by the Orient on Satur-
day was a lady who has long and Successfully fol-
lowed the musical profession In Sydney—Miss
Woolley, daughter of the late t)r. Woolley, once
Professor at Sydney University. After many
years of Unceasing toil she has been persuaded to
.take a six months’holiday. During her absence
she will visit all the great musical centres of
Buhope. A few days ago, before her departure, a
number of her old pupils and friends presented
her with a purse of sovereigns amounting to £350,
as a small token of the affection and esteem she
has won during her patient, unwearied labour. A
large number of friends assembled on board the
Orient to wish her God-speed and a safe return.
CORRA LYNN.
I The glove light between Jack Hall, Foley's
English protigi, and George Powell, the well-
known Sydney light-weight, came off on Monday
afternoon in a riog pitched on a suitable bit of
green sward “down the Harbour.” Contrary to
expectation, the fight was very poorly contested,
as Powell oould not make any impression on the
Englishman, Who won hands-down in three
rovtnds. Almost immediately after the men
crossed hands. Hall stabbed his opponent heavily
in the mark with the l,eft, and follOwbd uh with
two or three of the same Sort, leaving the im-
pression ot his glove on Powell each time. Then
Hall worked to close quarters, and brought his
right glove on the point of his opponent’s masti-
cating apparatus, and fetched him to grass. From
this out to the finish it was George-street to the
proverbial China orange on the imported article,
who knocked Powell off his feet several times in
the second and third rounds, at the termination of
which the little one’s triends threw up the sponge.
In meeting Hall, Po well was giving away about halt
a Stone, but independent of this, the Englishman
out-fought him at every oolnt On the Tuesday
evening previous to the fight, Hall bad a gallop
with “ our champion amateur ” for three
fast rounds—two three minutes’ and a finisher of
three and a-balf, and although he was not ex-
pected to hold his own with the phenomenal
amateur, he made such a good show that bis
friends were quite satisfied as to his chances with
Powell. Hall has improved wonderfully under
the tuition ot the champion, Larry Foley, and
showed vastly different form to when he boxed
Moran. Hall will now have to travel to fresh
pastures for further conquests, as he has nothing
more at his weight to conquer in N.S.W. Should
Mick Nathan, of Victoria, feel in a fighting mood
just now, we do not think he would have any diffi-
culty in fixing up a match with Hail.
The Cootamundra Coursing Club held a
very successful first meeting: last week. The win-
ners were as follows:—All Comers’ Stakes, Mr. I.
Mitchelmore’s Xixon and same owner's Gift
divided. Lodal Stakes, Mr. Bligh’s Lucifer, Mr.
King’s Prowling Sal runner-up. Beaten Stakes,
Don, lolanthe runner-up. At the settling, prizes
to the amount of £46 were paid over.
The Intercolonial Poultry, Canary, Cat,
and Dog Show eventuated in the Exhibition
Building, Melbourne, on the S6th August and
three following days. The chief exhibits Were of
Victorian production, and the majority of thb
prizes will remain with Victorian owneft, but
still there w ere enough competitors from other
colonies to prevent the title Intercolonial from
being a misnomer. N.8. W, was represented by Mr.
S Rigg, of Rook wood (Sydney) Mr. J. T. Taylor, of
Randwick, Mr. A. E. Kinsey, of Moama, Ac, On the
third day the Governor and Lady Loch visited the
building, and her ladyship was presented by Dr.
Peel with a gi rgeous bouquet of spring flowers.
Financially, the affair was a great boom, and to Dr.
Peel belongs much kudos for the intelligent zeal
he has shown In the conduct of this Exhibition. It
Is hoped that next year the show, by help of all
the colonies, will be of all-round Australian range


P* A U JT_ I ON.
NOTICE*TO THE PUBLIC.
la consequence of an attempt to substitute In-
ferior and spurious articles for ” Dr. Scott's Bleo-
• trie,” the Pali Mall Electric Association, 54, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, desire to caution the public
against purchasing any counterfeit of the follow-
ing goods “ Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets, Dr.
Scott’s Electric Belts, Dr. ecott’s Electric Hair,
Flesh, or Tooth Brushes, Dr. Scott’s Galvanic
Generators, and Dr. Scott’s Electric Insoles.”
Every genuine article bears tho word ” Electric”
and the name of Dr. Scott, as also does the box
containing same. The extent of our trade, and the
marked appreciation of the public having induced
certain parties to manufacture a line of worthless
goods, having something of the general form and
external appearance of ours, and variously styled
“ MAGNETO-BLECTBIO Or BLKCTBIC MAGNETIC,”
we respectfully ask that parties who have been
Influenced by the many testimonials we publish,
all of which are strictly genuine, or the universal
reputation of our goods, to give electricity a
trial, will see that the name) of Dr. Scott and the
word “ Electric” appear on every article purchased.
In addition to this, we have recently registered a
new trade mark—an oval label with our local
address, “ Pall Mall Electric Association, 54, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, N.S.W,” in marginal lines,
encircling the device of a mailed band bolding a
group of thunderbolts.
mk o
'Q
a.
im
$
£
As we are the only parties in Australia importing
these goods direct from Dr. Scott, and are prepared
to guarantee the genuineness of every article
bearing this label, we advise purchasers to see
personally that this trade mark invariably appears
on any and every .Electric Corset, Belt. Insole,
Generator, Hair. Flesh, or Tooth Brush, they may
desire to purchase. This borne in mind, much
vexation and disappointment will be saved ; and
we respectfully request that any person who has
been induced to buy any of those imitations under
the impression that they were Dr, Scott's Electric,
will at once communicate with us.
MaoLaugblin’s Bodega, 306 George-streei,
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &o.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps. The public should
demand and take none hut the genuine Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
If you want good puddings use Kings ford’s
Oswego Cornflour.
There are more cures made with American
Co.’s Hop Bitters than all other medicines. See
flags and all.
All agree that handsome hair is one of
beauty’s Indispensable elements. Ayer's Hair
Vigor maintains it in freshness, brightness, and
luxuriance.
The Gippsland Hop Bitters Company hav-
ing met with such wonderful success in the dis-
posal of their Bitters throughout Victoria, ha\e
decided to Introduce them—In fact they have
already been introduced—into New South Wales.
The advertisement of the Company, containing a
certificate from the Victorian Government Ana-
lyst, appears in our advertising oolums.*
he Renner Manufacturing Co., of Pitts-
burgh. Pennsylvania, U.S.A., make an extraordin-
ary offer to agents, and those wanting employ-
ment, to sell their Benner Combined Alarm and
Door Bell, in the different colonies and counties in
Australia. It is endorsed by over 2000 publishers
in the United States and Canada, aud by the 100,000
who are now using them on their doors. It has
never been sold by the trade, but by agents alone.
It will pay 100 per cent, profit, and sells from $4.00
to $6.00 each. Agents in the United States have
taken as high as 22 orders in a single day. It sells
readily on its merits. General agents who can
handle a number of counties, or one of the colo-
nies, can secure those they want by being the first
to comply with our terms. Large illustrated
circulars, containing terms and price-list, will be
sent free. Address: Kenner Manufacturing
Cp, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, U.6.A. *
No kitchen is complet > without Kingsford a
Oswego Cornflour.
The best internal disinfectant is Wolfe’s
Schnapps, the purest spirit known. Beware of
imitations.
Political Points
Population of N.S.W. on 30th June last,
938,986.
Wollongong wants another half million
spent on her harbour. Wollongong also has just
now an intense admiration for Sir Alex. Stuart,
and proposes to banquet him. How nicely the
N.S.W. political system works for all parties 1
The Hon. George Thorn, who, for a very
S nail number of days was Premier of Queensland,
Announces himself as a pronounced promoter of
separation between the northern and southern
parts of his colony. George sees ho has no chance
of another turn at Premiership In Brisbane. Will
he have a chance In Townsville ?
The apathy of the Victorian Legislative
Assembly has become simply appalling. Mr.
Mason. M.L.A., flourished a bottle of brandy be-
fore the House on the 20th ult, and not a man
stirred. Had he committed such a tantalising ac-
tion before the N S.W. lawmakers, he would have
Stood a big chance of being killed in the crush.
Protection is going ahead in the country,
although it may not progress in Sydney, where
the huge warehouses of Importers oast a shadow
over the minds as well as the eyes of those who are
constantly passing thereunder. At Orange
(N.S.W.) the farmers and mechanics have agreed
to demand Protection from candidates at next
election, and support only those who commit
themselves to this policy.
How Socialistic, Australia must be I From
an English Conservative paper:—"It is to be hoped
that Parliament will not pander to the Socialistic
notions of the School Board, and be coaxed or
bullied into providing free education for the
people. The mere question of a penny or so on
the rates is a small matter, though vexatious
enough to an already over-burdened ratepayer,
compared to the implied acceptance of Socialistic
doctrines which it would involve.”
Bismarck, as is well known, has long had
his eye on Samoa. The people of N Z are strongly
in favour cf annexing the Samoan group to their
colony, and King Malietoa now writes to Sir
George Grey announcing his intention to visit
N.Z. for the purpose of pr essing his petition for
annexation. Should Bismarck, in view of the
King’s action, proceed to annex the group, the
British race in general, and Australasians in par-
ticular, will know that the time has come for them
to wake up.
Several years ago Professor Hearn, of
Melbourne, drew up a le ral code. Three years
ago,, the Victorian Parliament, thinking loftily of
the performance, appointed aboard of revisers.
These were remunerated to the extent of £3500
on the board were four senior counsel at the
inevitable 250 guineas each, three or four Junior
counsel, and a bunch of secretaries. The work
then went home. Word is now received from
Professor Pollock, “the highest authority In Eng-
land,” that the code is radically bad I
The recent appointments to the Bench at
Orange (N.S.W.) are viewed with much disfavour
by those men who were elevated when the honour
occasionally meant something, instead of being, as
now, a mere nucleus for the formation of an elec-
tioneering head-centre for the support of some
toadying Ministerialist. Instead of the elevation
of a man to the Bench, it is now the degradation of
the office to the man. In some of the latest nomi-
nations the Bench has had to stoop very low in-
deed, and that is what riles the older magistrates.
The Queensland Legislative Council re-
jected the Payment of Members’ Bill on the ground
that an inferior class of men would be returned if
the Bill became law. To anyone acquainted with
Northern legislators the danger of such an issue
is not apparent. Why will not these sedate
humourists remember that payment of members
exists in the United States, Canada, New Zealand,
Victoria, Prussia, Saxony, France, Holland, Bel-
gium, Sweden, Norway, and many other places ?
Is it an inferior class of men who govern all these
countries ?
The new N.S.W. Land Act will, it appears
Certain, do much good to some people. From the
Way In which squatters on the one hand and
Selectors oh the other bit ttt the Act we were be-
ginning to think that the voice of praise would not
be lilted up very high. The Tumut and AdelonG
Times comes along; however, drawing a car on
Which several Jubilant parties alt and sing. The
parties are land-agents. What is better, some of
them are relatives of Ministers. Their circulars
are cut. The selectors are spelling them over.
The money is expected to roll down to Sydney
Immediately. One agentwrltes: “ There can be no
doubt that many selections are forfeited on
account of the parties concerned not understand-
ing the method of conducting their cases before
enquiry courts, although in reality the selections
are perfectly bona fide. In cases of this kind the
services of a clever experienced agent are invalu-
able, and often result in his obtaining for the
selector a re-heating of his case before the court,
and ultimately a reversal of forfeiture, or, per-
haps, reversal of forfeiture without re-hearing.”
Why should selectors not fed Joyous with such an
administration of the publis estate as is thus re-
vealed ? They can take up land bona-flde. But
the Minister may order it to be forfeited unless a
clever agent interview him. Well, they have the
clever agents. Why not send one to interview ?
And who so good as a Minister’s son-in-law ?
Here’s treason for you, published in an
English weekly paper which circulates 600,000
copies of each Issue:—“What are the Mendicity
Society about that they take no notice of the pro-
fessional beggar o£ Windsor ? The facts are notori-
ous. An old German lady lives there, who is the
greatest nuisance to the taxpayers. She will not
give them a moment’s peace for begging. She
might take in washing, or go charring, or. in this
nice warm weather, act as female attendant to a
bathing-machine. But the lazy old lady is bold
enough to say that it is the opinion of all Germans
that the English should support them. At the
present moment the professional beggar of Wind-
sor has a daughter, named Beatrice, whom she is
marrying to some German cousin. The mother of
Beatrice, by persistent begging, has filled her
stocking with several million pounds. She could
easily have afforded Beatrice a few thousands
But the shameless old woman would not give a
penny. £6000 a-year were granted Beatrice, and
now a demand for another £80.000 is made. Speak-
ing seriously, how long is this invisible woman-
who is supposed to divide her time between sitting
on a throne, walking with Beatrice, and weeping
for John Brown and the Prince Consort—to con-
tinue these outrageous demands? Mr. Labouchere
made a gallant attempt to stop the vote, but the
majority of the flunkeys, who have succeeded by
hypocrisy and lying to induce constituencies to
elect, them would not support him. He secured
only 32 votes.”
Never was there such a man for an
original and Ingenuous mind, as Mr. J. B. Oiltfe,
M.P., senior member (for the last time) for S >uth
Sydney. He cm see no advantage “in making a
ooaddant of htsaoversary ’’ That’s hee mse Mr.
01iff« is too hom st in his politics altogether If
he were of the stump of the “Filibuster - section
of the commut ity, he would see a very great ad-
vantage in making a confidant of his adversary;
he would get paid for it. Dropping this, we will
now take the opportunity of telling Mr. Ollffe
what we really do wish he would ask the Licensed
Victuallers to get for us. Here goes then
Hotels without, you understand,
A barmaid with a scowl,
Who wipes her sticky hands upon
A dank and greasy towel—
A thing so ugly, yet so vain;
Her speech is dashed with rue,
She rises reading, as she snaps—
“ Now, come, sir, what’s for you ? ”
We want no typhoid carpets; they
Are seething through the town 1
They’ve never seen the light of day
Since they were hammered down I
We want—oh. ev'ry thing we want I
But pressed, we are, for time;
That’s why the stanzas don’t possess
The usual double rhyme.
There will be war between N.S.W. and
Queensland yet, unless someone steals the ink and
purloins the pen of Thadeus O’Kane, of Towns-
ville (Q.), the hero of a hundred horsewhips and a
thousand libel actions. In a recent leader he bad
the audacity to say that the despatch of “our
brave fellows” to “help England In her hour of
need ’ “deserves the condemnation of all who sym-
pathise with the sufferings of down-trodden
peoples.” Then, referring to Stuart’s “ultimatum”
on the reoldlvlste question, he refers In sarcastic
terms to the merriment It caused In the French
Chamber of Deputies, and says, with biting Irony:
—“N.S.W.has posed lately as the Imperial pet,and
seems anxious to creep back to the apron strings
of old mother England, merging her independence
in boney-combed and tottering Imperialism. She
has, by tbis fawning attitude, gone far to estrange
the other colonies, and bar the way to that federa-
ation which alone can protect Australia from
Communism or German despotism.” And, not
content with thus deprecating our loyalty, he
further insults us by thus slating our much-ban-
queted; MinistryThe language of the N.S.W.
Government still breathes of that sycophantic
spirit! which appears to be engrained In the very
constitution of N.S.W. statesmen.” “ Sycophantic
spirit I” Fancy the loyalty of Plain Bill besmeared
with that epithet] Stuart’s next ultimatum should
contain a demand for the body of Thady, on pain
of an Invasion of Queensland by the—haw-Sydney
Lanoe-abs.
He was going “ home ” for a trip, and she
expected—but never mind what she had expected
—she saw she was to be disappointed. It is
woman’s doom often enough to bo thus served-
“You going away and leaving your business?
Why, what will become of it ? ,r she said-so put-
ting in the business as a substitute for herself in
the matter. “The business,” he said; “oh, that
will doubtless go on all right, or perhaps go to the
devil I ” “ It will go all right in either case, then,”
she said, “for you’ll have a chance of meeting
with it again—some where 1"
Woman Items
Ladies in Waiting—Old Maids.
Mamma: “Don’t you think, Emma, you
are getting a little too old to be playing with the
boys so much?’’ Emma; “I know It, but the
older I get the better I like ’em.”
Wife (emphatically): “That dog of Smith’s
across the way bit mother again this morning, and
I want to know what you propose doing about It?”
Husband (brutally): “I think I shall buy the dog.”
Lady Brassey—the empress of British
snobs—wore at Ascot races a stone-coloured gown
literally covered with gold embroidery, from
which hung gilt coins and pearls. Over this was
thrown a cream-coloured canvas dust-cloak,
trimmed with brocades of bouquets and brown-
red velvet. Can anybody beat that ?
Douglas Jerrold was onoe playing whist at
a party; In the adjoining room they were dancing.
A friend, touching him on the snoulder, asked:
“Who Is that man, Jerrold, there, dancing with
Mrs. Jerrold ?” Me looked round for an Instant
through the opep> door. “ Goodness knows, my
dear boy I” he replied; “some member of the
Humane Society, Psupposel ”
An industrious boy.— “ Does your boy
study much 7” - “Study much ? ” replied the fond
mother; “ I should say be did. He Is always at his
books.” “ What is" his particular line of study ?"
“ History. He has .over a hundred histories. It was
only yesterday that I found him hard at work on
‘ Cross-Eyed Tim, the Scout of Bloody Bones, or
the History of the Pirate Outbreak.’ ”
Ladies have worn our hats, copied our
coata. stolen the style of our collars, and boldly
adopted our neckties ; but they have left us
our trousers. It is only now that we have dis-
covered the reason of their not annexing those
emblems of the male sex. It Is, that if they were
to wear them it would be necessary to dissard low-
necked dresses or go without braces.
A census-taker recently had a funny ex-
perience. After the usual questions had been put
and answered at a house, he was about to leave,
when the woman, who had stemed in an uncertain
state of mind,'made bold to say I think there
may be another by this time ; wait a little while,”
He sat for a few minutes She returned, ex-
c.aiming: “ Yes, you can add another. It's a girl.”
A young lady named Bailey recovered
£1200 recently at Monmonth Assizes in an action
for breach of promise of marriage against Mr.
Lewellin, a mining engineer. The engagement
between them was several times broken, and each
time renewed at the defendant’s request. Their
letters contained no terms of endearment, but this,
the plaintiff said, was in order that her letters
might be shown to the gentleman’s mother, and
the defendant had told her his father advised him
never to write differently to a woman than he
would to a man.
Miss Kate Halley, of Melbourne, doesn’t
dote on the military as much as she used to do in
days gone by. Bombardier Allen was her beau
ideal of a warrior, until such time as he twisted a
ring off her finger with the avowed intention of
“flashing it in the barracks.” But as he showed
no subsequent symptoms of flashing it out of the
barracks, Miss Kate was forced to invoke the law
to her aid. Poor girl! trust not the Victorian
Permanent Artillerymen, they are even as the
Dead Sea fruit. What's the use of men being fair
to look upon if they divide their time between
flashing cheap jewellery and getting six months’
for mutiny ? None, Kate.
Joseph Symes, of Melbourne, has noticed
that the Bible exhibits no sweetheart. The enter-
tainment we call courtship has no place in the
sacred narrative. “ No man ever drops on his
knee to a woman or sends her a billet doux in the
Bible.” That is true, but, in fair play, it ought to
be lemembered that the Bible is a record of the
doings of a primitive people. The amenities of
love are developments of civilisation. It is only
lately our Australian blaekfellow learned to kiss
his gin. He is still a clumsy performer. He looks
at the big blubbery Ups a long time, then shuts nis
eyes, then makes a dive, and four times out of
live be misses the spot and drives bis nose into her
opossum-trap.'’ Tenderness of relation between
the sexes has been of as gradual formation as the
facial angle. There is emotional evolution, as well
as physical evolution. It Is not the Bible’s fault
that It affords no example of courtly courtship
It would be a fault If It did, for In those old days
men did not know about It. And people will yet
exist who will think our courtships as barbaric as
we think the Scripture ones. Do we deserve ridi-
cule, however ?
“Mrs. Langtry,” says the 8.F. Argonaut,
“ will go to Australia next fall. She has been re :
serving what she called ‘ the antipodes ’ until she
felt that another violent dramatic effort was ab-
solutely needful. That trying moment seems to
have arrived. Mrs. Langtry’s season at the
Prince’s Theatre, London, has been disastrous, and
Mr. Abbey, the theatrical manager, has lost some-
thing like H0,000dols. with the lady. She should
have started before the two titled dudes boxed
each other’s dandy faoel on her account. • Lord
Lonsdale and Sir George Chetwynd were the two
dudes. They had a scrapping match in Hyde Park
over the Lily. Like two costermongers wrangling
for a fishwife’s favours. Bab! They do those
things better in France.
INSCRIBED TO THE AVERAGE SYDNEY
STAGE-DOOR MASHER.
What She Wanted.
They stood close to her feath'ry wings.
And marvelled bow they buttered;
While she, intent on other things.
Still marked each word they uttered 1
“ That arm might Cleopatra’s be.
That shapely thigh Diana’s;”
** I’d like,” quick interrupted she,
“ To know where are your manners,
“ Your voices are as sweet as Intel*
(I do not wish to scoff);
But, sirs, I want a pair of boots—
Ah, that has soared you off.”
A lady who wields a rigorous quill thus
addresses us:-“From Melbourne comes talk of a
strike in the kitchens and nurseries. If burly men
cannot work more than eight hours a day, why
should Bridget and Dora be expected to work six-
teen ? The question of what constitutes a labour-
day is only in the beginning. It is impossible to
see any way near the end. Strong men march our
streets with banners hying and drums beating,
proclaiming that they own sixteen hours out of
the twenty-four, and can do with them what they
like. Weak women drudge and slave sixteen,
often eighteen, of the twenty-four, and are not
even sure of ‘ second Sunday out.’ It is said that
women’s work is only odds and ends. It consists
in washing down children or washing up dishes.
But when thought out, woman’s work Is for
woman as hard as man's for man. Being ready at
all times to answer a bell, is labour. ‘ He works
who waits,’ as Milton says. I don’t see my way to
any definite statement on the question, but I feel
that if a man wants sixteen hours of the day out
of harness, a woman wants it, too. I think the
men who celebrate their victory as they do, will
show chivalry in fighting for the cause of women.
They are churlish if they don’t. That’s the be-
ginning of a nice revolution.”.
Why, asks an English paper, is Patti to
have a testimonial ? Surely her engagements
have been profitable enough without it. She
has not of late stepped on the stage a single night
for less than £300, and even then does not think
herself too well paid. The truth is the public are
suffering seriously from the exorbitant demands
of star performers. They get operas in which the
excellence of one great artiste is more than
counterbalanced by the indifferent way in which
the subordinate parts are cast. This star system
is becoming a curse among us. It would not
be so bad if performers were raised to the
dignity of stars on account of their vocal
and dramatic ability. But when we find
an actress of no experience and limited powers
blazing out of a sensational law suit into the pro-
portions of a theatrical constellation, it is time to
make a stand. Miss Fortescue’s demands from
managers during her American tour are worth
noting. 8he will not play for. less than a-thlrd of
the profits, and must be guaranteed at the least
£70 a week. That sort of thing makes it impossible
for the public to get their money’s worth. When
prima donnas become more accommodating and
less greedy; when they cease to make the rank
and file of the profession suffer so that they may
be over-paid; when they display in any degree the
qualities of unselfishness that Jenny Lind pos-
sessed, then It will be time to talk of testimonials.
At present, the result of their huge salaries is not
to develops opera, but to strangle it.
A PONDEROUS NOMINEE.
BROWN: “ WHO’S THAT ? ” -
JONES: “WHY THAT’S HONORABLE BLANK. HE’S A MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT ”
BROWN: “ A MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT I I WONDER HOW MANY CONSTITUENCIES
HE SITS FOR?"


KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA AND INSECTICIDE.
KRUSE'S FLUID MAGNESIA, the Universal Remedy for INDIGESTION, FLATULENCE,
ACIDITY of the STOMACH, BILIOUS HEADACHE, and a MOST GENTLE APERIENT for
Invalids and Children.
See Medical Opinions Accompanying each Bottle.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout the Colonies.
KEITS&’S INSECTICIDE
Effectually destroys all noxious Insects, such as FLEAS, PLIES, BEETLES. MOSOUITOES, and
COCKROACHES. It is quite harmless to Dogs, Birds, Fowls, and other animals. It Preserves Furs
fpnm the Depredations of the Moth. Bedroom Furniture, Ship Cabins, Fowl Houses, and Dog Kennels
may be Cleansed of Insect Vermin by KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE.
Sold In Tins, Is., and upwards, by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
ELLIOTT BROS. I Svdne „
E. PROSSER & CO. f byaney *
GHAS. OTTE & CO.,
Electrical Engineers,
113 Pitt Street.
Electric Batteries for surgical and household use, Electric Bells,
Private Telephones, Electric Lights, Lightning Conductors, Dyna-
mos and all Electrical appliances fitted at the short-.st notice, at
25 per cent, under usual price.
CHAS. OTTE & CO., 113 Pitt Street.
, and CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. Q. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
, ul MACEI
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT3.
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDER8
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, Ac.
l R, PLATE, SHEET,
ud HOOP IRON
lLVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
RON
IBETand PBRPO-
iATED ZINC: TIN
?LATB8
Q IRON and LEAD
[L8, PAINTS, and
3RU8HWARB
BNCING WIRE
iVOOLPACKS
I EARING SUPPLIES
JILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
)LLED H GIRDERS
Us:
chTl
im
u-.
rnm
PORTABLE, FIXED
and SEMIFIXED EN-
GINES
VERTICAL and HORL
ZONTAL BOILERS
Sf? TEAM and other
ggg PUMPS
" LATHES, PLANING,
SHAPING, SCREW
MAteufBS 0^^0
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
f FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, Ac.
p rice Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
g-.SSSSK-
Bulk Stores
London Office
- 64 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR,
SYDNEY;
, . - Si QBAUBCHUUUB BTUWTt
Giticura
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured_ by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purlher,
Internally, and Cuticuba and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
■with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
■will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
bolyent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of ray disfiguring humors; nave had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cube (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), Instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticuba, la
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticuba, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticuba Soap, 25 cents; Cuticuba Shav-
ing Soap, 16 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared bt the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
Ik
a
€
U0&
LIMIT* 0
mo3
ovERdOOorr**
BestMakiks^,
w
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
%r LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.


When the vital system has been weakened
—use Wolfe's Schnapps to renovate it.
Invalids and children—give them Kingsford’s
Oswego Cornflour.
When buying Schnapps, be sure you
obtain the genuine Wolfe’s Schnapps.
THE BIRTH OF A BOROUGH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was decidedly an improvement in
the prospects of Wattlegum. After having lain
for many years In a state of drowsy dulness and
torpid discontent, it commenced to yawn and
stretch itself. It was one of those miserable mis-
taken little townships that are only to be found In
Australia It had not arisen to fill any long-felt
want. It there had never been a township
founded where Wattlegum stood, no man would
have been conscious of an aching void in Nature’s
arrangements. Forty years ago, when the mark of
the broad arrow was upon this land, gold was dis-
covered at Warrabl. Payable gold—three penny-
weight to the tin dish—surface work, and plenty
of It. So a rush set In from Sydney—In those brave
oabbage-tree days It required not much to stimu-
late a rush. And the first waggon that started for
Warrabl lost Its horses at the Wattlegum River,
and the next waggon had two of Its horses
drowned In trying to cross while the river
was Hooded. And a large percentage of the
lading of these waggons %vas Old Tom. bo
the proprietors extemporised shanties at the
Wattlegum Crossing, and retailed Old Tom to the
passers by—rather to those who Intended to pass
by, but did not. And many came that way to
seek their fortunes at the Warrabl rush, and many
returned dissappointed. Those who were going
drank largely of Old Tom at the Wattlegam shan-
ties In the exhilaration of hope—those who were
returning did likewise in the depression of despair.
And the price of Old Tom went up, and the
shanty-keepers prospered amazingly The most
daring of the two got in a case of sardines and a
few dozen pairs of moleskin trousers, and deve-
loped his place Into the Wattlegum General Store.
The other, a more timid creature, made nocturnal
raids on the beeves of the squatters around,
and wrote up the legend “ Butcher ” over his
door. And for a year or two all went on
merrily at the Wattlegum Crossing. The Warrabl
rush carried on after the usual manner of ail
rushes. Now the escort would gallop through the
ringing ranges with its formidable cordon ol
mounted police, and with much clanging ol
swords and jingling of spurs, and safely convey an
almost empty gold-chest to its destination. Now
the return would o'ectrify the mining population
far and wide, and make the rush break forth
afresh. Whichever way fortune went, the shanty-
keepers continued to amass wealth, till certain un-
toward circumstances interfered with their fur-
ther progress. The one was moved one day, by
excess ot Old Tom, to Imagine that he had tried to
assassinate the King of Spain; and, in order to es-
cape the consequences of this wild deed he went
and hanged himself from a dead eucalyptus by
means of a bridle-rein. The other was taken in
flagrante delicto— burning two bullock-hides In the
heart of the wilderness. He got ten years’ there-
for. Thus were the two pioneers of Wattlegum
prevented from going Into Parliament or found-
ing two of our first families. »
• * *
Others came in their places—still others
around them—and, as time went on, Wattlegum
was gazetted a police district. In ten years it had
grown to be a of about twenty buildings of
the stern, oold architecture of the earliest ages of
Bark. Other smaller rushes had sprung up in the
wide country beyond Warribi, and the continual
stream of goers and comers had kept the fire of a
dull life aglow at Wattlegum. In ten more years
the era of gold had parsed, and that of wheat was
in its golden dawn. Under tho.benlgn influence of
Sir John, the tomahawk of the selector was all day
long “ pointing" cjrner-pegs to drive into the
earth In some part of the lands of the helpless
squatter. Then Wattlegum reached Its manhood.
The four hotels-it had four hotels, now—had
their bars newly done up, and the swinging signs
repainted. The principal one—the “Diggers’
Rest,” from the bar of which Californian Joe bad
shot four passing Chinamen dead, in the brave
days of old—applied to the Bench for permission
to change its name and sign, and be henceforth
known as the “ Farmers’ Arms,” an application
which, after a world of deep consideration and ex-
amination of precedents, by the wise authorities,
was granted. Then the new order stepped in to
replace the old. In the interests ot the Irish
selectors, a stone Catholic church was builded
on the eastern side of the river, while the
engineers of the weatherboard Wesleyan shrine
on the western side went what they reckoned
“ one better,” and imported a big bell of
a wild and uncertain note, which they reared
high in the air on three legs like a witch's
cauldron, and rang immoderately, to the dismay
of the Catholic portion of the community. Then
a devout Roman, who had made a big thing in the
early days at cattle-dufiing, sent specially to
Europe for a perfect bull-dog of a bell, which,
when it was erected and in full blast, effectually
drowned the Wesleyan bell. By-and-by, a Pres-
bytenian church found footing, and with the
growth of respectability and permanence, an Epis-
copalian. Two newspapers Issued from funny
little lean-tos—emasculated sheets who dared not
express the burning hatred each felt for the other
in anything stronger than, “ With its usual talent
for misrepresentation, the Stiffener yesterday
saya,” &o. Timid, time-serving, white-faced little*
papers, that feared everybody, and wrote leaders
a good deal like the Sydney Morning Herald s,
and tried to run with both squatter and selector.
One bank and several cash stores made up the
town.
* * *
Ten more years had flown and brought
Wattflegum to the period we speak ot. The dig-
gings bad lang been selectors had in
many instances sold out their holdings to the
parent squatters, and Wattlegum had been
through a decade of gloomy Immobility, The
four hotels had often changed hands, and the
selector who now called across the street to some
other selector to come over and have a drink was
thinner and weedier, and less rosy and roystering
than the selector of old. One of the cash stores
had closed Its shutters—the others had developed
even more decided “cash” proclivities. The
papers were more snappish to each other than of
yore, and agreed in only one thing—on the strength
of the statement of a man who was supposed to
have once worked In the copper-mines of South
Australia, that round Wattlegum was likely-look-
ing country for copper—to point out continu-
ously the vast mineral wealth of the district, which
only needed enterprise and capital to develope
it. But no one had the enterprise, or those who
had it. lacked the capital, or having the capital
lacked the enterprise. So the vast mineral wealth
remained undisturbed, and nothing much moved
through the streets of Wattlegum, but waggons
which brought the wool from the great Warrabl
district to the Taggara Station on the Northern
line for transmission to Sydney. And the bullock-
teams were not many, for the shortest road to
Taggara was through Murphy's Flat, 15 miles to
westward. Altogether, Wattlegum was a poor,
weary place, and was stigmatised by the. billiard-
marker at the one table (who was from* Sydney)
us" blanked hole.”
• * *
But at the time we write of, there was
certainly a stir in commercial A big tree
bad been blown down across the road through
Muqpby’s Flat, and six consecutive wool-waggons
had diverged and come through Wattlegum,
rather than set to work to remove the obstacle.
The driver of xme of these waggons went on a
“tear” at the Royal George, In the suburbs, and
spent eight pounds. And it was currently
reported that Ned Gumbler, the principal store-
keeper, had been left £600 or so by a relative.
Then, again, the railway line was being surveyed
in the vicinity of the township, and already the
advance guard of all new rail ways—the shanty-
keepers—were prowling about in search of sites
along the line for their businesses. The Wattle-
gym bTiFFENER had called attention to the fact
that two hawkers' waggons, and a bowling-alley'
proprietors’ turn-out were in town, with a view to
permanent business, and the Times did not fail to
enlarge upon the increased prosperity of the dis-
trict, and deplore that no one could be found with
capital and enterprise to develop its Mineral Re-
sources.
♦ * •
It is not certainly known with whom the
idea of incorporating Wattlegum and developing
it into a full-blown Borough arose. Tom Bates,
the blacksmith—an injunction restraining whom
from being served with intoxicating liquids by
any of the four hotelkeepers hung in each bar,
and who, consequently, spent most of bis time in
a state of public intoxication—had been telling
some story about how he had himself made shoes
of gold for the horse of the man who was elected
first Mayor of Barneywatnr la Victoria. It was
under the verandah of the Commercial, and the
editor of the Stiffener, seeing the crowd around
Tom. strolled over with an eye to items and rum.
A self-made man was the editor of the Stiffener.
He had begun life as a shoemaker, but, being de-
ficient in intellect to an extent which rendered
the repairing of brogues a rather precarious
means of existence, he became country corres-
pondent for several newspapers, and ultimately
started the Stiffener with a time-payment plant,
and had systematically disapproved of Gladstone's
foreign policy ever since. When he arrived among
the crowd across the road he was called upon at
once to decide several disputes about the duties
and honours and privileges of a Mayor. He was
also called upon to name his poison. The
Xfsult of these things was that the Times
next morning thanked God that it had never
disgraced its high calling by being seen flaunting
in the outraged light of day in a condition lower
than that of the beasts of the field, but had always
held that example was more powerful than pre-
cept. It also, in a fervid leader, said that the time
had now come for the people of Wattlegum to
make one united effort, and have the place made
a municipality, and went on to enlarge upon the
benefits to he derived from such a consummation,
one of which was that increased publicity would
be given to the district, and men with enterprise
and capital would ultimately Interest themselves
In developing its vast mineral resources.
* ■ •
Two days later the Stiffestbr came out.
There was “malice prepense and aforethought”
in the way it said that, to do seven years in irons
for forgery, was, it admitted, a noble way of edu-
cating the public in morality, as the man was cer-
tainly a hero who would use his own person to
demonstrate that punishment must follow crime.
And it had a full column leader on the subject of
" Incorporation,” wherein it showed that nothing
else was needed to make Wattlegum second to no
INQUISITIVE MICK.
town in the colony. This would Induce the
Minister of Mines to give more attention to It, and
would undoubtedly tend to assist in the develop-
ment of their great mineral resources. It further
said that It had no doubt tbat the people would
recognise in it a sturdy champion who was to be
found in the van of every movement for the
public good.
* • m
The notion took root at onee. Huge
requisitions to the Minister to grant local govern-
ment to Wattlegum were sent In by the two
editors, who seeing a big thing in the way of
“ ads.” sticking out, worked like demons at col-
lecting names. In due time the prayer was
granted, and Wattlegum appeared in the Gazette
as a municipality. Then the excitement began to
simmer. Percy St. Leger, the commission agent,
whose chief source of Income was having his
cheques cashed by country people, saw coin in it,
and went round among quiet, respectable citizens
and whispered words in their ears which inflamed
them with the desire to be aldermen—perhaps
Mayors. Then he took round petitions for signa-
ture, praying that such a one would allow himself
to be nommated. as such a one invariably did,
and thanked his requisltionists through tne
columns of either paper, and said that if returned,
he would do his best to, &c , Mr. 8t Leger bad 38
candidates in the field for the eight vacancies, and
&9 he H)e»ut tq get two guiuoae eaob out of them
for his trouble, it was a good time for Mr. St.
Leger.
• * •
Before the day of actual nomination, the
number had diminished to 17. The four publicans
who had been persuaded by Percy St. Leger that
as aldermen they would have some mysterious
power over the destinies of the Good Templars,
were candidates: six Good Templars, who had
been similarly persuaded that their presence in the
Council was necessary to counteract the influence
of the publicans, were also candidates; and pretty
nearly everyone else of any consequence, and
several of none at all, were candidates. Gum-
bler, the chief storekeeper, was freely backed
for the position of Mayor, but as the poll-
ing-day came closer, Todkin, the literary fur-
niture dealer, who was regarded with awe by
the natives on account of his acquirements,
and who, report said, had in his parlour or study,
a letter of his own, framed and glazed, which had
actually appeared in the Evening News on the
subject of capital punishment—was named as also
likely. Many and turbulent were the meetings
that were held in the Temperance Hall, and mighty
were the promises made by the candidates. From
the ashes'of the parent Wattlegum a new and mag-
nificent town was to arise. Goats were no longer
to camp under the verandahs of the principal
places of business, as a right, and dispute the pas-
“ BRAIN PAYER, IS IT? OHI DOCTHTJR, IT’S A PROUD MAN I AM THE DAY1 ”
sage of citizens. Pigeons were not to be allowed
at large within the town limits. A public pump
was to [be erected. And so on. One splendid
visionary went so far as to promise a new foot-
bridge opposite to the Farmers’ Arms, and so had
his return assured.
* * *
Bi*t Grumbler did much to ensure the posi-
tion of Mayor and (like the Contingent offer) “ sent
a thrill through the hearts of the people,” when he
said that, in addition to using his best efforts to
further the best interests of his adopted town—a
town in which, and with which, he had grown
from childhood to manhood—he would make a
special effort to get Government assistance In de-
veloping the enormous mineral resources of
Wattlegum.
• « •
As the day—the fateful day—drew near,
personalities began to stew out of the Press. The
pen of the literary Todkin turned out a multitude
of squibs of an appalling metre, and many long
and pro-Todkinite letters from “ A Ratepayer,”
“A Father of a Family,” and so on, about the new
order of things, and managed to get the bet-
ting on himself and Gumbler for the place of
Mayor level again. On the morning of the elec-
tion, Qumbler’s grocery-cart with “Vote for
Gumbler, and do not be Hoodwinked,” drove at a
walk through the town in search of votes, while a
buggy carrying the legend, “Electors! return
Todkln, and jbeintelligently represented,” scoured
round also. Several other pre-Adamite vehicles
showed out in the interests of others of the
candidates, but during the whole of the day
not one of these was seen to capture one
solitary voter. All the day the Temperance Hall,
In which the polling took place was al-
most silent and deserted. Now and then a furtive
voter, looking to the right and to the left guiltily,
would disappear within it, and after having re-
corded his vote informally, come out, and hastily
make off. The whole thing was done In the most
shame-faced and secret manner, although the im-
pecunious St. Leger strove hard to seem to earn
bis fees by touting for voters.
• * *
There was but one flash of light amid the
gloom. Young Tomlinson, the bank-teller, and
is manager were in the habit of strolling across
from the bank during business hours, aud playing
pin-pool in the billiard-room of the Farmers’
Arms, through the windows of which they could
see if anyone entered the bank. And if anyone
did so enter, the manager was wont to call out
through the door or window, ‘‘All right, Mr. So-
and-so, I’ve got him nearly put through—I’ll be
over in a minute,” and the customer would stroll
about in the bank, and amuse himself as best he
could till the manager came. To-day the play fun
Tomlinson nad amused himself in the billiard-
room by chaffing a very muscular farmer, who
had a big deposit at interest, and was a staunch
supporter of Todkin. The farmer was slightly
flushed by strong waters, and the aristocratio
teller, In his funny way, made him a wager that he
was too tight to sign the ballot-paper when he got
It. The cockatoo went forth to record his vote, and
afterwards came back, and triumphantly declared
that he had won. As he certainly had. He had
written, “I vote for Todkin. Signed, Georg#
Edward Jackson,” on the paper and duly folded
and placed it in the ballot-box. When he an-
nounced this fact in the room, the yell that greeted
him awakened him to the fact that he bad been
“used.” Thereupon, he arose in his agricultural
wrath and seized the teller, and in the course of
ten minutes the latter was curled up on the floor
in an unrecognisable heap. But the manager rose
to the occasion. “ Here, Tom,” he said to the bil.
Hard marker, “take these keys and slip over and
lock the safe and shut the bankl By G—, iqi
take it out of him, and chance his d —d deposit 1”
Accordingly in the back yard, for 30 rounds, they
strove, till the farmer was overthrown, and the
manager “ borne by the joyous crowd ” in triumph
before the bar of the hotel, and fairly drowned in
liquor.
• » ♦
As the time for announcing the poll
arrived, about two dozen people assembled outside
the hall, and stood round abashed, and with sor-
rowful faces talking, mostly, about the weather
and the crops. When the returnlng-olfioer gave
out the numbers, it was seen that Gumbler, the
mortal foe of Todkin, was at the head of the poll
and that Todkin was at the bottom thereof 1
Thus does literature conquer—such is the sove-
reignty of Squibs. And out of 108 votes recorded
63 were informal I
• ■ ■
The following week, at the first meeting
of the new Council, to the indignation of the two
editors, the confusion of Gumbler, and the fury
of everyone who had the true interests of Wattle-
gum at stake—Alderman Smith, an illiterate
butcher, who had openly declared that there was
no gold or silver, or metal of any sort—not even
good road-metal, in any part of the district, was
elected first mayor of Wattlegum, by one votel
The “Fall Mall Gazette’s” Articles.
“ Lord Ashlelgh met a working girl
And chucked her pretty chin;
The world looked on and frowned to see
The blackness of the sin.
For lol Lord Ashlelgh’s touch was death,
Black was his soul within.
“The working girl lost all her bloom;
The angel In her eyes
Went out as from some blackening gloom,
And wept in sad surprise,
‘ God help the girl I ’ the world cried out,
4 She should have been more wise.*
“The types caught up the dreadful sin
And screamed it tar and wide.1
4 A soul is lost! An angel gone!
A life is wrecked! ’ they cried.
* This—this Is too indelicate! ’
The indignant world replied.
44 God help the world that mildly frowns
On the crime but little known,
But hides its face with horror’s trace
When the press gets but its own.
God help Lord Ashlelgh and the world.
For their guilt none can atone.”
“An Opportunity.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In a fair rose-garden a rose, sun-llush’d.
In the pride of its beauty bloomed and blush’d.
The odorous South Wind slumbering there
Through the glad hours tasted its fragrance rare.3
Alas I one day at the set of the sun
A maiden pluck’d it—the beautiful one.
The South Wind awoke from its warm repose.
Sleepily said, “ She hath stolen my rose.”
It sighed, as it passed away through the night,
“She hath stolen my love, my one delight.’
It sobbed, as it wander’d o’er meadow and lea
“ The light of my life hath gone out from me.”
’Mid wealth and beauty in the ballroom’s glare,
The rose bloomed anew in that maiden’s hair.
Like a star it gleamed in the crowded room,
Filling the air with the richest perfume.
Under the stars at the close of a dance,
1 begged that flower with appealing glance.
The maiden inclined her beautiful head
Laughing gaily, "You may kiss it,” $ho said.
Coquettish Indeed, was this winsome belle,
I, bashful, alas 1 she knew that too well.
An Impulse came that I could not resist,
I bent down bravely and tenderly kiss’d
The rose ? Ah, no; although it was red
Her lips were redder; I kissed them instead.
L. D.M.
THE LATEST POPULAR SONG.
Air —“ Says I to myself says I."
Federation shall be what at present it ain’t
In 1901;
Service a seraph ; Berry a saint,
In 1901.
No larrikins then—In fact ail that injures
The peace of mankind -such as press interviewers,
Will be banished from earth by Warner’s Safe
Cures
In 1901.
Bright’s disease is an ailment the doctors will grant
In 1901,
Warner’s Cure can o’ercome when their " skilful-
ness” oan’t
In 1901.
And the grim ills which now the sick man endures.
And the plentlfufharvest King Death now secures,
Will be banished for ever by Warner’s Safe Cures
In 1901.
Women’s rights will be settled, the darlings will
wear
In 1901,
In place of Improvers of Pant’Ioons each a pair
In 1901.
Man will take a hack seat unless he ensures
That his sway as tho Boss over women endures
By toning his system with Warner’s Safe Cures,
In 1801.
Our journeys and jaunts will be via baloon
In 1901:
Quite a commonplace matter a trip to the moon
In 1901.
’Twill be much the same then as the holiday tours
Which globe-trotters make every day to these
shores
In search of rude health; id est Warner’s Safe
Cures
In 1901.
The great Melbourne Cup which then shall be run
In 1901,
By a Soudanese camel, you bet, shall be won
In 1901.
O’er the babel and hubbub, the shouts and the
roars
Of the multitudes there, the Leviathan’s soars—
“I’ll lay agin anythmk,” bar Warner’s Safe Cures,
In 1901.
Sharp Inquisitiveness marked the
yuutflfai Mick O’Doolan's mien
As he tried to reach the contents
of a can of glycerine;
On the cun he dropped a rock and
— w-eil, the undertaker said
If they only found au ear the fu-
neral rites would go ahead.


££ QUOD FACIMUS VALDE PAClMUS.
ng BWWW KWhat we do we do well.)
TOUR PHOTO.-If you are
undecided where to pro to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what Is but well-meant
counsel, and pay first n visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arr ayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices-C-D-V.,: Cabinets' 30s. per doz-m.
CEEELMAN & CO , '
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, 8 YDN ifi7 ARCADE.
O H M O IT D ’ S
SWISS CIGARS
Have been recognised as the BEST for half a
century.
imsl laeon smsHi Om Mllllfwi
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
IMPERIAL CLUB HOTEL
E/IChajid Street, Bourke.
THE above Hotel is now open for the accom-
modation of Residents and Visitors to Bourke.
No expense has been spared in the Furnishing of
iho above, and the Proprietor guarantees that all
patrons of his establishment will meet with every
comfort that modern civilisation can procure.
ROOMS CAN BE ENGAGED BY TELEGRAM.
Wines and Spirits of the Best Brands.
GOOD STABLING.
A. J. O’GRADY, Proprietor.
ISHlNG T AC KLE
Wholesale and Retail, as under:—
Plaited Silk Fishing Lines, 3*., 3s., 4s., 10s., 303.
each. Twisted Hilk Lines. 3d., 3d., 4d.. (il., 3d., Is,,
Is. 6d., 2s , 3s., and up to 10s. each. Fishing Rods, a
large assortment, from 3s. fid. to 503. each. Winches
for do, 33. 6d. to 303. each. Artificial Files, all
sizes. Artificial Fish, Frogs, Insects and Spoon
Baits. Gut Casting Lines, Cork Floats, and Por-
cupine Floats. Hooks on single and double gut.
Hooks on gimp accl brass and copper wire. Shark
Hooks, Silver Steel Fishhooks, Hollow Point
Limerick Hooks, ordinary Limerick and Kerry
Hooks, Treble Tag Hooks. Our own make ma-
chine thread Fishing Lines, from 3d. to 3i. 6d. each.
Our Patent Hemp Undressed Fishing Lines, made
specially for fishermen. Also, our special 100
yards Machine Thread Fishing Lines, wonderfully
strong, yet very fine. First-class Salmon Gut,
Colonial-made Lines of'every description. Fishing
Nets, Cork and Salmon and Herring Twine.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
Walshe’s Family Hotel,
Corner of
ELIZABETH & HUNTER STS. SYDNEY
J. W. WALSHB, Proprietor.
First-class Luncheon at one o’clock. Best Brands
Wines, Spirits, &o. &c.
PE APES &
SPUING SHOW!
PEAPB3 and SHAW’S SPRING MILLINERY.
PBAPB 8 and SHAW’S SPRING COSTUMES.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING DRESS
FABRICS.
PEAPES and SHAW'S SPRING FABRIC
GLOVES.
PE APES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT
KID GLOVES,
PBAPB3 and SHAW’S SPRING HOSIERY,
from J. and R. MOBLEY S.
PEAPB3 and BIT AW'S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
LACE GOODS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
EMBROIDERY.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
iPARASOLS.
NOTICEI
All the above goods are
Now Opon for inspection.
■Large Shipments
for other Departments are
CLOSE AT HAND,
and a constant flow of
NOVELTIES
will be opened up
DURING THE SEASON.
PEAP It'S & SHAW,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS,
324, 32G, 328 George Street.
jT NOAKE,
320 & 446 Georga Street,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
Just Unpacked, ex s.s. Rome,
12 Cases Heal HA CIGARS
(Finest Brands), consisting of
'•ANTONIO MURIAS”
‘‘VILLAR OF VILLARS”
‘ HENRY CLAYS”
“REAL”CABANAS
'•LARRANAGA”
“ KITICA”
“ MORALES”
“ FLOR DE NARE8”
“PARTAGAS”
“INTI MID ADS”
‘‘FLOR DB CUBA”
- ESPANOLA ”
** LA CORONA”
J. NOAKE,
320 & 446 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
POST FREE FOR Is. STAMPS.
Sociol Science.
A TREATISE on all Ntrvous Disorders, Chronic
Diseases, Impediments to Marriage, &o, How to
choose a partner for life so as to live bappy, .How
to Regain and Preserve your Health, &c
Address— It. T. SELBY, M.H , Devonshire-street,
Surry Rills, Sydney.
MANHOOD. RESTORED I
Clergyman having tried every known remedj
fcrtho CU RE of NERVOUS EXHAUS
TION, PREMATURE DECAY, &C.. has ai
last discovered a simple SELF-CURE, which, fox
the sake of suffering humanity, he will send FREE
the Prescription which CURED him. , Address,
with self-addressed stamped envelope—
Dr. K. A. CLARKE, P.O. Box 292, Sydney.
Of
3
I
ECONOMICAL FURNITURBmTfECONOMICALFUBtMTU
THE LARGEST AND ONLY LEGITIMATE
TIME-PAYMENT FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THE COLONY,
365 PITT STREET.
DR. BOYD,
53 CASTLKREAQH-8TREET, SYDNEY
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours?
10 a.m. to 4 p m. Monday, Wednesday;
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and kemale Diseases
Specialty.
Box 120 G.P.O.
RILEY BROTHERS*
ORIGINAL
£S DEiPEET BALES!
PACKED In CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
&T Carriage paid hy mall all over the colonlei
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
£5 WINTER HALE.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 Large Marcella Quilt
10 yards good Sheeting
30 yards Strong Calico
13 Strong Cotton Tick
30 Wincey Dress Tweed
10 good Welsh Flannel
0 yds. Strapping Tweed
All the above are good
wearing articles.
fit FREE SELECTORS’
BALE.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 White or Colored Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 White or Unbleached
Calico
C White or Red Flannel
13 yards Dress Material
13 yds. Cotton Shirtings
4 pair Good Stockings
1 pair Strong Stays
1 dark Petticoat
6 Strong Gambroon
6 Brown Holland
4 Large White Towels
3 yards Good Trousers
Tweed, Buttons,
Threads, &c.
£B MEN’S CLOTHTNd
BALE.
1 Suit Tweed — Coat,
Trousers, and Vest
3 Crimean Shirts, large
3 Best Cotton Shirts,
large size
1 Best Felt Hat, any size
0 pairs Strong Cotton
Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or Pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &o.
£5 LADY’S BALE.
6 Ladles’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
3 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant's Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £6.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pro-
dded over by a lady of great experience, and shall
oe happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials Silks, Velvets, &o.—with
orices, and full instruction for self-measurement,
if applied to.
The £5 Bale system has been In operation for IS
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are bow better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street,
When the lamp of life burns low, use
Wolfe’s Schnapps. It will give you a new life.
Most popular amongst the ladies is Kingsford’a
Oswego Cornflour.
Wolfe’s Schnapps taken before meals is a
wonderful appetizer. Try it.
Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps, the purest
stimulant in the world. Invaluable for the liver
and kidneys.
BEST IN
THE WORLD
OFFICE-31 LOMBARD ST. LONDON.
fey
■_mn
IN PRICE
SCOTIAN -HORIZONTAL ENGINES,K&fSSS*
i'ALBION” LONCSTROKE HORIZONTAL ENGINES.
1“CL1 MAX” \/ERT10AL ENGINES S BOILER’S. ; ~
'“CLIMAX” PORTABLE “HOIST IN® ENGINES.' ■.
l“BRITON”«HORIZONTAL COMPOUND LAUNCH ENGINES.
INSERTED COMPOUND MARINE ENGINES.
> PORTABLE STEAM CRANES. <
Vertical.cornish.g> marine boilers.
LARGE STOCKS;FOR FULL PARTICULARS AND PRICES APPLY TO
D.& W.ROBERTSON,SYDNEY, SOLE AGENTS'«»NEW SOUTH WALES
JW.SUTTON &C0, BRISBANE,SOLE AGENTS
ROBISON BROS.&CO,MELBOURNE,SOLE AGENTS '“VICTORIA
Paul M‘Farland went into Boucher’s
hotel, in Bourke-street, Melbourne, one day lately,
and smiled blandly at the cheerful household. He
asked for “a best bedroom and parlour.” He had
no money, but there w«r such striking sweetness
and loveliness in bis smile that Mr. Boucher avers
he “took him for a genial, wealthy, generous old
gentleman.” Then iwo ladies came, and Paul In-
formed the Boucher household that they were his
daughters on a visit to him from Europe. Boucher
now refers doggedly to them as ••females.” The
end of it was that the polics took Paul away, and
at transpired that for the last s<x years the gema',
generous old gentleman had been breaking st > i s
fn Pentrldge. When an old man goes Into Bi.u-
icher's hotel now and smiles b' r«-. B ucher
asks, “ How much time have you d jtie t'
A Lismore (N.8.W.) paper gives the plot
of ‘ Maritana’ as a leading article.” This comes
of succumbing to the wiles of a low comedian.
Lambert, wo remember, enslaved a country edi-
tor once, and, after a hard job, he managed to get
a block of her done before his next number came
out. The engraver worked until the last minute
before going to press, but could only And time
to cut out one eye. When the cut appeared there
is a legend that the company called round on the
editor, and, putting all his type loose in a sack,
banded it to him. and requested him to move
along the track. The editor replied he would. He
had never, he said, taken to editing, and was glad
to he was out of it. They could have the type; it
might ba useful to them for snow or something.
He then had a rush round the town to collect the
“ certain-ties,” vanished like a goblin, and has
never since been heard of. Perhaps he was a goblin.
At the inauguration of the quadruples
system at Wagga, the other day, the N.S.W. tele-
graphic authorities took a deal of credit to them-
selves over the fact that the cablegram concerning
the abandonment of the N.8 W. loan was de-
spatched from Sydney at 9.45 p.m., reached London
In three hours, and a reply was received early next
morning. The teal praise-deservers in this case,
however, were the repeating stations, such as
Singapore. Madras, Bombay, Suez, &c, who
rushed the first cable through and had their lines
clear to receive the second. What we would like
the Sydney Edisons to explain, however, is the al-
legation that it took the telegram nominating the
horse Sooboloff for a hurdle race, the other day,
50 minutes to travel from the heal ollloe, George-
street, to Sydney Tattersall’s. This entry was, we
hear, received in Sydney at 3.40 p.m., having tra-
velled 500 miles in a few seconds, but was not re-
ceived at Tatt.’s till 4.30-just in time to be half an
hour too late for entrance. Fortunately for the
Department, there is a saving clause in its rules,
which limits all its responsibility tor delays, &o.,to
a paltry £5 Action can be taken against the par-
ticular officer who causes a mistake or delay (as in
the recent case of the Clarence Heads postmis-
tress), but, as a rule, this is simply throwing good
money after bad.
These trenchant remarks are clipped from
Reynolds’:—” Royal rapacity.—By their resigna-
tion the Gladstone Government has gotten rid of
another unpleasant and difficult duty, beyond that
,of tho Irish Crimes Act. We allude to the demand
x>n the part of the Queen for £30,000 besides the
£6000 per annum granted to Princess Beatrice on
the occasion of her marriage with a German
.beggar. This further extoitionate demand places
,the Queen in the somewhat unenviable light of a
female Shylock. She seems resolved upon court-
ing on all sides that unpopularity which, under
other circumstances, would inevitably follow
many of her recent acts. Mr. H. Gladstone, clearly
inspired by his father, distinctly declared the other
day that the latter had not, as was stated, peremp-
torily refused resuming the post or Premier, and
that it was at the Queen’s instance Lord Salisbury
undertook the unconstitutional task of forming a
Government intended to carry on the business of
the country in the face of an overwhelming ad-
verse majority in the Commons. She so persis-
tently insisted on the appointment of her nephew.
Prince Leiningen, to some high naval post,
notwithstanding the circumstances of his having
lain rusty for many years, and aroused public in-
dignation through his fatal stupidity in the Solent,
that this discredited German is now flying his flag
at the Nore as commander-in-chief of that station I
Again, we read in the papers that, although no in-
quiry has been made into the alleged incapacity
and neglect of General M‘Neill on the fatal 22ad of
March, in the Soudan, when through a surprise of
the Arabs hundreds of our men were killed and
wounded, the officer in question is in dally attend-
ance as the Queen's equerry, and seems since the
mishap rather to have increased in favour than
otherwise! It was through the same royal in-
fluence that Lord Chelmsford, whose imbecility
led to such terrible disaster and slaughter in Zulu-
land, is now Lieutenant-Governor of the Tower!
Why has poor General Burrowes, who, by similar
startling Incapacity as that displayed in Soudan and
Zululand, lost the battle of Maiwand, in Afghan-
istan, and occasioned the almost complete anni-
hilation of the Sixty-sixth Regiment, if still alive,
been passed over in this curious distribution of re-
wards to those who have shown the most glaring
imbecility ? Possibly having neither title, nor
being in the enjoyment of royal influence, the
discomfited hero of Maiwand goes empty-handed
away. The announcements that the Queen intends
appointing the Duke of Edinburgh to the com-
mand of the Mediterranean fleet, and the Duke of
Connaught to a high military post at home, to-
gether with the further demand of £30 000 made
upon the people for her daughter Beatrice, testify
to the fact that, although she may care little or
nothing for matters that vitally concern the
national interest, or for further increasing the
monetary distress prevalent amongst the working
orders, she has a keen eye for all concerning tho
aggrandizement of her own family, aad the filling
of all their purses at anyone’s cost but her own.”


The sale per day now exceeds 60.000lbs of Klngs-
ford’s Oswego Cornflour.
When purchasing Schnapps specify
Wolfe’s Schnapps, as it is the only genuine
Schnapps.
The most delicious of all preparations for Pud-
dings, Custards, &o., is Klngsford s Oswego Corn-
flour.
Wolfe’s Schnapps the only genuine brand
of Schnapps in the world. Beware of imitation.
“How is Jim Bullard getting on? asked
a stranger in Dakota. “Jim kermltted suicide
’bout a month ago,” replied a native. * Committed
siiclde? How did he commit suicide? He
willed me a liar, stranger.”
Another scandal, similar to that exposed
in London by the Pall Mall .Gazette, has jutt
been unearthed In Copenhagen. It has been
broadly hinted for sometime past that there was
something rotten in the state o' Denmark.
“There is only one thing that makes me
doubt the truth of the Gcsoel,’ said Cross, when
Ross, who is an earnest believer, wtfs trylntrto
persuade his friend to turn Ircm the error of his
ways. “What is that?” asked Ross. “Toe
apostles were nearly all fishermen.”
At a recent French public meeting, a
fpsaker pathetically enquired: “Why don’t the
great men of France bestir themselvi s ? Why do
they remain cold and unmoved at the calamitf s
of our country?” “Because they are oast ia
bronze I ” shouted a sarcastic voice in the gallery.
BURY HIM SOFTLY.
Now lower the collla gently
Into the new-made grave,
And let the clods fail softly on
The bosom of the brave.
Ah! he was a noble soldier,
(Be gentle with the spade).
For this is the hundrec-thousandth man
Who charged with “The Light Brigade.”
Of Sarah Bernhardt’s financial troubles a
man who knows all about her affairs says: fche
has paid already many, many thousands this
winter and spring, and will go on doing so. You
see, even now, while all other great artists are
going to enjoy a short holiday, she goes on tolling
every right, noth vithstandlng the heat, like a
sUve who la not allowed to lea /e the field of his
labour. But still she will ever rema'n struggling
under a burden that will end by killing hey, J’or
she has tVs ore great misery, of being fa*-too
klnd-heorte'. First of **U, she is as hrsnltable as
can be, and when her' has always guests s’aylng
with her. Then she has a son who costs her an
immense deal of money. Then her sister, who,
though being on tho eta r e herself, has no talents
whatever, hi’a d .ughter whoso entire education
is paid for by her aunt, who brings her up to be-
come a glass-painter And last, but not least, she
does everything she can for a cousin of hers, who
haa eifrht ch.ldren and no fortune whatever. No
income wouhi be up to this, and she will never
get out of her troubles.”
Hiving pretty well exhausted all the plea-
sures ol life we confess to having always taken a
sort of lugubrious Interest in what is to become of
our body wh n no tailor haa a lien uoon its out-
ward contour, and when its most exalted aspira-
tlors Injurious stimulants shall have been
stilled, hor tiii mason we have revolved every-
thing renting to gloom. We have cmnderod
cremation, ar d wo have gone so far ss to wander
in graveyaids and read the funny man of the
Triuuxe The r. suits of our ponderings we have
frequently given to the world iu the “spicy”
columns of our daily emtemporaries with con-
siders Me applause. But there is one partieu'ar
way in which we confess we do not desire to be
disposed of, and that is in the way that befel all
that was yellow of Mr. Yung Chang. It seems,
by a Brisbane telegram of last week, that the late
Mr. Chang was following his usual {.vocation of
crowding out the Christian race by cultivating
vegftab’es where white men, rather than stoop to
it, prefer scurvy and dysentery. A party of gen-
tlemen, whom wo irs iltingly term “ blaska”
after having robbed them of the fee-simple of a
continent, came along Fine Gold Creek on the
Palmer, and inserted spears through Mr Chang.
Later on his obsequies were attended to in the
way we object to if it is applied to ourselves.
They broiled him and ate him. Now. our objec-
tion is not to the eating, because we are conscious
of being osseous enough to destroy the teeth of a
whole tribe. But on spiritual grounds. The heat,
you know, la too suggestive. Nj. Give us the
cold sod a while first, please-just to reflect.
This is the way in which an envious
Yankee, fired by a perusal of the Pall Mall arti-
cles, writes coccernlngthe “Home of the Free
“• Britons never, never, shall be slaves I’ Nine-
tenths of them were never anything else. Yet
false education, false patriotism, and more than
all, an Ingrained spirit of servility and snobbery
makes even workingmen, who have been them-
selves the victims of this hideous and foul system
of exploitation, who have been plundered and ex-
patriated by the greed of these lecherous fiends,
boast of England’s institutions and glory in a
birthright of freedom that is an empty name.”
Then he goes for some of the members of Parlia-
ment in England in this style:—“ Just think of the
one-ln these terms: “And picture the Prince,
after a season of wild debauchery In Mrs. Jeffries’
high-toned house of assignation, summoned to lay
the corner-stone of a charitable Institution, an !
deiiverlogan appropriate speech full of the most
high-flown sentiments of Christian morality 1”
monumental hypocrisy of these lustful devils,
fresh from tho commission of nameless outrages,
with the shrieks and sobs of some poor child-
victim still ringing in their ears, getting up in
their places In Parliament and expatiating on the
awful Increase of crime in Ireland, which renders
it imperatively necessary to continue the Coer-
cion Act!” And proceeds to chsff a certain Judge
in this fashion:—“ Think of the judge on the
bench, who has just commissioned the stylish
brothel-keeper to entrap an Innocent girl to satisfy
his beastly passions, putting on his wig and ermine
robes, and charging the jury to the effect that he
is shocked and scandalised to learn of the number
of serious crimes against the person recently per-
petrated I” Further, he has the audacity to allude
to a Prince—presumably a Russian or Japanese
A Distinguished Departure for Hew South Hale;.
‘ THE AGENT-GENEUiL IS SHIPPING THE LIONESS JUST PURCHASED FOR THE SYDNEY ZOO.”- Cablegram.


C. B. MODINI,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a Stock of
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers;
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms.*—JOHN RIGBY & GO., Lon-
dons THOS. BLAND & SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON. London ; CHA8. OSBORNE &
CO., London.
G. B. M. Is also AGENT for the eminent firm of
BQ8SY-& CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, &o„ and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
802 Georaa.st.p Sydney,
Where Inspection Is Invited.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED bt ACT or PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital 4300,008
Reserve Fund 4150,000
DIRECTORS!
The Hon. SlrJohn Chaim
Hon. Henry Mort, M.I
George 8. Calrd, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gldley King, M.L.O.
G. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggle, Esq. I Hon. H. E. Cohen. Er>!
General Manager:
V. A. A. Wilson.
Bborbtabt:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Hayxnarket, Pyrmont, Redfera, Gosford, Nyngan
Bourke, Manly, Byerook, and Parramatta.
Branch in Queensland ;
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G I Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander. Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan
olal Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted dally.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo.
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
NEUSTADT and CO.,
COMPLETE
FURNISHERS,
39,154, 156, & 158 OXFORD-ST
SYDNEY.
HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
ZZEithbr tor Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
TO WEAK MiU
suH'ering- from tlio
ejects of youthful
errors, early decay,
lost vitality, premature decline, nervous weak,
ness, etc., I will send you particulars of a
certain, simple, and sure means of self cure.
Free of Charge. Address, in confidence,
Prof. M. E. TAYLOR,
68 Elizabeth St.,
SYDNEY N.S W.
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN.
Corner of William-street, Hyde Park.
High-class Furniture
At Very Lowest Prices, compatible with the finest
workmanship and finish, for entrance halls,
dining-rooms, drawlng.roems, bedrooms,
and libraries.
CARPETS IN NEWEST DESIGNS AND
FINEST QUALITY.
WILTON CARPETS, BRUSSELS CARPETS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With Hearthrugs to match.
COHLICZNE AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL AN!
BLACK AND BRASS,
In all sizes and various designs.
U8TRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY
„ .Established 1872.
Capltel-ilOO.CKK! 1 with power to Increase to £1,000,00
BONUSES—30 per Cent, paid annually since 1873.
A BOON TO THOUSANDS!
\lanhood and Vigour of Youth
Restored in Four Weeks. 3
L
DR. RICORDS
FSSFNRE OF LIFE
i
Stores manhood to the most shattered
rtitution from whatever cause arising, in FOUR WEEKS,
fX, is impossible if taken according to the prated di-
Jections, which are very simple, and require no restraint or
d ThU^nvXa b bTe in remedy affords relief, and permanently
nires all who suffer wasting and withering of the nerves and
muscular tissues, Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Disturbed
S!fn Trembling Sensations, Dizziness,. Spermatorrhoea, all
Urinary Deposits, which cause incapacity and degeneracy,
mwl and partial prostration, and every other exhaustive de-
rangement of the system; regenerating all the important
dements of the human frame, and enabling man to fulfil his
most sacred obligations. . . . . . If .
In cases at 12s., or four quantities in one for 36s.; if by
:oach, 2S. 6d. extra.
NATURE’S GREAT REMEDY!
DR. RICQBDs
SANATIVE PILLS
tor strengthening the system, purifying the bl°° d , regaalatine
v,owels and removing all vitiated humours, bilious and
Liver Complaints, Rheumatism, Gout, Scorbutic Affections,
Skin Eruptions, and all diseases of the nervous
««tem. This never-failing remedy affords at once a new
Usse of life to the sickly and aged of both sexes, imparting
, beautiful and clear complexion, a sure sign of health,
strength, and vigour. Price, as. ; by post, ad. extra.
■■ ■ —
AGENTS FOR SYDNEY S
Messrs. W.BARCLAY & CO.,
43 GOULBURN STREET,
One Door from George Street South,
And may be had of most Chemists.
Parcels packed °nf e^^°Auttrallan
or Stampi,
parcels uuvnc%* 7 — * x ..
Queensland, New Zealand, or wupart of the
Colonies, on receipt of Post Office Order
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
Lost Vitality, &C.-A simple and positive
means of Self-Cure, by an eminent
French Hospital Physician. Sent Free
Medico, P.O. Box 766. Sydney.
r/ir
CIENCB
Or
LIFE
KUOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses maybe
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled tho Science of Life
or Self Preservation. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 135 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. 300pages, bound in beautiful French cloth,
full gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should he read by the young for
Instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all. —London Lancet.
Addressthe World's Dispensary Medical As- ||I" I I
sociation, or Dr. W. U. Parker, No. 63 Hunter f| C. A L
Street, Sydney, N.S.W. The author may TUVOCI P
be_ consulted on all diseases requiring | f| | QQLj’
skill, secrecy, and experience.
RAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN,
The boat known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTH AC i.E,
Rains, bruises, hjrns. scalp i, & c and
«fcen internally cures DIARRHOEA,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other xutfcrnw aches
Mid pains. -
Price, Q/- Sold Everywhere.
0. E. MOULTON, sole prop, ! :or.
MELBOTJENL AND .o -DINEY,
PAINT
8
NERVINE
A SAFE. CERTAIN. & SPEEDY CURB for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia.
Toothache, Nervousness, indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Femels Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, Loss of Vital Power, Ac. By its tonic
« d soothing effects it at once removes all craving
.'or Alcohol. By Its richness In phosphorous and
Jther powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
CONIC NERVINE nourishes ana gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, is. 6d., or 25s. a ease.
Sole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTH EBB,’ M.P.8.
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists, 1M and
106 Market-street, near U, Je Park, Sydney, and
tPltt-atreet. Circular-quay. TAK1 NO s>U U8TI-
TUT*.
Champagne
Haldsleck A Co’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OI ALL. WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS A Co., London.
Mole Amnia for Heldfdeok A Oo_ Bel xut
E V B E HO T ULD USB i PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In b Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VF.HY LOW, and the QUALITY
IB GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
YICT.OR1A FLOUR MILL,
881 Georice-street, Sydney.
■ Are you going to Bourke?
; and I am going to stay at the TUBE
HOTEL, which is now kept by
Alex. Borthwick. «.
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c. ' “
Georgc-st, S3rd.r1.e3r.
_ THoavT^scosr,
A.J.O. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON,
91 Sing-street.
N.H.—I ALWAYS BA Off THY FTELH
I
A
A
for Infants and Children.
Castorla cures Colic, Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation,
Gives healthy sleep and promotes digestion,
■Without injurious medication.
“Castorla is so well adapted to children that
1 recommend it as superior to any prescription
known to me.” H. A. Archer, M. D., j
111 Oxford Street, New York, 3
Elliott Bros., Sydney, Agents.
ZDarlln.gr ZETarloonr Hotel,
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Railway Gates).
STEPHEN HOPKINS (Late of Wagga Wagga), Proprietor.
ESPECIAL ACCOMMODATION FOR COUNTRY VISITORS.
dr. o coararELx,,
52 Castlereagh Street,
ztsT.s.'w,
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases, chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited, A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects: —Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Face, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
fepsia. Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
bins in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
manent, safe, and private. Symptom list free, and ir odicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of every kind, from whatever cause, promptly ciired.
It is self-evident that a physician paying particular'attention to a class of cases attains great skill,
and physicians in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend eases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known :ipplianco is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of cases applying, the
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy and perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
addres3 DOCTOR J. O CONNELL,
52 Castlereagh Street (ground floor), Sydney.
TTTNIQUB FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguisn Wilson’s Ame-
rican “ Extra Toast ” BISCUIT;*. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. D lioious with
milk, suneib with wine, and incomparibie
with coffee or chees*.
TURNER & CO,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street, Sydney.
n '/,
twW///
$
CO
<—3
£30
f* 8 ® Head Office*. «»sa
First Fire Society established In sne- coiony oh
the Mutual principle, Riving policy-holders back
part of t’-ieir Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year,
Poliey-hc’dersare perfectly free by law from
all liability .
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
WALTER CflURCBL Manager.
Head Offices—PITT and KING STREETS.
DR. BRIGHT’S PHOSPHODYNE
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental ana Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility. Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion.
Female Complaints. Premature Decline and is «.
marvellous x-edleine for renovating impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It oper tea on the
system without exciting care or thought upon the
individual a* to the process. It moves the 'ungs.
liver, heart, kidney, stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, and is the most powerful blood purifier
of the present day. bold by all chemists.
Agents- Eluott BROS.


Kinsrsford’s Oswego Cornflour can be obtained
in and lib. packets.
(h« proprietor of Wolfe’s Schnapps has
succeeded in making a spirit which is appreciated
by the whole world.
The purity and excellence of
Cornflour is unequalled.
Klngsford’s Oswego
THE “SEAMY SIDE.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Some people see but one side of a thin?, and
such has been my lot in one particular. “ Luck's
all.” says Byron, and such, I suppose, has been my
luck. What Shakespeare calls the “ seamy side” of
matrimonial life baa been too often on show when-
ever I looked upon what should have been do-
mestic bliss.
No sooner have I forgotten one case of this kind
than I have been fated to see another. Being: of a
very impressionable nature, I have had causes
many for regretting: such things. I am as im-
pressionable one way as another, and hence my
trouble. Just as I have been thinking of “set-
tling” in life comes a sight of the sort that un-
settles me. My good intentions have been then
placed to what bookkeepers call a “ suspense ac-
count,” and I have had to await perhaps a year or
two for rffacement from memory of what has
thus frightened me. I don’t see why I should
have better luck than other men have had, and
the luck of my friends matrimonially has been
very discouraging-to give it no worse name.
Jones, for instance, a shipmate of mine, would
take me to his house to tea one evening I object,
as a rule, to visiting friends’ houses—because I
have no house to ask them to in return, and re-
ciprocity should exist always in such matters.
Why should I “sponge” upon Jones’ hospitality
and shirk the burden of bouse-rent, rates, and
taxes which he has manfully taken on himself, to
say nothing of the wife and family ? 1 hold that a
bachelor is an ass that shirks his burden. Not that
a wife should be called a burden, but rather be
looked upon as a help—one who holds your coat
(and its pockets) while you fight.
I held back from Jones’ invitation, but he was
too pressing—he bad tight hold of my arm, and
would not let it go. I said that I didn’t know Mrs.
Jones, and she might not like my being brought to
the bouse. “The house, you know,” I said, “is
the wife’s domain, and she rules there and not
you.” This was before the passing of the Married
Woman’s Property Act, which now trebly
Itfengthens woman’s position—if she be a wife.
Especially so is the dase if she has brought any-
thing with her on marriage. Her view of the
matter Is very seldom a sharing one. What is her s
Is her own. and as much more as she can get hold
of. In that view she regards all that a husband
possesses. The “love, honour, and obey” part of
the marriage service may be forgotten by her, but
never that oart of the husband’s "with all my
worldlv goods I thee endow."
By this time I had got lugged along to Jones’
door, the hour being about 7 p.m. It was ominous
that Mrs. Jones personally answered the bell.
Seeing the two of us, she went away, saying
nothing—a cool reception, which was, to me, very
discouraging. Going with Jones Into the parlour,
I was bidden, by him, to take a seat and make
myself at home Mrs .Tone* then aooearei at tbe
door -a ittt e woman with a vixenish face.
“ I have brought a friend and shlomate of mine
to tea, my dear,” said her husband.
•• There's no tea for you then—you are an hour
behind time, and you can go where you have been,
and take your friend with you I"
“Tell Maggie to make tea for us. then; wo can
wait Its getting ready,” was Jones’ mild reply to
this discourtesy of the missus
“ Maggie’s gone out for the evening, and the
fire’s gone out too! If yon don’t come home In
time you are not expected, and I am going out
presently myself. Take your friend with you and
go where you have been!”
The hearth broom was quite handy, but Jones
never, as I thought he might do. extended his
hand towards It There seemed such good cause
for uslag It at such insulting language to a man in
his own house, and in presence, too, of a stranger.
As Mrs Jones had flounced away, her husband,
who had evidently seen his wife’s temper on other
occasions, said to me:
“ My wife likes only the sweets of matrimony,
and to have everything her own way. I am sorry
you should see this sort of thing as you are a
bachelor and will take too much notice ot ttl ”
“It Is all mv fault,” I said “I should not h-ve
let you bring me he»e This sort of thing affects
me more than it has done yon—let's o > ne a wav I ’
It was now my turn to drag Jones out as he had
drugged nv< In As a small revenge on Mrs. J. f or
her behaviour, I did my best to ke p Junes out
until after midnight. I knew I should never see
her again, and so filled her husband up with what
would give him ‘Dutch courage,” when she
should again open the door to him. He was quite
tangle-legged when I lett him, and must have had
a flue time with the vixen.
It was two years or more before I got similarly
led away from the path of duty—which led to my
bachelor’s lodging. This time it was by a lawyer,
of a 1 people in the world. 1 had known
him years before, a happy man—a bachelor.
He had now been married for some time, and as
our way on this occasion led near to his house
he pretsed mo to come in. ‘‘You are but a wild
goose in the air,” he said, “ come In and See a tame
goose in the farm yard I” The freedom of the
wild ass is dear to it, no doubt, though the Scrip-
ture tells us that It but “ snuffeth up the wind.” I
thought of that In oonneciion with the wild goose,
but before I had time to connect the thoughts and
formulate an argument Wilson bad got me to his
door-step.
The door was opened to us now by the servant,
and I was soon in Wilson’s parlour, where he bade
me admire the pictures by myself for awhile. He
meantime went to interv.cw Mrs. W. and tell her
of the friend he haa brought to dinner. To my
dismay I heard angry words, and something about
‘‘not bringing people to dinner without letting
her know of it I” Whether the mild answer,
which is said to turn away wrath, was given, or
“ the grievous words which stir up anger,” 1 don’t
exactly know. I presume it was the latter, for
now followed the loudest smashing of crockery
I ever heard. It needed no explanation. We
know some things by instinct, and this was one of
them. Mrs. W. had clearly enough turned Tartar,
and thrown the whole of the dinner and dinner
things into the fire-place.
Wilson came to me with a very red face indeed,
closing the parlour-door after him. He said:
‘ I am sorry, old fellow, that I brought you
home-the dinner has been spoilt in the cooking
by the servant, and we must go and get a chop
together in town I *
I endeavoured to look as if I took it all in as
simply as he had stated it. While putting the best
face upon it, I heard quick shuffling steps in the
passage. The street door was opened hastily and
slammed heavily behind someone who had gone
out and taken a temper with her. A feminine
form passed quickly down the front garden—
which I endeavoured not to see. The matter was
all main enough. Mrs. W. had, after indulging her
tantrums with the dinner, put on her bonnet and
gone—wlfe-llke—to her mother, or her sister, her
cousin, or her aunt.
Poor Wilson I 1 thought, on looking upon it, as
Jones’ affair over again. Is It always to be thus
with me ? Do I bring strife Into the house when I
come within the door ? or are such things usual
and common In domestic life ? These were queries
I asked myself, only feeling too much pity for
Wilson to bother him about it. We went to town
to dine and then to the theatre. For another
bachelor's revenge. I endeivoured to get Wilson
into as “ happy ” a state as I had got Jones on the
like oceaslon. T believe that I succeeded, and the
poor fellow really needed some comfort As for
myself, I was sure of never entering his house
again—a team of bullocks would be needed to that
endeavour.
“Behave yourself before folk” is a good old
Scotch maxim to e remembered by others than
the Seotch It will be noted that those who had
dashed my hopes of bliss in domestic life, were, in
both cases, the wives. The husbands, like myself,
were the patient sufferers. The notes of half-a-
dozen other cases of a similar kind are now before
me for citation. “ Enough is as good as a feast,”
they say, and, for the matter of that, Is much
better, in my experience. I have had a bad next
morning after a feast, and felt worso for two days
after. I have said enough now, and as shortly as
possible, on what has, to me, been a painful sub-
ject What it must be to Jones and Wilson I
shudder to think of.
“ Why don’t the men propose 7” has always been
a momentous question with thosa who are seeking
to be sought. £ have done a little to ana wer to the
query in what I have told of as so frightening me
rov» ral flams from proposal point. If wives be-
haved so “decidedly” to their husbands -vnen
” f-.restr ngers, how did th»y behave when wita-
out such seeming restraint? Jut another in-
stance to ttulsh with—as more painful than tbu-
othera.
Johnson, a particular friend of mine, was In the
mounted volunteers, and often out exercising
with his troop. 1 had nothing to do with such
vanities-red coa*s and hats with feathers never
I took my fancy, bachelor though I was. Johnson
I was a married man with a family. He took to
volunteering as some other husbands take to clubs
and Freemasonry—to find excuse for absence from
home. Go on© occasion he had been longer than
usual in returning from parade. He had. in fact,
stayed from home, in his gay attire, until the small
hours of the morning. I knew nothing of It, and
had not, in fao f , seen him for a week previously.
My first knowledge of it was by a call at the office
from Mrs. J. Her blood was up, evidently enough,
about something, as she began at once—with no
wasted “'good morning’s ” or other greetings:—
“ I’ll trouble you not to take notice of me any-
more, as I shall never again speak to you 1 ” With
these ominous words she went away, banging the
door behind her.
I sought out Johnson to know the reason of such
behaviour.
“ She thinks that you kept me out late the other
night. She never asks questions, and I am not
going to explain to her and correct her errors.
When she takes up an idea you can't get it out ef
her head."
“And I shall have to suffer always for this mis-
conception of hers—which you won’t correct ?”
"You suffer I I like that! 3fou haven’t got to
live with her, and I have. Don’t you talk about
suffering from womankind until you get married.”
AUSTRAL.
THE LAND OF THE CROCODILE.
[BY MAROOGATINE.]
Far north of the tropic of Capricorn, in
the region of pioneer sugar-planters and retired
timber-getters, where the lordly cassowary stalks
through the dark scrubs, and the pensive croco-
dile lies calmly In the shade of a tree at some lonely
crossing waiting for the wandering Chinaman
a * «
At present the Cook electorate is stirred
from its remotest depths—sounds of coming poli-
tical tumult float up from the abysmal depths of
Among the well-known men of the North
19 Phil. Garland, the timber-getter of the Barron
and the first man. next to Captain Cook, who ever
entered Trinity Bay. Phil, has seen some rough
times among toe scrubs of the North, and has not
patronised many drawing-rooms during the paat
15 years, but he is a good-hearted, genuine,
“ straight ” white man. and the wandering swags-
roan doesn’t pjss Phil’s camp without a square
feed and a cheery “ better-days, old man.” Phil,
is an old man-of-warsman, and once he voyaged
to the Cape in the old troopship Himalaya. One
day, under the eye of the commander, he went to
dip a bucket of salt water over the side, and the
bucket carried away. Phil. Instantly stood at at-
tention, saluted the commander, and gravely an-
nounced: *• One sea-bucket to the rear, sirl”
• ■
Recently, at Port Douglas, or rather on a
river hard by, the admiral or a ten-ton cutter had
an Important trading transaction with the landed
proprietor of a ten-acre corn-patch. The mariner
owned an 18-year-old daughter of the forest, a
dark-skinned maiden of the Mosman tribe, on
whom the ten-acre agricultural potentate had
east admiring eyes. The mariner, from whose
soul all poetry and romance had emigrated long
ago, offered to swap her for agricultural produce,
-First came an offer of two tons of pumpkins, then
a two-year-old pig and ten bushels of corn. These
munificent offers were declined. The mariner de-
manded two tons of sweet potatoes as an equiva-
lent for the female charms he was ruthlessly bar-
tering away. The agriculturist advanced to a ton
and a-half, and as he refused to add another single
potato, the mariner untied his painter and poled
scornfully away under the dark shadows of the
umbrageous tropical foliage, while the captive
maid gently dropped a chunk of salt beef into the
bucket on the fire, and sat down to finish off the
remains of a wallaby.
. • •
When Brinsmead, of pugilistic and piano
celebrity, was last in Cairns, where he has a valu-
able selection, he regularly rode a tall chestnut
horse, whose chief charm with Brinunead was
that he relieved the monotony of existence by
periodically turning a double somersault and
shooting the champion light-weight boxer several
Look and Die.
The Sydney Lance—aws (ned Light-Horse) are here seen on parade, striking terror into timorous cab-horses, and breaking the hearts of feminine beholders. Asa costume
the Uniform is more effective than that of the bicyclist, or even that of the postman. They are armed with real lances, but so far they haven’t managed to poke out many
Of each other’s eyes! We hope no one will get hurt. For further particulars, see page 7. J
free and Independent souls, weighing the coming
men In the balance, and finding most of them a
few tons short-weight.
• • •
First in the field was Frederick Thomas
Wimble, late printer’s broker of Sydney. No
sooner had flashed the portentous news that
someone had adroitly managed his finances so as to
secure a splendid balance on the wrong side, and
leave a vacancy for the Cook, than the aspiring
Wimble leaped wildly Into the breach, and started
off to Cooktown on a canvassing tour. Before
starting, says an enemy, he wired MTlwralth
thus:—* Shall run for the Cook; will, of course,
support you, but deem it better not let ray
opinions ba knownlll” And then he announced
himself at once as an “ independent candidate.”
When Sir Tom perused that weird telegram he
stooped to feel the toe of his boot, and then
kicked out wildly at an imaginary figure In front.
After this he wired to K. A. Kingsford, “shall
auoport you as the Opposition candidate.”
* • »
It is a generally-known fact that Wimble’s
classical qualifications would not enable him to
run for the head mastership of a University, and
so the public were prepared to hear, with more or
less composure, his emphatic assertion that he
“will support a collation Ministry I” Whether a
cold or hot collation is not yet announced.
♦ * *
You may have heard of the influential
Hibernian politician who “runs” a hotel at Port
Douglas. Mao. had been captivated by some
article he had read In favour of Triennial Parlia-
ments, and some time afterwards he settled a dis-
cussion on the subject by authoritatively announc-
ing—“ By jabers, cnaps, I believe In thim Triangu-
lar Parlamints, and, be gobs, 0111 vote for thim I ’
• * *
A Northern O.P H., who thought of resign-
ing and contesting tbe Cook, first wired to
Cairns, to Meaton, asking: “ How do you think I
would run in your district ? ” To which Mcston
returned the cheering reply: “If you come here
as a candioate you will run splendidly, pursued by
half the electors and all the available dogs! ”
yards into soace. On one occasion, when riding
out to the Barron, me chestnut Bellerophon ac-
complished an unusually successful acrobatic per-
formance, and when Brinsmead arrived at Cam-
banora he carried enough clay to make a small
brick kiln. He looked as if ho had been camped
for three months in a clay-pan, and the fiery steed
had the sad and dejected expression of an animal
that has abandoned all hope in this world.
• * .
Some Cairns volunteers, accompanied by
the band, recently had a trip to the head of the
inlet, about ten miles from town. They sur-
rounded a publ o-hom-e and captured it after a
brief resistance. The place was given up to pil-
lage and no mercy was shown to bottles of any
age or rank. Lieutenant draper implored his men
to deal gently with the rum, as there was said to
be a troop of hostile wallabies in the neighoour-
hood, but all discipline was at an end. innocent
roasts of beef were ruthlessly slaughtered and
Captain Smith decapitated a sucking-pig with one
sweeping cut of his remorseless sword. After the
second keg of rum was murdered, the ferocious
warri ra asked to be marched straight to Moscow
or Herat. When the pub. was evacuated it was
found that the capture had involved heavy sacri-
flees. There were fourteen men missing, most of
whose bodies were discovered scattered about In
various attitudes of peaceful repose. The others
started for the wharf by devious and intricate
routes, the baud carrying their instruments full
of rum and the big drum loaded with cold fowl
and ham sandwiches. Nothing is known of the
return march There was no war correspondent,
and the troops themselves ace unable to furnish
any Information. That memorable retreat is
buried In oblivion. There was no Xenophon on the
staff and the deeds done are lost tor ever to man-
kind.


W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and SYDNEY.
Catalogues
POST KKKB
W. WALKER
and SONS
WW-i—■*Y'
are one of tbe
Largest
Stockholders
Slid
Manufacturer*
U
H(ah-clas«
FURNITURE
ENGLAND.
Catalogues
POST FUSE.
ALL STOCK
m their
.SYDNEY
HOUII
Supplied
DIRECT
trom their
London
Manufactory
and Latest
London Styles
OUARAHTUD.
btdnbt:branch :
81 CLARENGE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
‘take cheer, for American Co.’s
Hop Bitten will cure you.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘ knowing why, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will B>evive yon.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
* taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
’and work, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Biestore you.
“If you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your avery-day duties, or a man of let-
‘ lers, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dlssi-
‘ pation, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, as is often the case, Am. Co.’s
Hop Bitters will relieve yon.
“ If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
* that your system needs cleansing, ton-
* ing, or stimulating, without intoxicate
* ing, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters is wliat yon need.
“ If you are old, and your blood thin
‘ and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Am. Hop Bitters will give yon new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS, as made by the Ame-
‘ rican Co., is an elegant, healthy, and
‘ refreshing flavouring for sick-room
‘ drinks, impure water, etc., rendering
‘them harmless, and sweetening the
‘ mouth, and cleansing the stomach."
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in
bottle. Shun all others as vile poisonous stuff.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £100,000.
Head Office : Melbourne.
New South Wales Branch : 171 Castlereagh-street.
Victorian Directors : I N. S. Wales Directors:
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P., | Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Chairman I Frank Cowley, Esq.
Hon. J. P. Levlen, M.P. George 8. Yeo, Esq.
Thomas Learmonth, Esq. |
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
Causes on land, rail, or at sea.
Marine Risks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted.
The only Live Stock Insurance Society in the
olonies.
Full particulars can be obtained from the under-
signed.
Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
A. J. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.
Office, Royle’s Chambers, Bond-street.
BAU D B .COLOGNE,
4711 4711.
Established 1793.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1873; Prize M Vienna, 1873
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, strength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other oom-
has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the 51xte of
and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
Indiai and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number—4711 changed into 7411.1147,4117. &c &o.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic biue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
street, Sydney.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
and Storekeepers, in town and country.
SOLE AGENT FOR THE
SMITH OEGA2J.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT BTBBBT
SOLE IMPORTER OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
WILLIAM BRUCE
197 PITT STREET.
**-
CASH VERSUS CREDIT.
hossameTllotd & GO.
ARE TRADING ON THE LONDON SYSTEM OF READY MONEY.
R.. L. & CO. are now prepared to Show Novelties in every department at FULLY ONE-THIRD LESS
THAN AT PREVIOUS SEASONS. L ' Cj8t5
R„ L. & CO. buy for cash in all the Home and Continental Markets.
We are now showing: our fl rst consignment of Paris and London Millinery.
Parasols and Lace Goods of every possible design.
Canvas Ribbons (plain and fancy). New Trillings, Linen Collars, Cuffs, and Sets, at very low prices
AH new shapes and designs.
Silk Handkerchiefs from is. each. Fancy Cambric Handkerchiefs.
Extra Long Silk Gloves, in every colour. Torchon cheap.
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING DEPARTMENT.
Every article hand made, at London prices.
N.B. In this department we make a special effort to sell as cheap as possible, and we are sure nf
giving perfect satisfacton to all our customers. Ladies in the country should write for approbation
parcel to
BOSSilLIE, LLOYD dc CO.
OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET,
SYDNEY
Mother died of Salt Rheum.
j w, Adams. Newark, Ohio, sajs: “Cuticuka
Remedies ati9 the greatest medicines on earth.
Had the worst case of salt rheum in this country.
My mother had it twenty years, and in fact died
from it. I believe Cuticuka would have saved
her life. My arms, breast, and head were covered
for three years, which nothing relieved or cured
until I used the Cuticdua Resolvent, the new
blood purifier, internally, and Cd tic ora and Cutx-
cura Soap, the gread skin cures and beautiflers,
externally.”
As a general thing Ladies who make any
pretenions to refinement desire to have SOFT
WHITE HANDS. We believe that there is no-
thing will tend more to Produce this effect than
the constant use of MURRAY & LANMAN S
FLORIDA WATER mixed with the water m the
basin. It removes rednesi and roughness. The
ladies of Cuba and South America were the first to
discover the extraordinary virtues of this floral
water us a cosmetic and have long since discarded
the use of all others.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
r»i~F!T .-rrrvns a n~
BISCUITS All CUES, TREACLE AID BOLDER STROP,
Self-raising /Erated Flour, Plum Puddings,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
8. & A. have obtained First Awards all over tbe world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
Sydney Agents s W. H. ARIELL & CO., 343 and 345 Kent-street.
Down at the Bay.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
here is light on the heads of the hills la the dis-
tance, and gloom in the gorges that yawn.
As the troughs in the sea when large wanton wild
billows, reared up on swift winds, tumble on,
.As long lanes in the wooded dark west when the
east has been touched by the rosy red dawn.
Jn the light on the beads of the hills, where the
heather in crowns grows, the glisten and glow
(Of the pink and white flowers are seen by him.
Thence stray wet eyes to the chaplets of snow
tOn the brows of the breakers that roll up the Bay
with the ocean's hoarse clamour of woe.
He had left a dark realm where a too constant
labour held all In hot harrying bands.
Had denied him the touch of her Ups, of her
fingers, the breath of her speech, till his hands
Prom the sands of the lands of the south built the
temple Love traces at lovers’ commands.
Ten years came and careered and departed. Suns
cruel, with faces of heat and of flame,
Persecuted; he working. Bains ruthless drove
fiercely; he working. Then unto him came
Pp a run on the rim of the desert the time for her
feet to spring forth to his claim.
Lo, the message arrives that she sails to him, sails
to him, over the blue and the green;
With her eyes on the south In the morning she
sails to him, free from the fears that have
been;
With her eyes on the south when the night is
around her, she sails to him, glad as a queen.
He is down on the coast. He awaits her. He
stands on a cliff near the mouth of the Bay.
The great thought of his life into music bursts
forth. He must sing, he must sing, as the day
Must arise from the night, as the laugh leap from
tears, as replies spring to words that we say.
■“ Hasten on, hasten on, Love, Joy-brlnger; years
laden with labours have journeyed before
And appeased the fell Fates with the purple ful-
filments of sorrow. The nightime is o’er.
It is day, it is day, it is day. Love; O hasten, we go
hand in hand evermore !’*
But a little. Word camo of sorrow that sobbed
itself out on the pitiless main;
Of a rook, of a rent, of a wreck, of a ship, of its
lives, of a Life! And the rain
Of the tears of the waiters and watchers was
drunk by the sands of the strand and the plain.
At the mouth of the Bay in the heather he stands
there. ’Tis months since the news smote hi s
ear.
For awhile there was pallor; awhile there was
silence; and then peered the eyes of a Fear
That had talons, if touched, that had tusks if but
troubled. Mad! madl Hark I a voice rises
clear;
“Hasten on, hasten on, Love, Joybringer; years
laden with labours have journeyed before,
And appeased the fell Fates with the purple ful-
filments of sorrow. The night-time is o’er.
It is day, it is day, Love; O hasten, we go hand in
hand evermore! ”
There is light on the heads of the hills in the dis-
tance, and gloom in the gorges that yawn.
On the opposite cliff he is standing. He sees the
white waves, the white light, the bright dawn
Of the flow’rs in the heather. He sings there. O
man,!man, mad, mal man, be happy, sing on I
E. LOWE.
Sydney, August 17,1885.


DR.SCOTT'S
W
ft
Dr. Soott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by . he
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost th® ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
If you have any pain, ache, or ill-feeling
from any cause; if you seem “ pretty well,"
yet lack energy and do not “feel up to the
mark;” if you suffer from disease, we beg
you to at once try these remarkable cura-
tives. They cannot and do not injure like
medicine. Always doing good, never ham.
There is no shock or sensation felt in wear-
ing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during the
first hour they are worn their wonderful
curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all
the old-time health and good-feeling come
back. They are constructed on scientific
principles, imparting an exhilarating,
health-giving current to the whole system.
Professienal men assert that there is hardly
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily
practise the same, as your own physician
will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance
from those usually worn, as we substitute
our flat steel magnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in quality and design.
They are elegant in shape and finish, made
after the best French patterns, and war-
ranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents.
; pa
I
V* Oi
mm
i,,
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &c., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
No. 1
No. 2
No. 3
No. 5
Electric Belts..
s. d.
..6 6
... 8 6
.. 10 6
.. 15 0
.. 15 0
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece ©f common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
mm mum
B4 Margaret-streat,
SYDNEY.
P.O. Pox 231,
Printed and Pubnsned by Tun Udluiis News-
paper Co. (Limited), 84 Pltt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
All persons who have tasted Wolfe’s
Schnapps unadulterated fully appreciate its
superior qualities.
Wolfe’s Schnapps.— It has often been
pirated, but never had a rival.
It is admitted that no purer spirit is placed
before the public than Wolfe’s Schnapps. Be
sure you obtain Wolfe’s.
Baptism by Public Immersion.
A hardshell Gospel-purveyor has had the Brlago-
long (Gippsland, Vic) people on the baptlsm-by-
immersion string. He succeeded In drawing half
the township round a q uarry-hole by the Freestone
Creek, where, after much psalm-singing and noisy
supplication, he started the baptising. The prose-
lytes, male and female (the latter, of course, in
majority), to be sluiced wore long white gowns,
but the orthodox weights had been forgotten, and
when the girls waded into the flood, the waters of
which are clear as gin—presto I-the garments
floated I And now the men of Briagolong enthusi-
astically maintain that a Christmas pantomime is
but a slow exhibition compared with a baptism by
immersion. The parson’s little bill for the job is
said to have been a guinea a head. Some refused
to “ shell ” out for their ablution, and thus
excommunicated themselves from the new
Church. And now we see' in the papers
that a Balmain clergyman a Sunday or two
ago honoured several converts by present-
ing them with the order of the Bath, at
White Horse Point. As the afternoon was warm,
the rite was not altogether unen joy able; but, as
far as humour is concerned, the Balmain reverend,
who allowed only his own people, to the number
ota hundred or so, to be present, made no effort
to compete with our dear old friend, Frank
Warden, whose achievements in that line at
Foley’s Baths, Sydney, some years ago, were the
theme of considerable, or more, admiration. Frank
seemed j ust made to order for the baptism business.
He first addressed the crowd on the need of baptism
bv immersion and the good It was calculated to do
(especially when taken with a fair quantity of
soap), and then stood in water about two feet deep
at the foot of the steps by which the ’verts
descended to be abluted in water and salvation—
In sanctity and sewage. With holy joy be gazed
upon the not-much-clothed maidens descending
the steps, for were they not spiritually going up
to Heaven, even whilst bodily they were stepping
down to the flood ? Then came the trouble.
Sometimes the disciple seemed to object, and the
struggle would become so terrific that for a space
nothing but spray and dripping drapery was dis-
cernible, but Frank always won, and there was a
triumphant one-down-another-come-on expres-
sion on his classic features, as he turned to look at
the retreating victim making he waterv way
up the slippery steps. At last a nigger came
down for as much grace as the woolliness
of his scanty garments would absorb at one
dipping, and from the deeply contemplative
look the Evangelist wore we thought he was going
to use the darkey as an advertisement for a brand
of jelly-soap he was then travelling on. But he
did not. He merely soused him with much vigour,
and then, in a pious and very patronising manner,
wiped with his bony fingers the water from the
eyes and squeezed the same fluid from the nose of
the dripping child of grace. Which made the im-
piouslobservers to deride, but that, perhaps, was,
after all, one of the objects of the show. And now
Frank is away at Braldwood charging the Devil at
the head of the valiant Salvation soldiers. Need-
less to say, In spite of hoop and horns, he knocks
out the adversary every time.
The editor of an Omaha religious paper
remarks : “ We recently hirsd.a coloured man to
beat a carpet for us. He had what seemed to us a
villainous face, and we watched him somewhat
closely. We were not surprised when he brought
in a bill of four dollars. ‘ But, sir,’ said we, this is
too much. You surely would not cheat a
preacher !’ ‘ Ah, brudder,’ said he, • you must re-
member dat I’se a preacher, too.’ ”
A Wyoming judge recently uttered the
following remarkable death-sentence: “I am by
no means satisfied with the evidence in this case,
and am not sure whether you killed John Forbes
or whether he died by a visitation of God ; but my
sentence is that you be hanged on the third Friday
of June ; and should you know of your own inno-
cence, you will have the comforting thought that
it is doubted by some of the wisest thinkers of the
age whether life is in any circumstances worth
living.”
From an American exchange:—An Aus-
tralian parson was taking leave, recently, of a con-
gregation with whom he had not lived on the best
of terms. “ I do not regret our separation, dear
brethren, for three good and valid reasons. The
first is that you don’t love me ; the second, that
you don't love one another ; and the third, that
God does not love you. You don’t love me—my
salary is several months in arrears. You don’t
love one another —or there would not be such a
dearth of marriages among you. And God does
not aeon to love you as you ought to be loved,
because there have been so few funerals among
you lately.”
The Rev. J. W. Inglls is not the only
orator who has taken the liberty of borrowing the
brains of someone else, and palming the result off
as his own. In 1853 England was somewhat
startled to discover tnat the eloquent panegyric
on Wellington, delivered in the House of Commons
by Mr. Disraeli, was an almost literal translation
of an oration by M. Thiers, in commemoration of
the deeds and death of a French marshal. Even in
N.8.W such plagiarism has not been unknown,
for when a funeral oration was delivered by a pro-
minent land-legislator on the occasion of the
Garibaldi celebration it was discovered that the
hon. gentleman’s eloquence had been memorised or
“ unconsciously cerebrated” from the Masonic
funeral service.
The London Jewish Messenger declares
that the new revised version of the Old Testa-
ment is simply a revision of the Protestant, not of
the Hebrew Old Testament.
The leading chaff mills in Glen Innes have
been taken over by Mr. John Marriage. Amongst
the women his name is always good for chaff, but
he has heard so many at it that be says now it’s
always out and dried.
It is a known fact that not less than 6000
men, women, and children is the average number
of patients in the London hospitals, and that at
least one and a quarter millions out of the whole
population are annually relieved as out-patients.
A London correspondent says“ I hear
that the case of the notorious Jefferies is to be re-
opened after all, and serious objection will be
raised to the conduct of the late Home Secretary
in connection with it. The Assistant Judge of the
Middlesex Sessions, who tried the case, is on his
holidays, but has been recalled to town to explain
certain statements.”
The London Echo, under the head of
“sporting items,” records that 18 horse-stealers
were recently lynched in Texas. We suppose if it
were reported that they had been captured by
Indians, had their ears and noses out off, and then
slowly burnt over green wood, it would come in
under the head of comicalities. If it did, it would
only be like most of the jokes of the London Press
—purely accidental.
Joseph Symes, of the Liberator, although
condemned to pay a penalty (which, by the way
was the lowest that the jury were able to alot) for
having published that journal without having
entered into the recognisances required by law, is
confident of being able to quash proceedings on
appeal. In connection with this case it is interest-
ing to notice that all our pious exchanges assert
that Symes was prosecuted for “ publishing blas-
phemous matter,” and not on the technical charge
of neglect of a formal act prescribed by law. As
a matter of fact, the Attorney-General was impor-
tdned to prosecute for blasphemy, but refused to
do so. There is more than one otner unexception-
ably moral.Ylotorlan who is liable Ito prosecution
on exactly similar grounds. But our contempor-
aries are too clever to allow an opportunity of
easy misrepresentation to escape, so they tell their
readers with much satisfaction that a man has
been fined for publishing blasphemy! “The
children of light are cleverer in their generation
than the children of this worid.” This is from our
revised version.
Queen Peggy, last of the Rylstone tribe,
died last week in her palace on the Cudgegong
River. Her age was not known, but she was very
old. She was the relict of his Majesty, Jimmy
Lambert, who, says the local paper, “ was well and
favourably known.” So much for earthly pomp.
The Ptolemies of mystic Egyph the great and
magnificent rulers of Babylon and Assyria, the
ravagers of continents, the Caesars who ruled a
world, all triumphed in their day, and stalked in
godlike majesty. Their palaces are crumbled into
dust, their people turned to grovelling serfs or
wanderers on the earth, and all their greatness
vanished utterly. And now in the far South, the
last of a royal line that once swayed the waddy in
the imperial gunyah of Cudgegong, baa been
compelled to bend her proud neck before the
conqueror of all. Alas, poor Peggy! No more the
Wagnerian tones of the oorroboree, no more the
nourishing leg-bone of the broiled opossum, flung,
well-picked, from the royal hand of Jimmy Lam-
bert, the 10th. No more, in fact—(copyright)—
Dearest Peggy, how we miss thee—
Angel Jim will lead thee In—
Fill thy golden pipe and prime thee
With heaven’s very squarest gin.
[The foregoing quatrain is quoted partly from
the Sydney Evening News, ana partly from the
Melbourne Age obituary column.— Ed.B.]
TOTING LOVE AND YOUNG LARRIKINS.
