

THE BULLETIN
VjI. 3.— No. 120-New Series.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 29. 1885.
Frio*—6 A.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 29, 1885.
The Australian Concert.
Englishmen who visit us for the purpose of
writing books to tell the world some of our
most amiable traits may occasionally omit
mentioning a few lovable qualities on which
we pride ourselves. But they never, by any
chance, forget to notice one characteristic—
the jealousy entertained in New South
Wales against everything Victorian, and the
sincere manner with which the feeling is re-
ciprocated on the other side of the Murray.
Evidences of this mutual attachment reach
us from all quarters—the Parliament, the
Press, and the pulpit. Even our Premiers,
Sir Alexander Stuart and Mr. Service,
could not entirely subdue the feeling, as
may be seen by their published correspon-
dence on the lately-passed “Federation
Enabling Act.” So long as the colonies are
weak, .sparsely populated, and dependent,
no great harm is done by these manifesta-
tions. But as the years go by, as the various
provinces pass from adolescence to man-
hood, and are filled with those aspirations
and desires which nothing but complete
national independence can satisfy, there is
no saying what mischief might not result
from the estrangement which appears to us
to be unhappily growing greater day by
day.
» • *
The feeling that ultimate independence is
the natural and inevitable destiny of Aus-
tralia is much more common in the neigh-
bouring colonies than in New South Wales.
While our neighbours show a growing ten-
dency to consider themselves first and the
mother country next, the thoughts of our
writers and public men appear to run in
just the opposite direction. Assuming that
these conflicting views develope with the
developement of the communities, we are
engaged in raising a crop of difficulties
which may result in the gravest issues for
our children. Take down a map of Austra-
lia. Observe how New South Wales is
bounded on the north, west, and south.
Consider what the result would be if the
antagonistic feelings we have mentioned
continued to grow with the population.
With a vigorous and probably independent
federation hemming us in on three sides,
while we kept our face steadily set towards
those little islands on the opposite side of
the world, the prospect would be far from
cheering. Under such circumstances, would
it be too much to say that work in the
neighbourhood of the Murray, the 29 th
parallel and the 141st meridian, might be
found for even more than the 10,000 armed
men who have answered to the call of Mr.
Dalley and his confreres ? The question is
a momentous one for Australia. Consider
what the result would be to-day, if, at the
time of the Revolution, the communities
extending from New Hampshire to Rhode
tsland decided to throw in their lot with
Britain. The others, it may be said, would
not have achieved their independence. Pos-
sibly not—at the time. But no one will con-
tend that they would not have secured it
subsequently—that the fifty millions now
inhabiting the remainder of the Union
Would still owe allegiance to England. Nor
Vili anyone be bold enough to say that they
would permit in their very centre the exist-
ence of a province owing fealty to a distant
country with the endless and irritating
complications which would unquestionably
result from such a settlement.
♦ * *
With New Zealand it is quite different. So
far as the proposed Australian Confedera-
tion is concerned, no_analogy exists between
her and New South Wales. Indeed, it is ex-
tremely doubtful whether either she or the
Confederacy would benefit by her joining.
In fact, her reasons for remaining out are
just as cogent as those of New South Wales
for coming in. Geographical considerations,
which many affect to contemn, are really
the most important of all. If ever a country
was intended by Nature for an independent
career it is New Zealand. Large and fruit-
ful enough to support an immense popula-
tion; isolated enough to possess but little
interest in the affairs of even her nearest
neighbours, and possessing resources second
to none, her future is enviable and secure.
For her, isolation —so far as freedom from
outside interference is concerned—is the true
policy. Not so the 'continental colonies
—particularly New South Wales. Sur-
rounded on three sides by other provinces,
her affairs and those of her neighbours
meet at too many points to permit of the
same isolation that New Zealand enjoys. It
will be a happy day for us when our politi-
cians recognise this central fact and turn
their attention to promoting—not destroy-
ing—the Australian concert. With the same
assurance that we listen for the report of a
musket when we see the flash from the
muzzle, we would be justified in looking for
the most lamentable consequences to follow
the persistent determination of New South
Wales to be the jarringstring in that con-
cord which contains the promise and potency
of so much that is good for Australia.
* « *
Among the public men of New South
Wales who have left their mark on the
colonial statute books, there has been every
variety of opinion concerning the measures
which were thought necessary for the public
weal. It is rare to find two of them agree.
But upon one subject there has been a real
or apparent agreement little less than
phenomenal. It is a deep-rooted suspicion
of every project emanating from Victoria.
Only let a suggestion bear the Melbourne
trade-mark and bydney politicians view it
much as Disraeli viewed a Russian proposal*
It was Sir John Robertson, we think, who a
short time ago stated openly in Parliament
that he never knew of a proposal from the
other side of the Murray that was not
prompted by some selfish motive or had not
some sinister design behind it. This was
frank and comprehensive. Whether the
same opinion towards N.S.W. has a home in
Victorian breasts it would be hard to say. At
all events, we do not remember to have
heard it so freely expressed. And this
■view of Southern perfidy is by no means
confined to Sir John. The following is
from Sir Alexander Stuart's letter to
Mr. Service “ The Imperial Government
have made certain alterations to suit their
views, and why should they not have been
asked to make alterations in accordance
with the views of any particular Parlia-
ment? . . . This appears to me to have
been a great mistake, and it has given rise-
in this colony, at least — to a degree of
suspicion regarding the whole movement,
which is much to be regretted.” No such
“suspicion” concerning the movOtnent
arose in any other colony. Can it be tjhat,
as priests of different faiths doubt e&oh
others' fair dealing, so our acute Premier is
naturally sceptical of the political rectitude
of a fellow-countryman ? But whatever the
cause of this wide-spread disbelief in Vic-
torian honesty, the fact is much to be de-
plored.
• • •
We think that in the correspondence be-
tween Sir AleX. Stuart and Mr: SERVtds
the latter has the better of it. Among other
things he writes:—“ In place of sending in
an occasional note of encouragement,
or speaking a seasonable word of sym-
pathy, or aiding us with your counsel,
or kindly telling us that on some points
of the Bill you had altered your
mind, and mentioning them for our con-
sideration, we never heard either from
or of you, excepting via London, when our
Agents-General advised us that you were
taking steps which, in our opinion, could
only operate to delay and defeat the Bill.
And when, the other day, at the eleventh
hour (as you happily phrased it) you pro-
posed certain alterations, how was it done 7
By sending us a copy of a telegram you had
sent to Samuel with instructions to oppose
the Bill unless these alterations were eon-
ceded.” Again: ‘‘You are well aware that
the other colonies were anxious to meet
New South Wales in every way, and would
have gone a long way round to have kept
her in company, so that any suggestion
made by you would have received instant
consideration.” The more we examine this
matter, the more obvious it becomes
that the men to whom was given the
task of moulding the policy of New
South Wales at a critical juncture en«
tirely failed to rise to the importance of
the occasion, and committed the colony to a
narrow and selfish isolation. From the be-
ginning, their object appeared to be not
only to stand aside themselves, but to
vent the other provinces from coming to-
gether. Blinded by the glamour of a spuri-
ous Imperialism, they would take a part in
matters in which neither their advice nor
assistance was sought, while neglecting the
momentous questions at their feet. Even if
their action was not dictated by churlish-
ness, they will have some difficulty in per-
suading the other colonies that it was not.
* • *
Oddly enough, the characteristics which,
rightly or wrongly, have been ascribed to
New South Wales and Victoria are very
apparent in this correspondence between
the Premiers. While Mr. Service is all
eagerness to have the qutstion arranged
promptly and satisfactorily, Sir Alexander
Stuart is all for delay. The commonly-at-
tributed traits of the two peoples appear in
their Premiers’ letter*. Let us not be mis-
understood. We do not say that any imme-
diate ill effects will follow the action of New
South Wales. But another cause of es-
trangement will have been setup which will
grow with the years. The ease with which
ill-blood grows up between communities,
particularly of the same race, is as singular
as the difficulty of removing it. Only let
them be within striking distance of each
other, let their public men and public
writers allow no opportunity to go by for
saying uncharitable things of each other; let
this conduct be persevered in for years while
population and wealth are rapidly increasing
and you have at hand all the materials for a
fierce struggle. Further, you may be sure
that the materials will not remain long idle.
A disputed boundary or a vexatious impost
will soon supply a pretext for a recourse to
arms, and, as none fight so venomously as
blood relations, the quarrel whose causes
might have been removed by a little tact in
the preceding generation results at last in a
devastating war. Even if the disturbing
element of slavery had never assisted in
complicating matters in America it is
doubtful whether the States could have
MR. W. 0. IIODGKINSON.— (See page 13.)


A NEW BOOK.
250 Tricks and Delusions
CARDS. DICE, and CONJURING APPARATUS,
and also containing over 100 tricks and deceptions
with cards, illustrated wltn blocks and diagrams
fully explained, simplified, and adapted for home
amusement and social entertainments, forming
the most complete collection of Its kind ever
offered to the Australian public. Mailed free tn
any address ONE SHILLING.
THE WIZARD’S CHANGEABLE CARDS
These cards change from Red to Black, from
eights to deuces and back again at the pleasure of
the performer, and elicit exclamations of wonder
and surprise from all who witness them. Post
free, with full instructions. Is. 2d.
COMIC CARICATURES.
“I’m a Fadder,” “I’m in love,” “I’m a Daddy”
“Before and After Marriage,” “The Mother-in-
Law.” Five separate sets, each set consisting of
five character sketchings that have convulsed with
laughter every gathering at which they have
appeared. Price, post free, Is. 2d.
WONDERFUL JAPANESE DRAWER BOX
The performer sends round a pretty little box to
the company, which they fill with rings, coins, etc
Directly the performer takes it in his hand ihe
articles Instantly vanish and the drawer is shown
empty. Price 2i., post free.
GIVEN AWAY I
Cut this advertisement out and post it to us, en-
closing 5s. in stamps, or a P.O. order for 5i„ and
we will send you by return of post the above-men-
tioned goods, together with either of the follow-
ing articles
A LADY’S HANDSOME BROOCH or EARRINGS
GENT’S SCARF PIN or SET OP SCREW STUDS
of the finest American Roll-plate Gold, guaranteed
to stand the acid test, and to wear for 10 years,
alone worth double the money, for which we
MAKE NO CHARGE.
N.S.W. stamps taken at par, other colonies add
Id. to each Is.
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT,
BOX 041 G.P.O. 401 GEOKGE-ST., 8YDNEF.
J, TURNER ROBINSON * CO.S'
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKED CLOTH HALL,
478 George-stroet,
Established 1864,
HAS THB LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OP
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
83?“ Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perledt fit
guaranteed.
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only ,9s.
Small Bottle, , 4s. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOB INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. fld. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEB PORT,
2s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT
Ss. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At loweit possible Prices.
GIN-IN FLASKS,
If. 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke. 3 Prize Medal Brand,
In stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST BIZI.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKV.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
C. W, ROBERTS
George and Market Streets;
■7DNE7.
IH* BATES OF StJBSOBUTIOK tO THB BULLETIN
are—Foi one year, 34s.; half-year, 12a. 6d.
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
Phe Advertising Baths are 5s. per Inch5
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per Inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.; For 36 consecutive insertlonsf
15 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Tbaxll ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
escaped the civil war. Disintegrating
causes other than slavery existed which had
to be removed. When next the question of
Australian federation comes up we trust
that the destinies of New South Wales will
be in the hands of men who will place the
future happiness of their country before
any desire to steal a march on an opponent.
PLAIN ENGLISH .
A Question of Colonial History.
When Dr. Moban, the R C. Archbishop of Sydney,
publicly stated in a speech delivered at Botany a
llttlo while ago that in the early days of New
South Wales all prisoners were compelled, under a
penalty of being Hogged, to attend the service of
the Church of England, there was an outburst of
indignation which we were glad to see. For the
Indignation shown against the Bishop and his
statement was evidently founded on the unwill-
ingness of the comparatively unblgoted and toler-
ant community of to-day to believe that such
things could ever have been. We did not approve
of Dr. Mohan's action in publicly and aggressively
referring to a matter calculated to stir up bad blood
between the various creeds; but we hold that*
having made the statement, he should have given
his authority for it when its correctness was chal-
lenged. The vigorous and emphatic denial given
to Dr. Mohan's assertions by Mr. Cn Abi.es Camp-
bell, an old resident of Sydney, in a letter to the
8. M. Herald, seems to have been accepted as
Anal by the general community, but we notice
that references to this matter still continue to ap-
pear In a section of the so called “ religious” Press.
As we do not happen to be in any way interested
in the perversion of colonial history, we may say,
by way of definitely settling this question, that
Mr. Charles Campbell is wrong and Dr. Moban
Is right. Judge Thebuv, who was a pretty good
authority, says on page 145of his “Reminiscences”
that such a law existed; and we have before us a
pamphlet (printed by W. A. Duncan, at the office
of the Australasian Chronicle, Sydney) where-
in Dr. TJllathohne, who is replying to Judge
Burton's book on “ The State of Education and Re.
ligion in New South Wales” (London, 1810) says:-
“Mr. Harold (R.C. priest)was. on his arrival, placed
at Norfolk Island where he officiated. After Mr.
Dixon's departure, he returned to Sydney, but
the government having promulgated a regulation
requiring the whole prison population indiscrimin-
ately to attend the Church of England under
penalty of 25 lashes the first refusal, 50 lashes the
Second, and transportation to a penal settlement
(Norfolk Island), the third refusal, and this regu-
lation having been vigorously enforced, I regret
to state that in the midst of this persecution of
conscience, which pressed very hardly upon the
poor Catholics, Mr. Harold applied for leave to
return home, ‘ which,’ says a MS. of some date
back . . „ ‘ was soon granted.’ ” This Hogging
regulation was promulgated about 1803, and can be
verified on reference to Judge Burton’s book, and
to the New South Wales Gazette of that year.
Political Beaks.
AMATEUR. beakdom Is, la Sydney and Melbourne,
as dead as Mr. Scrooge's partner. But in the
provinces the great unpaid still flourish as a green
bay-tree. At Bathurst last week, according to a
Sydney paper, Mr. Lee, P.M., and Mr. Halliday
sat and heard the ease of a boy charged with hav-
ing pelted stones at the local Salvation Harmy
Barracks. Mr. Lee, at the conclusion of the evi-
dence forthe prosecution, thought that there was
no case whatever and that the Court’s time had been
Wasted. Mr. Halliday, on the other hand,
said he would like to hear the evidence for
the defence. Mr. Lee said Mr. Halliday never
came on the Bench except when a Salvation Army
case was on. It was monstrous for him to do so
with his mind biassed. Mr. Halliday wished
publicly to state that If he had known that the
Salvation Army case was on, he would not have
Sat. He would not be dictated to. Mr. Lee said
Mr. HalodAy “ never attended to his duties as a
J.P., except when It suited him. In this case Mr.
Halliday was an advocate rather than a magis-
trate. He (Mr. Lee) would not hear evidence for
the defence; Mr. FIalliday could do as he liked,”
Here Mr. Lee rose to retire, and Mr. Halliday
said he would retire, too. After further heated re-
marks, Mr. Lee and Mr. Halliday left the bench.
The case was left without a decision being arrived
at. We know nothing against Mr. Halliday,
who may, despite the P.M., be a perfect angel, or
a perfect Solomon. But this episode only inten-
sifies our opinion concerning the colonial J P.
system, which Is—and always has been—rotten to
the core; from the remote days when those God-
fearing reverends, Samuel Marsden and Fulton,
sate on Parramatta Bench and ordered men to be
Hogged by the hangman because they had not
attended the churches run by them (the magi-
strates), down to the hardly less infamous times
when the Sydney and Melbourne benches were
crowded by the magisterial friends of the appli-
cants for licenses, or of usurers charged with per.
Jury or subornation; or of pious soft-goodsmen
arraigned for defrauding the revenue. Mr. Hal-
LlDAY is reported to have said that 11 had
ho known a Salvation Army case was com.
Ing on he would not have appeared to adjudi-
cate.” This statement, we contend, contains a
reflection upon his own Impartiality as a magle.
trate, for we maintain that no man holding the
commission of the peace should so comport him-
self as to be consciously disqualified from adjudi-
cating on any case save one In which his own
financial or family Interests might be concerned.
And now, leaving Mr. Halliday and his friend
the P.M., we may remark that if the amateur beak
system was found to be utterly corrupt in the
cities, It has been found to be a hundred times
more corrupt in those remote places where the
censorship exercised over the acting of magi-
strates Is comparatively lax. It is bad 'enough
to have political Judges, and political police-
magistrates ; yet they are at least men of
education and, In most regards, of fair repute.
But the horde of Ignorant, bumptious, back-block
publicans and boss-cockles who (though often less
adapted to ornament the bench than to be ex-
hibited in quite another portion of the Court) are
from year to year foisted oq to the Bench before
an election by tbe Ministry of the day, should be
wiped out in one act with a scratch of the pen.
New South Wales can afford to pay responsible
police-magistrates a great deal better than she cm
afford to pay £500,000 for “seeing justice done” to
the Egyptian bondholders.
The 'Echo” on Genius.
The grapes of Genius are sour to the sordid
squarsons of the Sydney Echo. Sir George Grey
has recommended Mrs. Marcus Clarke to apply
for a Queen’s pension as the widow of a distin-
guished literary man; and some enthusiastic
admirers of the deceased Henry Kendall have
of late been publicly active. Irritated by the con-
sideration now being shown to the memories of
these erratic, brilliant, and ill-fated representa
lives of what is best in Australian literature, the
pious dullards of the conventicle have proceeded
to show how much better and more lovely than
the eccentricities of genius are the prosaic lives of
those who, though they-in the words of Gordon
—“toil onwards as toils the dull bullock,’’ provide
for “the woman taken to sha e one's fortune and
the children she has borne.” “ That heartlessness
of daily action which too often gives the lie
to the nicely-turned sentiment of the verse, are
not necessarily the accompaniment of genius.”
True, O Echo I Charles Lamb contended that no
real genius was perfectly sane. But how often do
we meet real genius—how often does the wor’d
find itself the possessor of a man with the magnifi-
cently-balanced brain of, say, a Shakespeare?
Genius of any kind is rare, and coming cliwn
the sges, for one Shakespeare we find a
thousand men in whom, though the divine
spark burns, the “ wit to madness near
allied” works temporal destruction. Genius
spoils a man just as often as surpassing beauty
spoils a woman. The true and godlike genius of
a Plato is an enduring steady light, wherein is
safety; the genius of an Edgar Allan Poe is the
wrecker's lamp which allures the seaman to the
shore of doom. We of Australia have had but few
men in whom burned the fitful flame, and of them
Henry Kendall and Marcus Clarke died
leaving their families dependent on what is
called charity; Denikhy died in the gutter;
Lindsay Gordon, who, for weeks, had been
too poor to pay a sixpenny train-fare, shot him-
self on the sands, and Brunton Stephens has
drudged on for years as a miserab y-paid school-
master. Many a “ bad” Judge delivers a good
judgment; many an immoral priest preaches a good
sermon; many a privately-profligate politician lays
an honest hand on the helm of State. The improvi-
dence of a literary man of genius, we have before
remarked, may be part of the mental constitution
which imparts the charm of individuality to his
writing. The usurer and the man of commercial
brain who writes sleepy platitudes in the conven-
tional morning piper, alike poesess that virtue for
lack of which the coffins of the Clarkes and Ken-
dalls are spit upon by the geniuses of dullness.
Those latter are not clever like Marcus. No
action of their lives, no emanation of their
thought, has ever given pleasure to a human
being. They grind the bones of the poor, and
sweat the very soul out of unworldly men of talent
like Marcus Clarke, shortening such lives with
sheer worry and sordid care. But they are emi-
nently provident. They provide for their wives
and families. They and the wolves perform this
function. And men of the Echo kidnoy sniff
round their carrion-tainted abodes, and lick their
own chops, and wag insinuating and appreciative
tails in their presence. Of provident men the colo-
nies have a surfeit. Our town halls, our Parliament-
ary lobbies, our bank parlours swa-m with them
These snatch a bone whenever they can get at one
and hoard it up, often with the life-blood of the
community scarcely dry upon it, often tainted
with crime, often putrid with corruption; but still
they stow it away somewhere as provision for
their families. They are, In the eyes of such as the
Echo writers, beautiful in their lives and in the
thousands they have made but cannot pocket in
their shrouds. They are made knights, and magi-
strates, and baronets, and affiliated to “ honour-
able” orders. And when they die the whole pack
of jackals, whose jaws have slavered in their
prasenco during their lives, crowd round the open
grave and moan and howl panegyrics on tte
memory of these provident hoarders of bones.
The People's Daughters.
The revelations made by the Pall Mall Gazette
add a new terror to poverty, and rreach anew
lesson to Democracy. Valuable time is being
wasted in guessing at the motives which inspired
the revelations. The motives alleged by the edi-
tor are, so far, the most natural. A procuress
had been brought up in a London Court, charged
with trapping young female children for titled
beasts of prey, and the administrators of the law,
with the object of hiding certain high names, prs c
tically hushed up the infamy. An effort was
being made to extend protection to girls until
their sixteenth year, and on previous occasions
the rulers of England had made similar efforts
abortive. These were the compelling motives to
the crusade. But he is dull or dishonest who shuts
off the revelations and spends his time hunting
around for the editor's motives. ' Is It true
that the female children of the working classes
are carried away against their will to fl'l
dens of vice ? Is it true that the female children
of the working classes have their necessities vo
played upon by the exigencies of our social system
that the adoption of a life of vice becomes a
human necessity ? The revelations answer both
questions in the affirmative. It is true that no
conditions of life will prevent sexual crime. In
every state of civilisation it is to be found. But
certain conditions favour it, and bum it in, not as
a human lapse, but as a caste heritage. Primarily,
the daughter of an earl is as prone to fall as the
daughter of a milkman. The social condition of
England brings it about, however, that the milk-
man must contribute his quota of daughters to
national shame, while the partridge-breeding earl
escapes. The Aspasias of cities ara almost ail
drawn from the families of the working classes
The percentage of others is very small. The alle-
gation is that the key to this state of things is to
be found in the pressure of inevitable poverty.
If so, Democracy has a red-hot Incentive to rebel
against a social condition which breeds such
Inevitable poverty. It la hard for a man to work
and live on dry crust? and water, while the heir of
a fellow who shot partridges dines sumptuously
on the fat of the land, but when he sees that in
addition to this perversity of destiny, he must also
offer up a daughter or two of his family for the
delectation of the titled idler, he will, it the pluck
is not all worked out of him, want badly to fight
someone or something. Hodge’s fate is to give
his sweat to Lucullxjs’ table, and to give his
daughter to Lucullus’ bed. That springs from
the admission that this illicit sexual intercourse is
in the nature of the social system. A Democracy
should not allow the chief material for the vice to
be drawn from a particular class. Conditions
should be so related that the virtuous daughter of
a milkman would have as good a chance of lead-
ing a pure life as the virtuous daughter of
the partridge-breeder. Or, putting it the
other way about, an immoral Hodge should
have as good a chance of “collaring” an
Bari’s daughter as an immoral Earl has of “col-
laring” Hodge s. But quitting the general
nature of things, we come upon the special fea-
tures of terror that beset the poor man in England,
The small general chance his daughter has of
growing up a pure woman is planned cunningly
against. Society is honeycombed with traps for
her. Gangs of people are paid high rates to catch
and hold her. Wealthy and titled men have
scouts out in all directions to report her move-
ments and pounce on her at the right time. Hodge
must send his daughter out to work. The idle
people know that. They call that the perfection
of the social system. The young and inexperienced
girl is utterly inadequate to meet the dead-set
made against her. She is cribbed, cabined, and
confined. When the titled people are done with
her they throw her away. If Hodge makes a stir
and brings the house of treacherous infamy befoie
a law-court, the Judges, when they hear she was
ruined by men of exalted positions, will hush the
matter up. Thus exeunt Hodge and his daughter
To Democracy the question comes forward and
cries for an answer. Before now in human history
such a cry has been answered by blood. To
Hodge the question is* should he go on rearing
daughters or when one of them is ruined should
he not take out a knife and rip up the murderer
of her virtue, even though the scoundrel may be
on the steps of a throne ?
Fay and Pension.
?ome exception is taken to the proposed Parlia-
mentary grant to Sir Henry Parkes. A fort,
night ago wo gave a correspondent room to state
his views. ' Other opponents to the principle we
advocated go substantially on the same line. It is
held that to give pensions to public men out of
remembrance of their public service is opposed to
the teaching of Democracy. The evils of heavy
pension lists are, no doubt, great. The British
people are opprersed by a ponderous retinue. It
Is not, however, worthy pensioners, but unworthy
and hereditary ones that make the list wonder-
fully long and cruelly heavy. There are names
on the list that ought to be there. Democracy
would not, were it the controlling influence in
Great Britain to-morrow, wipe them off. The
Democratic spirit teaches nothing that robs
a nation of glory. In advocating a grant
to Sir Henry Parkes we rested on a prin-
ciple, and put no store by special pleading.
What Victoria did or may do is only of very inci-
dental moment. Those who like to reason from
precedents may find plenty of them in the history
of all free States right away back to the confedera-
cies of Greece. Whoever held the helm of a State
was protected from want. It may not be that the
man continued to be loved, but the State con-
tinued to respect itself. It is beside the question
to set about assessing nicely the individual’s claim
on the nation’s purse. A fallen statesman is, by
the terms that define his position, an unpopular
man. Were it not so, he would be again at the
helm. To submit his claim to popular assessment
is, therefore, a delusion. His claim rests, not on
the manner in which he filled his position, but on
the fact that the nation gave it to him and
honoured him in it. Sir Henry Parkes was ten
years our Premier. Were Great Britain to leave
her Premier when old and unpopular to want
she would be a much less splendid nation
than she Is. There the position carries with
it a protection from want while the in-
dividual lives. Even a Cabinet Minister in
England is so protected. It is hinted that these
are customs of monarchy. As we have said, they
were customs of democracies before modern mon-
archies were thought of. But even so, where is
the teaching of Democracy the customs impugn ?
Monarchy rewards the services of its servants. It
does not forget the grey-headed man who gave
his life to it. If kings are got rid of and the sove-
reign people enthroned Instead, a mistake will be
made if the principle on which this recognition is
founded be swept away. A growing characteristic
of modern Democratic sentiment is a starched,
stiffened utilitarianism. It wants to sort, weigh,
and measure at a grocer's counter. It asserts that
if a man has given all the best years of nis life to
the service of his country and finds himself in the
end a white-headed pauper, it is altogether his
own look-out He was paid current rates while he
was strong and fit to hold his own, now let him
taka himself away and be buried. No true Demo-
cracy teaches that. Democracy is not a piece
of mechanism. It has as much heart as royalty.
Strip it of generous Impulse, and it will be a bad
substitute for royalty. It will make a realm for
guttersnipes. Its Olympus will be a kerbstone on
the side of a sink. Its court will be a Paddy’s
Market, and its statesmen cheap-johns, and
mountebanks. True Democracy breathes poetry
and is royal. Koyalty, as we have it, is tnat of
a caste; Democracy is the royalty of humanity.
Any Democracy that will squeeze the substance
out of men, and throw them away in their old age
Is fated to be led by public men who, when acci-
dent has deprived them of power, will be found to
have made for themselves “ friends of the mam-
mon of iniquity.” A Democracy that makes
generosity a crime deserves to be robbed.


Ladies, It you want your Pastry light, use Klngs-
ford’s Oswego Cornflour.
Wolfe's Schnapps has become the mosj
popular drink throughout the Colonies.
Just give Klngsford’s Oswego Cornflour a trial
when you are next cooking.
Render the system disease-proof by taking
Wolf’s Schnapps.
Kanakas are again being introduced into
Queensland. When pushed to It the planters
made up their minds to “ operate ” on Griffith’s
labour regulations. They find the regulations
n 0 w workable. That.ls a hard go back on their
sworn testimony, when the Hopeful murderers
w ere on trial. The trade is, however, greatly
■polled. Even the island niggers have heard of
the Queensland commission.
The two Cooktown papers are eternally
blackguarding each other. And they don’t know
how to do it well. When you have read what the
INDEPENDENT and the Herald say you forget
Which said the thing. One says, “ The last lucu-
bration of this noble editor is so full of lies and
filthy nonsense that it is only fit for the delectation
of superficial and ignorant Impostors.” Now
Which of the editors is that meant for? No man
j Q Sydney can tell. A couple of Cooktown miners
In the South at present swear it fits one editor as
much as another. When will these Northern
newspaper men get up courage enough to punch
each other’s heads ?
Title of the present holders to the Mount
Morgan (Q.) gold mine, va’ued at £7,000,000, is to be
tried shortly in Brisbane. Hearing that an effort
was to be made to oust the present company, they
got one of their number to jump the whole area,
hut hostile parties contend thatineither the oiiginal
title nor that of the jumper is good Tne case is to
be heard before Chief Justice Lllley, If the
friendly jumper, Darcy, succeeds in ousting the
holders, his claim will be contested by the third
pirty. Who would not be a Brisbane barrister ?
The London Times publishes a rat story,
too good not to be re-told, and equal to anything
we have read of snakes. An eccentric house-
keeper kept her new-laid eggs in her tea-caddy,
Xrom whence tuey were often missed. One night
she was kept up late in an adjoining room, and
heard a scuffling at the sideboard. The rats had,
she found, opened the lid of the tea-caddy, and
were at work removing the eggs. This was being
done by one rat lying down amongst the tea, and
grasping an egg in his four paws. The other rats
then drew him gently upwards by the tail—he
holding the egg tightly in wheelbarrow fashion.
By other rats lending their tails for help, this
new-fashioned eggholder was gently passed down
to the floor and dragged away to the rat-hole
where the egg could he jointly enjoyed in security.
In this way jibe whole of the eggs were removed
unbroken.
There was a scare among the “ lancer’ ’
regiments caused by the rumour that they were to
be “ converted in other words, that they were to
be deprived of their lances and turned into
hussars But the Soudan experience went to show
that, after all, the lance is the best weapon for
cavalry. Isn’t it Oliver Wendell Holmes who is of
an entirely different opinion? He is not, to be
sure, a soldier, but he is an uncommonly shrewd
observer. He tbinks that if the Polish lancers,
instead of trying to spit their enemies at the blade
end of a 10ft. pole, had got nearer to them with a
short, stout sword, there would have been no oc-
casion for Freedom to shriek “when Kosciosko
fell.” There may be something in this, mind you,
for it should be remembered that whatever ad-
vantage the lance confers by its length, it takes
away by the difficulty of controlling it. All the
great Roman battles were won with short swords.
In hot haste the Melbourne Age and Daily
Telegraph got the Pall Mall scandal articles
telegraphed from Adelaide. After two portions
of the highly-peppered hash had been served up,
the rest was let slide—without even an apology to
the readers. The Argus steered clear of it, and
crowed .over its “ contemps.”; for their blunder.
The Daily Telegraph is the organ of the very
good people, and its principal proprietor is Presi-
dent of the Christian Young Men. It is In mourn-
ing now over its mistake, which did anything but
help its slow circulation. The articles of the
P.M.G. were by no means more highly-spiced than
what the Melbourne Herald published on the
same subject about a year back. Similar things
could be written of any city by those wishing to
rake up the subject. It is as old as the hills, and
it is as it was and ever will he while humanity is
what it is and always has been. You cannot alter
humanity, even by Acts of Parliament.
btation managers in the west of Queens-
land have reverted to the bold old custom of
carrying a pair of revolvers down to the wash-
pool. At Terrlck, a grassy run on the sluggish
Barcoo, powder and shot were in demand lately.
The white men had an incorporated junk of yellow
agony suspended by the neck from a she-oak, and
were seated around on stumps betting drinks on
how many kicks the son of Confucius would give
before stiffening. Down came the manager, and
presenting a revolver, made them agree to bets
off.” He was wanted a day or two after on simi-
larly pressing business. This time it was the sons
of Confucius that bad scared the whitomen. Bits
of white men were to he seen, all the rest of them
being hidden by the dust raised by their heels.
The manager presented his persuasives, and the
Chinamen rolled up their pigtails, and returned to
quarters. To men who know the Barcoo there is
great substance for thought in all this. The world
is changing; Is changing fast.
From the Sydney Evening News “ On
Monday night the Tamworth Debating Society
had under consideration the execution of the con-
vict Johns, and passed a resolution by a large ma-
jority to the effect that the execution was expe-
dient for the well-being of the country. Mr.
Walker and his mob came In for rather rough
handling. Dr. Foord Clark, the premier, moved
the resolution, and it was ably supported by the
Rev. W. W. Rutledge and Messrs. D. M’Lean and
Joseph Barnard. The opposition was led by Mr.
L. E. Harcus, who received very little support
from his side.” Once upon a time the parson was
the man who begged for mercy in the name of the
Master; now he is the man whotoooftenlongstotie
up the unhappy convict and soap the rope. As in th e
Soudan slaughter, you can always fine a parson to
yell for blood. The opinions of the Tamworth
doctors and clergy don’t, as a rule, much interest
the universe; yet it is pleasant to find that there
is in N.S. K any considerable number of people
who approve (1) of hanging a man who has com-
mitted no murder, while almost simultaneously
those who have done horrid murders are reprieved;
(3) of depriving a man on trial for his life of the
witnesses for whom ho calls and then subsequently
examining those very witnesses in secret before a
commission whom personally his allegations affect,
and to whose indirect interest it, therefore, is to
have the prisoner put out of the way; and (3) of
protracting the trial of a prisoner charged with
murder and undefended by counself to 3 o cIock
a.m., and thereby forcing the jury to hurriedly
consider their decision ana give a reckless verdict.
Happy New South Wales I
The Experiences of a Sydney Salvationist.
(AS NARRATED IN THE “WAR CRY.”)
'“Trying to sell lads Cry.,' they chaffed, ahd I knelt dowi in the
road and prayed for them. Then they bought Cars, and on leaving
they said I was not such a bad fellow after all.”
Have a rum hot 5 ” said the barmaid, u No, thank you, I have Salva-
n ! ” “ Then lake a little brandy and bitters , that’s what 1 always take
n ailvcted that way.”
1 was selling Crts at a market, when a poultm
vendor got enraged, and whipped me down a lone
High! steps, while two bobbies stood looking on and
. ‘ I went into Miss O’Reilly’s fruit shop,
but came out quicker, as Miss O’Reilly
Caught me by the coat-collar and the slack
of my pants and landed me in the gutter,”
“While talking to a man in a well-known
man-trap, his mate came behind and set lire to
my Cuts, at the same time telling me to go to
, >>
= £ to. .ho bar parlour.
driver, ” ,OT half '“- h0 “ r 1 — ex P°.cd to ti^abte
W
“Going into a pub., I was pulled to the bar, while
three or four men tried to pour some beer clown my.throath
I kicked frantically, and escaped.” II
_ 1 i


Personal Items
Felling Hugh Gough Pigott Stainsby-
Conant is the name of the newly elected Mayor
of Echuca (Vic.).
We hear that a big slice of a Melbourne
dally journal has just been bought “ on the quiet ”
by a Victorian baronet.
Wearesorry to hear that Colonel Wells,
of the late N.8.W. Contingent, is very ill indeed
of a pneumonic affection.
The barmaids of Geelong (Vic.) intend
to burn Graham Berry in effigy when he seeks re-
election for that electorate.
The Prince of Wales will shortly visit Syd-
ney. He will stay here till the Pali. Mall and
Sentinel affairs blow over.
Sir Peter Scratchley and suite have gone
to New Guinea to begin a survey of the mouths of
rivers. Let them be careful not to end by filling
the mouths of niggers.
Sir Alfred Stephen will again shortly be
Lieutenant-Governor of N.8.W. for a brief term.
This is good noose for the two men charged with
having chopped off the head of the Canterbury
policeman.
“Kendall,” says the Echo, “ was well paid
for what work he did.” And yet the Mail, the
literary organ of the ECHO proprietary, notifies
for public information that no remuneration for
poetry is given by the office.
Tennyson, now that he has been made a
peer, seems somewhat ashamed of his title, and to
make it pass muster styles himself Alfred, Lord
Tennyson, thereby reminding one of the man who
passed a bad shilling by putting it between two
good ones.
London Society hears (t vc have not heard
it) that a writ for £10,000 has been served on the
Evening News, and hopes that this “will not be
sufficiently formidable to necessitate Mr. Alfred
Bennett’s departure from England.” As if a little
mstter of ten thou, would affect that lucky dog
Allred. How little Society knows of Sydney.
Apropos of His Excellency’s proposed visit
to Uourke, the local Watchman politely observes:
" it is six years since Lord Augustus became Go-
vernor of N.8.W., but it is only now, when he is
about to leave it, this fowl-breeding old fossil has
thought it worth his while to look at the country
ho has nominally been governing.” Nice writing
tor a “loyal ” country.
Mr. Shipway, a “ Contingent remainder,”
asked the N.8.W. Judges to allow the time he
served in the Soudan to be counted in his five
years’ articles as a solicitor. Their honors could
not see that his experience in goat-slaughter-
ing had helped to teach him law, so they refused
the request, but allowed him to add the lost days
on to tne end of the term.
Mr. Thomas Carrington writes to the
Sydney D.T. acknowledging that ho alone is
responsible for the drawing of the cartoons in
Melbourne Punch, and that the Inmates of Kew
Lunatic Asylum never had anything to do with
them. This is a generous avowal on Mr, Carring-
ton’s part, and relieves the lunatics of a serious
Imputation on their characters.
A little Melbourne paper tells us that a
Mr. Lltbgow James, now over here, is the husband
of “the favourite actress, Florence St. John.”
Thus falls from its pedestal another venerable
idol, for the papers here have generally alluded to
Florence as “Mrs. Marius.” And, by the way,
people haven’t all heard J. C. Williamson tell his
story about Marius and the organ - grinder’s
monkey.
David Syme, of the Leader, has annexed
nearly half of New South Wales. In his map of
Victoria, Issued last Saturday, he shows that
colony as including Qouiburn, Carrathool, and all
the country above and between them. Arise, ye
Khakee warriors, and ye gorgeous Lancers, and
wash out this insult with blood! We ourselves
•will he satisfied with nothing less than the head ol
gyme on a wheelbarrow.
The Sydney Freeman’s Journal, which
may bo regarded as the organ of the Il.C. laity,
commends Sir James Martin for having in his re-
cent apology for Christianity stood up in defence
of “ the faith he learned as a little child.” The
Express (the R.O. hierarchical organ, which is, of
course, the more orthodox from a Homan point of
View) roundly accuses the Chief Justice of cherish-
ing and promulgating the Ncstorlan heresy. Just
think of it 1 James of Numantla, the Nestorian
heretic. Beautiful I
Our holy friend, the much- travelled bush-
missionary, Peter Campbell, still lingers in Mel-
bourne Gaol, and seems likely to stay there for a
while yet. Peter can’t find sureties for the pay-
ment of bis wife’s maintenance, and, failing that,
must remain in his present abode, unless his Ex-
cellency chooses to exercise the Royal prerogative
la his favour. Peter says if he gets out before
the approaching general election he will, unless
the “ missus” again molests him, oppose Premier
Service for Castiemaine.
“ A perambulator will certainly be pro-
vided for the child, and you may bo aole to come
across one secondhand.” So wrote the Marquis of
Blandford (now Duke of Marlborough) to the
Mr" Brittain who took charge of his illegitimate
son by the Countess of Aylesford. But, thouaht
his lordship, who is to pay Mrs. Brittain ? Why
Great Britain of course. Whereupon, havingbeen
metamorphosed into the Duke of Marlborough,
ho sells that well-fleeced nation a picture for
£15 000. How many more second-hand perambu-
lators will this sum pay for ?
His Honor Mr. Justice Moles worth, of
Melbourne, is a wit In his way. The other day a
rowdy just discharged from the criminal dock met
him in the Law Court’s quadrangle. Looking at
our “trusty and well-beloved Robert Molesworth”
with a prime Ned Kelly grin, he said, in a fogladen
grunt: “ Damn your wig I ” Robert failed to catch
what his admirer said, and turned to a law-clerk
near with the query, “ What did that man say?”
“ He said,” replied the clerk, with an ear-to-oar
grin “Damn your honor’s wig I” “Then damn
"is impudence 1 ” exclaimed Robert, as his stick
t jddled off with him.
Mr. Fayne is asking the Charters Towers
Herald tor £1000 for having blasted his character.
Thady O’Kane, of the local Miner, shows at onoe
where his sympathies lie. This is scarcely chival-
rous while the case is pending, but then the cir-
cumstances are unique. The veteran exclaims:—
“Mr. Payne visited this place before and paid the
Northern Miner account honourably, and he
has also paid hia account on his present visit.” It
is not astonishing to find Thady showing where his
sympathies lie after that. There are journalists
every inch of whom would lie to a subscriber who
actually paid two quarters.
The Bijou Theatre, Melbourne, has lost its
stage door-keeper. Poor Ben Fewster, the official
'n oaestion, sent out for his luncheon beer, but
t - up the wrong bottle from the table, and
wtred about half a pint of acid. The acid was
carbolic, and poor Ben's last agonies were
diabolic:—
His Epitaph.
Sound rest to you, Ben Fewster—
Ah I never more will you stir—
No more at you shall chorus maidens wink;
You quaffed carbolic acid.
And you’re lying cold and placid,
A victim to the dire effects of “ drink,”
The Claimant is now almost as fat as ever.
When in prison he fell away to 16, but now weighs
35 stone. He appears at provincial music halls,
but the time of his address has been strictly
limited to 20 minutes, and no encore permitted. It
is rather hard to restrain the story of his wrongs
to 30 minutes. They should give him five more a
minute for every 14lbs. This reminds us that we
have not yet heard those “ further particulars of
the “real Sir Roger,” who is chained to the
ground by a hard-hearted squatter. According to
our authority, a Narrabri exchange. Sir Roger is
chained so strictly that he must himself be a
squatter. More likely the man who started the
yarn, is in a still more lowly position. He is, wo
mean, probably a licr.
In a certain Australian city there is terror
and dismay in the ranks of the youthful aristoc-
racy, for a not very exalted sample of Heaven s
last and noblest gift to man has run a social muck,
Initiated a breach of promise action against a
former admirer, and subpoenaed quite a number
of the curled darlings of society as witnesses in
the affair. Some of these aristocrats have become
so alarmed at the thought of the ordeal that they
have scurried away elsewhere, intending to remain
very much elsewhere for more than quite a con-
siderable time. Sheol knows no fury like a woman
scorned, and the seemed woman in this instance is
making a very sheol of the said city, which jg
likely to be deprived of many of its wealthiest
scions till the little affair blows over.
Last Thursday was Sir Alfred Stephen’s
a3rd birthday. Sir Alfred was born in the Wes*
Indies, and 60 years ago, in the good old days when
men used to be hanged for sheep-stealing, and
there was none of your trashy sympathy wasted
over scoundrels who had forfeited their lives by
interfering with the property of the rich, he was
the much-respected Solicitor-General of the lovely
island of Van Dieman’s Land. Sir Alfred, who
wears the “ white ilower of a blameless life in his
beautiful old age, received on his birthday a large
number of congratulatory telegrams from various
parts of the colony. But there are many persons
who had made his acquaintance during the course
of the last half-century who sent no congratula-
tions. Telegraph-wires melt where they live.
We read in a London Snobs’ organ:—
“ Australian papers just arrived are refreshing for
loyal subjects to read. The Queen’s birthday this
year fell on Sunday, and it was proposed that
throughout the Australian continent, in loyal love
for ‘our dear old Queen,’ the National Anthem
should be played and sung in all the churches and
chapels. The suggestion was well received, and
an example set which the mother country would
do well to copy.'’ Delicious, isn’t it? The Ger-
man-worshipplng toadies and gushers who nau-
seate the Australian-born inhabitants of this
country by their display of exotic loyalty to one
of the least moral and least able dynasties which
ever filled a throne in the history of the world,
don’t seem to be aware that, as indicated by our
clumsy and grovelling English contemporary, the
Brunswicks are least liked where they are best
known.
“ Prince Albert Victor is already a much
better speaker than his uncle, the Duke of Edin-
burgh. His Royal Highness is rapidly gaining
confidence, and bis public utterances are tem-
pered with that just discretion which characterises
those of his father.” And so on. Thus a gushing
English paper. Confidence, properly so-called,
can only be gained by a man of ability; cheek is,
no doubt, the commodity which fils Royal High-
ness Is so rapidly acquiring. There was never a
really able man of his race. Prince George struck
most people in Australia as being a bright boy.
His elder brother seemed as dull and stupid as—
he certainly looked even more stupid than—the
average member of the House of Brunswick. He
was a thorough duffer at college, and will most
likely be a duffer all the time. But perhaps it
won’t much matter. The Republic may come
before he does.
General Gordon was a man of very many
fine qualitites, no doubt. But he was a born crank.
Those of the Australian public who want to pose,
bare-kneed, as the hottest and heaviest of his
worshippers, will be glad to read this. Gordon
believed in the Bdemto apple. The constituent
elements of this fruit he held to be present in the
blood of every member of the human race up to
the present day, and he contended that their virus
could only be subdued and counteracted by fre-
quent participation in the bread and wine of the
Sacrament. He thought the more a man could
ingest, in quantity, of the consecrated food, the
better would be his chances of expurgating from
his physical organism the poisonous corpuscles of
the forbidden apple. Gordon resolved to take as
much as possible of the sacre • elements before
starting from England. He therefore went from
church to church in turn, partaking of the Sacra-
ment in each, and thus received the element some
half-dozen times in suceession, beginning at six
a.m., and ending at midday.
Poor Ada Ward has been “ bashed” about
the head by her mother. Don’t scream —it Isn’t
our Ada Ward, the Ada of our dreams (and night-
mares), but only a Melbourne infant christened
after the famous actress” by a drunken, theatre-
going munma. This reminds us that the divine
Ada Has just been playing the heroine of a, flue old
crusted melodrama called the Sea of Ice at
the Olympic Theatre, London, without—strange
to say—paralysing the public. Eleven years ago
we saw a greater Ward than Ada—Genevieve t he
stately, in fact—play the same character In that
same drama. We remember getting somewhat
sore over our painful efforts to accept the stately
G., even at that time, as a giddy girl of 17, and re-
member, too, thinking that her foreign accent
was not unlike that of the now almost forgotten
Madame Celeste, who played the part 20 years pre-
viously. Genevieve of yesterday (11 years are
only as yesterday with ladies and Jehovah, espe-
cially with ladies) was not, to our way of thinking,
a very little patch upon the thrilling goddess of
to-day—but emotion chokes further utterance for
the present.
Christine Nilsson, the famous opera singer,
made a love-match some 13 years ago. She then
wedded a young West Indian of French extrac-
tion—a half-Creole, in fact-younger than herself,
and working as a mercantile clerk. The usual evil
has followed of taking a young man from his
weekly-waged avocation and providing him with
pocket money—and idle time. That sweet Aus-
tralian singer, Julia Matthews, made a similar
mistake, as did Octavia Hamilton, and an endless
list of others. Nilsson set her husband up as a
stock broker with the usual result of all such pet-
tings-up, that what we so set up wants afterwards
to be kept up. Young Rouzeaud got into specu-
lations and difficulties, ending in his death in a
French lunatic asylum. When he died, his widow
claimed her rights as a creditor-beyond those
given her by French law as a wife. She had
settled property upon her husband when they
were married in no less a place than Westminster
Abbey. It was this settled property that his re-
latives wished to snavel. They would have done
so but for Nilsson’s claims upon it as a creditor,
which the Court of Appeal has upheld as good,
against the contrary decision of the Court first
appealed to.
The supposition hitherto prevalent that
children born in matrimony cannot be bastardised
is exploded. The Aylesford peerage case has
quashed it as a vulgar error. It was a legal maxim
once upon a time that paternity was demonstrated
by matrimony, and that much in spite of the other
maxim that “it is a wise cnild who knows,” &o.
The claimant to the Aylesford estates was a
brother to the deceased peer, and Lady Aylesford,
who had narrowly escaped divorcement, set up the
counter claim of her infant son. The child was
known, as much as such things can be known, to
be attributable to the present Duke of Marl-
borough when known as Lord Blandford—and by
other less polite titles. This claim of her ladyship
was amazingly cool—to give it no other name—but
it has saved a future House of Peers sitting upon
the claim when it might not be so easily disproved
as now. The infant, when he reaches man’s estate
and gets nothing else, will know more than falls to
the lot of everyone, and be so much the wiser by
his discreet mother’s late efforts to enlighten him.
Lady Banbury, in bygone times, was in the present
Lady Aylesford’s plight, but she left her son to
fight his own claim, which bothered the House of
Lords for years, until its final rejection.
The fate of Mokena Kohere furnishes
another proof of the wickedness of permitting a
high-minded Maori chief to mix himself up in the
miserable muddle of modern politics. Mokena
was a member of the N.Z. Legislative Council.
Poor fellow I he bore it as long as he could, but
succumbed at last. Just as he was thinking of
moving the adjournment of some never-ending
debate, the feelings of the ex-savage overpowered
him and he went roaring mad. ’Tisa pity Mokena
didn’t revive childish reminiscences by eating the
Speaker;—
Oh I never again shall the luckless Mokena
Vote “for” or “against” or indulge in debate;
He’s lied from the grand legislative arena.
And left us a moral to learn from his fate.
He kept at his post, did the dauntless Mokena;
He sat out their speeches (so silent and sad)—
At length came a change in his Maori demeanour,
And, putting his hat on, Mokena went mad.
The strain was too great for the soul of Mokena—
Political twaddle, and faction, and feud
May do very well for the “ whites ” (they are
meaner),
But not for a Maori with honour endued.
George Darrell has an article in that bril-
liant journal the Melbourne Bulletin called “ An
Australian Dramatist,” which, strangely enough,
appears to have been written simply to show how
[keenly he feels dramatic criticism I gee how our
friend writes; but let it bo noted that It Is not n
intention In any way to refer to his HtoJz Ur
“style,” which is “above criticism
trallan dramatic author may work for weeksi
weeks on a play, may strike out this line and 04
write that, may scheme and devise and toll n
use his brains and his money to ensure a suce!*
may make that success, and have his public
him, and yet, with pen ‘ in venom steeped • „ ®
man can sit down and in five minutes dash* nf? e
notice that shall condemn the labour of month. S
We are very fond of George, indeed; but. rm.ii
we think he is (for him) a trifie wild here
critic or critics, Mr. Darrell, can damn a'm °i
play; but equally not all the most fulsome nr*i
from the most adulatory Press in the world oniiil
save a bad one from being "goosed” into Dera-
tion. Then says the writer to the imaginary a,'
tralian playright whom he is addressing, “ Whvi
this ? you ask me. I cannot tell you, save that u
is my firm belief that every consistent * Slater ’ i
an unsuccessful playwright, and that his unacto!?
dramas are the skeletons that pervert his mtna
and embitter his pen.” It would be, therefor 4
but natural to surmise that every inconsistent
1“ Slater ” is an unsuccessful tragedian. The authn
concludes by advising his brother dramatist t
bury his MS. in the coal-hole and start a "cnif*?
stall.” Well, George
You all be pleased to learn that Mr
Valentine Browne of the Melbourne General
Post Office is to receive compensation for the In.,
of his billet. ’Twas undeniably a good biller
Some time back an officious M.L.A. rudei*
asserted that Yal. B. had “for six months don?
nothing but sit on a stool and draw his salarv ■>
Rather rough on Val„ perhaps, seeing that «
number of his fellow-labourers in the Govern
mental vineyard draw salaries without taking the
trouble to sit on a stool even. However, as a rt
suit of this bold, but unasked-for advertisement
Yal. has received an intimation that his servlet
will no longer be required, but, inasmuch as ht«
proprietorial rights to doing nothing deserve con
sideratlon, this busy B. will be allowed to draw a
last little drop of honey from a complaig an ?
country. He will receive nineteen months’ salarv
as compensation:— T
Lord Granville Gordon has written a
volume of “poems” called “Odd Half-hours on
Odd Half-sheets.” and in writing of the book
Vanity Fair (which has evidently passed into
the hands of Henniker) says there is “something
in it;” but, in the exercise of a full-grown diiu
cretion, fails to specify what that “ something"
is. We have seen some specimens of what his
lordship has extracted from his muse, and a care
ful perusal of them Inclines us to hope she will
soon get better. Here is an extract from " Fare-
well, thus I spoke,” which, as a reflex of the
author’s mind, will probably be most admired bv
those who know him best:—
“ Farewell I Thus I spoke to my wife (sic) at the
door.
Farewell I and I hope I shall see you no more.
“ Leave no traces about, let no vestige remain
To remind you of one you will not see again. [I]
“ When alone In the evenings in future I sup,
Some fair willing barmaid will fill up my cup,”
etc. The verse here may possess, for some people,
merit of a singular character, but so far at
awakening any interest In the public mind is con-
cerned, “Farewell, thus I spoke,” must be writ-
ten down a failure. Some excerpts from the noble
bard’s “Death,” though, may be found, if not in-
structive, at least entertaining
Death.
“ Death 1 What is death ? To leave your overcoat
Hanging in dismal solitude upon the peg
At home; until some faithful old domestic
Vends it for two florins to the wandering Jew.
“ We shall meet death I I, you ? Yes, you and I,
We will lie peacefully a yard apart.”
No, thanks, old boy. A yard wouldn’t be far
enough, by a mile, to lie apart from such a
mumble-headed doggerel-dodger as you.
The Australasian in a leader violently
attacks the Pall Mall Gazette, and says:—” We
have long been familiar with the seductions of the
virtuous daughter of the working man by the
profligate aristocrat. . . But it has been reserved
for the present year to witness a respectable Lon-
don newspaper descend into the lowest depths oi
literary and moral degradation, and make its
shameless profit from the stories of the brothel.’’
Then the Australasian goes on to cai tlgite the
Age, which printed extracts from the Pall Mall:
—“One of our daily contemporaries has not
shrunk from selecting as the victim for all these
crimes of London tne Prince of Wales. . . .
Warning is given to that illustrious person that he
must not pollute Melbourne by his presence;
and if, notwithstanding the warning, he should
venture to appear, the Governor and h’s wife are
admonished that they must not allow the culprit
to darken their doors.” The exact words of the
Age were these:—“We can conceive nothing more
revolting than to have the patron of Mrs. Jeffrey
the guest of Lady Loch; and, if the Governor
shrinks from telling him so, we hope the Govern-
ment will not should the occasion demand it.
Well, as far as that’s concerned, we hope the occa-
sion will not demand it, because we don’t consider
the country sufficiently advanced in civilisation to
appreciate the glories of that illustrious genius
the Heir Apparent. But, it H.K.H. insists upon
coming, we can’t see that he is bound to
become the guest of Lady Loch. He might
have a shake - down at the Age office.
And all this reminds us that when “Wales,
many years ago, got into trouble over the Mor-
daunt case, and condescendingly went into tne
box to take his royal oath that he didn’t know
anything about the girl, the Age did what no
other Australian paper did—it printed, in extenso,
the whole of the ugly evidence, wnat most
people are enquiring is this: Why does not tne
Prince of Wales, who has been openly charged oy
speakers on public platforms, and by writers in
widely-circulated newspapers, with criminal aeu
of immorality, shut for ever the filthy mouths ot ni»
slanderers by having them dragged into the dock '
It is sheer affectation to pretend to mlsunderstsna
the direction in which the Pall Mall has deliber-
ately pointed its finger. Wales has already oeen
in the box once, and it is m the interests of ms
family that he should go into the box again witn-
out delay. The tenderness shown by him to n«
calumniators is misplaced and liable to be misun-
derstood.
‘ You don’t know ‘ Alf.’ Joseph?” Then
the least you can do Is to keep silence, and not
publicly expose your ignorance Alfred is a poo*
maker, whose profession just kept him in porw
and pork up to a certain eventful day. On thaio*?,
Joseph Thompson, F gan, Bill Branch, Altreo.
and a number of other citizens possessing cen*
peculiarities in noses and speech, looked out UP'
the Fleming on racecourse, saw Don ,, hfl
sailing in front of the field, and knew that lor
remainder of their lives they could devote ti
days to “ Henry Clays” and their nights
prayer and chateau maryau.c. Then Semitic
were sent into the welkm and Semitic song
triumph reminded the public that the 1“™” »
once again deftly and scientifically skion •
After this “ Alf.” went to Sandhurst and a
bined with his now prosperous profession 4
equally lucrative one of money-lending, ft
“MANY A TRUE WORD,” &c. (Old Proverb.)
FIRST MASHER: “WHAT AN OUT WAGE, BA JOVE ! THE DIRECTORS OP THE A.J.S.
BANK HAVE FORBIDDEN THEIR CLERKS, WITH AN INCOME UNDER TWO
HUNDRED, TO GET MARRIED, BAJOIVE ”
SECOND MASHER: “AN OUTWAGE1 I SHOULD SAY SO. HOW DO THEY EXPECT A
FELLAH TO LIVE, I WONDAH, IF HE CAWN’T MAWY A WICH GIRL, BAJOVB?”
VALEDICTION TO VAL.
Val. Brown, Val. Brown, your sun is down.
Tour Joyous day is over;
Upon that stool, your legs to cool,
No longer shall you sit;
Each morning when you went to town
Tour lot was cast in clover—
Alack I Val. Brown, for Fortune’s frown—
You now have got to “ git.”
On well-worn seat, In snug retreat,
Wherein you read the Argus,
Or made remarks to other clerks—
Or verses used to write;
On shady nook, where, o’er your book
(A novel by poor Fargus)
You dozed, Val. Brown, the curtain’s down
And so—" Good night, good night I ’’ *


J. NOAKE,
320 ft 446 George Street,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
Just Unpacked, ex s.s. Rome,
12 Cases Rea! HAVANNA CIGARS
(Finest Brands), consisting of
“ANTONIO MURIAS”
“ VILLAR OF VILLARS ”
‘ HENRY CLAYS”
“REAL”CABANAS
LARRANAQA”
“ KITICA”
“ MORALES”
“ PLOR DE NARES”
“PARTAGAS”
“ INTIMIDADS”
“FLOR DB CUBA”
“ ESPANOLA”
“LA CORONA”
J. NOAKE,
320 & 446 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
RILEY BROTHERS'
ORIGINAL
£5 DPiiPUI SALES!
PACKED in CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
Carriage paid by mail all
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
over the colonies
*3 WINTER BALE.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 Large Marcella Quilt
10 yards good Sheeticfe-
20 yards Strong Calico
12 Strong Cotton Tick
20 Wincey Dress Tweed
10 good Welsh Flannel
[6 yds. Strapping Tweed
All the above are good
wearing articles.
FREE SELECTORS’
BALE.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 White or Colored Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 White or Unbleached
Calico
6 White or Red Flannel
12 yards Dress Material
12 yds. Cotton Shirtings
4 pair Good Stockings
1 pair Strong Stays
1 dark Petticoat
6 Strong Gambroon
6 Brown Holland
4 Large White Towels
3 yards Good Trousers
Tweed, Buttons,
Threads, &c.
£5 MEN’S CLOTHING
BALE.
1 Suit Tweed — Coat,
Trousers, and Vest
2 Crimean Shirts, large
size
2 Best Cotton Shirts,
large size
1 Best Felt Hat, any size
6 pairs Strong Cotton
Socks
5 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or Pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &c.
£5 LADY’S BALE.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladles’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infants Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Kobe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials Silks, Velvets, &o.—with
prices, and full instruction for self-measurement,
if applied to.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 12
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
RILEY BROTHERS.
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
PE APES & SHAW S
SPHIIB SHOW!
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING MILLINERY.
PEAPB S and SHAW’S SPRING COSTUMES.
PEAPES and SHAW’S^|PR!NG DRESS
PEAPES and SHAW'S SPRING FABRIC
GLOVES.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT
KID GLOVES,
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING HOSIERY,
from J. and R. MOBLEY'S.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
LACE GOODS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
EMBROIDERY.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
jPARASOLS.
SPECIAL
N O T I C E I
All the above goods are
Now Open for Inspection.
Large Shipments
for other Departments are
CLOSE AT HAND,
and a constant flow of
NOVELTIES
will be opened up
DURING THE SEASON. 9
PEAP P’S & SHAW,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS,
324, 326, 328 George Street
ALCOCK&CO.'S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS:
mum ii mi.,
375 George-st., Sydney.
TIME PAYMENTS. IF REQUIRED
POST FREE FOR Is. STAMPS.
Sociol Science.
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders, Chronic
D sjases, Impediments to Marriage, Sr), How to
choose a partner for life so as to live happy, How
to Regain and Preserve your Health, &c.
Address—R. T. SELBY, M H , Devonsbiro-street,
Surry Hills, Sydney.
Ul>
or
ECONOMICALFURNITUR
CONOMICALFURNJTURE
(W THE LARGEST AND ONLY LEGITIMATE
TIME-PAYMENT FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THE COLONY,
365 PITT STREET.
DU. BOYD,
62 CASTLBREAG H-8TRBET, SYDNEY
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND 8URGERT,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours t
10 a.m. to i p m. Monday, Wednesday}
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Diseases a
Specialty.
Box 120 Q.P.O.
fo
Infants and Children
What gives our Children rosy cheeks,
What cures their fevers, makes them i
i
sleep;
Castorla.
. When Babies fret, and cry by turns,
What cures their colic, kills their worms, - •
>
What quickly cures Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Colds, Indigestion ;
t Castorla.
Farewell then to Morphine Syrups,
■ Castor Oil and Paregoric, and . C
Hall Castorla,' 1
f ————— . (
“Castoria is no well adapted to Children
that I recommend it as superior to any medi-
cine known to mo."—H. A. Archer, M. D,
111 Oxford St., Now York.
Elliott Bros., Sidney, Agents.
ANHOODc RESTORED!
h„ . f il 8 Q c ° v » ercc l a B1Tn ? Ie w5iic“fo»
?> ke of . B .^ ffem » humanity, ho will send FREB
“ft, description whmh CURED him, Addreau
»nth self-addressed stamped envelope—
Pr. E. A. CLARKE, P.Q. Box 292, Sydnoy.
Walshc’s Family Hotel,
Corner of
ELIZABETH & HUNTER STS. SYDNEY
J. W, WALSH B, Proprietor.
Frst-olass Luncheon at one o’clock. Best Brandi
Wines, Spirits, &o. &c.
mo Country Journallsts.-Leadera, Telegram*.
an( * Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
It is a good thing to keep a bottle of Wolfe’s
Schnapps in the house.
Invalids and children—give them Kingsford’s
Oswego Cornflour.
CONSTANCY - .
Shall any turn of circumstance
Have power our hearts to sever ?
Ah, no; like Summerfibld's Spring Tweeds,
Our love shall live for ever.*
Always ask for Wolfe's Schnapps and take
no other article.
Every grocer keeps Kingsford’s Oswego Corn
flour done up in and llb.-packets,
BEALE & COMPANY.
BEALE & COMPANY
Beale & Company.
SYDNEY and BRISBANE.
SOLE IMPORTERS OF THE
Sweet Hapsburg Piano,
SWEET “ HAP3BURG ” PIANO.
Which, by Judicious Selection and Addition of
all Valuable Improvements, they have raised to
the Premier Position among Instruments in Aus-
tralia.
The Principal of the Firm is at present Visiting
the Continent of Europe, and the
SHIPMENTS NOW ARRIVING
contain all the
VERY LATEST IMPROVEMENTS.
MORE ARE SOLD THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY than of
ANY OTHER MAKE.
Ever Growing and Widening Popularity Attested
by High Testimony Daily Volunteered.
BEALE &~COMPANY
Will Deliver a
Sweet 44 Hapsburg” Plano
(CARRIAGE PAID)
To any Wharf or Railway Station In New South
Wales upon the most
LIBERAL TERMS OF TIME-PAYMENT.
Catalogues Free on Application.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
Sydney Show Rooms,
386 and 012 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
151 OXFORD STREET.
travellers and branches through-
out THE COLONY.
BEST IN
THE WORLD!
EE
OFFICE*31 LOMBARD ST. LONDON
bus
'VU-==-si
I
LOWEST
IN PRICE
engines, fsssssjstsgsigs^
ALBION UONCSTROKE HORIZONTAL ENGINES' -
SVCLIMAX” VERTI CAL ENGINES S BOILERS "
PORTABLE-HOIST IN® ENGINES^
I) BRITON”+IORIZONTALGOMPOUND LAUNCH ENGINES
INVERTED COMPOUND MARINE ENGINES
PORTABLE STEAM CRANES.
AVERTICAL.CORNISH,S MARINE BOILERS.
' ,111111
uiiumfn
E
I
LARGE ST0CKS:F0R FULL PARTICULARS AND PRICES APPLY TO
D.£ W.ROBERTSON,SYDNEY, SOLE AGENTS '»» NEW SOUTH WALES
J.W.SUTTON &C0, BRISBANE,SOLE AGENTS ">«QU EENSLAN D
ROBISON BROS.& CO.MELBOURNE.SOLE AGENTS '“VICTORIA.
singular fact, which we do not remember to have
seen mentioned before, that, no sooner does an
Israelite become possessed of money, than he be-
comes possessed of a longing to lend It to someone
who wants it more than he. That is why there are
so many poor Jews in the world. It is not that
they cannot make money. It is because—poor
people—when they have made it they at once
advertise that it is no good to them—that their
only object is to lend it without any security what-
ever, and on any terms the borrowers like to im-
pose. They will take it back in instalments,
or in a lump sum, but they would prefer
not to get it back at all. Still, to do
“ Alf.” Justice, he did not coniine his desires to
lending coin. He had other ambitions. One
was to enter municipal life, and, in time, perhaps,
become Mayor of Bendigo. The other was to get
a hat to fit him. He succeeded in getting returned
for a Sandhurst ward in the goat-removing and
dog-destroying interest, but, judging by what
intervened between his head and the sky when
last we saw him in Sydney, his success in the hat
line is still a modified one. For years he has been
a city councillor, and every year as the time comes
round for electing a Mayor, he is doomed to see
the imposing robes and bewilderingly erratic
oocked-hat go to someone with not halt his length
of service. It may be that the hat would not fit
him, but that is no excuse. It is surely
within the resources of science to construct
another. Indeed, it is doubtful whether the
present pattern is not obsolete, and whether
stray cows and other vagrant quadrupeds would
not be more impressed by a head-dress of a
different pattern—such, for instance, as a guards-
man’s bearskin, or even a canvas turban with a
hoop-iron braiding. Mr. Joseph is also a member
of the hospital committee, and his cultivated
badinage at the Board table often restores good
humour when the air of the room is thick with de-
fiance and smothered profanity. When last wo
heard from Sandhurst he was preparing to contest
that town at the approaching election. On the
necessity for teaching religion in State schools and
for preventing hospital nurses from drinking the
patients’grog his views are known to be sound.
For the working m« he advocates 13 hours a day
for sleep, 10 for recreation and meals, and two for
some light employment, a dog-fight every Sunday
morning to keep the time from hanging heavily,
and 15s. a day. We wish Alf. every success.


EigltU ART
Intending: Investors are Invited to make early
application for tickets, as the Drawing will take
piace at an early date. Remittances may he made
by cheque, P.O.O., or stamps. Agents for New
South Wales-SULLIVAN & JACKSON, 143 King-
street, Sydney.
B
AGLBHAWK MECHANICS’ INSTITUTE.
GRAND ART UNION,
In strict accordance with the Act.
VALUE
FIRST GKAA FlgSTI
PRIZE obOUUi PRIZE.
SECOND PRIZE, £200, T gjjnj PRIZE. £100.
4 prizes, value £50 each. 100prizes, value £5 each.
4 „ „ £25 each. 550 „ ..
40 „ * £10 each. 300 ,, r „n a l°B..each.
iooo Prizes i iooo prizes i
10,000 TICKETS at 10s. each, obtainable at most
business places in the colony.
N.B.—In proof of the value of the above, the
Committee undertake to find purchasers for the
various prizes at the prices named, and to hand the
winner full amount In cash, less 10 per cent, for
commission. . . . ..
The drawing to take place In August, under the
supervision of the Mayor and Councillors of Eagle-
hawk and a Committee of Shareholders.
T, H. TAYLOR,
Managing Secretary.
Bull-street, Sandhurst, and
Mechanics’ Institute. Baglehawk.
SULLIVAN & JACKSON, Agents,
Vaughan Chambers, 143 King-street, Sydney.
NEWCASTLE CRICKET AND FOOTBALL
CLUB’S
Annual Athlatlc Sports,
To be held on the
NEWCASTLE CRICKET GROUND,
on
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 26,1885
PROGRAMME OF OPEN EVENTS.
Bicycle Race, ‘l miles. Open to all Amateurs.
Entrance, 3a. Od.
Bicycle Race, 1 mile. Open to all Amateurs.
Entrance, 3j. 6d.
All Cricketers’ and Footballers’ Race, 200 yards.
Open to Members of all Cricket and Football
Clubs. Entrance, la.
Pole Vaulting'(handicap). Open to all Cricketers
and Footballers. Entrance, Is.
Hurdle Race, 440 yards. Open to all Cricketers
and Footballers. Entrance, Is.
All Comers’ Handioao of £10 (first prize, £7; second
prize, £3), 135 yards. Entrance, 5j.
Competitors for the All Comers' Race, must, at
time of entering, furnish a list of performances
for past twelve months.
Competitors must appear in Cricket, Football,
or University costume.
Entries will be received up to Thursday, 17th
September, by Mr. R. Shute, 40 Phlllip-street.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, 35th August, 1886.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.— tenders are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office In the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
F. A. WBIGET.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 30th August, 1885.
TENDERS FOR REPAIRS AND IMPROVE-
MENTS.
TENDERS are invited for Repairs and Im-
provements at the Glenmore Road Public
School.
Specifications may be seen, and Forms of Tender
obtained at the office of the Department of
Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Repairs and
Improvements, Glenmore Road Public School,”
must be lodged with the Under Secretary, Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock
a.m., on Wednesday, 3nd Semptember, 1885.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
■O W. J. TRICKETT.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 30th August, 1885.
TENDERS FOR REPAIRS AND ALTERA-
TIONS.
TENDERS are invited for Repairs to Spout-
ing. and for Alterations to Lavatories, at the
Darllnghurst Public School.
Specifications may be seen, and Forms of Tender
obtained at the office of the Department of Public
Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed "Tender for Repairs and
Alterations, Darllnghurst Public School,” must be
lodged with the Under Secretary. Department
of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m,,
on Wednesday, the 2nd September, 1886.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
CENCI
m
OAN*
«g-
warehouses. Sydney,
Tit Utw Zealand Loan and Mercantile ijtity Company
(LIMITED),
HEAD OFFICE LONDON.
Capital - - £3,500,000.
THIS COMPAN WILL CONTINUE TO DISPLAY AND SELL
WOOL!
ON THE MELBOURNE SYSTEM,
At their Magnificent Warehouses,
BEIDG-E STREET,
SYDNEY.
WILL BE CAREFULLY VALUED, AND SPECIAL ATTENTION WILL Rtf
oK§"AUTr P^T S H &VLr H al B CLI P p 4 S R0ELS ’ WHI ° H WILL ““ PLA0KD ™ A
If reserves are not reached, the nominal charge of one shilling per bale only will be made.
WOOL SALES, EVERY TUESDAY. SHEEPSKINS AND HIDES, EVERY FRIDAY.
Way Bills and all Information can be obtained on application, or will be sent by return of post.
Sydney Wool and Grain Warehouses
H. H. LANG, Produce Manager.
Xjocla.-3Dla.ia. do Sla.aanca.roc 3s
Si r p^sr,?d h w kl^ t X 0l K
street, Sydney; and at Melbourne. Adelaide, and Brisbane, Agent. Kirker, Greer, & Co. (Ld.)
THE SYDNEY SPORTS
DEPOT.
389 GEORG E-STREET SYDNEY
(Opposite Royal Hotel.)
bicycles,[Tricycles.
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles
and Tncycles
Have Every Improvement.
OUR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadster.
TDK UNIVERSAL CLUB
BICYCLE,
fitted with Improved Bail Bear-
mgs to front and back wheels.
Hollow Forks, Patent Head and
Detachable Bent Handle Bar,
Easy Slide Spring, Hubs Plated,
Black Enamelled Spokes,
Price, *13 10s. At the price
we defy competition.
1885 Universal Club, a thoroughly reliable and easy-running
machine. Ball hearings to both wheels, and improvements.
JAMES MARTIN & COMPANY, 389 Georga-st., Sydney.
□T32LO lESellaTole jBmgfgfiss!
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant A Importer
88 & 24 Olarenoe-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
Professional Directory.
G
EORGE PEKHIMAN. Scene Painter, Theatre
1 Royal. Brisbane. Disengaged.
... H K A T R E BOY A L.
' 1 1 Under the- management of
"Memra Williamson, Gahnkh, and MueGKOVi.
Lessee Mr. IL Lazar. treasurer, Qeo.L. Goodman.
Lessee, O; aaagert Mr> John Wa u a ce.
Overture at 8 sharp.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING.
Last Night hut One of
IOLANTHE IOLANTHE
The Libretto by The Music composed by
W. S. Gilbert, Esq. Sir Arthur Sullivan.
ana interpreted by „ TTa „ Tjr .,r C , C i
WILLIAMSON. GARNER, MUSGROVE S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
IOLANTHE; or. THE PEER and•
Prices of Admission: Dress Circle 5s., Stalls, 3s.,
1 f*or’aU parts of the house at Eastway’s
plan open at theatre from 11 till 4. No free
list. Doors open at 7.15. Carriages at 10.60.
Saturday Next, First Appearance of Mr. Dion
Bouclcaultln “ The Bhaughraun.
New opera h o use.
Under the Lesseeship and Management of
MAJEBONI and WILSON.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING
(until further notice),
at 8 o’clock sharp : Carriages at 10.40,
CROWDED HOUSES to witness
LUSCOMBB SBARELLB’S
Latest and Greatest
ROMANTIC OPERA COMIQUE.
TSIDGRA in 3 Acts. I8IDORA
tSIDOBA as played for a long run in I8IDORA
lilooli MUEffiraON'B illBBSt
GRAND COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
and declared by Press and Public to be the best
musical work of Mr. Luscombe Searelle.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Huenerbeln’s Music
Warehouse,318 George-street. T . io *®&*?l[. Rl
of the house may be obtained at Roberts , tobac-
conist, next theatre.
aibty theatrei
Leasee Mr. B.N. Jones. Treasurer Mr.H.Musgrove
Doors open at 7.30. Overture at 8. Carriages at 10.15
No Free List—Public Press excepted.
SPECIAL COMEDY SEASON,
under the direction of
Messrs. WILLIAMSON, GARNER, & MU8GROVE
; Sixth Week, and most positively Last Nights of
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.
tO-NIQHT and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
Mr. Trank Thornton as the Rev. Robert Spalding
The furniture and appointments from Hamilton’s
Globe Furniture Depot, Park-street.
Admission —Parquette Stalls, 5s.: Stalls, 3s.; Bal-
cony, 2s. Box plan at Nicholson’s Music Ware-
house, George-street.
General Business Manager, Mr. H. R. Harwood.
G
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Hay market.
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
CROWDED and FASHIONABLE AUDIENCES,
IMMENSE SUCCESS IMMENSE SUCCESS
Mr. and Mrs. E. A. HART,
and
Miss LOUISE HART,
In the new and sparkling Comedy,
DIAMON I) CUT DIAMOND.
To bo followed by
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY COMPANY.
Pronounced by the Press and Public the most re-
fined Entertainment given In Sydney. Minstrelsy,
Olio, Farce, Every Evening.
Gentlemen ushers in attendance.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 3s; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
CHAS. AUSTIN, Business Manager.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager.. .. F. C. Hlsoocks.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS of
THE GRAND DOUBLE COMPANY,
LEON and CUSHMAN COMBINATION
In conjunction with
HISCOCK’S FEDERAL MINSTRELS.
The performance concluding with Leon and Cush-
man’s Vaudeville, “ HIS GRACE THE DUKE.”
Prices : Reserved Orchestra, 4i.; Stalls. 3i.; Par-
quette, 3s.; Gallery, Is. Plan box at Paling’s.
Miss Annetta Scarl
HAVING rested her voice for six months, after
a long and successful tour through New
Zealand, would bo happy to
RESUME HER PROFESSIONAL DUTIES ON
THE STAGE ONCE MORE.
pr Line of Business Opera Bouffe, Concerts,
Burlesques.
This young lady artiste, being an eminent musi-
cian, would have no objection to travel with a
first-class company as Pianist.
All theatrical managers please address letters,
for the present. Post Office, Young.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
o
Or,
PEN DATES, October and November. Share
or Let Terms on application to
JAMES B. HICKIE,
Lessee;
H. TREVORAH,
533 George-strreet.
“THE LYCEUM,’’
Newcastle,
SITUATED IN THE BEST PART OF THE CITY
It Is capable of seating 500 people,
and suitable for
MUSICAL & DRAMATIC ENTERTAINMENTS.
The Stage (40ft. by 24ft.) 1s furnished with
STOCK. SCENERY, &o.
For Terms, apply
COLIN CHRISTIE.
"The Lyceum,”
Newcastle.
PROTECTION for our Industries, Ample Reve-
nue from Outsiders, Payment of Members,
Equitable Taxation of all, Including Absentees and
Chinese ; and to pay for the Soudan enormity,
&o. Advertisements received for Pamphlet by
H. 8. S. BOND,
377 George-street (over Tucker’s).
Letter Address: 553 Box, Post Office, Sydney.


*'/a
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
f |"\H IS triumph of musical invention is acknow-
I. lodged on all hands to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It is a wonderful little instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 22 reeds, plays in three keys, and all the
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the inventor, the world
was first indebted for the Organette; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
study, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of cost and crudeness.
It requires no skill t® extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which It plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas. Walt/es, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &c , &c., &c. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy.
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that “ ho who runs
may read.” It is best adapted to the kind of music
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card-holder for convenience
in singing. It will be found invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one ; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophono. It will afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro-
cure If expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument In the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
OF
474 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities—from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can offer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corre-
spondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by all educators and moralists
that music is the great refining influence, and
especially with children its effect for good is
boundless. The love for music which music in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors,; nd parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other
wise hard task an easy one.
The price of the Autophone Is 30s.,
and where good music can be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autopho o for 80s. we
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for music arc sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogues of tunes at any time.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents for Australia:
Oriental Sold Company.
474 George-street, Sydney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets.
A U T I ON.
'important notice to the public.
la consequence of an attempt to substitute In-
ferior and spurious articles for “Dr. Scott’s Elec-
tric,” the Pall Mall Electric Association, 51, Mar-
garot-street, Sydney, desire to caution the public
against purchasing any counterfeit of the follow-
ing goods:—“Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets, Dr.
ScoH’s Electric Belts, Dr. rcott’s Electric Hair,
Flesh, or Tooth Brushes, Dr. Scott’s Galvanic
Gene ators, and Dr. Scott’s Electric Insoles”
Every genuine article bears the word “ Electric”
and the name of Dr, Scott, as also does the box
containing same. The extent of our trade, and the
marked appreciation of the public having induced
certain parties to manufacture a line of worthless
goods, having something of the general form and
external appearance of ours, and variously styled
“ Magneto-Electric or Electric Magnetic,”
we respectfully ask that parties who have been
influenced by the many testimonials we publish,
all of which are strictly genuine, or the universal
reputation of our goods, to give electricity a
trial, will see that the name of Dr. Scott and the
word “ Electric” appear on every article purchased.
In addition to this, we have recently registered a
new trade mark—an oval label with our locil
address, “Pail Mall Electric Association, 51, Mar-
garet-street, Sydmy, N.S.W,” in marginal lines,
encircling the device of a mailed hand holding a
group of thunderbolts
oe
$
5
As we are the onlypartlesin Australiaimporting
these goods direct from Dr. Scott, and are prepared
to guarantee the genuineness of every article
bearing this label, we advise purchasers to see
personally that this trade mark invariably appears
on any and every Electric Corset, Beit, Insole,
Generator, Hair, Flesh, or Tooth Brush, they may
desire to purchase. This borne in mind, much
vexation and disappointment will be saved ; and
wo respectfully request that any person who has
been induced to buy any of those imitations under
the Impression that they were Dr. Scott's Electric,
willat once communicate with us.
Recommended for hot climates—Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
To make a good Custard you should use Klugs-
foad’s Oswego Cornflour.
Thousands have recovered robust health
by taking Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Kingsfords Oswego Cornflour made of American
Indian Corn, pure and unadulterated.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
IHJAtBl Rotal—“ lolanthe ” p. 8
Opeba HOUSE-" Isidora ”
Gaiety- 'Theatre—" The Private Secretary ” „
Alhambra— "Diamond Cut Diamond” „
Academy OB' Music—Minstrels „
The new Opera House was crowded on
Saturday to witness the first performance in Syd-
ney of Luscombe Searelle’s “ Isldora.” About six
weeks ago "Isldora” was brought out in Mel-
bourne, and was understood to have been
"specially written and composed for the manage-
ment of the Bijou Theatre.” Its appearance there,
as here, was remarkable, inasmuch as Mr. Searelle
tills the posts of writer of the libretto, composer of
tne music, and conductor of the entertainment.
• * •
“ Isidora” is a “ romantic comic opera in
three acts.” The scenery exhibited shows a plan-
tation on the sea coast of Cuba, the deck of a
barque, and the interior of a Cuban
Planter's house. The chief incidents are taken
from a West Indian legend. A pirate, called the
Ulack Rover, has been burying his treasures for
vears. Once, on the high seas, he beheld a ship on
Are On the deck were a woman and a little child.
The Black Rover rescued them. He wanted to
appropriate the woman. She wept. Then, “ mad-
dened one morn at her tears forlorn, I threw her
over the side, and she sank to rest with her babe at
her breast ’neath the billows’ heaving tide.” This
brings cn him and his crew the curse of heaven.
They must " live on the ship for aye, for the blood
of the dead is on their head.” An end will come
to their pain, however, if he hears the mother’s
prayer " that she sung to her babe with the golden
hair" , ,
Isidora is this baby. Washed ashore, she
is found by the planter, Senor Patronio, who
adopts her as his daughter. Years pass. Patronio
wants her to marry a Count. She prefers Felix, a
voung man with no money. The Count gets
drowned, but one Tobias Smith finds his papers,
and personates him. Felix, trying to raise some
money, starts to dig for the treasures reputed to
be buried by the pirate. The Black Rover, with
his men, appear, seize the party, and carry them
aboard the barque. After a while he determines
to throw them overboard. Isidora sings the
words the woman sang to her babe. The spell is
broken. The Pirate cries, “ Sing on, sing on,” and
the vessel sinks, Isidora and her party escaping on
a raft through the Instrumentality of angels.
After that everything comes right. Isidora mar-
ries Felix, and Tobias Smith is carried off to gaol,
vainly entreating that they would give him the
option of a fine.
■ • a
Mr. Searelle must have felt proud on
Saturday night. If the poetry of the libretto grati-
fied. it was his work. If the music gratified, the
work was his. To the motion of his jbaton poetry
and music answered. Sitting on the conductor s
stool, his back was to the audience. His round
bald head shone with a few twists of hair brought
round to the front. He doesn’t look a man of
sentiment. He is squarely built, and wears an
appearance as if his tiesh were spread on with a
trowel. You would think you could sleep with
your head on any Ipart of him. He reaches over to
appease a too violent fiddle. He looks sharply round
at a man of hr* ss whose throat is evidently dry. You
see the correspondence between the great mu-
sician’s face and his build. He is broad from
temple to temple. There is no strong meaning. It
is a good enough face for a man. But there is
something impudent about the mouth, and the
even way the hair is distributed around his cheeks
and chin suggest an approach to smugness. You
wouldn't anticipate splendours from him. He is a
man who can’t get mad. A man who can’t get
mad will never be able to set any other person
mad. Neither is Mr. Searelle a man to make a
fool of himself. But ha will never be able to make
a fool of any other body.
a m *
Mr. Charles Harding was given the part of
Felix. A good deal of the best music of the
opera falls to him. He acquits himself well. His
voice has increased in power since we heard him
in Melbourne. In the four or five years he has
been singing in the colonies, he has not got a
better chance to show what he can do. Mr.
Searelle composed some of the numbers specially
to suit him. The objurgation of the Rover in the
16th number is a piece of manly musical declama-
tion. The aria " While all is sad,” and the rondo,
“ Why do I love my darling so ? ” can count on
encores every time. Mr. Harding has stage advan-
tages over and above a splendid voice. He has
plenty of "go” in him, and can throw his heart
into the middle of his work.
♦ * ♦
Although the incidents are of the year
1550, there is a Henry T. Smith among the char-
acters. Mr. Edwin Kelly interprets the part. He
has not much to sing. The little humour there is
in it he feels and makes others feel. Mr. Edwin
Lester is Jacob, the plantation overseer. The
travesty in the first act, consisting of specimens of
Italian and German styles of singing, is incompar-
ably the best thing he has got to do, and one of the
beat done things in the whole performance. Mr.
P. Wentworth was Senor Patronio. There was
nothing in this part anyone could play. Only that
Isidora wanted a father or guardian or someone to
superintend her fate, the character could be
wholly dispensed with. On the other hand, Oily
Deering had quite a striking part. He was
Chickanaque. This is the old man who was at the
beginning of everything, but who has outlived
the period of consecutive thought. He is confi-
dent that all are fools, and that he is the wisest
man that ever lived. He goes on adding to his age
by centuries until he gets himself considerably
over a thousand. The character is tangible. The
conception of it Is weird. Oily is wizard-like,
spectral. He holds his figure fast. Why. however,
does h« snore on the sofa? That is scarcely the
thing. Perhaps it is only Saturday night business.
♦ • a
Mr. Searelle appears to have had some
difficulty in filling the part of the Black Rover.
When the night came for producing “ Isidora ” in
Melbourne, the opera had to be laid aside owing to
the sudden illness of Mr. T. Brownir g, who had
been cast for the Pirate In a night or two alter
Mr. Kelly was shoved into the part as an emer-
gency man, and his interpretation had to receive
allowances. On the present occasion Mr. Lithgow
James has the part. He is a new arrival from
England, and the appearance on Saturday night
was his first before an Australian audience. Poy-
sleally there is enough of him. He looks stiff,
however, and his voice is somewhat worn. He is
a baritone. His highest notes are barely sweet,
and there is something like Indecision in bis lowest.
Yet the voice has fulness. Between the middle
register and its deepest tones it displays its beet
virtues. He has enthusiasm and attacks bravely.
There are intellectual weaknesses In Mr. Searelle’s
conception of the Black Rover and an impersona-
tor with brains to see these weaknesses must feel
handicapped in the performance. Mr. James may
be affected this way. There is no doubt that he is
an acquisition to the musical stage, but until he is
heard in other parts the value of the acquisition
wifi bear different estimates. In numbers 11 and
J- he had opportunities. His action excited more
dramatic interest than his voice.
* « *
Miss Grade Plaisted takes the part of
isidora. Phe is pretty. Her bright dancing eyes
her delicate, finely-chiselled features are now
lamiliar to the Sydney stage. Her mouth is worked
by the most sensitive of sinews She dazzles by her
•n iii*y and vivacity. The little hands and arms are
ail life. One fears the ardent little temperament
is eating away the flesh. When she runs in in
nesh-coioured satin dress, tiny pink bonnet, and
nowing fair hair, she is like what poets call a sun-
cam. And when she runs in in the old torn dress
» ter on the ratt, she is prettier still. Mlai
r ‘iisttd sang her numbers very nicely. Go and
listen to her singing " Sleep, sleep, nor heed thy
mother’s tear.” By the way, who makes her
hoots?
• ♦ »
Sabina, a relation of Isidora’s, was played
by Miss Frances Saville. Miss Saville has many j
fine stage points. In “La Belle Helene” she has j
filled the title role in Melbourne with great suc-
cess. Where classic repose is wanted, she is good.
In active parts she looks wearied. Her song,
“Here in despair, you and I, Birdie,” In the third
act, was her best performance. The twitter of the
bird might be worked differently. All over Sydney
the fiddler has done it that way outside every
public-house. Besides, the twitter given from the
orchestra was a cross between that of a thrush and
a sky lark, whereas the bird In the cage was a
canary. Miss Saville’s song evoked, and merited,
plaudits and bouquets. Miss Rmma Fenton was
cast for Annetta, a domestic, but was too ill to
appear. Her substitute is well enough when she
speaks, but she is not able to stand silent without
looking stupid. Sabina sings a legend at one part,
and the way Annetta stands and listens makes
one wish she was married to the editor of the
Sydney Mail.
• • •
It is not necessary to say much about the
literary value of the libretto. As a rule, opera
bouffe Is without literary value. Gilbert and Sul-
livan constitute an exception. Space in The
Bulletin would be badly occupied with tran-
scriptions from " Isidora.” It has few well-turned
thoughts. It has no felicitous expressions. Yet,
as literature, it is not worse than " Prince Methu-
salem,” “ Manola,” and hundreds of other comic
operas. These are, of course, translations or adap-
tations, but these and their like constitute the
rule. It is the rule Mr. Searelle has in his eye.
That is a pity. Surely men can be found fit to
write decent words to decent airs. Singularly
enough, it was a purpose of Marcus Clarke’s that
he would devote himself to writing verses for
operas. Charles Lamb and Tom Hood expressed
similar purposes. The " book of the play ’’ is
always weak. This is a wide question, but we men-
tion it to suggest that there are everywhere com-
petent men to do the literary part of an opera.
Sir Arthur Sullivan found Gilbert. Mr Searelle
can only find himself. Mr. Searelle has faults as a
musician. He too directly suggests to you that he
has studied Balfe, and Verdi, and Vincent Wallace
and Rossini. You catch strains of theirs as you
listen. You wish he had not shown that
he studied them so attentively. He tries to make
amends in the libretto. The verses he writes do
not show a trace of his ever having studied any
man capable of putting rhythmic words together.
He may think this an atonement. Wo think it
an aggravation.
♦ » *
There is something of the Puritan about
this comic opera. The ladies show little of their
angelic shapes. There is no dress very low, and
no dress very high. The male negroes working
on the plantation are black. The female negroes
are white. Mr. Searelle does not allow a woman
to rub herself with burnt cook. Nor does he per-
mit any flinging about of extremities. This is
strange in opera comlque. One difference be-
tween Mr. Searelle and other composers is that he
rests the merit of his comic opera on the capti-
vating character of the legend, while they rest it
on the captivating character of the leg-end.
* * * •
At the Sydney Academy of Music the
allied Minstrels have entered upon a season which,
judging by the present attendance, may bo ex-
pected to terminate about the end of the present
century, Sydney audiences crowd the Liedertafel
and swirl round to oratorios and recitals chlelly
because It’s the “ proper thing, you know,” but
the majority hypocriticilly applaud what they
neither understand nor appreciate, and the unex-
pressed yearnings of their inmost souls Is for
" something with a bit of a toon In It.” But the
Academy programme is within their comprehen-
sion, and they roll around on the fauteuiies and
yell hysterically, even while they apologetically
murmur, "Dear me, how absurd 1 But still, you
know, one can’t help laughing at them.”
♦ ♦ *
Horace Beat’s return to the boards after
his brief enforced absence was effusively noticed,
and his recital of the attributes of “ woman, lovely
woman,” won the hilarious sympathy of the stalls
and convulsive applause from the parquette.
Cushman, a star added to the constellation since It
made its last revolution round our dramatic
world (speeches written for M s.P. in this style, 50
per cent, extra), attracted as much attention as tne
A.J.S. fine art carvings, and was even more ridicu-
lous than they. The " only Leon ” shows as much
versatility as ever, and just a little more stocking.
These latter were onlv regarded with leas of ad-
miration than Sam Keenan’s mouth, which is,
of course, one of the most striking features of
the show. It is said that Sam is about to arrange
for the removal of his ears in order that ho may
add a new extension to his mouth, and thus afford
space for that smile of mingled mirth and pathos
which he periodically wears.
♦ * »
With such a galaxy of talent in the
Academy, there is naturally exuberance in the
house and joy in the managerial office.
* * * *
A while back, we heard that Kale Bishop
had poisoned her eye, but gazing at the heavenly
orbs of Pauline whensbe is “Called Back,” at the
Melbourne Opera House, we found ourselves
speculating as to which of them had been in trou-
ble, so bluely and so brightly did they sparkle.
But then she’s only just married, by the way. Our
own eye sparkled nlueiy and brightly when we
were first married—it s mostly black, though, of
late years:—
Ah I ’tis love, ’tis love, ’tie love
That makes the plates fly round.
To resume. As regards “ Called Back ’’—now
playing a second season In Melbourne—the drama
is hardly likely to attain the exaggerated success
of the novel, though it certainly possesses some
good, full-flavoured, flesh-creeping incidents.
George Rlgnold, for instance, carries a 12-inoh
blade-used for cutting ti.e end off his cigar and
sticking men indiscriminately—inside his dress
waistcoat. George is the political spy, Macari,
and taking his model, apparently, from one of
Gatti's restaurants in London, the handsome one
has transformed himself into a fac simile of a dia-
bolical Swiss waiter, engaged in plotting after
business hours. His hands are too clean, perhaps,
and we missed the cigarette stains on the tips of
his beautiful fingers, but George’s method of
ravishing a kiss from the back of Pauline’s neck is
“ coutiuental ” to a degree.
• * *
Kate Bishop, as Pauline, drives a lot of
Melbourne masners crazy prior to going off her
own balance, and even then her nice, Ophella-like
little ways are preferable to those of many stronger-
minded women. We fancied thata beard Brian Bar-
ley wore had a good deal to do with Pauline's mad-
ness; it impaired our reason, anyway. Brian has
succeeded Frank Cates as the sometime blind
lover, Gilbert Vaugnan, and, barring the beard,
pleased us, which Oates, to tell the truth, didn’t.
And there’s a mighty big scene ot a Siberian
prison, outside which Dr. Ceneri, dying of cold
and exposure, shouts with a voice of thunder for
a full five minutes, and brandishes his bare arms—
he’s nearly all bare, in fact-quite regardless of
the thermometer standing at 31)'below zero. We
strongly recommend this to the attention of medi-
cal men. It can only be the warmth of Dr.
Ccneri’s feelings that prevents him Lorn freezing
stiff and stark.
“Time works wonders,” said a young
man of twenty-seven when he returned home and
found his eldest sister only eighteen.
The Caledonian Society of Melbourne
evidently believes in deferred payments. Two
prizes were offered months ago by the Honour-
able Francis Ormond for the best essay on a pro-
minent Scotchman, and the best poem on a Scot-
tish subject, care being taken in the latter case to
stipulate that the poem should be one not pre-
viously published. This was thoughtful, prevent-
ing the possibility of some pious clerical plagiarist
making a trifle by serving up “ Scots wha hae,” or
“ Tam O’Shanter.” Poets and essayists have grown
impatient for the prizes, but the committee has
Informed them that it 1s thought desirable- canny
Northerners—not to make the awards till the
Society’s next annual meeting. Disappointment
is the result. We don’t profess to be behind the
scenes, but here is the poem, “on a Scottish sub-
ject,” which is going to take the prize, anyhow:—
Early Doubts.
Little Dorcas, on her knees,
Used to pray ail through the day;
“ You can get whato’er you please,”
Mother'd said, “ If you but pray.”
Dorcas said, “ 0 mother mine,
Talk to me this thing upon;
When, you know, a girl is nine,
Really, she is ‘ getting on.’ ”
“ I have prayed all through the night,
’Neath the bed my head I’ve dived;
I prayed, mother, for a kite—
Tet that kite has not arrived I
“ When Bill bust in Simpson’s door
(Willie’s many wicked ways),
W e all prayed till we were sore.
Yet they gave him seven days.
“ Picnic came; that sky be blue
(This gave us surprise and pain)
We ail prayed, yet, fancy 1 you
Couldn’t see the sky for rain!
“ Ma, when you the vision had,
On the floor, we prayed quite Hat;
That night some depraved young lad
Stole our new verandah-mat I
" When to court Pa took the Jew
(I think, now, I see his face),
Though we prayed, what did he do ?
Got mad-drunk and lost the easel
“ Therefore, mother,” Doroas said,
With the prettiest of pouts
(Here small Dorcas shook her head),
" Dorcas—has—her—lee-tle doubts.”
Oh, think not woman’s love is bought
With costly gift and token I
Oh, dream not woman’s heart is caught
By vows, however spoken!
But once your written promise shows
A case for “ Breach,” you re clever
If you can choke her off; she kuows
She has you fast for everl
Oh, say not woman’s false as hair,
Which, like her bloom she changes
For Indoor and for outdoor wear
To "fetch” at varied ranges 1
Ah. no, your letters wild and warm
Will leave her keeping never;
And, should no richer party charm,
She’ll stick to you for ever.
GOD BLESS THE DUKE OF ARG YLE!
Dear thoughtful Duke I long may thy fame
In Scottish parishes be sounded;
May Scotia’s sons praise loud thy name.
And if they don’t, may they be hounded.
’Twas sure a work divinely wrought,
When rubbing-posts were first Invented;
They were a ducal, happy thought,
Which our "invading host” repented,
Bach son of Seotland who recalls
The ancient, much-endured affliction,
Who turned his back on Scotland’s walls,
With one o’ermastering notion—friction.
Whene’er he thinks of the relief
Which gentle oscillation gave him,
Must wish in heaven the Campbell chief,
And from below an otf’rlng wave him.
While pipes have wind enough to blow,
And whisky lays us ’neath the table,
Let liquor to his memory flow,
And bards enshrine him in their fable;
And as each friendly post we seek,
We think upon its great erector,
Let’s say, in accent’s mild and meek,
"Here’s to old Scotland’s benefactor.”


PEPPER AND SALT.
The Rev. Mr. Jefferis, LL.B. (these caps.,
by-the-way, are capable of a reading of an up-
roarious nature) is going to give a course of lec-
tures to the maidens of his Church, because he
"thinks there Is little hope of a revival of godli-
ness until maidens and youth have learnt 1 to show
piety at home.’ ” It is evident that the eloquent
Jeff, wants to lecture. He is never happy unices
either preaching or lecturing; and as he is for
ever doing either one or the other, he is always
happy. If the Rev. James has a fault, it is that he is
gometimes a trifle diffuse, and always a good deal
too long. However, as he is a good man to go to
sleep under. It does not matter much; for you
can always square a little nap by putting silver
Into the plate of the hawk-eyed verger, who
pounces upon you as you go out at the door. There
la a story extant of a man who used to attend a
curtain Sydney church regularly, and who always
slept, fast as the church itielf, whenever It wasn’t
singing. When he had, much to that gentle-
man ; disgust, slept out five long years of
the parson’s discourses, ho was, one Sunday
evening, after sorvice, escorted into the vestry by
two savagely-holy committee-men, and brought
face to face with the dread divine. It was in vain
for him to say that he could concentrate his mind
better on religious matters with his eyes shut, for
it was pointed out to him that he had twice been
looked ail night in the church, through falling
under the seat at the moment of the general
exodus. Floored by this allegation, which he could
not contravene, he abjectly promised amendment,
and departed. Next Sunday, he appeared at church
as usual, and after keeping pretty well awake
' during the service collapsed at the reading of the
text, and was a petrified statue during the re-
mainder of the proceedings. On going out, how-
ever, ho placed a sovereign (wrapped in paper) in
the plate, and upon the envelope was written:—
Fob Your Holy Work.
(The Savings of Twenty Years.)
Rip Smith.
They say that after this he was allowed another
live years of snoozing; but as to that we can't say,
though, if there be any truth in the rumour, we
have a shrewd suspicion that the eloquent (and
otherwise gifted) parson must have “irowsered”
the hard-earned savings of another decade. But,
come; let us go back to our subject and read
again what another preacher, Mr. Jefferie-
thinks; for we don’t mind telling you that
when the Rev. Mr. Jelloria (LL B) is think-
ing hard, it is a case of whispering in the
cloisters, and tan upon the street. lie thinks, then,
"there is little hope of a revival of godliness unti 1
maidens hava learnt to show piety at home.”
Considering this closely, wo think James can
safely ease bis mind and shelve his lectures.
We are acquainted with a number of the
young "maidens” belonging to the rev. pas-
tor’s congregation, and we can assure him
(with tears in our eyes, if necessary) that if the
“ show of piety ” they make at home be any
criterion, he can expect, at short notice, such a
“revival of godliness ” as hasn’t been seen since,
ia a glow of religious fervour, the Converted
Scotchman made Dowie a public promise of a
£10,000-tabernacle. We are pious people ourselves,
and, when young, used to make (such a show of
piety at home that there was a legend in the family
circle that we quite smelt of the Gospel. But our
piety was taught us with a strap I As for the " re-
vival of godliness,” a little patience is all that Is
required. Keep your seats, we implore you,
ladles and gentlemen; it may he expected at any
moment! In the meantime, the ice-cream man
will be in courteous attendance. .
♦ * *
The Salvation Army seem to have been in
great cue .at Bc;ga lately, for they promenaded the
town the other day la what they called a Trades-
Procession March, the leading feature of which
consists in (Bega Standard) "every member pre-
sent being supposed to carry something emble-
matic of his trade or calling in life. One man
stepped along gaily with a string of pumpkins
round his neck; another had a necklace of tur-
nips; and a third a bar of soap; a fourth some
coal; a knight of the goose carried some cloth; a
saddler his implements of trade, while the repre-
sentatives of the farming interests, not to
be outdone, carried a hay knife, spade,
and pitchfork, with turnips stuck on the top
of them, &o.” The Army had not marched
very, far, however, before the (trouble com-
menced. The mob, in narrow places, ground
their bodies against the Army, and the Army in
their turn ground their bodies against the mob,
and confusion and onions were general. Suddenly
they halted to hold a service with bellicose inten-
tions towards tne unfortunate Devil. This was a
fatal mistake. For just as the prayer commenced,
a loud, rough voice exclaimed: "Allol this fake
ain’t complete. Where’s the cove with the
halter?” This query was taken up by the entire
mob in one derisive shriek; “ Where was the cove
with the halter ?” Seeing the state of affairs was
growing serious, the Captain, being a man sup-
posed to be equal to such emergencies, addressing
the people, explained that, although no one in the
procession actually paraded the greasy rope,
it was only because he had begged— being
a new convert—to be exempted from so doing,
yet he (the Captain) could promise hla brothers
and sisters, that on the next occasion upon which
the Army did a Trades’ Procession March, the fln»i
administrator of the law should walk, fully
Australian Aristocracy.
PLAIN BILL (loq.): ‘‘THIS IS THE HOUSE TO WHICH YOU ARE INVITED. IT HAS ALREADY A PLkCE IN THE PEOPLES’ AFFECTIONS. YOUR PRESENCE WILL
BE FRESH HONOUR.”
Chorus of Newly-Appointed Cripples: “MY I HOW CAN WE THANK YOU?”
P. B. (significantly): “WELL, IF YOU SHOULD HAPPEN TO VOTE JUST AS I


uipped, immediately behind the band. This ex-
planation appeared to satisfy the mob, and was
received with loud cheering, notwithstanding that
g few malcontents kept on grumbling, and saying
Wtuer is he ? ” “ Pint ’im out I ” “ Let me ’ave
twlat of bis elber; ” and soon the mob, having
discharged, during the harangue, the balance of
• t8 unaimed missiles, marched off in high good
humour “to take the Gospels down;” neglecting
entreaty on part of the Captain (whom nothing
ft seemed, could daunt) to “turn into the little orl
8D d be saved.”
Vo one ever heard of a Jewish soldier in
British ranks. Yet there are 2000 Jews among
Iho British volunteers. The chief Rabbi said the
nther day that “of all the subjects of Her Gra-
&c„ no section is more deeply concerned
for the honour and the highest Interests of the
them a £? ,?i or . e . r ®£ d y t0 make sacrifices for
the ancient than those who profess
l»teiE f f h of Judaism.” The 2000 Israelites
safest nf W +v,characteristic wisdom in choosing the
*oyaltv° in tv. 8 ? rv J?? 8 la which to display their
30,l08 rnon j £ ® U8 8ian conscription, we read,
15,732 Jews failed to a PPear, Including as many as
Gwinn D .Xt ner^ b * e Archdeacon Slattery of
ago took sides against the
in^n 116 th0 “ Prayers for Rain ”
the ArohdJk^? d Dr * M °orhouse, li replying to
iatter*‘ 5 wr«?M )n ’ «*?«»sed the hope that the
sword’ tnh “ DOt allo w ‘the free and Hashing
Slattery IS 1 ?. 6 ™ 8t 7 la its scabbard.” Father
wish inmfna red i he Bl shoD that he would bear his
drawn tnpfh ?i? d- tme to his promise, he has again
? ersary The a e 27° rd gainst his theological ad-
»hd In kntn-^ rcb(jeao , nn is again on the warpath,
house nnthi da L we . ek ’ 8 . Argus attacks Dr Moor-
disiuaelon h„?^ ec t of ‘ The Lapses.” A
•enerafiv vu^,* en these two eminent divines is
Per readtr| Wed w great interest by news-
BRIEF MENTION.
Most of the fooroe are clad in serge. “ The
rude, imperious surge.”
Time payments.— £170 a year to work
Sydney Town Hall clock.
“I’ll ‘wire you’ when I intend stopping
you,” as the N.S.W. Lands Minister said to the
rabbits.
“ Let us give the Hon. Frank Wright an
heirloom instead of a banquet.” Yes, let us give
him an heirloom. A brick.
Echo from the N.S.W. Art Gallery: “The
ParmaW of the Period ” is a more graphic title for
Millais new picture than “ The Captive.”
The Bega Free Press says:—“The inge-
nuity of a certain class of persons dubbing them-
selves journalists ’ is astounding.” We think so
too I
“ Mr. Wright says that he has been urged
by some sarcastic gentleman to put a continuous
platform between Sydney and Parramatta, and
run each train sufficiently slow to allow neople to
get out while it is going,” says the D.T, Why,
hang it, they could do that now.
From the Morpeth Times:— “ Mr. W.
Keating informs us that on his farm he has an
eight-headed cabbage growing. This beats Mr.
Lavis’s five-headed curiosity by threel” That pair
of cabbages have between them enough heads to
run the whole N.8.W. country Pre*s.
The Townsville Standand is jubilant be-
cause there were only 16 “ drunks’ at the police
court the other Monday morning. This feeling
was not, however, shared by the Clerk of Petty
Sessions, who. rattling his cash-box angrily, won-
dered what the devil the town was coming to.
A Khakee hero entered aGoonarable camp
last week and had tho temerity to exoUltn: “ 1 ll
head ’em for my medal.” The cook staked six-
pence against it and won, but couldn’t raise a
drink on the token. In the old days it was illegal
to pawn or buy a medal. What Is the penalty for
trading In the Mayor of Sydney’s advertisements ?
An English jury have just decided that
one Lotinga, recently deceased, was not an intem-
perate man. Lotinga. when he drank the two
ounces carbolic acid that killed him, merely re-
marked: “ This doesn’t seem very good whisky.”
That observation rings most soberly in our ears.
It isn’t a bit like what would be said by a man ac-
customed to feel it “ bite” all the way down.
“ I was born in ’49,” said Lewis Scott once
to a gentleman in the train. “ And how much had
you to pay for that privilege ?” asked the gentle-
man quietly. There was nojreply. for Lewis was
now Immersed In the Echo, reading, in a nice,
clean, little leaded-out par. what the Mayor said
to a certain Alderman Lewis Scott at the Leichhardt
Borough Council and what that alderman “ re-
torted.”
The impious Jos. Symes is sometimes very
neat. Here for instance:—“A paragraph In a
Sydney paper speaks of a comprehensive church,
namely, the lunatic asylum. It was recently re-
ported that flfty-four of the inmates were mem-
bers of the church of England, and forty-four of
the R. C. No infidels, It was noted in the paragraph,
were reported. Of course not. Infidels rarely
become insane, and whenever they do, they turn
pious, as a matter of course.” Now, why don't
the orthodox papers write as smartly ? How is It
that when a man is pious he is always slow ?
Our religious contemporary the Southern
Cross (Melbourne) caters zoalously for the wants
of Its two readers. In a late issue it gives the fol-
lowing capital way of “doing” tne Devi':A
certain college president when he was dying told
his friends that he was going to hell He had
sinned away his day of grace, and no other place
in the universe was fit for him, or he for it. A
parson said to him, * How wid you fill up the
time there?' In a moment his faith righted itself
He replied: ‘I will set up a prayer meeting in hell
the very first davl’’ Although the Southern
Cross meant this piece of information s lely for
its own subscribers, we are sure it will pardon us,
owing to the nature of the topic, for giving it tho
benefit of a wider circulation. Everywhere there
thir," was the reply. “Go up,” said the curate,
hoarsely.
That sober broad sheet, the Mitchell and
Gregory Mail, is about winging its flight from
Aramao, the farthest-out Queensland township so
far blessed with a printing office. Well we remem-
ber the little ricketty shod where the news of two
hemispheres was focussed. Poor Hodder, he was
printer, foreman, reader, and nearly everything
Th« venerable Dodson was editor and general
clerk. Hodder is dead; he died after slaving the
paper up to a success. Financially, the history of
the Mail Is a ch erlng episode Three and a-half
pages ot displayed advertisements and a column
of news “ hy submarine cable,” taken from a
month-old Town and Country or Queenslander,
led to a lot of money It did not look well when a
i’oowoo mba fire or a Sydney outran e got in among
the news received by “submarine cable.” But
nothing can kill a paper In the baok-blooks, unless
the people all die or go away. The latter is what
alls the VfAiL the people can’t get water enough,
and they are shifting out to Wlnton, Like tt
Ark going with the Israelites, the plant of tu«
Mail goes to Winton.
are men anxious to find a way of cheating the
Devil.
You remember this little bit in the N.S.W.
School Report:—” It may also be stated that many
children, whose parents are of the Hebrew per-
suasion, are now ranked amongst the most promis-
ing of the scholars.” All right Well, the scene is
in a nubile school in Lucas-streit (il you like), and
the 47th class is ranged un before a young curate
—recently married, and fully inil iattA Into the de-
lights emanating from the pleasant bat somewh&t
weird system of “ Time-Payment.” The subject
is Scripture history and theology, and the question
—“Who was the father of Jacob?” “Who,” re-
peated the curate—the clergy are allowed to im-
part Scriptural instruction to the children at cer-
tain times—“ who was the father of Esau 7” First
boy, “ Balaam;” second boy. “ Jertmiah;” third
boy, “ Ham;” fourth boy, “ Pontius Pilate;” fifth
boy (with features of a strong Oriental cast), “ La-
tharuth.” Simultaneously with this, one hoy
lower down screamed “Isaac,” and another
“ Isaacs.” “ What is your name, my lad ?” asked
the clergyman of the “ Lazarus” boy. “ Asronth,
The New Game. —Confederated “ Hands-aGI-round.”
Chorus from Rivy: “SO. MISS N.8. WALKS, YOU WON’T JOIN US?”
N.SAV. (sulkily): “NOT IN A GAME STARTED BY THAT MINX, VICTORIA.”
ALL: “YOU’LL BE GLAD TO JOIN US YET-WHEN YOUR ‘MASH,’ ‘OLD JOHNNY BULL,’ THROWS YOU OVER.”


How is it that, in face of the act passed to
prevent a Judge of the N S.W. Supreme Court
from sitting m review upon his own decisions, one
or two of their Honors continue to appear in Banco
and take part in deciding cases at the hearing of
which they have previously presided'? The Cruet
Justice seems to be almost alone in respecting the
Aot * TWO OP THEM.
“ The information published yesterday in
regard to the new appointments about to be made
to the N.S.W. Legislative Council appears to have
excited a great deal of public interest, and no
small amount of surprise.”—
No. 1.
Right you are, says Moses.
Wo love the right, and so our soul is wracked
To view the cherished Moies thus attacked I
You not a senator-’tls mallei bred;
For that assembly you have j ust the head I
Once in—what matter should you prove a bore ?
You’ll be content to speak while members snore:
“ Elsewhere,” sir, you unwound your nonsense
While members stayed upstairs and played and
drank, .. ,
G . ini You’ll find no interruptions dread.
For you’ll be talking to the deaf and dead I
NO. 3.
Brown the BiiintJANT—W. C. Browne.
Behold, now, Browne, who holds his head so high,
With iaynll smile bedight. and em’rald tie—
Who’ll say, because they’ve writ him down a fool,
O’er fools he is not competent to rule ? . . ,
That Yass Plains Brown be left, no print shall
tell
When he would suit the seat so parlous well!
Gaze on his brow, and then you will declare
That worlds of gentle dullness sit on there!
What, keep out Brown!-it would enrage the
Kee*p out the rest. but. hang it -Ut in Brown !
Wolfe's Schnapps is a pleasant remedy.
Kingsford’a Oswego Corallour has no equal in
the world.
Notice!—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
c lected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
O iy sold by Mockings, 143 Pitt-street.
t; Tne military review on Saturday was
g. nd. but,’ she remarked. ‘‘I should have been
d< ighted to have spent some of the time in ex-
anlnlng the lovely things I subsequently saw,
v,. y hurriedly, at Bray Bros.’ china shops in
(J. orge-street, near Kiag-street.’ *
t i ynu want good puddings use Kingsford’s
0.' vego Cornllour.
To avoid mistakes ask for Wolfe's Schnapps.
Beware of inferior spirit being passed on
you as the genuine Wolfe’s Schnapps.
For Blancmanges, Kingsford’s Oswego Cornllour
cannot be surpassed.
I have found out a gift for my fair,
I have found where the wood-pigeon s breed,
And I’ve found out that Summeriield sells
The sweetest of patterns of tweed.*
MacLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 George-street,
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
Messrs. Sullivan and Jackson, of 142 King-
street, intimate that the Drawing of theEagle-
hi wk Art Union (Prospectus of which appears in
our advertising columns) will shortly take place,
and invite early application for Tickets.*
Mb. DbOourot Bbowni (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally. or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 62 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney. Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, 13T" Land Titles, Mr. Browne’t
skill, a matter or record in the Department* and
Supreme Court.*
A NEW DISCOVERY.—Hoffman’s Eucalyptol
(registered) “ Mixture and Injection.” They will
positively cure all kidney diseases and disorders,
all urinary complaints and discharges, irritation,
scalding, inflammation, gravel, pains in the back,
&o. A case incurable in nine months was actually
cured in eight days with Hoffmann’s Eucalyptol
fraction (“purely vegetable”). Hoffman’s Bu-
ot otol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
n lundaiwood, no balsam, or anything injurious
tc “he moat delicate constitution of either sex.
\ k for Hoffman’s, and take no substitute.
Wholesale: E. Prosser and Co.; Elliott Bros. Be-
ta 1 : All principal chemists and storekeepers
Price. 2a 6d. and 3s. 6d.*
Lidles, when you are next cooking Just give
K-.ngsf rd’s Oswego Cornflour a t.lal-
Don’t bo put off with any fictitious brand,
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the genuine article.
\rt Union of Moss Vale, in aid of WidoJ
and Orpaq Fund of Berrlma Masonic hoae*
'i’lckets, 30s. Will shortly be drawn. Apply 8
once for tickets. J. 8. Hyame, Sec., Moss * dle
(he home factories have artists continually
vialtin* places likely to produce artistic novein
—not to imitate, but to get inspiration, uray
of 403 and George-street, having direct c
m mication with makers, [are enabled to oner, t
public the latest styles—as well as the ia *
choice—in every article in chida ana s
whether for use or ornament.*
Now that his Imminence has been treated
to a flame-coloured oaubeen, the episcopate ot
Sydney will be known as the Red See.
“ Hanged if I don’t think,” said an Albury
truest, as he dived out Into the cool, fresh air,
after the oration of Plain Bill Dailey, * he a got
another man inside him.”
Sir *l£red Stephen having passed his 83rd
birthday, a warrant has been issued for the arrest,
on a capital charge, of the person who wrote—
“ Those whom the gods love die young.”
The use of the telegraph in averting catas-
trophes was well shown on last Saturday when the
Wolverene w mid have put to sea with a detach-
ment of the Naval Artillery Volunteers but for a
wire from Botany Heads that a one-knot gale w is
creeping up the coast and would probably reach
Bouth (lead by sundown. The men had a narrow
escape.
A young nobleman, in a recent English
railway accident, misled his man-serva it. Due of
the guards came up to him and said, ” My lord, we
have found your servant, but, unfortunately, he
is dead I—cut in two, in fact” “Awl is he?'
replied his lordship, in a Dundreary drawl, then,
will you be good enough to see in which halt he
has got the key of my portmanteau ? ”
The papers say that a Chinese gentleman will
be a candidate at the next Parliamentary elections.
We trust he will head the poll. On dit that he will
strongly advocate the bandaging of female in-
fants F feet. Tne necessity for taking some steps
In this direction will be obvious to anyone who
walks down George-street, Sydney, or Collins-
street, Melbourne, of an afternoon between three
and five.
The last news from the New Guinea expe-
dition is ambiguous. The members hope to find
their way into the interior. Of what ? And this
reminds us. A couple of weeks ago, in the Palmer
district, Queensland, a Chinaman was speared and
eaten by blacks. A ghastly rumour is going round
that this Is the means adopted by the authorities
for getting rid of both races—the Chinese by pink-
ing, the aborigines by poison.
It is rumoured that, when a little while
ago there were signs of an Immediate change in
the N S.W. Agent-Generalship, and a certain Illus-
trious, but rather sick, politician was about to
supersede Sir Saul Samuel, sir John Cowell, the
Queen’s Controller of the Household, sent the fol-
lowing wire to a certain crony of his staying at
Government House —“Tell these fellows, on the
quiet, that we must have three months in which
to prepare the Old Girl for the shock.”
The march of progress is still on the full
tramp. “ Forty years ago,” says the Monaro
paper, “ a man named Thomas M’Gulgan died, and
was buried In a lonely spot In the N.S.W, bush.
His friends and relations placed a tombstone, with
a suitable Inscription, over the spot. Recently
the land was bought by a person who removed
the tombstone and converted It Into grindstones.”
His next game will probably be to haul up Mr.
M’Guigan himself, and turn him into bonedust.
He had the air of a man who had been
there before, and as he dumped his wife’s reticule
on the office counter, he moaned. “ Lemmo have a
ton o’ coal.” “ Yesslr,” replied the boss; “ where
shall I send it ? ” “Oh, put it In this bag; I'll haul
It home myself.” “ But we have plenty of drays
here, and can send it straight, away.” “Don’t
trouble, I can carry the coal right enough, but
you can send the bill up In a waggon.” Then the
coal man dumped in the blocks, and muttered,
“An honest man is the scarcest work of God.”
For sweet hangmanlike tenderness and
scholarly tact commend us to a suburban naper
published In Prahran, and well-called the Tele-
graph. Let the little animal grunt through the
sty panels : “ We regret to Inform our readers of
the serious Illness of our esteemed contributor,
‘Figaro.’ For some time his health, &o, &o,
hence there is no article from him this week,
which, under the circumstances, our readers will
cheerfully forego.” Rather roush on a dying
man! Doubtless the writer of this homicidal par
would cheerfully play Aunt Sdly with his father s
bones. The promise of immortality and a coffin
with plated handles would not make us lie snug if
the ghost of a journalistic Thug were vaunting our
literary qualities about in this murderous style
from the vantage spot of his suburban hen-roost.
“A Captain” writes in sad distress to the
Melbourne Herald Che s »n of Mara attended
the Turn Verein ball, an t soldier like, left his
gword In the cloak-room. Some miserable civilian
with a guilty longing for military distinction,
must have petty-laroenled the Captain s cloak-
room ticket, and secured the deadly Instrument of
torture. Anyway, the sword is gone:—
To the Thief.
Of thee, thou wretched, dastard wight,
We ask in accents deep—
Wherewith shall now the Captain fight
The angry goat or sheep ?
Thou mlghtst have prigged his martial cloak,
Such loss he could afford—
But, oh 1 it was beyond a joke
To take his trusty sword.
Plain Bill Dailey spends half-a-million ;of
good, lawful Australian money. Only result: His
flve-bob-a-day swash-bucklers drive their hreid-
oarts over the rotting corpses of murdered women
“foralark.” Chief Justice Martin (“Speak up,
Jemmy!”) one day justifies an expedition whicn
can have no other object but the cowardly
slaughter of the poorest, most oppressed, and,
perhaps, the bravest people on earth; next day,
almost, be stands on a public plattorm to defend
Christianity. It needs a lot of defence from such
people. Bismarck gets £30 a day for keeping all
Europe In a state of fighting suspense about what
he Is going to do next. General Komaroff gets
100,000 roubles for killing a few Afghans and stand-
ing ail India up on end. A good cannon costs
£1500, and a city missionary wears out his life for
£300 a year, and you can get a Bible of the Tract
Society for nothing. There is something wrong
somewhere.
A slab of Palmer (N.Q.) journalism (we
omit names):—“ Bribery, Perjury, and Corruption
seem to have been rampant, and fo have laid
their accursed heads together to baffle Justice in
the case of the Prosecution of on Thursday
and Friday last. The nominal prosecutor, ,
conducted the prosecution more In the manner of
one who was in the pay of the prisoner's party
than as the appointed agent of -, and
thereby materially assisted in the failure and mis-
carriage of Justice. But what could we expect?
has been proved to have accepted bribes in
other cises; and we have no hesitation in giving
emphasis to our belief that both — and one of
the witnesses for the prosecution had been paid
not to prove the charges. In the case of we
know he received money from the prisoner s
friends to humbug the case as he did; while there
are good grounds to believe that the witness re-
ferred to knowingly and wilfully perjured him-
self.” There, now I
Sydney is to have a Scotch volunteer bat-
talion of 500 men. In anticipation of their being at
any time called out for active service, the authori-
ties have decided to accept early tenders ior oat-
meal. The efficiency of the corps is llkelv to be
somewhat Impaired by trousers being substituted
for kilts. The facilities offered by the latter for
concealing hens have always kept Highland regi-
ments contented and effective while ordinary line
battalions were suffering from irsufficient food.
This by the way. 403 men have already sought
enrolment in this body, but as none of them knew
what a " haggis ” was and all said “ Begqrra ” when
addressed, they were thought to be Fenians in dis-
guise, and incontinently rejected. It is intended
that the equipment of this corps shall he of a novel
description. In addition to the ordinary rifle and
sword bayonet each mm is to carry a large Hootch
thistle sewn on an appropriate place, i his. it is
thought will kerp them well to the front on the
line of march, besides preventing them from sit-
ting down while on sentry.
From London Society “ ‘ Advance Aus-
tralia ’ The papers there t* 11 truth without fear
or favour, even as the ’ oomatilks ’ were ready to
fight for the Old Land - lt.h«ut fee or reward ”
London Society, you tell lies Tne alleged corn-
Btalkgwholn the Soudan killed goats, Sportively
burst open with cart-wheels the unburied dead
bodies of murdered Arab women, and captured
donkeys, were paid five shillings a day; whereas
the British soldier gets but about seven pence nett
Ths politicians who sene tne cornstalks to Africa,
perhaps thought to get hereditary titles; one of
them has just accepted a knighthood. And N.S. W.,
which throng h the wastefulness and recklessness of
its self-seeking rulers has been veering towards im-
mediate insolvency and towards civil war in the
future with its.Southern neighbour, will, in a
month or two, proceed to kick out the rulers
aforesaid. If you, r.ondon Society, instead of
listening to the yarns told you by the senile
friends of Alfred Bennett, Sam. Wilson, and
other plutocratic ignorants, will just cast
your eye over the speeches made ac A'Dury
iast week by the fervid electioneering *»»'-
porters of one of the Ministers who sent
a few free Australians and a lot of dead-beat b..ta-
mers to slaughter oppressed blackfeltows, you 11
have some small idea of the desperate straits to
which the Jingoes of N 3. W., who in a year or two
will, as a powerful political party, be as extinct as
the moa, now tied themselves.
There is a spirit of inquiry abroad which
holds none of Nature’s secrets sacred. It takes
nothing for granted—experiments on everything.
It has attacked the Sydney Evening News, one
of whose contributors has got it very badly in-
deed. The other day a man died in Sydney. Two
days before he’d had a lobster for supper, and
enjoyed it. The News credits the lobster with the
death. Attributing a man’s decease to his last
supper but one is a new and important de-
parture in therapeutics. It explains a number of
things of which the medical faculty, with all its
boasted knowledge, has all along been ignorant.
We may be sure that when the discoverer of this
fact dies It will be found that his supper on the
day before yesterday consisted of a grampus or a
sword-fish. Either this, or it will turn out that he
died of starvation—a not improbable contingency,
considering the journal he was employed on. But
this alchemist doesn’t content himself with bring-
ing in a verdict of “ undigested lobster.’' He goes
into particulars. “ The danger,” he says, “ attend-
ing an oyster supper followed by a glass of brandy
is very well known. . . . Anyone with a taste
for experimental chemistry may satisfy himself
about the texture of oysters by dropping one into
a glass of beer and another into a glass of brandy
and water. ... In one case the oyster will dis-
appear, but in the other it stiffens into a leathery
substance. . . . That is how oysters cause
death when dropped into the stomach with
brandy.” There’s for you. As if—he being along-
side- the oyster would not disappear in both cases I
Also the supernatant liquid. We, also, have a taste
for “experimental chemistry.” The absence of our
eye-brows and of three fingers from the left hand
shows what an Interest we took years ago in the
composition of gunpowder. Ever since we could
look over a mud-pie our chief delight during
spare moments was putting oysters in stout to
see them dissolve. We never saw one melt yet.
This oyster-and-stout business is a callous and
brutal fraud. So is the oyster-and-brandy. Every
day of our lives we have oysters and brandy, and
can honestly say that we never feel so hilarious -
so free from all mental or physical worry—as when
we are full to the uvula with both. We’d have
been very sorry to pay for oysters and brandy ad.
lib, for the Evening News literati In the good old
days—ere Jim Hogue became editor and the staff
began to study reithetics and the physiology of
taste. In those days, bless you, we didn’t dine off
lilies or faint because the oysters came to ‘table
mns a digestive in the form of Guinness’ XXX.
We’re afraid that the “ experimental chemistry ’
of “The Flaneur ” was learnt in a bush pub. near
Lttbgnw.
Mr. W. O. Hodgkinson.
It seems so long ago since the days of Burke,
Wills, and other Australian explorers that one is
apt to forget that one of the foremost of them 's
still very much alive and not much past the prime
of life Mr. W O. Hodgkiaaon, whose portrait is
on our first nagc, was horn in 1835, and educated
at Be voley Park and Birmingham. At the age of
10 he entered upon what proved to be a career
of varied achievements. His first employment
was as a midshipman in the mercantile marine, but
he left the service on arrival at Melbourne, and
went on to Caatlemaine. In 1853 he was appointed
licensing clerk at Be -digo, and gained speedy pro-
motion by being placed in charge of Tarnagulla
goldfield. He resigned this when the Crimean
War broke out, and returning to England, entered
the War Office. Peace b log restored, he returned
to Victoria, joined the AGE atatf as reporter, and
Boon after was appointed to tde sub-editorship of
that paper. From this position he was lured by
the temptation which Burke’s expedition held
out. He returned to Adelaide with despatches
from that ill-fated band in J86I, and was ap-
pointed to Howitt’s Relief Expedition. In
1883, ha was elected as second in command
to M‘KlDlay’8 party, and crossed tthe continent to
the Gulf and thence to Bowen. His last exploring
trip was in ’78 as leader of the North-West expedi-
tion, with which he crossed the continent, twice
connecting Sturt's and Laadsborough’s farthest
points. From '83 to 73 he was busy with the pen,
as editor, or proprietor, of the llookhampton
News, Bulletin, and Maokay Mehouby, and he
also found time to contribute to various papers,
from the Australasian downwards. In 1874
he tried quartz-crashing and politics, being elected
for the Burke district. Now. he is the warden
and police magistrate at Townsville, a position
which he has held in various districts since 1877.
A goldfield and a river In Queensland will per-
petuate his name. Few men have done more than
h» to advance Australia ; very few have under-
taken more exceptional and varied duties, and
still fewer have proved themselves so profession-
ally cosmopolitan as Mr. W. O. Hodgkinson.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“Lover of Justice’’: Already dealt with.
... “L.C.O.”: No. The law now refuses to dis-
solve a marriage if both parties have broken
their vows. It says:—“You are so bad that to
PU' ish you wo will keep you married. Neither is
to have a chanoe of reformation. You must had
partners in sin, not in law, and you must bear the
brand of matrimony for the remainder of your
lives. Divorce is a luxury that you do not de-
serve.” Go to America, and get a divorce. You
eau procure one there for a few pounds; if you
try for one through the lawyers here you 11 spend
hundreds of pounds, and he unsuccessful in
the end. • If you enter the N.S.W. Supreme Court
you'll only be divorced from your bank-balance..
“ Alice B The only certain cure we know of for
facial neuralgia is to cut your head off ... C.
Johnson”: You are evidently one of that large
number of toadies to whom the doings of those
fatted Germans, the Royal family, are simply a re-
ligion. Plain Bill is a penny edition of Napoleon,
and is struggling to accomplish a task which
would be impossible even to the Deity itself ....
“Vulcan”: Your plan of substituting a plebisci-
tum for Parliamentary Government is impractic-
able. For one thing, more power would, under
such a system, be left to the Daileys of the day
than Ministers now possets. Would you like that ?
Not much. Payment of members would do a
deal to secure better representatives. There
would then be fewer Sydney lawyers and land-
agents in the House.... “C.M.”: You write in bad
humour. You’ve evidently just made a big meal
off that lump of indigestion and biliousness the
wedding-cake of your hated and successful rival.
... “Lord Protector ”: About30 per cent, of your
lines are correct. We require a better average
than this....” Hatter”: Your poem would not be
hatter-active to our readers Write us in prose ..
“Democritus Your yarn about the man who
saw a very pretty bird —a white crow —on apublio-
h-iuse bar does not astonish us. Green dogs and
striped snakes are often se*'n on bar-counters in
Sydney “ J. Johnson”: You have a little of the
genius, but, so far, nothing of the art of a poet.
The genius is given to few; to acquire the art Is
possible “ Kelvlnhaugh”: No space this week...
“ G S B.”: We don’t believe that he is agent either
for the barbed wire or dump cars, or that he got
commisb. for introducing either of them If you
can forward the proofs you speak of we will look
into the matter....“The Martyr”: Will see what
we can do with it. The verses are-well, not very
good ...“The Yankee Tout”: This is too miser-
ably true to nature for publication just now...
“ H.” (Townsville, Q.): Not lively enough to be of
more than local Interest....“P.B ”: You haven t
sent your name. Besides, we don’t nay cheques
for that kind of thing. .“P.Q.”: There is nothing
p.q.-llar in your trouble. We believe that her
bosom will keep on “ heaving up,” especially if she
goes to Melbourne by sea. Try something else....
“Craw”: It’s a case of “The Deal March in
Saull” Samuel “C.W.”: Better that there
should be “ splendid chiselling ” outsl le the A.J 8.
Bank than in it....“C.L.”: We wish the editor all
the reward he deserves—which, so far as we can
see, mounts even so high as an easy shave with a
new-baked brick....” Muca ”: Dailey and Co. (you
seem to be in the firm), in trying to permanently
bind N.S.W. to England, are opposing the law of
political gravitation That law says we must let go;
Dailey says we must spill blood even for the sake
of holding on. Do you think Dailey and Stuart
are strong enough to beat the forces of nature,
and revolutionise the teachings of history t ...
“T.D.”: Not incisive enough. Your literary
weapon is a bludgeon.L.J.J. We cannot,
even in verse, call a man a “ biped swine to please
those “ by whom it would be fully understood.
Go and tell him yourself —“AC. : ihanks....
“Wayfarer”: When did you ever se e.anything
like your screed in The Bulletin ? Send us some
interesting tacts, and we’ll gladly publish them....
“ J M.” (Gl«n Innes): Re Higgles. We could not
deal with this oas j. Get a member to move for
the papers....’ 1 J.L.T.”: Vour firit grievance is
against the Jbrnil, the second against the Tele-
graph, and third against a Government Depart-
ment. We- will crumple them all up as soon
as we have an hour or two to spare. Eat
us know if anyone else treads on your toes,
that we may include them in the slaughter....
“One whose belief in The Bulletin has been on
the wane since your defence of Parkes. You evi-
dently know nothing about it, dear boy-
Duke of Cambridge is Commander-ln-Cnief, and
tias been so for years and years. If he isa t, who
is? “ W.D.” (Petersham) : It was very thoughtful
of you to send us those cuttings from the religious
papers. The editors know a lot about heaven and
hell, don’t they ? Yet be not too much frightened
at the greatness of their wisdom. Try to meet one
of them sometime when he is sober and question
him i nd you’ll llnd him as stupid as yourself.....
“J A.Q.”: The Minister certainly should grant a
school in your locality. Your spelling shows that it
is wanted...” B.S.J.”: When you write again, please
don’t address us as “ Dear Mr. Editor. Call us
“ Poor Mr. Editor.” We have had your friendship
a long while, and it hasn't been worth a decent
paragraph* So, now, let up on the friendship, and
give us vour compassion ...“Home "oh : Not
suitable for irsortiou—”Mask’ (Braidwood;:
Will read and consider.
From the S.M. Herald we learn that th
farewell extended to the Ministers at Albury wa
not bo demonstrative as their welcome had been
Very likely not. The Albury people knew some-
thing aoout them by the time they departed.
The Sydney Echo says of Dailey’s Albury
address that it was “a heaving sea of rhetoric
having on its surface two or three wildly strugl
gllng facts. It was the speech of a forensic orator
and not the deliverance of a practical statesman.’*
This describes it exactly, except that the two or
three straggling facts were not there. But how la
it that the Echo can thus dare to revile the god
whom she has so long belauded ?
Mr. Farnell, the alleged N.S.W. Minister
of Lands, is ill again. Influenza this time. We
don’t wonder that the Ministers want a Health
Bill. They are the sickest lot we have ever had
n the Treasury benches. Strange, too, that these
illnesses always occur at convenient times, M< re
than likely that a trip to England as Agent-Gene-
ral will be the course of treatment next ordered
for one of them by an obliging doctor.
In spite of the fact that money was no
needed for the ‘’Patriotic” Fund, the railway autho-
rities of N.S.W. have continued to deduct sub-
scriptions from the wages of employes, the result
being a cheque for £1430 sent in last week. Thus
all things—even fettler's wages—arc made to con-
tribute to the glory of our champagne-and-sham-
flght Ministry. Spontaneous patriotism! Spon-
taneous donations ground out at so much a mouth I
For all-round talent the Lotinga family of
Sunderland (Eng.) hold the belt against the world,
Lotinga, sen., insured his life for some thou ands
and promptly died. The Commercial Union Com-
pany disputed one policy, and Mrs. L. sued for the
I amount, conducting her own case with much
ability. The eldest daughter. Miss Kachel, scooped
the pool over some horse-races at the mature age
of 16, and Immediately started in business as a
Mutual Loan Office under the style of F. Smith
and Co. The eldest son, at’,the age of 14, obliged a
friend by lending him a sov., the loan bearing in-
terest at 1400 per cent., whilst the youngest daugh-
ter, aged 13. being a witness in her mother’s case,
declared proudly that Russell, the opposing bar-
rister, was afraid to cross-examine her. They will
do well, the Lotingas.
Notwithstanding the counter attraction
at Moore Park, the Northern Jockey Club (New-
castle) meeting at Kandwick on Saturday last
proved a big success. The Hurdle race was won
by Michael, but had Uhlan been persevered with
we fancy the judge would hive had a different
number to handle. Wanda beat the Northern
favourite Claudine for the Flying Handicap after
a great race, in which Kelso’s judgment stood him
in good stead. The Northern Hunt Cmb Cup was
a series of accidents, the favourite, Acrobat, being
beaten by the top-welghtSunray; Rapid made an
easy win of the Cavalry Cup; Tilda won the Sell-
ing race from the unlucky Marltana, wno ran into
her usual second place; and the Hunt Stakes fell
a victory to Sir Garnet, after a good race with
Freemason, Vacy, the favourite, being nowhere.
Mr. G. D. Carter, Mayor of Melbourne, is
too supercilious in his manner and too conserve
tive in his politics to ever become a popular man
in the broad sense of the word, but his Worship is
ingenuous and fearless and is never afraid of hit-
ting straight out from the shoulder. At a meeting
of the Liberty and Property Defence League
recently held at Scott’s Hotel, Collins-street, to
consider the new Licensing Bill, Mr. Car er spoke
as follows in condemning the proposed measure:—
“ The clause requiring such places as Gunsler's
and Clements' c.ifis to keep bedrooms which no-
body would ever use for proper purposes was a
singular one. The Government seemed to be
under the impression tnat whenever a man went
in to get a drink he must have a bedroom to retire
to. But he trusted that Parliament would show
the Ministry that there were sober people in
the country, who were not as anxious to go to bed
as they were.”
Harry Levien, M.L A., now regrets his
rash promise to expose at the next meeting of
Parliament one of the moat outrageous robberies
that have been perpetrated in N.S. W. The reason
is this: He is now hauntod in his business an i his
leisure hours by hair-lipped and fur-capped
chents, who request (confidentially) to be “laid
on.” “If it’s as big as you pitch it is, Harry,’’
said Boss-eyed Melehlsedech, “ you cm bet the
fust lot ain’t cleaned out half the stuff. Jest you
give me the offli. Yor can t lose. For if it comes
off you’ll receive a wailable d.mou’ ring from a
gent in the city who has watched with pleasure and
profit your brilliant legal and Parliamentary career
for many years ” Harry paused (or is said to have,
but we don’t believe it), and then rising, not with-
out dignity unbuttoned his waistcoat and pointed
to his shirt. “ What colour is that ?” inquired the
distinguished legislator. “ Why, white ” cried
Boss-eyed Melehlsedech, “ My conscience,” re-
joined Harry, with that air of dignity which knocks
“ the push behind the rail,” is equally weligot up.
He then dismissed his visitor by a violent wave of
his boot, and would probably have engaged for a
while in prayer, but for the abrupt arrival of
Billy Swords, who had come to lay him 0 to 4
against Clutterbuok for the Barcoo Handicap.
VVe have seen him again. You know whom
we mean. The gallant veteran, who was proud to
striae a blow for Queen Victoria, blessharl before
he died; and who, after swimming in soldiers’ beer
for a fortnight, was, on the departure of the Con-
tingent, again found leaning against his old post.
He was “ camped ’ on a seat in the Park—it was
9 a.m —eating crusts out of his hat, and his
moustache was as fierce, and his front tooth as
ferociously prominent as ever. We sat down on
the same seat, and awaited developments. They
were not long eventuating. “ Fine food,” he ex-
claimed, apostrophising his crusts, "fine food for
ono who was only the other day carrying his rifle,
shoulder to shoulder, in the rank aud file on the
arid deserts of the burning Soudan.” “ You seem
to feel it,” we remarked. “No wonder,” he said,
tearfully, addressiog himself to us—“Sir, 1 was
one of the Contingent, although you do not, at
present, see me in Khakee ” “ What then, ’ we
said, displaying tobacco, “is your general opinion
of the campaign?” “ Well, when we was a en-
rolling, I says to Lieutenant Sparrers, says I-
‘ We’re a band of brave, stiff, hearty boys, but
there ain’t enough of us to rescue Gordon
out of Carcoar. Very sensible remark, sir.
Bv-the-way, were you in the infantry, or the
mounted artillery ? ” Ho looked offended.
“ Cavalry for me, sir. All my family have been
cavalry men. My uncle was in the charge of the
eight hundred that busted up the Shipker pass*
marched on Metz, and was the undoing of Bazzin.
“Indeed.” “Oh, yes; but talking of the cam-
paign, I see when we got there it was no goon,
Knowing that if we marched on Penjey, if tie
Roosians didn’t do us, the Afghanisters would-,,
“A shrewd remark. You smoke, we believe,
we said, with appropriate pantomimic action.
“Only when off dooty, sir—only when off dooty.
While on dooty, my ’and is on my charger's mane,
and my foot in the sturrup. Ab, as my uncle ueco
to cry:—
* Oh, I love the sabre’s Hash,
The dancing of the sabretache;
I cry, as with a stunning crash,
Into a holler square we dash—
Shal vo-tee 1 ’
That’s our family morter — ‘ Shalvo,’ you sec.
from ‘Shalot,’ a Greek root.” We left him. a, 1
this, either to strike another blow for the Queen*
God bless her I or more probably to cadge a box o
matches from the next passer-by.


Woman Items
A fashion paper says“ The most fashion-
able evening costume is a bracelet of violets worn
above the elbow.” Such a costume may have its
advantages in a very warm climate.
Poetry, a waxed moustache, mystery, long
hair, and a sweet tenor voice will often make a
woman feel as if there was only a sheet of tissue
paper between heaven and herself, but it is the
man with the wart on his nose and six figures in
his bank balance who scoops her in and make her
happy ever afterward.
Women have a smaller chance of getting
married in Victoria than in any other Australasian
colony ; for on tbe calculation of the Government
Statist, the proportion of marriages to those of
them who were marriageable was found to be much
lower than ia any ot the other colonies. This
being so, Victoria must be a tine country for men
to live in.
Prom the Manning River Times Ma-
trimony. Two young ladies, in good circumstances,
good looking, well-connected, and who move in
good society, would like to correspond with two
young gentlemen, in good circumstances, with a
view to the above. Photos, exchanged. Address:
Grace and Constance, Taree Post Office.” What
on earth could a fellow want more ?
A woman was arrested for drunkenness in
Melbourne streets, the other day, whom the con-
stable described as “ a ladylike-looking woman ”
Of course. They all are I Listen to intelligent
policeman, and hear the gilt of the case-— “She
gave her name as Kate Martin. She had on a seal-
shin jacket worth about £50 She wore jewel ery
worth, in bis estimation, £200, and she had a largo
sum of money.” A ” ladylike-looking woman I *
She had a habit, when she wanted to fix
anything in her mind, of tying a knot in h«r hand-
kerchief. She was engaged in a desp rate flirtation
on a certain occasion, and abstractedly d-opped her
handkerchief on the floor. This was seen by
her hostess, who endeavoured to break uo the
flirtation by inviting her guests Into another part
of the house. As the lady rose from her chair she
stooped and picked up her handkerchief, noticing
as she did so, the knot in one corner “ What have
I forgotten to-day?” she asked audibly. “That
you have a husband,” repiiet the hostess.
She admired the lovely shawl to distrac-
tion, but couldn't pay £40 for It. And she knew
her husband wouldn’t “cash-up ” to that extent.
So she said to her confidant, Mr. Blank, the shop'
walker; “I’ll pay you £20 on it. and next time you
see my husband, tell him that I’d like the shawl
very much, and that you’ll let him have it for
£20.” A few days later her husband did call In,
and bought it for £20; and, while walking down
the street, she observed the identical shawl on
which she’d expended £20 of pin-money, upon the
shoulders of a female for whom she had long sus-
pected her “ old man ” entertained a more than
neighbourly affection.
The poor barmaids are in trouble every-
where just now. Tbe Woman’s Temperance
Union of New Zealand have forwarded a petition
to Parliament, bearing nearly 5000 signatures,
against the employment of girls in barr, This is a
plain proof, in black and white, that there are
nearly 5000 jealous women in New Zealand. How ?
Well, women are not philogynists as a rule, and if
their own husbands or sweethearts are safe, they
are rarely much troubled about those of other
women. Therefore, nearly 5000 of them have recog-
nised under their own hands that they consider
the barmaid a powerful rival. This confession
will be sweeter to the latter than many praises
from men.
We sometimes hear of the amende honor-
able being made in France in the shape of a death-
bed marriage ceremony. Tbe painter De Neuvllle
recently gave an instance of this by becoming a
bridegroom almost at the last hour of his life. A
well known Parlslenne has just shown the less
laudable desire to be divorced on her deathbed.
The cure was there to perform his priestly offline,
but turning from him to the tnairc aud bis ureffler
she said, with tire gleaming in her eyes, “ Do your
work.” “ Pardon, pardon,” said the distressed
husband, who had been called home for this
ceremony after an absence of twenty years
Neither the dying woman nor the civil official
listened. The marriage was undone, and tbe In-
jured, unforgiving wife fell back on her pillo .v a
corpse.
Dear old Rev De Witt r altna2:e, whose
sermoi s are published by subscription in the
Sydney Mail, has, we see, been trying to show
tha r Christianity alone has raised woman above
ti e level of tbe beasts. “ What mean these white
bundles on the ponds and rivers in China in the
m trning ? Infanticide following infanticide
p. male children destroyed simply because they
are female. Woman harnessed to a plough as an
ox. Woman veiled and barricaded, and in all
styles of cruel seclusion. Her birth a misfortune.
Her life a torture. Her death a horror.” This is
tall talk. If woman is a useful beast of burden in
China, she is not likely to be drowned at her birth,
and it must be difficult to harness a woman to a
plough, and keep her at the same time in cruel
seclusion. What owls there are in the pulpit!
The spring fashions are being shown in
Sydney, and the colours, though a trifle brighter
than those of the past season, are still dark
or approaching the neutral. There are periodic
colour-crazes in the fashionable world, mainly got
up by the traders to get at man’s chrque-book.
One season there is a rush for all kinds of quiet
colours, greenery-yallery, plummery-flummery,
then there is a stampede for the rainbow. It pays
the manufacturers Now, In this rush for new
colours (so called) the buyers never seem to think
that cohmr is a science, and that a shade, however
fashionable, may not harmonza with a complexion
—tbe whole art of selecting material. And yet the
art is very simple, and obeys a law of the strictest
klnl Still, tbe adjustment of a shade to suit
the colour of a complexion Is a very nice thing,
so mixed are tbe shades that make up a com-
plexion. All colours the eye can discern are
made up of red, yellow, and blue. This trinity
harmonize fairly with each other, but the myriad
combinations (Chevrene has computed over 40,000)
demand being placed in contrast with their exact
opposites, to produce the proper effect. We are
not going into an elaborate essay on the matter; a
few words will suffice. The primaries above-
mentioned harmonize with the secondaries, which
do not contain them. Green, being composed of
yellow and blue, its complementary is red; purple,
hue, and red, harmonize with yellow;
orange yellow and red,ln conjunction, has for its op -
posite biUH.and so on throughout the multitudinous
variations. The art of obtaining a dn s j , the exact
complementary of the wearer’s complexion, thus
Showing both off to the hvst advantage is one
that may well engage the coi'umier s attention.
At present it is generally merely guessed at. How
oftm do we hear the expression " Blue just suits
my complexionor yellow, red, or their sbadts
As black is an equal mixture of the primitives, it
suits all alike, but since white is an unequal com-
bination, it does not. Probably these initial facts
in the science of taste are known to seme, but
there is no harm In bringing them to everyone’s
recollection; it may lead to more thought being
devoted to the subject.
Trust; a New Zealand white woman to
hold her own against a Celestial vegetable vendor.
A Wellington woman (Mrs. Morepork) recently
noticed a Chinaman write something mysterious
on her door-post, and suspecting the perpendicu-
lar hieroglyphics had some remote reference to
the little bill she owed him for vegetables, she
requested the afternoon John who called with his
little load of Celestial curios to read it to her
John spelled it down irom top to bottom, and'
informed her she owed “ Ah Fum ” 17s ea f er
grean-grooeries. “Tnat’s like, his imperence ’’ said
Mrs. m. indignantly, as a little puff of Wellington
weather caught her on the door-step and twisted
her ‘ improver” round the broom-handle, while
her ha <k hair took a rapid trip up country; and
then she took John into the kitchen and bought
10s. worth of jewellery from him on condition th*t
he altered tno figures outside into 7s. CJ., and
waited for his money until she had squareiLthe
account on that footing with the Celestial green-
grocer. This she afterwards did successfully, and
ever since, her vegetable account supplies her
with a monthly assortment of jewellery as well.
Pulpit Plagiarism.
“THOU SHALT NOT STEAL.”


If out of sorts try Wolfe's Schnapps.
The sale per day now exceeds 60,000 lbs. of Kings-
ford s Oswego Cornflour.
Ah! you have a headache! Why don’t
you try Ayer's Pills? They will relieve the
stomach, restore the digestive organs to healthy
action, remove the obstructions that depress
nerves and brain, and thus cure your headache
permanently.
There are many perfumes which, when
rpplied to the handkerchief, hav e a very agreeable
odor fora few moments and then die awav
a sickly, c i‘.agreeable smed. Not so
WATP!R. U ?h« iL &U t , INMAN’S tL -RID l
WATBtt: the longer it is exposed tbe more deli-
Cate ana delightful becomes its rich aroma.
How much less often womankind,
Man’s happiness would baulk.
If those who love to talk their mind
Would only mind their talk;
And how much farther Sydney men
Would find their shekels go
If they would only get their clothes
Prom Summerfleld and Co.*
For Pies, Puddings, Custards, Blancmanges, fee-
use Kingstord’s Oswego Cornflour.
There is no recruiting, medicine so prompt
and efficient as Wolfe s Schnapps.
BEACH’S
J *f
CONSULTATION!
ON THE
Hawkesbury Handicap, Metropolitan and
Melbourne Cup,
NOW OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS. 10b. KaCH
First Horae, £350.
A ddress—
“ BBACTT,”
Care of J. G, Dceble,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney
Please apply early.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
if* tn Mi 06 yUMi CO fUkVC O/HI tfKKW «p *•
teoretane» of racing clubs and vmnaaer* e
snorting event* in general,
RACING.
Tattersall’s (August Meeting) August
Blsternwlek Park August
Adelaid RC September
Cloncurry J.O..... September 3. i
Cairns J.C, (Q ) f-eptember 2
Wild River J C. (Q.) September 3, (
Canterbury Park K,C September
Gympie J.C. 'Q ) September 9,1
Beenlelgh (Q ) Raees, September
Hawkesbury (Spring) September 10
A J.C. (Spring) September 19, 33, 34,
Cooktown T.C September 33, 3(
Dubbo J C September 30. October ’
Ballarat Hunt and T.C October 1,
Melbourne H.C October ?
Rosehill R.C October
Mudgee Tattergall’s R.C. (Spring) October 8,
Sydney Turf Club October 10
Victoria A.T.C. (Soring) October 10.17
Berrlma District R.C October 13,1
Eureka T. C October 1
Canterbury Park R.C October 1'
Wollongong T.C October 31, 33
Moonee Valley October 3
v.R.c. Spring October 31, November 3, 5. \
Queensland T.C November 7.
Liverpool J.C November
Wllliamstown R.C. V.) November9
Canterbcry (N Z.) J.C. Spring...November 10.33, IS
Nerandera J.C November 13, IS
Murrumbidgee T.C. (Spring)....November 18,19, 3(
Yerong Creek November 3J
Rockampton (J.C November 35 3(
Gunnedah (Annual) November 35. 36
Narrabri J.C December 3, c
Brisbane Tatterssll's .December K
Canterbury Park R.C - December 19
A.J.C. (Summer) December 36
Victoria A.T O. (Summer) December 36
Ronehlll R.C December 3$
V.R.C. (Summer) January 1
Tattersall’s (Annual) January 3
AQUATICS.
Mercantile R.C. Maiden Double Sculls in
Skiffs August 39
Sydney R.C Regatta, Parramatta River ... .Sept, 5
Matlerson v Kemp September 17
Newcastle H.C. Regatta September
Lake George Regatta October
Davis v, Maclean, at Woodburn October
New South Wales R A. Regatta October 3
M. Branch Regatta October 17
ATHLETICS.
Sir Joseph Banks Fourth Handicap.... August 34^
Mudgee Sheffield Handicap September 9
Eight Hours’ Art Union and Sports, Agri-
cultural Society’s Grounds October 7
’CYCLING.
N. Cyclists’ Union Race Meeting, Asso-
ciation Ground August 39
Redfern B.C. Road Race from Windsor to
Sydney.. September 5
Newcastle B.C. Road Race from Ne wcastle
to Wallsend and back September 5
Oriental B.C. and Sydney T.C. Joint Race
Meeting, Association Cricket Ground. .Sent. 13
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
The four from the Argonaut Boating Club,
Toronto, Canada, who went over to England to
knock some of tho dust out of the darned
Britisher amateurs met with defeat In the third
heat of the Stewards’ Challenge Chp at the recent
Henley Regatta. Their onponents were crews
from Trinity Hall, B.C., Cambridge, and Third
Trinity B.C., Cambridge; and the race was rowed
without coxswains, bowman steering In each in-
stance. The Canadians went away tremendously
fast, and when a mile had been travelled they led
Third Trlnty by three lengths, the other boat
(which through fouling a post was ultimately
clean out of the race) being a length further
astern. The Cambridge men began to gain at last,
but the Argonauts spurted so vigorously that for
a long time they were unable to overlap the
visitors. However, tho end came at last, when the
Englishmen, after plodding along in the rear,
spurted with such effect that from being a length
behind they were that distance In front In 30
strokes. It was now all over, for they took the
Canadians’ water, and eventually paddled in easy
winners. Trinity Hall weighed 46st. 21b. to the
Canadians’ 43 stone.
• • •
We wonder how long it will be before
ooxswalnless fours come into vogue In Australia
The only boat of the class we have seen In Port
Jackson was a papier machi four manufactured
bv Waters and Sons of Troy U.S., which was ex-
hibited by Mr. N. Lookyer in the big Sydney Ex-
hibition of 1879. The first four-oared crew with-
out a coxswain, and stosred by a traveller
on the stretcher of an oarsman, of which there
Is authentic record, rowed at the College Regatta
at Springfield, U.S., in 1855. Harvard started an
eight with a coxswain, and a four-oar without a
coxswain, fitted with foot-steering-gear. Yak'
started two six-oared crews, both with coxswains.
The Harvard eight and four came In first and
second, while the Yale sixes brought up the rear
The smaller boats were allowed a handicap of
11 secs, per oar for the 3 miles of the course; and
after reckoning for the difference In time accord-
ing to the handicap, the Harvard eight, with a
steersman, only beat the College four, without a
coxswain, by 3 seconds-44 seconds bclug deducted
from the 47 seconds actual difference between the
crews.
» ■ m
Mr. W. B. Woodgate, of Brasenose College,
Oxford, is entitled to the merit of taking the
earliest advantage, in England, of the coxswalnless
system, for he had a non-ooxswain-four con-
structed for his collego crew to row the race for
tha Stewards’ Cup, at Henley, In 18C8. An objec-
tion having been lodged against this new boat
competing on equal terms with crews steered in
the usual manner, Mr. Woodgate had a temporary
seat fitted on the after deck of bis new-fashioned
four, and went to the post with his coxswain duly
Installed. As soon as the signal was given the
coxswain Jumped overboard, and Woodgates
crew, continuing the race, won with the greatest
ease. The crew were disqualified for not carrying
a coxswain, according to the rules of the regatta,
but the incident showed the superiority of the
coxswalnless four. Non-coxswain fours were first
used in the Stewards’ Cup at Healey in 1874, and
since then they have come into general use In the
United Kingdom.
A a annual race between fours from the
Mei antlle Clubs of Sydney and Melbourne has
bee arranged. A race of this descriotion would
be just the sort of affair In wbich to make a start
with coxswalnless fours, for in these days of fast
rowing and b-at-aad-best it is certainly a long way
behind the limes to needlessly hut-op along half a
do*' n stone of beef In tha stern of a boat. It is,
P©i u U)8. a Htcle late this year to start the idea, but
shoul t the Clubs see t >eir way clear to ’* hook on”
to the suggestion, it wouid open up new ora r
boat-rael ig 1 Australia aid lend additional tcht
to th inauguration of th< fixture. The event
will, in ah o obabdity, come off tho* year in Mel-
bourne, on 30th October, tne <y t.t-. V.o
torlan Derby, wnlca wM give tjo ctews a cuauce
for a fly round during Cup week Martin, we un-
derstand, will be n nab e to make the trip this year,
so the MercAit l crew will consist of
Beale, Brett, Pickering, and Trlmbie And v while
on the subject o‘ a now class of boat, does it not
seem strange that the N,S.W. clubs have to go to
the sister colony for their boats 9 Tho sbp
FaTler U and eC th IVed a cou P le of clinker eights from
rfu 1 ?# builder has orders from
Hf® ® b pre Club for a clinker four, and from
th© St. Ignatius College, Sydney, for two? Dair-
?9.at8 - Leaving the eights out of the"ques-
th*fopdBp, * I lht U M are too busy to take
K h os ° rfch Shore people have Dodd, a
nrst-class builder, within a stone’s throw at
Liveooer Bay; thou there is Charles Messenger,
JT,n/H 8bOWe< !i ab a wrinkle at light-skill
b . U H 1( R ng^aDdatf5 l ebe Pomt are located Stevens
win m ?,?H n * bu b? er8 who > we fed assured,
Ing boata* 3 tQe r marK both with rowing and saii-
* • m
The first of the two annual cricket
matches between the English Gentlemen and
Flayers ended in a draw. The amateurs had to
Sr«»th£Si tbel K fl « 8t i? np i« 8 > but - thanks to some
great batting by Mr. W, W. Head, who scored 159
In an innings which lasted four hours and three-
quarters, the Players were left with 169 to get to
win. and barely two hours and a half for play, so
only a draw or a defeat was practically left open
to them. When the finish was reached the profes-
sionals required 45 runs to win, and had still
wickets to fall, so that it was Cy hard lines fo?
Mr ay w 8 n t l ine TT ould not admit of a finish!
v^;„ w - Read bas been in great form this sea-
5PJ?* ? v ? r °9S® bas the Surrey amateur gone to
the wickets without scoring, and at latest news
his gross total amounted to 1348, giving an
nf 1 56 run8 and four over for *ea“
of the 34 innings in which he had taken part.
W. G, Grace has done some big things in
his . I?. 1116 In connection with the Gentlemen
and Players matches. W. G. first played for the
vfi v?. ai “ d ; with the exception of 1867
and 1883. he has played in both matches every year
since. He has played in 39 matches, had 67 com-
plete innings, and scored 3119 runs, giving him the
ma ™ niflcent £ v ? r £ ge of 46 P 0r innings. Dur-
ln* the 20 years that have elapsed since he first
took part in these matches, he has scored over a
century on no less than ten occasions—315 in 1870
at the Oval; 169 in 1876, at L -rd’s; 168 in 1873 at
Lords: 158 In 1873, at Oval; 153 in 1875 at Lord's-
134 in 1868, at Lord’s; 117 in 187SUt Oval ) m in 1873
at Lord s; 109 In 1870, at Lord s; 100 in 1881,at Oval!
and only once has he retired without scoring, viz
in the first innings at the Oval in 1876. His score’s
in theg® niBtobos were:-Mr, W. G, Grace In Gentle-
n At Lord ' 8 1865, 3 and 31; 1808,
Ts«n n o ll i, l .?0 7 ’ 1 l 8 -n n ,^ 37 not out: 1868, 131 not out;
1869, Sand 33; 1870 109 and 9; 1871,50 and 37; 1873,
77 and 113; 1873, 163; 1874, 48 and 13; 1875 7 and 153*
1876,169; 1877, 18 and 41; 1878. 90 and 2; 1879 3Tl^
188 2 u- a r,|L 3 i 1883 ' 4 and *: l 883 - 38 and
a 4 7 I?. 84, A 1 a , nd 8i JLl 885 ’ 6 ftnd 10,—Total, 1660 runs.
™ 52SL Ojal, in 1885, 33 and 13 not out; 1866, 7 and
1869, 48 and 83 : 1870. 6 and 315; 1871 16
and 1873. 113; 1873, 158; 1874 . 33 and 18; 1875.33
and 1 1 J w ;, 18W ' ° » nd '«0; 1877, 39; 1878, 40 and 63; 1879,
36; 1880, 6 and 3; 1881, 100 and 9; 1883. 31 and 1; 1884.
not out 35 and 66; 1885 . 33 and 76. —Total, 1459-
makinr a grand total of 3119 runs In 67 innings—
average per Innings, 46'37.
* * *
At the time of writing, the N.S.W, foot-
ballers now io Brisbane had done as much as was
expected of them by the generality of Sydneyites.
On the 19 1 h they played their 11-st match against a
representative team and were defeated by 14 points
to nil; and on the following day they defeated 18
combined juniors of Queensland by 10 points to 4.
af ‘f r lo8elj [ contested game. On the first day
fully 4000 people witnessed the game, but scarcely
liMX) spect ators out in an appearance at the junior
game. Talking of Queensland football reminds us
of a yarn going the rounds about a Charters
Towers publican who retuses to allow his son to
,, ocjonra (orange and black) of the local
football club. Begorra,” he argumentatively
whispers, he 11 be wanting to follow thlm nixt!"
In vain the youtn oners to wear a green silk
handkerchief round hi„ neck and a belt of the
same cheerful hue. The parient is inexorable.
• * *
An American per say ttr re is no such
thing as a dead heat In horc racing. Either 8t
Gatien or Harvester won the Derby last year, for
instance, though the journal ai’mits that, owing to
oircu nsrauoi*, ohnn am „-g which *ho speed at
woloa the bor < s pass, “ih 1 unaided human eye
falls t<> note act? rat iy. an tne hu -ian mind fail*
to «r *sp rhe exam positions In which they cross
the 11 ush 11 e” The remedy, according to our
Conte anorary. Is very simple. We are told to
put two upright wires where the wiunlug pist
and judg? h o x now stand Place at one end of
the 11 oah line an exoert photographer, who will
tstablish his camera so that the two wires will be
In the centie of his glass. Then let him photo-
graph eaca finish, just as the leading horses reach
in the lead, and Wood with inside
Immediately in his rear. Then “ Shack ”
ran into second place, and tried to pass Bennett,
but the latter bored him out and just kept pace
with the Victorian, making Shackelford go un-
necessarily wide; Wood ali this time jogging along
comfortably on the inside, skimming* the posts
with archerlike judgement. At the end of the
second mile Bennett and Shakelford were dead level
and Foulkes then ran into third place, but towards
the end of the third mile Wood made a burst and
took pride of place, but he soon eased off, and
Bennett again took up the running and shepherded
the Victorian crack. Bennett seemed very much
afraid of Shackelford coming too close to him, and
on one occasion be reached out bis arm to shove
him off, but we are not sure whether he touched
him or not. At the end of eight miles and a half,
Shackelford made another attenjpt to pass Ben-
nett, when the pair slightly collided and the Vic-
torian was unfortunately compelled to retire in
consequence ot an injury to the left pedal of his
machine. The touch threw Bennett out for a
couple of revolutions, but he quickly recovered
himself and went in ch .se of Wood, leaving
Foulkes, who had made a manly struggle all
through, far In the rear. When half of tne last
lap had been covered, Bennett put on steam and
drew level witb Wood, but he fell away again and
apparently allowed Wood to win on sufferance, in
33 min. 19sec.
* * *
Bennett was quickest on his wheel when
the pistol fired lor the mile championship, but,
passing the newly-ereoted judge’s stand for the
flrsi time, the three leaders were Wood, Shakel-
ford, and Bennett, in the order named, and at the
half-mile Wood still led, while Shakelford and
Bennett had reversed places. .When half of the
concluding lap haa boon covered, Wood evidently
considered bis mission »s outter-out was at an end,
as he collapsed without an effort, and Bennett,
coming away from his field with ease, won w th
five or six yards to spare from Dwyer, Stokes
thir l, Wood fourth, and Foulkes fifth. The first
three laps were covered in 41sec.. Imln 87sec., and
2oalu. Ifsec, and the mile in Smin. 57Kseo— t ie
best time yet recorded in N.8.W. Bcunett has
now woo the ev*-nt twice in succession, and
. the trophy becomes his oroperty. It was first
raced for a d won in 1883 by A. Lee; In 1883, there
was no race, in consequence of the Idiotin six
starters stipulation; and in 1881, Bennett proved
4 Hi u Pi cture will show the wires dividing:
In half, and on either side of them the
moment h fh« S ’Jaf 8t as they &ctu *}}y were at the
moment the plate was exposed.” By-the-way,
vsw a fn 0U i h »' invention by Mr. Payten, of
X.s, W., for starting races He ougrht to look the
yunkee up The combination would go well.
* * *
P r °P tlets . glancing to the south-
er.?, h J morning, prognosticated any-
JhL f but oheerful weather tortile cycling meet of
pL? the Sydney Bicycle Club Champion-
hr ShV 0 But U K Ch £ lme saw affairs looking much
cama* nn al ih by J the / , time the first championship
“Phil bo ? r ,nT or rathBr sward-King
i hh- and his satellites, might have been seen
fHJIf, complacently round the Association
flileH if Gr A 0UDd - a , nd at the 16,000 enthusiasts who
®ii® d A couple of showers fell early In the
a £ternooP, and caused a general stampede for
?h®lt e £ but later on the rain cleared oir; and the
lawn became uncomfortably packed. The meet-
hoof wi .thout doubt, in many respects, the
best-conducted yet held In Sydney. The races
were started to the minute, there waS nS
crowding round the telegraph board, and
fh« om l i nder £ u8 whi , oh would never explode-
ol f d love from which the Association people
favmir°nf n o h fi °n hBrd to S«*-was discarded in
t, av of a brand-new revolver, warranted to go
°%J he slighest provocation. The races for
mpion8bip l x? er ? anything but satisfac-
torily, by reason of the “ cutting out ” toadies of
fc ? e com P. etltoi ;s. but so long aslthe
Union tolerates Quasl-professlonals amongst its
ranks, so long will it have to wink at little quasi-
professional tricks of the trade. On Saturday it
was pretty well understood in cycling circlet that
ttWlTiS t0 fw Wln i th K e . mtle and his partner Wood
the 10 miles, the stable companion in each case
merely going to cut out the running. 886
* m 0
la the ten miles the cutting-out business
was very palpable, and Shackelford must possess
a heart of iron if it was not pretty well broken hv
the rough handling he received at the hands of his
chivalrous ‘ hosts.” Bennett dashed awav iith
the lead, with Wood immediately In the rear W but
at the end of the first lap Bloomfield was leading:
with Bennett second and Shackelford third
G^o“ fleld ,retired before the fourth lap was nego-'
dated, and the mile was covered in 3min. 5sec.,
‘F r "l fc a Tig;
| h «, w° miles tricycle tmndlcap by
iSS.®!*iS ““ dw ' 8ei,Mt »«*■.■
• * *
„J^® tter s pugilistic are likely to liven nn
two 81d Lees n«.mo ydney f durin ‘ f the next moot ■ or
since with hff 0 o OV0r f, rom Melb ourne some time
m tcht s.i avowed intention of m aking a
?' f J? h ° yd P' ey - but ao far nothing’ has been
«? and SS
SeptegbM^HJfiS 11 ,? 0 " 68 °? *? Pirate oo IB
/o n r&„ u ?siy^
fanciers confidence will be found misplaced when
w.u tea? rv';if 8 !sr&««
ffoto^ 16^ 0 h ? 11 at the rear of Foley’s White Horse
PlantatTon en LT »? d Newton, from The Cabbage
»V a i a11 the b ? 8t Cornstalks will
aboof 7 Vho I5^d» e w ,? y t we bear a deal of talk
Othersfx fontera Jhcksons and Far nans and
deaf of the?r be avy-weights, and we see a
bow is it one forwaM
11 ztZTJrl arry Foley’schalleng/to backhS
them°foram k onkEyTd n e1 tbe be8tand biggest of
* * m
hfmrni^ 1 " Jj"?? » he more reflective of Mel-
bn°V. 8 d ?, p o r t8 are getting full up of wrestling
S«K.i» 8 ; yles l , Tbe most noteworthy fea-
rnnt,?iio be i la ?u m^ tcb between Miller and Donald
moRt'nt thi^i 10 fa °t that whenever one appeared
most at tbe mercy of the other—presuminc’ that
and 6 a h briok e Er ln t deadly f unprofessional earnest,
> b m k x? r W0 ■’vlthm reach—it was “no
be toTd that T)fnni lialtiat^ d ifc acorns a little odd to
when the H Can do nothing with Miller
wnon the latter is down on bis bands and kneen
a ? d f bo Probability that DInnie is in*I
n/ron'ir e h When b{ L ls " 8tood upon his head.’’ This
lll an i k here i y ’ °f course, but it about represents
de iJ‘ 0 r.°/. 8 , Uc^ as are not learned in the mys-
teries of styles, and consider that the first man
H?r?n W Sl ld A avethewor8t of a trestle for dear
life on, say rocis, or a new flint roadway.
The 4, gent m pst be a little clinker to win
1*2. h Uh dl fnH Ce afc .C a ulfleld under the crusher of
J vit. 11b., and win it, too, in the ridiculously easy
X n ! r fi “ b e did; but. for all that, the
wer f 80 l°cd in asserting his superiority to
ftDk ? inn if thL°n ? Probably have to pay for thel?
? a P +hi°K) If the on even terms. King wood
li the bigger and handsomer horse of the two and
££» an unmistakable proof of his quaTity b?
winning last year s Australian Cup. Whether the
Agent can equal that form on the flat remains to
be proved. A fearful impostor in the hurdle race
was the Ghost, who had been spoken of as taking
SR? monly kindly to the sticks at practice. In
gh® nctual event, though, Mr. Reid’s horse evinced
a desire to jump through a hurdle Instead of over
atfemn 1 ? g ft nd V « ry matenal Gbost he failed in the
and came a cropper. Another very
slovenly jumper at the Caulfleld meetin/r was tho
n D n ted . W „ ymlet ’. who ’ even wRhTom
Corrigan up, struck nearly every obstacle. After
dn wbU^ ‘biGcP in the steeptechase, backers would
do well to fight shy of the Ballarat pet for a bit.
* * *
Billy Newhouse, atonetimeayerynooular
Dg a?i 11 iJ ght 'T e l ! ght died other day m
bt. Giles workhouse, London. He was quite a
t?irEEd k Vh’ 0 e r am ,. OI ? K hi8 own class, aud Q barely
turned the scale at 4 stone, when he won the
Mati t0 A Cup "I^*2 n a Freat handicap-upon Our
Mary Ann. Although never a really good rider,
ld hav 2 secured him plenty of
mounts, if he had been content to remain aiockev.
?,est ead of this the little imp joined what is called a
o c i e K? r dlv lsion, affected big drinks, bigcigais.
and bigger wagers, and seldom or never tallowed
rm«°«f y i ffkitimate occupation. When Billy did
ride of late years, he usually had a “ plunge” on
hnnS usually dropped his money, late
MtHo hu nf + hav f Dg rulned the wretched
little bit of constitution he ever boasted, and ren-
& d v, hil ? Z u t fo J the PfcsWn. The last time we
£ a 4 tbe , felici ty Of meeting the deceased Billy, he
had just completed a purchase of some property
a f Newmarket and was discussing the advisability
r£, P 2f *?*; bi8 brother a salary to “ keep his books.’’
fte died in a workhouse, and Fred Archer put his
funeral expenses ° nC0 iQ a way ~ to pay the
* * m
Little Sammy Craeknell rode a really
S v m rU ace ia ,. the Balaclava Stakes at the late
“octmg’ at Caulfleld. Sammy had the
mount on Bohemian, whom he brought up with
52 2 nexpected rush in the last hundred yards, and
f a frl y snatched a neck victory from Too Too,
ffter she had been injudiciously eased. The lat-
tor 8 rider, Hughes, only discovered his mistake
at the last moment, when it was too late to get the
e,!'f 7h Who 18 a , bl k un-going again. Craeknell
isn t the most elegant finisher In the world, but
8 2° mistaking the little man’s earnestness
on the pinch, and he wouldn’t have been caught
napping Ifthe mounts had been reversed. It vai
time, by the way, that Bohemian had a turn of
luck; he was a most disappointing horse to Mr. J,
J. Smart, and lost him a lot of money before
changing hands.
,n ' “ r ™ 0DGHT 0F pbsaceinq to-day
J2 u MIND CDTr,NG IT A LITTLE SHORTER, SIB.
WITHOUT f P ™° PLB W0N ’ T BE ABLE T ° CATCH THE TRAIN
WUHOUT LEAVING AFORE THE COLLECTION.”
-W ,
Augusk 29, 1885.


GOMPAGNONI CATERING GO., LIMITED,
. PITT STREET, SYDNEY. " m
T Municipal CouucU aVciub' 8 &^ atorera to Hla Worship the Mayor.
The Dm mg Salo Finest! Coollbst. and loftiest In the colony.
The^ 8 . G «HS 11 P- m . (after the
Bray tilchtner,
32 O CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
IMPORTERS' .OF SUPPLIES
<5
■fa
CL
L.
m
esr
v
h
£)
Co
IK
S to.
►
Q) .g
Vi
* irs
3
5k
■S«
unun
S'*
o
ki
5k
.0
*«•*
C
&\
5k
«k
n
,u
c
5k
23
•Q
<k
iJSSS
5SS
<k
ft
5k
k>
Z
S' Ml
£
m
Pi w
a S-
& 00
W/Jt
$0' %
Catalogues post free
f* ;to ant part op
AUSTRALIA.
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, best,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments, wlth fu ii instructions for noth**.:
BULL DOGt ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
fTIHE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thlrst-
1 quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass' Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALB, which Is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO.,
Sole Agents.
, VENETIA WALTZ:
Th* Air.to b4 woC market, OiROUfl LowtuiaE.
PP^auitabJA
Ped. •
Pod. *
m
\\r ILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
V V of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
■ Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Sc 0.
■ Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
- Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
F. New catalogues will be ready in a few days and
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &o., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums. Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Bund and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM ~BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
ARTIFICIALTEETH
COMPLETES FT
0 . -J
MARSHALL BRO?
DENTISTS
133 ELI 2 ABETH ST
ICE TO THE TRADI
J^OT
Now landing ex Late Arrivals.
HALF-TESTER NICKEL BEDSTEADS.
HALF-TESTER BRASS BEDSTEADS.
HALF-TESTER IRON BEDSTEADS.
STUMP BEDSTEADS.
FRENCH BEDSTEADS.
BLACK and GOLD BEDSTEADS.
BLACK and BRASS BEDSTEADS.
50 Cases of No. 14 AUSTRIAN CHAIRS.
450 Cases of AMERICAN CHAIRS.
760 Bales of BEST JAVA KAPOK.
10 Bales of COTTON FLOCK.
SO Bales of CURLED HAIR.
10 Cases of TOILET GLASSES (Assorted).
20 Cases of ROWCLTFFE SPRING MATTRESSES
15 Bales of BLACK CURLED FIBRE.
13 Bales of WHITE WOOL FLOCK,
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st., Sydney,
IMPORTER of FURNITURE. UPHOLSTERER,
and BEDDING MANUFACTURER,
(Jp 0 ALL WOMEN.
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
COLD^WATE^ 000^ 111 ® lther H0T ° f
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERT
IN SOAP I
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everythin#
washed with it;
HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and OUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONB TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
BF” Bold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
SB. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers:
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GBNT.’S ... „ ... 60. IS. 6d.; 100, SB. Sd.
LADIES’ 60, 28. Od.; 100, 3s. Od.
Address, 6d. extra.
Meat Business Cards.
100, SB. Od.; 260. 0s. 0d.; 600, 108.; 1000, 169.
NO CHARGB FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
toe n mi to,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Rev. Father Wilds’
EXPERIENCE.
The Rev. Z. 1’. Wilds, well-known city
missionary in New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds, of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
“ 78 E. 54 th St., New York, May 16,1882.
Messrs. J. C. Ayer & Co., Gentlemen :
Last winter I was troubled with a most
uncomfortable itching humor affecting
more especially my limbs, which itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so intense-
ly, that 1 could scarcely bear any clothing
over them. I was also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough; my
appetite was poor, and my system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from personal use
in former years, I began taking it for the
above-named disorders. My appetite im-
proved almost from the first dose. After
a short time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs of Irritation of the
skin disappeared. My catarrh and cough
were also cured by the same means, and
my general health greatly improved, until
it is now excellent. I feel a hundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of the Sarsaparilla, which
I recommend with all confidence as the
best blood medicine ever devised. 1 took
It in small doses three times a day, and
used, in all, less than two bottles. 1 place
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may do good.
., Yours respectfully, Z. P. Wilds.”
The above instance is hut one of the many
constantly coming to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from Impure or impoverished blood, and a
weakened vitality.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of the stomach and
bowels, and thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofu-
lous Diseases, Eruptions of the Skin, llheu-
matism, Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state of the system.
prepared by
Dr. J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Dffiggists; price $1, six bottles
for ?5.
Best
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
PILLS. J)
Purgative Medicine
cure Constipation, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious Disorders.
1 Sold everywhere. Always reliable. /
ELLIOTT BROS, and 8. HOFFNUNQ & CO.,
Hlea Wholesale Agents.
aften sefors H0USTASS- andWE132BES.
Boyd’s Beard FUxirdid this, and
unll do it oneUUer baid ha d or
bare fare . fm res heevy Alone
tar he in fromZto i weeks andn> ver |
• fails, 2o,u(X) young men already"
toear full beards, having used 1 to
3 pkts. jNo injury , easily applied, eertain in effect. _
each, 3 for 3«. (id., post paid p sent under cover, free from observation*
Address, Frank Dougins, Bole Agent, Box 730, G.P.O. , Sydney % N.B. W %
Copyrighted .
Mi
Covjrighted
Packets U. Cd.
THE LATEST WOWS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid i<n the market.
“ Mr.lWililam Ball.—Dear Sir,—Allow me to say
that I find your ‘Bloom of Peaches’ superior to
anythin'!? of the kind that I ever used before. —
Yours truly, Emelie Melville.”
“ Dear Sir,—1 have never used anything equal to
your‘Bloom of Peaches.’ — Maggie Mooke.”
“ Dear Sir,—I have the greatest pleasure In re-
commending Mr. Ball’s ‘ Bloom of Peaches ’ and
‘ Pett-Puder ’ as being invaluable.—Yours truly,
Alice Bees.”
To be nbtalnod of all chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
“ FETT-PUDER,” a delicate and invisible
powder for the face. Beautifully perfumed.
White, Pink, or Cream, to suit all complexions.
Price, 1/6 per box.
Manufactured only by
WILLIAM BALL» , A
The “ Professional ” and Pharmaceutical Chemist,
61 BOURKB STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Agents for Sydney ;
Messrs. B. PROSSER & CO... Wholesale Chemists
G. F. PRIDDY & GO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,'
Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.80 p.m.; Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
43TUDT ECONOMY
and
H avr your Cm bre) m Frain o#
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and mttCe
equal to New, at
J. SULLn&ITb
541 George Street,
Brickfield Bill, between
, » , Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
j Parasols made to match cos-
- —ji tiimai. Repairs neatly ax*-
rates
MBfti ULAS
Bavarian linn
itters. n U r
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of the best Bavarian Hops. Superior to any
other.
They take the first place wherever tried, and are
well authenticated by eminent medical men and
well-known analysts.
Read the reports and testimony which aooom
pany each bottle, and do not forget to make a
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jamu Cttbtis,
TJ'aa.ca.ertstlcer,
84 HUNTER * PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (18) years;
Manager for over ten (10) years.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found
last with the Argosy Braces at Cowing Bros.
£:
%
1
V
s/.
A
A
j.
i
</
w
GOWING BROS.
Have Just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
.Argosy Braces!
Ar*«*y Braces, 2s. «d., 8», a* «d.,Sr 4h. H
GOWING BROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS,HATTERS, OUTFITTERS,*
888 and 498 Oeorss-strMt,


Jjl DRNITURS SHOW EGOR.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H
ALL
FURNITURE,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
HATSTAND8. a nfl
T IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and BLDl
JLi TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites,
stored, at all prices. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
WALL CABINETS tor Choice China, i 0 .
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley
Newton, and Lamb.
N
OVELTIB8 in BOUDOIR and BOW WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes tor single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTC
and LAMB, Spring and O’r
VConnell streets, Sydney,
E
ji IGHT-POUND BEDROOM 8UITE8.-The
"■* Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble ton
and tue back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE
«■» 141, flwrtnn, nlnnfl /»Vi/mI • TDUTlUQtP A T /I
with swing
BOARD, and
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 30s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washetands from 12a. <5d •
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30a.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
x
3
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
aVBRMANTBL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashlon-
O able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TAttLBS In all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Plush, &c.
/"BHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
CTConnell-strect. ,
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, tor
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-street.
u
,RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
J A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES,
ces, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
IHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and Inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Conneil-Bu
c
T
10ILBT PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining -room-side-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-Btreet.
extending
D
INING TABLES, with patent
screw, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet.
WT.E-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
m
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in any
material. —
S
B
F and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very erten-
ive assortment in Chippendale, Early Engusn,
md other designs, which can be upholstered m
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN. _
AGATELLB BOARDS, Portable. Various
i Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
1RAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS—A very exten-
Etna, otner Qesij«,nB, wuicq uu
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
DINING-ROOM FURNI
RAMEWORK
for
P
IOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery,
(pen to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, an*
,AMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
BD8TBAD8. nickel-plated and black and brass
I new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and u am_
B
BDSTEAD8, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
ED DING.— All descriptions at rates.
f BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O
jell and Spring streets.
B
W
A8HSTANDS, with marble, from ®*.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB. _—
"Rustic
, AWN and PARK SEATS 6 feet long. - N
I i Cast-iron Standards, 15s. each. Bradley, R
on, and Lamb. .
DENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very
Assortmant; beat make, low *st pnow
•Klngsiord s Oswego Cornflour superior to all
similar articles in the market.
Scientific judges confess Wolfe's Schnapps
has no equal.
Ball Boom Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated witlr
tw and floral decorations. Artistic effects sbil ,
ully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in disp af
■onsuraraated. 60* Hunter-street, Svdnev.*
Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour takes the full
flavour of every kind of Seasoning,
A cheering cordial for the despondent,
Wolfe’s Schnapps,
SOCIAL
Contrary to the usual course, the festivi-
ties attendant on the marriage of Miss Isabel
N ill, daughter of Mr. W Neill, general manager
of the City Bank, Sydney, to Dr. Bender-
80 a, of Melbourne, preceded the ceremony :
the receotioa being held on Saturday afternoon,
ball on Tuesday night,and wedding on Wednesday
afternoon. The guests at the reception were very
numerous, and, besides being introduced to the
future husband, were shown the many hand-
some wedding-presents. About 300 attended
the ball on Tuesday last, and the splendid
board-room, with its well-kept floor and de-
corations, presented a most brilliant specta-
cle. A programme of 10 dances was carried out to
Cvpital music supplied by Mr. L. de Droen. A
n ivel costume was worn by Miss Alexander, it
consisted of a handsome pale-blue satin covered
with beetles’ wings, and the front of skirt faced
with peacock-green velvet. One of two sisters
trom Rose Bay wore an elegant surah satin with
long train, which latter ornamentation, though
elegant, was a decided bore to the dancers and the
wearer. Her sister looked a picture—thoroughly
Aesthetic. Mrs. Leopold Yates wore velvet with
flowered satin front. Mrs. Willlain Smith a
plain black silk, with train turned down with
orange satin; Mrs. J. M. Purves, crimson silk and
black lace; Mrs. E. Barton, rose-pink silk, trimmed
with cream lace; Miss Ross, black satin and
beaded lace; Mies Lazar, black silk covered with
beaded lace; The Misses Scarratt and Bradbury
both donned old gold satin and black lace, which
combination became them equally well; the Misses
J. and A. M’Credie, in black and white, attracted
considerable attention of a complimentary char-
acter. The “faint lilies” added to the general
effect. Amongst the visitors from Melbourne,
may be noticed specially Mrs. M’Mcihau in ruby
velvet and honlton lace; Miss J. MTntosh. a we.l-
known belle ot the Cabbage Harden, in crim-on
plush skirt, with strawberry satin drapery and
bodice: Miss Lottie Henderson was charming in
cream Mad»as muslin, trimmed with lace; aud
Miss Waor wore white satin trimmed with lace and
draped with silk brussels net The bride's cos-
tume was a rich ivory satin, witb crystal-beaded
front —a really elegant effect Miss Neill wore
a lemon-coloured satin, aud much admired was
Miss C. Neill’s white Indian muslin, with black
velvet traces. A number of our gallant naval men
from the various ships in harbour took part in the
festivities, and later in the evening, Mrs. Carl
Fischer, Remenyi, and Mr. Dan. O’Connor dropped
in, after the concert at the Masonic Hall.
Remenyi entered into the fun with great spirit,
and the morrow’s bride charmed all by her
sweet rendering ot “ 'Twas a dream.' But
It wasn’t, for next day the dingy old Pres-
byterian Church up on Church Hill was
made to look almost picturesque by means of
beautiful and elaborate floral decorations, and
from the street into the church were laid strips of
carpet which told a tale to idle passers-by who
could not withstand the chance of witnessing a
wedding ceremony; consequence was that in-
stead of its being a quiet affair, the seats were
nearly all filled before the conclusion of the cere-
mony. Miss Nelli, who had worn her bridal robe
at the ball on the previous night in obedience
to the coming fashion, donned for the ceremony
a pretty and simple travelling dress of peacock-
blue cashmere, artistically touched with golden-
brown satin, a prettily shaped brown straw hat
with plumes exactly to match. No bridesmaids
and no pages, but music there was of a sort—
Scotch sort, you know—and a camera was hoisted
up to the harmonium loft which photographed
the group at the altar just after the knot was tied.
With the best of intentions, the choir, from the
gallery, showered several pounds of rice on to the
nappy pair, who tried to look pleased and thank-
ful as the hard little grains flew into their eyes,
ears, and mouths. If rice must be thrown after
newly-wedded pairs, why can’t it be boiled first so
that it will fall soft ? Mr. and Mrs. Henderson loft
Sydney at 5 p.m. for Melbourne.
• • •
The anxiety to obtain tickets for Sydney
Liedertafel concert on Wednesday, the 19th, proves
that these entertainments retain their popularity.
There is generally a surprise for us on the pro-
gramme, and this time it was the announcement
that two lady vocalists were to take part in the
concert. This was indeed a new departure, as
hitherto there has been a great dearth of lady per-
formers at the social evenings. Mrs. Atkinson
had already made a very favourable impression
on the Sydney public by her singing at Madame
Kellermann’s matinee the other day; her pleasing
and cultivated style of vocalisation, added to a re-
markably agreeable presence, gaining her many
admirers. When we hear the lady has been in
Sydney several months, we marvel that she has not
been heard of before. Our lady vocalists are not
so plentiful that we can afford to let one of Mrs.
Atkinson’s merit remain in the back ground. A
beautiful wreath and bouquet were presented to
the lady after her first solo. Miss Bmille O’Neill
allowed her ambition to get the better of her dis-
cretion in her choice of a solo. It might have re-
sulted from nervousness, but, certes, her pleasant
voice was attuned a trifle high, and some of her
passages faulty. Her style, however, is far from
being unplenslng, and her solo had the advan-
tage of being charmingly accompanied by
Herr Yogrich, Mons. de Willimoff was down
for two solos, which were both played in his
own tasteful and undemonstrative manner,
but at the same time he wasn t at his best. The
3rd movement of Chopin’s concerto In B minor
lor piano, with string accompaniment, was be-
yond all praise, Herr Yogrich, at the piano, seem-
ing to enter into it with his whole musical soul.
It was a rare treat. The choruses were a trifle
“ off ” in some of the part songs, but in the deli-
cious bit of Abt’s “ Bleep, thou wild rose,” the
voices had evidently warmed, and were mellow
and sympathetic. Capital work was also done in
“ He’s the man to know.” The National Anthem
concluded a concert which, if not startlingly at-
tractive, was certainly very pleasant. When the
crowd untwists Itself and seeks egress at the
various doors of the Exhibition Building after a
Liedertafel Concert, the wonder is how the wearers
of the costly silks, satins, and velvets have man-
aged to contract their apparel into the limited
space allotted to them in the foot-wide chairs for
three mortal hours. It’s a puzzle which is beyond
us to unravel; but there they were—some with
trains and some without, but almost all costly and
elaborate toilettes. Mrs. Gillies, who entered the
building dressed in a long crimson plush cloak,
wore a perfectly fitting pink satin dress, with a
wonderful trimming on the front skirt of chenille
in various colours, surrounded with pinkpompons;
Mts (Prolessor) bmlth, a handsome black dress
with Jet trimmings; Miss Fischer, pink veiling and
cream lace; Madame Yogrich, deep blue velvet:
Mrs Klatau, black dress with white camelbas ;
Miss Jennmgs, white veiling trimmed with bauds
of black velvet; Miss Dean, pale blue satin; Mrs
Atkinson, a black satin skirt, across the front ot
which were scarfs of amber satin, bodice of amber
satiu trimmed with black lane; Mlsa O'Neill, pale
blue Srttin with long train, aud beautiful whlt«
lace dri-ped apron-wise across the front ot skirt; a
crimson cashmere cut low with short sleeves and
totally unrt-lleved by Jaa • or flowers, looked
unique on a young lady with short fair hair;
indeed, crimson gowns for concert and theatre
wear are decidedly in favour. The sanded floor
couldn’t have improved the condition of a magni-
ficent ivory satin bridal train whose wearer trai.ed
its sumptuous length heedlessly along, but v as
brought to bay by an aggressive taca, or nail,
which hooked Itself determinedly on to the edge
of the train, as if to lemlud the lair one that satin
was never meant to be put to such base usage
The hoson told, for the tiaiu was cuddled tfifou-
tionately under the arm alter that. Ladies, it you
value the condition of your husband’s pockets,
don’t wear trains at a crowded concert.
The “ old folks ” at Parramatta had a high
old time on Saturday last, through the exertions
of Mr. Quong Tart and others. A special tram
left the Kedfern station at II a.m., and took up a
large number of visitors. Upon arriving at the
Asymm, the ladies took their little posies round to
the old men, and we noticed one old hardened-
looking fellow burst into tears as soon as he in-
haled the perfume of a bunch of violets tendered
to him by a pretty girl. Perhaps they re-
minded him of the time when he was a gay young
spark, and had his life before him to use well or
ill just as he choose. Heighol it’s mighty sad to
look around and view these wrecks of mis spent
or chequered lives and think of what they
might have been I and what tales of romance
and wrongs these rugged old men could unfold an
they would—infinitely more touching and won-
derful than any fiction. But whatever they
have been, or whatever they are, they roust
feel grateful for the efforts of Quong Tart
and Co. for trying to give them at least one
day’s happiness before they give up the ghost. A
sumptuous luncheon was provided for all, also
brand new pipes and tobacco. In the afternoon a
concert in which Misses Vaughan, Heaton, and Mrs.
James, Messrs. Hallewell and Quong Tart distin-
guished themselves, after which tea was partaken
of, then dancing. Mr. Chapman read out some
verses composed by one of the Inmates of the
Asylum which feelingly told how thankful they all
were for all this considerate kindness shown to
them. Mrs. and the Misses Denny had contrived
to decorate the Asylum tastefully, with flowers,
flags, etc. One of the old men presented Mr.
Quong Tart with a very handsomely-carved walk-
ing-stick as a graceful acknowledgment of his ap-
preciation of his kindness to him and his fellow-
sufferers. We hear that the next object of Mr.
Quong Tart’s benevolent efforts is the Macquane-
screet Asylum.
m * *
Another of the popular Sydney socials
was held in Needs’ rooms on the 18th lust., and was
attended by about 60 couples. Mrs. Abrahams
wore a handsome dress of rich cream satin,
trimmed with lace; Miss Kelly, black satin and
lace; Miss Levy, pale-blue and coffee lace; a
Manly belle looked charming in pink veiling and
broche, relieved by cream Spanish lace; a dress of
cream veiling, cut low and sleeveless, adorned
with flowing crimson ribbons, looked very nice;
and a bewitching costume was of pale lavender
veiling, flounced with lace; a charming dress was
of pure white cashmere, trimmed with swansdown
ana holly; and a cream satin, trimmed with crim-
son velvet and lace was tasteful.
• * ♦
Paling and Co.’s big room was filled with
a critical audience, who met at the Invitation of
Mons. Edouard Mathe, last Thursday evening, in
order that they might test his merits as a pianist.
Mons. Mathe is a recent arrival in Sydney, and
contemplates fixing himself here as a profes-
sional musician. It is not too much to say that, as
a pianist, the young artist made a most favourable
impression, his touch being of the finest quality
and his execution accurate and brilliant. Each
item he played was greedily listened to, and his
own compositions show decided originality. He is
a worthy representative pupil of the Conserva-
toire of Paris, and should not fail to find sufficient
encouragement to Induce him to remain in Syd-
ney. The programme announced that Mons.
Mathe would improvise on any theme suggested
by one of the audience, provided the simple air
were produced, but as nobody seemed able to de-
cide upon a theme, the company broke up un-
satisfied as to Mons. Mathe s powers of improvisa-
tion. Mrs. Atkinson sang, and Mons. De Wllllmoff
played the violin solo given by him at the Lieder-
tafel the previous night, and was induced to re-
spond to the encore.
• * *
The second ball of the Londoners’ Club
took place in the Town Hall on Wednesday, the
19th last., and was considered to be an all-rouna
success The dresses worn were in many cases
very elegant. A tall dark lady wore a combina-
tion of pale-blue and cardinal Bilk, train of such
dimensions that it was just as much as the wearer
and her partner could do between them to carry
the load of superfluous drapery through the
dances. Another trained robe was of rich white
satin, garnished with the deepest shade of red
roses. A pair of sisters wore handsome black net
dresses with clusters of crimson and yellow roses
across the fronts of the skirts, and round the
bodices. A nut-brown satin underskirt and polo-
naise of velvet in a darker shade, caught up with
sunflowers, was very tasteful. A pretty lady
wore heliotrope silk, draped with white lace, and
decked with marguerites. An airy sort of cos-
tume was composed of an underskirt of cream
tarlatan, over which was a bunchy drapery of
same material, caught up with crimson satin bows,
bodice also of crimson satin. A black satin,
trimmed with red roses and silver leaves, looked
well. A pale pink skirt, with blue bodice and
straps of blue satin round neck and arms, was
rather uncommon, and a dove-coloured reppe
skirt and cream plush bodice laced up the back,
was unique. A tiny lady, dressed all in blue, had
her programme full quite early in the evening,
and danced like a fairy. Supper good, and music
ditto.
• • •
If ever clouds were unwelcome, they cer-
tainly were last Saturday, the day of the muoh-
talked-of bicycle sports. But spite of the uncertain
sky, both grand stand and lawn were crowded
with well-dressed ladles and their beaux on this
eventful day. Conspicuous on the lawn was
a literary lady, who wore a man’s fliped cap,
around which was twisted a silk puggaree of a
mashed mulberry colour; the hair, which was
worn at the back of the head—the prevailing
fashion—was weighted with an enormous golden
dagger. The polonaise of crimson and blue was
worn over a black skirt, and a necklet of coins
completed this peculiarly-devised costume of
dove-coloured cashmere. The kilted skirt was
edged with a feather ruching of the ma-
terial, over which was a faultlessly-fitting
redlngote, also bordered with a ruching
and lined with pink satin. The witch - shaped
bonnet to match had for sole trimming an ex-
quisite bunch of pale-pink flowers. A pair of
sisters were neatly clad in light brown serges,
trimmed with dark brown velvet. Miss Shorter
wore a rich ruby and blue brocade polonaise over
a ruby satin skirt, and a becoming blue velvet hat.
Miss K. Yeend’s pretty face smiled under a Corn-
wallis West hat, trimmed with crimson ribbon. A
rich black corded silk, relieved with a white vest,
was particularly neat, and a moss-green costume,
worn in conjunction with a white bonnet
trimmed with pink, was striking. A small
but conspicuous object was a little fellow in a
moss-green jacket and short pants, with a large
leghorn hat lined with green plush. A few spring
costumes were refreshing to the eye after contem-
plating the gorgeous and heavy winter garbs.
Most elegant was a pale eau-de-nil silk made with
redmgote shaped over skirt, small white straw
bonnet trimmed with pale-green flowers. A white
piqu«5, unrelieved save by a broad black leather
belt, was, perhaps, rather too summery-looking
for the;day. Miss Perdrlan was very elegant in a
green costume with hat to match; and a black
■ilk dress completely covered with beaded
net was universally admired. A quaint dress
was of gray cashmere sprinkled with large black
horse-shoes, and draped with black cashmere.
Although many wore "dusters” or ulsters, no-
thing very new in the style of these wraps was
) otio< able—small check material being still in
f vour. 1 he cyclists should, indeed, feel flat-
tered at the numerous and brilliant gathering
assembled to witness their sports, and a great ma-
jority of the ladles Seemed to lake almost as much
Interest in watching the races, as in comparing
other folks’ costumes with their own. Yes, indeed.
V » •
’the ’cyclists scored another big success by
their ball last Monday night in the town Hall, lor
it was one of the most brilliant affairs of the
season. The room was sparsely decorated with
tligs, and here and there a bicycle dressed up for
kde occasion with a few yards of blue ribbon, re-
posed pUci ily against the wait. The crowd was
too substantial to allow of dancing being alto-
gether enjoyable until the supper room was
opened, when, owing to the counter attraction of
Compagnoni, matters were decidedly bettor. Pity
It couldn’t have been thrown open an hour
or two earlier in the evening 1 Several cyclists
appeared in their sporting costumes, which, in
cases where nature had been kind with re-
gard to the lower limbs, became them well,
and, Indeed, looked far more picturesque than
the everlasting swallow-tails. The ladies had
evidently put on their very best bibs and tuckers—
at least gowns—for this auspicious occasion. Per-
haps the brightest and most charming of all was
Miss Wood, in a sheeney white satin dress, plenti-
fully draped with rich white lace, and adorned
wltn large horseshoes of violets—the bodice cut
low and sleeveless, and round the neck a string of
pearls; another fair one was Miss M’Crae, whose
tall, graceful form was clad in a pale-blue veiling
flounced to the waist, bodice cut low, with
short sleeves, which were met by long crim-
son silk gloves-crimson ribbons put a charm-
ing finish to the costume; Miss Dean wore
a short-sleeved black dress of silk and lace,
aid round the hips was taken a pale-blue silk scarf
which fell in loose ends at the back. Miss George
looked pretty in a costly pale-blue plush, which
was made with a plain skirt, and edged by a rich
border of white chenille fringe; bodice cut square
fern* trimming, and around the neck a handsome
necklet of shells. Mrs. George wore ivory satin
trimmed with lace, and pearl ornaments. Miss
Trevellyn skipped in as soon as “ lolanthe ”
was over, wearing a close-fitting cream satin; Mrs.
Patrick, pink satin garnished with white lace, and
pearls in the hair; Mies Crocker, a billowy-looking
skirt of white tarlatan with waterfall back of
white spangled grenadine, bodice low and
sleeveless with here and there a touch of
old-gold ribbon and flowers; Miss Pitt, cream
merino flounced with cream lace and adorned
with a profusion of satin bows; Miss Phil-
lips, a white Madras muslin skirt, a pale-green
velvet bodice, ribbons on skirt to match the
bodice; Miss Shearsby was pretty in a white grena-
dine dress, and wore over the lull bodice a broad,
pink satin Swiss belt; a handsome lady wore a
buttercup satin, much trimmed with lace and
clusters of crimson roses, a steel coronet on her
head, and necklet to match—a very rich and
striking costume; Miss Adams wore a pure white
costume of merino and satin, with plentiful loops
of white ribbons flying from shoulder to skirt; a
very handsome costume was of shrimp-pink satin
and ribbed ruby velvet, ami a fawn satin bodice,
over a skirt of pink and fawn satin, was very
quaint and pleasing All the bicycle champions
and tne Victorian visitors were present. Twenty-
four dances down on the programmes, but the
inevitable “ extras ” spun the ball out to a most
unfashionable hour. By the way, the ’cyclists
don't shine as dancers.
• ♦ ♦
One ot the fairest and sweetest of Madame
Charbonnet-Kellermann’s “ grown-up ” pupils
is. next month, to be led to the hymenial altar.
The Day is already fixed.
• * •
A grand ball in aid of the local Mechanics’
Institute took place at Junee last Wednesday.
Ladies’ dresses were charming.
• • •
The Woollahra Private Assembly held at
Needs’ rooms on Friday, the 21st, was, as usual, a
brilliant success, thanks to the “ perfect floor,
good music, unflagging energy of the committee,
and Baumann’s carefully laid supper.
■ •
On Friday evening last the dance at the
Asbfield School of Arts had a lively little rival in
a Jolly hop at Miss Clarke’s ladies’ school, given by
Mis. Swanston and her pretty daughters as a fare-
well to their many friends. As a number of the
guests had to return to town business started early,
and the floor proved simply perfect—almost too
smooth, it possible. If Pans had to choose among
so many of five’s lovely daughters he would have
found it hard to decide to whom to give the
“golden apple,” and would long hesitate between
a fair little be le from Glebe Point, a gazelle eyed
hourl from Glenmore Road (still low down in her
teens), and a neat little brunette who waltzed like
a very fay. Among the best of the waltzers must
be placed two of Judge Wilkinson's daughters, one
in lavender-blue, and the other (a recent debutante)
in cream nun’s veiling. The two daughters of the
hostess looked particularly graceful and bore their
part well. Miss Pox appeared in black grenadine,
the Misses Hungerford, one in black, and the other
in white and red, and Miss Lamb in light blue.
• * *
On Friday evening last the members of
the Alexandra Cricket Club entertained some of
their friends at Tattersall's Hall. The room was
prettily decorated, and there were about 50
couples present. The honour of belleship was
divided between a lady from Croydon in sea-foam
nun’s veiling and broche relieved by coffee lace,
and a brunette from Glenmore Road in a ruby
velvet bodice and skirt of pale-blue nuns’ veiling.
Two sisters from the West looked charming, the
one in white satin and the younger in a rose-pink
satin body with skirt of veiling in same shade. • A
black lace dress trimmed with trl-coloured ribbon
looked exceedingly well on a lady from Neutral
Bay, and a lady from Womerah (Avenue, in blue
veiling, trimmed with cream lace, was much ad-
mired. Other pretty dresses were-a heart-of-
rose pink veiling and broche; a cream veiling,
trimmed with cream lace and pale-blue ribbons; a
crimson velvet bodice over a skirt ot coffee lace; a
pale-blue ottoman silk; a light blue silk bodice
and grenadine skirt; and an old gold duchesse
satin bodice over a lace skirt. The success of the
evening was in a great measure due to the kind-
ness and consideration of the Ms.C., Messrs.
8mlthera,and Mortimer.
The employees of Anthony Hordern and
Sons entertained themselves and friends to a pic-
nic last Saturday afternoon down the harbour.
« « •
The fourth of the Cootamundra Asembly
dances took place last Wednesday evening in the
Assembly Hall, and was most enjoyable and
creditable to the promoters Dresses were all be-
coming and pretty, especially two of pink satin.
A rich costume was worn by a young lady from
Ruthory Station; and a pretty slate-coloured veil-
ing had a nicely-contrasting drapery of pale-blue.
The Cootamundra Hospital Ball Is fixed for the 15th
of September, and the A. P. H. and I. Show for the
15th and 16th of September.
• • •
One of the Sydney reunions was held at
Nithsdale on the 19th.
m • •
On Tuesday the 18th instant, the Carring-
ton Club gave their first plain and fancy dress ball
at Professor West’s Academy, which was beauti-
fully decorated with flags and evergreens. The
dresses of the ladles were greatly admired, the
majority being fancy costumes, and those of Miss
Gorman as a Fairy; Miss Read, Daughter of the
Regiment; Miss Mountford, Folly; Miss Smith,
Cinderella; Miss Mahony. Starlight; and her sister,
Neapolitan Fish Wife; Miss Merricks, Girl of the
Period; can be classed amongst the best. Miss
Radcliffe wore an evening toilette of rose-pink silk
trimmed with a darker pink satin. Mies Renwick,
a beautiful claret satin. Amongst the gents were
two niggers whose antici helped to keep things
lively. There was also a Pirate King, and Sol-
diers, Sailors, Jockeys, and last, but not least, a
Member of the “ Foorce.” During the evening,
Mr. Steel, who officiated as M.C., was presented
with an Illuminated address. Catering by Edwards
satisfactory, and good music was provided by a
string band.


QUOD FACIMU8 VALDE FAGIMUS.
(What we do we do well.)
TOUR PHOTO.- If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
oouusel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
, . You will thereby be but endow-
ing the almost universal opinion that in ail the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices-C-D-Y.,; Cabinets' 30s. per dozen.
CREELMAN A CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADF.
~0 RMONS’S
SWISS CIGARS
Have been recognised as the BEST for half a
century.
SOMETHING FOR NOTHING!
THE
BONUS SUGAR AND TEA COMPANY
Give with their
PURE BLENDED TEAS,
at3j. and3j. 0d. per lb.
BONUSES
as undermentioned:
4lb«, White Sugar with every lb. of 2/- Tea
(fibs. Yellow ,, „ 3/g
Or 4 bs. isnowdrop Sugar ., 2/« ”
Or, 3lbs. Finest English ”
Loaf sugar „ 2/6 „
IS?” WITH EVERY 151b. OF 21- TEA 601b OF
SNOWDROP, OR 701b. YELLOW SUGAR.
TlfLoW ,T !; R^S RY 9N I^D?y /0 O T a B l 1 K:
OOT*oIe“o° ° l «■= ™3T FHBNOa
One trial will prove the superiority of the Teas.
Sole Agent for New South Wales ;
J. W. ASKEW & CO.,
209 Georga-straat Wasf,
SYDNEY.
IMPERIAL CLUB HOTEL
.Richard Street, Rourke,
THE above Hotel is now open for the accom-
modation of Residents and Visitors to Bourke.
«o expense has been spared in the Furnishing of
Hie above, and the Proprietor guarantees that*all
nnm? n 8 e ®tahliehoient will meet with every
comfort that modern civilisation can procure.
ROOMS CAN BE ENGAGED BY TELEGRAM.
Wines and Spirits of the Best Brands.
GOOD STABLING.
*. J. O’GRADY, Proprietor.
F
SHlNG TACKL
Wholesale and Retail, as under:—
Plaited Silk Pishing Lines, 2?., 3s 4s 10a 2T
each. Twisted Silk Lines. 3dl, 3L, ed'./fc *
Is. 6d., 2s , 3s., and up to 10s. each. Fishing Rods,
large assortment, from 2s. 6d. to 50s. each. Winch!
for do, 3s. fld. to 30s. each. Artificial Flies, t
iwrwi Fi8b r’< Fr °F8. Insects and Spoc
CMGng Lines. Cork Floats, and Po
SHSjP* Floats. Hooks on single and double gu
§°ok8 on afi lmp a S d b r ass and copper wire, Hhar
Hooks, Silver Steel Fishhooks, Hollow Poll
Limerick Hooks, ordinary Limerick and Ken
Hooks, .treble lag Hooks. Our own make mi
chine thread Fishing Lines, from 3d. to 3i, (id. eacl
He ?? Undressed Pishing Lines, mad
specially for fishermen. Also, our special 1(
yards Machine Thread Fishing Lines, wonderful)
strong, yet very fine. First-class Salmon Gu
Colonial-made Lines of every description. Flshin
Nets, Cork and Salmon and Herring Twine.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
411, GEORG E-STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MOST WONDERFULLY VAKIOOS
ASSORTMENT OP LITTLE BOYS’
KNICKEKBO K*R SUITS
in Australia.
9-
1
A SPLENDID SUIT OF THE MOST SUPERIOR
QUALITY, 6/6.
PERFECT IN BYBRY WAY. AND IN ALL SORTS
OF PATTERNS.
Cloth in* Department is daily thronged
with those who have proved the excellence of our
ffootfs, and this Sprln* we caa promise Better
VALUE THAN EVER,
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket only.
Aunal Income exceeds One Million*
«»«*
•Si
Llirhtninfr and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
NEWS FOB SYDNEY.
ew Price List,
Carte de Visits 15 s . per dozen, Enamelled
Cabinets ... ... ... 35*,. per dozen, Enamelled
Eoucloirs ... ... ... 55s. per dozen, Enamelled
NO SECOND PRICE. ENLARGEMENTS of Every Description Specially Arranged for
The Manager will Attend every Saturday Evening from 7 till 9, to arrange for LARGE WORK
Boyd’s New Palace of Art',.",5“,'“ 5/“«L } 354&356 Qeor<re-st
(Over Paling's). ALFRED WILLIAMS. *
Alex. Borthwick. r .
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c. " ,aSS>
SSI O-eorgre-st., S3rd.rn.e3r.
A.J.O. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON,
91 Sing-street.
MT N.B.-I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
For light pastry, cakes, &o„ Just try Kingaford’s
Oswego Corntlour.
The success of IFol/c’s Schnapps in these
Colonies has bseu unparalleled.
Darling, I am growing old,
Silver tnreads among the gold;
From Summerfleld 1 will obtain
A suit—’twill make me young again.*
The Renner Manufacturing Co., of Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania, U.8.A., make an extraordin-
ary offer to agents, and those wanting employ-
ment, to sell their Kenner Combined Alarm and
Door Bell, in the different colonies and counties in
Australia. It is endorsed by over 3000 pubiisners
In the United States and Canada, and by the 100,000
who are now using them on their doors. It has
never been sold by the trade, but by agents alone.
It will pay 100 per cent, profit, and sells from $4 00
to $6.00 each. Agents in the United State* nav>
taken as high as 23 orders In a single day. It sell*
readily on its merits. General agents who can
handle a number of counties, or one of the co> -
nies, can secure those they want by being the first
to comply with our terms. Large lllustrati d
circulars, containing terms and prlce-lls', will be
Sent free. Andress: Kenner Manufacturing
Co., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, U.S.A, *
No kitchen Is completj without Kingston!
Oswego Cornftour.
The world-renowned tonic and stimulant
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Dear Peg— The last few days have been so
molstly warm that we besrin to feel as if our stock
of winter starching would need careful harvesting
to last out the long summer, and the ever-return-
ing “How shall we dress ourselves?” has been
very much uppermost. Fortunately, the shops
have anticipated our difficulty, and have made
their windows distractlngly attractive with a
variety of lovely things. So your desire for in-
formation on the all-important subject comes op-
nortunely. Canvas is the material of the day, and
is to be had in all colours, plain, st r ped, or figured;
it possesses many off-shoots that are radically the
same, but have such different names one gets be-
wildered; however, its distant and most admired
relative is etamine, which looks very like bunting,
only slightly changed by hereditary descent. I
did not care for the figured or striped canvas, but
the plain, in its natural colour or else in ficelle or
drab, is decidedly nice. It looks well made up
with striped velvet and gauze or satin in brown
shades. For tennis dresses nothing could be a
prettier trimming than the new canvas sash rib-
bons in Roman colours
For fetes, canvas trimmed with dentelle de
laine of the same colour, and touched up with long
loops of bright striped canvas ribbons, would bo
very effective This dentelle de lain3 is to enter
largely into the composition of our gowns this
season. As its name implies, it is a woollen lace of
varying width, from one inch to skirt lengths, and
may be had in imitation as well as real, and re-
minds one of sak lace in wool instead of
silk or thread. It is novel and effective
rather than pretty, and can be bought in
aoy shade, from white to deepest chocolate.
Cotton materials deal much in geometrical figures,
raised spots, and oblique designs. The “ red rage”
does not threaten to be quite so violent this season,
though the colour is introduced into the composi-
tion of moat stamped materials. I have not yet
seen the Sumatra creponne, a mixture of cotton
and thread, which is said to be so fresh and supple.
The “between-whites” fabrics are nun’s veiling,
and llama in new shades Matronly dignity dis-
plays Itself cn fete in brilliant-hued satin, clouded
with gauze or grenadine much embroidered with
heads—lead or silver being first favourites—unless
the foundation is reddish, when the beads are of
the same hue. I saw a very handsome dress the
other day, of black gros-grain lace and jet. It was
guch a relief, after the shiny satins, broches and
surahs, to rest one s eyes on the rich dead corded
silk, that only wanted the refined facs and figure
of a lady to make up the beau-ideal of a modern
style.
Ball-dresses for young folk are of tulle, net, or
lace with satin bodices, and tarlatane is also being
resuscitated. Prom Paris comes the edict that
corsages of various colours embroidered with
bsads worn over a white lace skirt on a foundation
of satin transparent of the same colour, are to be
“the thing;” for instance, the "filet” corsage,
embroidered with silver beads over a satin trans-
parent of sky-blue, rose, poppy or lilac, or the
“Oasaguin” in black grenadine embroidered with
lead beads over cardinal satin. Styles in hats and
bonnets are legion,the great aim being to make hat-
crowns as much like a sugar-loaf as possible,
though I hear large ones in coarse straw d la
Gainsborough will hold their own against all ec-
centricities. Bonnets are to be made of lace beaded
with beads of unequal size; or in straw, when they
are trimmed with flowers, fancy laces, gauze, rib-
bons, or etamine. Apropos of nothing, I must
warn you against a shade of green that is much
affected by a certain class; it is a “greenery-
yallery ” composition, that pretends to De the
Chartreu?e-green Mrs. Langtry wears so becom-
ingly, but is only a painful parody.
Do you know alpaca Is once more to the fore ?
Its resurrection has come from quite an unex-
pected quarter, another species of alpaca goat hav-
ing been discovered in the recesses of Asia Minor,
whose hair is even more valuable than its South
American cousin. It is capable of producing a
still softer and brighter material, It is as cool as
batiste, soft as the softest silk, while the gloss is
both delicate and brilliant. Messrs. Howtll and
James, of London, are its sponsors, and'call it the
"Queen Victoria Alpaca Mohair.”
Fashion, with all her fickleness, is generous in
that she gives us an increasing variety of materials
to choose from each year. She may be a little
arbitrary in her choice of the survival of the
fittest, but what else would you wish ? After all,
It resolves itself into the wisdom of eld, "Man
was made upright, but he has sought out many
inventions”—with which we clothe ourselves
While my big brain is taking stock of Giles’,
Farmer’s, or Jones’ windows for your edification,
my small one is trying to evolve a theory on a
fancied affinity between our garments and the
class-distinctions which are each day becoming
less defined In these exponents of fashion I find
plebeian stuffs, such as canvas, elaraine, and even
scouring flannel cheek by jowl with the purple
and fine linen of velvet or satin, and forming a
harmonious whole by the force of contrast that
brings them together,
Mrs. Alfred Gilles gave a very charming juvenile
dance on Friday, August 3lst., at her beautiful
residence, Hinemoa, Edgecliff Road, in honour of
her only daughter’s birthday. Dancing com-
menced about 7.30 p.m. in the double drawing-
room, and was continued by the small folk till
10 30, when they were regaled with a most
rkherchi supper and departed, leaving their elder
sisters and brothers to finish the entertainment.
Two large marquees on the lawn served as re-
frtshment and supper rooms; they were carpeted
and tastefully decorated with flags and bunting,
and lighted by innumerable Chinese lanterns, as
were also the enclosed verandah and the garden,
Simple, high-necked frocks, in variations of white
cream, pink, or blue were most worn by the
juvenile portion, while the toilettes of their
mothers or grown-up sisters showed nothing new.
Mrs. Gilles was in a handsome cream brocade;
Mrs. Darley in cream; Mrs. Benjamin Gilles, a
sparkling, gipsy-like brunette, looked very pretty
m a short cream frock: Mrs. Nott, black and pink;
Miss Ida Gilles, la pure white, carried a lovely
bouquet of violets and white hyacinths. Miss
Nellie Watt, in a pale-pink frock of quaintest
simplicity, with no trimming other than rows of
tale pink satin ribbon round the full skirt,
t be Misses Madge and Annie Throckmorton
were in almost Identical gowns. Miss Mabel
Laidley, white nun’s veiling and lace—she
carried a lovely bouquet of white flowers;
Miss Mabel Grey, in sea-green satin and
•ace. Miss Mabel Salomons, a pretty pink free*
tbe four pretty little Miss Westons wore spotted
biscuit muslins trimmed with lace and tartan
»*snes; Mies Pmnkett, cardinal satin. Among the
guests were Mrs. and the Misses Darley. Mrs an
t? e Misses Weston, Mrs Nott, Mias
tbe Misses and Masters Grey, the Misses daiomoi 8
JJwses and Master Austin, the Misses Loughna. ,
fi r - and the Misses Ward, Mrs. Wrench, the Miss< s
and Master Throckmorton, Mr. Norman Dudley,
MJS3 Laidley, Miss Farquhar, Miss M‘Hardy, the
tu? 8 Ddsby, Mrs. ana Miss Kelly, Captain Pike,
“teutenant Arnold, Hon, Lieutenant Boyle, Mr,
Ouston, Mr. Langon, Mr. Blackett, Mr. Moore, Mr.
Corbett, Mr. Weston, Mr. Gurnet, &c.— In all about
100. Dancing was continued till after 3 a.m.
Admiral Try on and the officers of H.M.8. Nelson
gave a delightful juvenile dance on board their
vessel on Thursday afternoon, August 20 The
day was as cloudlessly brilliant as only our early
Spring days can be; ashore, it was decidedly hot
but the cool breezes from the harbour tempered’
the heat deliciously, and by 3 o’clock the Nelson’s
decks presented a very gay appearance. Amor a
the company ware Mrs. oarley, the Misses Darlev
Mrs. T S. Mort, Masters Mort, Mrs G. Knox. Mits
Ruth Knox, Mrs. and the Misses Busby, Mrs Cecil
G lffiths, the Misses Griffiths, Master Griffiths, Mrs
A. O. Garrick, the Misses Garrick, Mrs. He ry"
Hangar, the Misses Oangar, Mrs. and Misses
Airey, Mrs. G. Walker, Masters Walker, Mrs s
W. Gray, the Misses Gray, Mrs Wrench, the
Misses Throckmorton, Mrs Qilles, Misses Gll.'es,
Mrs. Lmgen, the Misses Linger, Mrs. B sdie Ki«
and Master Bisdie, Mrs. S. A. Stephen, tne Misses
and Master Stephen, Miss Barker, Mrs. Austin, the
Misses and Master Austin, Mrs. Richardson, Misses
and Master Richardson, Mieses and Masters Watt
Mrs. Weston, the Misses Weston, and many others.
The upper deck waa covered in with I Biting, and
handsomely decorated with Ho were ann liags. The
bridge was made particularly attractive by aa
artistic arrangement ot small ilags and shields,
but the capstan was the piece de resistance by virtue
of a happy combination of arum lilies and
camellias. This I believe was the work of one of
the midshipmen. Refreshments were served on
the main neck. The usual dancing programme
was varied after every second dance in consider-
ation of the many wee children to whom “ trip-
ping lightly in rhythmic motion” is not yet the
mmmum bonum of existence. First a clever ven-
triloquist gave a performance, afterwards two of
the tars did some wonderful step-dancing. L«t
of all, the girls and toys had the tug-of-war, over
which there was hoggins ot fun. Nun’s cloth or
washing dresses were most worn, especially bis-
cuit muslin, trimmed with velvet. Tnere were
some cbarmmg costumes worn by pretty little
maidens. Little Miss Knox had an exquisite frock
of pink satin, a tiny er-arees of real cream lace
and large granny’s bonnet of cream lace
and pink notions. The Misses Gladys and
Ruby Griffiths in quaint white satin, out
low with lovely old point - lace collars
in a shade of ficelle, puffy; Kate Gree away
sleeves, big white satin bats covered with cream
feathers all after the fashion of that pretty pic-
ture, ” Quite ready.” The Misses Bingen wore
soft creamy muslin frocks, the lace llounots
prettily caught up with rod rosettes, like tne wide
surah sashes. Miss Mabel Laidley, ficelle canvas
trimmed with brown velvet; Miss Mabel Salo-
mons, a perfect costume of blue-grey satin and
cashmere, made with a semi-tight Watteau back-
granny bonnet, gloves and parasol to match; the
Misses Dangar, olive-green cashmere blouse
dresses with cream dresses; Miss Kitty Darley, In
ruby velvet and Tam O’Shanter, her sister in old
gold plush. Dancing began at 3 p.m. and was kept
up till 5.30 p m., to the music of the bands of the
Nelson and Vernon.
A highly successful private assembly ball took
place at Hunter’s Hill on Friday, August 31st.
Tbe pavilion was gaily decorated with bunting
and quantities of evergreens, and lighted by num-
berless Chinese lanterns. Dancing commenced at
8 p.m , and was continued till 1 a m. to the music
ot a good band. The guests numbered about 130.
Mrs. Garrett Anders in, M D , gave a most interest-
ing lecture on “ The Nervous system,” in the Glebe
Town Hall, on Thursday evening. It was a repe
tition of one that she delivered during the ladies'
ambulance-lecture course, and was so highly ap-
ftreciated that she was requested to repeat it pub-
icly. This she did on Thursday in aid of the Glebe
Hospital for Sick Children. The attendance was
very good, the front seats being quite full. She
spoke strongly on the subject or heredity, and
summed up progressive development for good or
evil as the cumulative infiuences of education act-
ing through many generations. It is a matter oi
regret that Mrs. Anderson’s visit to Sydney is
almost at an end; she returns to England with
her husband and family by the outgoing Orient on
Saturday. Speaking of this lady M.D.,—the first
Englishwoman who dared to embrace a profes-
sional career in the face of almost insurmountable
difficulties, and who has proved so well the axiom
” nothing succeeds like success,” —brings to my
mind the advent to WoolJahra of a new medical
practitioner, Dr. Ellis. Ho is a fresh arrival from
England, and is regarded with interest as being the
brother of Miss Kills, one ot the only two lady-
barristers in London. It is not generally known
that women have embraced the legal profession:
this ignorance arises probably from the fact that
they do not plead in court, but content
themselves with chamber-work, I think that is
the right expression, but don’t pretend to under-
stand legal terms. It is an odd coincidence that
brings before our notice in this distant colony two
successful proofs of the force of mind—of mental
ability over physical weakness and the strong
bonds of custom.
An engagement is announced between Lieu-
tenant Clarke, of H. M. Undine, end Miss Joseph-
son, eldest daughter of the Hon. J. Josephson, of
Fairfax Hill, Double Bay,
Mrs. A. C. Garrick, of Passy, Hunter's Hill, gives
a large juvenile fancy dress ball on Tuesday, 35th.
Mrs. Wrench, of Caradon, Albert-street, Woolla-
hra, has issued invitations for a juvenile party for
Friday evening, the 29th.
CORRA LYNN.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
[Note.—Social items, in order to ensure inser-
tion for the current ween, should be to band no
later than Tuesday.]
“Carrington”: Perhaps next week.. “L.C.”: Not
of sufficient interest....**Braidwood”: Too
late.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Glebe Point Private Assembly, Glebe
Town Hall August 38.
Opening of Grounds and Pavilion at
Bronte, Nelson’s Bay August 39.
Select Social, Town Hall, Pltt-street,
Kedfern August 31.
Grand Entertainment, Vic. Theatre,
Parramatta, of ** Bichelieu . September 3.
Mayor of Petersham’s Ball, Petersham
Town Hall September 24.
Railway OHitiers' Picnic, Botany September 30.
QUONG TART FOR WEST SYDNEY.
An Opposition Candidate.
* 8 reported that Quong Tart, the
philanthropic Chinese tea-merchant, will go in for
Parliamentary honours next general election.” —
Tis as we thought—nay, prophesied;
It burns upon the mystic chart;
'Tis writ by Fate, upon her slate—
A Memh«r, sure, will be Quong Tart I
oh, Quong, those tears and scones
were well bestowed, upon thy parti
Tnat childlike grin, too, of Ah Sin,
Will do the trick for sure, Quong Tartl
But ere you in your triumph flaunt,
Know we’ve a member In our heart 1
He’ll quickly score when once here. . . For
King Billy we have sent Quong Tart.
It will probably be found, when “ the
numbers are up ” in the matter of the appoint-
ments to that fine, well-crusted old nominee insti-
tution, the N.S.W. Legislative Council, that the
following individuals will be entitled to prefix to
their names for ever (so far as this world Is con-
cerned) the coverted title of “ Honourable J.
M. Creed, surgeon (now of Woollahra, formerly of
Bcone, and sometime a member of the N.B.W.
Legislative Assembly), an agreeable young gentle-
man of about 38 years, who knows many good
stories and delights In telling them; C. K. Mackel-
lar (the well-known Macquarie street medico
at present medical adviser to the Govern-
ment); Alexander Dodds (who long repre-
sented a northern constituency, and is said
f° be not quite such a fool as the ordinary
Legislative Councillor); John Lackey (ex-Minister
of Works, who, when the Government Land
Bill was before the Assembly voted against the
second and for the third reading. Mr. Lackey Is
well known as having helped to give many of his
relatives to the State, and, consequently, a little
bit of the State to his relatives); Benjamin Levy
(son of the defunct Hon. Levy. Benjamin sub-
scribed £1000 to tne bogus Patriotic Fund, and Is
called to the Council in the goat-slaying interest —
also as a sop to the sons of A' - aham); Dr. Morgan
O Connor, of VYagga, a burly old medico, whose
appointment is expected to keep the Murrum-
oidgee sweet and to please the K.C party; old
®am Charles, of Kiama, a quiet, harmless uo-
SIwi'a’ HhBiday, ot Brookong, who comrlouted
±*JlU0 to the Arab butchery ; Uenry Moses, a
tame squatter, who for years represented the
Hawkesbury, and, more recently, Canterbury;
Pigott, the Sydney solicitor, ex-professional
partner of Mr. Trlckett, the present Minister of
Education; W. G. Murray (ot Gibbs, Bright, and
Co.), and W. A. Long, brother-in-law of the
Attorney-General. It is rumoured that In
Cabinet a late ex-M.P., who figured at the Gosford
banquet, was proposed forme Upper House, but
was blackballed, as it wasn t thought he had brains
enough, even for such a place. It is said that the
Governor objects to nominate more than eight:
but his Excellency has been so obliging to the
Ministry that it will be a great pity should he
oppose this nice little arrangement tor squaring the
Laud Bill and justitylng the nigger-shamble busi-
ness.


POLITICAL POINTS.
Extract from the speech of George Wash-
ington Hall, M.L.A. for B-malla, in favour of
Berry’s Licensing Bill:—"The Victorian Licensed
Victuallers were howling while our hospi ala and
gaois were groaning, whilst our lunatics were
shrieking, and whilst tb« devils in hell were danc-
ing with frenzy and delight, Jot king on to s« e how
far the drink traffic c um 1 beextended throughout
tbeb lonv! Gao.se Washington, immediately
after the dellv rv of this, waa made a J P
Hou Jonu Gavail Uuffy will be a candi-
date for the Sp ftKershlp—a P"gt O 'Oe he'd by. h 8
father Sir Cnarli-s—1.. the next Victorian Parlia-
ment ' It is hardly 1-kHy that the present occu-
pant of the chair, Mr Peter Lalor-Saint Peter—
will ooouuy a seat In the next Assembly At tne
last election he only got in by a few votes Mr.
Lalor (who is a son of a well-known member or
the Commons), is one of the ablest Speakers that
have presided over a colonial Legislature, although
some think he is somewhat high-handed.
Mr, Guesdon, M.P. for Central Hobart, is
about as orthodox as one man can be. When Mr,
Stokell, the new member for Richmond, came
forward to be sworn in, Guesdon straightened up
and protested against swearing in a man who be-
lieved in neither God nor Devil. But Stokell took
the oath and his seat. And now the objector sits
in pious horror awaiting the Inevitable meteoro-
lite. When Stokell accepts the Devil as a hard
fact. Guesden will resume his former oyster-like
aerenitv. but, as it is, he can’t help wondering
what in thunder a M.P. who discards Lucifer is
going to do for a model.
The new Licensing Bill now before the
Victorian Parliament allows grocers to sell grog
as heretofore, notwithstanding the fact that both
teetotallers and hotelkeepers demand the imme-
diate abolition of grocers’ licenses. Mr. David
Gaunson (who, by the way, after speaking for
two hours, the other day, told the House that the
balance of his oration would extend oyer seven
hours more) accounts for this by the fact that the
Premier (Mr. James Service) is the head of a large
wholesale grocery lirm that supplies grocers aad
not publicans. The Mayor of Melbourne says the
Bill ought to he intituled “an Act to prevent the
supply of liquor to public-houses, and to permit
James Service and others to supply grocers.”
This paragraph from Life is interesting,
as showing the reliability of some of the sensa-
tional anti-Irish telegrams sent to the colonial
papers: —“Imaginative Irish reporters who manu-
facture outrages for the English market should
really be a little careful.. The latpst atrocity was
said to be that the panel of a stalned-glass window
erected to the memory of Mr. Burke by Lord
Spencer, in the church of St. Saviour, Dublin had
been removed and destroyed by felonious hands.
But, on Inquiry, It appears that the plate had
merely been removed for repairs! At this rate,
there is no i'mit to outrages of this nature, for
whenever an Irish official sends his clothes to the
wash we shall doubtless hear that ne has been way-
laid and forcibly stripped of them.”
“Lord Randy”—as the would-be leader
of the new Conservative Ministry is called-is
qualifying himself in literature. A Manchester
inquirer wrote to him to prove his assertion that
“ Mr. Gladstone had often made incorrect state-
ments, for which he had refused to apologize.”
His lordship’s answer was—“ In reply to your
question you are advised to study, with care,
Hansahd’s debates for last two Parliaments, as
well as the speeches of Mr. G. in Midlothian and
elsewhere. As it is evident that you are a person
with little or nothing to do, this interesting study
will prevent time from hanging too heavily on
your hands, and cannot fail to improve your
political knowledge and Judgment.” For the pre-
sumed leader of the Conservatives this is not bad.
Some years ago Prince Leiningen, when in
command of Her Majesty’s yacht in the Solent, ran
down the Mistletoe in broad daylight. Several
lives were lost. Was he tried for manslaughter ?
We smile. Was he not a German and a Prince 7
He has now been appointed to command at the
Nore The Duke of Edinburgh has been given
the command in the Mediterranean. He got an
enormous fortune with his wife, is a pronounced
Russophile, and enjoys the privilege of being the
best disliked of all Her Majesty’s progeny. Curses
both loud aa<J deep are .reverberatiug through
the navy owing to these two appointments. But
so utterly lost to all decency are the British au-
thorities of to-day that soldiers and sailors of long
service and tried ability would have no chance
against an anthropoid of “ Roval ” blood. Nothing
but a great national disaster will bring the nation
to its senses.
Says the Moruya Examiner of the newly-
appointed NSW. honorary magistrates:—'"Con-
siderable disappointment has been expressed at
our representatives not completing their ‘sop-
throwing’ by appointing our town bellman, Mr.
Ge Tve Crosby, to the list of bought-over-for-the-
nex'-election gentlemen ” The C ndelo Union
left-handedly remarks:—“ When the late batch of
magistrates were struck we might have had, on
the whole, better men appointed for our part of
the globe; but we are sure we could have
had much much WUR3E; and if we are not
too late in doing so, we offer our congratu-
lations to those ge itlemen in our district
who have been recently selected to fill the high
and important position of magistrates of the ter-
ritory.” It is always pitiable to see the honest
country editor harassed on one side by an almost
uncontrollable desire to tell the truth, and on the
other by a frenzied yearning for his bread and
butter. Thus tho Hay Standard “ It can hardly
be considered good taste on the part of the Minis-
ter for Works to have recommended or sanc-
tioned the recommendation of no less than four of
the managers of branches of the private business
conducted in his own name, but such is the case, as
their names appear in the list of new justices.”
One of the events of the ensuing session of
the N.8.W. Parliament will be the enunciation of
a charge of corruption against a member of Assem-
bly whose personal character has hitherto been
unchallenged. The accuser, who has in the course
of his tempestuous political career, managed to
change the colour of more than one man’s repu-
tation, asserts that the accused a short while since
accepted £35 from a constituent under circum-
stances utterly incompatible with his position
as a member of Parliament. The Govern-
ment were about to resume a piece of land
which they valued at £300. Tho owner, who
demurred to the valuation and wanted £100, wont,
he alleges, to the accused member and offered to
give him £35 on condition of his getting the
Government valuation raised from £300 to £100.
This, the accuser says, was done, and a cheque tor
£35 (now impounded by the prosecution) accepted
by the accused. The latter, however, asserts that
his action la the matter has been straightforward
throughout, and that he will, when the proper
time comes, be able conclusively to show that he
has done nothing to justify a withdrawal of public
confidence. The quarrel is “ a very pretty one as
It stands.”
You all know him; for his beauty has
made him famous You will all remember the
school children’s song about him at Cow Gully,
during hi recent triumphant progress. Let us
see—how did it go ? Ah I —
You don't want any more of the lyric, we suppose
We respect it, ourselves, as being a little thing of
the man’s own, and constituting, as it were, a
chunk of his feelings. And, it is as well, in these
uncertain times, to have some property. We
remember the thing attracted some attention at
the time; and we understand Cupid has had it
placed iu a gilded Oxford frame, and “cooked up’
over the miniature Captain Cook statue, which
reposes on a side table, together with the casket
containing the order of Ring Bustifus, of CocOt
aud the Freedom of the City of Bondi,
“ Three cheers for R. B. Smith I
And pray propitious fate
Have him returned, have him returned
For our electorate!
“ He’s eloquence and wit.
We’ll be in such a state
More German Annexations. —The Flying Dutchman of the Pacific.
“GERMANIA RULES THE WAVES.”
If R. B. Smith is not returned
For this E-lec-toratel
“ He’s courteous, and he’s bland;
He pats you on the pate;
There is no one but R. B. Smith
For this electorate!
“ His rivals then beware!
We’ll fight a battle great,
And seat, In triumph, R. B. Smith,
For this Elkc-tor-ate.”


WANTED IN EVERY HOUSEHOLD a Canister of
Williams’ Australian Yeast Fowler!
Williams’ Yeast Powder
HAKES LIGHT DREAD. TEA CAKES,
and PASTRY,
HALF-POUND TINS, SIXPENCE.
Beware of Imitations.
TAKE ONLY WILLIAMS’.
This YEAST POWDER, the first manufactured
in the Australian colonies, baa from the outset
maintained its position as the Premier Yeast
Powder ; and, in spite of severe competition, its
radius of consumption has steadily increased.
WILLIAMS’ AUSTRALIAN YEAST
POWDER is the most economical of Baking
Powders, and sold at Sixpence the half-pound
canister.
Wholesale Depot:
VIRGOE. SON, CHAPMAN,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY,
CHAS. OTTE & GO.,
Electrical Engineers,
113 Pitt Street.
Electric Batteries for surgical and household use, Electric Bells,
Private Telephones, Electric Lights, Lightning Conductors, Dyna-
mos and all Electrical appliances fitted at the shortest notice, at
25 per cent, under usual price.
WILLIAMS s
mf
'A/V
m
TJ
Z
H
AUSTRALIAN
AST POWDER
manufacturers AND PATENTEES-
PON CRIMWADE.& CO-
CHAS. OTTE & CO., 113 Pitt Street.
f
, and CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
, aii MACS!
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS,
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COAOHBDILDKR8
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &o.
iAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
ALVANISBD CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
HBET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
IG IRON and LEAD
ILS, PAINTS, and
BRU8HWARB
bncing WIRB
WOOLPACKB
3 BARING SUPPLIES
UILDBR8’ IRONMON-
GERY
DLLBD H GIRDERS
Us
*alm
i
u
r e
'wm
PORTABLE, FIXED
and SEMI-FIXED EN-
GINES
VERTICAL and HORl-
ZONTAL BOILERS
TEAM and
PUMPS
other
_ LATHES, PLANING,
‘ SHAPING, SCREW-
BflftCUl gS5HINK8 DBILLINQ
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
- FOUNDRY
(lilf
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, Ac.
Price Lifltfl and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
* a - 64 YORK STREET,
Head Warehouse - _ _ HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
Iron anl Implement kara _ _ HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR,
Balk Stores SYDNEY.
London Office . - - - 86 QRAOEOHDROH BTBBJT,
Qiticura
limited
■mos
OVEROVOOF 1
frsrmf*
pss
\S-
'rt/NsVL
-m
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER
m- LOHOHBON AMD BBFBE3HMBMT EOOMB FOB LAD1E3 AMD GENTLEMEN.


W. WALKER and SONS
LONDON and SYDNEY.
}
Catalogues
POST FKBB.
W. WALKER
and SONS
Catalogu es
POST PBB*
j
ALL STOCK
in their
SYDNEY
are one of the
Largest
HOUS1
Stockholder*
Sappily
and
dikbot
Manufacturer!
their
a
Loudon
Hirn-elaae
Manufactory
FURNITURE
*nd Lateat
London Styln
kNGLAND.
Quabantud
SYDNEY: BRANCH;
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a hed of sickness,
‘take cheer, for American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will cure yon.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘weak and dispirited, without clearly
* knowing why, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Revive yon.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘and work, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Restore yon.
“If you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your avery-day duties, or a man of let-
‘ ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Streughten yon.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
‘ pation, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, as is often the case, Am. Co.’s
Hop Bitters will relieve yon.
“ If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel -
‘ that your system needs cleansing, ton-
‘ ing, or stimulating, without intoxicat-
‘ ing, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters is what yon need.
“ If you are old, and your blood thin
‘ and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Am. Hop Bitters will give yon new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS, as made by the Ame-
‘ rlcan Co., is an elegant, healthy, and
‘ refreshing flavouring for sick-room
* drinks, impure water, etc., rendering
‘them Harmless, and sweetening the
‘ mouth, and cleansing the stomach,’’
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with Hop Bitters,
And you will hare no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in
bottle. Shun all others as vile poisonous stuff.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £100,000.
•' Head Office : Melbourne.
New South Wales Branch : 171 Castlereagh-street.
Victorian Directors :
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P.,
Chairman
Hon. J. F. Levlen, M.P.
Thomas Learmonth, Esq.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
N. 8. Wales Directors:
Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Frank Cowley, Esq.
George 8. Yeo, Esq.
nUFOCDf valllC) OUOUJ/j * igOi OUU "ObO iuduiwm
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
Causes on land, rail, or at sea.
Marine Risks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted.
The only Live Stock Insurance Society in the
olonles.
Full particulars can be obtained from the under-
signed.
Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
A. J. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.
Office, Royle’s Chambers, Bond-street.
B
A U D B
4711
COLOGNE,
4711.
Established 1798.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1872; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873
This Bau de Cologne, so favourably known to
te Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
ilned at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
rlze Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
xhibition, for its superior sweetness, strength,
id invigorating qualities, excelling all other corn-
et has "become the great favourite of the public,
id is extensively patronised by the 51ito of
ThePSirge and constantly increasing demand for
le aenuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only in
u rone, but also in North and South America,
idia, and Australia, is further undeniable evl-
ance of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
umerous spurious imitations with the genuine
•izo Modal tQO V ICUUtt JJAUIUIWVU xo luai rvxuxx
eoeeuliarGothic blue-and-gold label (different
om all the others), and marked 4711.
wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
wno street, Sydney.
a had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
jrokeepers, in town and country.
Screeohowl Mackuy, M.L. A., of Victoria, is
not satisfied with the reports of speeches of
members of Parliament which appear In the Mel-
bourne daily papers. He wants a daily Hansard
published in which the wit and wisdom and
courtesy of thelrepresentatives of the people shall
be set down word for word. Hash man I There is
a fable In the Lettish language of a crow that was
mortally afraid of a scarecrow set up in a cornfield,
until the scare-crow grew so proud and careless
that when the days were very warm it used to take
off its clothes—such things occur in fables—and
coolly stand at its ease. One day the crow came
and caught it exposed, and saw that it was only a
naked stick. The crow lost all respect for it from
that moment, and ever after used to come regu-
larly, and calmly roost on its hat. The crow repre-
sents the public, the scareoro w the Parliament.
Mr. Mackay can do worse than take this little
leason home to think over.
A Robinson Crusoe and his wife have been
found leading an Adam and Eve life on one of the
Fijian islands. The place is called, from its shape,
Cocked. Hat Island, and there Jive, as sole occu-
pants of it, Edward Thompson and Mrs. T. She is
a semi-savage from Marquesas Islands. Thompson
has endeavoured to realise one of the desires of
Tennyson’s “ Locksley Hall.” Locksley, as we all
know, was desirous to marry similarly to Thomp-
son, and to rear. In some South Sea Island, “a dusky
brood.” He only poetised about it, however, but
our Cocked Hat man has realised it-being an
American and a practical man. Like Abraham
Lincoln, he was a shingle splitter, and, having
saved money, emigrated to Fiji, and there bought,
for £70, this Cocked Hat for himself and wife. He
found the wife on his way down by a call upon the
other islands. The pair live in the most primitive
manner, little troubled with clothing, and with no
aid from the hair-dresser. Thompson’s hair and
beard are of a length to supply the needs of coat
and waistcoat. His wife’s clothing is merely that of
her complexion, A trading schooner occasionally
puts in at Cocked Hat Island, but such visits are not
welcomed by its sole occupants. Mr. and Mrs.
Thompson do not receive visitors—their religion
does not allow of it. With an Island all to them-
selves, they have got a faith equally their own.
One of its practices lathe Jewish observance of a
*• Passover lamb ’’—procured from another island
at a certain time of the year. The observance of
saints’ days is very strict with them. Any
stores landed upon Cocked Hat on such days are
looked upon as untouchable, and left to rot or
wash away upon the beach. It is told of a couple
of dissenting Presbyterians in Scotland that they
dissented from this Church and the other until
they belonged to none. “ You represent then the
true visible Church in yourself and your hus-
band ?” said a visitor to this dissenting pair—ad-
dressing the wife. “ Yes I—that’s just it 1—but
I’m nae sae sure of John I” was the answer. Reli-
{ious mania leads to strange things, but we hope
hat Mr. and Mrs. Thompson will agree in their
Cooked Hat Isolation, as otherwise the look-out
for such ‘‘Locksley Hall’’ happiness is very gloomy.
Are you an Arsenic Eater?
How much arsenic have you taken, and how
much corrosive sublimate, mercury, etc. have
you applied externally to cure your itching and
scaly humor, or scrofulous swelling or sn-ef?
Enough.no doubt to paralyze every effort of nature
to cure herself. Away with all poisonous reme-
dies and experimenting physicians. Take the
CtmcuRA Resolvent, the new blood purifier,
Internally, and apply Cuticura and Cutiouba
Soap, the great skin cures and beautiflers, extern-
ally, and be cured as thousands of the wors; esses
have been, by medicines which are of purely
vegetable origin.
Why will people dose themselves with
medicine when they have Wolfe’s Schnapps?
Klngsford’s Oswego Cornflour can be obtained
M|lb. and lib. packets.
That invalid wife, mother, sister or child
can be made the picture of health with American
Co.’s Hop Bitters. Observe
Wolfe's Schnapps taken three times a day-
will make a different man of you.
The purity and excellence of Eingsford’s Oswego
Cornflour is unequalled.
SuLE IMPORTER OP
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
. 197 PITT STREET.
SOL.B AGENT FOB THE
SMITH
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
5th Half-Yearly Sale.
JULY, 1885.
ROSSAL1E, LLOYD & CO.,
354 George-street. Sydney.
Wa beg respectfully to inform our numerous Customers and the Public generally, that
our USUAL JULY SALE has commenced in the usual way. The Ladies of Sydney
will no doubt remember what bargains they hare purchased at our previous Sales;
therefore we venture to think that a great and speedy clearance will be effected, and
we trust by our well-earned reputation for really new goods, Ladies will determine to
attend the Sale.
SSOSS-A-XdXB, XJZJCrZTD CO.
354 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
CEX
SEATED
BISCUITS AND CAKES, TREACLE ANN COLDBH STEEP,
Self-raising /Erated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOE SUPERIOEITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.^®
8. & A. have obtained First Awards all oyer the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.B., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
Sydney Agents; W. H. ARIELL & CO., 343 and 345 Kent-street.
By the Stream.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By the river where the quiver of the light just
flecks the stream,
And the long reeds scarcely shiver, all so sotttne
breezes seem, , , . ,
Mem’ries haunt us of the bygone days of which
we sometimes dream.
Days of gladness, days of sadness; how the mur-
mur calls to mind ...
Many a deed of youthful madness, long with
young days left behind,
Ahl our lives, how like the river, pass but no re-
turn we find.
From us going, like the flowing of the ripple with
the tide,
Youth and beauty Time is mowing—down upon
the stream they glide:
Stay, we cry, oh happy moment! Vain! Time will
not be denied.
Vain our crying, madly trying to detain one single
hour:
Even while we grasp ’tls flying, shorter lived than
frailest flower
Still we clutch at empty shadows with our little
feeble power.
earnest praying, times delaying, weeping for the
bubbles past,
Not one hour or ripple staying, on the tide rolls
Just as fast;
Thus wo waste our life’s brief moments—then wo
join the stream at last.
O. B.


A BOON TO THOUSANDS!
\Janhood and Vigour of Youth
Restored in Four Weeks:*
DR. RICORDS
ESSENCE OF LIFE
Restores manhood to the most shattered and debilitated con
ititution from whatever cause arising, in FOUR WEEKS,
Failure is impossible if taken according to the printed di-
rections, which are very simple, and require no restraint or
hindrance from business.
This invaluable remedy affords relief, and permanently
cures all who suffer wasting and withering of the nerves and
muscular tissues, Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Disturbed
Sleep, Trembling Sensations, Dizziness, _ Spermatorrhoea, all
Urinary Deposits, which cause incapacity and degeneracy,
total and partial prostration, and every other exhaustive de-
rangement of the system ; regenerating all the important
elements of the human frame, and enabling man to fulfil his
molt sacred obligations. _ . .
In cases at 12s., or four quantities in one for 36s.; if by
coach, ss. 6d. extra.
NATURE’S GREAT REMEDY!
DR. RICORDS
SANATIVE PILLS
For strengthening the system, purifying the blood, regulating
the bowels, and removing all vitiated humours, bilious and
Liver Complaints, Rheumatism, Gout, Scorbutic Affections,
Costiveness, Skin Eruptions, and all diseases of the nervous
system. This never-failing remedy affords at once a new
lease of life to the sickly and aged of both sexes, imparting
a beautiful and clear complexion, a sure sign of health,
strength, and vigour. Price, as. ; by post, ad. extra.
AGENTS FOR SYDNEY :
Messrs. W.BARCLAY & CO.,
43 G 0 VLB UEJi STREET,
One Door from George Street South,
And may be had of most Chemists.
Parcels packed securely and free from observation, sent to
Queensland, New Zealand, or any part of the Australian
Colonies, on receipt of Post Office Order or Stamps.
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
Lost Vitality, &c.-A simple and positive
means of Self-Cure, by an eminent
French Hospital Ihvsician. Sent Free
Medico, P 0. Box 766, Sydney.
CIEIUCB
or
life
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses maybe
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur.
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Sell Preservation. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
So found by the author, whose experience for
ZV years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. 800 pages, bound in beautiful French cloth,
lull gilt; guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 bv
moil, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should be read by the young for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
alb —London Lancet.
Addressthe World’s Dispensary Medical As- IIP 11
sociation, or Dr. W. E. Parker, No. 69 Hunter H t A L
Street, Sydney, N.S.W. The author may TUVOn
Vr.,F cmsulted on a11 diseases requiring I M I OL Ll
•kill, secrecy, ami experience.
MOULTONS
FRUIT
unrnS COMPLAINT positively cured by MUCLTON’S
vttuii PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and na
®f“PP° T '“fcne nt s. MOULTON'S FRUIT PILLS also cure
M EI0USNESS . Prevent CONSTIPATION and DV3-
LPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
“earty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
UVI1I{ ' re « ulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
ts BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
S? own > purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit),
*oey are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price la. 3d.
C. E, MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
Marshall’s
TONit NERVINE
A n ._„ MOISI1K1D.
8AfR, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURB for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Loss of Vital Power, &c. By Its tonlo
ana soothing effects it at once removes all craving
°°h°l. By Its richness In phosphorous and
vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
th« Lt. NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
Bofo2.« 0l !!i^ jr8t ®S\ ** rlce * *8- ®d u or 25s. a case.
MARSHALL BR0TH3R8,;M.P.B.
■ymfaoturlng and consulting Chemists, 104 and
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869. 7
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital non ’
Reserve Fund ..SfiMOO
Dirbotors:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.O.M.G., Chaim
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George 8. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gldloy King, M.L.O.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.Q.
Auditors:
Jaa. Scroggle, Esq. I Hon. H. B. Cohen, Br-
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wades •
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford. Nvmran
Bourke, Manly, Byerocb, and ParramattaT
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
_. , _ Directors :
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G | Geo. H. Alexander Esa
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan
Business on the most favourable tern «
Bills discounted dally.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo.
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
NEUSTADT ~and CO.,
COMPLETE
FURNISHERS,
39.154, 156, i 158
SYDNEY.
tr HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERT REQUISITE,
™ Either for Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF T7PHOLSTEKER8 KEPT, AND ALI
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
sulTcrins,' from the
effects of joiitlifill
errors, early decay.
•. t i i ui un ill.
lost vitality, premature decline, nervous weak-
etc., I will send you particulars of a
»main, simple, and sure means of self cure,
r rco or Charge. Address, iu confidence,
Prof. M. 33. TAYLOR,
68 Elizabeth St.,
SYDNEY N.S W.
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of William-street, Hyde Park.
High-class Furniture
Prl ces, compatible with the finest
workmanshtp and finish, for entrance halls,
dining-rooms, drawlng.roems, bedrooms,
and libraries.
CARPETS IN NEWEST DESIGNS AND
FINEST QUALITY.
WILTON CARPETS BRUSSELS CARPETS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With Hearthrugs to matoh.
CORLIC1NE AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL AND
BLACK AND BRASS,
In all sizes and various designs.
U8TRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY,
Established 1873.
Capltal-£100,i
) per cent, paid annually since 1873?*
ODIHI,
D n £ ia recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of y
_ , FIREARMS,
makera CtUre6 by the mo8t colebrate(1 English
qfThefact that he hw been^anointed AGBNTfo”
Oolhd
the following tuum.-jum.
ItTfio 1 *L 0 ram LA . ND a & 80n *< London;
CO.f London. N ’ London ; CHAS - OSBOKNE &
BCJS8Y & CO.! 8 Lo^dOT I ? T f ° r tb6 em,Dent flmof
“ v *-“*LLifully Guaranteed at’
602 Goargo.st., Sydney.
where Inspection is Invited.
Champagne
Heldmleck A Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
01 ALL WINK MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS ft Co., London.
«ole Aaronts for Heidaleck & Co„
E USE IPEMELL'S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
ui a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
___«ew Process Machinery.
The PRICE Is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED GOOD.
VICTiOB IA FLOUR MILL
«»l Seorfce-street, Sydney.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Ym ! and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
The “LOUIS’*
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
- Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the "LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of " Louis."
I May be had from all
| Drapers throughout
* t! e Colonies, most
1 oi whom will
k's:nd patterns
• I'OST free on
application.
HR
DR. O CONNELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
SYDUEY, U.S.W.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases, c h ran ic,
• skir* aud special diseases,
UR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. EsjpVial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or indulgence,
producing some of the following effects—Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Pace, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
manent safe, and private Symptom list free, and £y SU ° CeS8, Cure8 per *
of ev®ry kind'fro P,mp,eS * Blotches and Eruptions
™S d08t f °u Ce in A " stralia < whcre every known appliance's
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the groat number of cases annlvin/the
charges are kept low-of ten lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skfl? a
X™ perf6Ct hfe Cure > that is the important matter. Book, lo pages. Lnt free Call on o t
addreSS DOCTOR J. O CONNELL, 9 *
52 Castlereagfli Street (oKotruD floob), Sydney.
OFFORD & CO.’S
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
652 aEOHGE
HATS
STREET.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of "
DIVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
.Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
BF* Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing.
Plumbing, Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic BelLMtin*^
of every description. *
BOULTON’S “PLUSH-OUT,” •• VALVE.”8™. “VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 8 Macquarie Place p Sydney
Full particulars and price on application. * J
FLAVOUR and unaurDnsse r?
Crispness distinguish Wi)sonWm« d
ncan “Extra Toast ” liUCTIira ?? e '
breakfast, luncheon, tea. oP dessert!
nothing equals them. D-llcious tun
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agent®,
♦t Sussex Stheet, 8 to net.
m
CO
o
/ZD
-v
■ \
E fi#i
ii
Head Office*. ®>*a»
®°°lety established lu me coiony on
the Mutual. pnnclple, Riving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
al?Uab&It dei8 Bre perfectly free by law from
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
WALTER CRTJRCH, Manager.
Head Offloes-PITT and KING STREETS.
DR. BRIGHT’S PHOSPHODYNE
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental ana Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility, Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and Is a
marvellous medicine for renovating impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought unon the
individual a* to the process. It moves the lungs,
liver, heart, kidney, stomach, and Intestines, with
a harmony, vigour, yet mildness unparalleled In
medicine, and is the most powerful blood purifier
of the present day. Sold by all chemists.
Agents— Euliott Bros.


DR.SCOTT'S
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by; he
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
If you have any pain, ache, or ill-feeling
from any cause; if you seem “ pretty well,
yet lack energy and do not “feel up to the
mark;” if you suffer from disease, we beg
you to at once try these remarkable cura-
tives. They cannot and do not injure like
medicine. Always doing good, never b arm.
There is no shock or sensation felt in wear-
ing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during the
first hour they are worn their wonderful
curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all
the old-time health and good-feeling come
back. They are constructed on scientific
principles, imparting an exhilarating,
health-giving current to the whole system.
Professional men assert that there is hardly
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily
practise the same, as your own physician
will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance
from those usually worn, as we substitute
our flat steel magnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in quality and design.
They are elegant in shape and finish, made
after the best French patterns, and war-
ranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents.
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &o., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece ©f common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
m ran
54 Margaret-street,
SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 231.
The prices are as follows
No. 1
No. 2
No. 3
No. 5
(<j. o
Electric Belts..
..6 6
... 8 6
.. 10 6
.. 15 0
.. 15 0
PALL MALL
You really ought to drink Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
The most delicious of all preparations for Pud-
dings, Custards, &o., is Klngsford’s Oswego Corn-
flour.
When worn down and ready to take your
bed, American Co.’s Hop Bitters is what you need
to relieve you. See.
About the best thing you can take is
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Most popular amongst the ladies is Kingsford’s
Oswego Cornflour.
“Bendigo Mac.” died the other day, and
this Is how his obituary notice runs:—“Aged 76
Sears, late Police Magistrate, Sandhurst; son of
le late Captain M‘Laohlan, 64th Regiment; cousin
of Sir P. A. Campbell, K.C.B.; first cousin of Lady
Fonsonby, and beloved father of Mrs. C. J. Ander-
son.” Death has many terrors, but this is the
greatest of all. To think that, while you are
shivering with apprehension In the celestial lock-
up waiting for your turn to stand in the presence
or the Unknown, those you left behind may be
telling the world, not that you dried a widow’s
tears or fed a hungry child, but that
one of your male cousins was a “K.C.B.,”
and one of your female ones a “ Lady I”
Horriblel And now for “Mac.” He was for
many years police magistrate at Sandhurst. One
of his ancestors, it is said, lost his life at Culloden,
fighting on Charlie’s side. Had “ Billy the
Butcher ” not rested satisfied with murdering this
progenitor, but had scalped the whole M‘Lachlan
clan, the world’s progress would not have materi-
ally suffered. Indeed, had Cumberland cleaned
out all Scotland as he was about It, instead of
“scamping” the job, think of the sickly theology
and healthy thistles from which he might have
saved us. [A Scotchman writes this.—Bn, B.j
“Mac.” was imported from Tasmania for the pur-
pose of ferreting out and dealing with the convicts
and tlcket-of-leave men who were crowding
to the Bendigo diggings. The army, the navy,
or the hulks is about the worst school in
■which a man can be trained for civil employment.
This was especially the case thirty or forty years
ago, when soldiers, sailors and convicts were
treated with a ferocity, the savage details of
Which make the blood surge with Indignation.
Detective Simon O’Neill was Mao’s factotum at
Bendigo. When a prisoner, whose looks or manner
suggested an acquaintance with leg-irons and a
yellow suit, was ‘’run in,” Simon would employ
all his blandishments to ascertain the prisoner’s
antecedents. These he would place before the
magistrate in the morning, when the latter would
put up bis eye-glass, and, frowning at the dock,
say: ,r Ahl So you call yourself A. B., do you?
well, well. When I knew you, sir, in Hobart
Town you were In Robinson’s gang, and were
called C. D. Think to get at me, do you?”
&o., &o. “ Mao.” was short-sighted, and like
many military officers, before and since,
had the cerebral development of an average
anthropoid ape. So he made mistakes. Once he
had a respectable publican-father of a highly-
cultivated young Sandhurst banker —stripped for
the purpose of discovering any marks the “ oat ”
might have left upon him. This little sparkle of
fun cost him a few hundred pounds. Another
time a bighly-intelligent citizen got the worst of a
single-handed conflict with a gallon of Thunder’s
stout, and lay down in the creek to think. This
Stout, we may tell you, was a potent liquor
under whose Influence we’ve heard men sing
songs of coarsest ribaldry and make love to
other men’s wives with an eloquence and sincerity
that water could never supply. Mac. looked at
the prisoner with peculiar vindictiveness—mis-
took him for a “ T’other-sider ” "You here
again,” he howled—" three months.” Then podgy
g he resembled a beer-vat perched on t«o
cork-screws—twittered up, and “ Mac,” seeing hia
mistake, bawled “ Stop 1 I’ll give you one more
chance. You are discharged, but if you come—.”
The citizen waited for no more, but reached the
newest public-house by a flank movement which,
for brilliancy of design and rapidity of execution,
still holds its own. “ Forty shillings, and take him
away,” was the standing sentence on “ drunks.” A
song having this refrain was made by Thatcher,
and the exasperating ditty, yelled to every variety
of air, made night hideous in Sandhurst for many
a year. Upon Billy Heffernan, of the Shamrock,
its effect was painfully grotesque. When Ben-
digo’s wild oats were sown, and the town put on
a veneer of civilisation, “ Mac” changed also, and
on his departure received a purse of £700.
There is a lot of cheerful significance in
these two lines of poor Hugh Conway’s:—
“ The fear lest the hand or brain should fall
As we work for the bread we eat.”
We have been very much in that direction our-
selves; yet we can safely say that we have not
known either our heart or brain fall us, even when
the Fresh Food and Ice has been rampant out in
the street, and the landlady in the passage is ask-
ing us riddles about how we expected her to pay
her rent when we were 37 weeks behind; and a boy
at the window, over from the fruit shop, with a
memo, demanding “immejat payment, as you’s
going to do a slither.” This reminds us—and we
hardly know why-of a ourious thing that once
happened to us. We were chartered to do a long
descriptive article of vast importance, and, in
order to secure ourselves from interruption, we
borrowed, for a couple of days, the ebambers of
a brother Bohemian (who had gone away to lubri-
cate a country uncle), and settled down to write.
We had about a column or so more to
do, when a jo vial-looking party looked in, and nod-
ding to us, seated himself before the fire and began
to smoke. “ One who knows the ropes, evidently,”
we think, and scratch steadily on. At length, the
last slip is written, and rising up and stretching
ourselves, wearily we exclaim—" Now, for a can
to Botany.” On this, the jovial stranger arises
with a laugh, and touching us on the shoulder,
says—“I am a sheriff's officer; you are my
prisoner. 1 knew what you was a doin’ of bless
youl The price of that there writin’ will jest
about make up the money.” ... We deferred |
our trip to Botany until the sky was clearer.
Messrs. J. A. Macpherson and Co., of
Maryborough (Q.), have issued a circular which,
for comprehensiveness, can show a clean pair of
heels to anything ever put out In the colonies.
The Co. Is absent from the first paragraph, which
opens airily with the condescending announce-
ment that: “Newspapers In want of a Mary-
borough correspondent may communicate with
me. Single-minded newspaper work is very much
to my taste. Newspapers In want of a good town
or special reporter, or in want of an entertaining,
reasonable exponent on questions of general pub-
lic Interest or perplexity, might see me If a better
proved man is not at hand. Or I would favour-
ably entertain an offer to write for payment by
the piece or column. The editor or proprietor can
in all cases name the subject or subjects on which
he wishes me to report or write. He may put the
question or questions and limit the space—after
that I must have a free hand.” Note the sturdy
independence of that last sentence. Then, after
touching lightly on the question of payment,
Messrs. J. A. Macpherson and Co. sums up his
opinions concerning the necessity which every
newspaper is under of having “ A column ex-
clusively In the interests of woman, treating
her as a rational, intellectual being, with a
mird and responsibilities of her own, and to a
gre .fc extent ignoring all questions of dress, fiction,
and other frivolities, which is. I think, much
caU-td for.” This shows that J. A. M. and Co. is an
acme observer, hut he is also a merciless critic,
for ! ie further writes: “ Women are very deceitful
and great time-servers, and sadly in need to be
shown the error of their ways. A large number
of men, equally limp in the back, have got the
same traits. Apart from the style, the primary
obje et of such a column is to report what is going
on; the news of the day, in such a manner as to
met the difficulties and perplexities and wants of
women.” Although we cannot but admire the
impartiality which includes both sexes in a joint
condemnation, we are yet to believe that
J. H. M. and Co. is a single man without much
experience of the other sex. Any benedict (what
a wealth of sarcasm there is in that word I) knows
that it is dangerous enough to show one woman
the error of her ways when fire-irons are near.
The colossal task of teaching propriety to the
whole sex is beyond even the conception of
a married man. From females and their frail-
ties the advertiser tumbles down to a store
and half an acre of land to let for eight “ bob ” a
week, and after disposing of that and touching on
secretaryships, farmers and bush agency, finance
and auditing, the hugeness of the business seems to
have burst upon and appalled the present com-
pany, for he says, “ Believing that a business can
scarcely be efficiently conducted by one man [this
depends, by the way, upon the business and upon
the “ one man ”] we are on the look-out for one or
two-men” as partners, to which is added the
candid admission, “capital not necessary, for we
have none or next to none.” Then the question of
Labour Agency is dealt with. For employes the
fee is “ one week’s wages,” to be paid In advance,
but to be re-paid if no situation is obtained.
Novelty is Introduced to this branch by the follow-
ing cautious deltveraace:—“ It seems to us just
possible that photography may, with propriety and
utility, although a novelty, be introduced into the
labour agency business. Perhaps not, however.”
Next letters and petitions are alluded to. These
are written at “charges less than reasonable.”
“ Advertisements will be drawn up in any style
except the lying and slangy,” and “speeches or
addresses prepared with or without the element of
drollery.” Then account work concludes the list,
and as the circular drops easily and lightly into
the W.P.B , we regret that a firm of such large and
expansive ideas, such perspicuous and varied
abilities, such untiring and undaunted enterprise,
should be compelled to waste their (or his, per-
haps) sweetness In the comparatively unknown
regions of North Queensland, where they, or he,
at present reside.
Copy of tho Address prosonted to Plain Bill Dailey by the Albury Germans
