

THE BULLETIN
VoL 2.—No. 89.—New Series.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 24, 1885.
Price—0*.
The Bulle
SATURDAY, JANUARY 24, 1885.
Appropriation of Bent.
so extracted from the occupier, he would
simply have to pay over to the State. There
would be much more risk of landlord and
tenant conspiring to llx peppercorn rents —
that is to say, nominal rents, or rents alto-
gether inadequate to the real letting value
of the land—and to share the difference, be-
tween the true and the fictitious value, thus
embezzled from the State. But tricks of
that kind would, of course, have to be pro-
vided against by deterrent legislation, and
as the interest of the community in general
would be directly opposed to collusive pro-
ceedings of the kind, and the possession of
wealth a matter which could scarcely be
concealed, detection would be comparatively
easy. Only a few more words are neces-
sary. An apparent discrepancy will be ob-
served between two passages which we have
With regard to Henry George’s proposition
that the true remedy for the preponder-
ance of misery over comfort, due to the
unequal distribution of wealth, will be found
in appropriation of land-rent by taxation, a
correspondent, writing from Brunswick,
Victoria, puts a pertinent inquiry. He
says: -
“Suppose in any country—large or small- all the
land was in the hands of a few-a very few—Indi-
viduals; and further suppose that all this land was
rented by thousands of small farmers, turning in
enormous incomes to the favoured few, who
neither lived on nor improved their estates for their
own immediate use or pleasure. If a land-tax be
levied, all that the great owners need do is to in-
crease the rent; and it is as bad as ever for the
tenants, who will then have to pay the original
rent, plus the tax, to the land holders, and these
latter will merely hand over the tax to the Govern-
ment, and keep, as of old, the rent.”
This statement of a case is founded on a
very natural misconception—a misconcep-
tion based upon an unconscious pre-concep-
tion derived from general observation of
the proportion ordinarily maintained be-
tween values taxed and the amount of the
tax imposed. Even in protective tariffs*
where most prohibitive, 30 or 40 per cent,
upon gross values is an extreme taxation;
and, ordinarily, from 1 per cent, up to 10 per
cent, is the extent of taxation. Our corres.
pondent evidently conceives that a like pro-
portion would, were Mr. George’s theories
carried into practice, be observed. The
error is obvious, and its correction furni?hes
a conclusive reply to the inferences drawn
by our correspondent. The simplest plan to
remove this misconception will be to once
more quote Mr. George’s own proposals.
Here they are:—
“ I do not propose either to purchase or to con-
fiscate private property in land. The first would
be unjust; the second, needless. Let the indi-
viduals who now hold it still retain, if they want
to, possession of what they are pleased to call
their land. Let them buy and sell, and bequeath
and devise it. We may safely leave them the
shell, if we take the kernel. It is not necessary to
confiscate lands; it is only necessary to confiscate
rent. Nor to take rent for public uses is it neces-
sary that the State should bother with the letting
of lands, and assume the chances of favouritism,
collusion, and corruption that might Involve.
It is not necessary that any new machinery should
be created. The machinery already exists. . . .
By leaving to landowners a percentage of
rent. . . . We may .... assert the com-
mon right to land by taking rent for public uses.
“We already take sure rent in taxation. We
have only to make some changes in our mode of
taxation to take it all."
This quotation will serve our present pur-
pose, but V6 must counsel our correspon-
dent, who evidently desires to make himself
master of the subject and so qualify him-
self to form an independent opinion, to buy
for himself a copy of “ Progress and
Poverty,” which is now procurable for six-
pence from almost any considerable book-
seller. He will And the reasons in favour
of this proposal there fully elaborated, and
many objections considered and disposed of.
“Social Problems,” Mr. George’s later
work, is also procurable for one shilling, and
further elucidates the system.
* « «
In the meantime, however, the foregoing
passage will amply serve to show where the
Haw in our correspondent’s position occurs.
His mind has been occupied by the precon-
ception that a tax is a small portion of the
thing taxed, whereas, in this case, it is all
the thing taxed. Consequently, the land-
owner would have nothing to gain by rais-
es the rents on “bis” land. Whatever he
quoted. In the one, Mr. George recom-
mends leaving to landowners a percentage
of rent; in the other, he proposes, by taxa-
tion, to take it all. The dbcrepancy is only
apparent. Read by the light afforded by
the treatise, as a whole, it is readily compre-
hended that the idea is to appropriate all
rent by taxation, but, as a matter of con-
venience, to permit land-owners to retain
such a percentage as may equitably be due
to them as the wages of their industry in
the capacity of estate managers and col-
lectors on behalf of the community. They
will be, in fact, allowed what they earn by
the discharge of certain necessary and use-
ful functions, which is all that, in reality,
they have at any time been justly entitled
to claim. Our correspondent, and readers
generally, will therefore perceive that the
landlords will not be, as the former had con-
jectured, in a position to raise his rents by
the amount of the tax, and, retaining the
original rents, merely pay over to the State
the extra amount squeezed out of the indus-
trial occupants—his tenants. The tax will
be all the rent, whatever it may be raised
to, less a percentage allowed to the land-
lord as a commission for management and
collection.
A Sequel.
In connection with the foregoing explana-
tory article, and as illustrating the prevalent
proportions of taxation to the value of the
taxed commodity, a review of the incidence
of taxation in Great Britain will have in-
terest. The figures and some of the deduc-
tions we are about to employ, will be derived
mainly from the “Financial Reform Al-
manac ” for 1884—a publication issued by
the Financial Reform Association, which
includes among its vice-presidents the well-
known public men whose names follow —
viz. :—The Right Honorable Sir Charles
Dilke, M.P., Right Honorable Mr. Mun-
della, M.P., Right Honorable Q. O. Treye*
lyn, M.P, Sir Thomas Brassey, M.P.,
Joseph Cowen, M.P., PetbrRylands, M.P.,
Jacob Bright, M.P., John Mobley, M.P.,
besides twenty-nine other members of the
House of Commons.
* * *
The necessity for reform in financial
matters is alleged by the Association to be
dexnonstratable from the following ano-
malies
“ 1. 1 he Lands of the rich paying but one mil-
lion a yaar in Land 'l ax, but the pipe and
pot ot the labourer paying about thirty
millions a year in Customs and Excise
duties.
“3. The rich man's quota collected from him
cheaply and directly, but the allotment of
the poor got by a sys tem that robs them of
another tnirty millions in the process.
“3. The Incomes of the rich (coming from
rentals which for tho most part are steadily
growing in amount) taxed at the same rate
as the uncertain profits ot the shookeeper,
or of the manufacturer exposed to foreign
competition, or of the ship owner who may
lose half a million in an hour by the loss ot
one ship.
“ 4. The Lands bequeathed by the rich at death'
paying no Probate and little Succession
Duty, but the savings of the frugal in the
lower and middle classes, taxed to the tune
of six-and-a-half millions a year by Pro-
bate and Legacy Duties.
“5. The Ground Rents of the rich exempted
from Local Taxation, but the operative and
the city c'erk made to contribute both to
this and (through the Income Tax) to the
cost of rural roads, rural police, rural edu-
cation, and other County charges that
should be borne by‘thesquire and his re-
lations.'
“6. Law and the Transfer of small Land and
House Properties made more expensive
(and, therefore, more Impossible to the
mass of the people) by exaction of three
Mi llions a year in Deed Stamps and other
legal fees and charges of the nature of
Taxation.
“7. Sobriety and Temperance discouraged by
taxes of iour-and>a-balf millions a year on
the workman's tea, coffee, and cocoa, which
tuxes cost the workman other millions by
their mode of collection.
“8. Trade hindered, and Industry robbed of
its market by eight or ten pettifogging
taxes and duties not bringing in a million
a year to the Revenue altogether. Currants,
five, raisins, prunes, gold and silver p'ate,
f (laying cards, patent medicines, and marine
nsuranoes.
“9. Some 300,000 people, mostly of a needy
but striving class, singled out from all the
rest of the millions of population, and
made to pay lor leave to earn their livings.
For such leave, in tho shape of Licenses,
the pedlar and the tobacco seller has to pay.
Mine owners, bishops, and other privileged
persons, are exempt.
“10. The trading and mercantile class, contri-
buting the major portion of Local Taxa-
tion. and unfairly pressed by the fax on
profits, taxed additionally three millions a
year by the operation of Stamp Duties on
Receipts, Bills of Exchange, Promissory
Notes, aud Bailway Contracts.
And many other wrongful anomalies might be
indicated, but we shall only further point out how
easy is the path of Reform. Every abuse indicated
in the ten passageaabove given would be uprooted,
if but our Statesmen would throwaway the patch-
work system of Taxation now in vogue, and
adopt a simple system based upon a just idea, that
idea being that Taxation shall be in proportion
to fixed property. Let us have a Valuation
for Great Britain like that taken for Ireland,
with a yearly revision of assessment as there
Erovided, and let a tax of so much per cent,
e laid upon all property so valued, the proceeds
being applied to the abolition of one after another
of the existing unjust imposts. Let the House
Duty at the same time be extended to the whole
kingdom, and no exemptions allowed; but permit
owners of small properties to compound for their
tenants as in the case ot poor rates. We should
then have in operation the two poles of an
equitable system of taxation levied on occupation
aud ownership, and Statesmen could pursue with
greater ease the service of the public, since the
heaviest ot necessary burdens would fall lightly
on a system so justly distributed in incidence,
while every taxpayer would feel equally the cost-
liness of war and extravagance. Under such a
system, waste of the Revenue would become im-
possible, tor representatives woujd have to face
an alert and sensitive nation of taxpayers, every
man of whom would know what Government was
costing him. Under the present want of system
nobody knows, and as a consequence few people
care, hence the ruling and aristocratic class have
it all their own way. Trade is fettered, and the
poor trodden down, that land may escape payment
of its cues and accumulate wealth wherewith to
entrench its monopoly of power.”
This recommendation runs, as will be ob
served, very much on a footing with the
proposals of Henry George, the leading
principle being identical, and the differences
only of detail and of degree.
• * *
With respect to landowners and their ob-
ligations, the “Almanac ” states
“ According to the most eminent constitutional
authorities of former times, all the Land of the
Kingdom was the property of the Sovereign, as
representative of the State, inalienable by the
Crown, except temporarily, on conditions strictly
analogous to Rent, and as liable to resumption as
the holdings of tenant farmers in modern days. It
will be seen that these were sufficiently onerous;
they were all abrogated in 1660, by the Convention
Parliament of Charles II., which, by a fraud on
Crown and State, converted Landholders into
Landowners, repudiating the conditions on which
their lands were held, and granting to the Crown
Excise Taxes on the public generally (from whlcty
THE HON. MK. DEAKIN, M.L.A., OP VICTORIA.


Thi Ratbs or Subscription to thb Bulletin
ars—Fori one year, 24b.; half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6b. 6d.—In advance.
Thb Advertising Rates are 5s. per Inch!
special positions In the paper Ts. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per Inch.
Diaoountsare allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods- as follows ;—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive Inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 28 consecutive Insertions
16 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or Intermittent In-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent. If more convenient-
Annual Income exceeds One Mllllom
Lightning ahd Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
“C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9a.
Small Bottle, . 4s. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET an 1 OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
la. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2a. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT
2a. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts,
At lowest possible Prions.
GIN-JN FLASKS,
Is. 9d. each.
( The Key Bnand, and Henke’s Prize Medal Brand,
In stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts;
C. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets}
SYDNEY.
ihey exempted themselves If they brewed their
own beer and distilled their own spirits), in lull
compensation,’ as they Impudently alleged, lor
their own repudiated obligations to the Crown and
State. In tne course of time, however, it was
found that the ‘compensation \was a.nytnln» out
‘full,’and so it came to pass that by the 4th or
William and Mary, 1693, It was enacted that a tax
bf Four Shillings in the pound should be levied
bn the full yearly value of all Lands, Tenements,
anil Hereditaments, at a rack rent, without abate-
ment for any charges whatsoever, but with ex-
ceptions in favour of Universities, Schools, Hos-
pitals, &c.; on Salaries of public officers, excepting
soldiers and sailors in actual service; and on per-
sonal property, with exemption of Household
Furniture, &o. A valuation, very Imperfect, and
believed to have been tainted with fraud, was
made, but the assessment upon it produced
£1,922,000, which is £867,000 more than the vet pro-
duce of the tax in 1882-83. Up to 1798 the Land Tax
was continued by annual Acts of Parliament, tne
rate being occasionally reduced to 3s., 2s., and once
to Is, in the pound, but alwavs on the valuation or
1692. By the 38th of George TIL. o. 5, and another
Act of the same session, c. 60, the Land Tax was
made perpetual at 4s. in the pound, on that valua-
tion, on all ‘manors, lands, tenements, heredita-
ments, mines, ironworks, salt springs and works,
parks, chases, warrens, woods, fishings, tithes,
tolls, annuities'—In short on all profits issuing
from real property; ant the Tax was apportioned
in certain shares or quotas to the different counties
of Great Britain (Ireland being all along exempted),
which still remains in force. The amount to be
raised in England and Wales was put as £1,989.676,
that in Scotland ns £47,954, making a total of
£3,037,687; or net. £1,887,627 (as £150,000 was charged
on pensions and offices). Provision was made for
the redemption or sale of the Land Tax at 18 or LI
years' purchase, according to value. Mr. Pitt, who
was desperately in want of money at the time,
and not at all particular as to the modes of getting
it, said that th is measure would not preclude that or
any other Parliament from imposing another Lana
Tax, or from augmenting or re-assess , ina the existing
one; but he comforted the House of Commons
with the assurance that Parliament was not likely
to adopt either of those courses. He has been
right so far; but perhaps the time may come when
g Parliament differently constituted from those
which have preceded It, will do what it has un-
questionably the right to do, via., what Is honest
and just.”
• • •
With regard to the conditions of the feudal
tenure above referred to, in the reign of
James I. apian for substituting “a compe-
tent yearly rent to His Majesty” (represent-
ing the State) was agitated, and it is interest-
ing to note the opinion of so eminent an
authority as Lord Coke on the project.
Coke, in his “Institutes,” speaks most fa-
vourably of the plan, and says:—“ Which
motion, though it proceeded not to effect,
yet we thought good to recommend it, to-
gether with these considerations: hoping
that so good a motion, tending to the honor
and profit of the King and his Crown for
ever, and the freedom and quiet of hi* sub-
jects and their posterityiy will some time or
other (byjthe Grace of God) by authority of
Parliament, one way or other, take effect
and be established.”
• • *
We have seen that what Coke terms “ so
good a motion”'was “carried into effect.” But
we have ala> seen that it was not “ estab-
lished.” The lands of Great Britain are still
taxed at 4s. in the £; but on the
value they were appraised at in 1097!
The consequence is that the nominal 4a. in
be £ really amounts on present land
values to an almost inappreciable fraction.
There was an assessment of estates in
1877-8, and it was found that, comparing the
ratio borne by the taxation paid to the
values fixed by that assessment, in only one
instance, that of Middlesex, did the quotas
of the several counties of Great Britain
reach more than one shilling in the £.
Several were below a penny, and some
less than a farthing in the £. Summar-
ized for 1880-1, the results were as follow
The total produce of the land tax was
£1,074,612; whereas, had the tax been 4s. in
the £ on the assessed values ef 1977-8, the pro-
duct would have been £34,861,005. Thus the
landed aristocracy have utilized their predo-
minance in the Government and Legislature
of the country to keep £33,787,005 per annum
in their own pockets; an amount which has,
consequently, had to be squeezed out of the
earnings of the unlanded, and consequently
industrious, classes. From these figures it is
easy to calculate what the fiscal condition of
Great Britain would be were rents appro-
priated by taxation. Since 4s. in the £ of
annual value amounted to £34,861,617, the
appropriation of all rent by taxation would
yield, from England, Scotland, and Wales
(Ireland is excluded from this calcula-
tion) £174,308,085. Now, supposing 25 per
cent, of this gross annual value were
allowed to landowners lor their wages as
managers and collectors, this would still
leave £U0,531,064 available as nett revenue.
Now, the total revenue of Great Britain and
Ireland, was, in 1883, £86,004,456, Hence, it
will be seen that had the land of Great
Britain not been fraudulently appropriated
by the class which, prior to the time of
Charles II., held it as tenants of the
Crown, the Government of the country
could now be carried on without a single
shilling of taxation. The Crown revenues
derived from the land Would not only meet
all charges, but leave a magnificent surplus
available for such public enterprises, insti-
tutions, &e., as would elevate the morale
and quicken the intelligence of the people.
Had not the land been stolen from the
nation, there would now be no national
debt! At present, while the profits from
the produce of the land of England go into
a few pockets, an Income-tax takes out of
all but the emptiest; and the a. tisan, the
clerk, the small trader are all called upon
to yield from their narrow incomes as large
a proportion as the landed millionaire
gives from his. The revenues derived from
the landowners are mulct to the extent of
<say) about one in the £; while the
Vlerk or artisan, who has £160 per annum
wherewith to support life and bring up A
family, has to pay 6K<i« iu the £. Besides
this, the fruits of industry are subject to a
property tax—not an objectionable one in it-
self,but absurd and oppressive while the land
would yield sufficient for all requirements.
Personal property, unlike real estate, is the
stored-up fruits of industry. Some man’s
labour is embodied in every house or manu-
factured commodity. But no man ever
created land by his labour, outside of Hol-
land. Then, again, there are indirect taxes.
£46,440,466 were raised in 1883 by Customs
and Excise. Says the “ Reform Almanac ” :—
“ If the people only knew how greatly they are
pillaged and Injured by this system of raising the
revenue all the forces of the Government would
not suffice to maintain It for a single year, tor
their better understanding of whak they are pay-
ing In taxes when they suppose tl®*' are only pay-
ing for the goods thev buy, it may be well to put
the above rates per £100 into a more familiar shape
by showing what they mean as to every supposed
shilling's worth bought by retail. Thus: Out of
every shilling paid over the counter for Cocoa,
]Wd. Is for the tax; for Coffee, l^d.; for Currant*,
3d.; for Raisins, 2j4jd.; and for Tea, 4l4d , with the
fraction of a farthing additional in each instance.
The Spirit duty makes the price of a nominal
shilling’s worth of spirits 4s. 4j4d. The Tobacco
duty raises the price of the shilling’s vx>rlh to Os.
S-’iid , supposing both to be genuine and duty paid,
i e„ unadulterated and unsmuggled, whilst that on
Wine takes only the fraction of a farthing more
than 5d. from the shilling. As to Tobacco, it may
be interesting to smokers of the common sort to
know that of the 3d. paid for an ounce, 2}£A. Is for
the Government, and a halfpenny only for the
Tobacco. The charges beyond the Government
extracts from the shilling amount to at least 35
per cent, on them, i e, to threepence on every
shilling of duty, and to a farthing on every penny.
The £46,446,466 raised by Government In the last
financial year by means of Customs and Excise
Duties, must represent a burden of at least double
that amount upon the country, directly and In-
directly, and probably very much more in actual
cost, to say nothing of the prevention of gain
consequent on the system. The Sugar duties were
happily abolished in 1874, and the sooner the rest
of the relics of barbarous fiscal legislation are
made to follow suit the better It will be for every
man, woman, and child in the three kingdoms.”
We need not follow up these perquisitions
further. The lessons they teach are so plain
that they scarcely need enforcing by any
commentary. The land of England is gone
from the nation, and will not be recovered*
probably, by anything short of a civil war
and revolution. But how is it with us in
Australia ? This is a question which we pro-
pose to discuss in an early future issue.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Tin Verb “To have."
Ir you ask a man what are his views on inter-
national morals, you take bis breath away. He
can talk to you about the rights of the Individual,
and he can even understand the observance of
some sort of fair play between rival corporations,
but it is assumed all round that the term “ morals ”
has no meaning when applied to the relationship
existing among nations. The morals of states-
manship are all comprised in the words to “ have ”
and to be " had.’* Just to show the difference be-
tween private and public morals, we’ll put it this
way:—On the 1st of January, 1885, the kings and
premiers of Europe were deeply plotting and lay-
ing plans to outwit one another. Grey-headed old
statesmen and careworn emperors and presidents
sat with knitted brows, wondering what the year
would bring forth. At one swoop, the devil, who
always has the ear of royalty and the powers of
this evil world, picks them all up, puts them
aboard a ship, and drops them down in one of the
Pacific Islands. As the devil sails away, there they
are on the beach, staring at one another, and
speechless. Bismarck's cigar is still burning, and
Gladstone, and the Czar, and Ferry, and
Grover Cleveland, and two or throe kings
are watching the jolly old navigator stand
log on the stern of the ship, and waving
them a brisk farewell. Yesterday they had diplo-
matic relations. To-day ? They don’t stand
there long. Gladstone has whipped off his Jacket,
and is tearing down saplings and bark, Bismarck’s
'great shoulders are bent under a gigantic log, the
kings are digging post boles with their crowns,
and the rest are foraging for mussels, and yamsi
and bananas. In the evening they sit round the
fire and smoke and yarn and sing songs, and ar-
range about the next day's fishing and hunting,
and wind up witb euchre. “ Cut for deal,” says
Gladstone, handing the pack to Bismarck, “what
are your views about annexation in the Pacific,
old boy ?” “ Bam annexation, and dam the Pacific
Bill,— it’s your deal.” “ Let’s have a pull of that
pipe, Kaiser,” says Ferry. “ What was your idea
in keeping up that tremendous army, eh! Catch
hold of the end of this wig.” “You old vaga-
bond,” says Belgium, “ you wanted to gobble me
up, didn't you? Give us a match,” “ I suppose old
Blaine will have another buck in for the Presi-
dency now,” says Cleveland. And so they remain.
They build their huts, dig out their canoes, fish,
cultivate their yams, and, in the course of a year,
make up their minds that they are all jolly fine
fellows together. But the Old Navigator’s ship
again heaves in sight. The kings mount
their crowns, the premiers scowl at one
another, they board, and are dropped down
in their old places on the 1st January, 1888. From
that day all moral relationship ceased. Bismarck
is growling, the Czar threatening, Gladstone
temporising, and Ferry on the alert against the
Infernal machinations of the man he used to divide
a yam with. The only check on the aggressive-
ness of one and all is want of power or oppor-
tunity. Germany will rob France or gobble up
Holland without the slightest compunction; and
Russia would try a fall with Austria forthwith, if
she were not afraid of Germany. “ The rapacity
of those English must be checked, ’ says Bismarck ;
“ they want the whole world. I’m going to have
a bit of the Pacific whether they like it or not.’,
The only thing that will ever bridge over thl s
frightful chasm between private and national
morals is the continued spread of democratic
socialism. The ever-increasing enlightenment of
the nations will render it Impossible for a handful
of royal and political tricksters to fool away the
lives and liberties of the people. The knowledge
of the mutual benefits of a peaceful and profitable
interchange of the labour and produce of the
earth will render the people more and more op-
posed to violence and trickery in international
dealings; and the present code of to “ have” and
to be “ had” will be deemed as disreputable, as it
Is already In the affairs of private life.
Faying the Piper.—The Municipality at
it again.
At a meeting of the Municipal Council, held on the
13th instant, a contract was let for 3,000,000 hard-
wood paving-blocks at £9 19s. 6d. per 1000 blocks.
This gives a price per block of 21 penee (3 2 5d.)
If sizes same as in Parramatta-street
job, the price per 100 feet would be £0 14 6 2-o
The present price for hardwood (and
it is hard to sell even at that) is 0 11 0
The loss per 100 feet is therefore .. 0 3 6 2-a
The total contract in money comes to 29,935 0 0
At Us. per 100 feet it would come to 23,650 0 0
The actual loss to the ratepayers is
therefore 1275 0 0
In this contract alone the lucky contractor
pocketing a preliminary gratuity of over 24 per
cent, upon his contract —over and above the ordi-
nary trade profit which he will get on the market
price of timber. What that other profit may be
we cannot say, nor is it part of our business to
know at present. It is quite enough for us to
gulp down such a bitter pill as this £7375 all at
once. We speak as ratepayers In that last para-
graph. As individuals, we are sorry we have no
friends amongst the aldermen, nor wooden blocks
to sell, should any more of these Jolly fat contracts
be knocking about shortly.
Imaginary Conversations.
SPEAKERS —MESSRS. SERVICE AND FHORDE.
Mr. 8.; “ Permit me, In the name of the Australian
people, to welcome you to our shores. It Is, In-
deed, an honour to meet, In this Queen City of the
South, one whose name Is a household word where-
ever our sturdy Anglo-Saxon tongue is heard.”
Mr. F.: “Thank you very sincerely. Those who
sneer at the • manifest destiny ’ of the British
people, should visit this wonderful city of yours,
where science, arts, and arms already And a home
In what was but yesterday a dreary wilderness,
sparsely peopled by the most debased of our
species. But (slyly), allow me, at the very begin-
ning, to say that It is not alone your phenomenal
material progress that I and other visitors so ad-
mire. It Is your modesty that I consider your
chief attraction. Believe me when I assure you
that that well-marked characteristic of yours
has created a very favourable impression
abroad. But even this has its drawbacks.
You should be a little more self-assertive.”
Mr.8. (uneasily): “There is something in what
you say. Apropos, how did the English people
receive the news that Lord Derby’s vacillation had
caused great discontent in Victoria, and that some
of our more excitable citizens had gone so far as
to hint at cutting the painter?” Mr. F.; “ My dear
sir, we can afford to be frank. You will therefore,
I trust, not be offended if I tell you what the Eng-
lish , people—or those of them who considered
the thing at all—thought on the matter, and on
others appertaining to England and her depend-
encies. Inter alia, they thought that Australians
had quite too exalted an Idea of their importance
—or, for the matter of that, of the Importance of
any constitutionally-governed colonie£--to Britain.
You deceive yourselves. England’s place at the
European Council table is determined by her
trade, her money, her position, and her population.
For none of these is she dependent on her colonies.
It is very good and affectionate of you to desire
to keep in the British Empire. Where you make
the mistake is in supposing that you in any way
strengthen the United Kingdom. On the contrary,
you weaken her. To bo personal for a moment:
You advocate Imperial federation. Good. Many
clever Englishmen do the same, while no Austra-
lian colonist in London would think himself res-
pectable if he had not something to say of the Em-
pire, the roll of whose drums goes round the
world. But how would you feel if you had to go
down to the House to-morrow and ask for five
millions of money and 20,000 men to keep the
Germans out of Holland ? Believe me there is
not one of the able gentlemen in London who
will produce a workable scheme for the political
welding together of continents and Islands
scattered over the world, unless he can, at the
same time, bring forward a feasible plan for the
federation of nations and the cessation of war.
You Australians have too long been dry-nursed
on the glories of the Nile, Trafalgar, and Water-
loo, just as the poor French were on Marengo
and Austerlitz, till Sedan opened their eyes. To-
day, a half-hour’s successful trio of a torpedo-
boat may mean the collapse of an Empire.” Mr. S.;
“You surprise me. But what bearing has all this
on the occupation of New Guinea?” Mr. F.:
“I was coming to that, but time presses. There
is a picnic at Geelong which I promised to attend
(looking at his memorandum-book). A Mr.
Woods, one of your members, and a Mr. Josephs
—from Sandhurst, I thlnk-aro to be among the
speakers. They are both said to be powerful
orators, and will, doubtlessly, deal trenchantly
with subjects now agitating the Australian mind •
Some other time. Au revobr." Mr. S.: “ Re-
member the New Guinea question. Au revoir,"
The Melbourne Bootmakers’ Strike.
The appeal by the Victorian operative bootmakers
to the working men of N. S, Wales to stand by
them in their present struggle with the masters
has been denounced by the capitalist Press of this
colony. Of course, nothing else was to be ex.
pected. The alternations in the S. M. Herald
and Echo, between bitter antagonism to the
strikers and a laborious assumption of calm im-
partiality, can deceive no one. The bias of the
writers affects even their most elaborate pre-
tences of fairness. Thus, for example, in the
Echo we find this passage
“ In one part of the speech that was addressed to
the council we have the following:—‘The Union
passed a resolution on October 20 that all work
should be done on employers’ premises, and a fort-
night’s time should be given to employers to pre-
pare for its being earned into effect,’ That is to
say. in regard to the chief point in the dispute,
without consultation of any kind, the employees
undertook to tell the employers how they must
carry on their business.”
The assumption is here that the conduct of the
bootmaking trade is the business of the employers
exclusively, the operatives having no right what-
ever to assume that it is their business also.
So, then, the operative has no right to say under
what conditions he will sell his labour I It is a pre-
posterous assumption on his part to make any
conditions. The organizations to which the opera-
tives Jhave entrusted their interests are charged
with dictating. Well, why should not they dic-
tate? Is it no business of theirs, the conditions
under which they work ? Is it no concern of
theirs, that they be required to convert their
homes into workshops? We assert that the
employer and the labourer stand, or should
stand, by rights, on absolutely equal footing. Each
has the right, without consulting the other, to
state the terms upon which he is willing to do
business, and each has the right to organise. The
operative is certainly justified in appealing to his
fellow-operatives throughout the world, if he so
chooses, saying: “ These were the conditions I in-
sisted omwhen contracting to sell my labour. If
you, my brethren, think they were fair, and es.
pecially if you perceive underlying them prin-
ciples which concern operatives everywhere,
we claim your support to enable us to
gain our point. The employers can subsist
awhile on the acsumulated profits derived from
our labour, but starvation will force us to submit
immediately, unless we have your support.” The
appeal is a reasonable one. It is for the trades-
unions and organisations to investigate the merits
of the objections urged by the Melbourne opera-
tives. These bodies of working men can, better
than any other, appreciate the true significance of
the determination to make the men work at home*
and can perceive whether this truly tends to
facilitate “ sweating ” competition between men
thus individualised and separated—competition
which could not be induced were the men con.
gregated at work in the factories.
This is how the American Press sits on
“juvenile” stars arriving in Australia. “ Gene-
vieve Ward has once again struck Melbourne.
She received an enthusiastic reception owing to
the mistaken notion that she was the original
Sohlnx in an unexpectedly good state of preserva-
tion.” This is rough on—the Sphinx.


TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“Joe Brown” (Lithgow): We print with
pleasure the first few lines of your lucid commu-
nication. Void “ Will you be so kind as to pub-
lise (sic) a few remarks concerning a dance of a few
High Big Bugs that have a dance Culb (sic) In
Lithgow; the first is Engine Driver, who is sup-
osed (sic) to be a M.C.; but all I can put him down
for is a Minster (sic) at a prayer meeting . etc
Now then:—
It s no wonder, if better than this you can’t spell,
That your girl sent you promptly (we guess it!) to
well!
We can see through your game, and would plank
down a fiver.
If you just caught it hot from that same “ engine-
driver.”
“Idalia” (Quartz Gully): You ask us why we
“don’t assert your itums.” You say, in one of
those contributions, “ Squinny-eyed Liz is nuts on
the Korty Snob from Miller’s flat.” There Is merii
In this: but it is, we consider, more adapted to a
sectarian journal, Tbe par—“Cosh Jenkins, the
carroty bulock driver has bought Bandy Jane a
pair of boots for not splitting he seen her muggin
the blacksmith’s missis behind the skool house,’
has some poetry in it, but, then, this journal does
not pay for sentimental copy of that description
And we are really not interested in “ what
takes Big Sarah to the copper’s quarters so
orfen.”—“A Constant Reader” (Palmervllle)
We are sorry, since you are constant, he is not
But “ ’twas ever thus from childhood’s hour.’
What do we think of your handwriting ? We will
content ourselves with saying that we excuse the
vagaries of the tarantula you charter, since the
festive season is only just over—“ Helen” (Hay)
What colour should we call the hair you send?
Well, if it’s your own hair, “ Helen,” it is bright
chesnut; but if its the hair of the girl who took
away your young man, it is a Judas-like, brim-
stone-tinged vermilion—“ Bard ” (Cow Flat): We
are much interested in your verses:—
“ FAIRWEL TO TAYIjER.”
There is enough fire in this stanza, for instance,
to boll a three-legged pot:—
“ Tayler you are i think verry game
to nas a saler brave the dlsergrebel mane
Ime ony a pore workln man at 10 bob a day
But a barf crown I send you from my pay
May you be happy when you sale the blew
i If you dont get these stamps mister tayler let me
know.”
We are afraid, if we printcd,'the 170 more lines you
send on the same subject, and your “ lay to the
toevuns,” we should be thought greedy. If you
have a copy of the latter, we have no doubt that
you will be able to dispose of it to a Sydney even-
ing journal ....“Bush Student” (Wollongong):
You say: “I am wistful to studdy pelltikie eao-
nomy. Can you reoomend a good book on the
aubjaot?” Certainly. Try “Mangnall’s Questions.”
After that, soothe the excitement of your feelings
with “ The Life and Adventures of Dr. Kltto”.. .
“ u enry” (Ultimo): You write: “Do we like the lady
In the photo, you send?” Nol What’s the good of two
of us liking her ?....“ Musician” (Surry Hills) has
an angora oat, which he wishes to exchange for a
second-hand flute. Can any of our readers help
him?....“Sappho” (Tamworth): Your “ Song to
the 8 waller "just barely escaped insertion. There
is a good deal of jealousy on the subject of poetry
in this office. We are—like Mr. Dorritt’s old pen-
sioner-** sweet singers ” ourselves “ Enquirer ”
(Petersham): You want to know what we think of
Mrs. E. M. E. Browne's Harmy. We think it is a
sound—speculation — “ Waxworks ” (Murrumbur-
rah): Henry the Eighth is dead “Lover”
(Botany Road): If you’re afraid of her brother,
get your girl to read a sonnet of Sladen’s to him.
Then send for Kirby and the measuring tape....
“Toper” (Junee) says he was “put in the look-
up for swearing in bis own yard, and he knows
they can’t do it. Can they ? ” Certainly
not “Fond Mother” (Rockhampton) wants
to know if we will write something about
her baby. With pleasure—“ Something.”
“L. Petrie” (Molong): Received “Gaffney”:
Until newspapers are put on the same footing as
letters, and penal servitude ladled out for purloin-
ing them, this mean description of theft will
flourish—“Victim”: Those people are quacks,
all—“H.D.”: (a) Any public school teacher will
bo able to tell you the system of book-keeping
patronised by the “Department.” (b) Any En-
glish grammar will explain more fully than we
ave space for the “nominative of address.” (o)
‘‘Which two ordinary men could scarcely move.”
The relative pronoun is in the objective governed
by tbe active verb “move.” “J. S.’’; No force
that China could put in the field would be able to
prevent 40,000 Frenchmen from marching on
Pekin. Make your mind easy about that
University ’’: It is the most natural thing in the
world that the Professor who has spent forty
years gerund-grinding should think the Greek
and Latin tongues the best means ot mental dis-
cipline. If you spent the best part of your exist-
ence mixing pills, you’d no doubt think that life,
without pills, was a mistake “ R.F.” (East Mel-
bourne): Yes; but should require some biographi-
cal particulars...“G.H.S.”: Too lengthy; scarcely
our style. But we agree with the drift, and per-
haps will deal with it at once....“ Sufferer ”: “ Who
stole Mr. Ready’s bottle of beer, and caused others
to tether theirs to their wrists ? ” Why, you did.
of course.
"THE POOR."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession.]
Some troupes that had been travelling .
— Commenfons par le commencement! (We, thus,
anticipate Alfred when he comes back from Faroe.)
Well, here we go. “ The Dancing Dead Men—Fun
and Mystery ” have been appearing at the Narra-
bri School of Arts, which shows the Shroud has
still a subscriber or two amongst the profession.
Vv ith dead-heads, also, we understand, this paper
is popular. There Is an “ Our Boys’ ” Dramatic
Club at Narrabrl, also, the prominent members, as
we understand, being the two junior bank clerks,
the sexton (low comedian), and tho poundkeeper,
whose lino is to go on either as an army of ama-
zons or a posse of Caesarian guards—as the case
may demand. They recently performed for the
benefit of the Church of England there, with such
brilliant success that the Church now owes the
N.O.B.D.C. “six bob.”—We clip this horrid par.
with the landlady’s scissors from tho armidale
Chronicle:— “ The Marian Willis Dramatic Com-
pany have ‘skipped out!’ All printers will know
what that means 1” Well, we don’t, anyhow. In
the last town we met this talented company,
Keogh paid not only 23s. In the pound,
but, on their departure, generously gave the
“boots” of the hotel fid. u> buy land with ...
Passons. “ The Australian Bloudin ” (we sup-
pose the unfortunate L'Estrange) Is “ perform-
ing ” at Napier, tbougn what bis balloon has
blown up in that town has not yet tran-
spired. L’Estrange is a splendid aeronaut, but he
is bound to come down m the world some day.
Then the only things that will remain of him when
found will be his studs and watch guard—which
some enterprising farmer will probably melt down
and cast into a ploughshare —Then Barry O’Nell,
(another immortal) and Ned Willis—whom noNor-
denfeld oould annihilate—have been giving a
“mixed” entertainment at Auckland; and Mr.
and Mrs. Hart (whom we have persuaded with
tears to die) and the marionettes, are on the West
Coast... Vernon and tne juvenile Genevieve have
been giving them, at tne Royal, Christchurch,
with much success, Sydney Grundy’s “Rachel,’’
Mammon,” “ The Queen’s Favourite,” and other
ingenious cribs from the French, which Mr. Grundy
has evolved; that gentleman, notwithstanding
the scathing sarcasm of Gilbert, in an article in
the Theatre, preferring to trust to the brains of
Gallic playwrights rather than his own. It is the
same way with James Albery, author of “ The
Two Roses.” After that piece, he produced “Ap-
ple Blossoms,” “ Forgiven,” etc., which didn't
draw; so he immediately tackled the French dra-
matists, and, with “Pink Dominoes,” scored an
enormous success — Yes, and G. Lingard, who was
with Kelly and Leon here, is threatening to swoop
down upon us with some—confound him I—“Amer-
ican Novelties.” And these words recall to our
recollection that “Fun on the Ber-istol” opened
at the Princess’s Theatre, Dunedin, on Box-
ing Night, Clark and Ryman (this is omi-
nous I) having closed “a short season ” at
the same theatre on December 33 Invercargill
has got Woodyear’s Circus, with the inimitable
Max Wrinkle, who left at this office a picturesque
card, inscribed with his thanks, before leaving.
Max is a jester whose sepulchral humour has
long been a by-word in the colony. For jokes en-
shrouded with gloom; for comic songs that savour
of the churchyard ; for quips and retorts that
conjure up disordered visions of the graveyard,
Max is unrivalled. His humour is original. Hence
his success. When Max was here last time, we
went to Kirby and tried to get the loan of a
hearse upon which to ride to the circus, but the
tar not being then quite dry on the team of coal-
black prancers, he was unable (though not unwill-
ing) to oblige us. Max is the prince of good
fellows; and, likewise (which we consider of more
importance), the Sultan ofiSombreness... and how
about the Fire Brigade’s Concert, Wollongong,
last Friday, “ under the distinguished patronage ”
—we fancy we see Ulyett’s mouthll-of the Eng-
lish Professionals ? Music, melody, and rum.
— This brings us (for some reason or another)
to an exhibition which is in the wilds of
George-street, near the Town Hall-or let’s
say, with L3on Caron—” Tonorle.” The ladies
in this entertainment are of surprising love-
liness, but they are perfect pedestals of
virtue. We enquired of Anne Boleyn if a
trip to Botany, with a roast fowl and bouquet
lunch, would But, we quote an historian (we
believe, ourselves), “ even when axed, she made
no reply.” Ned Kelly, Mrs. Langtry, and Connie
Gilchrist are the draws at present at this wax-
works exhibition; and there is a rumour (to quote
the ads. of Madame Tussaud) that Alfred Bennett
“is shortly to be added.” We wish they’d put in
Chris., too, as he appeared in the original bridal
gloves. This exhibition, which, if anything, errs
on the side of cbasteness, reminds us of the follow-
ing from an author, who, we hope, is floating upon
the shimmering haze of a sun-cloud ‘ That,
ladles and gentlemen,’ said Mrs. Jarley, Ms Jasper
Paoklemerton of atrocious memory, who courted
and married fourteen wives, and destroyed them
all, by tickling the soles of their feet when they
were sleeping in the consciousness of innocence
and virtue. On being brought to the scaffold and
asked If he was sorry for what he had done, ho re-
plied yes, he was sorry for having let ’em off so
easy, and hoped all Christian husbands would par-
don him the offence. Let this be a warning to all
young ladies to be particular in the character
of the gentlemen of their choice. Observe
that his lingers are curled as it in the act
of tickling, and that his face is represented
with a wink, as he appeared when com-
mitting his barbarous murders.’” And the
Lyons Tourist and Pleasure Party have been
playing, in Maitland, their grand Chiistmas
Pantomime “The Isle of Beauty; or. Harlequin
King Cactus.” George Yates is tne agent, and the
“ push ” consists of that irrepressible boy, Par-
latto, Miss Jessie Leon, Miss Nina Tulloch, and a
splendid “tail” of noble unknowns Dampler
followed with the “ Black Flag,” “ The Green
Lanes of Englard,” and other classical dramas.
Alfred did well at Newcastle with these pieces,
and even had the temerity (inspired by success) to
produce “ Michael Strogoff,” dramatised expressly
for Mr. Dampler by Mr. Francis Hopkins (of Peri-
cootrt, N.S.W.)— And wo read, In the Daily
Northern Standard (N.Z.), that “the result of
the benefit given on behalf of the funds of the
Cleveland Bay Kowing Club, on Friday evening,
by the Lynch Family, places to the credit of that
aquatic institution, an additional half-dozen shil-
lings.” We are glad the Lynch Family are coming
South, because we know they will beneilt us
immediately. And we are going to build
It seems that Miss Jeffreys Lewis, whom report
says Allison engaged alter a dinner at the Lambs’
Club—having beheld her performancM through
finger-glasses (as Garner did that of Klein lug
Norton)—it seems, then, that Miss Jeffreys Lewis
declines to play in New Zealand; bur. Intends
to proceed with Mr. Jeffreys Lewis at once
to Murker, “ where she is much admired.”
...The Fabris Opera Company played “Don
Checco” the other night before John Ferguson
and the care-taner at Parramatta. ..Clara Stephen-
son was last beard ot at Mudgee, where she haa a
successful tussle with “East Lynne,’ and pun-
ished Lady Isabel severely, she sang “ Vv hen
Other Lips,” too—and lives to tell the tale The
Catholic Y.M.’s Social Club gave a concert at St.
Bridget s Hall, where Mr. O’Connor shone with his
usual refulgence; Mrs.M’Carlhy sang “ She Wore a
wreath of Roses” (why shouldn’t she?), in fine
style. Mr. E. M’Quade want for the instrument
in a manner which made the trustees of the ball
tremble; and the Press was represented by the
O’Donovan, of the Freeman (who is, or is to be,
Dr. Moran’s secretary), and a party in a hat and
cloak (but no dagger), who was rumoured to be
J. Q. O’Connor in disguise. On a vote of thanks
being tendered to Daniel, he said that he had
enunciated that day at two picnics—that it was
•the t proudest moment In his life.” The
Wangenheim-Vernon-Lester-Loston Co. ivas last
heard of in Hooketown, where the Israelites
rolled up in great force. It is rumoured that on
the arrival of the troupe by the train, a deputa-
tion of citizens of all sexes waited on the fitlr
Emma, and entreated her not to laugh until she
was safe on the stage! There is a piece placing
in Paris, at the Cluny Theatre, called “The Hus-
band with Three Wives.” A very thin man, on dit,
impersonates the husband I... And did we tell
you that the “Passion Play” is interdicted in
London by the Lord Chamberlain? Hut the
lark is, it can be played anywhere in the
provinces, which are out of his jurisdiction
....The news that the Sydney Musical Union
is about to tackle Mendelssohn’s Scotch
Symphony on the 34th, at the University,
has. we hoar, caused a rise in the price of rosin!
....in America, where Irving and Terry are doing
a tour, some chaste.minded persons circulate a
scurrilous pamphlet about Ellen in whatever town
she appears! Nice people! If you have heard
this before “ fillip us with a three-man beetle.”
One night Mr. Abbey arrived in Chicago late dur-
ing the Langtry season, and was passing on to the
theatre, whon a new-chum door-keeper, enlisted
for his “ chucklng-out” powers, said: "Hi! where
yer ticket?” “I’m Mr. Abbey,” said the mil-
lionaire. “ Oh, are yer?” said the man sarcasti-
cally; “ well, you can just pass out. There’s two
Mr* Abbeys in the parquet already, and the hagent
said I worn’t to let no more in.” To anyone who
can find this " in an American paper” we will give
“ a dish of stewed prunes.” J. T. Main, M.A.,
of Young, “ has been lantern-lecturing on the
Highlands of Scotland” at Burrangong, but it has
not yet transpired who accompanied him on
the triangle. Some times the pictures appeared on
the sheet, sometimes not. Generally not. But the
rev. gentleman lectured on all the same. He had
confidence in the operator (his organist), and
didn't trouble to look at the pictures much, and
one night, in consequence, a little trouble oc-
curred. It happened in this way: It was the Bal-
moral glide’s Durn to show. The rev. gentleman
grew eloquent on the subject of the virtues of Her
Majesty. “This magnificent palace,” he cried, “ is
a Ht residence for a monarch, who has ruled so
wisely and so well.” Then a,roar went up that
nearly took the roof off. There had appeared on
the calico—‘ Highland hut, with shepherd smok-
ing. — Lots Qf ** Wholesome Fun” In the London
comic papers. This, now, on actors retiring from
the stage, is from the side-splitter Funny Folks:—
“ Our Henry had Just returned from Yankeeland,
when he
" the common craze—along with
4 mien T.
The Lyceum,’ he straight announced, ‘will never
open more,
S ° \he U door^’ that IrvinBrltcs w °n’t hang about
Booh I
At Adelaide, now, decent people cannot
admit the newspapers within the family circle. As
the proprietors and editors of the s.A. dallies aro
nearly all reformed parsons, their accounts of the
constantly-recurring criminal assaults are pre-
sented with the most conscientious attention to
detail and Ulthy mlnutm, and, as Is e* plained to
remonstrating: fathers and brothers, form practl-*
cal exemplifications of Holy Writ as contained in
the text “ Whatsoever thy hand flndeth to do, do
it with thy might, as to the Lord, and not unto
men.” A guaranteed cirou latlou of 30,0001
“ The Ghost of a Christinas Dinner,” is the
Barmeclde’s-feast, or stomacn-worryiug sort of a
title to a tale Tennyson Smith has recently dedi*
cated to Mrs. Dargon-Piercy, of Wagga, and which
is now coruscating in the nebulous columns of the
Riverine Star. The opening is written after the
style oi the Alexander Dumas, or jerkatfve school,
and would lead asupertlcial reader to suppose that
lennyson penned the lines whilst seated on the
Moor of a springless cart, as it bumped ami
thumped over a bsdly-kept piece of bush road,
for example, the brilliant little Smith begins;—
The stoiyl Well, 111 tell It you to-night. Here.
Mick, give meastoupof wine. [Strange, how all
great geniuses must wo to the grog-boitle for In-
spiration.] What I tell a ghost tale with a glaring
lamp like that 1 oh, no, turn it down —lower—and
yet lower still. Right, Dob, we'll have it out en-
tirely. Very well, Miss Jenny, either go without
the lamp or without the story, Ju«t exactly as you
pleas i. There, that’s sensibly and bravely spoken,
lass. Ah I Now—there—” And then "he stops.
As yet, all the beauty of the story lies in the stops.
1 he more the author stops the more you love him.
And If he stopped altogether, the renders of the
Star would club together and build him a gor-
geous mausoleum, or, perhaps, even present him
a horse, saddle, and bridle, and a pair of German
silver spurs. Wading lurther along, however, we
bump up against one little Rem which Mils our
now seared soul with a joy too pure for this gro-
velling earth, for It takes us in spirit back to
those halcyon days when wo llrst undertook to
delve up to our ears in the mystic art of printing.
Fill the ginger- beer bottle up again, Mick, as the
ghost of the Star groans:—•• Well, about a score
of years ago, I found myself a master printer, and
the senior member of a substantial jobbing llrm.
My partner brought the money. There was some-
thing singular about Richard Dorff, this rich part-
ner of mine, and folks said he was of unsound Intel-
lect.” Our own case to the very letter. Our partner
found the money also. We found the massive
mind, the bulging brow, and the appetite that
oould stand tlx presentation luncheons a day, wind
up with a Lord Mayor’s banquet at night, and then
do full justice to the First Family wedding break-
fast on the next eventful morn. Our partner
brought the money. How we love to Unger o’er
those Joyous words; sweet to us as the angel's
song to tbeshepberd swains on Bethlehem’s plain,
or the;popping of a beer bottle coik to a Hum re-
porter’s elephantine ears. Our partner brought
the money. And we may add he left It behind
him also. Folks said he, too, was of unsound in-
tellect—was ** off his bloomin’ kadoova” they
called it—just as Richard Dorff was, and we, just
by way of pandering to the perceptive powers of
these people, worked our rich partner up with
whisky straight until he amply proved the just-
ness or his orltlos’ assertions. Ho was a facetious
cuss In his own small way, and one day he under-
took to play a gigantic joke on the fellow who
tires the 1 o’clock time-gun. For this purpose he
painted bis face to represent a ghost, crawled into
the gun while the gunner stepped back fora match,
and that was the last we ever beard of him. What
became of Richard Dorff—the rich partner of the
Star's tale—Is not yet known; but it the unities
of the tragedy are strictly auhered to, we may
safely expect to Mnd he either died from tho visi-
tation of bis “ pardner’s” axe, or dropped dead
from excess of Joy on hearing that a circus pro-
prietor bad called round to settle up for a little
bill-postering job he bad done twelve months
before
THE WORLD OF FASHION.
We have received a copy of the “World of
Fashion and Illustrated Almanac for 1885,” a well-
printed, 32-page pamphlet, which is being dls-
trlbutsdby Messrs. Summerfleld and Co., the well-
Known Merchant Tailorsand Juvenile Outfitters,
Pltt-street. A prominent feature js the engravings
of most of the leading statesmen of the colony,
who are used as advertising mediums to set off
the various styles of garments now prevailing,
from the smart Cambridge coat, lit for a pure-
bred masher, that adorns his Honor Judge Innes,
to the sedato irock-coat worn by Sir Henry
Parkes. Accompanying each illustration isa well-
written, humorous skit, by “ Flaneur,” of
Freeman's Journal fame, who deals in his usual
airy style with the various personages, rubbing
their hair the wrong way very gently,
A little nonsense now and then
Is relished by the wisest men.
And Summerfleld and Co. have made the book
bristle with comic tales, comic poems, comic pic-
tures, and comic sayings. Of course, the motif
has been to give publicity to their wonderful
stock of woollens and little boys’ clothing. The
engravings of the latest styles received from their
London House,;51 and 53 Leaden hall-street, are
well executed, showing every possible kind of
garment. We notice pretty boys, that must be
the pride and joy of their mammas, attired in the
ever-pleasing man-o’-war suits, in pure Indigo
serges, trimmed with gold and other laces, every
item to the lanyard and whistle, and the flannel
being included. These goods are sold in all sizes
from 000 to 7 at 15s. (id. and 31s. hi ton suits in tine
Berlin twills and Ind’go worsteds I rom 35s. to 50s„
and long trousers suits for school wear at 31s , 35s.,
and 80s. Every conceivable design is represented,
and some of the knicker suits irl the Sultan anu
Greenwich styles at 8s. lid. and 10s (id. are marvels.
Movers. Summerfleld and Co. have adopted “ wear
resisting fabrics ” as their trade mark (registered),
a title which accurately represents the well cut,
nicely trimmed, and beautifully made clothes
which bkve given the Arm their well-earned title
of “Great Juvenile Outfitters.” We notice that
eight hlgh-fllass cutters are employed in connec-
tion with the gentleman’s order department, which
is now replete'with the biggest stock of woollens
in Australia. A second edition of tne book is now
ready for free distribution, and country residents
writing for a copy are also supplied with a manual
of self-measurement and a set of woollen samples.
— SUMMBuFIELD and CO., Merchant TaJors and
Great Juvenile Outfitters, 335 and 237 Pitt-street,
Sydney.*
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 60* Hunter-street, Sydney.*
A passenger to Darlinghurst paying the
increase of fare, looking the much-insulted guard
in the face, remarked, with all the warmth be
could get up: “ Don’t you think this a thievish,
bungling transaction—4d. to here ?” He continueu
about the long-suffering Sydney people, who will
bear anything after this imposition. We thought
how calm and contemplative would this traveller
have been in the upstairs showroom of Bray Bros ,
403 and 404 George-street, admiring the varied seti
for Dinner, Tea, Dessert, or Toilet uses.*
He took a seat, that pro., In pride,'
Then, thunder I what a kickup!
That man, you see, himself could hide,
But could not hide his hiccup.
With two black eyes: disguised in boose.
He sought the devil's chariot;
And now he’s got to black the shoes
Of Judas von Iscariot.
But some joy, line a rain-cloud rare.
This poor pro. yet was suavelling;
He hoard they often got “ down there”
DOING HIS DUTY!
(.‘‘THE WITNESS DEPOSED : I RECOLLECT SEEING THE PLACE ON FIRE; I DID
NOT DO ANYTHING TO AROUSE THE INMATES, BECAUSE IT WAS NOT MY DUTY.”]
It s known for pros, the show has quite
A mystical attraction;
I hey want to crowd in ev’ry night.
And love it to distraction.
Loud curses, with an atmosphere
Of onions, are blended,
*m D Goodie: “ Now, you clear!
h, The free list la suspended.’ ”
mu 8ta rs,” of course, they get a box,
a j lull the place as Hades,
And tenors with the curly locks
„ £. re Passed: and “ leading ladieo.”
lirst heavies” often get a “ no,”
da.? bl ? ? row ' with impiety;
But " up” the men who never go
Are those they call “ variety.”
There was a “ menshel” who, alas!
(He was a “ so '.g-and-dance” man),
the manager would neper pass
Hy any happy chance, man.
He stood aside, eaoh night, did he,
And swore his Fate was evil;
At length he sold, to pass in free.
His small soul to the Devil I
“ To give advice,” said Satan, “ that
f would not be so rude as;
But rum avoid—and that, quite pah;
l always say to Judas-
U f»f ) , y u t ? e way * I hear ’tis said
Wiiu . . mos t charming fellow;
wft 8 . a deep and £° rv re d,
” hy t is a golden yellow.
It’s not so bad down there, thocigh we*
TW® 80u i 8 of a11 are wreckers;
woh do ? s Pretty quickly lie.®
v*.} 1 “ dominoes and chequers.
S or l Tl11 simply be at
Y™v„i lon . t you m ake a mull, for
mh ve got; twelve hours to ke»p alight
fhe brimstone and the sulpb.url ”
L wiVh gone ' and then that pro.,
1 lhat was elastic,
n£L bU> pat »® d lp tho show,
Because of his state plastic*.


Pers onal Items
Josephs, of the Tamworth Newth ith
indignant at our having beaidleth Crown Frothe-
cutorsh. He does not seem to realise the fact that
a man can possess a brain without a beard.
Upjohn, the Victorian hangman, is popu-
lar amongst the front seats at the Salvation Army
Hall, In Melbourne. They say that when he opens
his mouth to pray, It’s as good as having a drink.
A man named Heriot, in Paris, has founded
a Foundling Hospital. If any philanthropist likes
to come forward, now’s his time. The picnic sea-
son is in full swing. It would take about a year to
fix the place up properly.
The Princess Wilhelmena of Orange is
said to be the richest woman in the world. She is
the sister of “ Marmalade." who recently died In
Paris, and is reported to be very plain. This, at
onoe explodes the secret of the lady “ with con-
siderable means” who is advertising with
Alfred.
A rumour is current in New York that
Commodore Vanderbilt has “ had losses,” and all
that remains to him is £30.000,000 sterling. We sup-
pose the woman at the fruit shop now is gene-
rally “justout” of what Mr. Vanderbilt sends
round for.
“Mr. A. G. Taylor is suffering from an
affection of the throat.” That is pretty common
about this time of the year. Wo have seen several
people bad with the same thing, of late, in Sydney.
One cure for it is to lie down in a cool place until
the morning; only the accommodation cannot bo
obtained under the sum of five shillings.
Mr. Josiah Booth, of Toowoomba, was sur-
prised at finding a three-inch nail in the gizzard of
a fowl. He should just cut open a reporter! He
took it round to Groom, of the Chronicle, and
told him he could keep the nail. Nothing being
said about the fowl, the editor went on with his
leader about the “ patriotic principles of Griffith.’ ’
Henniker still urges on his triumphant
career. At latest he has received the thanks of
the Mauritius Reform Committee for his letters to
the Times. It seems that this apostle of Reform
was the committee’s delegate. How things turn
out. Why, there’s not a dog in Sydney who
wouldn’t blush to employ Henniker as a delegate
to the butchers to complain of the quality of the
paunch.
The Rttm people think that some of them
ought to get into Parliament, and so raise the poli-
tical influence of the paper. W. W. Wynne is.
therefore, on the look-eut for a constituency, and
made Ms first public utterance on the important
nat.v—“1 question of increased tram fares to Pad-
ding’ >i. But the Herald and Nooze did not re-
port him, which he very properly ascribes to pro-
jealousy.
“Thomas Forsyth, J.P., pleaded guilty to
being drunk in the West Kempaey Police Court
on the previous day, and this being a second
offence, a fine of 10s. or seven days was imposed.
Fine paid."— Macleay Herald.
And yet a funny rumour’s round;
This Baccbannalian elf
Is awful hard upon the “drunks,”
Though he’s a "drunk” himself.
On Sunday, the 21st December, Donald
McAuley, an old Clarence Hiversugar farmer, and
well-known identity, was killed by the niggers on
the Lower Mulgrave River. Donald, it seems, was
coming to Cairns, and on his way got an aboriginal
to paddle him in his canoe up the river a distance,
when the latter took a different view of the sub-
ject, waddyed him, and upset him in the water.
Later on, the corpse was pulfed on a sandbank,
stripped, and the bead, a leg, and an arm cut off.
Lady Florenc* Dixie has taken to writing
about dog-breaking. She has, of course, a leaning
to aristocratic members of the canine species.
Thus she writes:—“A well-bred dog should scarcely
know what the whip means ... A well-bred dog
can be rendered highly sensitive by a look or word
of disapproval.” What demeanour did Lady Flo-
rence adopt towards the animal which did indiffer-
ent duty when her ladyship was chased by the two
“ assassins in green ?” We want to find Lady Dixie
writing a treatise on “Anti-Irish Lies.”
Earl Powis’s brother, the “Very Rev. and
Hon. George Herbert, Dean of Hereford,” has
been committed for trial for an offence of the
Cornwall grade. All the reporters were squared,
and nothing transpired about the case for over
three days after the committal. The Dean is out
on £300 bail, but it seems that the other man. a
“ carman out of place,” is in limbo. We wonder
whether this case will have a not uncommon end-
ing. The Dean will go on the Continent, and the
other man will be let off on promising to emigrate
to Australia!
Little Garland, in an old Carcoar Mary
we have just come across, says:—” We took his
copy, till he put a price on it.” So we did. But we
didn’t take it for ourselves ; we took it for the
dog. It must have something to lie on, and
Launcelot’s screed is some of the “softest” copy
we have struck. We really advise the little man to
“ keep his hair on.” That is if he has got any left.
Let’s see. How long has he been married ? By-
the-wav, Mr. Garland states that our staff write
for 3s. t>d. a column. However that may be, we
will take any amount of cony—at 3s. Od. a column
—from Mr. Garland —for the dog.
Dan O’Connor lives in a small house in
Palmer-street, and, when at home, almost lives on
his balcony, reading political economy, and play-
ing with his kids —who promise to grow up as
pretty as Dan himself. And Mr. O’Connor is
prettier, now, than ever he was—his beard having
become quite white. In the sunlight he is a
gorgeous picture : and it is rumoured that men
travel hundreds of miles only to feast their eyes
on him, and then, having subsequently hail a
squint at St. Mary's, go back into the wilds of
the bush, confident that they have seen the two
most magnificent monuments the city possesses.
It is stated by Le Gaulois that the
authorities are seriously thinking, in cholera
cases, of adopting the process of cremation. E. A.
Baker (who keeps a boarding-house in Macquarie-
street—or did) favours this system also. By this
means Ezekiel will be enable to distribute himself
amongst his friends. We met an ex-boarder of
Ezekiel’s the other day, and though we both
, agreed thfft E.4-B* must (J5 the natural course of
events) die soon, he stated that though he respected
the ex-Minlster for Mines, on his decease he would
not apply for any of his cinders. He did not, he
said, with emotion, want any more of the Baker
bashes.
The Earl of Shrewsbury and Talbot seems
to have sobered up at last. He has now turned
cab-proprietor, and his vehicles are described by a
writer as being “ perfect of their kind, the horses
well groomed and well harnessed, and the drivers
well dressed, civil, and careful. I sat in serenity
and comfort, with my feet on a warm, clean mat,
behind a well-conditioned steed, trotting away at
the rate of seven miles an hour, with musical little
bells on its collar,” &o. Wo have an idea, though,
somehow, that the premier Earl of England's cabs
will be in particular request in certain cases whore
it is perhaps not deemed advisable to order out the
carriage. “ Comprenny ? ”
A very clever fiddler (lately in Sydney),
who puts on considerable “side,” never hesitates
to smoke in any drawing-room when invited out,
even when ladies are present On one occasion
his host was not a nouveau riche, and effectually
put the fiddler’s pipe out by calmly calling the
artist’s attention to the presence of ladies. The
little fiddler puffed and spluttered with anger, and
ejaculated that “nevaire—no, nevaire—had he
been so insoolted!" as he prepared to go. His
host coolly bowed him out, with the retort that he
was not unaware of what was due to genius, as he
had had the pleasure of entertaining many men of
equal talent and—better breeding.
The editor of a Corsican paper (M. Cham-
pagnac) dropped in for it the other day. Two
brothers, Dominique and Oustave Bertagna,
waited for M.C. in a caf6, and when he came In one
punched him in the ear and the other kicked him
in the mouth. On the combatants being separated,
the editor, more dead than alive, raised the remains
of his bat and enquired the reason of the attack.
“ Didn't you call our mother a camel in your
paper?” yelled Dominique, producing M. Cham-
pagnac's journal. “ I think I did,” said the editor,
musing; “but I shall be happy to insert any cor-
rection with which you may favour me. And
what a range you have got. So many animals to
chose from.” Then, while the brothers were cock-
ing their revolvers, he vanished.
The holy alliance between Colonel Balling-
ton Booth and the Hon. Graham Berry waxes
warmer every day. Ballington Invited his chum,
the Chief Secretary of Victoria, to assist at the
Harmy's New Year Festival, and the old veteran —
though he declined the spiritual hospitalities—de-
clined in such terms as fairlv sent the soldiers of
the Loard into eostacies. Then, in return for
Graham's “jam.” friend Ballington expressed a
*• fervent wish for the future happiness and pro-
sperity of the Chief Secretary,” and the Harmy
tired a volley of Amens. To the thoughtful mind,
there is something very beautiful about all this.
Berry is giving a fillip to the worldly interests of
his dear brother Booth, who, in response, is assur-
ing the welfare of friend Berry in the life that is
to come. Hallelujah!
Modern Society, in quoting a list of the
Prince of Wales’s friends, takes exception to the
Duke of Portland, Sir John Astley, and Mr. A.
Craven. As it happens, Mr. Craven is the only one
of the Prince’s “push” entitled to any oonside a
tion on Intellectual grounds, since, about a year
ago, he translated into elegant French Sir Theo-
dore Martin’s “ Life of the Prince Consort:” and is
a talented raconteur. Mr. Craven is married to
Lady Florence Craven, and. wo believe, is heir to
the Earldom of Fife A long story was told about
Mr. Craven some time ago—about hloj clearing O'Jt
and giving all his tradesmen “brasher.” From
the mere fact of his being at Goodwood with the
Prince, it would seem that he has managed to
pacify the fishmonger and square the grocer. Our
sympathies are all with Mr. Craven. w e have fre-
quently to make a circuit of ten miles or so to
reach a hostelrie where the pensiveness of the
landlord is rather comparative than pronounced.
A. G. Taylor talks of working his passage
Home; and yet heidoes not know the fore-sheet
from the cross-jack tack, nor could he distinguish
the snatch-block from the watch-tackle fall. If
A.G. goes to sea, he will be like a young bear, all
his troubles will be before him. If he have the
courage of his opinions he will be soon initiated
into the mysteries of “greasing down,” ana when
they clew the royals up, he will have to scamper
first up the weather rigging. His captain will also
put his handkerchief over the binnacle, and initi-
ate the precocious legislator into the mysteries of
steering by a star, and if he gets “ two points off,”
a belaying-pin accompaniment will bo inducted
into the lesson. We’ve been through all this our-
selves. We can skip tip aloft, grease down, and
steer by a star; but it takes some time to learn,
and people are, somehow, not very patient on
board ship. And this leads us to the conclusion
that, if Mr. A. G. Taylor persists in his determina-
tion to work his passage Home, only a little of him
will get there. He could however, always be uti-
lised as a spare studding-sail boom.
ABSURD.
“ The Rev. Abraham Reidings, late Con-
gregational minister at Maungaturoto, Kaipara,
was arrested on board the steamer Tarawera, just
as she was starting for Sydney, on a charge of in-
decent assault on November 3. . . . He was
much affected on being arrested, and requested
permission to take his Bible to hie cell with him.
He has resigned his charge.”
Another holy man gone wrong,
Say, can the world be mad ?
Can it be sung in any song
A clergyman is bad ?
No one could be a sinner—
This we do sure foretell—
Who took (this story is quite true)
His Bible to his cell.
Don’t tell us that this good divine
Exists beneath a ban;
Just listen and you’ll hear him whine
“ It was the other man.”
The Gebmanton Times has gone bung.
The proprietor, Mr. Hart, announces his last num-
ber, in an article headed, “ Starved out,” and says,
savagely:—" In presenting our readers with the
last copy of this journal, the proprietor avails
himself of the only opportunity for offering a few
explanatory remarks to his constituents, which
may clearly convince those who are open to con-
viction, that unless a journalist is prepared to
maintain an importunate bearing he had better
keep away from Germanton.” This is a long
rigmarole, from which it seems that the people
promised him support; but when he had a row
with a local magnate, a prompt upset of the ice-
cream cart followed. His Hart ;s evidently con-
siderably bowed down, as will be seen from a copy
of his—or the pound-keeper's verses:—
“ Once, stood I well in thy brown eyes
And served thee 1—my chief pleasure.
Bat the Hart once prized now broken lies
As nought![ 1! I]— once thy chief treasure.”
This would have sealed the fate of a bigger man
than Mr. Hart. We could have even sympathised
with bits if he fled—I a the dark /
Shaw’s Team off English Cricketers.


THE CRY OF THE CATERER.
This news is true, upon our honour.
For Sydney (West) goes J. O’Connor.
When learns the caterer this news,
'Twill sadness in his mind infuse!
Ah, how he punished, did J. G.,
That meagre legislative tea!
“ Defeat” wili he the cat’rer's prayer.
His lot is hard enough to bear!
V aried .
Caterc r ( loquitor ).
*' Why, on this job,” he cries, “ no profit hangs.
With Lucas’molars and Jack M'Elhone's fangs:
See Melville’s mouth when muffins do appear;
Watch Luscombe'a clutch when crumpets do
stand near;
See Roseby gloat—the sight, sirs, is immense—
And oat three shillingsworth for eighteen pence 1
They all conspire to give the feed a doin’—
J. G. O'Connor means but one word—ruin.”
Charles Gormley, a Melbourne labourer,
and, erstwhile, happy owner of a glass oye, is now
lamenting the loss of that item of strictly personal
property. Charles takes his nightly rest in Cop-
pm’s lodging-house, and ’twas ever his rule, ere
closing his real eye In peaceful slumber, to put
away its false similitude in a pocket of bis trousers
One morning, though, the merry, laughing, little
optic was gone ; a mean shunk had “ lifted” it
during the small hours, and poor Gormley was left
to find hi« way about as well as he could with the
sight that still remained to him. Up to latest ho was
still seeking the abducted eye.
“ Poor Charlie had an eye of glass,
An optio bright and beaming—
But, ob I alas! it came to pass
That, while he lay a dreaming,
'Twas stolen, and, though past belief,
This fact there's no concealing—
When Charles’ eye was on tne thief
He never saw him stealing.”
The following, we believe, is the text of
Alfred's reply *o the hon. secs., accepting the ban-
quet proffered to him on behalf of the citizens of
Sydney;—
“ Market street.
“ The new buildlns.
“ N.B. Cirkilation of the T. and C.
“ Jernel, 1,500,000.
“ To the hon. seeks.
Sire,—“ This roconition on part of the public
of my tallunts as a rlter gives pleasure to all
the famerly, also Kris which has given mo
letters to several jukes. Heniker is going to
get me through the Kort, and I am nearly all
day in the wnshus practising $o wear a sord
which I got a bargain off of a man who used to
come on as the army in ’ Mary Turner.’ I shall
come back with a new set of crickets, also a
man who cuts blox out of his own head. I can
promise you the honner of my presence,
also Frank who says I ought to remind the
komltty that turtles is in.
“ I remain, your’s and cetrer,
•• Alfred **
“ P.8.—Kris says you don’t write ‘ komitty '
with a K. When will that boy learn to spel ?
The dear, brave, and considerate old man !
A few weeks ago, a private and unofficial intima-
tion was made to the Duke of Cambridge that the
German Government would acquiesce in h s suc-
cession to the throne of Brunswick. But the
sturdy old hero gave a most unequivocal refusal,
and. as he fastened on a fresh liver pad and rubbed
St. Jacob’s Oil to his gouty foot, he was heard to
say that nothing on earth would induce him to
give up the Horse Guards while he continued fit
tor his arduous duties there. If nothing on earth
can shift His Grace, it is to be sincerely hoped that
something from heaven—or the place opposite-
soon will, for a greater fossil cannot be found in the
whole Service. Only the other day, whilst address-
ing a body of soldiers in Ireland, the Commander-
in-Chief described himself as an old fogey favour-
able to old institutions, and not by any means an
admirer of modern Innovations; or. In other
words, he laments, among other institutions of the
"good old times,” that favourite of the “Hooks,"
the ‘ cat.” and aheap of other military kindred
monstrosities that have been con igned to a wpII-
rnerited limbo, to the great disgust of His Royal
Highness. It is an everlasting pity that this dod-
deril Duke ever allowed anything to Induce him
to accept his present posilion in the Horse Guards
until he was fit to perform the duties, for he is cer-
tainly not the hero that com mon-sens i people
would elect to command tho English army. Lord
Wolseley is precisely the very opposite of the
Duke, and no one can deny that he is the fittest
man to hold the situation. But HU Royal High-
ness is “well-connected,” and hence, no manor
how blue-mouldy and misohievom his notiot s he
wili remain at tho head of the army until another
princely pauper. In the shape of tho Duke of Con-
naught, is thought to be incompetent enough to
step into His Grace's shoes. Nice fat billets like
that of Commander-in-Chief are much sought
alter by our Royal dead-beats, as they heln t,o
keep the wolf from the door. And wolves teem
to be pretty plentiful just now in England.
One of the saddest subjects for reflection
that we ever struck is tho Descent of Man. Man
was originally created little lower than the angels,
and he has been getting gradually lower and lower
ever since. It la only when wo turn to the descent
of woman, however, that tho full force of the
typhoon of humiliation bursts upon us, and our
cup of sorrow becomes so full that the slightest
jolt wouffi send its bitter contents over into the
saucer. Why we think of this to-day is because
we have just—figuratively speaking, of course-
tumbled over a frightful example in the person of
a young lady, named Ruth Whiting, who is now
engaged as a “ stamp picker ” In a newspaper office
at Great Barrington, Berkshire, O.S. Ruth was
not always a comp.; in fact, she was evidently
originally intended lor far greater things. Some
of the best blood that ever trickled from a human
nose now courses through Ruth’s cerulean veins,
for she Is descended, through her ancestress, Mar-
garet Beauchamp, grandmother of Henry VII.,
from Gundred, fourth daughter of William the
Conqueror; through her ancestress Joan Plan-
tagenet, and her ancestress Matilda of Scotland,
wife of Henry I. of England, from Alfred the
Great; and through another ancestress, Maud,
wife of William the Conqueror, from Lewis the
Fair and Charles the Bold of France, and from
Charlemagne, Emperor of the West. The lair
typo., however, does not let her terrible trenealogy
lift her out of her boots, but she roosts in front of
her ease 13 hours a day, and, when her toil is done,
fills herself up to the ears with nectar and sucks at
a black clay, after the fashion of the gay caravan
to which she now belongs. [We ste nothing of
fne descent herein lamented at all. If the Whiting
girl had started life as a comp, and afterwards be-
came a queenly drone, there would then be some-
thing to howl over, but it is so very seldom scions
of a regal race possess brains and energy enough
to earn their own Jiving that wo are almost
tempted to look upon Miss Whiting’s claims as
shady. Aeyone is good enough to be a monarch,
hut a person requires some little ability to be a
comp.—Ed. B ]
A military-looking man with a grizzly
moustache of martial aspect. We met him in a bar
where an attractive young person known as “ Miss
retails rum of a superior quality, bomeone
addressed him as “General" and hinted that wo
not entirely unconnected with the Press,
.j meet you,” said the General; “but I
should like to get hold of that scoundrel who
I had travelled 16,000 miles to lecture
ior 9d. * He is, doubtless, dead,” we said sooth-
ihffiy; no man who perpetrated such an atrocity
could possibly live long.” He eyed us sharply,
and, we thick, a little uneasily, and said, “ A fleo
ter such unscrupulous scribes. Pah I” “You are
ijpneral, we believe,” we hinted, “ organising a
party for New Guinea?” ‘ My arrangements are
nearly complete,” he replied; “when they are
,, 80 ’ vou>< verrez.” “ Vous !” we asked inter-
roRatlvely “ Verrez” he repeated. Then the
uenerai added: “It’s a strange language that is
m France. Y u u were, doubtless, born out
General, we are the hope, the pride of
I thought so.” “ You speak many
trBoiH age8 ' 9 eneral ?” "Sir,” replied the in-
warr ior. ‘ I speak them all. I am a
nhr,nM „ ot ioDune, and it is necessary that I
°9. Id .. 8 h eak them all. As Don Carlos observed
xou placed your sword at his disposal,”
we hazarded. “I did, sir; and he declined it.”
‘Probably he was afraid the slaughter would be
too dreadful,” we hazarded, timidly, “Sir,” he
cried fiercely, “am I to understand ” “Not
at all,” we said, hastily, as we thought we saw him
feeling for his revolver pocket. ” We suppose,”
wo went on, not without some trepidation, “that
ishould Germany assail the Colonies, you would
place your sword at the disposal of the Govern-
ment.” “Sir,” was the ea<m reply, “this is my
adopted country. It can command me to the last
drop of my blood.” “Thank you, General,” we
said, pressing his somewhat unwilling hand; “after
this a sense of security will reign amongst a people
to whom it has long been a stranger. With you to
■command the army, and the Captain the navy, we
have nothing to fear. Bless you. We will now go
and tell the missus that she can with safety emerge
from the coal-hole.” And we flashed through the
#rla«s dsors not one moment too so on.
Miss Dora Read Goodale has been firing
some store of her poetry at an already wounded
W'Orlld, She calls it “ Then;” but it might bn any-
i thing—or nothing. Read some of what she writes
ratheMitdgeb Independent:—
; “The times have been,” as the late
, lamented Mr. Macbeth once observed, “ that, when
the brains were out, the man would die, and there
an end! ” but all that kind of foolery appears to
'be played out at present. To get back from the
.grave isn’t half the tough piece of work our actor-
•author George Larrell thought it was. This was
pretty plainly proved last week by a member of
•our Permanent Force, who is somewhat unduly
handicapped by the martial name of William Wal-
lace. A few months ago, full private Wallace was
discovered to be missing from the barracks; search
was made, and at length his mangled body, identi-
fied chiefly by his uniform, was found floating In
the sea near Botany. The usual “ crowner’s quest ”
followed, and William Wallace was declared to be
as truly dread as a door-nail. [Why a door-nail
should be considered the popular standard of
deadness when the Herald leaders are available
is a matter we could never understand, but this is
a season when our time-honoured adages must be
respected.] As Mr. Wallace was a good and gal-
lant hero when alive, it was determined to give
him a proper send-off to that, bourne from which
it was once foolishly thought no traveller could
ever obtain a return ticket, and accordingly the
trumpets brayed, the guns rattled, and comrades
dropped their tears o'er the silent grave of William
Wallace. The world rolled on, and in a few short
■days the dead warrior was forgotten. Recently,
however, Mr. Wallace rather surprised his mess-
mates by walking into the barracks and anxiously
enquiring if any one had seen an old briar-wood
pipe that he hapnened to have left behind him.
Subsequent explanations revealed the fact that the
Permanent warriors had been tooting, and shoot-
ing, and slobbering over the wrong man. Being
anxious to obtain a holiday on the quiet, it ap-
pears that Wallace exchange I clothes with an
obliging friend, and then s'ipned off to enjoy the
wild dt lights of the Melbourne Cup Day Carnival,
It was this friend who was found mangled and torn
in th i Botany waves; but how ho came there will
never be known until Gabriel’s trumpet sounds,
and the great roll call is read. Perhaps, not even
ithen. Some persons love to bo mysterious.
Probably you will be delighted to hear
that Warwick Gainor and Frank Cites have got
thoroughly mixed up with the 'Lite who form
South Australian **society.” Tboy aro
‘‘dramatic and musical recitals,” which aie patro-
nised by ” Bill ” Kobinson (our own lamented Sir
Hercules’ brother), who Is a tenders authority
among pretty lady amateur vocalists. In fact,
William is credited with being the “acting”
governor, with one particularly fascinating war-
bler. And she seems to like it, too ! Ah, these
vice-royalties I But, to resume, Warwicko
Gainoro was once in Italy, and has acquired a
thoroughly foreign pronuunciatiou of the Eng-
lish language. Anyhow, when he sings in his
mother tongue nobody under the heavens knows
what he is singing about; so that it must be the
effect of his splendid Italian accent. And War-
wicko has a magnificently hollow voice on
occasion, though now and then the quality im-
proves. and suggests something not unlike a com-
plete BiUigreenamentc flavour. (HangitI we, too,
were once in Italy— maccarnni! trovatore!! travi-
ata!! do re mi fa!) He sang Heel’s song from
“ Dinorah,” tne other night; but do you fancy
that any such bald statement would satisfy War-
wicko? Not much, Mary Ann. No. sir. This is
how the fact was announced in the gifted twins'
programme Recitative e Aria from the opera
11 Pellegrinaggio di Ploermel." Santley, and Faure,
and the other common vocalists could never have
hit upon such a stroke of veritable inspiration
sufficient to draw Sharky, Hardy, and " Bill ”
into an expenditure of five shillings per capita
and cabhiro. And then to hear Frank Cates
recite Gordon’s “ How we beat the favourite ” III
Frank, dear readers, you are likely to remember;
but Gordon, hardly so likely. Let us arrest
your vagrant memories. Gordon was once
a member of the South Australian Parlia-
ment. He also wrote poems. For waut of
a few pounds in this intellectual desert of
Australasia, Gordon committed suicide. But
Frank Cates is a living actor. He is a particularly
nice, pleasant, well-informed, gentlemanly fellow,
who makes an admirable juvenile la light modern
comedy. But he has lately been depraved by
Messrs. Allison and Rignold, the immensely suc-
suooossful theatrical caterers, who engaged him to
enact Romeo. Frank has to earn bread and butter
for himself, and the missus and tho children, but
Shakespeare, even in Hades, must have writhed
from the effects of that performance. Well, you
can hardly ezpeet Frank to phv la pantomime—
what would Joe Brown say if he were to ?-and
so, as nothing else seemed getatsble, his attention
was turned unto “dramatic recitals.” Thus it was
that we were able to hear Frank recite “ How we
beat the favourite," It was what Messrs. Alison
and Rignold would call “an enormous success,”
without doubt. Why, occasionally, you could
hear what Frank said quite distinctly -he has never
been in Italy, bless you I—and the way in which he
placed the book on a table, kept one eye on the
page, turned over when necessary, yet acted a
jockey riding 8 stone, and a whole crowd round a
racecourse, was simply marvellous. Yes, dear
readers, simnly marvellous! We only know of
one thing which might improve the performances
of Warwicks and Francisoo-damilallo— there we
are dropping Into Italiano again 1 Yes; only one
thing—Dynamite. Say half a plug to each gifted
twin. And be sure the detonators aro in good
order. By Saturday week, if you please.
This from a correspondent:—“ It may in-
terest some of the readers of The Bulletin to
learn that the identical Adair, who carried out the
Glenveigh eviction in Donegal (Immortalized by
Mr. Dell s powerful poem, in your last issue), still
lives iu the Queen’s County, The existence of this
man, now reaching 80, in landlord-shooting Ire-
land, is a singular illustration of tho saying:
‘Threateaed dogs live long.’ John Adair’s place
adjacent to the little town of Ballybrittas, In the
Queen’s County, Is one of tho finest country seats
in Ireland. Adair has always been an extermina-
tor, and a consistent upholder of the doctrine
that cattle are a better crop in Ireland than human
beings. Accordingly he evicted all the small
tenantry on his estate, levelled the cabins and
merins (fences), and consolidated tho holdings Into
fields of 50, 75, and 100 acres (Iiish) each. These he
cultivates or pastures himself, and with some suc-
cess. His schemes of depopulation were not popu-
lar with the people, and accordingly Mr. Adair was
fired at a half-dozen times, at least. His escapes
were accounted for amongst the rustics by tho
saying thit ‘the devil's children have the devil's
luck,' it being considered in some parts of Ireland
that Satan brought all his favourites ®atoly
through their worldly troubles. The fact that
Adair was heavily clad in mail, and that he had
spies la every direction, may have had much more
to do with his escapes than ‘Auld Nick's’ inter-
ference. Mr. Dell is not the first who found in the
Glenveigh eviction a subject for poetic indigna-
tion. Twenty-five years ago a young Irish priest
(since dead), whose parish was decimated by
Adair, composed some stinging verses illustrative
of the domestic misery of which Adair was the
author, entering, at thepumo time, rather minutely
into that gentleman 8 antecedents. After pictur-
ing the agonising parting of two lovers, whose
parents had been expelled by Adair, the writer
thus fiercely addresses him
4 Foul scavenger of Curragh's camp,
Despoller of Glenveigh,
. You bribed a lying, perjured scamp
To swear our lives away;
The judge and jury both agreed
That perjury was there.
And put the cm sc of Cromwell’s breed
On coward John Adair 1
* One lingering look the lovers gave.
Then pa> ted. ne’er to meet.
Poor Wiiiio lies beneath tho wave,
Without a winding-sheet;
But Nellie’s duty bade her stay,
Her parent ’ tute to car* 3 ,
Of broken heart she pined away—
Their deaths on John Adair I’
The ballad singers took up tho song, and gave it
forth at all tho fairs an 1 markets in Leinster, until
Adair was almost frantic with rage, ns, wherever
he showed bis face, lie was hoarsely greeted with
theichorus. * Their [deaths on John Adair.’ Ulti-
mately he offered a reward of £100 for the came of
the author or printer of the poem, and secured tho
assent of all the magistrates In the different coun-
ties to the imprisonment of any person who re-
peated it in public He failed in both purposes;
neither author nor printer was ever discovered,
nor were the street vocalists foolish enough to
give up such a good thing. Poetry and slugs have
been alike ineffective on Adair,‘and it is only a
few years ago that, on the expiration of some
leases, he cleared out a whole townsland in tho
vicinity of Mountmelllck, in the Queen’s County.”
Hornet Bank run, in the Dawson district
in Queensland, has Just been the scene of a dis-
covery of human remains. A jawbone and other
portions of a body were found burnt between two
logs, and a counter is supposed to have taken
place. Hornet Bank seems an ill-fated station; it
was there that, some ttve-and-twenty years ago or
more, the Frazer murders occurred, the story of
whioh used to bo narrated at every camp-fire.
Hornet Hank had not long been occupied by the
Frazers—a family of pioneers—when the tragedy
occurred. The country is an alternation of flue
black-soil downs and heavy brigelow scrub of
great extent and density. At one end the tract of
pastoral land terminates in wilderness of broken
country. The blacks were very numerous in these
early days, and the Ftazers let them into the
station and, to a certain extent, trusted them.
The result was that one dark night the natives
stole up to the head station, and, entering the huts,
commenced to murder the unhappy people in their
beds. There were two fine girls in the family, and
several young men aud boys. The mother was
brained with a waddy. One girl, almost a child,
was seized in bed; the other, a maiden of seven-
teen or so, was awakened by the blows being
dealt and the shrieks of her brothers, and slip-
ping out of the house, lied down tho paddock.
Sbe was already near shelter, when some gins
caught sight ot her white nightdress, and she
was captured and taken back. With her sister she
was cruelly outraged befoie the eyes of her dying
mother, and on the veiy bod behind which tho
orIv other living being of her family was con
cealed. This was a boy of twelve or so, who had
been awakened by a blow on the head with a
“ waddy,” on receiving which he chanced to writhe
over lo the back of the bed and fall between it,
and the wall, escaping further notice in the con-
fusion aud darkness. Alter the blacks had killed
his sisters, to finish up with, they ransacked the
place aud made off, and “ young Frazer,” by which
name ho was long after terribly known on the
outskirts of pastoral settlement in Queensland,
managed to make hts way to Euroomba, the near-
est station —some twelve miles distant. Mr. Poliett
Darden, now Police Magistrate at Stanthorpe, in
Queensland, was then proprietor of Euroomba,
aud a party '-f squatters and their hands was
speedily organised (the native police assi .ting), fur
a terrific crusade against the Hornet Rank blacks
— many of the chief perpertrators being well
known to young Frazer and the squatters of the
dfstrict. About ;ten years later wo passed a year
as overseer on Euroomba, and so completely had
the work been done by that time, that there was not
then a single man, woman, or piccanniny of the
Upper Dawson tribe in existence, that we ever
heard of. On Euroomba, and Hornet Bank, no
aboriginal had been seen for years, and oniy once
did we even see a trace of a Jiving black on the
run—a tree where a ’possum bad been cut out a
day or two previous. But that must have been
the work of a vagrant nigger passing through,
as unquestionably the Hornet Bank and Euroomba
blacks had been either exterminated or driven
by terror from the locality for ever. For years it
was war without quarter against them. If a
blackfellow was seen, he hunted and shot.
They seem to have been a particularly dangerous
lot, those Upper Dawson blacks. The number of
the victims of the Hornet Bank tragedy was, we
think, twelve. All at one coup. But on Eu-
rootuba, we remember reckoning seventeen
graves, scattered over the run—two hero, one
there, three in another place—all graves of men
who had been murdered by the blacks. There
was one at a creek-crossing place. There were
three at a riverside sheep-station, one of these
bring the grave of an overseer. There were two
at a lonelv outstatlon, by a waterhole, in a scrubby
gully, near a fine stretch of downs. How the
squatter managed to Induce men to shepherd and
live in that “ bloody ground,” it la difficult to im-
agine. We never saw country more fitted by nature
f >r favouring tbeskulking approach of shepherds’
huts, and the easy confusing of shepher Is. Tho
places where the Hacks fed being waterless, tho
huts and yards had to be in the tcrubby gullies,
or through a fringe or belt of scrub, onthea’lu-
vial strip of open forest along the creeks. As a
matter of fact, while tho district was still the re-
mote “outside" country, the Government neg-
lected to protect the squatters altogether, and
ihoie found that they would either have to aban-
don their runs or protect themselves. So they en-
gaged Walker, afterwards distinguished in Queens-
land as an explorer, a man who understood blacks
i horoughl v and had agreat influence over the more
civilized New England natives. Ho brought a lot
of these natives with him, and organised a private
corps of native police, who effectually “dispersed”
the local olaeks. We could taku the reader even
now, without much difficulty in finding our way,
to two or three places on Eorooraba run, where
we would guarantee to yet find a skull or two,
with a round neat hole in each, and a collection of
tibia and rib bonoi. It used to be said around the
camp ti es of North Queensland pioneers, that
after the massacre of his family, young Fraz.r
never spared any blackfellow he encountered in
tho bush when no white witnesses were by. It
u*ed to be whispered that the blow on the head he
received had left permanent effects, and that,
combined with the fearful impression made upon
him by the murder of his mother and brothers,
and the violation and murder of bis sisters, bad
rendered him irresponsible for his dealings with
respect to the aboriglneo.
The accompanying portrait is that of the
late A. M. Sullivan, for many years in the front
rank of Irish political leaders. Born In Cork, in
1830, he early adopted the profession of journalism,
and when litf.'o more than twenty-five, succeeded
Mr. G van Duffy on the Nation. Mr. Sullivan
tried oratorv, literature, and politics, and suc-
ceeded in all. For hts deliverances on the occa-
sion of the Manchester executions, he suffered
four months’ imprisonment in 1868. At that
time ho was a member of the Dublin Town
Council, and, during bis incarceration, was
nominated for the Mayoralty of the city, but
induced his supporters to withdraw his name. In
1874 ho was returned to Parliament for Louth, and
represented that county till] 1880, when Meath
secured him as one of its members. In 1882, ill-
health compelled his retirement from polities. He
died on the 17th of October, 1884. In 1876, on
vacating the editorial "hair of the Nation, ha
was called to the Dublin Bar. “ New Ireland”
was Mr. Sullivan’s most successful literary effort;
his greatest forensic success, the defence of the
Land League malcontents in 1880 Ho was a
staunch believer in the necessity for local
government for Ireland as the only means
bv which tho well-being and conciliation
of that much misgoverned country could
bo compassed. To attain this end, he placed
his faith, like O'Connell, in moral suasion alone,
deeming that no political triumph was worth the
spillinK of a drop of blood. Ho was essentially a
“ moderate ” man—a fact which alienated from
him the more turbulent spirits who fancied, with
what many still think justice, that the only way to
reach the British public was through their poc kets
or their fears But it is not as a Nationalist only
that Mr. Sullivan's name will long be remembered
at Irish cabin firesides. He was an uncompromising
Ultramontane. We do not use the word offensively.
Judged by his public utterances, the idea of a united
Italy was to him a crime, and Garibaldi a sacrili-
geous iconoclast. “ Liberty-loving ” was one of the
epithets applied by him to Bio Nono—an epithet
which those who have followed the life of that
priest subsequently to 1848 must be pardoned for
not receiving with Academic faith. Mr. Sullivan
believed in a free Ireland, but above all he be-
lieved in a Catholic one He forgot that millions
of Irishmen would prefer to see English and Scotch
officials strutting in Lublin Castle, sooner than sec
ecclesiasticism, under any guise, swaying the in-
sular councils. His chief pride in his country
arose more from his admiration of the manner in
which, for centuries, she clung to the Catholic
faith, than trom his sympathy with her political
struggles. To him great uprisings like the French
Revolution meant a stop backwards in civili-
zation. They might result in elevating a
people, but their Immediate effect was to
dtpioss an ecclesiastical organisation which he
considered divine. On one memorable occasion
an opportunity was give ■ him and hi* political
associates of proving to the world how Irishmen,
whose fathers had long suffered from religious
disabil.LUS, were above proscribing others lor en-
tertaining heterodox views on abstract questions.
It was Uradlaugh'a election. Wo do not in any
way identify ourselves with either Mr. Bradlaugh
or hit views. Besides, he is quite well able to
take his own part.. But his opponents must have
known Cl at it * wet sr>or>ge were passed over
the name# of the Europ* a' 1 -aders of thought who
think vs ith the p reec itcu mem >or tor Northamp-
ton, a gap would be left which they certainly
coutd not fill, fcuilivan and Bradlaugh looked out
upon creation. Behind the phenomena he saw
the former discovered Intelligence, while the lat-
ter did not. So, to show how unpardonable it w as
to disregard the evidences of design in nature,
the member for Meath was among the first
to deny the other’s right to bear a part in
framing human ordinances. Nor can the Irish
members fair'y shield themselves from blame by
protesting that Eng lish and Scotch representatives
uid likewise. As before remarked, an oppoitunity
which may not occur again, was given to the nidi
members to show their liberality in the face of the
world, and, led by Mr. Sullivan, they failed.
* ♦ ♦
The Colonial Architect, it seems, can’t
spell ‘‘kerb." John can lick this, anyhow.
Ask him to write "dinner,” and he will give you
change for it, even it he does, in the hurry of busi-
ness, forget one ‘ n.”—At Taree, r. cently, they
gave the Kev. Mr. Hawkins, the retiring minister
£153. He took it all, and looked anxiously about
for a tea and coffee sec. In replying, however he
was very much moved, He said the gift was so
unexpected, and that he was an unworthy vessel
But still he took it all, and peered about expect-
auily after the tea-and-ootfeo set.
* * *
The London daily JSTlws once paid Archi-
bald Forbes nmeyenco lor a uine-Une paragraph
When next the famous war correspondent wrote
for that paper, ho received five guineas a column
aud wrote a slx-columu article. ’
" £ brought the beggars to my door;
The sick were healed, the hungry fed.
Now, when a famine grinds the poor,
Behold I they turn to him for bro id.
K ‘flJy neighbours greet me on the way;
i’heir eyes seek his electric (sic) fi ee.
How one such look would years repay;
But such a look is not for me.”
•Ob, tell us, Dora, what now could ail
You when this verse you penn’d, you dear!
'IThis rhyme, though coming from a Goodalo
To us, appears the smallest beer!
r What mystery, now, In this trash,
Are you solving or expressing ?
■Come, is it a receipt for hash,
Or your tip for a salad dressing ?
Hang up, hang up, your tuneful lyre!
Wo know, dear, you have done your best;
And, when you’re cooking at the fire,
Just give the frying-pan a rest.
HELAS!
“Mr. Harry M'Quade, M.P, for the
. Hawkesb iry, has obtained six months’ le've of
absence from his Parliamentary duties. He pur-
poses a trip to Europe.”
Six months I O. Harry! ’tis too long, w? swear!
How will the hungry " push” thine absence bear ?
How will they weep who used to make a wreck ?
Of those stuffed tuikeys and that Piper sec ?
Those gorging elves, Hal, who, till you came near ?
Would “ stick up” rum, “suspend ” colonial boor,
•Content to hide “ baths” of their native ale;
.Aught else to them was but a fairy talc.
You came amongst them, and they know full well
”Twas “ open sesame” at your h del;
And would you leave these flatterers to munch
At noon, once more, the common counter lunch ?
Just pause and think, and you will he afraid
That hungry crowd to quit, O, H. M‘Qu del
Please stay! A fatal step you sure will rue—
They’ll starve if they're not “ banquetted by
you! ”
Adored by those who do the “ willow wield,”
Thou art the idol of the cricket field!
Those hungry heroes and the football crowd
Bewail their lot e’en now in accents loud;
The coursing men, too, mutter, with a sigh.
He’s off. 1 alas! yet we must eat or die!
Think of the members, too—Uieir dread suspense
To lose one famous for his eloquence 1—
These rhythmic tones, mellifluous and bland,
■Which charmed your compeers and enslaved the
land !
Must yield to Silence and her sorry sway—
Look here, old boy, now please don t go away I
The CatTer has, with troubles sore to cope.
And once you’re absent he will lose all hope!
think, when evolving oratorio stars,
What you laid out in fizz, s'r, and oigarsl
And even when your speech—this is no ” kid’’—
Hid not go down, the champagne always did;
And, if the Fates your little jones don't bless,
Your “ Cath'rine wheels” go off with great success,
wtay with us! and, when—now—wo do declare it —
It comes to your last halfpenny wo’h share It.


“ VICTORIA ” OFNER BITTER-WATER,
The Best and Strongest Natural Aperient.
A Natural Fluid Magnesia, as a safe, ordinary, and gentle aperient in Inflammation
and Congestion, in Rheumatic and Gouty Disorders, against undue tendency to Fat,
against Haemorrhoids, in Bilious Attacks and Disorders of the Liver.
Nature’s Apehxent Hemedv during Pregnancy, and in many Female Diseases; for
Habitue 1 Constipation, in Organic Disease resulting from fatty degeneration, to remove
the consequences resulting from excess in diet, &c.
One wineglassful will usually relieve the most distressing headache.
nuE BOTTLE OF “VICTORIA” IS EQUAL IN ITS EFFECTS TO TWO OF OTHER BITTBR-
u WATERS, HENCK IT IS MUCH CHEAPER.
in ea-ies of Jndiccstion, Stomach and Liver Affections, Constipation, and other Derangements of the
in ca.es oi juu. b Sy6t cm, as a Family Medicine this has no equal.
Sold in Bottles at Is. 6d. and 2s.,
And may be obtained of any Chemist or Patent Medicine Vendor in the United Kingdom
I
A
A
for Infants and Children.
Castorla cures Colic, Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation,
Gives healthy deep and promotes digestion,
Without injurious medication.
“Castorla is so well adapted to children that
I recommend it ns superior to any prescription
known to me.” n. A. Akchek, M. D., .
Ill Oxford Street, New York, i
Elliott Bros,, Sydney, Agents.
<Sz, CO.
4s. in the £, or 20 per cent. Reduction.
GREAT SALE OF~REALLYNEW GOODS!
Disposal of the Balance of Spring and Summer Imports,
at a Discount of 4s. in the £.
—
PRIOR to our Half yearly Stocktaking, at the end of JANUARY, wo intend Disposing of all
SURPLUS SUMMER SEASON’S GOODS, at the very largo Discount of 4s. in the £.
CSV ROSSALIB, LLOYD and CO. have not reduced the prices of their goods, but they make a
bona Me deduction of 4a. in the £ after the bill is made out. elease note that you buy in the usual
way, thus ; If your purchases amount to £tt, you only pay £4 16s. This is the only genuine way of
selling off'.
LADIES WILL DO WELL TO INSPECT THIS MAGNIFICENT STOCK.
ORDERS ENTRUSTED TO US THROUGH POST WILL HAVE OUR BEST CARE.
& CO.,
354; G-eorgre-street, S37-d.ra.03r
(Near the Post Office, and directly opposite Wynyard-street).
•7 '^0
A* 30 *
1*1°*
0*0*
1 *
,iHy
“ipH
53
3
4
avon oto imott auooh
*4
!P
K
■
u
<
M
%0
CO
%/i
Or
* s
%n>
f
* *
* 9
0-5
Hill
U3
* fet
* S
Hm. Howard Smith & Sons
LINE Of PAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Omens: 43 KINO STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON. TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Maolcay
every fortnight.
Fleet or Steamships:
BUNINYONG EDINA KONOOWARRA
BARRABOOL GABO LBURA
BURWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KEILAWARRA YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH Sc SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
WEST KOGARAH, Anniversary Day; £o de-
posit ; free tickets and lunch. Smith,
Chapman, and Smith.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OF THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
WEST KOGARAH, Anniversary Day; £5 de-
posit ; free tickets and lunch. Smith,
Chapman, and Smith.
Department of Publla Works.
Sydney, 14th January, 1885.
Tenders for public works and sup-
PLIBS.—TENDERS are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office In the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of thn Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to whiob
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
P. A. WRIGHT.
WEST KOGARAH. Anniversary Day; £5 de-
posit ; free tickets and lunch. Smith*
Chapman, and Smith.
IF YOU ARE ABOUT TO FURNISH, you
should take advantage of the present oppor-
tunity, and purchase at the Royal Kurnishing
Arcade, The prices are the lowest, and you have
a splendid stock to select from. If you live In
the country, write for Illustrated Catalogue.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
42(j Georg e-street, Sydney, next the Royal Hotel.
NO MORE CORNS I
CORNS AND WARTS removed without pain
bv the use of Palmer's Painless. Harmless,
and Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER.
This preparation Is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If appled accord-
ing to the directions, It will effectually remove
them in from six to eight days.
PALMER’S
Trade I FACI/E CURA (Trade
Mark, j ■ HUIM: GUDH (Mark.
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Local.
This most wonderful Preparation has surpassed
all others in speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing comnlaint. It matters not
how long or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed in producing the desired re-
sults: and it can be most confidently recorome"ded.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general stores: wholesale by Messrs Elliott Bros,
Sydney ; E. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton,
Grimwade. and Co., Melbourne; Kempihorno and
Prosser, Dunedin.
WEST KOGARAH, Anniversary Day; £5 de
posit ; free tickets and luneh. Smith
Chapman, and Smith.
Professional Directory.
TT 11
|1
riBOOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and 8pe-
L olalty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
1, apply F. E. Hiscooks..
ties, a _
W.
Sydney
HORACE BENT, with Hisoocks’ Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
TO AMATEUR THEATRICALS.— Scenery Sup-
plied or Lent. G. Pbbbiman, Scene Painter,
No. 7, back of Academy of Music, Castlereagh-st.
m HEATRB ROYAL.
' 1 Under the direction of
■Messrs. Williamson, Garner and MnsoROVB.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager—B. N. Jones.
THE ONLY PANTOMIME IN SYDNEY
is
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD.
THIS and EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
THE GRAND COMIC CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
entitled __
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD,
or
HARLEQUIN BOY BLUB,
The Good Fairy and the Naughty Wolf.
PRICES: Dress Circle, (Is.; Stalls, 4s.; Family
Circle, 3s.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4 at Theatre.
N
E W
OPERA HOUSE
j>s»i'es & Managers ... B.Majeroni & W. J. Wilson.
Treasurer and Secretary ... Mr. Joe Brown.
Stage Manager Mr. George Leopold.
MAJBRONI and WILSON’S
COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
GIGANTIC SUCCESS
GIGANTIC SUCCESS
GIGANTIC SUCCESS
of
Lecocq's Famous Opera
LA FILLS DE MADAMK ANGOT
i„A FILLE DE MADAME ANGOT
LA FILLE DE MADAMK ANGOT
LA FILLE DE MADAMK ANGOT.
The ORCHESTRA under the Baton of
Mr. LUBCOMBB SKARBLLE.
Box plan now open at A. and C. Huenerbein's
Music Warehouse, 318, George-streets
C A D E M Y_
Lessee and Manager
OF MUSIC.
Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
H8COCK8’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
And Speciality Union,
yith fresh faces and new business, and all the old
favourites.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of the
PRESENT PROGRAMME.
T
H E
australi
WAXWORKS
Opposite the Cathedral,
Wf” Just added, a Portrait Model of
ARTHUR ORION,
The Tiohborne Claimant,
A N
Open daily from 10 a.m. till 10 p.m.
Admission, One Shilling; Children, half-price.
ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL.
CONSIDERABLE Additions and Improvements
have been made to the above Hall, which is
now the most commodious place of entertainment
in Rockhampton, and is in the centre of the town.
Jr Is thoroughly furnished and fitted, seated for
500 people, and has a large Stage and Gallery.
Ample means of access and egress have been pro-
vided ; also thorough ventilation. Travelling
companies will find special facilities for giving
entertainments in this Hall. Terms moderate.
Particulars on application to the Secretary.
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL, GOULBURN.
THIS handsome Bijou Theatr 1 , completely re-
modelled, is fitted with every convenience,
and has one of the best stages in the colony (50 x
30), is now open for engagement on very moderate
terms. Seats comfortably in dress circle, 250; pit
and stalls, 500. The population of the city is nearly
9000, and the Hall, which is now the most popular
place of amusement, is situated in the most cen-
tral position of the main street. Mr. Charles
Turner, of the Montague-Turner Opera Company,
says:—” The Hall 1 consider second to none in New
South Wales. The acoustics are good; the stage
and dressing-room accommodation is superior to
any Hall in the colony. Applications addressed to
M. E. PULLEN, Secretary, will receive prompt
attention.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
EIRBT OPEN DATE, TUESDAY. FEBRUARY
31th, 1885. Terms on application to
J. B. HICKIE,
Lessee.
N.B. Only responsible managers treated with.
A N O I N G
PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, 351
Castlcreagh-street, near Bathurst-street. P.S.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and Is superior in ventilation,
soring floor, &o. No decorations required.
CHURCHILL’S SYRUP OF THE HYPO-
PHOSPHITES.
THESE SYRUPS have so thoroughly obtained
the confidence of the Medical Faculty that they
are now proie-red to any other preparations as
Genernl Tonics.
The Svrupot Hypopboiphites of Lime has proved
itself for many years most useful in cases of Con-
sumption and diseases of the Pulmonary Organs.
It, is also mest beneficial to debilitated constitu-
tions proceeding from any cause whatever, as it
contains two ot the most necessary ingredients for
building up the Human Frame, namely, Phospho-
rus and Lime.
Churchill’s Syrup of the Hypophosphlte of Iron
is one of the best preparations of Iron and Phos-
phorus tnat has been offered to the public. Asa
permanent tonic it has been found more service-
able than any other preparation of Iron, and is
especially recommended to those suffering from
the effects of a long residence in a hot climate.
Churchill’s Compound Syrup of the Hypophos-
phltes contains Lime, Iron, and Soda, and as a
general Tonic has been found most useful. Deli-
cate children have derived the greatest benefit
from going through a course of this medicine,
which supplies nenny all the elements necessary 1
to dovelope in perfection the Human Frame. To
Ladies sufieriug from General Debility, any of
these Syrups can be taken with beneficial re- |
suits, but as almost every constitution differs, onn
may give better results than the other. 10 be had j
‘ rm SW1 ° TT lf


mm
iilhml.
> -
•'.w
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
THIRTY SHILLHf €».
The Autophone!
r|TMII8 triumph of musical invention is acknow.
I. (edged on all bands to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It is a wonderful little instrument, which, while
It weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 33 reeds, plays in three keys, and all the
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the Inventor, the world
was first Indebted for the Organotte; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and Intelligent
study, ho has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of cost and crudeness.
It requires no skill to extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas. Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &o , Ac., Ac. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy.
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that “ he who runs
may read.” It is best adapted to the kind of muslo
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power In
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and haa a little card-holder for convenience
insinging. It will bo found invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the buah should bo
supplied with one and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophono. It will afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro.
cure If expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little Instrument In the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLO CO.,
OF
474 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from rsmote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the olties-from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can offer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corre-
spondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend It
to their friends.
It is conceded by all educators and moralists
that music is the great refining influence, and
especially with children its effect for good is
boundless. The love for music which music in
the family engenders, Is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, end parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other
wise hard t?.sk an easy one.
The price of the Autophone Is 3«s.,
and where good music can be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autopho © for UOs. we
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogues of tunes at any time.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS,
Sole Agents for Australia t
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY,
474 Greorge-street, Sydney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre rot ad— “Little Red RldingHood t - P-
opera Hodbe—“ La Fille de Madame Angot lb.
Gaiety Theatre- Montague-Turner Opera . id.
Academy of Mnsic. —Hiscocka F. Minstrels lb.
When the Balmain “ Coldstream ” [no
less I] Band occupied the platform of the old ex-
hibition last Friday night, on the occasion of the
concert to raise funds for the projected Trades
Hall, tears stood in the eyes of many °l d Cockneys
present, as memories of old times rose b £tore
them—of trooping the colours in Palace Yard,
while Dan. Godfrey and his melodious henchmen
noisily brayed the fact that Britons had never
been slaves, and never Intended to be. It was
cheering to notice bow closely the Balmain war-
riors copied their London namesaaes. Even in the
matter of music— especially the solo parts our
men held their own with gratifying determlnat on,
and produced occasional notes of singular weird-
ness and profundity. It was a stroke of bold and
happy originality, this title of the Balmain Cold-
streams ” Tn music, as in most other things (are
you there, Sir ’Enery ?). the colonies have little to
learn from the old country. We trust, before
long, to hear that other artists have followed the
example of Balmain, and given us the Mossman s
Bay Strauss Combination” and the Band of the
Botany Life Guards.”
« ♦ ♦
Considering the occasion, Friday night’s
muster was not a strong one. Instinctively, we
found ourselves, in a short time, in front of the
“ bar ” where one Johann Hoff advertises a tipple
of “malt and soda” possessing the “strength of
stout, but without alcohol.’ Johann adds
that his drink is “patronised by the Royal
family.” Against this assertion we enter a
firm and Indignant protest. We have known
the Royal family (God bless theml) long and
intimately, have quaffed goblets of usquebaugh
with the late lamented John Brown—for which
that astute servitor considerately allowed us to
pay—while he told us thrilling particulars of how
Albert the Good counted out his own things for
the wash; Wales seldom took sugar in his tea, but
was fond of shrimps; Edinburgh, when a boy,
would sometimes spend as much as sixpence a day
in toffee, till his parents discovered and checked
such sinful prodigality; and Connaught, through
practising the bassoon, caused many of the ser-
vants to give warning. But—and In these unquiet
times, when Democrats, Communists, Nihilists,
and Fenians presume to pry into the doings of the
great, circulating the most reckless falsehoods
concerning their betters, and even attacking the
divine institution of monarchy itself, the fact can-
not be too widely known—the statement that our
Royal family patronise non-alcoholic stout is a
wicked fabrication, and demands an unqualified
denial. If we write strongly on this point, it is
because we feel that an attempt has been made to
attach a stigma to people who have done noth-
ijjg to deserve it. It shall never be said of us, at all
events, that we were afraid to take the part of
absent friends when their good name was in ques-
tion. Whoopi
♦ ♦ •
The Mayor of Sydney was to have pre-
sided, but, either thought better of it. or missed
his way in the dark. Mr. Henry Copeland, mem-
ber for Bast Sydney, apologised for him, as well as
for Messrs. J. Garrard and Daniel O’Connor. The
latter’s absence threw a gloom over the proceed-
ings, which was deepened by some music from the
band, and only partially dissipated by Mr. Cope-
land’s address. As a speaker, we prefer Dr,
Moorhouse to Mr. Copeland. This may be con-
sidered doubtful taste, but it is hard to entirely
subdue one's predilections. Having carefully
polished his face with a handkerchief, Mr. C.
gave some useful inf irmatlon concerning the
working man, and some kindly advice to that
much-misunderstood individual, whose welfare
public men are so solicitous about—especially
before a general ©lection. He glanced at the great
progress made since our progenitors “ hammered
out arrow heads between two stones ” to be pre-
pared, we presume, to receive their friends hos-
pitably. The same work, Mr. C. told us, could now
be done much more neatly and expeditiously by
means of a “ steam hammer.” He blamed " news-
paper men ” for prating about the “ dignity of
labour.” He saw no particular dignity in it, and
noticed that if a newspaper fellow were given his
choice either to write a leader or chop a load or
wood, he could always be trusted to start the
leader. We’ve observed the same thing ourselves,
and our observation goes even further than Mr.
Copeland’s, for our duties daily compel us to wade
through leaders whose writers would have been
much more advantageously employed in chopping
wood, just as we’ve been obliged to listen to par-
liamentary speakers whom we yet wildly hope to
see profitably occupied wheeling bricks. Mr. 0.
thinks that the curse of Adam (a good appetite
and no “ grub ”) will ultimately be “ circum-
vented ” by Improved machinery. We hope so.
The thought of sitting cosily at home while a cast-
iron housemaid, driven by psychic force, brings
your dinner from the baker’s and beer from the
publlosn’s without dawdling on the way to flirt
with the aluminium policeman, is fascination
itself.
* ♦ •
Then there was a concert. Mr. J ones ap-
appeared with a pleasing voice and an intermina-
ble song. We heard, with pleasure,.that the writer
of this ditty was dead. Had he died before com-
posing it, no monument smaller than the Pyra-
mid of Cheops would sufficiently reward him.
“Within a mile o’ Edlnboro’ Toun,” was given
so nicely by Mrs. James that she had to ap-
pear again and “kotow.” Mr. Harry Ward just
escaped having a remarkable voice. Mr. Edwards
sang “ True to the last” with gestures striking and
affecting. His somewhat reckless impetuosity re-
quires to be more carefully controlled. He has a
powerful baritone voice of good timbre , but he
should bear in mind that the physical exertions
tolerated, and, indeed, demanded on the stage,
should be either omitted or whittled considerably
down on the platform. How would it do if, in pri-
vate, he practised in a camisole, or as a “sandwich
man, until he acquired the necessary composure?
We think the suggestion as good as it is sincere.
The same may be said of Mr. T. Ryan. His voice
was good enough—when it could be hoard —and
his facial expression was lovely—seductive. Every
lady in the crowd was weeping when be retired,
hut whether on account of his going off so soon,
or because he came on at all, was an unfathomable
mystery.
* ** *
The new Masonic Hall—to our mind, the
pleasantest concert room in Sydney—will, on Feb-
ruary 5, be the scene of the debut of a young
Australian pianist, Mr. Harry Hyndes, son of the
Mayor of Maitland. Mr. Hyndes has been studying
at the Conservatoire of Milan, and brings high
credentials from that eminent school, i he fact
that Mr. Fred. M'Quade bas undertaken to assist
at the concert, and that Mr. Radcliff also will play,
must be regarded as testimony that judges, who
have heard Mr. Hyndes, regard him as a musician
of mark.
* * * *
Why Hiscocks ever shifts from Sydney is
to us a conundrum far knottier than any Mr.
Keenan is obliged to “ give up.” It cannot be tor
the sake of “ change,” for every evening one
looks in there, whether the wind is coming hot
and strong from the Barcoo, or banking up ugly
looking clouds over Botany way, there is the same
plethoric house, with a few dead-heads dotted
about. For some time past there has been no
material change in tne programme, yet the same
regiment of faces front the “ artists every night.
No such lode has been touched at Sunny Corner as
the one the “ Colonel ” and bis “ push ” are slop-
ing out at the Academy. We don’t grudge him his
luck, for he has collected and kept together the
strongest team, take ’em all round, that has been
seen for years.
* * * *
Faust,” the u Bohemian Girl,” and “Tro-
vatore” have been ladled out to us during the
week by the Turners. And this Is their last week
at. the Gaiety, where they will be succeeded on
Saturday by the Dunning mob. On some of their
productions it would be impossible to comment
favourably. However good their intentions, the
resources of the company were unequal to the
strain. A good baritone and bass are badly wanted.
On Friday, Miss Montague took a benefit, when
“ Faust” was assaulted with a praiseworthy deter-
mination, and routed after a fearful struggle.
Judging by the house that assembled. Miss Annis
must be a prime favourite. The jewel song was
given with a vim which was the signal for demon-
strative approval. On Friday night (33rd), the last
of the season, “Maritana” will be attacked for
Mr. Turner’s benefit.
# * * *
An announcement of the greatest import-
ance was made by the Royal people on Saturday.
For some days previously, the public mind was
being gradually prepared for a surprise by means
of mysterious advertisements and dark rumours.
But even these precautions fell short of allaying
curiosity. At last, Saturday morning came, and
with it the announcement —that to meet a social
want of the first magnitude, the family circle at
the Royal was to be reduced from three to two
shillings, thus placing within the rench of all an
opportunity of seeing for an insignlflcent sum,
the gorgeous pantomime “localised, vocalised,
and localised,” by Lance Lenton. Esq. In spite of
this reckless pioceedlng on the part of the
trinity of management, an ungrateful public
failed to “ part,” and so the family circle, in com-
mon with the more select part ot the house. Pre-
sented a depressing appearance on Saturday
night. The pantomime went as smoothly as ever,
only that the effervescing, humourous points
were received with a gloomy resignation. We
await another “ important announcement, with
a confidence bordering on certainty.
• * * *
Good “biz.” is still the ory at the Opera
House, where lei mire Angot’s daughter continues.
This work of Lecooq’s will always remain popular,
so long as opera bouffe keeps the boards. It is
tuneful throughout, and the number of sparkling
melodies the author managed to jam into it is
something marvellous. The motif of every move-
ment lies on the surface, and is us easily compre*
hended on a first hearing as on a twentieth. In
one sense, of course, the thing has never been
staged here—nor in any English-speaking commu-
nity, for the matter of that. We preserve the
music—probably because to? alter would be to
injure—but the wild bizarrerie and grotesqueness
of the whole work, as it is given In continental
Europe, is not likely to find favour amongst us,
owing to our peculiar habits of thought and
rather strait-laced ideas of public decorum. To
one who has seen the quadrille eccentricities in
any continental town, the decorous immobility or
the chorus is chasteness itself.
* * *
Miss Plaisted is vivacity personified. And
now, of course, the question crops up—is she not a
little (just a very little) too much so in the quarrel
scene? After all, it is a pure case of tout a son
gout. At all events, if she does nothing to make
the judicious grieve, the same cannot be said for
Miss Saville, when she expectorates in her hand,
preparatory to giving her feelings vent. It is not
nice to see a hodman do it, let alone a dashing
young lady. It was our intention to say some-
thing about the orchestra this week, but we must
defer it till next.
* * * *
On Sunday night last Mr. Charles Bright
addressed a crowded house, and in a tew words in-
timated his intention to abandon the platform and
take up the pen. His reasons for so doing he will
unfold on Sunday next, and deliver his farewell
lecture the following Sunday. Mr. Bright confined
his remarks to the growth of Freetbought from
the time of the Parramatta Lorengo-Jones affair
(14 years ago), and commented on the growth that
the cause has made. He briefly referred to the
jars and obstacles that certain people put in the
way, and the various schemes that were promul-
gated b v the opposers of his oause. The lecturer
ran rapidly over the list of supporters to whose
exertions the cause owed much, and dwelt upon
the firm support that a portion of the Press had
rendered, and the Evening News, Telegraph,
and Bulletin were mentioned. The spplause
showed the feeling of his hearers. The services of
five or sir instrumentalists helped to make the
evening a pleasant one, and the singing of Mr.
Barrington was so good that be had to repeat his
song to satisfy the clamours of the congregation.
At the Melbourne Royal, Williamson,
Garner, and Musgrove are drawing in big crowds
and many ducats with the inevitable Grand
Christmas Pantomime. Whether the spectacle of
full grown men and women sitting and sweltering
in the stalls, and panting and perspiring in the pit,
through four weary hours of fossilised foolery,
be not calculated to make the thoughtful o bserver
grieve, is a conundrum we won’t venture to
tackle under present atmospheric conditions.
Anyway, they do it, and the treasurer wears a look
of calm content. It's a peculiar fact, by-the-bye,
that the average age of modern pantomime en-
thusiasts is just about double what it was in the
days when we first squandered our young affec-
tions upon columbines. Precious few kids patro-
nise this class of entertainment at the present
time, we find. Speaking generally, the latter-day
boy gives over going to see pants, about the same
time he takesjto wearing them, or if he does drop
in, once in a way, along with the “ old ’uns,” he
can hardlv raise a laugh. Little ten-year-old tells
you that Fatima “isn’t up to much off,” and his
little sister makes facetious remarks about the
more venerable of the ballet ladies. These tokens
of the times affect not the success of “ Cinderella ’
at the Royal, however ; there are still plenty of
adults left in Melbourne, and they have been
rolling up to the Grand Christmas Annual with
a heroism worthy of a better cause.
• • •
The story of Cinderella has been related
with such “ damnable Iteration” in picture books
for the last thousand years that there isn’t much
left to tell about hor of a surprising or startling
character. This is about a bold outline of her
career, told in pantomime doggrel:—
Well (with the exception of the little post-nup-
tial performance) that's just about the narrative
of Cinderella, as we heard it unfolded the other
night. ...
It’s hard to say exactly where the scene
of the Koyals’ latest dramatic venture is laid, but
we guess it must be m some region where loose
language 18 the rule, and not the exception. We
came to this unpleasant conclusion because the
“rag,” upon being lifted, disclosed a Blasted Heath,
the dreary landscape of which li relieved by
twenty witches and a cauldron. The witches were
awful frauds, though. We guessed it from the
first. There was a saucy, get-along-with-you-do
sort of ring about their incantations which told us
they were other than they would seem to be. So,
when we found that the Blasted Heath soon be-
came transformed Into a Fairies’ Home, and the
whilome witches sported short skirts beneath their
inky cloaks, we were delighted, but not surprised.
In reality, the witches were fairies, and such
fairies! we engaged ourselves, ten deep, at the
first glimpse of them. Of course, there s some-
thing to be said against these hasty attachments.
Greybeards tell us that It’s advisable to see a good
deal of a girl before thinking about marriage.
Well, we did see a lot of these fairies, and we liked
the prospect so much that we rushed out and put
up the banns at ten of the most adjacent Gospel
mills.
• » •
Upon returning:, we soon repented of our
Impetuosity. Other joys appeared, and our first
few passions subsided Into Insignificance. We saw
Nellie Stewart as Cinderella, with a bundle of
sticks upon her shoulder, and looking for all the
world like Dick Whittington. We heard her sing,
and delirium laid hold upon us. The advent of
Dooy Stewart, as the Prince, revived us a little,
though. There was such a solemnity about Dooy,
even when she was making love, that you, some-
how, found yourself thinking about your soul and
the great hereafter. And she was saddest when
she sang. Perhaps the songs were accountable
for a good deal of her gloom, though. The words
were enough to depress any Prlncs. Fancy having
to warble this sort of stuff every evening till
further notice:—
“ I tried to dream of thy bright eyes.
And so last night, before retiring,
I ate, I vow, two large mince pies.
As I heard they were inspiring.”
All things considered. It’s wonderful Dooy bears
up as she does. And now for the bonne bouclic.
The Prince’s valet was Maggie Moore.
Pretty little witching Maggie,
Maggie singing all the night—
Oh! we nellie died for Nellie,
But this settled us outright.
• • *
Whether we were suffering: from a re-
action. when we saw Qrevllle and Harry Taylor as
the ugly sisters, wo can’t say—but we dldn t laugh
much. Perhaps it was that they were too funny
for the mundane mind. It’s hard to say in these
oases. That they had a topical duet, which pleased
the gods mightily, goes without the mentioning.
But we're not a god—we’re mortal.
« • •
There’s some good and not too gaudy
scenery In “Cinderella,” and the dresses are
scrumptious. Perhaps the nicest dress was Nellie
Stewart’s, when she wore digitated silk stockings,
displaying the anatomical perfections of each par-
ticular toe, and a scant blue robe, which was a
dream of artistic simplicity. But there are others
we might drivel about If life wasn’t too short. By
the way, we haven’t said anything about the liter-
ary worth of Cinderella, but that's out of respect
for the feelings of them as writ It. Let us charit-
ably chronicle the fact that the Melbourne death
rate has not been augmented in any marked
degree. _
Tram fares may be increased, sections may
be lengthened or diminished, and still the public
may not be satisfied. To get satisfaction, where
shall I go ? many might ash; but where they try
to please all is the crockery shops where those
beautiful things are displayed in the windows,
403 and 404 George-street, near King-street.*
The tramway managers, or mis-managers,
have, by altering, not to say revising, their fares,
touched the pockets of the people, and the people
don't like it. Indignation is about and tne ‘monkey
of the populace is up, for although we have it oa
good authority that “he who steals my purse
steals trash," the dwellers in Sydney suburbs and
outskirts object to have their pockets officially
picked. They—that is, the mls-managers-have
already done their best “to rob a poor man or his
beer ” on Sundays, and now they want to do him
out of his cheap ride home. This is not, by any
means, the proper way to start the new year, net
at all a paternal act on the part of the Govern-
ment, and a decided contrast to the proceedings of
our old friends Anthony Hordern and Sons in the
Hay market, who, for the benefit of all whom it
may concern, have reduced the prices of every-
thing until the eud of the month.*
Hardly anything adds more towards the
making of a contented mind than a really good
table, and whatever people may say to the con-
trary, ever v body is to a certain extent an epicure
in his heart, were he only to confess it. Now,
what is more miserable to a person of refined taste
than to sit down to a badly-cooked steak or outlet,
or fowl that requires a perfect little hand saw to
do the dissecting: or eggs boiled as hard as buck
shot, that even an ostrich, with his proverbial
stomach of cast iron, would signally fail in digest-
ing ? To obviate such a disagreeable state of
things, it is absolutely necessary that people fre-
quent only those Restaurants and Luncheon Bars
that have earned the enviable reputation of only
serving things in the very pink of condition. Few
places in the city can boast of such perfect
arrangements In this respect as the Compagnonl
Catering Company in Pltt-street. The enterpris-
ing Manager of this firm, Mr. B. D. Tollemache,
has now opened a Grill Room for the convenience
of Gentlemen only, where they can select their
own Chops or Steaks, and see them cooked. This
system is in practice in London, and no doubt its
introduction here will find much favour with
Sydneyites, In this department, too, cold colla-
tions will be glveu in great variety, and the ordi-
nary Dining Rooms, as usual, will have dinners of
everv description from a large and varied bill of
fare.*
Sho was youthful and betwltchln,’
And of' sisters she had two,
But they kept her in the kitchen
While to womanhood she grew;
And (though judging from the plcter,
And her plump and dimpled feet.
You would hardly think it) licked her,
And were stingy with the meat.
One Summer’s day—all shyness—
She was musing, mid a glade,
When she met a Royal Highness,
And he mashed the little maid;
(Which we cannot help remarking
Of these ancient fairy tales.
That the Princes then liked larking.
Much the s me as modern “ Wales.”)
So, in due and proper season,
Sure enough it came to pass,
That the Prince (Lord knows his reason!)
Brought a slipper made of glass,
Which just fitted Cinderella,
And accordingly they wed—
(And it cut him. too, poor fellar I
When she broke it on his head).
ORIGINAL POETRY.
Count Conradin de Hapsburg
Lay at the day’s decline
la his Castle Hall of Schlapsberg,
That frowns above the Rhine.
His hours of life were numbered;
He lay and watched tho stream
Awhile, before he slumbered
The sleep that knows not dream.
Tho monk whose hand had shriven
Stood near him in the room;
In vain the peace of heaven
Had wooed that brow of gloom.
“ Ho! Ulric, ride and bring me
The minstrel Traumerol,
If, haply, he may sing me
Some comfort ere 1 die.
“ I go 'twixt night and morning;
I pass unto my place,
And leave no son adorning
My name, and fame, and race I
The sun was set, and gilding
The bowers upon the mount;
Two horsemen gained the building,
And stood before the Count.
No time to pause or linger—
With no preclusive strain.
Clear sang the Minnesi ngers,
The old walls rang again I
“ Talk not of sons or daughters—
These are but for a time.
Like sound of many waters,
A prophecy sublime
“ Strikes on mine ear, delighted,
In chords divinely clear;
Mr Harp shall then be slighted.
The Lute no more bo dear.
“ The Virginals and Spinet,
The later Harpsichord,
Compare as wren and linnet
With Music's God and Lord!
“ Look onward to the latest—
The Grand Piano's fame;
And lo 1 the best and greatest
Doth bear thine honoured name I
“ The ‘ Hapsburg ’—sweet, sonorous.
Bole idol of its day— c
Sounds through the years before us,
A household word for aye I ”♦


PEPPER AND SALT.
A camp meeting was held at Jerrara Creek,
near Kiama, on New Year’s Day. The Bev. Mr*
Hughes took a leading part in it, and prayed and
said grace in a masterly style that could not fall to
tell on the upper powers. Mr. Craig found the
ground, and boiled a boiler of water with consider-
able unction. Messrs. Finlayson of Kiama. W.
James, of Shellharbour. and Mr. Graham, of Jam-
beroo, displayed a profound acquaintance with
theology and corned beef-discussing both in ex-
baustlve addresses. As the day wore on, there
were symptoms of a mighty outpouring of grace
and tea, and it w as felt that the revival of pure and
undeflied religion was imminent. But as evening
approached, and the ginger-beer was all drawn olf,
the prayers began to flag. The ham bones pre"
eented a ghastly appearance, and the leg of the
last duck was gloomily thrown to an evangelical
dog that had listened to Sankey’s hymns with a
tear in his eye and a junk of cold pie in his mouth*
The brethren then gathered together for a final
wrestle with the devil, and we gather from the
Kiama Independent, that that unfortunate spirit
got such a ‘'doing” that bo fled froffl the spot
when we observe that, being on a'visit to Pine Hill,
this lady put up at a tip-top hotel, and was dining
off faint lilies and tripe, when a most vulgar-look-
ing, red-shirted, touzle-bcavded stockman rolled
in and plumped down right beside her. Not a word
was spoken for the first live minutes, but when
the busby had licked the soup off his thumb, and,
turning to his culchawcd partner, observed, "Sling
us over them greens there, will yer ? ” all the blue
blood in the Aramac lady’s veins began to boil’
and rising up, she said, “ Sir, I bog you will excuse
my leaving this apartment;” and then, with a
Lady Macbeth air, she swept past the back-blocker,
who. with a helpless look of astonishment, gasped
black and blue, and failed to turn up! at the usual
time and write the leading article. At least, we as-
sume that, for there is none in the issue of Jan. 9,
and we consequently miss his characteristic dash
in the usual column.
* * *
Aramac (Q.) society is growing quite toney
of late, and scarcely any surprise is manifested
now when a gentleman strolls round the streets
with a whole coat on, or a lady sports both shoes
and stockings in a ball-room. Some faint idea,
therefore, of the disgust which filled the daughter
of one of Aramao’s First Families may be imagined
out, “ Excuse yer, oh yes, Miss, oert’nly, ray
colonial-I’d do anything t’ oblige a lady.”
• • •
In England they give all the post office
thieves-well connected or not—a sentence of flvo
years penal servitude for peculation. Here from
33 to 18 months Is the average. Why it seems only
yesterday that young was caught pilfering,
and he’s out long ago, pianist for a travelling com-
pany. With regard to J. B. D., it is perfectly well
known to the initiated that he is about to b« let
loose. Meanwhile, he is receiving the rents from
his little terraces of houses, and on his release will
probably resume his former r6le of a lay preacher.
The police supervision of the post office is a ridicu-
lous farce; one detective being told off to catch a
lot of young pilferers who watch him every bit as
closely as he watches them, Abbott is known to all
of them; and they have certain means of discover-
ing where he is hiding. He is, indeed, regarded
as rather a joko than otherwise. It Is no
wonder, then, so many post office clerks are in
clover, doing the dress circle at the theatres, and
living in freehold houses in the fashionable,
suburbs. It is familiar to Ministers and members
to hear-” Oh, get me into the post office, sir. I
don’t oare what the salary is.” Humph I
THE REAL REASON.
”... Bonnor said that his reason was
a private one. Boyle, Blackham, Palmer, and
Scott, in a joint letter, intimated that the attitude
which Mr. Conway, the manager of the English
Eleven, took up towards them was the cause of
their not playing. Mr. Justice Williams, the
chairman of tbo meeting, said that the reason in
reference to Mr. Conway was absurd, because they
had offered to play for half the proceeds of the
match. The association passed a resolution to the
effect that the replies were deemed unsatisfactory,
and directed that none of the Victorian contingent
be allowed to play in any match under the auspices
of the association,”
We know the subject of the team,
With all its pros, and cons;
And now it does most surely seem
They play but for the “ spons.”
Of glory they have had enough,
But when you go for|" poker,”
And things turn out a trifle ** rough,”
You must play tor the ** ochre ,’
Admit this true! escape this mesh,
The public will see fair;
Say cricket is your sole “ perfesh ,”
And you can’t live on air.
Come, out with it, like honest men.
Admit that it is so!
Why hide the fact you’re" broke,” sirs, when
We knew it long ago!
Their True Colours.


A Geneva dentist has invented a new pro
cess for drawing teeth. It is thus described
A small square of indiarubber, pierced with a
central hole. Is pushed over the tooth till the
upper part of the root is reached. The indiarubber
gradually contracts, pulls on the root, and the
tooth Is finally extracted without any pain what-
ever. Four or five days genarally complete the
operation.” Upon this M. Gallippe, the great
Parisian savant writes to the Academy of Sciences
to say that the Invention is not new, and quotes
a case where a young lady of his acquaintance
had placed a ring of Indiarubber round her front
teeth, and having forgotten all about it, found
herself toothless one morning. If M. Gallippe had
boarded in certain fashionable boarding houses
in Sydney he would know that the device is even
older. The keepers of them knew all about this
a generation ago, and that’s the reason old press,
men are toothless to a man. The average chop
does the deed.
* * *
“A wife, it appears, becomes, in Siam, a
somewhat valuable chattel, as the husband enjoys
the right of pledging her for the payment of bis
gambling debts.” This will at once suggest to
many the advisability of going to Bankok without
delay, and losing a couple of rounds of drinks at
all-fours. If any prince over there wants some
thing handy with a broom and with a 500 h.p
voice, we think we can flx things. He is at liberty
to “ palm ” the ivories all he knows, and even
should he desire to ring in the “tail grey,” we
shouldn’t grumble. Immediate application should
be made. We have only a small assortment of this
species of siren in stock at present.
* • ♦
Writes theTAMwoRTH Boss Naturalist :—
“ A carpet snake measuring 7ft. lOin. was brought
to the Murrurundl Times oflice by Mr. R. Hall,
who stated be killed it in a paddock close to the
main street during a shower of rain—an unusual
time for snakes to be out." This party ought to
be an authority, especially at Christmas time, on
the snake question. But, especially an authority
on the reptile with the calf’s head and the club
foot, who will cling on to the bed-post directly the
candle is out.
• * *
The statue to be erected to Sir William
Wallace in Duthie Park, Aberdeen, is to cost
£3000, and will be 16ft. high. When it is unvailed,
the Scotchmen present will top him by a head-
And here we rake up an old story of “ Scotland
Yet.” Home, the man who wrote the tragedy of
Douglas, or Duncan, or something like that, got
his play produced to a splendid audience. When
it was got through, enthusiasm swelled the
mighty throng, and they rose to a bonnet, and
roared, “ Where's Wully Shakespeare the noo ? ”
* • *
Mr. Dan O’Connor’s plan for Remenyi to
play for the funds to erect a monument at Ken-
dall’s grave is a splendid satire; and now the howl
is again floating on the Waverley winds about the
neglected condition of the poet’s last resting-place,
it will be as well to consider if the dead bard’s
relatives—for whom every penny of the contribu-
tions was invested—should not regard it as a
sacred duty, if not to erect a marble monument,
at least, to broom away the sandwich papers and
jam-tins. This is only a suggestion though it
is probably a wild one!
• • •
There are two things in the smaller
country towns which cause the observant stranger
to marvel exceedingly: one. the unlimited cheek
which prompts all sorts and conditions of men to
apply to the banker or clergyman for recommen-
dations; and the second, the wholesale and care-
less way in which these are given. If a " drunk
and disorderly ” is run in, it is ten to one that he
holds a banker’s certlllcate of “good moral char-
acter,” and if an “ enterprising burglar ” be called
upon to explain to a dozen of his countrymen his
reasons for wishing to annex the occupants of a
neighbour’s hen-roost, he can invariably show a
clergyman’s recommendation as evidence of his
good intentions. In one case lately, however, an
applicant was beautifully fitted. He had been
loafing round the township for some time, occa"
sionally drunk, if the pub.-keeper was more cre-
dulous than usual, or the boozers generous be-
yond their wont, but never disgracing his anoe.-
tors by doing anything in the way of work, till,
finding that the liquor ceased to flow, he began to
think of humping his swag, and, as a preliminary
thereto, went to the bank for a passport. The
boss note-puncher was equal to the occasion; stated
his joy to hear that ’Arry had got such a good
billet, and gave him a certificate (which was grate-
fully received) as follows:—“I have known the
bearer during bis visit of three months to this
town, and having bad frequent opportunities of
noticing his conduct during that term, am glad to
hear that he has obtained a situation in another
district, and sincerely hope that he may find uemo-
nent employment there."
In one of our contemporaries, a school-
master announces that one pupil prepared by
him has “ successfully parsed ” the Civil Ser-
vice Examination. We congratulate both pupil
and pedagogue on the feat. But yet we
don’t quite understand the announcement.
You see the pupil “ passed successfully.”
Now, there are no grades in this examination;
either you pass or you don’t. If a candidate is
not successful be is plucked, and, being plucked,
naturally cannot pass, and, therefore, is unsuccess-
ful. If, on the other hand, he passes, he must
necessarily be successful. It would be just as cor-
rect to speak of the other pupils who were sent
up as having “ unsuccessfully failed,” as to use
the expression quoted. The words, therefore,
have a tautological flavour about them, which may
probably be attributed to the elation and sxirprlse
consequent upon the hardly hoped-for “success-
ful passing ” of the pupil, which, for the time
being, caused the preceptor of youth to disregard
that elegance and sublimity of style for which he
le noted.
A Modern St. Patrick.
“HE PURPOSES VISITING, ALMOST IMMEDIATELY, THE RABBIT-INFESTED DISTRICTS, CONFERRING WITH THE SQUATTERS, AND DEVISING MEANS THAT
SHALL ACCOMPLISH THE DESTRUCTION OF THE FOB.”— The Minister fur Mines, at Armidale,


w
O R D S OF WISDOM
WISE PRECEPTS.
FACTS.
Why is it so many people are never satisfied ?
Their homes are marvels of comfort and luxury,
friends are generous and affectionate; they are
educated and refined, capable, not only of enjoy-
ing, but of imparting happiness to others ; yet
they are dissatisfied, miserable, and, really without
intending to do so, make others miserable. Their
blood is impure, they have taken a heavy cold, or
they are bilious. A few doses of Emil Freses
Hamburg Tea would remove all obstructions, and
enable them to enjoy, with renewed zest, the
pleasures they are now compelled to forego.
SLEEPLESSNESS.
SLEEPLESSNESS.
How refreshing, how like a benediction, sleep
comes to one who, for tiresome days and weari-
some nights, has tossed about seeking the rest he
could not find, burning with fever or shaking with
cold, utterly worn out and prostrated. Do you
ask what wrought this wonderful change ? Emil
Frese's Hamburg Tea, the great blood purifier. It
is wonderful in its effects, restoring the appetite,
and the loss and waste caused by disease, like
magic. Keep it by you.
LIVER DERANGEMENT.
LIVER DERANGEMENT.
A dlsorded liver is frequently caused by worry
and trouble, overwork, the use of tobacco, intense
study, hard drinking, Immoderate eating, indo-
lence, fast living, late hours, licentiousness, etc.,
etc., and undoubtedly the best remedy is that
standard medicine, Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea,
taken as occasion requires, either with or without
medical advice. But unless you discontinue the
evil that brought about your diseased liver you
have no right to look for more than temporary re-
lief from your troubles. Be warned ere it is to
late.
INDIGESTION.
INDIGESTION.
A marvel of the age. It is impossible to say too
much in praise of that good old standard remedy,
Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea, and no household
should be without it. It prevents, as well as cures,
skin disease, gout, gravel, affected liver, headache,
nausea bile, wind, indigestion, constipation, fevers,
sleeplessness, lassitude, foul breath, and every
disease brought on or aggravated by a disordered
stomach. Once used it is always used. Try it.
CLEAR COMPLEXION.
CLEAR COMPLEXION.
What is more to be desired by a young lady than
a beautiful, clear complexion 7 She may have
wealth, education, and all the accomplishments
which will fit her to be an ornament to society,
but if she have a sallow countenance, and her face
bo covered with pimples. It will avail but little.
Let her remove the cause of all this disfigurement
by the use of Emil Frese's Hamburg Tea, and our
word for it she will soon find her beauty fully re-
stored.
KIDNEY DISORDERS.
KIDNEY DISORDERS.
Many sufferers from liver and kidney complaints
would find great relief, and many might be en-
tirely cured, if they would persevere in the use of
Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea, a simple vegetable
remedy, which acts like magic on these organs,
cleansing away all impurities, and restoring to
vigorous health those parts so long under bondage
to disease.
SICK HEADACHE.
SICK HEADACHE.
The entire medical profession express the great-
est confidence in the healing, refreshing and in-
vigorating virtues of Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea.
It always relieves sick headache, dizziness, nervous
complaints, irritability, skin diseases, vitiated
secretions, nausea, and a thousand other troubles.
It should be in every household.
TRUE ECONOMY.
TRUE ECONOMY.
Farmers, ranchmen, sheep and cattle herders
will find a great benefit, and oftentimes save the
hard-won earnings of years, which might other-
wise have to be expended on physicians, to say
nothing of the discomfort of swallowing their
nauseating mixtures, by keeping on hand a supply
of Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea.
LASSITUDE.
LASSITUDE.
If you are worn out, feel more fatigued when it
is time to get up than when you went to bed; are
languid, listless and lazy, take a few doses of Emil
Frese’s Hamburg Tea. It’s strengthening, refresh-
ing and invigorating qualities will delight yon as
it has done many tens of thousands already.
AN ANTIDOTE.
AN ANTIDOTE.
There are mmy who believe the vegetable king-
dom has within its range an antidote for all the
diseases to which flesh is liable. Judging from the
wonderfully beneficial effects which follow the
use of Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea to a great
variety of the diseases, the belief seems well
founded. The occasional use of it will be found
to ward off bilious and malarious affections. D o
not be without it,
COMMON SENSE.
COMMON SENSE.
If every individual and every family would be-
stow a tithe of the care requisite in any ordinary
attack of acute disease, in striving to prevent and
ward off its attacks, there would rarely be any use
for calling in the aid of the physician. In all or-
dinary derangements of the stomach, bowels,
liver or kidneys, you need only a few doses of
Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea.
TRUE MERIT RECOGNISED.
TRUE MERIT RECOGNISED.
Nothing but Intrinsic merit can account for the
enormous sales of Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea, the
demand for which is constantly increasing. The
reason is obvious to all. It is a purely vegetable
preparation, mild, and yet efficient in its action,
carrying off all impurities from the system, and
imparting a glow and vigor, which only those who
have used it can appreciate.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
Sold by all
CHEMISTS and STOREKEEPERS
in New South Wales.
PRICE: ONE SHILLING.
BRIEF MENTION.
“The Wages of Shin”—Football.
Gait money: Malone’s receipts at Botany*
Newsboys’ ory in Adelaide is invariably
“ Here y’are, miss! Another houtrage!
It is stated that the ostrich at the Zoo will
swallow anything but Parkes’s dual cheque ex-
planation. , .
A voung wife with an old husband is like
a bright lamp in a sick room. Melbou rne religlo us
papers, please copy.
“They might have been a little ‘gone,
wailed Kirby, “but they were very well behaved.
Didn’t even ask for a euchre deck.
Bvron said, nothing lied like an epitaph.
Butyls ignorance is pardonable. He lived before
the day of “ Continental correspondents.
We understand, at one period of bis career,
. well-known politician (ex-Minister of the Crown)
wm valet to a conjuror. He is now a conjuror.
“ This Evening, at half-past Seven.—
UftMio ”- Noose. That’s only giving the poor
fellow three hours to scour round for theatre
ex-minister of the Crown was re-
ront”v fired out of a King-street hotel on his head.
“Lucky man I” murmured a passer-by as ho
quietly went on his way.
In London, Howard Paul publishedan ap-
i n Christmas dinner for the sandwich men.
A thought of publishing an
appeal here for his saveloy men t Tut I
Mr Hugh Taylor, M.L.A. for Parramatta,
kicked by a horse in the abdomen, and
iAdotting all right again, says that, in future,
he will only buy horses that kick in the head.
since the contemplated visit of Mr.
n’Mara M.P., to Tumut has become known, fifteen
have been put on to break road metal, and
the?e b is not a packet of rat poison to be had in the
t0 fme of the Australian Eleven, loq. (after
, •• it is for me as a gentleman
ban'll)- toVet such a greetin’ at the ’ands of
ray fell«lw?eldlrs of the wilier.” (Applause and
laughter.) . , _ ,
William Bell blew out his brains at Pad-
Rwton the other day. because his best gyurl de-
dlS££hi« love If William thought she despised
holdtpo .much b«. M , he BUed hu
head with a great mistake indeed.
“Where do most of the largest eels coine
,r r i 4 Aaa “•«“
gSSVutue boy rlKhldown at the bottom.
“ Rlghtl ” cried Alfred. Go up.
rarlvle once said, “In life’s great army
♦ hA fnnis are usually at the front.” Let us think.
Oii/leadlng 6 men are but, no matter. If it were
no/ for the fools, wise men would occasionally
And this a mighty tough world to live in.
After a careful inspection, we have come i
to the conclusion that there are enough dead dogs
and kittens lying around our suburbs to run all
the sausage manufactories, in the land, for the
next ten years. What the eyes do not see, &c.
According to the chronicler of Holland
Schnapps, “ Women, especially in the higher
circles, shrink naturally from intoxicating
liquors.” Perhaps so. But there are times when
all the shrinking is done by the intoxicating
liquors.
“Irving Bishop, the thought-reader, has
succeeded in naming a word on which the Czar and
Czarina fixed their minds." We could do that in
two guesses ourselves. Firstly, we say “ Dyna-
mite!" If Alick yelled “No,” then we’d shriek
“ Bombs!”
Alderman Simple, of Cootamundra, has
been fined £50 for “ trading with the Council.”
We don’t know what he traded, but we are sure it
was not condemned tiles (say), or nothing would
have boon heard about it I At least, not in Sydney
—hem!—we mean Madagascar.
Christmas nearly “ boshed up’ 1 the Harmy
Half the soldiers went on the bust—360 pawned
their uniforms; bassoons and trombones were also
freely offered to “ Moshish.” It was fun, on Box-
ing Day. to see a “Staff Cap.” going round (in a
cart), and getting out the big drums.
An Australian belle—the daughter of a
butcher—who disgraced her family by marrying
an Italian prince twelve months ago, has already
left him. She didn’t mind nursing the sick hurdy-
gurdy monkey, but her proud spirit bucked at
capering about with a tambourine to rake in the
pennies.
The sad story of a “ blook”-mashing
Caesar, as told by himself :—
Chapter I. “ I came.”
Chapter II. “ I saw.” «
Chapter III. “ I got left.”
Pa was around, and the expedition was anything
but bootless,
“Mr. Eno, of the Fruit Salt fame, was, not
many years ago, clerk In an office in Newcastle,
and now, if not quite a millionaire, is comfortably
near it.” Mr. Bno’s enemies say there is no fruit
at all in his Salts; and it is, taking this into con-
sideration, a curious fact that they should be
manufactured at Hatcham.
THE DIFFERENCE.
“ We cannot, somehow, exist on air alone.”
—Ed. Cooma Express.
You cannot live on air alone;
There’s truth, sir, in this, some;
That don’t apply, though, you must own,
Old boy, to air and rum.
Some Cooktown schoolboys recently
wrecked a Chinaman’s tent and half roasted the
pig-tail proprietor on his own fire. Thady O’Kane,
in alluding to this little bit ot high-spirited fun,
observes:—" In course of time these lads will grow
up to be most reliable Government agents on
board our Island-labour schooners.”
It is said that at the Orleans Club dinner,
Alick was the centre of observation. In the mid-
dle of the spread, Lord Castlereagh was observed
to get up and leave hurriedly. On his return he
appeared pale, and said “ He’d bad a little shock.”
At this moment Alick, who had observed nothing,
was shovelling in Mayonnaise with the salad
spoon.
A clerk, with an important air, handed
the member for Brldgeugenyouroundoor a large
envelope bearing the Royal arms. He took it,
looked at it fondly, and cried: “At last! How
patiently I have waited! Suppose I shall get the
star to-morrow.” Then be opened It with trem-
bling hands. It was a delicately delivered—sum-
mons for not registering his dog.
Mr. Gladstone is reported to be suffering
from Insomnia. There can be no doubt that the
want of sleep taVes more out of a man than the
very hardest work. Unfortunately, we are too
far away to offer advice, but It would seem a
humane thing if somebody would post the veto
ran statesman a few Sydney daily papers. If that
wouldn’t make him sleep nothing would.
He was a pointsman on the Waverley
line, and this is what he worked off while waiting
for the (always late) Woollahra tram :—
“ The tram fares they’re about to raise
High prices now the rage is—
But this they won t do. I’ll engage:—
Raise the poor pointsman’s wages.”
He is now carrying a banner in the O'Sullivan
brigade.
A Northern raglefr, commenting on a re-
cent ball in its district, observes: “ It is not
etiquette for gentlemen to dance in their shirts.
Etiquette, indeed! Why, it's not even common
souse to dance in one's shirt this blistering, sultry
weather. Fancy balls arc the N'ost to patronise,
and then a gentleman can tog out in the cool and
airy costume of a table-cloth and a pair of socks,
and advertise himself as a Roman senator. Con-
cert costume is the coolest for the ladies. Brevity
is the soul of it.
Office Bearers of the Wharf
Labourers’ Union.
The other De Young of the ’Frisco
Chronicle has been potted now by a party named
Spreokles, whose father De Young accused of
swindling to the tune of $1,000,000. As this kind
of thing has become frequent of late, It is
rumoured that the Court will certainly order
Spreokles to contribute at least $10 to the poor
box. This shooting wants putting down with a
strong hand.
“ Hello, Mr. Blank, how is it you’re din-
ing in a common sixpenny hash-house ?” said a
hard-up citizen the other day to a wealthy Scot,
who owns £50,000 worth of “ proputty” in Sydney.
And the grand old man addressed took his knife
out of his pocket, and replied:—“ Because I dinna
ken whaur there’s a thrup'ny one—da you ?” He
didn’t. And so gladness and grub filled the old
’un’s soul once more.
The other day, Edward Parry Cox, a
barrister, teok a dose of prussic acid as an antidote
to alcohol. His friends then administered alcohol
as an antidote to prussic acid, but—he soared.
There is one advantage, that reminds us, that
prussic acid has over the rum of Sydney: it cer-
tainly kills you, but it saves you from the possi-
bility of committing a murder “under circum-
stances of singular atrocity."
Dr. Sohweniger, of Berlin, is reported to
have cured Bismarck of a tendency to grow too
fat. Bismarck, it is known, is a man of gigantic
Size. The treatment, it is alleged, was the simple
one of getting the old veteran never to eat and
drink at (he same time, but to let two hours in-
tervene. At a meeting of Sydney pressmen it was
resolved, in the interests of science, to try the ex-
periment of drinking every two hours, and eating
when they could get It. None of them are fat.
The Armidale Express refers to some ex-
traordinary manifestations of mental aberration
In the Cathedral city recently, no less than four
cases having been before the Bench within a
week.”
We wonder, if the par. he true
(And that we cannot doubt),
What are the kind of people who
Now bring the papers out ?
Says the War Cry Newtown.—At 7
a.m. here on Sunday the soldiers appeared with
faces radiant and beaming forth salvation. They
evidently have the secret of happiness, and scarce
need their Captain’s oft repeated admonition to
‘keepsmiling.”’ Now we were there. What he
did say was, “ Keep smiling, and subdue your hic-
cups.” At an evening ” holiness meeting you
could have cut the rum fumes with a knife.
A woman was fined the other day £10 for
Ill-treating a girl from Randwick Asylum Not
content with getting a servant for about 9d a year
and her boots, the mistress took to combing the
girl’s hair with a brick. She was, of course, taken
back to the Destitute School again; so now there
is a nice fancy little billet open for any new chum
who may possess a liking for saucepan lids and
broom handles. But don’t all speak at one*.
“ Brisbane, Tuesday. The schooner Young
Dick has arrived In Maryborough with 101 recruits.
She reported that two men, one a German and the
other English, who are trading for a German firm,
inveigled them inland and murdered them. —
Alfred.
A tragedy so horrible,
Our faces makes turn pale;
But how, if they were murrlered, did
They live to tell the tale?
In bygone days it was a risky Job to en-
deavour to take a “ lift” out of the patriarchal Sir
Moses Montlflore. Meeting him on change one
morning, after a Russian roll-up against the chosen
people, .an English wit observed :—“ Ah, Sir
Moses, Slam is the only peaceable country in the
world. There are neither Jews nor swine there.”
" Indeed,” said Moses: “ well, suppose we go over
to Siam and exhibit ourselves as novelties."
QUI SAIT ?
“ Bobby has gone to join his mother
In the world so bright above;
May our Saviour lead and guide us
To His everlasting love.
—Evening Paper.
We don’t object, now, mark us well.
That you should sing small Bobby 8 praises;
Altho’, for all that you can tell.
That little Bobby s gone to blazes.
“ An umbrella loan society is to be estab-
lished In Berlin. Branch offices will be opened all
over the city, where members can obtain um-
brellas in case of a sudden shower.” The Teuton
is evidently a mere dreamer. The only return the
shareholders In this German umbrella company
will ever get for their money will be the satisfac-
tion of seeing their defaulting clients among the
goats on the day of universal reckoning. We
speak from sad experience. In the sad sweet long
ago we lent the office gamp to a member of the
staff.
I. and A. World (Narrabrl) has made a
big bid for an advertisement. Here is some of it:
—“ Sir Henry Parkes, the murderer of O Farrell
(the madman), the betrayer of Irishmen, the man
who tried to set every Protestant against every
Catholic’s throat, and vice versa; the man who has
pretended to be all things to all men, and who has
not been constant to any, must get some better
name than Selborne, erstwhile Ranndell (sic) Pal-
mer,” etc. All this is no good, however, Mr. W. H.
(VC.; the eld shark knows too much to bite again.
Like the impecunious Yankee and the drink.
he’s “ been had that way twice before.”
It was on the Sunday before the New
Year—“ Brethren,” said a Domain orator, whose
breath usually hails the smiling morn with odours
from the spicy shores of Jamaica the Blest—
“ Brethren, it is not alone moral worth that is
needed. The claims of modern sanitation are
equally binding on the man who would preserve
a sound mind in a sound body. What I recommend
to you I have myself practised for years with
the best result. Never permit the 31st of Decem-
ber to pass without washing thoroughly. I look
forward to that date with a stern determination
to take my annual ablution. Go, and do like-
wise.”
They have removed the hands from the
Sydney Town Hall clock, as a preliminary to re-
placing the clock by a new one. A Scotch gentle-
man, who had the misfortune to keep the New
Fear up to the 17th, found himself looking up at
the tower as usual, so as to see when not to go
home. His countenance instantly became a uni-
versal blank. He had lost his reckoning for three
weeks I Balancing himself against a verandah
post, he beckoned a shopkeeper, and purchased a
trifle. “ Dom it,” he hiccupped, “ what sort o’ a
cloke d’ye oa’yon ? Ithenk when a cloke shows
nae time ava, it’s time to gang hame, and sober up.
What theuk ye ?”
Says the editor of the Nabrabbi World;
—“During the thunderstorm yes'erday evening,
the proprietor of the Irish and Australian
World was sitting at the office door, contemplat-
ing the beautiful rain, when a poor, half-drowned
animal of the goat tribe presented Itself at the
office door with a gag in its mouth, and looked up
into the face of the proprietor with a look of
pity.” We don’t see why he should chronicle this.
There is nothing extraordinary about a goat
looking in to see a friend. The editor of the
World, however, is singularly ingenuous when
he states that the visiting goat looked on him with
a “ face of pity.”
In its account of the Wharf Labourers’
demonstration, the 8. M. Herald says: “ The pro-
cession attracted a good deal of attention as it
wended its way through some of the thorough-
fares. Hearty cheers were given outside the resi-
dences of several persons, and as each division
came near the Herald office it oalted and gave
three ringing cheers.” We don’t know whether
the Herald regards The Bulletin office as being
“ near ” the Herald office. The distance is some
500 yards. But' if that be reckoned “ near," the
Herald’s account is accurate. The divisions
halted at The ;Bulletin office, and gave three
ringing cheers for The Bulletin. If this was
what the Herald intended to mention, it must be
congratulated on the neat manner in which the
cheers for The Bulletin are made to appear as
though designed for the Herald,
MR. RICHARD HAYB8, Trustee.
MU. D. B. DORAN, Secretary.
MR. R. M’KILLOP, President,
MR. W, C. SALTMARSH, Vice-President.
MR. A. J. KELLY, Treasurer.


Solomon in all his glory* and the full use
of his sapient faculties, has again favoured the
world with his presence. This time he has turned
up at a spot in Queensland called Nanango, and he
promises before long to stand the whole district
upon end with wonder at his almighty wisdom.
Always providing he doesn’t happen to be cut off
by a heavy frost. And here is one of the latest
exhibitions of his former shrewdness. About two
years ago, a daily mall service was started between
Nanango and the Esk, the time allowed for transit
being from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. This service was run
over some of the toughest country in Queensland,
but such was the skill and push of Tom the driver,
and such was the efficiency of bis teams, that be
generally managed to strike Nanango between 4
and 5 p.m.; and the residentsJihere got the mails
before closing time every night in consequence.
This came to the elongated ears of Solomon, and
he at once made it his business to write to the
Postmaster-General, and point out that the con-
tract hours were evidently too long. And as
Ministers are noted for Immediately acting on any-
thing like wrong information, the Queensland
Postmaster-Genoral at once altered the hours
to from 7 a.m. at Esk to 7.30 p.m. at Nanan-
go. This taught Tom a lesson, and for fear
his hours might be further curtailed, he now
takes the most scrupulous care not to reach
Nanango a single second before his contract time.
Of course the local P.M. declines to open his office
after stipulated hours, for fear Solomon’s Inter-
ference might have them lengthened also. The
mails, therefore, are not delivered till the follow-
ing morning, so that a day is lost in replying to
correspondence. This, we believe, is the first time
a mail contractor has been punished for doing his
work too well, but now that the story has got
abroad, we have too great an opinion of the good
sense of other contractors to fear that it will ever
occur again.
Here’s an item which
some of our Geebung
aristocrats might paste on
their boots, with profit to
themselves and many of
their friends as well. Mr.
Cist, of Gist’s Cincinnati
Advertiser, insists on
being styled plain Mr.
only, and politely re-
quests correspondents
not to append Esquire
to his name on pain of
death. He says, “The
word Esquire is wholly
inapplicable to me. It is
derived from the French
Ecuyer, a stable-boy, or
ostler. I have not cleaned
a stable for over forty
years.” Some of our Es-
quires have never cleaned
anything else—not even
their own hides.
Sandwich girls—the
very latest novelty in
bold advertisement —
have been suppressed by
the London police au-
thorities. The managers
of an opera bouffe com-
pany Invented the sand-
wich maiden ad., and
carried out their id®®
with a strict regard to
virtue. A lot of the
youthful feminine mud-
larks who retail matches
and “sweet violets in
the historic Strand were
formed into a battalion,
and marched (between
advertisement boards)
through the principal
thoroughfares of the
modern Babylon. Two
“ trustworthy men were
engaged as an escort, an
interval was allowed for
meals, and the maidens
went off duty at5o clock,
in time for the early
and virtuous tea. Any
level-headed sinner can
perceive that the young
’uns—earning 10s. a week,
by the wav—were doing
far better for themselves
as “ sandwiches than in
loafing about the streets
in their original charac-
ters. But a number of
clergymen — a cla f. 8 ,
gentry who are seldom
level-headed and never
sinners - saw otherwise.
They detected possible
danger to the souls of
these Strand gutter-ur-
chins, in their being thus
paraded before the bold
gaze of the world, and
protested loudly against
such abomination. The
children,” so spake the
parsons. “ ran terrible
risks of temptation in
walking about between
a couple of light boards
and going home to tea at
live sharp, and the godly
agitation has ended in the
enforced disbandment or
the battalion. What a
mockery! The children
will flee from “tempta-
tion ” to their old haunts
about Charing Cross,
where they will grow up
among hoards (excuse the
spelling) of a very differ-
ent type to those just
taken off their young
shoulders.
“While the Duke of Manchester was
recently travelling in the North of Queensland his
party were attacked by a number of aborigines
and several of them were killed. His Grace had a
narrow escape.” This splendid legend is from
Truth, and was probably evolved by a lately
emancipated boiler baronet, who got a passage
home by “dish-wolloping.” In Woolloomooloo
Bay, once, there stood two lonely boilers on the
northern side. These formed a residential club for
a number of the British aristocracy. They were a
lot of young dogs who had come out with a hun-
dred or so, and had lived for a month at the rate of
about £150 a week, feeding the impecunious and
subsidizing the ballet. They wore strange objects
the members of the Boiler Club —clad in ghosts of
garments, that were cut in the extreme of the
prevailing mode, and often with a cloth-top boot
on one foot and an old shoe on the other. They
used to haunt suburban public houses in the day
time, where threepence meant a solid pound of
corned beef, and half a “ slack-baked quartern ”
apiece. From this hostelrie they used to pen cer-
tain communications, the following being a fair
sample:—
“ Sir Selway Sindbad, bart., regrets to inform
his Excellency that, owing to the unaccount-
able non-arrival of his remittances by the mail,
he is reluctantly compelled to request from his
Excellency a little temporary assistance The
bearer will convey to Sir Selway Sindbad his
Excellency’s reply.
“ Sydney, April, 1859.
** To his Ex -, etc.”
The replies (which were awaited with breathless
expectation) were generally in this style:—
“Government House.
.. „ , “ April 1, 1895.
“ Sir Selway Sindbad, Bart.
“Sir,—I am desired by his Excellency to state
that he can see no necessity for assisting a gen-
tleman who has proved such an adept at assisting
himself. His Excellency desires me t i convey
to you his best wishes, and to express a hope
that you did pretty well out of his soup-ladle,
“lam. Sir Selway, faithfully yours.
“Norman Sabretache. A.D.O.”
But the Boiler Club stood on its dignity “for a’
that,” since one wet night, when a drenched
tramp wished to enter the Club bouse, they
threatened o give him in charge.
Sound an alarm I Cry havoc, and let slip
the Royal boozing fraternity and their Baccha-
nalian agents. Rally up, and let all the rag-tag
and bobtail bummers from Struggle Town to Can-
terbury gird on their whisky-proof armour, for
be it known to all and sundry around these dig-
gings that Bismarck is in the Pacific, and—whisper
low—Summer Hill is about to lose its local boni-
face. In this pretty suburb, where local option
has its stronghold, and where three parts of the
inhabitants mostly belong to the noble army of blue
rag Booth, and the Independent Order of “ Never
Smell Its.” There is only one pub. in the place,
and the proprietor thereof being one of those
genial urbane fellows who can make themselves
so popular (sic) when they feel that way,
it naturally occurs that bis projected de-
parture has oast a sort of settled gloom
over the town. And now at eventide, when the
evening sun is low, may be observed standing at
the street-corners small groups of men, mostly
old soakers, gravely discussing the proposal of
calling a public meeting for the purpose of pre-
senting him with a testimonial. But how or in
what form the affair is to be brought about no one
seems to be determined about at present. How-
ever, it has leaked out that a preliminary meeting
was held late last night in somebody’s Coal-hole,
presided over by one who, it is darkly hinted, is a
lineal descendant of the great Captain Cook.
Before commencing proceedings, a certain retired
knight of the cleaver, who rejoices in the appela-
tion of old Gift, made a very pertinent inquiry as
to who was the coming man, and was he going to
wet it. Another tewe-aore then proposed that,
seeing the great esteem in which the departing
host was held in Summer Hill a trlpe-and-onion
supper should be tendered to him on his depar-
ture from the district. This was carried unani-
mously, only one dissenting voice being beard,
and that by a gentleman who runs a save-
loy stand. A very Manly person then sang,
with much taste and feeling, “ Wait till the
clouds roll by.” The great coal merchant
then addressed the meeting on the benefits
of temperance, and how to kill snakes, wind-
ing up with a touching appeal to use none
other than Dave’s incomparable 9-inoh wood and
coke, and to see that they got the best brand.
At this point, some one called attention to the
fact that the chairman was asleep. As be was
being summarily woke up with a pickhandle, two
dogs commenced fighting outside, wnicb brought
the affair to a'rather abrupt termination—
What ? oh, ye dudes of Summer Hill,
Lift up your voice and sing;
Be not oast down in tears and grief,
Because you’ve lost your king.
Another one will fill his place;
So now kneel down and pray,
That when he goes to far off lands
You hope that there he’ll stay.
Those Salvation Army men again. Scene
in tram-car: “Buy a War Cry, sir ?” “Got any
thrilling tales in it?” “I should say so; / never
read such tales nowhere.” “ Any account of pain-
ful accidents and murders ?" “ You believe me,
sir; it describes the most awful accidents and
murders with the most fearful consequences.”
All right; give me a pennyworth of salvation,
accidents, and murders, and then leave me in
peace.” “ Thank you, sir, and the Lord be praised I
Will you buy one, sir ?” “ Not I; now, hook it, my
man, and don’t worry a fellow.” ‘‘I beg your
pardon, sir; but the Lord is strongly urging me to
persist in turning you unto Him; therefore, I ask
you again—will you buy an Instrument of salva-
tion? Bless my soul, here take the penny, if
that s what you want; but keep your rag.” “As
you please, sir; I will give it to another gentleman.
It matters not to me which of you is saved by it as
long as .” “As long as you scrape in the cop-
pers—yes, I see.” With an upward turn of the
eyes at this worldly view of the case, this
indefatigable turned to another peaceful citizen,
and talked salvation to him. “You look like
a policeman more than a vendor of salvation.”
“ well, I am a policeman, the Lord’s policeman,
and I don’t have to catch a man by the collar to
arrest him; I can arrest him a quarter of a mile
away; I can lift up my voice and chain him to the
holy cause, without having recourse to any vio-
lence whatever.” “Spouter, eh?” “I take no
credit to myself when I say I hare that blessed gift,
and I am proud to say I have been the means (by
the Lord’s help) of turning hundreds of poor lost
creatures into the rightpath." “What do you do
at your meetings.” “ We join in cheerf ul and holy
converse, and praise the Lord in joyful music.”
“Don’t you have dancing?” “Well, no, not
exactly; but, bless you, we are the very people
who ought to dance for very gladness at the
thought that we are saved: but you see, sir, there
are so many muddy associations connected with
dancing that we do not care to run the risk of
the Lord's displeasure.” “ Now, which waltz
step do you think you would adopt did you
make a practice of dancing—the old one, or
Professor West’s favourite?” “Well, that, sir,
has not had our consideration; but you may be
sure we should choose (with the Lord’s help)
that which would be the least calculated to sow
the seeds of depravity; but, believe me, sir, our
hearts are for ever dancing with holy joy, while
our feet are treading the road to salvation.” “Do
you make the thing pay ?” “ Well, if you mean in
the world’s goods, sir, of course we must have
money to pay our expenses and provide our uni-
forms; but, apart from that, we work solely for
the good cause. Scores of youths and maidens
apply to us weekly to adopt them, and teach them
the ways of salvation; yes, they give up every-
thing—friends, parents, business, and all—and
work In the holy cause without any pay.” “ But
they get their ‘tucker,’ don’t they, and their
clothes?” “Well, yes; that's true. “And they
get sent about to Newcastle and other places, don’t
they ?” “They do, sir; they do.” “i call that a
jolly life, moving from place to place with food
and clothes provided. I really think I would join
you, but I have a good deal of work to get through
yetior f his world before I begin enjoyingmyself.”
“ Praise the Lord for those words; I will watch for
you, sir, and when you join our holy ranks, we
will have a joyful thanksgiving for this morning’s
blessed work; good day, sir, and the Lord be
S raised.” “Good day, my man; and look you
ere, I will buy that salvation rag of yours every
week on one condition.” “ Pray, my brother, just
mention it (bless the [Lord lor this) I” “Well, It’s
this—that you will move your blessed meeting-
house into some other street, and not keep honest
hard-working people awake half the night with
your holy bowlings. I would shift myself, only
I have my house on a long lease; so now, is it a
bargain?” On went the tram, leaving the poor
salvation | policeman utterly crushed and crest-
fallen: and it just seemed to dawn upon him that
he had been wasting his best salvation talk on a
regular out-and-out backslider. Oh! woe, woe I
If we can’t be an angel and with the angels
sing, we’ll do our level best to be a patient in the
Bathurst hospital and with the patients feed on the
choice tucker which seems to be provided. By the
side of the Bathurst hospital Delmonlco’s caf<
dwarfs down to the level of a soup kitchen on
short allowance, and the chief look-out of the
coming men of political Influence will be to get
his sons, not into Government billets, but into the
cozy hospital wards of the City of the Plains At
the recent monthly meeting of the Bathurst Board
the President observed that bis attention had been
frequently drawn to the large amount annually
shelled out for grog. Last year, over £100 was
paid for spirits-£80 las. being for brandy alon"-
whlle in the Newcastle hospital the whole vear’a
supply was covered by £5. [Mem. : To fight shy of
the Newcastle asylum-even gaol seems preferahio
to that,] Besides this highly satisfactory ™ bin
the sum of £50 was planked down for butter £ si
8 s-4d ; for eggs, and only £125 19a. 7d. for milk.’ In
addition to these light and airy nothings such
toothsome items as fruit, jams, jellies, and snrin£
chickens also figure largely, and, in point of fa ot
if the bill of faro supplied by the hospital author)
tics is dealt out to the patients fairly and sou arete
they must necessarily recover and thrive, because
it is a physical Impossibility for them to find anv
room in their abdominal tanks for the a not ho
cary's physic. Things must be looking up in
Bathurst when it can afford to diet its hospital in
valids on ros dindon and Chateau Lagrange
and we are now quite prepared to believe thn
statement that the hospital gates are never lock«.i
The cripple who would run away from an asylum
like that would desert from the trout ranks ofthS
blessed cherubim and seraphim on the eve of a bte
celestial holiday. "
The people of _Eq.
gowra, according to the
local correspondent of
the Forbes and Pakkbs
Gazette, do not seem to
have any groat concep-
tion of the eternal fitness
of things. For instance
a few weeks ago, the’
praying section of that
rustic community had a
good old wrestle with the
devil in Mr. Chesher’s
hall, and after they had
engaged in solemn sup-
11 icatlon and the bene-
diction had been pro-
•Bounced, they at once
organised a dance,thomrh
for the credit of the
district we are prepared
to admit that it was not
conducted in the free-
and-easy style affected
by the good King David,
who has been located in
Abraham's bosom many
years. This hypercritical
correspondent boldly as-
serts that more than five
minutes should have been
allowed to elapse—so as
to give the place time to
cool, as it were—before
the votaries of Terpsi-
chore” (we love these
good old Journalistic
wheezes) were permitted
to enjoy their saltatory
revels, and censures the
lessee of the hall accord-
ingly. But in the next
issue of the enthralling
sheet above referred to,
a scathing letter appears
from a rustic bard who
jpodestly signs himself
‘ and the hero
of this nom dc plums
sneeringly refers to the
w hlne of the regular cor-
respondent thusly : “ jf
•\® cannot stand trifling
things like that, he ought
to exchange places with
me. It strikes me he
does not know when he is
in a lively plaoe-[It
strikes us similarly —
Ed. B ]—but then, per-
haps, he is one of those
goody-goody ■ little men
who do not Indulge in
"Me wicked habits.
Should he be anxious to
a recurrence of
the thing which seems to
jar on his nerves, he
might persuade»he lessee
on the next occasion to
wait ten minutes before
commencing the fun.’
There's nice discrimina-
tion for you. And then
he goes on to point out
that the minister may
?r a X e 1 2£ en reading from
Holy Writ, and quoted
tho sage remark of
Solomon, who is reported
to have said that “ there
is a time to dance,” but
the sacred writer omits to
tell us who planted bis
hoof on Solomon's pet
corn, and he is also silent
as to tho vigorous He-
brew used by the wise
king on that occasion.
We ye a notion to spend
our holidays at Engowra,
whereever the Hades En-
gpwra is, but on second
thoughts we conclude
that it would be too lively
for u», so we’ll look up a
cemetery instead.
Amongst the everyday pieces of “skite,”
and the eternal bolstering up of bad goods which
seem to be the principal duties of the gifted
geniuses who rule the Noozb, the following little
chunk of reflection comes as refreshingly cool
during the present hot weather as the leeward side
o an Arctic Iceberg. “Certainly,” says the Only
ne there must be in every modern community
agssst ss
A n°nfwhi h i 8 words are re-echoed now by A nr
rD K pa8f ’ greatest ambition seems
pu\ d Swi^^^
Market. second-hand stall in Paddy’s
coughs otten taken for consumption
are cured almost Instantly with Hop Bitters Find.
The Ministerial Spree.
MR. DALLEY (at Maitland): “AT PRESENT WK HAVE THAT DELICIOUS FEELING OF INTOXICATION WHICH SPRINGS FROM
THE CONSCIOUSNESS OF A LONG AND DESERVED HOLIDAY. (Cheers.) WE ARE INTELLECTUALLY UNEQUAL TO FACE, JUST
NOW, THOSE MATTERS WHICH WILL ENGAGE OUR BEST ATTENTION WHEN WE ARB TIRED OF THOSE PLEASURES FROM WHICH
WE HAVE BEEN LONG ESTRANGED. YOU WILL HEAR OF US IN VARIOUS PLACES, ENJOYING OURSELVES, PERHAPS UNWISELY,
AS MEN OFTEN DO WHO HAVE NOT TASTED HAPPINESS FOR A LONG TIME; BUT YOU WILL,” &c„ &c.
[It was not the champagne, you understand — it never is. — Ed. H.]


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general. 1
RACING.
Sydney T.C January 26.
Lawrence J.C January 26.
Blayney January 26, 27.
New England February 4, 5.
Burrowa J.C February 5, 6.
Cootamundra T.C February 11. 12.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 11,12,13.
Tasmanian T.C February 18,19.
Murrumburrah T.C. (Annual) February 18,19.
Glen Innes February 18, 19,
Moree February 25, 26.
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb. 28. March 5. 7,
Tumut March 25. 28.
Hawkesbury R.C March 26,28.
AQUATICS.
Anniversary Regatta January 26.
Hanlan v. Clifford February 7.
Clifford v. Beach February 28.
Beach v. Hanlan March 28.
Hanlan v. Clifford (if Clifford beat Beach).... April 18.
Newcastle Regatta Ja P u 51f y h
Intercolonial 8-Oar Race April
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The Down and Gumtrbe says Brisbane
intends to send an eight-ore crew to Sydney. This
looks like an excess of quarts.
William Hudson, the New Zealand wrest-
ler, is out with a challenge to wrestle any man in
Australia, Cumberland and Westmoreland style,
for £50 or £100.
Mr. George Spioer, late of the Victoria
Bicycle Club, and honorary handicapper to the
Victoria Cyclists’ Union, has taken up his resi-
dence in Sydney, to the gain of the Sydney wheel-
men.
The Brisbane people have lost no time in
? taking an eight to represent them at the coming
ntercolonial race. The selection committee has
fixed upon O’Connor, Quinn, Winter, M’lntosh,
Phelan, Hargrave, Devoy, Baynes, with Hughes,
Markwell, and Harcourt as emergencies.
The last race meeting of the Normanby
Bicycle and Tricycle Club resulted in a loss of £22.
We think the Melbourne cyclists make a mistake
in trying to cycle all the year round. Every other
sport has its season; so has cycling here; and both
the cyclists and the public enter into it with
fresher zest for having had the Bummer spell.
Says the Australasian “The principal
backer of W. Farnan has deposited with us a
oneque for £100 for the purpose of making a
match with L. Foley under the Marquis of Queens-
berry’s rules. He proposes that it snail bo tor £250
aside, and must take place in Albury.” This looks
like business, and it will be hard lines if the pair
cannot now come to terms.
“A. L. P.” in a letter to the Herald, sug-
Sests that a match should be arranged between
re English and Australian teams, to take place in
Sydney on the 24th and following days, on the
Association Ground, and that the winning side
take the net proceeds of the gate money, after
deducting expenses of both teams. But we don’t
suppose the Britishers see it in quite the same
At a “smoker” of the Victoria Bicycle
Club, Melbourne, when some half-hundred cy-
clists were present, the Club presented to Mr.
Shackelford a handsomely framed group of photos
of its members grouped around u bicycle. It was
given in commemoration of fhackclford’s splen-
did struggle in Sydney on 2nd August last, when
he won the tou-iulle Intercolonial championship.
Shack, thanked them, and explained that he had a
very natural desire to got in front at the last lap
whenever ho could.
The Canadians have “ turned dog,” to use
an inelegant but expressive vulgarism, upon their
pet. A well-established Canadian paper says anent
the Beach race:—” Hanlan is known to be a needy
man, fond of money, given to gambling, and his
only chance to make a considerable sum was to
lay against himself—a device which it is only too
apparent he resorted to.” A few oars, of this
sort in New South Wales papers would prove
more remunerative to Edward than rowing races.
Canada must be a perfect pressman’s paradise.
Our own opinion remains unaltered—that Hanlan
rowed an honest race.
“Fools and their money soon part,” is au
adage which will keep good in any climate. From
the New Zealand Refeuee we learn that in the
Maori land the Musket—Blander colt has been
backed to win the Melbourne Cup for about £8000
at an average of about 100 to 5, and Thunderbolt
has been supported to win a couple of thousand,
while 100 to 4 has been taken about Nordenfeldt,
Welcome Jack, and Oudeis. This looks as If the
pakehas meant to scoop the big pot this year, but
ft reminds us of the distressed nobleman of Dart-
moor’s remark, “Somelpeepll has money, an* some
has branos. and them that has the money was maid
for them that has the branes.”
That there is not “something rotten in
the state of Denmark " was pretty clearly proved
by his brace of easy wins at the late V.R.C. meet-
ing. In the Steeplechase on New Year’s Day he
cut out the work at so warm a pace that each of
his four opponents came to grass, leaving the
plucky son of Horatio to waltz in by himself.
Echo, who blundered at the last obstacle, was the
only one that ever troubled him, and that there
were wiseacres in abundance to express their
cocksuredneos that “ Echo must have won except
for his bad luck,” goes without the saying. But
when Denmark met his rival two days later, on
eight pounds worse terms, and polished him off in
a canter, people began to realise that the good
pace and not the bad luck was accountable for all
the trouble in the first event. Denmark is such a
clever fencer and free goer that jit wants clinking
good cattle to keep “ alongside him fit and
well.
We have received a note from a Banana-
lander stating It is now current talk in Brisbane
that Foley got all the worst of a set-to with the
British ex-champion amateur light-weight. If our
correspondent refers to the set-to the pair had
some four or five years ago, the rumour is not
correct. We saw the bout in question, and the
amateur did not have a ghost ot a show. Almost
as soon as the men put their hands up, Foley
steadied the Englishman with a right-hander, and
for the rest of the show he merely played with
him. So far as we can recollect, the amateur was
pretty quick with the left, but of the tapping
order, and he kept the arm too low and extended
for heavy execution. For the information of our
Northern brethren, we may ’state that, in our
opinion, we have an amateur in Sydney able with
the gloves for any amateur in the world under
list.; and wo have an idea that only pros, of the
very first water would bo able to “put him
throug h.” And we are not singular in our opinion.
Says a correspondent;—“ Your sporting
reporter is not correct in what he states about
Mr. Sharland tn to-day’s Bulletin. All the com-
petitors who started with him are gentlemen, and
not professionals. Mr. Stewart is a Government
employee, and all the others are known to me as
business men in Hobart.” We took our informa-
tion from a Tasmanian paper, which distinctly
stated that Sharland had started and won a £6
money prize. If the statement is correct, Sharland
has forfeited his right to the title of amateur—at
least, so far as Port Jackson is concerned, in com-
mon with the “.Government employee” and others
who started against him. The same correspondent
states he has been authorised by Sharland to chal-
lenge Brett to row three miles with a turn on t he
Derwent for a hundred pound trophy. However,
as the Tasmanian now with the professionals,
it is not at all likely Brett wi'l place himself in the
same position by making a match with him. And
we are not grieved either. Hundred pound tro-
phy races are not calculated to improve the tone
of our amateur rowing men.
There has been some sensational billiard-
scoring in London. In a match of 12,000 up be-
tween W. ,T. Peall and Cook, the former made a
break of 788, and ultimately won by 2936, going out
with unfinished break of 614 (12. 58, and 93 spots).
Just after the commencement of tho break, a bet
of 60 sovereigns to one was laid and accepted
about his going out in that break. On the same
day, in J. Roberts, jun, i. North (10,000 up, spot
barred), the former made the largest break all-
round the table ever chronicled—viz., 322, “Inter-
val” having been called when his figures stood
at 286. Once or more ho nearly lost position, and
In his first essay after resuming, struck the object
ball a trifle too hard, and had to operate on the
white for awhile. Scarcely had the excitement
that this marvellous performance produced sub-
sided, than North compiled 132 from the red, as
against 102 tho previous best, the full break being
140. The previous best all-round break was 309,
made by Cook, in Manchester, in the month of
September, 1881. Then Roberts still further ad-
vanced the record “all-round,” by putting to-
gether 327, or five in excess of his efforts of the
preceding day. Cook and Roberts were to meet
to see whether they could agree to play for the
championship, while in January, Mitchell and
Peall contest, 5000 up, even “all In,” for £100
(open to £209) aside.
The senior-fours at the National Regatta
S remises a close tussle between the Sydney and
tercantlle crews, which are composed of Moppett,
Kennedy, Brodie, and Bros; and Seale, Pickering,
Brett, and Martin, respectively. The Glebe; Club
are also sending a crow—Cox, lekerson. Fair-
weather, and Robertson, for which by the way
they deserve every praise, but although they go
fairly well in their practice, we do not think the
crew has bottom enough to stand the strain over
the gruelling two-islands course. The Sydney
crew is the same that recently won the Gardiner
Cup with next thing to a row over. On that
occasion they rowed in splendid form, but we saw
them do a row a few days since, which was far
from taking. Mr. Oatley, whose masterly coach-
ing has hitherto had such a big say in tho Sydney
wins, is not with them this time, and whether It
is to this fact, or to bad fitting, we cannot
say, but certain it is the crew is showing form far
Inferior to that of their rivals across the water,
who are going as one man, and to whom we shall
look forithe winner. The maiden double sculls
will bring forth some remarkable “maidens.” The
Sydneyites will consist of J. E Kennedy and E. P.
Simpson, the Mercantiles of Warreand Brindley,
and the North Shore Club will be represented by
Bourke and Connolly; from which it will be ob-
served that the “ pot hunter” has not entirely died
out from the ranks of our amateur scullers.
Bourke and Connolly are good, but comparatively
new men, and it certainly seems hard lines for the
young club to lose the chance of a winning bracket
by reason of the senior club sending one of their
oldest oarsmen to compete in a maiden race
against them. However, it is not all over yet, al-
though we should be surprised, if pleased, to see
the junior club carry it off. Since writing the
above, we have heard that Mr. Fairweather has
been unwell, and up to the time of our going to
press there appeared very little show of the Glebe
crew starting.
Do wo consider horse-racing remunera-
tive y is the simple conundrum put to us by a
searcher after knowledge who belongs to the
noble band of new-chums. Of course, we do- Be-
cause, in the first place, if you are “ ily,” and
know the ropes, and get connected with a safe
school, you’re bound to rake the pool after every
meeting. If you are “ green,” however, and not
at all to the manner born, you will gain ex-
perience, and experience is a mighty useful thing
—if you don’t happen to die before your schooling
days are finished. The ancients seem to have had
a pretty considerable insight into the ways of the
turf, for, amidst the golden reflections panned out
by King David, we find a valuable chunk, which
says, ” A horse is a vain thing for safety.” And,
after this, old Ecolesiastious goes one better still,
and observes, ” Verily, the way of the seller is one
thing, but that of the buyer is different." So it is.
And if we wanted proof of th's, it could be easily
found at the recent sale of Mr. A. F. Smart’s stud
at Warwick Farm. For instance, Warwick, for
whom Mr. Smart planked down 2000 guineas as a
yearling, brought only 700; Archie, who, as a two-
year-old. was handed over for 1850 guineas, only
totalled 550 guineas; and Mr. 8. Knight, who sold
Burilda to Mr. Smart for something like 1000
guineas, was kind enough to buy the cult back the
other day fora paltry 400. Tom Brown’s nod of
205 guineas was sufficient to secure Coir, for whom
the squire of Warwick Farm gave a thousand the
season before; Tyrcel, who, as a yearling, cost 000
guineas, was turned off for 120; and Cairngorm,
for whom, as a yearling, Mr. Smart was hotly run-
up, until he bid the sultry sura of 950 guineas,
could only command a paltry 150 when he parted
from the “brown and rose” academy. The re-
mainder of the stud went equally cheap, but,
although o«o small barrow was quite sufficient to
cart home all the coin received, the amount of ex-
Serienco gained would fill the Austral. And, as
■rs. Micawber’s poor dear pa used to say. Expert-
entia doesit.
Mr. Laurence E. Myers, the distinguished
runner, wa« born in Richmond, Va., Feb. 15, 1858.
He stands 5ft. 7%ln., "nd weighs 113 to 114 pounds
In condition. He made his first appearance on the
cinder path on November 5,1878. in the games of
the New York Athletic Club, in which he got
seven yards start in the 100-yards run, and was
beaten In 10%seo. He won the quarter-mile with
eighteen yards start In 55 see. Myers has shown
himself the most successful runner in the world.
He has beaten both English and American records
at his distance (100 to 1000 yards) and holds more
championships than any other athlete has ever
gained. He is the recognised champion of Eng-
land, Canada, and America Myers’ trip to Eng-
land with Waldron and Fredricks, of the Manhat-
tan athletic Club, and Murra v, of tho Williamsburg
Athletic Club, was very successful as far as his
running was concerned. The following is a sum-
mary of his races In England: July 5, won the
quarter-mile run easily in 49 3-5sec : July 7, won
half-mile run in Imin. 55 2-5seo , beating the best
record In the world (his own). July 12, won the
600-yards’ run; time, Imin. 13 2-6sec., beating the
best English record; July 14, won the 1200-yards’
run easily In 2mln. 58sec , beating Snook by ten
yards; July 19, started in a 1000 yards’ handicap,
giving Snook thirty-two yards start, and was
beaten by two yards by him. Myers’ running in
this race was the fastest ever seen In England. His
last race before his departure for home was a
quarter-mile run, In an attempt to beat his own
record. In which, however, he failed by one-fifth
of a second, making the run in 48 4-5 sec. At the
Williamsburg Athletic Club Games, Sept. 20, ho
won second place In the 250-yard run, time 261-5
sec.: W. H. Catnmeyer, W.A.O.. with twenty yards
start, first. At the annual championship games.
Sept. 27. ho won the half-mile run, time 2 min. 9 4-5
sec . with C. Lee Meyers. M. A.C.. second; first place
in the 440-yard run, with 8. Derlokson, M.A.C..
second, time 55 4-5 sec.; and the 220-yard, time 24
1-8 boo., 8. Derlokson second. At the annual elec-
tion-day games of the Manhattan Athletic Club he
ran a match race for a 50 dollar medal with M. W.
Ford, N.Y.A.C., winning In 10V6 sec.
The Mayor of New York has issued a little
proclamation which will render that city no longer
the paradise of the slogger. The local Playfair,
having read sensational accounts in several of the
papers anent the Sullivan-Lailin affair, expressed
hio regret that the police should have permitted
any show to be given which “ partook of all the
elements of a prize fight.” and, as his reason for so
doing stated that “ he believed such exhibitions
disgraceful to the city in the highest degree, de-
moralizing to young men, and in their tendency
leading to disrespect of Jaw and order.” Captain
Williams and his colleagues, of the New York
”olice, responded vigorously to the challenge of
Mayor Edison. Not onlv did they show that they
had always been opposed to glove-fighting in the
past, but they put their feet down on any pro-
jected glove-fight that lay looming in the future.
With dismay Sullivan and Greenfield saw trouble
looming in the distance. Notice that the boxing
show between the pair would not be permitted,
was served on the executive of Madison-square
Garden, and it was doubtful whether or not the
intending principals were already liable for con-
spiring to break the peace To settle this ques-
tion, and discover at the same time if, as was sus-
pected, the police had strained their powers
unduly, Sullivan and Greenfield, accompa-
nied by their various supporters, and re-
presen’ed by Colonel Charles Spencer—a mem-
ber of the Rar with a military title —appeared
on the morning of the day for which the fight was
set before Judge Barrett, at Supreme Court Cham-
bers, and, after some considerable delay, and one
or two oppositions to the application, had their
case fully and completely argued. When the in-
vrstigatlon was over, the Judge retired to his
room to consider his decision, which was pub-
lished at length about six o’clock, and was to the
effect, when all its legal technicalities and ver-
bosities are accounted for, that so long as men do
not hit one another hard with the gloves they
commit no crime, but that directly they begin to
knock one another about in earnest, even though
ihe gloves bo big and soft, ihe duty of the police
if to put a stop to the combat, and at once arrest
the criminals. This decision left Sullivan and
Greenfield, who protested they were going to
have simply alight aud scientific spar, In which
points only would count, and in which also bard
hitting would lead to the hard-hitter’s disqualifi-
cation, temporarily masters of the situation.
Madison-square Garden was now open to them,
and a crowd stood at the gates, but it
was decided that the encounter should, owing
to the lateness of the hour and the dis-
organised condition of the arrangements, be
postponed until the following evening. On
thefollowlngevening, then, Sullivan tried his hand
on the third Englishman who had dared oppose
him. The attendance was nothing like what was
expected, partly because no sum less than 8s. a
head was charged for admission, and partly be-
cause It was known that “ slagging” would not
be permitted. The police were in great force, it
being computed that there were full two consta-
bles to each paying visitor, with Jsuperintendents*
inspectors, ana captains galore In addition. In.a
Erevlous issue we stated Greenfield got all the
est of It while it lasted. We took this from tele-
grams sent over to the English papers, but the
New York papers flatly contradict the statement,
and say that not alone did Sullivan show out to
most advantage while the light business lasted,
but when the blood ol both waslun and real slog-
ging sot In, Sullivan treated Greenfield so roughly
that Captain Williams gave the word to stop the
fight before the completion of the second round,
and Sullivan was declared the winner. Sullivan
and Greenfield were then hawked off to the nearest
police station, balled out, and duly fought the
battle over again with their friends. What hap-
pened when the pair were brought before the
beaks is not to hand.
THE KOOKABURRA.
Socks with open-worked heels and toes
will be worn by bachelors as heretofore.
A fretful Mother and cross child indicates
ill health, requiring only Hop Bitters to remove.
See.
The most accommodating woman we
have yet heard of, was one who, according to the
Thibdnb, “Shot her Husband for a Burglar.
Unsolicited testimonials from medical
gentlemen testify to the merits of Wolfe's
Schnapps.
Recently in Paris, during the session of
the congress of Freethinkers, one eminent mem-
ber passionately exclaimed, “Gentlemen, I am an
athlest, thank God I ”
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hookings and
CO., 143, Htt-street.*
“ Animals are such agreeable friends,”
said George Eliot; “they pass no criticisms.” So
sociable, too. The bay steer lifts his hoof and
knocks a boy into the jaws of torment. The bay
steer passes no criticism.
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
Under the law of entail, young man, the
landed property of the father descends to the
eldest son, but under the law of cocktail (which
is quite an entirely different thing), there is a bar
to this descent, and the old man gets away with
the property before hD eldest son is old enough to
smoke. See ? Have one yourself.
Think and Act.— After many trials,
Messrs. Dalm and Oertel succeeded In preparing a
most delicious Lemonade from Australian lemons.
They discarded imported, unwholesome OH of
Lemons. Give It a trial. A)rated-water works, 403
Pitt-street.*
In speaking of the girl to whom he was en-
gage d, he referred to her as his “ finanede.” “ You
mean your fiancee, I guess. It is pronounced fee-
ong-say.” “I don’t care how it is pronounced.
That girl is ray flnanede. She is worth thirty
thousand pounds.”
“ Bristol’s Sarsaparilla should be kept in
every household. In our family we have used It
extensively and always with success; for scrofu-
lous sore eyes and running st the ear* 1 , it is a sure
cure.” Mrs. WILLIAM BROWN, Maryborough,
Viet.
OF THE WASP—WASPISH.
His poems Oscar Wilde save he indites
Upon an empty stomach. Heavenly Powers
Feed him throat-full: for all the beggar writes
Upon his empty stomach empties oursl
Life Insurance as a Provision.- The im
norcanco of the securement of means forthose we
might elsewise leave in needy circumstances,
thronghthe almost universally accented media of
life insurance, is not more wise and judicious than
the procurementof anextended leaseof lifeby the
continuous use of the famous Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Always asa for Wolfe’s Schnapps.
“ Ma, why did you send Tom out of the
room ?’’ “ Because he was naughty and tried to
bit-.'.” “ I don’t think that’s fair, for yesterday pa
bit Miss Semibreve, my music teacher, three or
four times right on the cheek, and she didn’t send
him out of the.room.”
Mu. DiCourot Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
"Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52Caatle-
reagh-street, Sydney, «- Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, &T Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record In the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
Mr. Gladstone is suffering from want of
sleep. So is Mr. Spencer. So did T. Carlyle
Horace Greeley, and so does every man who keeps
on using the bit of jelly inside his head when he
ought to be using his legs and arms. All sorts of
remedies are prescribed; and they are copied far
and wide. We risk one amongst the others
Neither a philosophic issue, a stand-up fight, nor
a business speculation that keeps a man awake
after he has done a good day’s work ever counts
for anything in the long run. There are times, of
course, for a rush; but it is a thousand to one that
the sleeplessness that comes from mental anxiety
is a physical protest against mental conceit. And
hero’s a recipe that is good enough to be new
Maria (two in the morning; lamp burning low •
John, distracted, walking up and down the bedroom
thumping his brow): “What’s the matter, now ?’
John: “ Hundred pound bill due in the morning-
only fifty to meet it.” Maria (yawning): “Well
come to bed, you fool. Let the other man walk
out the other fifty the day after.”
Here’s another of ourinnooentchildhood’s
cherished beliefs gone bung. Thirteen iconoclasts
of New York have just hold a dinner party at
Glen Island, for the shameful purpose of proving
that the time-honoured opinion of "thirteen”
being an unlucky number is a delusion and a
snare. This dinner was a big thing in its way,
and everything possible was done to upend the
superstitions of the day. Close to the door of the
restaurant a ladder was placed, leaning against
the roof of the building, and each gum
ately walked under it as he entered. Thirteen
saltcellars were placed on each table, and each of
the dinners solemnly spilled a portion of the salt
after he bad taken his place at the table The bill
of fare was printed on thick white paper, shaped
like a tombstone, with a death’s head grinning at
the top. Boston baked beans” were served un
in coffin-shaped tins, and the wine was iced in
celluloid vessels made to resemble skulls The
proceedings were of the most approved jolly-dog
character imaginable, but, as a very wise rule'of
the club forbade any of’the membeTs drmkini
more than thirteen bottles of any particular soft
°e t . bat evening, a somewhat depressing air
of sobriety was painfully apparent. Quite a cfowd
of horror-stricken citizens followed the revellers
home in the hopes of seeing them drop dead but
as they are all alive and hunkey at the present
date, it seems pretty clear that the recording angel
must have gone to spend this Christmas with tia
friends, and left a miserably incompetent party to
attend to his somewhat onerous duties. 1 y
LAWRENCE E. MYERS, CHAMPION AMATEUR ATHLETE.


NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
TO
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR FROM GEORGE-STRKET.
N
•-
S
1
I
IlHEY have ARRIVED.
. An Immense delivery
of
YANKFE RUBBER
BABIES.
Goes In the waistcoat poc-
ket; blows out to life size;
is washable, durab’e. and
unbreakable ; resembles
life, forllke the real article
— r iTil — R 0008 at Pleasure and yet
SJtfcfflSMa screams awluliy if smacked
E.\perienced fathers are deceived by these laugh-
ter-producing infants. and no home is really a
happy one without their presence Price (post
free): largest, Is. (id.; medium. Is. 3d.
Also, just in, a large assortment of Conjuring
Tricks, v atalogues on application.
THE WIZARD CARDS,
changing from eights
to deuces, from black to
red, and back again at the
pleasure of the per-
former. Post free, with
full Instructions, Is, 2d.
I’m a Daddy ; I’m in
Love; 'i he Mother-in-law;
I’m a Parder; and Be
fore and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever Issued, g In each set.
Price, 6d. per set, or 6 sets for 2s.; by post, 2s. 2d.
The Three Donkeys. The newest “ have ” out
Send for them, but keep It quiet. Price, Is.: br
post, Is. 2d.
The Sooner Dog-a wonderful little animal ;
roars of laughter follow him wherever he goes
Js.6d.; by post, 2s. 6d.
Napoleon In Council, very rich, Is. 6d.; by poet, 3s.
i
Bor^l™ 1 ? C °" 401 ° eor 8 , e-8treet, Sydney.
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate in Medicine and Surgery, Registered
Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours : 10 a.m. to 4 p m., 7 to 9 on Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday Evenings.
Ladies’ Waiting Room, No. 10 : Gentlemen’s, No.
11, 52 Castlereagh-street (upstairs.)
Fend for Free Treatise on Vitality and Nervous
Debility, Dit eases of Women,
Illustrated Works on Deformities, Electricity
and its Application. Hernia (ruptures), Varicocele,
Ac., Ac
Address—Australian Medical and Surgical Tn-
wS ar vT’ Sydney : or B. O. HOLTERMANN, Esq.,
M.P., President, Box 120, G.P.O. • a .
Consultation Free bv mail or in person.
Deformities. Specific. Female, and Nervous
Diseases, a Specialty.
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of Willism-atreet, Hyde Park.
High-class Furniture
At Very Lowest Prices, compatible with the finest
workmanship and finish, for entrance bails,
dining-rooms, drawing rooms, bedrooms,
and libraries.
CARPETS IN NEWEST DESIGNS AND
FINEST QUALITY.
WI UTON CARPETS, BRUSSELS CARPETS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With Hearthrugs to match.
W COBLICINE AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL AND
BLACK AND BRASS,
Za all sizes and various designs.
Foster s Bugle Brand
COMPAGNONI CATERING GO.. LIMITED.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 7 7
s ? tere " to »• ' VOTSh "> tto "»■
‘ . UJ o , K° () M now open A Grill can be had at any time from Sam. tollom faflnr the
Selept yonr own steak. Ac , and see It grilled in the room. This Is one of tL acquisitions
Inspection Invited C.ub rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Club
E. D. TOLLKMACHE. General Manager.
Theatres. ■
oi the cltv, and a long-felt wa 1 t.
and City Club, upstairs.
JfS
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALB ALB.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capltal--£100,f00 with power to Increase to £1,000/00
BON USES- 30 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
•p9?IAnj jJnBipjoo mb epmn
oas 07 SujqsiAV UBmoflusa Any -q & /h%
” ee
‘line Tira
auv
‘-L33UXS 39U039 OZS
‘MM VOM T
I ooovuox Hsrsnmx a>mj
opwra }83ti aq* o.ib SVUlVdOllO
QNV
•* sooovaox nvoihumv xsannj
oqi tnojj opmu , __ _
9«9JBJS!0 »89H Oq* 9J8 010
SENT FREE, by POST ONLY, In an Envelope.
SOCIAL SCIENCE,
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders which
cause Impediments t« Marriage, and all
Caionlc Diseases; also. How to choose a partner
tor life, so as to live happy and produce healthy
children ; and how to regain and preserve your
health, &c, &o.
Address: R. T. SELBY, Medical Herbalist,
Devonshire-street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
■ XHKI
56
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA.
ANB
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. QAYEN’B
Schnapps and Genera.
A. MELVIN and SONS*
Edinburgn Pale Ale.
ESTABLISHED 1800.
J. LAWLER.
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
WETEE i( mu
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRASSES,
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX,
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&o., &c.
COU/r
0LEND
ItradS
jMAR*i
Ai
%/ST£Bt2
/COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—This is a nr w
JU of the PUREST MATURED WhiS)dM L cr
tuning fulness of bodv. v <fh „ A 16 ?*,, oc
of taste
Agenta.
S U LoBt H Vltalitv ffl *c 6d h Wltb Nervons Debit
store you to health and manly vigour Presernw
free. Send your address on enveffi
C. C, W., Box 768, G.P.O., Sydney
■
rttt : ' ,j
•t;
if
Head Offices. ssiffl
.. F, "t Fire Society established in the colony on
the Mutual principle. Riving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Pollcy-hdders are perfectly free by law from
ail liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
The BEST ALE and tiTUUT In the Market
BOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WIN13
MERCHANTS.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
o^meoRFs
vSPl
[ESSENCEoTlIFR
I
e only mtailiDle remedy for
//ERybi/s JjebiLijyT
THIS Invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system: regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 12a., or four quantities is one!or
46s.; If by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from Georgi-s trout South.
T
A L L WOMEN
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax
Soap
TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
COLD^WA^ElT WORK, ln elther HOT or
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERT
IN SOAP I
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with It;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
BT Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
Od. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
VENETIA WALTZ!
Tab Air to b* nuirkett
Otiiours LoWTIHAJf.
cantabdk.
rw.
5=
red
W I1^ I M?? a ?A T ) LT^R^ ha8 the Largest Stock
of MUSIC In the city.
Muslo.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services. &c.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, In variety.
New catalogues will bo ready iu a few days and
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &o , at lowest prices.
Printing.-Invoices. Billheads. Circulars, Cards
graved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
iw, 1 i 1 ,°S der . 8 1 exPC V tfd In best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and .School Prizes, in parcels.
.. • upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Aibums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand flags. Fans, &o.
mJtfa an f Book- hound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
z .8uhgc rlptl ° n 8 solicited to all the lead ng maga-
Caii and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trvnogranh
3000 c °Pl?s; the Berrygi aph, the cost of
which Is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
S nd and obtain full particulars of working
WILLIAM BULLARD.
342 GEORGE STREET.
W. E. DEAPE &
CO.,
MINING BROKERS AND AGENTS,
Mining Exchange,
FITZROY STREET, ROCKHAMPTON.
Commissions entrusted to our care executed with
judgment and despatch. Latest Mining Intelll-
genoe from the surrounding fields. *
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Offices—PITT and KING STREETS.
S
PEC1AL NOTICE—ALTERATION OF AR
RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAY
Swimming Baths
(the »nly pure sea-water baths near Sydney.)
Open every day for Ladies and Gentlemen fror
6 a.m. till dark.
Admission, 3d.; Children, accompanied by adult*
2d.; 100 tickets, 21s.; Monthly Tickets, 5s.; An
nuai Tickets, from 1st September, 21s.
SWIMMING TAUGHT by Mr, Fbederici
Cavill, the world-renowned swimmer, who swan
from France to England in 12 hours, 20th August
1877. Six Lessons, 21s. The North Shore Ferr
Steamers leave the Circular Quay for the Bath
every quarter-of-an-hour.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY
■
orne
CRN,
ORN.
Poland
and
13 Wrufu/.
It is of the utmost Importance that contents of
each bottle should ho carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will tlnd a difference
? f A^A e^tT ] , 0 «??T, cent - in of LORNE HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
J. MASSEY, Jw.,
F1AI0S HD' OBDHS
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Been hunting for ease all ray life, and found itat
last with the Argosy Braces at Gowlng Bros.
v*.
GOWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth ConHgn-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. Od., 3s., 3s. Od.,& 4s. Od
GOWING BROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, &C.
332 and 408 Gcorg<


piPBNITPBl SHOW BOOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H
ALL PXJRNITtJRE, HAT8TAND8,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
Library furniture, centre and bide
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; Troll worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
"B7ITALL CABINETS for Choice China, Ac.
VV VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for dubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, Ac.
B
ED ROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or'with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON.
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney,
Eight-pound bedroom suiTES.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-etreet.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached : PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and a CANE SEAT CHAIRS, It) guineas.
BRADLBF, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20a.: Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80e-
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30a.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
3QK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
owOO strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
O
CCA8IONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
', See,
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush,
*!ih —
s
5
w
VERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashlon-
U able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also In Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
FONNIEB WHATNOTS, effective designs,
\J just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
CVConneU-street.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for flro grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
U Connell-street.
D
RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 8d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and Inex-
penalve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, Q’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND.
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Counell-street.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK OHAIH-
Patented.
E3
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
Bitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It Is simple, yet ingenious in Its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet Invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort Is desired.
The frames aro of the best Eastern ash—strong,
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2s. fid. extra.
B
AGATBLLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment la Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered In
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
UlRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FtfRftT-
Jj TUBE, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
B
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
B
EDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING,— All descriptions at lowest rates,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
Bell and Spring streets.
r ASH8TANDS, with marble, from 26s. eaol
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ARDEN SEA!
INDIAN LON€
NEWTON, and
30s; Verandah Chain
LOUNGES. BRAE
G’Connell-street.
A very eomplete
nuke. Umeet price*
SOCIAL
The Transit Commissioners have just been
notifying that all cabs must be of <Sneaking
along, or they will not be liconeed to ply.
candidly, we don’t think that a *.
disaster. We know that hansom cabs are popular,
but then, so were sedan chairs once- We i ,
hoping to see the day when people will iook back
on the hansom cab as an abommat on of the past.
To get in, you have to wind yourself sinuously
about like a serpent; when you ar ®i®VwUt vour
see anything comfortably; you ba.vo to tw t_y
neck like a corkscrew to speak to the driver , a
you have to curl up into a note teter m f t j n
shape when you want to worm the
doing so. if you don’t scrape your ankleon *{J®
step, you probably smash your bat gainst the
roof. Without desiring to make anyoneuncom
fortable, we may point out that if a
you are boxed up in a way
calculated to ensure you tbo full “mem o
the animal’s efforts. If be bolts, can t
even see whore he is going a °date“f )8 y
helpless. The best plan is to waR until he stops
against a lamp-post, and then get out. The la
som cab seems to bo specially so as
render either getting in or getting out a matter or
the greatest Inconvenience possible. No one can
watch a ball-dressed lady getting into a with-
out n feeling of pity. The
elaborate and fragile sex have Rouble them
ielves up would be comical, if it
view, however, of the prevailing fa ablon* J* one
comfort to know that the seat of a cab must bo not
less than three feet wide, bacause
When Adolphus takes Agonlsa sweet
Out to a rout or ball,
Her fashion's so ample she needs all the seat,
ind he has scarce any at all.
The cab is quite tilled by the skirts of the fair,
And Adolphus frets a good deal— .
For seven inches of seat aro what fall to his snare,
And a dozen ridges of steel.
• ■ *
- A successful concert was beWintheAs-
aemblv Hall, Junee Junction, on Now xears
Night y glven by ladles towards liquidating debt on
u p nhiirch Vocal and instrumental selections
looked noticeable were-Mrs. Brentnali. m cream
idiver! whfle m“ss Katie Jones of Wagga looked
charming in white and pale-blue. Miss Lilian
prHwiflv adorned blftck velvet and KOld. Miss
Ttmmas wore pale pink effectively, and Miss Nellie
Roberts seemed bewitching in her and pale
bin a fit tire Music was supplied by several
about 3 o’clock all dispersed, muchly
satisfied.
* • • .
Bright, sunny weather has always been
regarded as a happy omen for a “ ar^ la » e
Bolt was on last Saturday, when Mr. James w.
Davenport (of the well-known Barrack-street
firm? was united, at St. Andrew’s Cathedral, to
Miss Lily Estelle Llppmann, daughter ofMr.aml
Mrs T. L. Coombe. The bride, wearing a beautiful
long-trained robe of deep cream satin, pro-
fuse adornment of orange-blossoms. wM attended
bv two bridesmaids. Miss Eva Davenport and
.afsasff&'sa? &e
B SSsfeaar sasss snkg
dence of the bride’s parents. H ®^ e h a bP“ t4 “f u d
sat to the bridal breakfast, wnlclh wius eudi3d as
nfiiifli with a number of toasts. Mr. wavy pru t
poeod’the uo.ltb ot tne “ Brl^S5" d .P r rld ®rtmeron
*• Parents,” and several other toasts followed, and
after the wedding quadrille had been„nd?lngham
Rn <i Mrs. Davenport drove off to Dananngnaui,
w bonce the honeymoon tour will bo e *ten&ed by
that of trips, “round about New
Zealand.” B »
On Saturday, 31st Inst., the Sydney Tn-
nvnie Club will have a social affair ot a very
pleasant kind. Members and friends, meeting at
th« Town Hall at4 30 p.m., will all run out together
to Botany where the Club have ordered tea at the
air Joseph Banks Hotel tor 6.30. About a couple
of hours later, a start will be made for home, and,
full on the day chosen, fair
weather only Is required to ensure a genial
gathering.
Th« Oxford Private Social Club, which
had such a pleasant initiation not long since, has
chosenBtf Valentine’s Eve for its next compll-
mentarv entertainment. This time it will be a
Sfncert to take place in the Protestant Hall.
Several'leading amateurs, both ladles and gentle-
men, have volunteered their.services, andl profes-
slonal talent will also be added to the attractions,
as well as recitations. &o. The committee are
heartily determined to make the affair quite an
enjoyable one. There is no money ln t: imottf
Is simply to give some pleasure to their friends.
Another Hyginx was held by the Sydney
Owls last week, and the new Masonic Hall was
comfortably tilled. Mr. Tate occupied the perch,
and Mr. L. De Groen was concert manager-he and
Mr. C. Shepherd being The first
part included, among other items. Now my
courage,” by Mr. Barrington, a piano solo by Miss
A B. Roberts, a duet by Messrs. Jefferson and
Miller, “ 1 oaunot sing the old songs by Mr.
Phillips, the sopranlst, “The Woodnymph s Call
bv Miss Turner, and a clever burlesque of Irving
as Hamlet, given by Dr. A. Burne. A short farce,
entitled ** Borrowed Plumes, went with a lot of
spirit, the brothers Nunn taking the parts of
Horatio Tattleton and Dick, who changed places
in order to deceive-as gay youths so often do-a
trusting and Innocent young person of the oppo-
site sex. The young person In this case was re-
presented plquantly by Miss Hartley as Violet
Dibbins, wniie old Botherby Bibblns was hone
bv Mr. F. Jones, and the part of the rather
neglected and played-upon Emma was entrusted
“j Miss Creo Stanley, then refreshments were
circulated, and dancing began to the music
ot an excellent trio band. It would he too
much to expect new dresses lu January, but It
was surprising how new and nice some of them
looked, alter a little natty touching-up and fresh
trimmlug, to which they had no doubt been
treated. Two Balmain girls linger in the memo-
ries of the night's dancers; one In blue, because
dancers such as she are scarce and valued; and
one In white, a tall fair blonde, with golden belt,
locking like a Cymrlau queen. Two ladies ot the
oldest faith were swanlike la their gliding grace;
one married, in crimson and pink richly combined,
and the other, well—not married, but there is Im-
minent happiness about to fall to the share ot an
envied young man. Another vision passes across
the memory: a tali and stately girl with cardinal
Hecks around her shoulders, and nothing at all
uDon her marble arms to hide their statuesque
shapeliness. A Paddington girl Hashing by m a
cloud of whirling blue; while one gazed at Hen-
den with a feeling of wonder that one who has
been so high in the woi Id should condescend to mix
so freely with ordinary people as does that affable
aeronaut. g # #
Over 2000 were present at the Wharf
Labourers' Picnic on the 14th, at Cabarita. Their
procession through the city before embarking
attracted great attention by it* numbers, its Uvely
rauBic, and its triumphal car covered with naval
flan, and containing representations of naval
heroes sitting In state. A line strong body of men
they were ; physical power developed by long
hours of hard toll, being ‘conspicuous as they
marched sturdily along. It was a splendid day,
and several steamers conveyed them to Correy s
Gardens, where dancing wont on all day, tne
Mercantile Brass Band being engaged; and a tire
and drum contingent also helped to flood the air
with melody, or whatever it was. ior the.sports
some line prizes were presented, and at the 4
o’clock banquet, the president of.the W. L. Union
took the chair, while a number of members ot
Parliament and Council were seated at the head
table. Mr. D. O’Connor proposed the toast of
“The Wharf Labourers’ Union,” to which Mr. l.
W. O’Sullivan responded. The Union has been
formed two years, numbers over 1400 members,
and is prosperous.
* • •
St. Benedict’s Fair is still open— to anyone
who pays a shilling. After a m .°°*h’s active busl-
ness, It is still crowded every nlgrht; but the stalls
are showing signs of the drain upon them. The
girls, too, are weakening. They are still dressed In
green, and still beautiful: but there are not so
many of them, and some are Just a trifle jaded.
Local visitors go there everv night, and from this
fact, perhaps, enjoy a little immunity; but a
stranger is at once “spotted,” and appealed to to
take " shares ” in some article which Is eventually
allotted to on® of the shareholders on some prin-
ciple which is, no doubt, quite satisfactory to
the winner. Of course, the losers have nothing
more to do with It. A good plan Is observed,
of posting up on large printed lists the name ol
every winner of goods. Several concerts have
been held, also dancing contests, and the band has
busied Itself travelling down town in the evening,
so as to bring the Irish Fair under notice. Then,
If It comes on to rain, people know where to go
for shelter. And there’s another advantage In the
band going down town—It gives the neighbour-
hood a rest. One night we were there, a trio of
calico-clad gentlemen, with blackened faces, went
through a sort of farce, of which nobody heard a
word, and which seemed about the stupidest thing
that has been done since Government raised the
tram fares.
• • •
Employees of Mr. John Try, the contrac-
tor, held their first annual picnic on Saturday, at
Cabarita. Balmain Coldstream Band was engaged,
and some danced, while others meandered round
the grounds. At luacheon, Mr. Robert Gujr was
chairman, and the toast of “ Our Employer was
given by Mr. Chldgy. Mr. Try entered Into some
personal recollections In reply, from which It ap-
pears that, In the course of seven years, ho has
climbed up Into a very satisfactory position. The
health of his employees was then proposed, and,
from what was said, it became quite clear that
they also are most estimable persons. Visitors
and other toasts followed, and, after the athletic
sports had ended, Mrs. Try presented the prizes,
and the party returned to town before dark.
* * *
A picnic was given last week to a notable
man. As an explorer of the Australian wilds, the
Hon. John Forrest was worthy of the honour done
him. It Is only to be regretted that the recogni-
tion of his presence in Sydney could not have been
made of a more general kind. It Is to such men
as he, and their deeds, that the colonists of Aus-
tralia owe very much. Only about 35 gentlemen
were present, and the Psyche took them to Pearl
Bay, where a banquet was held at 3 o’clock, and
Mr. G. C. Loughnan, M.P., took the chair, Mr. D.
O'Connor the vice-chair. These two, with Messrs.
H. Bmanue) and P. O’Connor, were the hosts. Sir
John Robertson made the chief speech in propos-
ing “ Our Guests,” and Mr. Forrest’s reply had the
ring of sterling sense all through It. Several
Ministers were present, as well as officials and lead-
ing merchants.
♦ ♦ *
Two of the best known squatting families
In Victoria were brought into closer relations last
week by a fashionable marriage in the Soots
Ctmroh, Melbourne. The bridegroom was Mr.
William Officer (son of Charles, of~‘ Ottowa,” Too-
rak), and the bride was Miss A. 0. Rose Wilson,
only daughter of Alexander, and niece of Sir
Samuel Wilson. There Is great wealth on both
sides, and the church was crowded with friends
bearing names of note in pastoral and sporting
circles of society. Among them were Mr. and Mrs.
Officer, Mrs. Donald Wallace, Mr. and Mrs. H.
Power, Mrs. and Miss Ffrench, Mr. and Mrs. R.
Orr, Mrs. Norman Wilson, &o. It is said the bride’s
dress was imported from London; at any rate. It
was exceedingly handsome, of white satin with a
train, high pointed bodice with halt sleeves, and the
front was adorned with oblique flounces of rich
lace and satin puffings, and all was richly trimmed
with lace. Four bridesmaids were Misses Officer,
Raleigh, Ffrench, and Aitken, all in white lawn
with waterfall backs, tucked, and edged with lace;
K‘ lease bonnets. A small boy and girl acted as
-bearers, the former as a page in black velvet.
Wedding breakfast at Menzie’s.
• • • •
The R.C. bazaar at Campbelltown, open
four days, netted £300. Father A. W. Pqtre,
leading spirit; Misses Shea, Leary, and M’Shane
drummed the piano, and nearly every In the
district bad something to do with the stalls, -the
children who did the Maypole dances were treated
to a harbour trip and the Royal pantomime on
Saturday. Supplementary bazaar at Easter L...
A Hawkesbury farmer, married less than two
years, has four children. The little wife Is kept
busy Thursday last, Tuena Freemasons had an
anniversary supper and dancing party, x
present ...Next Thursday, the fifth anniversary
of La Coterie Club, wlU be marked bv a dinner
at Compagnoni’s— At Belmont (V.) t> four High-
landers danced a reel on New Year s Day. The
youngest was 78....Talking of a Melbourne
theatre, “ Gladys ” says most of the ladies were ex-
tremely well dressed; some beautifully undressed I
.. A weddinglinNorth Wales, recently, is interesting
because the bride was Countess Helen Augusta
Bismarck daughter of Count Bismarck, of Sobler-
steln, Prussia, and a relative of the gentleman
who has Just put his foot a bit of New
Guinea. And she Is niece of Sir Watkln Williams
Wynn, M.P. The bridegroom is a magistrate and
a Mayor, named Wilfred Joseph Cripps, and, per-
haps, he’s related to a gentleman who—but, It s no
use Idly speculating.... At the Garden Party given
recently at Government House, Christchurch
(N.Z.), Miss Genevieve Ward wore what was con-
sidered the handsomest dress present—the front
skirt was composed entirely ol narrow laoe flounces
of cafi 1 au lait colour over a geranium-coloured
satin, which Just shone through sufficiently to
brighten It. The overdress was a redlngote of
fawn-coloured velvet brocade, with lighter ground
and of large pattern. Bonnet and parasol were en
mite, and Miss Ward looked her very best that day.
As the Sydney express to Melbourne was pass-
Ing through Long wood Station, a lady wildly
waved a signal from a saloon carriage. On the
guard stopping the train, he found there was
another little passenger on board. Curious
how circumstances won’t be controlled ?.....
At Cobar, the hospital—and only God and bush-
men know how hospitals are wanted In the
Australian bush—Is almost failing through want
of funds. But a bazaar for the R.C. Church
squeezed over £400 out of the good Cobar people
In a few days. We don’t comment on this: we only
think....On the 7th Instant, Mr. E. Dean, post-
master at Woodburn, was married to Miss Kate,
daughter of Mr. w. Oollan. Six maids saw It out,
a ball was held at Woodburn Assembly Rooms, and
Mr. and Mrs. Dean came to Sydney....A number
of bicyclists iutend to have a run out to tea at
Homebusb during the full moon, and spend a
social evening together.... Mr. Harry Levien,
M.L.A., Grand Primo of the Buffalos....Blayney
people are to have a banquet and ball to celebrate
the starting of the railway works— The Governor
ot Victoria and bis wife have been sightseeing in
the N.E. mountain ranges. They saw the Kelly
country, picturesque Bright, and the Buffalo
Ranges. Lady Loch ascended Feathertop,
which is the grandest piece of mountaineer-
ing to be done in Victoria The presi-
dent of the Melbourne Warehouseman’s Cricket
Club (Mr. Fenwick) gave a fine welcome to the
Sydney team at his place, Surry Hills. Banquet
(whereat Mr. Vallaok replied for N.S.W.) then
sports, with ladles joining in, tea, and finish up
with a ball A Social Club of R.C. young men
established lately, gave a complimentary concert
at at. Bridget's Hall, Kent-street. Herr Alpen,
Messrs. Ryan and Clancy, Mrs. M’Carthy, and Misses
Nowoombe and E A. Moon, all helped....On Mon-
day, Wellington Oddfellows have anniversary ball.
At a very fashionable London marriage— Mar-
auls of Stafford to Lady Mllllcent Ersklne-orlno-
ne was not seen at all. Perhaps out of compli-
ment to the Princess of Wales, who was present,
and is against it... It seems quite natural to turn
from London to Dubbo, as the next fashionable
Since. Last Wednesday, Miss Grace, daughter of
tr. Thomas Baird, squatter, of Dundallimal, was
married to Mr. J. Macnattie, son of the late Dr. of
Bathurst. Bight maids attended her, and after
breakfast the new couple took train for Sydney
and Melbourne The P. A. Y. Club hold a dinner
In their new room at Compagnonl’s on Saturday,
34th Inst....Auckland Social Club held a soiree
last Friday, at the Masonic Temple, Clarenoe-
stroet. Bailey's music, Callaghan’s catering, and
Mr. Brophy, chairman, made a pretty speech at
supper. Dancing till the morn ...On the English
erlcketers visiting Wagga, the professor got up an
amateur concert tor their edification. There was
a crowd, and the result, financially and musically
was a success. Among the best numbers were a
recitative and cavatina from “ Ernatni ” —“Stepping
Stones ” and “ Supposing ’’-charmingly given by
a favourite young lady. A jeweller’s wife was
artistic in Plnsutl’s “ Spring Song.’’ One of the
local team scored better at the concert than at
cricket, the rollicking style of the " Tar’s Fare-
well ’’ being much fancied. Four members of the
Wagga Lledertafel were good in a Thurllnglan
Volkslied Randwick people are about to enjoy
a complimentary entertainment, got up for them
by some genial amateurs.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Ball to Nelson Officers January 8j.
Anniversary Regatta.... • .. January 36.
Banquet and Soiree (Old Masonic Hall) January 8b.
Banquet to Mr. Alf. Benijett (Bx-
change) January27.
Oxford Private Social Club Concert
(Protestant Hall) February 18.
Drapers’ Association Picnic February *6.
R. I. P.


\7S7^ iJST KOGARAH, Anniversary Day; £5 de-
▼ Y posit ; free tickets and lunch. Smith,
Chapman, and Smith.
WEST KOGARAH, Anniversary Day: £5 de-
poalt ; free tickets and lunch. Smith,
Chapman, and Smith.
W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and SYDNEY.
BRANCH HOUSE ;
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
WEST KOGARAH, Anniversary Day; £5 de-
posit ; free tickets and lunch. Smith
Chapman and Smith.
KOGARAH, Anniversary Day; £5 de-
Chapman P . 0 and : 8mRh. tiCketa &Bd lunch ’ 8mlth ’
HORDERN’S
ON THE
BricUsfielca. HUL
M STAY AM COBSLT DEPARTMENT.
/(?
CO
O.
$
'I
\
sc£)
uO
\*
h ‘ I
K,
I
■H
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Eree of Charge.
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPERM BUSKS),
2a. lid,, 3a. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., 5a. Cd., 6a. 0d., 7s, 6d., 8a. 6d,, Oa. 6d., 10a. 6d,, 12a 6d
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS, 668, Brickfield Hill.
N.B.—Orders from the Country will receive immediate and careful attention.
THE MONARCH AND THE MIND-
READER.
Irving Bishop, the mind-reader, has been
admitted to show his powers to the Czar and
Czarina of Russia, in the seclusion of the Gatchina
Prison — Palace, we mean. He wrote a name
thought of by the Czarina, and easily found an
article hidden in a distant part of the pris—palace
by the Czar. Then he told the Empress she was
thinking of an article which had been removed
that very day from its usual position, unknown
to her Majesty, which proved to be correct
Finally, he told General Richter the name of
melody which was running through his head
So much we condense from an English paper. But
with our usual enterprise, we maintain a regular
correspondent attached to the person of the Czar
—at least as much attached to His Majesty’s person
as any other Nihilist is. Thus we are enabled to
place particulars of Irving Bishop's stance before
our readers. When Irving Bishop was first commu-
nicated with in London by the Russian Embassy,
particular inquiry was made as to whether be had
by any chance imbibed Nihilistic or Socialistic
principles. He was able, however, to satisfy the
Embassy beyond all doubt that be had no principles
of any kind, and on this being shown, His Excel-
lency the Ambassador instantly stated that on
that score nothing could be more suitable. Hi 8
Imperial master loved to have round him none
but totally unprincipled persons. “ Principle,”
said His Excellency epigrammatically, “is only
another name for disloyalty and rebellion."
“ We have always found,” he continued, “ that
when a man went in for principle and
reason, and such like incendiary affaire, he
Inevitably finished by denying that the Czar
is God on earth, his rule the most beneficent
over known, and the autocratic principle the only
salvation for mankind.” All was progressing
favourably for Mr. Bishop's visit and his pass-
ports were about to be drawn out, when, bis full
name being required, it transpired that It was
Washington Irving Bishop. On this discovery
being communicated to him, the unfortunate Am-
bassador turned deadly pale, and retired to his
private study, where, collecting all his decora-
tions, he made a parcel of them, and enclosed
them with bis resignation to the Czar ; and, pro*
duoing a revolver, was about to blow out his
brains, when an attach*? Interfered and reminded
him that the attempt must fall, since no Russian
monarchist olflcial with brains would go to the
trouble he was taking, when all he had to do If
he wished to die was to instruct the police to
relax their watch on the Nihilists for a few
hours. Struck with this reasoning. His Excellency,
with great presence of mind, emptied the cham-
bers of his revolver Into the body of the attach*? as
a slight correction for his audacity In Intruding
Into the private study. The body having been re-
moved,. and properly adjusted to furnish the
Thames police with “another mysterious dls.
covery of human remains," the distracted noble-
man ordered Irving to be sent for. In the conver-
sation which ensued, It transpired that Mr. Bishop
was no relation to George Washington, and con-
sidered a man a fool who would die for his country
or make himself anyway uncomfortable for an
Idea that had no money in It. After repeated cy-
pher messages had passed between the Embassy
and Gatchina, It was arranged that Mr. Bishop
s ou d drop the Washington from his name, call
himself strictly Irving Bishop, and conduct him-
self accordingly. He was then sent on to
Ruwla, and, after severe search and a sclen-
ne examination and report that the faculty
0 ex PlodIng at will was not among his
remarkable and abnormal gifts, he was admitted
w the presence of the Czar, who was graciously
pleased to permit him to kiss the bomb-proof ster j
glove on his left hand —the right being always
required on such occasions to hold the loving and
devoted subject admitted to audience at arm’s
length by the throat. Mr. Bishop was theu
ordered to repeat bis remark about a man who
would die for his country being a condemned fool,
and the Czar appeared greatly g rati tied, repeatedly
murmuring “Not me,” “Not if I know It,” and
afterwards casting contemptuous looks at a por-
trait of his sainted father, which was much de
faced with filth (like all the portraits In public
places), smeared upon It by loving hands, despite
the rigorous guard against Nihilists which Is per-
petually maintained in the Palaee. When called
upon to give instances of his art by writing a name
thought of by the Czarina, Mr. Bishop was ex-
posed to a slight contretemps. He bad promptly
written a Russian name, upon perusal of which
the Czarina instantly turned scarlet, and the Czar
black In the face. Her Imperial Majesty shrieked
that Bishop was quite wrong, had blundered
grossly, and screamed to the guard to take him
away and torture him to death with electricity
just the same as if he were a patriot. But the Czar
fiercely interposed, and yelled that Bishop had hit
the thing exactly, and scowled on the Czarina
Our informant, who was present at this scene
gives us the straight tip. The name Mr. Bishop
wrote was that of a particularly good-looking as-
sistant flunkey. However, the next teat was
called for, and the article bidden by the Czar in a
distant part of the Palace was speedily found by
the thought reader. It was an escape balloon, and
Mr. Bishop disclaimed any credit for making the
discovery. He said it was an easy one, because
the Czar never had the thing out of his head
night or day. Such admirable concentration of
thought, he remarked, made his task easy. The
following test also passed very successfully.
The article thought of by Her Majesty, the Em-
press, which had been removed from its ordinary
place, without her knowledge, was a magnificent
bust, in bronze, of Peter the Great, weighing
about lewt. It had been removed from its ordin-
ary pedestal in the white saloon, and placed as a
booby-trap over the Czar’s study door. By whom
this alteration was affected had not been dis-
covered at the time when our correspondent
wrote; but he informs us that he had, as yet, as-
sisted at the flaying alive of only 70 out of the 300
attendants domiciled at the Palace, with the view
of extorting a confession; and be didn’t think any
of the remaining 230 would confess worth a cent.,
because he took jolly good care none of them
should see him shift the blessed bust.
“Mr. John M‘Elhone thinks that the
House of Commons Is a terribly over-rated insti-
tution. The leading lights talk nonsense by the
yard," eto. But, John, they don’t speak like this,
for Instance, do they? (You might recognise the
style.) “ I tell you, Mr. Speaker, that to discharge
that porter was a blinded shame, and as for the
Minister, he's a liar, a sot-(‘Withdraw’)—1*11 see
you d—d tirst. I tell this’Ouse that—(Chair I)—
chair be sugared—if this hadn't a bin a pore man
he would not a bin sacked to make way for a pimp,
who—(Shamel) Who said that? If I had him out-
side. I’d punch his head—I d—(Chairl) As for
the supporters o’ the Quvment, they’re nothing
but a set of d loafers, who pass their time fix-
ing contract-jobs and sticking up long beers. I
now move the ’journraent ot the 'Ouse. I’m a
sroln’ up to have a bloomin’ smoko.” (Exit the
orator ) There’s no “ nonsense ” about that, Mac.,
is there ?
If everything that Sir Spencer St. John
says in his recent volume, "The Black Republic,”
is gospel truth, the dominion of Haytl must be a
remarkably sultry shop for a white man to attempt
to live in. For the bleached Caucassian, landown-
ing and planting are forbidden, and residence,
especially ih the country districts, is made unde-
sirably lively by the promiscuous pistol practice
ot the “ ouller'd genelmen.” In law, a “white
trash” has about as mhch chance of getting jus-
tice in hayti as a nigger has in the South Seas, as
was well exemplified in the case of the two black-
ing-bottle brudders who were brought before a
Jvgc de la paix charged with murdering a French-
man, their benefactor. The evidence against them
appeared overwhelming, and their advocate, a
thorough ruffian, was at a loss for arguments to
sustain the defence. At last he glanced round the
crowded court, and then turned to the jury with a
broad grin and said, tout, oe n’est qu’un
blanc de molns.” (After all, it is only one white
less!) The sally produced a roar of laughter, and
the prisoners were triumphantly acquitted by the
tribunal, but not by public opinion.
One touch of nature makes all juries kin.


Pofitical Points
We like the manner in which South Aus-
tralian public men speak. There Is a brief In-
oislveness about their talk that is most pieasant.
Mr. Haines, the other day, called an opponent,
“ knave, villain, and dolt.”
That was real political enthusiasm which
Induced a gentleman to baptise his lately born
son Sir John HobertsonI But stay ; though the
register proclaims the fact, the gentleman may
not desire publicity, so let us say ‘Smith.
The Victorian Public Works Department
has refused the use of the old Supreme Court
buildings to the Salvation Army. As yet, no fire
has come down from Heaven and consumed the
Department, but the Army is praying hard.
The essence of the report of the Victorian
Civil Service Commissioners is, that in too many
cases two men are employed to do one man s
work. Really, It need not have taken much trou-
ble to have found that out about any Civil Service.
The Tasmanian Mail thinks that some
of the Melbourne papers are writing in a Bombastes
Fwrioso way about Gorman annexation, and says
thov have as much reason to protest in the matter
as they would have to object to the Russian occu-
pation of Khiva.
The Victorian Premier considers that he
has a card in hand to trump Bari Derby’s suit with
at the last. All increase of the NewGulnea subsidies
will be refused, unless Germany is told to come
out of that.” This will produce serious complica-
tions, of course, in Imperial finance. _ ,
Mr. Dailey has telegraphed to Lord Derby
to say that If Bismarck is willing to make ex-
change. and give up his recent Pacific acquisitions,
he can have M’Blhone, and England can keep
Heligoland. Or he suggests that M'Elhone should
be sent to visit the German Chancellor—that would
trighten him off Australia.
The members of the South Australian
Cabinet are accused of holding a meeting in a
coffee shop. Well, we don’t see the barm. You
meet Cabinet Ministers and members of Parlia-
ment in strange places. They have been met in
[Now what has this to do with federation and an-
nexation ? —Ed. Bulletin.]
Thr preparations made in New Zealand to
annex Samoa were extensive. Four policemen
and a sergeant were sent on board the Hlnemoa.
No wonder the Evening Post at Wellington said.
“ this accession to the strength of the crew has
created terrific popular excitement, and rumours
of the most serious nature abound.
Mr. Smithers-Gadd is the Vice-President of
the Melbourne Australian Natives’ Association. In
interviewing Mr. Griffiths, the Queensland Premier,
lately, on German annexation, Mr. Smithers-Gadd
said his association was prepared to wring the
Prussian Eagle’s neck. That would be superfluous.
An attempt to pronounce the Vice-President s
name would bo Just as fatal to the Eagle, and give
less trouble.
The Rev. John Osborne has abandoned his
idea of standing for East Sydney next general
election. He will contest Northumberland, and
hopes to beat our own Lusoombe. But he won t
beat him; and we cannot imagine a sadder fate for
any man than to have to knock under to Lus-
oombe. Protectionists and the Wesleyans, and all
true lovers of liberty of Thought, however, will
assign this fate to the Rev. John.
The members of the Royal Commission on
the Conservation of Water, have refused to admit
reporters to their meetings. They state that
things are said at those meetings that It is better
Jhc public should not bear. Had the Commis-
sioners grounded their refusal on the undoubted
fact that, the Sydney newspaper reporters are
completely Ignorant of water conservation, either
for purposes of ablution or Internal consumption,
then we could understand this thing.
In Paris, just lately, they proposed to ten
the hide of a dead murderer, and bind criminal
records with It. Is not this a plain suggestion tor
New South Wales as regards polities 7 It may be
fairly assumed that the skins of our politicians
ura bo thick, and are so tanned during life, that
after death they would make capital bindings for
our records of political criminals. Yes, but how
about finding room for storing away the records ?
To the reflective and honest politician
there are few subjects of study “'.re interesting
than “ vital statistics.” Properly considered, they
indicate with mathematical accuracy the social
ermilition of the people. When we read, there-
fore that in of Ballarat during 1884,
the births exceeded the deaths by three to one we
have a subject for deep consideration. This may
be the result of a prevailing conjugal felicity. Or
Sunday school festivities may have something to
do with it; or people may be liberal in their ideas
on matrimony, and are quit" as well pleased with
anyone else’s wife as with their own; or what the
Irishman called the “ arlstoorazians ” preserve
some of the droits de seigneur that have lapsed in
ions hannv lands; or some of our statesmen have
been staying in Ballarat. It may be Messrs
iThe rest of this paragraph is not suitable for our
pages. Try the K. Noos.—Ed. B.l
Mr. Stout, the New Zealand Premier, is as
a real politician-that Is, one who cares for the
interests of mankind—a “ socialist” in the truest
and best sense of the word. He delivered a re-
markable lecture on Christmas night last in the
Dunedin Lyceum, in which he professed himself a
follower of the true teaching of Jesus Christ—
namely, brotherly kindness. Christ excommuni-
cated no man, not even those who taught against
Him If He were to come to Dunedin now and at-
tempt to argue with the priests of any church, as
He did in the Temple, He would, probably, be
brought up at a Police Court and be charged with
disturbing the peace of a religious congregation.
And if He went to any of those churches over
which laymen are allowed to preside. He would
be first required to subscribe to certain articles of
faith and to acknowledge certain dogmas. In
concluding his lecture. Mr. Stout claimed that the
people he was addressing were the true Christians.
Chinamen entertain different opinions
about the war between tbeir nation and the
French. In the coach between Walgettand Nar-
rabri was a Cblnkie of the kind which described
itself in San Francisco as “cutum hair, dllnkum
whiskee, say God dam all a same Melioau man.”
To him a fellow passenger said, with that regard
for the feelings of others which characterises the
average Briton: “John, you hear um news from
China. Frenchman play bell with your oountrv-
men—kill ’em by thousands.” But to the astonish-
ment of the Briton, the Chlnkie answered: “ And
a (sanguinary) good Job, too. Too many (sangui-
nary) men in China. No goo’ for wulllkin’ man,
wages too low. Australia place for white man-
plenty land, welly few men. In China, too dam
many men for land. Me go back to China twice.
Couldn’t live in (sanguinary) country; get two
pence a day where get five shillin’ here. China no
place for white man.” And when the Briton, in
amazement, said, “ What the blazes do you call
yourself, John?” the Mongolian replied suavely,
»• Oh, me all a same as white man, go to Colonial
Secretary long ago get naturalized. Hope French-
man kill beans Chinaman; make country fit to live
In.” This story, which Is just simply true, Is com-
mended to those advanced thinkers of the present
day, who are exercised by the question of over-
population.
“ Fun on the Rhine ” is the title of a big
performance which Is evidently In hot preparation
for the edification of Herr Bismarck and the rest
of the upper-shelf society of the goot oldt Vater-
land. Fifty years ago, Henri Heine prophesied
the upending of the German Empire by moans of
a revolution, compared with which the great con-
vulsion in France would be nothing more than a
Sunday-school picnic. Ten years ago, M. Lleo-
krecht, the Socialist party who runs the Leipsic
Volkstoat, which is published tri-weekly and
has a circulation of 15,000, quietly told M. Tissot
that M. Von Bismarck had done more for the
Socialist cause than any five Socialist Ministers
could have done, and that he wouldn’t be at ail
surprised if the agents of the advanced thought
party clubbed together and presented the grand
old German with a “pus” of sovereigns and the
usual testimonial. “ He has,” continued M. Eleb-
krecht, “ by his revolutionary system, inaugurated
in 1860, cleared the road of numerous impediments
which obstructed our rapid advance. The events
of 1870 and 1871 have secured us more partisans
than there wore louls d'ors brought into Prussia.
And that both Heine and Liebkrecht wore pretty
correct in their ideas, is shown by the fact that In
Berlin, where the Socialist vote in 1867 was only 67,
and in 1871 no more than 2058, It had risen to 3I,.>2X.
in 1874, and at the present time it amounts to no
less than 68,583 In 1880, the population of that
city was 1,133,085, and roughly estimating the
number of its adult males at 340,000. we find that
at least one man out of every tour in the capital
of Prussia is a professed Socialist. Similar success
seems to have crowned the cause in Dresden, May-
enoe, Frankfort on-the-Maine, Konigsberg, Kiel,
Breslau, Nuremburg, Brunswick, Cassel, Elber-
feld, and many other largo towns and cities; so
that it is mighty evident now that the Irish Invln-
oibles and the Skye Crofters are not to monopolise
exactly all the fun that is about to boom on this
world of “ peace to men of good will.” What the
Teutons grumble over most is the fact that the
cost of living has doubled in Germany, without
any appreciable Increase of wages or salaries.
Seventy-live per cent, of the people of Saxony
earn less than £10 per annum, and we need scarcely
say these persons rarely patronise the opera or
found Benevolent Asylums. Coming events oast
their shadows before, and the shadows now seen
seem to predict a remarkably lively time at hand
for the whole of Europe.
• • •
London Society saysThe possibility of
Her Majesty passing Christmas at Windsor In-
stead of at Osborne this year has been discussed
In Court circles, but nothing Is yet settled — An
officer serving on board H. M. S. Agamemnon
writes to the United Service Gazette, stating
that that monster Ironclad will not, when at full
speed, answer her helm.
At the Pantomime.—Indignant old gentle-
man, to young lady who has been Jabbering at the
top of her voice: “This talking is abominable.
Nobody can hear a word,” “That’s just what I
was telling Miss Smith here. Those actors keep
up such a racket on the stage that you can’t hear
yourself speak.”
“ German Syrup.”—No other medicine in
the world has ever given such a test of its cura-
tive qualities as Bosohee’s German Syrup. In
three years two million four hundred thousand
small bottles of this medicine were distributed
free of charge by Druggists in the United States of
America to those afflicted with Consumption,
Asthma, Croup, severe Coughs, Pneumonia, and
other diseases of the throat and lungs, giving the
afflicted undeniable proof that German Syrup will
cure them. The result has been that Druggists in
every town and village in civilized countries are
recommending it to their customars. Go to your
Druggist and ask what they knowabout it. Sample
Bottles 6d. Regular else, 8s. 6d. Three doses wlH
relieve any case.
Wesleyans of St. Leonards will soon give
an entertainment, entitled “ A Night with Tenny-
son,” on which occasion songs and recitations
will be rendered from the works of the poet
Laureate exclusively. It may not be generally
known that Mr. Tennyson has been paid the com-
pliment of being asked to contribute something
original expressly for that occasion. The poet
(“ bis eye In a line frenzy rolling”) caught on
as follows
Woman Items
Mdlle. Hubertine Auclert, the French
Woman’s-rlghts champion demands the admission
of the female element Into the Exhibition com-
mittee on the ground that It Is the women of
France who teach the world good taste.
The Aberdeen Free Presbytery has, on the
motion of the Kev. Mr. Bannatyne, unanimously
adopted a resolution enjoining on ministers, office-
bearers, and heads of families, to keep themselves
free from the frivolity and other evils connected
with balls, dancing parties, and promiscuous
gatherings of people of both sexes for indulging In
springs and flings, and artistic circles and close-
bosomed whirling, all carefully got up by rule of
thumb or by rule of toe. Apart altogether from
the question of dancing, said the rev. gentleman,
It was a well-known fact that immoralities take
place at these midnight meetings.
Mr. Wilberforoe is not a bad man in his
way, but he was sorely put out the other morning
at breakfast. Ho had lent a neighbour most of his
parlour chairs, and when he entered the room he
found but one of these useful articles of domestic
economy left. He immediately called his daughter,
and, turning angrily to her, demanded; “ You
entertained Augustus Smith for two hours last
Ivening In this room 7” “ I did, pa,” confessed the
laiden, with a blush. “ And where did he sit ?”
On that chair.” “ And where did you sit ?”
I—I—I—” “ No prevarication. Where did you
It ?” ** I—oh, gracious 1 I—I sat on the coal-hod,
a.” Mr. Wllberforce says he doubts the state-
lent; but where could the poor girl have sat ?
Fearful and wonderful are the vagaries of
be Scotch marriage law. From time out of mind
t has been considered legal for people to marry
nerely by making a declaration in the presence of
witnesses. But by a statute of Charles IT., which
s about as obsolete as the Lord’s Day Act, such
carriages were forbidden and declared punlsh-
ible. The other day, a couple were brought up at
;he Edinburgh Police Court for having contra-
zoned this statute by declaring themselves hus-
mnd and wife before witnesses. They pleaded
ruilty, and were lined a shilling each. Oddly (
mough, however, the conviction Itself becomes a
egal celebration of the marriage, and the docu-
nent recording it Is a certificate of marriage
vhich can be produced in case of necessity.
He took her hand in his and poured into
ier ear the soft, sweet story, told over and over
main since the world was young. She smiled into
als trusting face and coddled a little coddle under
ais downy chin. “ I love you so,” he gurgled.
“ Do you ? ” she murmured, “ then I will remain
so.” “Do you love me?” he enquired. “Don’t
ask me conundrums,” she replied. “ But I love
you, darling," he went on, “and I have given you
my whole heart. I have kept none of it back It
la all yours.” “ Mine to do Just what I please
with ? t ’ she asked In the sweet simplicity of girl-
womanhood. “ Yea, darling.” “ Then I shall give
It to Mary Martin. She wants It, I know, and I
haven’t got any use for yours and Bob Brown’s,
too, and Bob gave me his last night. You are too
late." He had discovered that he was.
No living monarch, European or Asiatic,
not even the Czar of all the Russlas, can boast of
such a service of plate as that owned by Queen
Victoria, to whose guests it is often exhibited, on
huge buffets at either end of the banqueting table
in St. George’s Hall—vases, plateaux, cups, and
candelabra, all wrought in the precious metal, the
net value of which Is said to exceed two millions
sterling. Conspicuous among the trophies are tne
mimic “lyre bird ” and tiger’s head taken fro™
Tippoo Sahib eighty odd years ago, and presented
to Her Majesty’s grandfather, King George III.
The lyre bird’s body and tail are composed or
solid gold, richly studded with brilliants, rubies.
emer«lds, and pearls. As he stands with all n s
jewelled pride, one of the costliest follies ever de-
vised to gratify the whim of a lavish Oriental
potentate, he represents a perpetual income or
£1500 a year, calculated at 5 per cent, upon bis in-
trinsic worth. The tiger’s head once served Hydor
All’s masterful son as a footstool.
model fashioned in solid silver, richly its eyes
of rock crystal, and its tongue of P“re gold. Like
the lyre bird, it fell into the hands of the British
at the storming of Seringapatam, where Tippoo
himself, its valorous owner, met his death . and
as a brilliant memorial of our Indian conquests, it
could not be better bestowed than in embellishing
the banqueting hail of Hindostan s first Empress.
Speaking of the Finney y. Garmoyle epi-
sode, the London Standard predicts that the
next few months will bring a harvest to the
lawyers in breach of promise actions. ver>
likely they will, for burlesque maidens, whose
stock-in-trade consists of youth and good legs,
are by no means the least wideawake of mortals.
Fortunately, though, for the gilded London swell,
fairies, in a general wav, don’t
well as the Fortescue did, and could hardly bring
such a clean sheet into court as Is necessary lor
the procuring of £10,000 and costs. An extra glass
of fizz, too, often causes the most innocent look-
iner of supers, to throw off the mask and spoil
good matrimonial prospects with a recklessness
which is truly dreadful. Only a year or to ago
Miss Gerard, an of the notorious Lord
Londesborough, gave a Sunday picnic to some ot
the fairest members of the “ periesh and their
several admirers. It was a slap-up affair, and a
sneoial train was engaged to bear its delicious
freight to one Sf the prettiest little spots on the
banks of the Thames. On the journey down every-
thing was as rigidly proper as an undertaker s
own funeral—but oh I on the journey up to town,
that fatal extra glass of “sparkling had asserted its
fell sway, and alot of the dear crertures
upon riding home on the engine. Miss i ortescue
never gave herself away in this fashion, and for-
tune has, in good time, smiled upon her. If pretty
actresses would only go in for cold reserve, in-
stead of steam engines and similar vanities, there
wouldn’t be a wealthy dude “disengaged in six
months’ time.
Ten female ladies of snug fortunes, one
Summer, banded together, and hired a.houseIn a
neighbouring city, determined that no man should
cross their threshold, no masculine element enter
upon their domain. A lady doctor killed one of
the party the first week; so an exception was
made in the rules, admitting a man doctor. A
neighbour opened some windows on their premi-
ses, and they went to law and patronised a female
lawyer. They escaped State Prison by the merest
chance. Under the guidance of the she solicitor
they were indicted lor arson, embezzlement, and
infanticide. The defendant ran out a bay window
and got counsel fees and alimony out of every
one of them, and the eldest died of mortifica-
tion and suppressed spite. They cultivated a
garden with such success that gladiola bulbs
were boiled and mashed for potatoes, and
poison parsley was picked and used tor carraway
seeds in cake, and two of them died in conse-
quence. This left six. One of these ran away
with the undertaker who came in with the tressels
and ice-box; so then there were five. The founder
ot the order fell off a step-ladder putting up a
stove-pipe, paralyzed a spinal column, and was
put in a hospital for life, and the quartette re-
maining sat up boldly and sang “ Bother the Men 1
A good-looking burglar broke In one night, got
all the spoons, and captured the sentimental mem-
ber of the gang, who packed her traps and helped
him carry off the “boodle.’’ The detective who
came to work up the case “ mashed the tallest of
the trio, and the pair remaining after the giraffe s
defalcation fell to quarrelling over a minister who
came to live across the street. The strongest
stabbed the weakest in 34 places with a pair of
buttonhole scissors, and the authorities hung the
last of the ten before Winter fairly set in.
FRENCH NOVELS IN NUTSHELLS.
THU ROMANTIC FLEA.
(This is the tale of the Philosopher and the Flea.)
l.
The former, having Loen bitten by the latter,
seized and was about to despatch bis foe, when he
reflected that the little insect had only acted from
instinct, and was not to be blamed. Accordingly
he deposited the ilea on the back of a passing dug.
This dog was the poodie of a lady, and she was
very fond of the pretty animal. On his return to
the house, his mistress took him on her lap to
caress him, and the flea embraced the opportunity
to change his habitat.
m.
The flea, having In th« course of the night en-
gaged in active operations, awakened the lady.
Her husband was sleeping peacefully beside her,
and in the silence ot the chamber she heard him in
his dreams whisper, with an accent of ineffable
tenderness, a name. The name was that of her
most intimate female friend.
IV.
As soon as It was day the outraged wife
hurried to tne house of her rival, and told the
rival’s husband of the damning discovery she had
made. He, being a man ot decision, at once
called out the destroyer of his household peace,
and ran him through.
v.
The widow, when her husband was brought to
her via a shutter, was so terribly smitten with re-
morse that she precipitated herself from a fourth-
storey window.
VI.
The other lady convinced her husband that he
had wronged her by entertaining any suspicions
as to her fidelity; and, becoming reconciled to
him, seized an early opportunity of poisoning
him.
VII,
Inasmuch as the jurors of that period had never
heard of “extenuating circumstances,” and the
chief magistrate thought he could not put a mur-
deress to a better use than guillotining her, the
guilty woman was duly decapitated; and the sole
survivors of the tragedy were the Philosopher
and the Flea.
This is ominous:—“Borough of Wollon-
gong.—Free Library.—The Library is closed until
further notice.— Henry Stumbles, (I) Town Clerk.
—3rd January, What’s the good of opening
it, anyway, until after Anniversary Day, when
during the past fornlght only two people called—
one wanted “ Jack Sheppard,” and the other mis-
took it for a public-house, and clamoured for beer
and syrup. Before Christmas, too, a party came
in, and asked for “ Foxe’s Book, with pictures in
it.” He settled down to read it for a little while,
then gave a howl of disappointment. “What’s
tHls d d thing?” he cried. “Why, I want
• Foxe’s Book of Marthas.' ”
A gymnasium under a church in Liverpool
street. This represents a moral-physical training,
in a land where the black-swan, the rara avis
of the ancients, is to be found; where the stones
grow on the outside of peaches (of a native
variety); where physical holds practically a higher
place in the estimation of the rising generation
than moral training; where, to*, bejthoroughly an-
tipodean, the church should be under the gyna-
sium. Some years ago, in Bristol (Eng.), the vaults
of a church were used as wine-cellars. Of these, a
wag thusly:—
“ There’s a spirit above and a spirit below:
A spirit of bliss and a spirit of woe—
The spirit above is a spirit divine;
But the spirit below is a spirit-of-wine.”
“ HI I fill me up a bumper of your red Australian
Hoi tmUraehard an emu’s egg—huml where’s
that ink of mine? . , .
For an Australian ditty I’m a-golng for to write.
And I’m booked to have it ready for the ♦ P. an
O. to-night,
Hll Ho! Hum!
« Some say I’m growing senile, and should lie upon
the shelf, , , , . , .
That my later work is drivel, but I don t think
so myself! . ,
I’m still the boss of poets, and I wear the Wreath
that little thing of mine dashed
off the other day
On the late lamented Gillie—the namesake of the
Whose 6 body lies a mould’rlng, and whose soul
goes marching on ?
HU Hoi Huml
* Has the Laureate intended a pun here ?
*’ I have written other trifles—’ In Memoriam,
’ Lockesly Hall,’
When my muse was crude and callow, but they
don’t compare at all
With the stuff I’ve turned out lately, so just
watch me, if you please,
Neatly 1111 this little order from the far Anti-
podes.
HI! Ho! Hum!
“ AN AUSTRALASIAN LYRIC.
“ ‘ Through the bush, through the bush,
Rode the brave Sir Gallanad:
He plucked the wallaby by the beard,
And Inquired the way to Ballarat.’
0, vex not thus the poet’s mind. I really don’t feel
able, after all, to write an Australasian poem at
this distance, without further particulars, which
please send by cable.
A.T."


T -A.C3T THOaviC^SOiT,
A.J.C. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON,
91 King-street.
N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
READJTHIS I
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and Jewelled,
with the latest Improvements,
£3 IOk, each,
Warranted for three years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 Pitt-sf., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AJSd JEWELLER
Black Swan Hotel.
GREENWELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Faml-
Ues. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
nuntlng. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place Is unsur-
passed. The magniflolent s.s. Illawarra, leaves
Sidney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GENT.’S go, is. fid.; 100, 3s. fld,
LADIES' 50, 3s. Od.; 100, 3s. 04.
Address, 6d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. 6d. ; 260, 6s. 6d. ; 500, 10s.; 1000, 15s.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLAT*.
Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
=W
1 onn DOMESTIC PAPER FASHIONS
XUV/v/ shown in our Illustrated Catalogue
Price, Threepence ; by Post, Fourpencf.
CHAP P E~L & CO.,
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern and General Sewing-machine
Agency,
746 GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET, SYDNEY. •’
Stock hlDeS repaired ’ and a11 fittings, &c., kept in
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
M. A. BROWN & CO.p
PROFE SSI ORAL HAIRDRESSERS\
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-streetJ
From the Strand. London.
im.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 354 and 356 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd's only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Roomsare the Grandest in Australia
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment. ral a *
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the lain Mr
Boyd’s children, by bis executrix, “ ine ,ate Mr.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 Gcorge-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manasir.
}
and CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R J. ALCOCK. Q. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
BOH, mm, uj MIIM MEECMTS,
Importers of
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIE&
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRU8HWARE
FENCING WIRE,
WOOLPACK8
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
Z 'T'
I iif
L
Tfi
!
PORTABLE, FUTEd,
sr.?’""” en -
8 T RAM and
pumps
other
LATHES. PLANIWfJ.
__ shaping, SCREW-’
-pMlSCUt INS. and DRILLING
j machines
STEAM HAMMERS
ENG I NEERS’ BRASS
if FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, &c.
" Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse -
Iron anl Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
Lpndpn Office t
- 54 YORK STREET.
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS
- HAHEOUK sweet, dakling haeboue.
SYDNEY.
’ r 85 GRACUCHi: : ,. ;; r
Health and Beauty
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
Rneum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with loss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
Internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap
externally, when all other methods fail.
BAD BLOOD, Scrofulous, Inherited and Con-
tagious Humors, Glandular Swellings,
Ulcerous Patches in the Throat and Mouth,
Abscesses, Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Sores,
Scurvy, Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary
Organs, Dropsy, Erysipelas, Encomia, Pyaemia,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure.or Impoverished condition of the Blood
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
CUTICURA REMEDIES
I COMMENCED to use your Cuticura Reme-
dies last July. My head and face and some
parts of my body were almost raw. My head was
covered with scabes and sores, and my suffering
was fearful. 1 had tried everything I had heard
of in the East and West. My case was considered
a very bad one. I have now not a particle of Skin
Humor about me, and mv case is considered
wonderful. It has been the means of selling a
great many of your Cuticura Remedies in this
part of the country.
Decatur, Mich. MRS. S. E. WHIPPLE.
Cure sworn to at the British Consulate.
Sold by all chemists and druggists.
R. Towns Sc Co., Sydney, Consignees.
I HAD running sores on my left leg for seven
years, which reduced my limb to simple skin
and bone, and unable to support my weight unless
swathed in bandages. A consultation of physi-
cians at the City Hospital of Boston decided that
it would have to be amputated to save my life.
Such was my condition when I began to use the
Cuticuaa Remedies, which have effectually cured
me, in gratitude for which I make this public
statement of my case.
JOSEPH A. PALMER,
Hudson, Mass.
Price, Cuticura, 60 cents; Soap, 35 cents ; Re-
solvent, $1.00, Prepared by
Potter Drug Sc Chemical Co., Boston, U.I.A.
W. H. ARIELL & CO.’S Agencies,
KENT STREET (near King-street), SYDNEY.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S Celebrated Biscuits, Cakes, Treacle, and Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MILLS Prize Victorian Oatmeal, Flour, and Pearl Barley
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S Prize Assorted Confectionery and Bonbons.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, in and llb,'*tlns.
SWALLOW & DERHAM’S Queensland Refined Sugars.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN Gold Medal Condensed Milk, the best in the market.
R. WHITTiHfGHAM & CO.’S London Provisions and General Merchandise.
107 Fitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
tW LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,
BOURSE,
Is tbe largest and best-appointed Family Hotel in the Western restrict. The Table and Liquors
cannot bo surpassed, even in the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. First-class Stabling
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor.
Holiday Presents.
w.
PALING
AND CO. (Limited),
HAVE JUST RECEIVED A MAGNIFICENT SHIPMENT OF
COTTAGE,
UPRIGHT GRAND
SEMI-GRAND,
CONCERT GRAND
PIANOS,
by the
MOST RENOWNED
MAKERS
in the
WORLD.
AMERICAN
ORGANS
by
BELL and CO.,
PALACE CO.,
STORY and CO.,
at
PRICES to SUIT ALL
CUSTOMERS.
These instruments have been SPECIALLY" SELECTED by Mr. W, H PAT two
IN EUROPE, and may justly be considered PALING * who » NOW
T
of Musical Instruments ever introduced to Australia.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms,
Mr. PALING has also FORWARDED a COMPLETE ASSORTMENT of
BOSES,
FROM TWO TO SIXTEEN AIRS.
These Goods will be Sold at Unheard-of Prices.
IV. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


. v. vt* *:
v-.v.'v.'v. v. v r rv.~v.v. v. vrv.v.
*.v
1 «JU6>
PLEN01D
The
lENNAfAF
:
fey
LANG,Ehu*
_ 54- & 5(® Wilu
F\00M FOR T-ADIES&SenT
Pastry-. Tea. Cream .Refreshments
are unequallled.
* A •, A*A • A'iiA'A' A‘AU •A.'A'
The Cafe & Refreshment daily from 3 A M fall 30PM
On Sun days Jr 6 in '5 ,P. M ,;h?„ II P.M.
Orders Punctually TcrxtacEAFvr of Town to HP.M
Specially Established f-qr Private Order Trade
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TUBF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
i
»
m
at
uEs
Y
CK
agents row
8
BUY PLATES
'gTA MW
A
01
a®
READ IT ALti.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchu, mandrake, and Band eIon.
The Oldest, Rest, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘and most effective curative properties
' of all other bitters, being the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
•and life and health restoring agent on
‘ earth,”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Age
and Infirm,
‘•To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
• Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
•whose sedentary employments cause
• Irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
• Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
•Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
• these Bitters are invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘without intoxicating.”
“ No matter what your feelings or
• symptoms are, or what the disease or
• ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don t
• wait until you are sick, but it y ou only
‘feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
•once. It may safe your life. Hun-
• dreds have been saved by so doing, at
• a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
• friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘use Hop Bitters.”
•* Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
• drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
• without it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Mehourne, Australa, Rochester, N. Y.,U. S.
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
WeakNervousMen
Whoso debility, exhausted
powrra, prematura decay
aud failure to perform life’*
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THE MARSTON BOLUS.
stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Nervoua Debility apd
Physical Decay is uniformly
successful becanM based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methode and absolute (hop.
ought, CMS. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consult ing Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., CSCaefleroigb St., Sydney
n
Christmas Presents and New
Year’s Gifts !
JUST RECEIVED, a Largo Assortment of
Gold & Silver Jewellery,
SUITABLE FOR PRESENTS.
Ladles' Gold Dress Rings, from 10s.
Ladles’ Sliver Watches, Irom £210*.
Gent.'s Silver Watches, Irom £!t 10*.
And other articles too numerous to mention.
C . ORAN T ,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER.
584 George Street, Sydney.
Country Orders promptly attented to.
SOLS ASSISTS FOR THE
SMITH ORGAN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 FITT STREET
SOLE IMPORTERS OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
SS
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HARR BRUSH!
A HONEST REMEDY. Prescribed by the BEST PHYSICIANS.
THEY
POSITIVELY
Nervous Headache in b minutes!!
Bilious Headache in 5 minutes!!
Neuralgia in 6 Minutes!!
Falling Hair and Baldness!!
Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp I
Promptly Arrest Premature Srayuess. Make the Hair grow long
and Glossy. Immediately Soothe the Weary Brain.
Mo. 1 Bair Brush
No. 2 Hair Brush
No. 3 Hair Brush
No, 4 Bair Brush
No. 5 Hair Brush
WILL
Va
V
6s. Od.
7s. 3d.
9s. 64.
11s. 6d,
13s. 6d,
Crewkerne, Nov. 12,1880.
Sir, —My patients have given
me a very satisfactory account
of Dr. Scott’# Electric Hair Brush.
One lady assures roe that she gets no
neuralgia in her face if she uses it, and
others state that by a few minutes' brush
Sng with the Electric Brush, a nervous headache,
or one arising from overwork or debility, is quickly ’ f Fjff/UIif III/ fMA Handsome
removed.* The invention is, I think, very valuable. r J [jlj fit IMI Wjjljpjjjf Unbreakable BRUSH,
I am. your obedient servant, q. f. Wills, M.D., M.R. C.S.B. //#ii Elegantly Carved & Mounted
From Dr. Lemprihrr, D.C.L., *c., St. John's College, Oxford. Dec. 28, 1881.
Gentlemen,—I have known and appreciated the great advantages of your Electric Hair Brush for some time, and, as I find the benefits increasing,
I feol it my fluty, as well aa my pleasure, to earnestly recommend it. No one who has not tried it can possibly Imagine how material its comfort is,
Your Flesh Brush is only one more proof of the enormous future open to the scientific development of useful and beneficial domestic appliances. The
Brushes are indeed a wonder, and well worth the money. Yours faithfully, 0. Lbmpribre, D.C.L., Sk.
Thaw Brashes can be obtained of all Chemists and Fancy Storekeepers.for will be forwarded
*-* — ' .added. Ha.
i can b«
_ it which
none are genuine.
Their Royal Highnesses the FRINGE and PRINCESS of WALES, PRINCE
BISMARCK, and the KING of HOLLAND each use a pair of Dr. Scott’s
Electric Hair Brushes, and a long list of Distinguished Patrons oould be pub-
lished, and their Testimony added, did space permit.
The Brush Handle is made of a new odorless composition, resembling ebony; a combination
of substances producing a permanent electro-magnetic Current, which acts
immediately upon the Hair Gland* and Follicles. This power can always be
tested by a silver compass, which accompanies each Brush.
PUREtBRISTLES—NOT WIRES. Wire Brushes injure the Scalp,
and cause baldness and irritation.
The Right Honourable WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE, M.P.,
has written upon the merits of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair
Brushes, and has added them to his Toilet.
Lady A. CHURCHILL—daughter of the Duke of
Marlborough (hero of Blenheim), and sister of
Lord Bandolph Churchill, of Parlia-
mentary celebrity—uses them regularly
and thinks them unequalled for
the hair.
L3T Send for Circular of
Dr. Scott’s Electric Flesh
Brushes, Corsets, dr Belts
for Ladies’ and Oen -
tlemen’s use.
PILL MILL ELECTRIC ISSOCIITION,
M,MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
P.0, BOX SSI
A.
MS LITTLE GAME.
Mftny years ago, a man from
the Jim Crow diggings, Victoria. It was no un-
usual thing for men to disappear In those days,
Everybody was on the move; and If the man in the
next claim didn't turn up In a day or so, It was
supposed he was off to anew rush, hlsclalm was
jumped if It was any good, and nobody thought
any more about Mtn, But this man was not one
of the wandering sort; he was not a dtunkard that
might fail down a shafr; In short, the belief was
that somebody has made away with him. His
mate was narrowly watched, but nothing could be
made of him. Me was a man of no words. Just
about thla time, a man was observed about the
place whom nobody bad noticed at the time of the
disappearance. He kept to himself. Nobody
knew whether he had been about at the time of
the supposed murder, or came immediately after-
wards; nut It was noticed by many that he and tho
mate of the missing man were remarkably thick.
Suspicion was turned from the mate to tins
stranger, who said nothing, but took no pains to
avert suspicion. Calling them Bob and Jim for
short, Bob, the mate, was a fosslcker, and worked
around anywhere—now down among the Swiss
Italians on Blanket Flat, or away out more on the
Tarrongower road. But, wherever he went, it was
noticed that Jim. the stranger, was never far
away. If Bob was working anywhere up near
what is now called tho Cornish claim, Jim would
be found as general drudge at the doctor’s, or
ostler at the big hotel; and In the evenings, the
two used to meet and have u social glass together,
get drunk together, quarrel, make It up, and tlieu
be the best of friends again.
* • •
This went on for nearly live years. Tho
memory of the supposed murder had quite dl«d
out; the flush times of tire Jim Crow were over.
Most of the old diggers were scattered far and
wide; but those two were reckoned “ old identi-
ties," and were the oracles of the new shanty-
keepers. One night both got howling drunk, and
were lodged In one cell. Both stretched out, and
slept till morning. "Hullo, mate,”says Bob, rub-
bing his eyes, and looking up at tho barred window.
” what s this—what am I here for this firae?"
“ Murder,” said Jim. Was it the shattered feeling
that follows a mad carouse, or the terrible sud-
denness of such a thought on awaking? was it
the dread that In the last night's spree, which was
a blank to him. he had committed soma horrible
orime ? or what was It that gave that g hastly colour
his face as it caught the light that streamed
through the Iron bars? Jim came closer. “Don't
Speak too loud,” he said; " where did you hide the
bodv ? When wo’ro out, 111 put it out of sight."
•• In a shaft two claims down below Murphy a
In Pegleg. It s in a bag.” he whispered, ” and
there are stones on it.” Jim rose, and thundered
at bis cell door. A constable came, and threatened
If he didn't be quiet he’d get him an extra 48
hours " I want to see the officer In charge,"
lira whispered. ” Go to the devil,” said the
constable, walking away, and clanking his key.
Again Jim thundered away, and the officer, hap-
pening to pass through, asked the constable wh v
be didn’t keep those fellows quiet. Jim called the
officer by name. “Now, what Is it?” bawled he.
Jim whispered two or three words, "Unlock this
cell and bring this fellow into my office,” said the
officer to the astonished constable. ” Stay here,
and keep an eye on him, while I dispatch a tele-
gram," continued the same officer. Jim then sat
In a chair, whlstlin r a low tune, whilst th? con-
stable kept a vlgilantcye on that well-known Idler
about town. Shortly, the officer returned with a
telegram In his hand. “Comeon.” he said, "it’s
all right*" and to the utter bewilderment of the
constable, Jim rose and followed the officer into a
crossing room, and, without trial, or anything like
It was passed through the gate, with the officer’s
nod, ” It'sall right—detective Dash, of Melbourne.'*
« ♦ •
Barring the names, Ibis Is a fact. He had
dogged his. man for yeirs. and only got what be
wanted out of him at last by the suddenness of his
words in the cell. The body was discovered Just
where described, and the murderer was afterwards
execute l. The detective was subsequently offered
a small promotion, nut declined It: and was Imme-
diately offered and accepted the superintendence
of the detective fores of an adjoining colony, g
ANALYTICAL REPORT.
Melbourne.
My examination of a earn pie of
Bavarian Hop Bittern has elicited
the following among oth°r particulars; It la a
clear pale fluid of low density (997*11) containing
o « oer cent, of extract, which is all vegetable, the
ash being' nominal, less than many potable waters.
They have a pleasant light hop flavour,
modified by presence of other herbal bitfers. 1
have not been abla to find any noxious ingredient
or injurious contamination. ... 1 think they
may fully be expected to answer the purpose for
which they are designed.
SYDNEY GIBBONS
, F.C.S., Analyst.


THIS
IGNO
SPisora-o.
v ; ..’
#**31
FAMOUS
fi
EVER previously did any piano win such a hold
. ■« on the public as the Mignon has done since
Jts introduction. Our competitors have no doubt
done their level best to rival ua— blazoning forth
their bald Imitations with a tremendous nourish
of trumpets. What result have they to show,
excepting to point to the gradual death of all their
offspring? The reason is soon found. Inferior
Instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted on the
public. But the right-thinking public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales of the Mignon Piano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found its way into every town almost of all
the colonies—in Victoria and New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north of Queens-
land ; in New Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE MIGNON
< can be found, and its name is really a household
-word,
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for its size defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, because the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be hadron very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for first-class work and
richness of tone.
13?“ Illustrated Catalogue, with full description
of THE MIGNON and all other good instruments,
on application.
nicholsoF AND CO.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
' CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
rt 'tURALOIA y HEADACHE, TOOTH AC /£,
: 4 ? AIN8, BRUISES, tURNS. SCALD i, &c and
token Internally cures DIARRHOEA, TVYSEi* Y,
CRAMPS. COLIC, and all ether interns aches
and pains. ~
•Price, SJ/- Everywhere.
G. E. MOtfVTOH, sole prop i ,tor.
MELBOUENi! -A-NID u - DNEY,
PAINT
in fils
TONIC NERVINE
AaBOISTBRKD. „
SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all oo nplalnte
that spring from lack of nerve force, as N *uralgia
.toothache. Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss ol
XiV’Pvtite. Female Disorders, Liver and Kldnej
UoMpiaints, Loss of Vital Power, &o. By its tonic
and soothing elf cow it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous ana
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
S TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
he whole system, rrme, is. 8d., or 25s. a case,
ole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS, M.Jf.8.
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists, 104 and
near -<»de Park. *»dney, and
WTB treCt ' Clroular ’‘l uft J r . TAKE NO BDdBTI-
T A L I A N
EMPORIUM
FANCY CHINAWARE,
comprising:
TEA SETS, DESSERT SETS, VASES, ORNA-
MENTS &c#
FANCY GOODS IN GREAT VARIETY,
Silk Fans, Ladies’ Belts, sunshades, Dolls, &o.
The Latest Novelties always on hand.
Best quality with reasonable prices.
B. MARMONT, 4RI George-street.
PAINTS.
OILS. "
6
(X
WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 George-stroet.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
W* N.B. Patterns and Prices sent.
NEUSTADT and CO.,
COMPLETE
HOUSE
FURNISHERS,
39, 154, 156, & 158 OXFORD-ST\
SYDNEY.
mr HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
Either fob Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
A WHOOP RESTORED 1
A Clergyman having tried every known
remedy for the Cure of Nervous Exhaustion,
Premature Decay, &c., has at last discovered a
simple Self-Cure, which for the sake of suffering
humanity, be will send FREE the Prescription
which CURED him. Address, with self-addressed
stamped envelope—
DR. E. A CLARKE, P O. Box 292, Sydney.
ROWLANDS ODONTO is the best, pur
est, and most fragrant preparation for the teeth
Health depends in a great measure upon th
soundness of the teeth and their freedom fror
decay, and all dentists ailow that neither wash?
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and whit
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such Row
lands’ Odnnto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and ha
lately been much improved. Each box has insid
the lid a certltloate of purity from Dr, Redwood
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c. Sold in three tins : white, rest
and cream.
ROWLANDS' MACASSAR OIL can nov
be also had in a golden colour, which is especial!
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer In perfumery for Rowlands’ ar
tides, ol 20, Hatton Garden, Loudon, and avoli
spurious worthless imitations
Wholesale and Hetail Agents, Elliott Bros., E
Phosbbk and Co., Sydney.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Compagnoni's.)
THE undersigned, recognising the want of a
FIRST CLASS TAILORING ESTABLISH-
MENT, have OPENED the premises lately occu-
pied by the Bank of Australasia, at 168 PITT-
sTKRBT (THE WE'T v N |) HOl 8K) where they
Intend to carry on a High-class and Fashionable
Trade.
The public may feel assured that we shall be
able to maintain a high standard, when we state
that our Mr. Ward has had some yeais’ experience
In the beet houses in Lo don, Paris, as well as In
(hst-class Sydney Establishments, namely. Farmer
and Co ’a and David Jones and Co.’s.
Our Mr. Wilson has had fully 20 years’ expe-
rience in the Australian trade, and has just re-
turned from England, where he .visited all the
principal Woollen Mills, including that of Hud-
dersfield, as well as Wevt of England and Scotch
Mills. This will be a sufficient guarantee that the
tastes and requirements of the public will rece ve
the attention they deserve.
In conclusion, we desire to say that we hope to
obtain a fair share of patronage. In return for
which we guarantee first-class work, all hand-
made, well shrunk, perfect lit, and all in the latest
London and Paris styles.
Soliciting a trial, we remain,
Very truly yours,
FREDERICK WIL«( N.
HUGH WARD.
Fashionable Tailors, Robe and Habit Makers.
West End House. -
lfi8 Pltt-streef, Sydney.
-^Tora,la.a,iao.’s
Fills
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy I
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; thev can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of praulteai ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate reliel.
434 GEORGE STREET.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
808 GEORGE STREET.
«5a
°^9coitKW()^
m
WHOLES ALB
GBOOKS
and
WINK and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
BO LEAD ENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
OBLBBRATBD
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
BOHN APP8.
LITHUANIAN
MAGBN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL.
1MPORTBE
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
’ MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE,
THE
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever Introduced Into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, EASY TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine in the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS in Town and Country.
IST" Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE tc
any part of the colony,
B. O. Hslftermann & Co.,
Sole Agents,
G74 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J. TURNER ROBINSON CO.'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-straat,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOluLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
fW~ Fashionable and Flrst-olass GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
fuatanteed.
A. A C. HUENERBEIH’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
SIR 6EOBGE STREET,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
The most liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
A. & C. Huenerbein,
318 GEORGE STREET.
W. H. CHARD AND GO.
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
LIBERAL ADVANCES made on WOOL er
other PRODUCE shipped to their London
Agents, Messrs. Redfern, Alexander and Co., 8
Great Winchester-street, E.C.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well-
known firm is given to all consignments.
DENTIST.
(Of America)
G UARANTEES
Met Fit mi Mastication.
tW PRICES MODERATE.
Corner George and Market Streets,
OVER HUNTER’S BOOT PALAC0.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PLATE.
as
fe
a
£
o>
(3
*
<a.
S
o
n
«
\
I
Pf&g
<T)
o'.
r\
3
a
3
cn
*HK*!
£
E$
©
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals,
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
'X'ixe DBela.a.Tol© Exxgrgrles 1
y
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer.
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty's Hotel.)


N OCTOGENARIAN’S GRATITUDE.
A FACT.
George-street, Sydney, September 1,1881.
Messrs. Mieks and Solomon.
Gentlemen,—It gives me considerable pleasure
to tender you my best thanks for your kind re-
commendation of St. Jacobs Oil. Acting upon
your advice, I tried It, and am happy to say the
very first application brought me instant relief:
and, by following it up for a couple of days, I felt
completely cured. Before using St. Jacobs Oil I
suffered severely—more especially from swollen
knees-and had tried many other remedies without
the least effect. However, I have to thank it for
making me myself again, and shall be careful to
recommend it.
1 may mention that I shall be 80 years of age in
October, and believe that through its use I shall be
able to spend a pleasant birthday.
Yours laithfully,
JOSEPH HENRY.
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.8.W.;
price, 3s. 6d. per bottle.
0i\WTCASTL£ £ SO/i/s
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
r
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 2A Pitt-8t., Sydney, N.S.W.
VANITY FAIR.
Nothing annoys a Paddington man so
much as watching two t'ed and green lights for
half an hour, while he’s waiting for the tram, and
then to find out he has been looking at a chemist s
window all the time—
The bite of a “ skeeter ” Is full of gall,
And so Is the bite of an ant;
But the bite of a sandwich is worse than all
At a railway restaurant.
When a Chinese woman wants to be rid of an
infant, she fans It to death with a hugs fan..'..It
was a partjTof Civil Servants—society young men
—and, the name of an Australian poet being men-
tioned, one said: " By the way, Jack, Tally ran is
some connection of yours, iso t he ? ’ * Oh, nothing
much,” replied Jack, evasively; "quitedistant.
Not to be nut off, the questioner, however, per-
sisted. " Well, then,” blurted Jack, "if you must
know—the man who married, old Tallyran s
daughter afterwards ran away with my wife!
... The smart brides never say "obey now
They substitute the pleasenter promise to be
gay.’ And they generally do it, too—.Oa-
car thinks that if girls adopted the - oblique line
In Iheir dresses it would be more graceful. But
they adopt the oblique line in their behaviour with
Ifreat effect sometimes A Queensland girl had a
over whom her parents did not approve of. Miss
Banana took a very simple course. She went to
bed, and Informed her pa and ma that she should
stay there till they favoured her union with Adol-
phus. 4t the end of a fortnight, her parents gave
her beat, and the lover was admitted. We pre-
sume the young lady got up....Rome smart English
girls, at a loss for some other sensation, have been
attracting attention by wearing evening dress in
the morning. Two young ladles of good family
are seen regularly before breakfast in low-neoked
muslin with short sleeves. In which costume they
go to the baths «nd return....Waterfall backs are
going out, and Instead, the latest style Is drapery
falling in looped folds to the edge of the skirt....
OUR GBORG IK.
He wears a golden hoopla on bis bead.
On little golden apples he is fed.
We guess that he is happier now he's dead.
He's buried in a coffin painted red.
.... A poet was reading his work to his family, and
when she thought he had arrived at the proper
stage, his wife laughed encouragingly. "Obi for
goodness sake,” said Tommy, who is nine years
old, *• don’t laugh, or pa will never quit reading.”
The poet collapsed... “Will you help me press
some of those ferns, Charley ?” said an innocent
maiden, “ Yes,” said that bad young man, “ put
’em round your waist, Nell, and we 11 press em
together. * I am uneasy about Charles,” said
Mrs. Wildcats, looking at the clock. “ It’s not so
late,” soothed her sister; "I don’t think anything
unusual has happened ’ “ That’s just it,” said
the yearning wifey; " afraid something not
unusual has happoned><o Charles.” Ohl ...It is
said Japanese women don’t use pins. In that case
a Japanese young man could sit on the sofa and
never get hurt at all The husband of the
voluptuous actress, Tb4o, was a tailor, ahd usd
to make all her dresses. He hadn’t much to do ...
Ladles now wear little bells on their garters. Tnis
is better than the diamond buckles. Because, us a
rule, you really had no proof the diamonds were
there....The Orleans Club at Twickenham, near
London, has 1’alled It failed because it was a oiub
for both sexes. What suited one didn’t suit the
other. Men strolling into a room to read a pnper
tried to look at ea a e, but could never feel so Thev
did not know whether to bow to one or two ladles,
or all, or none: aud wondered wheth'-r ir would
look bad to orner drink irom the waiter. On the
lawn, shy men were afraid to smoke; and those
dropping in in tweed suits lound themselves
among ladies dressed as for a fashionable garden
party, and had u ullty consciences. The only nun
who were at homo were the “ ladles’ men," always
faultlessly dresved, but despised by all their own
kind, bo the Orleans was a dismal failure.
If men and women want to associate to
gather, there’s home for it; no club is wanted.
... It’s wonderful how often we meet an at-
tractive woman who would make a capital
wife—for one of our friends. Quite so
Mr. Fogg, when asked the best remedy for poly-
gamy, replied, “ Mrs. Fogg”..The religious cranks
in the Western Mates are In ecstacy over a he
Evangelist, twelve years of age. He knows til
about the wickedness of the world, of courn .
They all do. What a childhood them Imv-Evangei
lats must llvel... .Oscar Wildo writes ail his poems
on an empty st- much, he says. Wonder why hr
doesn’t use paper. Probably he means “bead”
when he says "stomach.” It’s hard to tell the
difference in a good many men Toe London
Post-office officials are constantly receiving letters
bogging that no rabre dead letterx he returned, op
bring death to the house. One person ocm
Sed that at persons had died in the neighbour
since a dead letter had been sent her by the
P.O Flr»t girl: " Has your friend got married ? ’
Second ditto: “Not vet. she means to wait a bit
longer.’’ First: "But she is quite old enough
Whatever it she waiting for?” Second: “Fora
husband.” “ Madam,” he began, as he ifted his
hat at the front door, “ I am soliciting for honu
charities. We have hundreds of poor, ragged,
vicious children, like those at your gate, ard our
object is ” " Sir, those are my children!” she
interrupted; and the way that frontdoor slammed
his toes jarred every hair on his bead... This Is
one of the meanest wretches that ever called a
woman bin wife. When he goes home I ito at
night, he carries a trap and mouse in his pocket
Whenever his wife begins scolding he displays the
mouse, and that frlgntens her so badly that she
can’t speak a word until the next morning It is
difficult for a school girl to think of anything
when she has to write a composition. But just
wait till she gets outside, and hoar her talkl —
Raid the lawyer to a witness: ” There s bras*
enough In your face to make a kettl°.” "And
sauce enough In yours to till it," she replied
sweetly When young, Edmund Yates, editor of
the World, was desperately fond of dancing, and
reckoned one of the best dancers in Lonaon —
Mrs. Cayley, wife of an officer in the Guards, is
reckoned one of the handsomest society belles
In London. She is daughter of Chappell, music
publisher, an heiress, and so averse to hav-
ing her face sonr all over the world, that, It
is almost impossible to buy her ptmto ..When
Sara Bernhardt was ill lately, she received visitors
In a bod which wes covered with black si k sheets
to show off her white skin. In case anyone may
think this was indiscreet, we may say Is noi
beautiful. As a spec acle, It was morecuriot s than
tempting. ..Charles Dickens, when young, In
creased his earnings by writing advertisements
for tradesmen. Here la one of his clever pieces of
sparkling nonsense :—
“ I pitied the dove, for my bosom was tender
I pitied the sign that she gave to the wit d,
But I ne’er shall forget the superlative tpien-
dour
Of Warren’s jot blacking, the pride of mm-
kind.”
An educated man. emaciated by starvation,
walked Into a shop, bought a ha’porth of cat’s
meat, walked out into the park, and ate it. This
was in London, where peers’ sons buy peaches at
half a guinea each for their courtezan irieuds ...
The reason heaven lies about us in our infancy Is
probably because when we grow up we can
generally lie about ourselves ... " Horiz mtal
stripes are coming in,” says the Qitbkn. Yes; we’ve
often seen them, coming into a ’bus. But the
people outside get a better view of them—
Clara Morris used to be the greatest emotional
actress; hut she is in a sad way. Miss Morris has
grown so rotund that the architect of the theatre
objects to her falling in a faint, and to lower her
down with pulleys In such slow work.... Facts are
stubborn things In this respect, lacts are like re-
ligious newspapers. Only facts never lie....On
the day before Cimstmas, the takings at Hordern’s
Palace Empormn amounted to £0300.. .Twelve
gold medals lor " civic virtue” have been struck
for those woo distinguished themselves by sel»-
devotiou during the cholera at Naples —Church
music Is not difficult to a-ooolr.
Masuehs.—The boat and lightest are made by
Offiord, Hatter. t&} George-suwl, Brickfield Hill.*
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Hymn to Humbug.
VERSES UNTO VICE.
EARNEST EVANGELISTS AND SINCERE
SPIRITUALISTS.
Erstwhile the Muse in angry tones inveighed
Against the men, who on religion trade;
And blamed the crew, who live in indolence,
By keeping up a hypocrite's pretence:
Who, walking ever close la Humbug s train.
Betray their murdered Lord, for sake of gam;
Hang out a sign to tell of grace within,
Then fill the domicile with foulest sin;
Shape their discourse to please the list’ning
crew, ,. ,
And revel In the profits that ensue.
Quite recently one of this Humbug class,
Whose stock-in-trade is gift of speech, and
brass.
Has ktndly shown how oft ho can be turned
By lust, fre, or subscriptions, cheaply earned.
Shakespeare has said, soven characters engage
Man’s mind on life's great universal stage;
But if we note our hero's every scene,
His changes are not less than seventeen.
But though each part is played with wondrous
skill,
His actions brand him as a Humbug still.
Yes, though his shoes be satin, kin, or kid,
The cloven hoof can never quite be hid.
Full many an aspirant for Thespian fame
In Hamlet, or In Richard, may declaim ;
For effective simplicity the dress shown in the above illustration has no peer.
Made of either cotton or woollen material it is equally charming. The single baud
round the skirt, with Swiss belt and long pointed collar, are all in keeping with this
favourite and quaint gown.
May strut as hero, or fill Henry’s throne,
Yet show himself in every changing tone—
Though he with Caesar fall, or Stofel rise,
His own identity defies disguise.
And thus our hero, despite all his art,
Too plainly shows, he but assumes a part:
And though his aim by lust allured, may veer,
Neither to God nor man, is he sincere.
Behold his first appearance ; as a light
To pierce the darkness of man’s mental night,
He proudly came, and earnestly implor’d
All pious men to lend creation’s LoH
The wherewithal to garner souls in Heaven,
And send such loans to box 957.
The work went on, the annual report
Detailed the number of conversions wrought,
And in imaginary figures showed
The tale of miles the Missionary rode :
Called on the faithful, to oppose the foe.
And send to box nine-five-aeven, O.P.U.
The mission throve—at least, the priest lived
high.
Till he resolved the marriage knot to tie-
A bride was found, but discord’s note too soon
Ran through the music of the honeymoon :
For scarce the circling sun had three times set.
Before ’twas advertised that any debt
Contracted by the spouse, could never claim
The purse of him. for whom she changed her
name. ’
High-priest of meanness, only three days wed.
And yet refuse to give your consort bread I
Cranmer denied his faith to save his life.
You, te preserve your cash, denied your wile ;
Cranmer again stood firm, and nobly died,
But you, in court, your guilt intensified—
Made e’en the lowest who assemble there
Their indignation audibly declare.
Yet, still with questions low you persevered,
Until the Judge in mercy interfered ;
Pronounced the penalty the law, too kind
To you, for your offences had assigned.
Consistent preacher! when thy fluent tongue.
The praises of the Gospel s truth has *uug»
How was it that thine own ears couldnotteacn
Thy heart the truthsi which thou could st aniy
preach ?
How was it ? If the reason we would k no
'J'hy married life the truth will plainly show
From first to last a hollow hyproorite,
You only eulogised the Holy Writ,
As Judas praised his living Lord of old.
To draw the unbelievers’ welcome g°ju- .
This Judas hanged himself, for very shame .
Dost thou fed tempted now, to do the same f
But Humbug, tactics not alone assist
Such preachers as this mock evangelist;
But shape the phrases, and too 9 tte Pu gu i de t.*i„> 0
Tne thought of those who take the Sceptics
side.
Who was it now, that some few months ago,
By lengthy lectures, laboured hard to 8 “9 W
That to some men a wondrous pow 0r was given
Of commerce with inhabitants of Heaven ?
This man (what was his name ?) made utterance
While his whole being was sustained m trance;
And in his words such fervour seemed to dwell
That for a time the game paid wondrous well;
And eager hundreds paid their money down
To hear a medium of such renown.
But how the scene was changed : a few months
more, .
And he again sought our too gen rous shore.
And (from I think the self-same stage S board)
Proclaimed his lectures, lies—himself, a fraud ;
Proved the imposture by whose kindly aid,
So mauy ardent converts had been made;
And so well showed his mind, that many men
Weve prone to disbelieve him even then .
But did this statement wipe away the crime
Which he'd committed at the former time (
Did this avowal leave his conscience free
From all the burden of his Infamy ?
Not byla jugful I Hundreds paid to hear
Words guaranteed, as from the holy sphere:
Now, as i lie sham is shown, the inference
Is that the coin was gained hy false pretence,
And restitution never will be made
Till all who went to hear him are repaid.
If now this man. these payments will commence,
Twill be received as Christian evidence.
How often have we beard Freethinkers say
That parsons merely labour for their pay.
And only strive religion to maintain,
because, so doing, yields them sordid gain;
Or. heard the statement that, this pay denied,
Such holy feelings quickly would subside.
'Tis true enough, as we have tried to show,
That many only seek this quid pro (mo, _
And merely join the banner of the Lord.,
To grasp the pay that service can afford.
But even they who thus their cloth defile
Can make reply in the tu quoque style.
“True, oh Freethinkers, 1 my life Invest,
Where it may yield the highest interest;
And willingly my talents dedicate
To that which yields the highest annual rate.
But, even so, what right have you to blame ?
Is not your policy the very same ?
AnJ il my voice is hired to eulogise,
Are you not also hired to criticise ?
Wbat if I never shout the Gospel lore.
Without collecting profits at the door,
Do you not, in your own more open way,
Make all Vour hearers for that hearing pay ?
where. I would «sk, would all your lectures be.
If Soripture-rcolling yielded you no fee ?”
ISHMAEL.
The Sung of the Picnickers.
With torture in ev’ry limb,
Svitb weary and aching head,
A picnicker stood on a platform's brink,
And these were the words he said;
“ Wait I Walt I Wait 1
In company with the throng
That still in voices of dolorom pitch.
Murmurs the picnicker’s song.
“Wait! Wait! Walt I
Till the moon bedecks the sky.
AndAVait! Wait! Wait!
Till the slothful train rolls by.
“ It’s oh I to be at home
With my wife, and my girls, and boys.
Oh ! why did I venture abroad to seek
Such dubious Christmas joys ?
“ Wait! Wait 1 Walt I j . .
And the porters and guards are dumb,
As I ask for nearly the fiftieth time
If the train will ever come.
“ Mon, and women, and boys,
Boys, and women, and men,
Murmur in chorus, that Boning Day
Won’t see them at picnics again.
“ Then, nursing, howling babes.
Panting mothers and wives,
Yearningly look o’er the narrowing rails,
For the engine, that never arrives.
“ Wait I Wait I Wait !
In misery, hunger, and pain,
Till tho guards at last to blackguards, change,
And speak in a style prolane.,
“ Wait I Wait ! Wait I
On these crowded, and pitiless flags.
While I know that my chop will be burnt to
the bone,
And the ’taters be boiled to rags.
“That yelling boy, that drunken man
Who is almost too drunk to swear,
And whose breath is so rank, I would really
thank
Him to give someone else my share.
“ Walt I Walt I Wait! xl ,
While each member groans with pain.
Wait! Wait I Wait!
For the crowded excursion train.
“ A baby my Sunday coat
With lollies and slobber adorns,
While a heavy-heeled butcher has flrmly placed
His boot (number nine) on my corns.
“ Oh ! tor a twenty-foot ring
In the which I might demonstrate.
To the railway chief, what ills.
Are borne when the train runs late.
“ And oh I that the staff complete
In a mighty chest might be
Double locked with unyielding bolts,
And that I might but hold the key.
“ Ah ! here Is an engine now,
I can see it comiug at last ’’
But the note of joy, is replaced by an oath,
As a thundering “ goods ” goes past.
And still longer he had to wait
With the angry impatient throng,
And listen to “long primer” curses, which
Wedded to voice of dolorous pitch.
Made the holiday-seekers’ song.
Boulia is a part ar d parcel of the Alligator
Land, and a Boulia lot of aristocrats could not bo
found than some of the eminently distinguA in-
habitants of that quite too awfully lovely little
township. And, right on the upper shelf of all Is
a certain culobawed lady, who, although cruei
Fortune compels her to occasionally assist in run-
ning a whisky mill, is nevertheless a “lady bred,
born, and reared, yer know.” At the same time,
however, whilst this high-toned dame lavishes all
attention on the clothing of her outer form, she
stilt finds time to provide lor her internal com-
forts also. And when in search of the latter, the
heathen Chinee—for fertility of invention—tones
down to the level of a Solomon Island idiot by the
side of the belle of Boulia. Noticing a woman
coming along, the other day, with a savoury sort
of something wrapped up in a towel, Mrs. Public-
house haughtily enquired, “ What’s that yer got
in tn’piwoelV” “Onlya nice roasted duck I ve
cooked for Mr. D ; poor fellow, he is so ill,”
replied the female Samaritan. Instantly, the ten-
der heart-to say nothing of the long-range nose
—of the landlady was touched, and she begged the
duck proprietor to step inside for a motm-mt and
rest her tired limbs, and tell her all about it. Once
Inside the cozy back-parlour, the poor woman was
filled up with “tangle” until she at last went
off Into that sweet, sound retreshlng sleep which
is only known to the just, and editors of daily
papers Hardly had her eyes closed, before the
champion mean woman of Boulia slipped into the
invalid's duck, and by the time the sleeper h«d
awakened, there wasn't enough of the defunct
“ quaoker ” left to feed a blow-fly. When the vic-
timised party came to, however, she began to talk
about “mean things” in a frightfully vulgah
manner, until the culchawed dame brought in
another pewter and exclaimed, “ Well .dear me I
wot a hawiul mistake that wos to make. But do
you know, my dear, Hi was so hinterested in poor
Mr. D.’s sufferings that Hi thought as ’ow you
said you was a bringin’ the poultry to me,
knowln’, has you do, that Hime uster ’igh livin',
bein’ a lady bred, born, an’ reared—donioher
know ?” *
