

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 10 I.—New Series.
SATURDAY, APRIL 18, 1885.
Price—6d.
The Bulletin.
•: ■ —
SATURDAY, APRIL 18, 1885.
Russia, and India.
Whether the time has actually arrived tor
Russia to put forth all her power to attempt
the full realisation of her designs on India
may still be doubted. But as to the char-
acter and scope of these designs, there has
beeu no doubt for many years past.
Amidst all the bland assurances of diplo-
matic interchanges, a coarse undertone of
unvarying menace has been maintained,
and the progress of events has constantly
(belied the suave representations of the
diplomats, and endorsed the muttered ex-
pression of the unaccredited threatenings.
From the shores of Aral to Khiva; from
Khiva to Bokharra, to Herat, to Balkh.
from the Caspian to Samarkand and Kuld ja,
step by step has been first accomplished,
then succeeded by a burst of exultation at
the approach towards completion of the
mighty scheme, and then sharply cor-
rected by a gush of fluent disclaimer.
But these disclaimers have been em-
phasized and corroborated by a retro-
grade movement — never! The alterna-
tion of mendacity and menace is hardly
explicable when proceeding from a nation
in which the organs of public opinion are
so thoroughly under control as Russia.
There are one or two possible explanations.
One, based upon the proverbial philosophy
that “Murder will out;” another, that the
menace has been a political necessity, alike
to intimidate tribes and peoples whose ter-
ritory had to be occupied as a preliminary
to the grand coup— the conquest of Hin-
dostan—and to keepalive the expectations
of the races reluctantly submitting to
British authority, and inclined ever to scan
the horizon for a deliverer. Be these things
as they may, no reasonable man now doubts
that Russia means to make an attempt,
sooner or latex', upon Hindostan, and that,
■with a formidable patience and persistence,
she has, year after year, been getting into
position to render the attempt as nearly a
certain success as is possible in an enterprise
subject to the fortune of war. It is a curious
fact, and one well deserving of study, that
the manoeuvres of the Russians in Asia pre-
sent the appearance of having been con-
ducted in close imitation of one of the most
effective combinations conceived and carried
into effect by the great .Napoleon.
* * »
The theatres of operations in both cases
present geographical features neasly iden-
tical, with the exception that the scale is.
greater in the one case than in the other.
The object of Napoleon was Italy. Now,
just as British-India is covered on the west
by the range of the Hindoo Koosh, so is
Italy covered by the chain of the Appenlnes;
and as Italy is protected on the north by the
mighty barrier of the Alps, so is India
guarded by the vast masses of the Hima-
iayas. The Austrians held Italy as we hold
India. Studded with fortresses, intersected
by rivers, populated by peoples of divided
nnd fragile allegiance, The French under
Masskna had advanced from the Appenines
Just as Russia now threatens to advance
from the Hindoo-Koosh. The Austrians,
Pushing forward, met and repelled Mas-
8ena. But while yet busied with him,
Napoleon in person, at the head of an army
the very existence of which had been
doubted, surmounted the Alps—a feat re-
garded as impossiole, and which, in fact,
bad never been attempted since Hannibal
bccomplished it—and debouched in the rear
°I the victorious Austrians, whom he inter-
Ce Pted and smashed at Marengo. Thus far
only Massena’s attack is duplicated by the
Russians in Asia. It is to confront Kobtsa-
kob’E’—the Massena of this affair—that the
British troops in India are being pushed for-
ward. It remains now to be seen, whether the
Russians have in readiness another array,
masked by the chain of the Himalayas, and
prepared to emulate the feat of Napoleon,
and debouch by Kashgar and the heads of
the Indus river on the rear of the British,
should these, engaged by Kortsakoff, be
entangled in the districts confronting the
Hindoo Koosh. Upon this, we conceive,
depends the question of peace or war. We
do not believe that the Russians can intend
or hope to force their way into India by a
single direct attack from the side of Herat.
The operation, oven if successful in the first
stages, would be a long and tedious one, af-
fording ample time for Great Britain to con-
centrate all her vast resources to defend—
even if beaten on the Western frontier—
Afghanistan, and the defiles of the Sulei-
man mountains which constitue a most
formidabla barrier, being pierced only,
so far as is known, by such terrific
defiles as the Kyber and Bolan passes.
And behind that line again is the line
of the Indus, no inconsiderable obstacle.
No; if Russia seriously attempts to reach
India by a single advance, always in face of
British troofis supported by boundless re
sources from a base of supplies compara-
tively near at hand, according to all prece-
dent they should fail.
• • •
But if, on the other hand, they are pre-
pared to break in on the flank, from the
Himalayas, the position becomes serious in-
deed, and the result more doubtful, In the
recently-published letter by General So-
il eleff, in which the designs of Russia on
India were expressed with brutal frankness,
we observe that the second army is referred
to as an existing fact. The General writes
of “the 200,000 men of the army of the
Caucasus, and the 100,000 in reserve
of Turkistan and Western Siberia.”
The computations are, of course, to be re-
garded with suspicion. The proportionate
numbers may possibly be reversed, and the
Caucasus army have but 100,000 men, while
200,000 are in Western Siberia and Turke-
stan, But probably the proportions are
correct, as there has been a clear necessity
for Russia to be in strength on the line of the
Caucasus, impinging as that does on Turkey
in Asia and on Persia. And we do not per-
ceive any reason (o believe that the army of
Turkestan and Western Siberia is in a posi-
tion to force the Himalayas. For one thing,
the Russians have not pushed their positions
in Southern Turkestan sufficiently far to
the eastward to be on a level with Cash-
mere and the heads of the Indus, and
thus be able to debouch into a line
that would compromise British armies
entangled in Afghanistan. Kouldja, in-
deed, is far enough east, but it is
too far to the north to be an available
base. Consequently, the intentions of the
Russians may, we conceive, be greatly dis-
counted from their professions of aiming at
a march upon India from the Hjndoo-
Koosh. Either they have an army planted
behind the Himalayas or they are only bluf-
llng. Possibly, indeed, they deceive them-
selves, and really reckon upon a national
insurrection accomplishing, in the rear of the
British army, all that a second Rust
sian army might accomplish. In such case
they probably reckon without their hosts.
The cowed populations, indeed, may be
well-disposed to rise, but they would only
do so when the British power seemed al-
ready shattered. They might complete a
disaster, but they would not actively help
to accomplish one. General Sobelefp
reckons on active help from native risings,
He says :—
“Thousands of natives in India only,await
Russia’s crusade of deliverance. And, on the
other hand, if Englishmen would only throw aside
their misplaced pride, and study a little deeper
the foundation of Russia's rule in Central Asia
comparing it with their own in India, they would
soon see plainly why the name of Russia has such
prestige in Asia, and why the natives of India hate
the dominion of England and set their hopes of
freedom upon Russia. Russia gives full liberty to
native manners, and not only does not overburden
her subjects with fresh taxes, but even allows
them exemptions and privileges on a most exten-
sive character. England, on the contrary, is a
vampire, sucking the last drop of blood out of
India.”
It is to be regretted that the severe gagging
laws which have been applied to the Indian
native newspapers qualify, almost to insig->
uiflcanoe, the value of any expressions they
may contain favourable to British rule,
and lend an exaggerated importance to
every hint of ill-will which they may ven-
ture to print. Such as they are, however,
we offer a few extracts from papers of
February last, as among these artificially-
regulated opinions, the judicious reader
may discover some straws indicative of the
present temper of the natives
The Prajabondiiu has the following:—“At the
time of the departure of Lord Rxpon from India,
Sir Rivers Thompson showed a little sympathy
with the natives. Lord Ripon thought this sym-
pathy to be sincere, and recommended him for a
knighthood. But now that he has got his K.C.S.I.,
he does not hesitate to say before the whole world
that he has no sympathy with the aspirations of
the natives. Bravo 1 Sir Rivers Thompson. Are
not you the Governor of Bengal? Oh I what a
misfortune it is to us that we have been
placed under the tender mercies of a Gover-
nor who has no sympathy with usl” The
Sadharant observesIt is a known fact
that the Government is not on good terms with
the native Princes. The cause of this is that the
British Government has not yet been able to put
confidence in these Princes. W hen the native
Princes show so deep a loyalty to the Qeuen, a
little of good treatment will lead them to sacrifice
all, if needed, for the protection of the Queen’s
Empire. If the Nizam, Sclndla, and the Holkar
assist the English, Russia will not succeed
in doing the least mischief to India. It is,
therefore, that we ask the Indian Govern-
ment to win the hearts native Princes
to its side by love and not by threats.” The
Sarasivat Patra writes“ The whole coun-
try is threatened by famine, 1 yet the rich
people are not backward in squandering money in
giving evening entertainments to the Lieutenant-
Governor, In filling the bellies of the enemy with
the country’s wealth. The country is under
famine. Why do you, then, fritter away your
money in pleasing Sir Rivers Thompson ? Do
you think pleasing the Lieutenant-Governor by
private theatricals the best way to do good to your
country ? Don’t you see any other way for the use
of your wealth ? Don’t you understand that your
country has been turned into a cremation ground?”
The Sahachar has the following: —“ There are
50 millions of Mahommedans in India. It is not
suprising that there should be some among this
vast number who recognise the Mahdi as a pro-
phet. But, according to the best of our know-
ledge, the Mahommedans of India as a body do
not believe that the Mahdi is a real prophet. We
know the Mahommedans regret the death of
General Gordon equally with the Hindoo and
Christian subjects of Her Majesty.
“Our Boys.”
It has been plain that, from the moment that the
British Government decided to accept the services
of the New South Wales Contingent, it has been
determined to make the incident the pivot of a
MR. JAMES MACANDREW, M H.R. FOR PORT CHALMERS, N.Z.


J. TURNER ROBINSON A CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKED CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WCOLLECTS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MAN CPACTURBR8.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
Annual Income exceeds One Million;
I
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, • 4s. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET ani OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
A JSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT,
2s. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.*
GIN—IN FLASKS,
le,9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke s Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST* SIZE.
IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets#
SYDNEY.
political movement. The cheers with which the
regular troops greeted “our boys” on the de-
barkation were doubtless heartfelt, spontaneous,
and genuine. But, apart from that, the butter
which has been persistenly dabbed upon the Con-
tingent has been very evident oleomargarine
that is to say, manufactured and spurious.
The enthusiasm of the rank and file of
the English soldiery is readily explicable as
a natural ebullition. And it is equally natural
that even the General commanding should
rejoice to see colonials coming to the aid
of the regular troops. But no sensible man
can believe that the various plaudits alleged to
have been uttered by that General with respect to
the discipline of the Contingent were other than
bosh, expressed with a view to something distinct
from sincerity. One fact is clear, and colonials
must keep it prominently in mind—that there are
distinctly two separate interests mixed up in this
affair. It Is superlatively the interest of the Jingo
class at home—which, as here, is the wealthier, as
distinct from the labouring, class—that fresh re-
cruiting grounds shall be found for the British
armies. Since the amalgamation of the petty Ger-
man States under the Empire, one very prolific
field of “British.” soldiers is reaped by other hands.
If, therefore, the colonies, hitherto preferring to
enjoy the blessings of peace, are betrayed by a
faction Into sharing the miseries and losses of
wars whichlthey have had no part in bringing about
and no voice In restraining, it is obviously the in-
terest of the corresponding faction in the old
country to give every encouragement to the
movement. It is, in short, the old story of wheed-
ling, “ Ducky, ducky, ducky, come and be killed.”
The hollowness of the laudations showered upon
the Contingent were Instantly exposed when it
appeared that a serious conflict was at hand. The
very General who bad lavished compliments upon
their appearance and discipline, left them behind
when he sallied forth to meet the enemy. Com.
pllments are ail very well so long as they involve
no risks; but no General on earth would compro-
mise the safety of his troops by placing in line
with them a body of semUtrained men, merely as
a matter of courtesy and policy.
♦ * *
The course of practice has been very entertain
ing. Every possible mode of flattery has been
lavished. But the test of apparent emergency
happened at an inconvenient time and showed up
the sham. When an enemy was expected, “our
boys ” were left in the rear. Now that no enemy
is in front, the advance having been fully recon-
noitred to make sure of that, “ our boys ” are put
in the van. After all, nothing could be luckier.
If the present condition of affairs lasts but a little
longer, the General will probably not find it neces-
sary to send the Contingent out of line when an
enemy has to be encountered. Mon learn drill
and discipline in the field—always providing the
enemy permits them leisure—infinitely more
rapidly than in the barrack yard, and, in
afiother three or four months, the Australians
who landed in Suakim, la body chiefly of raw
recruits, will be a truly efficient battalion of men-
superior in intelligence, and at least equal in
physique, to the Guards themselves. It is pitiful
that Australians are on such a field, and every day
renders it more obvious that but for downright
deception exercised by our Government when
compromised by Mr. Dalley’s offer, the Imperial
authorities would not have accepted their services.
From the cablegrams from London to a Canadian
paper—the Toronto Weekly Mail, of Feb. 19—
the extent and character of the false representa-
tions made by our Government to the Imperial
authorities can be judged :—
“London, Feb. 15.-It is scml-officially an-
nounced that the War Office has accepted the offer
of the New South Wales Government to equip a
regiment at its own expense for service in the
Soudan. The offer of certain Canadian officers has
been declined. The opinion in official military
circles is that the War Office has, on the whole,
acted wisely. New South Wales contains a large
number of retired short-term British regulars, and
the corps from there will no doubt he composed of
tl wit class of men. On the other hand, it is now
known that a large proportion of the so-called
Canadian voyageura were not Canadian voyageurs
at all, but young Englishmen who had emigrated
to Canada, and who joined the expedition for
amusement; and the War Office was led to under-
that if the offer of Colonel W illiams and other
Canadian officers had been accepted, a similar state
of things would have occurred, and that the regi-
ment from Canada would have been in no sense a
Canadian one. The New South Wales Government,
on the other hand, made it clear that Us corps would
be composed principally of old soldiers, aud not of
raw colonial volunteers or equally rate English im-
migrants. It was not, however, until a searching
inquiry had been made regarding the Australians
that the War Office agreed to accept their ser-
vices. The refusal to employ Canadians is re-
gretted by the general public, but it is felt that
the crisis is far too serious to admit of experi-
ments.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Mad Malingerer.
Manv humane persons have ion* acknowledged
the effective prospective benefits that would re-
sult from a keen enquiry into the whole range
and scope of our prison system. In the absence
of Press espionage, very little is known of the
secrets of the prison house, and that little
leaks out only when a prisoner dies during incar-
ceration, or attempts suicide, or maims or mur-
ders one of his keepers. It is not many months
since the exposure was abruptly made, that one
of the female prisoners was pregnant through
the instrumentality of a relative of one of the
officers; and again, that whilst one warder was
dismissed for robbing the cook-house, another
provincial official was “allowed to resign” for
visiting the cell of two female prisoners by night.
This week a convicted incendiary hanged
himself in Darlinghurst Gaol, and the surmises
originated by the nature of the testimony are, to
say the least, disheartening. Under the present
long-sentence regime a large proportion of prison-
ers go mad under confinement. The prisoner
Barry had the misfortune to lose his reason, and
eight months ago was adjudged by Drs. Manning
and O’Connor to be a lunatic. A few days ago he
was returned from the Criminal Lunatic Asylum
labelled “ a malingerer.” As showing that his
madness was only feigned, the gaol surgeon gave
evidence that the day the prisoner suicided, he
found him quite rational, and “ in the kindest pos-
sible terms advissd him to avoid giving the au-
thorities any trouble.” The prisoner literally
adopted the counsel given him, by hanging
himself the same night with a oord pilfered
from his hammock. It seems singular that
a rational man should do this, unless the
horrors of an enforced eternity rshould inspire
less dread in his mind than the terrors of
prolonged incarceration. The bare conjecture
that the man was mad, and that the doctors mis-
judged his case, is too terrible to dwell upon; but
it must not be forgotten that the prisoner Cun-
ningham, who was a adjudged a'malingerer, also
strangely illustrated his irrationality by viciously
attacking a warder in order to get himself hanged.
His desire was gratiied, and he died perfectly
sane—the doctors announced. But may there not
be in the human composition such a moody horror
of prolonged Incarceration as to amount to a
specific madness that medical disciplinarians might
be apt to misjudge malingering ? Doubtless, in the
present case, the experienced medical men were
right, but these periodical glimpses into the ten-
dency of prison immurement manifest the pro-
priety of Investigation into tho modern system of
extirpating crime, which seldom (if ever) reforms
its subjects, but transforms a visible percentage
of them into madmen and malingerers.
Here and There.
By a marked majority the House of Lords adopted
the motion of censure proposed by Sir Stafford
Northcote. The resolution was couched In the
following terms:—“ Having considered the state-
ment made on behalf of the Government, this
House is of opinion that the deplorable failure of
the Soudan expedition in the attainment of its
object is due to the undecided counsel of the
Government and the culpable delay in commenc-
ing operations; moreover, the policy of abandon-
ing the whole of the Soudan after tho con-
clusion of military operations is dangerous to
Egypt and the interests of the Empire.” In
spite of the wholesale adoption of this cen-
sure, the Gladstone Government retains
office, and for the all-sufficient reason that the
verdict of the Lords is an “ airy nothing” when
tested by its accuracy in representing public
opinion. In New South AValos this political prin-
ciple is so far reversed that one member of the
colonial House of Lords is not only forgiven for
usurping the predominant prerogative of the
Assembly and for overshadowing the Cabinet and
the country, but is extolled to the seventh heaven
for his divine audacity, his omniscient perception,
his heaven-born loyalty, and his omnipotent
patriotism. So blinded are the magicians of the
House by any tragic coup do force that they wor-
ship tho author; and so deep is tho devotion to
Mr. Dalley, that, if the Builder of the heavens
should resign His functions, there are perfervent
admirers who believe that Mr. Dalley has, by his
talents, an impregnable title to the succession.
And what did that gentleman risk ? Personally,
nothing; politically, little; but of the lives, limbs,
and fortunes of other people a great deal too
much.
True Loyalty.
When the tragic death of General Gordon pre-
pared the national pulse for an empirical experi-
ment, the Acting-Colonial Secretary utilised his
undoubted popularity to commit the colony to a
course of action that sensible men unite in con-
demning as super-sententious and superlatively
silly. The fate of the “ Christian soldier” of the
century was the febrifaoient circumstance that
reduced philosophical deliberation to a discount,
and Inflamed public perfervour to a fever heat.
The reasonable resentment of a reflective minority
was met by a journalistic counterblast of im-
ported Jingoism, which appealed all too success-
fully tp the volatile whims of an excited and ex-
citable nation. Resistance was dubbed rebellion;
indifference was regarded as rank mutiny; and
neutrality was anathematised as flat disloyalty.
The sturdy resistance to usurped prerogative was
bravely stemmed by the inflated eloquence of
servile apologists, and the perpetrators of the
folly, having the keys of the Treasury in their
guardianship, appropriated the public revenue to
feed and foster the undertaking. When the
people’s representatives—or such of them as did
not succumb to the glamour of the hectic pro-
posal-challenged the Quixotic action of their
rulers, Messrs. Dalley and Dibbs, from their
respective political pedestals, hedged their
unconstitutionality behind the barricade of
loyalty. In effect, they patted their sena-
torial breasts, as who should say, ‘‘We
are the loyal, the truly loyal, and the only
superlatively loyal statesmen of the era.” The
alleged exigent circumstances were logically
proved to be ohemerlcal, and the danger that hung
over England’s military prestige and material
comfort was shown to be extremely illusory. Still
there remained one stolid item of consolation in
that the D alley- c wm-Dx bbs loyalty was mani-
fested to the very hyperbole—even though the
foe to be vanquished was scarcely sturdier than a
self-created vision. By the agony of sequence—
by the martyrdom of events—by the Nemesis of
retributive justice, the colony had not long to wait
for the realisation of its heyday dream about the
stout semblance of visible danger and material
foeraen. On Friday last the cables announced dis-
quieting news about the initiation of hostilities by
Russia. With such extreme loyalists at the helm
as Messrs. Dalley and Dibbs, the country felt it-
self safe from the encroachments of the White
Czar. How nobly the brace of heroic statesmen
comported themselves under the pressure of real-
istic emergency and under the terror of visible
foemen is destined, we fear, to become matter for
future history. True, they did not bend their
colossal energies to the enrolment of such a
force of volunteers as might prove an effective
defence against invasion by land ; nor did they
gridiron the harbour with lines of torpedoes that
might be relied on to explode in less than three
days from the third time of asking. Neither did
Mr. Dalley prepare to fulfil his pristine promise
of swimming outside the Heads to scuttle the first
Russian ship that presented itself. But both he
and his warrior-colleague did what was more
noble, more heroic, more loyal, more practical,
more sensible, more self-preservatory, and, per-
haps more characteristic—they steamed away to
Orafton, there to bask in the sunshine of rustic
idolatry, to regale, themselves with .sweetmeats
and other accompaniments of the festive board
to evolve from their inner consciousness sweetly-
pretty and allegorically terrible scintillations of
“ do or dio ” loyalty—miles away fro® th? seat of
Government, and the scene of probable danger.
These be thy loyal gods, Oh Jingo!
De Profundis.
The late Walter Bagehot wrote an essay on
“ Verifiable Progress,” and amongst other illus-
trations to show that such a thing really existed
amongst men, he gave the undeniable one that the
civilised man was superior to the savage, inas-
much as he can kill him if he wishes to. But the
present condition of the world is beginning to
make people very dubious about the progress of
the species, and many—looking on the almost uni-
versal military spirit, kept alive at enormous
expense, and the deadly tenacity with which the
few owners of the soil keep their grip on man’s
natural heritage-doubt whether the reign of
bloodshed or the instinct of selfishness is in any
degree abated. In the savage tribe every man is a
fighting man. So he is in Germany, Prance, and
Russia, to-day. The proportion of the fruitfu 1
toil sacrificed by the ever-alert savage is not,
in proportion to his needs, greater than that
taken from the Christian taxpayer, and in the
matter of food, and clothing, and leisure, the
savage has unmistakably the best of it. But this
is only one aspect of the matter. Rulers, whether
political, or holders of the money bag, are cer"
tainly in no way improved, are as rapacious and
unscrupulous as ever, and there are no grounds
for expecting voluntary improvement from them.
But the time has now come which has no historic
precedent. Improvement is coming from below
The opening up of the world, and the establish-
ment of free institutions, and the right of the
people to self-government, have opened their
eyes to their right and their might. We no longer
look back to ‘‘Good King Dagobert’s palmy days,”
or when plenty flourished under the benign rule
of some exceptionally good king, who only plund.
ered less than his predecessors, for grounds of
hope in some future king. The idea is wide-
spread amongst the people that we will
make our own king, and compell him to
take his right place as a paid servant. The
violent programmes of the Anarchists, and the
more rational, because peaceful, and practical,
plans of Communists and Socialists, are now intel-
ligently discussed by millions.of men where a for-
mer generation grovelled before a worthless and
ruthless king. This is a force, the results of
which, on the future, are incalculable, because
unprecedented. With the idea of Divine right to
the throne already nearly extinct, and that of
private right to the soil rapidly becoming so, will
go concurrently the irresistible determination to
act upon the new knowledge. Men will insist on
living their lives for themselves, and not for the
worthless few who hold the power of life and
death from no other source than that of tradition
from a semi-savage age. It will lead to the abo-
liljion of war, except in the case of wanton insult"
Men will refuse to have their fields robbed, and
the fruits of their labour handed over for the
maintenance of the paid brigands called standing
armies—mostly kept for the aggrandisement of
a particular line of crowned blockheads. In this
direction there is rational ground for asserting
that there is hope for the race. Just as, in discuss-
ing the Darwinian theory, every blockhead thinks
he has clinched you when he asks, “ Who ever saw
an ape turn into a man?” so gloomy prophets,
making no allowance for the vast periods over
which small divergences have accumulated, look
only to that small portion of human history re.
corded in books more or less ancient, and shake
their heads, implying “We’re a bad lot, sir; a
hopeless lot.” But when there is an intelligent re-
pugnance to war amongst the men who have to
fight, and as, year by year, the Liberal Press flght s
manfully against the Jingo organs who keep alive
.the most ferocious portion of our nature for the
glorification of a few at the expense of the lives
of the many, there is little fear that, in some
future we shall never live to see, the fomenters of
war will be put down as a dangerous scourge; war
itself will cease to be a glorious vision, but, by in-
ternational consent, come to be treated as a crime.
A City Set on a Hill.
That was a gorgeous tribute to the vast capacity
of the city Corporation when the Minister jauntily
offered to hand oyer to that body of experts the
control of the Sydney waterworks and tramways.
That astounding Corporation should now offer to
take over the Government banking business and
instal the Mayor’s orderly in the joint offices of
Chief Commissioner of Audit and Treasurer, be-
cause then he needn’t be hampered with paltry
considerations about getting authority for paint-
ing and papering his office; but instead of a miser-
able £fiO Os. 3d., he could at onee gild the ceiling
and hang it with the State pictures. On the whole
the Sydney Corporation have shown such extreme
aptitude for spending money and carrying on
municipal works, that it would be a manifest
national advantage if they were now to give us
the benefit of their superb administrative powers,
and still further elicit the admiration of the citi-
zens. They are, to a man, renowned for their
knowledge of transit business, and as for water sup-
ply, from Dan. O’Connor down there is not one
who is not an expert civil and hydraulic engineer.
Those people, therefore, who say that since the
Government, with a highly-paid staff of profes
sional assistants, has done nothing but blunder,
and suggest that a public company would throw
some common sense into the administration, show
culpable ignorance in overlooking the unique
opportunity of securing the services of a body of
men never known to blunder.
Loyalty
The loyalty of “Captain” Neitenstein, of the
turret-ship Vernon, is t*f the good old-fashioned
sort that will not have its idol examined too
curiously. At a meeting of the committee of the
School of Arts, some nights ago, it was decided
that, when the Melbourne Liberator called
again, the secretary was to bawl out an emphatic
“not at home” from the library window. The
Liberator is the organ of a section of the Free-
thinkers, and its doctrines are at variance in many
important points with those inculcated at Wes-
leyan Sunday-schools or Methodist camp-meetings.
As for loyalty, it has none, and appears to derive
a morbid pleasure in letting the saw-dust and
miscellaneous stuffing out of the great ones of the
earth. Tell a Hottentot that the "Mumbo-
Jumbo ” he worships is merely a fprked etigk, fttni
he will probably murder you. A few years
ago, millions of Frenchmen would have given
their lives to prove that Napoleon III
was not an assassin nor his court a bagnio.
It is not our intention to defend the manner
in which the Liberator alludes to the First Magi-
strate of the British Empire. And, besides, Mr.
Joseph Symes—its editor—appears to be excep-
tionally able and willing to speak for himself.
What we would ask of “ Captain ” Neitenstein,
and of those who voted with him to reject the
Liberator, is whether, since the Norman Con-
quest, they could name any British male monarch
to whom a respectable man could introduce his
pretty wife or ask to dinner with his grown-up
daughters—any one, in fact, who was not a cut-
throat, a lecher, or a fool? Would "Captain”
Neitenstein—assuming that he had a marriage-
able female child—wish to see her at the Court of
Charles II., or George IV., or William ? And
Mr. Jones, who proposed the motion which will
probably double the circulation of the Liberator
observed that " it was well Mr. Symes lived under
British rule Instead of in America.” This shows
the intimate knowledge possessed by Jones of
what even the first American papers say regard-
ing the private lives of their elected sovereigns.
It would be instructive to hear what Yankee
journals he read during the late presidential
struggle; or whether he never came across any-
thing in them ten times more offensive than
Symes’ worst innuendo. Not all the plagues,
and persecutions that have scourged the world
since the primeval savage first used a strip of bark
to carry himself across a river, have done so
much to retard human progress and well-being ss
this stupid personal loyalty, when universal his-
tory cries out that not one out of a hundred of
those who were the objects of such insensate de-
votion were fit to associate with honest men, or
be let loose among virtuous women. In this
whole affair, the part taken by the clergy, and by
Government employes whose posts might depend
upon their effusion, is a suggestive circumstance.
It leads one to surmise that there may be more in
the matter than meets the eye. It remains for the
subscribers to probe the thing to the bottom.
For continuation of “ Plain English,” see next page


Thji Ratof Subscription to. Thb Bullbtih
are—For one year, 34s.; half-year, 13s 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
Thb Advkrtisinq Rates are 5s. per Inch s
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions’"
15 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
b ■ made payable to W. H. Tuajll ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamp* of any Australia-*
Colony may be sent, If more convenient.
(“ Plain English,” continued from page 4.)
Mr. Lewis Scott on Hepublicaniam.
MR. Lewis Scott speaks (as reported) at the Com-
mittee table of the Sydney School of Arts:—“I do
not think that an Atheist ever lived, nor did a (
Republican, speaking tha English language that
did not live to repent being a Republican.” Com-
ingHfrom a person elected to help in shaping the
policy of aa important literary Institution these
statements are a little startling. However dis-
posed we may be to challenge the views of those
who deny the existence of an intelligent First
Cause, there is no denying that men professing
that negative faith have lived at all periods.
Bruno elected to be burned sooner than say there
was a God when he believed there was none. In
the eyes of many his death was far more
heroic than that of any martyr who ever
gave his life for his faith. The latter believed
that the loss of each drop of blood brought him
nearer to sempiternal happiness, but the philo-
sopher had no such hope to sustain him. He went
grandly to death sooner than subscribe to what he
nought to be a lie. In our own day, there are
nousands— millions, perhaps—who honestly think
nat the evidence for the existence of a rational
r itnal Cause is shadowy and inconclusive. They
are to be found in all classes, from the let ders of
scientific thought to the cobblers who insi.t on
heir right to be represented iu Parliament by
kADLACGH. We may pity these mistaken men,
ut how anybody can stand up and publicly deny
nelr existence, is to us a mystery. But, if this
a88er tion of Mr. Scott’s is puzzling, the other is
Positively bewildering. “All Republicans speak-
l? 8 English tongue live to regret being
Publicans!” This means that for over 100
5 cars every American regretted before his death
at the destinies of bis country were not moulded .
y 8j °h magistrates as mad George III., black-
guard George IV., or drivelling Wileiam. But
'ueans much more. It means that if Bourke,
°- x > or Peel, had beta elected President of
retain the country would have had cause to de-
plore the change; or, in other words, in order that
a state may keep its place in the advancing line of
civilisation, it is essential to have an idiot or a
fribble at the holm. The most unmistakable tend-
ency in modern politics is the gradual elimination
of the noxious principle of heredity from public
life. Mr. Scott would probibly admit the ab-
surdity of establishing hereditary scholars, scien-
tists, poets, artists, or premiers. But he sees no
absurdity iu extending the principle to the highest
post of all. Suppose the colonies had the selection
of their own Governors—as they will have shortly
—and that Victoria chose Mr. Berry - , and New
South Wales Sir Henry Parkes. In order that
the colonists might not live to regret their “Re-
publicanism,” Mr. Scott, on the retirammt or
demise of the distinguished men named, would
take young Berry or young Parkes from his
desk, and hoist him to the summit of the body
politic. This far-seeing committee-man takes it
upon himself to answer for to millions of Ameri-
can Republicans who speak the English language.
But he surely might give them a chance of answer-
ing for themselves. There are enough of them
to do so. Those foolish millions say, “ Both in
theory and practice we prefer electoral to here-
ditary government.” Mr. Lewis Scott responds,
“ You really don’t know what’s good for you, but
you will find out in time, and repent before you
die.” Subtle Scott! Happy School of A rts!
James Macandrew, M.H.R. for Port
Chalmers, New Zealand.
One of the best known and most popular of New
Zealand politicians is James Macandrew, the burly
m.mber for Port Chalmers, whose portrait appears
in our front page. “Jamie” has occupied a pro-
minent position as a politician in his adopted
country for a period of over 30 years. He is a
native of the city of Aberdeen, and when quite a
young man carried on an extensive business in
London. Shortly after the settlement of Otago by
the Scotch pioneers in 1818, he loaded a ship of his
own with stores and colonial requiroments, and,
having given up bis London business, sot sail for
New Zealand. On reaching Dunedin, he opened a
largo store with the goods he had brought with
him, and employed his ship in trading between
Port,Chalmers, Melbourne, and Sydney. He also
very s ion took a leading part in the political life
cf the young settlement, and in a short time was
elected Superintendent of the Province— a position
which he occupied with little intermission till the
abolition of the Provinces a few years ago. Besides
being Superintendent of Otago. Mr. Macandrew
has been a member of the New Zealand House of
Representatives for nearly 30 years, and is now
the father of the House. He has been twice
a Cabinet Minister; on the first occasion in
the old days as a member of what was known
as the “Clean Shirt Ministry.” At that time
snowy shirt fronts were the exception, and blue
shirts the rule, and when a Ministry was formed,
and it was found that each member thereof had
concealed his identity behind a breastwork of
white linen, the Opposition took advantage pf the
anomaly by applying the nickname, and kicking
them out of office without further delay. In the
late administration, under Sir George Grey, the
member for Port Chalmers, occupied the position
of Minister of Public Works, and as such was
instrumental in pushing forward the Otago Cen-
tral, and other large railway works throughout
the colony. During his whole career, Mr. Macan-
drew has always been a long way in advance of the
times in his efforts to establish steam and railway
communication, instead of the old slow-going
means of transit. Long before Julius Vogel
arrived in New Zealand “ Mao.” used to astonish
the “old identities” of Dunedin, and make their
hair stand on end by his go-ahead schemes
of steamers, railways, tunnels, telegraphs, and
other new inventions. Only a few years
ago he was laughed at ia tho House of Repre-
sentatives at! Wellington, for suggesting the
advisability of encouraging direct steam com-
munication with the old country. The idea was
considered absurd by the smart young politicians
of four or flvo years ago, yet now scarcely a week
passe ? w ithout one or more steamers of enormous
tonnage arriving in the colony direct from Lon-
or man y years Mr. Macandrew has per-
sistently opposed the expenditure by the Dunedin
Harbour Board of large sums of money for deep-
ening the channel between Dunedin and Port
Chalmers, while nothing was done to improve the
entrance to the harbour at Otago Heads. During
that time he has frequently predicted that the
steamers and ships of the future would be vastly
larger and deeper than those .then engaged in the
trade, and if nothing was done to improve the en-
trance to the harbour they would be unable to
enter, and would have to goon to Lyttleton to load
and unload cargo. After the expenditure of half a
million of money on the channel and little or
nothing on the e- trance, the Dunedin merchants
now And, by bitter experience, after their money
is well nigh spent, that old “Mac.” was right
and they were all in the wrong, and that some of
the large steamers lately built for the New Zoa-
la d trade have to give Dunedin Heads a wide
berth and load cargo at some of tho other ports.
As a public speaker Mr. Macandrew is very effec-
five. He has a pawky, humorous, Scotch way of
expressing his iueas; exceedingly happy, and to
the point. His speeches are frequently well-
seat oned with old saws and Scriptural phrases, so
that tho space he takes up in the New Zealand
Hansard supplies very good Sunday reading for
tho Scotch Presbyterians of the colony. Our por-
trait is from a photograph by Mr. W. B. Gibbs, of
Wellington, New Zealand.
The best thing to give your enemy is for-
giveness; to an opponent, tolerance; to a friend,
your heart ; to a father, deference; to your
mother, conduct that will make her proud of you;
to yourself, respect; and to your children the
pretty suite sold by Summerfleld and Company,
which will make them your pride and joy. The
largest stock of Juvenile clothing in Australia, all
imported direct from their London house, 51 and
53, Leadenhall-strect. Strong school suits at 8s lid
andlOsOi; superfine tweeds and worsteds. 13s Od
and 15s 61. All sizes in trouser suits,; 31s, 35s, and
37s 6d; all wool dijgonals. 27s 6d. Summerfleld
and Company, the Great Juvenile Outfitters, 235
and 337 Pltt-street, Sydney.*
Is it china, glass, and earthenware, mane
up into various article both for use and ornament,
you require ? If so, the best choice is obtainable
at Biay Bros., 408 and 104 Qeorge-street,*
Samson and Delilah.
DELILAH (India): “JUST YOU TRUST MY LOYAL DEVOTION, JOHNNY.” (Aside: Come on, Russia, and rid me from this felln'JV.)


Personal Items
The only Garland, editor of the Carcoar
Chronicle, burns to initiate a new kind of con-
test—he has issued a challenge to “ either or both ”
of the members for Carcoar to debate the Soudan
Question, for 10 guineas, which amount is to be
handed to the local hospital when won. We ad-
mire the pluck that prompts the editor to chal-
lenge the parliamentary representative for the
district, and still more must_ we commend the
strategy shown by the aspiring member In thus
testing his popularity, for the purpose of estimat-
ing his chances of election in the next Parliament.
Recently, the Mayor of Coventry un-
veiled a statue to the memory of James Starley,
the king of cycle makers. Hundreds of workmen
formed in procession, and thousands of visitors
thronged the streets of Coventry. Starley, the
head of a large family of the name, was a man of
peculiar mechanical genius and unerring judg-
ment in invention. It was he who Improved the
old “bone-shaker” which was fore-runner of the
graceful, perfect bicycles of to day; and ho who
turned the cumbersome cranked carriage of years
back into the light modern tricycle that the most
delicate girl can ride.
Dr. Youl, the Melbourne coroner, is some-
thing of a wag. Most cor ners are. This is curi-
ous, but true. So are undertakers. Look at the
fonlal Kirby—may his funerals never grow less I—
or instance. But of Dr. Youl. He was inquest-
ing the Chinaman, who was passed on to his an-
cestors with an axe wound in his skull, the other
day, “What Is your trade?” ssld the jocose
coroner to one of the witnesses. The witness re-
plied that he was a French polisher. “Stick to
that,” said Dr. Youl, “your countrymen are now
E dialling off the French in Tonquin.” Tiio joke
as been done into Chinese characters, and for-
warded to the college of Wise Men at Pekin, for
explanation.
Lb Fioaro says: —“ M. Olivier Pain, con-
verted to Mahomedanism, is now Minister of
Foreign Affairs of the Mahdi, and has full powers
to negotiate with the English, if there will treat
with him.” Remarks a London paper: “ Monsieur
Pain, or any other foreigner, has the right to tight
for the Mahdi. But he went to the Soudan as a
newspaper correspondent, and when he was
Stopped by the Egyptian authorities they were
strong protests in the English Parliament against
any such interference with a journalist. If
journalism is to be used as a disguise to secure
belligerents a safe passage into the enemy’s camp,
then the position of war correspondents will have
to be reconsidered.”
The centenary of the death of Dr, Samuel
Johnson was celebrated in London and Lichfield,
December 12,1881. Ur. Johnson compiled a dic-
tionary, which three generations of scholars have
succeeded in spoiling, and was the author ot many
ponderous sentences, which no generation ever
regarded. Now, when John M‘Elhono’8 centen-
ary—but hold on. John certainly has a vocabul-
ary: but, on account of the dulness of the age, it
is unprintable. He just misses immortality by a
hair’s breadth; or, as Johnson would say: “He who
in the portentous conflict of judicious censure,
would unite the inoisiveness of a Cicero with the
Attic pungency of an O’Connor, must content
himself with the potentiality of a posthumous
reputation.”
Sir Henry Wrenfordsley, of Tasmania, will
be getting himself disliked by the lawyers of the
tight little inland. At the last Criminal Sessions,
one of the witnesses in a certain case was a lawyer,
who was in court in his professional capacity at
the time. He started to give his evidence from
the floor of the court, and with his wig on, as had
been the usage up till then of the members of the
legal profession under similar circumstances. But
Sir Henry—to the visible and audible delight of
the audience—suavely requested him to unwig
and get into the witness-box. The forensic body
over there consider the action arbitrary and
savouring of despotism. But the Judge had his
reason—and we can see it. The Invitation given
to the lawyer to ascend the witness-box was
merely a sort of luxuriant Jiorilnre to make the
precedent more memorable and picturesque, but
the real core of the proceedings was the getting
him to unwlg. Bless you, the Judge knew no man
could tell the truth with a lawyer’s wig on!
Thus the World (truly enough) of that
awful recently-published production, “ An Aus-
tralasian Birthday Book,” compiled, it is under-
stood, by aLlady whose num de plume is “Myra
Martron,” and whoso husband was sorao time ago
not unconnected with a certain hostelry in Eliza-
beth-street, Melbourne : — “ * An Australasian
Birthday Book’ (Griffith and Farran), which is to
say, a collection of quotations limited to the
bards of the Australian colonics, seems a little
premature. Those bards are not many, nor quite
of the first rank. Still, they deserve their honour
as well as some to whom it has been paid In the
mother country; and, after all, wo do not quarrel
with Australian wine, if it be good of its kind, be-
cause it is not champagne. I should doubt, how-
ever, whether this collection is quite the best. The
only one of the bards I know anything of is Lind-
say Gordon, and he has certainly not been well
treated. He is mostly represented by his senti-
mental and Swinburnian pieces, which are sad
Stuff; hardly at all by his ballads of colonial sport
and bush life, which are capital.”
The Pall Mall Gazette says of Lord
Charles Bercsford: “ He is not only a gallant, but
a very simple-minded man.” Sweet cweechawl
The last time wo saw Lord Charles he was driving
through the streets of Plymouth in an open car-
riage with one Julia Burke—a very dashing demi-
mondaine in her day. This was done to show his
lordship's dommod indifference to the opinion of
decent people. And it was so far successful that
decent people had as little to say to his lordship as
even he himself could have wished. There are
other stories alloat concerning Lord Charles,
which, if true, would make the name of Beresford
synonymous with blackguard. We have no desire
to pose as moral purists, but wo are sick of the
tone adopted in speaking of men of this class by
some of the English journals. Because a man dis-
plays a certain amount of dash and courage—
which any four out of live officers in the English
army would have shown under similar circum-
stances—he is set up foi worship as an example of
all the virtues. You might as well apotheosise an
Italian brigand or a Bashi-Bazouk.
The Rev. Dr. Walsh, who succeeds Cardi-
nal Macabe in the See of Dublin, was very near
being one of us. He stood second on the list of
the nominated for the Archbishopric of Sydney
after the death of Dr. Vaughan, and for a while
there appeared a probability of his being ap-
pointed, During that interval, we said that it
would hardly be with his will that he would come
to Sydney, as from the scholastic position he held,
his name was the first exposed for the Primacy
either of Armagh or Dublin. This latter post he
has been now offered and has accepted. Dr,
AValsh is a very different man from the usual type
of Irish cleric. Though educated wholly in Ire-
land, he has none of the traits usually associated
with that class of enthusiastic happy men. He is
little in stature, slim, dark, angular, and as nimble
as a sixpence. He is a scholar, a litterateur, and a
musician. He spc.aks half-a-dozen languages,
knows all important events in ecclesiastical his-
tory, and writes shorthand at the rate of 130 words
a minute. He is not much of a preacher, and un-
less he has altered greatly of late years, is nothing
of a politician. Still his sympathies are with the
national cause, and ho will not be easily made a
tool of by the Castle.
I A good story about the late John Brown
s brought to mind by the recent death of Dr.
larshall. That excellent man held the post of
•hysician-ia-ordinary to the Queen. The olHoe la
me which required him to be always on duty and
ilways within call. After many years of unbroken
ervice, he was allowed a vacation the year the
Jueen went to Baveno, Lago Maggiore, and took
vlth her Sir William Jenner, who has long been
ter extraordinary or consulting physician. John
Irown, of course, was of the party. Not long
ifter they arrived, John was attacked by some
illght illness. Rumour, concerning herself as she
loes with the slightest matters relating to great
ceople, said that John had the colic. Whatever
t was. John was not satisfied with the services of
;he first physician in England. He had no con-
idonce in Sir William Jenner. His faith in medi-
cine was given to Dr. Marshall,and to him alone.
He insisted that Dr. Marshall should be sent for,
md sent for the poor man was, by telegraph, and
had to abandon his hard-won holiday and Journey
across Europe at the bidding of this Highland
gillie, whose chief complaint was whisky. He
made the Journey, and arrived only to find John
Brown well again, and to be abused for not having
come more quickly.
The lot of all policemen is not rum and roses.
Here in the south they may have terraces and
things, but in the far North they are fortunate if
th«?y can get a tank to I've in. Take the case of
Sergeant Walsh, of the Queensland Police Force,
for instance. His salary is a little over £12 a
month. Some time ago he was sent up to Towns-
ville. The average rent of houses is £2 a week in
that centre of luxury. He was allowed 15s.a week
for hou-e rent. The cheapest place he could get
was let at £115s. He took it. thinking the Govern-
ment would make up the difference. The landlord
thought so, too, and laughed softly in his shoe as
ho saw the rent sliding up to £30. Then the Ser-
geant was shifted to Bowen. He wrote to his
former landlord to ask if the arrears had been
paid. In reply, he received a neatly engrossed
document, opening with the stately phrase, “ Vic-
toria, by the grace of God,” which called upon
him to pay the sum of £30, with £5 addi-
tional, for the fees of certain minions of the
law, and be mighty quick about it. We may state
here that Sergeant Walsh is a man with a large
family. The mere feeding and clothing of his
wife and children would leave him little out of his
modest salary to pay rent with under the best con-
ditions. The only way by which he could have
met the difficulty would have been to arrest his
wife and children on a charge of vagrancy every
evening and take them to the look-up. They
could camp out in the day time. The charge
against himself might be “permanent want of
visible moans of support.” Once we cherished a
glorious dream of becoming a sergeant of police
someday. This has disenchanted us. We would
rather be a sundowner, and while away the listless
hours before sunset with a euchre pack.
We lead that in the Mahdi’s camp “74
Dervishes act as prayer-reciters.” We hope they
can pray better than his Reverence the Bishop of
Lichfield, who, we read, has issued a special collect
to his clergy to be used in the churches of his dio-
cese during the war lr. Egypt, in which the follow-
ing passage occurs:—“ Restrain, we beseech Thee,
of Thine infinite mercy, the fiery passions and
dangerous designs of those who are lighting
against us.” What magnificent hypocrisy! Why
doesn’t the Bishop of Lichfield say what he really
means, and put it straight, thus:—” Enable us, we
beseech, &a, to slaughter the niggers without
losing any more men.” Surely Englishmen don’t
want this miserable, well-paid craven to ask the
Almighty that their Arab foemen may be turned
into curs or swine. We don’t believe in praying
for victory, but we believe in our English brethren
well enough to be quite sure that they can lick the
Mahdi or anyone else in a fair tight without
prayers. Says an English paper:—“ Surely those
in the Lichfield diocese who ‘go to pray will re-
main to scoff.’ Will not the wretched Arabs,
maimed and wounded by European rides and
Gardner guns, also desire at times to call on In-
finite Mercy, and ask that ‘the fiery passions and
dangerous designs ’ of the Earles and Burnabys
should he ‘restrained.’ To whom is Providence to
listen ? Does the gentleman in the lawn sleeves at
Lichfield imagine that the sympathies of the
Higher Powers are reserved for Europeans, or
that sentible Englishmen will relish this attempt
to turn the Almighty into a partisan ?”
The late “ George Eliot” received in all,
cash down, for the first sale of her books, £10,000,
or about £3000 a year. For “ Middlemaroh ” she
got £7000 cash down, and 250,000 copies were sold
in two years. The sale of “ Daniel Deronda” was
even greater. The figures named were, of course,
altogether apart from the royalties received by
her. In 1857, she got £53 10s. for “ Amos Darton ”
in "Scenes of Clerical Life;” her rights in “Adam
Bede” were sold for £800 for four years; for the
"Mill on the Floss” she had 10s. for each set of
three volumes, published at 31s. 61 ; the publishers
gave her £7000 down for “ Rom fia,” and £5000
down for "Felix Holt.” Her husband and bio-
grapher says;—"My wife told me the reason she
fixed on this name was that George was Mr.
Lewes’s Christian name, and Eliot was a good,
mouth-filling, easily-pronounced word.” “The
writing of ‘ Komola,”’ Mr. Cross says, “ ploughed
into ber more than any other of bqr IjooM- She
told me she could put her finger on it as marking
a well-defined transition in her life. In her own
words, ‘I began it a young woman; I finished It
an old woman.’” George Eliot liked Romola
best of all her works. George Eliot at first was
often somewhat straitened for money. She lived
in apartments in London in a humble way, and
when she went to Switzerland in 1819, she tried to
sell her books and globes in order to raise the
money she needed. After “ Adam Bede had es-
tablished her fame, she passed at once into afflu-
ence: but she was then 40 years old, and the habits
formed in the first part of her life remained. She
was always alive to the importance of money, not
for its own sake, but for the feeling of independ-
ence which it brought, and the pleasure of know-
ing that she was earning “honest money, she
sacrificed £3000 on “Romola” rather than consent
to its appearing in shorter portions at a time in
the Cohn in nn Magazine, a remarkable illustration
of the extent to which she carried her artistic
finikinness.
Osman Digna, who is fighting against us
in the Soudan, speaks fluently (in addition to
French and Arabic) English, Spanish, Italian, and
Persian He is a Frenchman by birth, and was
born In 1833 in a small hotel in Rouen. His father
dying a year or two after, his mother married an
Alexandrian merchant in 1837, half French and
half Egyptian, of the name of Osman Digma, w;ho,
taking a great fancy to young Osman (at that time
named Alphonse Vinet), insisted on having his
named changed to his own, and, dying in 1843, left
him 500,000fr. After the death of his stepfather
he was left to the guardianship of Ali Khana, a
kind of half partner of the elder Osman, a Mussul-
man, who, at the death of Madame Digma, in
In 1814, took young Osman into his house. His
religion at that time, being very much of the
Christian unattached type, was soon converted
into Mahomedanism. Ali Khana was a very
wealthy man, who lived in great Oriental pomp
and splendour, and gave Osman (one of whose
schoolmates was Arabi Pasha) a military educa-
tion. He entered the Khedive’s service, but, hap-
pening to offend that potentate, be had to leave
Egypt and had his property confiscated. He then
went to Suakim, and entered business as a ship-
chandler and coal agent under an assumed name;
but while on a hunting expedition he was cap-
tured by a band of roving Arabs, and was sold as
a slave to the man who at present calls himself the
“ Mahdi.” The Mahdl was charmed with his new
slave, as a man of unbounded learning, and who
would be able to train his numerous supporters in
the art of war. He gave Osman his daughter in
marriage, and has ever since treated him like a
son. The correspondent who sends these partlcu-
lars to the Globe adds?—“ In September, 1877, I
was on a shooting expedition in Abyssinia, and
hid wandered some miles away from my party,
when I was captured by a band of men of whom
Osman was the head; and, instead of selling me,
he kept me as his own slave, though my slavery
was of the lightest description, being principally
to teach his son, a pleasant lad of about nine or
ten years of age, English. I soon became inti-
mately acquainted with Osman, and was often
with him in his expeditions. I seized an oppor-
tunity some two years and a half afterwards,
and managed to make my escape. I re-
ceived a letter from him not long afterwards
(as I had given him my English address soon
after he ■ captured me), and the following
were the words:— ‘ Fallowgalia, April 1,1830. My
dear Young Friend, —Though I am sorry to have
lost your company, for your own sake I cannot
help being glad that you have escaped from my
clutches; but I think you will do me the justice to
admit that your life was not very irksome to you
whilo you were with me; still, of course, you are
like most other people, who believe in the words
of one of your own poets, ‘There is no place like
home;’ and I cannot say I blame you for taking
the first opportunity of escaping. I hope that
when you think of me it will only be with feelings
of friendship, and that when you look back to the
many hours you spent with me you will remember
kindly old Osman Digna.the slave-dealer.—Believe
me, my dear child, yours affectionately, Osman
Diona.’ From this point the general public know
as much as I do myself, and nearly all the remain-
der of his life is so much a matter of English his-
tory that it is unnecessary for me to enter further
into the life of a man who, if it were not that my
own country were fighting against him, I should
most fervently wish might be successful in his
efforts to emancipate his adopted country—a race
of brave and intrepid men—from the misrule of
men very far their inferiors in both courage and
intellect.”
v ♦ »
George Elliott, on General Wolseley (at Sir
James Paget's, in 1878) “ I was much interested
to find that a gentle-looking, clear-eyed, neatly
made man was Sir Garnet Wolseley, and I had tome
talk with him, which quite confirmed the impres-
sions of him as one of those men who haveapower
of command by dint of their sweet temper, calm
demeanour, and unswerving resolution.”
Among those who attended the funeral of the
Marchioness of Normanby was her medical ad-
viser, Dr. James, of Melbourne Dr. J. E. Tay-
lor, the editor of Science Gossip, was to start
from England at Easter on a lecturing tour in
Australia, Tasmania, and Now Zealand.
A Bungle.
But a few short months ago, 8000 Siberian
slaves connected with our glorious Civil Service
organization presented a petition to Parliament
requesting that august body to pass, without
delay, a Civil Service Bill then under considera-
tion, and so great was the fear of doing aught to
offend such a solid body of voters as these peti-
tioners formed, that both Houses immediately
woke up, and passed the measure with but the
faintest show of opposition. To-day, something
like 7000 of these unlucky tollers of the State are
fairly kicking themselves with rage for having
taken any step? whatever in the matter. Audi
justly so, too, for in the whole annals of Parlia-
mentary proceedings it would be simply impos-
sible to find a Bill more fraught with injustice and
blunders than this carefully muddled-up Bill In
question. When this Bill was drafted, the popular
conception was that it provided progressive
increase of salary for all permanently employed
public servants, with the exception of teachers
and railway officials. This, in itself, would have
been a monstrous misappropriation of the public
money, inasmuch as it proposed to offer a pre-
mium, not for general efficiency, but for length of
service, and the veriest dolt, providing he had
enough sense, or patronage to hold his position,
would bo placed on the same level as the man of
brains and ability, the result being that in course
of time the latter would re-echo Solomon’s
words : “ If it befalleth me, as befalletb
fools, why should I labour to be more wise?"
As the Bill was understood by the Civil Servants, it
certainly looked as if it was the finest that could
ever be devised for their future comfort, and
when it was finally agreed to, each officer felt as
if his cup of happiness was full to the brim and
slopping over into the saucer as well. Just now,
however, a change has come o'er the spirit of
the patriot’s dreams, for although both Houses of
Parliament were distinctly told that 3703 Civil
Servants would be entitled to all the benefits of
the Bill, it now turns out that only 1819 will come
within range of its blessings. The Board appointed
to make the necessary classification of the favoured
Individuals, has taken advantage of a certain sav-
ing clause in the Act and deliberately cut down
the General and Professional divisions, apparently
for no other reason than the very laudable one of
protecting the revenue of the colony. The clause
in question runs as follows:—“ Nothing herein
contained shall interfere with the rules and regula-
tions made by the Commissioner for Railways as
to the mode of admission, &c., under which per-
sona employed in the railway service are engaged
and agree to serve; or with such rules and regula-
tions of a similar kind with regard to any other De-
partment, except as hereinafter provided for in
parts v. and vi.” w ith the words in italics all the
trouble comes in. Hundreds of Civil Servants not
amongst the favoured tew claim that they joined
under precisely the same conditions as their
more fortunate brethren, and this being so,
how can the Board possibly justify its present
classification? As one instance of the gross in-
justice done to old and valued servants, we will
take the Electric Telegraph Department, end
point out a few of the disgraceful blunders com-
mitted there. And, ex pede Herculem, from the
errors made in one Department we may judge
how matters stand with all the others. In the
Telegraph branch we find that the Tenterfleld
station-master—a man who can point to something
like 40 years of honourable service—is left out in
the cold, while a stripling who has seen but 18
months’ service as a booking-clerk and envelope-
licker In the head office is carefully written down
as one of the favoured gentlemen who figure
under the General Division, class vi. Scores of
other station-masters and operators, whose length
of service ranges from 10 to 30 years, have, in uke
manner, to step aside and make room for boys of
a few months’ experience, simply because their
duties are not solely of a clerical nature. The ma-
jority of those officers shut out are expected to be
skilled electricians, and capable of performing
every duty connected with the working of a sta-
tion. This alone has compelled them to lose caste
in the opinion of the sapient board, and they are,
in consequence, placed below the lad whose
duties are strictly confined to directing en-
velopes or keeping a set of simple books. Each
station-master has to keep the same books, and
make out his returns in addition to the many other
duties of his office, but because he does more than
this he is judged as a man of inferior status. This,
however, is by no means all the trouble, for it
appears that instances have occurred ir. this pecu-
liarly managed Department in which a bona-Me
clerical officer, such as a booking-clerk, on being
appointed, has been gazetted as an operator simply
because no money was voted for an additional
booking-clerk’s salary, while a fund is generally
available for an extra amount of operators.
Hence, we find that there are clerks in this De-
partment who are drawing salaries as skilled
operators, and yet they do not know a single letter
of the telegraphic code. Their work is purely
clerical, and they would justly come under the
heading of those entitled to the privileges of the
Civil Service Bill but for the fact that they appear
in the Blue Book as operators, and those persons
whoso duty it is to see Justice done have not
thought it worth their while to (or, perhaps, dare
not) represent the true facts of the case to the
gentlemen of the Board. Then, again, we find that
the Assistant-manager of Telegraphs ranks honor-
ably lunder class iv. of the lucky dogs while the
Superintendent of Telephones is thrown out like a
dead rat, notwithstanding his extra responsibility
and the magnificence of his title. Postal Inspectors
are reckoned to be worthy of the Board’s smiles
but Telegraph Inspectors are not, and so from
beginning to end the whole thing, as the man in
“Hard Times” would say, is ’’a’ a muddle.”
Where the laugh comes in, however, lies in the
fact that although not one-twentieth part of the
officers of the Telegraph Department come under
the provisions of the Civil Service Act, still the
4‘ per cent, superannuation money has been re-
ligiously docked from their salaries since the be-
ginning of the present year. Another pleasant
little peculiarity in which all Departments partici-
pate is this:—A clerk, appointed to a salary of
£300 in December, 1884 will, in four years time, be
entitled to an Increase of £20 per annum, although
he may have teen only a few months in the ser-
vice; while another clerk, who has been drawing
a similar salary, and holding a similar position for
say 10 years previous, is only entitled to the same
privilege. Beyond their [own Departments, the
members of the Board are utterly ignorant of the
duties and responsibilities of very many of the
men upon whom they are called to sit in judg-
ment, and, as a natural result, nothing but the
most “successful failure” has attended their
opening efforts of administration. From preamble
to finish this Civil Service Bill is a disgrace to
those who framed it, and a lasting reproach to
those guardians of the people’s rights who allowed
it to be “ shanghaied ” through Parliament in the
shameful way it was.
Three men were once discussing minerals
In a promiscuous way, and as liquor was about,
naturally enough the minerals spoken of were of
great richness, for the value of mineral ore is
always shown most clearly when the glass is
brought to bear upon it. One of the party was a
Sydney prospector, a second the local banker, and
the third a selector, owner of some minerals of
wondrous value, which, strangely enough.no roan
would enrich himself by working. The prospector
spoke: “ I saw some ironstone the other day that
went 85 per cent pure metal.” The banker, doubt-
ing how far he could go without spoiling bis
credit by overdrawing his account, said: “85 per
cent. I know some magnetic iron, tons of it,
within a few miles of where we’re sitting, too, that
will go 96 per cent, every time.” The prospector
wished that he could re-assay his ore. There was
only a small margin left for the selector, but be
being, as his wife said, “a horful higgorant man,’
did not see the danger, or, else, perhaps, ever*
OUB NEW GOVERNOR, LORD CARINGTON.


MASON BROTHERS
EXHIBIT
V
LIMITED,
14 and 16 Spring Street
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS. CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highlar*whlsky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYBN’S
Sotanapi a md Geneva.
A. MELYINand SONS*
Edinburgn Pale A te.
- VfiNETIA waltz;
Th* Air to he well nucrkgtt, . CUnourtt Ldfrtin ait;
p/0 cantab Ji
Ped.<» •
Pod
-r
r«&
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC In the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &o.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues will he ready in a few days and
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed In best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever Invented, The Trypograpn
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which Is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
8 nd and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM ~BULLARb,
342 GEORGE STREET.
ECONOMICALFURNITURHmflr EC0N0MICALFURM1TURE
■
the LARGEST AND ONLY LEGITIMATE
TIME-PAYMENT FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THE COLONY,
365 PITT STREET.
SEA-SICKNESS CURED.
DS. BiiKBR’8
SPECIFIC AGAINST
Sea. Sicliness
Never failing to give relief to those who suffer
from this most distressing malady. Stopping im-
mediately all nausea, and enabling you to enjoy
the pleasures of the voyage.
Agents on board all steamers.
SOLE AGENTS:
GIBBS & CO.,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEV
A
USTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY
Established 1873.
Capital-£100,000 with power to increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES— 80 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
6413 Head Offices.
First Fire Society established in the colony on
the Mutual principle, giving pMlcy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from
all liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt aud liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
Transfer of Business.
- m
J- MeMurtrie & Co.,
HAVING purchased the business so
long and successfully carried on
by
MR. T. BAKER,
CATHEliRAL HOUSE-
556 GEORGE STREET,
Invites the attention of the puplic to
the large and varied stock of
AUTUMN & WINTER GOODS
NOW OPEN,
AND
READY FOR INSPECTION.
Fur Capes
Ladies' and Children’s Dolman, Four-
in-hand, and Newmarket Ulsters at
every price
Ladies’ Jerseys, braided, beaded, and
some entirely new styles
Look at our Show of Millinery, trimmed
and untrlmmed
Ladles’ and Children's Underclothing
and Dress Materials
Ladles’ Costumes and Mantles, Lace
Collarettes, &c.
And also a splendid stock of Family
Drapery, such as Calicoes, Linens,
Flannels, Blankets, Quilts. Lace
Curtains, Window Hollands, &o., &c.
The address is
SS« GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Cathedral.
Transfer of Business.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Hoad Odices—PITT and KI NO STREETS.
PUBLIC NO 1 ICE. '
Marshall’s Artificial Teeth.
Marshall brothers, uentisip, owing to
lhe (rreat increase of their dentistry prac-
tice, have also taken extensive premises at 133
ELIZABETH STREET, Hyde Park. They still
continue to insert leeth at the same enormously
reduced price as before, namely, iBS per set,
upper and lower, which are precisely mo same
prize medal teeth advertised by other linns.
Marshall Brothers guranDe these to be equal in
every way, both for quality, lit, and appearance,
to those interted by hundreds of dentists (with a
limited practice), who charge double and treble
this amount. The public may doubt this, but
Mar.-hall Brothers offer £r> 00 to any person who
can prove this statement untrue. Consultation
free. Painless extraction by the aid of nitrous
oxide gas. MARSHALL BROTHERS, American
Dentists, 133 Kllzabeth-street, Hyde Park, and
Market street. N. U.-All trams stou at the door.
AFicn oEFonE uonSTAOHAaadWEISEEES.
Boyd’s Beard BUrlrdid this,and
I pill do it on cither bald head or
bare fare, ft* rea henry Alons-
tar he in frnmZto 4 week * and never
fails , 2»),U00 young vien already
Copyrighted, toear full beards, having used 1 to
3 vkts. Ho injury , easily applied, sertain in effert.
each . 3 for 3*. Oi., post paid , sent under rover, free from observation*
Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent, Box ?;U), G.B.O., Sydney,H.8. W*
AFTErt
Copyrighted
Backets Is. Qd
Transfer of Business
Transfer of Business-
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept hy
Wed Warmoll.
for Infants and Children
Castorla cures Colic, Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation,
Gives healthy sleep and promotes digestion,
"Without injurious medication.
“Castorla is so well adapted to children tlistt
I recommend it as superior to any prescription
known to mo.” H. A. Archer, M. D., ( .
Ill Oxford Street, Now York. H
Elliott Bros., Sydney, Agents.
K.OYAL HOTEL
BOURSE,
la the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel in the Western District. The Table and LinuO
eaunot be Burpijss id, even In the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. First-class Stabling
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 10th April, 1885.
TENDERS FOR CLASSROOM, &c.
n ENDERS are invited for the erection of a
X Classroom, &c , at the North Sydney Public
School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Insruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Classroom, North
Sydney Public School,” must be lodged with the
Dnder Secretary, Department of Public Instruc-
tion, at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on Wednesday,
the 29th April, 1885.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender. TRICKETT.
Nervous debility, lost vitality,
Weakness, and Premature Decay.—Afavour-
ite Prescription of an eminent French Hospital
Phvsician for simple self-cure. Sent free to any
sufferer. Send your address, on a stamped enve-
lope, C.C. W., Box 766, G.P.O., Sydney.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
CELEBRATED
BISCUITS MI CASES, TREACLE All COLICS STRIP,
Self-raising /Erated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
-
for superiority of quality AND EXCELLENCE,
8 & A have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4.
looked it, in his anxiety to go one better than the
others. He did go one better. He said: *‘96 per
cent! Why, there’s plenty of it on my land that’s
been assayed to go two hundred and flftu per cent.
And then the other two went out with a crest-
fallen air, leaving the mineral proprietor to pay
for the drinks.
Baron Micklado Maclay, of Watson’s
Bay, is apparently the object of anxious attention
• on the part of some Australians just now. A letter
of inquiry as to his present and past occupations
In that neighbourhood, and as to whether he re-
tains his Russian nationality or has been natu-
ralised as a British subject, recently appeared in
the E. News, and a correspondent writes to us
also:-“The Biological [Station at Watson’s Bay
has seemed to be next to useless since its erection,
and I believe the public have never seen or heard
in print or otherwise, of any of the scientific re-
searches Jor discoveries of Mr. Maclay, the
Russian naturalist. Considering nls visits to the
Russian war ships when in Farm Cove, on
or pleasure, at the same time being
entertained in a friendly manner by the olHcer in
charge of the South Head forts, now gone to the
Soudan, it does seem much as if this Mr, Maclay is a
mystery among us. Would you kindly tell us
through your paper whether this gentleman is a
titled duke or lord, baron, or what, as most
people do not recognise his importance at all.”
We don’t know anything about the Russian rank
of the gentleman referred to. He is son-in-law to
Sir John Robertson, and the Biological Museum,
or Observatory, or whatever it is called, was
erected for his convenience at the expense of the
colony. We noticed a few days ago, in the S.M.
Herald we think, a paragraph to the effect that
as the Biological Station was “somewhat in-
conveniently situated ” with relation to the har-
bour defences, it was to be appropriated for mili-
tary purposes, or removed—we forget which. A
curious business altogether. The “ Vagabond ”
used to say things about Baron Maclay’s useful-
ness to the Russian Government.
The Archbishop of Canterbury, on a re-
cent Sunday, announced from the pulpit of West-
minster Abbey, that Gordon was safe. The Arch-
bishop. through the Dean of Westminster, had
got hold of a canard, that was all. But the false
news was telegraphed all over the country, and
the dean had the next day to rush into print ex-
plaining and regretting. Why the Archbishop
of Canterbury should suddenly convert himself
into a fourth edition of a Sunday taper is not
quite clear to a certain Radical writer, but at
least such an exalted newsman should see that he
is correct in his news. If the latest intelligence
about Gordon is not out of place in the Church
Service, nothing is out of place there. We may
even have the winner of the Grand Prix announced
from the pulpit of 8t. Paul's one day, and later on
we may be told what was second and what was
third. If men go to church to worship, their
minds should not be disturbed with thoughts about
Khartoum and the Mahdi, and battles and mur-
ders. Gordon was the last man in the world to
wish divine service interrupted with the last in-
vention of the goseipers concerning himself. What
becomes of the religious objection to Sunday
papers if archbishops are to give off news para-
grapsin church? Besides, the practice isn’t fair
to the honest lads who rush through the
streets on Sunday afternoons with a thunder-
ing line on a Sunday paper contents bill.
Here is a sample of the new sermon :—
“Dearly Beloved Brethren,—In this divine edifice
for awhile we leave the care of the world and give
our hearts to (clerk whispers)—eh-bless me!
I’ve just received information that Mr. Joseph
Chamberlain has been sent to a lunatic asylum on
the certificate of Dr. Forbes Winslow, I will now
proceed. Brethren, in the quiet and calm of the
Sabbath, we have leisure to think of the world to
come, and (clerk whispers)-eh I Oil have just
been informed that Mr. Edmund Yates, in endea-
vouring to escape from Holloway, fell from a
window upon a warder and crushed him into a
ohapeless mass. To return. The things of this
world, my brethren, are but shadows that pass.
Eternity lies before us (clerk whispers)-eh ?
01 Mr. Henry Irving’s receipts in Chicago have
been cabled to this country. They are the largest
ever known. Yes, my brethren, let every man
search into his heart and say. Am I fit to die ? Am
I not a desperate sinner? (Clerk whispers)—Ah I
The Prince of Wales, while driving this afternoon,
lost his hat in the high wind. No serious conse-
quences are anticipated. We are of the earth
earthy, my brethren, but if we cleanse ourselves
from earth, if we prepare ourselves for —(clerk
whispoisl—01 The Derby favourite was found
early this morning to have been stung on the nose
by a wasp. The odds against him are now 10 to 1.
Ah, my brethren, you come to this holy edifice to
listen to words of comfort, words of hope. You
come — (clerk whispers)-eh ? Get along with
you. I shan’t say it. It's an advertisement for
Pears’ soap.”


HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. B. Hlscocks..
Professional Directory*
W.
Sydney
HORACE BENT, with Hlscocks’ Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
TO AMATEUR TH BA TRIG ALS.—Scenery Sup-
plied or Lent. G. Pekriman, Scene Painter,
No. 7, back of Academy of Music. Castlereagh-st,
G
AIETY THEATRE
Lessee B. N. Jones.
Proprietor and Manager .. Wm .Emerson.
Business Manager .. .. Wm A. Jinkins.
“GOOD WINE NEEDS NO BUSH.”
SPECIAL CARD.
Itiswilh pride,coupled i
with thanks, that the
Management announce
the unprecedented fact
that, notwithstanding i
Mr. Emerson and bisj
company only arrived in
Australia on Tnursday
last, per R.M.S.8. Zea-
land a, they were last
Monday evening re-
ceived by a largo and
brilliant gathering of
playgoers ; the largest
by lar that has yet as-
sembled within the walls
of the Gaiety, who were
unanimous in their de-
monstrative ovation,
cheer after cheer greet-
ing each artist, and each
act, testifying to the
artistic triumph that had
been achieved. Mr. Em-
erson being accorded the
honour of a special call,
his performance being a
thoroughly finished
study, the merit of which
was fully recognised by
the vast audience. The
Management, therefore,
consider it quite un-
nerossary to eulogise'the
lod vidual nr collective
merits of th s organisa-
tion. |
SP B 01 AT? NOTICE.
Popular Prices. Orchestra Chairs, 4s. Stalls, 33.
Family Circle, Is.
Box-oflice at Nicholson ann Co.’s. George-street.
Carriages may be ordered for 10.80. Tickets for
all parts of the house can be obtained at .7. Qrow-
den’s, tobacconist, opposite Gaiety Theatre.
RE AD OUR NAMES,
BILLY EMERSON
THE COGILL BROS.
CHAS. W., & HARRY P.
WALSH and KING
GUS. STANLEY
BENT PIXLEY
DAN. TRACEY
BENJAMIN CLARK
1 ALFRED HOLLAND
A Grand Double Quar-
tette and Orchestra un-
der the Leadership of
Mr. CHARLEL W.
REINHART.
CHIAR1NP8 ROYAL ITALIAN CIRCUS
and MENAGERIE of TRAINED ANIMALS.
THE DIG SHOW, OPEN EVERY NIGHT, at 7.
Performance commencing at 8, at
BELMORE PARK.
CONSTANT CHANGES OP PROGRAMME.
Third Week, and still the same undiminished and
unwavering success as on the opening night.
THE BIGGEST AND THE BEST SHOW IN
THE CITY.
Thousands of Delighted Spectators present at
every Entertainment.
GRAND FREE OUT DOOR CONCERTS given
by Chiarlnl’s Celebrated Band for one hour before
each performance commences.
Afternoon Performances every WEDNESDAY
and SATURDAY, at3 30. Doors open at 1.20.
Glorious Fun for the Children. Free Rides on
the Learned Ceylon Elephants at Every Afternoon
Show.
L. MAYA, Secretary.
FRANK G. WILSON, Advance Agent.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, 14th April, 1865
Tenders for public wobrs and sui-
PLIES.—TENDERS are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
la kept at every Post Office In the eolony.
Tenderers may be In attendance w hen the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will, be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
leas the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
F. A. WRIGHT,
DR.SCOTT'S
IBS
M 3
mm
’.'v
* m
■■S’
W-am
WM)
N."\ I
m
Dr. Scott's Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate tit, and aiding by the
vitalising properties of electricity tbe func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
If you have any pain, ache, or ill-feeling
from any cause; if you seem “pretty well,”
yet lack energy and do not “feel up to the
mark;” if you suffer from disease, we beg
you to at once try these remarkable cura-
tives. They cannot and do not injure like
medicine. Always doing good, never barm.
There is no shock or sensation felt in wear-
ing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during the
first hour they are worn their wonderful
curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all
the old-time health and good-feeling ccme
back. They are constructed on scientific
princples, imparting an exhilarating,
health-giving current to the whole system.
Professional men assert that there is hardly
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benelit or cure, and tuey daily
practise the same, as your own physieiau
will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance
from those usually worn, as we subsPtute
our flat steel magnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in quality and design.
They are elegant in shape and finish, made
after the best French patterns, and war-
ranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents.
1
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Arc universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &c., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (sc-
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
s. d.
No. 1
No. 3
No. 3
No 5
Electric Belts..
6 6
8 6
10 6
15 0
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetie
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kmd
to any port or railway station in New Soutu
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of pr’ c ®
named, with Is. Gd. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamp 3
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size t;
Corset usually w r orn; or, where the s' 12 ®. 1
not known, take a measurement of
waist over the linen. This can be done wu
a piece ef common string, which send vn°
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
mm mm
54 RRargarat-striBt,
SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 231.
Theatre royal.
Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garnek and Mdsgroyb.
Lessen. Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Doors open at 7.15, commence 7.45 Carriages, 10.45.
Tenth Week, and established Success of the
Royal Dramatic Company,
who have contributed another triumph to the list
of th -ir achievements.
THIS EVENING, at a quarter to 8 precisely,
THE PROFESSOR
TIUS PROFESSOR,
with a
POWERFUL CAST and NEW- SCENERY by
GORDON and HENNINGS.
Furniture and appointments from Hamilton aud
Co. Globe Furniture Warehouse, Park and Castle-
reagh-streets.
Prices of Admission: Diess Circle, 5s.; Stalls,
3s.; Family Circle, 2s.
Tickets for all parts of the house at East way’s
Hotel. Box office open daily from 11 till 4.
New opera house.
Lessees, Messrs. E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
Under the Management of Rignold and Allison.
Stage Manager Mr. J. F. Cathcart.
Another Great Triumph achieved by
RIGNOLD and ALLISON’S COM ED V COMPANY,
in the late HENRY J, BYRON’S
MOST SUCCESSFUL COMEDY,
14 DAYS 14 DAYS 14 DAYS
The Action of the Comedy stopped by incessant
laughter and vociferous applause.
Plan at Huonrbocln’s. Treasurer, G. A Coleman
OF MUSIC,
Lease? ahd Manager .. Mr, P. E. Hiscocks.
44th Week, and Continued Success of
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION
Every Evening in their Refined and Amusing
Entertainment.
The beautiful quartette. "THE MESSAGE,”
by Braham, Emery, Read, and Porter.
Admission, 4s., 3s., 2s, and Is. Box Plan at
Paling’s. Carriages at 10.15.
3 T. GEORGE’S HALL,
j Melbourne.
Lessees ... Ciark and Byman.
OPEN ALL THE YEAR ROUND.
Flrft-class Artists, Novelties, Combinations—
either Musical, Dramatic, Minstrel, or Operatic—
treated with.
Silence a respectful negative.
1 his popular place of amusement is now in its
full tide of success—houses packed to the door 1 ?
nightly. Pronounced by the Press, public, and
profession to be the best entertainment ever seen
in Melbourne.
Notice.—The tit'e of "Red Stockings” has
been duly registered, and anyone infringing this
title will be prosecuted according to law.
JOHN FANNING,
Business Manager.
NEXT SATURDAY AFTERNOON, at 3 p.m.
GRAFTON ESTATE,
W oollalira.
Cooper Freeholds ! Cooper Freeholds !
1700 FEET FRONTAGE TO THE OLD SOUTH HEAD ROAD;
2250 FEET FRONTAGE TO THE EDGECL1FFE ROAL-
Besides frontages to GRAFTON STREET. NELSON STREET, WaLLTS STREET, LB WELL
STREET, VERNON STREET, ROWE STREET, GR SVBNOR STREET, and
ADELAIDE STREET.
434 MAGNIFICENT SITES TO PICK EROM.
FRONTAGES of !(!>£, 30, 33, 40, nnd 50 feet. DEPTHS of 100, 130, 160, 300, and 230 feet.
35 SPLENDID CORNER LOTS, 20-FEET LANE AT REAR OP EVERY ALLOTMENT.
WAVERLEV and BONDI TRAMS PASS THE ESTATE.
SALE NEXT SATURDAY, 18th APRIL
7
ONLY 10 per cent, DEPOSIT, balance extending over 7 years.
THE COMING SALE. THE COMING SALE.
BATT, ROOD, & PURVES
Have received instructions from D. COOPER, Esq., to Sell by Public Audi ,n, on
THE GROUND,
NEXT SATURDAY AFTERNOON,
APRIL 18th,
The ahovo MAGNIFICENT PROPERTY, known as the
GRAFTON ESTATE, occupying the most Central
Position in Woollalira.
ty TITLE FREEHOLD. TITLE FREEHOLD.
This land has been carefully subdivided by ivUssts. REtTSS and HAJjLORAN, Licensed Surv ivors*
of 100 Pitt-streot, into ALLOT.V1EN PS to suit all clrtsseS of buyers, and PLANS may be obtained from
the AUCTIONEERS.
Purchasers in the Estate will have CHOICE of tile following terms:-10 per cent. DEPOSIT, 10 per
cent, in 3 months, WITHOUT INTEREST, balance by 7 equal YEARLY INSTALMENTS ; Interest at
C per cer t. Or,
10 per cent. DEPOSIT, balance by QUARTERLY INSTALMENTS extending over 7 years ; Inte-
rest at (« per c ant. Or,
10 per cent DEPOSIT, balance by MONTHLY INSTALMENTS extending over 7 years; Interest
at 0 per cent.
Title—Freehold.
SOLICITORS TO THE ESTATE :
Messrs- ICBTON and EAIIHFULL, 88 Pitt-strcet
[All interested in Poultry Panning, should send for pamphlet
issued free hy Messrs. Poyd & King, Auctioneers, Sydney.]
On SATURDAY, 25th INSTANT.
LAKES imiARNEY
Poultry Farms. Orchards, or Vineyards.
1 to 10-ACRE BLObKS-
BOYJD cfeL K1KTG
Will Sell by Public Auction, the above VALUABLE PROPERTY.
UPSET PRICE. £7 10s. PER ACRE. Terms: £1 per acre deposit, balance extending
over 2 years.
SPECIAL TRAIN". FREE TICKETS, LUNCHEON.
Early application for plans tino 1 tickets should be made to the auctioneers,
BJQYD and XING, 96 Pit«~sfreet,


Oriental Gold
Is the latest discovery of Science and the grandest
achievement of the alchemist’s art. It looks like
gold, it is as heavy as gold, and it is more enduring.
None but an expert can detect the difference, and
then only by, the severestjtests. Ornaments made
irom this new composition are equal in design and
general appearance to ;those made of the finest
18-carat gold, and yet wo sell them at but a tithe
oLthe Cost of the genuine'goods.
Remember that we do not pretend that Oriental
wold is anything but a composition of pure metals;
ve po affirm that it is so perfect an imitation
ot the sterling gold as to almost defy detection.
Jewellery made of it may be worn anywhere, and
the closest inspection will only strengthen the con-
viction that it is real gold. So perfect is it, and so
largo has our trade become, that Jewellers through-
out the colonies are complaining of the dullness In
trade, and are constantly writing to us to secure
our goods for their own customers. But as we are
Sole Agents for these colonies, we prefer to deal
directly with the public. All of our Oriental Gold
Jewellery is made to our order, and is stamped
with our trade mark. You can order anything
from a Scarf Pin to a Watch and Chain, and it will
be tent Post Free, and at our risk, on receipt of
price.
PRICE LIST.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double slides and tassels, 15s., 20s.. and 25s. each.
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 5s., 6s.. 7s. 6d., 8s.,
8s. 6d., Os., and 10s a pair.
Ladles’ choice Necklets, from 12s. 6d. to 30s.
Ladies’ very handsome Necklets, set in splendid
Alaska Diamonds, £210a. to £5 5s.
Ladies’ elegant Bangles, 7s. to 15s. a pair.
Ladies handsome Cloak Clasps, 15s. to 30s.
Ladies very best American Rolled Gold Chate-
laines, 30s. each.
La £ le8 Ii !h 2i oe Sockets and Necklets, 17s. 6d., 20s.,
23s. 6d., 25s., 27s. 6d., 30s., 35s., and 40s.
Han dsome Gem Rings, 7s. 6d., 8s. 6d., 10s„ 15s . 20s.,
and 30s. each.
E1 <*ant Keepers, Wedding Rings, and Fancy
c, Bidrs, . from 38 - Gd - to 8s - Gd - each,
§o|* d 2° 3 » and Keeper Rings, 10s. each.
8ohd Goid Wedding and Keeper Rings, 18 carat.
hall marked, 31s, each.
L^d1^ 8 .’ handsome Oriental Gold Lockets, from
Hs. 6d. to 35a. each.
Elegant Crosses, in Oriental Gold, from 10s to 20s.
ladies **aiigles, in Sterling Silver, warranted*
from 6s. od. to 10a.
Ladies’ Handsome Bracelets, in Sterling Silver,
hall marked, 17s. Od. to 40s. each.
Brooches, in Sterling Silver, from 7s. Cd. to 80s.
Brooch and Earrings, in Sterling Silver, from 10s.
to 408.
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3s. 6d. each.
Ladies Lockets, in Sterling Silver, hall marked,
from 15s. to 35s. each.
Ladies’ Alberts, in Sterling Silver, from 10a"to 40s,
each,
Qent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £2 2 0
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £2 6 0
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, In hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tassells £2 16 0
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £3 0 0
These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert
Celebrated English Patent Lever,‘extra
jewelled, and compensation balance,
with Oriental Gold Albert ..
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers
Ditto ditto, compensation balance
The celebrated Waltham Watch, In hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert
Ditto ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert »» io u
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph.
with Oriental Gold Albert
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket .. ... .. ... jq q
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £3
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
| SSfiSfffi ”«
Gent’s’ Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond and Ruby
Rings, 7s. 6d. and 8s. 6d., each. J
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, plain half, round
buckle, flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck
rings, &c., &c., from 5s. to 8s. Od. each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 7s., 7s. 6d„ 8s., 8s. 6d., 9s.. 10s..
and 12s. Od. per set. *
Same as above, only half sets, 3s., 4s., and 6s. per
Very latest American Patent Spring Solitaire
feuites, 10s. per set.
Gent’s elegant Seals, real stones, 7s. 6d„ 8s., 9s.,
10s., and 12s. 6d. each.
Gent's eiegant Compasses, latest designs, 8s., 10s„
and 12s. 6d. each. ’
G ® nt ’ 8 < - )ri 5 n n t n 1 Gold Alberts, handsome patterns,
os. od. and 10s. each;
Gent’s very latest American Rolled Gold Alberts,
made specially to our order, 17s. 6d. t 30s. # 35s..
and 30s. each.
Gents’ handsome Scarf Pins, from 3s. 6d. to 12s. 0d.
Gents’ Scarf Rings, 8s. each.
Very best American Pencil Cases, from 6s. to
-LsS. od.
Gents’ Hair Guards, 15 carat Gold Mounts, 30s. each
each Sterllng 8ilver Alberts, from 12s. 0d. to 80s.
Gents’ Match Boxes, 8s. 6d. each.
Gents’ Sovereign Purses, 7s.6d. each.
Ladi e® handsome Brooch and Earring Suites, from
8s. fld. to 8os. per set.
Ri 6d bl to C i0-) Sed aDd eDgraved Bracelets, from 12s.
Elegant Brooches, from 5s. to 80s. each.
L 8^. 1 M.and d l 8 0r e C ac O h! iental °° ld Albert8 ’ 78 ’ 6d ”
£4 6 0
£6 6 0
£4 10 0
£5 5 0
£3 3 0
£4 15 0
£5 6 0
£6 6 0
SPECIALLY OBSERVE.
Should you be dissatisfied with your Investment
after inspecting the articles, re-pack them at once
and send them back to us. If this is done within
two days—or where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured—we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will refund the
money for the articleslnot retained. Fair dealing
is our motto, and we bind ourselves to give satis-
faction. Examine our catalogue, and send in your
order for what you may require.
Remember the Address :
474 George Street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS,
Sydney,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—‘‘The Professor ” p. 8
Opera House—“ 14 Days ” „
Gaiety Theatre— Emerson’s Minstrels ,,
Academy of Music.— Hiscocks’ F. Minstrels „
Chiarini's Circus— Belmore Park „
The “Professor” is filling the Royal.
Titheradge takes the title part, and is far and away
the best we can remember. We never saw the
piece before. (Yah!) We suppose everybody in
Sydney has, and remembers the delightfully im-
possible scientist with his “ loud ” togs and easy-
going unconventionality. Between us and Tither-
adge there’s one radical difference—a profound
gulf separates us. He always appears to do the
right thing at the right time, while we It was
pleasant on Monday night to watch him—pleas-
anter to watch how the hard, sordid-looking
wrinkles on some mean faces near us lost some of
their harshness when he was on. And how hard
and knotty they became when he went off I The
“Professor” is called a “character study.” Of
course, this is absurd. In real life such a person
would never reach 41 years of age. If one sex
didn’t kill him, the other would. If both missed
him, be sure be would never escape the Jews.
• * +
Annie Mayor was Daisy Brown. Moses
Brown (Mr. Leake) was her parent, and with the
help of a paling, made life attractive to Daisy.
When Titheradge gave Moses a left-hander in the
“snout ” and made him hunt grass for a bit, a wild
cheer went up from the audience. We got a lot of
information about Annie Mayor on Monday night
from one who appeared to have been reared with
her. We knew she was young and natty, but it
was news to us to hear she was colonial. You
didn’t see her in “ Haunted Lives ?” The loss is
yours. Sainted Sardsnapalus! to see the way she
“froze” to that brat, and broke up the villain
Howard with speeches of blighting mordancy I
And Redwood was there with his droll, metallic
voice so impossible to modulate. As in “ Friend?,”
he had a young cub of a lad (Watson), whose very
presence made the fingers of even mild-looking
men in the audience twitch with a cruel nervous-
ness-a bloodthirsty longing to get at his wind-
pipe. Hans Phillips, who was Redwood’s brat in
“ Friends,” and won high praise for his pheno-
menal mawkishness, was M. Beauregard—an
artist—in the “ Professor.” Everyone seemed
glad when he appeared, and down-hearted
when the exigencies of the piece required
his presence in the green-room. You know when
how cheerily the story ends—how this ter-
ribly short-sighted “ Professor ” flouts the dressy
ladies of his aunt’s acquaintance, and clings to
the tattered romp Daisy? As we began with
Titheradge, so shall we end. About his acting,
there was no disagreement—no controversy. If
he is not the “scientist” that Gillette had in his
mind’s eye when he sat down to write, he is at
least an imitation whom we prefer to the original.
* * *• *
On Sunday night it occurred to us that we
might as well go in and hear Tom Walker. There
was room—and no mote—in the house when we
went in. The vacant seats were chiefly in the
gallery, but the few persons who appeared there
made up for their paucity by their earnestness—
not to say ferocity. They were sceptics all, of the
most uncompromising types—the sort of persons
we’ve seen before now shelling peas behind barri-
cades. In the stalls and circle there was a fair
sprinklir g of bonnets, but the vast majority of the
audience was male, del! To think of what the
world might be to-day but for this terrible conser-
vatism of the female mind I Who can blame
Mahomet for giving little of this world and none
of the next to the women folk ?
* ♦ ♦
There was a band of seven, led and con-
ducted by the unconventional Allpress. The more
we see of this irrepressible virtuoso, the shorter
his person seems, and the longer his hair. And he
fiddles away so unconcernedly—and fiddles so
well, be it said—that he never thinks of the half-
suppressed howls for his blood that gurgle up in
the audience behind him. Why, a Paganini
couldn’t carry that amount of hair without being
assaulted. Has the lad no friend ? Is he an orphan
—alone in the world ? Will nc body put his head
anywhere-even if in chancery—and make it pre-
sentable to decent people ?
“All this is merely a little aside. You don’t
suppose people were standing two or three deep
to look at Allpreis’ hair or hear his band ? No.
They came to near Tom Walker- "The House of
Lords ” was Mr. Walker's subject. It is a bad
subject, at the best. We don’t know Walker—
don’t want to. He doesn’t know us—doesn’t want
to—wouldn't, if he could. But the pleasure his
lecture gave cannot be expressed in word?. We
contrasted its ever-varying facets with tho dreary
platitudes of orthodoxy and—someone came off
best. We think it was Walker, mats chaeun dson
gout. Walker is a born speaker. He told us what
most of us knew about England and its hereditary
legislators. Nothing that be could say could in-
tensify the feeling of- contempt-, we suppose is the
proper word—for people who submit to be so
governed. It is odd.
• • •
Tom had a list at the door to be signed by
those who were anxious to defend Sydney against
the Russians. Tom wanted to be served out with
deadly weapons at once, lie wanted to stand on
the “ Sow and Pigs” with a 20 or 30-ton gun in his
waistband, and “ chivvy ” creation. Nothin/
short of that would suit him. That’s the worst of
Tom. He’s too precipitate. One of these days
he’ll be mooning about the Pacific telllrg South Sea
Island ghosts what a stupid thing it is to keep on
spouting, while the muzzle of a Muscovite field-
piece is pressing against the small of your back.
♦ * *
The Liberator, and its exclusion from the
School of Arts, was touched on. Personally, we
think the exclusion a very arbitrary, not to say
stupid, proceeding. Mais revenom. Mr. Walker
will have to guard against flippancy. Speaking of
various descriptions at butter, he said “ Butter not
have it.” This sort of double entendre might suit
the Sydney Morning Herald, but it is out of
place at a popular lecture. Tom hinted at going
into Parliament. We trust he will stand. If he
does, not only will we give our vote for him, but
we’ll up-end Sydney to get him returned. He was
severe on the Lords, and didn’t spare Governor
Lord Loftus Not that his Excellency wanted to
be spared. He is probably oblivious of Tom. He
will, likely enough, go down to the grave with the
same nice nil admirari smile on his pleasant face,
wondering, no doubt, how the solar system could
have Jogged on had his grandfather not sold Ire-
land.
y * ♦
We have almost done with Walker. But
we’ll say this of him—his views may not be quite
ours—his pronunciation or non-pronunciation of
occasional P’s may not be musical to ears that
have heard Bright, Disraeli, and Gladstone-not to
say Parnell, O’Brien, and Tim Healy—but (always
barring Dr. Moorhouse) he is the best and raciest
speaker we’ve heard this side of Capricorn, and
should he get into Parliament he’ll wake ’em up
there.
* * ♦
Stupid, wasn’t it? We nearly forgot. At
the beginning of the “Service” Tom held up a bit
of paper, and said: “This is a piece of money
found on the steps of the circle by a lady. After
divine service’ anyone describing it properly
will have it returned,” Every loafer in the house
went into a “ trance ” at once, and begged his
familiar spirit to describe the coin. We guessed a
‘ penny ” but a reporter of the D.T. near us held
out for a Queen Anne “farthing” and got it.
♦ ♦ * *
“14 Days” is the new piece at the
Opera House. It was well advertised. The ordi-
nary advertising mediums were not considered
enough, so some waifs were roused up, and
Paraded the streets in convict dress, with a make-
believe warder to keep them in file. To our eyes,
the felons’ “make-up” was faultless, but many
white-beaded citizens in King-street looked stonily
on, and criticised the changes that had been macro
since their time. The place was badly attended,
and the piece will certainly be a “ frost.” It has
little to recommend it. It has nothing. It
was not a case of one person sending meat
and another cooks, but the reverse. After all,
the time to see an actor at his best is when he is
at his worst. A Celtic way of putting it, isn’t it ?
But an actor like Phil Day can afford to smile
complacently, whatever the papers say about
him. Still he was badly handicapped in “ 14 Days.”
The man who sat in Newtown’s chair wondered
how the deuce he got there, and we are entitled
to wonder why the—of course—E. Majeroni and
W, J. Wilson gave us ”14 Days.” But Rignold
and Allison are such sly dogs you never know
what they’re up to. “14 Days” is described on
the bills as the late Henry J. Byron’s moat amusing
comedy, and the latest “ London success.” Henry
J. is dead. We don’t wonder. For a man who
could, in cold blood, sit down and write such a
sparkless “14 Days,” death must be a relief. The
funniest phrase in the piece is damme, and it is
repeated so often that towards the end, the audi-
ence get restless, and clamour for a change of
blasphemy. It is strange that such an experienced
writer as the late Henry J, Byron should confine
himself to this elementary description of pro-
fanity when such a wide field was open before
him. Had he spent a week with a New South
Wales bullock-driver, ho would either never have
written “14 Days,” or would have punctuated it
with oaths.
» • *
Whatever plot there is, is of the flimsiest.
A married Cockney of independent means darts
after a cab in which were two ladies of good ap-
petite and bad character. One of them had an-
nexed a carte of the pursuer’s wife. A “bobby,”
seeing Porter (that was the gallant’s name) run-
ning, grasped the situation with the proverbial
astuteness of his kind. He then grasped Porter-
wanted to know what was up. He wasn’t, after
the first round. But his mates rattled to the
rescue, and when they’d twisted P.’s arms, chipped
a junk as big as a breakfast plate out of his skull,
and reduced his clothes to rags, they “ ran him in ”
with professional pluck. His friend Brummelles
bails him out, but a week afterwards ho has to ex-
plain matters to an unimaginative magistrate,
which he does with such Ingenuousness as to get 14
days without the option. How to keep his poor
wife in the dark concerning his slip and fall is the
next thing to be thought of. This should be a
warning to men never to conceal anything from
their wives, and to avoid even the most harmless
familiarity with strange females. On the shallow
pretence of spending a fortnight in Italy, this
misguided man misleads his trusting wife and re-
tires for a term of rock-fracturing and skilly.
Everything comes right in the end, but not before
half the audience regret that the author hadn’t
died young and the other half feel moodily in their
pockets for projectiles to lavish on the actors.
m * *
Phil. Day is Porter, and. Solange Novaro
his wife. They are both widely and favourably
known, and do their best to pull the sad business
through. But in spite of their efforts, the thing
constantly hangs fire. There was occasional laugh-
ter in the pit, but it was mirth that did one harm
to bear. And the dialogue, too, often approaches
so close to the “broad,” that you fancy it has
crossed the boundary line. Little can be said in
favour of a piece whose fun (such as it is) is eked
out by thinly-veiled double entendre. There is one
Arthur Spoonbill (Mr. Rogers) described as an “ ar-
chitect,” but who relinquishes that profession for
the more lucrative one of photographing profes-
sional beauties. He is engaged to be married to
Day’s sister-in-law (Miss Bronton), and many of
the allusions made to the danger to his morals
likely to arise from his new calling are suggestive.
He doubted whether even “ Joseph” would have
come so well out of that little trouble with
Madame P. had he been in the photography line.
Take it all through, the impression left on you by
“ 14 Days” Is one of regret that it was ever written,
sorrow for those who have to represent it, and
hope that, if there be a place of future punish-
ment, the most uncomfortable corner in it will be
railed off and reserved for those who write
patriotic songs or p?lt us with “ successful
comedies.”
A “ Grand Matinee” was given at the
Opera House on Saturday afternoon by the “Com-
mercial Dramatic Club.” The proceeds were to
fro to the “ Soudan Patriotic Fund.” We craned
our neck through the open door Just as the cur-
tain was being raised, and counted no less than 13
grown persons in the circle. In the stalls, too.
there must have been quite 30 or 40 people. The
causes of this crush and enthusiasm were various.
To begin with, it was under distinguished pa-
tronage-the Governor, Lord Augustus Loftus,
G.C.B., Mr. Dailey, the Ministry, the Mayor,
Messrs. Ralnford and H. M’Quade having expressed
a wish to attend. Then, again, the “ cause” helped
It along, and to wind up, the “ Commercial Dra-
matic Club” is now so greatly and justly renowned
that few people who are anybodies or have any
claim to refinement care to miss a performance
given bv these clever Bohemians. “ Delicate
Ground,” “ Not such a Pool as he Looks,” and a
musical melange made up the menu. We didn’t
remain for the whole of the show. We didn’t stay
for any. But this was through no fault of ours.
Still, it was cruel, unfeeling, to allow us just one
look and (hen turn us away from the gorgeous
scene crushed and abashed. “Press,” we said
gaily to a ferocious-looking draper’s assistant who
“bossed” the door. He surveyed us supercili-
ously. “Wot rag?” he asked, with chilling polite-
ness, “Bulletin,” we smiled; “nice day, ain’t
it ? Good house ? Has his Excellency come yet ?”
“ Were’s yer keerd ?” he snapped, morosely. “ We
forgot it to-day, sir; left it under the marble
Psycho on our buhl mantel-piece,” we said hum-
bly. “ Well, ye can go back for it; or, see here, if
Coleman’s knockin’ about, he might give you a
order.” He was clearly softening. “ Thankee,
sir,” we replied, and went to look lor Coleman. A
brother ink-slinger was spinning down the stairs
before us three steps at a time and using words of
nervous potency. Wo left him in the vestibule
wrestling collar-and-elbow with the person who
sold tickets. Coleman was away shaking In the
hat with someone from Sandhurst, and so we
missed the performance of the “Commercial
Dramatic Club a representation that those who
were there say will haunt them to their dying day.
* * * *
Billy Emerson—“the Napoleon of Min-
strelsy,” as he humbly calls himself—back again I
We treated the announcement with derision till
we satisfied ourselves by calling at the Gaiety
that it was the “Billy” of ever-so-long-ago. He
opened on Monday to a house that you might get
a few more into by letting ’em down through the
sky-lights.&At half-past 7, Jinkins, the manager,
was at the door turning people away in sections.
There was a smile of deep subtlety and size on the
cavern that he has Induced to serve him as a
mouth. Inside (the house) were some famous
public men. Dan O’Connor was there in a private
box. Not far away was Joe Thompson in another,
while the Robertsons, Hanlan, and 50 more, whose
names and deeds are as familiar as household
words, were scattered up and down.
• «* <•
After the overture, Holland made the
running with a clear sonorous voice, that rang out
like a trombone. Then the “leviathan” himself
and Charley Coghill started. In a minute every
person in the gallery had his mouth open bawling
for “ more.” Billy is as racy as ever. For the first
ten minutes or so it was mostly laughter that could
be heard. Then hysterics supervened, till at last
buttons began to fly. Cogill was the pet. Stanley
and Pixly followed in a piece of inspired tom-
foolery called “Flirting.” Then the two Cogills
gave us “ Chit-Chat.” The dialogue here goes
rippling, and sparkling, and dancing along till you
feel that it is possible to have too much even of
the best thing.
* * *
Young Cogill warbles while the other
twists and turns till he resembles some uncanny
thing that men see after a full supper of tinned
lobster. All this time he is “ footing” a measure
as grotesque as the wildest pirouette made by the
“ cutty sark” in the auld roadside kirk. All this
paves Ithe way for the “ versatile specialists,”
Walsh and King.”
The clog and trick dancing of these der-
vishes is the smartest thing in its way that has
been introduced from that “slope” which was
called the Pacific. While the stage was being got
ready for the concluding burlesque, Billy emerged
as the “ Dandy Dude.” and paralysed the gal-
lery-knocked ’em. The wind up was “ Kon-
fooshun,” where the “artists” got so mixed
that Alf. Holland forgot his identity, and
cadged” a chew of tobacco from himself before
he discovered who he was. Circumstances which
we need not d well upon have prevented our giving
as long a notice of this show as we intended. But
we are on the track. Look out for next week.
One thing is sure. Nothing better in its way has
been seen this side of the line.
« • * •
There was a middling attendance at the
Beach Matinee on Tuesday at the Opera House—
that’s to say, there were a few spare seats. The
programme was much the same as the “ Imps”
gave a short time since-the chief variety
being the presentation of a testimonial to
the champion. We felt decidedly bilious
during the performance, as everything, down
to the programmes and ladies’ costumes, was
in “ black and gold.” If ever a man went
through fire to get a testimonial, it was Beach. No
words can express the weight of misery depicted
on his face when he couldn’t catch the sentences
his prompter supplied him with. It was well
earned, that testimonial was. Hanlan was on the
stage during the ceremony, and made a neat speech,
and was p itronislngly patted on the head, which,
by the way, he didn’t seem to quite relish, but
tried manfully to look amiable spite of all. The
show was over in fairly decent time, which cer-
tainly was an improvement on what we’ve been
led to expect lately.
• • •
Nothing gives one a poorer idea of his
kind than a consideration of the struggles all
great discoveries have to pass through before
their use and truth become manifest to the great
bulk of men. For years, centuries, indeed, poultry
breeders went steadily on losing fortunes through
the curious obstinacy of even the best breeds of
fowls in declining to lay. All means were tried to
win the bird’s confidence and induce them to
return to their work, but in vain. At last a light
broke, the great “ Imperial Egg Food ” was dis-
covered. The fowl which will not lay after a short
course of this regimen is not fit for the society of
respectable birds. Eugene Klotz and Co., of
Bridge-street, Sydney, and J. C. Genders and Co.,
of Adelaide, are the sole Australian agents for this
grand specific*
m • « •
The following epistle from Afghanistan,
which we received on Tuesday, will be of interest
Just now to more readers than those who follow
the tickle fortunes of Poor Players. Frank Towers,
a Thespian well known throughout Austra-
lia, is the writer. The account he gives of
the demeanour of the natives is particularly
significant in relation to the question whether
Russia counts (upon an Indian rebellion to
facilitate her attack upon Hindustan;—“ Rawal
Pindi, Punjaub, India, March IV. Dear Bul-
letin.—At a time like this, when the Afghan
Frontier business is creating some excitement, it
may not be unacceptable to receive a few lines
from a wandering Thespian, formerly known to
your columns, and who is now temporarily located
in these troubled regions. I have just returned
from Peshawar, the most northern military station
we possess in India, and however much you may
quiz us for the admission, we feel anything but
comfortable. Afghans are nice people in pictures,
and I dare say splendid patriots. But there is no
question but that the mantle of Ishmael has de-
scended in multiplicate upon those—sons of guns,
I was going to say. Nothing is safe from them.
They have boned * my Claude Melnotte sword, my
Major General’s ditto, ‘nailed’ my table cutlery,
broken into our empty treasury chest, and even
appropriated my last stick of Wlgzell’s grease
paint. All’s fish that comes to their net. Just now,
during the Ameer’s visit, there is an Influx of these
pilfering gentry, and, as the law cannot punish
them outside of the cantonment, not only is no-
thing safe from them, but one has to sleep armed
to the teeth, even In a military theatre, in the very
centre of the barracks. Well, here we are, in a
vast military camp, expecting his Highness every
day to meet the Viceroy. Tommy Hudson is
also here doing a big business ; Emelie Melville
still In Calcutta, and ‘ yours truly ’ oil to Per-
sia as soon as the camp disperses, or into
Afghanistan should war take the Indian
army that way. Met G. P. Carey in Calcutta,
Southern Star Minstrels in Ceylon, and Glover
(formerly of Hudson’s) in Bombay. We are want*
ing to dodge the hot weather and ‘get’ before
May. Up in these wilds we rarely get news from
Australia, excepting the very meagre wires sent
to the metropolitan papers. We are six days rail
from either Bombay or Calcutta. Hotels are few
and far between and travelling altogether unplea-
sant, especially through the native states, where
there are no European station-masters, guards, &o.
However, I did not mean to enter upon a feeble
description of the wonderful country, but to send
an echo from a professional point of view to
friends who may care to know how we fare in
these troublesome times. I have posted you a
lithographic map which will give you some idea of
the position and importance of the meeting which
we are about to witness. Long before this meets
the eyes of your readers, serious events will have
taken place. Either Russia will have abandoned
her position, or our first battle have been fought.
However distance may lend enchantment to the
view, things are very serious here, I assqre you,
and the general feeling as to the safety of the
northern cities anything but cheerful. The natives
are more insolent and overbearing than even when
we first came, and everything has to be purchased
by liberal bucksheech. There is to be over 80,000
troops assembled here, besides the Ameer’s army.
It really is a demonstration against Russia. We
play ‘ Arrah-na-Pogue ’ to-night for the honour of
auld Ireland, although I am forbidden by the
authorities to sing ‘The Wearing of tfce Green,’ ”
The above is a fac-simile of the sole con-
tents of a letter posted to us by some poor
player in Calcutta. It needs no comment.


PEPPER AND SALT.
This is how Black-tracker Jock chose a
wife. It was in the early days, when all the blacks
on the Burdekin were “ Myalls,” that this matri-
monial spec, was ventured on. Jock came to his
boss one day with a very melancholy air, and said:
“Mine want it Mary, Mieser.” “All right,” an-
swered the boss; “you go along a camp and then
you man him one fellow gin.” The next time tbe
Myalls required “dispersing” Jcck was as spry as
a two-year-old, and, directly after the buck
niggers had been dispersed from the camp, took a
look round on what was to him a familiar sight.
All the gins, Instead of bolting with the black
fellows, had merely stuck their heads into hollow
logs or tufts of grass, like emus, trusting that the
spectators would mistake the portion of their
bodies exposed for charred stumps. Jock, having
Satisfied himself as to the appearance of one of the
" charred stump?,” gave it a very sounding smack,
Which elicited a lively howl, and calmly said,
“ Mine take him this fellow.”
• • •
Thus hiccoughs a recent Issue of the Good
Templab anent the Soudan shlvoo;—“ New South
Wales has always been a loyal and devoted
colony. The last evidence of this fact is the best
of all. God speed our brave boys, and send them
back to us again.” Just so, but it strikes us that
the God will have to work a first-class miracle in
order to get some of our boys to visit us again.
For example. A few dajs ago a little waif was
picked up in a St. Hilda gutter, and on being
hauled along before the local “beak,” it leaked out
that his brave father had sold off all his Lares and
Penates, turned his motherless child out in the
Streets, and then trooped off with the rest of the
noble Australian Contingent to light, as Dictator
Dailey facetiously puts the case, “ for tbe honour
and independence of Australia.” The poor, de-
serted little four-year-old was sent to the Indus-
trial School for five years, and another prudent
parent has carefully shunted his responsibilities
on to hi 3 bleeding country.
• • •
Amongst the uureported items from the
gory field of Middle Head is the fact that the bulk
of the country volunteers who arrived on Good
Friday morning were compelled to hump their
knapsacks, &c, down to the camp, although a
standing Brigade Order was published to the effect
that there things were to be conveyed by a specia
ran. Apparently, however, our officers have no
time to peruse these orders, but it is only fair to
state that an apology was duly tendered to the
men when the trouble was ail over. Another little
matter not to be found in print till now is the
courageous manner In which part of these same
troops, on arriving at Middle Head, gallantly
attacked the camp, and kept up a withering fire
for nearly half an hour, when a warrior, who was
peeling potatoes, dropped his knife, and walking
over, p jlitely enquired what the shooting was all
about, “Weil, according to my instructions,”
replied the doughty officer who led the attacking
force, “a charge was to have been made on the
camp as soon as we arrived this morning.”
“ Bah,” exclaimed the disgusted potatoe-sklnner,
as he turned back, “put up yer stootin’ sticks;
that skirmish was all over half an hour before you
came in eight.”
. * •
Here’s a little chunk of the most sincere
flattery we have received for many a day. While
Sir ’Enry Parkes was skirmishing, round roping
votes at the recent Ooulburn Agricultural Show,
a jolly old cock, who had been having a good time
with the boys, rolled up, and grabbing the knighfa
palm in his own, he shook it until the owner
turned pea-green with suppressed thankfulness,
and then the stranger exclaimed, “Gud day,
Misthur Parkes, an’ how d’ye foind yerself to.
day?” Hastily releasing his fist, Sir ’Enry blew
on his lingers to restore the circulation, and re-
plied, “ Excuse me, but I don’t know you, sir.”
“ Oh, y’ don’t, don’t you thin,” roared the other ;
“ well thin, be jabers, Oi couldn’t be off knowin’
you, for O’ve seen yer ugly owld phiz in The
Booeytin many a time, an’ they dhraw you doun
there to perfeckshun.” And then, as the disgusted
knight went off on his flop ear, our admirer
jabbed his hands in his breeches, pockets and
called out, “ Musha now, luk at that, an’ th’ plurty
nose av ’em.”
« • *
Behold, the day has at length arrived
when the vindictive ex-Minister of the Crown can
make a fool of the guileless city editor. He can
meet him on the crowded pathway, and with a
wink in the corner of his left eye, seize the podgy
man’s clammy hand. It is singular how many
editors have clammy hands. Perhaps it is in part
because many of them one time ran a church,
where clamminess of touch goes for suave godli-
ness, and, having given up the church to run a
newspaper, trade off unconsciously this bit of the
old stock. The editor, feeling the knuckles of the
ex-Minister, bethinks him of next morning's issue,
and, holding out his metaphorical palm for
authoritative information, leads the statesman
into the unfrequented parlour where everything
is sixpence. Of course, an ex-Minister on good
terms with the Government knows as much as a
Minister, and is not officially sealed up as a Minister
is supposed to be. So the editor gets his “infor-
mation.” The Ministers, seeing the newspaper
next morning, say, “Ho, hoi” and laugh, and the
ex-Minister meeting one or other of them during
the day, says, “ Don’t contradict it. I am making
a hare of old softgoods. When you read that he
has received *t :e following information from an
undoubted source,’ or ‘ on the best authority,’ or
the like, you can guess I’m in it. Let it rip. He
played the skunk when I made a slight slip. I’ll
stuff him this evening again.” And so the guile-
less city editor goes on squandering his sixpences,
sending his simulacrum of intelligence abroad,
and exciting the wonder of some and the laugh-
ter of others.
♦ ♦ *
When Brown found himself head down on
the doorsteps at three in the morning, with Mrs. B.
glaring down at him with a candle in her hand, he
hiccupped out, “ Nev’ mind, Mahdi, old boy; I nev’
wanted t’ come, but she made me. I never killed
none of you. Le’s make it up. I’ll tell you all
about the Contingent, see?”
* ♦ *
He was a Dunedin sly-grog detective, and
long had his eye on a canny old Scotchwoman
who kept a grocery down in the Valley, and sold
“ whisky without a leeshense.” After many un-
availing attempts to get her into trouble, the
detective at last hit on what he thought a highly
ingenious rme to accomplish his purpose. With
the help of an artist in hair, be managed to dis-
guise himself as a Chinaman, and shortly after-
wards appeared at the grocery door between two
baskets of vegetables slung on in the usual way-
Laying down his load, he hobbled into the shop
and smilingly asked for “one bottle blest Eclotch
flisky; want him welly good, allse samee Sclotch-
man dhink.” She looked sharply at the customer
but seeing the usual pigtail at the back of his head,
appeared satisfied, and hanced him a bottle neatly
wrapped up in blue paper, for which sha took five
shillings sterling as payment. The would-be China-
man took his bottle and his baskets and hobbled
off, and a few days afterwards Mrs. M’Foodle
appeared in Court to answer a charge of sly grog*
selling. The detective, in the witness-box, gave
the Bench an amusing account of his clever ruse,
and then produced the bottle to prove his case,
Topics of the Day.


still wrapped up In paper exactly as it was when
he bought it. Tearing off the paper, and
displaying the label to the admiration of the
Court, the witness produced a corkscrew, and
opened the bottle. “There’s the whisky, your
worship; taste it for yourself,” he said, handing
the bottle to the Bench. The weather was dread-
fully cold at the time, and the Bench had been
shivering more or less ever since he got out of
bed that morning, and the sight of the whisky-
bottle revived him wonderfully. “ Ah, hum I” he
murmured, holding it up to the light; “ this is the
real old Highland—got the colour to perfection.’*
Declining to wait till a glass was procured, his
worship inserted the small end of the bottle
In his mouth, and, quickly tilting up the other,
took a mouthful of the nectar. Then, strange
to say, the Bench instantly jumped up on end
■with a yell of agony, and splashed the whole of it
(the mouthful)’all over the courthouse, at the
same time tossing the bottle on the floor with a
crash, which broke it into a hundred pieces, and
distributed the liquid liberally among the officials,
lawyers and spectators. His worship then sprang
from the platform, bolted through the door, and
rushed across the street to the nearest chemist's
shop. “Sodom and Gommorah,” he yelled as he
entered, “ I’m poisoned. Give me an emetic
quick. Anything you’ve got will do. Salts and
senna, sheep-dip, sea-water, stomach-pump, any-
thing to get this Infernal taste out of my
mouth. Oh! ugh! auch! this is awful.” Leav-
ing the Bench to the chemist’s tender mercies,
hie we again to the Courthouse. There, when the
bottle crashed on the floor and his worship scooted,
the spectators, and officials looked at one another
in dismay, and then all at once—or you might say
simultaneously—every official and spectator pre-
sent, except two, seized each his own nose ener-
getically with both hands and fled with It to the
street. The smell from the spilt liquor shifted
them quicker than dynamite would have done,
and in half a second only the detective and his vic-
tim remained on the scene of the scent—the
former too stunned to realise the atrocity of
the odour he had uncorked, and the latter
chuckling in her sleeve at the sudden discomfiture
of her enemy. “Fegs, I’m thinkin’,” she said,
addressing him in homely Doric; “ ye’ll no want to
buy ony mair whusky o' my brewin’. It’s far ower
strong for you Coort bodies, but if yo’r ever a
Chinaman again, and want a wee drappie, Joost ca'
in by when ye’r passin’ and I’ll obleege ye free
gratis for naething. There's plenty mair o’ the
same kind whaur that came frae. Q ood day tae ye,
Mats tor Whlpporsnapper, I’ll just be ganging hame
noo.” So saying, the old lady left the Court with-
out a blush on her cheek or a stain on her char-
acter, and she ruus that grocery store on the same
liberal principles to this very day. But what she
put in the bottle when she took the whisky out of
it Is still as great a mystery as ever. Anyhow; the
detective’s reputation was wrecked from that day
forth, and the magistrate ever since regards him
with the deepest aversion as, to quote his own
words, “ one of the deepest dyed scoundrels and
assassins of the Nineteenth Sentry.”
* ♦ ♦
Here is a splendid hint for all the town
drunkards. A case was tried in London lately,
wherein a policeman arrested a man who was
being wheeled about in a state of intoxication
and also in a bath chair. The case was dismissed,’
the Bench holding that every Englishman’s
bath chair is his castle, and that he can get as
drunk as the whole House of Lords in it If he
pleases. This is a blessed Judgment. All pro-
fessional or promising amateur drunkards can’t
afford to buy bath chairs—most of the money
they get they want for whisky- but the poorest
among them, who has the least smattering of
mechanical ingenuity, can put a pair of woeden
wheels on a gin case and get a sober friend to
trundle him round to all the hotels in the town,
in defiance of anybody and everybody. He can
then get so drunk that he will bo a fifteen-
puzzle to his wife when he comes home,
and openly jeer at the lock-up, and still have the
law on his side. Or if he is too stout for a gin-case,
or has no friend sober enough to wheel him round,
he might be able to manage with a barrel. There
Is more difficulty about this method, we admit. It
has two serious drawbacks. In the first place, the
noble Bacchanalian might be arrested on his way
in or out of his conveyance. Secondly, he would
probably lay himself open to arrest under the
Dray Act, for leaving it in the street—which he
probably would do, as he could hardly roll into a
bar in it. But these are merely hints. Q he rum-
inspired imagination of the town topers will be
able to improve on them. Anyhow, it Is some-
thing to know that a man can go on a comfortable
drunk at last.
♦ * ♦
Sorrowfully and reverently we clip the
following from the Melbourne Age:— “ On thelfird
April, of scarlatina, Reed James, the beloved
youngest son of Reed Smithers, aged 1 year and 9
months.—R.I.P.—
“ Our darling little Reedie in heaven.
Little Reedie he has gone
Far beyond the regions known,
But he is a loss at home
By a tender mother.”
That last line puzzles us a bit. Except that we
seem to recognise the handiwork of one of
Alfred’s best bards, we should conclude that the
poem was “ by a tender mother.” If it is, and if
she used to lull her loved one off to sleep with
verses equally weird, we can understand Reodle's
early decease. While the frenzy is upon us we, too,
will sing:—
Passed away is little Reedie,
. Reedie bad a cough;
Every day he grew more seedy
Till it took him off—
How we mourn it!
And his mamma’s left alone,
For her little one has down
To a brighter, better zone,
Where he tootles a trombone,
Flute, or cornet.
Granny's God.


N OCTOGENARIAN'S GRATITUDE.
George-street, Sydney, September 1, 1884.
Messrs. Myers and Solomon.
Gentlemen,—It gives me considerable pleasure
to tender you my best thanks for your kind re-
commendation of St. Jacobs Oil. Acting upon
your advice, I tried it, and am happy to say the
very first application brought me instant relief;
and, by following it up for a couple of days, I felt
completely cured. Before using St. Jacobs Oil I
suffered severely—more especially from swollen
knees—and had tried many other remedies without
the least effect. However, I have to thank it for
making me myself again, and shall be careful to
recommend It.
I may mention that I shall be 80 years of age in
October, and believe that through its use I shall be
able to spend a pleasant birthday.
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.8.W.;
price, 2s. 6d. per bottle.
A FACT.
Tours faithfully,
JOSEPH HENRY.
“TO THE FRONT WITH THE GUARDS.”
This is Mr. Henry Halloran’s last im-
promptu. We know it’s an impromptu by its in-
comprehensibility, and we tremble to think what
it might have been had more time been taken
over it. If so much nonsense could be run off on
the spur of the moment, fancy what could be done
in a day or a week! The thought is depressing.
Mr. Halloran takes for motif the news thatfour
Contingent is to be brigaied with the Guards.
The bellicose spirit, reaching him through a long
line of ancestral warriors, is roused, and this iS a
chunk of the result—it would be impossible to give
all:—
“ Cradled up with such men as have never known
flinching,
Borne up by their valour, your valour close
pinching (sic)—
The steel that is in ye will glitter and quiver
As ye rush on the foe as some rocky-bound
river.”
There is some force and originality in "pinching
your valour.” We may be sure it means some-
thing, or ’twouldn’t be there. What it means is
quite another thing. But, to resume:—
“ Vaeticlis! alas! will bo heard, and ‘no quarter’
Vouchsafed to the foe in the hour of slaughter
(tic),
Which Allah cm stay not; when loosed, like the
leopard,
Ye scatter the flying, as sheep without shep-
herd.”
But for the archaic custom of spelling the woid
‘slaughter” instead of "alerter” the demands of
rhyme might have been more fully satisfied. Still,
it's a nice couplet—a little knock-kneed, perhaps,
but powerful. It might be a trifle awkward, no
doubt, if ’twas from the Arabs that the cry of “ no
quarter” came, but this is unlikely so long es
they depend so much on spears and crooked sticks
in charging parks of rilled ordnance. We were
acquainted with many men of the Contingent, and
esteemed them. But wo must honestly say that
no resemblance between them and leopards ever
struck us. Besides, if Allah couldn’t stay them,
the question of what good Allah is ailses.
“ Ye, scatter the flying ” we take to be hyper-
bole. It is supererogatory besides, as they were
probably scattering themselves:—
" To the front with the Guards! I am waiting, ye
wires.
For the truth ye shall utter confounding all
liars—
That the gallant Contingent, as brother and
brother,
With Britain’s best men fought, as one and no
other.”
We have room for no more. Whatever objection
maybe taken to rhyming “wires” with “liars, 1
the suggestiveness of coupling the two words is
obvious. For if greater liars than the ordinary
sub-marine cables arc in existence, they have, so
far, succeeded in concealing their places of resi-
dence. 8.111, there must be, or how would those
stories get into the Evening News? And now,
we also have a poem, which we humbly dedicate
to Mr. Halloran. It is an impromptu, like his, and
for it we have taken the liberty of stealing bis
title.
It is suggested that the Government, in-
stead of raising the funds necessary to defray the
cost of the Soudan expedition by the ordinary
way of taxation, should render a special account
to every householder in the colony, and enforce
immediate payment. The following is about the
form such account should take:—
Mr. ,
Dr. to the Government of New South Wales-
(Orders executed with neatness land despatch,
Terms as low as those of any olhcr contractor
for the same kind and stjle of work.)
To share of work done in the Soudan on partner-
ship account; sundry Jobs as below:
£ s. d.
„ Killing, maiming, and wounding 5000
Soudanese 10 0
,, Slaughtering one woman carrying
water to the wounded 10 5
[’„ Extra work on two different Sabbaths
(one bombardment and one assault),
whereby the Soudanese were pre-
vented from defiling themselvts
with the idolatries of Mohamraed-
ism 3 10 0
,, Throwing an especially fortunate and
Christian bombshell into the Mosque
at Khartoum, whereby several fe-
male Mohammedans were slain dur-
ing their devotions 13 6
„ Proportion of cash for conquering
territory ... ... 5 6
„ Manuring ditto with superior compost
called “Australian citizen” 5
„ Extending the area of freedom and
Christianity
„ Glory 1
£5 0 0
Immediate payment required.
N.B.—Voluntary subscribers to the Patriotic (V
Fund are exempt from payment, likewise Bishops
and other clergy generally, in consideration of
services already rendered.
The residents of Gundagai are prodigiously
sore at the action of a few local magnifl cos in their
scurvy treatment of a number of young ladies. A
bazaar was held by the Anglican authorities, and
the assistance of the ladles was invoked by a pro-
mise that the whole affair would wind up with a
dance. The committee “ kept the promise to the
ear, but broke it to the heart,” by confining the
invitations to a dozen of the uppermost section,
leaving the humbler class of toilers out in the cold.
Such lluky-livered snobocracy is characteristic of
grovellers; in all places; but it is not less
mean than contemptible to see inividious distinc-
tions of caste, based on mammon worship, per-
in connection with any church of Christ.
♦ * ♦
If anyone who reads this paragraph should
ever have the misfortune to be homeless and
hungry, in Melbourne, let him straightway get
down upon his hands and knees and bark, and
some short-sighted but kind-hearted policeman
may mistake him for a dog, and lead him away to
a nice new house and give him a hot supper and
put him to bed. You smile at this statement?
You needn’t then. There is a place in Melbourne
to which all the stray dogs are taken and fed like
aldermen, till the auction sale is held. After this
those which are not sold are drowned. To follow
our advice would, we admit, involve being
drowned, if you were not sold—but not to follow
our advice, involves, in all prob’bility, being
drowned first, and at your own suggestion. If a
policeman takes you up in your erect attitude of
fnan you will probably get three months in gaol,
and have your head shaved, and your name putln
the papers as a vagrant and probable thief, for the
gratification of your family and friends. So much
better is it, you see, to be a dog than a man, when
you are poo* - .
♦ • •
Dailey, the ruthless, would do well to
study the lesson taught him in the simple little
story of Policeman X, of Melbourne. A week or
two back, when war’s alarms and “special edi-
shuns’’ wore circulating wildly through the Vic-
torian capital, someone—possibly his dear old
mother, or his tender-hearted little sister—hinted
to good Policeman X that the mimbers of the
focrce might be required to sport buckler and
bow for the defence of other peopled hearths and
homes. And the thoughtful Robert pondered well
all these things. He is a Collingwood man, the
Harmy barracks is in his boat, and he loves the
Loard—as, for the matter ®f that, most policemen
do. Realising then, that a bobby’s earthly mis-
sion is to preserve the peace, not to break it, X
called at headquarters and explained that accord-
ing to his religious convictipns, it would be sin-
ful “to take up and carry arms for the
purpose of shedding human blood,” and that ns
he must either forfeit his conviction or his
he thought he would prefer to adopt the latter
course. So he sent in his resignation, and the
angels rejoiced considerably. As a proof of the
sincerity of this man’s Christianity, he has since
craved permission to withdraw bis letter of resig-
nation, and hold it over until such time as the
Russians really are in our midst. Perhaps, after
all though, it would be as well to allow this
gentleman to retire upon the perquisites which an
admiring Providence must already have thrown
in hislway. We wouldn’t like a Saturday-night
larrikin (o damn his immortal s ul by taking up
arms, or one of his arms, and tapping the claret
of that dear r good Collingwood constable.
0 0 0
The Riverine Evening Star of 4th April
contains the following unique advertisement:—
“Died, on the 4th April, at his residence, Rob, the
favourite dog of James Hart, who broke his neck
while hunting a rat.” We are so far sceptical as
to fail to fathom the necessity for the death of
Rob, the favourite dog, because Mr. Hart broke
his neck while hunting a rat. Besides, what right
had Hart to hunt rats under circumstances involv-
ing the peril of a broken neck ? And finally, If a
dog’s demise is a fit subject for advertised woes, the
prudent would be quoted as justification for the
expense of similar publicity whenever the Echo
humourists “ shuffle off this mortal coil.” Under
Alfred’s regime, the practice is discouraged as
much as possible; when one of his retrievers die,
the staff eats the corpse, and, by the medium of
savoury eavelovs, digests the dead,
* * ♦
Here are some grisly statistics from the
Wilcannia Times. Speaking of the death rate la
its district during the last quarter, it says: “The
annual death rate in London is only a fourth of
what it is here. ... In London, the average of
deaths may be taken as 22 in the 1000 of population
. . . Now, thepopulation, from which the deaths
registered at Wilcannia are taken, may be set
down at 2000; that would make our annual
mortality 44 in the 1000, or just double that of
London.” Then the editor goes on to mourn-
fully moralise and speculate on the why and
wherefore of this. It never seems to strike him
that he himself may have had something to do
with this appalling death-rate. But we have
noticed these things never do strike country
editors. They do not know how deadly they are
or they would burst with pride. The next sen-
tence is enough to convince us that the Wllcannia
man is either a dangerous imbecile or a cold-
blooded and callous destroyer: “ Out of the entire
number of 15 (adult corpses) 10 may be set down as
having died from unnatural causes.’’ Half a score
deaths every quarter is a good deal for even the
Wilcannia Times to answer for. But perhaps they
had paid up their subscriptions for the following
quarter in advance. If so, we take back what we
have said about the editor, and consider him a
Very astute man of business Indeed.
* ♦ *
The councillors of the city of Ballarat
were temporarily catalepstd the other day by a
letter, addressed to the “ rite worthipfull the
mayor, Ba lyratt.” which ran:-” I beg most re-
spectfully to enclose some lines I have written in
memory of the late lamented General Gordon
(under the distinguished patronage of his Excel-
lency Sir Henry B. Loch). Hoping they may meet
you appeal and kind support, I am, sir your most
obedient servant, John Joseph Muri hy.” That
General Gordon was under the patronage of
Governor Loch was a pleasant surprise to most of
the councillors, and greatly helped to lake the
edge off their grief at Gordon’s untimely end.
But there was a difference of opinion, owing to the
construction of the poet Murphy's sentence, as io
whether the patronage of Governor Loch applied
to Gordon living or Gordon dead. The question
was left undecided, but not before several coun-
cillors had inwardly resolved to make themselves
pleasant in the eyes of His Excellency, on the
chance of his having the interest to get them, as
soon as they soared above, a quiet nook out of
hearing of the harpers, and whore the sound of
new-made saints practising on the piccolo would
rarely penetrate. Then a malicious councillor
arose, and suggested that the Town Clerk should
read the poem, “paying proper attention to em-
phasis.” Two other councillors immediately got
up and negatived the proposal in terms of bitter
irony. The Town Clerk evinced a disposition to
kill the mover of the motion, and then resign.
But the majority, headed by the Mayor, were for
the reading of the poem, and therefore read it was,
and by the Town Clerk, who flung into the per-
formance the stored-up malignity of a lifetime-
There was gloomy silence as he began, but when
he got to this verse :—
" On to Heaven his soul departed,
Consigned to earth its mortal clay;
Murdered by those cruel assassins,
As aid when needed got delay.”
The hush became ominous and fearful. And,
when he came to the last verse,
“ Righteousness was thy chief motto.
Always in that honest mind;
You were victorious, by treachery conquered
Immortal is your name behind.”
The stillness of the grave is a Chinese opera com-
pared to the unearthly gloom which settled over
all. Even the mover of the motion felt his heart
bleed within him to see the anguish he had caused,
and going up to the Town Clerk, ife fell upon his
neck and wept salt tears of remorse. The Mayor
rose, and in broken tones begged his forgiveness
and suggested that a reward should be offered for
the head of the poet Murphy, alive or dead. The
suggestion was received with sombre satisfaction,
and immediately moved and carried with a unani-
mous yell. Then the meeting broke up, and the
councillors went home in moody fury—and spent
the rest of the day in pitching their winter store
of potatoes into the street. The poet Murphy
(“Phoebus, what a name!”) will do well to take
warning from this paragraph. “ Immortal is your
name behind ” would justify parricide.
♦ * *
The question which threatens to shatter
into wavering sects the Spiritualists of Melbourne
is this: “ Was it or was it not possible for Elijah’s
chariot of fire to have burned after a certain dis-
tance above the earth had been reached.” Of
course, the physical argument is that it was not
possible after the highest atmospheric stratum
had been passed. But this is not the sort of argu.
ment likely to bo used by either party. It may do
for benighted men of science, but, for the illu-
minated intellect of the seer, it is even as the
chatter of the magpie. No, sirs, what these gifted
gnomes differ upon is this:—One party holds that
the chariot did not burn after it rose to a certain
height because E ij ah put it out fearing he might
meet wicked spirits on his way who might think
he was driving the Gehenna van and want to get a
ride home. The other party contend that it
burnt right out of sight because Elijah was a
prophet and was not responsible for the inflam-
mable gas within him. Our own Idea of the matter
is that the old man had his “shay” pretty
stiffly insured before it took fire. But there
are various views of the question. The gentle-
men who reduce all these ancient stories into solar
myths and weather allegories, would probably
settle the matter by stating that Elijah was prob-
ably the first Inventor of the fire balloon, and that
he had in ail likely historical truth ascended in his
own machine, which very possibly exploded, and
made such a complete dispersion of the enterpris-
ing Inventor, that the simple people of that un-
scientific time might well have believed he had
been taken up to heaven, seeing that he never (tn
recognisable quantities) returned to earth. But
the matter is one of indifference to us; we are
never likely to see him. We only presented you
with these facts to show you what a number of
opinions may be held upon a subject whereon so
many good people thought there could bo but one.
We may be light and, perhaps, flippant occasion-
ally, but our chief delight is to instil a mora 1
whore we can,
* ♦ *
The Russians will have a hit of bad luck if
they try any of their games on Melbourne. The
latest information to hand from that city is that
"the guards on the dynamite hulk are increased
and armed.” It may not be out of place to stale
here that the original crew of the hulk mounted
up to a grand total of two-one of whom, we sup-
pose, was the captain, and (the cook.
The increase spoken of was two more. Therefore,
the fighting force of the hulk is at present four in
number. But, then, you must remember that
they feel the eyes of their country upon them and
are armed to the teeth. By the way, why armed
to the teeth any more than to the ears or the eye-
brows ? But perhaps they are supplied with
mouth-organs, on the principle that the mouth-
organ is deadlier than the musket. This is a
ghastly hypothesis. En'passa it, we may say that
the hulk in question contains dynamite enough to
reduce Melbourne Into the constituent elements
of a red sunset, if exploded by a skilful man. And
there are four men to guard it! Why not four
goats?
To the Front With the Guards.
[THE BULLETIN VERSION.]
* To the front with the Guards!” There a e men
to be slain,
There are women and children to ravish and
brain.
Then hurrah! for the boys we've sent over the
sea;
And to h — with all rebels who dare to be free.
“ To the front with the Guards!” how It makes
our hearts swell
To see Arabs go down ’neath our murderous
shell.
God! how madly they charge, and how slowly
retire—
Nought can live In the zone of our terrible fire.
“ To the front with the Guards!” Sure no sport is
so rare
As to see naked men when a fierce feu d'en/er
Hcs been ploughing red lines through the bar-
barous hordes,
As their “ braves ” stagger onwards to die on our
swords.
“ To the front with the Guards!” Oh, the boister-
ous fun!
What though thousands lie rotting abroad in
the sun?
Let us count our own losses—but seven have
died—
Said the parson, “ Thatshows that the Lord’s on
our side.”
PROMISING.
LITTLE BROWN (confidentially, before waltz): “WE SHAN’T GET ON VERY WELL, I’M
AFRAID; BUT IT’S NOT BECAUSE I CAN’T DO THE STEP. IT S HAVING TO KEEP
TIME WITH THE MUSIC THAT PUTS ME OUT, I SUPPOSE VOU DON’T FIND IT THAT
WAY WITH YOU ?”


BRIEF MENTION.
Mule guns are so-called, because they are
the hardest “kickers.”
Bismarck was born on All Fools’ Day. Wo
Wonder he knows how to manage Derby and Gran-
ville—and Dailey,
The leading article column in the Wilcan-
nia Times is surmounted by a list of the Hospital
Visiting Committee This is bitter iror y.
The Rev. A. C. Anderson, of the Univer-
sity of Europe, Asia, Africa, and America, has an
idea of starting a Free Church on (h)Ashiatic
lines.
The Vesper Harp labels a paragraph,
“The latest from Gladesville.” Why thus dis-
tinguish it from other Brevities of the same de-
scription ?
One of our contributors is so religious that
he did penance on Good Friday. He read Herald
leaders all day. His father confessor could decree
no more horrible penalty.
Three-fourths of the inhabitants of
Charters Towers have been prostrated with
typhoid fever. Nice place, Charters Towers. Nice
place for the doctors, we mean.
From the Kiama Independent of March
37 we learn that in the previous issue lines 31 and
33 of the leader had been transposed, and the true
rendering is then given at considerable length.
English and continental papers please copy.
From a London paper:—“Mr. Willings,
the plaintiff’s son, deposed that his mother was in
the habit of taking brandy cordial for spasms,
and he allowed her enough to make her drunk.
For filial piety, neither George Washington nor
Peter Campbell is “ in it ” with the virtuous Mr.
Willings.
A Sydney Land Agents’ Debating Society
is projected. The flrrt debate on the programme
was to be: “ How to settle the people on the lands
of the colony ?” But the committee decided to
narrow the issue to something practical. The
debate will now proceed, after striking out all the
words after “ people.”
We cut this statement out of a trade
paper:—“Publicity is being given to a project to
admit into the United States, free of duty, certain
goods to be manufactured in Ireland, which will
not compete with other goods of American manu-
facture.” We wonder what these goods can be?
-But, of course—patriots!
Young [Sydney doctor to young Sydney
artist: “ Well, old fellow, what is your programme
this season?” Y.S A. to Y.S.D.: “I am going to
study High Art, And you?” Y.SvD. to Y.S.A.:
“Me? Oh, I am going to study low-fever.” Ig-
norant bystander {sotto voce): “And you will find
precious little difference.”
Her Majesty Queen Victoria is now on a
visit to Aix-les-Baius for the benefit of her health.
Distinguished visitors to England will be wel-
comed daring her absence by the Queen's statue
in the Park, and probably receive as much cour-
teous hospitality from the effigy as they would
from the great reality herself.
EASILY ANSWERED.
Why do men coming home from “Lodge” so oft
get drunk ?
To find the reason needs no lengthened search,
For it is plain, a man just off his Lodge
Is likely also to be off his perch.
When a man wishes to join the police
force, he has to undergo a preliminary examina-
tion. He is taken into a large yard, at the end of
which a black board is placed, and is told to look
at it carefullv and declare its colour. Should he
say black, he is told he has not the necessary quali-
fication; should he say white, he is duly qualified
to give evidence in any court in the world.
Sarah Whitney, of Clunes (Vic ), com-
mitted suicide by shallowing essential salts of
lemon. A beautiful moral is pointed by this ra&h
act. The reason Sarah considered it essential to
go in lemons lor those salts was just this—“She
had been living apart from her husband of late.”
Evidently lovely woman finds a husband quite as
essential as salts.
A Taralgo tulip sends along the following,
with his best regards, to the corner-men of the
Federal Minstrels: “What is the difference be-
tween Sir ’Enry Parker and Paradise ? ’ And, by
way of saving the “droring-room suite” first
prize for himself, be tells us the answer isBe-
cause Adam was sent out of the latter, but the
devil himself couldn’t get a dim cent, out of the
former.”
One of those funny men, or women per-
haps, or bandicoots - we would not likeio atsert
positively what they are —who unload in the
Hunter-street War Whoop, writing anent the
review, s»ys—“ And th«y went, and saw, and it
may be they were satisfied; hut I don't know.
Let us keep to the things we do know.” Happy
thought. But if he were only to write of those
things he does know, two lines would be about
the limit of bis screed.
James Russell Lowell, the American Am-
bassador in England, says that he likes living in
London much—” all but the living.” Our own
Ambassador there—who has a morbid taste for
haunting cemeteries, and who says that the ceme-
teries of the great metropolis are so full of bodies
that they positively smoke in the sun-observes
that, for his own part, he also would like living m
London very much “ only for the dead.” So you
see how two great minds may differ.
A Mr. Edward Brigham has read a paper
before the Chicago Academy of Sciences in which
ho reports the discovery of a four legged bird. It
is found in the Lower Amazon, and Is locally
known as the Ciganas. Full details are brought by
the San Francisco mail, and we look forward for
an account by the next mail of the discovery of a
six-legged lisn that travels on roller-skates. The
Academy of Sciences in Baltimore are morally
hound to beat Chicago, a city of yesterday.
One of the struggling storekeepers in a
Southern township found business dull through
the eight publicans-who formed half the popula-
tion-neglecting to deal with him. By a happy in-
spiration he successfully solicited tbe district
member to have him g zetted a member of the
Licensing Board, and now singularly enough, he
has the custom of all the hotel-keepers. We
commend this stroke of trading genius to the at-
tention of struggling storekeepers generally.
We get this item from a commercial paper.
Russia annually exports 130,000,000 wooden spoons
to the Central Asian market. We will vive a new
hat to anyone who will tell us why she does this.
No reply ? Well, she sends wooden spoons because
she is afraid of arming her Eewiy-acquired sub-
jects. If she sent iron ones they would probably
cut their throats with them. Such is their assess-
ment of the value of life under the fatherly Go-
vernment of the Holy Czir.
There is at least one vigorous magistrate
on the St. Kilda (Melbourne) Bench. During the
hearing of a case the other day the counsel for
the plaintiff or defendant, we forget which, re-
marked: “Mr. Avery is a sergeant, your Wor-
ship.” His Worship: “A sergeant ia what? The
Counsel: “In the Salvation Armyl” His Wor-
ship: “Oh, damn the Salvation Army! The
Court convulsed as usual, and the constable sup-
posed to maintain order was led out guffawing in
nis helmet.
One “James A. Cameron,” of Narribri,
monopolises a column space in the local paper to
advocate the propriety of spelling Narrandera
with the consecutive r's. On that pungent theme
he parodies Pope’s “Haven.” The gilted genius
will next devote his colossal intellect to poetically
deciding the utilitarian properties of the redun-
dant letters of the alphabet. But his poesy is use- i
ful; mixed with kerosine oil, in the proportion ox
two to one, it is calculated to form an eff retivo
rat-poison.
From the Auckland Hobserver: “ It is
itnposssib'.o to make no with hst rim what you
lack in brains.” This s igo d scovtry wc presume
to be the fruit of Ion? personal experience. We
have read (we confess it) the Hobserver, and
desire to add to the truism
“ Hat rim won’t do for brains,” this truth
We readily admit,
Oh I that some writers would but learn
That coarseness is not wit.
Was it Carlyle who said “ Imitation is
suicide ?" Never mind, Peter Brown, of the
Warrnambool (Vic.) tribe, is dead. Peter was a
celebrated mimic. Whatever he saw a white man
do, he would do. But he was greatest at imitating
a white man drinking rum. Hia reproduction of
this performance is said to have been such a living
reality that few landlords would trust him with
more than a quartern at a time to operate upon.
And now he is dead. They all die that way. Black-
fellows and bards.
Several newspapers lately have printed
the old lines:— _____
“ In twice two hundred years the Bear,
The Crescent shall assail;
But if the Cock and Bull unite,
The Bear shall not prevail.”
It is needless to say that we look upon this as a
Cock-and-Bull yarn. Still, for all that, we think
there is a trouble Bruin.
The Diocesan Committee of the parish of
St. Mary, West Maitland, has published, in pamph-
let form, a report of the Church work for the year
ending Easter, 1885. The report is bulky, and none
too interesting in its terms. The true tone of
Christianity which pervaded the year's operations
may be best judged from the fact that, while £300
was spent on a new bell and £100 donated towards
a new tower and spire, £11 has been expended on
the poor. What a fearful misuse—of the £11. Why
was it not better spent In the purchase of gold leaf
to gild the spire ?
From the Congregation aetst “ Ten
years ago, on account of his religion, a Christian
was put in prison at Kioto, and died while in-
carcerated, a martyr for his faith. Lately (in
1883) at the same place, Joseph Cook spoke through
an interpreter for three hours and three-quarters
to a great audience, in which were a vice-governor,
many lower officials, physicians, lawyers, editors,
merchants, priests, &c.” They must indeed have
degenerated if they could listen to Joe Cook for
three and throe quarter hours without unani-
mously resolving to roast him.
When Daniel Tichborne Smith touched
British soil, he mounted a barrel on the wharf,
removed that hat browned by Australians suns,
and addressing three stevedores, said, “ Well,
boys, and how has England fared during my
absence?” “Thundering bad,” said one, “we
haven’t had a day’s spell for a procession of the
unemployed the whole time.” “Leave that io
me,” said Dan, skipping down and seizing the E.
News which contained bis luggage, “have that to
me. We’ll soon put a stop to that, if the right of
free speech still exists in Britain.”
The Campbelltown Herald thus refers to
Henry HaUoran and John Plummer: “Bith
poets (?) are now at it over the Soudan business,
and a shrewd suspicion twitters through our soul
that they are in the pay of the Mahdl, to unhinge
us morally and socially. They usually unhinge in
the Sydney Evening News.” If Webb is right
the poems should be unhinge-urious [The human
apology who wrote this, has been forced to read
Halloran’s latest as a punishment, and has sworn
that he will never do it again We fancy, how-
ever, that his oath refers to the poem.— Ed.B ]
From the 1st of May the gantang or gal-
locg, bsing of the same measure as the Imperial
ga.ion (160OZ. of distilled water weighed in air
against brass weights, the water and air at 00
Fahr/, and the barometer at 30in.) is to be the
standard measure in the Straits settlements. The
chupack is exactly one-fourth of that, and equal
to one Imperial quart, and as this is valuable
information, labouriously acquired, wo are free to
remark that we are exactly equal to one chuoack,
and are going out to get it just where we regularly
meet the cilice boy of the B. N. coming home,
poor lad, with a gantaog.
One of the Chinese recently baptised had
a slight difficulty in satisfying the catechist on a
point of doctrine previous to presenting himself
for the rite. The question was, “ Whether, iu the
intellectual development oi the race, there w»s an
analogue in the spiritual conception to the flow
secretions now known to attend physical differen-
tiation ?’’ Dr. Barry wished to have a clear enun-
ciation of belief on that point; and the astute
catechist put the question, “ What you tinby all a
samelikee?” “ Chow chow,” was the devout re-
spone, and in five minutes ho was a regular Bou-
daner in the Church militant.
We always thought Kiama held the pick
of everything from a ghost down to a town
drunkard, and now the Rev. W, C. Hughes, in a
farewell speech, gives us:—“ There was that grand
oil mm. Father Wilkinson, who had Jvoluateerod
to go with the Soundan Contingent; then Hut
noble-splrlted man, Thomas Anguin ; the great
literary light, the Rev. George Martin; the plod-
ding and zealous Woodhouse; the Rev. Mr. Moore;
the indefatigable business man, George Tamer.”
Tis true, those heroes had just subscribed a purse
of sovereigns, but what can dross do for a [man
whose eyes are fixed on the heavenly kingdom ?
Mortimer Franklyn is evidently evoluting
into a Socialist of the deepest dye. Speaking of
that venerable old beer-vat the Emperor of
Germany, the Melbourne Mortimer says:—
•' Hitherto the aged monarch seems to have borne
a charmed life; and, since it cannot, in the natural
course of events, be prolonged for many years, we
must all hope that it will not be shortened by the
murderous hand of an Anarchist.” Prom which
we infer that, if the Kaiser happened to be a
younger man, his wiping out by a bomb would be
a consummation devoutly to be wished. Have a
care, Mortimer. Rossa’s plugger. Mother Dudley,
is likely to visit Melbourne.
Advance Australia! A boy of 15 years of
age was found by the Melbourne police the other
day lying dead drunk in a gutter. He had pre-
viously been assaulting a Chinaman. Sir Henry
Parkes was not so tar out after all when he said
that the old country could teach us nothing. We
feel it to be our duty, however, to beat the record
of Victoria even in drunkenness. Here is the fact
we are going to do it with. We have seen New-
castle babies babbling drunk on beer, and Kent-
street infants metamorphosed into miniature
maniacs on gin—given them by their mothers in
each case. You will have to try hard to beat its
when we shut our eyes and sail in.
We are not so deep in his Excellency’s
confidence as to be able to explain his aversion to
abbreviated trouser’s legs, but from an incident of
the Easter Encampment it would appear that his
irritability is interpreted by his supernumarles to
run in that direction. A gentleman, who «as
escorting some ladles, had taken the precaution to
turn up his trousers to escape an imminent patch
of mud, when a volunteer officer in fullest bloom
roughly ordered him to “ take his trousers down,
as the Governor was coming.” The gentleman
blushed and the ladies tittered, but the order
being roughly reiterated, the eccentric command
was complied with- A brush with the Russians is
perhaps wanted, after all, to teach the heroes of
sham military spectaculars a little sense;
Another instance of Victorian arrogance.
From a paper;—** It has been determined to defer
for a time the floating of the £4,000,000 Victorian
Redemption Loan.” Four millions! This is at the
rate of £4 per soul for every man, woman, and
child of the population of the Cabbage Garden It
is too much. Why, taken at their own valuation,
we are willing to wager that no email number of
them would bo willing to sell their souls for a hat-
ful of shandygaff. And then they would think
they had no tool of a bargain. But to diverge
from this view of the question, is it not a curious
commentary ©n the spiritual incompleteness of us
of the haughty Aryan stock that we have still to
go to the Jews for redemption ? We should blush
to observe that it is.
The English Salvation Army has struck
on a new idea. It is to perambulate the country
in waggons. These will be used as rcstra in places
where there are no halls or buildings. In accord-
ance with the usual warlike terminology of the
Army, they are to be called forts. They will be
good places of retreat when the Army gets among
the pious Cornish miners. “Hold the Fortiori
am Coming ” will, in all probability, be the hymn
most, in vogue. While speakirg of the Army, we
would like to ask why it has never made any head-
way among the Irish in the great cities. We have,
with and against our will, attended several Salva-
tion meetings, and have seen many a pitch-black
soul tklp up on the platform and testify and. so to
speak, turn a joyous somersault, and say it was
saved. But we have only seen one Irishman in all
the cont'ite crowd. And there was a twinkle in
his eye I Shockingly irreverent, these Irish I
Funny old Fergy, of the Cumberland
Prize pumpkin Recorder, says:—" Dailey and
his demons have c rried the day, but for every
man of the Contingent who dies the death, every
mao Jack of the Ministry should be put on their
trial for manslaughter.” This is quoted with the
most hearty approval by the blundering Nooze,
the paper which planked down a cool thousand to
aid “ Dailey and his demons ” to do the very deed
for which it now declares they should be put on
their trial for manslaughter. The Bennett boys
made a big mistake in handing over thf.ir cheque
for the war sustenation instead of the Patriotic
Fund. Had they donated to the latter, they could,
when the time (now el se at hand) lor changing
ba:e arrived, swing round »nd denounce the very
action which they once upheld; but having sub-
scribed for the express purpose of carrying out
Dali ;y and his demons’ scheme, they are, of
course, liable, according to Fergy, as accessories
to the crime of manslaughter.
It takes a pretty smart maa to understand
Adelong arithmetic. By algebra, it is easy enough
to prove that 3 equals 1, but the Adtloug Miner
asks us to believe that money can be won by losing
bets. This Is his par:—“Hanlan declared, when
the question was put to him straight, that as a rule
he never backed himself. In his race with Beach
he backed himself at £10 to £5, half of which he
divided, so he won £5 at any rate, if not the cham-
pionship.” The problem stands thus: Hanlan
backs himself at £10 to £5; loses the race, and con-
sequently the bet. If, then, the wager had not
•been divided, he would have had to pay £10 Bat
the bet was halved, and theij divided Into how
many parts we are not told, nor can we tell how
many of these shares in the Hanlan Bicking Com-
pany (limited) the Canadian retained Still, he
must have lost some part of the bet. But we are
told that he won £5 at any rate—at the rate of 2 to
1—which (as the arch enemy of our youth.
Euclides observes) is absurd. The whole thing Is
more Inscrutable than Salvation Army finances,
Yet,iwe will go over it again—[Not herel-En, B.]
“ What Is the end of fame ? ’Ti3 but to fill
A certain portion of uncertain paper.”
And, apropos of Mr. Byron's sarcastic remark,
Tuesday’s Nooze credits Bobby Byrne with the
following lines:—
“ There is not a strong right hand,
Throughout this Southern land,
But will draw a sword in dear Old England’s
cause;
Our numbers may be few.
But we’ve loyal hearts and true.
And ihe Lion's cubs have got the Lion's
claws.”
What'the left-handed men are supposed to do is
not mentioned: but, anyway, considering the
long experience Alfred's staff has had on the
freelist of our theatres, they might have known
the above stanza was written by Garnet Walch.
It is bad enough to rob a pantomime poet of his
kudos when he’s dead, but It is “ Hat burglary,” as
Dogberry would say, to steal his stringy-bark
crown while he lives. Alfred may be compelled
to turn poet himself before he dies, and then how
will he like to find his own glowing verse ascribed
to Milton, Pope, or Dante? Or how would his
charnel-house bard feel if he found his immorta.
ode beginning—
“ ’Tis just seven-and-twenty years to-day
Since my dear husband, John P. M'Gogerty
passed away,”
alluded to as part of the “ Burial of Sir John
Moore?’ One poet should respect the feelings
another.
The Auckland Cook and Policeman Ob-
sehveb directs its correspondents to “ Write tc
the point, and avoid vulgarity, scurrility, low
inuendos, and vagueness. To remember that wit
is not coarseness; trenchant writing, abuse: nor
mere spying, criticism.” Rule 9 states that com-
munications which do not conform to these condi-
tions will be destroyed. Vvry good, so far; but,
then, this is the style of stuff ladled out by its
country contributors:—“ George should not keep
M. out so late of a night.” ‘'Ginger says poor
Billy was jumping wild when he got that nesty
valentine.” ” What will the little Masher do with
Pet when his wife comes back?” “ What was ihe
joke about the likenesses?” How are these for
curriiity, inuendo, and vagueness ? We cou'd
quote samples of coarseness from the same page,
out for obvious reasons decline to do so. Taking
'he rules and correspondence together, the only
conclusion we can come to is that, with the man-
agement of the A.C. and P.O , destroying and in-
serting are synonymous terms. Which, titer all,
is what we might have expected.
HUNLAN’S SECRET.
HOW BEACH IS SAID TO HAVE LEARNED
IT, AND WON.
A. gentleman, whoso name we carefully noted
and have lost now we como to want it, walked
into our office this week and unfolded to us a
curious yarn. He had. he affirmed, fathomed
Hanlan's Secret, and to his discovery was due the
easy victories by Beach over the famous pheno-
menon. The secret consisted in a mechanism ap-
plied to the sliding-seat, so simple in conception
and construction as to present no difficulties in the
way of secretly fitting it at the last moment before
a race, and of keeping it secure from observation.
Wo give a couple of diagrams from the inventor’*
description and model. The principle claimed for
the thing is just that it does all the work of the
return to striking attitude-drawing the slldlrg-
seatto the required position after each stroke,
and thus savin* the sculle'- so much exertion. The
Inventor claims that to this mechanism must be
attributed the continued motion of Hanlan’s boat
through the water In lieu of the jerky stops so
noticeable in the case of all other scullers. Hut
here comes the curious part of the business.
The inventor asserts that he communicated
his invention to Mr. Deebie who agreed to
purchase it for Beach’s use prior to his first
race with Hanlan, and he declares his conviction
that Beach actually used a modification of the
mech nlsm in both his races. He says that at the
conclmlon of the last race, he was close to where
Beach sat in his boat, and distinctly observed that
when the champion turned his head to acknow-
ledge some of the greetings of his friends, the blade
of his skulls lying on the surface of the water, he
was suddenly slid forward, and lost his balance,
the springs having worked while he was off his
guard, so to speak. On reference to the diagrams,
the nature of the invention will be perceived. The
diagrams shew two ways of applying the idea. In
the top drawing C is Iho sliding seat and D the
stretcher. A A are two spiral springs behind the
seat, so fixed that during the stroke the sculler,
sliding, compresses the springs, which, on the
completion of the stroke, return Mm, seat and all,
to the lirst position, ready for another stroke. In
the lower diagram, there is substituted for the
springs an elastic rope HB of indinrubbor, which
performs fh9 same function as the springs, and
has the advantage of being hidden under the
covering of the boat until drawn out and hooked
on the seat, just before the start, and of flying
out of sight into the run, when detached,
the moment the race is over. We interviewed
Hanlan, with reference to this mechanism,
and he laughed at it. He points out, what is suffi-
ciently obvious, that to slide against such a spring
during the stroke would require a far greater
amount of exertion than would he saved by the
mechanic'll recoil when the stroke was finished.
He altogether scouts the idea that Beach used any
device of the kind In his races.
“He tried to kiss me, and I just told him
to behave,” said an irate young lady, altera bugyy
ride down the road the other day. “ Well, did he
kies you ? ” asked her iriend. ‘ No, the idiot, he
behaved.”
“I do love dress!” exclaimed a young
society belle. “ Then I should have thought
you would wear more of it,” retorted her
cynical bachelor friend of middle age.
The shamrock of Erin, the thistle of Scotland
With the rose of old England shall still be the
toast.
But wo of Australia, when wine cups are flowing
Make Summer field's trousers cur florv and
boast.*
An Improvement for the 44 Improver.”
MUCH NEEDED AT OUR THEATRES AND CONCERT ROOMS.
A£b1l IS, 1885.


“ BEACH’S”
CONSULTATION
ON
ROSEHILL HANDICAP.
500 BOVS.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10?. EACH.
Address—
“BEACH,”
Care of J. G. Deeble,
Hotel, Kin*f and Pitt Street, Sydney
GOMPAGNGNI CATERING GC., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. / '
HE oldest and leading Catering Establishment in N.8.W. Caterers to His "Worship the Mayor,
Municipal Couuoll of Sydi ey, the A.J.C., City Club, \c., &c.
Tae Dining Saloons for Ladies and Gentlemen are the Finest, Cooelest, and loftiest In the colony.
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar-Good Wine List.
GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p m. (after the
Theatres. Select your own steak, Ac., and see it grilled in the room. This is one of the acquisitions
01 the city, and a long-felt want. Inspection invited Ciub rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Cluo
and City Club, upstairs. D. TOLLEMACHE, General Manager.
T
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We tball be glad to have tbit index potted «p Ml
secretaries of racing elubi and managers of
eporting events in general .1
RACING.
Rosehill R.C
Mudgee Tattersall’s R.C April23. 24
Western Downs J.C. (Tambo, Q.) Annual..May 13, It
Canterbury Park R.C May 16
Rosehill R.C May 23
Wollongong T.C. (Autumn) May 25
Walkcrston (nr. Mackay ,Q.) R.C. Annual...May 2d
Blackall R.C June 4, 5
Rosehill R.C .June20
Walgett R.C Ju's: »
Rosehill R.C July 18
Canterbury Park R.C August 1
Rosehill R C August 8
Sydney Bicycle Club (Annual R M.) August 23
(Canterbury Park R.C September 6
Hawkesbury (Spring) September 10 13
A.J.C. (Spring) September 19, 23, 24, 26
Rosehill R.C October 3
Canterbury Park R.C October 17
Canterbury Park R.C December 19
Rosehill R.C December 28
AQUATICS.
Woolloomooloo Bay Regatta April 1?
Intercolonial 8-Oar Race April
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Farnan will not entertain Lees’ challenge
until he returns to bis native heather.
£100 is the fee for the marital attentions
of the English stallion See Saw by Buccaneer, out
of Margery Daw.
The New England Athletic Club held
sports on the Armidale race-course on Easter
Monday. Tnere was a good gathering. The prin-
cipal race was won by A. Oakes, with W. Mac a-
mara second.
“What sort of a show did Velocipede
make?” asked a stay-at-home man, wao saw a
limping amateur bicyclist trundling nis wheels
home after the Cup. “Look at this," he said,
baring a fearfully bruised shin.
The Argonaut Rowing Club, of Toronto
<Ont.). have decided to senu their representative
•club four, which has proved Itself the champion
crew of America, over to England to compete at
the Henley and other regattas.
Wrote Ned Trickettto a friend in America:
—“Beach Is a great man—the best man Ilantan
ever met; wonderfully fast, and a stayer: and we
have another man, Clifford, who, I think, can beat
Beach.” So much for our old champion’hi opinion.
At Laidley, a local pod. named .T. M’Garri-
gal raced a distance ot 35 yards against a horse
belonging to the local sporting butcher. The
enulne was supposed by his owner to be a regular
streak of lightning at starling, but the biped put
him through w th throe yards to the good.
On Wednesday, 8th April, the Armidale
Picnic Race Club held their first meeting on the
Thalgarrah course. The attendance was poor, but
the racing good. Mr, H. L. Aubitfs Lazy Girl won
one race, Mr. Green's Slowboy two, and one fell to
Mr. Brlgg’s Myra.
We rowed up the rivei on Sunday last
with the ic'ea ot having a look at the Meloourno
crew, but we were disappointed, as they did not
show out on the water. The local crew, however,
did a merry spin over the whole course, and when
they passed us well down the river, the tight
wore rowing in good form and appeared ti be
doing 1 heir level best over the course.
The destinies of the newly-formed Sydney
Amateur Boxing Club would appear to be vested
In the right hands, judging from the fact that the
affair is going ahead like a house allro. New mem-
bers are rolling in by the score: and some time
next month it is proposed to hold a competition
for novices, II Stone and under, Queensberry rules,
for points. The club room is situated at 410 George
street.
On Saturday last the opening run of the
Sydney Bicyle Club eventuated, when over a
couple of hundred bicyclists and tricyclists joined
In the iauntto sir Joseph Banks Hotel. Arrived
at, the ground, Bennett, Time well, Remshard, and
M’Donald went in for a little trick-riding, and a
“social” evening wound up the proceedings.
During the alternoon, A. Edwards, of the Sydney
Bicycle Club, was presented with a;medal to com-
memorate his plucky ride from bydney to Mel-
'bourne.
The N.Y. Clipper says George D. Nore-
mac. on Feb. 26, concluded his task of coveiing 51
miles on foot each day for 100 days, Sundays ex-
cepted, on a 44-lap track in rear of his public-
ihouse, Midlothian Hall. His working hours were
from 0 a.m. till 13, midnight, and such record as
was kept of the progress of the tramp, merely lap-
iBcorlng, was attended to tho greater part of the
time by Norman Taylor, alone. It is claimed that
Noremac fairly accomplished tho feat, but as the
attempt was not made under proper supervision,
of course ho cannot receive credit for it.
Young Dutchy, who, by the way, is termed
In Yankeeland, “ the Australian ”—though why so
we know not—met at ’Frisco, on February 16, a
local boxer named Harry Downie for a bellyful
with the gloves. Throe rounds were fought, and
In each Downie had much the advantage, showing
himself in every way the better lighter, and he
could have won when he wanted. In the third
round he had Dutchy at his mercy from the first,
but did not press his advantage. Dutchy sprained
his right wrist by hitting a post, and the authori-
ties stopped the light, which was awarded to Dow-
nie by the referee.
American Slogger Sullivan was recently
fined £33 for Ill-treating a horse; and at latest his
wife was on the war-path for a divorce on tho
grounds of cruel and abusive treatment, and gross
and confirmed habits ot intoxication. Slightly
different to our Australian champions. It would
bo hard to drop across a couple of steadier and
more kindly men than Miller and Foley, our heavy
and middleweight champions. That the hona fide
ring work is a thing of the past, there cannot be a
doubt, but is still hope for manly contests
with the mittens while we can raise such exem-
plary exponents of the noble art in Its latter day
form. Victoria and the other colonics can no
doubt boast of pugilists, or rather boxers, of the
same stamp, but we speak of Miller and Foley from
personal experience.
With the idea of giving Champion Beach,
who, by-the-way, has never seen any good spar-
ring, a little entertainment all on his own account,
Foley, one day last week, Invited his old friend,
" Professor” Miller.” and several smart amateurs
round to the White Horse, when a couple of
hours’ good sport was put in. Some good
boxing was gone through by a couple of
amateurs. “ Professor” D’Harcourt donned the
mittens in a good-natured hout with the “ Doc-
tor”; some tall weight lifting was shown by a
couple of muscular amateurs, and the wind up
andjtece de resistance —[You plagiarist I reading
the Noozk again I-Ed. B.] was a scientific
show with the singlesticks between Signor Foli
and “ Professor” Miller. It is not generally known
that Larry is of Italian extraction, and next time
we visit the White Horse we’ll go armed with a
club, lest Larry should let loose on us for putting
it in print.
Germany and France have been seized
with the desire to discover some appropriate arti-
ficial substitute for pigeons, something which will
serve the purposes of marksmen in shooting
matches as well as real birds. None of the devices
hitherto introduced, whether the clay pigeon, the
ball trap, or water-ball. h«s been satisfactory, hut
“we hear that a new invention is to be brought tor-
ward this winter at Nice. The novelty has already
been tried at Bordeaux, and the verdict of all who
shot there is highly favourable. The general
arrangements are similar to those when two birds
are used, traps being employed to hold and let out
the object to bo shot at the right moment. This
object is a kind of balloon, which escapes on the
opening of the trap. It is partly guided by an
elastic thread, while its motion is modified by a
large feather attached to it. Its mock flight is
described as not unlike that of a woodcock, with
successive variations in its direction. The forth-
coming trial at Nice is looked forward to with no
little interest.
Quite an exciting scene was witnessed at
Elsternwick Park (Melbourne), when Sam Floyd
returned to weigh in after the steeplehase. Groans
galore greeted the dusky Samuel, and so demon-
strative were some of the crowd, that it seemed
just as well that the weighing-room was enclosed.
Certainly, the running of Our Boy was most un-
satisfactory, and so, by-the-way, had been the
market movements in connection with the horse,
yet there were a few who maintained that the
stewards acted hastily in disqualifying horse and
rider for a twelvemonth. Floyd has since rushed
into print with the explanation that his stirrup-
leather broke soon after the start, and that the
horse was lame. Considering that the stewards
had Our Boy brought round for inspection before
arriving at their decision, it seems strange that
the stirrup-leather wasn’t brought under their
notice. It certainly wasn’t. But what did attract
their notice, was the fact that Sxm rode in a half-
hearted sort of way, as though winning was the
last thing in his thoughts.
Articles have been duly signed for the
contest between Foley and Farnan, and it would
seem all trouble should now cease till the men
meet in the magic square, but wo are sorry to say
a new quibble has sprung up. In the articles
signed bv Farnan's representative small gloves are
stipulated, but the Melbourne party appear to
have suffered a scare since appending their signa-
tures to the document, as they now want the show
to come off with the ordinary pillows. Foley has
left no stone unturned in his endeavour to
get on a meeting with the Melbourne man, and,
as he is giving away £50 and any quantity of
avoirdupois to Farnan, we really think our little
Champion should have the choice of weapons. So
far as the small gloves are concerned, it should be
all in favour of Farnan, a?, with his alleged terrific
hitting power, it would give him a better chance
of knocking the little 'un out in a give-and-take
encounter. However, the Melbourne party can-
not think the chances of their man over rosy, as
they are storming Sydney In force just [now, and
still offers of two and three to one on the Syd-
neyite are going begging.
The Sydney Amateur Canvas Dingy Club
ran off their handicap event for Commodore Mil-
ford’s ten guinea prize on Saturday last, the race
terminating In favour of T. Elchler's Fedora
(30sec.), 1; Altona (4min.), 3; and Nautilus
3. A Hying start was the order of the day, It being
arranged that a gun was to be tired by the starter
at 6 minutes to 3 o’clock, as a warning, and a
second shot to be sent off at 3 o’clock for the start.
At the appointed time the boats were sent away by
the starter, one of the most energetic officers
of the go-ahead little mosquito fleer, and a nice
pickle he got himself into for sending the fleet
away up to time. Some minutes after the boats
had crossed the line, several stragglers hove In
sight, and their crews rewarded the starter for
his punctuality by treating him to a blackguard
hooting and threats to “ shift bis jaw ” for not
waiting for them. Chief amongst the offenders
were the crew of a boat, whose owner was not on
board, and it is to be hoped the powers that be in
connection with the Ciub, will show a bold front
in putting this down, or otherwise they wUl not
find anyone short of a John L. Sullivan plucky
enough to accept the position of starter. The
gentleman who filled the cilice on Saturday de-
serves every credit for his punctuality in getting
his field away, and we feel sure the major portion
of the members of the Club are heartily ashamed
of the exhibition shown by the roughs on Satur-
day last,
British Yachtsmen Sir Richard Sutton
and Lieutenant Henn have challenged the Yankees
to compete for the America Cup, won from the
English squadron by the America in 1851. Sir
Richard Sutton’s Genesta is cutter rigged, and her
dimensions are: length on Joad-water-line, 81ft.;
beam, 15ft.; depth moulded, 11.75ft. Her tonnage,
according to the Yacht Racing Association rules,
is 80 tons. The Geuesta’s dimensions are given in
Lloyd’s Yacht, Register for 1881, which register is
deemed official. Lieutenant’s Henn's yacht
Galatea is to be cutter rigged, and her dimensions
are; length on the load water-line, 83.80ft.; beam,
15ft.; draught, extreme, 13 50. It is intended that
Sir Richard Sutton’s challenge shall take the
priority of Lieutenant Henn’s challenge; there-
fore*, If Sir Richard Sutton’s yacht is fortunate
enough to win the cup, Lieutenant Hern's obal-
lenge, under -the conditions, will fall to the
ground; but should Sir Richard Sutton’s cutter
be beaten, it is proposed that the matches with
Lieutenant Henn’s vessel shall take place as soon
as practicable after those with Sir Richard Sut-
ton’s vessel. It is further proposed that the
matches with the Genesta shall be sailed between
the 20th of August and the 1st September, and
those with the Galatea before the 17th of Septem-
ber. It is also proposed that each match shall con-
sist of three races over the same course, sailed on
different days, with at least one intervening day,
either yacht winning two out of the three races
to be the winner. As It was the intention of the
donors of the cup that the contest for possession
should be sailed over an open sea course, it is the
wish of the challengers that an ocean course
should be selected, free, so far as practicable,
from all complications as to tides and shillow
waters.
By last mail we learn America has been
remarkably live’y in the boxing line. On Feb-
ruary 23, at Toronto, Ont., Charley Mitchell met a
local named John Scholes in a four round Queens-
berry contest at the Rink —a handsomely flitted
building lighted with the electric light—before a
“ swell ” audience, led by no less a personage than
the Lieut-Governor of Ontario, under whose pat-
ronage the entertainment was held. Round No. 1
was a dashing affair, Scholes drawing first blood
by a heavy counter on Mitchell’s mouth; Mitchell |
knocked Scholes off his pins with a light one in
the throat, and when time was called both men
were lighting merrily. When the men faced each
other for round 2, Scholes followed Mitchell up,
when the latter suddenly put la a tremendous
left-hander between the eyes, bringing blood, and
John went heavily to the floor. He got up again
more quickly than expected, but his hands were
down and his knees unsteady. Mitchell put in
more good work, and it looked as if all was up,
but Scholes managed to keep agoing, commencing
to pay back some of the hot shot. The round a as
a hot one, but left Mitchell with a heavy lead, and
and appearances were against Scholes lasting the
third round. When time was called Mitchell
jumped up quickly, Scholes slower but cheerful.
Charley paused a moment and then put in an aw-
ful right-hander that made the audience gasp in
anticipation, but Jack stepped back and Mitchell
plunged forward, but managed to evade a jaw-
breaker from the Canadian. As it wa«, the men
went bang into each other, clinched and whirled
around the stage and went heavily into the corner,
where the ropes saved them from falling. The re-
feree pulled them apart and Scholes got one
heavily in on Mitchell s head that drove him back
and caused the audience to yell wildly. Several
clinches followed, and the round ended In favour
of Scholes. 4. Mitchell came up strong, but the
Toronto man looked weak. Mitchell put in lolt
and right again and again, one cutting Scholes
under the eye. However, Jack had no idea of
stopping, but did his best, countering manfully
and taking his punishment without flinching.
Several times he put in clean blows, but they
lacked the vim of the younger man. Again and
again, when to weak to get away, he beautifully
stopped the heavy rushes of Mitchell, and the men
were in a good rally when time was called, the
referee separating them and giving bis decision in
favour of Mitchell. Scholes is 41 years of
age, and held the credit of the championship of
Canada. Burke had much the best of a set-to
with Greenfield at Chicago, on March 3, and the
next best thing now looked forward to by sport-
ing men in America is a knock out between Burke
and Mitchell. The pair fought a draw on turf in
England, made a draw in a lour-round glove-con-
test in New York, alter about the finest boxing-
match witnessed there for years, and a subsequent
effort to settle matters was frustrated by the
police, who would not permit them to more than
tap each other. Experience has shown that four or
live three minute rounds would not suffice to
prove who is master. So a knock out Is needed to
settle the question.
A big oiowd showed up at the Mercantile
Rowing Club S mi-Annual Regatta held at head-
quarters on Saturday last. A light south vaster
made things pleasant for all concerned, both com-
petitors and onlookers, and if we except a shade of
the curse of pretty well all Club regattas-failure
to send the races f(J up to time—the afternoon
passed off most pleasantly, The race of the after-
noon was looked for in the senior double sculls*
which settled down into a match between Seale
and Martin, of the Intercolonial Eight, and our
amateur champion, Brett, with Trimble for a
partner. The course was from Blue’s Point, round
Fort Denison, and back to Club house, a distance,
we should say, of some two miles and a half. Mar-
tin and Brett appeared as if about to start by-
mutual consent, but the Agenorla came up with
the starter aboard who sent them away. The start
was about the worst we ever saw—at least, so far
as the competitors were concerned. Trimble
came forward on his slide and jobbed Brett in the
back, and Martin and Seale were not much better,
but they managed to get on first stroke together,
and when the boats were fairly, under way, It was
seen that Martin had a long half length to the good,
which he increased to a clear length by the time
Mllson’s Point was reached. Martin and Seaie
pulled splendidly together, lifting the boat as one
man, and so far as style went, to our fancy,
Martin showed the best of the quartette, the
champion appearing to labour as it the boat was
not going off his hands, in vastly different style to
the bit of sculling shown by him when partnered by
George Seale at Double Bay. At Kirribilli the In-
tercolonials bad drawn out a commanding lead,
and half way on to the Island Brett quickened up
to 30, putting in a desperate spurt; out his bow-
man apueared a bit short of condition, and, al-
though the pair drew on the leaders a shade, not-
withstanding a counter spurt, when the effort died
out tip-top condition told, and Neale and Martin
again drew away, rounded the Island with a hope-
less lead for their opponents, and led them com-
fortably home. By far the most exciting race of
the day was the maiden double sculls between
Thorpe and Charles, W. Ives and Stobo, and
Young and Jordon. The two first-named pairs
made a desperate struggle of it, Thorpe and
Charles rounding the Island about a length
ahead of Stobo and partner. When on the
home stretch, Stobo spurted and decreased the
lead to half a length, and in that position
the two crews for half-a mile made a desperate
battle for supremacy. Off the Nelson, Thorpe got
rather too fast for his partner, and their opponents
drew almcst level, but, in response to a cry from
the steamer, he lengthened out, and, pulling well
together, Charles and Co. drew away, and won a
p’uckily contented race by three or four lengths.
Stobo and Ives were heavily handicapped by their
coxswain, and, had they been well steered, we
daresay they would ha\ e made a closer thing of it.
For the junior pair oars, Grace and F. Ives met
Warre and Brindlev. Tne former started off at
eomething under 00 to the minute, and in a very
snort period drew out several lengths’ lead, but
nothing short of a steam-engine could stand the
pace, and Brindley and Warre passed them before
reaching Pinchgut, and made an easy win of it.
Brindley pulled in form far beyond the average,
and we should say is worth looking after. As we
had some idea or turning into our little bed that
night, we did not wait for the scratch fours.
L’Italo-Austbaliano thus comments on
our Soudan folly “ The more we reflect
upon the Italian and New South Wales
Expeditions to the Bed Sea, the more we
find strange analogies. The resolution of
the Italian Government to send troops to
Assab, &c.. was made when the country was agi-
tated by the agrarian question and the railway
policy—the latter a question of existence for the
Depretls Ministry, and against which the public
had manifested it* opinion. The expedition was
mysteriously and hastily equipped, withoutasano-
tion from the Parliament; and in order to Justify
the extraordinary proceeding, they (the Italian
Ministry) cried out—“ Bianchi has been assassin-
ated by the Arabs; the national dignity claims a
revenge I ” The country lost sight of the Railway
Conventions, looking towards the Red Sea, and on
the morrow of the departure of the avengers found
Itself robbed of several millions given away to a
band of high railroad jobbers, and with an African
War Bill to pay. Here, when this Government
thought of sending a Contingent to Suakim, the
Land Act was under censure, and the Annexation
Question threatened to degenerate into a Separa-
toin Question—a question of existence for an “Im-
Eerlalist ” Ministry. The expedition was equipped
astily, without the sanction of the Parliament,
and to Justify it they cried out: “ Gordon has been
assassinated, the British dignity claims revenge!”
The country lost sight of New Guinea, &o., looking
at the Red Sea, and on the morrow ot the depar-
ture of the Contingent, found itself with the
foreigner at its doors, and with an African debt to
pay. The policy of the two expeditions has been
the same: “ To Berlin, To Berlin I ” Depretls and
Dailey have cleverly played their game, and
have won. And, strange to say, some tax-payers
applaud those who have played them! Tnese are
constitutional politics.
We have a vague remembrance of a little
book entitled “How to dress well on £15 a year.”
We never read the book, and know not if the
dressing operation indicated refers to man woman,
or child it is not the book we wish to deal with
now, but the spirit of its title, apply it to whom
you will. It is no doubt a very good book, cer-
tainly it is an estimable one, if it helps anyone,
especially a lady, to the elysiura its name fore-
shadows. On this subject we speak feelingly, both
from our hearts, and in respect of our bank
balance. Possibly the end desired may be at-
tained under the £15 a year plan, at all events
people will do well to look after the pence (the
proverb is too familar to need repetition: by doing
all the outfitting part of their arrangements with
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Palace Emporium,
Haymarket.*
At the request (cabled) of Hon. Thos. Q1
Hewitt, President of the Expcsilloe to be held at
Grafton, N.S.W., (commencingllthe latter part ot
March), Mr. H. P. Hubbard, {proprietor of the In-
ternational Newspaper Agency, New Haven
Conn., U.S A., has forwarded for display on that
occasion sample copies ot over seven hundred
leading newspapers, published in the various
cities of the United States, Mexico, South A merica,
the West Indies, British India, South Africa,
Europe, etc. Probably such a collection of peri-
odicals in various Jang uaves has never been seen
before in Australia; and possibly at no previous
exhibition in the world. Mr. Hubbard regretted
that the short time allowed him for making this
collection (only one day after receipt of Mr.
Hewitt’s cablegram), did not admit ©f the selection
and arrangement of a very much larger represen-
tation of the Press of the World. 'Jhe contribu-
tion sent, however, cannot fail to prove of great
interest to all Intelligent visitors to the Exposi-
tion, and especially to newspaper men and lovers
of unique literature.*
AT THE PUBLIC LIBRARY.
LOOKS WELL .FROM THE FRONT; DOESN’T IT?
NOT QUITE SO STUDIOUS AN APPEARANCE FROM BEHIND, THOUGH.


rp o A L L WOMEN.
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT or
COLD WATER,
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOYERT
IN SOAP 1
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with it;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
|3F" Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
6d. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET. &YDNEY.
[KfeTSSin
meow
»
R
ESSENCEorLIFE!
ie only intailible remedy for
<+> Xer/oi/s JjebiIi jyT
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
» sits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustlve derangement of the system: regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 13s., or four quantities Is one for
46s.; If by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,S
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from Georga-street South.
Rev. Father Wilds’
EXPERIENCE.
The Rev. Z. P. Wilds, well-known city
missionary In New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds, of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
“ 78 E. 64 th St., New York, May 16,1882.
Messrs. J. C. Ayeb & Co., Gentlemen:
Last winter I was troubled with a most
uncomfortable itching humor affecting
more especially my limbs, which Itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so intense-
ly, that I could scarcely bear any clothing
over them. 1 was also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough; my
appetite was poor, and my system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from personal use
in former years, I began taking it for the
above-named disorders. My appetite im-
proved almost from the first dose. After
a short time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs of irritation of the
skin disappeared. My catarrh and cough
were also cured by the same means, and
my general health greatly improved, until
it is now excellent. I feel a hundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of the Sarsaparilla, which
I recommend with all confidence us the
best blood medicine ever devised. 1 took
it in small doses three times a day, and
used, in all, less than two bottles. 1 place
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may do good.
, Yours respectfully, 2J, P. Wilds.”
The above instance is but one of the many
constantly coming to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from Impure or impoverished blood, aud a
weakened vitality.
Ayer’sSarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of the stomach and
bowels, and thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofu-
lous Diseases, Eruptions of the Skin, Itheu-
malism, Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state of the system.
PREPARED BY
Dr.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all D?’Skgists; price §1. six bottles
for $5.
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
PILLS, fi-
nest Purgative Medicine
cure Constipation, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious Disorders.
' Sold everywhere. Always reliable.
ELLIOTT BROS, and 8. HOFFNUNQ & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate In Medicine and Surgery, Registered
Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours : 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., 7 to 9 on Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday Evenings.
Ladies’ Waiting Room, No, 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
11, 52 Castlereagb-street (upstairs.)
Send for Free Treatise on Vitality and Nervous
Debility, Diseases of Women.
Illustrated Works on Deformities, Electricity
and its Application. Hernia (ruptures), Varicocele,
ii o., &c.
Address—Australian Medical and Surgical In-
firmary, Sydney ; or B. O. HOLTBRMANN, Esq.,
M.P., President, Box 120, G.P.O.
Consultation Free by mail or in person.
Deformities, Specific. Female, and Nervous
Diseases, a Specialty.
NOTICE OP REMOVAL.
COME MI CDTLEE,
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
TO
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR FROM GEORGE-STREET.
THEY have ARRIVED.
An Immense delivery
of
YANKEE RUBBER
BABIES.
Goes in the waistcoat poc
iktt; blows out to life size;
is washable, durable, and
unbreakable ; resembles
life, for like the real article
it coos at pleasure, and yet
screams awfully if smacked
Experienced fathers are deceived by those laugh-
ter-producing 1 infants, and no home is really a
happy one without their presence. Price (post
free): largest. Is. 6d.; medium, Is. 3d.
Also, just in, a large assortment of Conjuring
Tricks, catalogues on application.
HSUBSBm.
THE WIZARD CARDS,
changing from eights
to deuces, from black to
red, and back again at the
pleasure of the per-
former. Post free, with
full instructions. Is. 3d.
I’m a Daddy ; I’m In
Love; The Mother-in-law;
I’m a Fardor; and Be
fore and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever Issued, 5 in each set.
Price, 6d. per set, or 5 sets for 3s.; by post, 3s. 3d.
The Three Donkeys. The newest “ have ” out.
Send for them, but keep It quiet. Price, la.; by
post, Is. 3d.
The Sooner Dog—a wonderful little animal;
roars of laughter follow him wherever he goes.
Is. 6d.; by post, 3s. 6d,
Napoleon in Council, very rich, la. 6d.; by post, 3s.
CO., 401 George-street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
mm ii nun
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRASSES
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&o., &o.
BLAKE'S IMPROVED
STEAM PUMPS.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
17 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE ABOV E,
and have In Stock and to arrive—
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING PUMP
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
BEND FOR PRICES AND ALL PARTICULARS
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FREE.
Bray Liclitner,
32 O CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
IMPORTERS OF SUPPLIES
-o
OrO
L.
%
(?
V
Co .<«
la
c: <u
S>^S
QJ S
I £$i
O' eo
s* O)
13 a.
•a.
c>
5J
ki
.CO
\"V
c
a.
a.
K
.Co
'C:
a.
c
CJS
a.
mm
<5
a.
a.
Cs
<o
/
£.
A
%S5
Catalogues post free
PART OF
AUSTRALIA.
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, best,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments, w - tlhtulliMtructlon8tor Nortcej ,
THE LATEST W0HK8 AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
ft
Watch and Clockmaker to the Victorian
Government.
T. GAUNT
Watchmaker,
GOLDSMITH,
JEWELLER m OFTIi,
297 and 299
George Street,
S"2"3DlTE , 3r.
cOiL/f
BLEND
Jmam
jTRADE]
2&/ST£.B|2
/COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—Thin la a BT END
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Solo
Agents.
WASTE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Fdljl*tis
Office.
CHURCHILL’S SYRUP OF THB HYPO-
PHOSPHITB8.
80 thoroughly obtained
the confidence of the Medical Faculty that they
are now preferred to any other preparations as
oenernl Tonics.
The Syrup of Hypophosphites of Lime has proved
itself for many years most useful in cases of Con-
sumptlon and diseases of the Pulmonary Organs.
It Is also most beneficial to debilitated constitu-
tions proceeding from any cause whatever, as it
contains two of the most necessary ingredients for
building up the Human Frame, namely, Phospho-
rus and Lime. y
Churchill’s Syrup of the Hypophosphito of Iron
is one of the best preparation! of Iren and Phos-
phorus that has been offered to the public. As a
Permanent tonic it has been found more service-
able than any other preparation of Iron, and is
especially recommended to those suffering from
the effects of a long residence in a hot climate.
Churchill’s Compound Syrup of the Hypophos-
phites contains Lime, Iron, and Soda, and as a
general Tonic has been found most useful. Deli-
cate children have derived the greatest benefit
from going through a course of this medicine,
which supplies nearly all the elements necessary
to develope in perfection the Human Frame. To
Ladies suffering from General Debility, any of
these Syrups can be taken with most beneficial re-
sults, but as almost every constitution differs, one
may give better results than the other. To be had
from all Chemists, and Wholesale from ELLIOTT
BROS., Plft-street, Sydney.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found it at
last with the Argosy Braces at Gowing Bros.
'A
r
i
f.'r
%
GOWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
-A.rgosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. Gd., 3s., 3s. Od.,ft 4s. Gd
GOWING - BROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, &
332 and 4 VS George-street.


Jjl UBNITUK1 8
SHOW BOOM
BRADLEY, b EWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
Hall furniture, hatstands, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
T IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
JJ TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley.
Newton, and Lamb.
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feei
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
WIGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. Tho lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 3 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.— Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 30s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from S7s. 6d.; Washstands from 13s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s-
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d,; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
E
IS
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sauna
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Uompass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
VERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at ail prices.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished In
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, io.
fWHlFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs.
Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O Connell-strect.
NAMELLED and JEWELLED MIRRORS, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-street.
iRAWING-BOOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
' A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
ices, from 13s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
HAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIIL
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive, Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
and WASHSTAND.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS ’
marble top, 80s the pair.
ULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM—SIDE-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV*
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Counell-strcet.
DINING TABLES, with patont extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 80 feet.
ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR-
Patented.
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice verm, at tho will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of tho numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of he body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames aro of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when t( Jded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAM B (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
8s. 6d. extra.
B
AGATBLLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection, BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
B
EDSTEAD8, nickel-plated and black and bras
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lam
EDSTBADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowee
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rate'
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, 0™on
Bell and Spring streets.
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 3Ss. eact
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB
B
W
Garden seats, sos:
indian long-arm_ lounges, brai
Verandah Chair
vi juiOUNGES. BRA*
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB. O’ConneU-street.
B
KNTWOOD FURNITURE.—ATTery rumple,
i Assortment; best make, lowest prices/
BEALE & COMPANY
Sole Importers of and Agents for
THB SWEET “HAPSBURG” PIANO,
THE "HAYDN” ORGAN.
THE “HAYDN” HARMONIUM,
BEALE and COMPANY could say a great deal
about the superiority of their Musical In-
struments, but prefer to let their kind friends,
who have purchased and tried them, speak in their
praise, as witness the following few names out of
hundreds from whom flattering and voluntary
testimonials have been received
Sami, George Benson, R.A.M., Professor of the
Royal Academy of Music, London
John Radcliff (the eminent Flautist)
Madame Pauline Rita (the Prlma Donna)
Madame Charbonnet-Kellermann (the Pianiste)
Mrs. Kenton (Bishop’s Court, Adelaide)
John Kelohar, Bathurst
J. A. Winney, T.S.C., Goulburn
Herbert Cross, Newcastle
Sami. Carter, Binalong
R. R. Arndell, W. Maitland
Geo. T. Edwards, Wickham
R. L. Cook, Grafton
S. j. Dowell, Muswellbrook
B. Hollingheads, Tamworth
Osborn Nash, Lismore
H. Headley. Albury
Jno. D. Burke, Ironbarks
F. J, Gallagher, Yass
Jas. Holden, Balllna
and hundreds of others from all parts of the
country.
BEALE and COMPANY,
SYDNEY.
Head Office and Warehouses :
371, 373, 375, 377A PITT STREET.
Show Rooms:
386 Geoi’ge-street
633 George-street (Brickfield-hill)
13 Central Markets 151 Oxford-street.
Or from our Travellers in Town or Countr y. _
SOCIAL
Dr. and Mrs. Heeley gave a very enjoyable
little dance to some young friends, at their resi-
dence, Cranbrook House, Young. Monday, 30th
March. The belle was tho same lady whose beau-
tiful dancing won such universal admiration at the
railway ball
* * *
Wbo hasn’t heard of Carcoar ? Carcoar is
famous for many things, but more especially for
clever ladies and concerts. It was impossible lor
anyone, who could read largo print, to oe unaware
that one of the latter was to be held in the Car-
coar Academy last Tuesday night, for posters
were pasted on every hut and palace in and around
the town. They (the posters) did their work well,
and the concert was quite a success. Mrs. Friend,
for her rendering of “The Barber's Oat,” won
loud applause. Then came the local poetess, Mrs.
Collard—a very clever lady, by the way—who re-
cited an original poem, tho title of which
has slipped our memory, but it was some-
thing about her son and a whirlpool—any-
how, whatever it was. it quite “collared” the
audience. Miss Connie Blddulph accompanied her-
self in grand style on an Anglo-German concer-
tina to “ Bother the Men,” but they weren’t
bothered worth a cent. About the best thing on
the programme was “Strangers yet,” sung as a
duet by Mrs. Friend and Mrs. John Smith. “ Up a
tree ” was Mr. Murphy’s selection, and Mr. Hall
sang “ The t wo Obadiahs.” Mr. Sandy Fitzpatrick
(late of Sydney) gave a discourse on " How to open
oysters," and it is to be hoped the young folks will
remember all he told them. Carcoar has never
heard “TheKed, White, and Blue” sung as Mr.
Combos sang it this night, and it was appreciated
accordingly.
Notwithstanding the threatening weather
there was a strong gathering at the OwJs’ Garden
Party out at Botany ou Thursday last. There’s
this to bo said about the Owls-their entertain-
ments are anythin# but monotonous. At one
time they have a oonversalione, then they give a
concert, and llnish up with dancing; at another
time they will have dancing solely; and lastly they
decided upon a Garden Party, upon which occasion
the officers fairly excelled themselves in their en-
deavours to make things pleasant for everybody.
Dancing was kept up from 4 o'clock trill 7, when all
sat down to a sumptuous banquet provided by Mr.
Frank Smith. One of the principal toasts was
proposed by Mr. Arthur Fry, which was “The
Owl Club and the Day wo Celebrate.” The same
gentleman made a suitable speech, In which he
spoke of the Club In very eulogistic terms,
upon which Mr. Menser, the secretary, rose and
after agreeing with Mr. Fry that the “ Sydney
Owls” were all flrst-rate fellows, unblushingly
laid claim to being father of them all. Somebody
remarked that he seemed to bear his responsibili-
ties uncommonly cheerfully. Toasts to the
“ Ladies,” the “ Chairman ” (Mr. Tait), and the
“ Press ” were then drunk and speeched, which,
for the nonce, satisfied the craving of the Inner
man. Alter the banquet Mr. do Groen busied
himself In setting the dancers off again, and soon
the floor of the roomy pavilion was covered with
the merry throng. Some of the ladies had defied
the weatner and donned light costumes, but the
majority made comfort their first consideration,
and wore dresses suitable to the day. Miss Wood
looked ever so bright and pretty in a cream nun's
veiling, with old gold waistband and trimmings;
Miss Patrick’s merry face smiled above a crimson
jersey and a navy-blue skirt, with here and there
a dash of crimson between the folds; Mrs. T.
Clark wore gray homspun tastefully trimmed with
ruby velvet; Mrs. Foster looked graceful in a
green satin dress, with handsome deep cream lace
trimming bodice and skirt; Mrs. Jsnson was also
in green satin and broche; Mrs. Kolfe wore a
striking costume of black and salmon pink; Miss
Payne’s dress was a deep blue with white vest and
golden brown velvet scarf; Mrs. Menser wore
black, with a becoming fawn coloured bonnet,
with just a sensation of cardinal intermixed with
the trimming; two sisters looked summery in blue
muslins relieved by old gold satin ribbons; Miss
Harriet Hodge, who was a most indefatigable
little dancer, looked nice in pink and cream; a
neat and becoming dress was worn by Mias Hay-
don, being a nut-brown, with frills of coffee-lace
trimming the skirt; a pale blue Madras muslin
with crimson satin vest was very becoming: and
a fair young lady and a cream veiling skirt with
ruby velvet bodice was tasty. At 11.30 the tram
conveyed the pleasure-seekers back to the city,
and nobody could deny that it had been a pleasant
day’s outing.
• * v
A conoei t was given in the new Masonic
Hall last Thursday evening for the purpose of
raising funds to purchase a piano for the Dar-
linghurst superior school. Herr Alpen conducted
and trotted out his little pupils, who sang the
little cantata, “ The Picnic,” not quite as well as
we have heard it sung before. But they put their
best feet foremost on the “ Grand iloral March,”
and succeeded in making up for their short-
comings in the cantata by marching and keeping
step wonderfully well. Miss 8t. Clair could not
sing, owing: to indisposition. Miss Passuaore
played a violin solo very nicely, and a lady
amateur sanpr ditto. What we could hear of the
trio for violin, cello, and piano, we liked, but some
noisv people objected to our hearing the whole of
it. It must be sick work to such artists as Patek,
Pechostch, and Alpen, playing before so un-
appreciative an audience; butlhe worst of it is,
they can’t pick their audiences, but we will pick
them Instead some of these times—to pieces.
The “ See-Saw Waltz ” was sung really well by the
little ones, and reflected great credit upon their
teacher—Mr. Alpen, we presume. If the proceeds
of the concert won’t buy a whole piano, they will
go a long way towards it, and that’s something to
be said Just now, when everybody’s loose coin is
going either towards the Patriotic Fund or Beach
Testimonial matinee, or similar necessities.
* * *
Rand wick, on the Cup day, was fairly
well attended by the ladies, though the dresses
were rather samely. and brown was the prevailing
colour. We noticed but few of the summer tints,
almost all the ladies appearing in warm winter
shades. Mrs. Beach was again promenading in the
well-known colours, accompanied by her illustri-
ous spouse. A tall, elegant, lady wore an especi-
ally stylish dress with gold satin bodice and brown
ottoman velvet skirt, and bonnet to match with
gold stars, also sunshade crowned with a large
fawn satin bow. The wife of a well-known sport-
ing gentleman from Bose Bay displayed a pretty
dress of black broche velvet with white silk under-
skirt covered by a fine lace. A lady, also
from the same locality, wore a pale laven-
der costume and chapeau to match, adorned
by dark-green feathers with black velvet
strings covered with silver stars. Miss Hill, sister
of the same, showed a very nice costume in navy-
blue, which fitted superbly, and was a good display
of taste. Mrs. Knox, of Double Bay, wore a black
dress of a soft clinging material, with military
point facings—an extremely neat design. A lady
of Mr. Burdekin’s party, Macquarie-street, was
attired in a very rich bronze satin, trimmed with
broche of the same colour and chenille fringe.
The ex-Mayoress wore a nice style of dress with
an effective trimming of black and gold bows, and
bonnet prettily matched with gold feathers. Her
daughter looked particularly warm and season-
able with seal - skin cape — the only one we
noticed. A young lady with Mr. Wrench’s
Sarty, In our estimation, carried away the laurels,
ler costume, though quite plain with the
exception of a slight relief in the front part
ot the dress, was the acme of good taste, and her
tall and graceful figure was displayed to great
advantage by the perfect fit and stylish cut of the
costume. Miss Day, from North Shore, was also
attractive, In a light fawn nun’s veiling, nicely
trimmed with salmon broche. A little boy drew
our attention in the way of children’s costumes,
by a superbly pretty peacock green knicker suit,
with Tam o’ Shanter to match. We must not
omit the mention of a young lady who looked
especially charming in a close-fitting blue-cos-
tume, artistically relieved by white pipings.
Another young lady invited our attention by a
really stylish costume, and with a quaint trim-
ming to match, resembling the scales of a fish.
On the lawn, a young lady gained almost univer-
sal notice by a sweetly-pretty dark green velvet
costume, with satin trimmings of the same shade,
and beautifully besprinkled with rich lace ; her
bonnet, which was one of the latest shapes, was
also trimmed with green satin and gold stars. The
costume was leally good, and formed one of the
most elegant of the many we saw. We noticed a
young lady who looked particularly attractive in
a well-fitting costume, with cape of myrtle shade,
and the dalntest little chapeau of the same colour.
» ♦ •
Never did the lawn present so gay an ap-
pearance as on Saturday, when the weather was
simply perfection and the ladies' costumes suffi-
ciently various to meet the tastes of all. Lady
Loftus wore a deep prune satin, with bonnet to
match; Mrs Dr. Former a fawn-coloured costume,
with bonnet and plumes to correspond; Mrs.
Brock looked extremely graceful in a fawn satin,
with drapings of striped silk brocade, small Medici
bonnet of lace and cardinal flowers; Miss Butcher
was very stylish in a rich wine-coloured silk and
broche, gray beaver hat adorned with feather, the
same shade as that of the dress. Two peculiar
costumes were of a dull blue shade. The skirts,
which were quite plain (and sans crinoline, by the
way) were in velvet, and the long silk polonaises
edged with a rich gold trimming, opened
lightly to one side, displaying a panel of
the rich velvet skirts half way to the waist
Mrs. Gannon’s dress was black satin, with hand-
some deep Spanish flounces, small golden straw
bonnet, with plumes. Mrs. M’Donald displayed a
handsome ruby broche dress and fawn hat. The
Misses Lamb wore lake-coloured dresses and bon-
nets Mrs. Aloock, a tasteful seal-brown costume,
with crimson pipings and linings, and small brown
straw bonnet, adorned with a bird of a brilliant
plumage. A simnle but tasteful dress was worn
by Mrs. Harry Levien—a black silk and lace,
relieved by pale pink bows, black straw hat, and
pink trimmiog. Miss Kiss looked well in electric
blue, witli black velvet witch hat and red poppies,
Mrs. Carson's dress was same colour, but her head-
gear consisted of a small light bonnet. A neat
figure set off a handsome velvet dress in the new
shade of green, but the effect was somewhat
marred by a tremendous responsibility in the
way of a crinoline, which was the more
conspicuous as most of the ladies on Satur-
day discarded that tiresome machine alto-
gether. Mrs. Williamson’s dress was a moss-
green velvet, heavily trimmed with rich chenille
cords. A neat and yet striking costume, which
was much admired on the lawn, was a silver-gray i
ottoman silk top over a plain claret velvet skirt.
The colour of the skirt was repeated In the jabot
and bonnet. A good deal of notice was bestowed
upon the wearer of a fawn costume—not that the
dress was particularly nice, but the hat was worn
in the most eccentric manner. It was placed
exactly at the back of the head, but how it kept
there was a mystery, unless the crown was lined
with glue. It was our opinion that bonnets and
hats were worn to protect the head from sun and
weather, but this young lady evidently thought
her’s wasn’t worth protecting—perhaps she was
right. Outwardly, at any rate, it was pretty
enough to deserve better treatment. A golden-
brown costume was composed completely of rich
broche, parasol too, and was dazzingly rich. A
few light dresses, although very beautiful, were
rather unseasonable. Amongst the best was an
ivory broche with rich laca— the bonnet, which
was of ruby velvet, made a nice contrast. Several
handsome shot-silk costumes were striking, but
the best was a mixture of green and crimson,
which was worn by a handsome tall lady. Cer-
tainly the throng on Saturday was the biggest and
most brilliant Randwiok has seen for some time.
♦ * -f
A very pleasant evening was spent in the
new Town Hall, Armldale, by about 120 young
couples on Erster Monday night. On that night, a
party was given by some of the young folk.
Several of the ladies looked charming, particularly
the young damsel from Allingham-street, who was
universally pronounced the belle of the evening.
Dancing was kept up till 2.30 a.m.to good music,
when the company dispersed after enjoying a
most pleasant evening.
♦ * ♦
On Christmas Eve last, the Queen ordered
a first class “ Salvo ” tricycle to be specially made,
and nicely nickelled, for a little princess, and to be
done by 10 o’clock on kthe third day. Messrs.
Starley set to work, hammered away right through
the holidays, and at a quarter to ten, on the day
appointed, tho young lady in their employ—whose
graceful riding of these machines some four
years ago first jlnduced the Queen to Invest In a
trike—rode the “ Salvo ” up to the front door at
Osborne. The little princess was good enough to
condescend to come down stairs at once and get
on, and she was Immediately shown how to work
it. Now, we have been under the impression
that a female on a tricycle was something
dreadful. We admit that we have never
observed anything in the sight Itself to make us
think so; but the idea probably came through a
talk we had with our “ little woman ” one day,
when we Innocently asked whether she wouldn’t
like to ride one of them. The look we got I
“ Why I what do you mean, Augustus ? ” she said,
with that peculiar asperity of tone which (in her,
dear reader) generally augurs a coming storm.
“ What do you mean ? Are you losing all sense of
what is decent ? Do you think I would ride one
of those horrid things in the public streets, and let
everyone see .” We forget exactly all the
arguments she used, but we know that at the time
they seemed to us quite unanswerable. But
here’s a princess riding one of those horrid things.
Gracious I It fills us with all kinds of wonderlnga—
We wonder if the little princess
Rides the thing in a dual dress ?
And if, when she shoots unexpectedly “ off,”
The larrikins ever at royalty scoff ?
We wonder if ever she gets up “ pace,”
And if royal princesses get rod in the faca ?
Is perspiration—that symbol of sin—
Ever seen on her illustrious skin ?
Does royalty, too—we suppose it must—
Suffer, like us, from the ‘‘ beastly dust ?”i
Are royal princesses supposed to “ spurt ?”
Does she put on a proper shaped “ princess” skirt ?
Does she ever get u spilled” by a yelping pup ?
*nd who picks her dust-covered highness up ?
In fact, does she ever “ come down a cropper?”
Or ever do anything else improper ?
And we want, above all, to know if she shows
The shocked British public her right royal host ?
• m m
Little Bessie Doyle, the violinist, prior to
leaving her native country for Germany, where
her musical education is to be completed, gave
two farewell benefit concerts at Newcastle and
Plattsburg last week. Aided by leading amateur
and professional friends and enthusiasts, notably
Mrs. H. Stokes, Miss Donaldson, Prof. Gee, Mr.
Orr, and others, and her sister Miss Doyle, the
little lady scored a win, for the concerts were a
musical success, the attendance capital, and the
enthusiastic plaudits showered on the maiden
were most hearty and prolonged, the inhabitants
of the coaly city being enraptured with her marvel-
lous playing. At Plattsburg, the town band—and
a good one too—played for an hour outside the
hail (just to liven people up), and gave their ser-
vices gratuitously. For the hall and piano—a
capital instrument—a nominal fee only was
charged, and everybody seemed anxious to do
honour to and assist the young artiste. It now
only remains to wish her hon voyage, success, and
a speedy return as a credit and an honour to the
colony, and to those musical enthusiasts who
have, at considerable personal expense, been the
means of sending the little one on her long journey.
* * * *
About 30 sat down to a dinner at Bau-
mann’s on Saturday last, which was tendered to
A. G. Neate, station master at Kedfern A suc-
cessful ball was given by the Union Club in Needs’
rooms on Thursday last. About 160 guests pre-
sent, and dancing was kept up till an early hour.
Baumann supervised eatables and drinkables
Mr. Gerald E. Herring entertained about 40 friends
to lunch at Gladesvllle on Saturday.
The Language off Hair.—A Suggestion.


INTENDING VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY"
thould Carefully Preserve this Notice.
"THE WONDER” COACH
CARRIED 1920 PASSENGERS LAST SEASON.
Mr. P. J. Rumney, of “ RIDGE’S FOOD ” fame
is again running his celebrated four-horse Stage
Coach, “THE WONDER,” between London and
St. Albans, leaving Hatchett’s Hotel, In Piccadilly
London, every morning at 10.45 returning to Plcl
cadilly at 0.15 p m.
Ample time is allowed at St. Albans for lunch
and for passengers to inspect the CATHEDRAL
which is one of the FINEST and OLDEST IN THE
WORLD,
The trip is one of the most delightful that can be
taken, and the price charged for the return fare is
lifteen shillings.
. ,V dr^ 8 and °ther particulars apply to
_WONDER Coach OlHce, Hatchett’s Hotel,
Piccadilly, London, England.
All Interested in
POULTRY FARMING,
Look out for
LAKES tfKILLARNEY
ON THE
Brickfield. Sill.
Dill STAY MD CM DEPABTMSHT.
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Eree of Charge.
/(?
CD
a
i
/ !
a'O
uO
W
Nursing uid Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPERM BUSKS),
2a. lid., 3s. 3d,, 3s. 9d,, 4s. Gd., 4s. lid., 5s. Gd., Gs. 6d., 7s. Gd., 8s. Cd., 9s. Gd., 10s. Gd., 12s G
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS, 668, Brickfield Hill.
N.B.—Orders from the Country nil! receive Immediate and careful attention.
w _ Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dearest Belle, — When I allowed the week
to pass by without indulging in my usual chat
with you, I certainly wasn ! t prepared for the
cutting reproaches you levelled at me in your last
epistle. What ever could I tell you about our
fearfully dull Easter that could possibly interest
you? I am sure you wouldn’t care to know that
our hot cross buns were heavy and indigestible, or
that Wc were awakened early on Easter Sunday
tftortnng by the dismal roar of cannon, and
thought the Russians had comej or that we didn’t
go to any of the sacred concerts on Good Friday,
because there were hone worth going to. would
you? And yet> if 1 had written, I should have
been compelled to have filled my letter with such
trivialities, Which would have made you vow you
Would never care to hear from me again—now,
Wouldn’t it, dear ? Yes, although, for a wonder,
we had little or no rain, it was about as dull a time
as I can remember—q uite a proper Easter, in fact;
and, of course, now we are being compensated for
wearing sad-looking clothes for half a week, eat-
ing stale bread because the bakers took their holt-
Uays, ana going to church on a week day, by being
•almosti oppressed with all kinds of amusements,
• ,, orr i. the races down to regattas. We were
all disappointed at not seeing Mrs. Hurtle
lusher at the tabes, for you know we are
always curious to see her costumes, which
come straight from Worth, I believe. I was told
On Saturday that her last dress cost two hundred
guineas! So you may be sure we were put out
When we discovered we shouldn’t have the satis-
faction of seeing what Worth can produce for the
money. I noticed nearly all the ladies on Satur-
day wore their hair done up in those small basket
plaits, which are fastened in round flat coils ex-
actly at the back of the head. Hairdressers ap-
prove ot this style, and declare that scraningthe
hair on to the top of the head is destruction to it.
• u 80 apt to tear il; out b y the roots. So I
should advise you, dear, to adopt this new style,
as it not at all unbecoming, and makes the very
most of what hair you have.
Have you ever noticed, dear, that the girls who
move in the best society are generally the worst
'dancers? I have frequently observed the fact,
tout It is easily explained. It is natural that all
girls should aspire to some accomplishment, and,
as that of dancing* ig the cheapest and most easily
acquired, those of the humbler classes naturally
choose it, and never rest until they are perfect in
the art. It is considered quite bad form at home for
jagirltoeicel in dancing-but it is only within
*2® * ew days that I learnt that it is
HIBO bad form for our sex to excel in learning.
»ome one has been writing to the papers (a male,
of course), and hinting that it is impossible
for a girl to graduate at the University and to be
modest and ladylike at the same time. Now, I
think this Is very sad indeed, for I have several
f ml friends who Intend to graduate, and I am sure
should not like to think they were either im-
modest or un-Iadylike; and I suppose it must be
so, for I presume this writer, who speaks so
strongly against the most ambitious of our sex.
has gone through all the classics so ought to know
—indeed. I think he himself is a striking example
pt tne effect of learning upon the disposition, for
U he not immodest in pitting his opinion against
that of the mass? And heis most assuredly un-
gentlemanly in the ill-manuered insinuations he
hurls at the girl students. Oh I how jealous the
w ben we touch upon their ground,
don tthey, dear? And how very gratifying it is
to us if they only knew it I But it certainly isn’t
often they allow their feelings to so far get the
better of them that they descend to publicly abuse
us for desiring to be doctors and lawyers, is It ?
There are some people in the world so mean and
so dishonest that no punishment would be too bad
for them. And yet those who have least reason to
appropriate other people’s goods are the ones who
can do so with impunity, because no one ever sus-
beets them. A friend of mine, the other day,
arove up to a well-known drapery establishment
hero in Sydney, and purchased a very beautiful
Imported coat for her little boy. It was the only
one of the kind, so great store was set upon It
accordingly. However, another carriage was
standing alongside that of my friends, and the
shop boy put the parcel containing the coat into
It by mistake. Not until she arrived home did
the lady discover that the coat was missing, so
‘9ft no time in apprising the firm of the fact, be-
sides advertising the loss in all the papers. And
would you believe it, dear, she has never heard of
the coat from that day to this, although the un-
nghtful owners must surely have seen the adver-
tisements; even supposing they are unable to read
(although they do keep a carriage and pair), surely
they could have handed the parcel back to the
establishment. It is very foolish in them keeping
the article, as they cannot possibly make use of ic
without being “spotted,” as there is not another
like it in Sydney. I expect they would be slightly
astonished did they know. that their identity is
more than suspected.**—~
After all, dear, men are very kind to us as long
os we don’t want to become too learned, or don’t
insist upon their sitting out a whole play without
going out for a breath of fresh air (do you notice
how very much fresh air smells of whisky?), or
as long as they aren’t kept waiting for their
meals. What do you think they have in-
vented for our convenience now ? Nothing
less than little boxes of ready-out curl papers.
Each box contains about 250 papers, which are just
the right size, and as the paper is pretty tough,
they should be serviceable. Now, although we
cannot avoid being grateful to them for the
trouble they have taken to fix up this little box of
convenience for us, still, at the same time, I do
think they know quite too much about our ways
and means of “get up,” don’t you, dear ? I heard
a gentleman at the races the other day pass a
remark to his companion regarding a young
lady s figure, which certainly was as near perfec-
tion as it could well be. He was quite lost in ad-
miration over it, but his companion soon disen-
chanted him by exclaiming, impatiently: “Bahl
my dear fellow, it’s only an American novelty
figure.” He may have been right—Indeed, I won’t
say he wasn’t—but it puzzles me to know how
these men get all their information. I think they
are altogether too inquisitive anent such things,
don’t you, dear? ,
We went to see Emerson’s Minstrels on Monday
night, and I don’t know when I have seen the
pretty little Gaiety so crowded. But, oh, dear! the
gallery mob made life quite a burthen to us dur-
ing the half hour before the curtain rose, by their
dreadful nAse. I really do think some policemen
should be kept handy to put a stop io such
an annoyance. Then, when Hanlan, made his
appearance in one of the boxes, their cheers were
deafening. Nothing would satisfy them less than
a speecu from the comely Canadian (if afew words
of thankful acknowledgment for the enthusiastic
reception can be called a speech). It seems to me
that he is more popular than ever since his defeat,
and I don’t think anybody is more surprised at the
tact than he is himself. I haven’t time to tell you
much about these Minstrels in this, but I must say
they are a strong company, and their entertain-
ment is sufficiently varied to meet ail tastes. I
non t think they will succeed in putting the
Eederals’ noses quite out of joint, for many people
(your humble servant Included) will be faithful to
the belief that there never was such a funny man
as Sam Keenan, and as for dry humour, Horace
Bent has no peer; still it could easily be seen by
their reception on Monday night that they are
going to be tremendous favourites. They are
doing ‘The Professor” at the Royal. I haven’t
been yet, but I am certain it must be very good,
tor yesterday I heard of a newspaper critic who
was so pleased with it that he actually sat it out
from beginning to end, and if you knew anything
about reporters, dear, you would know that no-
thing more need be said in praise of the piece.
People possessing cheerful dispositions can
generally manage to sift some good out of the
direst misfortunes. I was talking to a little friend
of mine this morning about the probability of the
Russians attacking Australia, and instead of look-
ing doleful over it, she was remarkably the re-
verse. “ You don't seem to appreciate the serious-
ness of it,” I remarked. “ Oh! yes, I do; but you
know if they do come we shall go up the country,
and oh I won’t that be glorious ?” “I didn’t know
you were so fond of the country as all that.” “ Oh,
as for that, I’m not particularly so; but, don’t you
see, if we run away from the enemy, it Isn’t likely
anybody will think of taking a piano, conse-
quently I shan’t have to practise." The delightful
satisfaction with which this last sentence was
uttered impressed me considerably, and expressed
more than volumes what a trial this practising
was to my young friend, and I fell to wondering If
ever people will learn to direct girls’ and boys’
studies with some little consideration as to their
tastes and capabilities, and not force them to learn
this or that just because its the fashion.
Edith has just dropped in to tell me that there is
to be a grand Jewish wedding at Professor West’s
rooms to-morrow, so I must try and coax some
one to take me to see the pretty and elaborate
ceremony. If I succeed, you shall have it in full
detail next week, so now, good-bye.
Ever your loving.
MAB.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“P.Conception good; metre faulty;
will try and do somethin*! with it 41 Veritas”:
The ecclesiastical quip sent by you is as old as
Martin Luther. Our readers naturally object to
waste their hilarity over Jokes that even Adam
forbade in the Garden of Eden on grounds of
stupid stalenees— 44 R. B.” (Wyong): Decidedly;
we cannot augment our defensive forces too
much, provided we retain the n solely for internal
defence. And hence one of the perils of the late
unconstitutional precedent lies in our soldiers im-
bibing a desire to rush to foreign battle-fields to
fight any foe. It is one of the evil fruits of an un-
reasoning military spirit that it never pauses
to review the Justice or prudence of the
bloodshed it hastens to participate in. The
true statesman would restrain this base military
spirit by limiting thejwarrior’s exertions to the
defence of his own country, a patriotic project
which cannot be too ardently encouraged
41 A.X.”: You have made rather verbose com-
ments upon a Liverpool alderman making the
“bull” of advocating the raising of a volunteer
corpse.” But you should Judge of blunders by
comparison. The mistake was only a trilling one
—for an aldermanic. Besides, corpse-raising is a
peculiar aldermanic property. Balaam and Ana-
nias hold seats in nine-tenths of the provincial
borough councils. If you want to improve the
intellectual status of the Liverpool municipal
contingent, persuade the present incumbents
to retire in favour of a squad from the
Liverpool Asylum, where the erysipelas dum-
mies bloom and wither “A.E.P.”: We have
utilized your item... 44 Granville”: You complain
that Mr. Mitchell has decided to allow as many
marks to be awarded for proficiency in Scripture
as in Euclid, which you describe as a sop to the
Denominationalists. But, you see, many people
are geometricians, while the Scriptures are little
known or studied, even by the prelatical humbugs
who professionally mouth them... 44 J.R.”: You ask
us our opinion of your poetry, and also to whom
you must apply for permission to interview an
inmate of the Government Lunatic Asylum. To
economise time and space, we will answer both
your queries in one. Take your poetry with you,
and read it to the man at the gate; he will pass
you in. You must, of course, find some other
means of getting him to let you out 44 J,G.”:
We do not know who "Pedrac,” of the Mudgee
Western Post is; but we Judge him, from his
published contributions in that Journal, to be one
of the best writers on the provincial Press of this
colony. Before you criticise his opinions, learn to
improve your orthography, 44 Judgement” looks
better with the 44 e ” eliminated 44 S. P. Penson”
writes, in response to an inquiry in our last, that
the s.s. Florrie Ellison, on the return tiip from the
Beach-Hanlan race, was not passed by any other
steamer, and passed a good many “Haka”
(Brisbane); We know Bobby cribs from us, but—
bless you I—we don’t mind 44 Inquisitive”: Your
clipping is to hand, and will prooably be used in
next issue... “Dr. Moflitt” (Ballarat Hospital):
Of course, it is understood that no blame attaches
to you. The operation is a legitimate and oftin a
saving one. Much obliged for the tract, 44 Come to
Jesus: come as a sinner Just as you are.” Who
are you calling a sinner, confound you? Sinner,
yourself! Besides, your tract comes from Drum-
mond’s Stirling depot, and we take no stock in
Drummond’s tracts. Davie Drummond was a
schoolfellow of ours, and he was the best hand
with the foils in the school—also the 44 awful ex-
ample.” — 44 B. Me.”: Full of Australian colour.
Will publish soon — 44 Gulccioli ”: O, give us a
rest! We’re full up of misprinted advertisements.
Why don’t you send us a two-headed calf at once;
or, look here, comefyourself; a one headed call
will do 44 James Pyle” (Murray Fiat Free
Selectors’ Association): We are seriously con-
sidering the very thing you suggest
44 J.P.” (Brunswick): Letter and extract received,
and will be pondered ’’Subscriber ” (Gladstone,
Queensland): The British navy has not been de-
feated in any considerable engagement during the
past two centuries, so far as we are aware, it is
Just a few years over that period since the Dutch
Admiral Ruyter beat the combined fleets of Eng-
land and France. As to your second question, in
1813 the Americans 44 whipped ” us in quite a num-
ber of naval fights, but mostly single ship duels.
In one case, we believe, a small squadron of three
vessels were defeated and some prizes made
during that war, by the Yankees. Anyway,
the Americans had all the best of it at sea
that time— 44 Little Heathen”; We have no
sympathy with your sneer about the courage
of the men of the N.S. Wales Contingent.
Why should these 500 Australians be less plucky
than you or wo, or any 500 who remain in the
colony ? They lacked training and discipline, cer-
tainly—a mere mob of raw recruits mostly, But,
courage! We believe they are chockful of spunk,
and, if they get time to be licked into military
form, we quite expect them to show what sort of
grit we Australians have. Remember they are an
average sample of us all 44 Irishman”: We
have already published lots of paragraphs in the
same spirit. Still, we may find a corner for yours.
... 44 R. Richardson” (Armidale): The lines on
Miss Ellen Terry as Beatrice would not interest
Australian readers “H.T.W.” Received.
When Dailey and Dibbs were on the pas-
sage to Grafton, It seemed as though nothing
smaller than the basin of the Amazon would suffice
for their needs -they groo-whooped so. Yet they
did the return voyage smiling, and simply chuckled
as they thought what a packet of Dr. Bunker’s
Sea-sickness Cure had done for them.—See advt.
Messrs. Boyd and King report the forma-
tion of the Adam River Pastoral Association of
Cambridge Gulf, Western Australia. The object
of the Association is the stocking (principally
with sheep) of 880,300 acres of freehold and lease-
hold land. The share capital (fully subscribed
for) is £13,000, with power to increase. Mr. Harry
Stockdale will act as local Director, and arrange-
ments for the despatch of stock are being made
forthwith.*
The Tobacco Trade.
An important announcement recently ap-
peared in the city Press with regard to the To-
bacco and Cigar Trade. Mr. A. W. Sutton, whose
extensive factory at Sydney was destroyed by tire
some time back, has decided on not resuming the'
work himself, but on acting solely as manufac-
turers’ agent. There are several reasons why this
should be an item of news of which the trade
should take note. As a manufacturer for some
years, Mr. Sutton had practical experience of the
whole business, and became personally acquainted
with the descriptions of goods best suited to Aus-
tralian trades. But Mr. Sutton was not content to
be guided merely by colonial experience in the
matter, so a few months ago ho proceeded on a
tour to the Slates. There he visited all the great
factories of Virginia, making himself thoroughly
acquainted not only with the manufacturing, but
also the important branch of exporting. Mr. Sut-
ton had several interviews with the Messrs. T. C.
Williams, A. Tennent and Co , —the leading manu-
facturing firms of the world—with whom arrange-
ments were made for direct consignments of their
celebrated brands. St'll the selection of tobaccos
was not confined to the above firms, but arrange-
ments were made with other renowned makers,
which wiii result in the direct introduction here
of the best lines of tobacco manutactured, some
of them being new. This wholesale business,
which Mr. Sutton now actively takes up, will duly
represent the various manufacturing houses, suefi
as Cameron’s. &c„ and the very best brands of
their tobaccos will be placed for selection by re-
tailers. The firm have made arrangements for
shipments of cigars and cigarettes from the best
manufacturers, and in tobacconists’ wares, &o,
will represent some of the best known English,
French, German, and American manufacturers.
The warehouse of the firm la George-street, Syd-
ney, nearly opposite Margaret-street, is one
specially built for the trade, and affords ample
room, both for extensive storage and grand dis-
play of goods. Tobacconists throughout the
country, storekeepers, shippers, and others, wo
can candidly say, will be largely consulting their
own interests by cmmmnicating with Mr. A. W.
Sutton. The address of the firm is George-street,
Sydney, still the spot whore, in 1818, the business
was first commenced.*
Well done I by our country, to send home so
promptly
The succour which greets England’s hour of need,
The noble display of our troops is but equalled
By the beauty of Summerlleld’s superfine tweed.*
Our Sydney youths are at last beginning
to awake from their Indifference towards gymnas-
tics, and a meeting is being called for next Friday
evening at 9 o'clock, in the gymnasium, under the
Unitarian Church in Liverpool-street, to discuss
the forming of a club and the advisability of tak-
ing oyer the apparatus, etc,, of the now existing
proprietory club, which is under offer to the pro-
visional committee. Young men occupied in
sedentary pursuits would do well to assist in keep-
ing a gymnastic club in Sydney.
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
1,0’ ?? ay x 8 Purchased from Hookings and
Co., 143, Htt-street.*
Drowsiness, biliousness, pains and aches,
and ague, Hop Bitters always cures if made by
American Co. Read. *
Ball Koom Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
Bag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in dlsnlav
consummated. 60* Hunter-street, Sydney.*
Only an evening party, only a dreamy dance,
° chance aDda maideD ’ who bad J U8fc met by
Only a few words spoken, in a quiet-place apart.
But hoi twas the Summcrfleid trousers that cap-
tured the maiden’s heart.*
Osman Digna defeated at Hasheen, re-
treats to Tamai, followed by the troops of General
Graham. Our Australian forces are displayed in
the windows and our four showrooms, and there
you will see General Dinnerset, Captains Tea and
Breakfast Service, Lieutenants Dessert and Toilet-
sels, and host of Privates known by the name of
China, Glass, and Dell’. Review ground, Bray
Bros , 403 and 404 Qeorge-sfreet.*


Political Points
This paragraph will explain a recent cable-
gram:—“The Morning Post understands that in-
telligence of so serious a character has reached
the British Government with regard to imminent
danger of a seditious character in various parts
of Ireland, that it has been resolved under no
circumstances to recall any of the troops from
those garrisons for duty in Egypt.” That means
50,000 men unavailable for service against Russia
also.
From the Morpeth Times: —“Meetings
have been held in various parts of the district to
form a patriotic fund in connection with tho Sou-
dan expedition. To show how much ‘ patriotic ’
la in the north—between Newcastle and Maitland
anyhow—only one town established a fund, and
that distinguished place was Raymond Terrace,
where all the lighting is going on now. Newcastle
and mining districts condemned the Government
and the fund; so did Morpeth emphatically; and
the Bast and West Maitland meetings were utter
failures. And yet the Government declares that
they have the whole country with them. Bosh! ”
And by-the-way, there was no mention of these
utter failures in the Sydney dallies-dailies we
mean.
Thady O’Kane, in spite of the hot weather
and various other drawbacks to happiness in North
Oueensland, still "sloshes around” in his charac-
teristic style. Alluding to the telegram announc-
ing the projected formation of a Crown colony in
the North, he says:-" We don’t think so; the
people of North Queensland are not such fools as
to allow anything of the kind to happen. Thev
have been too long accustomed to live under an
elective Government to submit to be ruled now
by a lot of nominees of some broken-down English
hack.” The D.T. would call this seditious lan-
guage. It’s true, anyhow, and that’s quite enough
to ensure its condemnation by some of the Sydney
dalleys-dallies, we mean.
Thus the S.M. Herald “ Our troops
were disappointed at the prospect of the enemy
not offering battle." Yes, that is the raw spot in
the Contingent’s patriotism. They lament the
prospect of England achieving her object (a doubt-
ful one to decipher) without further bloodshed
and expense. Bah! to their loyalty; this one inci-
dent exposes its hollowness. If, however, they
started on what they conceived to be a cheap and
(to them) non-dangerous nigger-shooting excur-
sion, then one can understand the tears which such
true and genuine sportsmen shed at the prospect
of the game escaping them. Granny has let the
eat out of the bag, and no hideous sophistry can
conceal the true position any longer.
Lord Rosebery said in a recent speech :—
" A great deal has been said as to ‘ the coming de-
mocracy,’ as if it were some strange animal that
required an experienced naturalist to discover the
habits of. It seems to me the democracy will com-
port itself in the hour of danger with dignity and
with valour, and will carry the ilag of Great
Britain which is entrusted to its care as efficiently
„ 8 the generations which have preceded it.” The
little sporting Bari evidently thinks that the mis-
sion of the “ democracy ” is to " carry the flag of
Great Britain, which in entrusted to its care, &o.,
Ac Ha speaks as if "democracy were confined
to Great Britain. It Is necessary to remind Lord
K that Democrats are no respecters of persons,
and claim as brothers the people of the Soudan,
Madag ascar, and China, as well as those of Eng-
land, France, and the rest of the world. It is to
unlust privilege of every description, and not to
any people that it is antagonistic.
Tho Rev. Newman Hall is to be congratu-
aM, says the Home News, for hie outspokenness
in regard to the “ war of revenge.” Speaking at
Christ Church, Westminster Koad, he said:—“ I
leave to others the political aspect, but, as a Chris-
tian minister, I think it right to ask you to weigh
such considerations as the following:—That re-
venge means the slaughter of some thousands of
Arabs and of some hundreds of brave soldiers;
that these Arabs of the Soudan have by Gordon
himself been proclaimed free, and therefore are
no rebels; that they are in arms against the cruel
and oppressive tyranny of Egypt; that they are in
their own land, protecting it against foreign in-
vaders seeking to bring them back to bondage,
and are doing Just what we should do in their
case. The people, if urged to support the con-
tinuance of war, should ask themselves whether
there is sufficient necessity in this case to Justify
a departure from the plain meaning of the teach-
ing of the Prince of Peace.” Now, then. Bishop
Barry, speak up!
“Dagonet” on the war:—“ The initial
error of this ghastly Egyytian business was our
attitude to Arabl Pasha. The second error was
sending a brave man to the Soudan armed only
with a walking-stick and a Bible. We deliberately
brought about our own trouble. The most peri-
lous and bloody portion of this wanton war has
been that undertaken to deliver a man whom we
deliberately sent into peril. The war Itself Is an
inglorious one, for we know that we are shedding
the blood of brave men in a brawl which can never
have a satisfactory termination. It is Impossible
not to feel sympathy with the brave fanatical
Soudanese. They are lighting for their liberty
and their faith, for the country of their fathers,
for the altars of their god. And when did Britons
ever war with such men with any heart or any
pride? Where the White Nile or the Blue Nile
How, a red Nile Hows now—a river of blood, and it
may bo swollen to a torrent if the war goes on.
And when it has grown to a deluge of blood, where
is the Ararat for our ark to rest on and await the
abalting of the waters and the coming of the dove
with the olive branch of Peace ?”
Sir Edward Reed’s indictment against the
Admiralty, in the Times, is a terrible one. He
asserts, and he goes far to prove, that the largest
ships in the British navy are greatly inferior to
the ten largest ships of the French navy, and
greatly inferior because their armour has been
“reduced to a mere shallow belt one third the
ship’s length,” whereas the French ships are belted
throughout. “ I will here repeat,” says Sir Edward
Reed, “in the most public and responsible man-
ner, that the Ajax, Agamemnon, Colossus, and
Edinburgh, and the six ships of the Admiral class,
are all utterly unfit to engage the corresponding
French ships; unfit to enter the line of battle at
all; unfit to be retained on the list of armoured
ships; and I demand that they be at least afforded
protection against that swift destruction from the
fire of the smallest guns afloat which now awaits
them.” When it is further remembered that the
guns with which our fleet is armed are admitted to
be greatly inferior to those on board the French
ships, and that wo have virtually no torpedo fleet,
whilst Ministers have Just decided that our coaling
stations are not to be fortified, it will be seen by
men who have kept their senses that this is hardly
the time when we should hector about what we
intend to do in Egypt, let Europe say what it may.
Maharajah Scindia, one of the native
princes who have offered to support the Biitish
against the Russians, follows the British military
model so closely as to hold camps of exercise for
his troops. One has just been held near the village
of Sassera, !at which the regular army of the
Gwalolr State, consisting of six battalions of in-
fantry, four regiments of cavalry, and eight bat-
teries of artillery, and numbering about 8000 of
all ranks, has been put through a series of brigade
and divisional drills and field manoeuvres under
the immediate supervision and personal direction
of the Maharajah. During the manoeuvres, sig-
nalling by heliograph was practised probably
tor the first time by a purely native force.
Regarding the quality of the troops, a corres-
pondent of the India Daily Neavs, says:—“The
cavalry were considered to bo the best, both in
Soint of physique and general appearance. Their
orses are small, and although wiry animals, they
could hardly stand the hard work of a campaign
for any length of time. The infantry are low-
sized and underfed, and for tho most part old
men, scarcely able to carry a musket, and only fit
to take their pensions.” It is an unhappy circum-
stance that the policy which discountenances these
tributary princes from maintaining really effec-
tive armies, lest they should be employed against
ourselves, renders them likewise of slender ser-
vice as auxiliaries against our enemies.
Tire veteran Greek Professor, and enthu-
siastic friend and admirer of the Scottish Celt,
John Stuart Blaekie, has performed an important
service to the crofters of the Highlands and Islands
of Scotland by. drawing attention, in a work he has
recently published, to an Act which was passed in
1752 by “a Parliament of lords and landlords,” an-
nexing inalienably to the Crown the lands of the
Highland chiefs who had taken part in the llebel-
lion of 1745. In the preamble of this Act it was
declared that the clear rents and produce of the
lands and estates annexed to the Crown shall be
applied “to the purposes of civilizing the inhabi-
tants upon the said estates and other parts of the
Highlands and Islands of Scotland, the promoting
among them of the Protestant religion, good
government, and manufactures, and the principles
of duty and loyalty to his Majesty, and to no other
use and purpose whatever." For over 30 years this
Act was on the Statute Book, and the inhabitants
of the estates affected by it were for that period
virtually owners of the soil on which they lived;
but, unfortunately, it does not appear that they
reaped much benefit from it, or ever rightly under-
stood the position in which it placed them; for in
1783 another Act was passed, by which the forfeited
estates were restored to their original owners or
their heirs, of course, under the old conditions and
with the complete prostration of the people. Still,
the fact that a century and a quarter ago a British
Government and Parliament, under any instiga-
tion, were induced to clear a portion of the land
of its landlords and devote the revenues from it to
the promotion of the welfare of the people settled
upon it, is worthy of remembrance, and ought not
to be forgotten. We are not surprised that the
friends ofthe crofters are finding use for it, and
that it is encouraging them in the efforts they are
making to reform the land system which has
already nearly devastated the Highland braes and
glens.
♦ ♦ ♦
The Yobkbs Peninsular Advertiser, re-
ferring to the prospect of war between England
and Russia, says: “ Certainly, It seems worse than
folly to think of sending any of our fighting staff
to the Soudan, when they may be wanted at
home.” A rod in pickle for T. M. Slattery,
M L A., on account of his Soudan speech. At
least, so the Burrowa Times says.
Some members of the nobility, hitherto
exclusive, are turning their attention to trade and
commerce, and supply capital to their sons for the
purpose of embarking therein. This is an im-
provement upon ways of senseless luxury. The
young men will have wiser and better thoughts
than are acquired among the imbecilities of 5
o’clock teas, the dangling after dancers at play-
house doors, and other trivialities of a life that has
nothing else to do. Of some importance, too, will
be the circulation of loosened capital among the
industrious classes. A peer in his counting-house,
and a right honourable at his shop-door would be
Indications of a new growth of commercial pros-
perity.
“ Thou shaft not suffer a witch to live,” i 8
an order of tho old books which was obeyed with
the most cheerful alacrity up to the last century;
when, from the year 1484, the number of artists in
the black art grilled, and otherwise disposed of in
tho land of “poloneys ” alone, dotted up to some-
thing considerably over 100,000. This interesting
state of affairs afforded the chief amusement then
indulged in by tho members of the divine profes-
sion, who gloried God, and provided themselves
chaste and rational amusement by fixing an old
woman up against a slab and starting a little hell
of their own round her legs. Seats Inside the rail-
ing half-a-crown, babies in arms not admltted-as
when they cried the howls of the victims could
not be heard to satisfaction. Wo mention this
merely to show how far the holy ones of
Melbourne have fallen from grace when
they can stand Indifferently by whilst fortune-
tellers ply their lucrative calling, and wax fat on
the "spons” of the credulous and superstitious
yahoos, who will willingly plank 5s. to be told that
if they do not die before the year 1960 they will
live to a ripe old age; or, supposing the applicant
for a peep into the future be a woman, to hear
that she will marry a darkish young man with a
little money, if a fairish young man with a mous-
tache does not crop up in the meantime. People
there are who gladly pay to have this sort of thing
crammed down their necks, and yet can sit for
two hours in a church and listen to a parson pro-
phesying their future away beyond this mundane
sphere, and at the end yield up a paltry, reluctant
thrummer. One would expect the clergy to be
the first and loudest in denouncing these usurpers
of their old rights and privileges, but no;
not a single voice from the pulpit is heard
bemoaning the very merry times of Pope
Innocent VIII. They have lost all their fire
and enthusiasm for the cause, and are content
to leave the punishment of this troup of glaring
frauds to the mild and wishy-washy laws of now-a
days, which can go no farther than to deny them
the advantages of the postal department. The
Postmaster-General of Victoria, in the Gazette,
proclaims that all letters, newspapers, or packets
directed to Madame de Lancey, Madame Eugenie,
Gipsy Lee, and a whole list of other parties, whose
"sunset of life lends them mystical lore,” will be
dumped into the dead-letter box, and that no
money-order will bo issued or cashed in their
names. This is pretty rough on the witches, seeing
that the average raking-in of some of them in P.O.
stamps alone, exceeded £10 a week; and when we
consider the money-orders and the takings lor
visits, we come to the conclusion that if there is
one thing easier and more lucrative than foretell-
ing of the next life, it is foretelling this one, and we
wonder that the sky pilots don’t lump the thing.
How would an advertisement like this fetch the
people ? —“ The Rev. Solomon Thumper will hold
fourth this evening at Bethel Church. Christen-
ings executed with despatch. Wedding and burial
services at lowest rates. Cross the reverend hand
with gold and he will trace the minutest details of
your existence away to the other side of Jordan.”
It strikes our fancy, anyhow.
Those Other War Correspondents.
Mashers.—The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 653 George-street, Brickfield Hill.*
Hop Bitters gives good digestion, active
liver, good circulation and buoyant spirits. Get
the only genuine American Co.’s. Bead.
Our opinion.—For the cure of Rheuma-
tism and kindred affections we are satisfied that
there is no medicine or treatment equal" to the
use of BRISTOL’S SARSAPARILLA and PILLS,
The Seven Hundred.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hdlf a league, half a league,
Half a league onward;
Down through our city street
Marched the Seven Hundred,
“ Go to Soudan,” he said;
" Of Arabs who’s afraid ?”
Down to the city Quay,
Marched tho Seven Hundred.
“ Go to Soudan,” he said;
“ I’ll see your ‘ screw ’ is paid,
And a knight I’ll be made—
Don’t think I’ve blundered.”
Then were they heard to say:
“ We go for grog and pay;
For the five bob a day ”—
Patriotic Seven Hundred.
1 Arrival of the S.M. Herald’s war correspondent in the Soudan. Great excitement in camp. 2. He reconnoitres the enemy from a neighbouring hill. 3. Sur-
prised by overwhelming numbers of the enemy. 4. He seeks safety in flight. o. And gains the friendly shelter of a tree.
0. Horror! “ There’s one of those beastly black fellows at the other side.” 7. “I’ll try a little stratagem.” 8. More strategy, 9* “ Wha-a-a-t! Never!
the Correspondent of the Roi! ” 10. And they go to the Herald’s tent and make a night of it. Not too much night, but just night enough.
VULCAN.
Albury.
Crowds to the right of them.
Crowds to the left of them,
Crowds in the rear of them,
Holloaed and thundered.
What it was all about
No one could make it out;
What they were going for
People much wondered.
What will our children say
When they think of this day.
And have the cash to pay
For this Seven Hundred ?
They went to right no wrong,
They went to help the strong;
To keep in bondage long—
To see cities plundered.
Crowds to the right of them,
Crowds to the left of them, •
Crowds in the rear of them
Jostled and blundered.
Many who gaily go
Soon will be lying low,
With not the slightest show
Of coming back again.
Better they’d stayed at home,
Nor crossed tho raging foam—
Foolish Seven Hundred.
Oh, this unholy raid I
Widows and orphans made.
Families sundered;
When they from sight did fade,
This remark I heard made—
“ Foolish Seven Hundred!”


T ASK TH01£PS02^T,
A.J.O. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON.
91 Sing-street.
I33T N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
READJTHIS I
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 10s. each,
Warranted for three years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 Piit-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER ANI) JEWELLER
Black Swan Hotel.
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies* Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magnlflcient s.s. Illawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o’clock.
I ruin DOMESTIC PAPER FASHIONS
-i-vrAFVf shown in our Illustrated Catalogue
Price, Threepence ; by Post, Fourpencb.
CHAP PEL & CO.,
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern and General Sewing-machine
Agency,
746 GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and all fittings, &c., kept in
8 took.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GENT.’S i s . ed.; 100, 3s. 8d.
50, 3s. Od.; 100, 3s. Od.
Address, 6d, extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. 8d.; 250, 6s. 6d. ; 600, 10s.; 1000, 15s.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
tar Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
II
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
M. A. BROWN & CO*,
PRO FESSI ORAL HAIRDRESSERS,
260 GEORGE STREET
(Comer of Bond-street)
i*
From the Strand, London.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 354 and 356 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment. Australia,
Every B b o 0 yi’s i hlS eYloutrif 0 18 CaiTied ° D f0r the beneflt of the W* Mr,
Everybody should remember the address ;
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manager.
7 2lQ(l CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
U, IB, ui ICED MERCHANTS,
Importers of
BAR. PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACK8
fMEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
PORTABLE. PIKED
and BN-
1 -
TEAM and
=£=:■■ pumps
other
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER. &o.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished oh application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
ad Warehouse
n ani Implement Yard
Ik Stores
London Office -
- 54 YORK STREET.
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
SYDNEY.
- 86 GRAOECBURCH STREET.
Giticura
Disfiguring humors, Humiliating Emp
lions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
'Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
ftcaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
I/DBS of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured hy
•CtmcuiiA Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
/great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm batn
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
'Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
■ daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
i Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
'with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
i solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
1 ctnnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
i repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
■ f or years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
) have been obliged to shun public places by reason
iof my disfiguring humors ; have had,the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
mo relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
; pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
not. « How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases
Australian Consignees,,
& Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Purl-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantlj r allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies arc the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, largo boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co-, Boston, U.S.A.
107 Fitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.
w.
PALING
Ml
AND CO. (Limited),
DIRECT ATTENTION TO THEIR UNRIVALLED STOCK
OF
Pianos , Organs ? Music , etc.
Comprising over 800 Instruments, by the BEST MAKERS, English, French, American,
and German, in New and Elegant Designs, and with all the Latest Improvements.
Buyers hare the opportunity of securing an
EXCELLENT and LASTING INSTRUMENT
AT A
VERY MODERATE PRICE,
Either for Cash or on the
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM!
EVERY INSTRUMENT GUARANTEED.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES POST FREE.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
366 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF N15W SOUTH WALES.


BEAD IT ALL.
It may Save your Lite*
AMERICAN CO.’S
Hop Bitters
▲OB
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Bucliu, Mandrake, and DandeH on.
“The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘ and-Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘ and in addition contain all the best
‘and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being the greatest
* Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
* and life and health restoring agent, on
* earth.” *
They Give New Life and Vigour to t) * A$ta I
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
* Mon, Labourers, Ladies, and all those,
‘whose sedentary employments causej
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach,,
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an i
‘Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,,
‘those Bitters are invaluable, being; I
* highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,.
‘ without Intoxicating." ,]
“No matter what your feelings or .
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or ,
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t,
* wait until you are sick, but If you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters atr.
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
* dreds have been saved by so doing, afe
‘ a trilling cost."
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your-
* friends suffer, but use and urge them to.
‘ use the American Co.’s Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, these Hop Bitters are.
‘ no vile, drugged, drunken nostrum.
‘ but the purest and best Medicine
‘ever made, and no person or family
‘ should be without it.”
ET See that the name Dr. Soule is blown
in every bottle, none other prenulne.
WeakNervoiisMBB
Whoso debility, exhausted
powers, premature deeny-
and failure to perform life’s,
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will fand a perfect and lasting-
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
.THEMARSTON BOLUS.
stomach drugging no,-
instruments. This treatment of
Nervous Debility and
, - Physlcn I Decay isnnnormly
Buccessful because based on perfect diagnosis
new und direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness. Full information and Treatise free
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., 52 Castlcroach St, Sydney
/lien’s U Wingsn Oils,
A CERTAIN CURE FOR ALL SORES, &c.,
ON HORSES AND CATTLE.
THEY stand unequalled for Sore Shoulders,
Sore Backs, Saddle Girth and Wind Gulls,
Strains, Sprains, Stakes, Bruises, Sweat boils, Con-
tusions, Fistula, Wounns of all descriptions, Sore
Necks of working bullocks, Sore Teats, Greasy
Heels. No ’bus proprietor, carrier, or stock-
owner should bo without them. They will heal
any sore, no matter if freshly done or of years’
standing. Dozens of Testimonials from well-
known carriers. No spell required to effect a
cure. The healing properties are wondt rful, leav-
ing no scar. The hair grows thick and even, leav-
no trace of recent wounds.
“TRY THEM.”
May be obtained from Chemists and Storekeepers.
COSTELLO & GREY,
C8 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
TO SUFFERING HUMANITY.
ALLEN’S BLACK WINGBN OILS are une-
qualled as a Cure for Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Neuralgia, Toothache, Stings, Lumbago, Sprains,
Strained Sinews, Sore Throats, Piles, internal and
external; Itch, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Jars,
Wounds of all descriptions.
“TRY THEM.”
and you will find your pains lly before them In a
most miraculous manner.
COSTELLO & GREY,
08 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Solo Agents.
E A U E COLOGNE,
4711 4711.
Established 1793.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1873; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873
This E.iu de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, s rength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors.
It ban become (he great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the dlite of
Europe.
The largo and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Kau de Cologne, not only la
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number-4711 changed into 7411. 1147, 4117, &c , &c.
The real genuine article which carried off tho
Prize Medalat tho Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic bluo-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pitt-
street, Sydney.
To be had at the principsl Perfumers, Druggiats,
■ nd Storekeepers, in town country.
W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and SYDNEY.
Catalogues
POST FREE.
W. WALKER
'and SONS
yk
are one of the
Largest
Stockholders
and
Manufacturers
i
High-class
FURNITURE
man
im.
1
ENGLAND.
Catalogues
POST FREE.
ALL STOCK
in their
ISYDNEY
HOUSE
Supplied
DIRECT
from their
London
Manufactory,
and Latest
London Styles
G UARANTEED
SYDNEY BRANCH :
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robe Makers.
Trousers from 21s. to 40s.
N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Co.
W. Sheabsby & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabetb-st.
SOLE IMPORTER OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE.
197 PITT STREET.
BOLE AGENT FOR THE
SMITH OHGrAXT.
WILLIAM BTfcUCE,
197 pi TT STREET
|HS
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS
WATCHES I
WHY be foolish, and buy a bad watcb, which
is dear at any price, and gives no end of
trouble. If you buy one of
ROTJIBBHAM’8 COMPENSATION BALANCE
AND JEWKLLED WATCH US
from' C. QUANT, you will never want another, as
thoy are, without doubt, the Best Watches in the
market.
Guaranteed for 5 years. Price, only £0 10s.
Beni boat free to any part of the country. Special
attention given to country orders.
. ' * • . _____
C. GRANT, Watchmaker,
184 George Street, Sydney.
■' Established 1880.
I
WViYS& s WO
5*
niRY BURG IS’ £3 3s. Suit?, to measure. Trousers
i from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheanest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-ST HEET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for scF»-measuring
forwarded to any part of the colony
C. B. MODINI,
"1 TURING his recent visit to London, carefullj
XJ selected a large and varied Stock of
♦’> FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated Engllel
makers.
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customer!
Of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT foi
the following Firms .’—JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don; THOS. BLAND & SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London; W. POWELL & SON
Birmingham: CHAS. OSBORNE & CO., London
G. B. M. is also AGENT for the eminent Arm ol
BU83Y Si CO., London.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
£02 GQornc.st., Sydney,
Where Inspection is invited.
BARGAINS! BARGAINS!! BARGAINS!!
last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
, «
EOSSJiLIE, LLOT1D CO.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO, ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
t3T Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
Ladies should secure the
CHEAP LACES AND UNDERCLOTHING AT FOSSAUF, LLOYD & CL’S SALE.
4s. in the pound taken oft - your Bill.
Thousands of Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laces
Remnants of Ribbons. Remnants of Ribbons, Summer Millinery. Summer Millinerv
A MAGNIFICENT STOCK ALL INCLTJI- D 1N THE SALE y ‘
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO
Umbrellas. Umbrellas. Parasols. Parasols,
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO
NEAR THE GENERAL POST OFFICE. * 9
Carnriek’s Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk
(Composed of about equal proportions of Pure Cod Liver Oil and Condensed MUk digested)
IT affords us much pleasure to announce to the Medical Profession and the Public th«t v,
jurm m combimnKtheso °uiritive substances into a permanent, polataWe. and
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk has the following advantages over the
Emulsion* now m use :-lst. Plain Cod Liver O.l is unpalatable to most persons but m 0,1 , and the
yd) milk, as exhibited in this nrnnuratim, u ,„ni . but . ,n tomblnat on
M \‘ten8ed {diae*te(l) milk, as exhibited in this preparation, it will beltaeu bvthi“ binat on
child with a relish. 2 ml. Oils arc prepared for assimilation principally in • i he youn KCSt
Cod liver Oil, when taken plain, often r ffeuds the stomach, Ibe O I and Milk m/w '■ co , n ' fluently
Oil and Milk are digested, and it will therefore usually agree with t he d/lf™#« C "'i Liver
~ — . . - .. ■ - ■ 'ffthnmit.itirai.njji .. . '“-'aaio stomach. 3rd,
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk contains double-tho nutritive and lleah 3rd,
the Emulsions of Tod Liver Oil. 4th. It is well known that the Kfflutaong of ? <,,p, °^. fni >0 (i in
contain from DO to 7-> per cent, of water. Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Hfilk t™ 0il usually
best Cod Liver Oil. and in the place of water we ..«« i noLtains 5i per cent, m
. n , T . /"\.| "i • ,i , a ,, * L p'pv/'twcu- Gi/i i laivtr and JMilJc r*or.t>iinQ ioumijr
best Cod Liver Oil. and in the place ot water we use condensed milk reduced • pf r cent - of
tory. 6th. The milk is condensed to the consistency of the Cod Liver Ol? and wK m our labora-
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk, it forms one of the met pleat ant and LutrUim.s PPmbintd . as in
i be conceived or produced. nutritious C cmpounds that
This Preparation is acknowledged far superior to any of the Cod Liver Oil Pmntorn
introduced, it being already digested, it may be retained on the weakcVtstoTach. GVer
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with fiYi’OPRnspftiTii'o nn T
SODA. To be obtained of the Principal Chemists and Druggists in the colomes? ITES ° F LIME AND
The Maltino Manufacturing Co., Lim., 24 and 25 Hart-st., Bloonmbury, London W C
Wholesale Agents in the Colonies Elliott Bros., Sydney; E. Prosser & On , , ' C ’
wade, & Co., Melbourne: Rocke, Tompsitt. & Co., Melbourne; Duerdin & Sainshn^f/ 1 ** elton > Grim*
Fauldmg & Co., Adelaide; A. M. Bicklord & Co.. Adelaide; Beribcy. TaWor Hvf y * bou rne; F. H.
Bros. & Co.. Brisbane; New Zealand Drug Co., Brisbane. y ’ A Co., Brisbane ; Elliott,
Samples and Full Particulars may be obtained of
W. T. PALMER, 1C4 King-street, Sydney.
Will Dailey’s darling “ little boy at Manly
ever He quiet ? We fear not, ns he has Just turned
up again In Liverpool, England, from whence he
took up his little pen, and, as the master, with his
eye on rewards in the dim and uncertain future,
guided his little hand, he wrote:—“To His Royal
Highness Prince Albert Victor of Wales,—May it
please your Royal Highness that I, a little school
lad, nifty be permitted to wish you many happy re-
turns of this, your great birthday, and in doing so
I pray that your noble parents and yourself may
long bo spared to follow the example of our great
and good Queen, for what would England’s history
be to us English hoys without its Kings and
Quedns?-B. H.” What, indeedl It might be a
mere history of tho English people. Pooh I And
what would the world bo without its sycophant
“Sucks,” who are ever on the look-out for an op-
portunity of grovelling In the presence of wealth
or titlps ? Of course, Bertie couldn’t let this occa-
sion for a popularity bid slip by him, and so we
And he wrote back to say:—“Prince Albert Victor
thanks Master B H. for big letter of congratula-
tion on his birthday, so neatly written. He Is very
glad to hear that Master H. likes the study of his-
tory, and he hopes he will continue to make pro-
gress Jn it.” However, one thing Is dead certain—
Halley will never have to return thanks to a boy
of the Roya 1 blood for his munificent donation to-
wards the Eupport of the widows and orphans of
the Soudan soldiers.
The writers In a newspaper office in Mel-
bourne had a vigorous hunt for a Russian lately.
It Was necessary to handle the suspicious pro-
ceedings 6f a certain craft that sailed up to the
heads, and with the view to cribbing a little local
colpur, ah Intelligent quill-driver whs sent out to
talk the situation over with one of the Russian
residents of the city. Not, however, until they
looked for him did they realise how scarce a com-
modity he was. He actually wasn't there. Ap-
peal was made to tho Russian Consul, not precisely
with tho idea of overcrowding upon his time, hut
that he designate a su'Juct of the Czjr
suited to the requirements. 'the Consul himself
was foUnd not to bo a Russian, and as far as his
mommy carried ho was unable to name a Russian
In ftfrlbourno. After exaraing a file of documents
he'-at last assured tho leader-writer that he
had found a name, and he wrote it down with the
address, and handed it over. In half an-hour the
Journalist was seated opposite a dark-com-
plexioned man, and extracting material for Rus-
sian local colour, " I had great difficulty in
finding a native of your country In the
city'/’ said the Journalist, after noting down
the impressions said to exist among the business
men in Russia with regard to encroaching on
Indju. “ You Is very certaine to have,” replied
th6 affable fort igner. “And I suppose you like
Australia better than the Empire of the Czar?”
said tho Journalist, after another interval filled
with inquiries as to the sentiments the Russians
entertained about privateering and sacking
ooldnial towns. “I Is very certaine I does,” re-
plied the foreigner. The Journalist retired, and
next morning appeared a terse, crisp article on
Russia as an enemy by land and sea, and its allu-
sions to contemporary thought among the busi-
ness and intelligent classes in Russia and its many
phrases touching off with the band of an old ac-
quaintance the special features of the great un-
wieldy empire impressed the community very
profoundly. Tho writer told the editor that he
bad bad an interview with a mert accomplish' d,
communicative, and liberal-minded Russian. The
editor entered up the name for future services It
was That is it. And when Odo-
hertybeoff saw tho article in tho paper the next
morning ho said in the sweet language of bis
country. “ Begorral”


Sulpholine
Lotion,
THE CURE FOR SKIN DISEASES!
In a few days Eruptions, Pimples/Blotchcsentirely
fadeaway. Beautifully fragrant. Perfectly harm-
less. Cures old-standing Skin Diseases. Astonish-
ing results follow - It removes every kind ol
Eruption, Spot, or Blemish, and renders the skin
clear, smooth, supple, d healthy. Sulpholine
Lotion iS sold by most Chemists. Bottles, 3s 9d
each. Made only by J. PEPPER and Co., London
PEPPER’S
QUININE & IRON
. t ““"“gglUGY. TONIC
(JURAT BODILY STRENGTH I
(JURAT NERVE STRENGTH I
(JURAT MENTAL STRENGTH I
GREAT DIGESTIVE STRENGTH follows tho u'o
of PEPPER'S QUININE and IRON TONIC? It
promotes appetite, dispels languor, depression,
Ace., Is a remedy lor Neuralgia, Ci.est affections,
and wasting diseases Bottles, 33 doses. Sold by
Chemists every where. Insist on having Pepper’s
Made soley by J. PEPPER and Co., London
Special y suitable for the colonies.
XdOc3s3rer's
fe ULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
THE BEST. THE SAFEST. THE CHEAPEST.
Restores the Colour in a few applications.
Large Bottles, Is. 6d. Made in London.
OP
UFF
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
an 1 h?rn t uLT/ tnlitj \r Nerr ,? as and Ph .vsical Debility, Pie-
limine Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
n 11 nvln r Resulting from indiscretion or excesses maybe
a 1 f VuUc '{ ft!l(1 Those who doubt this should pur-
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis
5£f dical Association, entitled tho Science of Life
. i rscrval ion. A book for every man voting
and ol(K , shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescript ion for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in
valuable. So found by the author, whoso experience for
20 j cars is such as probably never before fell to tho lot of
fh?i ldl u S101al1 ' pages, boun <iin beautiful French cloth
fall gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
any other soW in the country for 2 guineas, or t homo no?
bo refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 bv
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps Gold
modal awarded the author by tho National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should be read by the
afflicted f ° r relief ' U wil1
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As- 11 p a ■
sociation, or Dr. W. E. Parker, No. 6b Hunter HEAL
Street, Sydney. N.S. W. The author may T M Wn p | r
. * consulted on all diseases requiring j HYSFIF
skill, secrecy, and experience. p L,ul
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF ALL THE
JIEWEST SHAPES.
MOULTON S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN,
a “ eBt Known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
* n * A J HEADACHE, TOOTHAC IE,
Rains, bruises, turns, scalp i, & c - ami
•»Kea internally cures DIARRHOEA, P Y.
«AMP S> colic, and all other lUterna aches
MR* pains- ——
2/ - Sold EverywBiere,
G. E. MOULTON, sole propd; :or„
melbouene and j.dney
I
A_ BBQI8TBRBD.
SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CUKE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
vnat spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
complaints. Loss of Vital Power, &c. By its tonic
soothing effects It at once removes all craving
ior Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
foments, MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
whole system. Price, 4s. 6d„ or 35s. a ease.
Sole Proprietors, MARSH ALL BROTHERS, ‘M.P.8.
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists, 101 and
M ar * et -« treet - ne * r Hyde Park. Sydney, and I
TDTB? 4 ™® 1 * TAKB NO SUB8TI. !
GOOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX, 7
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 Greorge-street
(Beneath Paling's.)
NO MORE COHNS I
WAf-IS removed without paia
Ji’.J Palmer's Painless, Harmless,
ana Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER
This preparation is the most wonderful ever used
for Cores, Warts, or Bunions. If appl ed accord*
mg to the directions, it will effectual!? remove
them in from six to el. ht days.
PALMER’S
E& e f FAciye cu»a tag?
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Local.
This most wonderful Preparetio i tms surpassed
all others in speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing comnlaint. It matters not
how iong or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed in producing the desired re-
sulte: and It can be most confidently recomme ded.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
g. neral stores: wholesale by Meerri Elliott Bros,
Sydney ; E. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton.
Grim wade, and Co., Melbourne; Kcmpthorne and
Prosser, Dunedin.
NEUSTADT and CO.,
COMPLETE
FURNISHERS,
39. 154. 156, & 158 OXFORD-ST\
SYDNEY.
HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
Either for Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to C«sh Purchasers.
MANHOOD RESTORED 8
A Clergyman having tried every known
remedy for the Cure ol Nervous Exhaustion
Premature Decay, &c, has at last discovered a
simple Self-Curb, which for the sake of suffering
humanity, be will send FREE the Prescription
which CURKD him. Address, with self-addressee
stamped envelope—
Dk. B, A CLARKE, P O. Box 292, Sydney,
•fi
ROWLANDS ODONTO is the best, pur-
est, ™ oat fragrant preparation for the teeth
Health depends in a great measure upon th<
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly bo as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and whitt
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such Row-
lands Odonto has always proved Itself to be.
ROWLAND >’ EUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet, powder, and hai
lately been much improved. Each box has insid.
the lid a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwood
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c. Sold in three tins : white, rose
and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ ar
tides, of 30, Hatton Garden, London, and avoie
spurious worthless imitations
Wholesale and Retail Agents, Elliott Bros., E
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Compagnoni’s.)
THE undersigned, recognising the want of a
FIRST CLASS TAILORING ESTABLISH-
MENT, have OPENED the premises lately occu-
pied by the Bank of Australasia, at 168 PITT-
STRBET (THE WEST FND HOUSE) where they
intend to carry on a High-class and Fashionable
Trade.
The public may feel assured that we shall be
able to maintain a high standard, when we state
that our Mr. Ward ln:s bad some years’ experience
in the best houses in Loidon, Paris, as well as In
flrst-claes Sydney Fsfablishments, namdy, Farmer
and Co.’s and David Jones and Co.’s.
Our Mr. Wilson has had fully 20 years’ expe-
rience in the Australian trade, and has just re-
turned from England, whore be visited ail the
principal Woollen Mills, including that of Hud-
dersfield, as wdl as Vest of England and Scotch
Mills. This will be a sufficient guarantee that the
tastes and requirements of the public will receive
the attention they deserve.
In conclusion, we desire to say that we hope to
obtain a fair Phare of patronage, In return for
which we guarantee tlrst-ciass work, all hand-
made, well shrunk, perfect fit, and all in the latest
London and Paris styles.
Soliciting a trial, we remain,’
Very truly yours,
FREDERICK WILSON.
HUGH WARD,
Fashionable Tailors, Kobe and Habit Makers.
West End House,
16S Pitt-streot, Sydney.
-£k-"bra,:b.a,:ncL’s
Fills
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy !
«ibKf red { ro , m Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle ot mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; thev csn be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
P it h< 7, ove £Come the worst form of
uisea ea of the Liver, Stomach, Hoad and Kidneys
f have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
JMrIES MACGREGOR,
W 308 GEORGE STREET.
rote
.A-
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
.SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGBN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
’ MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
THE
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever introduced into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, EASY TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine in the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
cience, and of the Best Possible Materials.
.old on TIME PAYMENTS in Town and Country.
TW Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE to
any part of the colony.
B- O. Holtcrmann & Co.,
Sole Agents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
G. F. PRIDDY & CO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
Bck to announce that, on and after APBIL 7tb,
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Daja
at 6,30 p.m.: Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Uoyal Hotel and Market-street.
A. & C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
318 GEORGE STREET,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
The m <>8t liberal bouse for Pianos and Organ..
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
■A- & C. Huenerbein,
318 GEORGE STREET.
W. H. CHARD AND CO.
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
¥* IBERAL ADVANCES made on WOOL or
other PRODUCE shipped to their London
Agents, Messrs. Eedfem, Alexander and Co., 3
Great Winchester-street, E.C.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well-
known firm is given to all consignments.
DENTIST.
(Of America)
Q UARANTEES
Perfect Fit and Mastication,
PRICES MODERATE.
Corner George and Market Streetsi
OVER HUNTER’S BOOT PALACE.
r!
"' <^vvwwvvwy
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED. . .
PH, - --m vw rr.ffv»>vv-.nArwifi
ESTIMATES G-XV-EKT FOI? PRESENTATION PLATE
£
VT
U) w
o u
I
?• L
<3
oc
IS
o
O
i a)
&
o>
C£)
<A
Pi o
=£
W (I)
£: <a
r>
%
to
or*
Mi
&
Q.
&
r
iu
-rzr
%
cn
VL
%
5
Q
C;
-P RES T S >. COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
3
3E3©3J.©,'tei© vLgrgrles I
<^ r ' j r'
f \ ' '
m
r
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMEflSCA$3 CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OP CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS ,UBT »
EXPSESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES
California and Eastern Backboard ffannnno ’
erBEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPTIN STOCE
WILIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)


We have a Case of Leprosy
n our poorhouse which is being cured by your
uticura Bbmedibs, The county had employed
Ail of cur doctors and had sent to New York for
advice, but to no aval). The patient commenced
using the Cutxcuua and immediately began get-
ting better. He had been confined to his bed for
two and one half years. Had not his clothes on
during this lime. Last week he dressed for the
llret time. When he walked, there would at least
one quart of scales come otf of him. This hap-
pened every day. We think it is a wonderful cure.
We do not say he is cured, but he is in a fair way
to he cured, to say the lee st.— Dunning Brothers,
Druggists and Booksellers, Allegan, Mich.
A desirable Family Health Cordial.—The
promptitude with which flatulence, heartburn,
aud other manifestations of dyspepsia yield to the
corrective operation of Wolfe's Schnapps- its
strengthening and soothing properties, the com-
forting glow which it diffuses through the system,
its remedial value in cases of gravel, gout, and
rheumatism; its purity and agreeable flavour,
I render Wolfe's Scjinapps a most desirable cor-
dial for family use. Always obtain Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Mr. DrCourct Browns (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may bo consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 53 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, w Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
A new discovery.—Hoffman’s Euealyptol
(tegistered) “Mixtureand Injection.” They will
positively cure all kidney diseases and disorders,
all urinary complaints aud discharges, irritation,
scalding, inflammation, gravel, pains in the back,
&c. A case incurable in nine months was actually
cured in eight days with Hoffmann’s Euealyptol
Injection (“purely vegetable ”). Hoffman's Eu-
calyptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
no sandalwood, no balsam, or anything: injurious
to the most delicate constitution of either sex.
Ask for Hoffman’s, and take no substitute.
Wholesale; E. Prosser and Co.; Elliott Bros. Re-
tail : All principal chemists and storekeepers
Price, 3s. 6d. and 3s. 6d.*
Printed and Published by Tua Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 34 Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
Woman Items
Madame Sara Bernhardt’s costumes as the
Empress Theodora, are gorgeous and wonderful
to behold. Cut wo understand she is not content
with a marvellous display of drets and the usual
“make-up ” of her face and arms, but has added to
her many eccentricities, that of rouging and-pow-
dering her toes! Her shoes are flat-soled, with
straps across the instep, while her feet, peeping
out, are left naked, to enable her to carry out her
last novel idea. Truly, the art of “ making-up ” is
a wonderful one. and becomes dally more and
more intricate. Where will it end ?
There will be a great run upon old maids
If the statistics recently published of the staidness
and usefulness of these ladles are correct. Eliza-
beth Queen of England was an old maid, and,
some say, a woman to be devoutly admired. Miss
Edgeworth was an old maid. It was this woman’s
writings that first suggested to Sir Walter Scott
the thought of writing similarly. Her brain
might well be called the mother of the Waverley
novels. Jane Porter lived and died an old maid.
Joanna Hallie, poetess and playwrlter. was “one
of ’em.” Florence Nightingale, most gracious
lady, heroine of Inkerman and Balaclava hospitals,
has to the present written Miss before her name.
The man who should marry her might well crave
to take the name of Nightingale. Sister Dora,
the brave spirit of English pest-houses, whose
story is as a helpful evangel, was the bride of the
world’s sorrow only. And then what names could
the writer and the reader add to those whom the
great world may not know, but the little world of
the village, the church, the family do, and prize
beyond all worlds? Truly old maids ought to
“ look up ” in the matrimonial market.
“ Well, I declare, Jane, I never thought
you would have married Tom," said a Marrick-
villo mistress to her slavey the other day. “ I
thought you were merely joking.” “ But we all
did It, mum. We thought it best to be sure.
Mor’n a dozen of us. mum, collared boys.” “Mar-
ried them, eh ? ” “ You see, it was this way, mum.
Everyone said as how they’d be killed in the war,
or would die with the beat and sand, so such of us
as had boys as was took for the Contiogy mar-
ried them before they sailed.” “ Married them,
and they going to be killed 1” “ Yes, ra’m. You
see, we’ll oome in for a lot of the money they are
raising for the widows of the gallant men that
went forth on the call of duty and died for the
honour of their country. Besides, such of us as Is
well-looking will likely be adopted by rich patriots
—Judges, and bishops, and members of Parliament
and the like.” “ How much money do you ex-
pect 7 ” “I suppose a couple of thousand, and my
chance of being adopted. If I’m not adopted I’ll
go to America.” “But what If Tom should
return ? ” Jane’s lower jaw here fell, and dodg-
ing from the room she was heard to say, “ Oh, drat
thatl Time enough to bid good morrow to the
devil when I see him I”
Judging from the following specimen,
servantgallsm on the back blocks mustjbe on a dead
level with the same article found In the more con-
genial atmosphere of our own olty. At a certain
hotel up North two slaveys were Imported from
this colony, and being a welcome change from
the old Identity belles of the place, their company
was much sought after by the bulk of the local
mashers. A few Sundays back these captivating
sirens, having occupied the best parlour for nearly
three hours. In company with two of their
favoured male admirers, the landlady of the place
tapped gently at the door and politely requested
the ladies inside to make themselves scarce, as
two gentlemen “ commercials ” wished to have
the room to write in. To which the gentle maid
who was being fondly nursed on the sofa replied,
“Oh, la that case, if we cannot get proper accom-
modation here we must go to some place where
we can. You’ll bo paid lor your room, and If It
comes to that, our friends are quite as much
gentlemen as your pair of boosy bagmen.” And
in point of fact, wo suppose they were, as one
happened to he a J.P., and the other, the rollick-
ing manager of a tat dividend paying mine. So
the quartette went on with the courting, and the
drummers finished their correspondence in a
cock-loft.
“Truth” has written an article to the
Sdiutruan Independent, showing that, In his
opinion, girls who go m for studying the classics
are in danger of having their morals perverted.
He even goes so far as to question the right of
these ambitious girls to the title of ladies. We
can’t help surmising that “ Truth ” has half a
dozen not over bright boys, whom he intends to
turn into doctors and lawyers, and upon whose ac-
count he is anxious to bo rid of these dangerous
intellectual rivals-else why this bitterness? He
argues that, because a female doctor, lawyer, or
preacher was a thing unknown In the early
days of Christianity It must neeessarlly be
an evil now. Oh, come, " Truth,” that's very
weak. He roe* on to afk whether it would
not be much better and more profitable for women
who have no domestic duties to learn music
and drawing, fine needlework and embroidery.
Well, we should say most emphatically no. The
music and drawing are all right, and the curious
part of it is that most of these young lady gradu-
ates manage to pursue one or both of these accom-
plishments along with the classics, but as for the
tine needlework and embroldery.lt appears to us
It is an utter and sinful waste of time and eyesight.
What prollt is there in cutting out holes and sewing
them up again, and who wouldn t rather see a girl
mixing up her own prescriptions than spoiling
Ungers, eyes, and patience over so barbarous an
occupation as embroidery ? " Truth’s ” inference,
that because a girl fls ambitious she must needs be
unladylike, is as comical as it is unuallant. The
fact of the matter is, “Truth” should have lived
a thousand years ago, when women graduates
were unknown. His squeamish avoision to these
“ monstrosities ” is only shared by those few who
are as fur behind the times as be is himself.
Our old frioud George Coppiu, who has
often looked in smilingly upon us when all the
rest of the world refused materials for a 10 line
paragraph, does us the genial service once more.
We have it in contemplation that when we get to
heaven we shall, in conjunction with George
Augustus Sala, issue a broad sheet of sparklingly
written live matter, and It is our hope that Mr.
George Coppin will remember his old relationship
and trip up to us now and again on the eve of pub-
lication with a budget of society items from his
quarter. We’ll smoke the sulphur off them, and
dispel the brimstone, and have perfect confidence
that “the items will take well, and give sate re-
faction to all.” We are induced to iudulge In these
anticipations by a glance at the rosy countenance
of Mr. Coppin as he brings forward the latest little
thing ho has taken in hand. It is nothing less than
protecting youcg women from immorality. The
Kev. J. C. Kirby used to be doing it over in Ade-
laide, but whether he had protected all the young
women iu the place, or whether he got tired and
started to travel for variety, be showed up in
Melbourne not long ago, and at once began to pro-
tect all the young women h« could lay hands on
there. He didn't (lad It as easy work, how-
ever, as it had been in Adelaide. Taste,
as we know, has a mighty lot to do with such
things, and although Rlrby is not a bad-looking
fellow when his mouth is shut, yet he didn’t ap-
peir to be the style, and the young women of the
Southern metropolis declared he couldn’t protect
worth a cent. The mission looked thus a failuie,
when the Rev. Kirby, who is evidently a man of
resources, and of very wide and extensive ex-
perience in the humours of young women, enlisted
the servlcss of George Coppln. To his honour be
it said, our rosy friend required no pressing. He i
stipulated neither for salary nor commission. He
leaped to it as to a labour of love, and, while his j
rosy face shone and the assembled multitude, with
the Rev. Kirby in the chair, cheered and cheered i
again, he announced himself prepared fo protect
all the young women in Melbourne. Forthwith
the mission, lately so sickly, Uowered into an en-
thusiastic success; and it is still Dowering, and
George is still protecting, and on all sides there is
the fullest confidence that if only George can hold
out for ever the mission will go on succeeding for
ever. Really, it tells well for tho taste of the
young women of Melbourne, if we were a young
woman of Melbourne ourselves, we think we
could hardly resist the sweet way George goes
about the protecting business. Wo have admired
him in many characters, but in this, his last, wo
kneel down and worship him.
The young man who thinks he is going
to come it over Mrs. Smart will have to travel far
and lay In experience, ho will also have to sleep
with one eye propped open, and a bull-dog under
his pillow. Mrs Smart is a widow of South Mel-
bourne, and of Mr. Smart and a few other gentle-
men, having been married a time or two previous
to the time before last. So that, when it comes to
dealing with men, Mrs. Smart's advice—which she
gives gratis to all female applicants—will be found
efficient and trustworthy. Mrs. 8. has a daughter—
In fact, she has several daughters, but six young
men, by ber adroitness and match-making skill,
have been brought to the point, and from thence
to the pulpit, so that only one daughter >s left to
bo provided with a man to pay her bills. Un-
happily, she is the oldest, and plainest, with a ucse
like a claw-hammer, and a Ugure of that style of
architecture which most resembles a sod chimney.
But Mrs. S. didn’t despair. She saw Maria talking
to a young man at the front gate one evening,
about six weeks ago, and she set that young man
instanter. By little allusions to a certain bank-
book, the well-schooled Maria contrived to
have that galoot round their front gate
pretty frequent; more bank-book brought
him into tea occasionally: a little more bank-book,
and she had him dropping in every evening
But a friend who was aoqusinted with the real
state of affairs, gave Adonis the office, and he was
seen no more about the house of Smart. He went
by back ways to the shop where he retaile>
groceries for thirty-bob a week, and thought him
self the cutest bit of stuff round the square; bu>
timre was a cuter, and that was Mrs. Smart
When she heard that he had ceased to pay atten
tlons to her daughter, she took to calling at tbi
shop every day, and fetching Marla along, am
Marla would lean up against the counter and wee;
copiously, while her mother told tho neighbour!
who dropped in, how that bald-faced villian there
with the pimples, h d basely deceived her deai
daughter. This wss bad, but Adonis stood 1.
heroically, although he felt sick as a Chinaman or
a eoa voyago. By-and-bye they charged their
tactics, and Maria came shopping herself. When
the shop wss crowded, she would totter in, and
ask in a broken-hearted kind of way, for a pound
of onions, or something, then while he wasserving
her she would utter a hollow groan and faint
dead away. Six days after this as a steady thing,
and his character, among the people on that
block, was bad enough to command a three-guinea
screw from the Salvation Army. He got “jack”
of the monotonous kind of life, so he handed in
his resignation and left those parts.
The elder Weller delivered some apt ad-
monitions to his promising pupil on how to behave
towards widows. The sage old man brought his
homily to an end by pithily advising Sammy to be-
ware of them. That is one of those advices that
the world has tacitly agreed to quote frequently,
but to obey never. It has got into half the lan-
guages of the world, but widows are as powerful
now as thev ever were. Fifty spinsters will run
their feet off if a man of any shape puts his mouth 1
above the horizon, but ten chances to one, a
widow sails leisurely along and takes the mouth
away with her, leaving the poor girls swearing.
No advice is any good in this matter, we believe.
When a widow wants to marry, she goes and does
it, and the man she pitches on may as well go
civilly us not. But though she defies opposition
here, there is another matter connected with her
about which men should put down their feet.
That is, widows’ arithmetic. Since the day Arabic
numerals were invented, there never was a widow
willing to count after the legal fashion. She
has an abiding aversion to adding the twos
to the threes and putting the right figures at
the foot of the column. Tho aversion is, it is true,
a general lemale one, as can be frequently recog-
nised when a lady struggles to tell the truth about
her ago But it shows ilself with particular strength
in widows. Quite recently, for instance, the Ade-
laide Court had before it a case of alleged illegal
enumeration, which after laborious investigation,
was traced home to a widow. The South Austra-
lian law grants so much for the head of every
sparrow brought to certain post-offices. John
Stanley Phillips kept one of these offices, and re-
ceived and paid for heads every day. There is no
use In going right through the case, the fact to be
noted being that the undersecretary of the postal
department charged Phillips with forging a vou-
cher for 03. 01. worth of heads more than he re-
ceived. Phillips sent down bis explanations, and
the Department rubbed its head, and gave them
beet. He next carried them to the Police
Court, and the Court pondered and wondered
and lodked at Phillips and asked him bow 1
and 1 made 11. Of course, everyone knows
that there are ways in which 1 and 1 make
11, and 2 and 2, 22; and 1 and 4, 44; and so on, but
Mr. Phillip’s face showed that that was not how
he made up his accounts. Finally, the Court,
struck with a sudden inspiration, asked him whose
STgtem ot aiitbmetic he followed. Then the cat
jumped and the bag was empty. Mr. Phillips
declared that his predecessor In the Post-ofilce
was Mrs. lawton, that she had always put the
sparrows’ heads on the slate in that way, that he
bad married her, and that, as the system possessed
advantage?, he continued to count as the widow
had counted. This case shows how necessary it is
for a man in dealing with a widow to put down
bis foot firmly somewhere. As we premised, ho
seed not try it on the question of marrying her.
His determination goes for nothing there. But
we t iink he ought to have a shot at her arithme-
tical side. At all events, our advice cannot but be
as productive of good results as was that of the
elder Weller.
We have found something absolutely new,
and our heart rejoices even to ecstacy at the dis-
covery. So long have we, in newspaper columns,
wandered through wildernesses of advertisements
differing from one another only in the names at-
tached, that we had given up in despair the hope
of ever seeing anything that we could look upon
with unadulterated veneration. Palpable misre-
presentations we could detect in advertisements
every day, but seif apparent truth never until
now. Under the head of “Wives wanted,” we
have noticed that it is always the good-looking
men who desire consorts—men with chestnut hair
(probably a deep rich vermilion), violet eyes (vio-
let leaf colour most likely), and other superior
personal attractions. But now we have found
one who, so to speak, bears truth in his right
hand and sincerity in his left. This is his
statement:—“Matrimony. A plain young man
is anxious to meet with a young woman
with view to above.” Was ever anything more
genuine ? The announcement, like its author,
is the no plus ultra of plainness. And he desires a
young woman. Usually a lady is wanted, or a
young lady, or even a person; but a woman never.
Usually there is a postscript, inspired by the spiiit
of the elder Weller, to the effect that widows have
no favour in the e yes of the would-be Benedict.
This plain young n an evidently has no prejudice.
The maiden who timidly offers herself, through
the prosaic medium of the penny post, as a sacri-
fice to the god of love-not matrimony—can be
lead away by no romantic estimate of the personal
beauty of this wholesale adorer of her sex. Be he
as ugly as the father of sin (and auctioneers), she
cannot accuse him of misrepresentation. But his
candour deserves a verse, and he shall have it,
even though our Salvation Army drum, bought
cheap from Mr. Moshish, has been drummed to
Jumbncss by ourselves while we were yet fired
with military ardour:—
AN EASTERN INCIDENT.
COUNTRY PARSON'S DAUGHTER (who has aiveti the finish to decorations in the church)-
“NOW, MR. GOLD WORTH, DON’T OUR DECORATIONS LOOK VERY NICE?”
MR. O.: “ WELL, MISS, THEY’RE WELL ENUFF; BUT THESE CHURCH DECK’RA-
'iIONS, AS YER CALL ’EM, MAK’ A DEAL O’ DIRT AN’ BOTHER. THE MAIN JOB 18 TO
KEEP THE’MOMETER INSIDE ALL RIGHT, AS YER FATHER SED LAST SUNDAY.”
[What the Parson did lefcr to was ‘ the inward monitor," o c course.]
STALE,
“ HERB. WAITER ! THIS FISH ISN’T FRESH.”
“CAN’T SAY, SIR, I’VE ONLY BEEN HERE A WEEK.”
Wss over such a wondrous thing
Seen since the world began,
That one should humbly advertise
Himself a plain youny man.
We iongto see him, for we thought
That trut h was found alone
With that rich cast of lovelines i
Peculiarly our own.
We thought that truth and personal charms
Were ever sisters twain.
But now we tind this truthful man
Announced as young and plain.
’Tie surely modesty that prompts
Him thus to advertise—
Candour alone would make his face
Attractive to our eyes.
