

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3-No. 107—New Series.
SATURDAY, MAY 30, 1885.
Frio*—€4.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, MAY 30, 1886.
Fentiment or Reason?
The celebration of the Queen’s Birthday has
given occasion for the usual gush of con-
ventional loyalty on the part of the daily
papers, and the S.M. Herald has managed
) to ring in a fresh tune by referring to the
1 participation of New South Wales in the
Soudan outrage as an evidence of higher
’ developments of loyalty to the Crown than
, ever before betokened by Australian colon
lists. This is mighty taking, but cool analy-
■sis of the actual relations between these
communities and the three kingdoms will
scarcely tend to convince practical people
that the relationship is likely to be made
permanent by empirical tricks in the way of
artificially tightening the bonds of connec-
tion. In order to be of reliable and enduring
quality these relationships must be carefully
adjusted in such a manner that there shall be
a genuine and substantial advantage to all
parties. A line of sentiment is the most frail of
all bonds—a thread of gossamer which is at the
mercy of every whiff of that most variable
of airy currents, the breath of public
opinion. It suits some of our newspapers
and of our politicians to exalt and magnify
the moral significance of the despatch of a
colonial force to co-operate with the Imperial
troops, and to deduce from a small fact gigan-
tic inferences. How unreliable these infer-
ences are may be readily shown by reference
to a case strictly analogous. The circum-
stance that British and colonial forces have
marched side by side against a common
enemy cannot be regarded as the fortunate
augury which some of our too enthusiastic
' writers would have the public believe. It
may be accepted, indeed, as an indication of
an approach on the part of the colonies to
v national maturity, but whether that matu-
i rity will develope closer relations between
\ parent and child, or will have the contrary
. effect, is a very open question, not a
point to be assumed as inevitably de-
\terminable in the affirmative. The few
of men whom the self-elected
Dictator of New South Wales despatched to
be brigaded with the British regulars , are
but a handful when compared with the
levies which the British Colonies of In orth
America supplied to aid the Imperial troops
i n tRe war against the French in Canada.
It was only in 17C3 that that war came to an
end, yet in 1773, the people of Boston were
throwing the taxed tea into their harbour,
. as the first practical consequence of a dis-
pute which had arisen in 1764—one year only
■ after American colonists and British soldiers
lhad fought side by side as brothers-in-arms.
* * *
The maxim that “History repeats itself ”
misleads many people. Thus it will be said
that the British Government has so taken
to heart the lesson taught by the successf U!
revolt of the American colonists that such a
provocation as drove them to fight for their
independence will never again be given to
the people of any considerable British colo-
nial dependency. And consequently, it will
be urged, it is useless to predicate like re-
sults when like causes are inconceivable.
This is just where the misconception comes
in. The fact is that, although it is true in
general that history repeats itself, history
never repeats itself in exact detail. It is the
principle which is perpetual. Like causes will
bring about like results; not necessarily
identical causes identical results. The
largest inference which can justly be drawn
from these premisses, is that when a young
offshoot community has attained a particu-
lar stage of growth and has developed a
- certain distinctiveness of interests, it will
prefer the substantial advantages arising
from maintenance of these local interests to
any sentimental considerations whatever.
The real essence of the question whether a
comprehensive federation of the Empire
can be attained and maintained re-
solves itself into the inquiry whether
the natural forces move more strongly
in the direction of cohesion or of dis-
integration. As for the influence of sen-
timent, the efficacy so much vaunted at
this moment as an insoluble cement for
joining communities, we think it may, with,
out levity, be dismissed from consideration
altogether. The sentiment of loyalty which
animates Australians is not a whit more
earnest in its intensity, or more exuberant
in its expression than was that which in-
spired the colonists of North America, till
within a very few years of the epoch which
found all the common people and the best
of the leading men in arms against the
Sovereign and the mother country. It was
the American-born veterans who had stood
shoulder-to-shoulder with the royal troops,
who, a few later, gave a seasoning of
discipline and effectiveness to the raw colo-
nials, who, after the ordeal of a few cam-
paigns, compelled the armies of Bur-
goyne and of Cornwallis, to lay down
their arms. A sentiment is, therefore,
we argue, not to be relied upon in
a serious consideration of practical pro-
babilities. The men who make history
are of a different stamp from the fribbles
who are emotionally ready to cheer and
throw up their hats at every opportunity.
These feather-brains are carried hither
and thither by the prevailing emotional
current of the hour. Iq periods of
commonplace it is they who rend the
skies with acclamations for penny Cassarp,
and celebrate in mock-horoio style the
extraordinary superiority of one human
cockroach over another insect of the same
microscopic magnitude. They are for The
Cause, whatever it chances to be. And
should the varying fashion of the times
bring about the change that to be loyal to
Australia were reckoned more creditable to
an Australian than to be loyal to
England or the Sovereign, they would
be the very men to be most exuberant
and demonstrative in the expression
of their loyal disloyalty. It is not diffi-
cult to supply a recipe which will enable
any person to recognise the actual existence
of this numerous class. In all colonial legis-
latures their types abound —members who
are devoted supporters of The Ministry, no
matter of what individuals that Ministry be
constituted. It is these typical representa-
tives who give alternatively an overwhelm-
ing majority to a M‘Culloch and a Berry
in Victoria, to a Parkes and a Stuart in
New South Wales, and to a M'Ilwraitii and
a Griffith in Queensland.
♦ * *
Sentiment being, therefore, unworthy of
consideration in a serious review of politi-
cal prospects, it remains only to investigate
practical iseiies. Up to the time which
witnessed Mr. Dalley’s unconstitutional
revolution of pre-existing relations between
these colonies and the mother country, no
political condition which we have cogni-
sanoe of appeared to us preferable to that
which obtained in Australasia. Our system
of Government combined the best features
of an hereditary royalty with the most
advantageous characteristics of a repub*
lie; while it was free from the ob-
jectionable attributes of each. The Sove-
reign was to us an ideal deity, seated in
serene benignity in the remote regions of
celestial splendour—a splendour which, like
the glory of the heavens, could be contem-
plated with unalloyed gratification by the
poorest as well as by the most favoured. To
no other community of human beings had
royal magnificence the same Unqualified
delight—for the splendour of monarchs is
commonly sustained at the cost of but too
heavy sacrifices by the people. This oxoep-
tional advantage was ours but yesterday.
The fullest enjoyment of self-government
was ours also. No Republicans were freer
to work out their own prosperity, and to
guide their own career. And* above all, no
Republican community enjoyed the calm
and disinterested arbitration of a sovereign
authority, unaffected by local bickerings
and party heats, cool, unimpassioned, and
seriously concerned to retain our affec-
tion, and guide us only for our own
good, asking nothing in return. Not
asking us, be it observed, to take upon our-
selves a share in the legacy of ancient hatreds
and troubles, which is the heritage of every
old country; not asking us to bear the
burdens laid upon the shoulders of this
generation of home-staying Britons by the
costly wars of their and our forefathers; not
asking us even to accept the penalties flow*
ing from wars yet to come, in the provoca*
tion of which we have no participation.
♦ * *
This was indeed a splendid position for
any community to occupy. Yet there are
found fantastic people to applaud the man
who has shattered the whole system and al»
lowed the essence to escape—to applaud him
as though he were the noblest, wisest, and
most beneficent statesman ever conferred
upon a favoured people by a gracious Provi-
dence. The people are told now that the
repose secured by their fortunate oir*
oumstances was an unworthy and undig-
nified one. That they were contemptible
and faineant , because they were content to
accept peace and prosperity. Contemptible
’ because they had heretofore refrained from
insisting, unasked, upon thrusting them-
selves into quarrels and contentions which
they had no part in creating and no interest
in sharing. They are told, in effect, that
existence is despicable unless oqe rushes to
participate in every brawl, and tljat a peace-
ful community is a shameful one.
♦ * *
With similar logic and equal wisdom our
colonists are now taught that this thrust-
ing of them into the thick of old-world
troubles whenever the mother country has
a broil on her hands is the surest method of
securing firm, close, and permanent rela-
tions with the old country. We venture to
affirm that the exact contrary is the base.
We believe that had the representatives of
the Australian people been afforded
an opportunity of deliberately and with-
out constraint or excitement consider-
ing the question whether the old relations,
so long and so happily subsisting, should
be abandoned and revolutionised, they
would have affirmed the wisdom of main-
taining these relations unaltered. And we are
convinced that nothing is so essentially cal-
culated to create an impatience of the Im.
perial connection, and to arouse a disposition
for separate national life, than experience
of the disturbance, costliness, anxiety, and
material loss, which'must be the consequence
of intimate embroilment in the contentions
and troubles of the old world. It was just
that, according to the unwritten but well-
understood contract, the mother country
should, as far as was possible, protect these
MISS RHODA BROUGHTON,
The Novelist.


AUSTRIAN BENTWOOD
No. 18 WALNUT CHAIR
Full Size, 6/9 each.
ANTHONY HORDBKN & SONS,
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket (only).
QUOD FACIMUS VALDE FACIMUS.
(What we do we do well.)
YOUR PHOTO.-If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth,
ful photograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
counsel, and pay first a visit to
the Vestibule leading to the Rur-
llrgton Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
array of portraiture.not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, coupled with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost jnlversal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as photographers.
Prices—C.-D.-V., 15».; Cabinets. 30s. per dozen.
CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE
J.
TURNER ROBINSON A CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established
HAS THE LARGEST AND
STOCK OF
BST-ASSORTBD
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
Annual income exceeds One Mlllloni
$0
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Slngla Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only Os.
Small Bottle, . 4s. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
A USTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT POET
SB. pet Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN-IN FLASKS,
ls.9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke s Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Street*
STONET.
Thb Rates or Subscription to Thh Bulletin
are—For one year, 34a ; half-year, 13a. 6d.:
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
Thb Advertising Rates are 6s. per Inch:
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods- as followsOn ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertlonsf
15 per cent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertlon. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £U postage stamps of any Australlas
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
BEALE & COMPANY
BEALE and COMPANY,
Sole Importers of the
SWEET HAP3BURG PIANOS.
BEALE and COMPANY,
Sole Importers of the
HAYDN ORGANS.
BEALE and COMPANY,
Sole Importers of the
WONDERFUL WERTHEIM 8E WING MACHINE
BEALE and COMPANY hold the highest Tes-
timonials la the trade from the most distin-
guished Musicians this country has seen, and they
will be happy to exhibit the same to intending
purchasers.
BEALE AND~COMPANY
for
PIANOS,
ORGANS,
HARMONIUMS,
SEWING MACHINES,
Sydney Show Rooms;
386 GEORGE STREET.
12 CENTRAL MARKETS.
612 GEORGE STREET.
151 OXFORD STREET.
Branches and Travellers throughout the Colony.
LIBERAL TERMS OF TIME-PAYMENT, .
communities from the consequences ot wars
which they had no part in bringing about.
It was generous enough—generous to a
ohivalrio point -that we were willing and
ready to defend ourselves by land, under
such circumstances, at oUr own cost.
But more is absurd and an undue strain
upon the natural affection Australians
have for the old country. Our conviction is
that Mr. Dalley, the accidental and illegiti-
mate ruler of New South Wales, ba», in an
access of excitement, done a deed which will
militate more effectually against the perma-
nence of the political unity of Australia
With the mother country than anything
which has occurred sinoq exiles landed upon
what was regarded as themargln of a worth-
less wilderness, which, as such, was flung as
a valueless gift to them and the succeeding
generations of Australians..
PLAIN ENGLISH.
De-Secularisation.
T(ie appointment of Mr. Tucker, of Auckland, to
the post of Professor of Latin in the Melbourne
University,’is gratifying. He is not an Anglican
parson, and has not been identified with Dr. Moor-
Bouse in the work of Trinity College. For some
time back the Council have been filling vacancies
with such evident bias towards a particular shade
of thought, that the public is surprised not to find
a divine shoved into .the chair. Giving the Chan-
cellorship to Bishop Moobhouse brought original
sin into the University world. For twenty years
the institution had been the high State School for
Victorians of every creed and none. It is an insult
to offer it to all classes now, with a Protestant
Bishop astride of it.' But other sins followed.
The faction of the Council impudent enough to
scout the protest of the Senate, and force the
Bishop on the country, did not rest there. When
the post of examiner In Greek fell vacant, the
Council filled it with Canon Vance. An examiner
in Latin was wanted, and the Council elected
Canon Sarqeant. A vacancy in connection with
English Literature offered, and in went Canon
Potter. It is rumoured that there will be other
vacancies soon, and that there will be an Anglican
canon ready for ea'h of tbein. The plea put in
by the audacious Anglicans, who have a majority
In the Council, is, that in voting for these men
they do not regard them as clerics, but as scholars.
Assume Dr. Moran chancellor of the Sydney Uni-
versity, a majority of Roman Catholics in the Coun-
cil, and vacancies, as they arose, handed over to
Fathers of the Jesuit confraternity. Would the
plea avail? Would Parliament vote another
month’s subsidy ? Why is it that Victoria fights
■o doggedly for Secularism in its ordinary State
Schools, while in its University, the Premier State
School of the colony, it lets the Anglican Church
rule the roast? Is it that it is good at spelling,
but bad at logic ? Is it that the only men suited
for University appointments are, with a solitary
exception here and there, clerics, and that the
only suitable clerics in Victoria are Anglicans?
Either these points are true, or the Secularists of
Victoria are being impudently humbugged.
A Proverb for tha "Age”
Wise men change their minds sometimes, fools
never. So runs the Spmiah proverb. Not long
ago Ireland’s demand for Home Buie was a burn-
ing question in Australia. It had a few friends,
but many enemies. Bitterest of the enemies was
the Melbourne Age. It saw in Home Rule the
dismemberment of the Empire, the triumph of
disloyalty. Once, to stop those who championed
the cause in 8t. Patrick's Halj, in Bourke-strect, it
hinted that Irishmen might be removed from the
public service. Mr. David Syme did not press
the bint. Someone may have told him that Hob-
eon’s Bay was deep, or he may have learned that
be himself was the son of an Irishman. It is hard
for any man, if he ineditates long on the subjec 1 -,
to satisfy himself that be is not the son of an
Irishman. Mr. Syme continued to pelt away, how-
ever, et the advocates of Home Rule until
Yes; it la here the proverb comes in. On the
15th instant the Age bad a leading article on Ire-
land. That article recognises the Home Rule
party as a potent political factor. It shows that
the first programme of the party was wisely con-
ceived and exists to-day “without any important
alteration.’’ There was need for it, it seems. We
quote: “A population which in 1841 was 8,199,153,
has dwindled in 40 years to little more than one-
half by famine and forced emigration; and this
appalling decline has taken place under the boasted
legislative union constituted in 1801.’’ We quote
again: “ To say nothing of how the present
landlords came Into possession of their hold-
ings, the fact must not be ignored that Eng-
land is aniwerable for the destruction of Irish
manufactures.’’ The Age goes through various
counties of Ireland, shows how mlagovern-
Ett by England has spread ruin and desola-
, and declares, in the words of Mr. J. A.
kb, that the ruin and desolation are the result
Of a small country being tied to a larger. In
Other words, the Age goes straight for Home
ftule for Ireland. What is the reason ? A couple
Of days before the article was written, Reuter
cabled that Gladstone proposed to grant modi-
fied Home Rule. We like the Age, for it has some
true Radical principles. But it is wealthy, and a
Vealthy Radical is often as narrow-brained a
wgot as a one-eyed Conservative. The Age
%hould not have turned Irish without an apology
to the men it maligned. Nor is he a true man who
denounces a cause until Reuter cables its
triumph, and then rushes in with his aid. Unfor-
tunately In this case, as we know, Reuter’s cable
turned out to be false. What now remains for
the Age ? It has used the Spanish proverb once.
It can likely use it again.
liberty and License.
Tn® action of the majority at the meeting of sufc-
aoribera to the Sydney School of Arts, In voting
Tor the exclusion of the Liberator newspaper
harries one baox a few hundred years to the time
When the Vatican authorities exercised the
power of deciding what books mankind should
Pe permitted to read. No sufficient reason was
advanced for the exclusion. It was alleged that
the paper contained treasonable matters—so
does the American Declaration of Independence;
so does Thackeray’s “Four Georges;’’ so do
Cobbbtt’s works, and if treason be a sullicient
reason for excluding publications from a public
library, the shelves had best be stripped at once of
all the literary productions and recorded speeches
of the greatest patriots. It was alleged that the
Liberator was full of libels on the Queen. But
the School of Arts is not a Court of Justice nor a
Royalist Institution. It is, we take it, an establish-
ment in the library of which seekers after
knowledge may had the means of studying the
operations of human thought in all its phases, of
contrasting theories and methods—of trying all
things, and holding fast to that which is good. Were
Liberator be abominable, it would be abomi-
nated. The School of Arts is notan institute of
larrikins. “ Liberty 1” cry the advocates of ex
elusion t “ Liberty we love and revere, but we will
not have it degenerate into license.” Now, what,
according to their own actions, is the distinction be-
tween liberty and license as applied to publications?
That works objected to a little by a majority may
be kept on hand, but that works very much dis-
liked by the majority may not, however highly
the minority may esteem them, or however power-
fully it may be pleaded that no true judgment of
any question can be formed unless both sides can
be studied to the very roots. The cry of Liberty
but not License would Justify any act of tyranny.
No definition of a distinction between the two
phrases is possible. The license of yesterday is
the unquestioned liberty of to-day. There is no
such thing as regulated liberty. The very expres-
sion contains a contradiction of terms. Liberty is
an absolute entity. And it is a virtue. Being a
virtue it cannot be opposed to any other virtue.
Freedom to hit a man on the head or to defame a
blameless woman can not, consequently, be
claimed under the pretence that such a freedom is
liberty. And consequently laws have been for-
mulated to restrain such crimes, Hand to
punish the perpetrators after due inquiry and
proof. Exceptional cases should have excep-
tional treatment, and defamation of a monarch is
as exceptional—not using the word in the sense of
“ infrequent”—as is the position of the person
defamed. The servility ground into too large a
proportion of the human race by hereditary trans-
mission of the effects of centuries of humiliation
is still an overwhelming defence for the mighty.
Laws dating from the days of the rack, and of
hanging, drawing, and quartering, still exist to
treat an affront to a Monarch and an insult to
the Almighty as crimes of precisely equal atrocity.
Inasmuch as the daring wretch who alleges
any action other than god-like to a monarch must
submit to punishment if prosecuted—seeing that as
proof of a monarch’s crimes can never be adduced
during his lifetime, nor for generations later, ex-
cept in instances where an entire dynasty has been
expelled from the throne, it needs no grovel-
ling crew to intervene and flaunt their de-
votion to the powers that be. For every
false accuser of royalty ■ there exist ten
thousand false panegyrists, each one more
likely to be Infamous than the accuser, because
there is a prospect of profit from their Infamy,
and his accusations, even if true, can bring him
nought but penalties and disgraces. Let history
be made. The treason and slander of to-day is the
verity and standard authority of fifty years hence,
while the panegyric of to-day earns almost invari-
ably the derision and contempt of a posterity
which is not precluded from learning what was
alleged on both sides, and discovering the truth
amidst contradictions.
TO CORRESPONDENT
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“ J. W. Booth” (Tumut): You are very
bellicose, indeed. Remember what Walpole said
when the people had driven him to war: “They
are ringing their bells; they will soon be wringing
their hands.”.... “Veritas”: We are much obliged.
We live and learn. We always thought that
Henry VIII., so far from being “ floe bluff, genial
old King Hal,” was a mean, miserable, contempt-
able creature, who committed the foulest crimes,
but always took good care to let an instrument do
his dirty work... “ R. Dyson”: You want us to
follow the example of the Melbourne sewing-
machine man whose pet spiritualistic me-
dium prophesied all manner of wonderful
things about the “new” gas shares....“ Salta-
tor’: Thanks for your good story of the old
regime, which is, however, a little too risky
• Y.Y.’ : Two of your jokes are forgotten witti-
cisms. The remainder, like the departed friends
of the B. News “ In Memoriam ” column, are dead
years ago, but not forgotten “Muswellbrook”-
The real object of the author of the English Act
disqualifying clergymen from sitting in the Com-
mons was to exclude Horne Tooke....“M J
Rose ”: You write as if Australia had a monopoly
of the world’s wine-growing. Why, it is estimated
that this year California will produce 30.000 000
gallons; France has at present 25,000.000 acres
under vines.. ..“ M. Barry”: Don’t trouble about
the matter. We have the Heeald s assurance
that Lady Carlngton will be “much missed by the
English people, ,r and we are bound to accept the
statement-though from what we know of the
P 1 ™ ud <* People in question we are pretty sure
that it would take a number of such losses
«°n e ° , la _ ora Pe and hatbands ...
C. W. (Melbourne): You can’t fairlv ask us to
deal with the matter. As we once “ard an
eminent surgeon remark, the interest of such an
operation lies, not in the mere handling of the
knife, but in the manner in which the diagnosis
whereupon the operation was founded was
a*- - “S. 8.”(Mudgee): (1) His f
ous Andrew Hlslop Clarke, and when he was in
the Bank of Victoria, Melbourne, he called him
self Hlslop Clarke. (3i We are not aware that Ss
mother, concerning whom little is known wm not
a Jewess., It is alleged that she was? and jTidfgfng
by Clarke’s features, the story seems bv no means
Improbable. He had Hebraic ability, at any rati
Jason (Sandhurst): Must stand over for the
Resent, Tour metre doesn’t match your ideas
E D. (Townsville): Good rhyme, out too rough
on its subject....“Freddy”: Judging from your
idea of art, you must be very unwell, Indeed—
“Charles Perry”: Received “Kaspar”; (1)
Whitty died In Melbourne. (2) Let us give you a
quotation:—“It is a characteristic of the French
language that it lends Itself to being gracefully
naughty. Its wickedness Is aristocratic. It Is
clothed in silks and broadcloths, and it is perfumed
with Jasmine. Our own tongue is plainer, more
honest, and more dignified. It does not allow
Itself to be trifled with. It has a Puritan strictness
which refuses to recognise that vice may be gilded
and refined. If It has to touch a subject In the
remotest degree immoral. It becomes coarse, rough,
and brutal. Its wickedness Is plebeian. It is
attired In rags and dirt and reeks foulness.”....
“Hugh Maclean”: We are obliged for your
quarter-ounce of snake-poison, which we shall use
on our enemies “Henry A.”: Thanks. The
members of the N.S.W. Ministry are 111 because
they eat too much. For banquets and biliousness
they are unrivalled. They revel In beds—we don't
say oyster-beds... “T. 8. J.”; What Dr. Russell,
L.L.D., said on the subject (and he has, we believe,
got much nearer the truth than most of the so-
called authorities) was—“ I am inclined to think
that tobacco and stimulants are hurtful mostly In
the case of inferior organizations of brain
physique, where their use Is only a concomitant
ot baser indulgences, and uncontrolled by intelli-
gence and will.”....“F. H.”: Sorry that we can’t
oblige you. The lines could be made to carry
libellous construction “ J. W. J.”s We under-
stand you to want to insinuate in these columns
that a certain person has had a valueless-chequered
career. No.... Hiram Ablff ”: Will attend to it....
“Cornstalk”: ThanXs: we made use of one of
your contributions. The second was. very good
verse, but would hardly be understood In Aus-
tralia— “R. Wellman ” : Letter posted to you
“A.R.B.” (Dunedin): Thanks....“Q.8,J.” : (1)
When a man has been married only an hour it is
too early to congratulate him. When be has been
married for a week It is often too late. (2) Thanks.
— “ Bayonet ” (Cudal) : We could not print your
Item. You see, you libel a six-foot Hibernian, and
Just now we are not libelling anyone over five feet
...“Colonial Elite”: Your par. is robbed of its point
by the fact that we don’t know to whom It ap-
plies... “ P.J.": If you owe the money, pay It to
the solicitors of the man who is sueing you. They
can’t make you pay for their “lawyer’s letter/’
If you hand over to thorn what they are pleased to
call their “ £1 Is., the cost of this letter,” you are
a green person who deserves to be always in the
claws ot the hawks... “W.S.”: When you say that
our aborigines are “shiftless” you do not, we
suppose, refer to their attire—“B.A.” (Grafton):
Thanks, but too discursive for us.. .“Y.”: You
have much improved on the form of Ananias and
Sapphlra —“A.M.”:.Your “Dreamland”is a lus-
cious bit of commonplace. For example;—
“ And golden sunlight sadden fills
The dewy deeps of caverned hills.”
What are the “deeps" of a bill? Its caverns!
Well, then, how can sunlight fill caverns, and how
could caverns be dewy ? What the dews do you
mean?....“R.C.B.” : Thanks. The chairman of
the Bowling Club who prosed about stu ents of
history remembering the incident of the Spanish
Armada coming In sight of the Cliffs of Dover,
was probably a typical animal of bis kind—the
kind which picks up Its historical information from
Illustrated tea-paper and advertisements of St.
Jacob’s Oil. That class of people has a single
idea about the British coast; that it consists
of the white cliffs of Dover. They believe
that Caesar landed there, that Shakespeare
also first put his foot on English soil
there, iprior to his conquest of the Anglo-
Saxons, and hence the name Shakespeare’s Cliff.
They are satisfied that William of Orange landed
there also on his arrival from his orangery at Par-
ramatta, and It Is an article of their faith that
Lord Nelson destroyed the Spanish Armada in full
view of Dover Cliffs at the command of Queen
Boadicea. Of course, the Armada wasn’t first
sighted off Dover Cliffs. Not by a long chalk...
W.J.J.”: We don’t know how It Is that the Chief
Justice and the Attorney-General of N.S.W. who,
a little while ago, were not on speaking terms, are
now so cordial In their relations. Perhaps they
have become united by a common sorrow—the
fizzle In the “ Patriotic ” black-mall sought to be
levied on the officers of the Railway Department
“HillTop”: Will attend next week.,” Cairns
Darkle”: Many thanks.
First Urchin: “Say, Bill, that ’ere
sodger won’t never be a jineral.”
Second Ditto : “ ’Cos why ? ”
First Urchin : “ ’Cos his legs ain’t thick
enough to wear the double stripe I ”


N.8.W. is happy in the possession of an
ffl y and the army must be congratulated upon
♦he worthy chronicler who so eloquently tells
♦heir doughty deeds. We have read his soul-
•Hrrlng letter in the Sydney D.T.. and no longer
orleve for the death ol Creasy and Napier or the
retirement of Forbes. What can be liner than this
nassage ?—" There is now not a man in the New
south Wales Infantry but who knows what it is
♦o stand unflinchingly in the ranks when the air
around is tremulous with passing bullets.”
«Tremulous with passing bullets” is simply
aiinerb. Where the bullets came from, consider-
ing that the battle was, according to this same
correspondent, “ fought with an enemy armed i
with two-handed swords, knives, and sticks, or not I
at all,” we don’t know, especially as the scribe ex-
presses his doubts “ whether 50 of oar Contingent
caught sight of a single Arab, or whether
any man in the force saw 50 Arabs. But
it is not alone in military matters that this
chronicler excels. He wedges in an amount of
information that makes the letter a model for all
future writers. We have been pining for months
to know what the ovens of Indian horsemen are
like. Eureka! “ They are mere holes in the
ground no bigger than rabbit-warrens, which seem
Invented for mantraps.” We yearned to know
what the road was like. Now we know. It is
covered with a top strata of gravel.” A strata is,
no doubt, King-street English. Lastly, we de-
sired to hear whether the Contingent were pleased
with the country. We are glad to read that “ day
broke suddenly, so suddenly as to cause a general
murmur of approval.” How condescending! We
hope that this gifted writer will receive a testi-
monial on bis return. When we say testimonial,
we, of course, mean dictionary.
There was wild exoitment in Chiltern
(Vic.), lately. It was reported that a tiger bad
escaped from a circus showing in a village some
distance off, and was making for Chiltern with his
mouth open. Chiltern is a little half-horse town-
ship on the North-eastern line in Victoria. It is
composed of one nice little street, out of which
foot passengers have to be dug and vehicles
blasted with rook-powder in wet weather. This
nice little street is bordered with nice little houses
each with a nice little garden in front, blossoming
perenially with parterres of gingerbeer-bottles
and occasionally with flowers mild and temperate
of hue, but malodorously suggestive of suds.
Imagine what a sensation an escaped tiger, wild
from the caravan, would cause in this teapot Ar-
cadia I But you can’t. The local riflemen and the
Eolloe went out in search of him. “ Come let us
ave a tiger hunt; let us teach this savage of the
Jungles that Australians are ever ready to
defend their hearths and homes,” they said.
With that they marched out of the town-
ship in a solid phalanx. It was twllght.
They had got about two miles out of the
town, still keeping well together, when an ap-
palling sound burst upon the air. Was it the
terrible roar of the tiger ? They did not wait to
enquire. Fifteen minutes afterwards the leader
of the desperate band was being butted through
his own door by a poley cow. And later on In the
evening an old lady drove into town in a spring-
cart, and entering the shop of the local chemist,
took a striped animal from under her shawl and
put it upon the counter. After a careful exami-
nation, the chemist pronounced it was the missing
tiger. The old lady did not seem to mind this.
Said she had found it on the road, and thought it
was sick. Was not much used to tigers, but thought
that he (the chemist) might know what was the
matter with it. Intended to take it home
for the baby to piay with. The chemist asked her
if she were not afraid of tigers. She answered
simply: “ I’ve bin married 15 years: my husband's
a navvy.” Then she bought a packet of tooth-
powders for the terror of the Jungles, and departed
with that ferocious animal under her arm. Since
then the bold police and the gallant riflemen of
Chiltern have been under a cloud. In fact, some
radical spirits—who, it is but just to say, are not in
either force—ha ve openly expressed their opinion
that if the Russians were to pass through there
every man of both forces would be found with an
off ’ or an "loh ” to bis name. We slept in Chll-
tern once, and we can courageously affirm that
they might safely add the latter terminal and yet
tell no lie. ,
Tommy: “ I heard pa speaking of cows
( hewing the cud. When 1 dine do I chew the cud?”
Mammas No, dear, only animals with four
stomachs chew the cud. Tommy wouldn’t like
four stomachs, would he ?” Tommy (decisively) :
three apples, and Tommy
would have four stomachaches.”
Employ that celebrated tonic WonS'i’3'
Schnapps to restore the organs of digestion, &c.
Be sure and obtain Wclfi/s
Lovely the dress that clothes the orchard trees'
With richest hues of varying red and broken;
But lovelier still are Summerfleld’s new patterns,-
The best and cheapest that you’ll find in town.*
For loss of appetite* general debility, im-
Eairment of the organs of the body, Wolfe's 1
chnapps is the best remedy known.
“ Man wants little here below ”—
The statement causes mirth;
But, if be goes to Summerfleld,
He’ll got his money’s worth.*
The Patriotic Fund Sell.
HOW TO DISPOSE OF IT; SOME VALUABLE HINTS.


Personal Items
“The appointment of Lord Carington,”
says the b. M. Herald, “ to the position of
Governor of this colony, has awakened the liveliest
Interest >n him and his lady." And all along we
thought he was married 1
Madame Rlatori is still “on the act”—
Frisco this time is the scene of her triumphs. Her
prolonged career on the stage is probably due to
a passion long since developed by the Marquis del
Grillo for “ heading them.”
There is a poetical police-magistrate up
North. It came out in court the other day that he
had been flirting with a married woman and
whom he had told that “ his heart Jay bleeding on
the shore for the crows to peck at.”
The N.8.W, Colonial Treasurer is ill. The
Attorney-General has been unwell. The Minister
of Lands is sick. The Minister for Works has just
got bettor. And the Ministry, as a Ministry,
couldn’t get its life insured just now.
Lord Sherbrooke has published a volume
Of poems. Lord Sherbrooke was out here many
Years ago. He was then familiarly known as Bob
Lowe, and was generally respected. Of course
nobody then knew that the virus of verse-writing
was in his veins—
To Him.
If we had heard that you had died
’Twould not have grieved us so—
You never did have proper pride,
For you were always Lowe.
We see that amongst the speakers at “a
large and enthusiastic meeting of Irishmen
recently held at St. Patrick’s Hall, for the purpose
of raising subscriptions for the widow and orphans
of the late Mr. A. M. Sullivan, one of the Irish
members of the House of Commons,” was “The
Vagabond ” That settles it then ; he’s an Irish-
man. Why, we understood.recentiy that he was a
genuine Spanish Hidalgo, with a dash of the
policeman on the maternal side. If so, it is proba-
bly the policeman now that is “Schpakin.”
The Premier of Queensland has a juicy
humour of his own when the doors are closed and
the hot toddy is tossed around. At a meeting of
Scotchmen held in Brisbane two or three weeks
ago, to inaugurate a Scottish corps, he “ declared
It as his opinion that the effect of the national cos-
tume of Scotland on the ladies of the colony would
be very great, and productive of much enthu-
siasm.” There is a giddy sentiment for you to
proceed from the mouth of a grave statesman I
Why, it is wicked enough to have come from a
Bishop.
From a late London paper:—" The Queen
is going to pay a visit to her bath-woman, Char-
lotte Nantet, who has two monster bouquets pre-
pared lor her at Cannes, one for the Queen and
another for the Princess Beatrice. This person, a
simple peasant woman, seems to have an extra-
ordinary Influence over Her Majesty, and It is in
a great measure due to her that Her Majesty
decided upon this visit, incredible as this may
seem.” John Brown has been succeeded by an
intelligent and tactful German person named
Adolph Kaun3.
The recently-executed Mr. Barnes, of Mel-
bourne, broke the tradition of his predecessors on
the morning he left for parts unknown. He ate
no breakfast. Now, as everyone knows, the cor-
rect thing In condemned circles on such occasions
has been to eat a heavy breakfast of eggs—though
why egg a, has always been to us a mystery.
Barnes was probably afraid that eggs would make
nim bilious. After the grim joke of inquestlng
his remains had been carried out, they were burled
beside those of Ned Kelly. It will surprise us if
there will not be trouble when these two rise up
at the Judgment Day, and it comes to a question
of precedence.
Mr. Simon Fraser, the Victorian law-
maker, is “ done ” at last. His portrait is to be ex-
hibited at the Royal Academy. He went down to
Kensington Gardens one morning, and said to
Millais, “ I want to be done.” His mouth was
Eartly open and his eyes partly shut, someone
aving told him that that was aristocratic facial
pose. “ My terms are high,” said the artist, “and
it will take me a long time to do you as I should
like.” “ Why so ?” “ That extraordinary cheek 1 ”
said the artist, mildly. “ However, I'll do you ”
He did him—everybody says he “did” him—and
now Simon, “ done to the very teeth,” Is to be
shown to all London.
There has been some trouble among the
members of the troop of light-horse lately estab-
lished in Sydney. Several members recently re-
signed owing to the enlistment of a couple of
young fellows not unconnected with an out-
fitter’s establishment In Qeorge-street. “ The
troop must be kept high-toned,” the blue-blooded
scions of aristocracy sententlously observed,
“ and there is no tone In gloves and braces.” A
serious rupture was prevented by the interposi-
tion of Captain Macdonald, who bluffly remarked
that ho was unable to fully appreciate so Uhe a
lino of distinction as that drawn between men in
business on their own account and bank clerks.
The Children of Israel have unceasingly
mourned the absence of the Sydney Swashbucklers
in the Soudan. The beef and duff-fed warriors
who went forth from this land of milk and honey
to smite, hip and thigh, the watermelon and
sherbet-sustained sons and daughters of the desert,
did not confine their attention solely to that god of
battles who has rewarded them with goats. They
also worshipped to some tune at the shrine of
Venus, as shown by the late business in the
Divorce Court. Out of a possible three on the list
our warriors score two as co-respondents, not a bad
record by any means. Now we cease to wonder
at Bishops Barry and Moran praying publicly for
them.
Jos. Symes, of the Liberator, sympa-
thises with John Alex. Dowle (now in gaol in Mel-
bourne for Salvation-bowling, &c.), and offers to
subscribe 5s. towards his expenses “as a protest
against tyranny.” “We are pleased,” writes the
bellicose Joseph, “ to see that the Dowle case has
produced a public meeting of protest against his
sentence. We sympathise with the meeting to
the full in their endeavours after liberty; but we
protest against their hypocrisy. The only liberty
they seek is liberty for their own party and own
opinions. This is both cowardly and hypocritical.
The very same parties would not only forbid us
all liberty, but they would trample down all law
and justice in order to crush us.”
Poor old W. H. Hullock, well-known on
the New Zealand Press and later on In Sydney, is
dead. The account of his end islnexpreeslbly sad. It
seems he had been away up country acting as
tutor on a station. He turned up at a wayside
public-house and ordered a drink. He appeared
to be utterly worn out, and a man in the bar said
to the landlord, “ It’s not drink that man wants—
there’s nothing In him, he seems starving.” Hul-
lock put down his glass and walked feebly t© the
back, and, sitting down, was observed to look
dreadfully ill. In a moment or two he fell for-
ward dead. He leaves a wife and several children
unprovided for. Peace to his ashes. The past
year or so of hi) life was miserable enough.
An invitation is always forthcoming from
Lord Lansdowne (the Viceroy of Canada) and his
wife to anyone with the least claim to Viceregal
attention. This invitation is occasionally given
even too readily. Not long since Lord Lansdowne
read that a gentleman, whose name corresponded
with that of a native author, was at an Ottawa
hotel. Believing it to be the author, their Excel-
lencies luvited him to dipe. Dinner was announced
for 7 45, but at 7.80 a telephone message came to
the aide-de-camp, “Can’t go; I’m stuck for a pair
of evening boots.” “Come on; never mind that,”
was the reply. He did come—but was not the
author! “Good Heavens! we’ve got the wrong
man,” whispered an aide. “But we must make
the best of it now,” was the host’s reply. He was
a boisterous commercial-traveller, arrayed In
massive chains and elaborate rings.
From Society in London “ Englishmen
and Englishwomen of the middle or the lower
class like their Sovereign none the less because so
many of her tastes are Identical with their own.
Queen Victoria has not onlv the true German love
for pageants and ceremonials of State, uniforms,
trappings, shows, and functions ot all kinds, but
the passion distinctive of the English proletariat
for funerals and for whatever is associated with
the sepulchre. It is morbid, but what wi I you ?
There is nothing which fascinates the British
workman and his wife so much as the business of
the undertaker. The crowning ambition in the
labourer's life is a handsome funeral. Colli as,
shrouds, hearses, and nodding plumes delight him.
He and his wife are enthusiastic over what they
will call a beautiful corpse. These peculiarities
are illustrated by the Queen on a becoming scale.
There is a bliss in tears, and to English Royalty
there is a pleasure, nay, rapture, in the pomp and
apparatus of mortality.”
Carcoar Mary, the representative lady
pressman of N S Wales, has evidently, now, once
more resumed the reigns of Journalistic govern-
ment, for she begins a leader on Sunny Corner as
follows:—“The edltoress (sic) is indebted to the
manager, Mr. William Hurly (s c), and the gentle-
manly staff of the great Sunny Corner silver mine,
and to Mr. Humphrey, the manager of the Nevada
Company, for their much-appreciated gallantry,”
etc. You can't mistake ihe style-so pleasantly
colloquial, yet so demurely majestic! We don’t
wonder little Garland retired. During his regime
all the Carcoar people who had old boots are said
to have bombarded Charles Lancelot with them,
whenever he was inditing an essay. But that
didn’t move him. He still stayed. A few days
later, however, the town agreed unanimously to
drop the Charles Lancelot and call little Mr,. G.
simply “ Peter.” He writhed a fortnight under
this fearful supplice, and fled. With the result
above recorded.
The played-out parsons who run the Soutmi
Australian Register were horrified when it
became publicly known that the Royal Family
(God biers ’em) had developed decided tendencies
towards Spiritualism, and some of these ultra-
pious journalists wrote to England making en-
quiries on the subject with the view of showing
that the Brunswickers were strictly orthodox. A
disclaimer was promptly sent out, as expected,
signed by no less than the late Duke of Albany’s
private secretary, denying that his late master had
dabbled In the mysterious writing test, and the
denial was circulated throughout the colonies with
despatch on its receipt by the holy folk of the
Register. The matter Is thus referred to In
the Liverpool Post:— “The Duke of Albany's
equerry denies that his late master ever gave a
Slate to Mr. Eglinton, the medium. Mr. Eglinton,
the medium, denies the denial. He says the denier
himself presented the slate In his late master’s
name, ana challenges a contradiction. The Duke
did attend Mr. Eglinton's seances, if Mr. Eglinton
may be credited, and always used the slate which
he afterwards presented to the miracle-worker.
It had been better had Sir Henry Ponsonby and
Mr. Yorke kept silence. That most of the Royal
family have indulged in this form of fashionable
amusement is as certain as that Mr. Gladstone, on
one occasioi only, was induced to do so.
The motto of the Harris family, at present
domiciled In Tasmania, is Excelsior. The Laun-
ceston Daily Telegraph hymns their march
through three generations. Grandpapa Harris
fought on board the Shannon in the frigate duel
off Boston, 70 years ago. That was a historic
battle, and although we do not find the name of
Harris among the boarders of the Chesapeake, we
find that of Smith. As Smith can be Carmgton we
have no difficulty in concluding that In this case he
was Harris. The next Harris struck inland. He
preferred scouring the plain to scouring the main,
and rose till he bossed the Territorial Police of
Kingborough. Thus tho spoils of land and sea are
interwoven In the Harris chaplet. The next
Harris now appears, haloed with this dual glory,
and staggering valiantly forward to shoot the
name to the tingling stars. It was to commemo-
rate his initial exploit, the Launceston paper, run,
probably, by an aunt of the first Harris, exhumed
the family records. "Mr. R. F. Harris,” it says,
“ has obtained his certificate as master mariner.”
We congratulate the family both on the quantity
of Harris underground and the piece that is still
up, and hope that when the seventh generation is
reached, the same old aunt will, when the new
man wins the post of bailiff’s officer, give us a full
column of equally interesting genealogy. She can
do one thing better. That is -die now.
We have been reading a lot in all the Vic-
torian country papers about Miss Florence Marry-
att, daughter of the gallant captain of that ilk.
Miss Marryatt seems to have adopted the stage In
earnest. She is not very fair, but decidedly fat,
and close on two score. She married a Mr. Ross
Church, an organist, but their tastes did not
assimilate; Miss Florence, though tolerating
music, not being sufficiently enthusiastic. And so,
after it was all over, she wedded one Colonel Lean,
a long and very solid person from India. Miss
Marryatt’s dramatic avocations, however, do not
seem to interfere to any large extent with her
authorship. She (the Victorian country papers
tell us) “ writes 20 pages of manuscript every day.
She writes fluently, without making corrections.
When she is done with her work—which takes up
only two or three hours of her time—she places it
in a safe. A day of two afterwards she looks over
it.” She is an adept at drawing heroes of giddy
propensities who are picked up Injured by giddy
matrons and taken home to the two-pair-back
with disastrous results. Her situations, for In-
stance, are highly dramatic. In the “ Prey of the
Gods ” the lady of the house has just consented to
fly to Bondi Buggins’s, or somewhere, when the
only cheeild falls down the kitchen stairs, and the
dame, taking this as a warning, rushes off with the
youngster to the hospital and is “saved.” Only
that, the book clearly infers, could have done It.
It’s an exciting story, but is, if anything, to be
read more with astonishment than admiration.
In the death of Victor Hugo, at the age of
84, the world has lost one of its greatest men.
Whilst, like Dante, Socrates, and Milton, he
has been the oracle of two generations In
life; like them also, he has left a legacy
of beautiful things which will be remem-
bered as theirs are, long after the “ evil days
on which he fell are recollected only to the dis-
credit of an inappreciative age. Like the other
three, he had to feel the stings which worthless
and unscrupulous men are so fond of laying on to
whoever dares to preach the high truth against
time-serving selfishness ; like them, he never
flinched from condemning the villainy rampant
in high places; and like them, he had for
his very life’s sake, more than once to
suffer the horrible crucifixion of silence and
obscurity when action and speech would have
been the very life-blood of his country.s«But he
gave way to no asceticism. When his thundering
denunciations could no longer be heard in the
national councils, all alone out of the city and
country that he loved, he sent forth his word.
The crime that once more threw his beloved re-
public under the corrupt and debasing sway of a
bastard Imperialism, met with its own reward
after Sedan, and he returned to Paris and lived to
see the re-establishment of a great attempt to fix
once and for all a system of government groped
after by the men of tho’.Revolution, in the hope to
see the sentiment of brotherhood substituted for
the old patriarchal notion of the “ people for the
King.” His poems, novels, histories, &c. are read
In all languages, and appreciated In all lands.
After Carlyle, ho man has so profoundlr influenced
mankind during the present century, and the
State funeral rendered him is more than a state
funeral—it is an international one, and cne In
which will be represented every nation which
knows what liberty means.
John Pearson, of Portland, Vic., lately de-
ceased, was what may be termed a “funeral
crank,” nevertheless he was pretty level-headed.
When John found that hj was on the eve of de-
parture for the happy hunting grounds, he sat
himself down to dispose of his property, and like
the thoughtful man he was, to make arrangement
for his own funeral. He recognised the inevitable
fact that if ho left the final details to he cairlia
out with the munificence of tho local Kirby the
bill would foot up to a tidy figure, so he j ust manner?
out to a nicety how the obsequies should be
carried out. He started on the principles of rigid
economy, by giving express orders that nothing
more elaborate than an unadorned pine coffin
should encompass his poor bones, and that the re
mains should be shunted off to the nearest cemeT
tery In a market-cart, either at dead of night, when
all but the weary pressman were wrapped in
profound slumber, or in the early morn, when
the milkman’s plaintive wall would sound like a
requiem for the departed soul. None but his
executors and his Immediate relatives should
attend the funeral, with theexception of fourmen
to carry what remained of him from the cart to
the grave, for which they would receive £1 each •
the gravedigger was to have £3 for planting his
cold clay, and the carter’s fee was fixed at £3. j n
case the solemn proceedings took place at night a
sum of money was placed on the estimates for pro-
vlding torchlights, and he entered a protest against
having any "chin-muslo” at the grave. John had
a soft sp .t in his heart for the ladies, and he
generously willed that £50 should be divided
among the widows of Portland at his death. This
little item, he considered, would be much better
spent by the bereaved ones in a small taste of
liquor than If it were paid awayfor hearse, plumes;
and tin cherubs to decorate his “plner.” That's
the kind of send-off John Pearson hankered after
i and it IS pleasing to know that he left plenty of
; bullion to carry out his orders—a trifle of £6 000'
•or so.
The people of Casterton (Vic.) are inclined'
, to be critical, not to say cynical. The “ Vaga-
bond ” (will he never die?) lectured there lately
to a small but select audience, who regarded himi
with what Max Adeler calls “the cold eye of the
•drummer.” Consequently, in his letters to the
Argus he rather slighted the pretensions of Caster--
' ton to be a centre of culture. For this the cor-
i respondent of the Hamilton Spectator calls him
fto account in apt and lively language. We are
sorry for this. Mr. Julian Thomas is too clever a
man to be treated In such a way. The principal*
Inhabitants of the town should have prepared
beforehand a champagne luncheon for him, and 1
, (should have stationed claqueurs in couples along
I the road by which the coach came in. And, as it
passed, one of each couple should have been
intruoted to say to his companion in a hoarse
whisper; “ Who Is that distinguished-looking
man with tho noble brow and princely bearing,
riding on the box-seat?” To which the other
should have answered with a staccato laugh, “Not
know him! Why how long have you been dead ?
That’s the great Julian Thomas—wonderful man-
magnificent writer I (Louder to box-seat; “ Hoo-
ray, sir 1 Welcome to Casterton, sir I ”) Talks as
familiar to crowned heads as I does to you,” After
this the deputation of principal inhabitants
struggling among themselves who should shake his !
hand first and who carry his carpet-bag. Carpet-•
bag finally borne off by local editor and auctioneer,
each bolding a handle, and accompanied by a-
guard of honour of lour or five otherst
Then wild and reckless invitations to drink fabu-
lous and unattainable beverages. Subsequently
the champagne luncheon. Cheers for Julian
Thomas. Toasts to Julian Thomas. Eulogistic 1
speeches on the theme of Julian Thomas. Sun-'
plicatlsns to Julian Thomas to come to stay at 1 1
different houses for periods amounting in the
aggregate to something over five centuries.
Stilled voice from man with asthma at the end of
the table: “Well, if you can’t spare us any time
while you are alive, at least come round and die
with us.” Tumultuous applause at speech of
Julian Thomas in reply. Awe-struck admiration*
finding vent at last In delirious jig-dancing on
flug hats, at sentences beginning with—" When
was speaking to the third Napoleon;” “when
Gladstone asked me my opinion, <»c.; ” “ when His
Holiness the Pope sent for me to settle, &c.; ”
“when I advised Bismarck ;to, &c.; ” “when I
told the Czar of Russia plump and plain, &c.;”
“ when I dined with President Lincoln the day
before his assassination, &o.;” “when I said to
Lord Beaoonsfleld, ‘now look here, my Lord,
&c ; “ when I was last talking to Gor-
don and exchanged cigar cases with him,
I said, &c.;” “ when Darwin asked me my private
opinion about his protoplasmic theory, Ac.;”
“ when Herbert Spencer requested me to touch up
his treatise on sociology;” “ when I was with
Stanley in Africa; ” “ when I was with Nor-
densjold’s Polar Expedition;” “when the Grand
Lama of Thibet informed me In a private inter-
view, &c.” More cheers. More toasts. More chatn-
; pagne. Gush.- Babble. Hiccups. Ineoherency,
Chaos. Glory. That is the kind of reception
j Julian should have received. It should have pre-
j ceded the lecture. If he had any friends remain-
| ing after the lecture they might (we imagine) have
easily managed to smuggle him out of town next
I morning in a load of bay.
From an esteemed correspondent:—“ This
is a little talk about the late William O’Carroll,
whose portrait appeared In your last issue, ititf
some four years since we saw the old man. We’dl
now hardly know him from his portrait. He did
not strike us as being so good a looking man as
that. The nose is right, and there Is something
about the eyes that makes us think of him. flnt
he used not to have his beard so carefully tidied up
as it appears to be in the portrait. And the fore-
head was broader and not altogether so dome-like
in construction. We called him the old man. He
is possibly known by that name in moet of the
newspaper offices in Australia. He was nearly a
quarter of a century in Brisbane, and nearly all
that time in the Courier office. Large numbers
of pressmen passed through his hands. Some
turned out very well, others were good for
nothing. He used, but never had any liking tor
the mere reporter. He was properly editor, but
Mr. Buzacott, whose “copy” was not always
highly esteemed by O’Carroll, when the former
was a contributor from Rockhampton, liked to
, sit down heavily In the chair of authority when
made manager. OCarroU’s ideal of a man to
pull with was Gresley Lukin. ‘A noble man,
a noble man,’ he would say; ‘a royal man
was Lukin.’ He was instrumental in getting
Lukin £1009 from the Australian one time
for libel. This was Bishop Quinn's organ, edited
by Father Foughy, and it had let out at Lukin for
atheism and a host of villanies. O’Carroll, an
Irishman and a Catholic, gave his evidence in a
way that made the Bishop wish he was a Turk,
While not a litterateur, he was all alive to give
light writing a push on where he could. Some of
the success attending Byrne’s Punch in the
early days was brought about by O'Carroll’s en-
thusiasm. But how Is this we parted with the
old man ? It was Saturday, his off-day. We were
in the Belle Vue, down near the houses of Parlia-
ment. He had brought with him half-a-dozen
letters to tell some friends of his In the South
who we were and what he thought of us. ‘ Now,’
he said, touching his mid-day glass of liquor,
‘ won’t you write and let me know how you get
on?’ We said we would. ‘Ah,’he said, taking
up his glass, * a good many have gone down South,
promising to write, but they all forget the ola
man.’ We said wo would not forget. We would
write every month. ‘ 1 fear you will forget,’ he
repeated; ‘ you all do.’ We protested our affection
was genuine, and, warm'y holding his hand, vowed
his confidence in us would not fail. “The brandy
and water disappear! d. That is four years ago. From
that day to this we never wrote a line to William
O’Carroll. Lifel Life! Tempest and whlrlwindl
But despite our broken pledge, who will say we
ever ceased to love William O'Carroll ?
“WILLIAM O'CARROLL.
“ We do not think heroic thought?, or see
The long white lines of light that stream from ,
deeds
On which the people’s eyes rest lovingly.
Or hear the echoes of a voice that rose
And rang new meanings into laws and creeds,
When on the face, as hard as flint to foes,
But soft to friends, eyes, lit by mem’ry, dwell.
He was no hero. In the eariy time
No god determined to make mad his mind
With high, loud, windy thoughts no lips can spell.
He lived a simple life, dumb-mouthed and blind
To private weakness,, while to public crime
He rose to all his inches and withstood
The clash, and from it wrought his country good.!"
MLLE„ MARIE VAN ZjAND’JV-; (See next page.)


The SIMPLEST. CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever introduced into Australia,
EAST TO WORK, EASY TO LEARN,
EAST TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine In the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS In Town and Country.
W Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE to
any part of the colony.
B. O. Holtermann & Co.,
Sons Agents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DENTIST.
(Of America)
GUARANTEES
PRICES MODERATE.
Corner George and Market Streets
OVER HUNTER’S BOOT PALACE.
PRESS NOTICE.
WH. L. BAILEY, the well-known Queens-
• land and New South Wales Journalist,
begs to announce that he has relinquished country
Press life, and intends for the future devoting bis
attention to a CITY AGENCY, in which bis exten-
sive and varied experience in Journalistic, Mining,
Land, and general affairs, may be utilised lor the
public advantage and to his own benefit.
Commissions executed in all branches.
Address: 41 CASTLEREAGH-STREET, SYDNEY,
opposite City Mutual Life Society.
H. L. BAILEY, Auctioneer, &c.,44 Castle-
reagh-street,
W.
W
w
w:
w.
H. L. BAILEY, Journalist, Newsmonger,
&c., 44 Castlereagh-street.
H. L BAILEY, Mining and Land Agent,
44 Castlereagh-street.
H. L. BAILEY, Musical and Theatrical
Agent, 44 Castlereagh-street.
H. L. BAILEY, Land, Estate, and Mining
Agent, 44 Castlereagh-strret.
W.
H. L. BAILEY, Press Writer. Spicy
Articles supplied to Country Papers.
44 Castlereagh-street.
H. L. BAILEY, Parliamentary and De-
putationislng Agent, 44 Castlereagh-st,
W.
WH. L. BAILEY, Hotel Broker, 44 Castle-
• reagb- street.
WH. L. BAILEY, Land, Estate, and Pro
» party Agent, 44 Castlereagh-street.
H. L. BAILEY, Insurance Broker. Life,
. Fire, and Marine Insurances effected. 44
Castlereagh- street.
WH. L. BAILEY, the well-known Pressman,
• offers his services as secretary to Ball,
Banquet, Pion c. or Entertainment Committees. 44
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
H. L. BAILEY, Rent and Account Col-
lector, 44 Castlereagh-street.
W.
WH. L. BAILEY offers his experienced
• services to directors of mining and other
companies as secretary or manager. Office pro-
vided. 44 Castlereagh-street.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE.
MADAME ELISE,
PARISIBNNE DRESSMAKER AND SPECIAL
STAYMAKER,
BEGS to call Ladies’ attention to her superior
FIT, TASTE, and exceptionally reasonable
charges. All orders receive her personal attention
and superintendence.
128 COLLINS STREET EAST.
VENET1A WALTZ:
4ir to woU marital. OutOLirc fiowrmi*.
op rantabili
Fed ' 5 * .
pea.
has tho Largest Stool
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &c.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues will be ready in a few days ant
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Nott
Papers, &c., at lowest prices.
Printing.-Invoices, Billheads. Circulars, Cards
engraved or printed, Bali Programmes, Mem
All orders executed In best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels
i51 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Pans. &c
Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
solicited to all the leading maga
Call and see the two most important Copylni
Instruments ever invented. The Trypogran
takesofl 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the P cost *o
WILLIAM BULLARD.
342 GEORGE STREET,
COTT'S
dcct™ C 0 ,. Set
I
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate tit, and aiding by the
vitalising properties of electricity the funo-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trialf
If you have any pain, ache, or ill-feeling
from any cause; if you seem “pretty well,*
yet lack energy and do not “feel up to the
mark;” if you suffer from disease, we beg
you to at once try these remarkable cura-
tives. They cannot and do not injure like
medicine. Always doing good, never barm.
There is no shock or sensation felt in wear-
ing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during the
first hour they are worn their wonderful
curative powers aro felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all
the old-time health and good-feeling oums
back. They are constructed on sdentiflo
principles, imparting an exhilarating,
health-giving current to the whole system.
Professional men assert that there is hardly
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily
practice the same, as your own physician
will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearano®
from those usually worn, as we substitute
our flat steel magnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in quality and design.
They are elegant in shape and finish, mad®
after the best French patterns, and war-
ranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents.
&
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &c., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing oases, ter all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices aro as follows
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Eleetrio-Magnetio
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. Gd. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of th®
waist over the linen. This con be done with
a piece of common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
ELECTRIC ran,
64 Margaret-street,
SYDNEY.
P.O, Box 221.
RAW VASELINE.
B
SOFTENS and Preserves Horses’ Hoofs, Kills
Parasites, and prevents their growth. In-
valuable as a Leather Preservative, rendering it
soft, pliable, and waterproof, and prevents it
cracking. From its anti-corrosive qualities, un-
equalled for keeping free from rust and in
perfect order all metal goods, firearms, machines,
&c. It is the sole material used for the above
purposes in the Austrian and German armies.
Sold by all Saddlers and Storekeepers.
SOLE AGENTS :
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
125 York-street, Sydney.
afteb before UOUSTAOEE and WHISZEES. before after
Coyd’ s Beard Flixirdid this,and
t cill do it on cither bold head or
bare fare, fo'.cea heavy Mous-
tache in from i3 to 4 loeeks and never
fails , 2o,(X)0 young men already
mar full beards , having used 1 to
3 pktt. No injury, easily applied, ter tain in effect. . _
each, 3 for 3 s. Qd.,post paid , sent under cover, free from observation .
«!, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent,Box 730, G.P.O., £ydruy,N,8. W•
Copyrighted .
Copyrighted.
Packets 1«. 6 d.
The Victorian executioner hides his real
name under the assumed one of Jones. No doubt
has done this by way of compliment to the
oreat Jones family. There is more than the usual
•ncHtery about this hangman. Those who are best
rtf,, to iudgo have been heard to say that he has
known better days. But in what sphere of life
those days were known seems to be an impene-
trable secret. There are people who have had
casual opportunities of seeing him who say that
thov recognised in him a reduced politician long
ainoe dropped out of public memory. Others state
«Hll more emphatically that he is a well-connected
Thug of a Victorian Tite Barnacle family, who
was born with a sort of blood-mania which—as he
had to live at the public cost, somehow, or belle
the traditions of his family—was lawfully gratified
hv making him successor to Upjohn, the late
hangman. The manner in which he launched off
'the late Mr. Barnes lends some colour to this
theory. None but a man whose soul was In his
work could have performed the business in such a
delicate and yet decisive fashion. The mention of
'Tlpiohn reminds us of the following remarkable
advertisement which appeared in the Melbourne
A6E one day last week: —
-*i -rrpjOHN, Ex-Executioner.—Drop line to James
U Crilly, showman; engagements, Europe 18
'Young-street.”
'Whoever the advertiser may be, he has a fine
, a0DB e of humour. That invitation to “ drop line ”
is a master touch. But it gives us much pleasure
to see that Mr. Upjohn, the ex-finisher of the law,
is in such demand. Of late he has been experienc-
ing rather a reverse of fortune. His companions
for some time past have been chiefly sewer-rats
. and homeless dogs. He has bidden in culverts by
day and slept under archways by night. Several
times he came before the Bench to complain that
his life was in danger—in danger from gentlemen
whose relatives he had “ worked off ” In the course
of his duties. For the last few weeks though he
has been lost to view. It is generally supposed that
he is engaged, in putting the final touches upon a
series of pastoral poems which he is credited with
having written in intervals snatched from the pur-
suit ©f an arduous profession. It is a curious psycho-
logical fact, by-the-way, that most hangmen have
a leaning towards poetry. The cause of this seems
to be unaccountable. Perhaps the knowledge that
they must keep their love for the head-turnkey’s
daughter a corrosive secret, and let concealment
like a worm i’ the bud feed on their damask noses,
throws them into the arms of the Muses. But how-
ever that may be, we hope Mr. Upjohn will seize
the opportunity offered him of seeing the grand
historic cities—the great art galleries where the
genius of immortal Greece looks down with god-
like calm upon the fretful spirit of to-day—the
picture-palaces where the seraph Baffaelle and the
Titian Angelo are the masters and lords. All these
things, oflwhich (in poetic moods) he has, no doubt,
often dreamt in bis lonely cell, he will see face to
face. Mr. Upjohn is a man to be envied. Out of
pure good wishes we will write him out a bill which
the showman who is going to run him may use—in
Europe. Here it is :—
Sup Pull of Horrors
While you have the chance,
For Nights only
THE GREAT UPJOHN,
Who has with his own Hand
Killed more Men
Than any other Man Living
Will be on View
And show upon a Dummy Figure
The exact manner
In which bis Bloody Deeds were invariably
performed.
Admission, Threepence.
Free List suspended, except for Press and Crowned
Heads.
Souvenirs, &o., of the Great Upjohn to be ob-
tained after the performance at the following
moderate rates:— s. d.
Knot tied in Handkerchief by the G.U. ... 0 6
Horn button cut from coat of ditto ... .. 10
Tooth from Toothcomb of ditto 0 2
Lock of hair from head of ditto ... ..2 6
If the speculation is carried out in some way like
to this it will probably prove remunerative. It
would be even more so if the enterprising
manager of Mr. Upjohn would send tenders in
every time there was a man to be hanged. This
would, perhaps, arouse the jealousy of Berry the
English Monsieur Sanson, but even so it would
give Upjohn an opportunity to challenge him so
much a side—Berry to take the first, Upjohn the
second “ case” that came along. Gate-money to
be equally divided. Upjohn has only to resolutely
put the plug in and his fortune is made.
A marriage is ter take place between Count
William Bismarck, the youngest son of Prince
fiismarck, and his cousin. Fraulein Sibylla von
Arnirn, the daughter of Prince Bismarck’s only
“Jfter... “Hugh Conway ” (Mr. Frederick J. Far-
Q’sd, we presume at Monte Carlo, of typhoid,
f° r os was ill there of that disease when the mall
, Th ey will write on his tombstone “ Called
rno v.' — The first mention of the illustrious Bis-
marck which ever appeared in print is the an-
nouncement of his birth, dated Schdnhausen,
April 2,1815: “ I do not fail to make known to all
aiult « es friends, with the request that they
“Detain from congratulation, the nappy delivery
l. r ®y wife of a healthy boy. which took place yes-
™ay.—Ferdinand von Bismarck.”
—FERDINAND VON BISMARCK.”
. Schnapps is the most popular
Elions 0 * 1 8timulant ln the world. Beware of Imi-
Mrs. c. J. Roberts, of the Crown and
0 “® hor Hotel, Sydney, have, it la cabled (!) to the
wr afi °i high-tone and refinement—need we say
rv u r to ttie Evening News— been presented
Charles has gained his pint.
for - LFE 8 S chn apps is a powerful curative
nv*. c ( lse i. El - ppr * is very agreeable to the palate.
w olfe s.
OUR WAITER.
AND HOW HE OVERDID IT.
Mlle. Marie Van Zandt.
“ Stella,” the Parisian society journalist of the
S.M. Hekald, who, by the way, as we remarked
last week, does not use her scissors, which are
mightier than the sword, nearly so well as she
used to before she died, sends a lot of stuff about
the ref usal of Parisian audiences to listen to Mile.
Van Zandt on her re-appearance in the opera
"Lakm6.” Of course the 8.M. Herald tumbles
over the foreign names, and gives the one as Van
“Laudt,” and the other as “ Lakene ” “Stella”
writes; “ The manager, M. Carvalho, and the young
and charming artiste herself, were naturally ner-
vous in regard to the reception that it might please
the audience to give her. Happily, as a matter of
justice to the singer, whose illness gave rise, as
may be remembered, to a misapprehension of the
nature of her break down, audto so cruel (because
undeserved) a manifestation of anger and con-
tempt on the part of the public by whom she had
been previous'y flattered and petted to an almost
unprecedented degree, the reception given her has
covered the painful incidents of the past under a
pyramid of flowers, and the popular favourite is
almost more a favourite than ever-” As a matter
of fact, this is all wrong. The Parisians won’t
have Van Zandt at any price, and the audience
made such a demonstration of dislike that her
sgreement had to be cancelled, and she quitted
Paris, vowing—rather superfluously—never to sing
there again. The reason for the “ down ” upon
the handsome young artiste, on the part of the
Parisians is as absurd as it is remarkable. Con-
ceive that the moral sense of the habitues of the
Opera has been outraged by a conviction that last
season, when Mdlle. Van Zandt came on to the
stage reeling and inarticulate, she was drunk.
Her friends insisted naively that she was attacked
by “sudden Indispositionan explanation, the
groteque and suggestive inappropriateness of
which was as keenly appreciated by the satirical
Parisians as it would have been by Australian
theatre goers who had been disappointed by poor
Fritz Emmett or the late Irish comedian, William
O’Neill. Apropos, we remember, on one occasion,
in the old Princess Theatre, in Melbourne,
after William O’Neill’s delinquencies had been fre-
quent—and their cause was thoroughly under-
stood by the public — that old Hoskins as
lessee—Hoskins and Simmons were joint lessees
and managers—came before the curtain to offer an
apology to a crammed house for the “ sudden in-
disposition.” The audience jeered and clapped,
and plainly intimated their conviction that it was
the old complaint that the O’Neill was suffering
from. He was aware, he admitted, that the
audience might not unreasonably conclude that
it was again the unfortunate weakness, &o„
But this time, he could assure them, the indispo-
sition was of a different nature. He bad a medical
certificate from a physician of the highest stand-
ing; and so forth. Still the audience scoffed and
hooted. Drawing himself up with his best tragic
manner, Hoskins made a superlative appeal. They
insisted in receiving his explanations with in-
oredulitv. They would, he trusted, spare him fur-
ther indignity. Mr. O’Neill was really ill,
and that he was not suffering from intoxi-
cation he assured them “ on his honour.”
The words were scarcely out of his mouth, when,
with a single impulse, the whole audience rose at
Hoskins with a demoniacal scream of laughter.
At the very instant that he was pledging his sacred
honour, William O’Neill had reeled on to the stage
behind Hoskins, dishevelled, drunk, and maudlin.
Ziz-zaglng to the footlights and lurching the para-
lysed Hoskins out of the way, the comedian took
up the speaking and remarked: “Ladish, shentl-
m’n,—I’s no ush humbuggin’. It’s the dhrink
that done It! . . . .” Here the curtain fell in
front of him with a swish, upon an audionce
hysterical with laughter. But, to return to Van
Zandt, the Parisians believed she was O’Neill-ish—
but why that should have soured them on her is
perfectly inexplicable. They are not generally so
nice about the morals or habits of their operatic
divas. Miss Van Zandt is a native of Philadelphia,
where her parents and grand-parents resided for
years, and is 22 years old. She is of Italian and
German descent. Her mother, Jennie Blitz,
daughter, by his first wife, of the the late Signor
Blitz, a famous ventriloquist, with whom in his
day all the little children of America were in love.
On the father’s side she Is of German origin, for
Jennie Blitz married Dr. Van Zandt, a dentist of
Philadelphia, whose name is ample proof of his
nationality. Mrs. Van Zandt made successful dibuts
in both Italian and English opera in America and
in Europe—Milan. Warsaw and London—and
was a member of the Kellogg English Opera
Troupe. About six years ago Mrs. Van Zandt
took Mary to Italy and placed her under her own
old teacher, the noted Lampertl, of Milan, where
she made rapid progress in her musical studies.
Miss Van Zandt has now been on the lyric stage
over five years. On May 3, 1879, she made her
debut in Her Majesty’s Opera,'Loudon, as Zealina,
in the opera of “ Don Giovanni,” and was very
successful. For three seasons she had been quite
a favourite at the Comedo Opera with Parisian
opera-goers in the character of Lakmd, until the
incident which terminated her career in that city.
In 1884, about 085,000,000 passengers
travelled by rail in the United Kingdom, of whom
631 were killed or suffered injury by accidents.
Of railway servants, on the other hand, there
were killed and Injured no less than 3051
Wolfe’s Schnapps beneficially affects the
constitution and reforms the morbid habits of the
body.
I am a lively waiter,
My specialty is speed;
I’m swift as any skater
Or Astley’s circus steed.


Professional Directory.
UBUUCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Bpe-
_ oialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
..X apply F. E. Hlaoocks..
W. TKfflWiTMBgOTSS
Sydney __
GEORGE PBRRIMAN, Scene Painter, Theatre
Royal, Brisbane.
f=
Q
A I B T Y
TREAT RBI
Leasee B. N. Jones.
proprietor and Manager . • W«. Emebson.
Business Manager .. .. Wm. A. Jinbins.
THE GREATEST
FINANCIAL ANJ) ARTISTIC SUCCESS
FINANCIAL AND ARTISTIC SUCCESS
THAT HAS YET BEEN PLAYED AT
THE GAIETY THEATRE,
achieved by
BILLY EMERSON BILLY EMERSON
BILLY EMERSON BILLY EMERSON
BILLY EMERSON BILLY EMERSON,
who la acknowledged by the entire Press and Pub-
Uo of the world to be the greatest living ex-
ponent of the Minstrelic Art,
and the
EMEBSON MINSTRELS
EMERSON MINSTRELS
EMERSON MINSTRELS.
The largest organised and most celebrated band
Of Ethiopia harmonists, musicians, vocalists, art-
ists, and sable delineators now In existence, giving
\ he third performance of their great bill.
OUR PRESENT BILL.
A VERITABLE BON-BOUCHB.
A TRIUMPH OF ENTHUSIASM.
Popular Prices: Orchestra Chairs, 4s.; Stalls, 3s.;
Family Circle, Is.
Box-office at Messrs. Nicholson and Co.’s. George-
street. Carriages may be ordered for 10.30 p.m-
Tickets for all parts of the house at Lewis s, to-
bacconists, opposite Gaiety Theatre. _____
IT1HBATBB RO YAL,
Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Gabnbb and Musobovs.
T ease*. Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
Poors open at T.80, commence at 8. Carriages, 10.40.
SIXTEENTH WEEK
of the
ROYAL DRAMATIC COMPANY.
THE GREAT ATTRACTION
IMPULSE an ENORMOUS SUCCESS
IMPULSE an ENORMOUS SUCCESS
A GENUINE AND LEG11'IMATE TRIUMPH.
THIS EVENING at 8 precisely.
IMPULSE. IMPULSE.
Furniture and appointments from Hamilton ai_d
Co., Globe Furniture Warehouse, Park and Castle-
h 1 itrootflt
Prices of Admission: Dicss Circle, 6s.; Stalls,
3s.: Family Circle, 3s. . _ .
Tickets for all parts of the house at Bastway s
Hotel. Box office open dally from U till 4.
B W OPERA HO US B ,
Lessees, Messrs. E. Majeronl and W. J. Wilson.
Secretary and Treasurer, Mr. Joe Brown.
OVERWHELMING SUCCESS
of the
Graceful and Distinguished Dramatic Artists,
* SIGNOR and SIGNORA
MAJERONI MAJBRONI
in their beautiful play,
THE FOUNDRY MASTER
THE FOUNDRY MASTER.
Box plan at Huenerbein’s. Prices as usual.
N
ACADEMY OF MUSIC,
tlL. Lessee and Manager.. Mr. F. B. Hiboockb.
5Jst Week, and still Crowded Houses.
ilBCOOES’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
end SPECIALITY UNION
Bvery Evening In their Refined and Amusing
Entertainment.
Enthusiastic Success of the Burlesque Opera,
MARY TURNER.
Admission, 4s., 8a„ 3s., and Is. Box Plan at
Paling’s. Carriages at 10.18.
N
ORTH
SHORE
ROWING
CLUB.
\J VUUUOi« iu*.
J, R. Love, Esq.
8. A. Want. Esq,
W. Fleming, Esq.
THE FOURTH ANNUAL BALL
(Evening Dress)
will be held
(Under the Patronage of his Excellency Lord
Augustus Loftus, Admiral Tryon, and Officers
of H.M.8. Nelson, and the Mayor of Sydney),
and the following stewards have kindly consented
to act; —
G. M. Pltr, Esq. M. M'Mahon, Esq.
D. 0’Connor A M.P. J. P. Garvan, M.P.
I. E. Ives, Esq.
P. Hayes, Esq.
James Thompson, Esq.
Alex. Thompson, Esq. J. Harper, Esq.
at
West’s Rooms, Leigh House,
Castlereagh-street,
on
FRIDAY EVENING, MAY 39, 1885.
Tickets—Ladies, I2s. 6d. ; Gentlemen, 31s. ;
Double, 30s.—may be had at the principal Shops,
pf Members of the Club, or from
H. H. ROBEY, Hon. Sec.,
No. II Bridge-street,
PARRAMATTA ST. GEORGE LODGE,
1943. E.C.
fTlHE ANNUAL MASONIC BALL will be held
I in the Masonic Hall, Parramatta, on FRIDAY,
June 13tlj.
Tickets, £1 Is. (Gentleman’s).
JNQ. JA8~ MILLER.
Hon. Sec. Hall Committee.
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL,
GOtILBUBN.
THIS Theatre, one of the best in the colony, is
open for Engagement. Particulars from
. — v M. E. PULLEN, Hall Secretary.
S
Lessees
T. GEORGE’S
Melbourne.
HALL,
Clark and Byman.
OPEN ALL THE YEAR ROUND.
First-class Artists, Novelties, Combinations—
either Musical, Dramatic, Minstrel, or Operatic—
treated with.
Silence a respectful negative.
This popular place of amusement is now In Its
full tide of success—houses packed to the doors
nightly. Pronounced by the Press, public, and
profession to be the best entertainment ever seen
in Melbourne.
Notice.—The title of ‘'Red Stockings” has
been duly registered, and anyone infringing this
title will be prosecuted according to law.
JOHN FANNING,
Business Manager.
THlAGIiBHAWK MECHANICS* INSTITUTE.
GRAND ART UNION,
la strict accordance with the Act.
FIRST
PRIZE
VALUE
£500.
FIRST
PRIZE.
SECOND PRIZE, £300.
THIRD PRIZE, £100.
4 prizes, value £50 each. 100prizes, value £5 each.
4 „ ., £35 each. 550 „ ,. £1 each.
40 „ ,, £10 each. 300 ., „ 10s.,eaoh.
iooo Prizes i 1000 prizes i
10,000 TICKETS at 10a, each, obtainable at most
business places in the colony;
N B.—In proof of the value of the above, the
Committee undertake to find purchasers for the
various prizes at the prices named, and to hand the
winner full amount in cash, less 10 per cent, for
commission.
The drawing to take place in June, under the
supervision of the Mayor and Councillors of Eagle-
hawk and a Committee of Shareholders.
T. H. TAYLOR,
Managing Secretary.
Bull-street, Sandhurst, and
Mechanics’ Institute, Eaglehawk.
A BOOK CONTAINING OVER 260 TRICKS AND
DELUSIONS WITH CARDS, DICE, AND
CONJURING APPARATUS,
all Illustrated with wood blocks and diagrams,
forming the most complete collection of its kind
ever offered to the Australian public. Mailed free
to any address in New South Wales for 7d, stamps;
other colonies, 8d.
On presenting our goods to the public, we beg
to say that they are, in their own way, the best
ever offered. The tricks are nearly all new, easily
manipulated, and are especially adapted to draw-
ing-room entertainments or amateur per-
formances. In the limited space of a newspaper
advertisement It is simply impossible to give a
full description ; we content ourselves, therefore,
with the names and prices of a few
Disappearing Card Box ...
Wizards’ Changeable Cards ...
Magic Cork Box
Great Hat and Die Trick
Wizards’ Egg and Bag
Nose and Twine Trick (laugh-
able)
Magic Cask and Fairy Bell ...
Demon Handkerchief
Magic Dissolving Pack of
Mysterious Hankerchief and
Candle
Magic Handkerchief Case ..
Glass Goblet and Vanishing
Coin
Mystic Secrete Vase ..
Gilding and Vanishing Egg ...
And many others, a full description of which will
be found in the book, “Magic, Mirth, and Mys-
tery.” Full Instructions are sent with each trick.
N.S.W. stamps taken at par.; from other colo-
nies, add Id to each shilling. Post office orders pre-
ferable. Address all orders plainly, AUSTRALIAN
MAGICAL DEPOT, 401 George-street, Box 641,
G.P.O., Sydney.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, 36th May, 1885.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a hie of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to aooept
the lowest or any tender.
F. A. WRIGHT.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA AND INSECTICIDE.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA, th® Universal Remedy for INDIGESTION FLATULKHrw
ACIDITY of the STOMACH. BILIOUS HEADACHE; and a MOST GENTLE APERIENT for
invalids and Children. ____
See Medloal Opinions Accompanying: each Bottle.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout the Colonies.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
sassfflcss .7
from the Depredations of the Moth. Bedroom Furniture, Ship Cabins, Fowl Houses, and Dog Kennel*
may he Cleansed of Insect Vermin by KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE. ’ g ft-enneis
Sold in Tins, la., and upwards, by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
ELLIOTT BROS. 1 a . #
e. prosser & co. f s y d “<y.
w
4
MARTIN
389 GEURGE STREET, SYDNE Y, Opposite the Royal Hotel,
S?
0
1
*3
Hi
■minintsinnii
MARTIN’S Specially-selected TENNIS NETS.
Steam-tarred, Tanned, Wire-bound, &o.
TENNIS POLES—Cavendish, Cyprus, Champion.
BALLS—Ayers, Champion, undersewn and cemented.
„ —Cypress covered Regulation Balls.
—Enamelled Regulation Balls, red and white.
RACKETS—Buchanan’s, Ayers, Jefferies, Wesden’s, &o.
FOOTBALLS-
GILBERT’S Rugby and Association Balls.
MACINTOSH’S Regulation Bladders for do.
YOUTHS’ FOOTBALLS, all sizes.
Clubs and Schools should write us for our prices and particulars
of our stock.
JAMES MARTIN & COMPANY,
389 Greorgc-street.
«
i
A
for Infants and Children.
Castorla cures Colic, Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation,
Gives healthy sleep and promotes digestion,
■Without injurious medication.
“Castorla is so well adapted to children that
I recommend it as superior to any prescription
known to me.” U. A. Akchee, M. I)., ,
XU Oxford Street, New York, 1
Elliott Bros., Sydney, Agents.
“AVOID COMPLICATED FOREIGN BRACES.”
rpT3"Bi
“CREDENT A,”
SIMPLEST AND BEST FOR MEN AND BOYS.
WHOLESALE ONLY AT
16 SC, IV CHEAPSIDE, LONDON, E.C.
And of W, BENNY FINDLAY & PRO., Melbourne k Sydney.
C. F. PRIDDY & G0. f
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th,
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.30 p.m.: Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS
WATCHES I
HY be foolish, and buy a bad watob, which
is dear at any price, and gives no end oi
trouble. If you buy one of
ROTHERHAM’S COMPENSATION BALANCE
AND JEWELLED WATCHES
from C. GRANT, you will never want another, «•
they are, without doubt, the Best Watches in tne
market.
Guaranteed for 5 years. Price, only £6 10s.
Sent post free to any part of the country. Special
attention given to country orders.
C. GRANT, Watchmaker,
K84 George Street, Sydney*
Established 1880.


Important kniwit!
THE
ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
BEG to Inform the public that, in consequence
of the
EXPIRATION OP LEASE
of their present premises, they have commenced
their
OHAJTD
CLEM SUE,
Which will
LAST FOR A FEW WEEKS ONLY!
The Goods are all marked at an
m bi !
as will be seen by list below,
PRICK LIST.
Ladies’ Handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 10s, IQs
J7s 6d, and 20a each
Handsome Jewelled Barrings, 4s and 5s per pair
Ladi s’ Choice Necklets, 5s each
Ladles’ Choice Necklets, best American Plate, qqs
each
Ladles’ Elegant Bangles, 4s, 6s, and 10s per pair
Choice Lockets, 5s cacb
Handsome Gam Rings, 4s and 8s 6d each
Wedding and Keeper Rings, in Solid Gold, Ts 64
each
Ladles' Handsome' Lockets, 10s each
Ladies’ Elegant Crosses, 4s, 5s, and 6s each
Ladies’ Brooch and Earring Bets, from 5i to 16s
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3s 6d each
Gents’ O. G. Watches, Hunting, Open r Faced
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 30s each,
warranted 3 years
Ladies’ (same as above.)
0T These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and Jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses .. .. ., ..£400
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
Jewelled, and compensation balance .. £6 0 0
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers .. .. £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance ..£5 0 0
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses.. .. £8 15 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance.. .. £4 15 0
A written warrantry for three years* accurate
performance is forwarded With each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph, £6 0
Ditto, extra Jewelled, of the highest
grade .. £6 0 Q
Ditto, in hunting oases, compensated and
full Jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £8 10 Q
We import our watches direct from the menu*
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of add the saving thus effected-about 36 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle*
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £|
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £6 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £10.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 4f
each.
Gent’s Oriental Golfl Rings, half round buckle
flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck rings
3s 6d each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Bolltalrs
and Link Suites, 3s, is, 5s, and 6s Od per set.
Same as above, only ha>f sets, Is fid, 3s, and 3s per
set.
Best American Patent Sprang Solitaire Suites,
5s per set.
Gent's elegant Seals, 4s each.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, 6i each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pins, Is,
fid, 3s, 3s fid, 3a, 3s fid, 4s, 4? fid, 5s, and 5s fid ego
Very best American Pencil Coses, 3> fid each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Match Boxes, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign Purses, 4seach.
Richly engraved Bracelets, fis each.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully Jewelled, 8s, 10s,
13s, and 14s each.
Broooches, Brooches, Brooches, Is fid, 3s, 3s fid, 3s,
3a fid, 4s, 4s Od, 5s, 6s Od, fij, fis Od, 7s, 7s fid, 8s, Sg
0d, 9s, 9a 6d, and 10a each.
PLEASE NOTE.
All goods will be sent post free, with the excep*
tion of the watches, orders for which must be ae»
companied with an extra amount of two and six-
pence to defray postage expenses. Send in your
orders early, as the goods must be sold, and no opt)
should miss this chance of procuring the beautiful
gems at less than cost price .
Note the Address :
The Oriental Gold Co.,
474 Goorgo Street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS,
SUNDRY SHOWS
Theatre Royal—“Impulse”! p. 8.
Opera House—" Tho Foundry Master
Gaiety Theatre— Emerson’s Minstrels „
Academy OF Music.—Hiscocks’ P. Minstrels „
On Saturday the Majeronis came on with
a new piece—” The Foundry Master.” It is an
emotional thing, and in It various people—some
with tbe choicest bearing and accent, and some,
we regret to say, who would disgrace a three-
penny bar—ventilate their views with earnestness.
There is a woman (Signora Majeronl) who, because
ghe can’t get the man she wants, is prepared to
marry anybody—anything. She espouses It. It is
the Signor—Majeronl himself—who runs a big iron
factory. On their marriage day she tells him she
doesn’t care a fig for him. If there’s one thing
more than another that makes a man pleased with
life— wllllngjto live < n—It is the being told, just as
he is putting a plain gold ring over a woman’s
Anger, that ne’s got hold of the wrong female.
It is only then that the full possibilities
of life suggest themselves to him. Then,
and then only, he may be said to live. As
we have said, the Signora is one who has loved
another-well, but far from wisely. That other
took up another, and so she had to fall back on the
Signor, who was “ bossing ” a large galvanised-lron
business. He doesn’t care for her nor she for him. So
they get married. And now it is that the Herald
man comes in. “ The Majeronis,” he says. “ though
masters of one of the most poetical and musical
languages in the world, use it as if it were
diamonds and pearls, and Impart to it the lustre
which is inherent la it, but which is too frequently
dimmed by clumsy or imperfect elocution/’
There’s for you. And we thought all along we
could write 1 What’s the use of Bitting down to
compete against talent like this ?
• • •
The “Foundry Master” is described on
the bills as a “ Comedy-Drama.” We believe it is.
What a “Comedy-Drama” is, is quite another
question. We can honestly say that we don’t
know, and don’t know anybody that does. What
we really do know is that a large audience in olaw-
hammered coats and white ties rolled up to see It.
The Signora riveted our attention from the very
beginning. She was square, too—about the shoul-
ders. From an artistic standpoint, the queerest
thing in the world is to see a tall and naturally
graceful woman padded. But, iu spite of tbe
padding, she came on and went off, wrung her
hands, and appealed to Heaven to show she was
"Innocent.” It’s‘hard to know what’s the best
thing to be done when a man gets a wife like that.
• • •
She, as we said, doesn’t care for him, and
he’s not Infatuated with her. They live in the
same house, but in different rooms. She keeps to
herself and so does he. At last they learn to know
and love each other. Her old hand— the haughty
aristocrat, de Blgney—finds, on endeavouring to
obtain her ear, that he's got hold of the wrong
animal entirely. She scoffs, sneers at, spurns him—
wants to know what the mischief he means.
• * •
Clair—that’s the proud beauty’s name—
has got tired of this kind of life, and consents at
last to be a real wife instead of a cold make-believe.
Her old lover the Duke marries a pot of money.
The wives fall out and pass tbe quarrel on to the
husbands. A duel is fought, and Clair-always in
the road when she’s not wanted—gets a bullet iu
the hand. Shooting your wife seldom fails to
make her love you, and so the Foundry Master
succeeds in tapping a reservoir of affection when
he had almost given over prospecting for it. By
and by we shall have something to say about the
actors. The play is of the emotional, almost
lachrymose school.
♦ * * *
Monday was the night for the show busi-
ness. From the doors of the Royal, of Hiscocks*,
and of the Gaiety, fresh, healthy-looklng country
people, smelling of paddocks and poultry, were
being turned away In battalions. Even the look-
up was full. So were the people in it. It was to
Emerson’s wo went, to see the new programme.
Another occupied “ Billy’s ” chair at the corner,
and then we learnt with regret that the “Na-
poleon” was down with fever. Clark gave us
“ I’m leaving thee In sorrow, Annie,” well enough
to cause a savage attack to be made on the floor
with umbrellas and bob-nailed boots. Holland
and the two Cogilla did their share. But it was
when the brothers came on as the “ Dusters ” that
you’d think the roof was giving. Nothing so
maddeningly bizarre has been seen In Sydney.
While C. W. Cogill was wriggling and twisting
about, people were lying on the seats cramped
with laughter. And Stanley and Plxley were
almost as good. Whether the feet that Coglll
crooks into all sorts of uncanny shapes really be-
long to him, or are borrowed for the occasion, is
a point on which a good deal of disagreement
exists. They may be his own, or they may be only
fastened on with a hinge. But, whoever owns
them, they’re lively.
* * * *
Hiscocks’ crowd are still filling the Aca-
demy. Warner baa turned outagood deal stronger
than we thought he would when we first saw him.
He is always received boisterously now. But
Keenan can hold his own in any company. And
it’s no wonder. A man with bis advantages of
mouth, teeth, and ears, should be able to make a
living anywhere. When to these are added a pair
of feet that leave little room on the stage for other
artists to get about on, Mr. Keenan’s born advan-
tages will be at once perceived. And he has
acquired accomplishments, too. For instance, ho
can get Into his face as much hopeless imbecility
as would run an asylum.
• * * ♦
“ Impulse” at the Royal, and big houses
to see it. Miss Watt-Tanner is back again, looking
as lovely as ever. And Annie Mayor ? If ever
the heavy villain of a piece should be forgiven for
making off with another man’s wife, Vincent de-
serves not merely forgiveness but reward. Miss
Taylor caused a deal of fun, and a flunkey a whirl-
wind of ferocity. We hold over an extended
notice for week. A fine Queen’s Birthday is
enough to disagree with the healthiest system.
Sir Henry Parkes and Sir John Robertson
are both opposed to capital punishment and, would
vote in favour of a bill for its abolition.
“ Mystery gold ” is the name of the latest
and best imitation of the real metal. It is a com-
position of platinum, tin, and copper, and will
stand the acid tests. Sovereigns made of this
“gold” are said to be in circulation In England.
A well-known Sydney man has been
drawing to £2000 a month as his share of the pro-
ceeds of the Mount Morgan (Q ) goldmine, and he
is not the largest shareholder uy a long way. This
huge pile is being turned out by lo head of
stamps, and now 50 more are going up, with a cer-
tainty of their being employed day and night year
after year, in the reduction of what now seems to
be the largest and most magnificent mountain of
gold-bearing stone ever seen by the eye of man.
Our friend of Mount Morgan Is a lucky man, Is
still young, and has made all his money himself.
He is one of two men who recently bought out
their partner (who held an equal tUrd share In
station properties with them) lor about £350,000.
I can appreciate a really good spirit, and
that is always why 1 ask for Wolfe s Schnapps.
Methought as the sun shed his last parting gleam,
Ere he passed through the gates of the West,
That I saw in his radiance in letters of gold—
H. L. Summerfleld’B suits are the best.*
Three things to remember. 1. Be careful
of water. 2. Mealtime. 3. Bray Bro's. china
shops, 402 and 404 George-street, where all kindsi of
ornaments, kitchen delf, and some really beautiful
dinner, tea, and chamber sets are to be had.
We can recommend Wolfe’s Schnapps as
the most suitable invigorant, stimulant and re-
storative known.
Woman Items
The Burrawang Debating Society has de-
cided “ that single life Is happier than married.”
They are nearly all married men who go in for
debating at Burrawang.
“ Friendship and love come this evening.
I will be waiting where we parted, at 8 o’clock.”
“Dear, dearl" she cried, as she read this In the
News— “I shall perhaps lose him for ever if I do
not meet him as requested—but ’tis impossible I
Yet bow can I explain to him it Is the cook’s night
out—to Mm.-my baron ?”
Among the wedding presents to be given
to H.R.H. Princess Beatrice will be one from Miss
Jenner of Cardiff. It is a petticoat of fine flannel,
the pattern of which is from her own design.
The gift is to be accompanied by an illuminated
address, bearing tne motto—chosen by Miss Jenner
—“ Wales expects every woman to do her duty.”
This seems at first to be a somewhat eccentric but
perfectly feasible statement. It is only when you
oome to look at it again that you begin to see tbe
Welsh wit of It. “ Wales expects every woman to
do her duty.” So he does.
They were newly married, m’yes! And
they arrived at the hotel with such nice new lug-
gage, and the next morning they were so careful
at breakfast, and she quite remembered not to
ask him “ if he took sugar.” And they sat by the
fire and read the paper while the waiter cleared
the table. Then her eye caught an advertisement,
and she asked him whether he thought that
“Florlllue was really good for the teeth ?" and he
replied, “Goodl Bather! Why, I’ve used It for
years! What do you use V ” Then that waiter de-
parted from the room, a sadder, and a much »iser
man.
A Waratah man recently evinced a pen-
chant for going about with not even a garment of
wild honey on him, for the purpose of frightening
ladles, we don’t know how many he frightened,
but It is stated that 2300 used to go out on the flat
after tea, sometimes, to see if the horrible rumour
were true. The miscreant was caught at last,
when ‘s veral ladles identified him “ but,” con-
tinues the local paper, “they refused to attend
the Court.” The question now arises, how did
they identify him ? We mean by what portion of
bis majestic smile ? He got a month, and it is to
be presumed that, In bii future peregrinations, he
will at least don the garment we have particu-
larised—and a collar I
A favoured reporter lately interviewed
Miss Fortescue, the conqueror in love and law of
Lord Garmoyle, the present Earl Cairns. The inter-
viewer slings his adverbs around in spendthrift
fashion, and avers Miss Fortescue to be “one of
the most charming women I have ever met. She
talks delightfully—affably, brightly, always intel-
ligently, and without the least reserve, she 13 a
thorough lady in everything she says and does.
She had not an ill word to say of anybody. Miss
Fortescue must not think me impertinent when f
say she Is very beautiful.” Beautiful I Of course
she is. So is any woman who has ten thousand
pounds. And we think the interviewer thought
of that, for he was a Scotchman !
A man in Walbundrie recently became
enamoured of the grocer’s chartered slave, and
used to meet her at night time at the bottom o.
the fence. One supper time, after the boss bad
howled 37 times for butter in vain, he directed
his wife to go out and see what was eventuating—
and to take the tomahawk with her. It was pitch
dark, hut on the way down to the fence the
grocer’* lady heard a noise. “ What’s that,
Amelia ?" cried the mistress. “ I’m only chasing
old M‘Foggram’8 pig, ma'am,** was the reply. On
this the girl pretended to throw stones and sticks,
and the stricken one went down immediately on
all-fours, and came the nig “ In several voices. ’
Then as the pig moved off the landlady began to
throw. There was no sentimentality about her
pig practice, as the only thing she aimed that did
not take effect in full was the tomahawk. . . .
Next morning the swain sent in his resignation.
He said he felt he could not now successfully oom-
Eete with the talent of the neighbourhood, when
o would have to go about with bis right eye In
splints, and a horse’s knee-cap fitted on instead of
his own.
Our old-time acquaintance, Mrs. Anna D.
Longshore Potts, M.D , has been remarking in
Loudon that there is far too much freedom and
facility for entering into what she designates the
“most solemn of earthly contracts,” and holds
that marriage should be hedged in with a good
many restrictions and extra precautions. “ You
can get married in five minutes for two guineas.”
she shrewdly remarks, “ but it takes years and all
one’s money to get divorced.” “ One should marry
consistently, physiologically, mentally, and mag-
netically,” remarks the matrimonial reformer,
“not ignorantly and impulsively, as the common
practice is. and then there would be fewer calls
upon the Divorce Court and fewer oases of ill-
assorted marriages, such, for Instance, as that of
Lord Durham.” She calculates that one-third of
the marriages turn out satisfactory, and only one
in ten can be accounted happy. She considers
that in the choice of a wife, as In that of a horse,
some previous knowledge Is neof ssary, and with a
view to assist young people In these delicate
matters, she advocates tbe establishment of com-
mittees of investigation to question candidates for
matrimony.
The approaching marriage of Earl de
Grey with the giddy Gladys, Countess of Lo r sdale.
suggests some remarks concerning the sexual
Idiosyncrasies of both men and women who have
lost their partners, and what they really do when
unprompted by gain in their choice of new ones.
It seems to be easily solved in the crucible of
observations. Marriage changes amanooixpletely.
His feelings and habits are not those of his young
unwedded manhood. Then he courted because he
loved, and married because he could not resist the
temptation of red lips and bright eyes. When he
becomes a widower he has an eye to use rather
than to ornament. His habits are those of home,
and bis second wife Is to add to his individual
comfort. Hence his motives are selfish. But
selfishness is manifested in a greater degree by a
widow. As a girl she married for love; as a
widow she marries that her husband may be a
paok-mule, and, like tbe Andean animal who carries
heavy burdens over mountain passes, the greater
his capacity to hoar heavy loads the better hus-
bai d be is considered. A widower usually desires
a counterpart of his “dear departed;” but a
widow marries a man who bears no resemblance
in face, form, or character to her former husband.
She may bury her body for tho time In crape, but
her second choice must bear no resemblance to
her first. Were she to marry fifty times, each
husband, like her dresses, would differ from each
other so much as to be noticeable by her friends.
She drives a shrewd matrimonial bargain in every
way—does a frolicsome, teasing, coquetlng, angl-
ing widow.
• ■ ■
Enfant terrible: —“Pa, I want you to
come here and play with me.” “ I’ve not got
time, my son,” responded Mr. Flack. “That’s
what you always tell me, pa., and if you don’t get
mo a little brother for a playmate pretty soon, I’U
speak to ma about it.”....When a sealskin and
dirmond equipped “young lady of the chorus”
iicu'ly asked a physician to check her
gro. log tendency to obesity, he strongly
recommended her to live on her salary
The war spirit la even extended to dress, and some
ladles are wearing leaden bullets as buttons....
Queen Victoria has been staying at AIx-los-Balns
as “the Countess of Balmoral.” It makes an
enormous difference to equerries, ladles-ln-wait-
ing, and other flunkies, whether they are travel-
ling with a Countess or a Queen. A Queen must
not be spoken to unless she first speaks, and
persons ought not to speak to one another In her
presence. Nobody can sit down In a room where
the Queen la without being requested to do so ; in
the open air, men must remain bareheaded when
addressed by Her Majesty, and must not como
nearer than throe paces to her person.
Only by apure spirit can nervousness be
benefitted. Wolfe's Schnapps is the stimulant
required.
Though I've never been to college
I have heard the poet say,
Bummerfleld’s clothes, “ wear-resisting,”
Last for ever and a day.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps has no equal for the
cure ot dyspepsia and kindred complaints. Be
sure you obtain Wolfe's.
THE Young Cockatoo
CAROLUS.
"With the ait of a martyr sheTightens her garter.
And at washing makes an attempt, my boys.
Off to the plains with the sheep, my boys.
Or binding the crop when they reap, my boys-.
Ne'er as a rule going to school.
For she must earn her " keep," my boys.
The wives of the future, yon ken, my boys,
To mother Australian men, my boys ;
This " yeoman’s '* slave is os hard to savt — •—r
As if in o city den, my boys.
Ill Up in the early morn, my boys,
W To the cow with the crumpled horn, my boys *,
' She says, “ My word, if I was a bird,
4 Early rising I'd scorn, my boys.*’
Feeding the ducks and the pigs, my hoys,
Looking about for the eggs, my boys
Like Aquarius' daughter, lugging vfp Vater, <
To fill the tubs and kegs, my bo*. \ X
With her rusty locks unkempt, my boyk,
Neatness a thing undrempt, myboys; /'


PEPPER AND SALT.
Tho eminent Agnostic and journalist Mr.
Charles Bright, who is understood to bo a leader-
writer on the Sydney Daily Telegraph, has
been taken to task by that journal for his oration
at the meeting held the other evening to kick the
Liberator off the reading-table of the School of
Arts. It is a weak thing, we have found, to em-
ploy upon newspapers persons with religious con-
victions—or their antipodes. When we were run-
ning a paper once, somewhere between Hades and
Queensland, we were once beguiled into charter-
ing a Church of England clergyman for journal-
istic duties. He was a Master of Arts, and
heaven knows what besides, and when he
arrived ho dwarfed the township. He set
about at once to educate the oommuniiy,
while We rode away after a retiring store-
keeper, who owed us “two-fl®teen” for a
standing "ad. Wo caught our creditor camped
about 350 miles away, gazing into the translucent
waters off the Thompson River. He was rather
glad to see ue, on the whole, and be squared the
debt for a new saddle, 17s. in silver, aud half an
ounce of quinine. At the conclusion of the bar-
gain, we drank his health, heartily—in pain-killer.
Though wo spurred back with all speed to Tin-
ville, we did not arrive there a moment too soon.
Obtaining; a] copy of the Tinville Tomahawk at
the Ten Mile, we glanced over its contents with
horror. Immediately underneath the title was a
rude representation of the Bible, and beneath that
a motto: " God is the word.” The leader was upon
the impiety of our constituents, and our chief
supporter was characterised as a candidate for the
pit of Belial. Before the office door, as we rode
up, the rev. gentleman was holding a prayer-
meeting, and every woman for twenty miles
round seemed to be congregated there. He
was extremely popular with the fair sex,
and from the looks of the men who “ mouched ’’
about at the tail of the assembly, we could see
that the Tinville Tomahawk, jobbing plant and
all, stood a particularly healthy chance of beirg
pitched over into the creek. At the cor elusion of
the meeting, which terminated in a very loud
hymn followed by a healthy collection, we delicately
explained the position to our rev. editor. He then
commenced to tremble very much, and going - on
his knees prayed fervently for darkness. He sub-
sequently did a supplication in three cantos on the
subject of a horse. . . Four hours later, just es
a bellicose resolution concerning the “ reverend ”
was being carried at the Tinville Hotel, something
In moleskin pants might have been seen creeping
on his face down a little dry gully that led to
Grogtown, 47 miles distant. That was the parson 1
The last we heard of him was through the columns
of the Nuggetville Fences, which had a long
article containing a minute description of the re-
verend editor In large caps, headed “RE-APPEAR-
ANCE OF THE WILD MAN. Great Excitement
in the District.”
> « •
We are sorry to observe by the Evening
News (which "seldom, considering”) that an
assistant-postmaster up South has been ar-
rested by the police there. What troubles us is
a rumour that he is well-connected. He must
be, anyhow, or ho couldn’t ,be assistant-post-
master! It’s a pity old Alex. Campbell is not
PostmastOr-General now, or he might take a trip
up and depose—as he did in the Healy case—that
the letter forming the subject of the charge was
not the P.M.G.’s property! This probably
wouldn’t save anyone anymore than it did, Healy*
but it might be the means of getting the prisoner
a few nice invitations into Baptist families where
they sing Gadsby’s collection, and “ wolf ” cold
veal for their Sunday dinner.;
of a churchwarden or an elder. He not only
eloped with the wife, but he returned with her
the same day to her husband’s house and took
formal possession thereof. The latter, on return-
ing home after his day's work, found the door
barred against him, and was facetiously informed
by his successor that he must have called at the
wrong address. The husband has not called there
since. But the minions of the law have. "Be
bold, be bold,” runs the old saying, with the care-
ful addition, " be not too bold.” It is now popr.*
larly understood that Pentridge prison is now one
yawn for that book-agent.
There is in Maryborough (Vio.) a book-
agent who is not merely cool: he is Arctic. It ap-
pears he had been boarding some time with a
middle-aged couple, when he conceived the com-
paratively temperate idea of eloping with the
wife. There was not much In that, so far. Any
man might have done the same thing. Heaven-
according to the testimony of tombstones—is fun
of reverend men who have done it; so full indeed
that if it did not expand with the progress of ita
population they would be brimming over the
crystal battlements. But the bold book-agent
was not satisfied to merely simulate the escapade


From the Herald “ Beau Ideal,—Paper
impracticable; failed again; despair ever. How
act ? . . .” Well, we’ll tell you. You are sure
to have another go in, for starting papers is a
disease. Well, listen. When you do start don’t
commence biz. with only two weeks’ paper and a
lien on the double demy. There’s lota of excite-
ment in doing it this way, but after six weeks the
thing becomes as you neatly put it—“ impracti-
cable.” And “ despair ever” is a natural conse-
quence. On the whole, we should advise you not
to start another paper at all, ,'Jeau Ideal. Think
of the time it took her to save up for the last one,
and even then you wouldn’t pat in these nice
fashion notes she wrote on the kitchen table when
the family was snoring above. And, besides, you
know she was refused at the pit-door of the Royal,
notwithstanding that she, with your permission,
represented herself as your “ dramatical cricket.”
No I If you want to start something practical,
buy a barrow, and put some fish in it. You’ll be
sure, Beau Ideal, of our custom, anyhow; and
one customer is, you know, the commencement of
a connection.
• * * ,
“ In one of the divorce cases heard before
Mr. Justice Windeyer, the co-respondent, Kdw’m
Henry Porter, who had committed adultery wi th
Mrs. Annie Swaddling, formerly Annie Norton,
was stated to be a member of the ‘ Soudan Con-
tingent;’ before joining the band of heroes be was
a constable in the police force, stationed at 8t
Leonards.”
Come, hand me down my tuneful lyre,
And, whilst I burn with martial lire,
I’ll pitch the key a trifle higher,
And sing this “ Don Juan ”
Who bade bis native land adieu,
And sailed with that heroic crew,
Who left the bills they couldn’t renew
To fight in the Soudan.
In swaddling clothes he squeezed his nurse.
At three he praised her eyes in verse,
And went, alas! from bad to wore®;
For when he grew a man
He joined the “ fooroe,” and on his beak
The woman always ran to peep
As he passed by, his smile so sweet
Would captivate a clam.
But all in vain the maidens pined,
For Edwi7i fixed his giddy mind
Upon a matron more than kind.
Her Christian name was Anne ;
And all went well, until one night
Our hero made a rapid flight,
For on his head there did alight
The fist of her old man.
Then sadly he resumed his beat.
And, as he passed the silent street,
He thought of all he’d have to meet,
And quickly formed a plan.
He straight became a patriot.
And gladly joined that noble lot,
Who, finding Sydney rather hot,
Sought safety in Soudan.
But whilst I sing this simple lay,
Our hero on his homeward way
Thinks sadly of the costs he’ll pay
For that affair with Anne;
And sad to tell, not he alone
Will find a doubtful welcome home.
For many a giddy youth will groan
Why did I leave Soudan!
* * ♦
A few days ago a writ of ft. fa. was issued
against a well-known publican of Donald, Wim-
mera, Vic. Hearing of the treat in store for him,
he went to the local Kirby, ordered a coffin, and
had it sent home the same nigljt. The following
day the bailiff duly arrived, entered the premises
of the publican, and was shown into a dlngy-
looking room, where he found the gentleman he
required standing by the coffin armed with a pistol
and a screwdriver, and wearing the undesirable
air of a man who had partly glutted his ven-
geance on some one, but had still four or five
gluts on hand to spare. “ Excuse me, sir,” stam-
mered the bailiff, “ I’ve come.” “ Yes, I see you
have,” shouted the glucose-ulinger ; “you’ve
come, and I’m ready for you. Now, get into that
collin at once, and I’ll plant you in the quietest
comer of the collar.” Just here, the bailiff left
the room. Not that he was at all afraid, but he
wanted to go outside and see if it looked like
rain. And when he reached the street, the style
he went for home gave casual observers the idea
that he had just boon struck by the front end of
a Soudanese simoom.
♦ ♦ •
It is interesting (says a country paper) to
give the following clippings from a late corres-
pondent’s letter of the hand-to-hand encounter in
which the N.S. Welshmen took part. A force of
1000 men under General Palmer was directed to
proceed to the village of Thakul. . . Fifty-five
of the camelry were from the Contingent under
Lieut. Sparrow. They were inspected at midnight
by General Graham, and marched at 1. . . (Now
we shall clip closer down the details <A this gory
invasion): They surprised a body of 100 Arabs. . .
The rebels fought desperately for a few minutes.
Lieut. Tanglefoot had a hand-to-hand encounter
with an old Arab, who stood (having mislaid his
crutches) at bay. Nevertheless, the tide of battle
swung to the old Arab’s side (when he had re-
covered his crutch), and he threw his spear, wound-
ing Lieut. Tanglefoot in the arm. Five companies
now fell into open order, and a general advance
was made on the right flank of the old Arab to
give Lieutenant Tanglefoot time to consider how
to entrench himself and throw up earthworks.
The move was entirely successful, the attention
of the enemy was diverted, and the gallant lieu-
tenant, brandishing his sword aloft, and provid-
ing for a masterly retreat, called in a voice of
thunder for a general charge from a private sol-
dier, who, with one glance to heaven for protec-
tion, and fixing his gaze to watch a time when the
old Arab was looking the other way, stepped_up
and “ bayoneted him”-through the back. The
brave lieutenant then sent his dripping Wade
back into the sheath with a bang, and cried Eng-
land for ever I Enough of this. How many goats
on hand ? —Back to breakfasL^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
“ What does a burlesque actress who never
wears any clothes want with such big trunks?
•‘The trunk?, my dear, are tor htr Press notices .
BRIEF MENTION.
R. Banquet Smith, Esq., M.L.A., has re-
turned to Sydney. He Macleay’m the companion-
ship of St. Gorge after this trip.
A correspondent of the Murrurrundi
Times says that the district member came to
Gunnedah “ like a thief in the night.” This only
means that he was not expected.
The Echo wonders what the feelings of
the Contingent’s horses were when they learnt
they would see their native land no more. They
probably thanked God they would have to write
no more “ Pith and Point.”
“Make that a knight—why it is more than
a knight already—it 18 a nightmare 1" said Her
Gracious Majesty to Lord Derby, as he showed her
the portrait of a certain Antipodean Premier.
This is the only Joke Her Majesty has been known
to make since John Brown died.
We see, from time to time, advertisements
in the Melbourne Akqus for “ strong boys to de-
liver newspapers.” We notice, too, that in the
iss e of the day following, there is pretty sure to
be a descriptive-article from the pen of Julian
Thomas. We merely mention this as a curious
coincidence.
One of the regulations of the Melbourne
Police Force is a noble specimen of the grotesque.
It is to the effect that any constable dying without
having previously sent in his resignation leaves
his family unentitled to any compensation. A con-
stable did die the other day and could not at the
last sign his resignation paper. They had, there-
fore. to hold him up while he made a dying scratch
upon it. which was witnessed by another police-
man. So his family got their compensation allow-
ance. But it was a close shave. If he had not been
able to make that scratch his widow and orphans
might have goae to the workhouse. There Isa
consensus of opinion among the Melbourne police
that this and several other regulations were
framed by a bandicoot.
Mr. Dailey—according to the S.M. Herald
—is game to give £10,000 (other people’s money)
for the “discovery of a specific that would kill
rabbits but be innoxious to other animals.
Dailey thinks that Nature keeps a separate poison
for each animal. Should he be right, fancy the
reward the person should get who discovered tte
particular alkaloid which ” corpsed ” money-
lenders and Sydney picnic policemen without
affecting other classes of the community I And
consider the swift vengeance that should attend
the discoverer of an antidote 1
They have had a Chinese leper scare at
Harrletville (Vic.), and have run poor John down
to the Melbourne Quarantine Station in a special
truck. At Cooktown (N.Q.), some years ago, a
debilitated-looking Chinese gentleman with a com-
plexion like boiled pork was brought up before
the P.M. for theft. The child of the Flowery Land
didn’t understand English, and, in fact, didn’t
savee anything—he didn’t say whether he was
guilty or not guilty-he only said, “Me leper!’
On hearing this, everyone cleared out of the
Court like mad, whereupon Ah Hung walked up
to the Bench, “shook” the P.M.’s gold rimmed
spectacles and muoh-patchoull’d red bandana,
pocketed the Bible and ink-bottle, and made
tracks. “Meleper!” Yes.
This is the latest teetotal dirge we’ve
seen;—
“ This sober cup
Of which we sup
A thousand times surpasses
The ruddy bowl
That stains the soul
And sense-depriving glasses.”
And this is our reply:—
We’ve tried that cup,
We guv it up,
And alius let’s it pass us;
We’d sooner " smile ”
On castor “ile”
Stirred up in sour molasses.
This brief but touching poem is from the
Ballarat Courier. It was composed on a new
plan. The Victorian Homer collected the four
worst epitaphs he could find in the COURIER,
and from each of these he culled the most atro-
ciously grotesque line. The result is as follows:—
“ Farewell, dear Qus, but not for ever;
Fond parents do not weep;
But in Heaven we hope to meet him,
Over on the shining shore.”
With an unprecedented valour, the composer,
loftily disregard!ul of the depth of Clunes shafts,
or the solidity of Victorian road-metal, appends
his name. And it is J. Faull. Therefore the verse
is Faull’s:—
False is the verse, oh, Bard 1 and metre worse
Was never found before in stuff called veise;
We don’t know Gus; but bet you’ll “wipe the
floor ”
If e’er he meet you on the shining shore.
From the Palmer Chronicle:— “On
Wednesday next we will issue the first Number of
The Ethelstane Journal, with Religious Articles.
The Price will be (id., or will contain all telegrams
received from Saturday till the hour of Publica-
tion. It will also contain Literary, Political, Scien-
tific, Moral, and 10s. per half-year in advance.”
This is what we have yearned for, ever since we
discovered the utter hollowness of this mundane
sphere. The Religious articles we anticipate with
delirious joy, the Political creates an expectation
in our minds akin to madness, and the mere men-
tion of Scientific and Moral, especially Moral,
induces a craving all-overishness impossible to
describe. But sweetest and best will be the Ids.,
which, according to announcement, it will also
contain. We have written for a copy, so as to
collar the 10s.; if we get it, the other contents will
assist to dispel the gloom which has taken a per-
manent lease of our hearth. But we fear that this
half-soverelgn-contained-in-the-flrst-numbor busi-
ness is a delusion. Still we love delusions; that’s
why we road cablegrams from “ Our own Corres-
pondent.”
The Emperor of Austria washes every
year, according to ancient custom, the feet of 12
poor old men. The ceremony came off last month,
and is said—in the words of our own Immortal
Alfred— to have given pleasure to all. We
reckon the old men were in steep for about 13
months beforehand. But the show was splendid.
The venerable old buffers were propped up against
the wall of the great hall in which the ceremony
was performed. The archdukes then laid the
table with silver dishes containing all manner of
delicate food which was served out to the
old men by the Emperor himself. Courteous
kaiser 1 Meek and humble monarch I But—
the old men were not permitted to touch it!
Hardly. The line had to be drawn somewhere.
The archdukes then cleared the table, the court
chaplains read the Gospel, and the gay antiques
were then taken to their houses in court car-
riages. And we daresay, when all is said, they
would rather have not had their feet washed after
all. When a man has left his feet in peace for a
score of years or so, he doesn’t like them to bo
disturbed, even by an Emperor. This ostentatious
charity, we are sorry to have to say, is pretty
nearly all that now remains on earth to remind us
that there ever was a Christ.
In Won! worth, N.8.W., the first thing to
which the attention of the Minister of Mines was
invited by the Mayor was the “ neglected state of
the local cemetery.” We know Wentworth well,
and wo would counsel Mr. Abbott, in ail sincerity,
not to expend a penny on the place. The Mayor
didn't say what was the cause of this neglect. He
knew better. But we shall tell. On the Darling,
from the time you started at Bourke till you came
to Wentworth, the rum got worse and worse. At
the latter place it was prussic acid and strychnine
stirred up and seasoned with digitalis. The re-
sult, of course, wns that no shearer coming down
the river with a cheque passed the place. If
strong, he might live two days, but the third in-
variably round him in the church-yard. By-and-
byo the publicans and policemen began to die off,
and were buried alongside (he men they had poi-
soned and “chivvied.” What was the result?
What could be expected ? You don’t suppose the
wronged Riverlna “ whalers ’ would stand this last
Indignity ? No. At 13 every night they get up
and rouse their wrongers out too. Then they pull
down the fence and chase the “ peelers” and grog-
sellers over the graves till morning. What’s the
use of putting a wall round a place like this ? It
will only result in getting the shanty men and
bobbies stoned instead of belted. We protest
against the expenditure of public money tor any
such object.
From the S.M. Herald; —“Gentleman or
lady of mature age, and prepossessing bearing and
address, required to secure, by Interviewing
parents, pupils for an established and successful
Collegiate School in Sydney. Applicants would be
required to send a son or near relative to the
school, so as to be able to speak as to its merits
from experience. Payment partly by results,
son’s tuition, and small salary. Personal or
local references preferred.” This seems to in-
troduce a new profession to the world. Or, as
the object is to secure youngsters, wo may
perhaps, classify the business as a new branch of
“kidnapping.” Considering that “payment” Is
“ partly by results, son’s tuition, and small salary,”
we presume that the balance of remuneration not
stated will bring the total up to something enorm-
ous. It is somewhat strange that “an established
and successful Collegiate School” should thus
find it necessary to employ a "gentleman or lady
of mature age. and prepossessing bearing and ad-
dress,” to secure, by interviewing parents, an
influx of new pupils; and we have firmly decided
that whenever in future we hear “a lady or gen-
tleman of prepossessing bearing and address”
speaking of the merits of any school from experi-
ence, that, regardless of what may happen in this
world or the next, we will commit a deliberate and
sanguinary murder. Book agents rob us of half
the joy of this world, life assurance agents convert
existence into a penance, und sewing machine
canvassers tempt us to bewail our birtnrhut this is
the last straw. Collegiate school canvassers wo
will ruthlessly slaughter.
A CRUSHER.
WATER INSPECTOR: “LEMME SEE; YOU DON’T USE HOSE, I B’LIEVE.”
RECENT IMPORTATION (outraged): *' DON’T USE HOSE, INDADE I THEN PHWAT THE
DIVIL D’YE CALL THIM7 ”
PURELY IMAGINARY.
ON THE RETURN OF GORDON’S BLOODY AVENGERS AND GOAT-SLAYERS.
Specimen Dialogue :—
JOHNNIE: “ OH, PA! LOOK AT ALL THE SOJER8 WITH MEDALS I YOU SAID, MEN
GOT ’EM FOE BEING BRAVE.”
PA : “ SO THEY DO. MY BOY.”
JOHNNIE: “WUZ ALL OF THEM BRAVE, PA?”
PA : “ I DON’T KNOW, JOHNNIE.”
JOHNNIE: “ WELL, WHAT DID THEY GET MEDALS FOR THEN?”
PA (getting sorhastic): “ FOR KILLING GOATS.”
JOHNNTE: “ WELL, WHEN YOU SHOT MRS. O’TOOLE’S GOAT, YOU WAS FINED £3 10b.,
AND DIDN’T GET NO MEDALS, ’


The Simplicity of Cunning.—Those Sydney
oj ster leases.
The Simplicity of Ignorance,—Signor
M‘Elbone’s appeal.
“ Wanted a competent editor for the
Auckland Observer and Free Lange.” No
need to advertise this.
It is serenely stated that in order to fully
enjoy the beauty of the Sydney Town Hall
chimes, it is necessary to go up and hear them.
It is asserted in some circles that the
reason Archbishop Moran was tabooed by the Irish
Bishops is that His Grace has not sufficient hair on
his teeth.
The Rev. Mr. Osborne was eloquently
silent at the Liberator meeting. He has now
efficiently mastered the art of not speaking—with-
out being paid for it.
Would it not be advisable, prior to con-
demning Mr. Freethought Symes for calling the
Queen “ Mrs. Brown,” to enquire first If Her
Gracious Majesty is offended by the term ?
Since some patriotic Scotch lunatic intro-
duced thistles into the Western district of Victoria,
they have grown into forests. A poor but Indus
trlous class of men now find steady employment
in rlngbarking them.
Advertisement from the Argus “ Dress-
maker, good for mourning, wanted.” Why “ good
for mourning” you will ask. Because they are
afraid a cheerful dressmaker would eat too much.
This is the newest kind of domestic economy.
“Capital butter, and very cheap! ” said a
gentleman at breakfast the other day; “ I can’t
make out how they do it.” And yet he had the
following "ad.” at the time running daily in the
Herald " Drifted from Botany Bay, one Cask
Tallow, marked W. Finder please communicate,”
etc. Where ignorance is bliss, *tls folly to ba
wise.
All the principal Soudan participants are
to have C.M.G. distinctions inflicted upon them.
This is a harsh and humiliating punishment, but
we don’t deny that they deserve it, and worse.
“ Two corpses been here three days,” wired
the poundkeener of Bundlebury to the C.P.8 of
Jamrock. ‘‘There is no one here to bury the
bodies.” “This is all I can do for them,” wrote
the C.P.8. in reply. And he sent up a box of
dominoes.
A level-headed Dubbo selector is clearing
off his sheep, and stocking up with kangaroos.
He says there are millions in it. The Marsupial
Board have fixed such a liberal tariff for scalps
that a dead kangaroo is worth twice as much as a
live jumbuck.
The fact, as stated by the Evening News,
that “an empty flask picked up by a policeman
near the body ” of a suicide at Neutral Bay “ was
found to contain a small quantity of brandy ”
shows some sign of degeneration on the part of
the “ foorce.”
A Melbourne constable has been fined two
pounds, with three guineas costs, for assault.
Members of the force have not invested in any
corner hotels or terraces since then. There is a
general impression among them that the end of the
world is at hand.
Mortimer Franklyn advertises the Mel-
bourne World as "the only complete evening
newspaper.” He should have added, “ no evening
is complete without it,” and then twisted his
moustache three times, and languished gracefully
into another and (perhaps) a better world,
- It is within the power of the Melbourne
magistrates to imprison a truculent solicitor. We
should like to th's here. What a chance
then for O’Malie) . k“ to call up before hnn
certain legal rum-jars which infest our police
courts, charge them with daring to breathe, and
give them life all round I
One of the “first families” in Melbourne
advertises for a “ plain cook,” with the cautious
stipulation. “ must be Protestant." This is a wise
addition. If the cook happened to be a Roman
Catholic, who knows but she would put the “ criss
o’ the crass ” on the piecrust she made and choke
the whole family I These Jesuits are capable of
anything.
The volunteers from the Victorian police
force are to be formed into a company to be
called the Fourth Battalion Victorian Rifles It
will be a bit of bad luck for any Russian stragglers
(If Russians are to come) who have got drunk on
kerosene to fall into the hands of these desperate
warriors. The glorious battle of Glenrowan has
not yet been forgotten in the force
A gentleman has been in Wollongong, re-
cently, taking orders for a “Life of Beach and
Hanlan,” “to be delivered in three months,” at
18s. a pop. We shall probably subscribe, but the
agent need not strain himself in order to deliver
our copy in three months. We are not hungry.
We shall still continue to find amusement in our
little “ Line upon Line,” and instruction in the
thrilling history of our old friend Je-oseph.
The Kiama Independent recently re-
marked, somewhat grimly, that it has now to
employ a collector. It is stated that when this
notice appeared, several of the local aldernnen
gave notice that they intended to move a resolu-
tion that the representatives of the Press be not
admitted to the Council chamber. You can’t be
“out,” “engaged,” “at a wedding,” or “dead,”
when you’re seen there. At least, not respectably.
At an inquest held on the body of a man
by the.name of Mullins, who had committed sui-
Oide near Dunedin, a guardian of the law informed
the coroner that the deceased had died from hav-
ing taken an overdose of sthrychnine; that afther
taking the poison he had dashed the bottle on to a
large shtone prothruding out of the earth, and
that he, the policeman, “had brought in the
shtone, also the fragments of the bottle, to let the
jury see the locality of the self-murther.”
The S. M. Herald and the Sydney Echo
are owned by one proprietary, and issue from the
same office. Yet the Echo went in bald-headed
for reprieving the Maitland “ polsoneresses,”
while the Herald, after they had been respited,
expressed a judicially-worded opinion to the
effect that they should have been hanged. Up in
King-street the game is the same. The D.T. holds
one set of opinions, and its weekly oflshot quite
another. Which of the pair is the Devil’s advo-
cate ?
Another mummy has been added to the
British Museum. On its breast was discovered a
gold plate with an Inscription in hieroglyphics,
which, When translated, read as follows: —
“ Fairer than the flowers above thee.
Fading on thy still cold breast,
Placed by gentle hands that love thee.
Our darling Poohbosh gone to rest.”
The deceased is supposed to have been a contem-
porary of Cheops.
The Victorian Defence Department called
for applications for the position of drill-instructor
lately. There are several applicants, but two of
them were immediately dismissed without exam-
ination. One of these was a chronic-gouty sub-
ject; the other had a wooden leg. Evidently the
Defence Department considers that instruction
should be given with both feet. If the two re-
jected candidates had had only a wooden head and
gout in the brain respectively, they would pro-
bably have run each other close for the billet.
“Women and gambling,” said the mur-
derer Barnes, “ brought me to this,” And the
bolt was drawn, and he slipped through the trap
to eternity. It is to be borne in mind that Barnes
enjoyed a plenitude of religious ministrations, and
died truly penitent, with, of course, a penitent
thief’s right to enter into Paradise within 24 hours.
“Tell my comrades in Pontrldge,” said Barnes,
“ that women and gambling have brought mo to
this.” Send along women and gambling, there-
fore, and give his Pentridgo comrades an equal
right to Paradise.
The following is tacked on to the Evening
News obituary notice of a youngster of six:—
" What is there here to court our stay,
Or hold us back from home,
While angels beckon us away,
And Jesus bids us come ?”
Well, we don’t know, Bobby, really, except the
top season is just coming on, and your corner
grocery has just had hoisted in a brand new plate-
glass window.
A dive into the future. War has been
proclaimed. The Russian fleet is steaming straight
for Hobson’s Bay. The Victorian fleet is lying at
the Heads in readiness. Admiral Aslanbegoff
stands on the quarter-deck of the Russian flag-
ship with a telescope placed to his eye. It is
pointed at the Victorian fleet. After a long and
perplexed scrutiny he shuts up the telescope with
a bang, and, turning suddenly on his heel, says to
bis second in command: “Kafuffsky, call me when
we get abreast of Melbourne, and,” pointing ot
the Victorian war-ships, “ tell these bum-
boat people we don’t want any of their oranges.”
It is easier to fall than to rise. This is a
well-known law of motion. A reporter for one of
our daily contemporaries called upon Colonel
Smith of Ballarat, when he was in Sydney lately,
with the purpose of interviewing him. The inter-
view was short. It began with the reporter say-
ings “Ihave read a lot about your boot, in the
Victorian paners—is there anything uncommon
about it.” “ Feel it,” affably replied the Colonel,
making a half circle round the Fourth Estate, and
launching out his right foot. The enterprising
journalist did not stop at the first landing. He
had no time. That’s why we say it is easier to fall
than to rise.
“EJ.S.M.” published this prayer in the
Kiama paper, but as we doubt that the paper
regularly reaches Up There, we rescue it: —"We
pray to God the Divine Messiah that a British
Ministry may be formed capable of meeting the
present crisis: and that the Russians may be
drl\ en to a safe distance north from Afghanistan,
and he prevented from encroaching upon it in
future.” You perceive his request is definite. It
must be north, not N.E. by N. This recalls the
prayer of that American settler in a time of
drought:—“ Send down the rain. Lord, not in tor-
rents, and not patchy and swashy like, but a good
steady sizzle-sozzle that'll soak in.”
This is what the Dr. Johnson of the North,
the editor of the Narrabrl World, says of the
word “ responsible ” : —" Assuming a more en-
larged view and analysing the predicative form of
the word, and viewing it then in its objective
relation with its subjective relations, we find the
same government and their connective relations,
which clearly demonstrate its government and
their clearness of thought, and as thought is an act
of the mind envolving a judgment between two
notions—thought then must emanate from the
human mind.” We differ entirely with regard to
the last statement. Thought does not always
emanate from the human mind. Thought, in the
form of Narrabri editorials, emanates from the
minds of goats.
The editor of the Herberton Advertiser
in a savage par. says that he is going to suppress
Me) his Wednesday’s issue, and come out on
Saturday only. He tells his readers that the re-
ceipts of the Wednesday's number do not even
Pay the cost of the telegrams which are flashed
up to him in these “exciting times.” The fact is
the Herberton people don't care for telegrams.
The current price of tin per ton, and the assurance
that tucker ” quotations remain unchanged, is
enough for them. On the whole, the newspaper
outlook there is so gloomy that we advise the
spirited proprietor of the H.A. to glide from those
regions, and not start another paper until he can
alight on a township in which there are two
Saturdays weekly.
The clergy of Bulgaria have struck be-
cause the Government, being terribly hard up,
have refused to pay the £33,000 a year subsidy they
have had for the past two years. The poor folk
declined three years ago to pay tithes to these holy
scamps, because their notoriously loose lives and
grovelling ignorance were a scandal to the name
of religion. The Government, however, had to
keep them quiet, and made up the money. Now,
when the people have got out of the habit of pay-
ing tithes and the subsidy is withdrawn, these
howling pot-bellies refuse to hold services, attend
death-beds or funerals, or to solemnize (sic) mar-
riages. That is, unless they are permitted to feed
up six times a day on the fruits of labour of the
poor, bounce bequests out of the last dying gasp
of the rich, and generally fill up on the fat of the
land, they say, “Go to hell, gentlemen.” Now
that the Bulgarian is learning to wash himself and
to read, this strike ought to be very significant to
them. The same feeling of “jacking up” the
holy office is not confined to Bulgaria—it is only
disguised.
Charlie and Jack, who have recently lost
their mother;-Charlie ( loq .): “ Hush, Jack, don’t
make such a row. Mrs. Jones 1s in the drawing-
room with pa.” Jack: “Mrs. Jones be hanged.
I wish shed go to Jericho.” Charlie: “Dunno
bout Jencho, I’m afraid she going to Bagdad I ”
The proposed addition to Aarons’ Ex-
change Hotel, Sydney, will consist of an additional
storey over the whole of the Exchange Buildings,
including the offices in Pltt-street, being a total
street frontage of 410ft. There will be about 60
additional rooms, Including suites of private
apartments, large dining and drawing rooms, with
rooms for writing and reading, and numerous
double and single bedrooms, ladies and gentle-
men's bath rooms, and all the other require-
ments of a first-class hotel, Including electric
bells and gas to all rooms. There will also
be a private entrance to the hotel in Gresham-
street through a handsome stone portico to the
hall staircase and hydraulic passenger elevator;
entrances on each landing of stairs to the present
portion of the hotel, thus giving, with the present
staircase and a staircase in the Pltt-street front,
three separate places of exit from any part of the
building in case of fire, the danger of which, how-
ever, will be very small, as the whole of the
floors over the present buildings will be fire-
proof and are to be constructed with iron
girders and Portland cement and concrete
arches; and all the walls dividing the rooms
will be brickwork in cement. The kitchens, &c. f
which are to be on the upper floor of the Pitt-
street front, will be entirely separated from the
other parts of the building, except by openings
which will be closed by iron doors. The kitchens
will be fitted with the most improved cooking
apparatus, and hydraulic elevators and lifts from
the store-rooms and dining-rooms on the ground
floor with the kitchens above. Mr. Aarons, hav-
ing recently visited the largest and best hotels in
America and Europe, intends to Introduce the
most modern appliances for the comfort and con-
venience of visitors. The work will be commenced
Immediately, and is expected to be completed by
the end of the year. The architect is Mr. W.
Pritchard, of Sydney and Melbourne, who designs
the improvements and will superintend the execu-
tion of the work.*
The Aquatic Champion at Home.
BEACH AND HIS FAMILY AT DAPTO.


Siaco the country editors began to write
leaders about the Soudan, Arabic ex pres-ions have
become as common in the back blocks as the
jimjams. When a swagsman camps for the night,
and fixes up a fence of bushes to shelter him from
the wind, he does not now call it a break-wind.
It is a zareba. When our war-worn veterans re-
turn home—if they ever do return—we expect
that even their most intimate friends will be able
to make nothing out of them but “ Bismillah I
Mashallahl Son of a burnt father! ” and such like,
until they remember their native language again.
But this lunacy will soon pass over after the first
wild Bacchanalian days and nights following the
arrival of the Contingent. And then, for ever after,
not one of them will be able to look a goat in the
face without blushing.
Geelong funerals are only a shade less ex-
citing than Sydnev down-the-harbour picnics. At
the city named, Henry Martini borrowed a horse
from the local livery stables, to ride to a funeral.
Henry is said to have ridden 7 miles in 20 minutes
for 20 miles in 7 minutes, we forget which), and the
horse, not being used to funeral work, was per-
manently disabled. The sorrowful mourner ex-
plained the matter to the “beaks,” but was
ordered to donate 30s. to Her Majesty, £10 to the
horse-owner, and three guineas to the inevitable
lawyer. We heartily sympathise with Henry. It
was his name that did it. Martini Henry broke
the Derby record, and was applauded. Henry
Martini broke the funeral record (and a horse s
knees), and was ordered to pay £14 3s. for so doing-
Vet they tell us that justice is the birthright of all
Australians!
The Shoalhaven paper says :—“ A row of
hat-pegs should be a requisite much valued in the
council Chambers of Central Shoalhaven.” And
lower down:—“ We are sorry to see so many empty
ok , j S in th® Central Shoalhaven Council. We
*} ave a circulating library. Another bungle
or the Government.” Possibly the Government
are of opinion that the difficulty might be over-
come in the interests of the ratepayers if each
brought his own peg and hung himself
in*-“ after depositing his hat in the shelves. We
z" e: Mere in this matter because we observe with
pain that the Shoal is not exactly in th \t state of
mind necessary to an alert Journal looking after
its district, for the motto at the top hiccups this
way:—
“Bejusfear
Let all the ends thou aim’st at
Be thy country’s, th God’s and truths.”
The Virginia papers give an account of a
terrible affair at Scottsville, in that State. A boy
of seven years was induced by his two female
cousins, one eight years of age, the other five, to
mount a chair, ostensibly to help them make a
swing by tying a rope to a rafter of the cabin in
which they lived. The eight-year-old girl made
a noose, placed it around the boy's neck, knocked
the chair from under him, and, while he was
swinging from the improvised gallows, hit him
seven blows on the head with a shovel. The con-
fession of both girls was that the boy was hung
because he ate an egg of the elder that a hen had
laid on a bed. If the inter-marriages of the famly
for generations back could be traced, and the
several members subjected to critical analysis, it
might be found that the two children are the
victims of a violation of raolology, and that they
are poisoned mentally, physically, and morally.
In other words, an impulse to crime comes down
to them hereditarily from blood-poisoning,
It would be well for the N.S.W. judges to
come to some agreement as to the legal status of
the Salvation Army poepie. According to the
Illawarra Mercury, Mr. Justice M'Farland
recently, at Kiama, gave judgment for a
plaintiff in a case of unlawful arrest and
false Imprisonment, brought against a so-
called captain of the organisation in these
terms : . , . . “It was no wonder that he
laughed when he saw a lot of men- men whocaffed
themselves soldiers of Christ—jumping about like
war-Indlans, beating themselves upon the breast,
and proclaiming their victory over the devil.
Verdict for plaintiff of £15, with costs on the
higher scale; also costs of six witnesses.” On the
other hand, up North, Judge Windeyer and other
legal luminaries have invariably taken the side of
the Salvationists, and it is notorious that all the
convictions against those having given offence to
the Army recorded by the magistrates have been
upheld. The division of the Army, for instance,
stationed at Newcastle, is by no means an angelic
band. It is seen to most advantage on “ pay
nights,” when it pervades the town; each member
of the procession seemingly mad with excitement
—from the demon at the drum down to the latest
recruited hallelujah lass. This sight, as may be
expected, drives the saiiors and miners (all pretty
well “loaded up”) to frenzy, and charge
after charge is made at the Army as it
struggles along; the soldiers of that body,
however, using their fists freely when occasion
requires. When the procession rounds up to pray
every conceivable thing, excepting road metal
(and often that), is aimed at the ring, no considera-
tion whatever being apparently shown to the hal-
lelujah lasses, all of whom have learned to ward
off a kitten by means of a hymn-book with con-
siderable dexterity Now, as legally laid down, it
is in the power of any of the “ captains,” even of
this unruly mob, to give, not only a recognised
assailant in charge, but it is equally in their power
to ‘ lumber” an innocent by-stander who may be
laughingly surveying the proceedings I The point
to be decided is whether the Salvationists are good
and holy men, who should not be interfered with,
and be allowed, in addition, a large amount of
latitude as regards the liberty of the subject, or
T men • • • Jumping about like war
Indians, beating themselves upon the breasts,” as
alleged by Judge M’Farland. So far as we are oon-
cerned, we have no particular feeling in respect of
the Army; though we could wish that when the
next captain whispers us for a subscription he
will have taken the precaution, before accosting
us, to have combed the gravy out of his whiskers.
Miss Fairbrother, the morganatic wife of
the present Duke of Cambridge, Commander-in-
chief of the unfortunate British army, was a ballet
dancer, specially remarkable for the magnificence
of her loobmotives, when she first attracted the
attention of the then Prince George She has,
since her marriage, been remarkable for the
loyalty of her love, and her quiet, feminine
virtues, qualities which have won for her the re-
soeot and regard, in private, of her Royal relatives.
When the late Duke, she often told, heard of the
alliance, he drove to her house in Bolton-sWeet to
see her, and when she with some hes'tation entered
the room, asked her brusquely: “Do you know
who I am?” “Yes, your Royal Highness.” “Do
you love my son?” “Yes, indeed.” “Does he
love you ?” “I hope so.” “ Well, I am not sur-
prised. Come and sit near me and kiss me.
Always kiss me when I come, and if George
behaves badly come and tell me.” He was a most
singular old fellow, and used to give intense
amusement to the attendants at St. James’s Chapel
in Jermyn-street, where he was to be found in his
Eew as regularly as at his box in the opera, where
e always accompanied the singers in an audible
hum. When the clergyman at St James's said “ Let
us pray,” he always broke in with “Certainly— by al
means,” and when he asked in the Lord’s Prayer
to ‘ give us our daily brrad,” added “ and butter.”
The fact that the Duke of Cambridge's marriage
is a morganatic one gives rise to a few peculiar
considerations concerning the polygamous unions
of Royalty. No member of Royalty being able
legally to contract a marriage without the per-
mission of the Sovereign, it follows that any such
alliance is at Jaw null and void. But how about
such a union in its theological light? If the
clergyman performing the ceremony considers
likewise that it is null and void in the eyes of the
Church, what can we conceive more reprehensible
than a minister of religion going through the
forms of a mock marriage, and thereby coun-
tenancing bare-faced immorality I If, on the
other hand, the Church holds such unions as
sacred, what a shocking profanation do we witness
when the same or a second minister of religion
subsequently invokes a divine blessing over the
nuptials of the fickle bridegroom with some illuei-
trlous princess 1 There is only one thing more
shocking that we can conceive, and that Is when
the same minister of religion, who has just lent
his hand to protligacy and adultery, ascends the
pulpit, exhorts his flock to turn from their sins
and lead a life of holiness and purity. With such a
Court as a model, such clergy as our guides, can
we be much surprised if plain Mr. Smith and Mrs.
Brown are not quite so good as they might be ?
Weak and nervous invalids will be bene-
fltted by taking that world-famed tonic Wolfe's
Schnapps. Demand Wolfe's.
Fatty, from Manly Beach: “I’ll give you
five shillings to get me to Redfern station in
twelve minutes.” Cabman (provokingly cool)*
“ Well, sir, you might corrupt me, but you can’t
bribe that horse.”
Chinholders are among the latest of in-
ventions, and among the latest styles am the
dinner, tea, breakfast, and toilet sets'! shewing at
the well-known shop of Bray’s, 403 and 404
George-street.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps is held in high esteem
by medical men, as it is the purest stimulant and
tonic in the world.
The Defence of Sydney.
A FEW SUGGESTIONS.


“ BEACH’S ”
CONSULTATION
ON
Contingent Stakes, June 6-
soo toys.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS. 10s. BACH.
Address—
“ BEACH,”
Care of J. G. Beetle,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney
The Referee.
SPOUTING FIXTURES.
W than be glad to have thie index pelted up by
teeretarie* of racing clubi and manager i of
tporting event* in general
RAGING. „ _
Western Queensland R.C . J ane 3,4,
CoonambleJ.C .
Blaokall (Annual! .. «
Tattersall’s (Winter).... • ®
Auckland R.C (Steeplechase) June 6
Moonee Valley (V.) June 6
Copmanhurst J.C
Liverpool J.C ™
Rockhampton * fui r«i 8 ’ o)i
Rosehill R-C
Blrdsvllle J.C. (S.A.) ur of
Lower Clarence J.C — June 24
Victoria A.T.C
Balrnsnale R.C. (V.) J“}y 1
Elsternwick (V.) o
Brewarrina J.C o
Walgett R.C.". «’o
Clarence River J.C 8, 9
Moonee Valley (V.) J U }Y U
Rosehill •
Charters Towers J.C July 23, 2*
Canterbury Park R.C ••August 1
Tamworth R.C « August 5,6
Rosehill R C August 8
Townsville (Annual) August 13,13
Canterbury Park R.C • • -September s
Hawkesbury (Spring) September 10 12
A .J.C. (Spring) September 19. 22,,24, 26
Rosehill R.C .October 3
Canterbury Park R.C - October 17
Canterbury Park R.C * J? b ®£ J®
A. J.C. (Summer) — • December -6
Rosehill R.C December 28
AQUATICS
Matterson v. Messenger . •■•••••••• • • ***£
St. Ignatius’ College R C. Regatta June ,20
Glebe Rowing Club Malden Pairs .... July 4
Newcastle R.C. Regatta September
ATHLETICS.
Queen’s School Athletic Club Sports, Asso-
elation Ground _ ■ • • • • ■ • v J V n ? V 2
Kelly’s International Handicap... June3i, July 1,4,6
Royston College Sports ......... .-•• • • • ■ • June 17
B. Sutton v. Power, 200yds, £400, Wallsend..June 30
Quirindi Handicap ... ... • y •••■•••••• • August 5.6
Sir Joseph Banks Fourth Handicap.... August.^
’CYCLING.
Newcastle B.C. Race Meeting June 6
N.8.W. Cyclists’ Union Race Meeting, As-
sociation Ground ...... June
Balmain and Burwood B.C. s Joint Race
Meeting. Association Ground... July 18
Sydney Bicycle Club (Annual R.M.), Asso-
elation Ground August 22
THE RING.
S.A.B. Club Competition. June 1
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The Farnan-Foley fight is now off, conse-
quent on Lees’ defeat of Farnan,
Cricket is making big strides in America
Clubs and associations are rapidly springing into
existence.
Mr. F. J. Clark has resigned the position
of captain of the Sydney Rowing Club. Mr. E. P.
Simpson succeeds him.
Shaw’s Australian Eleven were to play a
match against a strong eleven at Portsmouth on
the United Service recreation ground on May 31,
32, and 23.
Colonel Primrose, who met his death in
the Soudan, was a brother of Lord Rosebery. All
Rosebery’s horses were, in consequence, scratched
for their engagements at the Leicester (Eng.) race
meeting.
R Howell. Coventry, won the mile profes-
sional bicycling championship at the Molyneux
Grounds, Wolverhampton. Bng„ in 3min. 5 t-5sec.,
from H. O. Duncan and F. de Civry, the French
champion.
On Tuesday next the Treasury rowing
handicap, for which no less than 16 names have
been received, will be rowed after 4 o’clock
over the usual “ championship” course, Woolloo-
mooloo Bay.
The English swimmers, Collier and Finney,
have been matched for the championship. At
first sight it would appear preposterous to back a
proverbially heavy going Collier against one of
the Finney tribe.
Fully 10,000 spectators viewed the football
match at Melbourne, between Port Adelaide and
Houth Melbourne. The game ended in favour of
South Melbourne, who scored four goals and 15
bebinds to four goals and five behinds.
A trotting match between Mr. F. John-
son’s Dolly and Mr. J. T, Lockard’s Good for
Nothing, is to take place on 5th June, at Goulburn,
distance miles-the winner to take £120. Good
for Nothing is going begging at 6 to 4 on.
The outrigger race in connection with the
Sydney Mercantile Rowing Club, to come off on
13th June for Mr. T. M. Alcock 8 prize, promises
well. The probable starters are—8. Martin and G.
Seale, both of intercolonial fame; W. Freeman,
Kemp, J. Trimble, R. Bull, and F. Bull.
Martin Power notifies by advertisement in
the Queensland papers that he is open to box any
man in Australia, 10st., Queensberryuules, one to
win, for £50 a side; and is game to tackle any
Queensland man 13st. weight m a match of the
same description. Here’s a chance for some of
our light-weights.
Football continues to keep a strong hold
on the English people. The amount of the gate
at the final tie for the Yorkshire Football Cup
reached the total of £550. During the five weeks
of the competition the extraordinary number of
over a quarter of a million people paid for admis-
sion to these contests alone, whilst the total
receipts have been estimated at £6000.
Perfect weather and fair attendance at
ihe Rosehill Race Club meet on Saturday last.
Keith won the Youngsters’Plate; Espiegle carried
off the Telegraph Stakes; Little Star won the
Limited Handicap, the favourite, Boscawen, fail-
ing to get a place; the Treasury Plate fell to
Storm; and 8t. Lawrence made rather an easy win
of the Stewards’ Purse from Merlin.
A member of the Sydney Amateur Box-
ing Club has presented the Club with a £10 trophy,
to be disposed of as the committee may think fit.
We would suggest the sum go towards a challenge
cup for the amateur championship. Charge for
admission to the show, and we would guarantee
the cramming of, say, the Exhibition building,
and a goodly sum on the right side of the Club s
bark account.
The Britishers can give us a big start in
items of colonial news. From an English paper we
learn-—“ Beach, the conqueror of Hanlan, sails
from Sydney for England by the Orient on April
11, or the Garonne on April 33. He will proceed
direct to Newcastle-on-Tyne. In case of Hanlan
and Beach electing to row a race on the Thames, it
is announced that a gentleman is willing to give
£100 towards forming a prize for them.
— We wonder how many middle-aged ma-
trons or maids would care to go through the pro-
gramme performed recently by the Empress of
Austria- She left the Santa Cecilia, Lord Alfred
Paget’s steam-yacht, at Deal, and wa ked from
thence to Dover. On arriving at Dover she went
by train to Folkestone, walked back, and then re-
joined the yacht, having walked no less than 18
miles during the day. It would scarcely be gal-
lant to mention Her Majesty’s exact age, but she
has been married something over 31 years.
A novel swimming match took place at
Wady Haifa on March 19. Sergeant Taylor, 1st
Gordon Highlanders, and Sergeant-Major Hallett,
Royal Engineers; distance, 100 yards down the
Nile Taylor had matched himself to swim with
one arm, and his opponent to use both his arms.
For 50 yards the men swam neck and neck, but be-
fore 80 yards had been covered, Taylor, who is
champion of the Army and Navy, got in front,
and. putting on a spurt, came in a winner by one
vard ibis is better fun than fighting the Sou-
danese. ,
The first professional match worthy the
name—since the now historical Beach, Hanlan,
and Clifford races -will eventuate on Friday next,
when Charles Messenger will meet Nell Matterson
in best-and-best boats for £200 aside over the
championship course. Messenger rows in beauti-
ful form, and is by far the more taking sculler of
the two, but Matterson, despite the fact that he is
a pretty young fellow who parts his hair in the
middle, has proved that he is not to he played
with, and there is no saying how much he has
gained by his spell and further advance towards
manhood. However, we fancy Messenger will
win.
Frederick Shorter, an English billiard-
player of some note, now on a visit to the colonies,
met J Byrne in a couple of exhibition games at
the Oriental Hote', Melbourne, on 15th May. In a
match of 500 up Shorter gave Byrne 200 points, and
went out in 43 minutes, while the latter was 425.
Shorter made breaks of 198,131, and 53 (unfinished),
his most successful shot being the “ spot stroke,’’
which he accomplished 43 times in succession.
Byrne’s largest break was 45. The second match
was 500, “ spot stroke ” barred, in which Byrne got
a handicap of 150: but he was beaten by 61. in
this game Shorter did not show up to such advan-
tage, the largest breaks being 59 and 48 (unfinished) ,
There is every probability of a match between
Shorter and Evans.
In re the recent University eight-oar race,
rumour had it that off the Doves No. 3 in the
Oxford boat slipped his shoulder, and was unable
for the rest of the distance to do more than keep
bis oar from impeding the oars of his companions.
As a matter of fact, however, the story was some-
what highly coloured. Some years ago, Mr. Tay-
lor, who rowed No. 3 for Oxford, dislocated his
shoulder, and he has ever since been subject to a
momentary return of the sensation. But the re-
turn has so far been only momentary. In the
recent race he had a relapse shortly after Ham-
mersmith Bridge was passed, but, according to
his own statement, after a couple of strokes the
shoulder went back again.
Young Murray, an Australian, competed
unsuccessfully for the London Amateur Box-
ing Association Championship. Diamond won
the light-weight championship for the third time.
During the competition Diamond struck an op-
ponent named Gamble with the wrist part of the
right-hand glove, having at the time the points
of his fingers turned down, and cut him severely
by the side of the left eye. "Waiting his further
opportunity, Diamond banged his man again on
the sore spot with the palm of the left hand, and
at the end of the round, as ho was bleeding pro-
fusely, Gamble wisely retired from the contest.
The Sydney Amateur Boxing Club’s competitions
eventuate on Monday night, when, it is hoped,
the judges will keep a sharp look out for “ palmers’
and unfair hitters.
The proprietors of a certain Melbourne
paper have long aspired to make it the great and
unerring oracle of sport. Consequently,‘when a
spry young gentleman, with a horseshoe pin In his
tie and a dog-headed cane, called round at the office
the other day to know if they wanted a sporting
reporter, he was immediately taken on and sent
out to report a football match In the suburbs. He
came back in the evening sober and bright-eyed
ns a magpie, with the whole account written out.
There happened to be in the office another reporter
who had lived for years in the suburb in question.
To him the young man with the horseshoe pin
read out what he had written. It was all very
good till the names of “ three of the most brilliant
players, who had signally distinguished them-
selves by their marvellous play ” (wo quote the
young man’s own glowing expressions),were given.
Then the reporter who had lived for years In the
suburb lay down under the table and kicked the
top off it In his paroxysms of laughter. Some
joker on the ground had played a scurvy trick
upon the new Nemo. Of the three men who so
signalised themselves, one was the Daniel Lambert
of the place, and hadn’t seen his own knees for
twenty years, the other was a sufferer from chronic
gout, and the third was dead.
The glove fight between Farnan and Lees
came off at 8 o’clock on Wednesday morning, 20th,
at a spot about 13 miles from Melbourne, on the
Heidelberg road. Farnan proved but a chopping-
for Professor Miller’s pupil, who delivered
punishment with both hands for twelve rounds,
when he knocked Farnan completely out with a
right hander on the point of the jaw, and then
jumped the ropes to show how much he had on
hand. By his victory Lees has shown he is pos-
sessed of heavy artillery, but he will have to do
something more to prove he Is entitled to rank
amongst the first flight. A match will no
doubt be fixed up between Lees and Jackson,
and, contradictory as it may appear, although Far-
nan has twice defeated Jackson, we expect the
darkie to make a better show with Lees. For the
first couple of rounds Lees will find the scientific
Jackson a vastly different customer to deal with
than Farnan, who depends mainly on his gluttony
for taking punishment. Lees may be his equal
in this respect, but the odds are be is not, and it
remains to be seen if Lees’ left-hand leads will get
home on a man with equal, if not greater, scientific
attainments than he is himself possessed of. As
lor Farnan. both men might as well have been
punching at the bag, but Lees had the advantage
of taking a line from Jackson’s fights with the
South Melbourne man, and breaking away to
escape Farnan’s right-handed rib smashers.
English sporting papers no doubt are in-
dulging in a few reminiscences of the turf trans-
actions of the Earl of Dudley, who, a cablegram
tells us, has j ust died. This eccentric Crcesus used,
a few years back, to amuse himself, occasionally,
r with big wagers. Shrewdly enough, he selected
the Derby, Oaks, and rich Ascot events for a
“ plunge.” hacking horses that had already been
heavily supported by their owners, and putting op
his own thousands at the eleventh hour. No one
ever Imagined that his long-haired lordship ever
cared a fig about racehorses, or could excite his
jaded pulses with speculation; but notoriety was
pleasant to him, and notoriety he certainly
attained. The tale has often been told of how he
wanted to lay 30 to 10, in thousands , on Macgregor
—nothing less would satisfy him—and failed to
“get on ” the disgraced favourite. There’s another
little anecdote which has not, we fancy, ever
found its way into print. In “ Cremorne’s” year, the
rich Earl landed more than £30,000 over the Derby
and Oaks. The bets were booked with the English
leviathan, Steele, and on settling day the burly
North countryman duly banded over to his client
the snug fortune. As the noble Dudley pocketed
the new crisp notes he deigned to be jocular at the
“ bookie’s ” expense, and exnressed the hope that
he wasn’t putting him to any inconvenience. ‘ Don t
worry yourself, my lord,” said Steele, “ only play
a ith me long enough, and I’ll get it all back again
with interest.” And, as a matter of fact, he did
get it back. At the Ascot meeting of 1876, Farl
Dudley laid one of his enormous wagers on Pe-
trarch on the first day. This equine wonder bore
the reputation of being a little “ uncertain ; ”
so did the jockey who rode him. Petrarch,
strangely enough, was beaten by horses to
which, according to his proper form, he could
have given stones of weight. Later in the week,
the disappointed Earl indulged himself with
another “dash” (something like £20,000 to £8000)
on the same horse. The same jockey was up, and
the same strange upset of form resulted. Petrarch
could have literally “carried” any of the field
that opposed him for this second event, and then
won—but, somehow, the weight of his lordship’s
money was more than he could carry. At the close
of that Ascot week the curtain fell upon Lord
Dudley’s career as a backer of horses, during
which, by the way, he probably played with a fair
measure of success. To him our old friend Castro’s
commentary—plagiarised, by the way, from “ Au-
rora Floyd ” — that “ some men has plenty
money and no brains ” hardly applied. In his own
eccentric sort of style, he displayed a fair amount
of nous— for an Earl.
Sound Advice. When you get a good
article note the brand. Persons should be careful
to get Wolfe's Schnapps.
The Hongkong correspondent of the Lon-
don Times writes:—“The French fleet in these
waters now numbers 24 vessels, with 6000 men, and
their land forces amount to 40,000. The public here
is astounded at Lord Northbrook’s and Sir T.
Brassoy’s statement that the French wooden ships
are non-efflcient, or practically non-existent. Four
of them are the Atalante, GalRsonniere, Triom-
phante, and Bayard. These have done splendid
work, and kept the sea during six months of ter-
rible weather in the Formosa Channel. Contrast
them with our vessels. Even the Audacious, the
best out here, can only steam for four days, and a
head sea stops her completely. The Government
hides the truth, and the public swallows any story,
and lives In a fool’s paradise.” Where, then, are
the British ships in the China seas that were to
follow every Russian man-of-war ?
The death rate in Melbourne will be in-
creasing by leaps and bounds, for the next two or
three weeks. Dowie, the physician, whose only
drugs are faith and grace, whose laboratory is in
the skies, and whose one unfailing instrument is
his own podgy finger, lies in gaol. The poor dear
minister was fined, a while back, for marching
through the streets and lanes of the city with a
regiment of noisy believers, and his refusal to
bring out the needful has resulted in “one
month.” Dowie’s defence was of a nature which
might well have given pause to the remorseless
beaks—but it didn’t. He said, “I obey God.”
Evidently he saw nothing godlike about the
Bench, or he would hardly have made his declara-
tion with a snort of defiance—but no matter. By
the way, John the Baptist adopted a line of con-
duct somewhat similar to that of the Reverend
Dowie, and his head, if we remember rightly, was
eventually brought to somebody or another on a
charger. Not for a moment do we anticipate such a
catastrophe falling upon Dowie, but we may re-
mark, incidentally, that Ms head would require a
thundering big charger. Such nice round, bumpy
crania, troublesome as they prove during the
piping times of peace, would be invaluable in
bloody war. Hurled from the cannon’s mouth,
Dowie’s head would spread death and dismay
among the Russian hordes.
Southey says“ There are three things a
wise man will not trust—the wind, the sunshine of
an April day, and a woman’s plighted faith.” And
that the poet was right in his reckoning was
amply proved a few days ago by a little adventure
which happened between this and the Murray
border. The dramatis personal are two Govern-
ment officials holding equal positions in the same
department, and a fair, but fickle, damsel, who, of
course, is the cause of all the trouble. Prom in-
formation received, it appears that official No. 1,
having once tasted the sweets of married life,
longed for a repetition of its joys, and accordingly
he proposed, and was duly accepted by a young
lady who resided In one of the towns occasionally
favoured by his official presence. The happy day
was fixed, and the lady started off for Sydney,
where she was to have been met by her well-
seasoned, but fond, admirer, who had everything
in readiness for the glad occasion. Half-way on
the lady’s journey, official No. 2 came upon the
scene, and happening to make some complimen-
tary remarks on the future bride’s appearance, he
was at once made acquainted by some friends with
the object ofRhe gay Delilah’s mission. Subsequent
conversation led to No. 2’s declaring that the lady
was far too dainty a morsel for such an antiquated
old lover as No. 1, and so thoroughly did this idea
Impress Itself upon him, that he at last determined
to sail in and win her for himself. Just to give an
additional interest to the game, a considerable bet
was made that the deed could not be done; the
masher skipped into the same compartment as his
victim, and before 30 miles had been travelled,
he had made his mash; all memory of No. 1
was wiped from the red-leaved tablets of the
lady’s heart, and the glowlwg words of No. 3 were
written thereon instead. TUe marriage is, we be-
lieve, fixed for an early date, and persons in want
of a cheap, hut comfortably-furnished house,
would do well to call and close with No. 1 before
his fickle enslaver has time to tire of No. 3 and re-
turn to her old land faithful lover. Eheu ! We
once knew a song ourselves which ran:—
“ ‘ While yonder streamlet,’ Sylvia says,
‘ Winds gleaming under greenwood aisles
My love shall last. The stream still strays,
But Sylvia for another smiles.
Love’s sweetness hut a moment stays,
Love’s promise all a life beguiles.
Verily, the wise man was sound on the goose when
he said; “ He that taketh a woman by her word
and an eel by its tail may be considered to hold
tightly on to nothing.”
The medical profession certifies that
Wolfe's Schnapps is the purest stimulant pro-
curable.
FANCY SKETCHES.
WIFE: “ MY DEAR, HERE’S ANOTHER CASE IN THE PAPERS OF A MAN DYING AND
LEAVING HIS WIFE HER WEIGHT IN GOLD, AS A LEGACY; NOW, THERE’S AN
EXAMPLE FOR YOU I ”
THE CZAR OF RUSSIA AND MRS. DOCTOR POTTS.


GOMPAGNONI CATERING GO., LIMITED,
___ , PITT STREET, SYDNEY "
SW.feraVciu'b 8 to H " W °"“I> «• »w
GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at an^fEnJ?? 0 ** w i ne I^ 8 *- „
Theatres, delect your own steak Ac and sen it on-nilLi a Il y tlmG from 8 a.m. to 11 pm. (after the
or the cloy, and a lonir-felt waut * Inspection invitoH 6 * 1 n? 0 room * This is one of tne acquisitions
and City a’ub?up 8 S Inspection invited Club ronM of the Prince Alfred Yacht Clue
**• if. TOLLEHACHE, General Eannyer.
Bray <S& Liditner,
32 O CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
IMPORTERS OF SUPPLIES
©
<5
*53
%
e
V
h
‘o
Co ,<D
ft
03 <5
i <0
Wa
? 5:
I
n> fco
ft
sR
« Co
ft
ft
ki
ft.
.o
ft
ft
ft
H
.V)
ft
ft
ft
&5
ft
ft
ft
70
im.
ft
ft
U1
ft
i
ft
t/'
Co
?S
TO ANY PART OF
AUSTRALIA.
' s -2"
Catalogues post fn e
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, best,
and Cheapest m the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments, mi induction, for Novice.,:
T
ALL WOMBN
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
HF- TRT IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES.
FLOORS or WOODWORK, In either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY
IN SOAP I
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with it;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
fc* Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
6d. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers:
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
mKNGEorLIFKl
[rte only infallible remedy for
JjebiLijyT
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system; regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 12s., or four quantities is one for
16s.; if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney ,1
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
Btreet. One Door from Oeorge-street South.
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral.
No other complaints arc so insidious in their
attack as those affecting the throat and lungs:
none so trifled with by the majority of suffer-
ers. The ordinary cough or cold, resulting
perhaps from a trifling or unconscious ex-
posure, is often but the beginning of a fatal
sickness. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral has
well proven its efficacy in a forty years’ iight
with throat and lung diseases, and should be
taken in all cases without delay.
A Terrible Cough Cured.
“ In 18571 took a severe cold, which affected
my lungs. 1 had a terrible cough, and passed
night after night without sleep. The doctors
gave me up. 1 tried Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, which relieved my lungs, induced
sleep, and afforded me the rest necessary
for tue recovery of my strength. By the
continued use of the Pectoral a perma-
nent cure was effected. 1 am now 62 years
old, hale and hearty, and am satisfied your
Cherry Pectoral saved me.
Horace Fa i rbrotheb.”
Rockingham, Vt., July 15, 1882.
* Croup.—A Mother’s Tribute.
“While in the country last winter my little
boy, three years old, was taken ill with croup;
it seemed as if he would die from strangu-
lation. One of the family suggested the use
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, a bottle of
which was always kept in the house. This
was tried in small and frequent doses, and
to our delight in less than half an hour the
little patient was breathing easily. The doc-
tor said that the Cherry Pectoral had
saved my darling’s life. Can you wonder at
our gratitude ? Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Emma Gedkev.”
159 West 128th St., New York, May 16, 1882.
“ I have used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
In my family for several years, and do not
hesitate to pronounce it the most effectual
remedy for coughs and colds we have ever
tried. A. J. CRANE.”
Lake Crystal, Minn., March 13,1882.
“ I suffered for eight years from Bronchitis,
and after trying many remedies with no suc-
cess, 1 was cured by the use of Ayer’s Cher-
ry Pectoral. Joseph Walden.”
Byhalia, Miss., April 6,1882.
“ I cannot say enough in praise of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral, believing as I do that
but for its use I should long since have died
from lung troubles. E. Bragdon.”
Palestine, Texas, April 22,1882.
No case of an affection of the throat or
lungs exists which cannot he greatly relieved
by the use of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
and it will always cure when the disease is
not already beyond the control of medicine,
ft prepared by <•
Dr.J.C.Ayep&Co., Lowell, Mass.
' ' Sold by all Druggists. \
ELLIOTT BROS, and S. HOFFNUNQ & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
Knillih Papers and Slaraxlnee received by
every MalL
ROYAL ARCADE, GEORGE ST* 486 SYDNEY
3f
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALB, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTBLL & CO.,
Sole Agents.
A. & C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
SIS 6EOKGE STREET,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
(ar- The most liberal bouse for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited,
A. & C. ZZuenerbein,
818 GEORGE STREET.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
mm i MIME.
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRA88ES
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&o., &c.
BLAKE’S IMPROVED
STEAM PUMPS.
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
17 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE ABOV E,
and have In Stock and to arrive—
SIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
Tank or light service pumps
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING PUMP
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
SEND FOR PRICES AND ALL PARTICULARS
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FREE.
THE LATEST WORKS AMO PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.!
£
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
-DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate In Medicine and Surgery, Registered
Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours : 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., 7 to 9 on Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday Evenings.
Ladles’ Waiting Room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
11, 62 Castlereagh-street (upstairs.)
Send for Free Treatise on Vitality and Nervous
Debility, Diseases of Women.
Illustrated Works on Deformities, Electricity
and Its Application. Hernia (ruptures), Varicocele,
&o., &c.
Address—Australian Medical and Surgical In-
firmary, Sydney ; or B.- O. HOLTERMANN. Bsq..
M.P., PresIdentTflox 120. G.P.O.
Consultation Free by mall or In person.
Deformities, Specific. Female, and Nervous
Diseases, a Specialty.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TTn-dLertaJ-cer,
K 14 HUNTER ft PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the late
(18) years;
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen
Manager for over ten GO) years.
also.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found It at
last with the Argosy Braces at Qowlng Bros.
%
&
2?
7,
m
w
GOWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy_Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. 6d.. 3s., 3s. 6d.,ft 4s. Q
GOWING BROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, &
332 and 498 George-street,
Watch and Clockmaker to the Victorian
Government.
T. GAUNT
Watchmaker,
GOLDSMITH,
JEWELLER AND OPTICIAN,
297 and 299
George Street,
S"2"3D3iTE"2“.
Bavarian unn
itters. nUr
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of the b?st Bavarian Hops. Superior to any
other.
They take the first place wherever tried, and are
well authenticated by eminent medical men and
well-known analysts.
Bead the reports and testimony which sccom
pany each bottle, and do not forget to make a
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
Nervous debility, lost vitality 1
Weakness, and Premature Decay.-A simp'p
and positive moans for Permanent Self-cure, by a
very eminent French Hospital Physician, 8( nt
free to any sufferer. Send your address, on a
stamped envelope, to C. 0. W., Box 706, G.P O„
Sydney.


Jjl URNITUKE SHOW ROOM
BRADLBT, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
[ALL FURNITURE, HAT8TAND8,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
T IB]
T
READ
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
ALL CABINETS for Choice Chlna~&o~
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley.
Newton, and Lamb.
ARBLB-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND - .
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, Ac.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various wooda
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
171 IGHT-POUND BEDROOM
2i Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLBT
NEWTON, and LAMB, O'Connell-stieet.
BDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble ton
and tfle back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS. 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
HEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from !(*.
0d.; Dining Tables, from 30s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.: Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
S
OQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oWOtl strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley. Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Blaek and Gold, with Side
Shelves: also In Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished In
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &o.
O
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
V>/ Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
Oxkmnell-streot.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens lor fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-street.
TERAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
XJ a GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Rioes, from 12s «d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-Bt.
rOILBT PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
garble top, 80s the pair.
U1ULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM—SIDE-
Jj BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Counell-street.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
serew, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D
I ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CH AIL—
Patented.
2^-
s;;
m
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
Bitting to reclining and rice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of he body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames aro of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only tour Inches in thickness
when f< ided. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, If required,
2s. Sd. extra.
B
AGATBLLB BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLBT, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
T71RAMBWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
X? TUBE, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
Walnut, ana Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
B
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
B
EDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLBT, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Cob-
nell and Spring streets.
W
A8HSTAND8, with marble, from 2Ss. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
a
ARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
, NEWTQN, and LAMB, O’ConneU-street.
.B
ENT WOOD FURNITURE,—A very complete
AMOrtment • best make, lowest price*
SOCIAL
The vestibule of Sydney Town Hall was
well filled upon the occasion of the Mayoral recep-
tion last Thursday afternoon. Mrs. Bailey, assisted
by Miss Playfair, received, and was gowned In a
black satin dress garnished with lace .
cream lace cap trimmed with coins and plumes,
long pale pink gloves. Miss Playfair wore a
bination of pale shot .silk and navy-blue.. Miss
Milson looked neat and ladylike in a black brocne
dress and a small olive-green velvet bonnet; her
sister also wore black and a deep-green felt hat
with plumes. Miss Watson was very richly at-
tired in a brown cashmere skirt, over which was
an extremely beautiful golden-brown plush polo-
naise; the hat was a high-crowned brown velvet,
and completed a very tasteful and handsome cos-
tume. A piquant costume, which was much
admired, had an old gold satin vest over
which was caught a cut-away green vel-
vet Jacket; the skirt was also of the velvet
with the hat to correspond. Mrs. Dr. Former
had on a neat costume of pale-nrown striped silk
over a pleated brown satin petticoat. Mrs. Devlin
wore green satin and cream lace. Miss Devlin, a
shot silk of an apple blossom shade, fur tippet,
and largo drab hat and feathers. Miss Evans
looked neat in a navy-blue costume relieved by
vest of blue and crimson stripes, high hat with
crimson plumes. Miss Hardle’s dress was brown
cashmere, with facings and panels of very hand-
some red-brown plush. Signora Majeroni, who
flitted about hither and thither, looked as graceful
as usual in a plum-coloured dress of velvet and
satin, with small bonnet en suite. A “telling”
costume was wholly of black velvet, hat and all,
with Just one speck of colour in the shape of a
crimson wing. Mr . Bmss wore an exceedingly
pretty dress of a light mingled brocade; and Miss
Bulls tall form was clad in a claret-coloured
spotted material with white plush vest. Miss
Korff wore a dark costume, with a small round
hat with tartan silk trimming. Mrs. Alcock’sdress
was composed of a seal-brown material picked
out with velvet spots, small brown bonnet adorned
with a handsome crimson bird. A young lady,
who evidently felt the cold, was conspicuous in a
beautiful long silver-gray fur cape, edged with
the new tail fringe. Her nat was of a correspond-
ing colour. Two Bisters wore very pretty black
and white checked silks, with ruby velvet collars
and cuffs. Miss Montague looked extremely neat
in a pale gray chenille tufted cashmere, and small
white straw hat trimmed with black velvet. Her
bright-faced sister chose a fawn top skirt
over ruby velvet petticoat. Mrs. Williams’
dress was deep green velvet with drapings
of watered silk in same shade. A stone
velvet costume was a favourite, and with
it was worn a cream sugar-loaf bonnet adorned
with pink plumes—a most tasteful contrast to the
sombre hue of the dress. Mrs. Samuel! wore
her beautiful long crimson plush mantle, and
with it a small bonnet with bright crim-
son veil. A cream twill serge dress, worn with a
small cream straw bonnet trimmed with olive-
green velvet, was most uncommon. Miss Rewohl
looked pretty In a moss-green costume with hlgfi
green velvet hat and white plumes. Light re-
Ireshments were handed round during the sitting,
and music from Miss Sheridan Held, Miss Ylolette,
a lady amateur, Messrs. Hallewell and Huener-
beln, went a long way towards turning what was
wont to be a dreary formal affair into a pleasant
afternoon gathering.
* • ♦
The Botany Social Club held their first
gathering of the season in their School of Arts last
Friday evening, and notwithstanding that the floor
was somewhat rough and the light decidedly dim,
the 60 dancers looked as happy as if they were
gliding over the perfect floor of Professor *Vesfs
brilliantly Illuminated academy. The pretty shell-
shaped programmes held fifteen dances, mostly
waltzes, but tno Botanyltes, who are of a social
turn, have determined to set fashion at defiance
next time and give “squares” more of a show.
The most elaborate toilette lo the room was a black
velvet skirt and low-cut sleeveless bodice, draped
with pure white Indian muslin, with Hots of white
satin ribbon. A bertha of white tulle finished off
the bodice, and straps of black velvet hung loosely
from the shoulders over the pretty arms. A band
of black velvet and rows of large pearls were worn
round the neck. The long white sllkgloves were
gartered (Oh, it’s all right. Editor. We can’t ex-
press it any other way ; besides, why shouldn t
long gloves be gartered as well as hose?)-were
gartered, we say, by bands of pearls. This pre-
vented the gloves from slipping and wrinkling,
and spoiling the shape of the arm. We highly
commend the plan. A pure white spotted
muslin dress looked very nice on a tall
ladv. who wore sprays of natural llowers on
one shoulder. Two sisters (pretty ones) wore cream
skirts, with llama Jackets of the deepest rose-pink.
Miss M’Neil looked very well in a blue veiling
filecveless dress, much trimmed with cream lace
and Hots of pink satin ribbon, long tan gloves.
Mis F Smith chose black broche. An exceed-
ingly pretty dress was a cream veiling with gra-
duated panels of ruby satin all round the skirt;
and a tall, nice-looking lady wore a net-work of
black lace over a cream satin ground, a gold zone
encircling the waist. A tasteful dark toilet was of
seal-brown velvet, relieved by drapings of a gold
brocade A dainty lady, who came late, looked
verv charming in a combination of black velvet
and watered silk. The bodice was sleeveless, save
for some dainty white pullings, and a high Eliza-
bethan collar finished off the picture. Mr. N. F.
Corbett the amiable assistant-secretary, did his
very utmost to malfe things comfortable, and,
considering it was the social of their season,
very few hitches occurred to interfere with the
evening’s pleasure.
* * *
About a month ago Mbs Lillian Crawley,
of Junee Junction, was married to Mr, Fred,
liwlls and in honour of the return of the happy
pair from the honeymoon, Mrs. Crawley gave a
most pleasant social evening a few nights ago.
The Assembly Hall was nicely decorated with
flowers and ferns, and about 60 guests were there
to enjoy themselves. Mrs. Crawley, who made a
most thoughtful hostess, was attired in black
broche. with cerise head-gear. The bride looked
charming in her bridal dress of peac^ blossom
Ottoman silk, long square train, edged with frill-
ing front of the skirt and bodice
trimmed with eldelwelss lace. Interspersed here
and there with sprays of orange bloffloms; Miss
Dunn looked! nice in cream broche flounced to
the waist; Miss Lincoln, of Wagga, loose pink
and white, and her two sbters attired respectively
tn shot-silk trimmed with old gold and blue
trimmed with pink, were bewitching; Miss Cooney
was sweet in pale-blue, trimmed withi cream lace.
Many others were equally tasteful, but want of
apace forbids all the nice things we would like to
say of them, so they must lor once take the will
for the deed.
* ♦ ♦
At the last roost of the Petersham Ow ®
some of the visiting crows were made to feel
prattv uncomfortable by the announcement of
?he President that the rules of the Club were
being Infringed by several persons present, inas-
much as no gentleman visitor is supposed to be
admitted more than once in six months, and to his
own knowledge, he went on to say, there were
three culprits present Pleasant for those same
culprits, but it served them right. If they were
so anxious to participate in the amusements pro-
vided by the Owls, why did they not become mem-
ber’s of the Club ?
• • *
The first of the series of winter parties
came off with great eclat at the Hallway Hall,
Orange, on the 19th instant. The youth and beauty
of the district for many miles round mustered in
great force. The programme, consisting of 15
items, was followed religiously, except when the
more youthful and enthusiastic of the party
managed to slip in an additional waltz. The local
band provided good music, and dancing was kept
up till after the midnight hour. Some of the
toilettes met with much approval, notably one of
pink satin, worn by a local lady, and a dark-blue
and two of a lighter shade, representing respec-
tively a visitor and residents of the town, had many
admirers. A salmon-colour, several snowy-whites,
and a black showed off the wearers, who were
of the neighbourhood of Orange and Bathurst,
to advantage, and displayed the exercise of culti-
vated taste. Amongst so many whose claims wore
so evenly balanced, It would almost seem in-
vidious to attempt to select one to whom the title
of belle could rightly be given. If any distinction
of this kind were possible It seemed to be between
one who was of the town and a visitor from
Bathurst. The affair was an unqualified success,
and It Is to be hoped the quiet little township of
Orange will see many similar gatherings before
the season is over.
* * *
Last Saturday a very pleasant outing at
Correy’s Gardens was tendered by the employes
of Messrs. Henry Bull and Co. to their fellow-
H. T. Morgan, who Is leaving for the old
country. This gentleman, by his courteous
demeanour and general urbanity of conduct, has
gained for himself among bis fellow-workmen a
feeling of marked respect, and this opportunity
was accepted of wishing him bon voyage. After a
bounteous repast served up in excellent style by
host Correy, and Mr. Morgan’s health being drunk
In bumpers, the party indulged In various sports-
cricket, rowing, and quoits—and returned to town
by dusk.
• • •
Queen’s Birthnight was celebrated .by the
Birmingham and Midland District Club indulging
in a concert and ball at their rooms, 201 Pltt-
street. When filled with a well-dressed company,
among whom, of couse, the ladles were most con-
spicuously resplendent, the rooms looked very
inviting. Pictures and decorations adorned the
walls, chairs were comfortably placed for the
guests; and while a varied entertainment of songs
and music span out the first part of the evening, a
tasty supper was spread out to while away the
necessary interval at 11 o’clock. Messrs. Keel-
ing, Keys, Guest, Read, Paine, and other chief
members of the Club were busy seeing to
the comfort of their guests, for whom had been
provided neat programmes of 10 dances. These
were accomplished, with the aid of a rather un-
certain trio of musicians, in a room adjoining the
concert hall specially prepared for tho occasion,
while the latter portion was devoted to card-play-
ing, chatting, and the Compagnoni delicacies. Mr.
G. Read wielded the flag of M.C., and as the night
was cool, and the room not too crowded, the
dancing was particularly appreciated. Ladies,
however, being scarce, rose above even their
usual fancy value. Altogether, a very social
evening was spent, the memory of Queen Vic.
was often and duly honoured, and it is hoped the
affair will be the first of a long series of happy
annual balls.
* * *
A week or two ago Miss Agnes Kong Meng,
the eldest daughter of Mr. Kong Meng, the well-
known Chinese merchant, of Melbourne, and his
European wife, was married at that city, to Mr.
Charles Martin, formerly delegate for Switzerland
at the International Exhibition, 1884. The event
is interesting, as making one of the first efforts
to Infuse into cultured circles of the great Vic-
torian nation a little of the childlike simplicity
and blandness characteristic of the Flowery Land.
Mlsa Kong Meng (now Mrs. Charles Martin), who
is stated to be a very charming and aocom
pllshed young lady, was married In a large
r ,om, which was so crowded that a number
of the gentlemen had to witness it from
the verandah through the open windows.
The walU were hung with of white
flowers, and a reading table with kneeling cushion
in front was placed at one end. Both were covered
with pieces of magnittcent Chinese embroidery.
At half-past four the bride entered, followed by
her four bridesmaids, who were met by four gen-
tlemen, acting as "best men” to the bridegroom.
The Rev. Mr. Edwards, Presbyterian minister, then
performed the service and delivered a short ex-
hortation. The bride then received the congratu-
lations of her friends, and a very pretty picture
the group made. Her slight, girlish figure
showed to advantage in a Princess robe of cream
satin, embroidered with scroll patterns in pearls
down the front. Her veil of Honiton lace was
charmingly arranged to give full effect to the
coils of dark hair, set off with orange blossoms.
Diamond earrings and brooch were the principal
jewels, and they became her complexion well. The
four bridesmaids were dressed in cream satin with
jabots and scarfs Bacross the skirt, of brocade,
spotted in the new amber colour; gloves to match.
Two wore amber-coloured bows in hair and on
dress, and two crimson. All carried baskets filled
with white flowers. An inspection of the presents
showed heaps of all kinds of pretty and expen-
sive ornaments, too numerous to mention. The
dresses were the present of the bridegroom, who
also gave a gold bangle to each, they being re-
garded, in France, as a symbol of happiness.
The present of the bride’s father was a new
house and grounds at Brighton, which be
intends to have completely furnished by the time
the pair return from their honeymoon. In addi-
tion, the bride’s mother gives a solid silver tea
and coffee service. The bride wore a princess robe
of cream marveilleux trimmed with Honiton lace,
pearl embroidered down the front, Honiton lace
veil, with wreath of orange and myrtle blossoms,
bouquet of the same. Jewels—diamond arrow
brooch, the gift of her father, diamond earrings,
and a diamond bangle, the gift of the bridegroom.
Amongst those who attended the ceremony were
ladles bearing the melodious appelations of Mes-
dames Ah Ching, Ah Souw, and Chun Yet.
* * * *
"The second of the Newtown socials came
off last Friday evening, in the Oddfellows’ Hall...
A great number of masqueraders attended Profes-
sor West's birthday ball at Leigh House, last Wed-
nesday night ...Several gentlemen gave a return
picnic to Mr. George Adams last Saturday. A
steam launch was chartered, which took the com-
pany to the Rosehill Racecourse, where a very en-
joyable time was spent....,Squatters’ bail at
Wooyeoabig success. Ladies splendidly attired,
and dancers numbered 100... The Shakespeare
Society gave an entertainment in CGovernment
House, Melbourne, last Thursday. The Merchant
of Venice” was the chosen piece, in _wpicli Miss
Genevieve Ward enacted Portia.... Mr. Shiels, M.F.j
a clever young barrister of “ woman s rlghts_
celebrity, was wedded the other day, in Victoria
east, to Miss Robertson, eldest daughter of.the late
Mr. John Robertson, of Struan House. The bride
was beautifully attired in cream duchesse satin,
and was attended by three bridesmaids. Presents
exceeded 400 in number. A grand ball was given
at Struan House in the evening in honour of the
event, which was graced by a most brilliant as-
semblage.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
School of Industry Ball, Town Hall May 28.
Consular Banquet, Compagnoni’s ..May m.
North Shore Rowing Club Ball, Leigh
House May 29.
La Coterie Entertainment, Petersham
Town Hall May 29
Glebe Point Private Assembly (Glebe
Town Hall) May 28
Junior Pharmacists’ Ball (Needs’ rooms) ...May 28
Newtown Social May 22
Glebe Rowing Club Annual Ball June 5
Annual Masonic Ball (Masonic Hall, Par-
ramatta) June 12.
Sydney Owl Club Ball, Town Hall June 18.
St. Kllda Social (Balmain School of Arts). .June 19.
Sydney, Wednesday.
My dear Beddb,— Since I have learnt that
Dr. Anna Potts favours one of my favourite
theories. I have concluded that she must Indeed
be a very clever lady, for you know we always
have the highest opinion of those whose views
fall In with ours; is It not so ? The reason of my
sudden and profound admiration for the doctress
is simply this, that she disapproves of those horrid
fatlguing-bef ore-breakfast-constitutlonal walks.
Now, you remember how vainly I used to fight
against these enforced walks when we were at
school, and, indeed, what a bug-bear they were to
us all ? But nothing that we could say would In-
duce our governess to give up the old-fashioned
notion that long walks were health-giving and
proper. Of course I know right well that some
people are born with such a ridiculous amount of
energy that they must let off steam in some way,
or become unhealthy. But why walk? Its the
most useless sort of exercise, because nothing
comes of it. It’s better to chop trees like Glad-
stone, for that is of some use. Certainly, we ■ can t
chop trees, but we can churn butter, and If we
are very energetic, attend to our little gardens;
but sooth to say, dear, for my part I don t believe
I have more energy than I can conveniently dis-
pose of without having recourse to churning or
gardening—and I expect that’s how it was in our
schooldays. We didn’t need the walks, and they
most assuredly (according to Dr. Anna Potts) did
us more harm than good.
I think about the hardest thing in the world is to
please everybody and vex none. Now, the other
day. I saw an article In an English paper which
took exception to the dresses worn at a confirma-
tion lately held In the town. It said that all should
have been robed In pure white, whereas not a
few were In ordinary walking costumes. Well, it
does look prettier to see all the young girls clad in
virgin whiteness at a confirmation service, but the
writer of the article might be pretty certain that a
girl could safely be trusted to appear to the best
possible advantage whenever she has the chance:
so it might be Justly concluded that in this case
she couldn’t conveniently possess herself of a
white gown, so, to say the least of it, the censure
was unkind. Well, and now we hear of the Bishop
of Rochester expressing his regret that there is a
growing: tendency to finery amongst bis female
candidates. He complains that the humbler
classes deck themselves out with mock pearls.
Well, what then ? Mock pearls are very pretty in
their way, and it’s a girl’s business to make herself
1 jok as nice as possible, isn’t it ? I daresay they
would bo very glad to wear real pearls if they
could get them, but, falling this, where’s the harm
of their wearing the imitation article T The good
Bishop even goes so far as to say it may be neces-
sary (much as it would distress him to do so) to
send away a candidate for wearing showy or
tawdry apparel, Just for example’s sake. He also
trembles for the health of his high-class candi-
dates, who wear whltefsatln shoes. Now, Just
imagine a Bishop refusing to confirm a girl be-
cause she wears mock pearls, or white satin shoes I
It appears to me he oversteps the bounds of his
duty in bothering at all about their attire; and
what business had he to know the style of their
shoes, anyhow ? He couldn’t have been religiously
attending to his duty, or he wouldn’t have seen
the shoes at all.
If I told you we had some fun at the Mayoress’
reception the other day, you would hardly believe
me. would you ? At a formal reception it cer-
tainly is out of the bounds of all reason to expect
anything but some quiet conversation, coffee,
cakes, and music, but dear, our fun consisted in
watching the dignified behaviour of some of the
dear old dames, to whom this ceremony seemed to
be as Imposing as it was magnificent. The lovely
old creatures sat straight up in their chairs with
their hands crossed In front of them, and If they
had been in church or at a funeral they could not
have looked more serious or important. Most of
their bonnets were gorgeous, which added greatly
to their dignity, excepting in one case, where the
poor lady’s headgear had slid slightly to one side
of her head, and few things I know of are
more difficult than to look dignified with
one’s bonnet all askew. You Just try It, dear. In
the “ Parvenu,” Annie Mayor says it s hard to be
dignified when one Is caught up a tree; but that s
nothing compared to a crooked bonnet. So this
old lady’s intentions were quite foiled by her un-
ruly bonnet, for, instead of looking as stately as
was evidently her Intent, her appearance was
almost Jaunty. How horrified she would have
been could she have seen herself as we eaw herl
Yes. these old ladies were very funny, but it they
found any enjoyment In the ceremony last Thurs-
day afternoon, they were certainly like the English
in taking their pleasures sadly. Even when Mr.
Hallewell sang “Simon the Cellarer, only the
fidntest suspicion of a smile flitted over their stolid
faces and even then they seemed half ashamed,
Just as if they had been guilty of some impro-
priety. Why, oh, why cannot people be natural and
faurfh when they teel glad or amused! lam
afraid, dear, we live in a most artificial age. We
are not content with wearing artificial bloom on
our cheeks and false figures, but must needs
appear to be solemn when we feel gay, and light-
hearted when we are sad-in fact, mere seems to
be a mania to turn everything topsy-turvy, as if
our chief object were to appear to be what we are
not. ___
Alas I our three delicious concerts at the Opera
House are now amongst the pleasures of the past.
You will be glad to know that they were well
patronised, which makes us hope that Mr. Huener-
betawlU give us another similar treat as soon as
(Continued on next page.)
MBS. CHARLES MARTIN.


US
m
If
.
fc
%
‘Mr. William Ball.—Dear Sir,—Allow me to gay
that E And your‘Bloom ol Peaches’ superior to
anything of the kind that I ever used before.—
Yours truly, Emklie Melville.”
" Dear Sir,—1 have never used anything equal to
your ‘ Bloom of Peaches.’— Maggie Moore.”
“ Dear Sir,—I have the greatest pleasure In re-
commending Mr. Ball’s ‘Bloom of Peaches’ and
‘Fett-Puder’ as being invaluable.—Yours truly,
Alice Uebs.”
To be obtained of all chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
“ PETT-PUDER,” a delicate and invisible
powder for the face. Beautifully perfumed.
White, Pink, or Cream, to suit all complexions.
Price, 1/6 per box.
Manufactured only by
mi WILLIAM BALL,
The Professional ” and Pharmaceutical Chemist,
61 BOURKB STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Agents for Sydney :
Messrs. E. PROSSER & CO., Wholesale Chemists.
A POSITIVE CURE
_ WITHOUT MEDICINE,
One box will cure the most obstinate case, acute
_ or chronic, in four days or less.
DR. BAYLBY’S SOLUBLE MEDICATED
BOUGIES (EUCALYPTOL).
No nauseous doses of cubebs, oapaiba, or oil of
sandlewood, that are certain to produce dyspepsia
by destroying the coatings of the stomach- Price
*1 Is-; mailed on receipt of price. Address P.O.'
Box 833, Sydney. (Registered).
(gYDNEY PROGRESSIVE BOOK STALL.
“Reply to Rev. De Witt Talmage,” 6d.
“ What must I do to be Saved,” 6d.
Moses’ Mistakes in God's Book,” 6d.
„ Take a Road of Your Own,” 3d.
“Which Way.”
“ The True Principles of Population,” 3d.
Country orders, 38 RILEY STREET : or,
GEORGE STREET MARKETS every Saturday.
J. DUNNE.
s
Glebe Rowing Club.
IXTH ANNUAL BAL'L
(Plain and Fancy Dress),
WEST'S BOOMS, “ LEIGH HOUSE,”
FRIDAY, 5th JUNE.
Tickets may be had from the Committee.
H. R. COX, Hon. Sec.. 108 Pitt-street.
F. 0. WILLIAMS, Hon. Treasurer.
USTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY*
Established 1872.
with Power to increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES—20 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
Head Offices.
So . cle . ty established in me colony on
the Mutual pnneiple, grivingr policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year. UUL 01
all P habm?y. lderS are perfectly free by taw from
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums. wmoui ui re-
tning: and explosions by gras paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
Head
WALTER CHURCH, Manager,
Offices—PITT and KING STREETS.
ON THE
IBricifezfleld.
STAY MI CORSET
/(?
CO
vA
•'O
uO
lS,
* Stays sent to any Railway Station
I % Free or Charge.
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
2s. lid., 3a. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. Gd., 4s. lid., 5s. Cd., Gs. 6d., 7s. Od., 8s. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12a 6
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS, 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill.
.B .—Orders from the Country will receive immediate and carctul attention.
(Continued from page 16.)
opportunity offers. I think his plucky energy in
getting up these concerts is very praiseworthy,
nut only t 'ose who understand the risks he ran In
engaging expensive artists from Melbourne can
fully appreciate it, Had the Sydney people failed
to “take on’’ his losses would have been ver
heavy; but who could resist such programmes a
were presented each night ? Only those who ar
perfectly insensate to tbe charms of good music
I’ll warrant. There was Armes Beaumont wit
his handsome presence and charming voice, anc
Miss Christian with her rare oontralto-surel
enough in themselves to draw a crowd. Some di(
agreeable friend of mine of the other sex sai
Beaumont was husky in his upper notes, and whe
I waxed wroth over his fault-finding he laughed
and remarked that a woman can never be trustee
to judge fairly of a man’s singing if the man hap
pens to have a pleasing presence. This, of course
made me pretty furious, and I was mean enoug
then to attack his favourite. 1 declared I though
she did not sing with her wonted expression, ant
that most of her voice went into her cheeks in
stead of into the ears of her audience. I didn
mean it all, of course, but it was effectual i
silencing him, and it made him look a bit thought
ful too, as if there were some truth in my rathe
spiteful remarks. But, really, dear. If we had
few more singers in Sydney equal to Mrs
M’Donald, concert givers would not be under th
necessity of sending over to Melbourne it
search of lady vocalists of Miss Christian’
stamp. I tell you, dear, we were both surprisec
aad charmed with our Sydney lady amateur artis
in each of these concerts: and no matter when o
where he sings, Mr. Hallewell fills his audieno
with enthusiasm. Mr. Harry Hyndes gave some
Sianoforte solos, and Willimoff was at his very
est. I wish I had time to tell you more abou
everything—how sweetly Mr. Hyndes played, ant
how enraptured little cousin Bessie (who acoom
panled us one night) was with Master Beattie’s
singing -but much ss I should love to dwell upon
the pleasant theme, time, or rather want of time
forbids. Suffice it then to say that these three
concerts were the pleasantest events in the musics
line we enjoyed for many a day.
With her usual tact the Princess of Wales wore
a green costume when she visited Dublin the other
day. This graceful tribute to their colours, addec
to her elegant figure and face of refined beauty,
soon won for her many Irish hearts. The dres«
was composed of a close-fitting dark-green velvet
jacket, with a silk skirt to match, a princesse
bonnet trimmed with beads and dark-green
feathers. May be this is the reason of green being
so fashionable a colour with us here now ? But we
are favouring a light shade of green—quits a moss-
green, in fact. The men don’t like it, dear, for
they say we look to them in our foggy costumes as
if we were moss grown. This is hardly gallant is it,
as of course nothing but very aged fences,
posts, &o„ become moss-grown. It is quite
too bad of them to say such a thing,
but, indeed, if they had seen the study In green
which I saw on the block yesterday they would
have nothing more to say against It I am sure.
The skirt was a grass-green ottoman silk draped
with a darker shade in velvet, and over a vest of
the velvet opened a jaunty little jacket. The hat,
an alpine-green felt, had for the sole trimming
numerous plumes of the very palest apple-green,
and in her hand the wearer carried (whether by
design or accident I’m sure I can’t tell, but we'll
suppose it was by accident-it's more poetical, you
know) a loose spray of feathery ferns exactly the
same shade as the hat plumes. I couldn’t imagine
anything prettier than this costume-in fact, It
was the costume of the block this week. Of course,
it will have many Imitators, but unless they re-
member about the ferns half the effect will be
lost.
Don’t forget to seal your letters in future, Belle.
Now, don’t be alarmed, for it isn’t that your plain
gummed envelopes have proved incapable of pro-
tecting the secrets you confide to me in your
epistles that I suggest this change, but It is simply
that seals are fashionable, and the larger and more
Important they look the better. They are rather
troublesome, certainly, and look as If one had a
suspicious nature which places no reliance in
soluble gum; but never mind, you will soon grow
accustomed to it. Did you observe mine before
you tore this letter open? Gorgeous, isn’t it?
But it looks so deliciously fashionable that, in-
deed, I’m quite proud of It, spite of Ned’s jeers.
I am longing to use it to seal this up now, so
good-bye,
Ever your loving _
MAB.
IS HOLDSWORTH A POET?*
Mr. Holdsworth announces himself as a
young Australian, and dedicates his book to his
countrymen. There are senses in which the an-
nouncement is superfluous. Writers of books of
poetry in Australia are nearly always young. They
die or get killed early. Whyte Melville holds that
a flue old man is an impossible being, as, were his
head and heart really good, they would wear out
before his fiftieth year. That is why Australian
poets go away in a hurry. They shoot themselves,
like Gordon, or drown themselves in whisky, like
Kendall, or smother themselves iu the Insolvency
Court, like Clarke. And, after alt, it is as well.
Any of these fates is better than to live to be old
and write doggerel in the Poet’s Corner of the
Town and Country Joubnad. Without any
such announcement as that ovitiln’l m t ie dedi-
cation, the reader at all o * * ti Aus-
tralian literature will cj_io can't Mr. Hoids-
worth is a young man.
» a a
A man may be young, however, and yet
be wily. The first poem in the book is a sonnet,
and it is evidently levelled at the tenderest sus-
ceptibilities of the Sydney citizen. It is an address
to one of the Heads of Our Beautiful Harbour.
Ihe wiliness of that stroke comes near to genius.
He could have addressed his poem t j the North
Head of some other harbour Every harbour
that ever we saw had a Head with a
crest on it, and shimmering sea-birds about
ft, and a mottled ocean below it. Yet he
didn’t go away to the Mediterranean or the Pacific
slopes. He stayed here, and sang his fourteen
lines to our North Head. That is wnat his fellow-
citizens will recognise as patriotism and a worthy
effort to attract the eyes of the world to these
Shores. It will reap a reward. An instance in
proof just occurs. A friend, seeing the volume of
poems In our hand, says: “ 1 don’t care about
Sptes. Potery and polertlcs doesn’t run together,
ly forte is polertics. I’m a member of the Legers-
latxve Council now going on 30 year, and I’ve
always stud clear of them pote-men. They can’t
take their grog quietly, but get mad and call it
genius. They never do no good for the country.”
But,’ we reply, “ This poet attracts the eyes of
the world to Oar Beautiful Harbour. As faras the
sentiments go, they would fit almost any bay in
J“ e w° rl d, but he prints at the top of the pie jo
chat it is to our own bay he applies them.” “ He
does—does he ? ” cries our friend, in tones of
book 1 ” 118 approval; “ well » then, I’ll b-b ■borrow the
* * *
This sort of wiliness is not without danger,
JJPwever. Everyone isn’t a Sydney legislator,
there are people at Port Darwin and in the Vic-
a?. r iw n mallee whose gorge rises at mention of our
uriii r pond - They would rather have a sonnet on
azSrJu The poet sees this, and hastens to ad-
next poem to “Australia.” His object
here is to “collar’’the lot. He sings:—
Australia! he that anthems thee aright.
Must psalm his loud delight
Mr rr With lips of gold.”
mu* .Holdsworth confesses his lips are not gold.
iilaa2 aa roadil y be believed. As times go, it
aa 9 uc * > as be can do to get enough
i or bis front teeth. But if it want
worth JL old . to work aright, and Mr. Holds-
wonn ne not able to procure them, even on time-
payment, why does he proceed with his anthem ?
He explains that he has been got at and run into
the anthem by sundry dumb trees that threatened,
if he didn t get on his legs and sing, to clarion out
bis shame. To illustrate the tyrannous disregard
natural objects have for the comfort of a man,
once they secure an ascendancy over him, we
quote the passage :—
“ Yet should my happy verse, though faint, refuse
To trumpet forth thy dues,
Methinks dumb trees, each leaf a tongue of
flame,
Would clarion out thy grandeur and my shame:
Thy timorous vales responsively would hymn.
Like sweet-lipped cherubim;
SS?? 1 , I *2S k would lift its sky-saluting crest
Still loftier from earth's breast,
And blend, with melting murmurs, into strong
Ambrosial breaths of song.”
* * *
ov «r the passage, some readers
whl And themselves wishing the poet had kept
silent, just to see what would happen. We would
like to hear what kind of harmony could be made
hy dumb trees olarlonlng, timorous vales hymning
like cherubim, and peaks blending. Yes, blending
—Into ambrosial breaths of song. Manifestly, the
poet wants us to think of some very sweet sort
of music. But we protest that he forgets what he
is about. If he knew his song to be indifferent, he
should not give as a reason for singing it that his
silence would have caused the spheres thus to
ripple and ring with breaths of song. He should
have said that he gave his indifferent song to shut
off a worse one.
• • •
There is some mellifluous versification in
the piece called “At the Valley of the Popran."
The poet, away from the din of the outer world,
and surrounded by tbe exquisite scenery of the
tairy spot. Is Impelled to pour forth a “ Hymn to
Peace. He foresees the time when —
“ Man, new-born, shall start from tomb-IJke sleep,
Au^8t,p8ubllme— nor crouch like beasts that
It is a hard reflection that the glorious fellows we
driving to-day at such a rate, are,
faS?? A 11,ln tb . e dlvine pye of the poet, like beasts
that creen. A pretty mnreeau. beginning “Lo,
gloom8 I ? e »” '® brought in at the end
poem * which, despite many passages of
smoothness and sweetness, and a fairly dexterous
?“ 8t . ery df the mechanism of verse, fails to impress
hha £ lal0 £ ue with the cumbrous
ft. 1 .® Quid Pro Quo of the Inebriate,”
■hJbpw®. A drunkard and a demon are the parties
and t i le piece “teht be read with
effect at some of our temperance meetings,
with the chairman as demon and a lay reader as
drunkard We have known chairmen and lav
riders who would draw every night with it. The
inebriate, whose manhood is melting away and
whose wife and children have died, wants to put in
thf P®£- but the demon won’t let him. He goes
on, therefore, till “ implacable death bids
him traverse the long lurid flame-tracts of Hell.”
The only specific objection that can be urged
against Ppetry of this class is a moral one. A man
a ij l0 p tbe soli tude of his sanctuary is forced
drink e whlsky eVery coaple of verses to out and
♦ * •
We have allowed Mr. Holdsworth to lead
"StflHnn 0^ astPrp £ c< U n his own way. His
station Hunting on the Warrego” is his longest
? b0 Jfr ed e f ort - Ifc 18 a tale told by a
“H®* 1 ? an , while raging rains whirled tempests
fooodour hut at Stockyard Plat.” The language
is not that of a bushman, but words, as the poet
observes, are a small matter if the thoughts and
actions accord with the occasion. The narrative
90.008 with a record of dry seasons in which two
Pa u 1 . and °8car, suffer. They fire off a
littie .speech In the crushed-tragedian vein and
out for some richer pasturing ground,”
farther West. They start with only one pair of
horses. They keep on their backs five days “over
herbless plains till the beasts fall under. They
then sally forth on foot. We must interrupt the
poet here. He sends these two men out station
hunting in the Far West in the fiercest of droughts
with oniy a pair of horses I He makes them
slack no rein for five days till the maimed steeds
tea I He then sends them on on foot I We trust
Mr. Holdsworth will not be held accountable for
the suiphurous profanity bush readers will hurl
at this Cockney view of back-block life. Next
day Oscar is down with fever, and for a week
knows nothing. Paul puts bushes about him,
»n d £oj OU,fb j ,hey bav ® been thirteen days out,
and m»?y days not counted, they
bavestiU three daws’ water in their flasks. Where
d ‘ d f The land was dry. How did they
carry it ? They d want a watercart. At last Oscar
opens his dying eyes and tells Paul to go south.
After a touching little incident in which each
wants the other to take all the water, Paul goes.
He brings with him in his flask only “as much
as at a gulp might ridge the smooth, soft throat
80 ,“ e ffrey-breasted plover parched with
r, i r8 >‘ twenty-four hours' walking, he
drained the flask and hurled the shell afar.”
Next morning the sun “smote him, sirs,” and he
started off again. He kept at it all day, but still
without water. We feel some impatience here.
We can appreciate the killing of a man. but it
should be done reasonably. “I tell you,sirs,” cries
the poet, after ever so much of this thing. “I tell
you, sirs, through all earth’s myriad tribes God
saw no mournfuller sight than he.” Of course he
is in the end found and “ drenched,” and has the
wit to go straight off for a three months’spell of
fever. Nothing more is heard of Oscar. The con-
clusion is sadly lame and impotent. The tale
cannot Impose on anyone acquainted with our
Western life. There are bits of scenic word-paint-
ing, denoting capacity for taking in the salient
features in a piece of country the author has seen
and studied. We think it unlikely that he has
either seen or studied the inland country. He is a
diligent epithet-collector, and a generous, open-
handed distributor of these epithets, bat the
human interest of the narrative is destroyed—for
us at least—by its palpable unrealities.
♦ * *
The balance of his book is made up of
fugatlve pieces varying in length from fourteen
to a couple of hundred lines ; in interest to the
present generation, from a paraphrase of the
scene between Hagar and Ishmaei to a monody on
the death cf Dr. Lang; and in ability from “Love's
Lamentahons to “ Ireland in the Famine Year.”
In this last can be found some of the best verses
In the book—verses, indeed, which make one mar-
vel that the author allowed such weak work as
some of the rest to leave his hands.
• ♦ m
We now close the book. As evidence of
the possession by the author of a taste for poetry
it is ample. Turns of expression are encountered
w fi 1 .?‘ 1 J! rove b*s acquaintance, if not familiarity,
.!£ £ dead masters of verse. Lines are met
with full of the sensuous colour and rhythmic
motion of the most imaginative of contemporary
writers. These are something. Here aud there,
Indeed, he indulges in archaisms. His adjectives
do not always qualify. He lashes himself into a
state of forcible feebleness. In so small a book,
the word ‘ hell ” appears with marvellous fre-
quency. He often gives it to his readers without
note or warning. But his sentiments are on all
points very proper, are expressed in language con-
spicuously select on the whole, are cut up into
carefully measured lengths, are stacked together
in comfortably sized verses, and are furnished
with neatly fitting little tinkles in the tails. But
propriety of sentiments thus pointed and polished
and that intellectual apprehension of things
known as poetry are in their natural state distant
from each other. Has Mr. Holdsworth brought
them together, joined their hands, wedded them,
made them one ? No. There is a flush on the
cheek of Propriety now and then, a quiver of lip,
a tremor of hand. Genius is passing by, you can
tell. But that is all.
“Preyention ia better than cure.” There-
fore use Wolfe's celebrated Schnapps, which is
a preventive of disease.
A Melbourne medical man, who ha?, by the
exercise of a certain share of ability, and by means
ot persistent and ingenious advertising managed
to make his name known from Cabbagrograrden-
°P°*J® to the Gulf country, will, so rumour states,
shortly take to wife a fair dispenser of alcoholic
fluids, whose beauty has completely enamoured
Bourke and Collins streets.
A big spider recently experimented on
ate four t'mes its weight fcr breakfast, nine times
its weight for dinner, thirteen times its weight for
supper, finishing up with an ounce, and at8 p.m.,
when he was released, ran off In search of food.
At this rate, a man weighing list. 61b. would require
the whole of a fat steer for breakfast, the dose re-
peated with the addition of a half-dozen well-
fattened sheep for dinner, and two bullocks, eight
sheep, and four hogs for supper, and then, as a
lunch before going to his club banquet, he would
Indulge in about four barrels of fresh fish.
A person signing himself “ A Reader,” has
been at the pains to print a letter addressed to
us, which, we judge, by the abusiveness of the
opening paragraph, is meant to combat some of
our political ideas. Prom the balance ot the letter
it is impossible to deduce anything at all. The
writer seems to us a conscientious person. He
does not sign himself •* A constant reader.” The
confusion of mind indicated in his letter would
at once have given him away had he so signed.
No constant reader of The Bulletin could have
concocted a letter so full of misconceptions, and
showing so feeble a comprehension of facts and
principles.
Wolfjs’s Schnapps is more wholesome
than brandy or whisky and is a pure refreshing
beverage. Ask for Wolfe’s.
* V Station Hunting on the Warrego.” ‘‘At the
Valley °f the Poprap. and other poems, by Philip
J. Holdsworth. Sydney; William Maddoclr, 1885.


Plitical Points
The salary of Prince Bismarck is £2700 a
year. And our own Man of Blood and Pewter
only gets a paltry £3000 or thereabouts. There is
something wrong in this.
The most stupendous joke of modern
times would be for the Queen to create Dailey a
C.M.G. He might refuse It, but he would be
known to the last as plain Bill Dailey, C.M.G.
Whoop !
TheN.S.W. squatters have started a most
handsomely-appointed club, “The Warrlgai,”
with premises in Macquarie-street, Sydney, for the
purpose of focusing their political influence on
land matters.
Result of the N.S.W. differential railway
rates. A truck of goods from Sydney to Coota-
mundra costs £38; to Wagga, 56 miles further, the
charge is £20. Wagga people do not wish to have
the rates altered.
Among the presents to the Ameer at the
late “ durbar” was a jewelled sword, the gift of
Lord Dufferin, According to the papers, the
Afghan took It in his hand, and in a firm voice
said: “With this sword I hope to strike any
enemy of the British Government,” Yea—with
the flat of it, to “ ennoble” them.
From the London Echo :—“ A capitalist
and subsidised Press, half-a-dozen military and
aristocratic clubs, two or three hundred fashion-
able dinner parties and drawing-rooms, and tbe
general howl of the Jingoes—this is the country
that compels France to wage a disastrous campaign
in Tonquin. and England to continue an unjust
war In tne Soudan.”
“Ignorance” writes to Vanity Fair:—
“Can you tell ua how It is that in this
Eastern War we never hear of any wounded
Arabs ? There are Arabs shot and killed by the
thousand—to a thousand dead Arabs there should
be three thousand wounded. Where are the
wounded ? What becomes of them ? Are they
carried off by their countrymen, or are they left
lying ignored by us ? ”
The Pall Mall Gazette, referring to the
Afghan difficulty, says;—” We do not believe that
either Russia or England will be so criminal as to
go to war about the claim to survey a patch of
wilderness. That, and that alone, is tbe question
in debate between the two Governments. It is a
mere question of amour propre, which, but for
these ridiculous armameuts of ours would never
have assumed such dimensions as to threaten the
peace of the world by a question about a theodo-
lite.”
This is how United Ireland greeted the
Prince of Wales:—” From the moment the Prince
of Wales sets foot In Ireland till the final hobnob
with the Duke of Abercorn before his departure,
he will be altogether In the bands of enemies and
exterminators-he will be entertained by public
thieves and fSted by rack-renters whose treatment
of their tenants has been branded as felonious by
the legal tribunals of the country; while not a
siugle individual who is trusted by the people will
go within a rood of him.”
Britain 1 nursery of conquerors, thy flag unfurled
Aggressive in each quarter of the world.
Preaching to creation freedom’s creed,
While ’fore thy legions resisting freemen bleed;
Thy boast that slavery’s banished from thy soil,
Thy hapless millions forced to toil
For bare existence, their chill lives passed
In raising tribute for the favoured caste;
Thy missionaries sent to alien shores.
While ignorance and vice unheeded surge against
thy doors.
The London Times (under its late editor, Mr.
Delane) on Central Asian affairs“ If the Rus-
sians have been obliged to use force, and the use
of force ended in the occupation of more or less
of a hostile territory, this ought not to surprise
Englishmen in whose dealings with Asiatics pre-
cisely the same has appeared. We began with a
fort at Madras, and a factory on the Hooghly.
Now we rule 300,000,000 of human beings. Yet
there never was a time when conquest was made
for its own sake. . . . The country fell to us as
of necessity.”
Parnell’s paper, United Ireland, came
out on the occasion of the Prince of Wales’ visit
to Ireland, with a huge special supplement, headed
“An Irish Salute for the Prince,” containing
thousands of representative Irish opinions, allpp-
posed to the Royal visit. With a view of showing
how thoroughly the Irish had followed Parnell s
directions, it pointed out that In the whole three
southern provinces of Ireland only four repre-
sentative bodies—the Kingstown and Bray Town
Commissioners, the Sligo Corporation, and the
Mallow Town Commissioners—would approach the
Prince with addresses. The Corporations of Dub-
lin Cork, Limerick, Waterford, Clonmel, Kil-
kenny, Wexford, and Drogheda, 8t Boards of
Town Commissioners, and about 160 Boards of
Poor Law Guardians determined to stand aloof in
silence.
A private letter was sent from Bowen
(0 ) to Dr. Ahearne in re the consistency of Thad-
deus von Sob'eskl Varsovie O Kano.a gentleman
we believe who cries havoc with the paste-pot of
the Northern Miner. It points out that, while
that learned Pole was contesting an election in
1880 he had an advertisement in the Port Deni-
son Times as thus—” I pledge myself for separa-
tion in the event of this railway line being granted
(the Haughton Gap line), or if they abolish the
Northern Supreme Court, to advocate the removal
of the capital from Brisbane to Bowen; then, if
that be refused, as a last resort I will go in for
territorial seoaratlon; ” and the D N. Standard
Innocently asks. “ Now, what has Mr. O Kane to
say to this?” Latest files of rhady's paper are
net to hand, but as Trmrty has touted hard to gain
the mining support, a d .has g ne in Tiiadlokapi-
cally arainst separation, we venture to say that
ho will re.-ly something 1" t,ji ' w-tys ‘ hen the
blubber-headed uumbsaull that asks this ques
tlon can rake brains enough to understand
a single statement that the most idiotic imbecile in
a Queensland asylum would feel insulted by being
asked, we mav. perhaps, try to cudgel it into that
apology Ur a head that when that notice was
printed,” &o., and in a column and a-half, littered
with flying looks of hair and inkstands and cudgel-
lings, Thady wiil show that—this Is not 1880, and
thereby show himself a true politician, and one
whose ease is exactly parallel to those of Pitt,
Gladstone, and others, who are known to have
changed their views on high patriotic grounds.
But, being thorough, it is likely he will maintain
that separation is totally good and also totally bad,
and whether or not, the other man is a hopeless,
besotted, mud-headed fool—which is the chief
thing the public should snow at this Juncture.
The Melbourne evening papers — the
World and the Herald— are exasperated with
the British Government for not having declared
war. They declare that the honour of England is
lost for ever, and more than hint that the British
Lion is only a stuffed animal after all, and dare
not roar for fear he would blow his teeth out. All
this is natural enough. The proprietors of both
papers have for the last three or four months kept
up ‘■heir steam-power, and made a portion of their
staff come back every night in expectation of the
declaration of war, which never came. The staffs
of both papers have, in consequence of this noc-
turnal duty, learnt to look upon the rum when It
Is red with a fearless and all too familiar eye. Is it
any wonder, then, that the proprietors of the Her-
ald and the World should be disgusted with the
cowardice of the Gladstone Ministry, and gloomily
vaticinate the speedy decline of the British
Empire ? What would you do, readers, If you had
a steam power eating up fuel, and a staff drinking
down raw delirium every night for three months,
and all for nothing ? Why you, too, would be dis-
gusted, and do just the same thing. Little does Mr.
Gladstone know when he takes his seat in the
House of Commons and tips his hat over his eyes,
and pretends to go to sleep, that two steam powers
and two staffs are hept at high pressure waiting
for him every night. If he did, you may depend
on it Russia would soon get her answer. Perhaps
it is as well he doesn’t. The blood of hundreds of
Soudaneese goats lies at our own door already. We
are satiated with gore and cloyed with glory.
“Lord Wolseley,” says Yanitv Fair, “is
a good soldier, but a bad politician. A curious
fatality attends his political ‘settlements.’ His
first one was made after Riel’s revolt on the Bed
River; but it is now evident that that snake was
scotched, not killed. His second settlement was
Ashantee, and in that unhappy country people
have been cutting each other’s throats ever since.
His third settlement was Zululand, after the
Battle of Ulundi, when he dethroned Cetewayo
and set up half-a-dozen kinglets; the result where-
of baa been civil war and anarchy. The frontiers
of Natal have been threatened; we have had to
keep a large force on there ever since. The Boers
have stepped in and annexed the best portions of
Zululand. The last state of this country is cer-
tainly worse than the first. Lord Wolseley’s
fourth feat in settlements was the Transvaal.
He established a semi-military government there
under his protegi Sir Owen Lanyon; but a rebel-
lion broke out; we were defeated at Majuba Hill,
our forces being under Lord Wolseley’s nominee.
General Colley. We have lost the Transvaal, and,
worse than that, we have lowered our prestige,
and shall have to fight many battles in South
Africa to regain it. One of the fruits of this
settlement is the present Bechuanaland Expedi-
tion. Lord Wolseley’s fifth and last ’settlement’
was Egypt after Tel-el-Kebir; and that country
has never been in a settled state since the ‘ settle-
ment.’ We have spent millions of money and lost
thousands of lives, and are no nearer any real end.
The Souoan troubles are the direct fruit of the
patch up after Tel-el-Kctbir. I trust Lord Wolseley
will not be called in to make a political ‘settle-
ment ’ either with the Mahdi or with Osman Digna;
but, above all, that he may not be allowed to try
his hand on the settlement of the Afghan fron-
tier.”
Vanity Fair says:— “Sofar the Durbar at
Rawul Pindi seems to have been a great success.
The Ameer sat on the Viceroy’s right hand, upon
a dais, and after he bad been duly stuffed with
food. Lord Dufferin proposed his health. There-
upon h*- made a speech in Persian, which it seems
that nobody understood, and which has eonse-
q eutly been interpreted in a variety of ways.
Although be appears to have talked a good deall
ol twaddle about never having seen before in hi*
life such a sight as the review be bad that day
witnessed, and although as regards his protesskms
of loyalty and attachment, full allowance must be
made for the flowery nature of Oriental oratory,
there seems to be no reason to doubt that Ab-
durrbaman will remain our friend, provided we
pay him well—always provided of course
tint Russia doesn’t pay him better. If we
are really to have a war with Russia, It is
worth while to consider the circumstances under
which we undertake it. “We have alienated from
ourselves, or quarrelled with, every State in
Europe, except Sweden, that could be be of any
use. (I leave Italy out of the account) We have
done more than this. W* have laid the foundation
of a future quarrel with France on the affairs or
Egypt by the recent ‘financial arrangement or
the affairs of that country. The French people
think that they have an hereditary right to a
voice, and to more than a voice, in all things con-
cerning Egypt. We shall have to encounter,
certainly at the end of two years, and prob-
ably much sooner, French hostility in B *ypt. It
is highly probable that this hostility will take
active form. ‘Two years I ’ someone will say ?
• the war with Russia will be over before that.
Will It? How do you know? The war with
Russia, if undertaken in earnest, will be the war
between Rome and Carthage. I say. If undertaken
in earnest ; for that is the real point of the whole
thing. Will our Government go to war meaning
to make the war an earnest one ? War is not to be
undertaken lightly, unless ruin is courted. We
should enter upon it, net of choice, but because we
must. We should set before ourselves, not the gain-
ing of certain things, but the vindication ot certain
truths. Russia has in the occupation
ot territory which she had consented to leave
to adjudication. Well, hero is a certain ground
to go upon. But if we once condone the thett,
we put ourselves out of court when we think
of protesting against it morally, at an after-stage.
There has not arisen a Power, for 2500 years, in
those regions, that has been the enemy ot tne
whole human race, except Russia. All the ac-
counts that we have of the old Monarchies of
Babylon and Assyria are reproduced in this. Rus-
sians destroy, and destroy, and do nothing else.
Under other conquering and even desolating
Powers something grew up and had vitality.
Russia alone is purely destructive; and absorbs
into its own ‘ death in life ’ its new subjects. The
Russian Empire is the Kingdom of Hell. And
war against Russia must be universal. It must
not be confined to the point under debate, if
a man sins with his hand, he Sins with his
whole body. War against Russia should be in
Asia, in the Baltic Sea, in the White Sea, in the
Pacific Sea—everywhere. Wherever she has
enemies they should be stirred up. Turkey (to
whom we ought to restore her rights, la Egypt
and elsewhere), Persia, Poland, Sweden, the
robbed and enslaved Tartars of Merv, in all
quarters we should solicit and subsidise opponents
of the Kingdom of Hell. Too late again! It is
announced from India that the railway through
the Bolan Pass to Quetta—which is the most ad-
vanced British station towards the Russian fron-
tier—cannot be completed for two years, too late
to be of any use if we have a war with Russia.
Lord Beaoonsfield commenced this mllw iy in
1879. Mr. Gladstone had it stopped in 1880, and the
rails already laid pulled up!”
• • ♦
Thus the London Echo:— “Mr. Healy,
M.P., says the Prince of Wales was coming over to
Ireland as a competitor for popular favour with
Mr. Parnell—that, in fact, this was another expe-
dition to a foreign country to smash another
Mahdi. With his usual sagacity, the member for
Monaghan has got at the main point. How much
better it would be If the Prince would go round
the country with the Mahdi and really see the
people.’’... .Our old friend Rochefort now speaks
of “ the Chinese person known as Jules Ferry.
American Co.’s Hop Bitters has restored
to sobriety and health perfect wrecks from intem-
perance. Peruse all
An automatic arm and hand has recently
been Invented. It enables a person who has lost
an arm to write, carry parcels, pick up articles
from the ground, steal an umbrella, and is, in fact,
almost as useful as a natural limb.
Thus the London Standard man re the
Oxford - Cambridge boat race:-“She” (fancy
Father Thames a she!) “ never looked more woo-
ingly on rowing men, or seemed more pleased
with the bustle on her bosom.” The bustle on her
bosom! 11
Keep your health by taking Wolfe’s
Schnapps. It Is the purest stimulant in the
world. Ask for Wolfe’s.
Ethics of Hanging.
No one will be hanged for the poisoning of Henry
Keep, of Maitland, New South Wales. His wife
Sarah, and his step-g'randmother, Mary Bur-
ton, killed him with strychnlbe. They were la
a hurry to get some riioney he had. They
were in a hurry to bring another man over the
house. Mrs. Keep, a young wOtpan of 24, had met
a man she liked better than her husband. She
whispered the fapfe to hdi'dast-iron-f aced relative.
The news was pleasant, but it was first necessary
to clear the way. One can imagine the unholy
secrecy of the slippery dame and leering beldame
while they turned over plot after plot. Blood in
the house might lead to detection. To strangle or
suffocate might not succeed. Women-like, when
women become demons, they fixed on the poison-
cup. Their faces did not show the unholy joy
they fclt when, lisping fondnesses to the unhappy
man, they Induced him to quaff the mixture.
With slipperiness the wife stole away, and with
leers the hag assured her that the dose would tell.
But it didn’t. Again they dosed him, and watching
over his body with expressions of sympathy, had,
this time, the satisfaction of seeing that his
eyes closed, never to open. One can think of
them squeezing each other’s hands and em-
bracing each other, as is the custom of women
when a great event has taken place and an
important piece of work been excellently accom-
plished. They bustlingly set their house in
order and got ready to enjoy the good things
promised. But Law came down upon them,
found strychnine in the dead man’s stomach,
traced strychnine to the living women’s hands,
burst up their vision of money and a nice young
man, and ran them into Maitland Gaol. After a
lot of trouble they were tried, found guilty, and
sentenced to be hanged. A viler pair of women
have not stood before a judgment-seat. A
clearer case of doing to death for greed and lust
has not been revealed. The Executive Council
has, however, cheated the gallows. The hard-
faced women will not be hanged. Law is down, the
Executive Council up. The former represents a
ghastly past, the latter a dawning future. Yil-
lains as the murderesses were, we applaud the
Executive Council for saving their necks from the
hangman. What good could it do society to fling
this evil-looking pair of females, bodies and souls.
Into eternity ? What good could it do the Gorgons
themselves 7 Covered with their crime, as with
garments, there may yet be within them a slum-
bering instinct capable of burning up and diffusing
a warm human tenderness through their ice-
bound lives. Whose existence does their reprieve
blacken ? In their cells they are as Innocuous as in
the grave. The outside world will go on, and
whether the forlorn wretches lie in Maitland Dar-
linghurst, or Berrlma, it will know nothiug of
them. If evil has enthroned itself in their
hearts, and devoured every seed of goodness, they
will not hurt the world, but waste away in boot-
less chafing at their iron doors. If they develope
into monsters of ferocious lawlessness and un-
tameable enmity against all that represents order,
they can be restrained, as human monsters are,
in the cells of the insane. But if into some recess
of their being, where the sun of true love and
sacred duty has never shone, a pure philanthropy
carry the light of the higher and happier life
possible to all, there may arise for the abandoned
Clytemnestras the glowing hope of a peaceful,
though sorrowful earth, and a radiant merciful
heaven. On every account we applaud the Exe-
cutive Council for keeping the rope and the
knuckly hands of some drunken hangman from the
necks of our fallen sisters. The applause is no
outcome of lackadaisical sentiment or inverte-
brate pity. And it goes further than the present.
It implies that In the future of New South Wales
there will be no hanging of women. With the
fate of this dame and beldame as a precedent,
what crime can lift a woman to the hideous gal-
lows and give her body to a lout with the rope?
The hanging of women is, we repeat, at an end.
But if the hanging of women is done with, what,
then, about the men ? Who will dare lay down a
differential principle ? Shall we have a hang-
man ordered up with his rope when the
husband murders the wife, but left to lie drunk at
home when the wife murders the husband ? This
prospect has a share in the applause. We see the'
imminent fall of a false principle that seized on
the brain of the world when its career of civilisa-
tion began and has held its grip with the approval
of State-craft and the sacred assent of religion,
Bentham In England and Beccaria in Italy were
the first to smite with power the superstition that
the members of a community have a right to re-
venge. The contention of these reformers was
that the right to punish ended when the best
means of preventing the recurrence of the crime
were applied. To inflict the death penalty to pre-
vent the recurrence of crime is to assume that the
crime will at some future time be repeated by that
Individual. That is unjust. To uphold it to deter
others than the criminal from the commission of
the crime is to take away life on the hypothesis
that, if it be not taken away, others will murder.
History turns this point the other way. Brutality
to the criminal reacts on society. The more rigidly
hanging is Insisted on the more people come up to
get hanged. In one reign in England 72,000 persons
wont to eternity on the ends of ropes. It is ac-
knowledged that at that period of abnormal enthu-
siasm for hanging the supply of hangable people
kept fully equal to the demand. When, 50 years
ago,strenuous efforts!were made by what were then
called the advanced thinkers in England to have
the punishment of death alloted by law to a host
of minor offences commuted, a fearful increase in
the Humber of persons committing these minor
offences was predicted. In thirty years the exe-
cutions had decreased from 312 in the first decade,
to 87 in the last. Offences of the minor kind
actually decreased when the halo of hanging was
taken away. When the Statute Book gaped for
blood—and, as Sir E. Coke piously laid down,
“taking sway a criminal’s life is warranted by
holy script *cr Joab was drawn, Bigthan
hanged, and Judas disembowelled” —it was kept
wet and smoking with daily victims. Statute after
statute has been removed,and as each gory weapon
of barbaric vengeance was cast out, men came to
see what a fetish they had been making of legal
butchery. Year by year opinion in England m
growing stronger against hanging for any offence.
It is possible that a ballot taken on the question
would utterly extinguish it. In New South Wales,
on the other hand, there is dogged determination
to continue it. Our men of power and Influence,
social and religious, are anxious to keep up tne
brutality of the rope. They are fond of tne
thong, but the gibbet is their glory. Brutality 'Oi
sentiment is, however, seldom logical, it wn
hang, hang, hang, but sometimes it will not. n
will hang a devil of a man, but it will not hang?
she-devil. This is where reason can get at it anu
burst It up. The Executive Council in reprieving
the Maitland poisoners has freed woman from in®
hangman’s rope, and has given a lever to tm»
who reason and are courageous, whereby
can lift the ghastly gallows from our soci*
system. -
The public health is endangered by
bods who vend counterfeits of Wolfe e Sci -
A NATIONAL MONUMENT.
Build a New Monument to England’s glory,
In her Chief City, in the Central Square,
The plinth like pigs of iron, blocks of coal,
Merchandise-bales and mighty treasure-chests;
Wherefrom huge corner cannon lift In air
Britannia, proudly holding out a scroll
With “ Freedom,” like seven stars, emblazon d
Her left arm on the Holy Bible rests:
Around the pedestal four figures lie,
Prostrate as newly slain, contorted, gory,
Afghan, Zulu, Egyptian, Arab. Nigh
To each the sculptured panel tells its story—
Dwellings burnt down, and desolated fields.
Starved children, women’s wild or dumb despair.
Along the cornice, on a row of shields,
Behold our warriors’ names; and East, West,
North,
Peaceful civilian faces looking forth.
Our party-leading Statesmen; to the South
Large, an Imperial Crown, a woman’s eyes and
mouth.
AN OBJECT LESSON.
OLD OENT: “AND NOW WE WILL TAKE UP SOME OBJECTS OP GENDER: THE PENCE
IS NEUTER, AND THE MAN ? ”
YOUTH: “GIVE IT UP 1 ”
OLD OENT.: “ WHY, MASCULINE.”
YOUTH: “WHATI THAT! HOW YOU TALK, PA! IT’S A DOODI'*
“ GREAT EXPECTATIONS.”


•7
A.J.O. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIE-DEESSING SALOON.
91 Sing-street.
N.B.-I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
READ THIS I
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Sliver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and Jewelled,
with the latest Improvements,
S3 lOs. each.
Warranted for three years,
CAN B1 BOUGHT AT
269 Pitt-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
PUBLIC NOTICE.
Marshall’s Artificial Teeth.
Marshall brothers, Dentists, owing to
the great increase of their dentistry prac-
tice, have also taken extensive premises at 138
ELIZABETH STREET, Hyde Park, They still
continue to Inset t teeth at the same enormously
reduced price as before, namely, £5 per set,
upper and lower, which are precisely the same
prize medal teeth advertised by other firms.
Marshall Brothers gurantee these to be equal in
every way, both for quality, fit, and appearance,
to those inserted by hundreds of dentists (with a
limited practice), who charge double and treble
this amount. The public may doubt this, but
Marshall Brothers offer £500 to any person who
_ , any p«
can prove this statement untrue. Consultation
free.' Painless extraction by the aid of nitrous
oxide gas. MARSHALL BROTHERS, American
Dentists, 133 Bllzabeth-street, Hyde Park, and
Market street. N.B.—All trams stop at the door.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GENT.’S 50, Is. 6d.; 100, 3s. fld.
LADIES’ 50. 2s. Od.; 100, 3s, Od.
Address, 6d. extra.
Meat Business Cards.
100, Ss. Od.; 360, 0s. 6d.; 600, 10s.; 1000, 158.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
THE DIET BI CD.
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
I. A. BROWN A CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS.
280 8E0RQE STREET
(Comer of Bond-street)
From the Strand, London.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 864 and 366 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.
Everybody is Invited to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the late Mr.
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manager.
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
mi m, ui iii main
Importers of
STE A^T^??v N f?jT??^ I^?^x T00L8 and REQUISITES. WOOD-WORKL.,,
EAIL mtntno nRnawfvn CON 7S£ CTOK8 ’ .PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS,
-WORKING MACHINERY
\IT\TTVA «tjTTflTiTMn XV O riiAii X| Au ttrllAJiii UXvAli 1 MrliuMH
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBDILDER8’
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &c.
BA
AR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOF IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PBBFO
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS. PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARB
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACK8
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
til
W
PORTABLE, FIXE
and SEMI-FIXED K
OINES
VERTICAL and HOI
ZONTAL BOILERS
TEAM
PUMPS
and
PLANIK
n SHAPING, 8CRB
IBi" MA%rNE8 D “ ILL ' :
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRi
' FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLL
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, Ac.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
»ad Warehouse -
m ani Implement Yard
ilk Stores
- 54 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
SYDNEY,
London Office
- 86 GRACECHUROH STREET,
Qiticura
DISFIGURING- HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
IjOss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
Itching: and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ Howto Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Australian Consignees,
B. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
Prepared et the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.8.A
356 George St.
Established
SYDNE
185:
PIANOS# organ;
Best Makers Only
,5V ERY 1NSTRUMEN
GrllARAJVTEE
A* r #>
aG Jl} .
w
p/l ?
VERY
MODERATE
PRICES*
The Most Liberal;
TIME PAYMENT
SYSTEM.
OVER
800
Instruments
ON VIEW
To SelecKfrom.
SYDNEY.
BAU TVLA.NN,
107 Pitt-street,
-CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
jy LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.


REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ABE SIOK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails. , . ,
if you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any of the numerous
diseases of stomach or bowels, it is
your own fault if you remain ill, for
American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy In all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to American Co's
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of American Co. s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of malarial,
epidemic, bilious and intermittent
fevers—by the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, American HOP
BITTERS will give you fair skin, rich
blood, the sweetest breath, health, and
comfort. In short, they cure ALL
Diseases of the Stomach, Bowels,
Blood, Liver, Nerves, Kidneys, &o., and
£500
will bo paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
American Hop Bitters, costing but a
trifle.
Will you let them suffer?
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
American Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
pr Bee If the name of Hr. Soule Is blown
In every bottle, If not It Is counterfeit.
WeakNervousMen
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay and
failure to perform life’s duties
properly are caused by ex-
cesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and rigorous manhood in
Jhe Marston Bolus.
either stomach drugging nor
is instruments. This treatment
of Nervous Debility and Physical Decay is
uniformly successful because based on perfect
diagnosis, new and direct methods and absolute
thoroughness. Full information and illustrated
treatise sent free (sealed).
Address— Doctor J. O Connell,
F.O. Box 466. 62 Oastlereagh St., Sydney.
CONSULTATION FREE.
E
A U D B
4711
COLOGNE,
4711.
Established 1792.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1873; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873
This Bau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the fast 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, s rength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other oom-
P It has'become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the diite of
Vn I*QB0
The large and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only in
Europe; but also in North and South America,
India; and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number-4711 changed into 7411.1147, 4117,, &c, &c.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pitt-
street, Sydney.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
and Storekeepers, m town and country.
W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and SYDNEY.
Catalogues Catalogues
POST PEEK.
W. WALKER
and SONS
are one of the
Largest
Stockholder*
and
Manufacturer!
m
Htffh-clas*
FURNITURE I
u
MU.
ENGLAND.
POST FREE.
ALL STOCK
In their
1STDNEY
HOUSE
Supplied
DIRECT
from their
Loudon
Manufactory,
and Latest
London Styles
Guaranteed
SYDNEY BRANCH:
81 CLARENGE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
BOHR AGENT EUR THE
'SMITH OEGAN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 FITT STREET
SOLE IMPORTER OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
«Wt«i
Ur*..
A Curious Ringworm.
1 have had a ringworm humor, got at the barter's,
for six years, which spread all over my ears, face,
and neck, and which itched and irritated me a
»reat deal. Used many remedies, by advice of
physicians, without benefit. Your Cuticuba Re-
annvENT. the new blood purifier, Internally, and
Cn*iGCBA and Cdticura Soap, the great skin
cures and beautiflers, externally, have entirely
cured me. taking every bit of humor off my face
«Hd leaving it as smooth as a dollar. I thank you
again forthe help it has been to me. GEO. W.
BROWN, Mason, 48 Marshall-street, Providence,
B.I.
fftpy BURG IS* £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trouser*
' I * from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest bouse for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STRBBT,
Hvdnev. Samples and diagrams for s«
forwarded to any part of the colony
AUTUMN SEASON, 1885.
I30SS ALIE, LLOTD &CO.
HAVE RECEIVED THEIR NEW MILLINERY from Paris ard London, and are now showing the
most charming little Bonnets at 21s.; and Hats at 18s. 6d., which are simply beautiful; and.
lodging from the enormous variety and the magnificent quality of the materials, it is quite evident
that their home agent has spared no time or trouble in carrying out the instructions given him by
Mr. Lloyd.
We are showing upwards of 1000 imported HA.T3 and BONNETS, suitable for all ages, at such
extremely low prices hitherto unequalled in Sydney.
IN OUR LACE DEPARTMENT, wo are second to none in the colony, for the variety Is astonishing
and prices are so much less than we have ever had to ask at any other time.
IN OUR RIBBON DEPARTMENT, we have every possible shade and width, at cutting price?, for
best qualities only. i
IN OUR GLOVE DEPARTMENT, we have a large stock of every kind.
The leading speciality is 270 dozen REAL GRENNOBLK KID, usually sold at 4s. 9J. per pair, i
black and dark colours, with four patent clip fasteners, all sizes, 3s. 6d. per pair, post free 2d. extra
Alan 390 dozen in light and daik tan, with heavy black stitching, four buttons, only 3s. 6d. per pair, pos
free for 2d. extra.
In the Ladies’ and Children’s Underclothing Department we have every requisite at London prices
ROSSALIB, LLOYD & CO.,
OPPOSITE WYNYARD-STREET, SYDNEY.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
BISCUITS AND CANES, TREACLE AND SODDEN STROP,
Self-raising AErated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
S. & A. have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
Sydney Agents; V. H, ARIELL & CO., 343 and 345 Kent-street.
A soldier of a distinguished regiment re-
cently arrived at Suakim from England. Being
very thirsty, and having just disembarked from
ship board, he put his filter into the sea and com-
menced sucking water through it.
Mr. Hugh Romilly, tho Deputy High Com-
missioner, is reported to be ill at Port Moresby,
New Guinea. It is likely, we learn from Brisbane,
that Dr. F. W. Eisner, F.K.C.8., will at once be de-
spatched to bis assistance by General Scratobley.
Jenny Lind, now 60, has completely lost
her voice. The voice of Perry, temperance orator,
of Sydney Domain (under 60), increases in volume
every week. We used to stand a long way off*
but can hear all we want when completely out of
Sight.
Miss Lingard (our old friend Alice Dun-
ning of that ilk), who created so much sensation
bv her remarkable performance of the insane
heroine in “ Called Back ” will, I understand,
appear at the Haymarket Theatre in the autumn
as Nedjesda. in the new play by Mr. Barrymore.
—Vanity Faxb.
Some years ago the late Bishop Barker, of
Sydney, paid a visit to Mudgee, and was taken to
be shown, among other items of Interest, a large
cake of retorted gold, the proceeds of a crushing
then just completed by a well-known local m nlnp
man, Mr. Thomas Chappell. When the Prelate's
eves alighted on the big lump of precious metal,
he straightway put the—no doubt jocular—ques-
tion- ‘‘And how much of this cake of gold is
there for the Cdurch ? ” The owner of the cake
quickly answered: “ Your lordship, the gold is for
the Chappell ? ”
QUITE REASON A OLE.
Wife: “Horace, Horace! That horrid
man who just passed us winked at me last
Tuesday week.”
H nan and : “ Oh, Mildred, how thoughtless
▼ou are in such matters. Last Tuesday
week! Good gracious, I can’t knock him
iown now.”


r~
HAS
UMBBi
RI^OVESia
TUDY ECONOMY
and
aveyourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street.
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match oos-
l Repairs neatly eze-
rB FRESH POOD AND ICE COMPANY
(Limited).
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Cream. Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &c., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“ KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
Fresh Food & he Co., Limited,
Head Office 21 Harbour-street.
Stables Liverpool-street.
Factory Mlttagong.
m
CIENCE
or
life
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses maybe
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Self Preservation. A book for every man, younir
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
10 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. 300 pages, bound in beautiful French cloth
full gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
. The Science of Life should be read by the younir for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all.—London Lancet.
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As-
sociation, or Dr. W. R. Parker, No. 69 Hunter
Street, Sydney, N. S. W. The author may
consulted on all diseases requiring
will, secrecy, and experience.
ial As- nr A I
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
S VD N E.V
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
rrt» 0 . » eBt remedy for RHEUMATISM
»iri I,8IA ' headache, toothache!
. KAINS, BRUISES, TURNS. SCALD3, &o~ and
Cu!«~ ternall y °nres DIARRHtEA,
tod padna and a11 other iutfema aches
*rtc©, a/. Sold Everywhere,
8. E. MOULTON, sole PROPiXroR.
MELBOUBNE AND SIDNEY,
PAINT
Marshalls
IONIC NERVINE
that uouimy, ana au complaints
Toot Wh f fr £ m 18011 of nerve force, as Neuralgia.
ApD e v?t C i le ’b' Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
1^ male Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Ii( 2? 8 °* Y ltal Power, &c. By its tonic
tor AlonVw?i 8: e £T ct8 at once removes all craving
otherpow2lrf,,l i Li t 9.i lcllnes8 111 Phosphorous ana
TONlS wm^wlS 1^ 811 * 111 ? elements. MARSHALL’S
the hourtehes and gives vigour to
DOie PpnrvwloI'L w. ou M ur #30o. a t
'.8.
and
NO MORE COENS I
WARTS removed without pain
■n« t ! ie use of Palmer’s Painless, Harmless,
ana Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER.
This preparation is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If applied accord*
Injr to the directions, it will effectually remove
them In from six to eight days.
PALMER’S
E!} FACME CURA
fm., For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Local,
oil mo ? t wonderful Preparation has surpassed
?J,a° t i!S5 1 5, 8 P eed , lly removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
hnJ+!o 8e vere the suffering has been, a single
ver J aIled . ln Producing the desired re-
1 o ii and i.? 8 ? he most confidently recommended.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general storesi: wholesale by Messrs Elliott Bros..
Sydney : E. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton.
ProK DuMdta?'* Melbourne; Kempthome and
Sydney Pharmacy.
. T6 HUNTER STREET,
Opposite Tramway, Elizabeth Street,
a j nvjuuuh, iiaQies ADaominal
Supports and Pessaries, Syringes and Enemas of
every description, always In stock.
Country Orders promptly executed.
H* SABIEIi, M.P.9., Mgr.
NEUSTADT CO.,
COMPLETE
FURNISHERS,
39,154, 156 , 4 158 OXFORD-ST]
SYDNEY.
I wr HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
KiTHaa for Cash or Time Payment,
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND AT.i
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
MW®
WEAK MEN,
_ , Suffering from Youth-
— „ Lost Manhood, etc., will
learn of a simple and certain means of Self Cure,
Free of Charge, by addressing
M. B. TAYLOR, Esq., Box 891, Sydney, N.S.W.
JAMES MACGREGOR.
MT 808 GEORGE STREET.
' c £LEBRttf&l
°**9cot
WHOLESALE
GROCER
' and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
VAGIN BIT.
TEES.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
JBRK
on
APPLICATION.
MANtT,A s ( S535S s 0 Jo5?Ik cbl1brat1I)
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Two'Doora from Compagnonl’s.)
the want of a
I E8TABLISH-
—I.. . , premises lately occu-
pied by the Bank of Australasia, at 168 PITT-
BTEEKT (THE WEST END HOUSE) where they
Intend to carry on a High-class and Fashionable
Trade.
The public may feel assured that we shall be
able to maintain a high standard, when we state
that our Mr. Ward has had some years’ experience
in the best houses in London, Paris, as well as in
first-class Sydney Establishments, namely, Farmer
and Co.’s and David Jones and Co.’s.
Our Mr. Wilson has had fully 30 years’ expe-
rience In the Australian trade, and has Just re-
turned from England, where he visited all the
principal Woollen Mills, Including that of Hud-
dersfield, as well as West of England and Scotch
Mills. This will be a sufficient guarantee that the
tastes and requirements of the public will receive
the attention they deserve.
In conclusion, we desire to say that we hope to
obtain a fair share of patronage, In return for
which we guarantee first-class work, all hand-
made, well shrunk, perfect fit, and all in the latest
London and Paris styles.
Soliciting a trial, we remain,;
Very truly yours,
FREDERICK WILSON.
HUGH WARD.
Fashionable Tailors. Robe aod Habit Makers,
West End Rouse,
168 Pltt-streef, Sydney.
C. B. HODIHI,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a varied Stock of
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms .-JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don; THOS. BLAND Sc SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHA8. OSBORNE Sc
GO., London.
A 9 BNT for the eminent firm of
BOSSY Sc CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, Sco., and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 Georgo.st., Sydney,
Where Inspection Is invited.
Champagne
Haldslack & Go's.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINK MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Bole Agents for Heldsieck & Co.. Reims.
EUSE[PEM^T
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with tbo newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE Is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
Is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL*
SKI George-strect, Sydney.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
The “LOUIS’*
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
these are other
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
POST FREE OS
application.
and sight without discovering that
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of " Louis,."
Carnrick’s Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk
(Composed of about equal proportions of Pure Cod Liver Oil and Condensed Milk digested).
IT affords us much pleasure to announce to the Medical Profession and the Public that we have suo.
ceeded in combining these nutritive substances Into a permanent, palatable, and easily assimilable
form.
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk has the following advantages over the Plain Oil and th*
Emulsiom now in use :—lBt. Plain CodLiver Oil is unpalatable to most persons, but in combinatoa
with condensed (digested) milk, as exhibited In this preparation, It will usually be taken by the youngest
child with a relish. 2nd. Oils are prepared for assimilation principally In the duodenum : consequent! v
Cod Liver Oil, when taken plain, often offends the stomach, The Oil and Milk in Peptonized Cod Liver
OH and Milk are digested, and it will therefore usually agree with the most delicate stomach. 3ru.
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk contains double the nutritive and flesh-forming principles found hi
the Emulsions of Cod Liver Oil. 4th. It is well known that the Emulsions of Cod Liver Oil usual!r
contain from 60 to 75 per cent, of water. Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk contains 53 per cent, of
best Cod Liver Oil, and In the place of water we use condensed milk, reduced in vacuo In our labora-
tory. 5th. The milk is condensed to the consistency of the Cod Liver Oil, and when combined, as la
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk, it forms one of the msst pleasant and nutritious compounds that
can be conceived or produced.
This Preparation is acknowledged far superior to any of the Cod Liver Oil Emulsions ever
introduced, It being already digested, it may be retained on the weakest stomach.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with HYPOPHOSPHITB8 OF LIME AND
SODA. To be obtained of the Principal Chemists and Druggists in the colonies.
The Maltine Manufacturing Co., Lim., 24 and 25 Hart-st., Bloomubury, London, W.C.
Wholesale Agents in the ColoniesElliott Bros.. Sydney; E. Prosser & Co., Sydney; Felton, Grim-
waJe, & Co., Melbourne; Booke, Tompsltt. & Co., Melbourne; Duerdin & Sainsbury, Melbourne; F. H.
Fauldmg& Co., Adelaide; A. M. Bickford & Adelaide; Berkley, Taylor, & Co., Brisbane; Elliott,
£BU1U<U|( IX/ AUOiaiUOl At JU. DltAlUlU OO VU*I AUtUolUt
Bros. & Co.. Brisbane; New Zealand Drug Co., Brisbane.
Samples and Full Particulars may be obtained of
W. T. PALMER, 104 King-street, Sydney.
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
lerchant Tailors, Habit, and Roba Makers.
Trousers from 31s. to 40s.
N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Parmer and Co.
W. Bhbajbusbt & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st.
Is the largest and beet-appointed Family Hotel In the Western District. The Table and Llouo
cannot be surpassed, even In the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. First-class Stabling.
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OP CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
Callffarnla and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
"i
mr BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN' STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMINGr, Merchant & Importer
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)


AN OC rOQEN ARLAN’S GRATITUDE.
A FACT.
George-street, Sydney, September 1,1884.
g Messrs. Myers and Solomon.
Gentlemen,—It gives me considerable pleasure 4
to tender you my best thanks for your kind re- ■
commendation of St. Jacobs Oil. Acting upon*
your advice, I tried it, and am happy to say the 1
very first application brought me instant relief
and, by following it up for a couple of days, I felt'
completely cured. Before using St. Jacobs Oil I [
suffered severely—more especially from swollen '*
knees—end had tried many other remedies without 5 -
the least effect. However, I have to thank It for •*
making me myself again, and shall be careful to '
recommend it.
I may mention that I shall be 80 years of age in 1
October, and believe that through its use I shall be }
able to spend a pleasant birthday.
Tours faithfully,
JOSEPH HENRY.'
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.S.W.; :
price, 2s. 6d. per bottle.
Wolfe’s Schnapps not only has a delight-
£“L flavour , but ig a P ure tonic, diuretic and a
good general corrective*
n«^5 H Dr B *‘*~^f n^, e8 t and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 662 George-street, Brickfield Hill.*
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
WS p“tY8tree P t" rCba8ed fr ° m HocKINQa and
MaeLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 George-street,
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
Nearly half a Century !—It is now over
f °rty years since BHISTOL’S SARSAPARILLA
and PILLS were first introduced to the public,
and now, after that long period of trial, they are
universally admitted to be the best of all remedies
for Impure bipod and humors, scrofula, old sores,
and confirmed rheumatism.
Mb. DbOoubot Brownb (late Deput
Chairman of the Mining Board of New 8ou_
Wales), Author of the Miners’ Handy Book.”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and '
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person- -
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 62 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, ea* Mining Titles, a well 1
proven speciality, &T Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s ’
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
In spite of all imitations Wolfe’s :
Schnapps stands in the foremost ranks of bever-
ages. Demand Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Printed and Published by Tn Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 84 Pltt-st« Sydney, NJ3.W.
We recommend Wolfe's Schnapps to our
feeders as an unequalled medicinal beverage.
The trial of Gamabut and his associates,
who murdered an old woman, took place in Paris
the other day. Gamabut is only 28, but a fine
specimen of a ruffian. When the old woman was
lying dead in a pool of blood, Gamabut cracked
his jokes. “The old gal’s feet won’t be cold this
winter!” be exclaimed, with a laugh, to his accom-
plices. The murder took place in November. “ I
say, boys,” remarked the assassin, “doesn’t she
bleed ? It’ll soon be Christmas. We could make
some fine blood-puddings.”
A Far Northern mining item:— From a
returned digger the Herberton Advertiser
“learns that on the Johnstone River there were four
sick Europeans when be left and about 1200 China-
men. Gold could be procured if white men could
keep their health. In one gully there wei e nug-
gets being got weighing from h&lf-an-ounce to an
ounce. Our informant advises no one to visit the
locality until after the wet season when he also
return.’ Again: “One Chinaman will
on , Tuesday, ea route for China,
with about 301b. weight of gold.”
Is “theMajor” of Ballarat dead? He is.
leutenant-Colonel Smith, late Victorian Min-
uter of Public Instruction, alive? Slightly.
When the saints have all been gathered up, and
we of the unfortunate twelve baskets of frag-
alone to consider the situation, then
a tall frame will rise in our midst and say, “ Eleo-
tors of this cemetery, and fellow sinners, it was
nrlfflnally my intention to have gone up to heaven
with the rest. I had repeated invitations to join
the Ministry of angels, which have now disappeared,
for I have always loved a portfolio. But, at a junc-
ture like the present, I could not forget that the
electors of Balia 1 should say of this graveyard
—are the only orderly assembly which ft has been
my privilege to address for many years, and, great
as is my inclination to walk the golden streets
with feet newly shaped by grace, I have preferred
to remain behind, and lodge my protest as a man
and candidate for Balia—for this mortuary enclo-
sure, against the scandalous neglect of your in-
terests exhibited by the present adminls 1
should say trustees of this cemetery.” This na-
turally leads up to:a remark the Colonel made
at the gathering In Sydney of the N.S.W. and Bal-
larat Bowling Clubs on Tuesday, where he justly
claimed that Ballarat men were not only making
their mark in the paths of literature, but were
now floating a company to take over the property
of the original promoters of the solar system. We,
ourselves, have trod the streets of that golden
city, but, in shaking off the dust from our
feet we will swear that he who pans it did
not make a dwt. to the dish, and now that
we have delved in the path of literature to
some tune, we are free to confess a hungry yearn-
Ing for a tub and cradlepn the old gravel pits;
and, fer a good claim of 15 x 20 on, the Canadian,
would cheerfully shake the dust of this city off.
but for fear the remaining half of the sole would
come off in the operation. However, the Major
(confound the other word) is always made as wel-
come in Sydney as he is in Victoria, and the best
we wish him, as a man with a clear bead and genial
heart is thst, in consideration of his long public
eervices. he may soon have another opportunity
of carrying through his old department some re-
markable feet which, for length, breadth, and
comprehensiveness, have cheered his sole In many
a thorny way.
It was one of those mysterious “private”
Sydney bars, where the gilded squatter meath the
dim religious light of coloured gas-globes fulfils
his dream of wine and fair women, and at the
moment wo entered, “ the little woman ’’ and her
attendant sirens were lavishing their sweetest No. 1
smiles upon two sunburnt “ Jackeroos ” from the
Namoi, who were enjoying a fortnight’s “bust”
as a reward for having successfully pulled their
selections through the inquiry for the company, by
eclipsing the record, of the historical Ananias. We
had known them since they first drove the ration
cart, and our entry was received with enthusiastic
though slightly abbreviated enquiries after our
bodily welfare, followed by a request to “give It a
name.” Our modest wish for a small whisky being
received with derision, we were discreetly silent
when the order was given to “ leshavnorrer-
borelwine.” The little woman winked at us la a
mysterous manner as she filled up the empty
glasses from a golden-topped bottle, from which
the cork had flown with an explosion so mild as to
suggest the modest ginger-beer of our youth, but
when we raised our glass and sipped, in a manner
only acquired after a long and varied experience
of land-salea, the meaning of that warning wink
commenced to dawn upon us, and, leaning over
the bar, we gently but firmly enquired, “What
are you giving us 7” We expected to see her over-
come with confusion, but— r, Zoedone,” she whis-
P®5® j* before we had time to shriek, she
added, See, now, I’m doing them a good turn;
they ve had enough wine, and I’m only charging
them (8. 6d. a bottle.” “True, true, we mur-
mured, as we tottered out, and since that evening
that bowery verandah and those coloured lamps
have known us no more.
Clergymen, lawyers, editors, bankers and
ladies need American Hop Bitters dally, for nerve
force. Read.
No medicine is half so good for a great
variety of family complaints as Aykr’s Pills.
imey are easy to take, effective to cure, and are
cheap and handy.
Ad Hominem.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Full many a glorious rhymer have I seen.
Shriek “Muse, dear,” altogether out of season;
Men who a-hawklng fish should long have been,
Till they attained to something like plain reason;
But, what’s the use such small fry now to curse ?
They rhymed their rhyme. Give me good, stiff
blank verse.
For with no middle flight will I ascend—
I, who through many a weary way have trudged
Seeking for light to some immortal song.
' >anto, with thee have I not wandered far
Through vales and woods unknown to mortal
sight;
Heard the chill wail of shades in hopeless woe,
. vnd then, anon, from that cherubic choir
Who veil their faces with their silver wings,
sJaught the glad chant around the Great White
Throne
Sung from of old ? Have I not with thee trod
'’’he burning plains, and those celestial paths
To find my own “ bright Beatrice blest 7
Milton, with thee have 1 not tried to tread
The heavenly plains, and up to Sion’s hill,
' 7 here that seraphic host for ever sing
With knowledge full what unto mortal men,
Until thy organ-peal was sounded forth,
We heard not nor could beat the mighty strain 7
But still not yet. The song I fain would sing
Nor of the fabled gods nor battled throng,
Nor shadowy regions past the boundary fixed
Of mortal sense shall be; but of fair lands
To rise in highest fealty to Peaee,
Andjpeopled to bring to her holy shrine
The horn of Plenty with her golden fruit.
fjot yet, I say; there really is no hurry,
For have we not a Dailey and a Berry;
And fed’ral Service, who demands our faith,
And Sovereign-Guinea-grabblng M’llwralth ?
Then, failing Vogels, Colton’s in the van,
We always have our E. O’Sullivan.
What need of hurried patriotic rage.
While David Syme still runs the aged AaB.
And Dows and Deakins prowl the Yankee land
To learn how water may be got from sand?
What need of any European scare
While, all alert, our Henniker is there
Upon the spot to watch Herr von Bismarck,
And see that Gladstone leaps not in the dark ?
Then there’s Saul Samuel—a man of pith—
“’o keep in check that man of straw, M. Smith,
i oneerning whom Stuart wires every day,
*• At all costs keep that Federal bay;
J C Dailey’s got the war-wreath, shall not I
Peore first as diplomat ? Then, I’ll know why.”
All these, and more, evoke the cry “ Not yet!”
* nd,- just to prove it, while my pen is wet—
4: jme forth, mad papers, poets, and what not,
J’ut up your hands—I’m ready for the lot!
behold the waddy of my sires arise.
And fetch ye all, right square between the eyes!
31 it, ere this club begins to circle round,
To drive each vagrant ass into the pound,
J’ain would 1 muse, where they their thistles crop;
?(ow four Unnamed have let their rhyming drop,
say unnamed, but not unknown, I ween
ft tow pat for poets that old word has been),
lor, whilst book-writers oft turn out bound
Which only friends through courtesy will read—
* 'eek after week, with ever-varying dash, .
f hey sought out humbugs and laid on the lash;
JVor failed full many a far-off hut to cheer—
And all the four Unnamed. They did Uhere.
I te first of all in the dramatic art—
To make the player play, the blockhead smart;
To cheer the worthy, jeer th’ impostor down,
And gain the thanks of many a humbugged town—
Whilst some with leaden leaders, day by day,
Gainst patent swindles merely whined, ’‘Now,
I pray,
'on’t do it, gentlemen, don’t any more,”
tis quirk would smash it, and the city roar.
3 hear thou’rt wandering by the flowery mead,
To cheer thy liver, and thy Dickens read.
But, since thou’st spurned the ancient ruby cup,
Take this to rouse thy sluggish liver up—
2, he country Press have dared—yes, the mopokes I—
To bash for theirs some of thy neatest Jokes.
Sard Number Two, along what arb’rous slope
ost wander 7 Sing to us again of Hope,
In thy old dulcet way; or, if in gloom,
Tip us a stave anent the silent tomb—
[Not this time.— Ed. B.l
H.M.S. The Guyaskootas.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
*Twas the good ship Guyaskootas, all in the China
Seas,
With the helm a-lee, and the capstan free, to catch
the summer breeze,
As Captain Brooks upon the deck did meditate
alone,
When all at once, with a sudden pounce, down
came the dread cyclone.
Tb Jimmy Hicks he cried aloud, as he stood on the
forward hatch
(While Richard Bold, In the forward hold, was a-
winding his larbodrd watbh ):
M What does the quadrant Indicate, and how does
the sextant stand 7”
" The quadrant’s down to the freeSlng-tone, and
the sextant’s lost a band 1”
What I lost a hand! By dingo, boys, I’m struck
all of a heap t
Just pass me up my night-glass and let me take a
peep;
|Tor, If the sextant’s lost a hand, and the quadrant’s
down so low,
It’s body and bones to Davy Jones—we’re duty
bound to go.
So fly aloft to your studding-sails, and reef each
spanker boom
From each starboard sail to the martingale, to give
her weather room;—
Oh! bosun Bold, in the lower hold, what water do
you find ?”
Tlve feet and a half la the royal gaff, and a trifle
more behind 1”
fcome, sailors, collar yer marlinspikes and each a
belftylng-pln—
Come! stir yer stumps and spike them pumps, or
more’ll be coming In!”
They stirred their stumps, and spiked the pumps,
and spliced each mizzen-braoe;
Aloft and alow they worked—but, oh I the waters
gained apace.
they cut a hole above the keel to let the waters
out,
But, strange to say, to their dismay, the water in
did spout;
Then spoke our cook, as with fear he shook, and
for mercy he did crave—
u I’ve several wives in several ports, and T wants
my life to save!”
Then spoke'the captain of marines, who'dearly
loved his grog:
•’It’s bad to die, but wuss to be dry, so I votes we
pipes to grog.”
But, ’twas our noble second mate who filled us all
with awe
(The noble mate, what bad men hate, and cruel
skippers Jaw)—
Be took the anchor on his back and plunged into
the main,
Through surf and spray be cleaved his way—he
sank, but rose again;
Through foam and spray ten leagues away the
anchor stout he bore,
Until at last be made it fast, and warped the ship
ashore.
And thus he saved that gallant crew from sinking
in the deep,
■where the billows roar on that rooky shore—where
many a crew does sleep.
•Taln’t much of a thing to talk about, but a tick-
lish thing to see.
And something to do—though I says it, too; for
that second mate was me.
B.W.O.Y.
SELFISHNESS PERSONIFIED.
MRS. WIOOINS: “SAVE ME, SAVE ME FIRST 1 ’•
MR. WIGGINS: “NO; YOUR LIFE IS INSURED, AND MINE IS NOT.”
THE STATE OF BUSINESS.
IWPiOFBB; "MR. SMITOBRS, I HAVE BEEN VERY MUCH PLEASED
AND ATTENT I°N TO BUSINESS DURING THE PAST YEAR,
fUN I ARTNER E —” IN ED T ° REWARD T° UR FIDELITY BY MAKING YOU MY
HORRIFIED EMPLOYEE: “JUNIOR PARTNER—ME— NO, SIR J DON’T DO IT—JUST
REDUCE MY SALARY, AND LET IT GO AT THAT I ”
A Famous Victory!!
AFTER ROBERT SOUTHEY.]
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was a summer evehing, old IsaatiS’ ffrort wit
done;
He sat beneath his mfttib sign thdt glltterbd Id
the sun,—
Three golden balls that hovered o’et
A dingy grecn-bafte-covered door.
His little grandson Ben jaihiii, HhO, by the cOiintd
screened,
Was fossicking alnong a hbap bi pledges uhrea
deemed,
Espied a something bright and totmd,
And came to know Vrhat he Had fotmd:
Old Isaacs took It from the boy* and answered with
a frown*
" It is a sliver medal, pledged with me for half-tH
crown—
“ ’TIs all that we have left,” said he,
“ To mark a famous victory I
* I might have had a hundred, but I tilfned the®
all away—
Strange they should part with relics of thaf
glorious affray I r
But men could find no work,” said he,
“ Who fought in that great victory 1”
* Now, tell me what ’twas all about,” young Ben*
Jamln he cries,
And his ittle face is looking up with wonder*
waiting eyes;
“ Now, tell me all about the war,
And what they killed eaeh other for.”
“ It was the English,” Isaacs said, " who fought
the Soudanese,
(Poor naked blacks, who strove In vain their
liberty to seize),
But England said ‘ It must not be,’
And sent her troops across the sea.
“ And many gallant officers were slain in that
great fight,
For, though the ‘rebels” skins were black, their
hearts were very white;
And even wives and children died.
In fighting on the ‘ rebels’ ’ side.
They said it was a fearful sight upon the battle- ’•*
field,
To see so many striplings slain, who scarce a sword *
could wield;
But scenes like that, you know, must be
At every famous victory 1
“And when the mighty Dailey sent our troops '
across the sea
To help the British crush the slaves.who struggled ‘
to be free,
We had a public holiday,
And cheered them as they sailed away.
“ Great praise our noble Dailey won, and all who ’
stood by him —
“Why, ’twas a very wicked act!” said little Ben-
jamin.
“ Nay—nay—my little boy,” quoth he,
“ It was a brilliant policy I
“ And for his noble loyalty the Queen rewarded '
him ”
“ But what did all the soldiers get ?” said little
Benjamin.
“ That medal in your hand,” said he,
“ That tells their famous victory 1”
H.H.C.
