

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.- No. 106.—New Series,
SATURDAY, MAY 23, 1885.
Price—64.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, MAY 23, 1885.
The Contingent.
The return of the New South Wales Contin-
ent will end a chapter in the history of the
colony which should never have been
written. Mr. Baluev ’s interference in the
affairs of the Soudan was emotional in con-
ception, illegal in execution, and inglorious
In termination. But, however ridiculous
the ending may be, we prefer it as it is to
seeing our men return covered with the
doubtful glory of having slaughtered thou-
sands of rudely-armed patriots, “rightly
struggling to be free.” For we take it that
the naked men who fell in mounds before
the murderous weapons that science has
placed at our disposal, were as well entitled
to the name of patriots as would be the
Sydney volunteers who might fall at
Botany in preventing a hostile landing. The
colony may, therefore, gladly stand what-
ever ridicule attaches to this abortive expe-
dition, thankful that, so far as our men are
concerned, no innocent blood cries for ven-
geance against them.
* * *
We are, perhaps, the only colonial journal
which has consistently condemned this busi-
ness. At the beginning, when we were
almost alone, and our contemporaries, car-
ried away by a spurious patriotism, would
be satisfied with nothing but “gore,” we
set our faces against it. We have seen those
contemporaries forced,* by the*^miserable
logic of facts, to dine off dishes composed of
their own words. Every reason assigned
for sending the Contingent away was either
the precise reason why it should not be sent
brdse it was untrustworthy. The idea of
helping England “ in the hour of her need ”
haight have had some force in the case of a
War against France or Russia. Against the
Boudan it was contemptible. It was more—
it was insulting. When England requires
assistance against the Soudanese it will be
time for her to divest herself of her crown
and sceptre and, like Spain, give the reins
of empire into more vigorous hands.
* * •
By many in England, especially among
those who dream of a great confederation
embracing all the British possessiens, the
despatch of colonial troops from Sydney
was welcomed with clamorous approval.
They saw in it a step towards the federation
they desired. The English journals sup-
posed to represent the opinions of this sec-
tion of the country, were quoted volumin-
ously by the Jingo papers of Australia. The
object of this was obvious. It was for the
purpose of making colonists believe that
their action in the Soudan affair met with
the unanimous approval of England. But
the vast body of British Radicals were
against the war from the commencement.
They could not commend the New South
Wales Government for doing that for which
they condemned their own. Their organs
spoke out pretty plainly, too, but towards
their views there was the same conspiracy
of silence on the part of the Australian
Press as towards the doings of the Home-
rulers on the part of the English journals.
Broadly, it may be stated that the capitalist
Press of Great Britain welcomed Mr. Dal-
ey's action, while the Radicals either
viewed it coldly or entirely condemned it.
to the offer of colonial assistance the former
saw the opening up of new recruiting
£robn(Js, and a definite move towards that
federation on which—without thoroughly
understanding what it means—they have
set their hearts. But the Radicals saw that
neither the extension nor the consolidation
°f empire would bring relief to the starving
English. They saw, besides, by the constant
visits of many of our “ leading” citizens to
England, the stuff of which successful
colonists are made, and they were not ena-
moured of it. To them Mr. Dalley’s offer
meant an unwise proposal to become junior
partner in a business repugnant to the
genuine English spirit.
• • *
Let us, however, be generous. Let us dis-
miss the idea of Mr. Dalley’s actions having
been dictated by a desire to “ dish” Mr.
Service, of* to obtain for himself some mark
of his Sovereign’s favour. let us suppose
that his feelings towards Victoria and its
Premier are of the most fraternal, and that
he views as mere trumpery distinctions the
pinchbeck titles which so many colonists
are said to covet. We may also dismiss
without mention many other motives which
have been attributed to him. By this me-
thod of weeding we at last reduce the num-
ber of reasons for his famous offer to two.
Either he honestly thought that England
required help, or else he thought that the
proposal would do something to bring the
colony prominently before the British public
and, perhaps, put a few extra strands in the
bonds joining Britain to her distant depen-
dencies. It is not our intention just now to
criticise the terms of the proposal itself.
The boldness which could offer for imme-
diate service in the field a battalion of in-
fantry, not a man of which was enlisted, and
a battery of artillery, few men ol which had
been trained to the use of field-guns, is
beyond criticism. It would be a mere insult
to Mr. Dalley’s judgment to suppose that,
at the time he sent his historical telegram,
he really thought that any danger threa-
tened England. The Russian imbroglio had
not arisen. True, there were some discon-
tented Boers in South Africa, who were
threatening to make things uncomfortable
all round if they could not get their own
way. To suppose, then, that England’s hour
of trial had come, because a number of
naked fanatics, maddened by years of op-
pression, had risen against their oppressors
and killed a dauntless English enthusiast in
a remote African town, is merely to state a
proposition whose refutation is contained in
the statement. It was not from such a
quarter that danger to England was to be
apprehended. Thus, to find an adequate
motive for the despatch of a badly-organised
but highly-paid force of a few hundred men
to take part in a struggle with which they
had no concern, and which the English
people themselves now consider to be dis-
graceful, we are forced to the assumption
that the expedition was conceived and car-
ried out in order that the ties between Great
Britain and her colonies might be strength-
ened—the decreasing fire of kinship blown
into a blaze.
* ♦ *
What means this “strengthening of the
ties” between tbe various parts of the Em-
pire, to promote which political dilettanti
and successful squatters spout platitudes by
the hour in London, and in whose favour
Canadian busy bodies and Australian vision .
aries assemble to cackle and go home? It
means, when probed to the bottom, that the
British Empire is to form one federated
state like the American Union. That a Cen-
tral Congress sitting in London is to shape
the destinies of that state. That, like the
Union, the various states composing the
confederation are to be represented in that
Congress according to population, and that
to the supreme Parliament so constituted
will belong the questions of peace and war,
land and sea forces, fiscal and foreign
policy ; while the different divisions retain
their local Governments as at present.
Many other schemes besides this have been
formulated, but they are merely tenta-
tive, and are so shaped as to be readily
absorbed into the larger scheme, as the
colonies, advancing with more relative
rapidity than England in wealth and popu-
lation, demand a fuller national life. We
believe the idea, even at present, to be not
merely Utopian but mischievous, and that
its mischievousness will become more
apparent as the years go by. What would
a federated Australia of ten millions, able to
place a million of men in the field for the
defence of its own shores, gain by depend-
ence on any power? What would the
United States gain by mixing in Trans-
atlantic broils, supplying food for European
powder, or taking sides in dynastic
struggles with which it had no concern and
no sympathy ? And the arguments which
apply with such force to the American
Union, apply much more forcibly to Aus-
tralia, separated as it is by vast stretches
of sea from the aggressive militarism
which weighs so heavily on Europe.
If ever a country, both by position
and extent, was intended by Nature for
a peaceful and independent national career
— when the proper time arrives — that
country is Australia. Tbe men presiding
over the different Australian colonies do not
appear to have yet grasped this obvious
fact. Having been mostly born in the
British islands, they close their understand-
ings to the idea ot a populous and indepen-
dent Australia, keeping aloof, like America,
from all foreign complications, while able to
hold its own against all-comers. They think
the young giant, at present scarcely out of
swaddling clothes, will always be content to
follow, aud never ready to lead. But far
seeing English statesmen know better. They
know that the ultimate setting up of Aus-
tralia in business of its own is as certain, and
as much to be desired, as the going out of a
young man from his father’s house to do for
himself.. The true Australian statesman is
the one who, without any rancour or feel-
ing of disloyalty towards the mother
country, steadily keeps in view the inevit-
able time when, in the common course of
nature, Australians will have set up house-
keeping for themselves.
♦ » *
It was Lord Blachford, we think, who,
writing on this subject, said something like
the following—we forget the precise words .
—“ Suppose America had not separated
from England. She would have insisted
long before this in being represented in the
House of Commons. She would not consent
to drift into European complications with-
out having a voice in the matter. As repre-
sentation would certainly go by population
the present House of Commons would be
three-fifths American and two-fiftha British.
How would Englishmen like it ? How
long would hereditary government stand,
or the majority of the members con-
sent to cross the ocean to sit in Lon-
don instead of getting the minority to
cross it and sit in New York? England
would become the province, and America
DR. HERBERT VAUGHAN, R.C. BISHOP OP SALFORD.


THE PALACE
GRANITE TOILET SET,
6 Pieces, 7s. 6d.
ANTHONY HORDEBN & SONS,
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket (only).
QUOD FACIMUS VALDE FACIMUS.
(What we do we do well.)
YOUR PHOTO-If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful photograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is hut well-meant
counsel, and pay first a visit to
the Vestibule leading to the Fur-
llngton Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can Inspect an
array of portraiture.not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, coupled with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
v ». You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost inlversal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as photographers.
Prices—C.-D.-V., 15s.; Cabinets. 30s. per doz- n.
CREELMAN & CO,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON A CO.'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MABEEi? CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
HAS THE
STOCK OP
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT PROM THE MANUFACTURERS,
pr Fashionable and First-clasa GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
Annual Income exceeds One Million,
Llghtnlnsr and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
8Ei all Bottle, , 4s. Od.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
Prom Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
A /STRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is 6d. per Bottle
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT
3s. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lo west possible Prices.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
ls,9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke s Prize Medal Brand,
In stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
SYDNEY.
RAW VASELINE
A
SOFTENS and Preserves Horses’ Hoofs, Kill*
Parasites, and prevents their growth. i n .
valuable as a Leather Preservative, rendering it
soft, pliable, and waterproof, and prevents it
cracking. From its anti-corrosive qualities, un.
equalled for keeping free from rust and in
perfect order all metal goods, firearms, machines
&o. It is the sole material used for the above
purposes in the Austrian and German armies
Sold by all Saddlers and Storekeepers.
SOLE AGENTS :
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS
125 York-street, Sydney.
A. & C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
SIS 6EOK6E STREET.
Next Peapes and Shaw.
’ The most liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
A. & C. Huenerbein,
818 GEORGE STREET.
PRESS NOTICE.
WH. L. BAILEY, the well-known Queens-
• land and New South Wales Journalist,
begs to announce that he has relinquished country
Press life, and intends for the future devoting his
attention to a CITY AGENCY, in which his exten-
sive and varied experience in Journalistic, Mining,
Land, and general affairs, may bo utilised for the
public advantage and to his own benefit.
Commissions executed in all branches.
Address: 44 CASTLEREAGH-STKEET, SYDNEY,
opposite City Mutual Life Soclety.
H. L. BAILEY, Auctioneer, &c ,44 Castie-
reagh-street.
W.
w.
H. L. BAILEY, Journalist, Newsmonger,
&c., 44 Castlereagh-street.
\V.
vv.
w.
H. L BAILEY, Mining and Land Agent,
44 Castlereagh-street.
H. L. BAILEY, Musical and Theatrical
Agent, 44 Castlereagh-street.
H. L. BAILEY, Land, Estate, and Mining
Agent, 44 Castlereagh-strret.
W.
H. L. BAILEY, Press Writer. Spicy
Articles supplied to Country Papers.
44 Castlereagh-street.
AV.
W.
w;
H. L. BAILEY, Parliamentary and De-
putationialng Agent. 44 Castlereagh-at.
H. L. BAILEY, Hotel Broker, 44 Castle-
reagh street.
H. L BAILEY, Land, Estate, and Pro
perty Agent, 44 Castlereegh-street.
WH. L. BAILEY, Insurance Broker. Life,
. Fire, and Marine Insurances effected. 44
Castlereagh street. ______
WH. L. BAILEY, the well-known Pressman,
• offers his services as secretary to Ball,
Banquet, Picn c, or Entertainment Committees. 44
Castlereagh-street. Sydney.
W,
H. L BAILEY, Rent and Account Col-
i lector, 44 Castlereagh-street.
WH. L. BAILEY offers his experienced
• services to directors of mining and other
companies as secretary or manager. Office pro-
yided. 44 Castlereagh-street.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE.
MAD UHE ELI 3D,
PARI3IENNE DRESSMAKER AND SPECIAL
STAYMAKER,
BEGS to call Ladies’ attention to her euperior
FIT, TASTE, and exceptionally reasonable
charges. All orders receive her personal attention
and superintendence.
138 COLLINS SIREETjBAST.
YDNEY PROGRESSIVE BOOK STALL.
s
* Reply to Rev. Dj Witt Talmege,” 61,
“ What must I do to be Saved,” Od.
“ Moses - Mistakes in God's Book,” 6d,
“ Take a Road of Your Own,” 3d.
Which Way.”
“ The True Principles of Population,” 3J.
Country orders, 28 RILEY STREET : or,
GEORGE STREET MARKETS every Saturday.
J. DUNNE.
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS
WATCHES i
WHY be foolish, and buy a bad watcb, which
is dear at any price, and gives no end of
trouble. If you buy one of
ROTHERHAM’S COMPENSATION BALANCE
AND JEWELLED WATCHES
from C. GRANT, you will never want another, a*
they are, without doubt, the Best Watches in the
market.
Guaranteed for 5 years. Price, only £6 10s.
Sent post free to any part of the country. Special
attention given to country orders.
C. GRANT, Watchmaker,
584 George street, Sydney.
Established 1890.
aftm b»foh» MOUSTA0H3 and WEISEE2S. »erotm
Boyd'a BeardFlistirdid this,and
will do it on either Said head or
bare face, foi rea hear % y Mona .
tacheinfrom2 to 4 weeks and never
fails, 20,000 young men already
wear full beards, having used 1 to
a j>ki». no injury, easily applied, eertain <» effect. * —— .
each, 3 for 3*. 6 d.,post paid, sent under cover, free from observation u
Address, Frank Douglas. Sole Agent, Box 730. G.P.O., Sydney, W
Copyrighted.
Copyrighted .
Packets U-
THE RATES or SUBSCRIPTION to THE BULLETIN
are—For one year, 24s ; half-year, 13s. 8a.:
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
Thb Advertising Rates are 5s. per inch!
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per Inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows :—On ad-
vertisements ordered lor 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions!
16 per cent.; For 52 consecutive Insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
h® made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
the parent state.” The very same questions
and many more besides, would arise in a
comparatively few years, should Mr. Ser-
vice’s desire to represent an Australian
constituency in the House of Commons ever
come to pass.
* * *
By the colonial journals which bellowed
for the despatch of the Contingent, a good
deal was made of the “moral” effect their
appearance on the Red Sea littoral wou
have on the, autocrats of Europe. Those
merciless tyrants were to tremble ia their
shoes when the bugles of the New south
Wales veterans awoke the echoes around
Suakim. By Bismarck, the news was sup-
posed to have been read with amazement
not unmixed with terror. Still, a9 heat
once annexed one or two more Pacific
islands, the latter feeling probably wore oil
quickly. Nor did the intelligence slacken
the Russian movenunton Pendjeh. Thefact
of men of mature years sitting down to write
and tell us of the “ moral ” effects produced
on the masters of a thousand legions by a few
hundred raw troops, many of whom had
never shouldered a musket before, shows
what an amount of unconscious humour
there is in human nature after all. Yet,
there is one question that Mr. Dalley may
fairly claim to have solved. It is that of
standing armies. It is not too much to say
that if all troops were paid like the lads we
sent against the Mahdi, there would shortly
be a reign of universal peace and bankruptcy
on earth. No monarch, however proud,
could afford to keep more than a grenadier
and a drummer or two constantly under
arms. Late English papers assure us that
the presence of the New South Wales soldiers,
with their five shillings a day, has com-
pletely demoralised “ Tommy Atkins.’ He
is no longer the formidable fighting animal
he was. He mopes and continues absent-
minded. But, after all, the singular good
fortune of Mr. Ballet in venturing into a
pit, and afterwards discovering a way out
of it, is little less than phenomenal. Mr.
Gladstone deteimined to give up the
Soudan and come to terms with Russia, of
which circumstances one appeared im-
possible, and the other unlikely, a month
ago. Here was Mr. Dalley’s second oppor-
tunity, and, to do him justice, he availed
himself of it with touching alacrity. None
will welcome the men back more warmly than
t*r e —possibly because we think they should
never have been sent. We trust they will be
the, last, as they have been the first, to be
despatched on such an errand. There is but
one thing that would reconcile us to the
Bending of another. It is that the pro-
prietors and editors, under 70 years of age,
of the Australian journals which advise
interference in future complications at the
other end of the world, should be formed
into a company, sent at once to the scene of
operations, and given the post of honour in
front when any particularly bloody work
was expected. If the Ministries of the vai i-
ous colonies would but agree to this, the
peace of Australia would be assured for
ever.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Te Deum.
h (3reAt and manifold were the etcete) as when it
pleased the Almighty to send ”-an erratic gentle-
man named James “ to reign over us” was the
opening hurrah of the band of learned doctors,
who, as Spenckb salth, “ dedicated such a Book
to such a man,” and now that our splitters are
coming back to the rusting wedge, our warlike
tailors and drapers to their trusty 33-lnch yard-
sticks, and sundry gentlemen whose patriotism
proves that the ferocity of an Arab is less to be
feared than a Sydney creditor or an infuriated
husband with a divorce petition in his coat-tail
pooket-now that they are returning, not like the
old Jewish conquerors with “ much cattle,” but
without horses even, although possibly with the
balance of that 800 goats remaining uneaten, and
the seven donkeys for presentation to the:seven
leading scribes of the New South Wales Jingo Press
as a token of brotherly appreciation-now, we
say, that they are coming home, throats are being
cleared for a lusty Te Deum that no throats have
been cut, and that the greatest damage done has
been amongst quack remedies for ague. The
S.M. Herald has bidden the solemn organ blow,
the Evening News is looking to the office catgut,
and the end of the big drum of the Sydney D.T. is
being repaired previous to performing (for this
occasion only I) the impossible feat of outdoing
itself, and commemorate the feat of swallowing
a sword. Roll up, gentlemen; roll up I We’ve
made fools of ourselves before, and can do it again.
We have made fools of you, and your lighting
men, and we have made fools of you before the
world. Praise ye the Lord I
In Her Caps.
It is painful to perceive that the mortifying
fizzle of the Soudan business has been too much
for Mrs. Gamp’s nerves, and that apparently she
has been putting her lips to the bottle “ when so
dispoged.” Everyone will remember how she
Justified Mr. Dalley’s unconstitutional haste and
disregard of Parliament, by alleging that the
mother country was In desperate straits,
and might succumb, were not instant help
sent from New South Wale?. Our [artist
has depicted the old lady trying to get
through a very large humble pie, with a very
small spoon, but there is also evidence that the
old woman has hysterical fit?, or is afflicted by
“spazzums.” She babbled in a leader last week
that, so far from there having been anv reality in
the excuses she has been pleading In defence of
Daixey’s phrenzy, the whole proceeding was due
simply to a sentiment. Hark to her hiccup
“ The origin of the Contingent was in sentiment.
The colony sprang to the thrill of a sentiment,
which, constantly increasing and deepening, Be-
came an all-controlling Impulse. Let us oner
ourselves,’ was the first idea; and, when the glad
and joyful news came that the otter had been ac-
cepted. followed the resolve—‘Let us do all things
splendidly, magnificently; we will send men—they
shall be our best; horses—there shall be prepared
such chary cm as the Imperial Guard never bestrode.
We will charter the greatest ships, we will nil
them with all manner of provisions, we will send
our soldiers out paid, provisioned, and clothed as
gentlemen—every one.’ And thus they went tne
finest-equipped, highest-paid regiment that ever
moved to tight under any Hag of the world. 1 hey
were not ashed to do any serious fighting , they
were only permitted to display willingness and
efficiency in drill and on parade. The war died
out, the need passed, and the trumpets sounded
the return.”
The italics are ours.' But we regard it as necessary
to impress upon our readers that the quotation is
verbatim from a leading article in the Sydney
Morning Herald of this week. We need not
add a word to the extract. A bitterer satire on
the whole Soudan business was never penned
than this one, contributed by the most ardent and
muddle-pated newspaper among all the Press ad-
vocates of that immoral outrage and colossal
blunder.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de
plume cannot expect to have thair com-
munications noticed .]
“P.S.”: A man doesn’t lead a woman to
“ the hymeneal altar.” He leads her /remit....
“ J.B.”: tV hen the girl you admire comes home
one night late to supper without her left earring-
it need not matter what she tells the family , you
have no occasion to trouble any more. We have
tried it ourselves—with another fellow s girl...•
“Marcus”: Why don’t you tell us that a wombat
has :been mistaken for the Mayor of Croaglngo-
long 1. .., “ Coma”: The “ par.” you send regarding
the two new-chum Irishmen and the gohanna
Is a badly-played variation on anoldtheme
“C. K.”(Cudgegong): Many thanks.... W. Jack-
son”: Before trying poison, see what chloride of
lime, well distributed round your premises, will
do. Rats can’t endure it—“ Wagga : Thank*...
“Biz Roma”: Much obliged for the Information.
Your correspondence is welcome. .. 'Freddy :
Judging from your cartoon, you must be very ill
Indeed. ..“W. J.”: There is only one Victorian
knight In London named Sir 8 , and there is only
one prominent Queensland mining man in London
whose surname begins with M. bo that one can
nlainlv see to whom the E. News statements apply.
“ P W ” • We are told that the Zealandia’s last pas-
sage to ’Frisco was the fastest-23 days 19 hours....
“ J C ”: Sorry to say we do not know the poem —
“MSB.”: The Evening News is wrong. If you
turn up the back of a telegram form, you will at
once see that the Government cannot be held re-
sponsible for mistakes or delays in messages to any
extent over £5, There is positively no redress, no
matter what amount of injury is done, except by
going for the negligent oilloial In propria persona,
and in most cases such a course would not pay....
“ W 8 *’• Yes; but we notice that Mr. Stuart didn t
subscribe his little 50 sovereigns to the “ Patriotic
Fund” until there loomed upon the martial hor-
zon a thundering good chance of his getting it
back againJoseph Hutton : Glad to hear from
you again Send address....“Sheriff ’ : Thanks....
n Obex ”: Next Iesuo. Glad to hear from you....
“ Mark Lander ”: We never knew a man to take
to bowls unless he weighed 15 stone, and suffered
from a complication caused by over-eating. We
don’t wish to insult anyone, when we state that
bowls is, in our opinion, purely a glutton s game...
“Maiso”: We aren’t any longer interested in Mr.
O’Dynamite Rossa...■“Carolus : Good verse, but
too unkind....“R.T.R.”: We don’t deal in such
things... “Sir Fretful Plagiary”: As if George
Augustus Sala would bo such a tool as to try and
palm off Cowper’s “Jackdaw ” as an orlgmal com-
position of his own!...." W. T. Paul : Wed like
to see you. ..“ L D.” : Your verses to Dora
are prettily simple. But in this case you should
send your name as a guarantee of originality....
•* q # p, Fye”: Very #ood. Next week A. M.
Meake’s”: Will consider...." X.”: Held oyer.....
“ Rodney” (Victoria): The Bulletin objects to
make Itself the vehicle of your malice.... 4 Copna-
barabra”: Patriotic songs being just now a drug
in the market, we must allow your friend s effu-
sion to stand and cool a bit— W. F. G. : Ttie
alleged reason why the Theatre Royal manage-
ment refused to allow their company to take part
in the Clarke benefit was, we believe, that Mrs.
Clarke refused in any way to explain certain
statements offensive to Williamson, Garner, and
Co. made'in letters published some time ago in
Melbourne, with her consent and approval.
44 Oyster Johnnie” : Excellent. Will illustrate
next week.
All inferior articles must disappear before
the genuine Wolfe's Schnapps. Be sure you
obtain Wolfe’s.
Methought as the sun shed his last parting gleam,
Ere he passed through the gates of the West,
That I saw in his radiance in letters of gold—
H. L. Summerfleld’s suits are the best.*
THE LATE WM. O’CARROLL, JOURNALIST.
(Vide page 7.)


POLITICAL POINTS.
There is to be “ modified ” Home Rule for
r-iiand This meins a “bag and baggage” sauve
irut f <r the non-I.ish officials who, for so
anv years like huge ootopi, have sucked the
life-blood out of tha country.
The Victcrian Redemption 4= per cent,
wo ooo loan, subscribed nearly three times over,
rrlnders of £100 13j. to receive 80 per cent, above
riTof amount in full. Deducting Interest and
charges, tbo price realised 1s £98 18s. Id, the
Highest figure yet reached by Victoria.
The incidents of the battle of Hasheen,
aether with simost every event of the Egyptian
10ld t0 conclusion, siys a home
P*P®r. that the British army of to-day is precisely
what It was pronounced to be 30 years back—one
~??P 08ed °f lions, led by nothing better than
military donkeys.
There was once a King of Congo who wore
ms head-dress rather cocked over his ear. One
hay the wind blew it off, and he instantly imposed
a new tax on those of his subjects residing In the
quarter where the wind blew from. This is the
q?i °Vj ;kl ing which will happen in Australia, if we
auow Dailey to continue making war.
Governments are judged now by the suc-
,,®88 of their wars. If the French array hid been
«u cressful. M. Ferry would have remained a
Powerful Minister; yet the merits of the war with
Rhh u are same in victory and defeit. The
no. 8 h Government narrowly escaped defeat be-
aaPfl Khartoum fell; yet if Khartoum had been
earn the M* nisterial policy, good or bad, was the
Melbourne papers twit the only Dailey
concerning his expressed desire for federal action,
and want to know why he, the zealous opponent
of federation, was selected by thi Admiral to
arrange this matter with the other Premiers Mr.
Service, chairman of the Federal Convention,
should have been communicated with in the drat
instance.
Lord Rosebery, the patron of Australian
Jingoism, objects to the phrase, “butcher and
bolt,” applied to the recent proceedings In the
Soudan. We cordially agree. The phrase is in-
correct. “Butcher and screw” would be nearer
the mark. The first term to apply to Gladstone,
who commanded the slaughter, the second to the
“ financiers,” who lent money to the Khedive at
2C per cent.
Though lovely, you know, he is only
mortal, after all; and when he curls up in bis little
hotel bed in the Macleay district at night; and
notwithstanding that the local champagne is
cavorting about the underdone turkey while ho is
composing himself to slumber, his last mumbled
words are always, “They’d hardly make me .”
Then he “ falls oif.” There’s no “ dying plain Bill
Dallev ” about little Bob Burdett Smith, M.L.A. of
N.S.W.
The Times advocates the imposition of
3d. a pound tax on tea. By this means the poor of
England would have the satisfaction of paying for
a war they condemned. What we would suggest
would be a tax of (say) 50 per cent, on all landed
property over a certain quantity, and 99 per cent,
on the income of all newspapers which supported
the expedition. Why, a year’s income from these
sources would not only wipe out the Soudan busi-
ness, but the National Debt. We would give
N.S. Wales the privilege of participating in both
taxes.
When it wag announced that in the event
of war the Duke of Connaught would command a
division in Beloochistan, Radical England woke
up and barked. It was no wonder. When we re-
member the humiliations that attended our armies
when commanded by preceding royal dukes we
can understand why English Radicalism arched its
back and prepared to make fur fly. And the
threat was not in vain, tor long before the war
e'oud passed, it was announced, seml-offi dally,
that “The plans of the Duke and Duchess of Con-
naught have undergone several changes lately.
They will return to England at once, and the Duke
will not command a division in Beloochistan.”
Nor anywhere else, let us hope. In taking blue-
blooded dowagers down to dinner In Mayfair, or
presenting costermongers with prize donkeys In
Whitechapel. His Royal Highness will be far more
advantageously employed than in defending the
passes of Afghanistan. Should this young man
make a blunder as general of a division, and
leave half his men in an ambush, what commander
would condemn him ? Not Wolseley, certainly.
He knows ever so much better. He it was who
telegraphed to Her Majesty from Tel-el-Kebir to
say how gallantly her son bore himself. The
young fellow was in reserve with the “guards”
on the side farthest from where the enemy was
massed. But one guardsman, it will be remem-
bered, was wounded on the ocsasion. His gun
kicked and threw him.
It. was clever and—characteristic. It hap-
pened five years ago, when some thumb-biting
was going on between the colossi, Germany and
Russia The Russians quietly massed Immense
forces on the borders of Poland, ready for any-
thlnsr that might turn up. Bismarck had the most
chililike faith in his old ally, but. at the same
time, he gave orders to the Intelligence Depart-
ment of the army, and a few days afterwards in
every second window In ‘Berlin appeared a large
map of the Polish frontier, with the position and
strength of every Russian regiment and battery—
the number of guns, means of transport, and
every detail, down to th® facings of the various
corps. The hint was taken, and, within a week,
more Muscovite troops were tumbling over each
other, going east from the Polish boundary, than
would overrun India.
From the London Court Journal:— “The
Queen’s well-known thoughtful care for the
welfare of her subjects often takes a practical
? or example, when the trousseau for
H.R.H. Princess Beatrice was ordered, it was in-
timated that Irish linens and Scotch embroideries
were to be used in preference to cambric and em-
broideries of foreign make. This means that
several hundreds of pounds will pass directly
through the usual trade channels into the hands
of British workmen and workwomen, instead of
going to foreigners.” Bab! How many thousands
of pounds go from British workmen every year to
bladder-headed German babies and to their
starveling parents ? It’s “ too thin” to try and
take the|edge off the Government-by-forelgnersys-
tem, by giving home manufactures an order for a
few yards of lace to deck the petticoats of the
lager-swigging pauper’s bride.
Of course every one wants value for their
money—Wolfe's Schnapps ia the beat value you
can obtain.
“ Man wants little here below
The statement causes mirth;
B it, if he goes to Summerfleld,
He'll get bis money’s worth.*
If a man tells you he keeps the best
brands just look If he has Wolfe's Schnapps. II
not be has told you an untruth.
His Tail: A Natural Conclusion.
“ I1UPPER SERVANT" (imprited); “DON’T WANT.NO BONE? THEN WOT ’AVE YE BEEN WAGGING YER TAIL ABOUT? HEVERY BODY ON THESE
PREMISES THOUGHT YER WAS ’UNGRY!”


Personal Items
The personalty of the late Ratcliffe Pnug,
Supreme Court Judge of Queensland, was sworn
under only £200.
Mr. Farnell, the N.S.W. Minister for
Lands, is suffering from sciatica. Other people
call it “irate squatters.”
The money with which H.R.IT. Princess
Beatrice is to support Prince Lazarus of Batten-
berg has just been voted by the English Parlia-
ment.
The Mudgee Independent says A. G.
Taylor, M.L.A, was born in 1877. So that he is
now eight years old. When will the boy be done
growing ?
“On Bismarck’s 70th birthday (1st April)
Kaiser William kissed him three times on the
mouth.” Flous Billy appears to have lost the
nice discrimination he once bad.
“It’s on it’s way out, Dailey!” cried G. R.
Dibbs, excitedly. “What the ” “Yes, old
man, I knew it would pleise you—the new ten-
tonner for Middle Head.” “ Good news, indeed,”
said W.B.D, faintly—and he stepped out to toy
with the plants in the conservatory.
A member of a well-known theatrical firm
will have the felicity of posing as co-respondent
in a theatrical divorce case soon to be heard In
Melbourne. The respondent is a lady well known
in Sydney, where she has done much platonic
“ mashing,” and mown down countless scores of
the baldheaded.
In the Argus and the Age the same letter
appears from Sunbury Clarke. But in the former
paper the signature is “ W. J. Clarke,” while
r * David Syme” gives it “ Sir W. J. Clarke, Bart.”
We have read both papers for years. We know
that in this case, at all events, one must be stating
a falsehood. And, after all these years, we couldn t
conscientiously guess which. The most feasible
assumption is that Sir William didn’t write a letter
at all.
Fowler, of the Cooktown Independent,
recently wrote an unfavourable critique on a
theatrical company, and two of them “laid” for
the editor, and damaged him to a legal tune
of £8 5s. Much satisfaction was expressed, we be-
lieve, in theatrical circles, at the gallant conduct
of the comedians in taking the law into their own
bands and cruelly beating the said Mr. Fowler;
that gentleman being a line, stalwart, lissome,
truculent young fellow of about—701
At a wedding breakfast, not very long
ago, a Hibernian member of tho N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly, who is an irrepressible gusher, proposed
the health of the bridegroom’s parents, and in the
course of his oration, said something about them
being “in the sere and yellow leat.” A quiet
•nigger at once went round the table, as the old
lady, who was very much in evidence on the occa-
sion, happened at the time to be slowly recover-
ing from a severe attack of jaundice.
FOR THE GRAVE OF GORDON.
“ 1 had rather be dead than praised."—C.O.O.
** By those for whom he lived, he died; his land
Awoke too late and crowned dead brows with
praise.
He, ’neath the blue that burns o'er Libyan sand,
Put off the burden of heroic days.
There, strong by death, by failure glorified,
0, never proud in life, lie down in pridel”
—Journal of Education.
Lord Granville, in the House of Lords,
wished to know if General M’Neill still retained
the confidence of the Duke of Cambridge, Com-
mander-In-Chief. The Duke was in the House,
but the Duke, if not brave or able, is at least
crafty. He wished to avoid answering the ques-
tion. so he persuaded the Marquis of Salisbury to
interpose to prevent the query being pressed.
The result of this conspiracy against the public
Interest was that the question was not put, and
the skeleton General M’Neill, a royal pet, is
allowed to remain in his fatal command.
Last week, writes a ’Frisco paper of the
11th ult., 20,000 eulogies and epitaph* were written
and set up in the newspaper offices of the United
States, in hourly anticipation of General Grant's
death. He did not die, however, but with that
dogged tenacity which has marked his career, he
has held on to the brittle thread. When the in-
evitable comes, much of the gush will be toned
down, and the spread-eagle panegyrics will have
lost half their odiousness. In hanging on to life so
long, the General has, with the wisdom of his
fighting days, proved that his head is level.
They are “ readying-up ” a blasphemy-
prosecution against Thadeus O'Kane, who, when
a Presbyterian clergyman who was also a life-
assurance agent, recently visited Charters Towers,
said: “ This reverend 4 sky pilot,’ not satisfied with
being advance agent for Gabriel, as a curious
combination announces that he will insure lives
and bodies against accident. Probably in the lat-
ter game he is heaven-inspired, as by keeping the
bones together there will not be such a scrimmage
for stray bones on the Last Day. Christianity
and money travel hand-in-hand now-a-days
Gladys, Countess of Lonsdale (whose
kissing adventures withILord Durham came un-
der public notice in the recent great nullity of
marrriage suit), is again engaged to be married.
The Earl de Grey la the fiat ce, and it is stated
that the Earl of Durham will be “ best man.” Her
ladyship is sister to the Earl of Pembroke (who
was out In Australian waters years ago in his
yacht, and had a hand In the authorship of that
capital book, “South Sea Bubbles”.) She is 25
years of age, and has a little daughter four years
of age. Earl de Grey is seven years her senior,
and is heir to the Marquisate of Ripon, and
£50,000 a year.
It is reported of Mac, M.L.A., that once
after having an easy shave at a barber’s, he said
to the tonsorial professor: "You’re a first-rate
hand. I shall patronise you reg’lar now.” He re-
turned after three days in a spiky condition only
to find the shutters of tho shop up, and upon a
paper nailed to one of them was the following
legend :—
• Removed to proosla :
; Havenue Thibet,
; near the residence of the Shawer. :
General Gordon started for Khartoum in
dress trousers and waistcoat.
In the telegram concerning the “ feed ”
given to the Governor-elect of New South Wales,
Lord Carlngton, by Saul Samuel, it is stated that
that patronising “ guinea-pig,” “ the Duke of
Manchester, predicted that the colonies would, in
the course of time, surpass Britain.” That “ pre-
dicted” is real; talent. Let’s see. Australia is
nearly as large as Europe, or, say, 18 or 20 times
the size of the British Islands. By-and-bye it will
support a population of two or three hundred
millions. It has mineral deposits to which those of
Britain are as a " one-man's claim” to the Ballarat
field. And Manchester thinks that it “ only re-
quires time to surpass Britain.” Then let us bless
the enterprise of the rich and good Australian
■nobs who get far-seeing “ predictions" like this
telegraphed to us from the other side of the world I
It was quite a huge mistake for such dull com-
monplace drivellers as the Duke of Manchester
ever to give us Australians a show of sampling
their real quality. They should have [stood off for
all eternity, and let us admire them as we admire
the Great Unknown, the Almighty Maker of the
Universe.
There is an old familiar legend that when a
harness-broken horse which has never been backed
before is mounted by Major Smith, of Victoria, he
(the horse) goes along quite quietly, the gallant
Majah’s feet being so long that Bucephalus mis-
takes them for shafts. But the warrior who has
hitherto enjoyed the enviable distinction of being
supposed to possess the most gigantic pair ot
human hoofs this side of the line has now
*' knocked under” to a juvenile who the other day
strolled into the shop of a Castlemalne shoemaker
named Zlnkler, and overwhelmed him with
a contract for a pair of boots. This promising
youth, who is known as the “ Castlsmalne Giant,
stands 6ft. 4in. in his stockings, and his grass-
hopper-crushers, which are real No. 19's measure
as follows:—Each boot is 15ln long, n. wide on
the sole; 4in. wide over the toe, and the heel is4in.
by 4in. As regards the feet of the giant, the sole
is in size, the heel 19in. round, instep 14m ,
toel2J4in-i and the ankle 15in. Heavens! What a
foot lor the father of a family to apply to the un-
guarded portion of his only daughter’s clandestine
sweetheart.
With the exception of the verdict in The
BULLETiN-Clontarf case, that in the libel suit of
Dove v. the London Referee 1b perhaps the
choicest example of what juries will do when they
lose their heads or there’s a newspaper to be
“slated.” Mr. Owen Dove is stage manager of the
Avenue Theatre, London. For years ho has suf-
fered from spinal disease, and is as lame as Vulcan.
At the theatre, a piece called “Not a word” was
produced. He took part in it. The Referee
criticised his acting, called his walk “tottering, ’
and, in quite a sympathetic way, told him that
good taste should induce him to leave off personat-
ing characters which forced his unfortunate ail-
ment on public notice. Dove brought an action,
and “ potted ” the paper for £300. Nobody denied
that Dove had spinal disease, nor that he hobbled.
So that it has come io this, that if a man limps on
the stage, critics must say that ho walks like a
guardsman; if be croaks, that his voice is of the
bes t timbre; if he is tipsy and arouses the blood-
thirstiness of the pit, that he belongs to the inner
circle of Salvationists, and was received with
triumph instead of turnips. Happy papers! Happy
public I
“There were,” writes Henniker Heaton,
speaking of a dinner at Mr. Walter Wood's in
London; “ there were present Mr. H. M. Stanley,
the African explorer and discover of Livingstone;
Mr. E. L. Lawson, the smart proprietor of the
Daily Telegraph, which claims to have the
preatest circulation in the world; Lord Rowton,
Lord Beaconstield's great friend and private secre-
tary; Mr. Francis Knollys, the private secretary
to the Prince of Wales; Lord Bury, the dis-
tinguished Roman Catholic Peer, who toundedtho
Royal Colonial Institute: Dr. Quain, the famous
wit, physician, and lexicographer : Sir Edward
Watkin, chairman South-Eastern Railway, and
originator of the Channel tunnel; Sir Ralph
Thompson, director, War Office; Dr. Cotton, Mr.
Arthur Wood, and myself—13 altogether." All
doubts as to civilization being a failure must now
bo at an end. Still, for all that, we cannot help
thinking that did we, in Sydney, ask Hennikcr to
dinner, the following is the company we should
invite in his honor:—Garden Honey, Luke the
Pieman, Thumby Davis, Whispering Charlie, Echo
Jack, Orator Perry, Ted Windsor, Ballington
Booth, The Dublin Jew, Frank Warden, Manley
Fluker, and - yes—R. Skuthorpe, Esq.—“ 13 in all,”
as Henalker has it.
L. M. Bayless,the “American Eagle,” that
guileless, good old man, whose wisdom was once a
trifle too much for that of even the mighty
Solomon (of the Sydney Gaiety Theatre) appears
to have fallen on parlous times in ’Frisco. One P.
H. M’Elhinny, an agent, having obtained a verdict
against him touching the settlement of a little bill,
the injured L.M. not only declined to put up the
cash, but also refused to leave his famous diamond
ring as security with the sheriff that the money
would eventually be forthcoming. Rather than
consent to this, our old friend, we read in the
Alta, “ vowed that ho might be burned at a stake,
but he would never surrender his ring while there
was breath in his body.” The tactics pursued by
savages towards well-fed missionaries were not
resorted to, but the Judge sent our hero along to
gaol for 24 hours, in order, as he delicately pointed
out, to give him time to reflect, and to open his
eyes to the fact that “there was a vast difference
between managing a theatrical troupe, and at-
tempting to run a tribunal of justice.” Very little
of that seclusion which the stone-jug grants seems
to have gone a very long with the brilliant impres-
sario, for he turned over his ring (which he values
greatly as a heirloom) to the tender care of the
Court, and once more sniffed the glorious air of
liberty.
“ What may happen to a man in Victoria”
was made painfully apparent one day last week,
when Alexander Forbes toed the scratch at the
Melbourne Circuit Court to receive his sentence
for obtaining money under false pretences. Per-
fectly broken down, the poor fellow said he had
fought for his country in the Crimean, New Zea-
land, and Zulu wars, where he gained medals for
his gallant conduct. He had been an actor and
journalist in Australasia. He had been the beat
accountant in Adelaide, and was known to all the
principal men there. In the N.S.W. railway ser-
vice he had worked himself up from a platelayer
to stetlonmaster at Jung Jung station. He had
won £14.000 on the last A.J.C. races, which would
have been paid him to-night if he had not been in
trouble. He had contributed several sketches to
the papers here under the rmm de plume of Bo-
hemian.” He had been on a station in N.S.W.,
where, by his own industry, he advanced himself
from labourer to manager. He had been a war
correspondent, and was cousin to the greatest of
all war correspondents, Archibald Forbes. He had
a wife and family, and begged mercy on their ac-
count. We are a trifle sceptical ourselves about
the £14,000 and a few other items enumerated, but
the prisoner’s story evidently told on Judge
Trench, who let him off with 8 months.
The Earl of Shrewsbury (who is patron of
13 livings in the Church of England I) took bis seat in
the House of Lords the other day and it was noticed
by those present that his lordship did not take any
notice of his fellow cab-proprietor, the Duke of
Marlborough (who, by the way, has been entrusted
by the Almighty with the control of the destinies
of no less than 13 livings). This coldness between
tho illustrious pair, remarks an English paper, is
scarcely as it should be, for a new party might
easily be formed with the motto “ Hate your
neighbour and love your neighbour’s wife,” with
the two “distinguished noblemen” at its head.
As the law stands, the Duke of Norfolk, the Mar-
quis of Ripon. and Sir Tatton Sykes, solely in con-
sequence of their religious belief, cannot present
anyone to a living, whereas such dissolute earls as
Shrewsbury, such wife-beaters as the Duke of
Marlborough (who thrashed his wife v hile en-
ceinte, solely because she naturally enough remon-
strated against his continued adulterous inter-
course with another man’s wife), and such de-
bauchees as the late Lord Aylesford are free to
present whom they may to the “cures” of
thousands of souls. What a satire this is upon re-
ligion I The se are the kind of men the archbishops
and bishops shake hands with in the House of
Lords and fraternise with at dinner parties.
The famous Bernal-Osborne, who assumed
his second surname when he married the only
child (and also the estates) of Sir Thomas Osborne,
had a brother, who, if he did not assume, had at
all events given to him another name—“ Balloon
Bernal.” On the point of being arrested for a
debt one night at Cremorne, he asked the Sheriff 's
officer to wait a bit, and, suddenly jumping into a
ba loon, disappeared from the gaze of the as-
tonished legal functionary. He turned up, in the
gold fever, at the Bendigo diggings, and was after-
wards one of the Commissioners at Baglehawk.
For some time before his return to England,
‘ Balloon” Bernal lived at the Union Hotel, in
Bourke street, in those days kept by Mr. Twisden
Hodges, an ex member for Kent, in the House of
Commons. Barnal was a very extraordinary-
looking man, straight as an arrow, and thin as a
lath, with a Jong flowing beard, wonderfully pene-
trating eye, and decidedly Jewish nose, for his
father—old Ralph Bernal, the chairman of com-
mittees of the House of Commons—was un-
doubtedly of the persuasion, though he denied it,
of Benjamin Disraeli. Melbourne Punch brought
out about that time a scries of portraits-
‘ Men of the Day ’’—which included our friend of
ballooning notoriety. He did not relish it, and
going to the Punch office, assaulted the editor,
for which he was duly fined.
Rewi, the Maori chief who performed the
ceremony of turning the first sod of the North
island Central railway, the other day, was com-
mander of the Maori forces at Orakau during the
war 31 years ago. When the little garrison was
summoned to surrender, thanswer made by the
chief was: “ We will fight for ever and ever. Wo
will not surrender.” When the interpreter urged
the Maoris to send away their women and
children, they replied, “Our women will fight
too.” The place was surrounded on all sides
but one, and on that side was what seemed
an impassable swamp. They were starving, their
ammunition was nearly all expended, but never-
theless they fought with desperate valour for two
days. When General Cameron made sure they
were in his power the cry was suddenly raised,
“they are escaping.” With Rewi at their head,
protecting their women and children they plunged
into the swamp, and escaped after being pursued
for several miles. An English soldier described
how an unarmed Maori, on that occasion, pro-
tected the women and children fleeing with him.
As his pursuers approached, he turned and knelt
down to take deliberate aim. Time after time,
without firing a shot, he thils arrested the pursnif
while the woman fled. At last he was himself shot
and it was found that his gun was unloaded’
Several of the women escaped by means of th«
self-sacrifice of this nameless Maori hero. 0
Old colonists have at least heahd of the
De Cartaret-Bisson family, one of whofii was
drill-instructor to the first volunteer corps formed
in Melbourne ever so many years ago. Prom
Vanity FAIr:— “ At length he has
glance at the following advertisement places it
beyond, doubt: 4 De Cartaret-BisSon.—March 2<>.
at No. 34, St. Luke’s Road, Westbourne Park w *
the wife of Frederick Shirley Dumaresq de Car’
taret-Bisson, junior, of a son (Frederick Reginald
Hugh Shirley De Bagot Dumaresq de Cartaret) 4
I have often heard of a man being a host in him'
self, but never could thoroughly realise It till
now. But the more I look at it, the more con-
vinced I am that Frederick Reginald Hugh Shir-
ley De Bagot Dumaresq de Cartaret-Bisson can
give any other white man about two Christian
names and one surname of a start and walk in
hands down. What airing of the old Crusaders
there is about it, tool I can imagine Hugh Shirley
De Bagot ere he married into the Dumaresq family
and acquired the broad aces of Citaret, i n
the sunny province of Normandy, charging the
infidels on the dusty plains of Palestine with one
of our own unregarded ancestors beside him, and
the dying foe around him. In fancy I can see the
Lion-hearted Richard calling across the supper-
tabla, after some desperate engagement: 4 A glass
with you, my gallant Shirley, valiant knight and
true! Alas! those days are passed for ever, a
lunatic asylum stands now where of ynre the tall
towers of the Castle de Cartaret reared their
proud heads: but it is satisfactory to know that at
present there seems little chance of the family be-
coming extinct. Twenty-one years hence what a
flutter will pass through the breasts of the
daughters of impoverished landlords when tfie
door opens and the stately butler announces the
arrival of Mr. Bagot Damtherest de Cartwright ’
With what contempt he will eye us poor knocked-
out old boys with one little insignificant appella-
tion!” Allot which reminds us that in the days
of Imperial regime, in Victoria, the gentleman
who filled the office of Colonial Secretary, de-
lighted in describing himself in the Government
Gazette as “The Honorable John Vesey Leslie
Fitzgerald Foster, common'y called Leslie Foster ”
This was imposing enough, but after his retire-
ment an old aunt died and left him two silver
spoons, whereupon Mr. F. attained the Royal
license to assume the name of Fitzgerald, and
now rejoices in the following: “John Vesey Leslie
Fitzgerald Foster Fitzgerald, commonly called
Leslie Foster.”
In last issue of The Bulletin appeared a
paragraph about the subjoined matter. An
esteemed contributor now writes:—“The follow
ing advertisement (we clip it in its entirety) re-
cently appeared in the Herald:—
* T.ADY HOUSEKEEPER required fora Gen-
tleman not in good health, 46 years; re-
served, intelligent lady, unquestionable refer-
ences; no lover or mercenary need apply. She
will be her own mistress, havo the most deli-
cate living, can go out at pleasure, and receive
lady friends only as visitors. Apply, etc
Young ladies please observe the above condi-
tions. as advertiser is sincere, and the home
comfortable.’
Now, what does all this mean ? Either this is a
‘throw-in ’ for a ‘reserved’ (hem!) ‘intelligent
lady,’ or it is just the very reverse; for should the
‘gentleman not in good health,’ for instance
have a club-foot growing out of his left eyebrow’
or be an Australian edition of the ‘turned head ’
the trials of the housekeeper, notwithstanding the
‘delicate living,’ would undoubtedly commence
on the very flist day of service. Since no mention
of salary is made, we can understand that to the
‘ gentleman not in good health,’ the presence of a
‘mercenary’ would be intolerable; but we
can hardly come to the conclusion that a
‘lover’ would be equally objectionable, since it
is forbidden to the lady housekeeper to receive any
but lady friends. And this reminds us (though we
don’t know why it should) that many years ago
(in the reign of George IV., indeed, of glorious
memory) there was wont to appear at frequent in-
tervals in the Morning Chronicle, a mysterious
advertisement, for a lady’s maid to an invalid lady.
The applicant was promised enormous wages and
privileges fully equal to those offered to the ‘re-
served intelligent lady,’ who is required by ‘the
gentleman not in good health,’ aged 46 years. The
frequency of the appearance of the advertisement
we are alluding to at length excited public atten-
tion, and on enquiries being made it was discovered
that the Chronicle ad. was inserted by the
parents (or guardians) of the ‘ pig-faced lady ’
This phenomenon, who, it seemed, ardently wished
to lieu of a maid, was wont to assault
and batter the handmaids as fast as they were pre-
sented to her, and hence the constant demand for
female servants by her protectors, at the palatial
residence in which (history avers) she was en-
shrined. Returning to the advertisement by a
gentleman not in good health, we can only say that
if he has been in the habit of often advertising for
lady housekeeper, he does well to warn off all
lovers and mercenaries. He must have been • full
up ’ of them, long ago.”
When a man decides to make his exit, peij
force, from this world, he has strange vagaries.
Nothing is easier than to serve a writ on one’s
life, and to pass into the unknown without pair,
unconsciously ; yet, most suicides choose the
most horrible methods. The deliberation of some
of these unfortunates is surprising. The story of
a Rivenna suicide rather puts ot her self-m urderai a
in the shade. By. the bye, the N.S.W, Rabbit Act
has sent many a young man to a suicide’s grave
It was very tempting to be offered a free pass to
Hay, when it was represented work, of so light a
kind as rabbit-killing, could be had at once! and
that rabbits could bo knocked down with a stick
in the streets. How different the poor new chums,
many of whom had never seen a rabbit, had never
been out of a town, found the reality I They were
faced by a desert, over which they had to travel—
men who had not the remotest idea of the bush—
to get work. And if they did, then came a life of
monotony, sufficient to make anyone “do” for him-
self with a bodkin, or whatever was handy. But,
to curtate of the Mossgiel suicide—a youth of 33.
He left the Clare station to look for his horse and
was not heard of until a rabbitter brought infor-
malion to tho station that h© had seen a man hang-
ing on a gallows about two miles away. When the
police went out, they found the deceased had
made most elaborate preparations for his exit He
had placed a good strong pole on the limbs of two
trees, and four feet beneath, another pole, also
resting on limbs. Ho then secured the bridle he
carried to the top pole and round his neck and
took his leap off the lower pole into darkness. The
gallows stood well. When the corpse was found,
the head still hung, but the trunk had dropped
off. Could there be a more ghastly or terrible
story ? What could not a great novelist make of
the analysis of this youth’s feelings and the final
scene, enacted with so much premeditation ’ But
to those who know Riverina and its people, the
frequent suicide there, considering the popula-
tion, are no puzzle. For years Riverina has been a
refuge-the Alsatia of Australia; though now
North-west Queensland is rapidly taking its place.
It was to Riverina everyone who had sinned against
the convenances, who was shut out as a Pariah
fled. The world had closed the door, and only
the great plains were open. Some of these
men took heart and recovered themselves • re-
turned to proud Melbourne in a few years to again
force the door of society, ai d be received with tha
sweetest smiics; for, had they not tee Moloch at
tbefectof which Melbourne worships day and
night? The greater number, however, bereft of
all hope, horrified at the dreary life which they
seemed doomed to lead while here, took to drink
and ended in a miserable death or in suicide The*
men and women one met in Riverina who had
been something in their time were manv In a
Riverina town the writer met a whiiom mayor
of a great oity, who in his time had been
a noted and powerful man; a mayoress of
Melbourne, who was cook at a bushman’a
boarding-house. In the police-court dock he saw
the past mayoress of a great city charged with
J™* drunk. Among the scrub-cutters on a
station, he recognised a once princely merchant* a
literary man, whose pen ha<T guided the political
UNCALLED EOE.
“BLACK YOUR TOE-NAIL, SIR?’’


THE
In U Sing Machine.
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST. & BEST MACHINE
ever Introduced Into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, BAST TO LEARN,
EAST TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine In the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS in Town and Country.
Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE to
any part of the colony.
B. O. Holftermann & Co.,
Sole Agents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DENTIST.
(Of America)
GUARANTEES
Ferfect Fit ill Ucatim.
IPRICES MODERATE.
Corner George and Market Streets
OVER HUNTER’S BOOT PALACE.
WRIGHT, HEATON & CO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE s
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALBSJ
BRANCH OFFICES.
SOUTHRBM
Goulburn
Tase
Downing
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundr*
Junee
Wbbtbbk
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narr online
Nevertire
District, N.S.W.s
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rock
Culcalrn
Cowabee
Narande?
Hulong
Carratnool
Hay
District, N.8.W.:
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblln
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
ISourke
Northern District, N.8.W.5
Morpeth Brewarrlna
Gunnedab Tamworth
Narrabrl Uralla
Walgett
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
80UTHKRH and South-Wbstkrh Lm:
Brisbane Yeulba
Roma Cambooya
Dalby
Rockhampton
Bogantungan
Emerald
Central Lora:
Capella
Comet
Northbrw Line:
Townsville Ravenswooa Junction
Charters Towers
Agents In Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M CULLOCH ft CO., LIMITED.
Agenolo. ).» »n ..arts of fh« worlf.
C. F. PRIDDY & CO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
. Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.30 p.m.: Saturdays as utual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Roya Hotel and Market-street.
DR.SCOTT'S
fei.
'V~‘
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by the
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
If you have any pain, ache, or ill-feeling
from any cause; if you seem “pretty well,"
yet lack energy and do not “feel up to the
mark;” if you suffer from disease, we beg
you to at once try these remarkable cura-
tives. They cannot and do not injure like
medicine. Always doing good, never barm.
There is no shock or sensation felt in wear-
ing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during the
first hour they are worn their wonderful
curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all
the old-time health and good-feeling come
back. They are constructed on scientific
Erincples, imparting an exhilarating,
ealth-giving current to the whole system.
Professional men assert that there is hardly
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily
practice the same, as your own physician
will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance
from tho*e usually worn, as we substitute
our flat steel magnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in qualify and design.
They are elegant in shape and finish, made
aftt r the best French patterns, and war-
ranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents.
m
m
Dr. Scott s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effeotua
remedy for bpinal Complaints, Incipien
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness
Indigestion, Palpitation, &c., and hav
cured some of the most obstinate and dis
treating cases, after all other remedies (so
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
s. d.
6 6
8
10
15
15
No. 1
No. 2
No. 3
No. 5
Electric Belts..
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, lake a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece ef common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the ’
PALL MALL
ijot,;
54 Margaret-sfroot,
SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 221.
VENETTA WALTZ! w
Ait to f>4 wall marked, 0ABOUT8 Lowtkiajv.'
caiitabilk
Fed
Po.l
vzr j* '
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues will be ready in a few days and
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &o., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM ~BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
destinies of a young colony; and a jockey, who
had won many a great battle at Flemlngton, and
who was for a fleeting moment, the idol of Horse-
rtoml Eheu fugaces! Do we wonder that those
who have lived lives of great excitement, who
have moved in the world, take their lives when
♦h«v see nothing before them but the awful mono-
tony of Kiverina life ? Not at all.
Marcus Clarke has been much talked of
recently, since his widow’s re-appearance on the
Sydney stage. It rather exasperates one who
knew the gifted writer, to find all this fuss made
about him, when it is of no value. And we can
afford to think very little of the gushing sym-
pathy over “ poor Marcus,” when we find that the
Memorial volume—an awful piece of literary
work, but with the merits of which the public are
quite unacquainted—hasn’t sold worth a cent., and
lies in Cameron, Laing and Co.'s cellars. It is so
cheap to whine over the dead, because they can’t
ask us for the loan of a pound, or trouble us
for that billet we are working to get for
our bullet-headed, red-haired nephew, and for
which our vote is to be bartered. The
story of Marcus Clarke’s life—and the writer
knows many of its ins and outs—cannot yet be
truly written ; it would be too terrible for
those still living. Candour makes us say that he
was nearly as much to blame as his enemies. A
man who had less idea of the value of money
never lived. Once he went to the Melbourne
journal with which he was connected and repre-
sented that the bailiffs were In his house, and that
a flO-note alone would exorcise them. It was
forthcoming, Marcus at once forgot all about
bailiffs, who were real enough, and went to the
Governor’s ball that night, where, of course, he
shone. Unfortunately for himself, he turned upon
the men who had befriended him, and who were
still ready to back him up, and used his matchless
power of satire to bring them into ridicule, which
was never forgotten or forgiven ; even in the
grave. When he was buried in the Melbourne
cemetery—what a dismal, dreary, rainy day it was I
and what a condition some of the principal
mourners were in !—hardly one of those with
whom he had been first associated on the Aus-
tralian Press attended. We have said the story
of his closing days cannot now be written,
for the sake of those who still live. The
clouds and darkness of these days, the dread-
ful shadows that fell upon that bright intellect ere
it was extinguished, must remain mysteries, ex-
cept to a few, for many years—if not for ever.
But one thing is clear : Marcus Clarke's fate
was primarily owing to moneylenders, some of
whom now live in clover and great glory; re-
spected and admired by the devotees of Mammon.
It was not, we believe, until he started that un-
happy publication Touchstone that the vam-
pires got hold of him—a hold they never relin-
quished until death; stepped in and executed his
inexorable writ, against which even the usurer’s
myrmidons are powerless. Melbourne editors
well remember tho beaked men who used to come
with orders for the sum Marcus was to receive
for a sketch or a story before it was written.
It was thought that when he got the postion
of sub-librarian he would get rid of the har-
pies, but they only got him deeper into
their clutches. He loved life in its fullest
sense, and for the evanescent pleasure of the pre-
sent he was ever ready to carelessly give
away and mortgage the future. The one mis-
take of his life was his non-acceptance of the
London Daily Telegraph s offer. Had he taken
that the story of his life might have been very
different; he might now be one of England’s lead-
ing novelists. But there was a reason why he did
not accept, which must at present remain a secret.
To Marcus Clarke and many like him, how well do
the lines of L.E L.—herself one of the unhappy,
one who passed out of this world by her own hand
-apply:—
“ The proud, the shy, the sensitive,
Life has not many such;
They dearly buy their happiness
By feeling it too much.”
So William O’Carroll has died in harness,
so to speak. Up to the day of his death he was
editor of the Brisbane Observer. A larger heart
or broader mind than animated William O’Carroll
never existed. We knew him well, and loved him.
ms career was, in many respects, singular, and
william O’Carroll was a remarkable man. An
irishman, he was, in Cork, if we remember rightly,
a journeyman baker, and he emigrated to'Queens
at the time when the late Dr. Quinn, Roman
catholic Bishop of Brisbane, was working a scheme
n° RP'S bis oo-religlonists into the young colony,
probably with an intention of obtaining a strong
comical dominance under the free institutions of
yueensland. That this was part of the Bishop’s
•cneme we only surmise, but that a great
S™ anc i|d operation was embodied in his de-
sign there is no room for doubt. At any
rate, 'William O’Carroll never doubted It. At
that time the Government of the colony was
encouraging a big stream of Immigration by a
most liberal system of land orders, which were
transferable. The Bishop managed to constitute
himself agent or attorney for ninety-nine out of a
hundred of the Irish whose immigration he ar-
ranged, and somehow or other the Holy Church
became possessed of choice tracts of land, most
judiciously selected. To this operation was due, to
a very considerable extent, the fact that when the
Bishop died, he was able to leave (by will) to the
See property worth something approaching half a
million sterling. But while he lived it was be-
lieved that all these accumulations and unearned
increments were at his absolute disposal, as indeed
it turned out, and some of his flock were not
ovorsatisfled either with the manner in which this
wealth had been monopolized, with the autocratic
fashion in which the estates ostensibly held for
the See were handled, or with the testamen-
tary intentions of the Bishop. Even at the
outset there were some spirits resolute enough to
oppose the grab-all system of the Bishop with
regard to the land orders of individual immigrants
William O’Carroll, who never feared the face of
man, were he Bishop or burglar, stood out stoutly
against what he regarded as a wrong, from the
very day ho landed. Fresh from the ship, he took
up his pen to expose and denounce what he re-
garded as unfair despoilment of poor immigrants
just landed in a strange country; and he carried
on a literary warfare in the columns of the
Brisbane Daily Guardian, long since extinct,
but then run by the late William Fairfax,
with so much ability that his whole subse-
quent career was altered. He was invited to
become a regular contributor to the Guar-
dian, and the ex-journeyman baker rapidly
developed into a journalist of genuine ability.
A fairer man than O’Carroll we never knew, and
to his constant and natural tendency to look can-
didly at both sides of a question and dismiss pre-
judice from his mind, his success in his new pro-
fession was, we believe, attributable. He was
long editor of the Courier, the S.M. Herald of
Queensland, even while that journal was managed
by the late T. B. Stephens, a pronounced Evange-
lical. This was a singular situation to be occupied
by a man who in Ireland, in his salad days, had
been a member of the Fenian Brotherhood. The
old man has said to us more than once: “If I
were in Ireland I’d be a Fenian still. But I’m in
Australia, a free country, thank God, and I have
no object now except to see my new home happy-
prosperous.” To young aspirants towards jour-
nalistic honours, William O’Carroll was the kindest
and most patient of Mentors. The man hadn’t a
spark of jealousl y or meanness in his nature.
Among the young men who made their first essays
in journalism under bis guidance we recall the
late Walter Cooper, David Watterston, present
leader of the staff of the Melbourne Argus; the
two Loughrans, who attained good positions on
the Melbourne dallies; Mr. Evans, at present a
member of the S.M. Herald reporting staff ;
Messrs. Charles Short (now in the London office of
theARGps); Henry Short (formerly of the Age
and of the Argus, but now one of the editors of
the Melbourne Daily Telegraph); and W. H.
Traill, of The Bulletin. Vale, William O’Car-
roll, nature’s gentleman and kindly heart.
• • •
Morris Greenwall, the well-known Aus-
tralian entrepreneur, died of consumption in
’Frisco.
* * *
Queen Victoria has, it is said, just invested
£1,000,060 in Aground rents in London, which is a
proof that the lady does not expect soon to give
the Prince of Wales a chance to play king.. A
London gentleman named Begbie recently got
£1110s, credit from a tailor, because he “ had been
seen out shooting with’members of the Royal
family.” The debtor, who had “ no fixed address,”
was sued in due course, and, when the case came
on, the court was crowded with about 20,000 other
London tailors, who had come to have a grm at
the plaintiff — There is an anecdote of the old
Duke of Cleveland, who, when he heard that Lord
Rosebery had married Miss Hannah, daughter of
Baron Meyer de Rothschild, said: “I don’t know
the lady’s family; but I believe they are very well-
to-do.”...It is said the Prince of Wales and the Duke
of Edinburgh are still hostile to the engagement of
Princess Beatrice to Prince Henry of Battenberg,
and it is likely that difficulties may yet arise. But
the Queen having made up her Royal mind on the
subject, there is little likelihood the match will be
broken off—Kaiser Wilhelm does not smoke,
neither does he take snuff, or use spectacles ..
The wife of the Czar and the Princess of Wales
are sisters, and the Duke of Edinburgh married
a sister of the reigning ruler of Russia. If, under
these circumstances, the wife of the Royal Duke
should take to making faces at her mother-in-
aw, and the Princess of Wales should bet her pin-
money on the Russian bear, the consequence
might be too awful to think of Napoleon Bona-
parte, according to the newest light, Captain D.A.
Bingham, and as accepted by the London Specta-
tor, was really christened Nabulinne Many
pains and penalties attach to the office of Irish
Viceroy in these days, but in the presentation
kisses at the drawing-room he is sometimes per-
mitted to taste many sweets in full. Some girls
are so frightened about this kiss, and some so
eager, that they give Instead of waiting to receive.
It is said that Lord Garmoyle made great
chums with Fred Archer in New York. This does
not surprise us; for when taken off a horse, the
intellect of the “tinman” does not rise many
degrees higher than that of Hennlker Heaton
Prince Bismarck used to eat one huge meal a day
—mostly raw ham, and smoke cigars all the time.
Result : sleeplessness, ill-humour, and general
inferno for everybody near him. He now eats a
small morsel every hour, the veteran’s fat has
gone down, and he Is in splendid health. But his
physician never permits him to drink when he
eats. ___
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a superlative tonic
and anti-dyspeptic cordial with a pure spirituous
basis.
THE LATE MRS. MORGAN, OF BATHURST
(The oldest colonial-born resident of N.S.W.)
COOL, CALM, AND COLLECTED,
Husband (in very thick voice)—“It’s me,
dear.”
Wife—“ I don’t recognize the voice; you
must stay out.”


E
AGLBHAWK MECHANICS’ INSTITUTE.
GRAND ART UNION,
in strict accordance with the Act.
VALUE
priIb .£500.
FIRST
PHIZB.
SECOND PRIZE, £300.
THIRD PRIZE, £100.
4 prizes, value £50 each. 100 prizes, value £5 each.
4 „ ,, £25 each. 550 ,, „ £1 each.
40 ,, „ £10 each. 300 „ ,. lOs/each.
1000 PRIZES I 1000 PRIZES I
10,000 TICKETS at 10s. each, obtainable at meet
business places in the colony.
N B — In proof of the value of the above, the
Committee undertake to find purOhasers for the
various prizes at the prices named, and to hand the
winner full amount in cash, less 10 per cent, for
commission.
The drawing to take place in June, under the
supervision of the Mayor and Councillors of Eagle-
hawk and a Committee of Shareholders.
T, H. TAYLOR,
Managing Secretary.
Bull-street, Sandhurst, and
Mechanics’ Institute, Eaglehawk.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY-
Established 1872.
Capital—£100,000 with power to Increase to £1 f
BONUSES—30 per cent, paid annually since
Professional Directory^
!
I8COCK8’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
"apply F. E. Hlsoooks..
W.
Sydney
HORACE BENT, with Hlsoooks’ Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
TO AMATEUR THEATRICALS— Scenery Sup-
plied or Lent. G. Perbiman, Scene Painter,
No. 7, back of Academy of Music, Castlereagh-st.
O
A I K T
T H E A T R E I
Lessee
Proprietor and Manager ..
Business Manager ..
... B. N. Jones.
Wm. Emerson.
Wm. A. Jinkins.
AS THE MAGNET IS TO THE NEEDLE
so is
EMERSON’S MINSTRELS TO THE PUBLIC
the
GREAT ATTRACTING POWER.
ONLY YOU COMB, AND YOU’LL FIND OUT.
SIXTH WEEK,
and
STILL THE CRUSH CONTINUES.
EMERSON’S
EMERSON’S
EMERSON’S
EMERSON’S
Led by the
Prince of
Humourists
himself.
MINSTRELS
MINSTRELS
MINSTRELS
MINSTRELS
A GIGANTIC TRIUMPH.
ONE CONTINUOUS ROUND OF
BRILLIANCY, SPLENDOUR. MERRIMENT,
and DELIGHT.
A Veritable Success of Enthusiasm.
COMR - K ARLY.
AS IT IS OUR STUDY
to
SECURE YOUR COMFORT.
Popular Prices: Orchestra Chairs, 4s.; Stalls, 3s.;
Family Circle, Is.
Box-office at Messrs. Nicholson and Co.’s. George-
street. Carriages may be ordered for 10 30 p.m.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Lewis s, to-
baoconlsts, opposite Gaiety Theatre. _
fTIHBATRB R O YAL.
' I Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Mubqbovb.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar, Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Poors open at 7.30, commence at 8. Carriages, 10 -0.
FIFTEENTH WEEK
of the
ROYAL DRAMATIC COMPANY.
THIS EVENING at 8 precisely,
OUR BOYS ( ( GREAT SUCCESS
OUR BOYS \ a • GREAT SUCCESS
OUR BOYS 1 } GREAT SUCCESS
Will shortly be revived, on an elaborate scale, the
famous Comedy-drama, IMPULSE.
Furniture and appointments from Hamilton and
Co., Globe Furniture Warehouse, Park and Castle-
r^fkie8 r of t8 AdmlS8ton; Divas Circle, 5s.; Stalls,
8s.; Family Circle,
Tickets for all pi
w. parts of the bouse at Eastway’«
Hotel. Box office open dally from 11 till 4.
New opera house.
Lessees, Messrs- E. Majeronland W, J, Wilson.
Secretary and Treasurer, Mr. Joe Brown.
GRAND OPENING NIGHT, SATURDAY, M»y 23
The eminent dramatic actors.
Signor and Signora MAJBRONI,
who will appear, for the first time in Sydney, in
their adaptation of Ohnet’s great work. Le Mai're
de Forges, under the title of
THE FOUNDRY MASTER.
Box plan at Huenerbein’s. Prices as usual.
"academy OF MUSIC
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. F. B. Hiscockb.
30th Week, and still Crowded Houses.
HI8COCK8’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION
Every Evening in tbeir Refined and Amusing
Entertainment.
H.M.S. (HOPPER BARGE) PIN-A-4.
Admission, 4s., 3s., 8s., and Is. Box Plan at
Paling’s. Carriages at 10.16.
T
HAUMA.
THAUMA, at the Australian Waxworks.
THAUM A, opposite the Cathedral.
THAUMA, sensation of the day.
THAUMA, of the Old World.
THAUMA, from the Crystcl Palace.
THAUMA, London and Paris.
THAUMA, an Illusion.
THAUMA, for a Short Period only.
THAUMA, without any extra charge.
THAUMA, at the Australian Waxworks.
PARRAMATTA ST. GEORGE LODGE,
1943, E.C.
fTlHB ANNUAL MASONIC BALL will be held
I in the Masonic Hall. Parramatta, on FRIDAY,
June 12th.
Tickets, £1 la. (Gentleman's).
JNO. JAs! MILLER.
Hon. Sec. Hall Committee.
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL,
Goulbcbn.
THIS Theatre, one of the best in the colony, is
onen for Engagement. Particulars from
M. PULLEN. Hall Secretary.
S
Lessees
T GEORGE’S HALL,
Melbourne.
Clark and Ryman.
OPEN ALL THE YEAR ROUND.
First-class Artists, Novelties, Comblnatlons-
either Musical, Dramatic, Minstrel, or Operatic—
treated with.
Silence a respectful negative.
This popular place of amusement Is now In It#
full tide of success-houses packed to the doorf
nlahtlv. Pronounced by the Press, public, and
profession to be the beat entertainment ever seen
in Melbourne.
Notiob— The title of ”Hed Stockings” has
been duly registered, and anyone infringing this
title will be prosecuted according to law.
JOHN FANNING.
Business Manager.
A POSITIVE CURE
WITHOUT MEDICINE.
One box will cure the most obstinate case, acute
or chronic, in four days or lees.
hr BAILEY’S SOLUBLE MEDICATED
BOUGIES (BUCALYPTOL).
No nauseous doses of oubebs, capaiba, or oil of
sand lew ood, that are certain to produce dyspepsia
destroying the coatings of the stomach. Price
l9 . mailed on receipt of price. Address P.O.
Box 823, Sydney. (Registered).
A BOOK CONTAINING OVER 250 TRICKS AND
DELUSIONS WITH CARDS. DICE, AND
CONJURING APPARATUS,
all Illustrated with wood blocks and diagrams,
forming the most complete collection of its kind
ever offered to the Australian public. Mailed free
to any address in New South Wales for Id, stamps;
other colonies, 8d.
, On presenting our goods to the public, we beg
to say that they are, in their own way, the best
ever offered. The tricks are nearly all new, easily
manipulated, and are especially adapted to draw-
ing-room entertainments or amateur per-
formances. In the limited space of a newspaper
advertisement it is simply impossible to give a
full description ; we content ourselves, therefore,
with the names and prices of a few
Disappearing Card Box
Wizards' Changeable Cards ...
Magic Cork Box
Great Hat and Die Trick
Wizards’ Egg and Bag
Nose and Twine Trick (laugh-
able)
Magic Cask and Fairy Bell ...
Demon Handkerchief
Magic Dissolving Pack of
Cards
Mysterious Hankerchlef and
Candle
Magic Handkerchief Case ..
Glass Goblet and Vanishing
Coin .. ...
Mystic Secrete Vase
Gilding and Vanishing Egg ...
And many others, a full description of which will
be found in the book, “Magie, Mirth, and Mys-
tery.” Full instructions are sent with each trick.
N.S.W. stamps taken at par.; from other colo-
nies. add Id to each shilling. Post office orders pre-
ferable. Address ad orders plainly, AUSTRALIAN
MAGICAL DEPOT, 401 George-street, Box 641,
G.P.O., Sydney. .
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 11th May, 1885.
TENDERS FOR NEW BUILDING AND
TEACHER’S RESIDENCE.
TENDERS are invited for the erection of New
Building and Teacher’s Residence at the
Pennant Hills South Public School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney; and at the
Pennant Hills South Public School, on application
to the Teacher.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for New Building
and Teacher s Residence Pennant Hills South Pub-
lic School,” must be lodged with the Under-Secre-
tary, Department of Public Instruction, at or
before 10 o’clock a.m., on Monday, the 1st June,
1885.
The Minister does not
lowest or any tender.
bind himself to accept the
W. J. TRICKBTT.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 12fch May, 1885.
TENDERS FOR NEW PUBLIC SCHOOL
BUILDING.
TENDERS aro invited for the erection of a New
Public School Building, at Auburn.
Plans and Specifications may bo seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Department
of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for New Building,
Auburn Public School,*’ must be lodged with the
Under Secretary, Department of Public Instruc-
tion. at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on Monday, the
1st June, 1885.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
Head Offices.
First Fire Society established m tne coiony on
the Mutual principle. Riving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from
all liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Offlces-PITT and KING STREETS.
§
MARTIN
389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite the Royal Hotel.
&
0
1
*A
MARTIN’S Specially-selected TENNIS NETS.
Steam-tarred, Tanned, Wire-bound, &c.
TENNIS POLES—Cavendish, Cyprus, Champion.
BALLS—Ayers, Champion, undersewn and cemented.
„ —Cypress covered Regulation Balls.
,, —Enamelled Regulation Balls, red and white.
RACKETS—Buchanan’s, Ayers, Jefferies, Wesden’s, &o.
FOOTBALLS-
GILBERT’S Rugby and Association Balls.
MACINTOSH’S Regulation Bladders for do.
YOUTHS’ FOOTBALLS, all sizes.
Clubs and Schools should write us for our prices ani particulars
of our stock.
JAMES MARTIN & COMPANY,
389 Gteorge-street.
“Avoid COMPLICATED
FOREIGN BRACES.”
THE
66
99
SIMPLEST AND BEST FOR MEN AND BOY*.
WHOLESALE ONLY AT
16 and 17 CHEAPSIDE, LONDON, E.C.
W. RENNY FINDLAY & BRO., Melbourne and Sv dket
*s
sV£.»
c/£
Sr
a
%
Bg
£
rvK
>ir
*$
o
Z5
o
<x
4^
Ofy
3
I
*&
<?
MAN
I
URY.BUXTON& C
co
URN
ENGLISH ALES
Burfon-on-Trenl'
MUNZER
SSE
Bohd
K
>c
&
ate
12*
*
v &
<fc
It*
/
s&
f/J/
oi
AB30V
ZU3A*
NS?
OHM E
fas. illT Si CO.’S Wise d Slirii Stores ul Agencies
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
London Agents: Messrs. Aethue Allt & Co., 'Wormwood Chambers, Wormwood-street, E.C.


Important Umomt!
THE
ORIENTAL GOLD GO.
BEG to inform the public that, in consequence
of the
EXPIRATION OF LEASE
of their present premises, they have commenced
their
GRAND
CLEARING SALE,
Which will
LAST FOR A FEW WEEKS ONLY!
The Goods are all marked at an
IFICE!
as will be seen by list below.
PRICE LIST.
Ladies’ Handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 10a, 15s,
17s 6d, and 20j each
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 4s and 5s per pair
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, 5s each
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, best American Plate, 30a
each
Ladies’ Elegant Bangles, 4s, 6a, and 10a per pair
Choice Lockets, 6s each
Handsome Gem Rings, 4s and 8s 6d each
Wedding and Keeper Rings, in Solid Gold, 7$6d
each
Ladies’ Handsome Lockets, 10a each
Ladies’ Elegant Crosses, 4s, 5s, and 6a each
Ladks' Brooch and Barring Sets, from 5s to Ifls
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3s 6d each
Gents’ O. G. Watches, Hunting, Open-Faced
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 30a each t
warranted 3 years
Ladies’ (same as above.)
lay These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses £4 0 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balance .. £5 0 0
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance ..£600
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses.. .. £3 15 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance.. .. £4 15 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph, £6 0
Ditto, extra Jewelled, of the highest
grade .. .. £6 0 0
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £8 10 0
We Import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 85 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country 'prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £10.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 4s
each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, half round buckle,
flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck rings,
2s 6d each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 3s, 49,6s, and 6s 6d per set.
Same as above, only half sets, Is 6d, 2s, and 3s per
set.
Best American Patent Spring Solitaire Suites,
5s per set.
Gent’s elegant Seals, 4a each.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4a each,
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, 6a each.
Gent's Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pins, Is, la
6d, 2a, 2a 6d, 3s, 3a 6d, 4a, 4a 6d, 5a, and 5s 6d each.
Very best American Pencil Cases, 3a 6d each,
Gent’s Oriental Gold Match Boxes, 4a each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign Purses, 4s each.
Richly engraved Bracelets, 6s each.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully jewelled, 8s, 10s,
12s, and 14a each.
Broooches, Brooches, Brooches, Is 6d, 3s, 2s 6d, 3s,
3a 6d, 4a, 4s 6d, 5a, 5s 6d, 6a, 6a 6d, 7s, 7s 6d, 8s, 8s
6d, 9a, 9a 6d, and 10a each.
PLEASE NOTE.
All goods will be sent post free, with the excep-
tion of the watches, orders for which must be ac-
companied with an extra amount of two and six-
pence to defray postage expenses. Send in your
orders early, as the goods must he sold, and no one
should miss this chance of procuring the beautiful
gems at less than cost price.
Note the Address :
The Oriental Gold Co ...
474 George Street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
t flEATBi ROYAL— “ Our Boys ”...... P. 8.
opera House-" The Foundry Master ”...
n ,twy Theatre— Emerson’s Minstrels
Academy of Music.— Hisoocks’ F. Minstrels ..
« Nice week, this,” we thought, on look-
in,, down the second page of the Herald. “ No
Change except on Saturday night, when they all
together. Of course there’s a quoit match
at Botany and a prayer meeting at Ashfleld, but
fhpse as a rule, are dissipations which tell on one.
There’s nothing for it but to try the panorama at the
Wow Masonic Hall.” We tried it. When we arrived
♦he door was closed, so we shoved our admission-
nard under it, and crossed over the street to recon-
noitre By-and-bye a tow-headed kid. with one
0 * his trousers rolled up to his knee. Joined us,
«ndsaid: “I say, mister, there ain’t no pano-
iamer goln’ on! there to-night. The hall was that
mil last week that the periice ’ad to Interfere an’
■hlft ’urn down to Wollongong.” Truth was in the
lad’s face, though mud was on his feet. We be-
lieved him. “How many public houses,” we
asked, “are there between this and Emerson’s ?”
S Seven,” he answered, promptly. Emerson’s also
ia closed to us, we thought moodily, let alone
Hisoocks and the Royal. We wore a long ulster,
Sid heard some waifs whisper as we went towards
the Protestant Hall. “Is it alive?” At the Hall
we stopped, and found that a “grand amateur
vocal and instrumental concert” for the benefit
of the “ Richmond Cricket Club ” was to start in a
few minutes. Then we went in and sat down.
The “D’Albert” orchestra tackled an
overture, and, after a cruel struggle, suc-
ceeded in defeating it. There were twelve
artists, not counting a boy, who merely
jay round to see fair play. The fiddles
and flute were in tweed, the clarionet in a
mixture of black and check, and the bass-a clean-
looking elderly man—entirely In black. Some of
tne Instruments were fairly treated, but many
were wantonly Ill-used. Then a round-faced
bashful young man—the premature retirement of
whose front hair suggested he was married—
dodged out from a hole behind the piano, and
when we thought he was merely going to e t i ft a
chair, turned on us savagely with “ Alice, v, hero
art thou ? ” Alice kept dark. He had a small but
rather pleasing voice, and received a determined
encore from a youth in the gallery, who was eat-
ing oranges and dropping the peel down. Miss
Stafford, a plump, nice-looking girl, followed with
“Comeback to Erin.” Her voice was fresh and
pleasant, but she was nervous enough as she
bowed herself out to put the tip of her dainty toe
through a weak place in the ribs of the patri-
archal fiddle which the elderly owner bad in-
cautiously stretched on the ground. This should
be a warning to men who play the double-bass to
place in safety—when they’re done with it—the
instrument that usually arouses such satisfaction
in them and fury in their audience.
• ■ «
Mr. Clancy—tall and dark—challenged
“ My life for thee ” for a couple of rounds, but was
“shook out” badly the first. She’ll take it her-
self with a carving knife one of these days when
his head’s turned, if he doesn’t give over 8‘nging.
You might have heard him if you were in a barrel
and he bellowing through the bung-hole, but not
otherwise. Then he bowed and disappeared with
the stride of a Patagonian, when the brows of the
people near us relaxed, and they smiled again.
Miss Moonie was encored for the “ Last watch.”
Then a young man named Josephs shot on. and
started "True till death.” He was of Syrian pro-
file, and appeared to know more of slop-made
clothes than coivalry. Two noisy men behind us
went round to the stage door so as to catch him
coming out. Why he appeared at all is as singular
as why only Yankee skippers see the sea-serpent—
and that always when the rum is getting low.
• • •
Mr. Moonie trolled “I’ll conquer or I’ll
die.” We know which we’d prefer he’d do. But
be won’t. And so way was made for Ferguson,
with the comic song “ He’s got ’em on.” This
finished us. Nothing more melancholy have we
witnessed since we saw Wellington (N.Z.) after an
earthquake. Of course, the screamingly comic
element in the affair was the bard’s idea of what
constitutes comicality. Even the orange-sucking
gamin above expressed dissatisfaction by a howl
of long-drawn intensity and menace. This is the
last we remember of the Richmond Cricket Club
concert. Pity the “ panoramer ” wasn’t on.
“ Ten towns in Greece contend for Homer dead.
Through which the living Homer begged his
bread.”
This was running through our minds as
we read the list of patrons for Mrs Marcus Clarke’s
benefit. Poor Marcus! What a life those Israelite
vultures led you from the first day you fell into
their talons I It was at a little dinner at Bailllere’s
(he was killed on the railway), at Windsor or Haw-
thorne, that we first met Clarke, returning with
him to Melbourne late at night. The conversation
turned on Herbert Spencer, and the knowledge
possessed by Clarke of his works showed how, in
spite of the demands of light literature and the
more pressing demands of the Jews, he had found
time to scrape more than a bowing acquaintance
with one of the most profound modern writers.
* * *
There was an excellent prologue by the
accomplished Mr. Frank Hutchinson, read with
good delivery and the stagiest of gestures by Mr.
Cathoart. Then we looked round the house, and
saw that the benefit to Mrs. Clarke would be a real
one. But if the occupants of the circle were the
elite of Sydney, then Darwin is altogether wrong,
for the “fittest” have not survived. The real
business began with an act of “A daughter of
Eve”—a piece written for Mrs. Clarke by her
her late husband. In it, Mrs. Clarke acted with a
good deal of the old esprit. Mr. Joyce also pro-
voked some mirth as a peppery parent, as absolute
as Sir Anthony. Miss Stanley struggled with a
stiff neck and an eye-glass. But it was on the
youthful lover, Mr. George Tempest (we don’t
remember to have seen his name before), that all
eyes were turned. Everything he did attracted
attention— and fury. He said he was a “ perfect
bear.” Let us reassure him. He was not. He was
simply a stick. A waterman in the pit had a good
look at him. and then remarked with meaning,
‘ Wish I’d brought my boat-hook.” The person
who attended to the curtain ran it down while
Mrs. Clarke was speaking. It was quickly raised,
Mrs. C. advanced, and after a few words of thanks,
called upon "Dan ” to respond for her.
• * *
“Dan must die,” said a writer in The
Bulletin, the other day. No doubt he must, but
Judging by his performance at the matinde, dying
is not much in his line at present. His favourite
figure is hyperbole. He referred to Burke, An-
toinette, the age of chivalry, and the number of
tickets sold. As he warmed to the matter, his
words became more flowery and his bodily motions
more eccentric. He told how the management of
the Royal had stopped their artists from helping
on the benefit, because Mrs. Clarke and William-
son [we suppose] had a tiff two years ago. To one
of the managers he referred as an attenuated
specimen of indifferent protoplasm, or something
like that. Hiscooks’ quartette came next with
“Maying,” well given and well received. Then
Mr. Sebastian Hodge—whose beer has often sent
us home hopeful, but unsteady—and a young
member (n»me not given) of the Liedertafel Or-
chestra, came on to struggle with a duet on the
clarionet and oboe. Hodge lingered the clarionet
while the lad manipulated the other. The instru-
ments blended nicely, while the execution was
neat and clean.
* • *
Mrs. M'Donald (nee Slattery) was there
with one of those melodious airs to be found scat-
tered so prodigally through Verdi’s works. She
has a pleasant voice, a pleasant Italian accent, and
a pleasant Irish face. So Hallewell appeared with
Simon the Cellarer,” and was at his best—which
meant a noisy demand. This cleared the way for
Allpress and his “ Valse Brilliant,” with “Sestett
accompaniment—arranged by Mr. Allpresi.”
from the accents in this % movement, it should
have been called a mazourka, not a waltz. But it
was well given, and would have been “ ankored ”
had the player taken the precaution to leave his
head behind him and borrowed a Kanaka’s. So
long, however, as he insists upon his undoubted
right to appear with his own “nut,” he cannot
complain of being coldly, if not jeeringly. received
by an enlightened public. Clark (of Emerson’s
highwaymen) sang “The star of love.” Now that
his larynx has got back its proper tone after the
change of climate, it’s a caution to hear how he
trolls out the A and B flat. Let’s see. How many
times did we hear this young man during the
week ? There was the Imps, the Matinee, the
Gaiety, and (the fourth and best) when we were
both “ freezing ” to the same lamp-post. On all
occasions, particularly the last—he was received
with demonstrativeness by a delighted, and—again
in the last case—a highly intellectual audience.
* * * *
The “ sugar ” still comes Hiscooks’ way.
When there’s nothing new on the programme-
nothing we’ve not ofen heard before—we gener-
ally manage to wriggle in just in time to hear
Amerv’s song. During the week he’s been trolling
“ Good bye till I see you again,” and, whether ow-
ing to the song itself, or the way in which it was
presented, we were so affected that we strolled off
with a new hat, which is but an imperfect fit, and
left our own, which was irremediably shabby
from a long and uncertain struggle against the
elements. It is in the accompaniment to this song
that “ Nick ” wanders off into a piece of sublime
“faking,” which always “fetches ’em.”
• • •
“H.M.S. Pin-a-4” is still the afterpiece.
In it there’s some good singing which makes up
for the cunning stupidity of the dialogue. We
may, after all, be entirely on the wrong track. It’s
quite “on the cards ” that the “ localiser ” intended
the affair (so far as words are concerned) to be
as inane as possible, del! Should such be the
case, what an artist he is I We watched a poor
Yankee sailor take up one of the bills the other
day, and read (from H.M.S. Pin-a-4)—“ Crew —not a
Russian crui-ser, seen in the offing, though oiling
seen there.” Then he put it down, looked about
the house in a .broken-hearted way. as if all the
light bad iuddenly gone out of his life, took it up
again, read it carefully, and then started off at
that late hour to knock up the American Consul,
and get a free passage back to New York.
* * * *
At the Royal, on Saturday night, “ Our
Boys” was received for a “limited number of
nights.” There is this credit due to the Royal
people—all their good stuff is old. all their new
abject. They vave us “ Haunted Lives,” and
haunted ours in the giving. And a lot more things
they gave us which, of course, have no bearing on
the fact that the sucicide crop this year is un-
usually promising. Many a time during the
brilllantly-successful rigime of “ Haunted Lives,”
we’ve seen strong men stagger out of the pit and
gloomily shape for the deepest part of Woolloo-
mooloo Bay. We kept our own counsel when we
read in the morning journals—“ Body found by
waterman near Pinchgut. Dejected expression of
countenance as if suffering from secret sorrow.
Programme of the Royal found neatly folded in
waiscoat pocket.”
♦ • •
But to “ Our Boys.” The story is us well
known as Larry Foley. Redwood is Middlewiok,
the butterman. His efforts would have been re-
ceived with greater favour had not most of the
audience seen Marshall. The latter was (like
“ Eclipse ”) first, and the remainder nowhere. Not
that Redwood’s representation was faulty—on the
contrary, it was what the Nooze would call “an
even performance, with due admixture of light
and shade,” all through. But it was like going to
live at Macdonaldtown, after having resided in
Woollahra. Mr. Flemming was Sir Geoffrey, and
Titheradge his cub Talbot. The Baronet, with a
penetration that does him credit, doesn’t want his
boy brought up as a “ literary man.” Judging by
the young man’s appearance, literature would
probably be the last pursuit in which he would
shine. By constant application, he might have
got over pothooks-and-hangers, but it is
doubtful whether the closest study would
ever get him over “three times” in the
multiplication table. As old Middlewlck re-
marks in his homely way “ he was a ‘ shiner’ an’
no mistake.” Titheradge was successful as usual
in attracting to himself the attention of a well-
filled house. Mr Hans Phillips was the other
young man—the butterman’s son—and came well
out of the ordeal. Flemming is the heavy aristo*
crat. We know there are thousands of such crea-
tures In England who neither toil nor spin. Why
they’ve not adorned lamp-posts years ago is a tri-
bute to the patience of the English people. But
with the new Reform Bill a good time’s coming.
It’s not easy to suggest how his conception and
execution of the part could have been bettered.
Miss Claibourne’s voice was clearly heard in all
parts of the house this time. Miss Mayor gave a
rollicking, tomboyish reading of Mary Melrose.
Miss Mortyne appeared occasionally dissatisfied at
being obliged to look a good 20 years older than
she is. It is a cruel thing to compel young women
to make up as old ones. The iranagement surely
might have sufficient enterprise to keep on hand a
stock of old ladies from the Benevolent Asylum to
be “ run on” as the exigencies of the pieces de-
manded. As Belinda (the slavey). Miss Taylor sug-
gested unpleasant remembrances of when we also
lived in a “ three-pair tack ” Often in the silence
of the night we wake up with blood-shot eyes and
rigid hair. Through our dreams has been surging
horrible suspicions of the miscellaneous mammalia
which formed the staple of the pies in that bash-
house.
# * * «
“Confusion” was furbished up for Alli-
son’s benefit at the Opera House on Monday night.
We’ve tried to think of something fresh to say
about it, but the failure was complete and de-
pressing. The same play—the same cast—the
same dog.
• • ■
But it was when “Jimmy” Allison saun-
tered carelessly on, as if the presentation about to
be made to him was the thing of all others that ho
never expected, that we became interested. Fred
Gannon made it. If Fred, had had a few “ h’s ” to
give away as well, things might have been more
comfortable. But his stock of those aspirates
appeared to have run out. He gave many
reasons for the presentation—“ Jimmy ” was good
to Beach, sweet on the “ Patriotic Fund,” &o.
Pity Fred, didn’t tell the real reason. We know,
but we prefer to keep dark. The two articles pre-
sented were apparently of silver,thus showing what
improvements have been effected in Zollner’s gal-
vanised iron factory. “James” replied at some
length; said that in his life he’d many proud mo-
ments, but this was the proudest of all. He liked
the jug, and would endeavour to creep into it and
go to sleep when the people were all gone. He
said many more things which we forget, but all
creditable alike t® his head, his heart, and his
childlike ingenuousness. Then Allpress struck up
some weird music and the curtain descended to
an accompaniment of tears.
* * * *
The “ Napoleon ” is still drawing
houses. In the present programme, Holland starts
(after the overture) with *‘Little Wife (in Port).
Holland takes after the parent state, and is “low
himself, so that the name of the ditty, at all events,
is appropriate. “ Gushing, Giddy Girls,” by C. W.
Coglll follows. There’s not much in the song
Itself, but, as we said before, C. W. might recite
“Little Jack Horner,” or “Goody Two-shoes,
and get recalled. His brother, H. P. Cogill, cpmes
next, and then the running is taken up by “ Billy
himself, and Clark afterwards. The “ Bonaparte
Is always sure of an attentive hearing and a noisy
“ ankor.” Apart from his mirth-provoking tom-
foolery, what stands to Billy is his voice. That
would get him a living even if he were paralysed
from the waist down, or had two wooden legs.
But when it is combined with a born aptitude for
twisting his spine about, and fighting the air with
his feet, the combination is irresistible and paying.
* * * *
i’Ue Majeroms are upon us again, or will
be on Saturday, the 23rd. This time they bring
with them “ Le Maitre de Forges,” or the
“Foundry Master,” a dramatised version of one
of George Ohnefs successful novels. The Majer-
onis are said to have done well with this in Mel-
bourne. We cannot say. We’ll tell you all about
it after we’ve seen it in Sydney. Clint has painted
the scenery, and—hold your breath here—Joe
Brown is to “ boss ” the front of the house. If
this unique combination of talent can’t make the
thing “gee,” we can’t.
Wolfe’s Schnapps smothers the voice of
depreciation. Ask for Wolfe’s and accept
j nothing else.
BATHOS !
PASSENGER: “CAN’T YOU HURRY UP THESE SCREWS, COAOHEE?”
DRIVER; “CALL THEM ’OS8BS SCREWS? THEM’S ‘CHARGERS SIGH AS THE HIM-
PERIAL GUARD NEYER BESTRODE,’ THEM IS! JUST YOU READ THE ’ERALD


PEPPER AMD SALT.
A Sydney college tutor, in a slander case,
the other day, pathetically said “ he did not care to
say what salary he got.” We were once a tutor In
a college, ourselves, and we shouldn’t have cared,
then, to publicly proclaim the salary we received-
It was up in North Queensland, and we were en-
gaged by a scoundrel In a labour office to impart
instruction in English, Latin, French, and mathe-
matics. The place we were to teach at was called
(we don’t know why) the Collegiate Retreat, and
contained five touzled-headed scholars. To attain
this hot-bed of learning we had to ride 90 miles on
a melancholy horse that had a head like a baby’ B
coffin. The proprietor (he’s dead now and gone to
the lower heaven) was a tall, bony ruffian, whose
language consisted entirely of profane oaths.
Under these circumstances, he was but poor com-
pany; and as we soon discovered (it was easy
enough) that the scholars were all the sons of
Illustrious sires and of the native queens of the
territory, and that each one of the pupils still cul-
tivated a taste for slack-baked ’possum, we left at
the conclusion of the rum-jar.
♦ v *
“ Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Bennett and family
arrived in London yesterday, all well.”— Evening
Npws telegram.
To those whose minds are attuned to
p rayer and supplication, supplemented by desire
to shed a decent number of threepences on the
plate, the Item we are about to unravel to them
will be of direct and, mayhap, Intense interest.
Let, however, none of the ungodly read this. In
regard, also, to this particular paragraph, no
scoffers need apply 1 Mr. John Gale, journalist, If
his name is not familiar in diplomatic circles of
Europe is, at least, well-known in Queanbeyan,
N.8.W. The people are very fond of John in
Queanbeyan, and they will do almost anything for
the good man but bestow upon him aught of
intrinsic value or send him to Parliament. He put
up last election, and, on the way to address an en-
thusiastic meeting, was pitched violently out of his
buggy. Owing, doubtless, to the interposi-
tion of a Divine Providence, John came down
on his head, and was thus enabled—Halle-
lujah!—to go to the poll, where he came in
a splendid last. We have given these little par-
ticulars in order to lead up to an account of an
Imposing ceremony, of which John was recently
the central figure. But we may add to these in-
teresting biographical items in John’s biography
the circumstance that in Queanbeyan, where John
lives, he has a paper called the Queanbeyan AGE t
which he brings out as often as convenient, and
a gorgeous bookshop attached to the office of the
thriving periodical whose existence we have in-
dicated. Well, to those who know (and acknow-
ledge) Mr. John Gale’s worth as we do, it is a plea-
sant thing to chronicle the interesting ceremony
aforesaid. It seems that the Church over which
John has been precentor for 30 years, having at
length paid off the final instalment of its time-pay
meat harmonium—a consummation hitherto con-
sidered to have been hopeless-the congregation,
in honour of this terrific event, agreed it would be a
fitting memento of the occasion to testimonialize
their at once illustrious and patriarchal precentor.
“As”—we quote the paper—(the Age of course)
“ a most appropriate gift for this purpose they had
selected a costly and faandsomeiy-bound 8vo
volume of the Psalter and Hymn-book (music and
words) in use in the congregation.” In replying,
John assured them that their action bad taken him
‘‘quite by surprise;” and—we once more quote
the paper—“ trusted that, when their days of
praise on earth were ended, both the recipient and
the givers of the present would be found praising
God more perfectly in the world to come.” Now,
we consider this little peroration of John’s ex-
tremely Chrlstlanlike and godly, the more espe-
cially as he was, at the time, sore with the certainty
that the committee had bought the book at the
other shop.
Elegy on a two-year old boy in the Mel-
bourne Age:—
“ Our dear little Popsy’s in Heaven,
Not lost but gone before.”
As, no doubt, Popsy’s ears have sprouted into
little wings by this time, we should like to know
his opinion about his having “gone before ” or
not. If he is anything like the majority of
youngsters of that age, he will probably perch
on the spikes of the golden gate, and make faces
at his parents as they file by to Purgatory. It
might be said, in contradiction to this, that now he
is a cherub his nature is changed, but we have
seen nothing in the popular representations of
cherubs to warrant this assumption. The cherub—if
he is anything like the pictures—is totally devoid
of moral principle, and guiltless of even the germ
of conscience. He is simply a fat boy without a
body. Letting that be as it may, however, we are
periodically plunged in astonishment by the news-
paper laments over deceased persons. In almost
all of these the dear departed is simply considered
in the light of an advance-agent for his
or her surviving relatives. In the majority
of instances this is probably no more than
the simple truth. But they are all billed
for Heaven notwithstanding. Has anybody ever
seen an epitaph which described the immortal
part of the deceased whom it memorialised to
have any other destination ? We guess not. Yet
why ? A man dies whom everybody who has
known him in life knew to he a notorious sinner—
a burglar—a scoundrel in every sense. This does
not for a moment hinder his surviving relations,
who probably hated him more than anybody else,
from paying a man in a square cap to chip out an
inscription on the tombstone to the effect that the
notorious sinner, burglar and scoundrel, in ques-
tion died lamented by everyone who knew him,
and immediately soared up to “ sleep in the Lord ”
(whatever that may mean). This hypocrisy in the
dismal dominion of Death, a kind of ghastly
foolishness which must make the devils laugh.
We will give a specimen of how we think an epi-
taph for an average man should run:—
Here Lies
So and So.
Born, . Died, .
If this is the end, he has lived his life
With much of travail and sin and strife.
And now is quiet. The bad and the good
Were mixed in his nature. He did what he could.
If to Life-to-come Death is but a door,
In a thousand lives he can do no more.
Another, for a man of the type previously re-
ferred to
Here lies a man, the worst of men,
w hom all men else did hate;
If he has gone to Heaven, then
God’s miracles are great.
Yet another for-almost any adult deceased;—
Here lie I (Smith, say), dead and gone,
I was the creature of my birth,
And, saved or damned I take the chance;
But I, when I have left the earth,
Shall have some things to say upon
Environment and circumstance.
Still one more-a model one—for a Popsy;—
Here I lie, little Popsy,
In a deep hole put down;
I was a little lamb,
But I could not stay with
My ma; so here I am—
I want a gold crown,
And winps,
And lots of stars to play with,
And piles of bread and Jam,
And things.
We flatter ourselves that the above is both natural
and affecting, and that it gauges the ideas of a
child about the future state much better than the
common run of mortuary remarks put into the
mouths of deceased children. Why should com-
mon sense always stop at the gates of a cemetery ?
It is time there was some candour Introduced into
inscriptions over the dead. We have seen—as who
has not ?—epitaphs which, if it could only read
them, any honest corpse would writhe und
They do not deceive the living. They do not a*'
ceive the dead. Whom, then, do they
ceive? God? Hardly. The Devil? Not much
he keeps his books too well. Why not, the* 1 '
fore, tell the truth on tombstones? it
at the least be an incentive to good men to d *
better, and to bad men to be less ostentatious i°
their vices. It used to be the fashion in ancient
Egypt to sit in judgment over the corpse of
Pharaoh before it was allowed to be ferried
across the sacred river to the City of Tombs. i t
might be no bad plan if this venerable custom
were revived la these days, when so little j g
known of a man until he is dead. A moral coro
ner’s inquest of this sort, if it did not act as j
deterrent to evil-doers In high places, would at
least prevent their friends from encouraging them
too openly in their wickedness. We will now take
a drink.
• • ■
“ W. Shepherd,” who writes to the Evan,
ing News, seems in a bit of a hurry. He says: -
“ I think, as a body, we natives are a little behind
in our demonstration towards our plucky Sydney
native.” Base your mind, if you have one, Mr.
S. There will be a “ demonstration” d Vtgard d’ e
Monsieur Dailey soon enough I It will come off
directly the Contingent arrives here, or as soon
after It as the price of flour and Chinese craekeis
will allow of the demonstration being made uu-
mistakeably representative, so far as the feeling 0 f
the public is concerned. We fancy now we can
see Dailey on the platform, tearfully reproached
by the widow of the lance-bugler, who, in hig
zeal for his country, gallantly choked himself with
a saveloy. “You must have knowed there was
danger in it,” shrieks the widow, dashing the
tears from her eyes a<l over the company. And
where is W.B.D. now ? The flower is not in his
coat but on It—his eloquence has deserted him-
like Napoleon, he is
“ So abject, yet alive.”
He is about to mumble something, whoa a passage
is suddenly cleared at the other end of the hall
and four men advance, carrying a covered form
on a shutter. Dailey starts back at first with
alarm, out, suddenly recolieoting iilmself, smiles a
feeble smile. The men, mounting to the piatforili;
set down their burden in front of the Dictator.
“You have asked,” cries Dailey, in a voice of
thunder, before which even the most audacious of
his enemies quake, “you have asked what has
been accomplished by the expenditure of these
few hundred thousands Gentlemen, something
has been accomplished, which will even still our
grief for one for whom the delicacies—I should say
dangers—of camp life proved too much.” To the
bearers, in a majestic voice—“ Take off the cover,
ing, and up-end the shutter. There! Strapped
down to that plank, owing to bis ferocious nature
is our prisoner! (Applause.) He is, I am informed)
a prince in his own country, and he was captured,
while basely washing his traitorous clothes, by
only 35 of our soldiers. Only thirty-five! And
look at him 1 If you were as near as I am to this
ferocious monster, you could hear him grinding
his teeth In his fury. I trust now I have con-
vin—.” The War Minister is proceeding glibly
enough and rapidly casting oil on the troubled
waters, when suddenly a tall man rises in the body
of the hall and cries, “ Why, blow me, if that ain't
Chutnee Abdallah 1” This settles it, and the
objects of the demonstration, amid a volley c f
chairs and hall fixtures, retreat with great unani
mity by the back way. All, we should say except
the Colonial Treasurer, who being unable to bend
with the facility of the others, finds himself sur-
rounded in the street by about 5000 well-conducted
Union men, who invite him to give them his re-
vised opinions on the Chinese Question, and will
take no denial. Mr. Dibbs indignantly complying,
he is subsequently conducted by the “ well-
behaved” in two wheelbarrows to his residence,
the escort, out of respect to the solemnity of the
occasion, carrying their bludgeons reversed.
In the U.S. there are now £40,000,000 acrfs
of cultivated land In 10 years, territory tqnal in
extent to Great Britain and Kracce combined, has
been added to the cultivated area of America.
A medical authority eays, “ Put coal
wrapped in little packets of newspaper on the
fire in a sick room.” If it is your mother-in-law
that is sick, use the Holy Howl for this purpose,
and send for the undertaker.
What thoughts filled bis soul then
As through the port-hole then
He sew (when the duff was all eaten, all eaten)
Loom black at the landing
Another commanding,
Fire-eating Australian, H. Heaton, H. Heaton 1
“ Alf ” spoke but of slaughter
(As peaceful the water
In rhythmical cadences ripples, and ripples),
And vowed by all’s gory
He’d yet lead to glory
A dare-devil phalanx [of cripples, of cripples].
“ This sword (he produced It),
Though cowards traduced it
(They said ’twas of tin from West Sydney, West
Sydney),
A DEED OF VALOUR.
[Told by a candidate for the Mayor of
Sydney’s prize of £25 for the bravest act performed
by an individual member of the N.S.W. Contin-
gent.]
’Twas noonday, and Sol’s burning lamp
It’s lurid ray shed on the camp,
And, oh, ’twasfearsome work!
Each man his knife and fork did clash,
And on the beef his molars gnash —
None did his duty shirk!
And, whispering low, and ling’rlng near,
Stray friendly Arabs did appear,
And many a lustrous eye;
When gorged with duff, what did I do
But bore a hole right through and through
That caitiff Bedouin bold ?
Few such a dashing deed would dare,
So please hand over, Mr. Mayor,
That “twenty-five” in gold.
Utilization off Waste Forces,
Will yet prove the traitors
Mean calumniators
Of desperate men of my kidney, my kidney.”
Grim Hennlker Heaton
Was not to be beaten.
He fumed and he swore like a trooper, a trooper;
His tail cooked defiant—
But quick became pliant
As memory call’d up Wat Cooper, Wat Cooper.
“ But I must away now,
’Tls late in the day now
(I’m due to rub noses with Royalty, Royalty);
Though parting’s reluctant.
The Times waits expectant
For as much more ‘ slush ’ as I can jam into it con-
cerning Australian loyalty, and the number
of trained brigands who are panting to leave
the baok-blooks and cut-throats in the hin-
terests of the Hempire all over the derned
Universe.”
MR. HAPWORTH HAVING BOUGHT A NEW DOG, PERCEIVES CERTAIN INDICATIONS
OF LATENT FORCE.
But mum’s the word, though, in the East
They don’t mind these things in the least,
At home they’re wondrous sly I
Well, through the crowd—’twas rather rough—
The cooks came filing with the duff,
When, lo, to our distress,
An Arab ups and collars quick
(In burnous white he done the trick)
The duff of my own mess.
As quick as thought I seized a gun,
And after that there black I run
(At running he no muff);
I shouted “ Yield I” but he but raved
Defiance as he wildly waved
His musket and the duff.
On, on he sped, I never seen
A spurt like he done at Hasheen—
’Twas there I loosed my belt—
“ Yield, caitiff I Do as you are bid!”
But all that dusky Arab did
Was come another pelt.
When Berber’s turrets hove in sight
I raised—grown desperate, now, quite—
My gun—fired, with a puff;
He slewed round, quickly, with a grin—
Bang went the bullet on the tin,
The tin that held the duffl
On, on (I state but simple facts),
Past all the Blue Nile’s cataracts—
Day deepened Into gloom;
When, as the sun the last time dipped,
He o’er an alligator tripped—
Five furlongs from Khartoum I
I seized hold by his linen c at,
Then clutched the caitiff by the throat—
You bet I squeezed his ruff I
And, while we fought with gun and spear,
The cayman who had lingered near
Ate up the bloomin’ duff!
“ A truce!” then cried that Arab bloke;
The cayman ripped up while he spoke—
Night had enshadowed dusk—
He took the duff out with his spit,
But, Lord! Icouldn’t tackle it—
It smelt too strong of musk!
WHICH HE SUCCESSFULLY APPLIES TO INDUSTRIAL PURPOSES.


BRIEF MENTION.
Narrabri drunks are to be fined £1 instead
of the usual 5s. in future. Another terrific blow
to n rthern deacons.
Writes “lohabod” in a Sydney daily:—
The Australian Contingent rushed to glory or the
grave and found- goats.
The Reverend Dowie seems to be “ taking
it out” in gaol. He’s like Peter. He’d sooner
part with his liberty than with his loot.
Gold is being shipped from Melbourne in
the Messagerles boats. It is said to be safer under
the French than under the English flag. It's the
other way with frogs.
There is a Chinaman in the Qneenscliff
(Vic ) lazaretto, who bears the suggestive name of
Sin Young. He acted up to his name like a man.
Hence his present address.
“Peace is it, Maria?” he said, poking his
bead up out of the cellar; “ then get my uniform
from the hole in the garden, and tell Bill to get a
pick and dig for my rifle in the coal-hole.”
Begun already. Slightly befogged red-
coat to Uncle Abraham last Saturday night:
“Shay, Abe, ic, w-what can you advance on th-
this Shoudan medal ? ” Oh, my prophetic soul I
The Melbourne authorities are prosecuting
the local bakers for putting alum in their bread.
In Sydney, no prosecution ever comes off until
the sergeant of police finds a paving-stone In his
llb.-loaf.
Sydney Torquemadas please note. Mark
Twain’s “Huckleberry Finn ’ has been excluded
from the Concord (U S.) Public Library, as the
committee have decided that it is “ flippant, irre-
verent, and trashy.”
“We are but mortal!”, ejaculated the
Primate, when speaking of the New South Wales
Attorney-General to Dean , whom he had in-
vited to luncheon. “We are. indeed, my lord,”
was the sad reply “ Thank you 1 no more
sherry 1”
The telegrams say that when General Gra-
ham inspected the N.S.W. Contingent, the latter
went through a series of infantry evolutions on
camels. It must have been splendid fun—for the
camels. The camel la remarkable for its large
sense of humour.
Perhaps the two men for whom we have
the greatest amount of reepeot, as times go, a re
the duly-qualified medical man who travels with
the active } canvasser of a life assurance com-
pany and the careful and experienced surgeon of
an economioal London liner.
From the Straits Times (Singapore)
“ The Chinese soldiers’ uniform consists of a blue
tunic and as many more clothes as he feels like
get'lng inside of. A good many of them use their
shoes for breastplates, and stuff cotton in their
ears to keep from being soared.”
A Cairns (N.Q.) paper reports the capture
of a conger eel. 30 feet long, by a local fisherman.
Our journalistic brother does not state the eel’s
colour, but we have no doubt that to the fellow
who measured him he appeared to be of a deep
vermilion hue with green and gold stripes.
The Perth correspondent of the S.M.
Hkhaed says:—“It cannot be denied that this
cclonyShas entered upon a career of progress.”
Turning up a late number of the leading West
Australian paper we find that tenders have been
called for a new gaol. Yes, the place is going
ahead.
A Chinese soldier gets IDs. a month, and
out of that he has to feed himself, keep his family,
allow the missus money for her shopping when
the fashions change, and buy land when occasion
offers. A N.S.W. soldier gets just 13 times that
amount, and has nothing at all to find—not even
the enemy.
A gang of navvies has been employed in
fortifying Queenscliffe (Vic.) with batteries, and
themselves with rum, for the past two or three
weeks. The inhabitants of that peaceful marine
suburb now say that they would rather do without
the defences and chance the Russians than keep
the navvies.
Princes’ English, from “ H.M.S. Bacchante
at the Antipodes “Returning at 11 a.m , had an
excellent breakfast in the kitchen of the farm-
house, agreeing that no cream or milk, butter or
eggs, bread or tea we had ever tasted, was half so
good as that here set before us.” The “ eggs ” was
the best they ever had, was they ?
Tamvrorth is going down rapidly. For a
whole week only one “ drunk ” was “ run in,” and
he was a Chinaman. We remember the time there
when the piece de resistance of the night’s jollity
was to carry the local policeman home, gag him,
look him in bis own cell, and hang the key on a
nail outside. Yes; Tamworth is done.
The editor of an Inverell paper, after
minutely describing a “ hairy man,” or something,
recently discovered in the Big River by a rustic
youth, naively propounds the query: “Can it be
there is a gorilla in these parts?” Look in the
glass, old man. We once knew a country editor
who was fond of looking into the glass. But not
for gorillas. For rum.
“Which,” said a sergeant, approaching
the scribes’ “pen” at the Sydney Central during a
“closed-door” case, “is—?” Here three heads
and six pairs of boots were at once flashed towards
him. His eye lighted on the Wellington and the
blutcher of the middle man, and the sergeant,
getting very red in the face, said, “ I beg your
pardon—I ought to have known—hem 1 There’s a
boy outside waiting for some copy for the Even-
ing News.”
“Alas, my ber-rother in the Looard!”
cried the Rev. Dowie on beholding the Rev. Peter
Campbell In the gaol exercise-yard, forgetting, in
his anguish, that that wily veteran had recently
seceded from the true religion; “may the—.’’
“HushI’’cried Peter, stopping him hastily, “ that
doesn’t go down here! You must get the doctor
to allow you sugar In your hominy, and I won’t
see you short for a chew of tobacco.’’
A drunken woman had been dragged to
the Sydney Central lock-up by two constables in
the usual humane manner, when, once in the
charge-room, the younger of the officers suddenly
gave an exclamation, and made for the door.
“Where is yez goin’, Pat?” cried the constable
who was proppiog the prisoner up against the
wall. The young peeler looked at the other with a
fixed expression. “I’m a goin’,” he said, “down
the strafe for her arrum I ”
Cries Pastor Allen, of Sydney, re the
Soudan war, quoting Z°p. ill., 10:—“Come, Chris-
tians. lot us send the Bible to those tribes beyond
the rivers of the Ethiopia.” Certainly, Rev. Daniel.
Look here 1 You take it I That would be at once a
graceful and courageous act. Your outfit would
not cost much,, and happily Providence has placed
?'ou independent of a trunk In which to pack your
uggage. Think of the other Daniel. Why, he’s
been talked about for years! Go in I
We have good reasons to believe that there
is a mistake in the reports that some time ago a
tiger escaped from a circus at Wangaratta (Vie.),
and, after destroying numerous cattle, was shot
the other day by a detachment of the Wangaratta
volunteers. Our reasons are these;—I. There
never was a circus at Wangaratta. 3. There was
no tiger in the circus which was there. 3. The
Wangaratta “ butchers ” couldn't hit a parish,
much less a tiger. We trust this will end the affair.
Mr. Sledgehammer Symes, of Melbourne,
is very severe* on the Gipsy Encampment there,
and is down especially on those rallies in which 15
people put la. In each, the winner takes 4s., and the
rest goes to the Church. “It,” he says, “isdaip-
nable to sin in the way of the trade for filthy
lucre’s sake; but sin for the glory of God, that is,
the priest, is the highest virtue possible.” This is
crushing a butterfly on a wheel with a vengcancel
But perhaps Joseph was rather short of material
for copy that week, or the Holy Roman editor had
cut h 1m out with his particular Gipsy.
Are you all ready for firing?” cried the
Commander of Fort Plnchgut, Sydney. A chorus
of yes’s and one no. “ Who said no ? ” thundered
Lieutenant O'Shrapnel, with a terrible glance
“ Me, sir,” faltered Bombardier Blather, “ I—er—
I aint afraid-not pussonally, sir-but I lives at the
little ’ouse by the sawmill there, and I’d just like
to run ashore to tell the missis that my savings-
bank book is between the leaves of the family
Bible,’’ A rumour gains ground that the gun is
loaded yet.
Mary Jones, a lady of the trottolr , was
brought up before Mr. Buchanan at the Sydney
Police Court, the other day, for having such a
disreputable mother and sticking to her. She was
sentenced to either quit Sydney or get married in
three weeks. In the body of the court w»s her
Mnci. who was prepared to marry her there and
then but for the dilhculty of finding lespectab.e
bridesmaids in the precincts He didn’t mind the
bride s being a little off-colour,” but would stand
no nonsense with the maids. Had Mary been a
man, and Mr. Buchanan given her the same op-
tion. she would probably have left the court,
started for the meridian of Carpentaria, and fol-
lowed it up.
A N.S. Welsh-Rabbit.


The Sydney D,T. invites suggestions as to
the disposal of the N.S.W. Patriotic Fund. Here
la our suggestion: Establish a chair of Jingoism at
the University, and erect a statue (heroic size) to
Rot, commemorative of the Soudan business.
P’A suggestion for the Anglican Primate.
Let the money collected by him for a memorial to
his predecessor be handed over to the R. C.
Archbishop of Sydney, so that the latter may be
enabled to say Masses for the soul of his departed
rival.
It was only when Tewflk was told that
Lieutenants Alrey. Sparrow, and Frank Wrench,
of theN.B.W. Contingent, had volunteered to re-
main and defend Suaklra at the dagger’s point, that
a smile of mingled ease and content mantled to his
cheeks—the like of which had not been seen for
many a month. “ The safety of my seaboard is
now assured.” he said, “ Mahomet be praised. Put
me in my little harem.”
A London correspondent suggests that, in-
stead of purchasing Mrs. Butler’s “ Tei-el-Keblr ”
for the Sydney Art Gallery, the lady should be
commissioned to paint an incident connected with
the N.8.W. Contingent in the Soudan. Many such
Incidents will suggest themselves. The storming
of the canteen by B Company, with portraits of
the officers who led the assault, would be effective.
It will be remembered that one non-commissioned
officer had his uniform badly torn by a dromedary
on that fatal day.
At the Bathurst District Court, C P S.
Braeslngton called for William Charles Grevllle 1 1
come Into the jury box and do Justice between
man and man. At the sound of the name, a nanny-
goat. which had wandered in to see how disputes
were settled amongst men, gave (so the local paper
says) “a loud bah.” Judge Decker smiled and
said, “ That’s plain enough.” Was it ? Without
knowing goat language he should have kept
silent. The poor thing might merely have recog-
nised a relative on the Bench.
The Evening News suggests that, instead
of the oold formality of a levee on the 34th May,
Lord Augustus Loftus should “stand at the head
of his troops in Moore Park, Sydney, and there
hold a real levee— a levee en masse of the people.”
“At the head of his troops ” is good, but a “ levee
en masse of the people” is the “joker.” At the
bead of the merciless veterans, who will assemble
on that day, bis Excellency and “ Chris.” should
have no difficulty In planning a flank-march on the
gas-works, and making the directors bring down
the price another sixpence in the thousand, AH
this comes from somebody having been turned
away from last year’s levee through coming in his
shirt-sleeves.
Pastor Allen, of Sydney, has been at it
again. Listen to this from his second letter in (of
course) the O.T.—“ Shall we give up to these
murderers 100 millions of our fellow creatures, to
this slaughter on the Nile and its tributaries ? Dear
old slave bating England answers ‘no' In 50 million
tongues of steel.” Oh, bosh I Here, anyhow s a
jingle for the apostle
If reams of rot, and roods of rant.
If tons of idiocy and cant.
If tongues of steel and lungs of brass
Moan aught, your dream must come to pass I
All London is talking of the foreign noble-
man who recently abducted and concealed a yountir
girl of 14. “ Who Is he ? ” asks the Evening News.
We can’t sav. The only “ foreign nobleman resi-
dent in London ” that wo can claim acquaintance
with Is Jimmy—that is to say, a gentleman who.
many millions of years ago, was Minister of Landa
in N,8,W. Fancy James concealing anything more
romantic than hash! We were boarding in the
same house with the Hon. Mr. H. at the time he
went away. One of those to see him off and on
board the mall boat was bis landlady. She cried—
“Qude-hve, Jamie; ye kippit me puir, but I wish
ye wull.”
We observe that the N.S W. Minister for
Public Instruction, speaking at Sydney Benevo-
lent Asylum, some day* ago, defended Australian
youth against “the widely current aspersions of
want of respect for old age.” It’s too thin,
Trickett. The old people you were addressing
knew better. That’s partly the reason they’re in
the asylum. No, M. le Ministre. If you really
want to know the respect in which age is held by
young Australians, and that you have aged
parents, send them down our street at 7 pm. to-
night. You will be an orphan at nine sharp.
Snufflebust, of the Sydney Circumlocutioii
Office, is not noted for personal cleanliness. In
fact, if cleanliness be next to godliness, SnulHe-
bust is the rankest of heathens. Further, if a
fellow in the Circumlocution is noted for his aver-
sion to soap, be must be at least a colonel in the
great army of the unwashed. Therefore, one whn
was aware of bis reputation, was surprised beyond
measure on going into a barber’s shop to flnd
Snufflebust just recovering from a shampoo.
“ What,” he said, “ you having a shampoo 1’’
“ Yes," replied the eircumlocutionist. slightly
offended at the tope of Surprise; ” nothing extra-
ordinary in that, is there ?” “ Oh, no,” replied the
other; "Isuppose this is the anniversary." They
meet as strangers now.
Thb Palmer (N.Q.) Chronicle is cheerful
or nothing—chiefly the latter, but the last number
fairly glistens with fun. There is a half a column
by Dr. Gaspare Spelllni, a local sawbones, who
gives an excruciatingly funny account of the am-
putation of a black boy’s leg. We have only space
to note that there was no permanent callus,
but, instead of that, an osteopereostltla suppurata.
At one stage, there was a neat muscular fascia
disclosed, and subsequently there was very little
divaroatlon of the edge. Several leading gentle-
men of the Palmer attended, and appeared nighly
interested. It reminded them of some of the
effects of their Chronicle jokes.
Wo learn from the Sydney Echo that it
was a barrel-organ heard in his native village in
the Grand Duohy of Parma that first stirred up the
musical susceptibilities of Verdi. Mr. Mazzucato
assures us of this in the new dictionary of music.
We believe Mr. Mazzucato would not willingly tell
an untruth, but, before we unreservedly accept
his statement, we would beg of him to answer the
following:—!. Was it the same kind of barrel-organ
in use in England and the oolonles ? 2. Was there
a monkey on it ? 3. Was the manipulator sober
and turning the handle in the ordinary way, or
tipsy and reversing it ? Till Mr. Mazzucato answers
these questions, we reserve our judgment.
The recent alarming discovery by the
health officer of the deposit of “night soil” on the
margin of one of the Sydney water reservoirs,
would appear to have been quite accidental, and
not unnaturally suggests the possibility of the
existence of other undiscovered fever-breeding
beds. We will put the health officer on a track.
Has it occurred to'him as somewhat suspicious
that when householders are unable to obtain a
kettle of water, some of the numerous establish-
ments in the city, which provide hot and cold
baths, should have an unlimited supply? Is it
possible that the same water can be used over and
over again ? And, if so, what filthy and loathsome
diseases might be propagated by such an agency 7
This from the Evening Noozb “ Matri-
mony.— Young gentleman wishes to corresp’d
with y’ng lady; must be of high address.” What
does the young gentleman mean by “ high ad-
dress ?” The “ young gentleman” had better ex-
plain. By his use of contractions to save sixpence
he must be economical, and, therefore, should
make a saving if not a good husband. In another
ad. we flnd that the dead can return thanks, for a
Macdonaldtown man acknowledges the kindness
of certain persons in defraying the expenses of
the funeral, &o., of Samuel , “ on behalf of the
late Samuel .” Here, again:—” Please return
umbrella taken off grave at Petersham Cemetery
Reward,” &c. A man who would steal an umbrella
off a grave would thieve grains from a blind nen.
Professor Tyndall says that there is a
glacier in Switzerland which moves a quarter of a
mile every year. We have no glaciers in N. 8
Wales, but persons interested in such matters*
would do well to take a trip in a train to Parra-
matta. The movements of the cars will give them
a first-class idea of the pace of the Swiss glacier.
On the motion of Alderman E. Lewis
Scott, author and art-critic, the committee of the
School of Arts recently decided to refuse “ Lady
Munro’s” money when she comes to renew her
circulating-library subscription. It seems that on
one occasion her ladyship threw flowers at one of
the clerks, and on another tapped the hon. trea-
surer lightly on the breast with a basket. Well,
when we have found “ Self Help ” amongst Miss
Braddon’s novels, alighted on a magazine volume,
which commenced at 143 with the words, “are
intense in their radiance,” and discovered “For-
star’s Life” to be a beggarly wreck, we nave
often felt disposed to emulate, in some degree, the
example of her ladyship. When we do, we shall
make shift to do without either the dowers or the
basket.
How many people are in their graves to-
day who would hive been alive and well If they
knew the virtues of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Though I’ve never been to college
I have heard the poet say,
Summerfleld's clothes, “ wear-resisting,”
Last for ever and a day.*
The seizure of a British man-of-war. A
telegram has just been received in London from
St. Petersburg announcing that the Ironclad war-
ship Nelson has been seized by order of the Czar
on the ground that several gable-teethed British
sailors were seen aboard, when for £5 they could
obtain a complete set of perfect-fitting artificial
teeth (upper and lower) at Marshall Brothers,
Dentists, 133 Ellzabeth-street, Hyde Park, Sydney.*
If you value your good name do not put
it In jeopardy by selling counterfeits of Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Meddling, as Usual.
WHAT ARB THESE? OH, THESE ARB A FEW DESIGNS BY OUR OWN ARTIST, FOR THE PROPOSED MEDALS TO COMMEMORATE THE RETURN OF THE N.S. WALES
CONTINGENT, AND THE DISPATCH OF THE ARABS’ GOATS. WE MAKE NO CHARGE, BUT IF DALLEY WERE TO HAND OYER THE REVERSION OF THAT KNIGHTHOOD, NOW,
WE MIGHT—SEND IT TO PETER CAMPBELL.


The Right Rev Dr. Vaughan.
familiar name which heads this paragraph is
nnticcted with features scarcely less familiar, as
° meaeuted on our front page. The strong family
likeness which existed between this Dr. Herbert
Vangbar.K.C. Bishop of Salford, and the late
. , Roger Vaughac, of Sydney, must str.ke
ader. Dr. Herbert Vaughanisaboutto visit
e . ve i?.ada and it will not be his co-rellgionlsts
who will have a hearty welcome for the
2«.?iier of the distinguished Prelate and thorough
St gentleman, who spent so many years in
b f midst. Our portrait is from a photograph
°uead at our disposal by Mr. H. J. Maguire, pho-
fovrapher, of 193, George-street north, to whom
Dr Herbert Vaughan personally sent it.
The Oldest Colonial-Born Woman.
On page 7 of this issue we give a portrait of the
lately-deceased Mrs Ann Morgan, who was the
oldest native born inhabitant ot Australasia, and
who. had she lived until Jmy next, would have
bten 91 y eir-i < f age. The venerable lady wa« corn
at sea, within a very short distance of the
coast, in the “nineties" of last century, and was
the daughter of free parents, servants ot a
former Governor of New South Wales. She
was married at the age of 16, and has left behind
her sons and grandsons to the number in all ot 60.
Until within a few weeks of her decease (which
t iok place at the residence of her grandsons,
Messrs. William and George Morgan, of Pitt-street,
Redfern), Mrs. Morgan retained perfect possession
of all her faculties, and could, without the aid or
glasses, thread the needle which she.phed so deftly
throughout her long life, hbo was of a most
kindly disposition, and numbers of people who
desired information concerning the early days of
the colony—of which she had many strange stories
to tell—spent many pleasant hours gossiping with
genial old “ Granny Morgan.”
Gerald Massey’s “Imperial Reply to the
Hon. Mr. Dallsy ” contains as much poetry as the
present market rates will run, consistent with
common sense and a professional facility of versi-
fication. We know this is feeble appreciation, and
we turn with pleasure to the farewell address de-
livered in Gunnedah to the local brewer, Mr. N. O
Funnel!—may he never go bung I The employes,
to the number of five, rallied up on the occasion
of his leaving suddenly for Europe—whether to
have a say in Russian delimitation or to purchase
a superior vat does not appear. “ We are sorry
that we had not a longer notice of your projected
departure for the old country, so that we might
have been able to express our gratitude for the
many kindnesses shown to us by you in a more
tangible form.” We need no inspiration to know
what ,r ind form these gentlemen call more tan-
gible than kindnesses, but risk the speculation
that it was unlimited pewter in the cellars before
breakfast. Indeed, it must have been nothing
less than that; or whence this heartfelt prayer
“In conclusion, we pray that your voyage will be
a pleasant and prosperous one, and that the Great
Architect of the Universe will watch over you on
the great deep, and in the dear old land, and re-
turn you to us.” If the G. A. fails to look after
N. 0. F., then what’s the use of a Providence ?
By studying your customers you study
yourself. Never palm off upon them an imitation
of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
In September next the R.C. Prelates ef
Australia meet in Sydney to consider some weighty
questions of faith and morals. We have been
favoured with a programme of questions to be
decided, and the very first on the list i« a most in-
tricate one. It is this“ It is a rule of the Church
that mortal sin is committed by not alter ding con-
fession at least once a year. On Boxing (St.
Stephen’s) Day, 1884, at 7.59 p.m., Miles O’Higgins,
on approaching the castle of one Thady O’Kane,
in Neutral Bay, for the purpose of settling an old
feud, incautiously ran against a brick which was
hurtling from O’Kane’s watch-tower. The brick
won and Miles died. He had not confessed since
8 p.m. on Christmas Day, 1883. In arrest of judg-
ment could he plead that ’84 was a leap-year, and
that he was on his way to confession when
O Kane’s projectile diverted his attention ? ” We
give the question just as we see it on the paper
before up. Our readers will at once see that
issues of no ordinary moment are at stake, we
cannot positively say that this has anything to do
with Archbishop Moran's intended visit to Rome.
We leave our subscribers to draw their own con-
clusions. N.U.—o’Kane ran a public-house as
well s a castle. We state this at his own request,
but fall entirely to see its relevancy to the case.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a mild aromatic
stimulant, and is essentially suited to this climate.
Ask for Wolfe's.
Lovely the dress that clothes the orchard trees
With richest hues of varying: red and brown;
But lovelier still aie Summerfleld’s new patterns,
The best and cheapest that you’ll find in town.*
In this colony, ■where climatic changes oc-
cur so often, a gentle stimulant like Wolfe's
Schnapps is needed.
Some persons of weak intellect wish to en-
tertain the Hon. A. Stuart, Premier of N.8.W., at
a public banquet. What for ? It was certainly a
little disappointing about those oyster leases 1
Banquet enthusiasts will do well, prior to loading
up the hon. gentleman aud making him again un-
well, to take a trip down to Moesman’s Bay. At
the wharf there they will find a newly-painted
board, bearing the following legend:—
• Persons are informed that they are :
: only permitted to land here on :
: SUFFERANCE. :
: Harnett and Stuart. ;
The curses lavished on this inscription would have
withered any other board.
Within the last fortnight, two Sydney
suburban aldermen have stood up, spoken, and
then sat down and died. There is much to think
of in this.
It is singular how blind people are to their
own interests, by selling imitations of the genuine
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
It is said that some people have no con-
science. It mmt h- ’ T” f'r Wolfe’s Schnapps
would not be pi i 1 •.
We ° 11 t to u.now why people
I 8h > i ! to be Imposed upon by
in i - . . fcOHNAPPS.
If you caxiuot get Wolfe’s Schnapps in
one house it is much better for you to go where
| you can get it.
Better Got Through Soudanly.
“ITS NO USE FIDDLING WITH TEA-SPOONS; YOU VB GOT TO EAT IT. TAKE L IDLES !"


“ BEACH’S ”
CONSUIiTAl ION
ON
Birthday Cup, May 25,
SOO BOYS.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10a. EACH.
Idress—
“ BEACH,”
Care of J. G. Beeblo,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
nr* steia />« plod to have thin index patted up by
secretaries of racing club * and m a nagert of
sporting events in general A
RACING.
Rosehill E C - May 23
Queensland TC - May 23, 25
Adelaide R C.... Mav 23, 25
Adelaide RO. (Adelaide) — May 25
Melbourne Hunt Club - - May 35
Wollongong T.C. (Autumn) - May 25
Newcastle J.C May 25
Colly Blue Races - May 33
Kangaroo Valley - May 25
Sydney T.C - —- May 25
Temora (Amateur) - May 25
Tasmanian T.C May 25
Shepparton T.C, (V.).. May 25
BourkeJ.C May 25,27
Sydney T.C. (Amateur) May 30
Hay J.C, .. June 3, 2
Western Queensland R.C June 3,4
Coonamble J.C. - June 9,10
Blackall (Annual) - June 4, 5
Tattersall’s (WInter) - June 6
Auckland R.C (Steeplechase) June 6
Moonee Valley (V.) - June 6
Copmanhurst J.C - June 6
Liverpool J.C - June 13
Rockhampton June 18,19
Bose hill R.C June 20
Blrdsville J.C. (8. A.) June 33,25
Lower Clarence J.C June 24
Victoria A.T.C June 27
Balrnsnale R.C. (V.) - Julyl
Bistern wick (V.) July 4
Brewarrlna J.C .*• July 8
Walgett R.C July 8. 9
Clarence River J.C —. July 8, 9
Moonee Valley (V.) — July 11
Rosehill R.C ....July 18
Charters Towers J.C July 33, 24
Canterbury Park R.C August 1
Tamworth R.C • ..August 5,6
Rosehill R C August 8
Townsville (Annual) August 13,13
Canterbury Park R.C September 5
Hawkesbury (Spring) September 10 12
A.J.C. (Spring) September 19, 23, 24, 26
Rosehill R.C October 3
Canterbury Park R.C October 17
Canterbury Park R.C December 19
A.J.C. (Summer) December 26
Rosehill R.C December 28
AQUATICS.
Newcastle B C. (Annual) May 21
C. Nelson v. W. Harris... May 23
Moruya Regatta May 25
Matterson v. Messenger May 30
Glebe Rowing Club Malden Pairs July 4
Newcastle R.C. Regatta September
ATHLETICS.
Athletic Sports, Cootamundra May 25
Wagga Athletic Club Sports May 35
Borambil Sheffield Handicap May 25
Hargreaves Sheffield Handicap May 35
Sheffield Handicap and Amateur Cup, Car-
ooar May 25
Tenterfleld Sheffield Handicap •"May 25
Bombala Sheffield Handicap May 35. 36
T. Noud v. C. Donoghue, 100yds, £50, Ten-
terfleld May 37
St. Aloysus College Sports, Association
Ground May 37
Queen’s School Athletic Club Sports, Asso-
ciation Ground June 1,3
Kelly’s International Handicap.. .June 27, J uly 1,4,6
E. Sutton v. Power, 200yds, £400, Wallsend..June 30
Quirindi Handicap ... August 5. 6
Sir Joseph Banks Fourth Handicap —August 33,
33, 36, 29
’CYCLING.
Newcastle B.O. Race Meeting June 6
N.8.W. Cyclists’ Union Race Meeting, As-
sociation Ground June 37
Balmain and Burwood B.C.’s Joint Race
Meeting, Association Ground July 18
Sydney Bicycle Club (Annual R.M.), Asso-
ciation Ground August 23
THE RING.
S.A.B. Club Competition June 1
Foley v. Farnan. June 30
SPORTING AND ATHLBTIC MEMS.
A count and four captains rode in the
Liverpool Grand National tnis year.
Never judge the prowess of a latter-day
pugilist by the heroic tenor of his challenge.
Mr. Henry Prince succeeds the late Mr.
George Curtis as treasurer of Sydney Tattersall’s
Club.
The N.8.W. Rugby Union has this year
admitted the Arfoma and Newtown Clubs as
seniors.
Howell and Lees ran a dead heat for the
English International 20-mlle bicycling champion-
ship. Time lb. 5min. 55sec.
The Sydney Amateur Canvas Dingy Club
finished up a most successful season with evolu-
tions, and a dinner at Cremorne on Saturday last.
Captain Paul Boyton, the well-known
swimmer, after dabbling in the water for so long,
has now taken to dabbling in whisky. He is run-
ning a pub.
Next Wednesday evening the recently-
arrived Britisher, Jack Hall, will meet a local
light-weight in friendly rivalry, Queensberry
rules, at Foley’s athletic rooms. White Horse
Hotel.
The Sheffield papers announce the death,
at the age of 73, of Mr. Henry Sampson, one of the
few surviving members of that once famous team
of cricketers known as “ The United All England
Eleven.”
Great sport up at Newcastle (N.S.W.)
steam-tug racing. The local Marine Board, how-
ever, do not encourage sport, and threaten to deal
severely with any tug-master who takes to
“ painting her red ” in future.
A new weekly called Football has been
started in Melbourne. We have seen a copy of the
first issue, and, judging from its appearance, we
should be Inclined to say that Football is likely
to be received with more kicks than half-pence.
Dan. O’Leary,Weston’s old opponent, who,
when in the colonies, did little good for himself,
must be walking in something like his old form, as
at Iowa. Feb. 39, he walked a mile and an eighth in
9min. lOsec., beating two local men by a hundred
yards.
On a recent evening, No. 5 of this year’s
Oxford University eight, and No. 4 of the Cam-
bridge boat conducted religious service. The
handbill calling the meeting was printed in light
and dark blue. Thus doth Muscle come to the aid
of Christianity.
At Auckland (N.Z.), J. W. Melton, billiard-
room lessee, tried to recover £3 from A. Behrens
a player, who, in trying a “flash stroke,” had cut
the cloth. Plaintiff was non-suited, the magistrate
bolding that Behrens was guilty of no negligence,
and, therefore, not liable.
Messrs. H. Brinsmead and S. H. Reed will
be the Judges at the Sydney Amateur Boxing Club
competition on 1st June. The Club, which has
pretty well a hundred names on its roll, has en-
gaged the services of young Hall, a recent im-
portation, as Club caretaker and instructor.
Roberts was playing billiards, giving his
opponent 99 in a 100. The opponent gave the
usual miss In baulk. Roberts took up his cue, and
said, “ I will bet you a sov. that you do not score
In this game." “ Done,” said the other man.
itooerts promptly gave a miss and the game was
over.
What a falling off is there 1 After the big
challenges and matches made by Clifford’s party,
they now bar the veteran Layoook in their chal-
lenge. Save me from my friends” chips in
again. Had they been less ambitious Clifford
might have done well out of second class matches,
and tackled the big men later on. Clifford’s chance
of a second-class match has now been spoilt.
An English paper says:—“I was informed,
on what appeared to be good authority, though I
had no opportunity of testing its accuracy, that
one of the Oxford crew dislocated his shoulder
towards the end of the race, but pluckily con-
tinued rowing with his uninjured arm until the
winning-post was passed, when he at once re-
ceived efficient surgical aid.” Plucky—if true.
Says the Melbourne Sportsman :—“ A j
new Pacific Coast chronicle, the Cauifobnian
Athlete, is funny at our expense in the following
goak: ‘ Beach’s hair may be described as decidedly
sandy. But there is nothing remarkable in this.
Who ever saw a Beach that wasn’t sandy ?’ ” We
are almost ashamed to say this little thing was
thrown off in The Bulletin manyjmonths ago.
When the mail left Auckland, Murphy,
the defeated contestant In a glove fight at the
local Theatre Royal, was still very weak and under
medical care The contest was to all Intents a
f»rlze fight, the padding of the small chamois
eather gloves employed having been removed.
This was perfectly well known to a select circle of
the ring;present, but the “fancy” got it kept
quiet, in order to prevent the police interfering.
By his brace of victories at the S.A.
Jockey Club meeting, Remus has stamped himself
as a thoroughly useful two-year-old. His second
win, for the Ladies’ Bracelet, was particularly
meritorious, and promises well for the future.
When a youngster running a mile through sticky
ground can “ come again” as Remus did, and dis-
pose of older horses at almost level weights, either
he is a good one, or the rest of the field must
be a very sorry lot.
Lord Wilton has won a race at last, and
over a distance which most good judges considered
to bo beyond the length of his tether. The state
of the ground was all in favour of a horse of his
powerful frame, and when it is remembered that
Sardius, with 2tlbs. more in the saddle, was only
beaten a length and a half, the performance
doesn’t read a very grand one. However, it was
better than Conjecture’s, anyway, and by this time,
backers must have had about enough of the dis-
appointing daughter of Gang Forward.
Laurence Foley is striving hard to sever
the shady surroundings which have of late years
completely demoralized the “noble art,” and we
are pleased to say his efforts have come up to the
most sanguine expectations of lovers of the
game. On Friday night, the champion generously
gave the old-time champion, Bill Sparks, a “ ben.
when an orderly roomfull put in an appearance in
“ Tom Cribb’s Parlour ” at the White Horse.
Some good spars were gone through—the best.
I perhaps, being: between young King and a pocket
Hercules recently from Home-and old Bill must
have netted a pocketful of shiners over the affair.
The mile flat race proved the event of the
day at the Sydney Athletic Club Show on Satur-
day last. The contest was virtually a trial of
speed between Ferris and Middleton, as the other
starters were never in it. Middleton led all
through, with Ferris dogging his steps, and the
knowing ones thought it would be all over when
Ferris put on his final spurt, but contrary to ex-
pectations Middleton had the most left in him, and
won a grand race by a yard in 4min. 42seo., beating
by one second “ Pros.” Williams’ previous best,
which had held good for such a length of time.
C. It. Wood (from scratch) trundled in rare form
for the three-mile bicycle handicap, winning from
F. Peers (300 yds.), A. Pry (320 yds.), third.
The English scullers, Bubear and Godwin,
bad beautifully fine weather and smooth water
for their match over the Thames course for £200.
Bubear, who is 26 years of age, scaled list. 61b,,
and was well trained; while Godwin, who came to
the post very fit, is 38, and weighs lOst. 91b. The
men paddled about for a long time previous to
getting to their stations, but at 10 minutes to 3
the race commenced, Bubear getting off the best,
but Godwin was soon on level terms, and at the
steps the latter was clear, and Bubear, although
rowing the faster stroke, rapidly fell away, and
at Hammersmith Bridge Godwin led by six lengths
(time, 8min. 23sec.) Godwin then paddled on, and
one of the tamest races ended in favour of Godwin
by five lengths in 22min. 53seo., Bubear stopping
short of the post.
Mr. R. W. Stewart, of Mitchell Downs
Station, Queensland, who is now on a visit to the
old country, has been astonishing the Londoners.
For a wager of £500 he undertook to drive tan-
dem, at mid-day, a couple of young horses which
had only been once in collar, from a popular West
End Club along the Strand, Fleet-street, up to and
round Ludgate Hill, on to and round the Bank and
home again. This extraordinary feat he accom-
plished successfully, and the Hon. Mr. , who
lost the bet, expressed his opinion of the perform-
ance by inscribing a volume of his poems to “R.
W. S*ewart, the best'tandem driver in Europe.”
Stewart is a sort of Admirable Crichton—a sort of
morrocco-bound edition of the man for Galway.
He can paint a picture or write a poem with most
amateurs, and, next to Bell’s Liee, his favourite
reading is the “ Cyropcedia.”
Roller-skating is the latest craze in
Yankeeland. Rinks out of number are in full
swing, and the six-day roller-skating promises to
supersede the go-as-you-please. The Chicago
rinks must be anything but slow-going, judging
from the fact that owners have held a meeting
and fixed upon the following code of morals:-
“No person in attendance at a rink shall approach
a woman in any way, except, of course, where she
should need assistance in case of accident, unless a
proper introduction shall have taken place, and
parties so offending shall be expelled from the
rink; nor shall they be allowed to skate at any of
the rinks included in the association. This is for
the protection of women and young girls from the
advances of anyone, male or female, who may
seek to make himself or herself obnoxious, or who
has a bad purpose In view.”
Donald Dinnie is travelling towards
Wagga—not as an agent of the “Claimant,” to
hunt lip fresh evidence, but as a Scotchman who
will back himself to throw more men, toss bigger
cabers, and eat more oatmeal porridge than any
three Murrumbldgee “whalers” in the district.
Donald always wears kilts. He tried trousers
one?, but the adjustments were too much for him,
and he could never satisfy himself as to the proper
way of wearing them—over his legs, or over his
head. Besides, he sat down to meals with such
emphasis that nothing but armour-plated clothes
would stand a week’s wear and remain decent. 80
there was nothing for It but to go back to the
kilts. And rcow the coldest weather within the
memory of the oldest aboriginal is reported from
Wagga. If we thought this would have the effect
of inducing Donald to give trousers another trial,
we’d travel to Wagga to see him.
From the ’Frisco Newsletter : —“ Rowing
men have lost faith in Hanlan, and we are with
the rest. We fully expected that he would defeat
Beach, and spoke out confidently. If Hanlan
rowed to win, then the Australian must be a much
finer oarsman. If the Canadian rowed to lose,
then we have nothing more to say for him. By
10 years’ honest work he has won money and
honour. He went to Australia to make money.
Tnere was no honour to be won in beating Beach
or Laycock. The ex-champion has rowed four
races at Sydney-two he has won, and lost two.
In his matches with Laycock and Clifford he could
not win much if he backed himself. In the matter of
stakes he is a loser, and the Australians bet more
freely on Beach than on either Laycock or Clif-
ford. Hence Hanlan must be out of pocket if he
rowed honestly. We have no wish to make a
clamour against the defeated champion. The
wires inform us that Beach will at once proceed to
England, and that Hanlan will return home. There
is no one in England to row Beach, and why he
should start for Putney in such a hurry, we can-
not see any good reason. But we will not antici-
pate. In six weeks we shall have full particulars,
and can then, perhaps, give some good reason for
Hanlan’s easy defeat.
Says Bell’s Life;— “We understand on
good authority that there is every probability of
Beach and his backer, Mr. Dubb, visiting England
shortly.” They are about as far off the name of
the plucky supporter of our champion as they are
of a championship match on the Thames. Another
paper calls the Thames the “time-honoured and
traditional championship course.” We are quite
content it should remain the “traditional” course,
so long as the races come off on the Parramatta.
Our scullers should have had enough of the
Thames course. It is going over old ground to
speak about the cruel tricks the climate played
with Ned Hanlan, but it may not be generally
known that when Laycock was training on the
Thames, his boat used to leak a bit, and so severe
was the cold, that the water froze in the boat, and
Elias had to stand with his outrigger in front of
the Club house fire until the leakage thawed. Nice
weather for an Australian. No, no. William I if
you know when you are well off stick to the
Parramatta, and if we have any luck in years to
come, who knows but our boys may make a 11 tra-
ditional ” course of it ?
John Roberts, jun., has again defeated
Cook in a match for the billiard championship,
that is to say, on a so-called “champion” table.
As all followers of the game are aware, this style
of table was specially introduced for the purpose
of clipping the wings of purely spot-stoker players,
the pockets being narrowed, and the position of
the spot altered, so as to make a long succession
of winning hazards a matter of impossibility. The
anomaly of playing for championship honours on
other than the regulation table has often
been pointed out, and the Prince of Wales, who
attended the first of the new fangled matches, ex-
pressed his august opinion that it was “ extremely
slow.” Since then Roberts has frequently ex-
pressed his contempt for the innovation, and de-
clined to have anything to do with these bastard
“ championships,” but the prospect of net-
ting a “ century ” appears to have induced him to
pocket his prejudices for once in a way. In this
last game neither Roberts nor his old opponent
exhibited his best form, although in the course
of the three nights’ play (3000 up) the former con-
trived to manipulate a break of 139, the best on
record at this branch of billiards. During the
past winter the champion has maintained his
supremacy over all competitors as a “ spot-stroke”
player at the “ all-round” game, and now on the
unpopular “ champion” table. That he has been
able to keep himself at the top of the tree for 15
years proves conclusively that a billiard player’s
life Is only just as unhealthy as he chooses to make
it; otherwise Roberts could never have outlasted
thefdozens of younger rivals who have cropped
up and disappeared since his fame was first
established.
John L, Sullivan, at present the world’s
champion, thus delivers himself with respect to
the bruisers of the day“ I am about to meet in
the ring, but I shall whip M'Caffrey easily. M’Caf-
frey’s a good man, but he talks too much. He’s
talked too much in the past, and he talks too
much now. I don’t want to create the impression
that I don’t appreciate his qualities as a fighter.
As I said before, he’s a good man; but, without
any bragging, he’s not as good a man as I am. I
would have given M'Caffrey a chance to make
some money long ago, only that he talked too
much. MRchell is a very clever fighter, and he
will come pretty near whipping anybody. He is
probably the most artistic fighter I know of, and
he is brimful of courage. He wasn’t afraid to
meet me, and I don’t think he knows what It
means to fear any man’s fists. He not only has
courage, but ho has confidence. Mitchell and I
will meet again soon. I think it is even up be-
tween Mitchell and Greenfield. They would
make a splendid match, and it would be six
of one and half a dozen of the other in a
fight. Mitchell is not an easy man to put down,
but if it came to the finish I hardly think
he could stand as much punishment as Greenfield.
But don’t make any mistake—they are both good
fighters. Neither of tljem has ever been put tq j
the test In this country as vet. exeenf m.-n.
What I want to Ret at is that?living mV fc 0 h
ttequMtton-Huid 1 y aQt you t0 P a rtieularly ahom
that I speak without any vanity—either of ?h° w
would make It very hot for any man in Amow em
Ryan is a greatly overrated man He's a S
one, of course, but he's not the fighter he 0™$
to be for such a big, powerful man
neither the strength as a hitter nor the’scien™ 88
a sparrer that one would expect to find in a
as weil known as he i* About the match
off between us, I believe it is true, as he ?« ,?*
ported to have said to a Chicago reporter that hi
could not raise the r necessary $5000 But I wan?
to meet him. Still I don’t want to fight
1 ve had e ?9P ffh and want to
hl ™ for money, and I’m pretty sure that heM
rather have the money than the glory anydlv
0f COUr ? e ’ T hether he ca ° mana/e
$5000, but it a my opinion he can’t manage to raia?
.1 will fight Ryan and Burke on the
same day, in the same ring, on© right after th«
other. New Orleans would be the proper place
Burke .is a clever man, Indeed, but he has™
punishing power. He has a good left arm and
often does effective work with it. If he had
much strength as he has science, he would he a
more dangerous man to meet than he is. Burke
c P>i ld n 9 fc ® tan< * the Punishment in a long fight®
either; but as far as he is concerned as a fighter’
he s about as good a man as either Ryan, Mitchell ’
or Greenfield. It s a toss between the four, and f
don t care to say who’s the best man in my opinion
Cleary’s fellow,” he said.‘‘and as good Si
a ° y £ hei ?’ J? e 18 liable t0 d0 hi8 ma Q up°f ht
can hit him in the proper place with his right He
Powerful right arm.” And Sullivan
shot his right straight out, by way of exoreasi™
his opinion of Cleary’s strength. “ Tug a
r e ’ ht nd h r act ® d c ° w , ardl y with me. He was
not a fighter of any merit.” 88
Joseph Goss, the veteran pugilist, died on
Tuesday morning, March 24, at his sporting house
m 8 . Head > Lagrange-street, Boston, Mass’
Inm wfi u f aaa , e ot death was Bright’s disease
from which he had long 1 been a sufferer, and whicii
d oouflupd him to his bed for some weeks before
final hour came. Joe Goss was a native of
Northampton (Eng.), where he was born Novem-
ber 5,1838, stood 5ft. 8}£in. in height, and in the old
country was wont to fight at 10st. 101b w
Is weight walking about was a long way
1 l S Av h +i havu &. increased in bulk,
bulk. At the time of his last fight, that with Ryan
his measurements were-chest waist 36in
er 'P^o C TiTQ^atoreerm 121n., tnigh 23in., calf
16in. He was a shoemaker by trade, and was
brought up in Wolverhampton, where he con-
tinued to reside the greater part of the time until
his departure for America. He learned to spar
while a boy, and was yet in his teens when he tried
his iand in quiet little mills, for small sums, with
R ix°n. Joe's first recorded
fight was with Jack Rooke, of Birmingham, whom
h® ' defeated in an hour and 40 minutes—the extra-
ordinary staying powers which he exhibited giving
his backers immense satisfaction. After fighting
nm T ° m Bod ger CrutchleyJ
Bill Ryal (twice), and Posh Price, Joe Goss
was matched against the celebrated Jem Mace!
at whose hands, after a tough battle of 19 rounds
one hour and 55 minutes, Goss sustained his first
defeet, Mace staking £600 to £400 “down the
river,” September 1, 1863. On December 16 fnl-
lowing Goss met and defeated Ike Baker, of West
Bromwich, in the Metropolitan district, for £100
in one hour and 20 minutes. Then followed the
memorable farce between Goss and Mac© (second
engagement), in which a new era in ring matters
wa8 lnaugurate d -“ the first blow struck to lose
the battle.” They met on May 24, 1866, for £400
& nd the champion belt, at Longfleld Court, and
after they had stood in the ring ah hour and five
minutes, without a blow being delivered, the
referee declared it a draw. This unsatisfactory
5S. al i4: brlD gjng down upon their heads, as it justly
did, the condemnation of the Press and the public,
was not destined to settle the matter, and a fresh
match was made, Mace being the winner in 21
rounds (31 minutes), the stakes being £200 a-side.
It is doubtful if Mace would have had so easy a
win had not Goss made the mistake of propos-
ing a 16-foot ring. The fight took place in
the London district, August 6, 1866. Goss
then fought a draw with Tom Allen, and on
January 25,1868, Goss received £85 forfeit from Joe
Wormald, and the same year was matched to fight
lien (Tom’s brother) for the championship
and £200 a side in August; but both were arrested
and placed under bonds to keep the peace for a
year, and that ended it. In 1876 Goss crossed over
to America, in company with Jim Mace, one of
the objects of Goss in going to America being to
make another match with Tom Allen, who had
gained fame and made money during his sojourn
tb® States. The pair duly met on September 7,
mb, on Kentucky soil. They fought 21 rounds in
all, in 48min., when a decision was given in Goss’
favour, on account of a deliberate foul. Allen
was in much the better condition of the two, Joe
being trained too fine and going somewhat stale:
but he was as plucky as ever, and took his punish-
ment like one of the good old stock. Goss under-
went six months* imprisonment over this affair*
It was not till June 1, 1880, that he again figured in
5P® ring, when he met Paddy Ryan in a fight for
£200 and the so-called championship. The pair
faced each other at Collier Station, West Va„ June
1,1880, when Goss proved himself the moie scien-
tific fighter by far, but he had grown slow and he
was ultimately compelled to succumb to a younger
PJ a o D b ? ma °y years, 87 rounds being fought in
In. 28mm. This closed his career as a principal in
ring events. It was at his benefit in Boston, pre-
viously to the fight, that he first met John L. Sul-
livan, and it was from the showing the latter made
against Joe that his name first came to be talked
about outside of Boston. Sullivan and Goss were
always fast friends, the veteran’s admiration for
the young phenomenon being unbounded. For
sometime previous to his demise Goss was pro-
prietor of a sporting house and did large business,
but as usual with men of his class he has left his
wife in straitened circumstances.
Penrith, N.S.W., can boast of men who
would be of wonderful assistance to their country
in the event of an attack by the Russians. In a rifle
match up there the other day one of “ the competi-
tors managed to hit the target once in four shots.”
It was.only an outer, but such a good on® that it
might be called an “ out-and-outer.” And yet
the local paper says the marksman was “ out of
form,” and hopes to “ see the next match.” So do
we. Our aim will be to get in front of the target
or not less than 20 miles at the rear, behind the
biggest mountain.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a good medicinal
beverage for regulating the organs of the body.
Rs sure you obtain Wolfe's.
Mashers.— The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 652 George-street, Brickfield Hill.*
For close confinement, want of air, seden-
tary habits and brain and nerve tire, trust in Hop
Bitters (American Co.’s). Read.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is an excellent specific
for indigestion, rheumatism, and gout. Obtain
Wolfe’s, accept nothing else.
INEBRIETY AND OPTICS.
"CHRIST’PHER C’LUMB’S 1 ’8 FIRS’ TIMB-HIO-I KNEW I’S-HIC-A MORMON 1”


T
GOMPAGNONI CATERING GO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 1 1
itE.oldest; and leading Catering Establishment In N.8.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor,
Municipal Council of 8yd> ey, the A.J.C., City Club7'v o., &o”
adir" — A n "
The Dining Saloons for LadieslandGentlemie’nlarethe Finest, Coollest, and loftiest in the colony.
JUKbi-OLAbS MiSNU DAILY. Private Bar—Good Wino List
GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at a ny time from 8 a.m. to 11 pm. (after the
Theatres, Select yourown steak, Ac andsee lt grilled in tho room. This is one of the acquisitions
or the city, and a long-felt waut. Inspection invited. Club of the Prince Alfred Yacht Clue
and City Club, upstairs. Ei D. TO L LEM AC HE, General Manager.
Bray Liiclitner,
32 O CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, best,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments, wltb(uU1I1 ,t ra ctio M for no«c«,:
C. C
HI?
as-
► hJI o
s £ ,*=>
»
M 5? o
cipu<cr(t
> Co
ssr.
&
llVl
m3
&
is-.
qeqjBin 0tft ui pidBJ pus ejqBijai psora
lift ‘ejBXj Ada B t dd^ V ff JOJ a^og
IMPORTERS OF SUPPLIES
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, best,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments, ,„h tuiu M truotio M for Noyi<*»:
(si frrTM.
—
■. a c
tyau<ira
C\
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
w - - - V
_ &
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plafe, th(
most reliable and rapid in the market.
T
O ALL WOMEN
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
vr TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY
IN SOAP I
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with it;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
Od. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY,
THIS Invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system: regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 12s., or four quantities is one for
Ms.; if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,!
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from George-street South.
Rev. Father Wilds’
EXPERIENCE.
The Rev. Z. P. Wilds, well-known city
missionary in New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds, of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
“ 78 E. 5 4th St., New York, May 16, 1882.
Messrs. J. C. Ayer & Co.. Gentlemen:
Last winter I was troubled with a most
uncomfortable itching humor affecting
more especially my limbs, which itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so intense-
ly, that I could scarcely bear any clothing
over them. 1 was also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough; my
appetite was poor, and my system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from personal use
in former years, I began taking it for the
above-named disorders. My appetite im-
proved almost from the first dose. After
a short time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs of irritation of the
skin disappeared. My catarrh and cough
were also cured by the same means, and
my general health greatly improved, until
it is now excellent. I feel a hundred per-
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of the Sarsaparilla, which
I recommend with all confidence as the
best blood medicine ever devised. I took
it in small doses three times a day, and
used, in all, less than two bottles. I place
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may do good.
Yours respectfully, Z. P. "Wilds.”
The above Instance is but one of the many
constantly coming to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from impure or impoverished blood, and a
weakened vitality.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of the stomach and
bowels, and thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofu-
lous Diseases, Eruptions of the Skin, Eheu-
tnatism, Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state of the system.
PREPARED BY
Dr.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists; price §1, six bottles
for $5.
\a>
m
»ESgENClGoFLIF£
re only infallible remedy for
//er/oi/sJjebiIijyT
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
. PILLS.
Best Purgative Medicine
cure Constipation, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious Disorders.
Sold everywhere. Always reliable*
ELLIOTT BROS, and S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received by
every MalL
ROYAL ARCADE, GEORGE ST- 406 SYDNEY I
jr
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this -world-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALB, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.-
Sole Agents.
CATTBLL & CO.,
INTENDING VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
Should Carefully Preserve this Notice.
“THE WONDER” COACH
CARRIED 1920 PASSENGERS LAST SEASON.
Mr. P. J. Rumney, of “ RIDGE’S FOOD ” fame
is again running his celebrated four-horse Stage
Coach, “THE WONDER,” between London and
St. Albans, leaving Hatchett’s Hotel, in Piccadilly,
London, every morning at 10.45 returning to Pic-
cadilly at 6.15 p.m.
Ample time is allowed at St. Albans for lunch
and for passengers to inspect the CATHEDRAL,
which is one of the FINEST and OLDEST IN THE
WORLD.
The trip is one of the most delightful that can be
taken, and the price charged for the return fare is
fifteen shillings.
For Time Cards and other particulars apply to
1 WONDER” Coach Office, Hatchett’s Hotel,
Piccadilly, London, England.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st.,
STDNET.
mm i in
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
Woven wire spring mattrasses
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
Toilet glasses,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&0., &0.
BLAKE’S IMPROVED
STEAM PUMPS.
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
17 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
are sole agents fob the above,
and have in Stock and to arrive—
FIRE PUMPS
boiler-feed PUMPS
tank or light service pumps
mining pumps
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING PUMP
tannery pumps
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
vacuum pumps
deep-well-sinking pumps
SEND FOR PRICES AND ALL PARTICULARS
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FREE,
DR. BOYD
„ , x . „ SPECIALIST.
Graduate In Medicine and Surgery, Registered
Physician of New South Wales.
U, 53 Castlereagh-street (upstairs.)
Send for Free Treatise on Vitality and Nervous
Debility, Diseases of Women.
iUustrated Works on Deformities, Electricity
and its Application. Hernia (ruptures). Varicocele,
&0.| &c»
rreoiucui, dox Liu, w.r.u.
Consultation Free by mall or In person.
Deformities, Specific. Female, and Nervous
Diseases, a Specialty.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
TJaa.d.erta,lcer,
■: 84 HUNTER ft PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years: also.
Manager for over ten AO) years. '
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found It at
last with the Argosy Braces at Oowlng Bros.
IV
I
IS
mim
Si \
.
&
GOWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy_Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. Od.. 8s. t 3s. «d.,«r 4 S . Q.
SOWING - BROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS. HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, St
882 and 498 Georre-atrcct.
Watch and Clockmaker to the Victorian
Government.
T. GAUNT
Watchmaker,
GOLDSMITH,
J
297 and 299
George Street,
STriMsTBTr.
Bavarian imp
ittebs. nur
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of the best Bavarian Hops. Superior to any
other.
They take the first place wherever tried, and are
well authenticated by eminent medical men and
well-known analysts.
Read the reports and testimony which scoom
pany each bottle, and do not forget to make a
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
Nervous debility, lost vitality
Weakness, and Premature Decay.—A simp'e
and positive means for Permanent Self-cure, by «
very eminent French Hospital Physician, sent
free to any sufferer. Send your address, on a
stamped envelope, to C. C. W., Box 766, G.P.O,,
Sydney,


JJ1 UBNITUK1 SHOW ROOM
BRADLBY, EWTON, and LAMB,
Q*OonneU and 8pr!.<t streets, Sydney.
Hall furniture, hatstands
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
L1JBK.AUY FU KJN IT LI UK, UKW THE and > j*
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRET AIR fils
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, m ...xq! 'g
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worth v of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
m*rALL CABINETS for Choice China, » c
VV VERY ELEGANT, just received. Brad I y
Newton, and Lamb.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand.
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurant*
smoking: rooms, Ac.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
E
ji IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table an£
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLBY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-Btieet.
EDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with slivered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble ton
and the back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached: PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE BEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, andXAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d. j Dining Tables, from 20s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
*
GQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
pWOU strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLBY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
O
CCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &o.
in
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
OConnoIl-streot.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens lor flro grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
'•l Connell-street.
■pkRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
J J A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and Inex-
penslve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Booms, O’Connell-strcet.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D
I ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAI Li-
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious In its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, Instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of h e body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, hr wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four Inches In thickness
when fi Jded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, If required,
2s. 6d. extra.
AGATELLB BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLBY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment In Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
FRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
B
B
BDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and braf
• new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lam
BDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowei
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rate
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
aell and Spring streets.
W
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 2Ss,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
St:
ARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Cha:
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRA
•, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’ConneU-street.
iBNTWOOD FURNITURH~ A very eompi
) Assortment; heft make, lowest prices
SOCIAL
The St. Kllda social was held at the Bal-
main School of Arts Friday evening last One of
the prettiest ladies present was Miss Higlnbotham,
who wore a cream costume trimmed with gold
braid. Miss Emmanuel was also admired in a blue
nun’s veiling skirt, with bodice of ruby velvet.
A oink and cardinal costume was rather tasteful,
and a maize-coloured satin with draperies of net
was nice. A special boat was chartered to convey
visitors back to the city.
• • •
Amongst the ladies of Sydney it seems to
be a vexed question as to how they are to attire
themselves for matinees. As this class of enter-
tainment bids fair to become as fashionable here
as it la on the Continent and in America, a little
advice upon the subject would not, perhaps, be
amiss. For concert matinees, where the object is
to bear more than to see the performers, hats and
bonnets are permissible—in fact, a costume suit-
able for a garden party would answer equally well
lor a matinee; but for theatrical performances
head-gear of any description should be dispensed
with. It not only obstructs the view, but is also
conducive to headaches In a hot, 'gas-lit theatre:
and furthermore, a bonneted audience tends
much to depress the performers. How this Is, or
why It is, we know not; we only know that It is
so. Therefore, ladies, when you intend to pa-
tronise a matinee, don your smartest walking
dress, arrange your hair becomingly, but leave
your hat or bonnet in the cloak-room, and we can
guarantee that you will be much more comfort-
able and will not vex anybody sitting behind von
by intercepting their view with your high-
crowned hat and massive plumes. At Mrs.
Marcus Clarke’s benefit matinee on Satur-
day afternoon, the large and fashionable au-
dience had, on the whole, robed themselves
very becomingly. A handsome dress was made
entirely of olive-green plush, with which was
worn a high green felt hat and plumes. Two
sisters were richly and tastefully attired in pale
eleotrlo-blue with drapings of watered silk in same
shade. A bronze-brown mantle shimmered in the
half-light effectively. Mrs. Coates wore a deep
peacock-blue, and Miss Stephens a claret-coloured
costume with small bonnet to match. A peach-
coloured shot silk with pale-blue facings looked
vary nice; but, perhaps, the most suitable costume
was a nut-brown silk, over which were handsome
drapings of coffee lace. At the throat was a single
blush rose, and the hair was dressed high. Mrs.
M'Donald'looked very well in a ruby satin costume
with feather trimming la same shade. Not a few
widows were to be seen amongst the numerous
audience, who had evidently been prompted to
give their patronage to the matinee from a fellow-
feeling for the beneficiare Everybody said it was
▼ery good of them, and we agreed with everybody.
Juscby wayof anovelty, ‘carriage folks' were kept
waiting for their carriages. Instead of vice versa;
but they didn’t mind a bit, as it gave them an
opportunity of chatting with their friends as they
left the theatre, and also of satisfying themselves
that there wasn’t another costume so charming as
their own.
* * *
Everybody is singing the praises of the
Sydney folk for the handsome benefit they ten-
dered to Mrs. Marcus Clarke on Saturday last, but
it is not generally known that all the working
hands, the band, and ticket-takers at the Opera
House gave their services free of charge, which
generous act would surely entitle them to some
share of the praise. Some of our wealthiest
citizens might, with advantage, take a lesson from
these big-hearted v e i After all, there’s no-
thing like nature’s ge .tleman the manufactured
article is only a very second-class affair after all.
• • •
A fashionable, though very quiet, wedding
took place at St. James’ Church on the 9th inst.,
when Miss Constance Macdonald, of Balangowan
Station, Rockhampton, and Mr. Pennefather (a
surveyor from Manaro), were welded into one
“ for better, for worse.” The bride looked most
interesting in a cream satin richly trimmed with
lace. Her mother was attired in heliotrope silk.
The bridesmaids wore white, with pink and blue
sashes and wreaths. Among the guests that as-
sembled to drink the health of the “twain that
now are one,” a lady from Enfield looked very
attractive in blue-watered silk with bonnet to
match. Mrs. Farrar, of Tharwa, wore a pretty
cream surah satin with a profusion of lace. Mrs.
Brodribb and Miss Desailly, from Melbourne,
looked, the one stately, the other pretty, in black.
The vivacious elder daughter of the late Minister
for Justice looked sparkling in her bridesmaid’s
wreath of pink, and both she and the best man
(the bride's brother) seemed to thoroughly under-
stand their duties—and each other—while her
sister looked calm, pretty, and sedate in pink satin.
The bride was given away by her uncle, Mr.
Roberts, of Winderradeen. A handsome young
squatter and a stalwart master from the Sydney
Grammar School took care that the ladies wanted
for nothing.
♦ • ♦
Mr. George Castledon has composed a
polka, which he calls “The Champion Oarsman
Polka.” The front page presents a portrait of
Beach, and the lettering, of course, in black and
yellow. The polka is lively and enticing enough
to make even Beach himself dance, and the
general “get up ” is very creditable.
* * *
At St. Patrick’s Church, Masterton, New
Zealand, a pretty little tragedy took place the other
day. A youthful couple thought they would like
to get married, so engaged the church and the
parson for the ceremony. But, manlike, the
bridegroom had forgotten to get the license from
the Registrar, and upon going to remedy the
omission, it came out the bride was under age, so
no license was forthcoming. The disappointed
bridegroom carried the sad news to the bride-
elect, who, instead of going off into a dead faint, as
a proper yellow-baek-uovel girl would have done,
flew into a temper, tore her finery into shreds, and
flew out of the church.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
[Note,— Social Items, in order to ensure Inser-
tion for the current week, should be to hand no
later than Tuesday,]
“E. Butcher”: Report already received. No,
there’s no charge.
"SWEET GIRL GRADUATES."
We present to our readers the interesting
portraits of two young ladles of whom "Sydney
may well be proud. The one on the right is Mi»s
Mary Elizabeth Brown, who, in company with
Miss Isola Florence Thompson, took the degree of
Bachelor of Arts at Sydney University, the other
day, and who is the eldest daughter of the Rev.
George Brown, a Wesleyan clergyman, of Sydney.
This young lady was born in one of the Samoa
Islands, and was one of the first pupils in the Girls'
High School, Auckland. N.Z. Upon coming to Syd-
ney, she was placed at Mies Baxter’s school, and as
soon as the University was open to women, she im-
mediately prepared for matriculation. Having
passed that examination, she continued her studies
till now she has her reward in possessing the
degree of B A Miss Brown took her departure
for Brisbane lately, where she has accepted a posi-
tion In the Girls’ Grammar school. Our good
wishes go with her, and we congratulate Brisbane
in having secured the services of so clever a young
lady for their girls. Our portrait is taken from a
photograph by Newman.
Miss Isola Florence Thompson is the daugh-
ter of the late Mr. Joseph Thompson, head master
of the Marriokville Public School. She was born
at Newcastle, and it was at the Newcastle and
Albury Public Schools, at which places her father
held the position of head master successively, that
she received her education. At Albury she passed
the entrance examination for a teacher under the
Department of Public Instruction, also the junior
public examination. After leaving school, she
studied at home under her father, and upon his
removal to Sydney, her studies were pursued
under the direction of Mr. C. A, Flint, M.A. She
entered the matriculation examination in 1883, to
which women were for the first time admitted.
After passing the first and second year’s examina-
tions in 1883 and 1884, she took her B.A. degree in
March, 1885, in Latin and French, standing 4th in
the list in classics, 1st in the pass list, 7th in mathe-
matics, class ii. Miss Thompson has now a post in
the Girls’ High School, Sydney. The portrait is
from the studio of Tuttle and Co.
The officers’ of the German corvette
Marie and the gunboat Hyltne were entertained
the other day in grand style by the residents on
the Fitzroy. The Rockhampton fair ones made
sad havoc with some of the officers’ hearts. The
officers returned the compliment The eldest
daughter of Mr, John M'Elhone, M.L.A., was mar-
ried last month, to John Branxton Clift, son of Wil-
liam Clift, Breeza Station, Liverpool Plains. ...The
first of the Bur wood Private A ssemblys took placb
at the School of Arts of that suburb on Friday
last. About a hundred present, and catering was
by Baumann The North Shore Assembly com-
menced their season Friday evening last, at the
New Masonic Hall. Sixty couples enjoyed them-
selves and Baumann’s refreshments There was
but a poor attendance of the gentler sex at the
Amateur Athletic Sports on Saturday afternoon,
owing no doubt to the many attractions else-
where. Mr. J. M. Mannell, of Osmund, Ashfleld,
entertained a large number of guests on Tuesday
evening, to celebrate the 18th birthday of his
eldest daughter. Good music was supplied by
Sbapter and Hermann. Gunsler catered, and a
most enjoyable time was spent by old and young.
It is much better not to drink at all if you
cannot obtain the genuine Wolfe’s Schnapps.
JMIS3 ISOLA FLORENCE THOMPSON, B.A, 1 MISS MARY ELIZABETH BROWN, B.A.
The First Lady Graduates of Sydney University.


ALCOCK&CO.'S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS:
OEMS DOBSON d CD.,
375 Gaorge-st., Sydney.
TIME PAYMENTS. IF REQUIRED
—
or
Infants and Children
I ‘A
i What gives our Children rosy cheeks,
What cures their fevers, makes Vtem sleep; i <
L) Castorla« |
When Babies fret, and cry by turns, i
What cures their colic, kills their worms.
v (
What quickly cures Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Colds, Indigestion ;
jCastorla.
Farewell then to Morphine Syrups, .
Castor Oil and Paregoric, and A
Hall Castorla. I
■
“ Castoria is ro well adapted to Children
that I recommend it as superior to any medi-
cine known to mo.”—H. A. Arghkb, M. D.,
Ill Oxford St., New York.
ElIiOtt Bros., Sidney, Agents.
uuuartiueut ot JfUDilu W or kb,
Sydney, 19 th May, 1885.
Tenders for public works and sup
PLIES.—TENDERS are Invited for the fol
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
la kept at every Post Office In the colony.
Tenderers may bo in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to aooept
the lowest or any tender.
Construction of about 4% miles I Tuesday,
of Wrought Iron Water Pipes, I 7th July,
Sydney Water Supply | at 11 o’clock.
V. A. WRTOH7
m
m.
s
m
Rn
k\\'£SS3SSSS y
ZJ
THS TZJLTZ'JDlXr OEG-A1T.
SOLE IMPORTERS AND AGENTS, BEALE ft COMPANY, SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
Prices from 20 to 50 Guineas, Cash. Liberal Terms of Time-payment.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES OP THE
HAYDN ORGAN and HARMONIUM,
SWEET HAPSBURG PIANO,
WONDERFUL WERTHEIM SEWING MACHINE,
ON APPLICATION TO THE SOLE AGENTS,
386 George-street, Sydney,
612 George-street, ,,
12 Central Markets, „
151 Oxford.street,
AND FROM OUR BRANCHES AND TRAVELLERS IN TOWN AND COUNTRY,
ON APPLICATION TO THE SOLE AGENTS,
BEALE & COMPANY,
99
Sydney, Wednesday.
v>y t)baii BELLE,— Considering the season, the
oat week has been remarkably quiet—no balls or
to sneak of, no marriages, no concerts,
p £h mdeed, If It had not been for Saturday s
we should have nearly died of ennui.
there were on Saturday afternoon It s true,
bbt nearly everything Happens on a Saturday, and
to all In the same day. We have
h'irdlv brougnt ourselves to love matlndes, yet.
though I know It is very wrong of us and
nolle bad form, for they cannot do without their
-ftimioon performances at home. But what does a
5 «rin<Se mean to us ? It means that we are to sit
S a hot theatre with the gaslight and daylight,
«B.ch trying to assert itself; and, between the
two making such a weird, sickly, apology for light
J?,v we can at times hardly see each other s faces,
fat alone the dresses. On account of the excessive
hfiat It is impossible to exist with windows and
Honrs closed, so. of course, when they are open in
pomes the unwelcome light, which disturbs things
altogether. But I don’t see how this sort of thing
in going to be remedied. We must have fresh air
when we are hot, and it makes my head ache to
think how we are to get the one without the other
--so I will give it up-but something will have to
be invented to separate the two before we can
quite like matinees.
And now, I suppose you will want to know some-
thing about the matinee. Well, the bill of fare
was small enough to satisfy everybody, and—must
T aav it 1-not very choice. But this was through
no fault of the organizers of the benefit I believe,
for I hear they were disappointed at the last
moment by the Theatre Royal people, who, though
themselves willing and anxious to assist, were
debarred from so doing by their manager. But
vou will, I am sure, read all about this in the
papers, for this same manager will not be spared,
believe me. The good people who filled the Opera
House on Saturday afternoon did not go so much
to be entertained as to show their respect to the
memory of the late Marcus Clarke, and also their
good will towards his widow. So it mattered little
to them that only one, act of “ A Daughter of Eve”
was played, and still less did they object to the
shortness of the musical part of the programme-
it was enough for them to know that they had all
helped to provide food and clothes for the little
Marcus, whose curly head peeped over the circle
to watch “ Mother ” play her part. The beautiful
prologue, written by Mr. Frank Hutchinson, and
feelingly delivered by Mr. Cathcart, brought the
tears to many eyes, and it made us all glad we
were there. I will send you a copy of the prologue,
then you will understand what I mean. All the
Hinging was excellent, but especially that of Mrs.
M’Donald, who isn’t heard half often enough in
Sydney. There, that’s all.
I don’t think we girls are fairly treated here In
Australia—we are not given a chance of showing
that we can do anything besides talk, dance, and
flirt, and occasionally take a university degree.
Now. at Clifton, a capacious villa residence has
been utilised for holding a “ Women’s Industrial
Exhibition.” Consequence is, it has been proved
that we are capable of many industries which we
have never been credited with. People seem quite
surprised that we can do endless things, from
water-colour sketches down to making a palatable
pudding for the trifling cost of sixpence. We can
lecture, too—both on cooking and on the advan-
tages of the divided skirt. When I say “we,” of
course I mean the Clifton ladies; but,I believe, we
should make just as good a show here, if they
would only give us a chance. But, entre nous,
dear, I don’t believe they dare give us much
scope. Just think what jealousy the two B.A.
young ladles caused the other day amongst unsuc-
cessful under-graduates, when they took their
degree I I don’t for a moment wish to insinuate
that women’s brains are as capacious and full of
matter as a man’s; but, in lieu of brain magnitude,
I maintain that we have, as a rule, ever so much
more persistence and endurance, which qualities,
if less brilliant, are generally more telling in the
end. Eh? Then, let us organise a “Women’s
Industrial Exhibition,” shall we ? I can make nice
honey toffee that I shouldn’t be ashamed of ex-
hibiting, and as for you, why you can do so many
clever and useful things, that your exhibits alone
would be enough to start the show.
Surprise was expressed in an English paper, the
other day, at what is termed “ a most peculiar
act” of an American dinner-party host. This
host had had printed for each ot his guests a
hundred visiting cards, which, with the eopper-
Slate for printing more when tnese were ex-
austed, were placed alongside each plate. Weil,
to us English and colonials, it does seem a “ pecu-
liar act, but in America it is common enough.
They have their visiting-cards got up far mure
elaborately than we have, you know, dear; and,
besides that, they love to vary them, so in this
card-gift cust >m, there is a chance ot displaying
some originality and taste, tor my part. Itoluk
the plainer the card the better, but our American
friends aren’t of the same mind, for I have seen
some of thelr's with the letters so be flourished
that it is with difficulty they are deciphered. Every-
body to his or her own taste, however.
We are all vieing with each other as to who can
get the prettiest and freshest waltzes to play at
our impromptu dances, when we have no hired
musician to play for us. I dislike playing exactly
the same music as everybody else, don’t yeu ? But
as there is no danger that my ears will be vexed by
hearing you play my favourites when so many
miles part us, I will give you the benefit of my re-
searches. From Nicholson’s list I selected a pretty
waltz called “ Valse des Anglaises,” by J.Burymen;
and amongst Paling's stock about the prettiest
was the “ Mina Waltz,” which, being composed by
Lardelli, can hardly help being tuneful and pretty.
I am afraid, however, that this latter waltz will
not be long sacred to us two, for this morning as I
passed Paling’s window, it literally blazed with
the gay covers of the “Mina;” and I saw in the
same window such a nicely bound volumne of
Chopin’s waltzes, which, if they had been obtain-
our practising days, would have saved
many a paper-backed cabinet book, which are as
fragile as cheap, and remind me of my artificial
flowers, in being the most costly in the end.
We are going to have a grand musical treat this
week. The Opera House was to let for three
nights, so Mr. Charles Huenerbeln telegraphed to
Melbourne to Miss Christian and Mr. Armes Beau-
mont, to come over and help him to cater for our
amusement. So they came. Wasn’t it enterpris-
ing of him ? 1 he first concert is given to-night,
and, as it is a long, weary time since we have had
anything good in the musical line, I feel sure very
few will miss this chance. If they do they will
be very stupid, won’t they ?
What a fuss they made about the Queen’s first
drawing-room this year I And how nice to know
that our Princess of Wales was the handsomest
woman there 1 Do you know, dear, I like our
princess for many things. Firstly, for her own
sweet self; secondly, because she dresses so beau-
tifully; and thirdly, on account of her determina-
tion to discountenance the crinoline. I wonder it
has lived so long when royalty was antagonistic to
it, but at last we are being sensible and nave gone
halt way towards abolishing it. The “ half-way ”
article is a petticoat of stiff merino, which par-
tially extends the skirt, but which does not refuse
to go into a small space in a cab or tram-car—and,
in fact, it is much less aggressive altogether. I
have christened it the “compromise, and ap-
prove of it entirely.
How would you like to be going with us to-
night to hear your old favourite, Beaumont, and
also Miss Christian ? But it’s cruel to tantalise you
by such a question. Never mind, dear, I will tell
you all all about the concerts next week. So now,
good-bye.
Ever your loving _
MAB.
Ball Room Specialities. —Sale ana uare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated wit! -
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance In display
consummated. 60i Hunter-street. Sydnev.*
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
The Mayoress’ Reception, Town Hall, this
day May 21.
Masonic Lodge Social, Town Hall May 27.
North Shore Rowing Club Ball, Leigh
House May 29.
La Coterie Entertainment, Petersham
Town Hall May 29.
Glebe Point Private Assembly (Glebe
Town Hall) Mav 28
Junior Pharmacists’ Ball (Needs’ rooms) ...May 28
Newtown Social May 32
Glebe Rowing Club Annual Ball June 5
Annual Masonic Bali (Masonic Hall, Par-
ramatta) June 12
Sydney O vl Club Ball, Town Hall June 18


Woman Items
Wife: “ Old Mrs. Bently told me confiden-
tially this morning that she expects shortly to
become a grandmother.” Husband (absent-
minded) : “ Is it possible 1 That old woman. >
What a glance at the Abqus’s “ wanted ’
columns may lead us hourly to expect:—Wanted,
Immediately, a Lady Help of refined manners and
musical tastes (a linguist preferred) to wash for a
family of sii.
Miss Nellie Reid, late of Wilson’s, and
formerly of Chlarinl’s Circus, who has gained much
fame in London as an equestrienne, will, we hear,
shortly arrive in Sydney with a view to establish-
ing a riding school.
It is now exactly 25 years since a woman
was judicially Ranged in N. 8,W. Ellen Monks was
her name, murder was her crime, and, as the
record says, she mounted the scaffold steps at
•Goulburn as “cool and composed as if she had
been going up stairs to enjoy a Christmas dinner.”
The Princess Friederich von Hohenzollern
bas revived the use of crinoline. She did so, with
several ladies of her suite, at a Berlin court-ball.
Hut fashions do not come from Germany. One of
King Cetewayo's staff described the hoop-skirt as
“an iron bird-cage for English women’s legs.”
We wonder what he’d call a “ dress-improver ”?
“There is no accounting for the ways of the
angels we call women. A proof of this was given
in the Melbourne City Court the other day, whan
a lady admitted in the witness box that she had
been receiving money for her support from her
husband, who was in Tasmania, and had, ever since
she left him, been living with-a chimney sweep!
He was, it seems, such an engaging fellow that she
could not refuse his soot I—
“ There swims no goose so gray but soon or late
She finds some honest gander for her mate,”
The Emperor of Germany takes a walk
after dinner every evening, sometimes falling in
with General von Molke, but his Majesty always
returns to the palace alone. “ He then,” says a
London paper “takes a cup of weak tea, kisses
the hand of the Empress, and retires to bed like
a simple houryeois of Berlin.” Weill as Mrs.
Bqueers exclaimed. “ That’s a good un.” But they
know better In the other wing of the Palace,
where the supper is! Why, it is well known that
the kaiser bas as many maids of honour as the
Empress-with a trifling exception.
“Tas,” who is daily implored in the agony
column of the Sydney Herald to return home,
because the baby is sick, doesn’t seem to have
turned up yet. Her people arn’t half smart. Let
them put this in:—“ Tas—Come home imme-
diately. Kind lady has adopted baby without a
premium.” That would send her back as fast as a
borrowed tram-ticket could take her; and wouldn’t
“Tas ” then have a sweet kiss for everybody, and
a delightful little story of how she had only that
moment seen the advertisement. The world wants
a deal of teaching. And It takes a thundering lot
of pictures and pink cover to do It.
i See what it is to have a good ear for music.
They had ordered two steaks at a roadside hos-
telry, and were patiently sitting in pleasant con-
verse, which was interrupted by a peculiar hissing
and frizzling sound from the kitchen. “Why,
hang me,” suddenly exclaimed one fellow, with
his hair almost on end with horror—” hang me, if
they’re not frying it 1”—the “ it” of course having
reference to the steak. Whereupon the other
man, who was a professional musician, drew from
his pocket a tuning-fork, struck it upon the table,
and quietly remarked, as he applied it to his ear,
“ Yes, hang me if they’re not frying it in GI
One of the Jeamses informs us that “ the
onlv things sent over from England for the Queen
to Aix-les-Bains,” where H.M. has been staying,
“ have been the Queen’s bed and her own particu-
lar chair. As is very well known, her Majesty
likes simplicity, and this the proprietors have
borne in mind when furnishing. Indeed, the
Queen’s dressing-room contains nothing but a
washstand, a deal dressing-table of the plainest
description, and a looking-glass, which, with the
Queen’s own chair and her footstool, complete the
room One of the maids sleeps in this room, on a
smallfoldlng bed. The Princess Beatrice’s rooms
face her Majesty’s, and adjoining these are the
dining-room and those of the maids in attendance.
Aroused by the scandal consequent upon
the action for illegal ejectment entered by the
Philadelphia girl who was sent out of a ball-room
because her dress was cut top low, some local
society-leaders mot to pass a “self-denying ordi-
nance” touching the proper ball-room apparel.
The first motion peremptorily required that all
ball-dresses should “ button up to the chin,” but a
sort of codicil was added allowing a triangular or
heart-shaped front. “ if not too long "-the saving
Clause being inserted as a sacrifice upon the altar
of modesty. The next motion affirmed that all
sleeves should come to the elbow, and this was
carried, after a long, vehement, and excited dis-
suasion. Whereupon the “ shoulder-strap party,
thinking that they had done enough in one day for
the cause of morality, gathered up their trains
and departed in much wrath. Reforms of this
kind cannot be effected all at once.
They had only been three days married,
when feeling a little indisposed, the bride told her
husband that she thousht a few Cambridge sau-
sages would revive her. The sausage shop was
about three miles from his office, which was seven
from his place of residence, In a desirable terrace
In Ultimo, but he put the sausages smilingly into
his coat-tail pocket, and proceeded to make tor
homo and delirium. It was not until he arrived,
in the glimmering twilight, that he became oon-
HPious of 75 dogs, who appeared to take a lively
interest in his coat-tail pocket. Shutting these
canine intruders out of the front garden with dlf-
Acuity, ho opened the door and went inside. “It
was splendid being married,” he said to her. as she
was frying the sausages-” splendid I What unal-
loyed happiness is mine I ” But he wasn’t quite so
jubilant the next morning, when, on opening the
Herald, he found 14 persons advertising for the
nartv who had enticed away his dog, and remind-
ing the party aforesaid that he was T ‘known.”
The other day a lady walked to the S.M.
tTvrat.d counter, planked down an advertisement
Sid R two bob, and with a blush and a skip had
vanished. Next morning she got up at 5, bought
the naoer. and eagerly scanned the columns in
order to see whether her composition was in. Yes
—there She read, and uttered an exclamation,
for the advertisement appeared as follows:-
“Wanted by a kind lady to adopt a. Small pre-
mium ” In her hurry she had forgotten all about
the'baby. Her troubles! Her thoughts at that
moment were concentrated In a silk duster, a beef-
fifiter hat. and a yellow umbrella with a blue
flower. These had to come from somewhere.
Theld. went in all right next day, and the “kind
lady” has got ’em all on now. And directly the
drapers begin to show their winter goods, in will
gf, that announcement again. The moment the
£ood nnrsevout »t Ashfleld esoy it, they get ready
fvou ask them) a special little bed, with a tray oon-
&nlng a tin soldier and Noan’s mother all com-
plete. , _
At Auxerre, France, Madame Franoey
has. a la Clovis-Hughes, been acquitted by the
fury. She shot M. Brlsebard in cold blood, be-
cause, as she said, he had tempted her honour. At
the trial, this modem mother of the Gracchi was
clearly proved to have had the most compromising
relations with the “ Vloaire” of the parish In
which the parties resided, and to be in no sense
the model of virtue she would hare her neigh-
bours believe. When proved to have been to
Madame Francey’s house at 3 in the morning, the
reverend gentleman naively explained that he had
gone to fetch his umbrella I And the jury believed
him. So should we, had we found our little
Fifine’s head on his sacred shoulders at 3 a.m.
Francey’s vengeance was not that of a woman de-
fending her honour, but of a common assassin.
Not satisfied with shooting Brlsebard in the breast
and driving him out of the house, she followed
him up several hundred yards and deliberately
despatched him as he lay helpless in the street.
A trifling incident has set Wodonga in a
blaze. The people there are beginning to look
“ugly,” and if some Chinamen are not lynchea.lt
will be because feathers and tar will be considered
sufficient to meet the case. A Buddhist, named
Quon Noey, had a 17-year-old step-daughter She
whs of English descent, and her second father gave
her in marriage to one Ah Hln—a compatriot. For
this, Noey was said to be about to receive £40 from
the bridegroom. At the altar—in the lumber-room
of a boarding-house -Margaret (that was the girl’s
name) modestly said that she’d skin Ah Hin sooner
than splice him. But all the same, they were
wedded by a Presbyterian clergyman. Then
Wodonga spoke out. Ah Hin would have done
the same if they’d caught him. It appears that the
simple Quon Noey has a lot of English-descended
step-daughters, whom—when they turn 16-he
trades off on his countrymen. For the last one he
is said to have received £100. For ourselves we
can’t see where all the trouble comes in. Among
our acquaintances are many Whitechapel and Cork
ladies—loud of tongue and heavy of fist—who’ve
been led to the altar by Chinese. It is for the
husbands that our commiseration has always gone
forth.
Thus Life (an organ of London snobocracy,
run by a fat little German Hebrew, Dr. 8ome-
thlng-or-other, who married, some time ago, an
Australian girl with lots of money), concerning
the latest set of high jinks in the mansion of Sir
Salmon Wilson:—“London has been quiet, not to
say dull, during the past week, so that the balls
given by Lady Wilson and the Countess Cowper
were all the more welcome, and made a pleasant
change in the Lenten monotony. They were both
enjoyable affairs At Lady Wilson’s ball
the chief feature was the cotillon, which began at
12 and dl i not finish till the end of the ball. It is a
capital dance, and 1 think it is a great pity that we
do not see It oftener Introduced In this country,
for It gives a 4 go ’ to the whole evening, which is
sometimes difficult to be gained in any other way.
Lady Wilson’s rooms, which are always lovely,
looked more charming than ever, with their
decorations of palms and banks of arum lilies.
Many pretty girls were present, and I admired
some of the dresses immensely. One which took
my fancy was worn by a young married lady, and
was of pale terra-cotta satin, draped most elegantly
with black lace, and caught up in several places
with bows of plain velvet. With this was worn
some good diamonds, and the effect was very
charming. Another costume I liked was of Char-
treuse satin, draped with white lace and fastened
back with long falling sprays of water lilies, so
beautifully made that it was difficult to Imagine
they had not been just gathered.”
♦ * ♦
Little Billy: “I’m so glad I didn’t die
when I had the measles. It wouldn’t be nice to go
to Heaven with such a red face.” — It is a terrible
blow to an actress when her costumes fail to
achieve success. And still worse when her want
of costume won’t draw He was a verdant youth,
and it was his first ball. He went by himself, and
surprised his mother by returning about 9 o’clock.
His explanation was: “ I went there, and the man
came and showed me to a door, and I pushed it
open and saw some girls waiting for their turn to
go and dress, and I apologised to the lady for
having gone into the gir's’ dressing-room, but she
was so angry that I came home. They are now
teaching him something about evening dress... .
Mrs. Oscar Wilde-who is rich—is said to be quite
too intensely lovely, and, as her costumes are de-
signed by her husband, the prince of seathetlcs,
her beauty is invariably heightened by her toilet.
On a recent occasion she is reported to have ap-
peared in the most bewitching cloak, something In
the Mother Hubbard fashion, made of pale gray
Elush, with a square yoke of gray squirrel. On
er head she wore a soft crushed-up plush turban,
and fastened in the button-hole of her cloak a
great bunch of tulips The Princess of Wales
has taken to carrying electrically lighted;bouquets.
One of these days we shall be going about with
electric-Ugh ted burton-h >les, with the battery in
our coat-tail pockets and when we sit down sud-
denly— ? II—III Eh? Husband (airily;
they had just returned from their wedding
trip) : “ If I’m not home from the club by
—a—10 o’clock, love, you won’t wait ?” Wife
(quietly): “No, dear; but ”with appalling
firmness — “ I shall come to fetch you.” —
Miss Anita Austin, a London songstress, caught
hold of a burglar, who had entered her house and
held him in her arms till the police came.
The prisoner gallantly remarked that he didn’t
want them to come too soon for more than one
reason— In Corea, women never have names of
their own. A Corean woman knows how to sym-
pathise with the husband of an actress—In Scot-
land they call the injured lady in breach of pro-
mise cases the “ pursuer.’’ She generally Is the
pursuer in Australia too. .“ Ah,” she said, “ Vir-
gil is my favourite, he goes to the point
at once, ‘Arms and the man I sing.’” —
From a recent “Society Novel”:—“For a
whole quarter of an hour the young man gazed
thoughtfully in the flame of the extinguished
candle.” From anotherThey were standing in
the moonlight. Taking|her hand, he drew it gently
towards him, and softly whispered ‘ Ophelia.’ But
Ophelia had fainted.” When Interviewed re-
cently by the N. Y. Herald people, Sara Bern-
hardt remarked, among other things, that “ Theo-
dora was not an immoral play. It is only the story
of an empress who had a husband and a lover.
Don’t all empresses have husbands and lovers ? ”
Further on, Sara said: “1 am still writing my
memoirs. I,keep at them fitfully, but won’t pub-
lish them for another five years, as I have been
very free in expressing my view of things. In five
years,” said Sara, relapsing into English, “ 1 shall
leave ze stage. By that time I hope to know your
difficult language well enough to play Shake-
speare. I take a lesson every afternoon. I make
much progress. Goodby, sare.”
The boss hangman in England now uses a
silken cord instead of the historic hemp. If we
thought our own hangman wouldn’t mind doing
us a favour, and taking the hint, wo should
breathe more freely—for some time, at least.
A shareholder in the Adelong Company,
Mount M’Donald (N.8.W.), sold out a month ago
for £1, and now is rejoiced to hear that the last
crushing went over 5ozs. to the ton. The last
escort took nearly 1200ozs. of gold from this field.
It is said that one of the New Hebrides
missionaries has raised £4000 out of the £6000 re-
quired for a new missionary ship in the South
Sea Islands. Surely he can start on that I You
can get a lump of a ship now for £3000, and see
what a lot of the rum of conversion the other
thou, would purchase,
The Melbourne D.T. speaks, in a leading
article, of De Quincey’s famous “ Essay on Mur-
der.” There is no such essay, dear boy. De
Quincey once wrote a paper which he called
*• Murder as a Fine Art.” So home and belt wood
and let your aunt write leaders In future. But—
perhaps she does now.
A recent traveller in South America says
“ The cathedral and other sacred edifices at Panama
are lined with shells, and the soft light they diffuse
Is said to have a most pleasing effect. If the
Russians pay us a visit, they will probably enable
our sacred edifices to vie with those of Panama, as
far as a lining- of shells Is concerned. Whether the
light these will diffuse will be pleasing or not will
depend chiefly upon the position of the spectators
—Inside or outside. We shall be safe. ,,
He was a pigeon “scupperer,” and as be
made his way towards “ Camperdown 99 for the
great match, he dropped Into various pubs, for a
“ nerve steadier,” but singular to relate, the more
his nerves were steadied the worse his eye-sight
grew, and when, at last, he stood facing the trap,
e was a hopeless case—the string was pulled—the
bird shot out, but still his gun was lowered; there
was a painful pause—then turning round with a
reproachful look at the operator, he said: Shav.
whayer, let all yor birds out at once for ? Don t
give a feller a show.
When pursued by a swift dog, the com-
mon gray rabbit jumps about Oft. clear on level
f round. In proportion to length, a horse, to
ump as far as a rabbit, would have to clear 04ft.
at a jump. There is no quadruped that has
such powerful muscles in his quarters as the
rabbit, and none excel him In the muscles of his
loin and back. The common flea in strength and
agility knocks spots off any living thing. A flea,
l-16th of an inch in length, can jump a distance
of 20in. This is 320 times its length. If we
should require a six-foot man to jump 320 times
his length he would be obliged to land 1930ft.
from where he left the ground.
It is said the Oxford eight-oar crew placed
£1100 on their chance of beating Cambridge. The
University boat race was never much as an exhi-
bition of rowing; but it was always popular be-
cause it was an honest race, as far above the sor-
did conditions of professional sculling as it was
belcw professional sculling In merit. Of course,
the crews had their starting prices—even elevens
in the cricket fl-;ld have their starting prices now
—but we thought that whoever else degraded the
race into a money-making concern, the members
of the crews themselves were above any such sus-
picion. Amateur sport of late years has de-
generated into a business, the successful athlete,
in many cases, playing into the hands of the
betting ring, and the amateur bicyclist running to
advertise a machine. There is really little to
choose between some of them and professionals
for honesty. And now the unpleasant suggestion
is made that even the University crews have be-
come disciples of the discreditable practices that
are so rapidly levelling down all contests of pluck,
muscle, and skill.
The Rev. Alexander Miller, M.A., has been
appointed Presbyterian minister at Cooma. Such
of the congregation as fancy themselves at chess
are hereby cautioned against playing with the
new parson.
Squeers’s little specific for bad boys and
girls was treacle and sulphur administered with a
long-handled ladle. A New Zealand dominie has
Improved and refined considerably on this. When
his pupils ’rithmetlc required repairs, or their
grammar was out of gear, the sage preceptor
viewed the matter as a case of derangement of
their little tummies, and forthwith punished them
not with the cane, but with a spoon containing
castor oil.
From the Palmer (N.Q.) Chronicle:—
“Publisher’s Announcement. On Wednesday next
we will issue the first Number of the Ethelstane
Journal, which Religious Articles (sic). The Price
will be 6d. or (sic) will contain all telegrams,” etc—
Hail I Northern scribes! who, in admiring hum.
Your journal christen in a pail of rum!
Success must smile on you, for, only think,
They’ll get at once a paper and a drink I
Exchange, we beg; we for a paper pine
In which religious articles ” will shine.
In moral lessons, though, you must be plain.
And give no quarter to an erring Jane I
Point out the Light that is to guide the man.
And in it keeping he'll avoid the Ban.
Our tip, too, re this metaphoric fire,
Applies to Meliaran and eke Marier;
The field before you, brother scribes, most vast is,
So mail your rag to us, boys, while it—lastes!
We are sorry for the, imprisoned evan-
gelists, the Reverends Dowie and Peter Campbell,
who, as the world knows, are now in gaol at Mel-
bourne—the former for howling in the street and
assaulting bailiffs, and the latter for not “ cashing
up to the “ missus ” in accordance with a court
order. There seems to be a lack of sentimentality,
somehow, in Melbourne, in regard to the itinerant
clergy. In Sydney, both these gentlemen were
invariably in clover—Peter putting up at the
Coffee Palace and making a perfect Malay of him-
self with the butter, and Dowie had always a well-
appointed house, with a servant who disguised the
fact of her possessing a broken heart, with singular
success. Now they are “ all broke up.” Well do
we remember the night at Sydney Temperance
Hall when the stricken Scotchman promised to
build John Alexander Dowie a £10,000 hall to yell
in. It must have become apparent, long ere this,
to both Dowie and the irreverent Peter that
Sydney is the field for them. Hold on till a man
promises us a £10,000 tabernacle. We would never
leave him; and even if we had to follow him to
the Arctic glaciers or the vole moes of the Andes,
we would not quit his side until we had some
satisfaction out of him—even if it only happened
to be a cake of tobacco. We expect that’s about
all the satisfaction John Alexander got.
The old wife who killed the goose that
laid the golden eggs, is always regarded as one
of the greatest old tools in history. Yet a similar
course is being pursued by the authorities of the
Sydney Association Ground in the treatment of
cyclists. Because the sport is attractive and
draws large crowds, most exorbitant terms are
exacted for the use of the ground; but on the
other hand, no concessions are made to encourage
those who provide the sport. Of course, the pay-
ment of two guineas entitles to the privileges of
the ground. But, look here! No young fellow
wants to go in for half-a-dozen branches of sport
at once. Most of the members of cycling
clubs do not do anything else but cycle,
many are mere youngsters who have not been
members of the ground before, and when one of
these wants to have a few days’ training for a race,
will It be believed that he must pay the sum of
three guineas before he can even put his machine
upon the racing track ? The thing Is ridiculous.
What is the good of telling him that he can secure
a lot of other privileges for his three notes when
he doesn’t want other privileges ? To debar these
young fellows from preparing for the very races
which put most money in the management’s
pocket is unrighteous. The issue of training
tickets at a reasonable fee would meet all purposes.
A par. runs around giving a list of great
writers who could get along in all sorts of sur-
roundings; and again of those who cannot write a
line unless their surroundings are all conducive to
quiet. Trollope wrote well in a train; Dickens, in
his early days, in a post-chaise; Forbes, according
to his own account, is at his best when standing on
his head on the back of a raging camel, with
spears whistling around; and, at latest dates, the
Soudan correspondents of the D.T., the B.N., and
the S.M.H., are peculiarly brilliant, to judge from
their style, when tearing back to camp on the back
of an Arab goat, and permitting the poor animal
to take turn and turn about in writing out the
notes of the action whilst patiently munching a bis-
cuit and being milked into a pannikin of rum.
Victor Hugo wrote while barricades were building
.outside; Mary Somerville knew nothing going on
around her when at work, neither did Southey;
whilst Buckle, Kant, Carlyle, Thackeray, Hazlitt,
and George Elliot would have absolute seclusion.
Schopenhauer, the German, flung his housekeeper
downstairs on finding that she had dared to pro-
fane his study by speaking to a fellow servant
during his absence; and he had, in consequence, to
support her for life. But, for a light breezy style,
give us a snoring, beer-reeking bailiff coiled up in
the opposite corner of the room, a writ due in the
morning, a magnum pen that one of the children
has smashed one ear off, a flickering sperm candle
that has to be poked into inspiration with a one-
pronged fork, and let it be late on a Sunday night,
the grocer closed, and no getting any more tea-
paper. Give us these, and see how we sparkle.
Bishop Barry, of Sydney, has delivered an
inaugural discourse before what is to called a
Christian Evidence Society, and, not content with
stating the undoubted benefits the world has re-
ceived from a faithful statement of the moral ob-
llgatiors Insisted upon by Christianity, has also
claimed that these benefits have not merely accom-
panied the introduction of the current theology,
but have been caused by it; and he claims an his-
toric basis for the peculiar portions of it. This
is the sum total of all possible Bampton, Boyle,
and other subsidised defence lectures. Bishop
Moran also, has recently given us an equally
ponderous discourse on the life and labours of
that great reformer to whose labours and miracles
Ireland is doubtless indebted for its present
glorious position amongst the nations of the earth.
And both these cultivated gentlemen, while
courteously scouting each other's historical
miracles, and pr aching the gospel of peace, have
subscribed stiff cheques, and still stiffer letters
of sympathy, together with highly influen-
tial printed prayers, for the success of
an expedition that has roused amongst a class
who little needed it, an admiration for the pomp
of war. Connected with this professed eagerness
to draw off men’s minds from what the prayer
book calls the pomps and vanities of this wicked
world, we observed recently that “the late Bishop
of London died leaving £73,000, the whole of which,
with the exception of a paltry £20 a year to an old
and faithful servant, goes-not back to the hun-
dreds of poor who subscribed it, and who could, in
this bitter London season, do well with it—but to
his relations.” Large portions of that money came
from rents wrung from shivering wretches living
in hovels within a slight distance of his pulp—no,
his throne. And within the last few years we have
had high church dignitaries dying and leaving their
property, as they call it, when they themselves are
not their own, not to the purposes of charity, but
to worthless relations, with plenty of iaith in
historic evidences, but a most confounded knack
of rattling this simonied coin on the plate for their
own glory. If this sort of thing is not of “ this
world,” of which world is it ? Heaven ? If not,
there Is only one other with “ historic evidence ”
for Its existence. Which is it ?
i An extended lease of life may be obtained
by the continuous use of Wolfe's Schnapps.
i Avoid imitations.
SMALL BOY: “SAY, BILLY, WONDER HOW HE GETS THEM PANTS OFF?"
BILLY (who is connected with literature, and better informed): “ WHY HE DON’T GET
THEM OFF, OF COURSE, THEY WAS SEWED ON HIM.”


D
1SFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
jJ tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species* of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purilier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Burning: Skin Diseases,
Washerwoman's Itch,
Itching: and
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
U> both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story; I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of ray disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skiu and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug $ Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
356 George St.
Established
SYDNE
PIANOS/ ORGANS
Best Makers Only
EVERY instrument;
GUARANTEED
1855
VERY
MODERATE
pricesI
The Most Liberal'
TIME PAYMENT
SYSTEM.
It
OVER
800
Instruments
ON VIEW
To SelecKfrom.
SYDNEY.
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR RADIES AND GENTLEMEN-
Jiicz: TSOMFSoar,
A.J.C. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON,
91 King-street.
W N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
READ THIS I
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 lOs. each.
Warranted for three years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 PUt-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
PUBLIC NOTICE.
Marshall’s Artificial Teeth.
MARSHALL BROTHERS, Dentists, owing to
the great increase of their dentistry prac-
tice, have also taken extensive premises at 133
ELIZABETH STREET, Hyde Park. They still
continue to insei t teeth at the same enormously
reduced price as before, namely, £5 per set,
upper and lower, which are precisely the same
prize medal teeth advertised by other firms.
Marshall Brothers gurantee these to be equal in
every way, both for quality, fit, and appearance,
to those inserted by hundreds of dentists (with a
limited practice), who charge double and treble
this amount. The public may doubt this, but
Marshall Brothers offer £500 to any person who
can prove this statement untrue. Consultation
free. Painless extraction by the aid of nitrous
oxide gas. MARSHALL BROTHERS, American
Dentists, 133 Ellzabeth-street, Hyde Park, and
Market- street. N. B.—All trams stop at the door.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GBNT.’S 50, Is. Od. ; 100, 38. 8d.
LADIES’ ... .. 50. 3s. Od.; 100, 3s. Od.
Address, 6d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 38. 6d.; 250, 6s. 6d.; 500, 10s.; 1000, 16a.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
m on m co.,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
M. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS ,
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
From the Strand, London.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 364 and 356 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows tnat the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the late Mr.
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, MANAGER.
and CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. K. J. ALCOCF. Q. C. CHALMERS. K, G. AVATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS
, dmm
Importers of
STEAM ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS,
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDKKS’
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &c.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACK8
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
LssJ
uSSrsTct
t
PO KTABLB. FIXED
and SEMI-FIXED EN-
GLES
VERTICAL and HORI-
ZONTAL BOILERS
TEAM and
PUMPS
other
LATHES, PLANING,
SHAPING, SCREW-
ING « and DRILLING
f MACHINES
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, &o.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & GO.,
ead Warehouse -
on anl Implement Yard
ulk Stores
Londou Qffipe •
- 54 YORK STREET.
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR-
SYDNEY.
8$ GRACECHUUCH STREET,


REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ARE SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails. .
If you are comparatively well, hut feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of American Co. a
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any of the numerous
diseases of stomach or bowels, it is
your own fault if you remain ill, for
American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy In all such com-
plaints.
It you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the uso of American Co. s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of malarial,
epidemic, bilious and intermittent
fevers—by the use of American Co’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, American HOP
BITTERS will give you fair skin, rich
blood, the sweetest breath, health, and
comfort. In short, they cure ALL
Diseases of the Stomach, Bowels,
Blood. Liver, Nerves, Kidneys, &o., and
JB500
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in them.
That poor, bed-ridden, Invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of •
American Hop Bitters, costing but a
trifle.
Will you let them suffer?
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
American Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or do •
tors’ bills to pay.
See if the name of Hr. Soule is blown
In every bottle, If not It is counterfeit.
WeaKNervousMen
Whose debility, exhansted
powers, premature decay and
failure to perform life’s duties
properly ore caused by ex-
cesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
The Marston Bolus.
either stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment
of Nervous Debility and Physical Decay is
uniformly successful because based on perfect
diagnosis, new and direct methods and absolute
thoroughness. Full information and illustrated
treatise sent free (sealed).
Address- Doctor J. O Connell,
F.O. Bos 466. 62 Castloreagh St., Sydney.
CONSULTATION FREE.
B
AD D E
4711
COLOGNE,
4711.
Established 1792.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1873; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for Its superior sweetness, s'rength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the dlite of
Europe.
The largo and constantly Increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only In
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of Its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number—4711 changed into 7411, 1147,4117, &o , &o.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition Is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pitt-
street, Sydney.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
end Storekeepers, In town and country.
W. WALKER and SONS
LONDON and SYDNEY,
Catalogues
POST FREE.
W. WALKER
and SONS
Catalo
gues
POST FRer
ALL STOCK
in their
•SYDNEY
are one of the
Largest
housb
Stockholders
Supplied
IB
and
direct
Manufactureri
T'om thou
m
m
London
Manufactory,
FURNITURE
*nd Latest
London Style*
-
TO
ENGLAND.
QUARANT**d
SYDNEY BRANCH:
81 CLARENCE STREET, NYNYARD SQUARE.
SOLE 1MPOKTEK OE
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
BOL.K AGENT FOR THE
'SMITH ORGAN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
m
R.BURGIS
TAILOR .
(HUBinO
II'! IH'l'l IIMf
fTIRY BURG IS’ £3 3a, Suits, to measure. Trousers
I from 16s, 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This Is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STREET
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for 8f
forwarded to any part of the colony
AUTUMN SEASON, 1885.
BOSSiiLjIE, XjXjO "2"3D CO.
H A Z?SX D Slifn R „=
j .lJ d fl l 2. 8: / r 2' ntheenu J5 10u8Vdr !. etjran .' 1the magnificent quality of the miterlals, it is quite evident
h °me agent has spared no lime or trouble in carrying out the instructions given him by
We are showing upwards of 1000 imported HATS and BONNETS, suitable for all ares atsuch
extremely low prices hitherto unequalled in Sydney, s ' ac 8Ucn
IN OUR LACE DEPARTMENT, wc are second to none in the colony, for the varietv is astonishing
and prices are so much less than we have ever had to ask at any other time. y 8a n *
DBPARTMENT * we have every Possible shade and width, at cutting prices, for
IN OUR GLOVE DEPARTMENT, we have a large stock of every kind*
The leading speciality is 370 dozen REAL GRBNNOBLB KlD, usually sold at 4s Od ner mir In
black and dark colours, with four patent clip fasteners, all sizes, ,‘)V Od. per pair cost
fre 8 ef^2d Z ex<Mi 1,fifht &nd da,k ta "’ wlth heavy black stitching, four b u 1 1 or\s, on I y3s 0 dp e r pal r, poe t
In the Ladies’ and Children’s Underclothing Department we have every requisite at London prices.
EOS8ALIE, LLOYD & CO.,
OPPOSITE WYNYARD-STREET. SYDNEY.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
CELEBRATED
BISCUITS ARE CUES, TREACLE AND G01BEI STRUT,
Self-raising /Erated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
Mh FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
8. & A. have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney LB., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta LB. 1883-4.
Sydney Agents: «. H. ARIELL & CO., 343 and 345 Kent-*{-
Lays of Contemporary Chivalry.
NO. II.
COUNT ORTOLAN THE HAUGHTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Of Count Ortolan the Haughty,
And the noble Countess May,
And their striking generosity,
I sing this little lay—
Good health unto Count Ortolan I
Long life to Countess May 1
As Count Ortolan the Haughty,
And the noble Countess May,
Were a-sittlog in their chateau.
By the shores of Double Bay—
There are most expensive chateaux,
You must know, at Double Bay—
The Count Ortolan the Haughty
To the noble Countess May
Made an observation, put in
An uncommon lofty way,
All concerning of a butler
She had hired the previous day,
Said Count Ortolan the Haughty
To the noble Countess May,
“ Do you know that man ?** I do not,
Quick replied that lady gay;
“ He's my brother,” hissed Count Ortolan,
•* Groat SoottI” said Countess May.
Then Count Ortolan the Haughty,
To the noble Countess May,
Gave sternly orders to disperse
That butler the same day
(As that butler was his brother.
He was scarce to blame, you’ll say).
To Count Ortolan the Haughty
Then the noble Countess May,
With the touch of Christian charity
Which made her loved, did say:
“ Grant my request, Count Ortolan,
And keep this man, I prayl”
Said Count Ortolan the Haughty
To the noble Countess May:
“ Explain yourself, sweet Countess,
I have known you ere to-day,
When your words did seem most foolish,
Wisest meanings in them lay.”
“ Thanks, my Ortolan the Haughty,”
Said the noble Countess May;
•* That you once robbed this your brother,
Is it true, as people say?”
“ it is,” sobbed the Count Ortolan;
“ Of course,” said Countess May.
“ Then my Ortolan the Haughty,”
Said the noble Countess May,
“ If you turn your back upon him now
Think what the world will say I”
“ I see you,” said Count Ortolan;
“ You bet,” said Countess May.
So, my Ortolan the Haughty,”
Said the noble Countess May,
“ You have him here beneath your thumb.
Be wise, and let him stay.”
“ Call him up,” said Count Ortolan:
“Great heart I” said Countess May.
Then Count Ortolan the Haughty,
And the noble Countess May,
Bargained with that butler-brother
If he’d change his name to Jay,
They would ke<?p him in their service—
And he changed it right away.
Of Count Ortolan the Haughty,
And the noble Countess May,
And their striking generosity
I’ve sung my little lay.
God night to you. Count Ortolan!
Good night, my Lady May!
Good night, too, Mister Jay I


UMBRELLAS
Rg£0VEBi%
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your U mbrella Frames
j re-covered, and your
Parasols re-Uned and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tume”. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted
The fresh food and ice company
(Limited),.
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &o., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“ KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
Head Office..
Stables
Factory
21 Harbour-street.
Liverpool-street.
Mlttagong.
mcB
or
life
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Xorvons and Physical Debility, Pro
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Yout h, and the imtolil
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses may In
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-'
chose and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Self Preservation. A book for every man voting
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may bo
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
M) years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
an T 1 .7 sician - 300 pages, hound in beautiful French cloth
full gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
wul bo refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
modal awarded the author by the National Medical
association, to the officers of which he refers.
. The Science of Life should be read by the young for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all. —London Lancet.
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As- 11 P I I
sooiation, or Dr. W. R. Parker, No. 69 Hunter H t A L
Street,Sydney,N.S.W. Theauthor ma3' TUVOP‘1 P
he consulted on all diseases requiring I n IOlI r
skill, secrecy, and experience. » • « I Wbkl
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYD N EY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
r
MOULTON'S
PRm? p°t?t I q LA iP' T posltlve, y oured by mUilTON’S
rituii rills. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we edn prove what we say. There are no failures and no
fr^Ymr e e n^ a o M0ULT0N ’ S FRUIT PILLS also cure
s4T^ IOUSNESS '.P revent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
Twl'nr J®8 ulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
w,l BL00 P- , T Xhe Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit),
ihey are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a PEI to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price la. 3d.
C. E, MOULTON, Sole Proprietor,
PILLS
Marshalls
TONIC NERVINE
RaGlHTAKBL.
SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURB for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
wat spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss o7
Appetite, Female Disorders, Llvtr and Kidney
Complaints. Loss of Vital Power, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effects It at once removes ail craving
for Alcohol. By Its richness in phosphorous and
T t nm^°T?w^TM 1^ allBin ? ® lements . MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
»y ste mv Price, 4s. 8d., or 25s. a case.
Bole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHEBS.’M.P.S.
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists, 104 and
w^ ket A et - , n ®« fl y de Park. Sydney, and
|uTH? treet ’ TAKE NO 8UB8TI.
NO MORE CORNS I
CORNS AND WARTS removed without paid
by the use of Palmer’s Painless, Harmless,
and Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER.
This preparation is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If applied accord-
ln>r to the directions, It will effectually remove
them in from six to elg ht days.
PALMER’S
2si e f FACIA- CURA )K?
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Local.
mo ? t wonderful Preparation has surpassed
an others in speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
Kill °?* r or 8evere t“® suffering has been, a single
pottle has never failed in producing the desired re-
o i • anditca.n be most confidently recommeuded.
Bold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general stores; wholesale by Messrs Elliott Bros.,
Sydney ; E. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton,
grlmwade, and Co., Melbourne; Kempthorne and
Prosser, Dunedin.
Sydney Pharmacy.
Y6 HUNTER STREET,
Opposite Tramway, Elizabeth Street.
PHYSICIANS’ PRESCRIPTIONS carefully pre-
r T ed .. wlt * Dru £ s of the Purest quality,
rrench Indiarubber Goods. Ladies’ Abdominul
Supports and Pessaries, Syringes and Enemas cf
every description, always In stock.
Country Orders promptly executed.
H. P. SABIEL, M.P.S., Mgr.
NEUSTADT and CO.
COMPLETE
HOUSE
FURNISHERS,
39.154, 156, & 158 OXFORD-SI \
STDNET.
HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
Either for Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
REMEDYFREE.sSSJS^vS
nil Errors, Early Decay, Lost Manhood, etc., will
learn of a simple and certain means of Self Cure,
I' roe of Charge, by addressing
M. B. TAYLOR, Esq., Box 891, Sydney, N.S.W,
JAMES MACGREGOR.
W* 308 GEORGE STREEP.
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
•SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
80LE~AGRNT
for
BROOMFIELD f
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TBR8.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
■ MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
colt
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 PITT STREET, STDNET
(Two'Doora from Compagnonl’s.)
|H J? T S2£ er8 te ned > recognising the want of a
_ FIRST CLASS TAILORINGESTABLISH
ENT. have OPENED the premlse 8 E lateiy ocou-'
by the Bank of Australasia, at 168 PITT-
feTREET (THE WEST END HODSE) where they
Trade. ° ° arry ° D a High - Class and Fashionable
The public may feel assured that we shall he
able to maintain a high standard, when wests?,
that our Mr, Ward has had some years’ experience
In the best houses In London, Paris, as well M in
a ? 8 Brttaey Establishments, namely, Farmer
and Co.’s and David Jones and Co.’s. y rmer
Our Mr. Wilson has had fully 20 years’ pyuo
rlence In the Australian trade, and has juffRe-
turned from England, where he visited all the
principal Woollen Mills, including that of Hud-
easbacss£ lho pub,ic « u
In conclusion, we desire to say that we hope to
Soliciting a trial, we remain, ’
Very truly yours,
FREDERICK WILSON,
HUGH WARD,
Fashionable Tailors, Robe and Habit Makers.
West End House, .
168 Pltt-street, Sydney.
C. B
ODIMI,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a varied Stock of
makers CtUr ° d by the m08t celebrated English
i e8ir^ B t0 his customers
?L th , 9 J ftc V hatbe has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms:— JOHN RIGBY & CO Lon.
T A D <rr?*1°c’nm LA t ND80n *» London; JOSEPH
CO N( London N ’ London ’ CHA8 « OSBORNE &
B fe M igo*!'£o A 0 doo , ? T,or tbe emlamt
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts. &c„ and all
k >fn S rwH P0r nl I S en o 8 Requisites for the field.
_O oods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 Goorga.st., Sydney,
Inspection Is Invited.
Champagne
Holdslock & Go's.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS A Co., London.
Sole Aarenta for Heldaieck & Co„ Selma.
USE } PEME^T/g
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete newest and moat approved
The PRICE to V BR?LO wf and the^JUALIT Y
la GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL*
8SI Gcorare-street, Sydney.
TAreJyou going to Bourke ?
an(1 I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
The “LOUIS’*
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
u may be used we specially recommend
r the "LOUIS" VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of " Louis.”
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
POST FREE oa
application,
“VICTORIA” OFNER BITTER-WATER,
The Best and Strongest Natural Aperient.
A Natural Fluid Magnesia, as a safe, ordinary
1
and Congestion, in Rheumatic and
against Hi® ' ‘ ‘
safe, ordinary, and gentle aperient in Inflammation
- v t — Gouty Disorders, against undue tendencv to F«.t,
mmorrhoids, in Bilious Attacks and Disorders of the Liver. y * at>
Nature's Aperient Remedy during Pregnancy, and in many Female Diseases- fnr
Habitus 1 Constipation in Organic Diseases resulting from fatty degeneration, to remove
the consequences resulting from excess in diet, &o. ’ tu remov e
One wineglassful will usually relieve the most distressing headache.
ONE BOTTLE OF “VICTORIA” IS EQUAL IN ITS EFFECTS TO TWO OF OTHER BTTTHB
WATERS, HENCE IT IS MUCH CHEAPER. til HER BITTER-
In ca?es of Indigestion, Stomach and Liver Affections, Constipation, and other Derangements of the
System, as a Family Medicine this has no equal. or the
Sold in Bottles at /s. £d. and 2s.,
\nd may be obtained of any Chemist or Patent Medicine Vendor in the United Kingdom*
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robs Makars*
Trousers from 21s. to 40s*
N.B.— Mr. SHEARSBY. for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Parmer and Co.
w. Shearsby & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st.
la the largest and bast-appointed Family Hotel in the Western District r.
cannot Se surpassed, even in the Metropolis. Private Suites ter fSrnmei. §tebhng 0
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor
3E3©13,siTol©
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OP CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES
California and Eastern Backboard Wannons
W BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK
WILLIAM FLEUINGi, Merchant & Importer
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)


Is Your Skin
covered with itching, scaly, pimply, and unsightly
humors, and torturing disfigurations which cover
vou with shame and roh you of rest and strength ?
Tho CtmomiA Resolvent, the new purifier, will
hpause the system of acrid humors, cool the
blood open the bowels, and render the perspira-
tion pure and unirritating, while the Cuticura
and CUT1CUKA Soap, the great skin cures and
beautiflers instantly allay itching, subdue inflam-
matton, and clear the skin and scalp of every
evidence of disease*
A BUSTLING AFFAIR.
She was the belle of Gordon’s (Vie.), wid her foine sthrappin figure, her rosy hair,
and a reputation of being able to bag spuds with the smartest salt-junk worrying son
of Erin round the district. She had a beau, a young gentleman who habitually carried
one eye in a sling, which, combined with the usual dismantled state of his countenance,
betokened his ardent desire to keep off all aspiring rivals. Troth, an’ he was proud of
her, but never so proud as on one fine Sunday, about two months ago, when she turned
[out in all thegloiy of a brand new rig, to accompany him to morning mass. Arrah,
wasn’t she jist illegant though, in a hat which was no hat at all, but one beautiful fake-
ment of waving ostrich feathers; that headgear was enough to turn the female popu-
lation of Gordon’s green, but whan they struck the dress and bustle, they settled down
and squirmed out of pure envy. Begorra! what a bustlo was that, it jutted out bold
and defiant as the Duke of Wellington’s nose, and waggled contemptuously at every
woman in the place. Mary had a contract to put the fixings out of the way so’s she
could sit in the pew, but by propping it up in one corner, she managed to settle down(J
’bout as comfortable as a dingo in a snap-trap. And her young man opened up the
books and prepared to go through the proceedings, looking solemn as a man can be ex-
pected to look with a black eye aud a split lip. Presently the priest began to snuffle
Latin at them, and a holy hush settled o’er the congregation. In the midst of it all a
shrill voice from the pew, occupied by our pair, suddenly yelled: “ Cook-eye, cook-eye
cook-eye! Mine’s a beer! What rot!” followed by several other statements of like im-
port, aud winding up by singing a verse of “ M‘Carty’s Mare.” The whole meeting reared
on its end like magic, the “committeemen” made a mad rush for the pew, whilst its
oooupants stood thunderstruck. Mystery enveloped the affair; everybody swore they
hadn’t spoken a whisper, and a minute search produced nothing. “Er yer sure ye
haven’t uh venthrilerquist concaled about yer pusson?” said one crane-necked vestry-
man, eyeing Mary euspioic usly. She was about to reply when the strange voice let out
onoa more; “ Damn you, would you bite? Who are you?” it wanted to know. Then
something seemed to strike Mary She reached round and talking a “body holt” cf
bar bustle said, in a sickly sort of voice: “Howly Moses, I fergot to take the magpie
out.” Then she ploughed for the door, and a roar of laughter, like the rush of many
waters, went out after her. There’s a young male party in Gordon’s willing to knock
the works out of any man who will mention bird-cage bustles in his presence. We
forgot to say that that magpie is dead.
New Zealand, with a population of only
500,000, supports 100 newspapers, 30 of which issue
daily. In New South Wales there are not more
than about a dozen daily papers.
Labouohere now wants to know why so
much was paid for a garter for Prince George’s
calf when his Royal Highness was lately installed
knight. Labby would supply them at one-and-
three a gross. This iconoclast anpears to get
bqjder in putting rude questions. He’ll next want
to know what useful office Knights of the Garter
perform at all. It would be just like his imperti-
nence.
Should you become bald, get four wigs,
made, the hair of one short, the hair of the next
a trifle longer, the hair of the third longer still,
and the hair of the fourth quite too long for
beauty. Wear one each week, beginning with the
first. The effect achieved is just as if your hair
were growing. When you get to the long one and
have worn it a week, change it to the short one
again, and your friends and acquaintances, not in
the secret, will believe you had your hair cut.
MacLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 George-street,
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a splendid tonic and
corrective for physlcial aliments. Be sure you
obtain Wolfe’s.
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hookings and
Co„ 143, Pitt-street.*
The greatest appetizer, stomach, blood and
liver regulator on earth—American Co.’s Hop
Bitters. Look for and read.
As there are imitations and counterfeits’of
the great perfume, buyers should be particular "to
ask for the FLORIDA WATER prepared by LA.N-
MAN and KEMP, New York, who are sole pro-
prietors of the genuine article.
As a purifier Ayer’s Sarsaparilla acts
directly and promptly. A single bottle will prove
its merits. Many thousands of people are yearly
saved from dangerous fevers by the exercise of a
little timely care in properly cleansing the system
by the use of this remedy.
Mb. DeCodrct Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 63 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, sar Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, er* Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
A new discovery.—Hoffman’s Euoalyptol
(registered) “Mixtureand Injection.” They will
positively cure all kidney diseases and disorders,
all urinary complaints and discharges, irritation,
scalding, inflammation, gravel, pains in the back,
&o. A case incurable In nine months was actually
cured in eight days with Hoffmann’s Eucalyptol
Injection (“ purely vegetable ”). Hoffman’s Eu-
calyptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
no sandalwood, no balsam, nr paything injurious
to the most delicate constitution of either sex.
Ask for Hoffman’s, and take no substitute.
Wholesale: B. Prosser and Co.; Elliott Bros. Re-
tail: All principal chemists and storekeepers
Price, 3s. 6a. and 3a. 6d.*
To protect the system from influences, and
for bracing up the nervous system use the cele-
brated Wolfes Schnapps.
Printed and Published by Tin Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 34 Pitt-«t.. Sydney, N.8.W.
MAROONED.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
VARIOUS VERSES.
Annie.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.!
Poor Annie I The fellow that married her reigned
like a king on bis land;
He owned some two dozen green acres at the
foot of a wood-covered hill;
The strength of his arm when he raised it, the
weight of his sinewy hand
When rolled in a fist he propelled it, the length of
bis legs and the kicks
Poor Annie! The fellow-the master-gave play
to his highly pitched bent
To thump her and kick her whatever fell wrong.
He would swear at his men,
And howl at his hogs, he would yowl at his oxen*
and yaup, as he went,
At his horses; his cats and his dogs got a lift with
his six-inch toe-end , ,
And fled him. But Annie ho swore at, and
yauped at, and yowled at, and then
Brought down his great fist and great foot on the
body he’d vowed to defend.
It is not considered good form to note how a man
treats his wife,
Get tucker, begin straight; no nonsense; your
name is Long Bill ’’—and then yelled,
For Annie stood resting a minute outside. He
rushed with the lot
Of his choice imprecations in riot, and the feeble,
faint, wife-servant felled.
The fist and the foot laboured merrily until Long
Bill got to hand.
He lifted his bushes of brows and went straight
for the master. The men
Drew alongside to witness a light seldom seen for
fierce strength in the land.
It was thumping and kicking, and choking and
gouging—a go-as-you-please,
Dp and down and around—till the mister lay
snorting and powerless. Then
Long Bill took up Annie and carried her over the
hill through the trees.
They were not seen after. Mayhap, on some plain
or the bank of some creek
Away in the back-blocks they’re living. Of
course the proceeding is wrong.
The woman is yon fellow’s wife; she is legally his,
and the sleek.
Tranquil brow of Society will not assent to the
views of Long Bill.
What, then, though ? Well, one does not like to
grow loud in a het’rodoxsong;
But woman and man are Society—let Society say
what it will.
The Mahdi is an Irishman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Deasy, M.P., is reported to have said
that the Mahdi is an Irishman.”—Colonial Press.
What glorious news is this I hear
That Reuter sends across the sea;
That fills our hearts with feelings queer
And strikes a chord of sympathy;
What Deasy told the cheering crowd
About the Chief of the Soudan,
Will make our hearts to-day quite proud,
The Mahdi is an Irishman.
We know full well on many a field
The Irish troops were to the fore—
The British soldiers backward reeled
When Aylward led the keen-eyed Boer.
And now we see Mahommed’s green
Gives trouble to the Grand Old Man;
Sure, that is proof enough, I ween,
The Mahdi is an Irishman.
Did Dailey never dream of this
When sending out seven hundred men ?
Hii ignorance, indeed, was bliss—
Say will he fetch them home again ?
He never thought, away out there,
The child of some Milesian clan,
Descendant of O’Sullivan Beare,
The Mahdi was an Irishman.
What though the Mormons never got
An Irishman to join their hives,
Now Rumour says that’s only rot
The Mahdi has a hundred wives.
He only changed the P to M—
From Pahdi to the Mahdi, man—
And Dailey's name was once—ahem I—
The Mahdi is an Irishman.
Perhaps El Mahdl’s father now
Once tilled his land and paid his rent;
Perhaps he kept a pig or cow,
Whilst all his cash the landlord spent.
Ah, need I tell the story o’er.
The coflan-ship, the workhouse van.
One of the kids —OhI Dali., aathore,
The Mahdi is an Irishman I
The exiled child is now the Chief
Of children of the desert air;
He won’t give General Graham beef,
Nor colonels time to say a prayer.
Then fill a flowing bumper fair,
Here’s liberty to the Soudan;
No wonder Gordon lost his hair—
The Mahdi is an Irishman!
HARVEY BURCH.
Maokay, April 28th.
Pen,'be a sword I
Carve out each word,
Bitter with bale;
Fierce to appal I
Ink be as gall!
Stern is the tale.
Time, about ten;
Into our den
Sea-captain
Came, with a roll—
Gave us a scroll,
Glared, and wont out.
Then we the scroll,
Fear at our soul,
Opened—and swooned J
Tale of the flood.
Written In blood,
Signed “The Maroon-
ed.”
Many the time
(Most through our
rhyme)
In our career
Danger we’ve mot,
But never yet
Shook with such fear
As when wo read,
Dank from the dead
Hand of our friend,
This fearful tale,
Bitter with bale,
Telling his end.
Men of the pen,
Journalist men,
Haloed with rum,
Laurelled with tripe,
Grimed with the pipe.
Hear, and be dumb I
Prince of the Press
(Herald, no less)
Was our dead friend—
You all knew Mm!—
Gone to the Dim
World without end.
How he could Joke!
How he could smoke 1
How his »lass clink!
Makes us, almost,
Weep that a ghost
Never can drink.
Well, all things pass,
Bottle and glass.
Genius and gin,
Women and men
(Fill ’em again!) —
Let us begin:—
"Still, still, no saill”
(So runs his tale)
“ Lone is the flood,
Spectral the moon,
I, the Maroon,
Write this in blood.
“ Ah, for the fate
Of my dead mate I
(Telegraph man)
Dire was his doom
(lam his tomb!
You who may scan
“ This mournful scroll,
Pray for his soul!)
But far more fell
My fate—for f
Am, alas! my
Own tomb as well 1
“ When he set forth
For the hot North,
Six months ago,
The Commodore
Erskine, he swore
No man should know
“What was his plan;
On what he ran
Russians, or reefs.
This, you may guess
(You of the Press),
Nettled our chiefs.
“ So I and Ned
(Heaven be his bed!)
Made up a mad
Plot which was planned
To ‘have’ him, and,
Worse luck-we had!
“ What was the plot
Now matters not—
What matters now ?—
But, on that trip,
Wo the flag-ship
Sailed in, somehow.
" Oh, we wore gay
For a week—say
That much, no more—
Then we were found,
Red-nosed and round.
Stowed—in the store!
“ Well, we spoke free—
Commodore, he
Said not a word—
Told him our trade,
Said the pen laid
Over the sword.
“ There was an isle.
Distant a mile.
Maybe, or more;
‘Damn,’ he said ‘them
Newspapermen!
Shove them ashore!
“ I and my mate
That desolate
Isle saw—and swooned.
Woke with affright—
No sail insight-
We were marooned I
“ Like a death’s head
I stared at Ned-
Led stared at me,
Gloom in his eye;
Stared at the sky;
Stared at the sea.
“ Five pounds of ham,
Three tins of Jam,
Biscuit bags four,
Salmon, a tin.
One llask of gin—
That was our store.
“ And I must set
Down with regret,
Hard though the task.
Ere I can die—
Edward and I
Fought for the ilasx.
“ Soon was the store
Gone—and the shore
Oysterless soon.
Inland ? The air”™
Grew as much—bare!
Bare as the moon.
“ One little herb,
Rare but superb,
Grew there alone;
Which, when plucked
fresh,
Glued skin to flesh,
Muscle to bone.
“ Ned would not die—
Neither would I—
First; so we freeze
On to a plan
Whereby we can
Die by degrees.
“ This-was the way;
We were to play—
Euchre the game—
(Ned had a deck.
Which was a wreck,
Still with the same
“ Somehow we played)
Nine up; bis blade
Winner to take,
And sever fresh
One pound of flesh—
That was the steak 1
“ After each cut
Loser would put,
Fresh, to bis wound
Herb aforesaid.
So I and Ned
Lived, though ma-
rooned.
“ Now, when all’s done,
Ned mostly won,
I must remark;
For, you will see,
Like the Chinee,
His ways were dark.
“ I was soon left
Jaggod, and cleft.
Yet made no moans
Till I—no myth—
Like Sydney Smith,
Sat in my bones.
“ Ned was quite fresh—
Growing in flesh;
But his time came
When I, one day,
As you may say,
Dropped to his game.
“ Right bower I played:
Ned, not dismayed,
Of the same suit
Played the same Jack—
I clutched the pack;
Ned had to scoot.
“ Lord, what a race!
Lord, what a chase!
Grim was the sight.
Two days and nights
Seagulls and kites
Followed our flight.
“ Over the peaks,
Over the creeks.
Racing like bounds;
Ned running strong,
I, with my long
Skeleton bounds.
“ Moon stood aghast
When, at the last,
By a lagoon,
I, with my knife.
Lot out his life —
I the Maroon.
“ When ho was dead
On poor, dear Ned
I lived awhile—
What could I do
Else? What would you
In that gaunt isle ?
“ All things have end—
So had my friend.
Then I went back
To the same place
Where, ere the race,
I’d left the pack.
“ And, then and there,
Played solitaire
On a flat stone.
But at what cost I
Won I or lost.
Loss was my own.
“ First day I laid
Leg to leg; played
(Oh, you may scoff 1).
Found right leg cheat;
And—as was meat-
straight cut it off.
“ Day after day
Thus I would lay
Limb against limb
(Soon ends my tale);
Yet saw no sail
On the sea-rim.
“ Finally shrunk
Down to a trunk,
Topped with a skull;
Almost gave up—
Thought that my cup
Was about full.
“ Still I held on
Til) all was gone—
All but my head—
That, 1 may say.
Went yesterday
(Tasted like load).
“ Why at such time
Go writing rhyme ?
Easily said :
Rhyme (Moser wince!)
Will run out since
I lost my head.
“ All now is past!
This IS the last:
Here now 1 dilok
One toast to Death ..
With my last breath,
And my last ink.”
So runs tho scroll
Which, with a roll.
Sea-captain stout
Brought to our den,
Gave us, and then
Glared, and went out.
Of the massive extremes called his feet, he could
do what he liked with—his will
The reason and law was for all things about him,
from women to sticks.
The fellow, besides his wife Annie, his feet and his
fists and his land.
Had oxen and horses, pigs, poultry, cats, dogs,
and two men-servants hired.
And sometimes at pressures an odd dropper-m got
a job to his hands, „
But no one but Annie was there to do all that a
woman must do ...
In a horse where the work was eternal, and
where, when an arm grew tired.
The eyes of the weary one had to retain the tierce
master in view.
And very bad sense it shows sometimes to ques-
tion Society’s rules;
But sometimes the things require doing. One may
have no stomach for strife,
But will not stand crime though Society rise on its
holy hind legs.
The work, though, is often performed by one of
those natural fools
Who knows not Society’s laws, but steps in where
he fancies and pegs.
'Twas that way in this case. A big burly fellow
with bushes for brows
And a beard like a scrub in the winter, came
forward one morning and sought
A job, when the master looked at him, smelled
labour, said “There is the house,
