

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 99.—New Series.
SATURDAY, APRIL 4, 1885.
Price—6d.
The Bulle
SATURDAY, APRIL 4, 1885.
The Real and the Spurious.
The difference between the genuine and
the false is most readily distinguished when
the two are placed side by side. The
threatened aggression by Russia upon the
British Empire in Hindostan, constitutes a
crisis very different from that imaginary
one which was said to have been created in
the Soudan by the death of Gordon, the
capture of Khartoum, and the consequent
check to Wolseley’s plans. If foreign
journalists had declared that an incident of
that kind impelilled the British nation, and
involved a strain on her military resources
so severe that a battalion of half-drilled raw
recruits was an important accession to her
strength, every true-born Briton would
have resented the allegation as an insult to
the might and fame of his native land. But
it was not left for foreigners to fling that
affront in the face of the nation. Here in
New South Wales we have had “statesmen ’»
—save the mark!—and English colonists, of
so curious a mental constitution that they
raised the humiliating cry, and claimed to
be the choicest sort of patriots for raising
it. Now that a real danger menaces the
Empire, they are stultified into silence.
They have not a whoop in reserve,
nor a patriotic phrase or epithet which
has not been used up. They dare
not appeal to the patriotism of their
fellow-colonists, because, as we have before
now pointed out, all the principles of
patriotism have been denied by them with
as much emphasis as was employed by
Peter when he denied his Master. The
growl of the Russian bear is for them what
the crowing of the cock was to Peter.
Nothing remains possible for them, except
to weep bitterly.
* * *
When we protested against the mad esca-
pade fostered by Mr. Dalley, of dispatch-
ing troops to the Soudan, we denied that
Great Britain was in any such straits as re-
quired the help of our raw levies, and we
contended that if Great Britain should be
seriously menaced by a real Power, these
colonies would, by the simultaneously
created necessity of providing for their own
defence, be incapacitated from rendering
any assistance to the mother country. The
inflammation of the Jingo’s minds disabled
them at the time from appreciating the
force of these representations. But facts
are stubborn things, and the very conditions
which we foreshadowed having fortuitously
come into operation, the accuracy and co-
gency of our reasonings and warnings can
be no longer denied or disregarded, even by
the most infatuated Jingo.
* * *
It requires no special sagacity to perceive
that, should the Muscovite armies cross the
frontiers of Afghanistan, all operations in
the Soudan must be subordinated to possible
necessities in India, and that the com-
manders of the forces in Africa would cer-
tainly be instructed to preserve their troops
as much as possible from risks in the
deserts, and to hold them in readiness to
evacuate the country in good condition for
the more serious work and truly critical
battles to be fought against the veterans of
the Russo-Turkish war. Should these ex-
perienced battalions succeed in inflicting a
single reverse upon the arms of Great
Britain in Afghanistan, who can doubt that,
despite all the chatter that has been gabbled
about the importance of the subjection of
the Soudanese, the real tiimsiness of the pre-
texts for continuing to slaughter these
patriots will be practically confessed, and
that every soldier now in Africa will,
with the utmost dispatch, be hurried
back to the coast and despatched to the
scene of the genuine danger. What will, in
such case, be dona with the Australian
Contingent, Heavan only knows. With the
necessity of providing for our own defence
staring us in the face, with the prospect
of an interrupted commerce, a stagnated
industrial condition, and simultaneously a
heavy drain upon our colonists and upon
our finances for defensive preparations, it is
absurd to suppose that the people of N. S.
Wales — already ill-disposed towards Mr.
Dalley’s wild expedition—will listen with
patience to a proposition that they should
undertake the additional burden of sup-
porting a body of troops employed in a
foreign war.
* ♦ •
The reality is a grim and repulsive thing;
very different from the trifling spectacular
affair of sending a body of adventurous
spirits to share in the certain successes of a
campaign against practically unarmed pa-
triots. The “ Patriotic Fund,” so-called,
will be seen in all its ridiculous preposter-
ousness the moment there is genuine stress
upon Colonial patriotism. Then there will
be no “Patriotic Fund,” with lists of em-
blazoned donors published twice or thrice
over in the daily papers. There will bo
something much more real—war taxation;
and we are greatly mistaken if the event
would not show the gingerbread and tinsel
patriots of the published list, just as
eager, in that case, to shunt the
weight of the taxation upon the in-
dustrious classes — the artisans and la-
bourers and settlers—as they have been to
acquire cheap credit as extraordinary
patriots by dumping down, with effusive
and thoroughly well-advertised unction, a
fraction of their superfluous wealth to
please their own vanity and give an aspect
of sanity to their own craze. The people o*
this colony should! take warning and be
prepared. The Soudan mania has notably
been the fancy of the well-to-do. For
genuine war, with its accompaniments of
heavy disturbances of industry, and para-
lysis of commercial enterprise, these gentry
have no real appetite, unless the stress fall
upon the working population. These people
have paraded their superfluity. Let the
exhibition have its consequences, and let
the lesson be taken to heart that if there
must be war taxation there is a class
which has professed to like war — even
unprincipled and unnecessary war—and
which has advertised its capacity for stand-
ing the pecuniary shot. If, therefore, there
be war taxation,] let the people of New
South Wales see to it that it falls, not
upon the backs of the toilers, but up-
on the shoulders of those militant per*
sons who have advertised their posses-
sion of superfluous wealth. To put the
matter in a nutshell, we counsel the
colonists to insist that war expenditures be
provided for not by indirect taxation, which
the rich do not feel, but which pinches the
poor; not by dodges of Custom House
tariffs which take a pound out of the
labourer’s pocket for every pound it
takes out of the pockets of the millionaire,
but by a progressive property tax, which
lays the burdens on those who have most to
defend. Rich and poor alike have but one
life per man. The poor are generally thrust
into the ranks to do the fighting. Even if
the risks in the actual fighting were
equalised, let superfluities be levied upon
for the sinews of war, before the daily bread
of the poor is touched. There will be no
Patriotic Fund if the Empire be really en-
dangered, and we with it. Capital will but-
ton up its pockets, concentrate its energies
upon dodging taxation, and slink away to
hide its money-bags.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Rascals!
The weekly offshoot of the Herald is generally
careful to say nothing that has not been said,
morning or evening, during the week, by its rela-
tives. No one is wise at all times, however, and
thus the Mail is found, once in a while, abandon-
ing this safe custom and chipping in on its own
account. It did this on the Uth instant. It did it
openly. It did it valorously. It did it amusingly.
The working-man was its little victim—his impu-
dence, bis ignorance, bis greed, villainy, and utter
carelessness for the fate of his master. The Go-
vernment, we may observe, called for tenders over
a year ago for 150,000 tons of steel rails. The
tenders were to be received in London and Sydney,
and the successful tenderer was allowed to delay
the commencement of delivery until December
1883. In the meantime, tenders on the Sydney side*
were to be opened on the 10th instant. It was
found on that date that no tender had been
sent in. Hereupon the Herald chips in and
gets its name down for some of the wateryest
blather of the season. The fact that men with
large capital in New South Wales have at the pre,
sent time pastoral and mineral openings in abun-
dance; the fact that as soon as the conditions of
the contract were looked into, men acquainted with
the iron industry said they wore unable to com.
pete with British tenderers; the fact that the
fiscal policy of the country gives no encourage-
ment that the man who spends liberally in found-
ing an industry will receive any better recognition
than if he stuck to established lines—any one of
these facts, which force themselves at once on an
impartial mind when a fizzle like the steel-rail
tenders is observed, did not infringe on the in-
tellect of the Mail. In. the result it saw only
the consequence of the crass wickedness of
the working man. Had an enterprising capitalist
put his money into such a venture he would have
been, it declares, “ a slave of the men he em-
ployed. . . . and would have been compelled
to carry on, under conditions fixed by them, and
not by himself.” The paper does not see that if
this were true as regards the character of the
working man, there would be no Industry what
ever in the country. The Mail, however, Bug.
gests something that should be done in the Inter-
ests of those who might .like to tender. “ If,” it
says, “the Government would engage on its part
to provide a constant supply of efficient labour, to
be always under control, and at moderate rates of
wage, the thing could be done.’ ’ This capital way
of taming the working man is so impregnated
with economic and social science that we have
been induced to throw a few italics at the period.
We don’t grudge them. They are cheaper than
bricks.
Unworthy.
Says the S.M. Herald re the Soudanese patriots:
—“ Experience is showing that if the clansmen are
crushed at all, it will have to be by British soldiers,
and that even they cannot afford to take liberties .”
But of course that’s not what Granny meant.
For weeks her entire energies have been concen-
trated upon persuading people that it is quite
right that British soldiers should tab© Jibertise
GENERAL SIR FRED. ROBERTS,
The Hero of the east Afghan War,
Commanding a Corps to operate against the Russians in Afghanistan.


Constable Stove made it hot for Jones and
Co. Eight years.
One of the most eloquent of the suburban
clergy says: “lam ashamed to see how my bre-
thren of the cloth are hounding on the people to
this Soudan slaughter: and only hope that, for the
sake of their consciences, if not for decency’s sake,
they omit from the Liturgy the prayers and col-
lects for peace and concord.” The Primate must
not bear of such seditious and disloyal language as
this. But, on second thoughts, it strikes us that the
Primate himself would revel in such sentences, did
he dare to use them.
The country Press is not, as a rule, favour-
able to the Soudan expedition. The Cooma Ex-
press says:—“ From all the influential newspapers
Sydney is possessed of. The Bulletin stands out
almost single-handed in fathoming the innermost
feelings of the masses, advocating their rights,
regardless of colour or religion, and sounding the
key note of true, not shoddy, Christianity, philoso-
phy, and Liberalism.”
Family Wine* and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hockings and
Co,, 143, Fitt-street.*
For close confinement, want of air, seden-
tary habits and brain and nerve tire, trust in Hop
Bitters. Bead.
Is it china, glass, and earthenware, made
up into various article both for use and ornament,
you require? If so,the best choice is obtainable
at Biay Bros., 403 and 404 Qeorge-street.*
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED - illaMPAGNR,
Large Bottie, only 9s.
Small Bottle, • 4s. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES.
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOB INVALIDS.
A /STRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTBALIAN BEAUMONT POST
2s. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Pric-8.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
Is, 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke s Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets.
' SYDNEY.
„„„ wo would sooner see any
from the Sendanese* . ones always excepting
other troops than British o . J ; iQ 8uch
n A ,.*u Wales volunteers, cub**©
* e , W Swe -oTk The situation of the people of
detestable wor*. attitude is mag-
the Soudan but
niftoent. and a model
V U8 f’ ua as we have invaded the Soudan.
Australia, imonao their yoke upon us, our
and endoavourto P f Bou Q an patriotism,
people will rise to the heignt &a enei?a y
and that conflict short, superior
superior in atnl ®;.i„t Sage and the justice of
jn everything except the Soudanese, un-
tbeir cause-wil flud us uae * reBQlute t hac our
dismayed by 0la . u^^ d J en w m take up arms and
JfefnwStS father than abandon the sacred cause
of liberty. „
Unready!
Tub win aanounocment of *****
tne Capo of C.ood m>y al8l) not on i, pos.
equally canatd*.. U jJ i8 our business to
8 ibly, but pr Jor Just such apparitions, even though
be prepared for just sucn pi' 1 A £quadron of
no such warnings smallt an d allowing for
sixteen vessels, grea a d , such a8 i9 8a id
a large propori on of small voss . e8tl .
to have been sighte suDooslng they carry
mated to be maaned (6^®“ t aggregating over 3000
- troo ? T 3) 2000 of
men. Under favo - akea d ash at any city
these could be lande are we pre .
or object not too \ ar . * a i any important
pared to meet and beat Newcastle
point of our coast-say, tor ex j g 0 i pli ned men-
_a000 thoroughly trainee an aad manne
blue Jackets. marine rlllts and supplied
artillery-armed with moaer the approved
with held K uns , 8 rrOfrailieuse V Are we
forms of the deadly the expectation
in a condition which encourag bu(jU a force
that we can face ana next month?
this week, or next week, or e httve tb e courage
We have men m plenty; r(linr ,rt to regard mortal
usual with citizens rm their rigllt t 0 bo in
combit as Jhe one Btaudairflo a sulhcieucy
existence at all. .We have sou u8a m
ot held guns, of doubttul fitness tor
Boudau, and consequently oiu and over
manoeuvring through of ammum-
broken ground. But our mag have nevor
tion have just been fhe! were formed. We have
been so empty since they solitary Whitehead
not a single machlnc-gun, at so beU0r prepared?
torpedo. WbcB» then, shau ' w conBider a pic-nle
Parliament. oaUed togtti“®f t hout a thought given
war, hac been prorogued wtamij multerln gs of
to the real P*? : while members sat gab-
which were already beard ourselves in
bling about «‘ory and Loyalty. i w t ent, that
the Russians’ place. Suppose, tor dire oted
a British squadron of I f 8 oo(joo scattered
against an American coloy we apons for
residents, unused W j anv re gerve of am-
more tliau 10.000, with soar e y J , b the latest
munition, and totally «“»»SuS2S2». What pro-
inventlons tor si1“ K ™ r the squadron
spools of success should w living
to have ? .^ ura » e feckless courage ot the
could excel the in every encounter.
Soudanese, yet they tu e beat in e J d with
We are no braver tlian they, and as oompa
a force of regulars of any Mtfona adly hall
scarcely b « tt 1 e o 1 A a^bi 0 a nd^“well-served artillery,
of mitrailleuse buliccs un Rritiah troous.
But our assailants would not British troop^
True ; they would ie Jttussiani‘most stubborn he
by the great Naihilkon as tne dviceof Nel _
ever encountered. Remember & Frenchman,
bon: Uap yourselv SS*. *>• if there Is to be
but out-man oeuvre a Russian i „ tbougd
SHaSsao* % jaz tt S3? MS
g“ “*S'.K AuSffi 1 uwtge
light heart."
The Old Lion.
Nothing more contemptible than the tone of the
metropolitan daily Press with reference to Sir
Henry Parkes of late can be conceived. While
the man was in ollica the Heralu never failed to
speak of him with respect and deference, even
when objecting to measures of his Government.
So far, indeed, was the complaisance carried, that
wo had often felt that the public vs ere being
tutored to regard with deference a man whoso
actions invited scorn and contempt. The Daily
Telegraph used fairly to grovel at the leet of
Sir Henry, and there was no action of his Govern-
ment so flagitious that that journal would not And
a justification for it. The Evening News was not
chargeable with the same fault. Its opposition to
the man and the monster was frank and down-
right. It shares, therefore, in only a minor degree
toe ignominy of the other dailies, earned by the
ymilence of their attacks upon the man out of
oilice, whom they treated with respect in olhce.
Of late it has not been posesible for Sir Henry to
open his mouth without provoking petty insolence
and misrepresentation from journalists who wore
formerly ready to lick his boots. His every utter-
ance is sneered at, distorted, and made the text
of some insulting comment. If he were a dog he
he could not have more scandalous treatment. Now
we hold that The Lulletin is the only metropoli-
tan paper which can, without exposing itself to the
charge of time-serving, attack Sir Henry Parkes
at this epoch in his ulfairs. When he was practi-
cally Dictator; when a servile majority in the
Legislature voted at his nod for everything ho ap-
proved-right or wrong; when the whole com-
munity appeared to grovel at Lis leet, and it was
regarded as a popular thing and a good investment
to banquet and l.'lb him; when this journal was
struggling to establish Itsdf, and a good shower of
Government advertisements, such as rewarded the
sycophancy of the Daily Telegraph, would at
onco have decided the balance between success
and failure; then we maintained an incessant
attack upon Parkes and his system. We fought
him when ho was up; our contemporaries kick ut
him only when he is down. Let there be no mis-
take, however. The reasons which actuated us in
pursuing Parkes the Premier with unrelenting
Hostility, remain unaltered. Having been based
on dear convictions and supported by defi-
nite principles, they were Incapable of being
affected by mere contingencies. We consider
that the occupation of nigh position by Sir
Henry Parkes, and the deference paid to
him by interested and corrupt persons and cliques,
were fraught with an example and with lessons
frightfully demoralising to young Australians.
Hence, although the success of his candidature
for Argyle-carrying as it would an dfective pro-
test —by the only constituency which has yet had
an opportunity of expressing an opinion on that
matter—against the dispatch of an Australian Con-
tingent to take part in a foreign, and, moreover,
an unjust, war—would have been most welcome >,o
us, wo have abstained from supporting Sir Henry
in his appeal to the electors of Argyle. Should,
however, the menace of appearances be followed
by the stern lealiiies ot war, Sir Henry Parkes
has qualities which should be serviceable to tae
colony under such coinitions. War is a brutal
condition. Tue ablest maa in peiiot a of war >s
not the best man. Gladstone, the gioatest bene-
factor of the people ol Great Britain since the
Saxon Monarchy, is a poor band at foreign policy
and war. War is a saturnalia of force, iraud,
ruthleisness, deceit, and vigour. In the time of
war a Bonaparte is more serviceable than a
BoLANo-a t arkgs tnan a Stuart,
A Deed of Rapine.
A scandalous proposition was mooted, early in
the antl-patriotic movement to send free Aus-
tralians to help to deprive the Arabs of the Soudan
of their liberties. This was no less than that the
balance in hand of the fund raised for the relief ot
sufferers from floods on the Hawkesbury should
be confiscated and handed over to the so-called
Patriotic Fund. Now, while we view with deri-
sion and contempt the prostitution ‘of the term
“ Patriotic” by tacking it on to this fund, against
the fund itself we have no word to say, so long as it
is not employed as a device for obtaining aPP
endorsement of Mr. Halley’s act, cm the false
pretence of asking only for sympathetic provision
for possible widows nnd orphans. But we protest
against the proposed swindle at the expense ot the
Hawkesbury settlers. We have reason to appre-
hend that the intention of despoiling them has not
been abandoned. The Hawkesbury Flood lieli.f
Fund, by whatever name it is ealled, bas n
been In existence as a surplus for many y®^, r8 ' nr i
has been in the custody of trustees, and pre
sumably accumulating at interest. But who a
the trustees, or what is the amount, no one seems
to know. It is long since any statement has been
published; and since the fund is threatened with
confiscation, it is time that Publm should bo
offered all information about it. Nothing could
more strongly expose the infatuation of our Jingo
crowd than this cold-blooded ProposalJulies
order to swell the provision o£ th ® , £ fXrllv
widows, or orphans of men wlm voluntarily
risked their lives in a quarrel which no way
concerns this colony, the peaceful industrials
who till the ground, and are the back-boeof the
colony’s prosperity, and who seek no mnocent
bloodfshould be robbed of the funds prov.ded to
relievo their necessities, and the
widows and orphans, in the event of floods we 1 P
log away the fruits of their lnd
whelming the husbandman. Any day the Hawses
bury district may once more be devastated by
flood, the fruits of years of bonest effortc wept
away; whole families rendered houseless, home
less/and helpless, and deprived by
the l rea t-wlnner. Yet so degrading is tbe mtatu-
ation of the hour that there are meu not aeh med
to urge that the provision made tor such unde
served sulfei log should be filched way in t
swell the portion of the deserted wives and babes
of men whose lust for excitement sent tbmn in
search of men to kill in foreign lands, Who. we
demand, deserve best of the colony? The hus-
bandmen who develop the resources of the soil,
and support their families, or the adventurers
who turn their back upon the colony to engage m
uncalled-for war? If the Hawkesbury Belief
Fuud be misapplied, as is intended, we proclaim
the act one of embezzlement. But
lleve any scoundrel will dare commit ]it, that
It is known that there is a watch kept for the
would-bo thieves.
Warriors versus Women.
So far as concerns absolute progress in the sphere
of carnage, the recent episodes of the Soudan war
show that the British host-so forlorn and Im-
perilled prior to the enrolment of colonial troops
-is making short work of its enemies. In this
announcement the Jingoes will naturally exult,
and probably, the prolatical pretenders will once
more pour out their carefully-intoned praise to
the Almighty for His reiterated aid to the British
army. But as, in the first place, we are not Jin-
goes, and as, in the second, we do not presume to
libel God’s notions of equity, we regard these
triumphs in a dubious light. When we read that
desperate fighting occurred between the Indian
contingent and tbe Arabs, and that, while the
latter lost 100 men, the former s casualties were
confined to ‘ three men wounded,’ we question
the propriety of dignifying the undertaking by
the title of war. To all appearances the Soudan
soldiers are so poorly armed as to be next door
to fighting with their bare lists. They can hurl
their spoarsTrom short range with little chance ot
doing more than lightly wounding their foes, or
they can make a man-handling fight of it in close
combat; but they seem utterly unable to cope
with the destructive armaments brought to bear by
the British troops. With personal bravery that is
little short of Imperial valour, these unhappy
men press on to certain death, and are mowed
down in myriads. Their only hope is to close with
the British troops in a hand-tc-hand struggle, and
to beat them to the earth by dint of overwhelm-
ing superiority of numbers. In the onward
march to the cannon’s mouth they know they
must fall likM rotten sheep; but in the fight for the
freedom of their native soil they push on to cer-
tain destruction. To the Brit;sh forces the danger
of death is infinitesimal, for the Arabs would
have to be more than mortal to withstand the over-
powering carnage long enough to bear down
on the ranks of the intruders. Hence it is not so
much a battle as a piece of sport, with just enough
of the element ot danger about it to lend the
fitvour of excitement to the undertaking. It is,
in fact, a gigantic pigeon-shooting match, with
human beings for birds and long odds on the gun.
And now, to crown the climax, it appears that
even women and children are fighting on the side
of the Arabs, and are mercilessly mown down with
the rest. Think, ye Jingos who exult in butchery,
of the glory to be wrenched from a war between
warriors and women I Surely your measure of
bloody vengeance is filled to the delightful brim I
And reflect, all colonists, how, if this country were
attacked by a foreign Power, you would your-
selves regard the slaughter of your wives and
children, impelled into the battle-field to fight by
the side of their protector in his desperate endea-
vour to rid his soil of tyrannous usurpers! Would
vou then stigmatise yourselves rebels as flippantly
as you now insult the patriotic Soudanese with
that reproach? There, on the soil of their fore-
fathers, husband and wife-lather, motherland
children fill one common grave, thanks to British
interference, which never (so lip-loyalty assures
us) wages war against either the helpless or
against women. Of course, the hollow pretence is
put forward that the object of the Imperial inva-
sion is to suppress slavery. That was one of
A uadi Bey’s objects, but Great Britain suppressed
him The real aim la manifest: it is to retain the
Soudanese as slaves to the European bond-holders.
KoTiiscniLD is great, and Gladstone, Kosebeby,
and Go. are his prophets; and so men and women
must be massacred ana children slaughtered to
exact repayment of loans illegitimately obtained
by despotic Khedives. Such deeds should make
even Jingos blush; but, alas I there can be no pos-
sible sense of shame in men who eipouse the
theory that the proper mission of the productive
laborer on earth is to walk into the battle-field to
kill or bo killed in protecting the property ot the
idle and afilueut.
The Legal Aspect.
In the opinion of several eminent lawyers and
representative authorities on the metes and
bounds of the colonial Constitution, the recent
special session has utterly failed in securing for
the admittedly illegal action of the Executive the
validation for which it was convened; and Mr.
Dal lev is openly suspected of having involved
the colonial Parliament, in connection with this
Soudan trouble, in a labyrinth of illegality from
which nothing can extricate it short of an Act of
Katilleatlon by the House of Commons. The Privy
Council has recently decided that our Parliament
has plenary legislative powers within the circum-
scribed limits of its Constitution Act; in other
words that it is a substantive Legislature, pos-
sessed of all normal Parliamentary prerogative,
enlarged, restrained, and Qualified by the terms
of the Constitution Act. That Act, which is the
charter of our Legislative authority, empowers
the New South Wales Parliament to make what-
ever laws it thinks lit for the welfare of the
country; and all permissible amendments of that
charter by our own Parliament are contingent on
their adaptation to the “ internal ” government
of the colony. Hence there is no power in tne
Constitution Act sanctioning the despatch ox
colonial troops on foreign service (and, as ours is a
substantive Legislature, England’s wars are, in
a strictly legal acceptation, foreign service.)
Parliament has now passed an Act valiaa-
,tipg this enrolment and despatch on foreign
service; but it is gravely questioned that such an
Act exceeds the powers of this Parliament, it is,
obviously, an Act which, if within its legal com-
pass, amends the Constitution Act; but it is an
illegal amendment, because it is legislation beyond
the realm, and on a subject which does not legally
concern this realm, The only effective Act ox
validation must come from the same source as
did our Constitution Act—that is, from the 1 arlia-
ment of Great Britain ; and till the Imperial
Legislature passes such an Act, the Supreme
Court Judges have it in their power, on application
by any citizen (pecuniarily concerned as a tax-
payer in the disbursement of the revenue), to issue
a andamus against the Colonial Treasurer to
restrain him from illegally appropriating any
public money for a purpose not permitted within
the compass of colonial law. To illustrate the
illegality of the position, two suppositions, parallel
cases, may be conceived. 1st. Has the Parliament
of New South Wales legal power to vote public
money, and appropriate colonial revenue for the
construction of a railway from Suakim to Berber?
And 2nd, If the Government despatched an army
to wage war against the colony of Queensland,
would a colonial Act of Parliament suffice to vali-
date their action? A negative answer must be
given in both cases, because the object in each has
legally nought to do with tho internal welfare of
this colony, over which alone our Parliament has
jurisdiction and cognisance. Hence, by dint ot
delirium, our wise men and political magicians
appear to have drifted rapidly from one illegality
to another, until the Parliament is now in a quag-
mire of incapacity, unless the Imperial Legisla-
ture should “come over and help us.”
The Veil Lifted.
Mighty revolutions of thought and science have
been brought about by the most insignificant agen-
cies. Facts, ever before the eyes of all, have
existed for ages, without attracting attention,
until some trivial circumstance has Invested them
with importance until then unknown. A falling
apple has caused a revolution in science, a tea-
kettle has altered our conditions of life; and to
descend to matters more peculiarly relating to
our present day and generation, Mr. Horace
Payne Ellis quite unconsciously has lifted the
veil of pseudo-patriotism with which our Jingos
have striven to hide from themselves as from
others, the hideous moral ugliness of our much-
vaunted Soudan Expedition. He has written to
the Committee of the Patriotic Fund, saying that
he has thrown up a billet worth £300 a year in
order to Join the Contingent, and, therefore, hopes
that provision will be made for his mother, a
confirmed invalid, during his absence, and in the
event of his death. The Herald, in accordance
with its favourite policy of ignoring all that does
not colnc de with its dicta, merely prints the
letter, with the disparaging comments made
by the Committee ; but the Echo devotes
a sub-leader to the subject, wherein insinua-
tions against both the mother and son are
freely made. The conclusion come to with regard
to the latter is that: “ If he held a situation worth
the salary named, and left a mother dependent
upon him to the extent to which he desires the
Committee to provide for her, the cheapest thing
to be done is to send another man to take the
place of Mr. Ellis, and to let him return as soon as
possible to his filial duties, from which he should
never have released himself.” Now, if, as we have
maintained from the very first, patriotism never
demanded this expedition, and cannot now justify
it, the Echo is perfectly right in the passage
quoted, “Ellis should never have released himself
from his filial duties.” But if we have been
wrong in condemning, and the Echo right in ad-
vocating the despatch of this Contingent, as a
duty due to patriotism, then the very same pa-
triotism released Ellis from his filial duties; for, as
the Jingo papers have told us over and over
again, to rush to the assistance of England is a
colonist’s paramount duty. And if Ellis never
should have released himself from his filial duties,
what shall be said of the men who freed
themselves from marital ties, in order to, as
the Pall Mall Gazette forcibly puts it,
“ besmirch the fair escutcheon of young Austra-
lia . • by the mere revengeful slaughter of
the Arabs of the Soudan.” It may be said that the
wives of such men are provided for; so they may
be, to some extent, with coin of the realm; but is
money all that a wile requires from her consort ?
What right has he to risk the life which he has
sworn to devote to her, by joining in the ranks of
war? Every right, if patriotism calls upon him;
no right whatever, if that summons be wanting.
Lastly, will those men who now unsparingly con-
demn Ellis, and they are all, or very nearly all,
who have read his appeal, say whether they con-
sider that this is, or is not, an expedition justified
by patriotism. If it be not, we cannot commend
it; if it be, we cannot blame Ellis. There are the
horns of the dilemma, our opponents can take
which they choose.
Larceny of a Vote.
It was fortunate for, at least, one “honourable”
member of the Legislative Assembly that the re-
presentative who was cheated (either intentionally
or by a chapter of circumstances) out of his vote,
was only Mr. Thomas Dangar, a harmless old
gentleman, too infirm to give much voice to his
grievances, and too easy-going to harbour much
resentment against any of his political adversaries #
But those of the public who vigilantly eye the
proceedings of their representatives in Parliament
are not likely to dismiss the matter so lightly from
their thoughts, for it affords too effective an illus-
tration of the sinister methods by which adverse
individual votes are apt to be nullified, to the
temporary disfranchisement of the constituency
whose representative is so guilelessly duped. In
all Parliaments-or all, at least, of British origin—
there is a convenient custom called “pairing,”
which was probably introduced to suit gouty old
gentlemen in their desire to distinguish their poli-
tical services by the least possible personal dis-
comfort. Thus, if A, who favours a proposal
under discussion, and B, who disfavours it, are
both desirous of absenting themselves from a
division, they agree to pair off, or mutually ab-
stain from voting. By this cancellation of one
v®te from each side, the respective chances of vic-
tory are unaffected. This custom, which had its
origin in earliest times, is one of which Parliament
has no official cognisance, but depends for its re-
tention and force purely upon individual obliga-
tions of honour. A member breaking his pair by
voting after the other party to the pair has retired,
in full confidence in the former’s word, stands in
the same position as an officer who breaks his
parol, or a gentleman who disregards his word of
honour. The contretemps ot last week affords a
significant illustration of how pairs are sometimes
made. From Mr. Danqar’s statement to the
House, it appears that Mr. Melville, who is re
cognised in the Assembly as occupying the semi-
official position of Government whip, requested
Mr. Dangar to pair off on the Soudan Question
with Mr. J. P. Abbott, whose child had broken his
arm. To this he consented, and the Opposition
whip being also not fled according to custom, Mr.
Dangar returned home. Some hours later Mr.
Melville despatched a cab after him with the
intimation that Mr. Abbott had repudiated the
pair. Mr. Dangar at once hurried down to the
Assembly to vote against the Government, but
found that the voting was over, and that Mr.
Abbott had attended the division, and, in spite of
the remonstrance of the Opposition, bad recorded
his vote. By this means the Minister for Mines
obtained the equivalent of two votes. Bis name
appears in the newspapers both as voting i n th e
division and as pairing with Mr. Dangab— thus
crediting him with one substantive vote in the
House, and one conditional “ave” in cancellation
of Mr. DanGab’s “no.” Though afforded two
opportunities of explanation to the House, both
Mr. Abbott and Mr. Melville remained signifl.
cantly silent, and this reticence is an ominous
disproval of the possibility of the occurrence re-
suiting from an explainable misunderstanding
Accepting the natural inference from the circum-
stances, Mr. Melville must have pledged Mr
Abbott’s vote without consulting him: and the
latter allowed no gratitude to the former for an
unauthorised act of party allegiance to forbid his
repudiating the liberty taken with bis vote, for-
tunately, the majority on the question covered too
wide a margin to be sensibly affected by the occur-
rence, but how often does a single vote determine
the fate of most momentous proposals? Mr.
Danqab’8 vote was embezzled from him—or, more
properly, cancelled undex’ false pretences—but
whether through intentional or inadvertent
misrepresentation is,* for lack of explanation, an
open question. The little incident must be viewed
beyond the surface. In the first place, it shows
what strain was made to secure a big numerical
majority in favour of Mr. Halley’s action; and,
in the second place, it manifests, in a minor de-
gree, the general subserviency of a Parliament
which, having grovelled on its knees in humble
adoration of the Crown nominee who flippantly
usurped its most saci’ed privilege, next proceeds
to be a mute ear-witness of the peculation of a
member’s vote.
It is stated that the Government have determined
to lay torpedoes across one of the channels lead-
ing in to Sydney harbour. Even the Jingo papers
would realise that The Bulletin was right, and
spoke the voice of truth, when we denounced as
mean, cowardly, and treacherous the dodge
adopted by the British fleet in Alexandria
and the French fleet at Foochow, were the
Russian fleet of 16 vessels lately off the Cape of
Good Hope, and now possibly hovering in Austra-
lian waters, to enter Sydney harbour before war is
declared, thus rendering the torpedo obstructions
useless, and subsequently bombard the forts and
city at their ease.


The Referee.
SPORTING ATHLETIC MEMS.
vinir into consideration the limited
.s Reach has been outrigger-sculling, he takes
P* ri lead as the greatest phenomenon the world
produced.
t wonder the Canadian lost the race
»• o l »V,irdav last. Friday’s Even Nooze gave the
oD S of his Ruddick as-Beam 10ft. %m.,
nth in centre 5ft. *fin„ forward 3ft. hjin., aft 3ft.
Great Caesar I what an outrigger.
An attempt is being made to start a sail-
ing club at Potts Point. Should it not be called
the Potts’ Point Canvas Dingy Club. If we mis-
take not, most of their fleet are canvasers.
Boats built by Donnelly and Sullivan came
in first in each of the three big sculling races. The
heat turned out by Dodd for Hanlan is a beauty,
and it was only on Saturday morning last the
Canadian decided to row the newly-arrived Rud-
dick.
On the night of theTthinst., the skating
rink at Newhaven. Conn., was crowded, to witness
the conclusion of Dr. Carver’s idiotic feat of firing
with a rifle, hitting sixty thousand blocks of wood
in six days. The final scores were:—60.016 hits,
4.865 misses.
The following are the correct times in
which Beach passed the various points on Satur-
day last:—Mile, 6min. 15sec.; Putney, 9min. 46seo.;
Cabaritta, 16min. lOJ^sec.; Gladesvllle, 17min.
sec.; One Man Wharf. 30min. 6>6sec.; and the
whole course in 33min. 53ieo.
Now that Australia once more holds the
world’s championship, it ia to be hoped William
Beach will stick to his determination to make
English and American scullers come out here, and
fight it out on his own dunghill. Warning may be
taken from Trickctt and Hanlan, who both .tra-
velled in search of defeat.
An effort is being made to resuscitate the
old University Rowing Club. A meeting was held
at the University on Thursday evening, when the
following provisional committee was formed:—
Hon. E. Barton, Mr. Grantley H. Fitzhardinge,
Mr. Arthur Bird, Mr. R. Teece, Mr. P.J. Clarke,
Mr. W. 8. Gallon, Mr. J. E. Rich, Mr. W. J. Arm-
strong, Mr. L, F. Neill, and Mr. J. M’Manamey.
T “Women and children are fighing in the
patriotic ranks of the Soudanese.” Hah I We
have “the little boy at Manly,” but the Soudanese
have some manly little boys.
The fielding of Garrett throughout the
whole of the Englishmen’s long innings, at Mel-
bourne, was quite refreshing in comparison with
the performances of some of his colleagues. The
nil desperandum spirit displayed by the swarthy
veteran was—as the dailies love to have it —
“ worthy of the highest commendation.”
A gun club has been started at Wagga
under the title of the Murrumbidgee Gun Club.
Fifty members have subscribed their names, and
the following officers have been elected:—Presi-
dent, Mr. James Robertson, Mimosa Station; vice-
presidents, Messrs. M. A. Fosbery and C. H.
Croaker; treasurer, Mr. F. W. Gowland; secre-
tary, Mr. W. J. Daley; committee, Messrs. L
Gormly, W. C. Hunter, E. 8. Ebsworthy, J. W.
Henningham, J. T. Williamson, J. A. Daley, G.
Baker, W. H. Steele, and J. W, Anderson.
At the annual meeting of the Suburban
Bicycle Club, the following officers were elected
for the coming season:—President, Sir George
Wigram Allen: vice-presidents, Messrs. F. Bevill,
J. B. Holdsworth, R. G. Yallack, and Dr. W. West;
captain, Mr. R. Shute; vice-captain, Mr. W.
Hamilton; hon. secretary, Mr. H. M. Evans; hon.
treasurer, Mr. C. R. Wood; committee, Messrs.
Chambers, Bennett, B. P. Mayes, and Stewart.
This is the kind of go-as-you-please ar-
rangement by which Donald Dinnie wants (or says
he wants) to grind up Foley in 30 minutes: “ Each
man may use any or all parts of his body, hit or
kick, while on feet or on the ground; choking or
breaking an opponent’s leg is all fair.” If
Dinnie’ll wait till Chiarini’s wild beasts arrive, a
match every way more suitable might be arranged
for him, and it could come off in one of the cages.
The following are the entrances for the
Western Jockey Club Annual Races, to be run at
Tambo (Q.):— Flying Handicap: New Idea, The
Gazer, Ivanhoe. Springfield. Recovery, Pardon,
Amulet, Little King, Little Nelly, Pldgeon, Va cn-
tine, Jimmy, Lucifer, Darkness, and Emulation.
Tambo Handicap: Grandmaster, Lucifer. New
Idea, Recovery. Little King, Little Nell, Amulet,
Emulation, Ivanhoe. Gazer, Valentine, Darkness,
Springfield, and Pardon. There are good pros-
pects of a successful meeting. The entrances are
nearly all local. *
In connection with the New South Wales
Coursing Club, the following nominations have
been made for the Derby and Oaks, to be run for
at Bowral on 33nd April and following days;— The
Derby: Mr. W, Charker, 1 nomination; Mr. E
Bladen, 1; Mr. W. Lamb, 1; Mr. A. L. Park. 3;
Messrs. Hill and Weir, 3; Dr. C. Bellsario, 3; Mr.
H. M'Quade, 6. The Oaks: Mr. W. H. Lamb,!
nomination; Mr. P, A. Lamb, 3; Mr. E. Bladon, 3;
Mr. A. L. Park, 3; Messrs. Hill and Weir. 3; Mr.
H. E. Lord, 3; Dr. C. Belisario, 1; Messrs. Hall and
Kite, 3; Mr. H. M’Quade, 4.
Fine weather and good attendance at the
Hawkesbury Race Club Autumn meeting on
Thursday and Friday last. The sport opened with
the Hurdle Race, which fell an easy victory to
Inglesides from Javelin, Rocket third ; Mario
Louise won the Rowley Mile, Soldier Boy second,
and Orator third; Uralla made an easy win of the
Claret Stakes from First Chester, Annandale
third; the Public Auction Stakes fell to Rebus,
and Moonshee finished a couple of lengths in front
(Continued on page 8,)
of Lochinvar for the Railway Handicap. On the
second day the ball was set rolling with the Shorts
Handicap, won by His Worship, three-quarters of
a length away from Rocket, Rebus third ; Alge-
rian made an easy win of the Maiden Plate from
Percy and Chrystal, who ran a dead heat for
second place; the Hawkesbury Autumn Handicap
fell a victory to Moonshee, a clear length away
from Merlin, Normanby third, three lengths
away: Storm defeated Filibuster by a length for
the Selling Plate; and the Sportsman’s Handicap
was carried off by Soldier Boy, who defeated Tom
Brown by a neck, Wing third.
The benefit tendered to Professor Miller
by our old friend, Larry Foley, and a host of talent,
filled the Masonic Hall to overflowing, standing-
room only being obtainable even in the reserved
“ The Bulletin’s ” Toast.—The World’s Championship.
HONOURABLY LOST AND WON. MANFULLY RESIGNED. MODESTLY HELD.


Personal Items
The Alaska, in which Mr. Henry George
sailed from Liverpool to Now York, at the con-
clusion of his second lecturing campaign In Great
Britain, had, we learn by a private letter recently
received, a really terrible voyage. From accounts
of vessels that had spoken the Alaska in mid-
ocean, we learn that, though disabled herself, she
had for days been towing a more disabled ship she
had fallen In with. She was a week overdue
when she arrived at her destination: but as we
have been Informed by telegraph, Mr. George
anded In good health and spirits.
Sala’s first lecture at the Melbourne Town
Hall was marred somewhat by the boorish be-
haviour of a select few among his audience, who
walked out just In the middle of It. These gentry
were evidently disgusted because there was no
tumbling or tight-rope-danclng in the show,
and one plump party was heard to whisper his
neighbour that “ he hadn’t paid his two bob to
hear a cove talk, and if that was a lecture he pre-
ferred a cock fight.” It’s a remarkable fact, and
worthy of thoughtful consideration, that the same
men who will slumber contentedly through a
sermon get mighty restless when they are ex-
pected to listen to anything.
If Lord Carington had only come out as
Governor a few years back, what fun there would
have been to be sure. How the barmaids would
have floated in champagne, and the opera-
bouffdates started broughams! Let's see, wasn’t
there some story about Carington taking over a
pretty actress—house, furniture, carriages and
all—from the Duke of Beaufort, at a valuation1
Very likely—but things are different now, and he
Is probably pretty respectable—for a Lord. By
the way, what can be bringing the man out here
to stay. It can’t be a longing for official llfp. Nor
debts—for he’s full of money. It must be his
health, that’s It. The next cablegram will inform
us that Caringtonjs consumptive.
Hoorah for Lord Stathmore! Hip hip for
the noble peer. Ho cares for his grouse no more,
and he quite forgets his deer. His little game is
how to do good in a pleasant fway by building a
lot of homes where working folks may stay. For
a trifling bit of rent he’ll lease to a working man
a tip-top bran new house got up In a novel plan,
complete In every way, with comfort In every
form—a regular paradise It to shelter in any storm,
hot water laid on In pipes ready for toddy or tea,
and a tap or two from which you can draw the
“ barley nree.” On the roof above your head the
kids can skip and play, and the missus and you can
walk abroad In the cool of the day. So nip hip,
hoorah! for the noble Lord Strathmore, Heaven
bless him every day In his “ basket and his store-
kail and potatoes.”
It’s astonishing, to even the mind Hercu-
lean, what a number of things Dailey can do. He
can institute a prosecution; refuse to prosecute;
“ decline to file a bill telegraph an offer of help
to a little distracted country; prosecute In person;
raise a glorious army of galoots; “decline to go
further with the case”; give a little £70,000ship-
ping order; inspect the “troops” on Moore Park
in the Governor’s carriage; write daintily to a
“ little boy at Manly ”; speak three hours at a
stretch about the soul-inspiring blare of the war
clarion lighting up in each loyal heart a longing to
march forth against the enemies of England; and
lastly sleep peacefully In that very bed at the
Colonial Secretary’s office that nearly caused the
Impeachment of Parkes. Thunder! what a man I
It’s a pity for the glory of the world that he can’t
be divided without it hurting him. Then what a
universe it would be!
General Stewart, who was shot the other
day, and whose portrait we give in this Issue, has
three nieces at school In Switzerland who glory In
relating their brave uncle’s exploits, and toll with
pardonable pride how he was taken prisoner by
the Zulus, and also how enterprising ho Is—or,
alas I was. Like most men of note, he had cranks,
one of which was a determination to do what he
said ho would do. Once he took It Into his head
that if he bought up all the old houses be came
across and “ did them up ” he might amass some
money. His friends cried out “fool,” but he
heeded them not and went on with his crank. He
found a block of old houses, patched, painted, and
plastered the same, sold or lot them, and the result
was, when the fit was over, he could add an “0”
to each hundred he had expended, When the re-
sult was kuown his friends approved/and said it
wasn’t such a bad sort of crank, after all.
Mark Twain has some peculiarities. He is
one of the most nervous men in the world. He
has constant difficulty In keeping still, and some-
body is obliged to go with him to keep him busy
playing billiards or doing something 'els® so that
he will not have to be faced with the horrible
alternative of sitting still. Two seats are retained
for Mr, Clemens In the drawing-room car on the
train by which he may travel. One of these seats
is in the smoke-room and the other is in the body
of the car. As soon as Mr. Clemens finishes smok-
ing his cigar, he has to get up .'and fly from the
apartment, because he can not bear the smell of
tobacco smoke when he is not producing It him-
self. So he sits a little while in the smoke-room,
then trots out to his other place in the middle of
the oar, and after he has been there half an hour
or so, back he runs to the smoke-room again. This
is the way he goes on all day long.
This is from the Herald of the 24th
March:—“Professor Scott, who is possessed of a
clear ringing voice, which seemed to reach the
most distant parts of the ball, spoke in a charming
natural manner.” And this from the Echo of the
same date:—“The University Hall is at best a
miserable building when acoustics are considered;
but when a lecturer reads from manuscript, with
his face bent over the paper, had he the lungs of
/Eolus he could not make himself heard distinctly
at twenty feet away from the rostrum. No bitter
(sic) illustration of this defect can be quoted than
when the Professor referred In graceful and
pathetic terms to the loss the literary world had
experienced In the death of the revered Dr. Bad-
ham. The students in the gallery, with a total dis-
regard of the fitness of things, applauded! vocifer-
ously.” Now which account Is the correct one.
From a long acquaintance with the style in which
each paper is run, we should say—neither.
Barnes, the gentleman who confessed to
sending the litigious Slack, of Melbourne, to where
there Is no more law—and, let us hope, no lawyers
—is a ilittle man with a red face full of benevo-
lence. He looks more like a jolly little bon vivant
than a cold-blooded murderer, But he is an artist
in his way. His whole-souled devotion to his
arduous profession would have gained him a
magnificent tribute of praise from the pen of De
Quincey if they had been contemporaries. One of
the most striking evidences of this devotion—this
enthusiasm—for the finest of all fine arts was the
anecdote told in court to the effect that he had
stood in the bar of a hotel pensively drinking
while the funeral of Slack passed by—much
as a painter might do while seeing his
chef d’auvre carried past on its way to the
Royal Academy. What strange thoughts must
have flitted across his mind as he stood there!
Perhaps a sense of quiet satisfaction was the pre-
dominant feeling within him. Yet he must have
moralised curiously enough on the uncertainty of
life. He may have said to himself, seeing promi-
nent citizens and men of note push past as though
they had the work of a thousand years to do and
only a century to do it In: “Now, here are all
these people making plans tor years and years to
come, yet I, with my little buck-handled anifo,
could cut them and their plans off in ten minutes
as easy as kiss your hand I” It must be a great and
abiding Joy to think that one has such a power as
this in their hands. But the hangman usually has
the best of it in the end. So It is likely to be with
Mr. Barnes before very long.
“ Carados,” in the London Referee, slung
some very scurvy criticism anent Mrs. Kendal’s
recent appearance as Rosalind at the St. James
Theatre. For private reasons the Ref. has an
especial down on the greatest of comedy actresses
(“ bar none”), and the indefatigable way in which
it pegs away at her is amusing. Here’s a par.:—
“ Some of the hostile critics I notice have ob-
jected to Mrs. Kendal playing Rosalind on ao-
count of her age. Well, a few years ago I saw
Helen Fauelt—or, perhaps, I should siy Lady
Martin—play the part, and she must be tlO at least.
Mrs. Kendal certainly cannot be more than 40.”
This sort of stuff doesn’t go down with a public
that can drop in any night at the St. James’and
see Mrs, Kendal, They don't care a button how
old she is so long as they get satisfactory evidence
of how young she looks behind the footlights.
Mrs. Kendal, at 40 (we don’t fancy she’s a day
more) has the sweetest voice, the brightest face,
and the most graceful figure of any woman on the
English stage. And for acting—well, compared
wlth Tom Robertson’s sister, even Ellen Terry’s
method seems artificial, and poor Mary Anderson
becomes a stilted amateur. To compare her with
Helen Faucit is “ rot,” and no one knows that
better than ’‘Carados.” Faucit belonged essentially
to the old school—the James Anderson and Dew-
hurst school—who declaimed the simplest remarks,
and Invariably soliolquised within two feet of the
footlights. Mrs. Kendal is the sister of Tom
Robertson, the author of “ School,” “ Caste,” and
“ Ours;” while Helen Faucit is wife of the re-
spectable knight who enjoys the privllge of edit-
ing Her Majesty’s sparlking ” boots.” Between
the histrionic styles of the two ladles there’s
wide a gulf as divides the literary work of then!
respective relations.
Old Sheepshanks was married, and had a
tall family of daughters. For many years he
known to have sighed in vain for a son to inherit
his wool-shed, and keep his brand in the market
to bring, in the future, as in the past, the top m-ipi
for scoured fleece. The sonless condition n?
Sheepshanks was a subject on which he was con
tinually teased and tormented by hig city friends'
Woolbroker, Overdraft, and other commercial
and financial magnates. He was accused of want
of pluck, and every successive appearance of a
little daughter was the occasion of much fu n and
banter at his expense, until, at last, he was goaded
into making an even bet with old Overdraft f 0P
£1000 that he would have a boy on that day 12
months. The bet was booked to that effect, and a
year afterwards he Issued invitations to Overdraft
Woolbroker, and several others, to visit him at
the station, and get ocular demonstration of the
fact that he had won the bet. The day came, and
with it the visitors, Overdraft frightfully
cross at the prospect of losing his money
and determined to “pull up” a few of hia
friends, Sheepshanks Included, in revenge.
They were introduced to Lady Sheepshanks'
who looked as well as could be expected!
and her daughters, who looked a deal
better, and after a good lunch, Sheepshanks was
requested to trot out the boy for inspection.
“ Here, Tommy,” he cried opening the casement
and beckoning to a little chap about five years
old, who was playing on the verandah. The boy
came in, and Sheepshanks said, “ This is my son.
Tommy; he was born five years ago, when we
were In England, and we kept the matter quiet, as
I expected to make a rise out of him some day
with some of you blamed Idiots, who were always
teasing me. Overdraft, my dear fellow ; in
trouble you for that little cheque.” He got it,
and a few days afterwards very wisely transferred
his account to another bank, and old Overdraft
does not know him now from Adam, and he
doesn’t care a sheep’s trotter if he don’t.
It must be in the air or something; for
scarcely had our Woolloomooloo warriors de-
parted for the historical land of Egypt, with the
avowed determination of bringing back the
Mahdi’s head, or the Pyramid of Cheops, than a
rupture occurred between two leading lights of
the legal profession at Melbourne, which culmi-
nated in a declaration of war. It was all about the
authorship of some quotation that the trouble
commenced, Mr. Purves taking the afllrmatlve,
and Mr. M’Dermottthe negative, while arguing a
case in the Criminal Court, a couple of weeks ago,
and the discussion having become pretty warm,
personalities were traded off on both sides with the
greatest freedom. The fact of Mr. Purves
being a Tasmanian native was alluded to
by his “ learned friend ” in not a very flat-
tering manner, and caused the former to make
use of some vigorous Anglo-Saxon in giving
his estimate (a poor one, it may be said) of Mr.
M’Dermott’s character, and expressing his regret
that Mac. was not* a younger man so that he
(Purves) could not only Impress his argument
upon him, but “ put a head on him ” at the same
time. But Mac. was a man of peace, relying more
on the strength of his tongue than that of his arm.
“I have known your father,” said Mac, “for
many years, and always entertained the highest
respect for him, and in my time I have done him
a favour that X would be sorry to do for you.”
“And may I ask what was the nature of that
favour?” excitedly asked the bellicose barrister.
“ I ini roduced him to respectable society,” was the
quiet rejolner of Mac., and the court smiled
audibly. Then the matter dropped for the
time being. But M'Dermott has a sob filling
a billet in the Melbourne Insolvency Court,
of whom it is said that “ he can use his props a
bit” when required, and this young man, having
heard of the compliments that passed between his
parent and the able-bodied cross-examiner, deter-
mined that he’d act in loco parentis. 80, a few
days after the interchange of civilities referred to,
young M’Dermott met Purves in one of the corri-
dors of the Supreme Court at lunch time, politely
informed hjm that he (young Mac.) was prepared
to accommodate him on the shortest notice, and
proceeded to strip for the affray. Purves, too,
expressed his willingness for a deadly encounter,
but hostilities were averted by some friends of
both parties iwho happened to be around, and
peace was proclaimed after some little difficulty.
The question is now being considered in Temple
Court as to whether the old-fashioned style of
duelling should not be re-introduced, but the re-
sult has not yet been made public. And it is whis-
pered that Mac, (the elder) is fully equal to Purves
in a wordy warfare.
The death of Mr. Morgon O’Connell snaps
asunder one of the links which connect the pre-
sent with the past generation. Morgan, who was
the second son of “Ireland’s Liberathor,” joined
the big majority on the 20th of January, having
attained the ripe age of 82 years. In the bloom of
youth, Morgan O Connell adopted the profession
of arms and served as a cornet of Hussars in the
Irish Legion, which, under Genersl D’Evereux
fought for the cause of Bolivia in South America.
Subsequently he entered the Austrian army, but
after a while he grew tired of soldiering, and re-
turned to his native country, where he embarked
In that equally hazardous campaign of matrimony,
taking for his companion in arms Miss Kate Mary
Balfe, of South Park, County Roscommon. Then he
yearned for parliamentary distinction, and having
succeeded in getting returned for an Irish consti-
tuency, he occupied a seat in the House of Com-
mons for a quarter of a century. During his par-
liamentary career he failed to show that the
mantle of the eloquent “ Dan.” had fallen upon
him, but a couple of Incidents occurred which at-
tracted considerable public attention. The first
was his noted duel with Lord Alvanley at Chalk
Farm, near London. This encounter originated
from a challenge which had been sent by that
nobleman to Dan. O’Connell, who, however, in ac-
cordance with a vow he made after the memor-
able shooting of D’Esterre, declined to fight.
Apropos of the D’Esterre tragedy, a story is told
that one of O’Connell’s friends tried to dissuade
him from the encounter, and, in order to impress
the O’C. with the risk h® was running, (said, “Do
you know that your opponent can split a pitch-
fork handle at twenty-one paces with a pistol-
bullet ? ” “ I'm aware of that,” replied the imper-
turable Dan, “ but then, you see. I’m not a pitch-
fork handle.” And the sequel proved that he
wasn’t, either. However, Morgan O'Connell and
Lord Alvaney exchanged shots; but, fortunately,
the family honour of both sides was vindicated
without shedding a drop of gore. Their hands
were not so warlike as their hearts. The second
occasion on which Morgan O’Connell went to look
up his shooting-irons was when Lord Beaconsfleld,
then Ben. Disraeli. Issued a challenge to the Liber-
ator inviting him to mortal combat for saying that
he (Disraeli) was ‘Va lineal descendant of the thief
on the cross.” For the reasons given in the
D’Esterre case, Daniel again refused to draw his
weapon. Then Disraeli sat down and indited that
oft-quoted letter to Morgan O’Connell, in which
he called upon him or any of his family to meet
him, and “ to attempt to avenge the inextinguish-
able hatred with which I shall ever pursue
his (Daniel O’Connell’s) existence,” but his
offer was declined with thanks. On retiring
from the political arena, Mr. Morgan O’Con-
nell accepted a government billet, worth
£1200 a year as Registrar of Deeds in Dub-
lin, a position which he held for more than 20
years, until 1868 when he retired on a pension, his
successor being Mr. then editor of the
Dublin Evening Post. In social life Mr. O’Con-
nell was very popular, being chiefly distinguished
as a brilliant and entertaining anecdotist. It will
be understood from the foregoing account that
Maurice O’Connell inherited little of the energy
and talent of his sire. It often hanpens that the
vigour of a sire fails to reappear in the issue “ of a
dull, tired, staled bed,” “ got ’twixt asleep and
wake,” whereas there may be irregular offspring
“ Who, in the lusty stealth of nature, take
More composition and fierce quality
Than .... go to the creation of a whole tribe of
fops.”
It is well known that an eminent person, of mean
extraction on the maternal side, in this commu-
nity, is the living picture of the late Irish “ Libera-
k tor,” and possesses all the vigour and fire of that
GENERAL SIR HERBERT STEWART, KILLED IN THE SOUDAN.
A MELODEAMA IN THEEE ACTS.


v vfifUEn A WKLTt. J
Pod. " »
Pod. 4 !■? • •
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC In the city.
T>u Air to lu wtU mnrkft I, CUROurs [oimui.
eaSitabUk
mm
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &o.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues will be ready in a few days and
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &o., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Bali Programmes, Menu
Cards.
Ail orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to ail the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograpb
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost ol
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Ssnd and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
312 GEORGE STREET.
Bray Liclitner,
32 O CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
IMPORTERS OF SUPPLIES
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, best, and,Cheapest in
the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments, with fu n instructions for Novices,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, best, and,Cheapest in
the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments, with fu n instructions for Novices,
1 o-» ufjti<^ra
P p
o-
(Si
C rr-
1
■ B
zT
m
£
■o
a?
\\
n
ux pidBJ pun ejqmia.1 asom
)m ‘mt’Id £i(I s.janua aoj sjaaSy 0 iog
py THE latest works AND publications on photography.
GL
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
ormciALTEETH
. (on.pl ete J et, — (
DentistS
ML-t MARKETS? /)YDN EY.
COTTAGE VILLA or BUSINESS SITES
O N MAIN BOA D TOV.&f\LQPXCHS'
LIVERPOOL RACECOURSE*-
.CLOSE TO RAILWAY ST AT ION 'MAIN Ti.R UN K L I.N £
{extra line surveyed reducing distanceipj
14 MILES from SYDNEY
£5 LOTS PAYABLE Si ■ PER MONTH, NO INTEREST
PLANS FREE. BO'/I) f-X/A'G
<96 P/rr S,Syo*£y I
/!UCT/OM£££&
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TUBE
HOTEL, which is now kept by
BARGAINS! BARGAINS!! BARGAINS!!
Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
SSOSS-A.LIES, 3LLOTT1D dz CO.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO, ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
Hgf" Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
Ladies should secure the
CHEAP LACES AND UNDERCLOTHING AT ROSSALIE, LLOYD Sc CO.’S SALE.
48. in the pound taken oft' your Bill.
Thousands of Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Lace*.
Remnants of Ribbons. Remnants of Ribbons. Summer Millinery. Summer Millinery.
A MAGNIFICENT STOCK ALL INCLUDED IN THE SALE,
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
Umbrellas. Umbrellas. Parasols. Parasols.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD
NEAR THE GENERAL POST OFFICE.
& CO.,
BOTJHKE,
Is the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel in the Western District. The Table and Liquo
cannot be surpassed, even in the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. First-class Stabling.
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor”
OBTAINABLE EROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
swallowIRdTriell’s
CELEBRATED
BISCUITS AHD CAKES, TREACLE All MIBE1 SHOP,
Self-raising /Erated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
8. & A. have obtained Eirst Awards all over tbe world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven Eirst Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
, t-jtfd man, but perverted to a thorough
°*l!5S5rnf liberty, a detestation of the Press, and a
strong Inclination towards arbitrary rule.
r was born in 184S. Mrs. Lingard is
« Adelina Patti was born in 1843. Rose Eytinge
33- to 48. Mme. Ristori is 57 years old, and is
owns up Mary Anderson was born in 1853, and
P r «i Sears old last month. Maggie Mitchell, who
daughter on the stage, was 34 years old re-
haa*?Jia T.vdia Thompson was 18 years old for 15
o£?r« y when she suddenly became 53. As in every-
?v!fn<r else she is eccentric Henry Braoy-the
thi a«r tenor—who is always so sweet that the
chorus call him embraoy, is playing “ Blue Beard ”
In London.
Here is a thing which is not generally
known! Away back in the summer of 1839, Alfred
Tennyson, then a lank, long-haired boy, gained
The Chancellor’s gold medal for a poem on—what
filing theme, think you ? OnTimbuctool Hold
« imlr head. Lewis Scott 1 You may yet be Lord
U P f techhardt, for does not Goat Island still wait
91 he immortalised by your pen, and are not the
Glebe Abbatoirs still unsung ?


(Continued from page 5 )
seats. It was a fortunate thing that the settling
for the Beach-Hanlan race was on at the same
timei else death by suffocation would have been
the result. Of course, Larry was M.C., and being a
man of such strong persuasive powers, found no
difficulty whatever in keeping his big crowd In as
good order as can be found in any place ot amuse-
ment In Sydney; but the principal reason was
owing to the fact that, with the exception of a
verv few, the audience was composed of persons
all occupying good, and many even leading posi-
tions in our city. There was some smart settmg-
to between “ friends,” and then a bit of coflar-and-
elbow wrestling by Keating and Curtis, best two
out of three falls, Keating getting the first and
last falls, though Curtis brought down his
huge opponent very neatly for the middle fall.
There was a rattling set-to with Jackson and
our leading amateur, the “ little un ” keeping
things alive, as he always does; but of course the
event of the evening was the wind-up between
Professor Miller andPoley, their joint appearance
being greeted vociferously. The Professor, who
seenw all the better for the accidents he has suf
fered, oame to the front and threw In a few re*
marks as easily as as he would throw an antago-
nist, and said he could hardly express his thanks
to those who has assisted, but especially his old
friend Foley, to whose kindness and zeal he was
entitled for this handsome benefit. The pair then
“ set to partners ” in a merry style, smart counter-
hitting with little benefit on either side being the
order of the day, the fourth round winding up
with an extra smart rally that brought the enter-
tainment to a close, all hands departing thoroughly
satisfied, and hoping soon to see a repetition. By-
the-bye, friend Larry is getting quite poetical,
and over a quiet glass at the end of the sport, re-
marked, “ Then, sir, I defy anyone to say that in
this entertainment there was anything calculated
to bring the claret to the nose of modesty ’ —a
sentiment we heartily concurred in.
The Englishmen’s last match in Melbourne
put a terrible strain on the ingenuity of some of
our local reporters. The Herald, for instance.
f:ot into such a muddle that its readers quite felt
or the enterprising little journal. To begin with:
“ The turf was in beautiful order, and a magnificent
wicket had been prepared. Horan won the toss,
and of course the colonials went in.” This was the
unfortunate statement to which the Herald corn-
mitted Itself immediately after the commence-
ment of play. At luncheon hour, though, six
wickets were down for 45 runs, and our re-
porter” was perplexed. Patriotism demanded a
refutation of that first reckless bulletin, and it
became necessary that the public should be re-
enlightened as to the condition of the wicket. So
it was now gravely announced teat * the wicket is
bumping ominously, and doubts are expressed as
to its lasting capabilities.” After lunch Trumble
came in, and a bit of a stand was made, so the
chameleon-like wicket underwent another change.
The Herald man discovered that ‘ the bumpiness
of the wicket was due to the ground being a little
too damp on the surface, and now that it naa
dried it was behaving much better. But wny
continue? Everyone knows how that wicket was
on its very beat behaviour while the Englishmen
held possession, and suffered a relapse so soon as
their opponents went in for the second time. Ihe
professionals won by an innings and 98 runs, not
because they were favoured by the wicket, but
because, on tbis particular occasion, they bowled
as well, batted more sturdily, and gelded lengths
In front of the team opposed to them. The same
journals which wore justified in exulting over the
Englishmen’s fair and square deteat la Sydney,
ought to have had the pluck to give them due
credit for a decisive victory over a weaker lot in
Melbourne. And, by the way, nothing was ever
said about the disadvantage at which our recent
visitors were placed by the bibulous proclivities
of Ulyett, who should have been their tower of
strength in the batting department. If Murdoch
or M'Donald had failed so consistently through
one of the home tours, any amount of “ifs”
would have been Indulged in by the scribes who
took the big Yorkshireman’s shortcomings as a
matter of course.
A drizzling rain on Saturday morning last
gave anything but a cheerful prospect for the
sculling race between Edward Hanlan and Wil-
liam Beach, but as the day wore on the rain cleared
off, and by the time the men drew up for a start,
the champion course resembled the proverbial
mill-pond, a light north-easter scarcely ruffling
the surface of the water. The race was to start
between 3 and half-past, but it was getting on to
the latter time before the Inflexible, the only
steamer allowed to follow the race, got through
the bridge, owing to the swing having been closed
a few seconds before she reached it. Arrived at
Charity Point, no time was cut to waste, both men
showing out almost immediately, and drawing up
for a start. Beach looked the Hercules that he Is,
and his confident nod to his principal supporter
in the bow of the Inflexible showed up in great
contrast to the Canadian, who looked nervous and
out of sorts Almost at the first attempt the pair
dashed off dead level, both putting in 40 strokes of
every ounce they knew, and, when half a dozen
strokes had been gone through, Banian appeared
to us to have a shade the best of it, but it was
momentary, as Beach commenced to draw out a
decided lead, and, by the time Uhr's Point was
pa8S°d, the Australian had an advantage of a clear
length. Hanlan looked round at his man, and put
a little extra “devil” In the finish so peculiarly
his own, but it was no go; and, as Beach rowed
over and gave him bis back wash half way to the
mile point, both men striking an even 36 a minute,
it must have appeared to the Canadian that his
chances of catching the tiger in front of him were
of a very limited nature indeed. Beach continued
to draw away, and shot the mile point in 6min.
13ieo., 9sec. ahead of Hanlan. From this out the
contest was devoid of all interest, ns Beach all
through continued to increase his lead, ultimately
winning by some 10 lengths, in 33min. 53jec. Han-
' lan pulled a plucky stern chase, but was outpaced
from start to finish. The Canadian has ha* 1
a very fair lease of the championship, from
187!) to 1884, and it goes without saying it
was merely a matter of time when he would meet
his on the water, but we must say we did not
think that peer would turn un in Beach, who has
been such a comparatively short period at the
game. It really seems like a fairy tale, and it
scarcely appears years since we saw Beach take
his flrrt flutter in an outrigger, upon which occa-
sion it was moreiby good luck than management he
did not take an involuntary bath in the anything
but savoury waters of Johnston's Bay. In having
for a mentor the accomplished waterman, Charley
Messenger, may be attributed the wonderful im-
provement in form shown by Beach since his race
with Hanlan in August last. Hanlan owned up to
his defeat by a better sculler in manly style, say-
ing to the crowd at Parramatta on Saturday night:
—“ Well, boys, I have been beaten by a man bet-
ter than myself, which I must acknowledge. 1
amnotone who boasts; but I speak my full con-
fidential opinion that I have been beaten by a man
such as the world has never seen outside Aus-
tralia. I am sorry I am beaten, and I am pleased
to see a better man than myself. I can say frankly,
and will bet all the money I have in the world,
that I will row any sculler bar Beach, but Beach t
can‘t beat.” 1
Lawyer Houghton’s Case.
I wish to inform you, and through you all whr,
are interested to know the fact that a most di«_
agreeable and obstinate case of salt rheum
eczema, which has been under my personal ohger
vation from Its first appearance to the present
tlme-about 10 years—covering the greater E or
tion of the patient's body and limts with its pecu
liar irritating and itching scab, and to which all
the known methods of treating such disease had
been applied without benefit, has completely dU
appeared, leaving a clean and healthy skin, under
a profuse application of the Cdticura Kemedxfs
lean and do heartily sdvise all similarly bffliceu
to try the remedy which has been so effectual in
this case. CHAS. HOUGHTON, Law Office £
State-street, Boston.
That imitation is the siucerest flattery
provable in a thousand ways. Man—the term is
a generic one, and therefore includes the fair sex ~
is altogether an imitative animal, and those who
shew great adaptability for anything, whese posi-
tions makes them looked up to, or whose genius
gives rise to new ideas, are pretty sure to be
followed by the common herd. When Lcrd
Byron voted cravaic and stick-up collais a bore,
and wore loose neck arrangements, the Byron.c
choker became the rage, and dandies were ro
longer half throttled; when the Prince of Wa.cs
appeared in Piccadilly without gloves ore morn-
ing, the mercers of Bond street were well nigh
mad with rage, and when Her Most Gracious
Majesty, with Prince Albert of glorioui memory
by her’side, wheeled a perambulator in I he grounds
of Windsor, every Toro, Jack, and Hairy, who
could boast a baby, did the same in his own parti-
cular locality. Char enough, and very amusim’,
too; and yet the imitators seldom come up to the
mark of the oiigina'. Anthony Hordern and
Sons of the Palace Emporium, Haymarket, have
heaps of imitators, but no equal.*
The shamrock of Erin, the thisile of Scotland
With the rose of old England shall still be the
toast:
But wo of Australia, when wine cups are flowing,
Make Summer-field's trousers our glory and
boast.*
Those Wax Works.


Oriental Gold
Is the latest discovery of Science and the grandest
achievement of the alchemist's art. It looks like
gold, it is as heavy as gold, and it is more enduring.
None but an expert can detect the difference, and
then only by the severest’tests. Ornaments made
from this new composition are equal in design end
general appearance to those made of the finest
18 carat gold, and yet we sell them at but a tithe
of.the Cost of the genuine goods.
Remember that we do not pretend that Oriental
Gold is anything but a composition of pure metals;
but we do affirm that it is so perfect an imitation
of the sterling gold as to almost defy detection.
Jewellery made of it may be worn anywhere, end
the closest inspection will only strengthen the con-
viction that it is real gold. So perfect is it, and so
large has our trade become, that jewellers through-
out the colonies are complaining of the dullness in
trade, and are constantly writing to us to secure
our goods for their own customers. But as we are
Sole Agents for these colonies, wo prefer to deal
directly with the public. All of our Oriental Gold
Jewellery is made to our order, and is stamped
with our trade, mark. You can order anything
from a Scarf Pin to a Watch and Chain, and it will
be tent Post Free, and at our risk, on receipt of
price.
PRICE LIST.
Ladles’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double slides and tassels, I5s., 20s.,and25s. each.
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 5a., 6s.. 7s. 6d., Us.,
8s. 6d., 9s.. and 10s a pair.
Ladles’ choice Necklets, from 12s. 6d. to 30s.
Ladles’ very handsome Necklets, set in splendid
Alaska Diamonds, £2 10s. to £5 5s.
Ladies’ elegant Bangles, 7s. to 15s. a pair.
Ladies’ handsome Cloak Clasps, 15s. to 30s.
Ladies’ very best American Rolled Gold Chate-
laines, 30s. each.
Ladies’ choice Lockets and Necklets, 17s. 6d., 20s .
22s. 6d., 25s., 27s. 6d., 30s., 35a., and 40s.
Handsome Gem Rings, 7s. 6d., 8s. 6d., 10s., 16s , 20s.,
and 30s, each.
Elegant Keepers, Wedding Rings, and Fancy
Rings, from 2s 6d. to 8s. 6d. each.
Solid Gold Wedding and Keeper Rings, 10s. each.
Solid Gold Wedding and Keeper Rings, 18 carat,
hall marked, 21s. each.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Lockets, from
8s. 6d. to 35a. each.
Elegant Crosses, in Oriental Gold, from 10a to 20a.
Ladles' Bangles, in Sterling Silver, warranted,
from 0s. 6d. to 10a.
Ladies' Handsome Bracelets, in Sterling Silver,
hall marked, 17?. 6d. to 40a. each.
Brooches, in Sterling Silver, from 7s. 6d. to 30a.
Brooch and Earrings, in Sterling Silver, from 103
to 40s.
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3a. 6d.
Ladles’ Lockets, in Sterling Silver, hall marked,
from 15s. to 35s. each.
Ladies’ Alberts, in Sterling Silver, from 10a to 40s.
each.
Qent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £2 2 0
Same as above, except that this watch la
patent keyless £2 5 0
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, in bunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tassells £2 16 0
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless .. £3 0 0
pr These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection. ’
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert . ..£4 5 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
Jewelled, and compensation balance,
with Oriental Gold AIbort £5 5 0
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. £6 6 0
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £3 3 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert £4 15 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 6 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade .. .. .. .. .. £o 6 6
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket' £10 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 85 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can bo sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £10.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska DiamondRings, 6s. 6d.,
7s. Cd., 8s. (id., and 10s. each.
Gent’s’ Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond and Ruby
Rings, 7s. 6d. and 8s, 0d., each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Kings, plain half, round
buckle, flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck
rings, &c., &o., from 5s. to 8s. 6d. each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and l ink Suites, 7s., 7s. 6d., 8s., 8s, 6d„ 9s., 10s.,
and 12s. 6d. per set.
Same as above, only half sets, 3s., 4s., and 5s. per
Very latest American Patent Spring Solitaire
Suites, 10s. per set.
Gent's elegant Seals, real stones, 7s. 6d„ 8s., 9s.,
10s.. and 12s. 6d. each,
Gent’s elegant Compasses, latest designs, 8s., 10s ,
and 12s. 6d. each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, handsome patterns,
6s. 6d. and 10s. each;
Gent’s very latest American Rolled Gold Alberts,
made specially to our order, 17s. 6d., 20s., 25s.,
and 30a. each.
Gents’ handsome Scarf Pins, from 2s. 6d. to 12s. 6d.
Gents’ Scarf Rings, 8s. each.
Very best American Pencil Cases, from 5s. to
12a. 6d.
Gents’ Hair Guards, 15 carat Gold Mounts, 20s. each
Gents’ Sterling Silver Alberts, from 12s. 6d. to 30s.
each.
Gents’ Match Boxes. 8s. 6d. each.
Gents’ Sovereign Purees, 7s.6d. each.
Ladies’ handsome Brooch and Earring Suites, from
8s. 6d. to 35s. per set.
Richly-chased and engraved Bracelets, from 12s.
6d. to 403.
Elegant Brooches, from 5s. to 30a. each.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 7s. fld.,
8s. 6d. and IQg. each.
SPECIALLY OBSERVE.
Should you be dissatisfied with your investment
after inspecting the articles, re-pack them at once
and send them back to us. If this is done within
two days—or where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not Injured—we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will refund the
money for the articles not retained. Fair dealing
is our motto, and we bind ourselves to give satis-
faction. Examine our catalogue, and send in your
order for what you may require.
Remember the Address :
474 George Street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS,
Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS
rotai.-“ Friends” P* 17
OP***my° OF*Mrrsic!—iacocks’ F.' Minstrels ..
CiRCP!*—Pitt and Park Streets
*£%£%$ Cxrcds— Belmore Park. ..
miinrini’B Circus and Menagerie is drawing
tents round at Belmore Park. The night
or owde<i to . t h e “ laughing female, too. it
w0 wore a showman we should offer this female a
w e were as laughing serviees-and think
h i K n salary for i her> where are all the go-
QurseUea *uc j to K d <t see the desirability of
ahead mentirtatti ney . { that thls 8a melady
this? Confusion ”a shove along for ever after
g® ve . i,. s v. e was amongst the audience, and was
the night she was a g actually rolled
BOOvereome the play drew
from her nlaater. Laugh I There isn’t the
like a P®, . P« last century joke that she
fft 5 D i e of course, sets the 7 others off. and
m «fn 8 pnough sheseesa joke when there isn tone
oh 1 she’s a treasure, this laughing woman
9*the cleverest things we saw at Chlarini s
2aa the horizontal bar trick, when the gymnast--
was tne forget which-sits on the
French or i g i8 r008 t, then cuddles it round
bar as ‘t were letB himself go round and
and looks exactly like a Catherine wheel,
r ®4° n ’rries out the similarity by going out at last.
While fizzing round bels playing a small con-
at the same time. What do you think of
masters? La Petite Holland is a daring
mtle ride™ and not ungraceful. M. Holland comes
in nn high stilts, and not only dances on them, but
lets drunk on them, and contrives to look very
Ridiculous. Signor Chiarini shows two clever little
nnltea trained by himself, but there Is very little
in the show that we haven’t seen before, but, may-
he the best things are being saved up to give us a
Ini-Prise during the Easter holidays.
* * * *
During the week “ Friends ” has been run-
at the Koyal, and drawing houses which
mnst have done something to remove from the
mouths the bad taste .left by the man-
ner in which J. Wilton Jones’ “Great London
inccess” “Haunted Lives” was left severely
alone bV an undiscriminating public. “ Haunted
fives I” The name alone was enough to “goose it,
let alone the author’s.
• • •
But in “ Friends,” everything is different.
If there is no originality of plot, there are at least
artistic groupings, felicitous dialogue, and an
absence of those gross improbabilities and ndlcu-
fous incidents which “Jones” has managed to
work into his gorgeous drama. Every fine m
“ Friends” shows that the man who wrote it had,
at all events, some knowledge of men and women
—especially women. A healthy-looking widower
of about flve-and-forty marries a woman 80 years
his junior. He has tastes half scientific, halt agri-
cultural. Hers are entirely frivolous. While her
husband is out “ meeting the sun upon the upland
lawn.” or arguing with a neighbour upon the
peculiarities of a prize turnip, , she is tucked
cosily in bed dreaming of admirers. When he
comes in at 11, bringing with him a pronounced
flavour of indifferent ozone and farm produce,
she is reclining on the sofa in a “loud morning
dress. She puts on herglasjes to have a good look
at him. and then asks for her scent-bottle. He
tries conciliation when he should have tried a
clothes-prop. It is easy to see how easy the run-
ning would be in such a house for some young
fellow with a dark moustache, large brown eyes,
and well-developed bumps at the back ot ms
head. He turns up in the person of Maurice de
Terrebone (Mr. Vincent), and the fun begins. This
is the chief motif running through “ Friends.
• • •
But there are minor ones. Dawson, the
husband (Mr. Flemming), invites various friends
to share his hospitality for a time. They come. At
this part there is some slight improbability intro-
duced. It is absurd to suppose that even the most
humane host would ever allow Messrs. Markham,
Meanly, and Captain O’Donoghue to leave his
house alive, or to live there half an hour after
they hung up their hate. Any unprejudiced jury-
man, who notices their conduct before and after
dinner, would, without leaving the box, honorably
acquit Dawson—of anything but Insecticide-if he
had hoisted them into one of his chaff-cutters, and
put on three extra men to turn the handle But
there was a true friend—a homceoathio Dr.
Thompson. It is said that no allopathic practi-
tioner in Sydney or Melbourne has visited this
play. They say it’s absurd to think that a fellow
who cures club-foot by means of a senna-leaf
steeped in water could possibly be any man s
friend. The “globule-dispensers” retort that,
next to the clergy, the greatest enemies of the
human race are the oid-fashioned doctors. We
have no time to decide the matter. Ask little
Beanev, in Melbourne, if ho didn't know one of
them to remove a tumour from a woman and
absent-mindedly sew up a hull-dog forceps in the
wound. And what about old N , in Macquarie-
street, who for six months treated a woman for
water on the brain and never found out his mis-
take till she wrote to him from the Lying-in Hos-
pital to say she was all right.
• • •
Titheradge was Dr. Thompson. The Rum
thinks he should keep “the priggishness inherent
to the parr, a little more in the back ground.” Of
Vincent’s Terrebone the same wily journal ob-
serves, "The impersonation, however.is not with-
out dignity;” while of Kedwood, Calvert, and
Brown—the three “friends” who should have
been converted into sausage-meat—it haughtily re-
marks, “They add an individuality to the charac-
ters they assume, the importance of which cannot
be under-rated.” There’s trouble ahead of this
paper if it continues to send the machine-man to
the theatres. We are unable to say how much of
Titheradge’s talent is natural, and how much ac-
quired—whether he reads his part, digests it, and
works out his own conception, or whether he fol-
lows in the wake of others. But however he
manages it, all the parts in which we’ve seen him
have given unqualified pleasure to the public, and
that’s saying a deal. Further, his Dr. Thompson is
one of his best.
» ♦ »
Mrs. Cecile Dawson (Miss Mayor) is one of
those aggravating women—we’ve all met them —
you never know when you have. They will flirt,
encourage you In every possible way, and when
you try to kiss them, strike an attitude, point
bitterly to the door, and say: “ Sir-r-rl unhand
me, my husband shall be informed of this?” and
then meet you at dinner with a leer. We know
’em. We’ve given M. Sardou —tho author —credit
for some insight Into human nature, but we’re half
tempted to retract on seeing the tetes-d-tite be-
tween Cecile and her husband. No man could
stand it —we couldn’t. (We believe the last
sentence is open to misconstruction.) Anyway, if
we were D., Mrs. D. would soon be standing on her
head against the fence, with the window-sash
round her neck. It is here that M. Sardou’s know-
ledge of masculine human nature is at fault.
Plenty of “ men ” would stand having their wives
look superciliously up from their tatting when
addressed, or sweep contemptuously by in silence,
but not—not men like Dawson; at least, not with-
out delivering a valedictory kick to square things.
• * *
We’ve not seen the original of “ Friends,”
and so cannot say who is Captain O’Donohue’s
prototype. He is probably a Gascon. But
O’Donoghue (in the adaptation) is an impossible
creature—impossible for various reasons. A per-
son of his idiosyncracies would never have been
suliered to come to maturity. If he escaped
strangling in infancy it would only be to be
marooned in boyhood, or lynched in youth. In
Cochin-China he might reach early manhood, but
it would only he by living in a cave, eating water-
cress, and, above all, keeping bis mouth shut.
Meanly (Mr. Calvert) was a lop-eared, white-livered
son of a respectable woman. His powers of aggra-
vating to the point of madness were only equalled
by those of his wife (Miss Taylor). What Dawson
ever asked them to his house for—except to mur-
der them—It would bo hard to say. Markham, too
(Mr. Redwood), and his Innocent son (Hans
Phillips, who read the “ Decameron ”) were crea-
tures whom you could see scalped with equani-
mity. There is a peculiarity of mannerism which
attends Mr. Redwood through all his disguises.
Like our old friend, Greville, whether he comes
up to the requirements of a character or not, he
can always be depended on to be—himself. But,
take It all round-actors, piece, ensemble—it is a
relief to see “ Friends ” after meeting such a bitter
enemy as “ Haunted Lives.”
«» * *
At Hiscock’s, on Monday night, there were
a good many empty seats and a good deal of fun.
Indeed, all places of amusement-except King-
street in front of Deeble’s-were badly attended
on that night. There was opposition in other
quarters alio. In King-street,
and Castlereagh-streets, we counted eight persons
of different ages and sexes, and varying degrees or
blindness and intoxication. They were leaning
against different lamp - poets - mostly outside
public-houses-and, from appearances, the parents
of all appeared to have belonged to some anti-
vaccination club. When we tell you that each one
was ill-using a fiddle and singing about his
“mother’s grave,” we’ve said enough to show the
counter attractions the regular theatres have to
contend against, and the Pleasure Wagner missed
by allowing himself to die of grief because his big
drummer gave the instrument a belt In the middle
of atbar of H time. Outside Deeble s there was a
crowd of a lew thousand, waiting for Beach and
Hanlan to say something fresh about rowing.
There were also three illuminated portraits of Han-
lan, Beach, and Laycock, in the hotel window.
They were well hung enough, so far as one could
judge, but it would be asking too much of us to
believe that they were anything like fair repre-
sentations of the great athletes. If fbey real'y
were, it explains at once the rumours about tne
race “ bein’ won afore it started.” No matter how
much money is subscribed for the men, it will
never pay them to let those portraits remain a day
longer in that window. In a place kke Sydney
there are always plenty of strangers, and those
works of art coming on top of the Post umoe
carvings will certainly cause a riot or wor^e.
• * •
And this brings us back to Hisoocks.
“ S’nosin’,” said Mr. Keenan to Mr. Ball, you
was taken pris’ner,” &c., &o. But the supposi-
tion was absurd on the face of it. Men like the
interlocutor are never taken prisoners-never go
in the road. And if they did they wouldn t be
taken. Directly the enemy came up with them,
they would see at once that theirs was no case for
quarter. Horace Bent gave us somethmg we don t
remember to have heard before. An Englishman,
a Scotchman, and an Irishman were to be hanved
—for nothing, probably-and were given their
choice of trees to swing from. The Briton chose
a “ brave old hoak,” the Scot was puzzled. Re d
never seen anything bigger than a thistle in his
own country, and wasn’t quite sure that that
would be of much service unless his legs were
first chopped off. Likely enough he’d have 11 ken
a branch of the Saxon’s “ hoak. tut the English-
man, with the delightful generosity of his nation,
wanted it all for himself. The Ge t chose a goose-
berry bush, and, with the 86lf-deoial of his people,
when they have nothing and offer it to you. was
prepared to wait till one grew. This we think a
new story. Mort de ma vie !
• • •
“ Sing me that song again,” by Amery,
was listened to with the customary attention.
“ Pretty blue eyes,” by Beaumont Bead, was also
well received, and a ditty from Bent, Brown
upside down,” was fresher and funnier than any-
thing we've heard lately, and, as the Lyre re-
marks, “ its rendition caused a furore.
* ♦ *
Sam Keenan had a toothache the other
night at the Academy. Now, we hold that a man
who can be funny while the nerve of his tooth is
telegraphing torture right up to the top of his
brain, has a power more courage boxed up in him
than a man who volunteers for the Soudan. bam s
a game fellow, he is.
* * * *
The attendances at “Confusion” are eas-
ing off, but it must have done pretty well on the
whole. Old Blizzard (Whyte) is exceedingly droll.
His very air is mirth-moving. At first he reminds
one of a middle aged scientific man-a member ot
the British Association—one of those persons who
devote their lives to sticking pins in beetles or
examining the protuberances on the legs ot
grasshoppers. Wo ve known several such persons
and loved them. What would the world be with-
out them ? What is it with them ? We ve seen
these delightful old fogies rush infrom the garden
with the wing of ft gnat, place it under a micro-
scope, come to breakfast lean and washed-out
after a week’s study, say “ I’ve seen through it at
last.” and start for London to get the bulge on
any other eptomologisls who might have been on
the same track. But Blizzard warms up to his
work as affairs get mixed, and is at his best when
Lucretiais at her worst. It is Dad enough to be
called a “ monster” at any time of life, but to be
addressed as a “ hoary-headed monster is pecu-
liarly irritatisg. Still he weathers it all uotwith-
out giving the audience plenty of fun for their
money—and at last proves his entire innocence ot
anything more compromising than stealing a dog.
TO CORRESPONDE NTS
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“Old Subscriber” (Gundagai): Will at-
tend to it “ P. L. Pogonowski” : We have
already had direct communication from the same
source. There is no room for doubt that tne Hya-
ney dailies grossly misrepresented the proceedings
at the Albury meeting, as they have done with re-
spect to every possible incident connected with
Mr. Dailey’s arbitrary, and we think, most danger-
ous (to the peaceful progress and civil liberties or
this colony) fracture of the Constitution....
“James S****r” (Auckland. N.Z.): Thanks. We
are prospering....“J. P.” (Brunswick N.8.W.):
We are keeping your letter of February 8 before
us, till such time as we have leisure to study the
points you raise. We hope yet to deal with these
matters....“ J. R. H.” (Jerilderie) ; You will
notice that we have been receiving many letters
to the same effect as yours. We will try to exe-
cute your commissions. Glad to read this- it is
with great pleasure I observe how fast your paper
is growing in the favour of my fellow-workmen.
We have little debates here, and on such occasions
The Bulletin is always quoted as a great
authority.” We know that the workers of the
colony will find out what sort we are, all in good
time. The discovery is in progress, we notice....
“J.P. B.”; We have used a few. Matter was over-
looked till too stale. Glad to hear again from you..
“ A.H.” (Glen lanes): Your letter came to hand,
and was welcome. We have never studied mere
popularity, but have steadily given expression to
definite principles, which we are convinced tend
to the good of the people, and which, consequently,
we feel ought to be popular when understood.
To learn from Independent sources that the g r eat
mass of the intelligent people up here” appre-
ciate our articles is the best encouragement we
can have. The more the minds of the people are
quickened the more wo count upon receiving ap
predation.,., 11 Anti-Bigot ” (Mort s Dock) : You
cannot expect us to publish the names when you
withhold your own, which would be an only
guarantee of the honafldw of your account. We
can quite believe that there are tradesmen suffi-
ciently narrow minded to cancel the engagement of
a new on ascertaining that he is an Insh-
Australian. Such bigots deserve to be exposed, but
we can't act on an anonymous communication.....
“ J.M.”: '1 oo many words and too few ideas. Try
to be terse, and you will do better, for your writ-
ing is far above the average of the screed sent us.
Write on some more enrapturing theme than the
novelty of one’s first buggy. Otherwise, if you
feel in doubt again whether to let off steam or
burst, do the latter, and do it gracefully ...
“ Anthropophagi”: A young man with a taste for
writing will not find it easy to at once augment
bis wages by literary work. His best plan is to
write for nothing for the local papers, or any other,
for a while. Should his work prove an attrac-
tion, the edi'or or proprietor will not let
him fcease contributing for the lack of pay-
ment. This is the general rule. Begin at the
beginning. Try sonrn pars, if you like
“Gaffney”: No; we don’t think there is the
faintest chance of getting a statue to Henry
George erected in Sydney by public subscription,
yet awhile. There would be little difficulty in
getting a statue to any man who would knock him
on the head. It would be easier to get a statue
erected to Cupid Smith or Gussy Loftus than to
Henry George. Fifty years hence it is likely
enough that every civilised city will be proud to
have a statue of George. We publish a slice of
your letter, pour cneourager nutria:—“Please
on behalf of The Bulletin staff and yourself to
receive my heartfelt thanks for the able and
determined manner you stick to the motto of the
little Bulletin, and I hope I may live to see the
day when the majority of the people of N.S.W.
will thank you also, for you deserve it. In fact, I
many times think that Justice always was Christ’s
proper name until some Jew money-lender
changed it for convenience sake, or perhaps it was
altered when religion lost its Christianity. Any-
how, Injustice is the chief cause of the world’s
misery, the selfishness of the rulers of people
won’t alter until the people see the position they
stand in, and compel them to do so. . . . It is
only by Ireadlng the exposure of humbugs that
they will be able to see things in their just light,
and afterwards to think for themselves tho best
means of making things right again. ... I
think, with God's help, the large amount of hu-
man misery that’s kicking about on the face
of the eaith will soon be altered for the bet-
ter. Mr. George’s works will lay a pretty solid
foundation in the people’s minds for the needed
alteration. . . . Poor Burns was right. Man's
inhumanity to man makes countless thousands
mourn. In your * Answers to Correspondent’,’
yours to Walter Goodwin is very good, but every-
thing in the paper is good. It’s better than
good, for it’s the naked truth Itself. . . •’ —
“R.G.G.”; Your execrable jest about Scottor,
the cricketer, is a sound argument in favour of
the retention of corporal punishment. If you give
us notice when you will call for your honorarium,
we will have the common dogger engaged and pay
you with forty lashes—“H.H.C.”: Take a com-
pass and a map of New South Wales, and measure
the respective distances. We would do it for you.
but we are busy arranging an advance from the
Jews to pay the funeral expenses of the last poet
who wandered into our sanctum with some little
verses about the Soudan ■. “ Bcck-blockor ”: We
refined your little joke on the edge ol a hatchet,
and then buried It deeper than the bones of Moses.
“R.L.”: Not quite up to the mark. Stick to
prose, and your death-bed will be freer from self-
reproach....“ 8.8.” (Catterthun): This is, no doubt,
a true statement; but how can we use it without
incurring a “greater the truth, greater the libel
action ?" Would your sympathy be a negotl
able set-off to a verdict of £3000 and costs?....
“W.C.” quite agrees with our Soudan opinions.
1 He thinks, also, that Henry George’s land theory
is Utopian. Very true; so it is, as long as people
who believe it to be good, are scared by the magni-
tude of the changes it would Involve. But sup-
pose all men, or a strong minority, determinedly
set to themselves the task of arriving at Utopia;
the accomplishment of the theories would seem
quite within reach. Follow your convictions,
•* vv.C.,” wherever they lead you. Don’t be dis-
heartened by the cry of “ Utopian.” George’s plan
is identical, in principle, with the plan of Moses,
as stated in Leviticus, and with the social system
of Jesus of Nazareth. Neither of these has yet
been realized, after over 3000 years elapsing since
they were first conceived. But we don’t believe
either Moses or Christ made any mistake in advo-
cating these systems. Remember that practical
Christianity is also “Utopian.” We don t, in the
least, doubt that tho principles of Christ will yet be
carried into practice, with the help of the printing
press, Henry George, and the Socialists, whose
principles are exactly in accordanee with tho
teachings of Christ. Don’t be blinded by the capi-
talist papers’ gabble about anarchy and outrage.
Christ himself was accused of being a dynamitard,
or concocter of outrages. You will remember
that he was charged with having incited scoun-
drels to destroy the Temple, and his explanations
were scouted by the Pharisees, who were bent then,
as our Pharisees are now, upon misrepresenting the
scope and character of the proposed reforms.. ..
“ Goulburn How cao it possibly interest us or
our readers to ponder over your saurkraut compi-
lation about the marriage ceremony of a young
lady in your neighbourhood? We presume the
lady jilted you, and you are mean enough to
revenge yourself by writing rubbish about her
wedding. Some slighted lovers resort to suicide;
judging by your contribution, that would have
Deen the more sensible course tor you to pursue.
..“H.W.P.” (Bourke): Thanks for item; shall use
next week....” A Reader”; You will tind some-
thing about Parkes in our leading columns —
“Tom Stanley ’*; All right. We shall keep going
ahead... “Pax.”: Although you are but one of
many correspondents who write to the same effect,
your letter is welcome. You will have observed
that many of your ideas were anticipated in last
week’s issue, iou write quite in accordance with
our sentiments :—“ I was pained to listen last
Sunday to a prayer offered in one of the suburban
churches, for a blessing on our troops, without a
word of supplication on behalf of the battered
and tattered Arabs, whose bitter cry reaches
heaven’s God, 1 believe—mistaken, fanatical, and
ignorant a8 wc miy choose to think them. I
always always thought that Christ’s kingdom on
earth was to be one of peace and good-will to
man; and I still hope and believe that peace shall
bo universally established without the arbitra-
ment of the sword. Surely God’s ministers must
have the same belief, and how then can they wish
and pray for the success of an outrage on the
first principles of peace?" “L. Guy”: A
Rhyming Dictionary can be obtained from al-
most any bookseller. Trv Bullard, Sydney...
“A.W.”: We thought the joke you now try to
palm off upon us as original had expired with your
great grandmother. Like yourself, our W.P.B. is
a receptacle for exploded jests “Adelong”:
There is nothing so novel in intoxicated bank
clerks or belligerent tradesmen as to entice us to
publish their little duels. Try some less exalted
sphere of literature—say, an essay on rats, to en-
liven the leading columns of tho Shuoud —
“Parramatta Road”: If we advised you to try
again, you must be retrograding, for your verses
are fit only for a convention of the Y.M.C.A. on
an off-night. You have neither rhythmic grace,
poetic rapture, nor originality. Read before you
write—for, at least, ten years.... “Voltaire : Your
argument was anticipated by Sir Henry Parkes,
who applied it in his earliest letters against the
Jingo craze. But, perhaps, you never read tho
Herald; if so, we envy you your placid digestion.
“J.M.” (Townsville): You send us eight or nice
sheets of foolscap upon a subject that is perfectly
problematic, even when all argument is ex-
hausted. Missionary M’Farlane says that Jerry,
the native missionary, is a reliable fellow; you
insinuate that Jerry is about as big a liar as grows
up in those parts. But, as it takes you nine sheets
ot foolscap to prove it, wo have not so high an
opinion of Jerry’s mendacity as you have; surely,
if his mendacious merits are above par, you could
prove him a variegated Ananias in much less space.
We can prove it in five words: “He is a native
missionary.” “ Bushman” Your verses on the
newly-married couple on their selection are duly
to hand, and have been very valuable to us in
lighting the aitchen fire. We have room for heaps
more, for our rubbisn-heap is not yet in full
bloom. Bring the next lot yourself, but make
your will before you come, for if wo get within
hugging distance of you, we will kid you....
“Baranduda” (Wodonga): Untimely, we ;think,
and not of striking merit. You’ll have to wait
and watch for the fit occasion. Would do more
harm than good at present ...“B S.P.” (Tasmania);
Clipping received. Too obvious and trifling, the
mere omission of a comma— “Pax”; We made
extracts last week from the marked paper you
sent. Thanks....“ Edouard Math<S ” (Mauritius):
We have not received your letter of 7th February.
Have written to you...“ H. 8. Bond Your excel-
lent letter received after the paper was “ full,” or
should have had attention.


PEPPER AN SALT.
“ We do not so much want sustained bril-
liancy on this paper,” said the proprietor of Mel-
bourne Punch to a new humourist he was about
to engage ; “ as reliability—we must have your
copy in regularly, at a certain time.” “ Oh, you
can can make your mind easy about that,” re-
plied the humourist, in a bold and confldentTtone,
“ I’m as reliable for jokes as the Tarra is for
siiloldes.” This cheerful remark took him off, as
they say on the stage. He produced the usual
supply of bulbous humour and wry-necked wit
for a few weeks, and then one day a message came
to the office to say that he was dead. “ Dead I”—
screamed the dealer iu drollery; “but that can’t
be I Why he’s not sent in his ‘ copy’ yet!” “ I don’t
know nuthin' about that,” replied the messenger
doggedly; “ but he’sagoin’ to be burled this arter*
noon.” At about 3 o’clock that day a hearse drove
slowly up before the Punch office. The driver
broke off in tho middle of an air from “ Madame
Angot” he was whistling, and springing down from
the seat, opened the back door of the hearse, and
gave bis hand to a gentleman in a shroud, who
stepped somewhat freely out and passed into the
proprietor’s room with a coffln-lld under his arm.
“ You must excuse me, sir,” ho said in a thin and
mournful voice, while he loosened his jaw-
bandage, “ you must excuse me for being a few
hours behind time, but the fact is my attention
was so much taken up with dying during the last
week (I have been dead two days already) that I
could not devote much time to Joking. But I
told you that you might rely on me, so after I was
borewed down and began to feel at home, 1
thought of my promise to you, and scratched you
out a few jokes (which I flatter myself are just
in your style) on the coffin-lid. I found a piece of
black-lead pencil in the coffin. I suppose one o f
the undertaker's men must have dropped it in
when he screwed me down. They didn’t screw
me down in reality though—only pretended to do
so. I had an arrangement with the undertaker.
But, excuse me, will you get one of your boys
to copy these pars. I want the coffln-lld, as I must
be screwed down before I’m buried.” A boy was
called, and came in briskly. He bad evidently
been humming a lively air as far as the threshold.
But when he saw that gruesome visitor his eyes
turned a violent somersault in their sockets, bis
teeth began to chatter, and his knees smote
against each other with appalling rapidity. The
proprietor rose up, and, seizing him by the collar i
hissed in his ear, “If you don’t stop this d —d
foolery, and sit down and do what you’re told, I’ll
make you learn a page of Punch off by heart
every week." The boy sat down and copied the
jocularities off the coffin-lid without a word,
though his knees still shook and his eyes rolled
when he caught the eye of the Dead upon
him. After the copying was done, and the
boy had shivered himself out, the Comic
Corpse rose up with some difficulty, and taking
out a frozen palm from one of the folds of his
shroud, passed it over to be shaken by the proprie-
tor, saying at the same time, “ Well, I’ve got to go
now. I’m due at the cemetery in half an hour.
Good-bye till I meet you out there.” Then he
took his coffln-lld under his arm once more and
passed out. He had not gone further than the
door when he turned back, and putting his head
in, said, “ Ah—excuse me troubling you again; but
—ah—do you happen to have anything to drink in
the office ? I don’t expect (with a rather forced
laugh) that they have much of that sort of stuff
where I’m going.” The proprietor sighed, and
passed him over the whisky. He swallowed about
half a pint, smacked his lips, and said (with a spirit
of refined flattery to the nationality of the
proprietor, remarkable in a corpse), “Glenllvet
at that I There’s no whisky like your Scotch
after all. By the way, before I go, you might
give me a copy of your last issue. I may
be able to get you some subscribers in the
cemetery.” The proprietor handed him a Punch,
and, going as far as the street door with him, said,
“Thanks; but, mind you—only vault people and
the better class of tombstone folk. No wooden-
cross and tin-immortelle corpses for me I This
paper has got a position to keep up,'and has no
connection with the poorer classes, dead or alive.”
Then he shook hands again, and wished the
Cadaver a pleasant Journey. The latter (such is
the power of whisky) opened the door of the
hearse, skipped in, kissed his band to his former
employer, and briskly told the driver to “ drive on
like blazes.” The great Cham of Humour stood at
the door looking after the solemn turn-out as it
rattled gaily up the street, cheered by the merry
whistling of the driver, who had taken up his tune
at the part where he had left off when his fare
went out. Then he went in and walked slowly up
the corridor in a fit of abstraction, from which he
emerged with the brief but thoughtful observa-
tion, “Well, I’m blowedl”
One of the surest means of roping sinners
into the true fold by enlisting their sympathies
with religious matters is to be found in a new style
of playing cards, which are fixed up in such an
artfully religious manner that the saint can play
with the sinner, and the sinner can play with the
saint, without the slightest danger to the moral
status of either party. The Inventor claims that
not only are the new bits of pasteboard quite as
good for playing purposes as the devil’s pack, but
they also possess the advantage of very materially
fastening the great truths of the Bible, on which
the cards are founded, In the minds of the players.
The Improved pack contains 60 cards, each one re-
presenting a book of the Bible. There is also a
neat and appropriate text, such as “Deal not un-
justly to thy neighbour,” &o., engraved on every
card, and groat care has been taken that no secta-
rian doctrine is taught by any of those texts, so
that the most bigoted Papist can play a game of
nap or poker with a rabid Prod, without any
offence being felt by either player. In order to
give our readers a rough idea of how the cards are
to be used, we may suppose that any three
Gospels, for example, will take any single pair
of Epistles; that a pair of Gospels or Epistles, and
say three prophets, will beat any pair, and that
any four books of a kind will make a hand that
will scoop the pool against all others. In order to
fit the cards for whist, 14 of them are thrown out,
and the remainder are classed in four suits,
known respectively as the prophetical, historical,
doctrinal, and general utility suits. Of course it I
is understood that a player must follow suit, and
that a trump-card will take any card of a plain
suit. For instance, if prophets are led and doc-
trines are trumps, any doctrine played by a
player who has no prophets, will take the trick,
provided the other two players will have followed
Suit. What is not made exactly clear as yet, how-
ever, is the relative value of the cards of each
suit. Nothing is known as to whether Isaiah is
the highest card of the prophetical suit, or
whether the honour belongs to Jeremiah or
Ezekiel; neither is it determined it Genesi stakes
Exodus, or Judges scoops them both. These are
trifling matters, however, and can easily be
arranged by the players, and we now look for-
ward to the day when our Sunday schools will be
made really attractive by the fascinating charms
of Scriptural monte, nap., and euchre. Pass the
buck, Brother Stiggins, we’ll raise you half a sov.
on Jonah.
• • •
He was the proprietor in fee-simple of a
lordly grog shanty in Wairarapa, N.Z., and was
doing “ devilish” well, as times go, earning an
honest crust, and putting up a little pile against a
sou’-wester or a rainy season. The groggist had a
lodger, and it occurred to nim that, as business was
bad, he would go to thoraces for a week, and leave
bis friend in charge. When he left he had a case
of porter in his bedroom for private consumption,
but when he came back it looked very much like a
case of larceny, for the porter was gone. The lodger
stoutly denied stealing the stout) but frankly ad-
mitted having transferred it from glass to pigskin,
with results beneficial to himself and he hoped
satisfactory to the owner. The groggist, however*
was not to be palavered over la this way, and he
at once sternly demanded payment in full for the
vanished liquor. The lodger entered a demurrer and
| declined “ to part,” but when the man of rum pro-
duced a double-barrelled gun and pointed it at the
; offender’s stomach, the latter “ caved in” and
agreed to ante up. Having squared the bill and
got his receipt, the stout destroyer wended his
way, hiccupping as he went and chuckling confl-
dentlally to the rabbits as they crossed his path,
to the nearest police station, and there laid several
informations against his late host for selling
liquor without a license. The police made a quick
descent on the establishment, and scooped up the
stock lu trade, which they conveyed to head-
quarters. The man of rum, however, went to
market and laid in a fresh supply; but—would
you believe it ?-the confounded traps came back
again next day and triumphantly carried off the
new stock, reminding the victim at the same time
that he had to appear before thebeak” on the
morrow to answer the summons. This brutal
treatment was too much for flesh and blood to
endure, so, when they had gone, the groggist took
a clothes lino into the bush, tied one end with a
running nooze round his neck and threw the other
over the limb of a tree and, pulling himself well
up, retired from tho liquor trade without a stain
upon his character I
• * •
It seems that there was great excitement
in Tumut when the report of O’Mara’s now
historical speech reached that Important borough.
The Milesian publican, who is Tom’s greatest sup-
porter, immediately ordered out the town band
and desired it to repair instantly to the hall, play-
ing “ Garryowen ” on the road. It chanced, how-
ever, that two of the instrumentalists—the big
drum and the flute—their ancestry having worn
out a considerable number of sentry-boxes—were
in favour of the Soudan business, and therefore
a hitch occurred at the very outset of the de-
parture of the procession. One of the musicians
had, it seemed, dry-nursed Mr. Dailey in his days
of innocence; and the other was more than half,
suspected of having a share in the “ Little Boy at
Manly” when he came up there to exhibit. But
the licensed victualler was equal to the occasion
The partisans of the gifted and eloquent Irish
jintleman who has so startled us all by
coming out of his shell when all supposed
him to be, politically, moribund, and to
be about to be formally buried by a grateful
Ministry in an obscure P.M.-ship—his partisans
had their instructions; but, on the other hand
the Soudan men, to put forward unmistakably
their feelings of loyalty, struck in with “ttm e
Britannia” on “Garryowen” with much energy
along the line of march, and defeated it with such
slaughter that, had not the hall been quickly
gained, that fascinating Hibernian would proba-
bly have been compelled to execute a stragetical
movement and retreat (in good order) on Kortl.
Once on the platform, the O’Rafferty poured out
his soul iu a series of encomiastic periods, and
moved (with nfuch emotion) .that the O’Mara bo
invited forthwith .to a banquet. This—after a
jintleman had threatened to put his fut through
the drum, and the man with the “ recorders ” had
had his bunions uncomfortably jostled—was
carried, and the meeting set out in great good
humour to the pub. of the proposer, in the hopes
of trading on his enthusiasm for a free drink.
That night there was another meeting in tho town.
It was an unassuming, but an earnest gathering,
“So our member’s coming up to be banqnetted,’
said the chairman, a grave gentleman in a shoe-
maker’s apron, and whose chin was ornamented
by a goatee; “do we, who are all high up in the
black list—?” “Yes; let him come,” roared the
meeting, “ and we shan’t have spent our money in
vain.” Now, what do you think they spent their
money on? Well, anyhow, [it’s ,'at the back of the
Post-office, and there is a tarpaulin over it. And
it was conscientiously broken at 15s. a yard.
• • •
A travelled gentleman recently arrived in
Sydney from foreign parts, after gazing with a
despairing glance at the noble hotel accommoda-
tion of the city, entered a house at last, and sitting
down at a table, ordered a bottle of wine. A
touzle-headed miscreant was smearing a cloudy
mirror with a filthy duster, and shrilllngly whlstl.
ing a popular air. It was not until he had come to
the “shake ” at the end that he vouchsafed to go
in search of the order, leaving the stranger to co»s
template the dying evolutions of 36 flies, which,
had struggled into the water-bottle. When tho
stranger had contemplated this and bestowed a
passing glance upward at the smoky ceiling, and
downwards to the greasy floor, the mirror-polisher
returned with a bottle and two glasses; the latter
he carried with the thumb and first finger, and re*
lieved his feelings by shaking the bottle as he
came along. “Ishould like one or two crackercv
waiter,” faltered the guest. Then perceiving the
man of grease's mind had flown to fireworks, he
corrected himself to “biscuits.” There were no
biscuits. " A crust of bread and cheese.”. The M.
of G. would see; there might be a bit over from
the free lunch. In about a quarter of an hour bo
came back,'bearing in his hand a soup-plate half
filled with gnawed and crumbled bread, and a.
The Anti-Patriotic Agitation.
ATTITUDE OF THE SYDNEY PRESS.


hacked round of colonial cheese. He then re-
niiested the guest to “ look sharp,” as the table
would soon be required to be laid for lunch. The
stranger, with a gasp he could not conceal, poured
himself out a glass of wine and tasted it. It was a
red wine, so thick, muddy, and pungent that it
had even’dyed the clumsy tumbler a deep and
smeary crimson. “ What do you call this wine ?"
he enquired of the waiter, who had just entered
and planked down upon a dusty sideboard two
drunken cruets and a carver, which had been, ap-
parently, mended with a piece of string. “ I don’t
know what it’s called,” replied the waiter, de-
fiantly; “but I know it’s quite fresh. It was only
bottled’yesterday.” "Thank you!” said the tra-
veller, with a groan, and he tottered out into the
sunshine. * * *
♦ • *
The other bight in ’.the House, on O’Mara
roaring out that he was handicapped by “the
country he belonged to, and the cieed of his
fathers;” when the members almost simultane-
buslyshouted “Not” every eye was on Abigail.
Well, Francis was honest, anyhow. He merely
blew his nose—and that might mean anything;
not but what certainly there might be a certain
Significance in the hon. member’s nose. There s a
fievil of a lot of expression (not to say emphasis)
in his feet. _
Mr. Dailey has just refused to file a bill in
another of Mr. Leopold Yates’s committals-con-
duct on part of the Dictator, which must have the
effect of causing the luminous Leopold to wish
himself back in Mudgee-or wherever he came
from. It’s droll, anyhow, that depositions given
in the Police Court seem to read so different
everywhere else. In the case of old Cripps, for
instance, though it took something under a fort-
night to get him" fully committed” (whatever
the “ fully ” may mean), the Chief Justice broke
up the whole business at a very early stage of the
proceedings by the telling the jury there was no
case. This is only another way of not filing a
billl It seems then there are almost as many
ways of getting out of it, now-a-days, as there
are of getting into it; and what a comfort that
must be for the pensive bur-gu-urgulah who is so
busily at work at the present time In the suburbs!
• • •
BThe splendid intelligence reaches us that
“ Frank Hewitt and Hardle have been matched to
run 300 yards for ‘ a pony’ aside, the former being
in receipt of 36 yards start. The race will take
place on Good Friday.” This is, of course, a deli-
ciously genuine sporting affair; and Frank’s re-
cord shows that, however many races he has lost,
be never, when on the track, went so far as to dig
a hole and bury himself, and posseses our own
contempt for a man who, having run his 100 yards
in about two minutes and a quarter, falls down
four inches from the tape, quite unconscious that
his adversary is hanging on the ropes some ten
yards back, foaming at the mouth in an epillptlc
fit, and covering an indignant audience with soap-
suds. The front man, we remember, had to be
hauled past the goal. Exciting sport, footracing;
but a little expensive for the “ mug.”
• * *
“ Yes 1 ” exclaimed Alfred’s charnel house
poetic ghoul as he ran the German comb—or his
ten fingers—through his touzled hair, and spread
his starvation lunch on the top of an empty oil-
can, “ Khartoum is a fine soundin’ name. Indeed,
and 1 guess I’ll keep it till some of my spirited
proprietor’s people, or a Potts’ Point Croesus, die,
and then I’ll work it in to rhyme with the * day of
doom,’ or the ‘last trumpet’s dreadful boom,’
or ‘ wafted away in childhood’s bloom,’ and then,
who knows but when Master Frank see the obitu-
ary poetry hungered for, he may lift my salary
up to a pound a week, and I'll be asked out to
dine with people who are expectin’ some of their
relatives to die, and perhaps the eldest daughter
of the deceased, touched by the sweet sadness of
my poesy, will place her hand and fortune at my
feet, and then ” “Are you down there.
Shirty ? ” roared a rough voice from the top of
the stairs. “ Yes, mournfully replied the bard,
as the familiar query sent all his Alnaschar-like
visions bung; “ I’m here, what’s the row ? ” “Are
you doin’ anythink pettickller ? ” shouted the
voice again. “ No, sir,” responded the poet, at the
same time planting a saveloy and half a roll where
none of the office boys would bo In danger of
spraining their necks by falling over them; “No,sir;
I’m not very busy now.” " Well, look ’ere,” thun-
dered the voice, once more; “come up an’ shake
those mats, an’ sweep out th’ boss’s room before
he gets back from th’ ’Ouse, an’ fetch In a quart o’
, beer an’ four Scotch pies as well, coz there’s no
free table up there, and he'll be as 'ungry as an
’awk when he comes round t’ read his letters.”
And then the crushed Milton In the cellar grabbed
bis hat and strode off to his unromantio duties as
I though his legs were stuffed with lead, and a bad
attack of malaria was creeping fast upon him.
• ♦ *
' Bathurst boasts of a man who is as guile-
less and Innocent as the Manly Beach lawyer’s
little lamb who sent along his cheque to enable
the doughty Dailey to “ shoot those wicked Arabs
who killed poor Mr. Gordon.” This childlike coon
happens to be the groom at a local hotel, and his
boss, being desirous of visiting the recent St. Pat-
rick’s Day’s sport, told him to slip out and get him
a " trap ” immediately. Accordingly, the innocent
"slipped,” and about an hour afterwards a bold
gendesarme sauntered into the hotel, and, seeing
no signs of a row about, struck a warlike attitude
at once, and exclaimed, " Well, an’ fwhat is it
that’s wanted wld me here, Oi’d loike to know.’,
“Nothing, that I’m aware of,” replied the as.
tonished landlord. " Nuthin’I” shouted the indig-
nant man in blue. “ Thin fwhat does that omad-
haun av yours there mane by rushin’ Into th' bar-
riks an’ sayin Oi’m wanted here immayjitly?” Then
the landlord explained it was a trap on two wheels,
not two legs, he wanted, after which he poured oil
on the [troubled waters out of a square bottle
labelled “ Klnahan’s best,” and the threatening
storm at once sank down to a holy calm.
♦ * •
Talk about Hans Holbein’s “ Dance of
Death.” Bah! It wasn’t a circumstance by the
side of the riproarious fun they had down Araluen
way the other night, when a number of the local
Sims Reeves, Santleys, Adelina Pattis, and , Nils-
sons dubbed together and hatched out a grand
concert (who ever heard of an amateur concert
that wasn’t grand), in aid of the Upper Araluen
Cemetery Fund. The Oddfellows’ Hall was chosen
for the battle-field, and so great was the crush of
visitors that all the paint had to be scratched off
the walls and the locks picked off the doors to pro-
vide even standing room for the crowd assembled.
Every corpse within a radius of 20 miles put in an
appearance, just to help along the good cause, and
some of the ladies’ costumes—notably a satin
shroud trimmed with Venetian lace and Maltese
cross worked in old gold—were of the most ele-
gant description, and would have done credit to
any Continental boneyard we have ever visited.
Mourning coaches and coffins were advertised to
call at II p.m., but so numerous were the encores
that it was long after that hour before the enter-
tainment was finished, and some of the ghastly
audience had barely time to scurry home to their
plantations and creep into their shells before the
Araluen roosters began to call out “Time’s up”
from every perch and dunghill. The promoters of
the concert regret that the ladles and gentle-
men, who so cheerfully gave their services
for a public cause of the most deserving characr
ter, should have been annoyed while singing by the
disorderly conduct of some of the skeletons in
the audience, who kept up an almost incessant
clatter with their bones during the performance-
and even went so far as to unscrew each other’s
skulls, femurs, clavicles and tibias, and pelt them
at the performers who failed to please them by
their vocal efforts. The concert opened with a
solo and chorus, “ In the sweet bye-and-bye,” and
although it was nicely rendered, a great deal of
the solemn effect was spoilt by a number of
rowdy spirits in the gallery who would insist on
keeping up a rattling accompaniment with their
ribs, and finishing off each verse with a shrieking
declaration that they would “ Meet on that beauti-
ful shore—Hurro-ooo.” A lady amateur then sang
“ Sweet spirit, hear my prayer,’ ’ alter which a very
little man, with a big voice, attempted to sing the
“Sexton," but no sooner had he delivered the
evidently distasteful words, “ I gather them in,”
than the whole audience, as if stung by the recol-
lection of some injustice or Insult put upon them
by the local grave-digger, rose at the singer en
masse, and fairly drove him off the stage with the
most dangerous chunks of their own anatomies,
and fierce yells of “ Down with the blasted grave-
soooper,” “Put ’1m inthewhito hat,” “Who stole the
flxin’s off my coffin and sold ’em to the Chinamen
for old lead ?” “ Go home an’ bury yerself,” “Yah-
h-h I ” Order being restored, the hon. secretary
advanced and said he was pained to see some
of the audience, many of whom he had
known to be very respectable persons when in
the flesh, carrying on In such an unseemly
manner, and if better order was not kept, he
would be compelled to hand the ringleaders over
to the police. This cooled the ghastly larrikin
element down a trifle, and the first part of the
programme was listened to with more attention
During the Intermission, however, a too libera
Indulgence in tanglefoot had the effect of stirring
up the rowdy spirits once more, and their boister-
ous mirth culminated when some well-known
amateurs undertook to perform the fourth and
fifth scenes In the first act of “ Hamlet.” Al-
went fairly well until the Ghost appeared, when
the unlucky performer who essayed the part was
welcomed with shouts of derisive laughter, anc
shrill shouts of “ There’s a Ghost for Guy Fawkes
Day I” “Take a chair, ole man!*’ "Go home and
hold an inquest on yerself I” "Give us th’ ‘Wear-
in’ of the Green I’ ” “ Won’t y’takea tart, Jimmy?”
and so on, until the curtain had to be hauled down
before,; the shade of Hamlet’s pa had time to chip
in a single word. Th® “ Dead March in Saul ”
brought the concert part of the programme to a
close, and then the hall was cleared for dancing.
Here the drunken “ departed ” caused more an-
noyance by such unseemly tricks as throwing each
other’s beads out oS the windows, cracking in two
when their partners caught them round the
waist, and doing the Gihatd business, flip-flaps
&c., in the middle of t#M“ rfancers. The proceeds
of the night’s amusement amounted to about £9
making a total of about £20 in hand towards the
enclosure and improvements of the cemetery, and
during the course of the evening, the ghost of the
late “ oldest inhabitant of the district,” proposed
a vote of thanks to the promoters of the enter-
tainment. He also pointed out that the site of the
present boneyard was most unhealthy, and the
sanitary arrangements were so bad that many of
the corpses were now compelled to go over to
Braidwood for change of air. Most of the graves
were damp, and the vaults were so draughty that
it would be impossible to spend the coming winter
In them. He thought a few gas-stoves should be
supplied, and a load of blankets distributed
amongst the most deserving. He also trusted that
proper care would be taken to put all the dead
electors names on the roll this year, as many of
them were in favour of returning a taember who
would shake up the Government on the railway
extenslo question, the Licensing Actrfand other
important matters. With the exception of the
larrikin annoyances alluded to, the whole affair
took well, and we believe a return ball and supper
is to be given to the promoters of the entertain-
ment by the leading corpses at an early date.
* * *
The St. Patrick’s Day celebration dinner
at Dunedin is only 4s. 63. to go in. And it's only
right, after all, that 80s. should be able to purchase
more dyspepsia than 4s. Od, We are reminded,
somehow, ty this of Parkes’ saying in an election
speech, recently, that once Mr. Copeland—that
splendid patriot—swallowed a cup of mustard and
thought it was a cup of coffee. So he did, and
when he complained of the quality of the beverage
to the waiter, the latter immediately pacified the
hon. member by explaining that it wasn’t coffee,
but cocoal We have had a large experience of the
vagaries of hon. members, who are certainly
eccentric, In our time. We have seen one hon. and
learned member walk with one stride from the
first landing of the House into Macquarie-street;
and at a dinner once, a juvenile legislator, long
before the sweets were served, began to bark! The
reason of a lot of this is that most of our rulers
have more than four-and-six to spend—or can
get it.
A TRAGEDY OF PEARL-POWDER.
DOMINOES.
Quite high up-in
Social rank;
Thirty thousand
In the bank;
Yet he must his
Conscience hug
That he’s got a
“Bloomin’ mug!”
In his buggy—
Awful toff —
Deep in thought, too,
“ Pull it off.”
Coin for him, sirs,
Has no zest;
If it’s not got
“On the best.”
Game with mug, sirs;
’Course it’s fair.
Bosom friend, behind
Mug’s chair.
Friend has penknife—
While he stays,
Mug can’t win what
E'er he plays.
Not far off now
(This ain’t bad)
Sits a mug who’s
Too, been had;
Mug, though he’s not
Long in town.
Twigs the signals
And “ drops down.”
HIS LETTER.
Ito the Committee, New South Wales Patriotic
Fund.
SiltS ***
bre I leave Australia for Soudan,
To help my country and obtain some glory,
1 have the honour to appeal to .you,
And humbly lay these little facts before ye.
I had a billet worth two-seventy-flve,
Or, say throe hundred, when all perks were
reckoned;
And this appointment I at once threw up.
When Dailey’s banner on to conquest beckoned.
This screw was partly to a parent given;
But duty calling, I had power to smother
My filial feelings, so I leave to you ;
The care of my poor, aged, stricken mother,
For she will need those many little things—
Comforts, with which she was by me surrounded
Before great Dailey asked for volunteers
And Patriotism’s tom-tom first resounded.
She is an invalid; the doctors say
Troubled with a sore malady sciatic;
And they aU talk of her recovery
As, stated mildly, somewhat problematic.
Such as she is, I leave her to your care;
I go to our dear mother-land’s assistance,
And, in the meantime, hope that you will help
To keep my own dear mother in existence.
And if perchance I like a soldier fall
Beneath the spear of some mad misbeliever,
Or more Ignobly die of cholera,
Delirium tremens, or dread typhoid fever,
I further urge that you may not forget
I fell to save old England from those niggers,
And trust you’ll send my mother recompense,
For her sad loss, in cheque of (say) four figures.
I go to serve old England; Loyalty
Raises her voice, and I can hear no other.
I go to slaughter Arabs, and I ask
That you will be a son to my poor mother.
I go to glory and to meet our foes
Led by the Mahdi, and I hope to quell his
Efforts for freedom; feed my mother well.
And favour yours most truly, H. P. Ellis.
“It’s a swindle I ”
He yells now,
Lord! there is a
Horrid row I
To see, would have
Made you sigh
Dominoes and
Whiskers fly.
“ Say I swindle ? ”
“Yes, Idol”
“ You’re another ”
“ So are you.”
Enter p’liceman—
“ With me come; ”
Groans and exeunt
Omnium.
They were punished—
Punished, pooh I
"Push ” about as
Good as new.
Whom to pity
We vouchsafe
Is the man that
Keeps the Kafe,
He cannot lie.
Said to blame;
He knew nothing
Of the “ game.”
Of dice he won’t
Grant no throws —
But what harm’s in
Dominoes ?
"AHI CHARLES, DARLING, TfOU HAVE COME, AT LAST."
“FOR GOODNESS SAKE, GET AWAY TO THE OTHER END OF THE ROOM; HERB
COME ALL THE COMPANY.”


BRIEF MENTION.
A boring machine— Henry Halloran’s pen.
“ Literary work is not all beer and skittles,
I tell vou,” said one of Alfred's Addisons. “ No,
not ail beer,” was the thoughtful reply.
Howlong has decided to have the Minis-
ters of the Crown up there to a banquet. At last
meeting a wheelbarrow committee was formed.
Foresight I
Two children seized with convulsions in
the Carapbelltown district last week. We knew
something would happen when we saw Webbs
last cartoon.
An old man who had just won a case at a
Melbourne Court died suddenly. It is supposed
that he died of surprise-surprise that he could get
justice so easily.
A young man in the remote wild West
mistook a tig of dynamite he had picked up for a
new brand of tobacco. He was much regretted
by all who knew him.
“ We regard the Evening News as the
only out-spoken paper in New South Wales.”
Yes? Who’s "we?” The Goulburn correspon-
dent of the Evening News!
Four hundred eviction decrees said to have
been obtained against his tenants by Lord Bel-
more, an Irish nobleman, who was once a market-
gardener in New South Wales.
The “Paris” correspondent of the Ben-
digo Independent, writing from Echuca, says
" All semi-barbarous people dine early.” The din-
ner hour at Sandhurst is 10 30 a m.
“The hand of Providence is clearly shown
In this Soudan business,” said the “slack” limb-
maker, as be ordered in an extra thousand feet of
timber, and started to cut out wooden legs.
The Western Grazier advertises a list of
books for sale, and adds the adjective ill. to the
names of most of them. As they are at the
Grazier office, we are not surprised at their state.
A correspondent of the Wagga William-
son. ventures to quote some lines of his own,
hoping they will not disgrace the paper. Sly man I
Sweet sarcasm. As if the paper could be dis-
graced I
When Beach’s vict’ry reached the Mahdi’s ears,
The tidings filled his soul with abject fear.
“ Alla Bismurphyl” cried he; "itappears
They’ve sent seven hundred fellows like him
here!”
Mr. Woodfall, of Wilcannla, has been pre-
sented with the customary mark of esteem on his
leaving that village. As the presentation was (as
per usual) quite unexpected, we may describe it
as a windfall.
Major Barker, of the Salvation Army,
wishes to be made a special constable. This is dis-
interestedness, if you like. As a conscientious
man, he would probably find that his first duty
would be to arrest himself.
VERY SHOCKING. BUT TOO TRUE.
How oft, alas I we sadly see
That men in church prefer,
Instead of looking at the hymn
To look around for her.
“Our firemen,” says “Mosquito” in the
Bendigo Independent, “have returned from
Ballarat, bringing nothing.” This force is being
rapidly disorganised. We remember the time
when a visit to Ballarat meant gold watches at
thirty-bob each in Sandhurst for a month after-
wards.
“ Women and children are fighting in the
ranks of the Soudanese.” Plucky and patriotic
kids, no doubt, but have we not our “Little Boy
at Manly ” ready, at any moment, to lay down his
teo-pun-note ? What's a boy’s life, compared with
his hard-earned bank account ?
The Moruya Examiner says: “Ananias
had a very bad reputation, but it can be said to
his credit that he never wrote a circus circular.”
No, nor eulogised the virtues of our esteemed
townsman. Nor did he ever tell stories of “his
tnakeship,” as far as we can gather.
We understand that one of those “do-
mestic” telegrams ran as followsKeep
Mother Singlet's goat out of our front gate, and
be sure, sister, to keep your eye on Marler.” It is
only just now wo begin to justly realise the enor-
mous boon of the electric telegraph I
Notwithstanding their naturally outraged
feelings, we notice thathon. members accept with
resignation, if not composure, the shelving of the
Parliamentary enquiry into the weird conduct of
Mr. Handsaker M’Klhone. It’s only fair, after
all, to give the pore man plenty of time I
The Bendigo Independent thinks that
“ the war-cloud that was hovering over Central
Asia is passing away.” No wonder. When the
Czar heard that a troop of cavalry was being
raised in Sandhurst he gave orders to his generals
to retire behind the Oxus and blow up all the
bridges.
It is not generally known that it was at
the request of the natives that the British gave up
Huon Gulf in New Guinea to Germany. Some
years ago the Papuans there ate a Scotch minis-
ter. Ever since that fatal repast the few survi-
vors have shown a deep-seated dislike to every-
thing British.
Of course, this may be a coincidence only,
but at the same time, it is worthy of note that on
a certain morning last week our war department
received the Bennett cheque for a “ thou.,” and
on the evening of the same day the following ad.
appeared in the Twilight Twaddle Iron
hoop for sale. Apply this office.”
One of the Domain orators observed last
Sunday that all Jingoes are dogs, and that the
Australian Jingo Is a sorry cur. The sentiment
might be more tersely expressed by application of
the colonial definition, ‘‘Dingo—Jingo.” It is
more euphonious and more expressive than the
misused “ Anglo-Australian patriot.”
Murrurundi has caught the war lever,
and scents the battle with as keen a delight as E,
W. O’Sullivan a working man’s grievance. Vigor-
ous steps are being taken to form a cavalry corps,
and already the prices of horses suitable for the
service in India and the Soudan have gone up
from 25s. to Bis. 61. in the local pound.
A romantic waiter at Hay blew what it
pleased him to call his brains out a little while ago,
on account of a barmaid. Who would fancy a
waiter cherishing such desperate thoughtsi But
then it was at Hay. We have been at Hay, and we
are not surprised. Murder lurks in the hash, sui-
cide in the soup, and eternal damnation in the
drink.
Mr. Joseph Symes, who, in the opinion of
the orthodox, has got as far as Melbourne on his
way to hell, said of the Royal Family, in one of hla
recent lectures, that he “was glad to hear when
one of them was dead.” It is extremely probable
that Joseph will wake up one of these fine morn-
ings in a place where there are no muslin curtains
on the windows.
Dubbo sends its congratulations at the
Ministerial victory in Parliament. Dubbo would
beloud in congratulations if Hades was submerged
to-morrow—and with more cause, for then all
wicked people would be compelled to go to Dubbo,
in which event the townspeople would congratu-
late themselves on the perspective advantages ac-
cruing from an influx of population.
Parnell, in a recent speech, is reported to
have said to some of his countrymen. “ You are
the descendants of men whom Cromwell tried to
send to heli, and he only succeeded in sending
them as far as Connaught.” Really, then, the
Protector did not do so badly. For all that we can
see, there does not seem to be much to choose be-
tween the two places. We would like to have Mr.
Osborne’s opinion on this question.
That gorgeous paper that prints in green
ink, partly from patriotism, partly from a sense of
beauty, and partly as a sly dig at the residents of
Narrabri, who are supposed to read it—the Irish
Australian World— announces its intention of
teaching Protestant and Catholic to love one an-
other, Instead of teaching them to hate each other.
“ Let those two religious bodies,” says the I. and
A. W., “be united in all their religious under-
takings, and let each be humble on to the other in
The D.T. thinks the Irish and Austra-
lian World “ would not be suffered in Sydnev
We believe the very office would be razed to the
ground by indignant citizens.” We doubt this. If
indignant citizens were given to gutting the pre-
mises occupied by journals which daily outraged
common-sense, how many newspaper offices would
there he la King-street ? a
Mr. Gillies (the Victorian Minister of Edu 11
cation) accompanied Mr. Zox on a visit tolthe Mel-
bourne Hebrew school, and expressed “ surprise”
at the orderliness of the nupiis. This is a little
rough on the young Israelites. He examined the
pawn-broking class, and found even the youngest
scholars exhaustively conversant with the four-
teen-hundred-per-cent, theory.
Contrasting the merits of Mr. Alexander
Gordon, Q.C., and Sir Alfred Stephen, Mr. Osborne
observed at the Argyle nomination that if iqq
Gordons were placed In one scale and six Stephens
In the other, the Gordons would “ kick the beam.”
Is not this allusion to the beam and to Sir Alfred’s
ability to make other people kick it, rather a com-
pliment to the merits of the ex-Cbief Justice as a
hanging-Judge.
Tha Sick Lion.
(USUAL MORAL.)


worldly affairs, and then It will be a pleasure to
live in the world Instead of, as It is now, a misery.”
This seems a workable scheme, until we get down
to “ each being humble on to the other in worldly
affairs.” It can’t be done, dear George. Score out
the word “ humble.” and perhaps it will gee.
At the La Perouse festivities Mr. Dailey
eulogised the French almost ad nauseam. Later
on, he uncovered his head to Bismarck and elo-
quently defended German aggression in New
Guinea. Now he shows, at the country’s cost, his
practical adoration of the British Invasion of the
Soudan. In view of these circumstances, he evi-
dently desires to pose before posterity as a patriot
who ardently loves every country— except his own.
Mr. Melville has declined Mr. Thomas
Walker’s challenge to a linguistic duel on the
grounds—1st, his opponent’s position in political
circles as a man whose opinions carry no weight;
and, 2nd, his opponent’s desire to attain cheap
notoriety. And yet, strange to say, there are
people who believe these are the very grounds
which should have urged Mr. Melville to accept a
challenge, in which both parties would meet on a
dead-lev el of «q uality I
From the Tamworth Examiner we learn
that there Is “ a certain section In Tamworth who
do not look with favour upon the idea of the con-
solidation of British power, but are doing all they
can to disintegrate the Empire, and break the
union between Great Britain and these colonies.”
This is dreadful, if true. Gladstone must have
heard of this “section,” heme his sleepless nights.
But. thank Heaven, it’s only a section of Tam-
Worth that so misconducts itself. Doubtless the
majority, the remaining nine citizens, are true to
the core.
Mr, Buchanan impeaches Mr. Speaker
Barton for attending a banquet tendered by the
citizens of Sydney to the Ministry. To his manful
defence (or defiance) the Speaker might have
added the notorious fact that, in the matter of
banquets, the accuser is more cosmopolitan than
the accused. Be the banquet to the Pope or pious
Billy—republican or monarchical— Hr. Buchanan
willingly graces it with his presence on one condi-
tion—a free ticket, and a free cab to wheel him
home. The latter consideration is one of personal
policy rather than of economy.
Says theNewcastle Herald:—“ On Thurs-
day, while William Smart was at work in Iliaboo,
on horseback, he saw two bull’s fighting, and tried
to separate them. One of the animals charged
him and broke his right leg. The sufferer, who is
nearly seventy years of age, is now in tho Wagga
Hospital.” This all comes through officious inter-
ference in a fair fight. Plunging In between a
man and his wife when they are doing the axe-
handle dance round the back yard is bad enough,
but the man who would undertake to play the
peacemaker between two bulls, would sit on a
lighted powder blast to keep the thing from
bursting.
Our old friend the “Chatterer” (by the way,
how is the bull-dog phiz, old boy ?) writes, “ had
Shakespeare but lived in these days he would have
said:
And boys are thieves, and rob not only streams of
fish.
But trees and vines, and plants of branches, fruit
and flowers.”
No, dear “ Chatterer,” emphatically no, he would
never have written such stuff, unless he had got
’em bad, or had been reading the Free Press, and
the “ Castaway.”
Judge Windeyer condemns the brow-beat-
ing of witnesses by barristers as calculated to
scare respectable persons from giving testimony
in a Court of Justice. Quite right, your Honor;
and, as an example in point, let us allude to the
rumour that In the recent libel action, M'Elhone
versus Evun News, tho reporters of that journal
were Impeded from giving evidence (as to the
honafides of the libel, the culture of the proprie-
tary, and the circulation of the Jernil), simply
through fear of being made to divulge, under
crucial cross-examination, the secrets of the Blue
Ribbon Armies, Good Templar bodies, and other
Temperance bodies to which they are respectively
alH listed.”
“ Prince Albert Victor has been initiated
into the Society of Freemasons,” &c., vide Evening
Jingo:—
Prince, a Mason /'"Of course this must be
A delicate signification
Of his wishes to do, as his elders have done,
And (presently) chisel the nation.
A correspondent from Casino says, “ We
Casinoites are not of the grubbing sort.” A dif-
ferent opinion prevails in Mrs. Smith’s boarding-
house when the saw mill men roll in. To see the
big s iw man cant-hook a seven-by-six slab of corn
beef into his little mouth, while the edgings man
and the puller-out are stacking away junhs of
bread like shingle-billets all the time old Smith is
out at the back fire frying yesterday’s cold mut-
ton for Billy the Morganer, and glaring out
through the slabs to see how hungry ihe two
jlnker men are—to see all these things, wo siy,
spots the Casino correspondent as a triller with
the truth. We more than suspect the sly dog is
two weeks behind with Mrs. 8., and gets the para-
graph under that innocent woman’s notice, with a
view to the coming week.
The Bendigo Independent publishes a
powerful poem, extracted from the Daylesford
Advocate and entitled “The Shop Girl. It be-
gins well:—
“ Standing ever, waiting, waiting,
In this weary shop,
While my knees are aching, aching
Till I’m fit to drop.”
People come in and go out, laugh light-heartedly,
buy a packet of needles, and retire. Can we ad-
vise the poor girl ? Not much. But we’ll do what
we can.—
If you are so aweary waiting,
Sit down and take a spell,
And when the “ boss ” comes, prancing, prating,
Tell him to go —away,
8ir Saul Samuel has enjoyed, and, we pre-
sume still enjoys, the reputation of being an able
financier. With his own purse he is, probably,
entitled to that character, but when the country’s
coffers are in question, he Is (to put it mildly) a
little reckless. On what other supposition can we
account for his recent cable to Mr. Dailey that
Edward Gould gave £5 to the Patriotic Fund. It
must have cost very nearly £5 to send this by
cable, and the intelligence is scarcely valuable
,enough to warrant it. Mr. Gould’s donation may,
to all appearances, be thus disbursed:—Cr. To
contribution. £5. Dr.: By cost of cable, £4 17s. 6d.;
by balance to widows and orphans, 2s, 6d. In
plain English, the widows and orphans are robbed
of thirty nine-fortieths of the donation to puff
Mr Edward* Gould’s philanthropy and sing his
praises by submarine cable. And yet the fund is
termed a “ Patriotic” onel
The Grand Old Man has been held up to
obloquy by some of the English papers for going
to the play on the night before the news of the fall
of Khartoum reached England. The St. James’
Gazette, for instance, came out with some verses
on the subject of the Premier's giddiness, after
this pattern:—
“ Though shame-stricken England may shudder
with dread,
Her exemplar resolves to be gay;
Sore hearts may be asking if Gordon is dead,
But Gladstone can go to the play."
Without venturing an opinion as to whether all
this isn’t a bit rough on the Grand Old Woodman,
we may just hint that we have a good line here for
dealing with the dauntless Dailey. Only let him
' go in with an order ” until the Contingent comes
home again, and we’ll crush him with something
like the following:—
Ob! sons of Australia, ye here have a proof
Of the dastardly dealings of Dailey—
While our troops are in Egypt, he goes to the
bouffe.
And winks at the girls in the ballet.
Tho foreman of a fashionable coffin fac-
tory in Melbourne was fined last week for assault-
ing a man. Things have come to a pretty pass
when a man of business is not allowed to create
occasions for the exercise of his trade.
J. M’Elhone sends some oleaginously sen*
Omenta! poetry to the North Australian. Can
it be that he, to whom we have been accustomed
roaring as a lion, and a pretty profane one at that,
is capable of cooing as mildly as a sucking dove,
ourely not. We would as sooa expect to hear
wisdom from Buchanan or a Herald leader, or
poetry from the pen of one of Alfred's bards.
The greatest appetizer, stomach, blood
and liver regulator on earth—Hop flutters. Look
for and read.
Well done I by our country, to send home so
promptly
The succour which greets England's hour of need,
The noble display of our troops is but equalled
By the beauty of Summerfleld’s superfine tweed *
“ Bristol’s Sarsaparilla should be kept in
every household. In our family we have used it
extensively and always with success; for scrofu-
lous sore eyes and running at the ears, it is a sure
cure,” Mrs. WILLIAM BROWN, Maryborough,
Viet.
Messrs, Fry and Sons have lately intro-
duced a new beverage, viz, “Malted ( ocoa.” It
is a combination of Fry’s Cocoa and Extract of
Malt, and. consequently, is a most strengthening
and refreshing drink. The Lancet says of it “ Au
ordinary cup contains more of the active proper-
ties of malt than a pint of the very best ale or
porter.” It is used in all London hospitals, and tho
great demand for it is undoubted testimony to its
value. It Is exported from Bristol to ail parts of
the world; great quantities have been shipped to
Egypt for the use of the gallant little army under
the command of our “ only General.” While itlin-
yigoraies and refreshes, it does not heat the blood
like many of the cocoas which are commonly sold,
and lor the Australian climate no more suitable
beverage could be used.*
Innocent Trifflers;
OR,
THE JOYS OF HIS FIRST AND HER SECOND CHILDHOOD,


Political Points
“The means to do ill deeds oft makes ill
deeds done,” and the raison d'etre of an army is to
fight. Very well: the future Australian army,
begun in the Soudan Contingent, will create the
future Australian wars.
From the Soudan debateMr. Baker said
“ he could not remember anything, since the year
1870, when he first entered Parliament, which pre-
sented Itself to his mind so forcibly, as a matter of
importance, as did the present question.”
(Cheers.)—
Nothing so forcible! That’s rather thin I
Was not, a few years back (your memory’s
weak I),
Some vote more forcible to you discussed
About a copper-mine at Milburn Creek ?
Mulhall, in his treatise on statistics, sets
the average Income of the working class in Ireland
at £45 per annum. This la about the same average
that obtains in Italy and Spain. In these coun-
tries, however, the necessaries of life are cheaper.
In Germany the working class averages £76, and In
France £8i per annum. Necessaries are certainly
not dearer in Germany and France than in Ireland.
If these estimates be even approximately correct,
should there be any feeling of wonder among us
wore the Irish working class at heart anxious for
the limitation of the English and the extension of
French, German, or almost any other European
institutions ? “ Where is your country ?” was the
question asked of one of the seven wise men of
antiquity. "My country,” he replied, “is wherever
I am doing well.”
Our little troubles in connection with
Dailey’s fad are beginning to crop up already, and
the worst of it is they affect that most vital part
—our breeches pockets. Foremost amongst the
lot is the fact that the world’s admiration of Aus-
tralia's Jingo paliiotism in volunteering part of
her noble army to crumple up the Mahdl, does not
seem to have made a very favourable impression
on “ho London Stock Exchange, for within the
hast few weeks there has been a “sudden decline
fn the price of Australian securities, New South
Wales 3V4 per cents, having fallen £1, and Vic-
torian and Queenland 4 per cents, each 10s.” The
only explanation put forward for this sudden de-
preciation. is the recently-developed warlike ten-
dencies of the colonies, as up to the date of
Dallev’s offer the British capitalist has always
considered Australia to be beyond the influence of
hostile European complications, and he was there-
fore ever willing to put up his coin when the
colonies called upon him. Now, however, we
must pay the penalty of our greatness.
As a reflection of the views entertained in
Radical and Republican circles in London with
regard to the Soudan campaign and the late
General Gordon, we are tempted to give the fol-
lowing paragraph from a letter written on the
llth February by Mr. J. H. Dell, the author of the
noern “ The Curse of Glenveih,” which appeared
in our columns about a couple of months ago:
“ It is with sincere satisfaction that I refer to the
fall of Khartoum. As I write the fate of General
Gordon is unknown; but, were I the Mabdi, he
would most assuredly be hung on the very spot
where he shot the two Scheiks, whose crime was
that they fought for their country. The sickening
lingoisra anent the man and the war is astound-
lngg°Why, as a matter of fact, supposing Gordon
had not been a favourite, he would have been
tried by court-martial, and—had he had his deserts
—shot for sheer breach of instructions and faith
unless indeed, which is. perhaps, not impossible,
he had one set of instructions to publish to the
world and another to act upon. This Christian,
who was ready to cut throats in China, and actually
did carry out bloody and revolting massacres,which
he called ‘executions.’ of hundreds at a time; who
was ready to go anywhere and do anything, so he
was the hero of the hour; and who, alnmst as soon
as he set his foot in Khartoum, began his Govern-
orship by legalising slavery I This accursed Egyp-
tian affair, right through—Alexandria, El Teb, Tel
iel Kebir, Ksissassin, Abu Klea—has been a series
of bloody butcheries, without one palliative, or
.one excuse, or one rational justification; and it
will neither surprise nor grieve me should it end
•in some grand disaster. It certainly deserves no
less; and should Wolseloy meet the fate of Hicks
4t will go hard with our Indian Empire. It We need
hardly say that we do not share Mr. Dell s senti-
ments about Gordon; but, as our readers are
already well aware, we concur to a large extent in
the opinions he expresses with regard to the war
in Egypt—Ed. B.]
We are the last to cry] “wolf, wolf ” when
4 here is no wolf; but it would be little short of
treason to the fixed institutions of our country if,
at the present juncture, we did not call on the
community to keep an eye on the Queanbeyan
X .rE Our institutions must not be shattered for
c thousand Gales. A Mr. Woore was appointed
Police Magistrate in the cathedral city of Quean-
beyan, but he was removed to the Lands Depart-
ment. Whilst he acted the hon. magistrates stayed
away from the Bench; but now he is gone the
work of the Court is carried on rapidly and
efficiently, and Mr. Wooro is not missed. Here is
the insidious points for Queanbeyan and the coun-
try to note. The Age says of the Clerk of Petty
Sessions:-" A slight increase of salary to that
officer, and he could roll into one the honours,
responsibilities, and labours (such as they are) of
Police Magistrate, Mining Warden, and Clerk of
Petty Sessions, at a saving to the country of £400
a year at least, and the abolition of a mere sinecure
and pension-billet, for the Police Magistracy of
Queanbeyan is nothing else.” Now, here is a thing
to raise a hostile feeling in the breast of every
well-wisher to the country. Here is a newspaper,
circulating (or wobbling) in a country district, and
professing to have the interests of that locality at
heart, and yet it would give its word for turning
away £400 a year from the town, on the pretext
that the country’s interest should be studied I We
should like to know what we’re coming to, if this
is to go on ? As the butcher, and the baker, and
the grocer furiously remarked, when refusing to
take the paper any more, “ — the country!
What’s the country ever done for us ? Hasn’t the
Government got money enough ?” And so gloom
settled on Queanbeyan, One of the first principles
of country journalism has been set at nought.
The grand old maxim, to grab all you can for your
district, has been setaflde; and on Gale rests the
Indelible stigma of being the first to perpetrate
what, from a journalistic point of view, must be
considered a high crime and misdemeanour. We
venture to predict that, after this exposure, it will
be many years before any other country journalist
will be found preaching the ruinous doctrine that
Government money must be dealt with economic-
ally, when that means to the district turning away
money from the door. “Sinecure.” quotha—
“saving to the country.” But we leave him to
his subscribers.
The missionaries’ little game again. Judg-
ing from the recent doings of certain men-of-war
now on an island cruise, it would appear that, not
content with forbidding any colonisation of Now
Guinea, our wooden-headed officials of the Mis-
management of the Colonies Department, have
also given instructions to British men-of-war to
disperse the bSche-de-mer fishers, not only from the
reefs and off the coast of New Guinea, but also
from the adjacent islands. How btche-de-mer
fishing can be construed into either “ settlement,”
or the “ acquirement of land to which acts only
does General Scratchlev's prohibitory instructions
apply—is somewhat difficult for outsiders to dis-
cover, but, If rumour speaks correctly, the beche-
de-mer men upon nearly all the reefs and islands
within a considerable distance of New Guinea,
have been sent scooting off their fishing stations by
these men-of-war, under threats of imprisonment.
Why the coral-pickers and curiosity collectors are
allowed to pursue their callings is not satisfactorily
explained, for certainly their vocation is every bit
as heiaous as that of the persecuted slug-sooopers
of the Islands. Some of the Queensland Journals
account for the lacteal fluid found in this particu-
lar amygdala theombroma by Insinuating that the
gentle missionaries had a deal to do with
getting the recent restrictions placed upon
the heche-de-mer trade. These disinterested
and holy workers in the South Sea vine-
yards have gangs of natives working for them
in this self-same business, and now that they
have succeeded in getting all the sinful outsiders
shunted out of the trade they have a big monopoly
all to themselves, and are now in a fair way of
amassing a sufficient pile of filthy lucre to ulti-
mately enable them to die rich and go the devil,
“ respected by all who knew them.” Of course
the plausible “ pitch ” put forward by those level-
headed apostles is, that by starting of their able-
bodied gangs of “pore little heathens” to the
pick of the Island fishing beds, they have no other
desire than that of impressing on their blacking-
bottle brudders the value and dignity of labour;
but, at the same time, they takeimighty good care
their plunder is sold in the highest markets, and
the proceeds are carefully banked to the credit of
the mission—a remark which somehow reminds us
of the entry a bush missionary once made in his
diary to the effect that “ The sum of four shillins
was kollected for repairing the local church which 1
did by bavin mi boots half-sold and healed, and pur-
chisln sum creecher cumforts in a ginger-beer
bottll fur the balanse of ml Jurney.” The poor
Papuan receives nothing a week for his services,
and rarely loses a day through dyspepsia.
The views of some of the Victorian mem-
bers of Parliament on the Soudan question as it
effects Australia, are worth noticing at this junc-
ture. The Honourable Thomas Bent, who is now
Mayor of Brighton, and no longer a mere person
but a personage, gave a luncheon, at which were
several legislators, a few days ago. They all
orated. Mr. John Woods thought that the colony
“should be prepared—not for aggressive, but for
defensive war.” This sentiment was received with
much cheering. Mr. Zox then rose and told an
amusing story, which must have often caused his
ancestor Abraham to laugh oonsumedly in bis
patriarchal beard, to the effect that the sentiments
of Mr. Woods were also his sentiments. Mr.
Fincham admired the bravery, but thought little
of the wisdom of New South Wales la sending
away men she might one of these days be in dire
need of at home. Mr. David Gaunson said he was
satisfied that there would soon be war with Russia—
a statement which met with a hilarious negative
from someone entrenched behind the bottled ale.
Mr. Gaunson, aroused by this, said that there
would be a declaration of war within three
months—they might depend upon it. Further, that
the offer of assistance to the British Government
having been made, what will the people of Eng-
land say if that offer is gone back upon ? “ They
will say,” said Mr. Gaunson, promptly, answering
his own question, “that we are a set of d d
Fenians. But,” the speaker continued, “ we are
disposed to give not only our treasure, but, if need
be, the blood of our fellow-colonists in the cause
of Old England.” Mark you the curious felicity
of that phrase, "our/ellote-colonists.” Mr. Gaun-
son, in the very topmost fury of his enthusiasm,
had nothing to say about giving his own blood in
the cause of Old England. We have frequently
noticed that desperately warlike spirits of this sort
always manage, if they fall anywhere, to fall
where the corks fly thickest. Mr. L. L. Smith
made the characteristic remark that “he con-
sidered the action of the New South Wales
Government had been a great advertise-
ment for the colonies.” We should just
imagine that is exactly how it would strike him
and Washington Soul. But ho did not believe in
that action. He thought it was vain and foolish.
Other speakers followed, all of whom agreed in
this view of the question. Mr. Gaunson was the
solitary champion of death or glory. But then
nobody minds him much The fact is clear that
now the wave of warlike enthusiasm has passed
Victoria there will never be a second one. There
Is not enough glamour left in the idea to dazzle
the vision of a goat—a goat that is in the habit of
eating newspapers, anyhow.
“ Never was there a time of such sudden
reversals of tactics; never was there a time when
it was more urgent than it is at present that land
natlonalizers should make strenuous efforts to dis-
seminate the land gospel.” So writes a London
friend, who is in the very thick of the fight. We
are now threatened with what I suggested some
three years ago would be attempted in Ireland. It
is this. The new franchise having alarmed the
landlords as to its ultimate effects on themselves,
now see the expediency of creating a large number
of petty—very petty—freeholders, because they
know that the holder of a tenth of an acre, given
his present Ignorance, sedulously fostered by par-
son and squire, will become a more rampant Tory
than Lord Salisbury or Hicks Beach. Moreover,
some lordly landowners have already let small
portions of certain of their estates In allot-
ments — tenth of acre allotments, and they
find that the demand is such that they. can
get £10 an acre rent in this way for what
they can only get £1 an acre for from large
farmers. Thousand of tenants holding these mi-
croscopic allotments from year to year, must of
necessity return to Parliament the landlords’
nominee-or go out. All at once we find ourselves
confronted with a new movement, or a new de-
parture, which would make our latter state, if it
were successful, ten times worse than our present.
This is one of the things I have always feared,
but how are we to grapple with it? Taking into
consideration the impenetrable skull of Hodge, I
do not see what we are to do. It actually seems
that the returns from these little holdings are
equal to about £10 an acre, whereas the farmer’s
average Is only about £7. Again, some landlords
say that, in this way, there is no reason why they
should not ultimately—that is when the tenants
shall have established themselves, and their
trees borne fruit—be able to screw up the
rentals in the neighbourhood of towns to
£30, or even £35 an acre. Well, we must put
our wits to work to meet this new situation. The
natural cupidity of man—and especially of very
poor, ignorant men—would tempt them to swallow
the bait of a Parnell, believing that nothing better
for them is attainable. Besides, the general idea
is that, of all creditors in England, the Govern-
ment, in the shape of the tax-gatherer, is the most
arbitrary and the most Inexorable; and no wonder,
seeing the abomination the thing we have been in
the habit of calling ‘ the Government ’ is-not an
‘organised hypoorlcy,’ as Disraeli called it, but
an organised brigandage and blasphemy—privation
for the million, for the sport and luxury of the
thousand, leaving the people the philosophy of
Job ‘to curse God and die,’ or ‘ Praise Him, and
live in the next world only,’ for, to them, living
in this world it certainly is net.”
A valued correspondent, who takes the
keenest interest in every movement that is really
for the benefit of the public, and has quite excep-
tional means of gaining Information, but who,
also, as may be Inferred from the following, is
occasionally inclined to be very exacting in regard
to the conduct of public men in high office, says
in a recent letter from London“ I grieve to say
that no sooner had we been led by Mr. Chamber-
lain’s speeches at Birmingham and Ipswich to
Imagine that he would advocate some form of
land nationalisation than, at a hint from head-
quarters, he hastened to disavow any such inten-
tions, and to say that he is an advocate of peasant-
proprietorship. Is the Right Hon. Joseph Cham-
berlain a shifty opportunist, like the rest ? No
man knows better that peasant proprietary means
interest on mortgage in lieu of rent—a thing far
worse even than rent Itself.” As to the query
about a “shifty opportunist,” we should not be in
a hurry to answer it in the affirmative, knowing
that politics is necessarily a science of com-
promises, and that no statesman can possibly
expect to be able to carry his own principles
fully and at once into practice, until a majority of
the people, and a majority of their representatives
in Parliament, share his principles. There are
times, of course, when even Cabinet Ministers
ought to be prepared to sacrifice their position,
when by so doing they would promote the success
of a great and beneficent cause. In another part
of this letter, the writer states that, in Democratic
circles in London, it is understood that Mr. Cham-
berlain “ is faintly outlining, to use an Irish meta-
phor, the thin end of the wedge of -Thomas
Spence’s system; only instead of having an ‘ argu-
mint wid sticks ’ to discuss the terms of transfer,
he would confer the power of compulsory pur-
chase at a price regulated somewhat as it is in the
Irish Land Courts. You little thought when you
left England, not two years ago, that a Minister of
the Crown would hint at such heresies within so
brief a period of time I” Here is the postcript,
and it may be taken for granted that before long
some project of the kind referred to below, or that
which the Right Hon. W. H. Smith suggested
to the Conservatives, a few years ago, for an im-
mediate and large increase in the number of land-
lords as the necessary means of preserving the
institution of private property in land from the
very formidable assault with which it is visibly
threatened, will be brought forward:—“ I insert
this slip, because I have just heard chat a measure
embodying Mr. Chamberlain’s revival and modifi-
cation of Spence’s idea of parishes purchasing
land and letting to parishioners will be brought
forward. This, after all, is somewhat on Spence’s
lines; but the desperate fear is lest, seeing what
parish-jobbery now is, the land parishes should
pay too dearly for their fee simples, and so saddle
occupiers with too heavy a tax—rent proper, plus
I interest on purchase money.” For our part, how-
ever, we entertain a firm belief that the landocracy,
whether Liberal or Conservative, will not be pre-
pared to yield any considerable portion of the
preposterous claims they at present Impose, be-
fore time has been afforded for the thorough dis-
cussion of the conditions which would form even
a temporary solution of a practical character of
the land problem with which they are confronted.
After Woodyear’s circus-tent was blown
down at Wellington, N.Z., and while the employes
were busy picaing up the wreck, a Salvation
Army man flopped down among the sawdust, and,
in a loud voice, poured out a bucketful of prayer
in the shape of thanks for the catastrophe. He
found fault with the Deity, however, for not hav-
ing timed the accident, so that it could have oc-
curred when the circus performance was going
on, and by the death of a few sinners a terrible
warning might thus have been given to a wicked,
circus-loving, beer-drinking generation. On being
asked on rising from his knees whether he was
really sorry that no lives were lost, he replied in
the affirmative, and was immediately knocked
down by the Interrogator, who then administered
a kick or two, and left him once more grovelling
and returning thanks among the sawdust.
Bourke and Byrook were “illustrated and
described ” in last week's Jebnal. We are un-
certain which gave us the acutest attack of fan-
tods—the illustrations or the descriptions. Some
years ago, we crawled into Bourke in the boot of
one of Cobb’s coaches. On alighting we were
pressed into the service of the citizens to help in
keeping the Darling out of the town. The office
apportioned to us was to form one of 13 employed
in hauling a plough through the principal streets.
Men with shovels followed, and constructed a
rampart, to dam the water back. After them came
the women and children of that thriving metro-
polis, with crooked sticks despatching snakes and
“ goanners.” Splashing through the rising waters
came troops of emus, followed by kangaroos, with
black piccaninnies tied on their backs. The abori-
ginal adults brought up the rear in dug-outs. It
was a gay time, we can tell you. There was no
paying for grog then. You just went into the
first “pub,” helped yourself, and went back to
the plough. This sort of thing occurs in Bourke
once every seven years or so, and the person who
hasn’t seen that stirring settlement under those
circumstances should decently hold his tongue.
And at Christmas and Easter, when the “ busbies,”
with their checks, crowded in from Cooper’s
Creek, the Paroo. and the Bogan! That was the
time to see life. The day’s sport often began with
a cock-fight for half-crowns, and wound up by
tying two emus by the legs, throwing them across
the telegraph wire, and betting “ shouts ” all round
which would first gouge the other’s eyes out. And
people wonder why emus are getting so scarce
round Bourke.
Some time ago, a moan came up from
Mudgee to the effect that the prisoners in the
local gaol were taking the bread out of honest
men’s mouths by manufacturing certain articles
of trade at prices that defied competition from
persons who were not blessed with the advantage
of having a State prison for a workshop. The
Hon. Adolphus George saw to this at once, and the
matter was soon rectified, but now a somewhat
similar complaint is raised in other quarters, and
cries aloud for vengeance. From Information
received, it appears that, owing to the somewhat
limited pittance fallowed to certain “ mimbers av
the foorce,” these enterprising parties are com-
pelled to put in a great portion of their time work-
ing at such trades as they may have obtained a
smattering of before being elevated to the proud,
but badly-paid, position they now hold. In a
southern town, for instance, we find that Sergeant
Blank, as a cabinet-maker, is working up quite a
good business connection, to the intense disgust of
Ah Chip and Ah Chong, the Celestial carpenters
opposite. As a meat-safe builder, Sergeant Blank
is considered to be a perfect Michael Angelo, so to
speak, while his kitchen tables and pigeon-boxes
are perfect symphonies in Baltic pine and hard-
wood. Constable Decimal Naught One also manages
to keep the wolf on the other side of the door by a
diligent use of his needle, and, as he himself
modestly observes, Solomon in all his glory was
not arrayed in half the bang-up style of those
gentlemen who favour him with their orders. St.
rlspin has an industrious disciple in the person
of policeman X 1753, and Senior-Constable Run-
imin has just succeeded in not only repairing the
postmaster’s watch by forgoing a main-spring out
of an old bayonet, but he also managed to fix up
a handsome chain and locket by filing down and
silvering a pair of discarded handcuffs. To the
bulk of ihe townspeople these proceedings give
unbounded satisfaction, because the police are
never in the way to obstruct a street flgnt. or pre-
vent the wurrkun mahn from obtaining his Sun-
day beer; but even the gods themselves fail to
please all, and hence we are not surprised to hear
that a few miserable, carping tradesmen are loud
in their bowlings against what they selfishly
designate the hardship of being compelled to com-
pete with men who are subsidised by the Govern-
ment. This is a mean-spirited way of looking at
the matter, indeed, and such grumblers are a posi-
tive disgrace to the glorious civilization of this the
enlightened 19th century
LITTLE SKETCH. BY A SILYERTON RESIDENT, GIVES SOME IDEA OF THE LIBERAL PREPARATIONS BY THE SILVERTON PROGRESS COMMITTEE TO ACCORD A
SUITABLE RECEPTION TO THE MINISTER FOR MINES.


rjio ALL WOMEN.
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDiiiTTL DISCOVERY
IN SOAP 1
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with it;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
0T Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
6d. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers:
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
[ipOD^mVICOUKopTIT?]
gsaaas 1
L»5RieORffSl
le only intaiiiDle remedy for
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures ali who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustlve derangement of the system; regenerating
all the Important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 12s., or four quantities is one for
K5s.; if by coach, 2e. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,1
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from Georga-street South.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
come m cum
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
TO
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND BOOK FROM GEORGE-STREET.
have ARRIVED.
An immense delivery
JfzWZ&K: of
YANKEE RUBBER
BABIES.
Goes in the waistcoat poo
ktt; blows out to life size;
Is washable, durable, and
unbreakable ; resembles
life, for like the real article
it coos at pleasure, and yet
screams awfully if smacked
Experienced fathers are deceived by these laugh-
ter-producing Infants, and no home is really a
happy one without their presence. Price (post
free): largest, Is. 6d.; medium, Is. 3d.
Also, just in, a large assortment of Conjuring
Tricks, catalogues on application.
r
4
THE WIZARD CARDS,
changing from eights
to deuces, from black to
red, and back again at the
pleasure of the per-
former. Post free, with
full instructions, Is. 3d.
I’m a Daddy ; I’m In
Love; The Mother-in-law;
I’m a Farder; and Be
fore and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever Issued, 5 in each set.
Price, 6d. per set, or 5 sets for 2s.; by post, 2s. 2d.
The Three Donkeys. The newest “have” out.
Bend for them, but keep it quiet. Price, Is.; by
post, Is. 2d.
The Sooner Dog—a wonderful little animal;
roars of laughter follow him wherever he goes.
Is. tid.; by post, 2s. 6d.
Napoleon In Council, very rich, Is. 6d.; by post, 3s.
HORTON and CO., 401 Qeorge-street, Sydney,
Box 641, G.P.O.
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate in Medicine and Surgery, Registered
Physician of New South Wales.**
Office Hours : 10 a.m, to 4 p.m., 7 to 9 on Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday Evenings.
Ladies’ Waiting Room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
11,53 Castlereagh-street (upstairs.)
Send for Free Treatise on Vitality and Nervous
Debility, Diseases of Women.
Illustrated Works on Deformities, Electricity
and its Application. Hernia (ruptures). Varicocele,
&c., &o.
Address—Australian Medical and Surgical In-
firmary, Sydney ; or B. O. HOLTBRMANN, Esq.,
M.P., President, Box 130, G.P.O.
Consultation Free by mail or in person.
Deformities, Specific. Female, and Nervous
Diseases, a Specialty.
BLAKE’S IMPROVED
STEAM PUMPS.
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
17 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE ABOV E,
and have in Stock and to arrive—
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING PUMP
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
SEND FOR PRICES AND ALL PARTICULARS
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FREE.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £100,000.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Sydney Branch : Royle’s Chambers, Bond-street.
Victorian Directors:
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P.,
Chairman
Hon. J. F. Levien. M.P.
Tbomas Learmonth, Esq.
N. S. Wales Directors:
Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Frank Cowley, Esq.
George 8. Yeo, Esq.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
Causes on laud, rail, or at sea.
Marine Risks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted.
The only Live Stock Insurance Society in the
0 olonies.
Full particulars can be obtained from the under-
signed.
Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
• A* WILKINSON, Branch Manager.
Omoe, Royle s Chambers, Bond-street.
GOMPAGNONI CATERING CO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. * *
THE oldest and leading Catering Establishment in N.8.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor,
Municipal Council of Sydney, the A.J.C., City Club, vc., &o
Tne Din ng for Ladies and are the Finest, Coollest, and loftiest in the colony.
piittt , FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar-Good Wine List,
mu now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to II pm. (after the
Theatres. Select your own steak, Ao., and aeo it grilled in the room. This is one of tue acquisitions
n ntv ri’n?, n u!!S t0lt Wal Inspection invited, Club rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Cl“
and City Club, upstairs. E ; D . TOLLED! ACHE, General Manager.
MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capital—£100,000 with power to Increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES— 20 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
( 'tHURCHILL’S SYRUP OP THE HYPO.
Kj phosphites.
THESE SYRUPS have so thoroughly obtained
the confidence of the Medical Faculty that they
Gmiernl any °ther preparations as
The Syrup of Hypophosphites of Lime has proved
itself for many years most useful in cases of Con-
sumption and diseases of the Pulmonary Organs.
It is also most beneficial to debilitated constitu-
tions proceeding from any cause whatever, as it
contains two of the most necessary ingredients for
building up the Human Frame, namely, Phospho-
rus and Lime.
Churchill's Syrup of the Hypophosphlte of Iron
is one of the best preparations of Iron and Phos-
phorus that has been offered to the public. As a
permanent tonic it has been found more service-
able than any other preparation of Iron, and is
especially recommended to those suffering from
the effects of a long residence in a hot climate.
Churchill’s Compound Syrup of the Hypophos-
pbltes contains Lime, Iron, and Soda, and as a
general Tonic has been found most useful. Deli-
cate children have derived the greatest benefit
from going through a course of this medicine,
which supplies nearly all the elements necessary
to develope in perfection the Human Frame. To
Ladies suffering from General Debility, any of
these Syrups can be taken with most beneficial re-
sults, but as almost every constitution differs, one
may give better results than the other. To be had
from all Chemists, and Wholesale from ELLIOTT
BROS., Pltt-street, Sydney.
MASON BROTHERS
LIMITED.
14 and 16 Spring Street
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for 8ALB
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS. CHINA.
AMD
EARTHENWARE,
WINES. BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Bdlnbuvgn Pale Ale.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
J. UVLEE,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
Him if FBI.
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRASSES
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX,
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&o., &c.
fcOLL If
BLEND
JMARd
JX
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—This is a B T END
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies com-
bmlng fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO.. Sole
Agents. *
Nervous debility, lost vitality
Weakness, and Premature Decay.—A favou
ite Prescription of an eminent French Hosnit
Physician for simple self-cure. Free to any su
ferer. Send your address, on a stamped envelopi
to C. C. W„ Box 768, G.P.O., Sydney. P
W
Office.
ASTB PAPER Hoop Iron, and Bmp
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Bullet
MM?';
jf '1*1 '4
Head Offices. ®*t®
First Fire Society established in the colony on
the Mutual principle. Riving policy-holders back
part, of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
prefits every year.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from
all liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlemert for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Offices-PITT and KING STREETS.
Watch and Clorkmaker to the Victorian
Government.
T. GAUNT
"
Watchmaker,
GOLDSMITH,
mm ud opticm,
297 and 299
George Street,
S"S"3PWErsr-
AFicn oefore HOUSTACHS andWHISEEBS* “^ons
Boyd's Beard Elixir did this, and
' will do it on cither bald head or
bare fare, JFoieea henry Mom •
tar he t» fromS to 4 weeks and never ±
' fails, 20,000 young wen already
Copyrighted, wear full beards, having used 1 to
3 phts. No injury, easily applied, eertain in effect, _
each, 3 for 3 s. 6d., post paid, sent under cover, free from observation•
Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent, Box 730, O.V.O., Sydney,N.S.W‘
Copyrighted .
Packets U. 6d
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found jt at
last with the Argosy Braces at Qowlng Bros.
&
x
i/.
GOWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. 6d., 3s., 3s. Od.,& 4s. 6d
COWING BROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, &e.
332 and 498 George-street.
X
Vi
m-
n
298 George Street, Sydney.
Every description of Shirts made to measure
A perfect fit guaranteed.
SMITH & MAMELL,
THE SHIRT MANUFACTURERS OP
AUSTRALASIA,
AYER’S
Hair Vigor
restores, with the gloss and freshness of
youth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
brown color, or deep black, as may be desired.
By its use light or red hair may be darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not always, cured.
It checks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. It
prevents and cures scurf and dandruff, and
heals nearly every disease peculiar to the
scalp. As a Ladies’ Hair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume.
Mr. C. P. Bricher writes from Kirby, O..
July 3, 1882 : “ Last fall my hair commenced
falling out, and in a short time I became
nearly bald. I used part of a bottle of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a new growth. I
have now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but for the
use of your preparation I should have been
eutirely'bald.”
J. W. Bowen, proprietor of the McArthur
(Ohio) Enquirer, says : “Ayer’s Hair Vigor
is a most excellent preparation for the hair.
I speak of it from ray own experience. Its
use promotes the growth of new hair, and
makes it glossy and soft. The Vigor is also
a sur-e cure for dandruff. Not within my
knowledge has the preparation ever failed
to give entire satisfaction.”
Mr. Angus Fairbairn, leader of the
celebrated “ Fairbairn Family ” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from Boston, Mass., Feb. 6,
1880 : “Ever since my hair began to give sil-
very evidence of the change which fleeting
time procureth, I have used Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, and so have been able to maintain
an appearance of youthfulness — a matter of
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors, actors, and in fact every one who lives
in the eyes of the public.”
Mrs. O. A. Prescott, writing from 18 Elm
St,, Charlestown, Mass., April 14, 1882, says :
“ Two years ago about two-thirds of my hair
came off. It thinned very rapidly, and I was
fast growing bald. On using Ayer’s Haik
V igor the falling stopped and a new growth
commenced, and in about a month my head
was completely covered with short hair. It
has continued to grow, and is now as good as
before it fell. 1 regularly used but one bottle
of the Vigor, but now use it occasionally as
a dressing.”
We have hundreds of similar testimonials
to the efficacy of Ayer’s Hair Vigor. It
needs but a trial to convince the most skepti-
cal of its value.
, PREPARED BY '.0
Dr.J C.Ayer&Co.,Lowell,Mass.
gold by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT BROS, and S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents. ■>


F
UBNITUSl SHOW BOOM
BRADLEY, b EWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connelland Spring streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HAT6TAND8,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
F IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and BIDE
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
T\r»rn T ATTAm® PU A TTJ*
Li 'XAtSluHB, BUun.UA0HD, an
reading and LOUNGE chAirs.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion : well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
W~ALL CABINETS for Choice China, Ac.
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
ARBLB-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for dubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, Ac.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Tjl IGHT-POUND
BEDROOM SUITES—The
jij Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table rad
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’ConneU-street.
B _ BDHOOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tfle back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 3 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washatands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s-
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
'■
5
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case, Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Blaek and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CCA8IONAL TABLES, elegantly
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, Ac.
/"IHlPFONNIBR WHATNOTS, effective designs,
Vj just received. Bradley, Nowton, andjLamb,
CVConnell-Btrect.
E' NAMELLED and JEWELLED MiRRORS, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for flro grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Q Connell-street.
OCCASIONAL
JJ A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
HAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’ConneU-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room—sidb-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’ConneU-atreet.
1NING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D
1 ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK OHAIEl-
Patented.
T-m
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, Instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of he body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when fi Jdod. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
3a. 8d. extra.
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
B
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
B
EDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell and Spring streets.
W
A8HSTAND8, with marble, from 28s. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Q’ConneU-street.
Bentwood furniture.—a very eompiet*
AnQrtment; beat nutke. low eat price#.
SOCIAL
The benefit concert given to little Bessie
Doyle at the old Masonic Hall last wee £.
to augment the funds necessary to enable her to
pursue her studies In foreign shores, was a nice
sond-otl for the child. The Tittle musician, who Is
nnlv 12 years of age, has a nice face and a musical
eve and wore a eimple white dress with a crimson
sThtied round her waist We have before re-
remarked upon the musical aptitude of the little
Fady? and If her instructors will refrain from the
fiir too frenuent error of overtaxing the little
brLn°Vd e fl q n U g e ers by
Interpreted
should not take one of
f 1 nd Cal^endetssohn^8 ie Co 8 m^)rto U i r 8 l8 an ) ambitious
tern fo?a llttledot om but although the open-
intr movement wa8 rather too severe a trial for
fhA niisnro was played with a clearness and
dash Q h uite Sn7shing For each of her three
solos the little woman received an encore, but
wisely forbore to give more than one extra item.
Bouquets and wreaths were showered upon her,
and! after one of her solos, a lady walked up
to the platform and presented to her, In an
unostentatious manner, a more enduring gift,
In the Shape of a diamond brooch, which
snarkled over her right shoulder when she ra-
il rmoared and played her last solo. Two ladles,
bothnupUs of Mr. Halle well’s, gave valuable
assistance to the concert by singing two solos
apiece. It is not often our good fortune to hear
such finished singing amongst amateurs, and both
vnlm are well worthy of the culture which has
heen bestowed upon them. We congratulate Mr.
Hallewell upon these two fair pupils. Mr, Hector
M’Lean accompanied his two songs from his opera
“ Populalre ’’-the one “ Blossoms of springtide,
sung by Mr, Morgan, with violin obligato by Herr
Kreftchmann; and the other, “ With glory en-
folded,” magnificently rendered by Mr. Hallewell.
The latter was, as a matter of °*®
as another matter of course, he dldn t respond.
Mr. Blake, of “ Don Cheooo fame, sang two solos,
which soared a good deal above the ordinary
amateur level. Mr. Hugh Duff played an organ
obligato to one of Miss Cowley s solos, which was
a nice embellishment. A string quartette, nicely
nlaved bv Herr Kreltohmann and gentlemen ama-
teurs, locfoff the concert, and as there was not an
Indifferent Item upon the programme, the pro-
moters of the entertainment deserve the greatest
credit. . ,
* * .
Once again that little villain Cupid has
broken every Barry-er down, and the engagement
of a charming young widow’of Glebe Point (well
known for her musical abilities) to a medico from
a man of-war, Is announced.
• • ♦
The “jabot,” or “Fedora,” or “kangaroo
pouch,” or whatever you like to call It, ladies, Is
more in favodr than ever. It is a wonderful fact,
too, seeing that it totally hides the contour of the
figure. We won’t be mean enouah to say that
only those who haven’t any figure to show adopt
the*” Fedora,"Jbut we will say that. If they have a
good figure and thus hide the fact, that they are
uncommonly stupid. It is a splendid subject for
caricature, this “ Fedora,” as anybody can see by
going to the Federal Minstrels and observing that
worn by Carroll as Madame Aibanl. It would take
more than the eloquence of a Dan. O Connor to con-
vince us that that dress was made by the hands and
conceived by the brains of a woman. No woman
ever possessed so much humour as is shown In
every seam and gather of the Fedora here dis-
played. It is a perfect burlesque, and must have
emanated from a master mind. We shouldn t won-
der If Horace Bent and Sam Keenan were Joint .ar-
chitects for this robe—It’s quite funny enough. At
the same time, we have seen the Fedora made
and worn with so cunning a grace that we have
almost been reconciled to the extraordinary bit.
It is only when it is bunched up and stuck in front
of the bodice, and looks as if there had been so
much material spared from the dress which must
be utilised somehow, that it vexes us and is an
eye-sore. Now, if you have a slight figure, ladles,
wear the “ Fedora” by all means, only dont ex-
aggerate it in order to look ultra-fashionable, for
vou are sure to shoot wide of the mark and look
ultra-ridiculous Instead; but if ypu have a Plump
round figure don’t bother about the Fedora.
You look much better unadorned by that super-
fluous drapery. Take our word for it.
* * ♦
The “Sydney Socials” have decided to
hold their gatherings this year at “ Nlthsdale,”
and from their neat little book of rules we Father
that evening dress Is to be compulsory, and that
membership can be obtained by ballot only- A
good deal of common sense is shown in the decision
of terminating the dancing at midnight. Young
people who have to attend to business next day
will find the benefit of thls-and so will the busi-
ness If they strictly adhere to all the rules they
have laid down, the ‘‘Sydney Socials ’’ should find
no difficulty in meeting with the popularity they
deserve. m
Mr. Chapman gave an exhibition of his
elocutionary powers in the Protestant Hall on
Friday night to a large audience. It was requested
bv advertisement that all visitors should appear
in evening dress, but, out of the hundreds present,
only about a dozen were sufficiently courteous to
comply with the request. As, however, not the
faintest plea of a cloak-room was provided for the
ladies, it was just as well there was so slight a
necessity for one. It was suggested at the door
la the most cheerful manner to the ladles who
enquired for a cloak-room that, as there had been
no such luxury provided for them, they could
“ put themselves to rights when they got to
their seats. But the fastidious few preferred to
forego the entertainment rather than be under
the embarrassment of ‘‘putting the finishing
touches” on their toilettes in the presence of a
few hundred people, and without a mirror, too,
80 declined to enter the hall; whilst others, pos-
sesame more hardihood, made the best of things
and kept their cloaks and bonnets on during the
evening. Mr. Chapman is a very fair elocutionist,
and succeeded in keeping his audience Interested,
The cards of invitation were uncommonly pretty,
being of gelatine in different colours, white, deep
rose and green, with gold lettering.
• • •
A pretty ceremony was enacted in Trinity
Church, Lochinvar, on Wednesday last, upon
which occasion Miss Annie Johnson became Mrs.
Robert Doyle. The church was prettily decorated,
and the bride looked stately in golden brown
cashmere and broche, with bouquet of roses at
her throat. Bridesmaid in pale blue. Several Of
the guests were elegantly attired. The happy
pair left, amid showers of rice and good wishes,
for West Maitland en route for Sydney.
♦ * ♦ .
Our lady correspondent from Calcutta
writes:-” Dear Bulletin, —Our season, to use a
native expression, is ‘ hogiar, i.e , over. Miss
Emelie Melville has recently been very Hill, and
fears were entertained that she might never
delight again a Calcutta audience ; but, thank
heaven 1 our dear little favourite has boon
spared, and after a long absence from the stage
re-appears to-morrow night. She was at the
grand fancy dress ball the other night, whither
she was taken by the leader of Calcutta society,
Mrs A. R. Mackintosh, Emelie appeared in stars
and stripes, and made a most charming little
American. The Melville company has not, as yet,
made money, but it is believed that now it will, as
the circus has closed, and the comedy company
gone off to Madras. We have had quite an excit-
ing law case between an actor and a dramatic
nrit.ic- and I regret to say the actor got the worst
of it ’ and was called upon to pay a fine of 50
rupees. The case was this: The newspaper critic
fell desperately In love with a young actress who
was engaged to the actor In question. Now
whether this critic (who Is a halt-caste) attended
the theatres, or not, he did not fall to give his
rival Ecathing notices. On the other hand, when-
ever the lady played, her lover took care to give
her splendid critiques, and thus he hoped to in-
duce her to transfer her affections to him-
self. Matters came to such a pass that
upon the actor appearing in ‘ Ours the
critic was so downright insulting in his notice
touching the peformance, that his victim went in
search of him with a horsewhip. When asked if
he wrote the notice he would not reply, so the
actor said, ‘If I could find out who had written it.
and if it were you, I should thrash you thoroughly.
The critic, coward-like, got up an action for inti-
midation, the consequence was the actor was
mulcted 50 rupees. The paper for which this
same critic writes thus summed up the Melville
troupe;—* All more or less vulgar, and more suit-
able for a Melbourne theatre than a select Calcutta
audience.’ Now, 1 Just wish, dear Bulletin, you
could see a select Calcutta audience. Most of the
ladles paint atrociously, and wear such indecently
low dresses, that if they were seen in any other
part of the world, the adjective ‘questionable
would undoubtedly be brought into use when
alluding to them. Oh 1 how I long to get back to
Sydney and its lovely harbour, but the only chance
of my being in a position to do so, would be in
winning a Roland’s or Miller’s sweep, or the Ben-
gal Club Derby Sweep. Truly yours, Nellie."
♦ * ♦
The Owls’ garden party, which was to
have taken place at Botany last Thursday, was
postponed in consequence of that day being the
llrst of the Hawkesbury races, and is announced
for Thursday next. April 9th. From all we hear,
the arrangement for the garden party are capital,
and a goodly number of tickets are already sold.
The gay birds propose to start for Botany about i
pan., tea at 7, and dancing and refreshments
till 11.30.
♦ • *
A miscellaneous programme of a most at-
tractive kind drew fully 300 people to the Masonic
soiree last week: but it didn’t draw them soon
enough. It is a remarkable, yet true, fact, that
fora whole hour people only dropped in slowly to
the concert; but, in one minute after dancing
commenced, the hall was that full of active young
folks that all the rising Masons had to get as close
as possible to their girls, even at the risk of squeez-
ing them, in order to make room. It was nearly
9 o’clock when the dancing began. This gave
punctual people an hour to look about and note
the beauties of the hall. The cornices are still as
dusty as ever, and elegantly festooned with cob-
webs, the gallery aifords a splendid Held for paint-
ing operations, and the proscenium is hardly an
object of the freshest beauty. But the Masons
had arranged a fine display of Hags about the
walls, and the regalia-ed brethren made their
guests thoroughly at home and saw that the ladies
at once got seats. They also adopted the com-
mendable plan of passing people in during the
intervals, and not letting late comers clatter their
boots over the boards among the sentimental
songs. There were 17 items in the concert, but
Bro. Ivimey didn't appear, so the audience were
let off one. Bro. Hough also was late; it was
rumoured that the principal button came off one
of his most important garments at the last
moment. This is very irritating. Miss and
Master Beattie opened with a pianoforte duet,
and Misses Marchant did a duet later on.
Miss Coombes trilled a song of the nightingale in
her sweet soprano, and Mesdames Ansley and
Royal wore the other lady soloists. Mr. F. Jones
selected from some oratorio a piece entitled,
“ Three young men who never went astray,” and
Brethren Brown and Garland each sang a solo, and
then joined their genius In a duet. Bro. R. J.
Hughes, in his duet with Bro, J. J. Barnett, was
completely oversung by the stentorian voice of
the latter. Miss Nellie Marchant was lady acoom-
Eanlst, and Bro. G. F. Garland, organist to the
pdge (Fidelity, 1979 E.C.), did his share with tact
and skill. Kefreshments were provided by Thomas
Crlpps, and after a short interval chairs were
moved and dancing began to the music of Kopff
and Austin’s band, and 18 dances under the M.C.-
shlp of Mr. Ellis brought the soiree to an end about
3 o’clock. The floor was pretty full, and the
dancers were pretty, too. Full dress was the rule,
and the fullest of all was a white satin bridal robe
which had an Immense train, and was worn with
the orthodox blossoms by a Hebrew bride. A
tall fair lady from George-street W. wore a chaste
costume of ruby velvet bodice edged with gold,
and cream skirt. A ruby and pink betokened a
beautiful dancer from Balmain, and the sister of
a photographer proved one of the prettiest girls,
in a charming dress of two shades of leaf-green
satin, trimmed with white lace and roses. And a
plump and pretty little maiden in white, whose
bodice was deflclent in some hooks and eyes be-
hind, seemed quite happy, notwithstanding that
the whole responsibility of her toilet rested on one
little thread of lace. Why do pretty girls run
such risks ?
* * *
A few days ago witnessed the breaking-
up of the Summer Camp at Hunter’s Beach, Mid-
dle Harbour. Now that the beauties of this beach
have become known, it is the favourite resort of
the boating talent—quite an institution of the
summer months. Throughout the season, and up
till lately, there was no less than six permanent
camps, comprising about 30 happy-go-lucky young
fellows, all of whom work in town, and after leav-
ing business resort to camp life till morning,
where they can give full play to their captive
spirits, bowed down and burdened by the cares of
city business. Well, some 35 of them assembled at
the invitation of Mr. D’Arcy, of No. 1 camp, to bid
adieu to their compeers of Nos. 5 and 5 camps, who
were departing. Proceedings were lively, as, un-
encumbered by the repressing influence of either
the fair sex or the police, they tested to the utmost
their lungs, their fog-horns, and other vocal
powers. The fog-horns were not so bad, but when
some of them started to sing, the trees shivered.
The hospitality of the host was profuse, and Mr.
Nlcholl, as chairman, was in a most enviable
position—he was nearest the reserve grog. Sinner
(sometimes spelt Signor) Bianca gave two capital
songs in a style that showed how well bull-dog
beer and camping had reconciled him to being
temporarily off the stage. Indeed, these things
seemed to suit all of them better than anything—
except work. Loyal toasts were given, and then
“ Departing Friends and Quests” were proposed,
Messrs. Brewster and Nicholl responding on behalf
of No. 5 and 6 camps. Mr. Douglas, of Newtown,
sang, and Mr. Bull gave *’ The Ladles,” to which
Mr. Fegan replied, and the proposer then sang in
real good style his “Definition of a Kiss.” But
greater was yet to come; something idealio, yet
tainted with reality; something heavenly, yet
earthy; a combination of sentiments calculated to
make a monkey cry, or our oldest judge to smile
mercifully upon a prisoner; for the chairman
loyally proposed “ Success to the Soudan Contin-
gent,” coupled with tho name of Mr. Allen, who is
estimated as the Dailey of Hunter’s Beach. He, in
reply, roused all their latent loyalty; though it is
fair to say that by this time it was hard to distin-
guish between loyalty and beer. If Mr. Allen
were to stay on the beach and practise, he would
certainly, in time, become either a Dailey or
Buchanan, or a mushroom-gatherer. The host
gave "Eugene Aram,” after which—well, things
got mixed, and the last thing we recollect was the
quiet dawn of a peaceful summer morn that
spread over Hunter’s Beach, and the rising sun
lighted the last worn-out boozer to his bunk, while
the calm silence begotten of much beer and utter
weariness rested over the Bohemian home of the
boating men. m
After all, little Miss Doyle did not leave
Sydney on Saturday last as was expected, for the
sum realised at her benefit concert last week was
insufficient to defray the expenses of her passage.
This was a great disappointment to the few
enthusiaotic amateurs who alone wore the insti-
gators of the concert, for they worked really hard
to attain their object, and certainly deserved a
better result for all their trouble.
* * * *
A successful soiree and ball was given at
Professor West’s Academy last Friday night by
the Liberal Association....Last Thursday, Mr.
Thomas Peate entertained 100 of his friends at a
picnic at Chowder Bay. Baumann looked after
the creature comforts in his usual happy style.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
“ H. 8. Hart We did deem your Item worthy of
insertion, but we also deemed it too stale.
When a wedding is a month old it loses in-
terest. Sorry you were so dilatory, but must
abide by our rules.
Sydney, 'Wednesday.
Deabesx Belle,— I forgot to tell you In my last
that some of ua went to the concert the Sydney
Lledertafel gave in the Exhibition Building In aid
of the Patriotic Fund. Although the attendance
was good, it could not by any means compare with
that of a Lledertafel concert, and the people were
a different class, too—more of a shawl and bonnet
lot, you know. Now, dear, although I have no
relative of any kind amongst the Contingent, yet,
when I read on the programmes that the concert
was given In aid of the Patriotic Fund, to provide
for the widows and orphans. I must confess it sent
a shook through me. What, then, must the sensa-
tions of those present (if there were any) who have
husbands, brothers, or fathers amongst the crew
have been ? I can scarcely bear to imagine how it
effected them. Of course, it would bo too much
to expect that there won’t be some widows and
orphans, and likely a good many too, but where s
the use of parading the worst probabilities before
them? It would be far kinder to help them to
“ be of good cheer,” and hope for the best. How
would you like, if your dear papa went away upon
a dangerous expedition, to be called an orphan
next day ? If he should return to you safe and
sound, all your agony on his account would
have been endured for nothing. Perhaps all
this morbid talk about widows and orphans
is simply to get at the hearts of the people,
but I cannot believe oar sympathies are
so sluggish that they need to be worked up in
this fashion 1 I never could see the use of manu-
facturing troubles for people beforehand, when,
as sure as anything, they will get their share all in
good time. I don’t believe there’s a soul living
who hasn’t his or her “dark days”—days when
even the sunshine is a grievance, and the sound
of merriment cuts one to the quick. Oh, of
course, you shake your head and look dubious;
but look here, my friend, I ought to know better
than you, for have I not had two years’ more ex-
perience of the world than you? And a vast
amount can be learned in two years, I can tell you.
It’s all right getting the fund ready, of course, in
case of necessity, but there is no reason why we
should be made melancholy for two hours by
having the words “widows and orphans ” in black
and white, or rather black and green—the pro-
grammes were green—staring us in the face all
the time. Besides, I maintain, it shows a great
want of delicate consideration for the feelings of
those most deeply concerned.
In my concern for the widows and orphans-ex-
pectant, I have wandered away from the concert
altogether, so it must suffice for you to know
that everything went extremely well—bette'-, in
fact, than at the Lledertafel concert a fortnight
ago. Madame Vogrlch, in a pure white dress, em-
bellished by many sparkling jewels, but no colour,
looked very graceful and nice, and sang her very
best, which, as you know, means volumes. I was
surprised to see that Mr. Frank Brewer took all
the tenor solos in the “Desert” upon this occasion.
Now, although this gentleman sings with exquisite
taste, and of late years his voice has unquestion-
ably gained power, still none but the most robust
of tenors should attempt to go through all the
difficult solos in the “Desert.” It wasn’t fair to him-
self. And for a fact, dear, we should have liked
to have again heard the sweet but nervous voice
that sang the “ Meditation ” last time. No doubt,
upon a second attempt, he would have gained the
necessary confidence to make his singing veiy
acceptable. But, dear me, this is nothing but
Lledertafel, and I know you are longing to know
what I saw at the private view of the Art Gallery.
Well, then, I saw very little indeed, for we did
not take the precaution we observed last year in
going early, and having a look round at the pic-
tures before the room filled with people. And it
was such a stubborn crowd, too —it was like Jo, in
“ Bleak House ”—it wouldn’t “ move on ” at all.
And it was not that they grew spell-bound by the
contemplation of any particular picture, and were
unable to tear themselves away, but simply that
they seemed to forget the fact that they were in a
picture gallery, and turned the affair into a social
gathering. So we soon gave up endeavouring to
give the pictures anything more than the most
cursory glances, and spent the afternoon in
friendly gossiping instead. We were comforted
with the thought that, as the exhibition was to be
thrown open to the public next weak, we should
then have an opportunity of criticising at our
leisure. As there is to be a small charge for ad-
mission, I feel pretty certain that it will prove to
be a sufficient deterrent to all but enthusiastic
artists to prevent the room from being over-
crowded—so shall look forward with something
akin to pleasure to our visit to the Art Gallery.
Poor Hanlan! We shall all have to acknowledge
now, dear, that Beach is the better man—I mean
oarsman of the two—shant we ? You should have
seen the long faces as they returned from the race
on Saturday evening—those who had backed Han-
lan I mean. Even the horses, whose heads were
adorned with the Canadian’s colours, looked sor-
rowful, or tired, I am not certain which, but I pre-
fer to think it was the former. Poor Ned must
have lost a good deal, for he looks so down-
hearted, and I know he daren’t apply to pa for
money, for he is so against this betting. So I sup-
pose 1 shall have to use my woman’s diplomacy
and got it for him, and, indeed, dear, to tell you
the truth, I feel almost bound to do so; for, un-
dutiful daughter as I am, I encouraged Ned to bet
on Hanlan—dreadful, wasn’t it? Oh, Hanlan I if
we didn’t esteem you very much, we should find
it awfully hard to forgive you, indeed we should I
If the Sydney people were not largely endowed
by that noblest virtue, charity, it would be a
matter of much wonder how all these benefits
which have been and are to be given to those in
due need of them could possibly succeed in their
worthy objects. Few who have applied to the
people here for substantial sympathy in their
time of need have had to apply In vain. Knowing
this, dear, it is little wonder that we all feel very
sanguine concerning the benefit which is to be
given to (Mrs. Marcus Clarke about a fortnight
ence. I hear that nearly all the professionals
1 have come forward in the most generous manner
and offered their services, so there is not the
slightest doubt but that a most attractive pro-
gramme will be arranged. All agree that few
have a greater claim upon us than the widow of
poor Marcus Clarke. Just think, dear. Sheislef
with six children totally unprovided for, and has
bravely taken up her old profession (the stage) in
order that they may not be in want. But the liv-
ing is a precarious one, and, should no other
engagement offer when her present one in “Con-
fusion ” terminates-what then ? Oh, we surely
cannot blind ourselves to the fact that the case of
Mrs. Marcus Clarke is an extremely hard and cruel
one, and if ever I wished for anything with my
whole heart, it is to see a bumper house upon the
occasion of her benefit. . _
(Continued on next page.)


Annual Income exceeds One Mllllont
«W»*
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
:S$
Professional Directory.
HISCOCK8’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
' ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
W.
Sydney
HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’ Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
TO AMATEUR THEATRICALS— Scenery Sup-
plied or Lent. G. Perbiman, Scene Painter,
No. 7, back of Academy of Music, Castlereagh-st,
L .
Theatre rota
Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musqboyb.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager—Mr. H. H. Vincent.
Doors open at 7.15, commerce 7.45. Carriages, 10.45.
Eighth Week, and established Success of the
Royal Dramatic Company.
THIS EVENING, at a quarter to 8 precisely,
Sardou’s famous Society Comedy Drama,
FRIENDS FRIENDS
FRIENDS FRIENDS
with a „
BRILLIANT CAST and GORDON’S SCENERY.
Furniture and appointments from Hamilton aud
Co. Globe Furniture Warehouse, Park and Castle-
reagh-streets.
Prices of Admission: Dicss Circle, 5s.; Stalls,
3s.; Family Circle, 2j. A ,
Tickets tor all parts of the house at Eastway s
Hotel. Box office open daily from 11 till 4.
SATURDAY, April 4, CRIMES OF PARIS,
NEW OPERA HOUSE.
Lessees, Messis. F. Majeroni and W, J. Wilson.
Under the Management of Kignold and Allison.
Stage Manager, J. F. Catho.irt.
FIFTH WEEK CONFUSION.
George Augustus Sala on “ Confusion “ 1
defy the veriest stoic in the way of self-command
to restrain a smile, and I myself plead guilty to
laughing boisterously.”
EVERY EVENING, at 8 15,
Rignold and Allison’s Selected Comedy Company.
Plan at Huenerbelu’S. Treasurer, G. A. Coleman.
OF MUSIC,
Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
C A D B M Y
Lessee and Manager
43rd Week, and Continued Success of
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION
Every Evening in their Refined and Amusing
Entertainment.
Terminating with the Burlesque Italian Opera,
“ Out Wagnering Wagner,” called LONE GRIN.
Admission, 4s., 3s., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at
Paling’s. Carriages at 10.15.
jyj-ATTHE WS’ WORLD CIRCUS
■*" CONGRESS OF ARENIC MARVELS.
Sole Proprietor Theodore Matthews.
Business Manager R. H. Bernard.
Equestrian Director . . ... W. Barlow.
S
THIRD WEEK. ESTABLISHED SUCCESS.
To-night, To night, and until further notice, at the
corner of Pitt and Park Streets, another grand
change of programme. New Faces, New Acts,
Received nightly with the greatest acclamations
of delight. Universal verdict: The best Circus
organisation that has visited Sydney eai ’S’
The performance will conclude each evening
with a glorious PANTOMIME, arranged by Mr.
Theodore Matthews, played by the peoples
favourites, the MATTHEWS
New thoroughbred, and highly-trained horses
and ponles Doors open at 7.15 overture at 8 sharp
Million Prices—3s., 2?., and One Shilling. Day
performances- Wednesdays and Saturdays. Look
out for our Easter programme. , .
N.B.—The performance terminates in time for
all suburban trains. GEORGE LEE, Agent.
YDNBY OWL CLUB.
gardemparty
Will take place
THURSDAY, the 9th APRIL,
at the
Sir Joseph Banks’ Gardens,
BOTANY.
Tickets—Double, 30l; Gent.'s, 21s.; Lady’s. 12s. 8d.;
can be procured from any ol the Board of
Management.
MORRIS MENSER. Hon. Sec.,
384 George-street.
|sw~ Special return tram, 11.30 p.m.
T.
s
Lessees ...
GEORGE’S HALL,
Melbourne.
Ciark and Ryman.
OPEN ALL THE YEAR ROUND.
First-class Artists, Novelties, Combinations—
either Musical, Dramatic, Minstrel, or Operatic—
treated with.
Silence a respectful negative. ...
This popular place of amusement is now in its
full tide of success—houses packed to the-doors
nightly. Pronounced by the Press, public, and
profession to be the best entertainment ever seen
in Melbourne.
Notice— The title of ‘’Red Stockings” has
been duly registered, and anyone infringing this
title will be prosecuted according to law.
JOHN TORNING,
Business Manager.
u
PROP. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Wedding?,, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castlereagh-street, near Bathurst-street. P.8.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
suring floor, &c. No decorations required.
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL, GOULBURN.
THIS handsome Bijou Theatre, completely re-
modelled, is fitted with every convenience,
and has one of the best stages in the colony (50 x
30), is now open for engagement on very moderate
terms. Seats comfortably in dress circle, 250; pit
and stalls, 500. The population of the city is nearly
9000, and the Hall, which is now the most popular
place of amusement, is situated in the most cen-
tral position of the main street. Mr. Charles
Turner, of the Montague-Turner Opera Company,
says:—” The Hall I consider second to none in New
South Wales. The acoustics are good; the stage
and dressing-room accommodation is superior to
any Hall in the colony. Applications addressed to
M. E. PULLEN, Secretary, will receive prompt
attention.
SEA-SICKNESS CURED.
DR. BUKER’S
SPECIFIC AGAINST
Sea, Slclsaaesc
Never failing to give relief to those who suffer
from this most distressing malady. Stopping im-
mediately all nausea, and enabling you to enjoy
the pleasures of the voyage.
.Agents on board all steamers.
SOLE AGENTS:
G1IE5S & CO.,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, 8YDNEV.
The Seat of War in the
Soudan.
A MAP, showing the routes between Suakim,
Khartoum, and Dongoia, with notes of the
latest events, and four local Sketch Maps, has Just
been compiled and printed from the most authen-
tic sources.
Copies are now published, folded in cover,
price Is.; to be obtained at the Surveyor-General s
Brav-ch Office, Robin Hood Lane, off George-
street.
P. F. ADAMS,
, Surveyor-General.
Surveyor-General's Office,
'Sydney, 26th March, 1885.
WANTED two Professional LADIES to play
with the Maitland Garrick Dramatic Club
on 22nd, 23rd, and 24th of April next. Apply,
stating terms (less expenses), to S. A. Fitzgerald,
Secretary, High-street, West Maitland.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 1st April, 1886.
Tenders lor public works and sup-
plies—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the succesaluJ
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of tho Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
F. A. WRIGHT.
HORDERN’S
ON THE
33ric3s:&elcL Sill.
on STAY ill tin DEPARTMENT.
/(?
CD
Ok
uO
A\
fl.Ml
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Pkee of Charge.
Nursing aid Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPERM DUSKS),
2s. lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. Gd., 4s. lid., 5s. Gd., 6s. Gd., 7s. 6d., 8s. Gd., 3s. Gd., 10s. Gd., 12s 6d
EDWARD HORDERN AND IONS, 668, Brickfield Hill.
N.B.—Orders from the Country will receive immediate and careful attention.
(Continued from page 16.)
t fUDDOse, dear, when the Princess Beatrice gets
orripd she will leave school. For, you know, she
Skes lessons in different branches of study every
least, she did before she made up her mind
married: but, I suppose, now all her thoughts
be given up to her trousseau. But really she
ro be very accomplished, and has composed
80^o 8 nrettv music, they say, besides which she has
?ately P adde y d“he «t of photography to her other
accomplishments; so, now aren t you glad you
mv advice and procured a camera? And,
oM lXays forlot to tell you that if you are
nuzzled over anything concerning your pictures,
Send to Bray and Lichtner for one of their books,
which will explain everything on the subject ot
photography. A nice pastime, isn t it ?
We are promised an infinite variety of amuse-
ments for the Easter holidays, and * *Jl®
now two circuses in town, you see the little ones
have not been forgotten. It is as good as a play
to see their eyes brighten as they spell eut the
wonderful things the posters around Chiannis
circus promise them. I wonder, dear, If there is,
or ever was, such a monstrosity as a child who
didn’t love a circus ? And what an abominable
little piece of unimpressionable humanity it must
he did such a thing exist. I am sure I couldnt
love it. could you? Oh! the thousands of sweet
recollections the smell of the circus sawdust
brings back to one! And not only the sawdust,
but even the jokes of the clown carries us back to
childhood’s days sometimes; and its so pleasant,
dear, for as soon as the jester opens his mouth you
know what’s coming, so you aren’t under the ne-
cessity of racking your brain in order to see the
point. Oh! it’s quite delightful, I assure you.
Ever your loving
MAB.
A correspondent from the far West writes
tons as follows:—“I wish to congratulate The
Bulletin oa getting a ‘.special’ away with the ]
Soudan Contingent (or madness). Also on your
consistent opposition to the affair. I am happy to
call myself an Australian, and would up arms
to defend my native land, or if England was in
want of assistance for a Just cause—but the Sou-
danl! Only helping to commit an injustice. All
capers from Sydney and Melbourne, bar yours,
make out a general agreement about Dailey send-
ing the troops. But I a njcertain if a ballot of the
colony was taken, the majority would be the other
way I suppose it is high treason for me, a Govern-
ment servant, to say this, and I would have tj
leave if the powers that be knew. But it is more
true than otherwise, and they will And it out in
COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT OF SYDNEY.
Thebe Is no better commentary upon the mer-
cantile extension of Sydney than the rapid growth
and establishment of Individual business, and the
most trustworthy criterion of our commercial
prosperity is to be found in the flourishing ex-
istence amongst us of firms, by name and reputa-
tion “ familiar in our mouths as household words,”
throughout the length and breadth of the colonies.
Of this annually-increasing number, few are more
widely and more favourably known by the Aus-
tralian public than the house of Beale and Com-
pany (Sydney and Brisbane), the enterprising
importers of the *• Hapsburg” Piano, the “ Haydn”
Organ, and the “ Wertheim” Sewing Machine-
goods originally introduced by themselves, and
now so universally used and appreciated as to
need no commendation. As an Illustration Of
rapid yet steady progress, it is instructive to fol-
low the course of this firm from its commence-
ment, only five years ago, in a very small way, at
George-street Markets, with but two employees,
to its present full tide of success. At this moment
Messrs. Beale and Company count their staff not
by units but by hundreds. In addition to their
extensive warehouses in Pitt-street, they ha\ e
five separate show-rooms in the busiest thorough-
fares of the city; branch establishments and
show rooms in ten of the largest towns j and
representatives throughout New South Wales and
Queensland. The avenue to honourable success
in business-granting the needful intelligence and
energy for its conduct—is not far to seek, as the
foregoing statement clearly shows. Messrs. Beale
and Company staked their business reputation
upon the sterling qualities of the goods which
they offered to the Australian public ; and the
result, made evident not alone by an enormous
and ever-increasing trade, but by the numberless
kind letters of approval with which they are daily
favoured by their constituents, has ever attended,
and ever will attend upon honest effort and un-
wearied perseverance.*
Clergymen, lawyers, editors, bankers and
ladies need Hop Bitters daily, for nerve force.
Head.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and pare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated witt
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 60i Hunter-street, Sydney.
Only an evening party, only a dreamy dance.
Only a man and a maiden, who had ]ust met by
chance, , . ,
Only a few words spoken, in a quiet place apart.
But ho I ’twas the Summerfleld trousers that cap-
tured the maiden’s heart.*
Osman Digna defeated at Hasheen, re-
treats to Tamai, followed by the troops of General
Graham. Our Australian forces are displayed in
the windows and our four showrooms, and there
you will see General Dinnerset, Captains Tea and
Breakfast Service, Lieutenants Dessert and Toilet-
sets, and host of Privates known by tne name of
China, Glass, and Delf. Review ground, Bray
Bros , 402 and 404 George-street.*
“ Carpe Diem ” is an old Roman aphorism,
which literary means, pluck the day, but which
literally translated implies, seize the opportunity.
It is a lesson, “short, sharp, and decisive,” and
serves as an antidote to the common complaint
known as procrastination. Walt not, therefore,
until the vitality is lost, appetite gone, debility,
dyspepsia, and kirdred ailments appear before
using Wolfe s Schnapps. Be sure you obtain
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The best thing to give your enemy is for-
giveness; to an opponent, tolerance; to a friend,
your heart ; to a father, deference; to your
mother, conduct that will make her proud of you;
to yourself, respect; and to your children the
pretty suits sold by Summerfleld and Company,
which will make them your pride and joy. The
largest stock of Juvenile clothing in Australia, all
imported direct from their London house, 51 and
53, Leadenhali-street. Strong school suits at 8s lid
andlOsCd; superfine tweeds and worsteds. 12s 6d
andlSs. 6d. All sizes in trouser suits, 21s, 25s, and
27s 6d; all wool diagonals, 27s 6d. Summerfleld
and Company, the Great Juvenile Outfitters, 235
tmd 237 Pitt-street, Sydney.*


MR. MARCHANT’S LEG.
The only thrilling item of interest in the
dally papers on Saturday last was the good fortune
of Mr. Marchant, and the evil fate of his leg. The
first dawn of that gentleman’s bereavement came
hy cablegram In the terms which followIntel-
ligence from Suaklm states that a Mr. Marchant, a
resident of Adelaide, who Is serving in the Boyal
Marines, has been wounded in the leg In one of
the recent engagements with the Arabs.” Atop
of this announcement is the later intelligence that
“the wound sustained by Marchant of the Marines
is not of a serious character.” Now, here Is gory
news to be dignified by being made the subject of
two cablegrams, first from Egypt to London, and
afterwards from London to the various Australian
capitals. Fortunate Mr. Marchant I Till then f
probably, only a select few knew that such a per-
son as Mr. Merchant had his habitat on the mun-
dane sphere, and possibly no one knew or con-
jectured that he gloried In the positive possession
of such a thing as a leg. Now, by the medium of
the utilitarian wire which spans the world’s
waist with a girdle, everyone Is In possession
of the cheering knowledge, not only that Mr.
Merchant has a leg, but that this same leg-
inheriting, as it were, all the traditional
military prowess of the[43nd Foot—(with apolo-
gies to Tom Hood), has sustained a wound
which Is not destined to be mortal. Smacking
one’s lips over such creamy intelligence as this,
inclines us to pity the desert lives of those great
statesmen who urge that they never, by any mis-
chance, read the papers. And yet the news Is
tantalising in its insufllolenoy. Why were not the
interesting details of the misadventure also
copiously transmitted by cablegram ? Our yearn-
ing appetites are fain to take solace in imagina-
tion, and we pen this diary of diversified disaster
as our idea what the log of the leg would be.
la.m.: Feel a tingling sensation on the loft shin
Illustrated by a semi-palpable abrasion, which the
Surgeon-Major says must have been caused either
by Private O’Qrady’s blucher boots, or by a
malicious memUiance of the shin-bone with an
Arab lady’s toenail. Most probably the latter
which would have occurred while I lay colled up
inside the big drum watching the battle yesterday,
when women and children fought in the ranks of
the Arabs. 2 a.m.: Hobbled away to the war corres.
pondent of the Standard, and gave him full par-
ticulars and a pipe of ’baoca, In return for which he
promised to have the sad news cabled round the
world, and, should the accident terminate fatally,
he also pledges himself to communicate the fact
that I died like a Briton—* with my martial cloak
around me.’ How unlike the Pressmen I knew
in Adelaide I Tobacco could not bribe them—
nothing short of rum, and even that In long
measure. 3 a.m.: Observed a fly (a real Egyptian
fly) hovering near the abrasion: am told by com-
rades (some of whom served 1 i *he Crimea, and
others In the Indian Mutiny), rut this is a sure
sign of mortification. Alas, that unequal con-
test Great is engaged in, since even the
Arabs' toenails contain poison. 4 a.m.: Two more
files Just arrived at the vicinity of my wound;
amputation almost certain; have lain awake this
last hour subduing the pain of the wound in cal.
culatlng the probable pension for loss of half a
leg—at the very least it should be a C.M.G.-
ship and £600 a-year. 5 a.m,: .The Major
peeped In just in a friendly way to in-
struct mo to hold my leg In readiness for am.
putation at 3 o’clock this evening. What a fellow
the doctor is for the saw! Luckily, my head
wasn’t Injured, or I verily believe he’d want to
amputate it, and then I should be fit for nothing
better than a member of the South Australian
Legislature, where, I flatter myself, I would not
be such an ass as to help Bray. 9 a.m.: Four hours
have elapsed, during which I slept soundly, while
the surgeon’s assistant has been warding off the
flies with an umbrella. 12 a.m.: Quite recovered;
my cracked member as good as ever, which the
war correspondent says is another splendid ex-
ample of Australian fortitude and endurance.
Gave him some more ’bacoa and my day’s
allowance of rum. Magnanimous man! He
accepted them both! 1 a.m.: Feel quite low-
spirited. No amputation ; no pension. Just
like my confounded luck! Private O’Grady
has just called in and threatened me that next
time I come direct from the canteen and fall asleep
at his tent door to trip him, he’ll kick me hard
enough to make]the Surgeon-Major swear that an
abnormally-hoofed elephant has been making a
football of my shin. Have just run round to the
war correspondent with some more rum, which I
borrowed to * square ’ him from contradicting the
cable he first sent.” . . The concluding tribute to
Mr. Marohant’s heroic leg cannot better be for-
mulated than in poetry of the lamest description
So, let us jingle:—
What do you say to this for ingenuity ?
Andrew Dewar, of Adelaide, took two children
from the Destitute Asylum under the boarding:,
out regulations. He was brought before the
Bench the other day for keeping them—like two
little dogs—in an open cask in the back yard. Yet,
was he not true to the letter of his agreement ?
They were to bo boarded out, and he had boarded
them out. If he had had casks enough, he would
have been content to board out the whole Asylum
in a similar fashion. The Beuch considered that a
man of such a subtle wit as Andrew could afford
to pay a fine of 30s. It was paid. We should not
care to have been in the place of those two or-
phans when Andrew came home that day. Prob-
ably he has since put them into a tank. There is
much good in this boarding-out system, but it has
its little defects.
The pride of Geelong (Vio.) ia a boy called
Alexander Robertson, Alexander la a jockey,
with wonderful luck, which is locally attributed
to the fact that he is erecting a villa for his aged
mother out of his winnings. Even the horses he
rides are supposed to respect this filial piety, and
run to win in consequence. It Is so much better
to be the mother of a jockey than the mother of a
Journalist, as a villa is more comfortable for con-
tinual residence than a hen-coop.
From the Lismore Chronicle we learn
that “ business people are complaining of slack-
ness and scarcity of cash.” The slackness, we hear
from a respectable resident, has been notorious
for many years, barring such occasions as the
first of the month, when, we hear from trustwor-
thy local Civil servants, the delivery of “To account
rendered” is done with an expertness almost metro-
politan, and frequently bordering on the adroit.
That effectually deals with the slander of slack-
ness; but to the scarcity of cash we have nothing
to say. The phrase is unintelligible.
It is not eveiyone of our readers who has
seen Windorah. Everyone, It is true, stands a
chance of seeing as hot aplace sometime, but it Is
not for heat alone that Windorah is remarkable.
Neither does it claim special distinction for the
consistency of its water. Other places also have
water that you oan roll up in a ball and sit on. Nor
does it demand immortality on account of the
purity of its whisky. The proportion of kerosene
to the pint there is aboutthesameas thatgenerally
obtainable in other western towns. What Win-
dorah lays particular stress upon, and what it
looks to as being the attribute that will differen-
tiate it from every place else, is its moral consis-
tency. Windorah knows that it gets drunk and
fights. It admits these to be moral lapses. It does
not, however, rest idle after the admission, as
inconsequential reasoners might do. It straight-
way applies for police, for magistrates, ana for a
lookup. It insists that Government shall hurry
forward with this chest of medicines. Now, that
is consistency in a high state of development. If
Windorah had taken the other plan and given up
drinking and lighting—well, the consistency would
not shine so I
After all is reckoned up, the “ utterly im-
possible” is a far scarcer commodity than most of
us imagine. There are things so hard (jurors’
beads, for instance) that even the kick of a mule
cannot break them; things so tough that even the
stomach of an emu cannot digest them, and there
is a thing called fulsome flattery which can be
made so thick that even the Nooze hesitates be-
fore polluting its pages with it. And a very fair
sample of the latter article comes from Alfred s
Dead Dog Gully correspondent, who writes as
follows:—“ The krops up here are getting very
Dry; principally because of the want of rain.
Great indignation is expressed here at the un-
seemly fuss made in Sydney by the mayor and
others over George Sala, whose writins are pro-
nounced exkrabil when placed by the side of the
leaders in the News, or the grand old Jernil. As
a wit this Sala is not to be kompared tothe slashln
Brevity-writer; as an art critic, he is not fit to be
mentioned with the Jkrnil’s musical reporter,
and yet no notice whatever is taken of these illus-
trious geniuses, who form the opinion of the
colony, by the officious undesoernlng Magnates of
the Metropolis. Dead Dog Gully is grateful for
your favours, however, for although we are.told
no man is a profit in his own country—(Query.
How about the Mardy ?)-still, give us pur NEWS
and Jernil giants, and we care nothing for all the
Salas, and Laboucheres, and Simses, and Forbses
in the world. God bless the grand old Jernil.
Frank says he’d print that lot if he was quite sure
it wasn’t meant to be sarcastic.
The “Lay of the Last Minstrel” we saw*
was to snavel our umbrella out of the passage*
He came and played before us; afterwards asking
for gold. And while we went round to the public
house to change a £1060 note he asked the servant
to go downstairs for some dripping, as he wanted
to grease his zither. He was, however, detected,
but escaped. We expect, though, he will even-
tually get 75 years, since we are creditably in-
formed the police are on the track, and that the
detectives have obtained a clue. And this is about
next to seeing a man in the dock, his ankles em-
bellished with half-ton fetters. Seeing that Last
Minstrel reminded us, somehow, of David, who
used to play before Saul. They are both dead. It
will be remembered that while the performance
was going on, Saul would aim several times
at David with pikes. Now, why did he aim at
David with pikes ? This involves a serious ques-
tion for consideration. Was it because David was
such an abominable player ? Perhaps. Then, if so,
how do you reconcile this, with the fact of David
being so often commanded to give his entertain-
ment before Saul ? Gazed at calmly and dispassion-
ately, it seems but a feeble amusement for a king to
engage a harper merely to throw pikes at,
especially as being such a shocking bad aim, he
could never hit him. On further consideration, it
dawns on us, after all, there was some method in
Saul's madness. If, for instance, the Ultimo band
would consent to play before us, and permit us to
throw pikes at it, our terms would border on the
munificent. To pursue the subject, Herod, now
—-[Too diffuse— Ed. B.l
A cheerful missionary—the Rev. G. Spen-
cer Oakes—has been writing his “ Notes of Travel ”
in the Wilcannla Times. And very entertaining
reading they are. The reverend gentleman had
accepted the hospitality of a tank-sinker for a
night, and refers to the fact in the following strain
of subdued humour “ Having noticed that
H.R.H. the Queen of England and Empress of
India generally marks her sense of gratitude by
giving those she admires the most a copy of
•Leaves from my Journal of Life in the High-
lands,’ I thought I could not do better than pre-
sent my friend with a number of the * Bush Mes-
senger,’ which I did.” There is a good deal of the
Me and Her Majesty style here; but, we daresay,
Mr. Oakes was right. We have seen the Royal
work and we have seen the “ Bush Messenger,"
and of the two we would rather read the latter.
But, if we had our choice between reading either
and sitting through a minstrel show, we think we
would even take our lives in our hands and sit
through the show.
We have heard of a lot of cautious men>
but the editor of the Kapunda Something ex-
hibits an amount of caution that is so extreme as
to be more nearly akin to mental blindness than to
circumspection and reserve. This, from a recent
issue, is an instance in point:—“Drowned in the
Murray.—We heard late on Thursday, but the news
lacks confirmation, that a lad named Samuel
Daniels, aged 15, was drowned in the Murray on
Tuesday. The deceased was the son of a farmer
living near the township, and attended the Morgan
Subllc school. During the dinner hour at mid day,
•aniels went into the river for a bathe, and was
drowned. The body was recovered the same
evening.” There, the boy was 15, his name
was Samuel Daniels, he was drowned during dinner
hour, and his body was recovered. And yet, for-
sooth, the report “lacks confirmation.” What
further assurance can be given. Would the scribe
desire that the boy’s ghost should return to give
evidence ? Such a careful writer as this is lost in
South Australia, he should come to New South
Wales; not even a jury of four could slate him for
libel.
The E. News announces the publication
of a small pamphlet with the cheering title of a
“Pension for Everybody.” It is written by “a
practical philosopher,” and the E.N. sees hope
looming, “ The working man, whether the pick-
and-shovel man, or the editor of a newspaper,
would feel a solace for his labour in the thought
that week after week he was piling up a little
treasure, which would enable him to pass his
declining years in comfort.” For the working
man we have every sympathy in such matters, and
can never urge thrift too much. But for the
editor we draw the line. The proposal that he
should look forward to comfort is revolutionary.
What? Are all the old landmarks to be washed
away ? The old historic red nose, the seedy coat,
the battered hat, and the traditionary boot that
has for generations been the Paradise or journalism
—all this to be frustrated, and the literary man to
sit down in a carpeted room, with all the enfeeb-
ling surroundings of a curtain and pictures.
Never. The labourer shall go down to old age in
plenty, but the editor shall reach the old haven,
or the country is undone.
It takes something to startle us, as a rule.
But even our iron nerve (pronounced equal to
that of a book-canvasser by eminent scientific
men, whom we have Interviewed at various times)
almost deserted us the other day, when we took
up a paper and saw a grisly death’s head and
cross-bones with the legend “ Sickness and death
by drinking.” We had half a bottle of rum on
the table at the time, and we can tell you wo were
so much affected by this fearful warning that we
straightway took the bottle up and emptied it.
Where we emptied it has nothing to do with the
purpose of this paragraph. Then we looked at
the advertisement again, and laughed till the flies
fell off the ceiling mien we saw that the legend in
full read, “Sickness and death by drinking—im-
pure water.” The two concluding words were
printed in an obscure corner—probably out of
malice. This little anecdote will show the folly of
hasty readings. If we had not looked at that ad-
vertisement (it was an advertisement after all) we
might now be called Brother, by Abigail and
Ninian Melville.
The liberty of the subject is being trifled
with in Wagga, and the right of the heathen In-
vader being backed up by the might of a per-
verted jurisprudence. John Barratt, up that way.
had been refreshing himself in the manner born
in the British subject, and, as he strolled genially
along cogitating where to stick up a little more of
the nutritious beverage which takes the place of
food, he espied Ah Shing with a basket of
fruit. This was too much. Here was Barratt, a
descendant of a race that bled at Crecy and
Waterloo, and left bleached bones on the bloody
Elains of India, compelled to wander about in the
ot sun with only a gallon of beer rapidly oozing
out of his pores, and no means of stopping the
evaporation wlta another quart—and there was an
almond-eyed, pig-tailed savage raking in money at
every door. It was too much. He felt it was
time a beginning should be made, so he kicked
John’s baskets over the earth, and I31b. of plums
and 101b. of grapes went flying into the gutters. The
ungrateful heathen went for him with a bamboo,
but could not catch him. A Bench, however, who
has no sympathy with Chinese extermination,
fined him £5 10s., with alternative of four months
in gaol. It’s enough to make a man leave the
country.
He was wealthy and pious, and was also
the proprietor in fee simple of a pub. which he
had leased to a publican and fellow sinner. As
frequently happens in such cases, the lessor and
lessee were on bad terms with each other, and on
one occasion, when the rent was a day or two
overdue, the former put a bum. in possession of
the fixings for the rent, and then calmly went
home to conduct family worship. The publican
fired great guns, loaded with red-hot expletives,
after the godly man, and, having cooled his coo-
pers with a quart of XXXXX, he hied him forth to
consult his lawyer on the rights of the case. The
man of law, who was also a man of many wiles,
said it was a clear case of needs must when some-
body drives, and the only way out of the difficulty
was to pay the bum. in full, and get rid of him.
But—a. lawyer is usually as full of buts as a
brewery—before paying his next quarter, the pub-
lican was advised to come back, and the firm
would probably put him up to a wrinkle or two
worth knowing. Two or three days before rent-
day, accordingly, the beer-pump puller had a six-
and-eightpenny chat with his adviser, and this is
what happened: On rent-day morning the oub.
proprietor got an invitation to wait on his Excel-
lency the Governor that day at noon, at Govern-
ment House. Having looked up a suitable text
for such an auspicious occasion—" Seest thou a
man diligent in business,” &c.-the Invited one
donned a dickey and a swallow-tail, and obeyed
the august decree. During his absence the publi-
can, with a witness, called at his house to pav the
rent exactly as the clock struck 13, but finding he
was absent, and not expected back for some
time, the publican said he would call again at a
more convenient season. About an hour after
wards the pub. owner returned to the bosom of
his family, groaning inwardly at the practical Joke
some wicked son of Belial had played him in the
Governor’s name, He was so vexed and grieved
in spirit at. the curt reception he had met with
that he forgot all about his rent for several davs
At last he remembered, and put the bailiff in
possession once more, and then the fun becan fast
and furious. First came an injunction from the
Supreme Court, then a writ for a thousand pounds
damages for illegal distraint. The bailiff, crest-
fallen. had to retire minus the rent and charges
and a lawsuit, which lasted three years coml
menced soon after, and cost the godly man nearly
as much as the pub. was worth altogether, before
he heard the last of it, while the victorious publi-
can kept possession till the end of the lease and
the cause celehre was worth hundreds of pounds to
him simply as an advertisement. When the lease
was out he built a bran new hotel opposite, and
the old pub. lost its license and is now worth the
price of a few cords of firewood. The mistake
this good man made was not being at home
exactly at noon on rent day to receive his rent as
specified in the lease, “ M
When the last terrific battle
Took the Mahdi down a peg—
Its only casualty
A scratch on Marchant’s leg—
Did the colonial Hannibal
Emit a single squeal,
When he, like great Achilles,
Was wounded in the heel ?
Gad! how resentment rages.
And how revenge will rankle,
If dangerous symptoms show
In Mr. Marchant’s ankle I
And should our hero hobble
With his shin-bone in a crease.
Remit him back to Adelaide
To join its “ foot ” police.
What, we believe, the cause
Of this damage to his shin—
His skin, like this intelligence,
Is just a trifle thin.
Climatic, philolo^o* 1 * , ....
In cause; and thes e he traced, did he,
In manner clear a n j*
Back to the Tower o f Babel.
These causes made a change In man—
But many differences could
Be traced to difference of food.
He said (and so did Savarin,
Who wrote—all works completing—
The Holy Writ of Eating).
Thus the salt junk which a ship’s crew fills,
Or the thin diet of the gaol,
Compared with turtle soup, or quail
On toast, or turkey stuffed with truffles,
Would make—as daily rations—
A change—in generations.
Therefore his bright idea was
To feed the discontented poor
On wine, and fruit, and confiture,
And fish, and flesh, and game, because
The thing to keep them quiet
Was rich (and regular) diet.
His book was brought out bravely, with
His portrait on the title page—
A most respectable old sage
He looked, and fit—this Mr. Smith—
To treat on any topic,
However philanthropic.
The critics were exceeding kind.
Said that the book was erudite,
Exhaustive, shed a novel light
On problems of the heart and mind,
Which had been fully sifted
By Smith—the great and gifted.
This praise aroused the ire of Jones,
Who had grown wrinkled in a strife
With this same subject all his life.
And so he cried in thunder-tones
(To friends): “ I’ll write forthwith, sirs,
A book will smash this Smith, sirs.”
“ If I did not love mankind more
Than this Impostor Smith,” he said,
“ Why, gentleman—I’d eat my head I
A gifted sage!—a dreary bore!
Philanthropist!—pbllhell, sirs.
Why he can’t even spell, sirs!”
So Jones he went and wrote a book,
Proving the facts of Smith were myths—
And it was twiee as big as Smith’s,
And, like a house of cards, it shook
To pieces poor Smith’s fable
About the Tower of Babel.
THE TWO PHILANTHROPISTS.
HEBE was a great philanthropist,
Whose name was Smith. He wrote a book,
In which he proved, by hook and crook,
And many a dialectic twist,
Men should be to each other
As brother unto brother.
The enmities of race and creed,
The quarrellngs of kin and kith,
Were all denounced by Mr. Smith,
Who held that men—he did indeed—
Shou I live in loving kindness ;
All else was rage and blindness.
M uklnd was one great family :
. Le shades of difference were all
And most sardonic were the tones
In which it called Smith’s notions crude,
And at his theory of food
O bitter were the Jests of Jones,
Who liked to show his plastic
Command of the sarcastic.
Of satire he had quite a store.
And he in using it was free;
Where Smith said men should brothers be
Jones said they were— and furthermore
That all the wars of nations
Proved men were blood relations.
This volume was the epitaph
Of Smith’s. It was in huge demand;
Ev’n Zachary Barry read it, and
Remarked benignly to his staff
Thereon, “ I love, I hope, sirs.
All men—but d—n the Pope, sirs.”
The Sydney Morning Herald said
The book, when it came out, became
Classic—the Echo said the same;
The Shroud explained it to the dead.
But real fame came when it
Was praised by Alfred Bennett.
But all at once Jones disappeared.
In vain they sought him, high and low
(And Smith had disappeared also,
Which made the thing look strange and weird),
He left no clue behind him
Whereby his find him.
Weeks came and went. Moons waxed and waned
And filled the year. Their kin and kith
Forgot at last both Jones and Smith,
Until some Irishmen, who strained
Intelligences stellar
In clearing out a cellar.
Found two grim skeletons. One grasped
A volume vast, whose title ran,
“ The Love of Universal Man
The other to bis gaunt ribs clasped
A book on the same topic—
“ Smith on the Philanthropic.”
They took out gently these poor bones,
Which were identified forthwith
(A spade had done the deed for Smith,
A pick stuck in the skull oi Jones).
And laid them under clover,
And put a headstone over—
Where you can see (it still exists)
A legend telling how they died.
And these few words: “ Here side by side
Lie two renowned philanthropists.
Who proved each man a brother
By poleaxing each other.”


T iiCK TaoifPSON,
A.J.O. OIGAE DIVAN AND HAIE-DRES8ING SALOON,
91 King-street.
I3F” N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
READ THIS I
A Single Watch at Manufao
taring Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and Jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 lOs. each,
Warranted for three years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 P/tl-sf., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
Black Swan Hotel.
GREENWELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
bunting. Good Stabling, Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
gassed. The magnlflclent s.s. Illawarra, leaves
o'clock 6Very Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
I non DOMESTIC PAPER FASHIONS
JL Vf vrvF shown in our Illustrated Catalogue
Price, Threepence ; by Post, Foubpenob.
CHAP P E~L & CO.,
Late Johnston & Go.,
Paper Pattern and General Sewing-machine
Agency
746 GEORGE ST., HAYmArKET, SYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and all fittings, &c., kept in
stock.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GENT.’S so, is. 6d.; 100, 2s. 6d.
50, 2s. Od.; ICO, 3& Od.
Address, 6d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. 6d.; 250, 6s. 6d.; 500, 10s.; 1000, 16s.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
TEE lECnm CO.
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
M. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSI ORAL HAIRDRESSERS ,
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
From the Strand, London.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 354 and 356 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment. alIa *
EV % t ’o^. l oMfd™nfb 7 ““eiicut t rti, i ° U °‘“ Tie<i ° n t0r the benelH 01 th » >»te Mr.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manager.
(J. A. ROBERTS. . R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. Q. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
. mm, d MED IB]
Importers of
i MINmo ’
i * *
1
BAR, PLATE. SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACK8
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
iiMER-rr?
■"IB
!:
PORTABLE, FIXED
and SEMI-FIX ED EN-
GINES
VERTICAL and HORI-
ZONTAL BOILERS
S TEAM and
PUMPS
other
LATHES. PLANING,
SHAPING, SCREW-
BfllbCUf ING, and DRILLING
MACHINES
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, &o.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office
- 64 YORK STREET.
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR,
SYDNEY.
- 85 GRAOEOHURCH ST,
Qiticura
VI'
■a*
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
&
Scrofula on Neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
Disfiguring humors, Humiliating Emp
lions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticuba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticuba and Cuticuba Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautitiers, externally.
Burning: Skin
’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Diseases,
Itching: and
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both saxes, instantly relieved by a wajm bath
•with Cuticuba Soap and a single application of
Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticuba Resolvent,
ivill speedily cure,Itching Diseases of the Skin and
j%.alp, when all other means absolutely fail
.A Popular Work on the Skin,
-with -C&lored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
..cmiily sworn to before the British Consul, whicli
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
.of ray disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
Jbook, “How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.’’
Austbalian Consignees,
ft. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fler, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Gbeat Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
I nllummation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, la
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiera free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticuba Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.8.A.
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.
W.
PALING
AND CO. (Limited),
DIRECT ATTENTION TO THEIR UNRIVALLED STOCK
Pianos, Organs, Music, .
Comprising over 800 Instruments, by the BEST MAKERS, English, French, American
and German, in New and Elegant Designs, and with all the Latest Improvements.
Buyers have the opportunity of securing an
EXCELLENT and LASTING INSTRUMENT
AT A
VERY MODERATE PRICE,
Either for Cash or on the
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM I
EVERT INSTRUMENT GUARANTEED.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES POST FREE.
‘ H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALE?,


W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and SYDNEY.
Catalogues
POST FREE.
W. WALKER
and SONS
u
are one of the
Largest
Stockholders
Li-
ana
Manufacturers
WM
Hiffh-class
FURNITURE
ENGLAND.
Catalogues
POST FREE.
ALL STOCK
in their
‘.SYDNEY
HOUSE
Supplied
DIRECT
from their
Loudon
Manufactory,
and Latest
London Styles
GUJa^AKT^M)
SYDNEY BRANCH;
81 CLARENGE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robe Makers.
Trousers from 21s. to 40s.
|y N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER act Farmer and Co.
W. Sheabsby & Co., Albert House, Temple Court* Elizabetb-st.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ if you are suffering from poor health
‘or languishing’ on a bed of sickness,
‘takeeheor, for
Hop Bitters will cure you.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
* taxed yourself with your pastoral
* duties, or a Mother worn out with care
* and work,
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
“If yow are a man of business or
‘ labourer weakened by the strain of
* your avery-day duties, or a man ot let-
‘ ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
“ If you are suffering from overeating
‘ordrinking, any Indiscretion or disai-
‘ patlon, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, as is often the case,
Hop Bitters will relieve you.
“ If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
* that your system needs cleansing, ton-
* ing, or stimulating, witho ut inttoxicat-
‘ing
Hop Bitters is what yon need.
“If you are old, and your blood thin
‘ and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters will give yon new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS is an elegant, heal-
' thy, and refreshing flavouring for siok-
‘ room drinks : impure water, etc., ren-
‘ dering them harmless, and sweetening
‘ the mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for slckf-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
them harmless, sweetening the mouth, and cleans-
ing the stomach.
WeakNervousMen
Whoso debility, exhanated
powers, premature decay
and failure to perform life’*
duties properly aro caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THEMARSTON BOLUS.
Neither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Ncrvotu Beblllty and
Physical Decay is uniformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute thor.
ouahness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., BSCaitlcreagh St., Sydney
A Bazaar & Art Union
IN connection with the Union Masonic Lodge,
of Berrima, 981 B.C., In aid of the
WIDOW AND ORPHAN FOND,
under the patronage of the District Grand Master,
John Williams, Esq., of the District Grand Lodge,
English Constitution,
£7000 Worth off Works off
Art, Pictures, &c. ;
to be disposed of in Shares of £1 each on the Art
Union Principle, and to be drawn for at Moss Vale,
time and place of which will be given in public
Press, and the drawing will be under the super-
vision of the following gentlemen, who have
kindly offered to act
John Williams, Esq.
I. S Ponder, Esq.
Jas. Taylor, Fsq.
W. McCourt, Esq.
1st Prize—Picture, &c , valued at £2( 00
2nd— „ ., „ 1300
3rd— „ ,, i, TOO
4th- „ ,. 500
5th- „ „ „ 370
(Uh— „ ., 300
7th- „ „ 300
8th— ., „ 300
9lh— ,. „ ,. 200
10th- „ „ „ 300
llth- „ „ ,. 130
13 th— ., „ „ UH)
13th— „ „ „ 100
14th— ,. „ .. 100
From 14 to 24—10 prizes of £20 each,
100 Prizes—Pictures, valued at £3 each.
Tickets will bo forwarded by the Secretary, on
receipt of £1.
J. S. HYAM8,
Hon. Secretary,
Moss Valo.
EAU DE COLOGNE,
4711 4711.
Established 1792.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1872; Prize Modal, Vienna, 1873
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 33 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exnibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, s rtngtb,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the 31ite of
Europe.
The large and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau do Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number—4711 changed Into 7411,1147, 4117, &c , &c.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pitt-
street, Sydney.
To be bad at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
?nd Storekeepers, m town and country.
MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
Chapel Street, Prahran.
I consider there are no superior or moie reliable
Hop Bitters than those known as
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
JOHN COO KB, M.R.C.8., Eng., L.S.A., Lond.
Burgeon Alfred Hospital, Melb.
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS
WATCHES I
WHY be foolish, and buy a bad watch, which
is dear at any price, and gives no end of
trouble. If you buy one of
ROTHERHAM'S COMPENSATION BALANCE
AND JEWELLED WATCHES
from G QUANT, you will never want another, as
they are, without doubt, the Best Watches in the
market.
Guaranteed for 5 years. Price, only £6 10s.
Sent post free to any part of the country. Special
attention given to country orders.
c. GRANT, Watchmaker,
584 George Street. Sydney.
Established 1880.
iR.BURG.IS.Jn
[TAILOR [ (1/
1701
TRY BURG IS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from 16s. 6d. All garments nand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the chcauest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170PITT-8TREBT,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for seJV-measurlng
forwarded to any part of the colony
RflODINI,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS.
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms:-JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don; THOS. BLAND & SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London: W. POWELL & SON,
Birmingham; CHAS. OSBORNE & CO„ London.
G. B. M. is also AGENT for the eminent firm of
BUS8Y & CO., London.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
@02 George.st., Sydney,
Where Inspection is invited.
SOLE AGENT FOR THE
SMITH ORGAN 1 .
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
SOLE IMPORTER OP
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
-
a5=sL====~£
for Infants and Children
Castorla cures Colic, Constipation, ! • “Castorl a is so well adapted to children that
Sour Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation, | I recommend it as superior to any prescription
Gives healthy sloop and promotes digestion, ! known to me." IT. A. Archer, M. D., ■
Without injurious medication. j UJ Oxford Street, Few York. ]
Euiott Bros., Sydney, Agents.
“VICTORIA” OFNER BITTER-WATER,
The Best and Strongest Natural Aperient.
A Natural Fluid Magnesia, as a safe, ordinary, and gentle aperient in Inflammation
and Congestion, in Rheumatic and Gouty Disorders, against undue tendency to Fat
against Hannorrhoids, in Bilious Attacks and Disorders of the Liver. *
Nature’s Apebient Remedy during Pregnancy, and in many Female Diseases- for
Habitual Constipation, in Organic Diseases resulting from fatty degeneration, to remove
the consequences resulting from excess in diet, &o.
One wincgliissful will usually relieve the most distressing headache.
ONE BOTTLE OF “VICTORIA” IS EQUAL IN ITS EFFECTS TO TWO OF OTHER BITTPR
WATERS, HENCE IT IS MUCH CHEAPER. buu*.
In ca-res of Indigestion, Stomach and Liver Affections, Constipation, and other Derangements of the
System, as a Family Medicine this has no equal. v
Sold in Bottles at Is. 6d. and 2s. }
And may be obtained of any Chemist or Patent Medicine Vendor in the United Kingdom
Well, now! The governor of the London
Gaslight and Coke Company gives the cost of one
day of a London fog at £5350. This is a stiff
figure. But we should like to know the cost of
merely a Downlng-street for. Lord Derby is the
man to tell us this. We only want to know the
sum in round uumbers-that Is to say, In blood
and millions.
The Kapunda Herald (S.A.) thus delivers
its views on our Soudanese mania:— Speaking at
Orange. Mr. Dailey said that this day ‘would be
the first in our heroic history, and he would take
care that no material aid would be wanting to in-
vest it with all the circumstances of a national
festival, and all the grandeur of an historical
epoch.’ Mr. Dailey has evidently lost his head
over the Soudan business, Wo would like our
friends in New South Wales to look at this matter
seriously and not act upon the instincts of Da-
homev savages, because they have for the first
timo in their history entered upon a war. When
once the doors ol the Temple of Janus have been
opened, It becomes difficult to f P.® r "
manently closed. Mr. Dailey calls *1?® *
of the heroic history of this colony. We hope it will
bo the last. There Is not much to r eJ oic3 at m our
havinir begun this new historical epoch, at least in
a coSntry which professes Christianity, end we
hoped was beginning to look upon wars in their (rue
light. War Is an evil, say what one may about it.
It may sometimes be excusable, and has often
been necessary, but it Is and always has been o\ 11
a misfortune willingly or unwillingly undergone
in the hope of escaping another imagined
to be greater. If we choose to go back upon the
past and revive the thirst for military glory; to
make for ourselves what Mr. Dailey calls a heroic
history,’ to be written in blood and traced in ruin
we should at least understand that we decide to
do so without any coercion, almost purely out of
wantonness With wise, cool-headed, statesmen,
not ambitious to be great by all or any means. to
guide the destinies of these colonies, there should
be little danger of our ever going to war. In the
future, should the separation from the mother
country come, there would almost be none.
But If young Australia be taught to regard
war as a blessing and the great source of glory,
instead of the greatest scourge of mankind, the
era of peace may indeed be as far off from ua as it
is from the military nations of the world, we
cannot, therefore, understand why people should
rejoice because Australia has departed from her
manifest destiny-a destiny of peace. The occa-
sion should be marked in dark rather than bright
letters. And, be It observed, the day of the troops
departure was Invested ‘with alltbe circumstances
of a national festival and all the grandeur of an
historical epoch,’ not because New South Wales is
going to help England, but simply because she has
to some extent succeeded in getting U P
warfare. Having begun her history with indus-
trialism, she is anxious now to enter on a military
age; in other words, to Introduce a lower clvilisa-
tlqi} than she started with.”


GOOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX, *
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 GS-eorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
NO MORE CORNS I
CORNS AND removed without pair i
by the use of Palmer's Painless, Harmless,
and Effectual COHN AND WART REMOVER.
This p eparation is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If applied accord-
ing to the directions, it will effectually remove
them in from six to eiaht days.
PALMER’S
KL e f FACI/E CURA
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Load.
This most wonderful Preparation hrai surpassed
all others in speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It raatteis not
how long or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed in producing the desired re-
sults: and it can be most confidently recomne ided.
Sold retail by all chemists anc d'aiga:i8ts and
general stores; wholesale by Messrs. Slliott Bros.,
Sydney ; E. Prosser and Co., Sydney’ ; Felton,
tirimwade. and Co., Melbourne; Kcmpthorne and
Prosser, Dunedin.
NEUSTADT CO.,
COMPLETE
HO USB
FURNISHERS,
39,154, 156, & 158 J
SYDNEY.
HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
Either for Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
|y|ANHOOP RESTORED !
A Clergyman having tried every known
remedy for the Cuke of Nervous Exhaustion,
Premature Decay, &c , has at last discovered a
simple Self-Cure, which for the sake of suffering
humanity, bo will tend FREE the Prescription
which CURED him. Address, with self-addressee.
stamped envelope—
Dr. E. A CLARKE, P O. Box 293, Sydney.
ROWLANDS ODONTO is the best, pur-
est, and most fragrant preparation for the tsoth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom IVom
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly lir as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; su.Ch Row-
lands’ Odonto has always proved its«df to ho.
ROWLANDS* EUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet, powdar, and has
lately been much improved. Each box has inside
the ud a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwood,
Ph.D., F.C.8., &c. Sold in three tins : white, rose,
and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR. OIL can now
be also had In a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or goiden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ ar-
ticles, ot 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations
Wholesale and Retail Agents, Elliott Bros., E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Compagnonl’s.)
THF, undersigned, recognising the want of a
FIRST CLASS TAILORING ESTABLISH-
MENT, have OPENED the premises lately occu-
&ied by the Bank of Australasia, at 168 PITT-
TREET(THB WEST FND HODSF) where they
intend to carry on a High-class and Fashionable
Trade.
The public may feel assured that we shall be
able to maintain a high standard, when we state
that our Mr. Ward has had some years’ experience
in the best housis in Lo idon, Paris, as well as in
flrst-class Sydney Establishments, namely, Farmer
and Go ’s and David Jon?s and Co.’s.
Our Mr. Wilson has had fully 30 years’ expe-
rience in the Australian trade, and has just re-
turned from England, where he visited all the
principal Woollen Mills, including that of Hud-
dersfield, as well m li est of England and Scotch
Mills. This will be a sufficient guarantee that the
tastes and requirements of the public will receive
the attention they deserve.
In conclusion, we desire to say that we hope to
obtain a fair Phare of patronage, in return for
which we guarantee first-class work, all hand-
made, well shrunk, perfect fit, and all in the latest
London and Paris styles.
Soliciting a trial, we remain,’
Very truly yours,
FREDERICK WILSOJ
HUGH WARD,
Fashionable Tailors, Rohe and Habit Makers.
West End House,
168 Pitt-street, Sydney.
-A-"bra,la.a3aQ.’s
Pills
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy I
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
arc the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
Eerienco. They overcome the worst form of
•iseaies of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
'JAMES MACGREGOR,
IW 308 GEORGE STREET.
veuBRKirP
°^3cotd)V'(i$?
WHOLESALE
GROCER
WINE and
aPIRfr HER-
*CTANT.
'SOLE AQBNT
for
BROOMF1BLD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
HAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER 07 THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COPTER
THE
1 m
IS.
Ao SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever Introduced Into Australia.
EAST TO WORK, EASY TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine in the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS in Town and Country.
C&” Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE to
any part of the colony.
B. O. Holtcrmann & Co.,
Sole Agents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sulpholine
Lotion,
JH £ CURE FOR SKIN DISEASES!
Tn ft few days Eruptions, Pimples, Blotches entirely
fade away. Beautifully fragrant. Perfectly harm-
Cures old-standing Skin Diseases. Astonish-
ing results follow. It removes every kind ol
Rruntion, Spot, or Blemish, and renders the skin
dear, smooth, supple, a. d healthy Sulpholine
Lotion is sold by most Chemists. Bottles, 3s 9d
each. Made only by J. PEPPER and Co., London
PEPPER'S
QUININE & IRON
HB &i R v TON / C
r.RKAT BODILY STRENGTH I
GREAT NERVE STRENGTH !
GREAT MENTAL STRENGTH 1
r hkaT DIGESTIVE S I RENGTH follows the uao
ef PEPPER'S QUININE and IRON TONIC. It
oromotes appetite, dispels languor, depression,
x-c Is a remedy for Neuralgia, Chest affections,
and wasting diseases. Bottles, 33 doses. Sold by
Chemists every where. Insist on having Pepper’s
Made solely by.J. PEPPER and Co., London.
Speoial'y suitable for the colonies.
SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
the BEST. THE SAFEST. THE CHEAPEST.
Restores the Colour in a few applications.
Large Bottles. Is. 6d. Made in London.
CIENCE
or
LIFE
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses may be
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-
chase and read the new work issued by the World's Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Self Preservation. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
an v physician. 300 pages, bound in beautiful French cloth,
full gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded In every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the_ officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should ha read by the young for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all.— London Lancet.
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As- M p* I |
sociation, or Dr. W. K. Parker, No. 69 Hunter t AL
Street, Sydney, N.S.W. The author may TIJVQd C*
be consulted on all diseases requiring ) 11 I U t L F
skill, secrecy, and experience.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GFQRGE STREET
S YDN EY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
■ NEWEST SHAPES.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The oest known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
tf. URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTH ACME,
RAINS, BRUISES, MORNS, SCALD3, &c and
aken internally cures DIARRHCEA, TVarSEN j.MR Y,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other xutfcrnu aches
<nd pains
Price, 2/” Sold Everywhere,
0. £. MOULTON, SOLE PR0Pr.Il.70R,
MELBOURNE YATSTIJ io' - DNEY.
PAINT
\EBGI8TBRET).
SAFA 1 , PERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous in I Ot neral Dability, and all complaints
that spring fro u ar t of :: rve force, as Neuralgia.
T'othaoh;,, >aindigestion. Loss of
'hr-tite, Pomaio Disorder', llv:r and Kidney
' ot.plaints, Lo“s of Vital Power, Ac. Bv its tonic
'l soothing cflfecta it »t on i reraov • > all craving
b’C A'cohol. Ry itfl richness in oh nacrous and
JJtk'J" ■,’ ow rf 1 ’! vitalising element", MARSHALL’S
TONlo NE f vx ve nourishes and gives vigour to
o ? Jfkole jj tem. crioe, 49. 6d., or 35s. a case.
Sole Proprietors, MARSHALL BUOTHERS.'M.P.S.
and consulting Chemists, 104 and
i 1 * Market-atreet, near Hyde Park, Sydney, and
TDTbT TAKE I?Q 30 B8TI-
J. TURNER ROBINSON 4 CO.'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-strBBt,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Ef Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatantood.
A. & C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
818 GEORGE STREET,
Next Pecpes and Shaw.
0T The most liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
JL. & C. Huenerbeia,
318 GEORGE STREET.
W. H. CHARD AND GO,
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Liberal advances made on wool or
other PRODUCE shipped to their London
Agents, Messrs. Redfern, Alexander and Co., 8
Groat Winchester-street, B.C.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well-
known firm is given to all consignment?.
DENTIST.
(Of America)
Q UARANTEES
Perfect Fit ail Mastication.
prices moderate.
Corner George and Market Streets .
OVER HUNTER’S BOOT PALACF.
rL. AAAAAA AA. AA A
V^^wwwvwvwyy*
c QUEENS]
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
H
8
A
ct
£
o
o
s;
</>
a
%
CO
ie
3
t—
g
n
*
\
orw
t/>
a.
<,
0fi-
m
5"
3
«
3
! :
~ar
A
$
*
KtN?
©
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
□TDa.© USeliaTble Evig'g'ios!
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY.
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS,
EXPKESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMIITG y Merchant & Importer
22 & 24 Olarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)


AN OCTOGENARIAN'S GRATITUDE.
A FACT.
George-street, Sydney, September 1, 1884.
Messrs. Myers and Solomon.
Gentlemen,—It gives me considerable pleasure
to tender you my best thanks for your kind re-
commendation of St. Jacobs Oil. Acting upon
your advice, I tried it, and am happy to say the
very first application brought me instant relief!
and, by following it up for a couple of days, I felt
completely cured. Before using St. Jacobs Oil I
suffered severely-more especially from swollen
knees—and had tried many other remedies without
the least effect. However, I have to thank it for
making me myself again, and shall be careful to
recommend it.
I may mention that I shall be 80 years of age in
October, and believe that through its use I shall be
able to spend a pleasant birthday.
Yours faithfully,
JOSEPH HENRY.
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.8.W, }
price. 3s. 6d. per bottle.
Offor^HatV^Jar^ff 8 * and lightest are made by
utrord. Hatter, 6o3 Qoorge-street, Brickfield Hill.*
Mb. DbCourcy Browns (late Deoutv
Chairman of the Mining Board of New Smith
.y a \ee). Author of the “ Miners’ HandT Book ”
Mlmng Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual nf
M£wSC]^ n i n#r E / port - Adviser, and Cnd and
Mining’ Titles Ag©nt» mny b© consulted nn
description of Land and Mining business Dersoh^
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chamber^52CMt 1^1
reagh-street, Sydney, aa* Mining Titles a well
proven speciWy, Land Titlls, Mr. Browne’s
lupremTlSrt" 1600 '' 1 the
. 0 A )fl ? e !i^ s . t :? ver y-- II offinaa’s Eucalyptol
(legistered) “Mature and Injection.” Thovwill
positively cure all kidney diseases and disorders
a ginary complaints and discharges, irritation’
soaldmg, inflammation, gravel, pains in the back!
case incurable in nine months was aetnaiiv
In WHnn e^ ht d ? ys with Hoffmann’sTucaffl
Injection (“ purely vegetable ”). Hoffman'/ Eu-
calj ptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral
no sandalwood, no balsam, or anythintr iniurinns
constitution of either sex!
Txrir , Hoffman s, and tak© no subatifnffl
Wholesale: E. Prouser and Co.; Elliott Bros. Re-
pi.^ettdSad 0 .^ 1111818 aDd store keepers
Printed and Published by The Bullet™ Npwa
paper Co. (Limited). 34 Pitt-st.. Sydney!™!^
Woman Items
A novel and yet antique-loeking ornament
for the neck, designed more especially for visiting
and theatre wear, Is a Ion* and broad scarf of
white Brussels net, embroidered In palm-leaf
figures and bird designs, and representing the soft
Oriental tints. The figures are placed at Intervals
over the surface, revealing large portions of lace
net groundwork. The scarf is bordered with
Oriental embroidered lace, drawn into full rutiles
at the ends. These are often used for draping
evening toilets composed of thin material, and
when so employed are carried from the left hip
over the back of the skirt and fall upon the top of
the train.
This lit Oe paragraph has amused us very
much:—“Chicago, January 3 1.— A box containing
dynamite, a quantity of giant powder, and an in-
fernal machine has been found among the effects
of an individual named Otto Funk, at present re-
siding here. The police declare that he is an in-
cendiary and a Socialist. Funk, however, states
that he constructed the machine for tlio purpose
of committing suicide owing to a love affair in
New York.” the English papers don’t appear to
see the slightest humour in Funk’s story. Mr.
Junk is the sort of husband we'd hunt for, were
we a woman. Ho is very determined, and loves
passionately.
A lady writes The most abnormally
modest girl I ever heard of came to town a few
days ago. I was in her bedroom. Some handsome
flowers that I had previously seen there were
gone. * Did you send them out for fear that, as
some say. they might have a bad effect on your
health while you sleep?’ ‘Oh, no, my dear/she
murmured. ‘ Botany was my hobby at school, and
1 became familiar with the fact that there are
actually sexes in plants—males and females in
every species, don’t you know ? Well, I found on
examination that the flowers in this room were
masculine, and they didn’t seem quite nroper in a
lady’s chamber. Beally, I couldn’t disrobe com-
fortably, nor sleep in peace.’ ”
The recent kink of the swell New York
damsel is to take snuff. Don’t exclaim against
the practice as vile before you know that the
snuffing is performed in the dalnt'ost manner,
and that the snuff is not ground tobacco, but a
powder made of something white and perfumed
with any desired sort of scent. The snuffbox
seems likely to displace the cut-glass bottles which
we have for a year been lugging around. It is
made of silver, ornamented with gold, and indefi-
nitely increased In beauty and value by settings
of precious stones. The handling of it and its
contents gives the opportunity for cunning grace.
What the effect on noses will be I can’t foretell.
Perhaps they will be pushed up until they all be-
come aggravated pugs, or bloom out into some
form of poisoning.
Apropos of the alleged existence of tailed
men in the German colony of New Britain, it may
be stated that, sotting aside the story of a child in
Newcastle (Eng.), which was horn with a tail one
and a quarter inch long. Dr. Max Bertels, a distln-
Jruished German anthropologist, has, within the
ast four years, investigated 81 woll-authentioated
cases of persons having been born with tails. A
tall is by no means an ornamental superfluity. A
tailless paonkey is infinitely less pleasant to the
eye than one with a tail, and among various
savage tribes this fact is recognised by the men
attaching those of wild animals to their dress
when performing any particularly sacrod dances.
Indeed, the train of a fashionable lady, of a great
officer of State, and of a dthutcude at Court may
be referred to a similar inarticulate longing after
what Nature hks omitted to supply.
PossiBly one of the most stricking ano-
malies of our civilisation, is the tendency which
boor and scholar have to sadden and afflict their
wives. The boor kicks her, the man of culture
and refinement employs a subtle devilry to reach
her Innermost being, and sting and torture her
until, with poor spent hands on forehead,
she yearns to be dead. Mr. Grevllle belongs to
this latter class of men. Some readers may re-
member the sensitive Charlie who ones strode the
block in all the glory of the Victorian Civil Ser-
vice; well, Charles liked the white collar of that
day so much, that he went for a choker, and is, at
present, an ordained teacher of the Gospel, in
Edinburgh. What we want to toll about him is
that ho has just published a volume of poems, and
has dedicated the hook to his wife. Poor wife I A
grand institution made a target for inhuman
men I
A London paper gives particulars of tho
sudden departure of a clergyman's wife with a
male member of the flock, who was also a church-
warden and a Sunday school teacher. The reverend
gentleman was very much cut up, Indeed, when
he heard that his bettor-half had hooked it. The
lady, as a matter of course, is very prepossessing,
and had many warm admirers. '1 he churchwarden,
however, was the favourite bantam. They were
always together at church meetings and parties,
and at Sunday school delighted to sit together,
sometimes singing sweetly from the same hymn-
book, and sometimes laying their heads together
trying to solve some knotty Biblical problems.
Finally, the£ solved them to the best of their
ability by eloping to Paris. Thence the thought-
ful woman sent her husband a telegram, stating
that she was very happy with dear Tom, and
would never, never return to the parsonage any
more for ever. So mote it be.
Black eyes are chasing blue eyes out of the
world. So says Professor Alphonse do Candolle,
the eminent French naturalist. M. do Candolle
has been studying heredity in human species,
as exemplified by the colour of tho oyer, which he
took to be the most distinct and constant outward
and vislbleslgn. He decides that there are only two
kinds of eyes—black (or, rather, brown) and blue,
since gray eyes are merely a variety of blue. His
statistics show that when both parenls have eyes
of the same colour, nearly nine-tenths of children
follow their parents in this feature, and of the
remainder the diversity must in part be attributed
to Intermittent heredity. But the curious fact
comes out that more females than males have
black or brown eyes ; and that with different
coloured eyes in the two parents, 53 9 per cent
of the progeny followed the fathers in being
dark-eyed, and 55 9 per cent, followed their
mothers in being dark-eyed. This shows a
steady gala of dark over light irides: and
if it continues unchecked by special selection of
fair partners in marriage with this end in view,
the time surely approaches when blue-eyed
beauty will disappear, and much poetic rhapsody
become obsolete.
Pure silk underwear ranks among the
luxuries vouchsafed to the few who have more
money than they can care for. Every piece of
underwear can be had now, and, added to the
lovely hoiscry and French corsets, there are vests,
drawers, night-shirts, and skirts of every desirable
length in every colour, and one has but to word
her order to have it filled. This class of goods,
however, does not sell for a song, and it is cheaper
to replenish the household linen than it is to lav
in a stock of silk underwear. A good pair of pure
Silk stockings can not be bought for less than £1,
and this is about the smallest item in the trousseau
Nightgowns are cat somewhat after the style of a
teagown, and are made of pieces of goods as
pongee, Japanese, polka, and India silk. The
S rices depend on the trimming, but none are less
MW fii, The weven seeds are for an the world
like a Langtry pelisse, being buttoned from neck
to toe and finished with cuffs, pockets, and a
turned-down collar. They fit like an eel-skin, and
are as supple and elastic as a jersey. Some, also
woven, are full In the back and fit like a princess
wrapper, the cost being in proportion. Skirts, as
a rule, do not sell well. The reason Is that they
are too clinging, and, unless they are extra heavy,
gather up. For short petticoats tho cheaper or
spun silks are used in place of white flannel.
Mrs. Langtry did not trust to an English
dressmaker to prepare the dresses for her rentrie
before a London public, but went to Worth. Al-
together some dozen costumes were designed.
The richest and most luxurious stuffs that Paris
can produce were used. There are two out-door
costumes. The skirt of the first is mouse grey
veivef, with lines of gold braid round it; the tunic
likewise Is elaborately embroidered with gold, and
over this falls a jabot of old lace. The second cos-
tume, however, outrivals the first in its gorgeous-
neas. It Is made of green velvet; round the skirt
runs a wide band of Impeyan pheasants’ feathers,
a wide velvet sash crosses the hips, and falls on
?tbe satin train; the bodice is of velvet and is
deejrated with p males. The second dress con-
sists of a skirt of large gold leaves on a white
velvet ground; the bodice, train, and sash are
pale pink velvet, trimmed with roses and pearl
fringe. But .perhaps M. Worth’s conceptions
reach their highest point in the reception dresa.
This io composed of poplin and satin In harmonies
of pinks. The trimmings are gold and black pas-
sementerie, embellished with large gold coins; the
bodice is of pink poplin, decorated with gold
epaulettes. Dress is an important weapon in
Mrs. Langtry s armoury, perhaps the most impor-
tant—after her face and figure.
and the waistcoat and revers are entirely composed
of those metallic plumes that glitter and glimmer
and bedazzle the eye with their lustres of gold,
blue, purple, and green hues. Of ball dresses
there are also two. One Is composed of white
satin and violet velvet; the satin tablier is studded
with violets and pansies in high relief;
the satin panels are lined with violet velvet;
A London manager has been calling noon
other managers to Join him in prohibiting tho
“ladies of the stage” from covering themsolvps
with jewels in comedies where such adornments
are not needed. Apropos of this fact, an English
writer gets off some very significant lines at IHa
expense of the “ladles” in question, and of thn
extremely virtuous manager—a very old bird in
deed—who says his action is “ in the interests nf
morality”:—
French fashion journals persist in
confidently predicting: the approaching general
use of crinoline, not only in France, but by the
women of England, Germany, Austria) Italy
f n( l £ marlca - “ Australia appears to bo
too distant to have entered into their considera-
tion, says the Daily News; “ but so far as their
enumeration has been carried a universal condem
nation to wear crinoline, • whether it is liked o
not, is the cnre of the matter. The edict is issued
without appeal. Paris has not yet realised tha
the world no longer follows her leading absolutely
in the affairs of dress. In certain branches of the
art. the Parisian dressmakers are still, it must be
acknowledged, unapproachable. No on© can
arrange folds or drape a tunic or polonaise witl
the same art as a true Parisienne. Where, save
in Paris, can those wonderful bows be raaninu
lated that one tears to touch, so perfect is every
smallest detail, lest one should mar their per-
fection? Where else can such artificial flowers
be obtained, the very smallest blossoms in
which are reproduced with a marvellous fide-
lity to nature, and a dexterity of manipute-
tion of which English lingers seem to be in-
capable? But, notwithstanding her superiority
in these and other matters, Peris is no longer
Queen Regnant in the doma n of fashion. Did
not our countrywomen stand fast and firm when
aae presented to them, in her own too insinuating
and persuasive manner, a large bonnet, on which
there was enough trimming to furnish forth at
least two of the little Princess’ shapes to which
In spite of all temptation, they remained faithful ?
Have not the daughters of Albion rejected the
crinolette? Have they not declined to wear the
frightfully high and over-trimmed hats which
Pans has for two years been pressing upon their
acceptance ? And, having remained firm in these
small matters, will they submit to have the odious
crinoline, with all its inconvenlences.and dangers
forced upon them ? Surely not. Some five years
ago Worth announced with confidence that he was
about to reintroduce crinoline. He had till then
been autocrat in affairs of dress, and, with a sigh
or a shrug, or a ‘ My!’ according to her nationality!
the edict was accepted by the ladies, who would
as soon be out of the world as out of the fashion.
But the announcement fell flat Nothing came
of it. Those who bad pinned their faith upon
the great man-milliner felt it receive its first
shock. How was it that contrary to all precedent
events did not justify his prophecy? Simply
this —that Englishwomen had thrown them-
selves into the breach. They not only declined
crinoline, but they have gradually shaken them-
selves free from all that might be supposed to
lead up to such a catastrophe. Even the crino-
lette has dwindled into the very smallest dimen-
sions, and Is now represented by a curious little
silk cushion, stuffed with the very best and finest
hay, and supplemented by one solitary row of
steel. Nor will they, having once tested satisfac-
torily their ability to say ‘No,’ consent to pile
up their coiffures to the Immense height now
prevalent in Paris, nor to wear the absurdly-
exaggerated hair-fringes which cover the entire
foreheads of many so-called iUgantes, and give
them a laughable resembles to a Skye terrier, or
other small pet dog, whose curly locks occasion-
ally tend to Impede the usefulness of its vision.”
CONCLUSIVE EVIDENCE.
MAUDE: “AND AS TO STOPPING OUT AFTER NINE AT NIGHT, Mi WON’T HEAR OF
IT. SHE SAYS THAT THERE IS A CLASS OF AWFUL YOUNG MEN WHO EVEN
GO SO FAR AS TO GET INTO CONVERSATION WITH A GIRL WHO MAY TAKE
THEIR FANCY.”
AUNT MATILDA: “I THINK YOUR MA IS APT TO EXAGGERATE THAT POINT, MY
DEAR. I HAVE BEEN OUT ALONE, AND AT LATE HOURS, AND HAVE NEVER
BEEN SPOKEN TO.”
TOO SPECIFIC.
LITTLE WIFE, "AND STOD’LL SEND MB ME PAROELS-AND-AND A NICE LITTLE
NOTE ?
DOTING ONE: “ YES I ”
LITTLE WIFE: “ AND A KISS ? ”
DOTING ONE: “ YES II”
: “AND YOU’LL SEND THEM ALL BY-THAT NICE YOUNG MAN OVER
DOTING ONE: “UM!” (Under consideration).
O scissors I cry Lottie and Tottie,
Are managers all going dotty ?
Ain’t you heard how theatrical bosses are now in a
deuce of a rage ?
A society now they’re preparing
To prevent all us ladies from wearing
Such lots of rich trinkets and jewels whenever we
go on the stage.
“ But that’s not a thing to upset us—
Extravagant dressing won’t fret us.
Correctness of costume and manners are things
that wo always deride.
And managers never till lately
Let this trouble their craniums greatly.
But allowed us to wear lots of jewels—in fact we
wore little beside.
“ Has this awfully sudden conversion
L “ ee P caused by the mashers’ desertion
ut certain burlesque shows they worshipped ? Or
w hat has upset the old fools ?
If they thought of the parties who back us
They wouldn’t thus dare to attack us.
How dare they find fault with our diamonds and
talk about making new rules?
“ Why, shortly they’ll be interfering
,p. .Withour winking, and ogling, and leering;
They 11 say that such ways, like our jewels, win
knock all dramatic art flat. 11
We object to our guvnors’ dictation
ttt j 8ucb matters to girls of our station.
We don t care a fig for the Drama. We don’t net
our living bj that. ’ oei
