

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.— No. 114 — New Series.
SATURDAY, JULY 18, 1885,
Prio#—fli.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JULY 18, 1885.
Payment of Members.
With the possible exception of the fresh
light that may be thrown on the late ex-
periment made by Mr. Dalley and his
colleagues in “ foreign policy,” it is unlikely
that the approaching session of the New
South Wales Parliament will deal with
questions of much public interest. And yet
matters of the most vital importance to
the community are gradually making their
way to the front, and will not be denied.
But just as English politicians are more
anxiously speculating on the probable con-
stitution of the Commons after the coming
general election than on the Conservative
programme, so, with us—men are not so
much concerned with the political postur-
ings of the few months preceding our general
election as with the questions which will
then demand an answer. Among these are
“ Payment of Members,” “ Protection,” and
“ Reform of the Upper House.” It may be
that the country is not ripe for the settle-
ment of all—it is certain that the time is
almost upon us when the settlement of one
or more of them cannot be shirked.
♦ * »
Compared with the arguments in favour
of the adequate payment of Parliamentary
representatives, those against it are jejune
and childish. It is said that it would de-
velope a race of professional politicians, of
men who could make a living at nothing
else—blatant, bellowing ne’er-do-weels, who
would be found shoulder to shoulder when
their salaries were in danger, and eager to
fight each other when only the interests of
the country were at stake. “Surely,” it is
said, “ wo have in the community a sufficient
number of men of means and of good repute
who are willing to make our laws for
nothing, and who would bring to public
business the same foresight and prudence
they used with such success in their private
affairs. Why encourage adventurous pau-
pers ? ’ The experience of countries where
payment of members is the law shows the
utter fallacy of this line of argument. With
them no more adventurers come to the front
than under the non-payment system, and,
when they do come, when their Parliamen-
tary career shows the mercenary motives
that swayed them in coming forward at all,
the next election cuts their public career
short—unless the electors are as bad and
corrupt as they. The assumption that, if re-
presentatives were paid, all the idlers in the
country would put up for Parliament, is
only surpassed in absurdity by the assump-
tion that they would get in if they tried.
* * ♦
In New South Wales wa have a notable
instance of a man as successful in public
affairs as he was notoriously incompetent in
private. We refer to Bir Henry Parkes.
In spite of the blunders, and worse, which
characterised his official career, it is certain
that he occupied a higher plane than any
other Australian statesman. Yet as a pr ivate
citizen endeavouring, like his neighbours, to
establish a prosperous business, his failure
was humiliating and complete. Like Gold-
smith, he tried everything, but there the
resemblance ceases. For, while the former
adorned, he failed in all. Still, his worst
enemies could not accuse him of turning his
public opportunities to his private benefit.
Nor could they deny his wide knowledge of
State affairs. The venerable error of sup-
posing that, because a man succeeds in
amassing wealth, he must be a proper person
to make laws, is on a par with that of assum.
ing tha t, because a person has been privately
unsuccessful, he must be publicly so, too.
Indeed, .the very reverse is often the case.
For in most countries—particularly new
ones—good fortune (or, in other words,
money-making) is quite as much the result
of meanness and chicane as of prudence and
honesty. Of the retired broad-acred squat-
ters and terrace-owning traders whose Press
organs glibly condemn the principle of
allowing poor men to legislate, how many
could truthfully say that they never adul-
terated food or drink nor dummied land ?
» * *
The result of payment of members in New
South Wales would be precisely what it has
been in every other country where payment
has been tried. It would give to constituen-
cies, especially agricultural ones far removed
from the metropolis, a wider latitude of
choice in those they wished to represent
them, and it would give to men adapted for
public affairs and possessing local knowledge
oiiportunilies which circumstances now
deny to them—opportunities of attending
punctually to their Parliamentary duties
without suffering in pocket by it. Under
our present system of non-payment what is
the result? Is it not notorious that'pro-
fessional and business men in Sydney, who
are at no expense in attending Parliament,
sit for far-away electorates with which they
have little in common and slender sym-
pathy ? And there is worse behind. For
these barristers, attorneys, and traders, if
they draw no direct income from the public,
draw ten times the amount indirectly in the
way of business. The amount of grist
brought to their various mills by the M.L.A.
after their names is enormous. What won-
der, thru, that these ram bandy bald plati-
tudes by the hour against payment of mem-
bers —a measure which, by supplying local
candidates to distant constituencies, would
rob them of importance and of money ? The
fact is, the principle of paying Parliamen-
tary representatives a sum sufficient to
cover the expense incurred in attending the
duties devolving upon them is a Democratic
principle of the first importance. Until
this is acknowledged and effect given to it,
there is no true Democracy. The moneyed
interest in New South Wales, just like that
in Victoria, knows this, and, like the latter,
will oppose the principle by any means,
however unscrupulous. The remembrance
is quite fresh with many of us of how
bitterly the Conservatives of Victoria,
headed by The Argus, fought against pay-
ment. But they were defeated, and, so far
from the lamentable results predicted fol-
lowing the introduction of the measure, it
is notorious that Parliamentary black-
guardism among our neighbours is chiefiy
confined to those who most indecently ridi-
culed payment of members. Under it, if all
the elected were not wise, at least many of
the rejected were fools.
* • •
When rich people only can sit in Parlia-
■ ment it is absurd to expect laws not made
in favour of the rich. This is human nature.
It would be juft as absurd to expect an
assembly of Southern planters before the
war to legislate in favour of negroes, or of
Queensland sugar-growers not to hire
Kanakas unhss they were properly re-
cruited. Had payment of members been
the law in England since the time of the
first Reform Bill, it is possible that a visitor
to the Commons to-day would hear more
H’s outraged and more participles trifled
with than if he had visited it 50 years ago.
But it is certain that no such cry would bo
heard from outcast London as is heard to-
day. It is doubtful even if the soil of Eng-
land would to-day be in so few hands
while the vast majority of Englishmen were
strangers in their own land unable to fish a
brook or walk on the margin of a stream
without endangering their liberty. We
have heard Australian Premiers, both in
colonies where payment of members was
unknown, as well as in those where it existed,
take liberties with the aspirate which sad-
dened us. We have known them to eat
with their knives and show their superiority
to prejudice by pressing their table-nap-
kins Into the service of their noses.
But how trifling these drawbacks com-
pared with the fact that these men were, ac-
cording to their lights, far warding the cause
of “Democracy,” that great cause which,
with many drawbacks due to the passions
prejudices, and selfishness of men, is still the
noblest in which man can engage! It is
owing to the advance of this cause that a
couple of millions are now being grudgingly
enfranchised in the British Islands, But
even if every inhabitant of the United King-
dom had a vote, no truly representative
British Parliament will ever sit in London
until the principle we advocate appears on
the statute-books. Without it, Democracy
and manhood suffrage are shorn of half their
power for good. For it is mere mockery to
give a person a vote, and, at the same time,
prevent him from giving it to the man of
his choice. But this is precisely what is
done when that choice is restricted by
making the position of a member a purely
honorary one.
♦ • •
If members should not be paid, neither
should Ministers. The arguments applic-
able to the one are equally ap plloable to the
other. To conclude, we beUeve strongly in
the payment of Parliamentary representa-
tives from the public purse—because it no
more developes the professional politician
than the present system; because it gives
the poor but able man a chance—denied him
now—of making himself heard in the State
councils and of serving his country; because,
under it, the choice of the electors is not
confined to the well-to-do; because, wher-r
ever tried, it has been successful; because it
is essentially a Democratic measure, and we
believe in Democracy ; because, without it,
the Democracy—that is, the government of
the people by the people and for the people
—in which we believe and for which we
strive, is not a patent fact but a specious
falsehood.
Our Upper House.
The opinion that for the success of Parlia-
mentary Government two Chambers are
necessary appears to have taken root in
most countries where such a type of Govern-
ment—or its semblance—is to be found. The
Americans adopted it after their separation
from Great Britain, the French when time
began to dim the echoes of their Revolution.
But we have fallen upon iconoclastic days.
No institution is now held so sacred that men
will not arise and question its right to be.
The economic oide that Smith, Bastiat,
Mill, and many others were supposed to
have removed from the pedestal of specula-
tion to firm scientific ground is openly chal-
lenged and set at naught. The biological
pap on which middle-aged scientists were
suckled has its nutritive qualities openly
denied. So with religious opinions deemed,
not so long ago, of necessary to the very
existence of religion. Under these eircum.
stances, it would be odd if the bicameral
system of Government had been suffered to
pass nnthreatoned. And it has not. Many
THE LATE REAR-ADMIRAL WILSON.


ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.
ralace Emporium, Haymarket (only).
iaL-jK v
OH the left Is a Traveller’s Fpirit
ot .ve, the handle and stove fitting into saucepan
when on the road. To travellers in country dis-
tricts this is an inestimable boon. 5s.
. The other represents a handy little arrangement
r °f the house, by means of whioh a cup of tea or
coffee Is but the work of 30 seconds. This capital
little stove, 5i. We wish it to be known that our
Ironmongery Department is full of similar inge-
nuities at the same low prices.
OSMOND’S
SWISS CIGARS
Have been recognised as the BEST for half a
century.
QUOD PACIMUS VALDB PACIMUS.
(What we do wo do well.)
TOUR PHOTO.-If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
couueel. and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices-C-D-V,,; Cabinets* 30s. per dozen.
CFuEELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADa
J, TURNER ROBINSON A
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Georga-straat,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
Annual Income exceeds One Mllllem
ft**
tow
Lightning'and Gas Explosion-Damages Paid.
C. W. EGBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only ,9s.
Small Bottle, . 4s. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT;
Is. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
ls.9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke s Prize Medal Brand,
In stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST- SIZE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
SYDNEY.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is an article of superior merit,
therefore ask for it, and accept nothing else.
Socialities, ’85.—110 pp. of Humorous Wood-
cats and Comic Letter pi ess, Is. (post Is. 31.) Ail
bOOfceeUerg, A. M‘Kinley and Co., Sydney. Buy it J
begin to entertain the notion that an Upper
Chamber is far more injurious than bene-
ficial—that its influence is always on the side
of Conservatism —that its traditions are in-
variably opposed to the assumption that
people can govern themselves, and that,
before a comprehensive Liberal measure
can pass any Upper House in the world, the
State has to be stirred to its depths and
class - feeling of the worst description
aroused. These people say that the two-
House principle, while logically untenable,
is practically pernicious; and that the argu-
ment for two applied with equal force to
three or four chambers. We believe these
opinions to be entirely in consonance with
both logic and experience. W e think that
England would be a far better country to-
day for a struggling man to live in if the
House that the Long Parliament destroyed
had never been re-established, and we are
certain that if no First Chamber—or at least
none such as at present constituted —existed
in New South Wales, our constitution would
be more liberal and our laws more humane.
* • *
The only argument that ever has been, or
ever can be, brought forward for the exist-
ence of an Upper House is that it keeps
legislation within bounds, causes delay-
gives people a chance of thinking before
passing hasty measures. Now, it is a sug-
gestive fact that, when British and colonial
senators delayed measures, they were always
measures for extending the liberty of the
subject in some direction, cr for removing
institutions which had become obsolete or
pernicious; while, when they gave their im-
mediate sanction to laws, such laws were
always reactionary ones, of which the people
were afterwards thoroughly ashamed. When-
ever a reform was demanded, the senators
were always there to deny. But when a
coercive measure had to be passed for Ire-
land, or a Treason-felony Act, which made
us the world’s laughing stock, for New
South Wales, the alacrity with which the
business was put through was astounding.
This is notorious. Itnever appears to strike
the advocates for the two-House system that
if, with but one Chamber, representatives
committed themselves to hasty legislation,
they could as hastily abrogate it when it
was found pernicious. Still, it is not against
the bicameral method of legislation that we
particularly complain. It is against that
form of it with which we are cursed in New
South Wales, where the anachronism of a
nominee chamber still obtains.
♦ • •
In defence of a nominee House in a
country where manhood suffrage is the
law of the land, and Democracy is daily
gaining strength, nothing can be said. The
most ingenious could find nothing to urge in
its favour —nothing, we mean, that would
stand a moment’s examination. A power-
ful Minister, let us say, owes an am-
bitious man money. He cannot pay
it, but he can put the man in the
Council, where, swayed by stubborn-
ness, or caprice, or greed, he can delay or
check public progress during the term of
his natural life. He may be an able man
and do good—he may be foolish and work
much mischief. But whether good or bad,
wise or stupid, it is monstrous to give him
such powers for life. He is responsible to
no one, gives his vote or withholds it, de-
cides this way or that, or not at all, with no
liability to be brought to account. As he
represents no one, he is under responsibility
to none. It may be said that his position
is no more anomalous than that of a
British peer. Perhaps not. But among
the classes who are rapidly forcing
their way to the front in British politics, it
is an open secret that the “ peerage ” is held
in no high odour, and will, probably within
the next generation, be either radically
modified or entirely swept away. With the
example before us of how disastrously an
irresponsible House may affect the advance-
ment of a nation, it is marvellous how the
principle was suffered to take root in this
young country.
• • •
Most of the men appointed to the Council
are men of mature years, the best part of
whose lives was sp cut in amassing money.
As a rule, they are men of circumscribed
views and narrow sympathies. For thirty,
forty, or fifty years, as the case may be, their
thoughts by day, and their dreams by night,
have run in the one channel—how to in-
crease their bank-balances. To credit such
men with the governing faculty, and invest
them with governing power would be
laughable were it not so sad. To them any.
innovation is to be opposed, not so
much because it is wrong as because
it is an innovation. It may be said
that no Minister, however powerful, would
disregard public opinion so far as to send to
the Upper Chamber obscure men who had
never shown an aptitude for public life
But universal experience goes to show that
the most conscientious Ministers when in a
tight place—when the bills on which they
have pledged their political reputation are
delayed or mutilated by factious dotards—
do strange tilings. Of this we may rest
assured,‘tnat until our Upper,House is either
dispensed with entirely or placed like those
of many of our own colonies, as well as of
America and France, on an elective basis so
that its members can be made to answer for
their aots, New South Wales, while remain-
ing “sunny, 1 ’ will also remain “slow.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Dailey’s Dream.
No one would think by looking at Mr. Dalley
that under that placid and benevolent exterior
were concealed schemes of aggressive aggrandise-
ment—wild yearnings for the “ expansion ” of our
race. Yet so it is, as those know who heard him
“ orate ” at Botany on the famous 4th of J uly—the
Anniversary of American Independence. Mr.
Dalley Is not content with the federation of all
British possessions. He would admit America to
the “ Bund.” With one hundred millions of
English-speaking people he would then Impose his
own terms on the nations which were unfor-
tunately ignorant of Anglo-Saxon. To France, or
Germany, or Russia, or all combined, he would
say, “ These are my views. I don’t want to press
them upon you; still, if you could fall in with
them, it might avoid trouble. I can put forty-two
millions of men in the field. I trust this fact will
not sway you in forming an opinion, yet it might
be as well to know it. Only give me my own way
and I’m a pet lamb. But argue with me and I’m a
whole menagerie.” That is the sort of confederacy
Mr. Dalley wants. It does sot appear to have
struck him that, before confederating, the Yan-
kees would probably say: “ It may be a pleasant
thing for you to have our aid in settling broils*
but where does our advantage come in ? Suppose
France and Germany wished to fly at each other’s
throats, why should we get between them and get
mauled ? An understanding between us might
make you more secure in India, but what does It
matter to us whether you are secure or not ? Then
you talk of the * expansion of the race.’ There is
no such thing as an Anglo-Saxon race on the
American continent, nor in the world, for the
matter of that. There is a mixture of every
branch of the Aryan family speaking the English
tongue, but to call us an Anglo-Saxon nation is
about as sensible as to call a Kanaka an English-
man because he learnt pigeon English in Queens,
land.” No, Mr. Dalley. It is strange that so able
a man as you should be carried away by such wild
dreams of universal empire.
A Startling Cablegram.
And now that vigorous, able, and most truly
patriotic of British newspapers, the Pall Mall
Gazette, has to bid good-bye to the London
Clubs. So says a S.M. Herald telegram. No, we
do not believe it. We think it extremely likely
that It has been thrown out of some of the Con-
servative Clubs, but the social and political in-
fluence of the latter is fast approaching zero in
the London of to-day. The fact is, the Pall Mall
lays itself out to expose abuses and tell the truth
on matters which are either entirely ignored or
grossly misrepresented by all the other great
metropolitan dailies. This, combined with the
undoubted verve with which it is written, has
naturally enough hurt the cultivated feelings of
certain classes. The Gazette told us the truth
about the “ Navy,” the truth about our dealings
with Russia, and is now engaged in the natural
history of the “ vice of large cities.” No wonder
the chivalrous young men just starting on a
career of gallantry, and the toothless old ones who
have gone through the whole gamut, cry aloud.
And if the loudness of their howl is a fair index
of the weight of the blow, then they must have
been hit hard. And now the Herald young man
wires that “ under the guise of effecting reform in
the matter of the social evil,” &c. If we had to wait
for reform till .the 1 Herald attacked any evil*
social or otherwise, what a lovely world we would
inhabit to-day 1 The fact with regard to the Pall
Mall is probably this: W. H. Smith (Beacons-
fibld's first Lord of the Admiralty), who has a
monopoly of the English railway bookstalls, has
seized the present pretext as an opportunity for
muzzling a newspaper which is the most deadly
enemy of bis class, and is endeavouring to stifie
the loud voice of the little-big paper by refusing
it a place on the railway station counters. The
Pall Mall now threatens to make exposures
which will compromise members of the Royal
family and the Government. Thatshould be easy.
Still it is a dangerous thing to interfere with the
amusements of the elite. A short time ago, at the
Westminster police court, a notorious keeper of a
notorious brothel was summoned. Although it
was an open court, the public were not allowed
in, the case was dismissed, the police inspector
who had shown “undue zeal” in endeavouring to
obtain a conviction was dismissed, and a thick
curtain was let down by the accommodating
magistrates on doings resembling, it is whispered*
those of Dublin Castle. The reason assigned for
all this was that certain of the aristocracy were
mixed up in the affair. No wonder the Pall
Mall Gazette is disliked.
“The Horrors" at Wilcannia.
The Wilcannia Times of the 16th June tells
graphically how a bushman who came to a way-
side public-house out there with money and value
amounting to £10 or £11 in his possession, lived,
rejoiced, sorrowed, sickened, and died in the
course of seven days. The man was a boundary
rider. His name was Henry Wilson. He rode
up one day to the Royal Mail Hotel, situated
on the Booligal-road, nearly half-way be-
tween Wilcannia and Ivanhoe. He had a
little money on him. He drank it. He then
sold the horse, bridle, and saddle to the pub-
lican for £0 10s. He drank away at this, re-
serving £1 asm donation to the race-club, whose
meeting was near at hand. Sometimes he was
very happy. He expressed hia sense of beatitude
in hilarious howls. This was very unpleasant to
the other occupants of the public-house. Some-
times he was very unhappy. He expressed his
misery in melancholy wails. When he liked to be
scornful, he was diabolically so. All this means
that the man was in the “ horrors.” He showed a
disposition to violence. They gave him a tarpaulin
and blankets, and tied him down on the verandah.
They next chained him to a verandah-post
They went inside to have tea. When they came
out he was dead. There were bits of cotton and
cloth and stud found in bis mouth, it is quite
probable he himself put them in. At the inquest,
however, it was sworn to be quite possible that
someone about the house that did not like the
way be was squealing plugged him up with rags-
At any rate, he died, and it seems the races oame
on before his grave was closed, and Wilson’s
pound helped to swell the merriment of the meet-
ing. We are not going to point a finger at
Arthur Caldwell Sawtell, the owner of the
public-house. We know what a bush public-
house is and what a thirsty bushman with
money or value is. If Sawtell’s grog was good,the
only thing he could possibly be blamed for is not
having taken better care of his customer in his
last hours. “Jumping the horse over the bar,” as
selling it to the publican is colloquially phrased, is
done every day. A bushman determined to spree
will sell everything. A few days’ drinking drives
some men into the “ horrors.” They must then be
tied down. The verandah of a bush pub. la as
good a place as any to do it. We helped to tie a
man that way once. A pitiful man loosed the
straps, and the man in the “ horrors ” arose and
wrenched the pitiful man’s jaw from its fastenings.
The amount of money consumed in the seven days
is noticed. It Is true that it is large, but the bush
system of charging must be looked at from a
bush point of view. We have been in pubs, where
a week’s “ spree ” ran through a £40 cheque, and
the bushman did not complain or call the publican
a rogue. We once said to a publican, who, we
believe, is doing business still in the Northern
back-blosks, “ The old shepherd is gone.” “ Yes,”
he replied, “ 1 sent him off with a bottle this morn-
ing.” “What size was his cheque?” “£30.”
“ How long did it last ? ” “A week.” We had not
meditated at that time, so we said, “ Do you mean
to say he drank £30 in a week?” “No, I don’t,”
said the publican; “ and a jolly good thing it is, too,
that he didn’t. Instead of walking out this morn-
ing, It is carried out he would be.” “ But
you took his money I” "The only way to save
his life I See here. A man like that comes in to
knock his cheque down. I give him a good steady
soak, rouse him up before his constitution gives
way, and start him back to the station to work
another year. He would not go back till his
cheque is finished. If I gave him the worth of it
in drink he’d be dead. D’ye see ? I care too much
about the man.” What appears to have killed
Wilson was that he got too much drink for his
money. Had he been turned out after the first
day’s “ spree ” he would have walked back to his
boundary-riding and been a hale man to-day. You
see, we now look at things from a purely Austra-
an point of view.
Sensational Gravity.
There are three kinds of charity—the charity of
the imagination, the charity of the heart, and the
charity of the pocket. With the latter we have
nothing to do at present. It is to be met with
every day (cheaply advertising the donors) in sub-
scription lists published in the papers. We confine
ourselves to a consideration of the two former
kinds of charity. One of them can be dealt with
summarily. The charity of the heart is not com-
mon. It goes down into lowly places, and helps
the poor and afflicted without sound of trumpet
or clash of cymbals. It is not discouraged nor
does it grow lukewarm if it is not mentioned In
the papers. It acts from motives of pity and love
and common brotherhood, and its reward is here,
if there should never be such a place as Heaven.
But the other charity-the charity of the imagina-
tion—though it does not necessarily (does seldom
in fact) act from self-interested motives, is yet, in
a manner, spurious. A man may be full of it one
day and empty as a drum the next. It is more
an infection than a virtue. Even misers catch it
occasionally. But they “ whip the cat ” for it
oonsumedly afterwards. The Gordon memorial
subscriptions came chiefly from persons galvanised
into generosity by a thrill of popular feeling. We
doubt much if half the subscribers had any but a
fictitous enthusiasm about the dead hero. They
gave because, under the lash of an excited Press,
they themselves were Gordons for the timo be"
ing—and because others gave. But, when the
brave death at Khartoum became an old story,
the subscriptions began to dwindle. Gordon
became a personage of history, to be referred to
in terms of approval occasionally, but was no
longer the foremost subject of conversation. Then
the flame of sensational charity or generosity-
fanned till then by fine phrases and public ap-
plause—flickered and died out. We do not deny
that the object itself was a worthy and even noble
one—but there are worthier and nobler at our
doors. You have read several times of Clara
Crosby, the little girl who was lost in the
bush, some time ago, and supported herself
for several days on Salvation Army hymns and
water—a really touching and beautiful anecdote.
Well, the Sensationalists of Charity have taken up
her case, and propose to organise a bazaar, the
proceeds of which are to be devoted to her educa-
tion—which, we presume, will include music,
poonah-palnting, and other accomplishments. Yet
she is by no means an object of charity. Her
parents are as able as others of their class to sup-
port her—and the State School is free. But, nc—
she is too good a subject for the Sensationalists to
let go. She lived in a hollow tree and sang hymns
(probably because she was acquainted with nothing
else in the vocal line) for three weeks. Conse-
quently she must be made an excuse for generous
gush in the form of letters in the Melbourne papers
—an opportunity for mental invertebrates to show
what thundering good hearts they have. When it
comes to true but commonplace causes for
charity, these spasmodic Samaritans are not at
home. They have gone out fishing. They are
attending a funeral. They certainly are not at
home. The modest ways of charity have no at-
tractions for them. We know scores of such men.
One will do as a typo of the rest. He is a success-
ful trader. As soon as any object of charity
becomes popular, he (to use his own emphatic
expression) "slaps down his money like a man.”
He is always ready to go pound for pound,
and a pound over, with his rival across the
street. Yet his old father subsists on the alms of
strangers. There is nothing heroic in supporting
one’s old father. His voice may be broken, and
he would probably object to sing hymns in a hol-
low tree, anyhow. This example will do. Such
men would be ready to get up a bazaar for the
benefit of Judas if he were alive, and the matter
made a stir in the papers. Now you know what
we mean by sensational charity.


Socialities, ’85.—The largest and best Comic
Illustrated Book ever published at Is. (post Is. 3d.)
All booksellers. A. M’Kinley and Co., Sydney.
If you drink wine, drink the best. If you drink
Schnapps drink Wolfe's, which is the only genuine
Schnapps.
No matter what your feeling or ailment is
American Co.’s Hop Bitters will do good. Prove
it and see.
Socialities, ’85.—The largest and best Comic
Illustrated Book ever published at Is. (post, Is. 3d.)
All booksellers. A. M’Klnley and Co., Sydney.
Wolfe's Schnapps would not have stood the test
of nearly a hall centuiy were It not a most supe-
rior article.
THIS WICKED WORLD.
One of the representatives of the Auck-
land Parliamentary Union is Ah Keu. He is a
Chinaman, and an AluKue-te debater—Public
School teacher: “How many wars were waged
with Spain?” Pupil: “Six.” Teacher: “Enu-
merate them?” .Pupil: “One, two, three, four,
five, six.” Tableau: teacher, pupil, stirrup-leather,
curtain By the last day of this month, artists
competing for the premiums of £175 and £75, re-
spectively, for the two best portraits in oil of the
late Sir R. R. Torrens, must have their work sent
in to the Chief Secretary’s office in Adelaide. All
artists who applied were provided with a photo-
graph Melbourne Waxworks offer £3 weekly to
the mother of Clara Crosbie for the privilege of
exhibiting the child. The offer is under considera-
tion. Clara has now recovered from the effects of
her 31 days’ bush wanderings ...Another crusher
for grog and tobacco. In the Salvation Army
Barracks, Newcastle, on Thursday night, Polly Colt
owned up to having been convicted for drunken-
ness 250 times, and having smoked for 40 years
The age of miracles is not yet past. A Victorian
Civil servant—which his name it is Browne with
an “e”—has actually petitioned the Board of Com-
missioners to reduce his status, on the ground of
conscious incapacity for the post he holds...Prom
London Life:— “ Bonnor, the Australian ‘giant’
cricketer, has just received an appointment in the
Civil Service of N.S.W.: so that, in future, instead
of wielding the willow at Lord’s and the Oval, he
may be expected to be seen in the Sydney Domain,
armed like all his class, according to Charles
Dickens, 4 with the thinnest of silk umbrellas and
the most tremendous of grievances.’” Whether
he were armed with the gingham or not, Bonnor
is the kind of man we would not hunger to meet
if the grievance were against us... £390, £90, and
£45 were the respective receipts of the first
three nights of Said at Melbourne Town Hall.
• . From the Cootamundra Lireral;— “ Thera
is no end of practical work for aspiring
townsmen to do; yet they seem to hanker after
novelty—perhaps we should say pomp—rendering
utility absolutely a secondary consideration.” All
this is very sad... The Sydney Mail critic should
deal gently with the “araachaws” after reading
this. At the Gordon concert recently given in
Melbourne, dear old Armes Beaumont actually
forgot the words of a song which should be as
familiar to him as his breakfast, viz , “Let me
like a Soldier Fall.” He stuck at “ Brave manly
hearts,” and had he been offered Queen Victoria’s
’art and ’and, and stocking of shekels, he couldn’t
have thought of another line, until the friendly
audience rose up and howled it at him.
• ♦ *
The original manuscript of “Tara o’
Shanter” was sold in London lately for £180. If the
bard had received as much as that for the copy-
right, he would have painted his native town red
for a season — Positively the very last mot of
Victor Hugo's runs as follows. Being on a visit
to a friend at whose bouse the riproarous young-
sters were allowed to “ raise Cain,” he was asked
by his hostess, “Do you like children, M. Hugo ?”
To which the disgusted Victor promptly replied:
“Yes, madame; especially hoiled!” ...There is a
tale going the round of the papers that a London
club committee let a noble member “stickup"
£3000 for brandies-and-sodas, and then expelled
him. This comes of being caught paying for
“ three of gin hot,” somewhere else with ready
money Advertisement from a homo paper: —
“ Wanted, a cultured gentleman of good family to
milk goats. None but those who have had a
thorough and complete University education need
apply. Applications enclosing testimonials to
be sent to X.Y.Z., office of this paper.”.. .
“ Who wins the money spent at gambling?’’ asks
an inquirer. It is generally the other fellow. At
least, that has been our experience — For refusing
to take the oath, on the plea that he did not be-
lieve in a God, a Cologne Court has just fined a
witness 50 marks “ All lawyers are not rascals,”
says an exchange. No, and neither are all rascals
lawyers, we might truthfully remark. Not all....
“ Now you toil me I have a fair memory, a great
capacity for learning languages, a large bump of
veneration, and a well-developed head generally.”
“ You have,” said the phrenologist. “ Is there
anything,” asked the man under examination, in
the exuberance of his joy; "that my head needs
to make it absolutely perfect ?” “Yes.” “What
is it, pray ? ’asked the man. “A shampoo.”
Tennyson’s salary as Laureate is £100 a year. An
envious Yankee paoer thinks that if the bard ware
to work hard he might earn that sura—but not at
writing poetry. About 10,000 poems have been
written to parody his recent poem on the navy,
and all are bettor than the Laureate’s production..
“Othmar,” is the title of Ouida’s forthcoming
story. The scene is laid in Russia, and the novel
is said to be full of dramatic Incident “ Waiter,
bring me beef and fried potatoes on separate
plates. Have the beef cut thin and with the grain,
with an edging of fat; the potatoes brown on one
side and not too hot, and a cup of coffee, and don’t
let the coffee spill into the saucer.” Waiter: “ All
roight, sorr; anythin’else ?” Customer: “A glass
of water.” Waiter: “ Do yea want the wather
washed, sorr ?”— Victor Hugo left £150,000.
Thackeray’s fortune was £30,000, and Dickens had
only £100,000 after his great American reading
tour. We know a L,elunhardt luminary who, when
he dies, will probably leave five hundred thousand
pounds—weight of scornfully rejected contribu-
tions ...
“ Tell me this.” he softly asked her, “ do you love
me true?”
And she murmured, shyly blushing, “ Love you ?
Yes, I do.”
Bonding then his glance upon her, meditative,
slow, ' '
“ Thanks,” he answered absently; "I only wished
to know.”
... Here’s a chance for the patent medicine men
to advertise their wares on the threshold of the
Great Unknown:—“ Palisa, the Viennese astrono-
mer, offers to name an asteroid after anyone who
will pay him £45 in cash. His first customer was
a Hungarian shopkeeper, who proposes to bap-
tise an asteroid ‘ Paprika-Schlesinger,’ the name
of his firm.” Some of these days a Welsh cow-
doctor, with a name comprising 14 l’s, 13 g’s, 7 f’a,
and 37 y’s, will come along for an asteroid ad„ and
then the angels will buck against the business
Someone suggested to H. J. Byron, the prince of
modern punsters and word-twisters, that to trill e
with “ asafcetlda ” was beyond him. “ Not at all,”
at once said Byron, “ you have the wicked baron
ordering a lovely but objectionable maiden to bo
immured in the lowest dungeon cell beyond the
moat; his minions announce that the gaoler has
done his work; and the baron yells, * Ah, ha I ’tis
well. But has he-fettered-her,’
“ I never had a piece of bread
Cut nice and smooth, and thick and wide,
But fell upon the sanded floor,—
And always on the buttered sldel ”
....First lieutenant R.N. to blue-jacket: “I don’t
mind giving you leave, Martin; hut keep sober,
and come back on board sober. You are a good
man, and what’s the good of getting drunk ?”
“ Quite true, sir; but, then, what’s the use of me
going ashore if I don’t get drunk ?”....The great
London dailies have thrown over Baron Reuter
(who charged them £3000 a year each for foreign
telegrams) and have started an agency of their own
with a common purse.... “It looks now as if the
Lion and the Bear would lie down together, but the
latter will have all the clothes,” remarks a Yankee
paper....Sarah Bernhardt is 41 years old, Rosa
Bonheur 63, Jenny Lind 64, and Ouida 46....
In Eng and, recently, a man made the following
return to the Income Tax Commissioners;—“ For
the last three years my income has been somewhat
under £150; in future it will be more precarious,
as the man is dead of whom I borrowed the
money.”
Odds and Ends.


Sustain the vigour and elasticity ot the system
with the inestimable tonic Wolfe's Schiiapps,
Socialities, '85.—Illustrated. One Shilling (post,
Is. 3d ) Everyone has read and enjoyed the Edi-
tions of '83, '83, and ’<54, and will be better pleased
with that of ’85. All booksellers. A. M'Kinley
and Co., Sydney.
The massive gates of circumstance
Are turned upon the smallest hinge,
And thus some seeming petty chance
Oft gives our alter life a tinge.
The things that make our daily life,
Soon out of memory’s grasp will fall.
But Summerileld s Cork Tweed outlasts
The most enduring of them all.*
Socialities, ’85.—110 pp. of Humorous Wood-
cuts and Comic Letterpress, Is. (post Is. 3a.) All
booksellers. A. M’Kinley and Co., Sydney. Buy It I
The cures consummated by Wolfe’s Schnapps
tell their own story and plead tneir own cause.
Personal Items
The mystery of Henniker Heaton’s pene-
tration into “ Society ” In London, is now at an
end. He is believed to be “connected with a
Sydney newspaper called The Bulletin.”
Way out West, society has been somewhat
startled of late by the fact of a rich Falstalfiau
widower, of 70 summers or so, tying the nuptial
knot with a young hospital nurse who has recently
emerged from her teens.
The Mayor of a Western town in N.S.W.
refused to take the chair at Sala’s lecture. “ Say-
ler,” he asked; “who's Sayler ? I never asso-
sheated with any of them play-hactor chaps yet,
and I ain't agoin 1 to now.”
They say in a Southern colony that Sir
Tbomss has at last decided to undergo matrlmonial-
Ism. Sir Thomas, undyed, unteethed, and disoora-
plexloned, is popularly supposed to total 140
winters, while the prospective bride is a gay young
thing of two-and-twenty summers.
Says the Northern Startler (Casino,
N.S.W.The 25th child has been born to a man
and wife in Dillon township, Tazewell.” The King
of Slam is still 33S ahead of the Dillon man. A*n
agitation should start locally to secure the ap-
pointment of the latter as Immigration Agent.
The Burke and Wills’ monument in Col-
llns-street, Melbourne, will have to be shifted. It
is In the way of the new tram line. In one sense
it will be well. As it is and has been, the explorers
who died of want in the wlldnerness look
through eyes of bronze straight into the window
of a corner grocery.
Pass the mustard. J. J. Coiman, of Durham Ox
mustard renown, has Just died, worth something
like £500,000. It is well to remember in every-day
life, a remark attributed to the now defunct old
mustard man;—“ I have made my big fortune,
not out of the mustard that has been eaten, but
out of what has been left on the plate.”
Evelyn Jerrold, grandson of the great
Douglas, has just left the minority. He had been
on the staff of Funny Folks almost from the
commencement of that bright little paper, and
had scarcely reached his prime when called to
another world, where the printers cease from
troubling, and the writer is at rest. But, hold! Is
all but a change from the printer’s devil to the
real article ?
Had Charlie Qosse, M.B., for whom Ade-
laide is mourning, been some ordinary poor
patient, attended by a single resolute medical
man, the odds are that Charon would not have
ferried him across the Styx for many a long day.
But it is said that no less than seven doctors affec-
tionately crowded round, and amputation of poor
Gosse’s Injured limb was delayed until gangrene
had set In and the solitary chance was lost for
ever.
Prince Henry of Baltenberg, who is to
marry the Queen’s youngest daughter, has been
made a “ Royal Highness by Her Majesty, and is
now to be made a Colonel in the English Army.
Military circles at home have broken into sections
over the news. This is the way one journal de-
fends the appointment:—“From what we hear of
Prince Henry, he is a very clever young man, and
one that will fill his position, as husband to our
Queen’s youngest daughter, in a way that will
cause universal admiration and respect.” The
man who penned that “universal admiration and
respect,” was an artist—a man after our own
hearts. Could it have been Bat. himself ?
“The Maitland people are dissatisfied,”
■ays the Uralla paper, “ with Mr. Sala. They think
the distinguished journalist has treated them
rather cavalierly.” There ia some little miscon-
ception here, which, we trust, we can immediately
set right. As a matter of fact, G. A. 8. was much
Impressed with the Maitland people, and liked
them immensely. It is his regret (indeed, misfor-
tune) that he hasn’t been educated yet up to the
point of taking his four rums before breakfast,
and starting immediately after that meal upon
wines of local manufacture. It is known amongst
Mr. Sala’s private friends that from the day he
“ cracked up ” L. L. Smith’s vintages, tin Mel-
bourne, he has never dared to put less than a shil-
ling in the plate. And, before ...
A nice divorce suit, which will be full of
interesting particulars, will shortly occupy the
Divorce Court, at Melbourne. The parties were
brought before the public recently in a scandal
In which two sprigs of nobility played a promin-
ent part. In the suit both husband and wife are
seeking a divorce from one another. The male
petitioner alleges grave misconduct against his
better-half, accusing her of gross infidelity with
the gay Lotharios before mentioned. The wife,
on the other hand, alleges that her husband has
deserted her, and is now living cpenly with a
young lady of whom it is said that she had the
offer of becoming mistress of one of our Govern-
ment Houses, but declined. Friends have tried to
effect a reconciliation between the parties to the
suit, but have failed, .so the joint petitions are
now on the road.
It is alleged in Adelaide that when a cer-
tain well-known musician was lately introduced to
Dr. Kennion, the Anglican Bishop of S. Australia,
he took off his hat, bent his bald head in a lowly
manner, and informed the great Gospel-gun that
he (the musician) looked much more like a bishop
than Dr. Kennion- the Doctor weareth the out-
side appearance of a jovial butcher. At this
remark of the celebrated musician, Mr. Kennion
waxed unpleasantly resentful; seeing which, the
C.M. toned down his declaration by affirming that
he only had been think ng of Continental bishops,
who cannot, as a rule, be mistaken for butchers.
Then the Governor, who had introduced the belli-
gerents, proposed a drink, which, in the agitation
of the moment, was duplicated and re-duplicated
by the musical and Gospel sharps, so that, when
our representative left, the fiddler was playing
Hungarian melodies on the back of a chair with
the Governor’s walking-stick and the Bishop was
proposing that (it now being midnight) they
should all go out for a turn round.
The Right Hon. A. J. Mundella, vice-presi-
dent of the Council of Education In England, has
been veritably “ got at.” Shrewd as he is. and
profoundly skilled in the wiles of the wily, he has
fallen an easy prey to an Australian snake-
charmer. Hear how he has been mesmerised by
a Queensland bard;—“I was reading,” he said
the other day in Finsbury Olreus, in London, “some
«Plendld poems which were presented to me. in
which were described in glowing terms the splen-
dour8 of its December sunsets. Rich Oriental
cropped up again and again—the wine and
the pomegranate and all the rich fruits
that the earth can give, are all to be found in that
flnH U ii tl iLH u *L n8laQd l The next thing we shall
find is that the great educationist is on his wav
out for a repast on these luxuries. When he has
half-way filled himself with Ipswich wine and
Gayndah lusel oil, and Wide Bay bunyahs we
would advise that bard with the rich Oriental
Imagination to keep out of his way. If not not
i E h n a K ar i d l* ave l0 * 8t a statesman, but Aus-
tralia will have lost a poet.
The Pall Mall Gazette, so we are told
legrams in the Australian dallies, is to bo
put down, because it Is indecent. If you want
to know why they are tryintr to kill th« P m
taal* they’ll never accomplish while
A a idical party holds coin) you have
only to read the subjoined, clipped from a last
issue of the journal namedWhy not put Gor-
don s statue up on thq vacant pedestal in Trafal-
fpc Square ? asks the Times, and the question is
echoed by other correspondents to-day. Why not
indeed? It would be the companion statue to
that of George IV., one of the worst and meanest
of his race. All deities, from Jove to Jesus, found
a place in the Roman Pantheon, and the contrast
between the heorlc defender of Khartoum and
the crowned roui whose statue disgraces the finest
site in Europe would be almost as startling as that
between our Saviour and the libertine of Olympus.
But, seriously speaking, why should we erect a
statu* to a saint cheek by jowl with the statue of
a man, who, but for the accident of bis birth, aud
the facilities which it afforded him, would proba-
bly have ended his days in a felon’s coll?” Now
here you have the reason why the Conservative au-
thorities hate and are trying to put down the Pall
Mall Gazette.
Our old acquaintance, poor Rosnati, the
champion robust tenor singer, It seems actually
starved himself to death. After roaring gently as
your sucking dingo through Australia and Ame-
rica, he went to Milan and bepostered himself as
the famous American and Australian tenore ro-
busto. When a man’s name appears on posters at
Milan, It means something—particularly if the
theatre taken happen to be Dal Verml. A big
audience assembled to hear the famous singer.
But they only heard a very few bars of the song
given behind the scenes by Manrioo before he
comes actually on. They positively declined to
hear any further. Kosnati had shouted and
scooped his voice right out of his larynx, or
wherever it is supposed to be, and could not give
three consecutive notes la tune. The ourtaia
came down to a hideous chorus of hisses. Poor
Kosnati went to a miserable attic without a penny,
a , * consequently, without a friend, in that musi-
city. He locked himself in, and when, some
time afterwards, a curious individual broke the
door open, there was the once vigorous shouter
dead as Edgardo is supposed to be—dead from
sheer starvation. And Kosnati was an easy man
to starve. Like dozens of his order, and like all
men of his organisation, he was a huge eater. Let
us hope that where he is gone meals are served
out on the basis of a turkey per man per meal.
v die i Kosnati.
The arrival of Dion Boucicault will pro-
bably have the effect of bringing Arthur Leslie B.,
W# brother, down from Gympie (Q.), where he
prints, owns, and edits a paper of whimsical aspect.
The meeting should be an affecting thing, as if
Dion is all that Charles Lamb Kenney’s “book”
would make him out to be, he will fall upon
Arthur’s neck and drop upon his shoulder a million
and a tear. There is some facial resemblance
between the two brothers, but, happily, none in
their mode of dressing; since A. Leslie affects
velvet coats, white waistcoats, “ thunder-and-
llghtning" pants, ani a profusion of-jewellery 1
It would be difficult for anyone to exactly gauge
the strength of Dion Boucicault’s literary talents;
while the magnitude of his b. other’s journalistic
genius would not, however, be difficult for anyone
who knows him to distinctly divine! The list of
the pieces Mr. Kenny has given us to which Dion
Boucicault can claim authorship is by no means
complete. No mention, for instance, is made of
*• Babll and Bijou,” produced some 15 years ago at
Covent Garden, the spectacular effects of which
were of an elaborate nature. One startling effect
was that when the curtain rose on a ” depths of
tbs sea ’’-scene, the audience was somewhat enter-
tained to find moving about amonst the other
aquaria a boiled lobster. The songs of “ Babil ”
were very pretty. Ail the lyrics for the piece
were written by the late J. R. Planchd (Somerset
Herald), and the music was by half-a-dozen
composers. The piece was a comparative failure
at the time, owing to the enormous expense
entailed in running it. This was borne, until he
grew aweary, by “ a nobleman well-known for the
interest he takes in the dramatic profession.”
LIII.-Ed. B.]
Some curious facts concerning authors.
Anthony Trollope turned out his “ copy ” as regu-
larly as a machine. Sometimes—according to his
own admission—he wrote as many as 113 pages of
a novel in a week. Each page contained, on an
average, 350 words, therefore his week's work
would represent over 31 Bulletin columns. We
should be inclined to call this slavery. And in-
deed he did slave for money, as nearly all popular
writers do nowadays. Freeman says of him that
he could write about William Rufus or Appius
Claudius up to a certain moment on the clock and
then stop—just in the manner of a machine. He
had but a small soul for art, but be could pay his
rent punctually, and the milkman had no terrors
for him. Forty pages of whatever novel he had
in.baud was, however, his average six days’
labour. Alphonse Daudet, the French writer,
went by clockwork in much the same style.
G. P. R. James used to rely mainly upon the virtue
of his heroines to sell his books. It is some-
what disillusionising, in more ways than one, to
meet the author of a book after having read It.
It is annoying to know that he could have twisted
the plot any way he chose, and killed off the hero
or heroine whenever it suited him. This is—In the
kingdom of the imaginatiou—a real and terrible
power to possess, and we must be thankful that It
s used with so little truculency. A reader of
Through One Administration a book which
had a considerable success when it first came out-
happened to meet the author, and said to her—
‘ Mrs. Burnett, how could you kill Trevennis ? ”
‘ Why I wrote two conclusions,” was the answer.
First, I killed both, but that would not do, and
there was nothing for it but to kill the soldier. It
broke my heart, for I loved that man; but he
had to die.” This glimpse behind the scenes takes
away all the glamour from the performance. We
rke to think that the characters are real—that
they act in the only way in which they could—and
that the story ends in the only way possible, and
not at the caprice of the author. It is the cus-
tom of many writers to make a note of
each Idea as it comes to them. Emerson made a
practice of doing so. Sometimes Mrs. Emerson,
startled by some unusual sound in the middle of
the night, would shoot her elbow into the philo-
sophic ribs of her spouse and say, “ What is the
matter ? Are you ill ?” “ No, my dear.” the over-
soul would softly reply; “ only an idea!” Words-
worth had a habit of walking by himself humming
verses as he went. The peasantry of Rydal
thought him mad. Southey boomed his verses so
as to be frequently mistaken for a bittern. We
only want to know now the mental method of
Sladen to have our curiosity fully satisfied. It
would not surprise us to hear that he lows or
brays his verses. They give one that impression
when seen In print.
“Professor” Haselmayor, who was well-
known all over the Australian colonies as a “ ma-
gician,” died the other day, in his 47th year, at
Vienna, whither he had just retired to try and en-
joy, for the rest of his days, a substantial fortune
—made, for the most part, he once told us, in New
Zealand.
The two Dromios of the Victorian Parlia-
ment are M. H. Davies, the member for St. Kilda,
and D, M. Davies, the member for Grenville. The
first is a Free-trader; the second, a Protectionist.
But the similarity of names and the frequent
omission of initials in the Parliamentary reports in
the morning papers, keep these gentlemen in a
state of perpetual frenzy. For instance, one of
them, in a caustic speech, points out the criminal
folly of paying for iron pipes of local manufacture
£34,000 more than imported ones could be pro-
cured for. The constituents of the other one hold
an indignation meeting to protest against bis
treacherous conduct. Yet the poor man is as
innocent of what they accuse him as Adam before
the Pall. And so conversely. The member for
Grenville grows eloquent one night upon the
virtue of encouraging native industries. The next
day, the member for St. Kilda is cut dead in the
street by ail his aristocratic constituents. Even
the dogs—Conservatives to the tips of their tails—
look coldly on him. Days pass before affairs
are again upon an amicable footing. Meantime
the [unhappy man has been pointed at with the
finger of scorn as a political Judas. Prognathous-
faced nurses, carrying bulbous-headed babies
down the Esplanade, stop when they see him, and
whisper fiercely to their charges, “ If yidont stop
cryin’, ye himp, yill grow hup to be like that man,
and heverybody will ’ate yer.” Of course this
comedy of errors began to grow monotonous to
both members. But things reached a climax when
the constituents of Mr. D. M. Davies, the Protec-
tionist, made preparations to burn him in efligy
over his supposed speech (made in reality by his
Free-trade namesake) against the purchase of
these same wretched iron pipes. Human nature
could stand this no longer, so, the other evening,
each Davies got up in the Assemnly and solemnly
repudiated all responsibility for the actions of the
other. Now, perhaps, they will be permitted to
potter away the rest of their political lives in
peace. If future confusions arise, the best thing
for them to do will be to have calico bands sewn
on their plug hats with inscriptions in poster type,
as thus—‘T am the Free-trader Davies,” and “I
am Davies the Protectionist.” They would not
cost much, and (perennial Alfred) would “give
pleasure to all.”
* * *
Sir Charles Wilson, in giving an explana-
tion re the dilatoriness charged against him In
connection with the Khartoum expedition, asserts
that after full reflection he would under a repeti-
tion of the same circumstances, act exactly as he
did. In forwarding this official paper to the War
Office, Lord Wolseley declines to make any com-
ment, contenting himself with saying that the
reasons given by Sir Charles Wilson must answer
for themselves. ‘ This,’ says Life, ‘ places mat-
ters in a painful position for that officer. It im-
plies condemnation—and it is possible that the
friends of the gallant officer Impugned will urge
him to demand a court-martial”.. ..Florence
Marryat, the well-known English novelist, has
been lecturing in New York. Her personal ap-
pearance is thus described: Her fiery red robe—a
fac Sim la of the dress worn by Ellen Terry in the
trial scene of the “Merchant of Venice”—was
short enough to show two substantial black slip-
pers, ornamented with flowers, and a pair of white
silk stockings. Mies Marryat’s blonde hair was
fluffy, and projected in various directions from
under her Oxford mortar-board cap. She placed
one hand upon her hip, let the other hang down
by her side, and, bearing her weight first on one
foot and then on the other with sudden, pictur-
esque lurches, began her talk in a deep contralto
voice, pitched about B below the treble clef.
A “SUBSTANTIAL RECOGNITION; ”OR, PLUM-
PUDDING FOR THE CONTINGENT.
THE CIVIC IDEA OF REWARDING VALOUR.
“A STRAW BEST SHOWS HOW THE WIND BLOWS.” ON THE SYDNEY DOMAIN THE
.DEAD-BEATS, THOUGH, ARB INFALLIBLE INDICATORS.


DR.SCOTT'S
-w
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate, fit, and aiding by. hi
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
If you have any pain, ache, or ill-feeling
from any cause; if you seem “pretty well,
yet lack energy and do not “feel up to the
mark*,” if you suffer from disease, we beg
you to at once try these remarkable cura-
tives. They cannot and do not injure like
medicine. Always doing good, never ii arm.
There is no shock or sensation felt in wear-
ing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during the
first hour they are worn their wonderful
curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation arc stimulated, and all
the old-time health and good-feeling come
back. They are constructed on scientific
Erinciples, imparting an exhilarating,
ealth-giving current to the whole system.
Professional men assert that there is hardly
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily
practise the same, as your own physician
will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance
from those usually worn, as we substitute
our flat steel magnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in quality and design.
They are elegant in shape and finish, made
after the best French patterns, and war-
ranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents.
&
s
31
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and mostqffeqtnal
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Inoipiqpt
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Luinbagb,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of yoiqb,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &o., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-
called) nave failed:.
The prices are as follows s—
s. d.
W,* now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
be tested. If you cannot get
them irnyppr town, we will send either kind
to any part or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with ,1s. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to caver postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually word; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
I waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece ef common stripg, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be mode by .cheque,
i P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
mm am,
64 Margarat-straat,
SYDNEY.
J F,X), Box SSL
ALCOCK&CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS:
DIMS 11 ul CO.,
375 George-st., Sydney.
BV~ TIME PAYMENTS. IF REQUIRED
or
Infants and Children
L _ J
"What gives our Children rosy cheeks,*Y
"What cures their fevers, makes Viem sleep;
, Castoria.
fwhen Babies fret, and cry by turns,
, "What cures their colic, kills their worms.
Castoria. ;
f What quickly cures Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Colds, Indigestion ;
Castoria. \
f Farewell then to Morphine Syrups, ,
t Castor Oil and Paregoric, and
Hall Castoria.
$ “ Castoria. is so well adapted to Children
that I recommend it as superior to any medi-
cine known to mo.”—H. A. Archer, M. D,,
111 Oxford St., New York.
Elliott Bros., Sidney, Agents.
(COMPLETE SET),
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
DENTIST,
MARKET STREET,
One door from Georg e-strect.
RAW VASELINE.
A
SOFTENS and Preserves Horses’ Ki
Parasites, and prevents their growth. 1
valuable as a Leather Preservative, rendering
sort, pliable, and waterproof, and prevents
cracking. Prom its anti-corrosive qualities, v
equalled for keeping free from mgt nod
perfect order ail metal goods, firearms, machln
&c. It is the sole material used for the abc
purooses in the Austrian and Geriwn armi
Sold by all Saddlers and Storekeepers.
SOLE AGENTS ;
BLACKBURN & CD..
WHOLESALE SADDLERS’ IRONMONG Ell!
1S5 York-street, Sydney,
The Rights of Insanity.
to the Editor of The BDLLETiN.-3ir.-The
damnation to death of the young man Frank
plunging a knife into the body of a
fefiow-prisoner, Is opening the never-ending dis-
aSnnas to what Dr. Maudsley in a whole
vo ume has considered as Responsibility in Mental
Tfisease. I have read that, and volumes of simi-
Sr mirnort, and find that all that can be claimed
In the side of people who look upon a murder-
ous intint as In itself an Indication of an un-
balanced mind, is amply answered by reference
universality of the instinct to destroy. A
read Buchanan’s "New Buddha” in
thl North American Review just to hand, to
Inow how a perception of this all-round tendency
to slay and eat your enemy is shown in every one
a lower races, and leads men like Arthur
Schopenhauer to go howling through the w 9 rld
?hot ail is pain—purposeless, when viewed scien-
tifically’ cruel, when looked at as the work of an
Intelligent Ruler. It is nearer the plain Eng-
lish of it to say that we needn’t wait for a
i,7i7>ntitle classification of the motives which
mav lead a man to kill somebody. To estab-
lish a scientific method of procedure, requires
the classified results of many years of trained
«hofirvation. Life is too short for it. Your
vTifo or vour daughter, or your son is walking the
otrflfiV or watering some flowers, and a man,
hRherto blameless, is suddenly seized with the
notion that it would be a fine thing to jump over
?hn fence and send a knife into their hearts. The
burnedquestion as to whether the kmfeing gentle-
is what we call “ sane” or not, may have much
interest to future scholars; but have not the sane
in me little rights ? It seems a pity a man should
be'put to death for an action that appears pur-
poseless; but is it not a greater pity that peop'e
who are undoubtedly sane should be liable at any
moment to be sent to where the question of re-
sponsibillty will, according to religion, be very
promptly .settled ? Very valuable dogs, ex-
tremely expensive stallions, and other vicious
iS,oia are “ out away effectually on the
results 8 of their actions, not on their motives,
in the case of Johns, people plead that, |m
the first place, he was " led away ” by
Captain Moonlight (whom, by the way, we knew
ajf a villain in small things), and now he is suppored
to have been led a way-by a purposeless motive.
When I remember, however, that our Govern-
™ikt has reprieved the Keeps, and that there was
hinted about their handicraft, I will
Pfifrain from asking that this “ imaginative ” young
Irentiemau be “led away” in a hempen fashion.
PnMfiad him away, anyhow. The insane have
rights of course; but their chief right is to be
put out of the way effectually. It is better for
Mr Tohns to carry on his imaginative wars in a
Peli for the rest of his unnatural life, than that the
fiving should continue to run the risk of haying
their sane, but unprepared souls sent direct to
Judgment, while he will have .ample time to
"attend to his spiritual advisers ’’ and announce
from the scaffold or elsewhere that he is going
home to the Lord. —Yours, C. 0. July 16.
FOur correspondent appears to think we advo-
cated the remission of the death sentence in the
case he refers to on the ground of Johns’ insanity.
Itls not so. We said his mind was intensely ex-
cited, and that there was evidence to show that
the apparent causes of excitement were attribut-
able to circumstances within the control of the
prison official-’. It is true that Society has the
?fght to protect itself against men who, without
purpose, take away human life. But taking away
the murderer’s life is the reciprocation of the mur-
derer’s sentiment. It keeps him from taking
away another life, certainly, but we contend that
that end can be attained under a proper system of
prison management. It is being attained in many
places. In the Maisoir Centrale of Louvain
murderers of a quarter of a century back still
survive “ buried in their livery of infamy as in a
shroud.” There are 600 men in that prison expiat-
ing the crime of murder. Only a tew isolated
cases of attempts at violence ever occur red there.
So much as to preventing a repetition of crime.
As to deterring others the weight of scientific
opinion goes to show that hanging prompts to
murder- We say scientific opinion, because
unscientific opinion is valueless. The average
of murders in Belgium has, sinee the aboli-
tion of capital punishment, fallen below the
average obtaining at present m countries
which adhere to capital punishment. During the
reign of Louis Philippe there was a regicidal
mania. In the early part of the reign the would-
be regicides were executed. Louis was in-
spired to change the system. He determined to
send succeeding culprits to a lunatic asylum
After so sending a couple the desire to take
away the King’s life evaporated. The analogy be-
tween the right to destroy a vicious dog and the
right to destroy a vicious man cannot be sup-
ported. If man and dog have the same level, why
have gaols and reformatories for men and not for
dogs? Civilisation stands on the assumption of
the presence of an essential principle in human
existence which differentiates it, not in degree,
bat in kind, in the person of the humblest and
most degraded of its representatives from all other
mundane existences. We are sure our able cor-
respondent, and the many who think with him,
will come to this view in the end. They at Present
chop off hands for murder in the spirit in which
Constantine chopped off a foot when a slave tried
to run away. The Salic law chopped off a hand for
theft, and the English law chopped off an ear for
perjury. The perjurer now goes to gaol, the thief
goes to gaol, the runaway servant goes to gaol,
and Time, that is always working, will bring round
the day when the murderer will also go to gaol and
be kept there, and will be site there without the
disturbing Influence of female
Ed. B 1 -
A PROFESSIONAL CONFESSION.
The following article from the Democrat and
Chronicle, of Rochester, N.Y., is of so striking a
nature, and emanates from so reliable a source,
that it is herewith re-published entire. In addition
to the valuable matter it contains, it will be found
exceedingly interesting
To the Editor of the Democrat and Chronicle :
Sir,—My motives for the publication of the
most unusual statements are, first, gratitude for
the fact that I have been saved from a most hor-
rible death, and, secondly, a "desire to warn all
who read this statement against some of the most
deceptive influences by which they have ever been
surrounded. It is a fact that to-day thousands of
people are within a foot of the grave, and they do
not know it. To tell how I was caught away from
just this position, and to warn others against near-
ing it, are my objects in this communication.
On the first day of June, 1881, I lay at my resi-
dence in this city surrounded by my friends, and
waiting for my death. Heaven only knows the
agony I then endured, for words can never de-
scribe it. And yet. if a few years previous, any
one had told me that I was to be brought so low,
and by so terrible a disease, I should have scoffed
at the idea. I had always been uncommonly
strong and healthy, had weighed over 300 pounds,
and hardly knew, in my own experience, what
pain or sickness were. Very many people who
will read this statement realise at times that they
are unusually tired and cannot account for it.
They feel dull and indefinite pains in various parts
of the body, and do not understand it. Or they
are exceedingly hungry one day, and entirely
without appetite the next. This was just the way
I felt when the relentless malady which had
fastened itself upon me first began. Still I thought
it was nothing; that probably jl had taken a cold
which would soon pass away. Shortly after this I
noticed a dull, and at times a neuralgic, pain in my
head, but as it would come one day and be gone
the next, I paid but little attention to it. How-
ever, my stomach was out of order, and my food
often tailed to digest, causing at times great in-
convenience. Yet I had no idea, even as a physi-
cian, that these things meant anything serious, or
that a monstrous disease was becoming fixed upon
me. Candidly, I thought I was suffering from
Malaria, and so doctored myself accordingly. But
I got no better. I next noticed a peculiar colour
and odour about the fluids I was passing—also
that there were large quantities one day and very
little the next, and that a persistent froth and
scum appeared upon the surface, and a sediment
settled in the bottom. And yet I did not realise
my danger, for indeed seeing these symptoms
continually, I finally became accustomed to them,
and my suspicion was wholly disarmed by the fact
that 1 had no pain in the affected organs or in
their vicinity. Why I should have been so blind I
cannot understand.
There is a terrible future for all physical neglect,
and impending danger 81 ways brings a person to
his senses, even thougu it may then be too late. 1
realised, at last, my critical condition, and aroused
myself to overcome it. And, Oh! how hard I
tried. I consulted the best medical skill in the*
land. 1 visited all the prominent mineral springs
in America, and travelled from Maine to Cali-
fornia. Still I grew worse. No two physicians
agreed as to my malady, One said I was troubled
with spinal irritation; another, nervous prostra-
tion; another, malaria: another, dyspepsia; an-
other, heart disease; another, general debility;
another, congestion of the base of the brain; and
so on, through a long list of common diseases, the
symptoms ot all of which I really had. In this
way several years passed, during all of which
time I was steadily growing worse. My condition
had really become pitiable. The slight symptoms
I at first experienced were developed into terrible
and constant disorders—the little twigs of pain
had grown to oaks of agony My weight had been
reduced from 207 to 139 pounds. My life was a
torture to myself and friends. I could retain no
food upon my stomach, and lived wholly by in-
jections. I was a living mass of pain. My pulse
was uncontrollable. In my agony 1 frequently
fell upon the floor, convulsively clutched the car-
pet, and prayed lor death. Morphine had little
or no effect in deadening the pain. For six days
and nights I had the death-premonitory hiccoughs
constantly. My urine was filled with tube casts
and albumen. I was struggling with Bright s
Disease of the Kidneys in its last stages.
While suffering thus I received a call from my
pastor, the Kev. Dr. Foote, rector of St. Paul’s
Church, of this city. I felt that it was our last in-
terview, but in the course of conversation he
mentioned a remedy of which I had heard much
but had never used. Dr. Foote detailed to me the
many remarkable cures which had come under his
observation by means of this remedy, and urged
me to try it. As a practising physician and a
graduate of the schools. I cherished the pre-
judice both natural and common with all regular
practitioners, and derided the idea of any medi-
cines outside the regular channels being the least
beneficial. So solicitous, however, was Dr. Foote,
that I finally promised I would waive my pre-
judice and try the remedy he so highly recom-
mended. I began its use on the first day of June,
and took it according to directions. At first It
sickened me, but this I thought was a good sign
for me in my debilitated condition. I continued
to take it. The sickening sensation departed, and
I was able to retain food upon my stomach. In a
few days I noticed a decided change for the better,
as also did my wife and friends. My hiccoughs
ceased, and I experienced less pain than formerly.
I was so rejoiced at this improved condition that,
upon what I had believed but a lew days before
was my dying bed, I vowed, in the presence of my
family and friends, should I recover I would both
publicly and privately make known this remedy
tor the good ot humanity, wherever and when-
ever I bad the opportunity. I also determined
that I would give a course of lectures in the
Corinthian Academy of Music of this city, stating
in full the symptoms and almost hopelessness of
my disease and the remarkable means by which I
have been saved. My improvement was constant
from that time, and in less than three months I
had gained 36 pounds in fiesh, became entirely
free from pain, and I believe I owe my life and
present condition wholly to Warner’s Safe Cure,
the remedy which I used.
Since my recovery I have thoroughly re-lnvestl-
gated the subject of kidney difficulties and Bright’s
disease, and the truths developed are astounding.
I therefore state deliberately, and as a physician,
that I believe that more than one-half the deaths
that occur are caused by Bright’s disease of the
kidneys. This may sound like a rash statement,
but I am prepared to fully verify it. Bright’s dis-
ease has not distinctive symptoms of its own, (in-
deed, it often develops without any pain, whatever
in the kidneys or their vicinity),, but has the symp-
toms of l early every other known complaint.
Hundreds of people die daily, whose burials are
authorised by a physician’s certificate of “ Heart
Disease,” “ Apoplexy,” “ Paralysis,” “ Spinal
Complaints," “ Rheumatism,” “ Pneumonia,”
and other common complaints, when in reality it
was Bright’s Disease of the Kidney. Few physi-
cians, and fewer people, realise the extent of this
disease or its dangerous and insidious nature. It
steals into the system like a thief, manifests its
presence by the commonest symptoms, and fastens
Itself upon the constitution before the victim is
aware. It is nearly as hereditary as consumption,
quite as common, and fully as fatal. Bn tire
families, inheriting it from their ancestors, have
died, and yet none of the number knew or realised
the mysterious power which was removing them.
Instead of common symptoms it often shows none
whatever, but brings death suddenly, and as such
is usually supposed to be heart disease. As one
who has suffered, and knows by bitter experience
what he says, I Implore every one who reads these
words not to neglect the slightest symptoms of
kidney difficulty. Certain agony and possible
death will be the sure result of such neglect, and
no one can afford to hazard such chances.
I am aware that such an unqualified statement
as this, coining from me, known as 1 am through-
out the entire land as a practitioner and lecturer,
will arouse the surprise and possible animosity of
the medical profession and astonish all with
whom I am acquainted, but I make the foregoing
statements based upon facts which I am prepared
1 to produce, and truths which 1 can substantiate
to the letter. The welfare of those who may pos-
sibly bo sufferers such as I was is an ample induce-
ment for me to take the step I have, and if I can
successfully warn others from the dangerous path
in which I once walked, lam willing to endure all
professioual and personal consequences.
J. B. HENIO, M.D.
81 Andrews street, Rochester, N.Y.
MAGIC.
Her harp, its music at’an end,
On Tara’s wall remains;
But still a spirit lives to send
A thrill through Irish veins.
And when it does its work of love,
Old Ireland sees appear
The snakes St. Patrick rM her of
Since many a happy year.


A GRAND COMPLIMENTARY CONCERT
(Under Distinguished Patronage)
will be tendered to
HERR HUGO ALPEN,
by the members of St. Patrick’s Choir, assisted by
numerous Artistes and Amateurs, on WEDNES-
DAY, September 39,1885, at the
NE 77 MASONIC HALL,
Herr Vogrlch has kindly consented to play on
the Grand Piano ; and Herr Krelschmann has
kindly consented to lead the orchestra.
Full Chorus of best voices in Sydney.
Tickets - 4s., 3s., and 3s., to be obtained from all
the music warehouses.
FRANK BREWER, Hon. Sec.
r AULCONBRIDGE ART UNION.
5776 Tickets at £1 each.
417 Prizes, valued at £5776, the first 17 ranging in
value from £650 to £50.
Trustees •
Hon. Sir A. Stephen, Q.C.M.C., C.B.; Hon. J. B.
Watt, Hon. A. Campbell, Sir P. A. Jennings,
K.C.M.O.; F. B. Suttor, Esq, M.P.; and Sir
George Verdon, K.C.M.G.. C.B,
Will be disposed of by Art Union, at an early date.
The Valuable Library, and Choice Collection
of Pictures, Statuary, Rare Autographs,
and Works of Art, Ac., the property of
SIR HENRY PARKHS.
Prizes on View at 175 Premier Terrace, Wooloo-
mooloo.
Secretariat: Commercial Union Chambers, Pitt
and Hunter streets, Sydney.
OPPOSITION TO INFIDELITY. WORD
PAINTING EXTRAORDINARY.
SUNDAY NIGHT, New Masonic HaP, G. E. A.
KENNEY gives his grand oration on the drama of
“REVELATION.”
It is an exhibition of oratory transcending the
efforts of all the imported lecturers Sydney has
ever heard. Ccme and hear it. Tickets 3s., 2s.,
and Is., at Nicholson and Co., J. J. Moore and Co.,
and Wigzell, Oxford-street.
THE SYDNEY BICYCLE CLUB.
FOURTH ANNUAL INTERCOLONIAL AMA-
TEUR CHAMPION BICYCLE AND TRICYCLE
RACE MEETING.
Under the patronage and rules of the New South
Wales ’Cyclists Union.
To be held at the
N.8.W. CRICKET ASSOCIATION GROUND,
Moore Park, Sydney, N.8.W.,
SATURDAY, 23nd AUGUST, 1885.
PROGRAMME: *
1. One-mile Bicycle Championship of N.S.W.—
Special Club Trophy
3. Ten-miles Bicycle Championship of N.S.W.—
Gardiner Cup
3. One-mile Bicycle Handicap
4. Three-miles Bicycle Handicap—The Ladles’
Bracelets
Competitors in this race must be nominated by
ladies.
5. One-mile Bicycle Handicap, for Maiden Riders
only
This race to be ridden on Roadster Bicycles.
Minimum weight, 351bs.
6. Two-miles Tricycle Handicap
7. 150 Yards Handicap Foot Race
8. 440 Yards Handicap Foot Race
9. Parade-Prize, Silver Bugle, for the Club ex-
celling in appearance and manoeuvres.
All events open to all amateurs.
e. h. McRae,
Honorary Secretary.
All communications and enquiries to be ad-
dressed to, and entry forms obtained from, the
Club Clerk, J. Copland, at the Club Rooms and
Headquarters, 85 Market-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
A POSITIVE CURE
WITHOUT MEDICINE.
One box will cure the most obstinate case, acute
or chronic, in four days or less.
DR. BAYLEY’S SOLUBLE MEDICATED
BOUGIES (EUCALYPTOL).
No nauseous doses of cubebs, capaiba, or oil of
sandlewood, that are certain to produce dyspepsia
by destroying the coatings of the stomach Price
SI Is.; mailed on receipt of price. Address P.O.
ox 833, Sydney. (Registered).
Professional Directory.
|TJ.EORGB PE < 81 MAN, Scene Painter, Theatre
sjr Royal, Brisbane.
m H B A T R B ROYAL.
JL Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musobovi.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Doors open at 7.30, commence at 8. Carriages at 10.
THIS EVENING, JULY 16,
KRUSE CONCERTS.
Prices of Admission: Dress Circle 5s.; Stalls, 3s.;
Family Circle, 2s.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway s
Hotel.
Box plan open at theatre from 11 till 1. No free
list. O. NOBILI, Business Manager.
SATURDAY EVENING, JULY 18,
The initial work of the season will be Charles
Lecocq’s most brilliant military spectacular work
ever written,
LA PETITE MADEMOISELLE
LA PETITE MADEMOISELLE
LA PETITE MADEMOISELLE
Box plan now open.
T
HEATRE ROYAL.
Williamson, Garner, and Musgrave, Managers.
FRIDAY, JULY 17.
GRAND GALA NIGHT.
COMPLIMENTARY
Farewell performance
of
JOHN F.
SHERIDAN,
, the original
WIDOW O’BRIEN,
, . and the celebrated
fcUN FUN FUN FUN
on the on the
BRISTOL. BRISTOL.
Mr. Sheridan in his best on this occasion.
He will Sing
" THE PLUM PUDDING,”
'* NEVER TAKE THE HORSESHOE FROM THE
DOOR/*
and his latest Great Success,
“ST. PATRICK’S DAY PARADE,”
MISS MAY LIVINGSTON
as the Masher,
TIDDY-FOL-LOL.
E. D. DAVIES, the Great Ventriloquist.
The entire Company in their best efforts on this
Occasion.
DON’T FORGET THE WIDOW’S NIGHT.
Boys, go, and bring your sister; if you have no
sister bring some other fellow’s sister.
FRIDAyTjULY ir.
Box Plan Theatre Royal now open.
WM. HUGHES, Business Manager.
N
BW OPERA HOUSE.
Leasees Messrs. Majeroni and Wilson
Sub-Lessee Miss Genevieve Ward.
Last 3 Weeks of the WARD-VERNON SEASON.
Continued Success Continued Success
of the new and powerful play
MAMMON;
MAMMON;
THE MONEY MARKET
THE MONEY MARKET
which will be repeated
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING.
Ml*. H. VERNON in his grand creation,
SIR GEOFFREY HERIOT.
Miss GENEVIEVE WARD as LADY HERIOT.
Other characters by t. e selected company.
Art Ornaments from John Sands’, Georgo-st.
Handsome Furnishing by David Jones and Co.
Prices as usual.
Liddt, Agent. Signor Aquati, Business Manager.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager.. Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
58th Week, and Second Year
of the
LEVIATHAN SHOW.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION
Every Evening in their Refined and Amusing
Entertainment.
Terminating with the entirely new Sketch, called
PETE AND THE RUSSIAN SPY.
Admission, 4s., 3s., 2s., and Is. Box Flan at
Paling's. Carriages at 10.15.
M
Lessee ...
ASONIC HALL, YORK STREET.
... Harry Lynch.
The Original
LYNCH FAMILY BELLRINGERS AND
VOCALISTS,
Organised, 1807.
SECOND SEASON Commences at conclusion of
Dr. Taylor’s Lectures on MONDAY. 27th Instant.
. Parramatta Town Hall, THURSDAY and FRl-
DAY, 16th and 17tb instant.
w
A L L S E
For Two Nights Only.
N
D.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, JULY 18,
SOUDAN MINSTRELS,
Organised by Members of the Contingent.
For Full Particulars see day Bills and Posters.
CHARLES EDWARD BLAKE.
Manager.
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL,
Goulbubn.
THIS Theatre, one of the best in the colony, is
open for Engagement. Particulars from
M. B. PULLEN, Hall secretary.
M
ERCANTILB ROWING CLUB BALL.
TOWN HALL,
THURSDAY, 23bd JULY.
As most of the tickets are already disposed of,
it is advisable for those Intending to be present to
secure their tickets at once. None over the
allotted number will be issuid, and NO tickets
Will be disposed of at the doors.
Tickets:—Double, 35s; Gentlemen, 25s; Ladies, 15r.
may be obtained from the following members of
the committeeMessrs. J. Blackman. F. Boulton,
R. R. Brindley, W. R. Benson, F, J. Bull, W
Bharles, D, Dennis, E S. Deane, K, Giltinan. E.
[.Haymett, F.Ives, F R. Isler, R. A. Keddle J.
Lord, j. Munnix, W. Merriman, P. J. Maklnson,
8. Martin, J. Y. Nelson, F. B. Nowell, G. Seale, J.
Smart, F. Thorpe, T. West, C. Wilkinson, and J.
Young.
J. M. FOGARTY. Hon. Treasurer.
W. A. BLACKSTONB, Hon. Sec.
Telegraph Department.
T°.S
literary
Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams,
and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
man of long experience, on moderate
terms. “ Beta,” Bulletin Office.
1885 Universal Club, a thoroughly reliable and easy-running
machine. Ball bearings to both wheels, and Improvements.
THE SYDNEY SPORTS
DEPOT.
389 GEORG E-STREET SYDNEY
(Opposite Royal Hotel.)
BiCYCU#,JTRICYCLES.
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles
and Tricycles
Have Every Improvement.
OUR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadster.
THE UNIVERSAL CLUB
BICYCLE,
fitted with Improved Ball Bear-
ings to front and back wheels.
Hollow Forks. Patent Head and
Detachable Bent Handle Bar
Easy Slide Spring, Hubs Plated,
Black Enamelled Spokes,
Price, *13 I«s. At the price
we defy competition.
JAMES MARTIN & COMPANY, 389 8eorga-st., Sydney.
a
AVOID COMPLICATED FOREIGN BRACES.”
66
CREDENT A,”
SIMPLEST AND BEST FOR MEN AND BOYS,
wholesale only at
16 S3Z 17 CHEAPSIDE, LONDON, E.C.
And of W, PENNY FINDLAY & PRO,, Melbourne Sc Sydney.
BOXJHKE,
IS the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel In the Western District. The Table and Llquo
cannot be surpassed, even in the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. First-class Stabling
THOMAS HyOQINIS, Proprietor
□Tlx© JfS©liaTble IBta.grg'ies!
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS’,
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMIUGr, Merchant & Inspector
22 & 24 Olarence-street. Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
SI
m:
SSS
a
f ISsfel
%
-'v
#
$
<i
a
«)
*%
*■
6*
<5;
Om.
/
’■£>
&
%
f
3?
13
MAN
*
URY.BUXTON&C
co
URN
MONZER
ENGLISH ALES
feu
SSE
Bord
B
Trenr
rron
»
on
>c
«Sr
'J B
<0>
m
&
'***
&
*
%
*
&
*
'i o
>
* Ui
?
<o ~
38
*• *
lD{
o >
H
r V'A
b&olvj'
w
OHNE
rs. ALLT. S CQ/S Wins and Spirit Starss and Agencies.
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
London Agents; Messrs. Arthur Allt & Co., Wormwood Chambers, Wormwood-street, E.C.


Important Amneit!
THE!
ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
BEG to inform the public that, in consequence
of the
EXPIRATION OF LEASE
of their present premises, they have commenced
their
GS-HAND
CLEARING SALE,
Which will
LAST FOR A FEW WEEKS ONLY!
The Goods are all marked at an
EHOBMOUS SiB!
as will be seen by list below*
PRICE LIST.
Ladles’ Handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 10s, 15S
I7s Od, and 30s each
Handsome Jewelled Barrings, 4s and 6s per pair
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, 5s each
Ladles’ Choice Necklets, best American Plate, 30*
each
Ladies’ Elegant Bangles, 4s, Os, and 10s per pair
Choice Lockets, 5s each
Handsome Gem Rings, 4s and 8s 6d each
Wedding and Keeper Rings, In Solid Gold, 7s 6d
each
Ladies' Handsome Lockets, 10s each
Ladies’ Elegant Grosses, 4s, 5s, and 6s each
Ladies’ Brooch and Earring Sets, from 5s to 16s
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3s 6d each
Gents’ O. G. Watches, Hunting, Open-Faced
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 30s each,
warranted 3 years
Ladles’ (same as above.)
fcf These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, eapped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses £4 0 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
Jewelled, and compensation balance .. £6 0 0
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers £4 10 6
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. £6 0 0
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses.. .. £3 15 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance.. .. £4 16 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Sliver Double Dial Chronograph, £6 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade £6 0 0
Ditto, in hunting oases, compensated and
full Jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £8 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent*
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £6
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £6 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £10.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 4s
each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, half round buckle
flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck rings
3s 6d each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solltalr*
and Link Suites, 3s, 4s. 6s, and 6s 6d per set.
Same as above, only hatf sets. Is 6d, 3s, and 3s per
set.
Best American Patent Spring Solitaire Suites,
5s per set.
Gent's elegant Seals, 4s each.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, 6« each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pins, Is,
6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 3s, 3s 6d. 4s. 4s 6d, 5s, and 5s 6d eac
Very best American Pencil Cases. 3s 6d each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Match Boxes, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign Purses, 4seach.
Richly engraved Bracelets, 6s each.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully Jewelled, 8s, 10*,
13s, and 14s each.
Broooches, Brooches, Brooches, Is 6d, 3s, 3s 61, 3s,
3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, 5s, 5s 6d, 6s, 6s 6d, 7s, 78 6d, 8s, 8s
6d, 9s, 9s 6d, and 10s each.
PLEASE NOTE.
All goods will be sent post free, with the excep-
tion of the watches, orders for which must be ac-
companied with an extra amount of two and six-
pence to defray postage expenses. Send in your
orders early, as the goods must be sold, and no one
should miss this chance of procuring the beautiful
gems at less than cost price.
Noth thb Address :
The Oriental Gold Co.,
474 Goorga Street,
OPPOSITE THB MARKETS,
Even those who differ widely from the
views of Sir Henry Parkes, will hear with regret
that, towards the close of life, be has to sacrifice
his Lares and Penates. His library and art collee-
tlons are announced for Art Union for the sum of
£5776, in shares of £1 each. This Is exactly the
amount at which the goods have been valued. It
is satisfactory to And that Sir Henry has secured
the aid, as trustees, of such gentlemen as Sir A*
Stephen, Messrs. J. B. Watt, A. Campbell, and F-
B. Sutton, Sir P. A. Jennings and Sir George Yer-
don. The bulk of the collection, on view at 176
Premier Terrace, Woolloomooloo.iswell worth in-
spection.
Socialities, '85 —Illustrated on every page. A
Capital Shilling’s-worth of Fun and Frolic. All
booksellers. A. M’Kinley and Co , Sydney. Secure
a copy 1
Forgetting the number they were looking
at each shop on the wrong side of the street to
And Bray’s, 403 and 401 George-street, so renowned
for their combination Dinner and Tea Sets, at 80s.*
HAPPY AUSTRALIANS.
Auckland, New Zealand. — Mr. ALLT8TBR
BROWN says: 1 had rheumatism so severe I could
scarcely lift my arm. I tried several liniments
without relief. At last I tried St. Jacobs Oil.
After using less than half a bottle I was entirely
free from pain, and have had no return of it.
Melbourne, Victoria—Mr. BERNARD MUR-
PHY, Champion Youth Walker of Australian,
writes to the Melbourne Sportsman: On Monday,
previous to the match with Ormes. while walking
X was attacked with the “ stitch.” I could not walk
100 yards, and gave up. I was advised to try St.
Jacobs Oil. Rubbing a little on my side, I have
not been troubled since, and won my match.
Christchurch, New Zealand.— Mr. EDWARD
LAW, 43 Collins-street, states that he had suffered
for twenty years with Rheumatism. He derived
Immense beneAt from St. Jacobs Oil, and is confi-
dent of a complete cure.
Sydney, New South Wales.— The Sydney Herald
says: Spontaneous ebullitions of praise from the
champion ’cyclist of England and Australia, the
champion youth walker of Australia, the sculler
who held the championship of the world, the
champion sprinter, a cricketer of universal repu-
tation, and a host of less-distinguished athletes
attrioute their success, in a great measure, to St.
Jacobs Oil.
Dunedin, New Zealand.—Mr. D. BENJAMIN,
Jeweler, Dowling-street, writes: I suffered acutely
from a severe contraction of the nerves. I used
St. Jacobs Oil, rubbing it well in, and I a woke next
morning with hardly a trace of the pain. A second
application cured me completely. A bad chilblain
on the ear was removed by one rubbing.
Brisbane, Queensland.—Hr. R.E. JARMAN writes
that he sprained his wrist severely, and it was
swollen and painful. He applied St. Jacobs Oil.
On the following day the pain had subsided.
Sydney New South Wales.—J. D. FLOWER, Bal-
main, writes that he suffered excruciating pain
from rheumatic gout for some time. He tried St.
Jacobs Oil, and found it a valuable curative pre-
paration. His wife used it for pains in the back
with immediate relief.
Wellington, New Zealasid.— Madame MARIE
CAKAND1NI, the popular musical artist, writes:
I have used St. Jacobs Oil, and And much lelief in
case of rheumatism, and indeed, all neuralgic
pains.
Launceston. Tasmania— Prof. J. L. WEST,
Master of the Gymnasium, recommends to athletes
generally the use of St. Jacobs Oil for aches, pains,
grains, bruises, etc , from his experience with the
Same among bis pupils.
Invercargill, New Zealand.— Mr. W. H. MATHIE-
SON, Dee-street, states: One of my apprentices
named Wotten iookvery ill with neuralgia. He
was oonAned to bed, and became delirious through
Sain. Several remedies were used without effect,
t. Jacobs Oil was tried, and after one application
he got immediate relief.
Brisbane, Queensland.—Mr, J. BAIN, Clarence-
Street, states: I contracted a severe cold. My
back suffered severely, and an Intense pain in my
side developed s hard lump which rapidly in-
creased. I could neither walk nor sit, and tried all
sorts of lotions without relief. 1 got St. Jacobs
Oil and tried it. The second bottle effected a com-
plete cure.
BEALE & COMPANY,
BEALE & COMPANY
Beale & Company.
Hapsburg Pianos,
Haydn Organs, & Harmoniums,
Wertlieim Sewing Machines,
Can be obtained ONLY of
BEALE AND COMPANY,
386 and 613 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS.
151 OXFORD STREET,
SYDNEY ;
Or of their Agents in Town and Country.
LIBERAL TERMS OP TIME-PAYMENT.
This is one of the little pellets Dr. York
fired at his audience on Sunday night:—" The
greatest obstruction to temperance we have in
the world is the Social Glass. Says your friend:
‘ Do take a glas*; well, then, have a cigar 1 Don’t
want anything ? Oh, nonsense, you must have
something!' This carries men down into the
gutter. When I see a young man take a drink of
whisky and then grab the water bottle, I know
what it means. That whisky is just burning the
inside out of him, and he dilutes it in a great
hurry, so his friend shan’t see how it hurts him.
Well, the man who does that is learning to become
a drunkard. He drinks when he doesn’t want it,
because he can’t refuse the Social Glass. Enough
of men are torn drunkards, without violating |a
wholesome taste. Young man, don’t drink! But
if you must, go out into a solitary place, where
none are but the birds in the air, and the beasts in
the field, and take your jug and drink. Don’t ask
anyone else, because you want to; but drink till
you tre dead, dead, dead. Don’t ask your neigh-
bour, who is an honest man; don’t ask your neigh-
bour’s boy, who is the stay of his mother, to ruin
himself too. If you press him to drink when he
doesn't want to, you know it is only a qoestion of
time until he does want to, and becomes a drunk-
ard. If you will drink, drink fast and often, till
you are dead. A mother may shed scalding tears
over your grave-a sister may wring her heart
with grief—but the world will be better off with-
out you. Because, when you’re lying there, cold
and white and stiff under the roots of the gras?,
you can’t help others to drink then. You can’t
scatter any more ruin with your Social Glass.
Drink, my boy, if you must, and die quickly,”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
finiTRi ROYAL-Kruse’s Concert p. 8
a House — 41 Mammon ••
academy of Music.—Hlscocks’ F. Minstrels.. ..
Mr Sydney Grundy’s comedy, “ Mam-
mon " produced at Sydney Opera House on Satur-
aav ’labours under the disadvantage of being a
nlav with a purpose. It may also be termed a
dramatic paradox, since it possesses a story in one
flpnse and hardly a story in another. The story
mitaide the play may be briefly told in the follow-
C manner. We use the word “ briefly," advisedly
uhis en parenthtee), for it is competent to a critic,
if ho only writes fornineperce a column, to have a
eonscientlous aversion to prolixity. We do not
wis'i however, to have it set down here that we
wilte for ninepence a column. Why hold out
extra temptation to the mottled-faced bailiff, who
is ever so ready to hunt us down in our hours of
industry, and who "drops” to our identity at
theatre doors, however completely we may con-
sider ourselves disguised in liquor.
« * *
Mr. Sydney Grundy, then, is an unelderly
writer whose career as a dramatic author com-
menced with the adaptation, for the London
Of-and of a farce by Meilhac and Qlllo, which he
nailed “ The Snowball.” It was allotted by Provi-
dence (Divine or otherwise) to Miss Annie Mayor
to introduce to us at the opera House, here, this
noble production for her benefit. We have a dis-
trict recollection of the performance; for, owing
to the curious condition of the house, we caught a
had cold in the dress circle. And we have it on
excellent authority that however violently wealthy
Miss “ Nellie Denver " may desire to become, she
will not endeavour to acquire opulence again by
taking a benefit at the Opera House in a play of
Mr Sydney Grundy’s I To get on, then, Mr.
Dutton Cook was dramatic critic of the London
World, and besides having a justifiable intoler-
ance of adaptations in general, would seem to have
nosaessed some peculiar antipathy to Mr. Grundy
in particular. We have to admit that this is a
phrase of exceeding dullness: but the introduction
of lively periods might chance, at this stage, to
mar the effect of the story. Mr. Grundy conceived
in return (as is not unnatural) a virulent hatred of
the World, and “ Mammon ” was written with the
deliberate object of satirising Mr. Edmund Yates,
and through bis person, the so-called "Society
Papers.” Mr. Dutton Cook, in his capacity of Mr.
Yales’ critic, replied in a notice of the play, the
virulence of which equalled the most vindictive
efforts of Christopher North. Mr. Cook went
round to the World office to read his proofs,
read his proofs, and returniog home fell dead upon
his doorstep. Such is the story about the play;
there is, however, no such dramatic incident in
connection with the comedy itself I
• ♦ ♦
“Mammon” is a piece which consists less
of situatior s and of incidents than of words. The
whole time you are watching the action of the
piece you seem to be reminded of Hamlet’s im-
patient exclamation when he comes on “reading
in a book.” It ifi announced that this "great play,
was written by Sydney Grundy for Mr. W. Vernon,
and acted by him in four London theatres;” but
the programme (we have always had a gruesome
respect for programmes!) is reticent regarding
how many theatres Mr. Vernon performed in at
Ihe one time. There is nothing at all surprising in
Mr. Vernon having purchased this play. If we
wanted to act, this is exactly the sort of piece we
should invest in. In "Mammon ” Mr. W, H.
Vernon has the whole of the "lat” to himself,
and, consequently, all the opportunities. Mr.
Vernon is a very capable performer, and if he be-
comes a bit of a bore in Mr. Grundy’s comedy, it
is perhaps, because he labouis under the weight
qj- excessive amount of fat we have alluded
to and is overloaded with “ opportunities.” We
have seen an actor labouring under these disad-
vantages before, and he always appeared, in tho
course of the piece, if not discomfited, at least
distressed. In order to gauge the standard of Mr.
W H Vernon’s performance it must be under-
stood that he enacts the role (whlrrool) of alioanc-
ing knight, one Sir Geoffrey Hcrnot, who, at the
period at which the comedy opens, was the pos-
sessor of unbounded wealth and a wife (sweet
young thing)—Miss Genevieve Ward—but who had
formerly owned a mistress with a French accent.
With a dexterity which we cannot but call com-
rnendablefSir Geoffrey gets rid of this lady to a
Millionaire Brewer (Mr. J. P. West), whose Lan-
cashire accent is as pronounced as is the Parisian
dialect of the lady. In of the Mil-
lionaire Brewer’s mysterious infatuation for Sir
Geoffrey’s cast-off paramour, Sir G. becomes the
possessor of a hundred thousand or two of the
brewer’s money, and until nearly the conclusion
of the comedy is scattering millions and diamonds
in rather a bewildering manner. In this Instance,
however, it is not for us to pass any distinct crltl*
cal opinion upon Mr. Vernon’s acting. It is so long
since we scattered millions and diamonds our-
selves that we have forgotten how to do it with
requisite grace and appropriate gesture! A mere
temporary delay, though, please believe, in the
arrival of our little remittance I
• • •
It is not, of course, Mr. Vernon’s fault
that ho has to be diametrically inconsistent all
through the piece; and if his efforts display to our
mind a larger amount of farce than of genuine
comedy, it is the author rather than the actor who
is to blame. It is evident that Mr. Vernon only
speaks “ that which is set down for him. And In
having to do this he earns an amount of comml-
peratlon at our hands which maybei said1 to ckisely
border upon respect. Lady Geoffrey (MLs Gene-
vieve Ward) had by no means a brilliant chance,
though in the pathetic phases of the latter portion
of the comedy her playing exhibited much elaborar
tlon. If it were possible to over-elaborate an un-
skilfully drawn character, perhaps Miss Ward was
guilty of that trifling offence—which, in any case,
)8 a lault in quit© the right direction.
# • *
The person, however, uponwhom our in-
terest chiefly centred, was Mr. E. D. Hayga t ,
tdKa nrpfipiitpd the part of the editor or tne
" Societl” jourrau the Eastminster Gazette.
We have been very lond of Mr. Haygartu ever
since 107 years ago, we saw him personate Nat Gos-
the " ft Scud” at the Queen’s. In an
accident which occurred to him at t (j e n 1 !?
later he had our deep, and we hope artistically*
expressed sympathy. Tedjy, it will be remejn-
bered, was appearing in pantomime, and there was
set down for him (amongst other things) an aerial
trick. By some mischance, however, the appli-
ance, while Teddy was In mid-air, gay© way, and,
in a double sense, the stage sustained a severe
blow! Mr. Haygarth, however, has turned up as
good as new, but we cannot agree with his con-
ception of an editor. Not showing any linen was,
perhaps, a happy touch, and noisily making
memoranda in a demy-octavo size note-book
might, from a popular point of view, pass for a
stroke of realism. Yet by a careful contemplation
of Teddy’s performance, we are distinctly under
the impression that he has never seen an editor
in his life. But no blame for this can reasonably
be attached to Mr. Haygarth. It is very seldom,
when you call at a newspaper office, that you do
see the editor. A presentable person is generally
“put up” in his stead, while the “real Simon
Pure” is fast asleep in the coal-hole. We substi-
tuted, in this office, until he lost his other eye
over a disputed criticism, the man who ground
the ink. And h© took well, too.
co«
Leaving Teddy with regret, we come next
to Mr. R. Inman, who played George Sorrell, a
young solicitor, in love with the daughter, Yiolot
(Miss Roland Watts-Phillips), of Sir Geoffrey Her-
rlot. Mr. Inman, in our opinion, carries a love
for the unities ot the drama too far. He seems
to think it necessary, because he wishes and hopes
to marry the young lady, to always appear before
the audience in a wedding costume of a frock
coat, lavender pants, and a lawn-coloured necktie.
So marital, Indeed, was his rig that we expected
every moment to see tire bouquet he had brought
for his intended bride tumble out of his hat! On
the whole, we are not in love, so far, with the
dramatic soup extracted from this Sorrell. He
will, however, doubtless, improve. In any ease,
we feel we shall be doing this really pleasant-
looking young actor a service by recalling to his
recollection the advice Mr. Wopsle’s Jew-dresser
gave that performer upon the disadvantages of
keeping his legs so much “ in profile.”
• ■ *
Of Mies Roland Watts-Phillips’ perform-
ance we would like to say a lot that is very plea-
sant indeed, because there is a rumour that this
promising young lady cat rits all the nice notices
about in the bosom of her dress all ready to read
to such ot her friends as are smarting under a
critical dressing-down; and we should dearly like
to achieve such delicate distinction! However,
d tine autre fois, perhaps. What Miss Phillips
chiefly requires is that species of animation neces-
sary to the fitting development of comedy; but it
will always be necessary for every actress to bear
in mind that, while the animation we allude to
may, at rare intervals, approach the “gush,” It
never by any chance should border on the “snig-
ger.” There Is more in this than meets the eye!
Mr. Lawrence made a very superficial study of the
character of the rascally secretary, and Mr. J.P.
West managed to infuse somewhat of “Bob
Brieriy ” into his interpretation of the character
of the inane millionaire.
* * *
The interior used for the piece is a hand-
some but impossible library; which, by the intro-
duction of some novel effects in blue and red illu-
mination in the second act, is made to look re-
markably like a chemist’s shop. The orchestra
was so much in earnest as to be a trifle wild at
times, and it was interesting to note that, If Mr.
Alpress, the conductor, perseveres much longer,
he will soon be able to s‘t upon his hair. Next
Saturday “Rachel.”
* * # *
There were large unfilled spaces in the
Theatre Royal on Saturday night. When the
lights were turned full on them they gave forth
a sense of loneliness. At other times they were
the abode of threatening gloom. Could not some-
body have taken them away ? These empty
spaces would have been of the greatest use out in
the middle of the street near the tram line. They
were painfully oppressive where they were. Next
time it is that way Mr. Goodman would be adding
largely to the brilliance of his reputation by get-
ting half-a-dozen men to carry away all the op-
pressive emptiness.
» » *
Her Kruse and his company would have
felt more at home in the Gaiety. On so large a
stage, and one so associated in the public ©ye with
the imposing spectacle ot the impassioned drama,
four modest persons in simple evening attire
taking turn about at singing or playing looked
very unexciting. Still there was enthusiasm.
Were there but two persons in the house there
would be enthusiasm over Mrs. Armstrong’s
“ Dear Heart ” and Herr Kruse’s solo from
Wieniawski. These are both Australians. Phy-
sically, they are fine specimens. Herr Kruse, who
was born in Bourke-street, Melbourne, in 1859,
would be taken for much more than 36 years of
age. He is self-possessed. His movements are
quiet, easy, decisive. The grace and power with
which he works his bow-arm indicate at once a
confident mastery over the instrument. The violin
wakes at his touch. It speaks, it sings. It cries
while the tempest of passion is about, it whispers
amorously while a souvenir de Bellini breathes
itself away. The artist appeared tore© times on
Saturday night, and was, on each occasion, enthu-
siastically encored.
♦ * *
Mrs. Armstrong has a sweet soprano voice.
In declamatory passages it arrests. Its verve holds.
She has, to a good extent, les larmes dans sa voix.
She was the recipient ot several bouquets. On
one occasion Mons. De Valmeney, who was accom-
panying her on the piano, was struck on the head
by a whole flower-garden. It rested partly there
and partly on his shoulders for an instant, while
Mrs. Armstrong and the spectators smiled their
merriment. There looked to be a large cauliflower
in the expanded bouquet. It was not a cauli-
flower, however. It was a head with red hair.
Mons. De Valmeney is the proud possessor .of this
gorgeous anatomical contrivance to hold musical
talent.
* ♦ •
Mr. Frank Boyle sang Gounod’s “Salve
Dimora” in a tenor voice of much clearness. He
appeared to be a favourite with the audience. The
appreciation was loudly generous. M. De Val-
mency disported himself through the keys of the
Bechstein grand piano with the absorption of a
genius. Not a large number, however, can be
found to enter fully into the class of music this
performer delights in. No doubt the class is high.
Still, “ on a dark night a planet is not so service-
able as a tallow candle for domestic purposes.”
THE KING.
’Twas Sunday, and a little maid
Knocked hard until she got in;
She’d been a tiny bit afraid
They’d say that they were not in ;
•• Pa’s sick,” she said, “ and told me rouse
You up, please Mr. Public House.
•> I want a shilling’s-worth of rum,
Also a quart of shandy;
Pa says please will you not look glum.
He hasn’t the coin handy.”
<> -who is your father, say, my dear ?
Then asked the man who sold the beer.
The little girl drew him aside:
“ Be my Pa’s benefactor I
His tame is all the big world wide,
Please, sir—he is an actor!
To brazen crown and cloak of camlet,
You’ve seen him play the King in ‘ Hamlet I
« VThatl was it he who with mien grim.
Quick ’bout the stage was roaming;
Who quivered in his ev’ry limb.
And all the time was foaming—
Whose ev’ry utt’rance was a roar.
Whose whole appearance reeked of gore ?
“ Say, was it he, with Nubian beard
And aspect fierce as thunder ?”
She cried—" You’ve of my dada heard—
He’s famous; it’s no wonder 1 ”
+ • » ♦ ♦
••I’ve heard of him, if you but knew it.
Enough,” he said, “ dear—not to do it! ”
Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When darkness over all is spread.
And wearied toll has sunk to rest;
When but a sob from some lorn bed
Is heaved from a distracted breist;
Then shadowy faces throng my room,
Loved faces float before me then,
Which come from many a scattered tomb—
I dream I see them all again.
No more the lines of care I see
That marked them when I saw them last,
But peaceful they come back to me,
As loved in a more distant past.
No furrows wrinkle now their brows,
There is no tear nor mark of pain,
Such as once came from cruel vows—
I dream I see them all again.
My silver hair is all forgot,
Once more I wander side by side,
By many a stream and sacred spot,
With her, my first, my long-lost bride;
Her voice with father’s, mother’s, blends,
And children’s in an angel strain;
I f> rasp the hands of vanished friends—
I dream I see them all again.
C.W.C.


PEPPER AND SALT.
An acrimonious discussion is now going on
in Melbourne with regard to the merits or de-
merits of the system of solitary confinement for
prisoners. Those who denounce it say that the
prisoner confined in a solitary cell is liable to
brood over what he thinks bis wrongs, and come
out with marked homicidal tendencies. Our
opinion is that it drives him to desperation and
poetry. It is a well-known fact that cells used for
this purpose have to be white-washed after each
occupant—not so much as a matter of cleanliness
as to prevent a confusion of metres unsettling the
reason of the prisoner. The verses touch upon
most things within the mental horizon of these
dungeoned intellects. But they chiefly deal with
the situation of the writer—taken from various
points of view and in many moods. Here is a
specimen of this cryptic literature:—
There is & vein of mild jocularity in this which
proves the writer to have had redeemable quali-
ties. If he had been properly taken in hand he
taight be drawing 15s. a week regularly from the
coffers of Alfred. This is from another hand and
couched in a more truculent vein :—
But Gord help sercity when I gitt out!
These specimens of the workings of the Muse of
Crime—the voice of mephitic vapours and black
blood—prove that the feelings of man in his worst,
as in his best moments naturally express them-
selves in the form of verse. With this sagacious
observation we will conclude our contribution to
the literature of this subject for the present.
. . *
A Cobar (N.S. W.) jury, whilst considering
its decision, was recently accused of unbecoming
hilarity. It was stated that the “ good men and
true,” whilst deliberating over their verdict,
played at “ heading them,” and subsequently im-
provised a little tennis-court. These recreations
of the Jurymen seem to have created some con-
IN. It » iTCSJT— w
fusion amongst the coroner's books and papers;
and on being remonstrated with by that official,
the foreman writes as follows to the C. and L.
Herald:— “I deny that the jurymen behaved in a
most disorderly manner, and that they disturbed
his books and papers. I am of opinion that that
gentleman [the coroner] made a mistake [II] in
making such an assertion; and, as I happened to
be neither drunk nor asleep whilst in that room, I
am certain that any such conduct as that com-
plained of did not come under my notice.” [Ill]
After such a dignified denial, such a majestic re-
futation, we feel that it would be sinful to even
mildly doubt the foreman's statement. We are
swallowing it slowly, by large blocks at a time,
partly because we love to credit that which is in-
genuous, and, in a great measure, because our love
for tho history of Joseph and his brethren has
given us a sort of relish for narratives such as the
foreman has put forth in the Cobar and Louth
Herald. It would, as we have said, be “ sinful ”
to disbelieve it. And what a comfort it .must be
to Mr. M'Donald that the people of the Bourke
district are hardly ever anything of the kind I A
distinct Puritanical feeling, strangely, pervades
those arid parts. It is hard to account for it.
Something in the rum, perhaps.
HURRAH!
The profession of journalism has at last
become respectable, if not Illustrious. Mark this
advertisement, which we clip from the Melbourne
Age:—" An Honorman, Melbourne University,
desires engagement, town correspondent for
country newspaper.” This is, Indeed, a glad Sur-
prise. We have seen some of the town correspon-
dents of country papers both in Sydney and Mel-
bourne, and were much impressed by their capa-
city—for beer. Thr entrance of an Honorman
into their ranks sho v Id elevate their tone and
teach them a taste for ‘ghter liquors. It has the
effect of making us sta> ger into an ode of wel-
come, anyhow. Hireli g, fetch us the wild
harp! So—
One more epitaph—and from the Mel-
bourne Age which, by the way, is rapidly develop-
ing Into a literary ghoul. It concerns a deceased
person, who is made to remark with a sort of
rollicking humour—
“ I’m going home, I'm going home,
I’m going home to die no more ;
To die no more, to die no more,
I'm going home to die no more.”
All wo can do on reading this is to whistle dubi-
ously in a minor key. Still we might risk a verse
of our own. Yes, by thunder, wo will. Lean your
ear down. Now—
You’re going home, you’re going home,
You’re going home to die no more,
To die no more, to dia no more—
O terrible immortal bore.
Lord help those on the Shining Shore,
When you go homo to die no more.
m * m
About the last load of the Welcome Home
poetry has reached us. For this relief, many
thanks! The two most remarkable lyrics of the
collection before us are one by “ R. C, Campbell,
Teacher, Public School, Turllnjah;” and one by
* L. E. Harcus,” now of Tamworth, but erst of the |
S. M. Herald. As the following will show, Mr.
Campbell is a decided cultivator of the “ ’Ercles
vein ”
“ The 3rd of March last—time has sped—
You sail’d to fight Old England’s feud;
The Russians heard; the Arabs fled.
And to the mountain strongholds led
Their weary steeds all daubed with blood.'*
Mr. L. E. Harcus, on the other hand, deals more in
patriotism and In pathos than in blood and
thunder. This, now, is a fair sample of Lorlmer’s
poetic work:—
“ The grand old mother country
Shall never want for men.
While New South Wales and Britain
Are in each other’s ken [III]
Though war’s alarms scarce touched them (sic)
They heard the cannon’s roar;
Then comrades, soldiers, welcome
Back to your homes once more.”
But cornel—
To the Bards.
If this, in simple faith, be writ.
To us ’tls pretty plain,
To be a rural “ teacher ” It
Does not require a brain!
And as for gentle Lorlmer
’T has long been plain to all.
He’s changed Ms gorgeous brainlet for
A little waterfall.
• * *
The versifying variola has swooped down
upon the Goulburn Southern Argus man, and
‘marked him for Its own,” Leon Caron’s opera
company has been performing in Goulburn, and
tho minstrel of the Argus chips in after this
faehion, with regard to Miss E. Sherwin:—
Thou art fairer, we know, than the goddess of
foam;
Oh, alas! we can only be friend to thee,
But if we had not a dear wife at home,
Our sweet Mrs. Argus you’d be.”
We know the Argus “pote,” and a few potent
words from us at this juncture may have a bene-
ficial effect. They may save his life-though that
mightn’t be what you’d call a beneficial effect in a
general all-round way. However, here’s to him :—
Why do you try this on ? O, sorry slinger ’
Of ink, go sling, instead, a pick or axe.
Who darest to address this sweet young singer
In lines we wouldn’t send to Sycorax!
The Pilliga correspondent of the Narrabri
World speaks of some high jinks recently held
there, amongst which was “ a charade improvised
by Mr. Nallcan.”-[I!]-“The first act,” he goes
on to say “ was a May-pole dance, conducted by
the school children with Miss Stella Lovelee (sic)
as the beautiful May Queen. This went off very
Well to the great delight of the parents
present, Mr. John Kay’s guffaw being pleasantly
conspicuous.” They have a pleasant way of
chronicling these little social events in Pllllga
and, as a matter of fact, a peculiar charm reems
to halo most things that appear in the Irish and
Australian World The latest effort on the par t
of the editor is a column-and- a half leader in ‘pica’
type. It Is on suffering Ireland, and is a regular
scorcher for the fell British Hon I “Since
the power to make her own laws has been
rested (sic) from ;her” (Ireland), the writer
wishes everybody who is of opinion that his
country can manage its own affairs to sign
a petition to that effect throughout Australasia;
the memorial to be forwarded to the Queen. “The
following style,” says this delightful creature,
might be adopted as an instance:-Name, Patk.
Doolan; residence, Bourke; nationality, Irish.”
If I was guv’ner ov this heer jale,
I wuddent treat pore prizners thuss,
Ide give em better grub (and hale).
And give the bloomin warders wuss
And those pore prizners Ide invite—
Knoelng they found the time wus long—
To spend the hevening bevery nite
With luvly woming, wine and song.
Thus should mi life in peece oe passed;
I wild not my pore prizoners wex.
And weh they left me at the last
Ide hang and wepe upon their nex.
And with it, too, take this advice—
Not everyone will so a cub lick
Into good shape—be not too nice I
Secure your hash—and d n the public.
Why do you try this on ? What do you know of
The high strange gift of song? Or what of
foam ?
Save that which in Bill Armstrong's bar you blow
off
A pint of Wollondale at you dodge home!
Why do you try this on ? To shift a hod is
The line wherein you might be deemed a star—
What do you know, we ask, of any goddess.
Save her who glorifies Jack Bruton’s bar ?
Why do you try this on ? Ah, how much sweeter
Would sound a pot-bell of the cheapest kind
Than this mad clatter of stampeding metre,
Where one line bolts and leaves the rest behind!
Why do you try this on 7 Would you ascend to
The comradeship of bards ? O sounding brass 1
Rambles by Rail—or Porters’ Peculiarities.
They keeps me heer in a dark sell
Wich is as black as the waults ov Hell,
And they shoves me In mi prog
Jist as iff I was a madd dog.
I arsks you, Guviner, hev you no shame—
Wot doo you mean by this heer game ?
You think yure teeohln me a lessto, hey ?—
By kepln me shutt from the llte ov day
In this heer dungin bolted and barred ?
But Ime a-broodin—Ime a-broodin hard I
The preechin cove thinks Ime convarted no
doubt,
Welcome! another to the crowd
For rural appetites who cater
A learned man I a pundit proud!
The Honorman of Alma Mater!
This should effectually shut
Those cynics up—whose views grow rifer—
Who say the lore of Greece is but
Dead words-the lore of Rome a cipher.
Now may we hear the thrilling news
Which we have yearned for late and early,
What Athens lost at Syracuse,
If Alciblades was curly.
Now we may have explained to us,
And tremble at the glad narration.
The differential calculus,
And all the joys of mensuration.
'So take here, In *£e simple strains,
A welcotr t o our band mendacious:
An Honorman may still have brains—
If he is mentally tenacious.
The singer, but not us, you may be friend to
Whereat ’tls she, not you, should cry " Alas! ”
Why do you try this on ? We know whole car-
goes
Of sad old maids, of whom each eager shrew
Would die before becoming “ Mrs. Argus ”
While “ Mr. Argus ” wrote such bosh as you!


Says the Pali. Mall of the Revised Ver-
8loa of the Bible: —“The chief change Is the
elimination of hell from the Old Testament. It is
a kind of compensation for the way in which the
other revisers thrust the Devil into the Lord’s
Prayer. Anything ttiore provocative of feelings
the reverse of devotional than the attempt to
follow the New Version of the New Testament by
the aid of the Authorized Version It is dillioult to
Imagine. Scholars may applaud the accuracy of
the New Version, but the trail of the reviser is
over it all, and there is little probability of its being
appointed to be read in churches, at all events in
our time.”
Tire Rev. Hugh Price Hughes, speaking at
the Methodist Tabernacle, London, said of the
statement that England and Russia must fight
some time and had better do so at once, that
everybody who said that ought to be hanged at
once. It was simply a diabolical statement. The
blood of Jesus Christ was shed for every Russian
as well as for every Christian, if, Instead of exult-
ing themselves against their fellow men, they
would enthusiastically support a warlike policy
against tho Devil and aU his works, and develop
some sort of sanctified Jingoism, that would be
very good.” But Mr. Price is only a Methodist,
while our Primate is possessor of the apostolic
succession. What, the blood of Christ shed for
Russians I PoohJ Price Hughes should be hanged
for treason.
There is somethin? practical about this that at
once commends itself to the observant reader.
We, therefore, lose no time in sending up for the
editor’s petition the following:—Name,,Rodriguez
della Cordova; residence, Callan Park Asylum;
nationality, Irish. There’s a start for the petition,
anyhow.
♦ • ♦
Last week there was a meeting held at the
Mechanics’ Institute in Goulburn, with the object
of devising some means of entertainment for the
Goulburn portion of the Contingent. Mr. F. Tait,
who addressed the meeting first, said the men had
taken part in an action which, as time passed,
would reflect undying honour on the colony, hut
their reception Tat .Goulburn had been “ indes-
cribably tame.” He proposed that a banquet be
given to them, Mr. Meyer did not think, judging
by the number at the meeting, whicb, we learn,
was “very limited,” that a banquet would be a
success, and he further considered that those who
did not attend, or failed to apologise, had treated
the Council—under whose auspices the enthusiasm
was being worked up—with contempt. After a
considerable amount of “mag,” Mr. Meyer
proposed that each member of the Contin-
gent be presented with a gold medal, the
surplus money to be whacked among our fero-
cious goat-warriors. Then the Mayor proposed to
ft sk Sydney to join with Goulburn in giving the
whole of the Contingent a banquet. Next Mr
Davidson rose and said he believed the majority
were sick and tired of the Contingent, and if he
would move anything it would be that the citizens
of Goulburn did not recognise the going or return.
Ing of the Contingent. Thereupon Mr. Meyer
express d a regret that Mr. Davidson had not
more patriotic spirit. All this is very funny, but
the fun is of a gloomy tiege. The ardour of three
or four months ego is a thing of—well, three or
four months ago. Else Mr. Davidson would have
been slain on the spot for his want of loyalty.
But let us "jerk a poim,” as A. Ward says, on the
subject:—
O, Davidson, fit son wert thou to our own David I
Thy bluntness having only his to match it;
Four months ago hadst thou this Public Meeting
braved,
They would have hewn thee up with a blunt
hatchet.
Four months ago, for saying that, a warlike cor-
don
Had swift surrounded thee—note ’tis not risky,
Thy townsmen then went for the foes of Gordon,
But now thy townsmen mostly go for whiskey I
In Goulburn, then, if one but showed a sign of
The least indifference, like you, now, or like
Great Dawvid, he had served the crows to dine off,
So fierce the people were, so shocking warlike.
In your proud town the bloodless sword is rusted;
The gory oath—the soldier’s lip forgets it;
And when you say your townsmen are disgusted
None slay you, oh, nol Mr.Meyer reyrels it!!!
BRIEF MENTION.
Tickets for the Jerilderie railway opening
will be available for return up to Monday, 26th
Inst. This is thoughtful. The holders will thus
have time to “sober-up.”
The Northern train recently ran over an
“old man ’’ kangaroo. “It gave me such a shock,”
said the driver when he reached Armldale—" might
have been my own brother.”
At a Sydney pub. Landlady (handing-
round drinks in glass mugs): “You don’t object to
mugs, gentlemen?” Bookmaking customer
(promptly): “O dear, no, mum—we live on ’em.”
An effoyt is to be made to intellectually
federate the debating societies inN.S.W. This is
good. A final decision concerning the culpability
or otherwise of Charles I. may now bo confidently
looked for.
TheTaraworth Observer gives a man a
long par. on his appearing In a new buggy. Think
of the distinction that is in store for the first per-
son who conceives the happy idea of hawking
fish up there 1
The editor of the Manning River Times
gives himself a great deal of unnecessary trouble.
He goes to the extent of advertising that he “ is in
no way Identified with the opinions expressed In
the Good Templar coium ” (sic). Who ever thought
he was ?
The sentence of 31L years’ penal servitude,
recently passed on William Waring Taylor, ought
to satisfy any man who In not greedy. It Is inter-
esting to know that, as a prisoner’s privileges j
increase with the length of the term he has served,
in about 150 years, or so, William will be entitled
to 2awt. of tobacco, a ton of sugar, and three sh-sep
and a bullock per day. Thl« intelligence will pro-
bably induce Mr. Taylor to boar up.
The new translation of the Bible reveals
the fact that Joseph did not wear a coat “of many
colours.” Jofeoh has not commanded that de-
gree of respect from tin world which attaches to
some of the patriarchs, but this exculpation from
one weakness will do him good, so far as it goes.
“L.L.” is indignant in the Sydney Even-
ing News with persons who "advertise for a
housekeeper by way of a joke,” and don’t want
one. It has not yet ocsurred to " L.L ,” we sup-
pose, to be Indignant with those gentry who ad-
vertise for a housekeeper, in all seriousness, and
do want one I
At a N.Q. police courtHis beakship :
“But people turn pale when they faint, don’t
they ?’’ “ No, not always.” “ Did you ever hear
of a case of fainting where the party did not turn
pale?’ “Yes, sir.” “Did you ever see such a
case?” “Yes, sir; about a year ago.” “ Who was
it ?” “ Emms, the black gin down at the Gap.”
“It is a pity that the G.O.M. of Clovelly
could not have been persuaded to go to the Sou-
dan,” said an officer of the disbanded Contingent,
after an Interview with the veteran on one of his
powerful and elegantly-appointed steamers.
“Why?” enquired a friend. "He would have
been Invaluable with camels,” was the quiet
reply.
In Paree, recently, Alfred blushed as red
as a peony when he had to tell the cocher of his
“remise ” to drive “ to Not ad—n cathedral.” He
was, we learn, considerably impressed with the
grandeur of that noble pile, but much disappointed
at not seeing the hunchback, the illustrious
stranger (so he was assured by a verger) having
unfortunately arrived in Quasimodo’s diuner-
hour!
Considering the prevalence of drought at
Dubbo for some years past thelodour of sanctity
pervading the town can only be attributed to the
pious efforts of the local Press. Only three men in
the town could be induced to vote for the admis-
sion of “Oulda’s” books to the library, and two
of them wore mere boys of not more than 30 years
of age. The local Anglican clergyman valiantly
led the successful opposition to the motion. Ad-
vance, Dubbo I Backwards.
’ Now-a-daya, when the Twilight Liar’s
“Brevity” man, who has flted off a par. to the
effect that citizen Blank died drunk in a gutter,
discovers that the party interested is not desd at
all, but has just married an heiress or something,
he delicately alludes to the announcement (which
used to be called a “ typographical error ”) as “ an
errotypo.” We don’t think much of the now word
“orrorype.” If an expression must be coined to
meet such cases, wo would suggest “ manona-
drunk,” instead. It is easily pronounced, has some
real etymologies! significance, and at once strikes
right Into the sap of the trouble.
Tho Morpeth Pooo (la unite an prochain
numern) says that the Raymond Terrace people
are “ tuning up for a grand concert. Eggs are at
a discount.” The writer probably means “at a
premium I” The paper also states that " tho Hart
v. Mayo land case caused a lot of excitement here.
As soon as the case was over it was telegraphed
here, and was received with mingled grief and
pleasure. The case was very important, because
Henry the Eighth’s name was mixed up with It.
After this we dare swear that Pooo (&c.), will find
as much trouble in keeping King Henry the Eighth
out of the Morpeth Times as Mr. Dick experienced
m keeping Charles the First’s head out of his M -•
mortal I There Is, indeed, a kind of similarity in
the tone of these two literary efforts. The only
substantial difference that strikes us is that while
Dick s Memorial was never finished, it is quite on
the cards, since "times are tad, ’ that the Morpeth
Pooono (and so on; may bee jine so I v
A young Englishman, recently arrived
decided to try his luck up South. He went thei e'
accordingly, with the wnole of his European out-
fit, and squatted down forlornly at the hotel. Hh
was a young man of placid appearance, but since
his chief accomplishments were a thorough knovr-
1 oil aad R 8 P ;endl d vucaoulary of
Piccadilly idioms, his appearance amongst the cow-
herds and other galoots of ihe South Coast was
rather resented tnan otherwise. He lived in com-
parative comfort there for two or three weeks
upon his gold sleeve-links and a pair of Ivofy-
handied brushes, and j ist as he was thinking bf
carting half-a-dozen school priz-s round to tae
barber, he suddenly diacoveu d ulmself to be the
object of much attention at tue hands or leading
residents. He was called upon at ols hotel, in-
vited to refresament, and It was plainly hinted to
him by more than one bucolic young bachelor
that It a note would be of any service to him it
rested with him to get it “ on the nod. ’ Much
perplexed, the new arrival hied him to the baiber’s
aud d scloslag the altered scate of afiairs requested
a a explanation. "Oh, you're all right, ’ rammed
the tonsorial professor; “it’s our bachelors* ball
in a week or so, and the ‘ boots at your hotel has
discovered you have two dress-coats. Just hold
pack when the rush comes, and you ought to do
Weil. ’ This was three months ago, and the new
etiil up South, and reports that he has
everything down to a pair of black silk socks let
lo deep.
A GENTLE HINT.
(To an old air.)
, Ye warriors of Sydney,
Who crossed the stormy seas.
And braved a thousand deadly risks
To fight the Soudanese I
That, if you’d only got the onanoe,
You’d well have fought, we know;
But you’re keep was not so cheap.
For you’ve never struck a blow.
You’re not disgraced, but you haven’t fought;
So mind— you mustn't blow.
Britannia needs no helping hand
From her sons across the deep,
Her empire o’er the scattered seas
She knows full well to keep;
But still it was a graceful act
For you to gladly go.
And “ help the old land in her need ”
(Though there wcls no need, you know)
It pleased the good old lady’s heart.
But for any sake-don’t blow.
The fiery cross of battle
May yet terrific burn,
WhenpT’aps you’ll go, with better luck,
And fight ere you return.
Then, then, ye sucking warriors,
Our song and feast shall flow
The Shooting of ftho Bushranger Riley.
of i n* A ?at* 6n Th illuatrati Yf °| the career of Riley, the Queensland bushranger. His initial perfoimance was robbery from the h t
hut the owner rehirnino- hVl pohoe were apparently for some time at fault, but he betrayed i is whereabouts by appropriating provisions from a fenoer-’a
Fortunately Riley had lett hi,' revolver it CaU9l " S *“ 8 dealh WU “ m 20
To the fame of your name,
Who have faced a deadly foe
And borne you bravely In the fray,
But, even then— don’t blow I


A generous use of Wolfe's Schnapps will impart
vigour and strength to the body and tone to the
system.
Socialities, ’85.—110 pp. of Humorous Wood-
cuts and Comic Letterpress, la. (post Is. 31.) All
booksellers. A. McKinley and Co , Sydney. Buy it I
“ A good name is better than precious ointment.”
1) olfe’s Schnapps possesses a good name won by
merit.
The Town and Kdntry Jebnel advertises
an “ Irrigation Number.” We’re glad Angus Is
going to moisten up. He is generally rather dry.
A Lower George-street Chinaman’s “lady”
has tloger-nails an inch long. Her husband is
reported to be one of the quietest and most inof-
fensive men about the neighbourhood.
Three suicides reported from Adelaide in
one week. It is supposed the parties interested
tried to work off some Sllverton mining shares on
the unsuspecting flour-dusters, but got up a trifle
too late in the day.
A Wilcannia paper, in chronicling a colli-
sion which occurred between two horsemen who
were racing on a recent Sunday, says that the mis-
hap was “ a Judgment.” We should say it occurred
through want of judgment.
Three years ago cattle were selling in Yass
for an old song. A local bought up great
bargains, as he thought, and sent a trial lot of 20
head to Sydney. After considerable lapse of time,
mine host got bis account sales, nett proceeds of
which were represented by 18 twopenny stamps. If
thunder is thought necessary to clear the Yass air,
people mention before the unfortunate speculator
“ Remittance in postage stamps.”
The horse is a noble animal. Two of the
Melbourne D.s took an airing the other day in the
Identical cart that had been used by the Simpson’s
Hoad bank-robbers for removing their plunder.
The same old horse was in the shafts, but the
change of drivers was evidently distasteful to his
proud spirit, and he took an early opportunity of
bolting with his active and intelligent freight.
What a noble animal, indeed, was that!
In a recent Queenslander is a poem
written about a wallaby. How such a composition
was admitted into the leading weekly of the
Northern colony is a conundrum. But there is
some consolation in the belief that It was not
written by any Queenslander, male or female.
The poem bears conclusive evidence, oven on the
surface, that it was written by the wallaby him
seif. This may reflect disgrace on the wallaby,
but it saves the reputation of Queensland. So says
Meston.
Beyond all doubt the Blue Ribbon Army
has done a deal of good in this colony. At Bourke
no less than four persons have died in full posses-
sion of their senses during the past half year.
And, formerly, when a Bathurst man wanted his
drop o’ good beer to wash down his Sunday din-
ner, he used to walk openly through the streets
with the family wash-jug. Now he plants a quart
bottle In the tail of his “ benjamin,” and, by way
of checking the scent, troops along with a pile of
prayer-books.
The Ipswich (Q.) Advocate has a leader on
that good, sound, well-matured old subject, the
Battle of Waterloo. It says:—” There are men yet
Jiving in Australia, who wielded a musket and
bayonet, a sword or a lance in that great fight.”
Wo have met some of these veterans in North
Queensland, generally in public houses, about the
time when they were fainting for want of rum.
Armed with a barrel of rum, we can find men who
fought at the battle of Aglncourt, gazed on
the execution of Queen Mary, and dipped their
handkerchiefs in the blood of Kobespierre.
“Sign the petition, sir,” asked a sugary-
voicad party at the G.P.O on Saturday last.
“ Certainly,” replied a sour-faced turkey-crawed
passer-by, and, then having traced his “ monni-
ker ” in a big round-hand, he dabbed down the
pen and exclaimed, “ I’m agin capital punishment
all the time, and in Johns’ case in particular.”
“That's all right,” exclaimed the signature-
grabber, “ but this petition happens to be in
favour of keeping open the pubs, on Sundays.”
And as the signer happened to be a Past Master
Grand of the Never-Touch-Its, his thoughts as he
strode off are totally unlit for publication.
Bourke (N.S.W.) is not the place where a
refined code of the ethics of morality might be
confidently looked for. But It is the unexpected
that always happens. Therefore, we are not sur-
prised to learn that the committee of the B ourke
Mechanics’ Institute has decided to exclude the
works of Smollett, Fielding, and Max O'Rell from
the library shelves. But the committee, though
in its righteous wrath denouncing the bonks, did
not decide upon their destruction. The offending
volumes are to be kept under lock and key, to bs
given out if asked for by men, but to be sternly
withheld from any female subscriber. This decl-
sion will largtly increase the demand for tha pr A
scribed books. The sapient committee evidently
have a poor idea of the ingenuity of the Bourke
girls.
A S.M. Herald advertisement:—“A bed
to let, 6j.; suit Christian.” This is just the sort of
couch for us-the very one we have for years
vainly sought. Many people think there is no
connection between beds and Christianity There
never was a greater mistake. Ask any sceptic or
blasphemer how it was that he first began to
doubt, and, if candid, he will freely admit that the
first faint whisoers of unbelief came to him as he
lay in bed either listening to the Salvation Army
band or waiting till his*things came from the
wash. It is to bed you must go to enjoy Tom
£w^ D f er m 0li * "Brad laugh. If the crowds who
go to hear Tom Walker on Sunday could be fol-
lowed to their various homes.lt would be found
in every ease that their beds were just the places
to breed doubt and point the way to blank ath"
ism. This is why we say that a bed run on or-
thodox principles is the great want of the day.
Not long ago a man was found near a
Queensland village unconscious, and apparently
in a dying state. He was taken to a pub., and
sympathetic boozers gathered round. They could
Daturally occurred to them to
read the Bible to him, but as that book could not
be found, they took a prayer-book instead, and
went through the service for the Burial of the
Dead, following it up with " Baptism for such as
are ol riper years ’ and the Confirmation service.
Then, as the patient did not seem to revive, the
faith of one man grew weak, and he hioouped out
his disbelief in the Trinity. That’s how tno fight
began. They fought up and down the room, and
over the sick man, until finally the unbeliever was
conquered. Then they discovered that the patient
bad, in the meantime, expired, and at his funeral
I they read the Marriage Service over him and went
back for a fresh spree. Nice place to die in, North
Queensland!
The China Mail says that it is no longer
any good for peopleto request that their court cases
may be kept out of the paper. This would seem to
point to the likelihood of the man who used to retail
silence at a chop-dollar a pop having re-
sumed his position in the steam-laundry. There
was a fellow, here, in Sydney, once, who made
quite a good thing of the business, for years, by
representing he belonged to a now extinct even-
ing paper, and undertaking to refrain from re-
porting certain cases for a consideration. As he
was very dirty, and his boots were hardly ever
pairs, no one suspected him; and he might have
sold enough silence to buy a new suit with
by this time had not one of his clients, who,
after parting with five shillings, discovered him-
self that day fully and facetiously reported,
bearded the editor la his den, and demanded his
money back. On this the “ purveyor of mumm ”
was arrested, but, as nearly as we remember, let
loose again next day. As the police officials re-
marked at the time, “ his appearance would have
deceived anybody.”
Some very naughty disclosures about
“ immoral photographs” were made during a case
heard at the Melbourne City Court the other day.
A ” fancy-dealer ” was charged with importing
some of these photos, from—we blush to write it—
Sydney, and the great Purves was engaged to de-
fend prisoner. In order to get up his case
thoroughly, we charitably presume, the great P.
sought permission of the Custom House authori-
ties to interview the pictures. And he was re-
fused. Thereby hangs the saddest portion of our
tale, for the indignant barrister said; “ 1 was told
that when on a recent occasion defendu photo-
graphs were shown to the Bench, several of the
worst were never returned, and that was the rea-
son why the Customs authorities looked after
them so jealously.” There is food for much pain-
ful conjecture In all this. Were the Customs
officers most afraid for the morals of the “ beaks,”
or «t the prospect of not getting back ” the best”
(the worst we mean) for themselves ? But we
never took kindly to conundrums
To the Citizens of New South Wales.
One Frank Johns, who though a criminal, was
stiu a citizen of this colony, was, a month or two
ago, put upon his trial on a capital charge.
Whereupon he demanded that a certain witness,
whose evidence was, he asserted, necessary for bis
defence, might be subpoenaed by the Crown.
The witness was not produced. The prosecution
merely alleged that she could prove nothing rele-
yant to the 'issue—that her evidence was imma-
torlftlt
The prisoner, who defended himself (as he had
not accepted the Crown’s offer of counsel in the
person of a mere junior barrister) then asked for a
postponement of his trial.
This was refused. No reason given.
Ho was found guilty by the jury on such evi-
iSSSn^itSSSSS-. leoommeaiei t0 mMOr - ana
8tftt ? d< the excuse given by the
authorities for not calling the woman, whose evi-
®hns regarded as essentially necessary to
his defence, was that she could prove nothing, and
therefore it was of no use calling her.
Bjjfj 1 ®* pi t®th 0 Crown’s assertion that she had
nothing to tell, and that nothing that she could
prove would have any bearing on the case, a
three members was, after the prisoner’s
conviction, appointed by the Crown to examine
?»?!/ worst* concerning Johns’ allegation as to
the causes which led up to the disturbed condition
of mind that had culminated In the crime for
which he was tried.
The prisoner’s allegations Involved startling
statements affecting- the prison authorities of the
colony.
Yet the Board aforesaid consisted of the Inspec-
tor-General of Police and the two chief prison
officials, Mr. Harold Maclean (Comptroller-General
of Prisons), and Mr. Bead (Governor of Darling-
hurst Gaol).
Two out of the three members of the Board
were, therefore, reporting upon the system they
administered. Indirectly they were reporting on
themselves.
Under British law, the jury alone ordinarily de-
cide. in accordance with Magna Charta, upon all
the evidence relating to a charge. An open trial
in accordance with our Common Law is the right
of every British citizen.
Therefore, the Executive have usurped the
functions of the jury by delegating to a Secret
Board evidence with which the jury alone were
entitled to deal.
It does not matter how guilty Johns was. The
basest criminal should have no chance of saying:
** I hanged because I have not had a fair tri*l—
because my witnesses were not called. You did not
examine them in public when I called for them;
but you examined them in secret to suit yourself.
At my trial you said my witness could prove
nothing; after my trial you appointed a Secret
Board—and such a Board!— to see whether she
could prove anything.
These are matters for the consideration of the
people of New South Wales,
OLD VERSION: “I AM INNOCENT OF THE BLOOD OP THIS .... PERSON; SEE TE TO IT.”


Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Belle,—Do you ever, in your leisure
moments, glance down the advertisement columns
of the daily papers? If not, I can recommend
vou to do so, and can guarantee you will be enter-
tained. You will often find little four-line come-
dies like the following:—** To Grocers.—Wanted,
In a ladles’ school, the daughter of a grocer as
boarder, on mutual terms. Apply by letter to Nemo,
care of Mr. —, George-street).” Indeed, for my
part, I always look amongst the W.’s for a bit of
wholesome fun, as it’s little use expecting to find
any in the other pages. Now, the lady who adver-
tises for a grocer’s' daughter for a boarder,
evidently wants to obtain her groceries on the
ch n ap. It would hardly have done to have adver-
tised thus: “ Wanted weekly supplies of groceries,
education and board given to daughter of the
house in exchange.” Oh, no; the mutual terms
sounds far more delicate and enticing, I expect
the accounts would be made out thus: To one
quarter’s dancing—one flitch of bacon. One
quarter’s music—one bag flour. English literature
A-six: bars soap. Arithmetic—12lbs. sugar, and so
on.
Do you know that the use of morphine, which,
in times gone by, was sacred to the upper classes,
is now becoming quite common, the lower orders
indulging In it freely and openly ? It is said Its
soothing effects rival absinthe, whisky, and all
other alcoholics, and armed with a pricking-needle,
a syringe, and a phial of morphine, a man Is In
possession of a pocket-edition of Paradise. In
Paris the ravages of the disease called morpbino-
mania are terrible, women ai well as men falling
a prey to it. The desire for the morphine effects
becomes at times so uncontrollable that ladies
have been known to leave their box in the theatre
and seek an ante-room where they could imbibe
I mean in-syringe—the morphine. Dreadful, isn't
it, dear? And surely this life must be a mistake
as far as some people are concerned, when they
seek so earnestly to forget it ?
Did you see in the papers what a magnificent
funeral that of Victor Hugo was? And speaking
of him just reminds me of a little anecdote the
Consul told other day. He (V. H.) once
rented a villa from the Princess de Lusigaan, and
became filled with the desire to purchase the
place, but when the p;ice seven hundred and fifty
thousand francs—was named, the poet politely
protested against the enormity of the sum. “ But
remember, sir,” said the landlady, “ it has been in-
habited by Victor Hugo.” “I fear then, I cannot
afford to live in a house that has been inhabited by
Victor Hugo,” was the reply. It struck me that
the poet might have considerably added to his In-
come by buying houses, living in them, and then
selling them for the fancy prices they would fetch |
after harbouring his distinguished person.
Do pious frauds reckon against us as much in I
the Day of Judgment book, I wonder, as ordinary 1
» wUljro hard for a great
many people If they do. For instance, up at
da Xv at a church bazaar a horse
was raffled for £05, when the throwing came off,
a gentleman who desired to possess a stood horse
purchased the winning throw for £5, and was
jubilant. In due course, the horse was handed
over to him; but, horrorl It turned out to be a
well-known, character called the “ Outlaw ” — a
regular out-and-out buck-jumper. Now, had a
private individual benefited by this transaction,
it would have been called a swindle, but sold is
the name of Divine Providence It was a different
thing. So long as the girls got the money for the
church they dldut care whose neck was broken.
Oh 1 what a queer world we live in I
There has been some lively discussion lately in
the Pall Mall Gazette about ladles’ dress. One
lady advocates the long clinging gown of the
aesthete, another recommends the tight, close-fit-
ting, tailor-made costume, whilst the Viscountess
Harberton says both these are wrong, and that
we should have our clothing follow our forms like
a man s, which, I take it. means nothing Jess than
the divided skirt. The Viscountess goes on to say
that all the superfluous clothing we carry about
with us goes greatly to destroy our health and
makes walking exercise a terror to us. It is only
now, since we have discarded our crinolines, that
we discover that they had their recommendation, in
that they gave more freedom In walking, but it
Only makes it the more evident that we are wrong
somehow in our manner of dressing. For. if It Is
necessary to wear such a monstrosity as a crino-
line In order to have the free use of our limbs,
then the divided skirts, by aU means. Nicely
padded eider-down petticoats make life a little
more bearable to us, they are so light and yield-
ing, yet so thick and warm, and haven’t the dis-
agreeable trick of clinging round our—(you are
quite sure you don't let Frank read these letters?;
—ankles, like plain flounced petticoats. Take my
advice and Invest in one, dear. Of course, you
know that we are to have our hlos and shoulders
padded in order to make the figure look as broad
as possible. Absurd, isn't it? We used to laugh
at the high ruffs end padded sleeves of the
ladies in the time of Queen Bess; but it appears to
me that, in the eyes of the following generations,
we, with our Improvers, padded hirs.and absurdly
high hats, will be even fitter subjects for mirth. I
only hope we shan’t have the power to look down
(or up, as the case may be) and witness our great-
great-grandchildren poking fun at our unpoetical
garb -tor it is unpoetical; you can’t deny that.
Bishop Mporhouse in Melbourne, and also Canon
Somebody in England, have been lecturing people
on club life in its relation to connubial blessedness.
A friend of mine told me the other day he didn’t
get married, for, among other things, the fact that
he never could find a good cook who was other-
wise attractive enough to marry. He is like a
great many other men, a selfish and cynical fel-
low, who thinks about little else but his digestion
(he says digestion and happiness are the same
thing) and he remarked that, so long as the
women of Sydney continued to make their Ideal
ot a good meal a cup of tea and a stale bun at an
expensive restaurant, he’d never face the wedding
music, I really am beginning to think that there
must, after all, be some connection between
and married happiness. Every club
and hotel ordinarily frequented by men, and
having men-walters, seems to be well kept
and comfortable (never mind how I know),
whilst almost every place where we go to eat and
women serve is just the reverse. It is perhaps
Wise for a woman to learn cooking. Law Is said
to be the perfection of human wisdom, and that’s
no doubt why Melbourne Judges so often marry
their cooks The fact that Sydney Judges but
seldom do likewise perhaps is the reason why they
give such very bad dinners. *
There has been quite a ruction In one of our
high-toned clubs here lately, which has, in conse-
l olt “ any o£ lts members, and, worse
still, its steward—who betook himself to an opposi-
tion club. No one seems to know quite what the
rumpusi was all about-no :’one outside the club I
mean—but I have Just managed to learn that cer-
tain of the members who worship the soothing
weed were huffed because the secretary, who. by
the way, doesn’t smoke, failed to have what
they corg dered sufficient attention given to
the smoking-room. They worked themselves
at last Into such a fret that they suc-
ceeded in deposing the secretary, who bad held
the position for five years, and elected a new one.
who, it is to be hoped, is a smoker, and will
have due respect paid to the fumori. There was h
good deal of earnest discussion as to what qualit ies
the new sec should possess. One gentleman,
who war against the whole business, declared the
committee wanted a mao who combined the graces
of a Chester!! >ld with the usefulness of an upper
housemaid. So you see, dear, even club life has
its troub'es. and it fills my heart with gladness to
know this, for Club man, in my opinion, are the
most selfish of creatures, and quite deserve ail
the house-keeping troubles they voluntarily bring
upon themselves.
What a very good thiug It is for “Onlda”
that so few people in the world shire the con-
cern exhibited by the Dubbeites lest their
children's morals should be depraved by reading
her novels. In that classic and moral township
the committee of the Mechanics’ Institute have
decided not to allow the shelves of the library to
be polluted with “ Oulda’s ” books. This is sad for
poor “Oulda,” but sadder still Is it to think that par-
ents have such sorry confidence in their children
that they cannot trust them to discriminate be
tween good and bad, but must needs try to keep
them in ignorance of the ways of the world, by
debarring them from reading “ Oulda.” In order
to be consistent In their course they will surely be
under the necessity of destroying all the dally
papers, as soon as they have themselves digested
the contents.
Our friend, Mr. G. A. Sala, has been honouring
Dubbo by lecturing there, but it appears to me it
was like throwing pearls before swine, for I hear
that out of a population of 3300. only 00 presented
themselves on the second night I Oh, most noble,
moral, and intellectual Dubboltes, how we honour
ye I
The members of the Mercantile Rowing Club
want me to tell you that they intend their ball this
year to excel all the others they have ever given.
There are to be fewer tickets sold, and everything
is to done In first-class style.
0 „ The . ra F e /or skating-rinks in America doesn’t
seem to abate one little bit. In Ohio, the Leglslr-
ture is about to pass a bill levying an annual tax
on these rinks, and why, do you think ? Simply
because so many elopements are taking place
from these places of amusement. I am sure I
have never heard of any elopement up Woollahra
aQd ® ven , if 8uoh a thing did happen, what
difference does It make to the Government I Then
don t lose by the elopement, so why should they
claim compensation m the shape of a tax? The
Americans say roller-skating gives magnificent
chances to lovers, and I suppose tbey’ie as
they generally a re;.but l|must confess I haro ly £ce
where they base this assertion. I think I will go
straight away and join one of our rlnklng clubs
here, so as to see where the magnificent chance
COD10 IQ,
Just the other day, at a little place near CabooV
ture, an up-country town in Queensland, a wed-
ding had been arranged to take place, but on the
afternoon before the ceremony, news came that
the parson had met with an accident, so wouldn't
be able to fill his part of the programme. As the
guests invited all lived some distance away there
oas no time to notify a postponement to them, eo
the future man and wile (I wonder, dear, whv it’s
wlfe; why not and wile'/)
saddled their horses, rode 42 miles to the parson
who united them, and returned home just in time
to reciive their guests. u
uld , be grieved to hear of poor
r»£ e8 !i 8 which wan so terribly sudden.
On Saturday he was with us, bright and gay. and
on Sunday he had solved Death’s great mystery
Ned says it was very touching to see his two*
favourite horses led in toe funeral procession It
should be one consolation to those nearest nna
dearest he has left behind to know that so manv
hundreds so deeply sympathise with them in their
grief, amongst whom is
You? ever loving
MAB.
His Last Speech.
THE LATE MR. JOHNS Qoq.): “LOOK HERE, PLAIN BILL. I'M NOT SO HAPPY AS YOU; BUT WAIT TILL PARLIAMENT MEETS."


Lord Shaftesbury said of the teachers of
the early Ragged Schools that they were “ men
and women of the greatest self-denial, who gave
up their spare time and devoted themselves to the
work In a real spirit of martyrdom which they
would not find in all the history of Popish re-
ligion.” This is rather “too thick.” Considering
that many of the Popish martyrs devoted their
lives, and willingly lost life Itself, for their re-
llglon. It is ungenerous to make their devotion
rank below that of men who have only given up
tbelr epare time to the object of their enthusiasm.
Commenting on the trial of Burton, the
dynamiter, the P.M. Gazette says: “Thealarum
in the Charing-cross infernal machine had been
set to explode at 13 o’clock, amd the hammer of
the pistol appears to have gone down quite true
to time. But, for some reason or other, the pistol
failed to Are any of the detonators, and in this
merciful deliverance few can fail, said the Attor-
ney-General to the jury, to recognize the inter-
vention of a special Providence.’’ We could wish
that this Attorney-General, who seems to be on
exceptionally good terms with the Almighty, had
been more explicit. If the special Providence
stopped the explosion, why in thunder did it allow
Burton to manufacture the detonators at all ?
Special Providences seem to have a hanov-vo
lucky style of dealing with these matters, and"
occasionally run things a little too close, and then
there is naturally a burst up.
Do not impose upon your customers bysulsti
tuting an imitation for the real Wolfe's Schnapps’
Socialities, '85.—Illustrated on every page A
Capital Bhlllings-worth of Pun and Frolic AH
booksellers. A. M’Kinley and Co., Sydney". Se .
cure a copy I
Wolfe's Schnapps is an unequalled brain medi-
cine, imparting healthful vigour to tkat sensitive
organ.
“ BEACH’S ”
C ON8ULTA1 ION
OH THE
Sir Joseph Bank’s 4th Grand Handicap,
to be run at Botany, A ugust-33ad, 36th, and 39th.
1885 ; also on
Hawiesbury Handicap, Metropolitan and
Melbourne Cup,
NOW OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10s. EACH.
First Horse, £350.
Address—
“BEACH,”
Care of J. G. Deeble,
Hotel. King and Pitt Street, Sydney J
Please apply early.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We thaXL be i/tod to have tni* index poetM tut ty
eeeretariee of racing clubt and managen of
tpohing events in general.]
RACING.
Rosehill R.C July 18
Charters Towers J.C. July 23, 24
Liverpool J.C July 25
Canterbury Park R.C August 1
T*mworth R 0 August 5,6
Rosehill R C August 8
Townsville (Annual) August 12,13
Canterbury Park R.C September 5
H awkesbury (Spring) September 10 12
A J.C. (Spring) September 19, 22, 24, 26
Rosehill R.C Octobers
Canterbury Park R.C October 17
Liverpool J.C. ... November 9
Canterbury Park R.C „ December 19
A.J.C. (Summer) December 26
Rosehill R.C December 28
AQUATICS
Matterson v. Kemp July 18
Newcastle R.C. Regatta September
M.R.C. Outrigger Race September
Davis v. Maclean September 5
M. Branch Regatta r . October 10
ATHLETICS.
Qulrindi Handicap August 5, 6
Sir Joseph Banks Fourth Handicap.... August 22,
22, 26. 39
Mudgee Sheffield Handicap September 1
’CYCLING.
Balmain and Burwood B.C.’s Joint Race
Meeting. Association Ground July 18
N. ’Cyclist's Union Race Meeting ..July 25
Sydney Bicycle Club (Annual R.M.), Asso-
ciation Ground August 22
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MENS.
fTThe old Townsville (Q.) Rowing Club has
been broken up, anl a new club formed.
The Liverpool Jockey Club has decided to
hold race meetings on 25th July aud 9th Novem-
ber.
ThelJ-mile? road race in connection with
the London (Eng.) Bicycle Club was won by A.
Watson, a new man, in 7h. 36min.
The six-ton yacht Assegai, recently pur-
chased in Melbourne by Mr. M E. Murnin, arrived
safely in Sydney Harbour on the 8th inst. She is
28it. in length, 6ft. llo. beam, and 6ft. deep.
The Hon. Alfred Lyttleton was recently
married in London to a daughter of Mr. Tennant,
M.P. If he proves to be halt as good a husband as
he is a wicket-keeper his wife will have nought to
complain of.
The Manning River oarsman, George
Davis, his been matched to row J. M’Lean, the
Richmond River champion, on September 5, at
Woodburn, Richmond River, in light skiffs, for
the sum of £100.
A walking match has been arranged be-
tween W. C. Wood, of Cootamundra, and R Chap-
man, of Wood End (Vic ), to come off in Melbourne
during Cup week. The pair are possessed of but
two sound legs between them.
The Victorian Rowing Association receives
a big knock in the retirement of Mr. Justice
Williams from the Presidency of their Financial
Committee. At a recent meeting the Treasurer
reported a deficit of nearly £60.
The “books” are jubilant over the “six-
penny telegram” arrangement which his j jst
come into force In Victoria. All the Moseses und
Aaronsesof Melbourne are rejoicing in the thought
that thev can now get early tidings of a “stiff
’un ” at 50 per shoot less cost than heretofore.
The Irish and Australian World is re-
Sponsible for the statement that the creditors of
the Narrabrl Cricket Association are about to re-
cover long outstanding debts through a court of
law. From the style of the par. we should say
the W6rld was a creditor for at least millions.
At a recent meeting of the V.R.C. Com-
mittee, the Wyndham Steeplechase case was
brought up, and Mr. Miller's appeal on behalf of
Deceiver was heard, when the decision of the
Wyndham stewards was upheld, who declared Sir
Samuel the winner. The Fusilier ease was also
heard, and In this too tbe Committee endorsed the
disqualification fof Fusilier for tho raco and his
Jockey, Scott, for twelve mouths.
Strong teams put in an appearance for
’Varsity-Burwood Cup match at Burwood on
Saturday last. Burwood won the toss, and then
followed one of - the fastest and best Rugby
matches played this season. Wiseman, for’Var-
sity, obtained a try close to touch and goal, which
wa« ihe only score during the afternoon,
Lkuouau Burwood several times hid victory
almost within their grasp, but failed to annex.
The game ended in'a victory for’Varsity by two
points to nil.
Tho light skiff-sculling match between
Harrington, of New Zealand, and Nelson, over
the champion course, excited veryj little attention
in rowing circles, and resulted in a very hollow
vietpry fpr the New Zealander. Nelson went
away from the start, but Harrington took com-
mand before Tennyson was negotiated, and won
as he liked, Nelson giving up altogether atGlades-
ville. Harrington 1s rough—but good—and we
shall not be surprised to see him beat something
better than Nelson before he leaves our shores.
The English Derby proved a great strug-
gle between Melton anl Paradox, the latter look-
ing all out a winner when only a few yards from
tho post, but Fred Archer, who had the mount on
Melton, fairly lifted the calt along and won the
blue riband of the turf by a bare head. There
were 12 starters, but Mr. W. A. Long’s filly. Dame
Agnes, who a short period before the race was
greatly fancied in certain quarters, must have
gone amiss, as she was not amongst the number.
Melton started as first favourite at 7 to 4, and the
French colt Xalntrallles was next in demand at 4
to 1, Paradox’s price being 6 to 1.
Says London Bell’s Life “ Wallace Ross
is surprised at not having received any reply to
the challenge he issued in August last (which was
published in Sydney), and recantly repeated. Ross
will row Beach from Putney to Mortlake, within
six months from this date, tor the Championship
of the World and £200 or £500 a side. Having
learnt that some English patrons of rowing offer
£500 as added money to a sweepstakes of £300 each
in an open competition for the Championship of
the World (including Beach, Hanlan, andTeemer),
Ross states that he will enter for this contest
which should prove decisively either that Han-
lan has ‘ gone off,’ or that Beach is the wonder re-
presented.”
Mathews, the American boxer, is keeping
the pugilistic game alive in New Zealand, having
made short work of Hurcomb’s “ unknown,”
whom he engaged to knock out in four rounds.
The “ unknown,” a man weighing some ten stone
and a-half, showed considerable science in the first
round, which was more like a scientific show than
a knock out, but in the second round Mathews
gave him a little John L. Sullivan. The word
“ Time” was no sooner out of the mouth of the
time-keeper than Mathews left his chair with a
bound, and getting to his opponent almost before
the “ unknown” had time to put up his hands, he
Knocked him all over the ring, and wound up the
show with a knock-out stab witn the left fair on
the mark. Some days later Mathews, at Titnaru,
in a couple of rounds, knocked out a local named
Bowe, and we see he is now matched to box W.
Flynn in a knock-out at the Princess Theatre,
Dunedin, for £100.
A poor “gate” put in an appearance at
Foley's Hall on Saturday night, when M’Caffrey,
the wrestler, who recently came over with Whist-
ler from the States, and Lawson, a local coloured
pugilist and wrestler, met in a catch-as catch-can
wrestling match, best two falls out of three. Law-
son is a perfect pocket Hercules, weighing about
93t. Gib., but he was smothered both as regards
weight and science by M‘Ca£frey, who is a loose-
built, powerful fellow. The Yankee, who evi-
dently spun out the bouts, gained first fall in about
9min , and the second round, of which we give
particulars in another par., lasted about 5mln„
when Lawson cried a go. Lawson all through
merely acted on the defensive.
Says London Bell’s Life:— “D. Godwin,
hearing that Thomas Clifford intends visiting this
country, will row him a race on the Thames for
£100 or £200 a side. George Perkins has Issued a
challenge to O. Messenger (Beach’s trainer) for
£300 a side, from Putney to Mortlake, Perkins is
likewise open to row Largan level, or give any
resident in Great Britain a start of two lengths
over the Thames course, barring Largan and God-
win. Either of the above matches can be made by
a reply through the columns of the Australian or
the English sporting newspapers.” There does not
appear to be much chance of Clifford and Godwin
meeting, but should Messenger pay his talked-, f
visit to the oldjcountry, it is on the cards he may
again meet Perkins.
The Wallaroo v. Redfern Rugby match,
played on the Agricultural Ground, Moore Park'
on Saturday last, resulted in a hard-won victory
for Wallaroo by 13 points to 4 For Wallaroo,
Logan obtained a try, from which a goal was
kicked by Cheeseman, who also kicked a couple of
clever goals from field of play, the ball being well
passed to him by Calrd; and for Redfern, Tanner
kicked a goal from the field. Mr. Peter Baylis had
rather a rough time of It as umpire, and the losers
showed neither good form nor football in ques-
tioning the decisions of the skipper of the late in-
tercolonial teams. The play of the Redferns dur-
ing the last half was more an exhibition of catch-
as-catch-can wrestling than football, and con-
trasted strongly with the manly play of the
victors.
Royal Hampton, who secured third place
to Melton for this year’s Epsom Derbv, is whispered
as being the property of H.U.H “ Wales.” It so
the horse is appropriately named, seeing that the
breeding stud of the Heir Apparent’s mama is
located at “royal” Hampton. It is more than
iikely, though, that the mere name of the nag ac-
counts for the rumours as to bis ownership, as in
the case of George Frederick, a few years back.
The latter was often declared to be the property
of an “ august personage,” on 'the strength of
being a son of Princess of Wales, and named
after Prince George. “ Wales” was understood to
win a good stake over George Frederick’s Derby
(which, by a strange coincidence, was run on the
birthday of his namesake—the royal middy),
and now he is said to have landed £50 000 by back-
ing Royal Hampton for a place. This is probably
moonshine.
In reply to an English paper which stated
that the celebrated Yankee pugilist, J ohn C.
Heenan, was lying in a nameless grave, the New
York Clipper comes out with the statement that
John C. Heenan does not He in a nameless grave,
but has a very handsome monument, which was
erected by his sister out of the fortune left by her
brother. With regard to Heenan’s flgl t with
King, Jack Macdonald, who acted as Hcenan’a
second, some six years ago broke out int) print
with an unsupported and rambling accusf tlon to
the effect that Heenan sold the fight with King, in
which connection “ Pendragon,” of London Re-
feree, says:—“That it was by no means a ‘true-
run race’ which resulted at Wadhurst that dull
and drear December morning, I firmly belli v«; for
all that, I do not think Heenan was guilty—he was
tbe sold rather than the seller.” And, further on,
“Pen." says:—“One of these days, when there is
nothing else to do, and something happens to
make the public ripe for a revelation, I may spin
the yarn in full, and perhaps throw some light on
what is still enshrouded in mystery.”
At a recent meeting in England of the
Society of ’Cyclists, a paper was read on “ Water
’Cycles,” which said “that notwithstanding all the
novel alterations which had been introduced from
time to time, up to a comparatively short period,
no one thought it possible to use an ordinary
bicycle on water as well as on land. But that it
might be so used had beou proved beyond doubt.
The idea was conceived of constructing two
floats, similar in shape to a canoo, which were set
apart about ft., and secured together in the
middle by cross-bars, and from these are other
bars secured in a similar manner, and to these bars
the forks of the maohlne were fixed. The two
wheels of the machine were clear of water, the
large one acting as a fly-wheel, and giving motion
to a screw-propeller. Between the stern of each
float was a rudder attached to a cross-bar, and
from this were carried two chords connected with
tbe handle of tbe bicycle, the means of steering
being thus very simple. As to tbe speed, the rate
at which a person could travel upon water had
been demonstrated upon a lake where a mile had
been ridden in 8min. making two turns in
the distance. No alteration of any existing ma-
chine was necessary to fit it for water travelling,
and while tbe exertion was reduced to a minimum
it was claimed that tbe machine was safer than
any boat.” The paper concluded by expressing an
opinion that bicycle races on the water would, in
a not very far future, become very general.
In English cricketing circles we see the
Surrey eleven have been showing fine form Fol-
lowing up victories over Essex and Hampshire,
they defeated Leicestershire, despite an innings
by Wheeler of 107, and made a show of Middle-
sex. Mr. w. w. Read, Mr. Roller, and Morris
Read are in grand batting trim, and so far as
bowling is concerned, Surrey has secured what
promises to be a treasure in a youth named Beau-
mont, who has qualified by residence to play at
the Oval. In tbe Middlesex match Beaumont took
13 wickets for 48 runs, an excellent performance.
The Middlesex team was weakened by the absence
of C. T. Studd, who has gone as a missionary to
China, by the retirement of Mr. I. D. Walker, and
by tbe ill-health of that sterling and finished bats-
man, Mr. A. P. Lucas. In the match Yorkshire v.
Sussex, the rain roboed Yorkshire of an almost
certain victory. Uiyett, who was under a cloud
during his trip out here, returned to his true form
in this match and played an excellent innings.
Yorkshire, by the way, stands a poor show of
proving champion county this season, as Kent de-
feated them at Sheffield by eight wickets.
tk We noticed that the Sydney D.T “rubbed
it into” the Yankee wrestler, M’Caffrey, pretty
roughly over the wrestilng-match at Foley's
rooms on Saturday night, but, unless on the prin-
ciple of “kick him, he’s got no friends," we did
not exactly see where the blackguarding came in.
After the men had Wrestled some five minutes in
the second round, M’Caffrey got a hold that meant
either come over or have your neck cracked, and,
as Lawson continued to struggle, Connor, the well-
known wrestler, and a few others stepped forward
and told M’Caffrey to let him up, fearing that
Lawson might get hurt, M Caffrjy at once did
so, when, notwithstanding that Lawson said
he gave the Yankee “best,” the referee de-
clared it no fall. This naturally incensed
M Caffrey, who then offered to wager he could
throw Lawson in a couple of minutes. But as to
the abuse of the referee “in anything but polite
language,” as alleged by the D.T., we certainly
failed to hear it. That catoh-as-catch-oan wrestl-
ing is the next best thing to a dog-fight there is
not much doubt, but if men choose to go in for
that style of rough-and-tumble they must take
their chance, and should we have any more of
these matches in Sydney, it is to be hoped the by-
standers will remain passive until the beaten man
gives it best or the referee orders it to be stopped.
On Saturday night the Yankee had a grip on Law-
son that meant it was only a matter of time for
the coloured man to come over. It was patent
to all that M’Caffrey could do as he liked with
Lawson, and there was no great stake on
the matoh, so that it would not have tmat-
tered much had the referee ordered the men
to continue wrestling: but for argument sake,
suppose the men had been at all matched, and
M Caffrey had let go his grip in response to the
cries of the assemblage how foolish he would
have looked had the beaten man refused to give
himbestl Under the circumstances, on Saturday
night we think the Yankee lad kept his temper
very well, and we again repeat, we failed to hear
him make use of abusive language to the referee,
who should have given him the fall as soon as
Lawson declared himself vanquished. Asa matter
of fact, the referee did not give his decision until
the little “barney” was over, and he had been
called upon to do so by Foley.
A ROMANCE.
Not noble youth,” the maiden cried,
* Oh, prithee, leave at once my side;
I mark thine alabaster brow.
Bright fate is at thy vessel’s prow.
To say I loved thee not would be
A sacrilege—for I love thee I
But shall I, as thy humble wife,
Thy footsteps clog in after-life.
When thou, with faulchion all aflame.
Could quickly carve thy road to r ?
No, no! brave boy—my love, mj u,
Begone, for I would weep alone.
“ If thy lot's lowly, maiden fair,
That lot to me thou must declare 1
For me to j udge, ay, to decide—
Oh, answer, maiden fair,” ho cried.
Despairingly she down did II n -
“ I keep,” she said, “a fried tl hop.”
“ A fish-shop—droll, if this be u u ;
Why, sweet, I keep a fish-shop, too.”
“ You dol Be still ray injured heart! ”
- And shot her scornfuliost of gazes;
“ Straight home to tea, sir. I'll depart,
And you—oh, you can go to blazes.”
“Tho Government do not intend to present Soudan medals to the Contingent.”
THIS IS RE ILLY TOO BAD AFTER OUR ARTIST HAD SAT UP ALL NIGHT OVER A DESIGN FOR ONE. HERE IS HIS IDEA.


GOMPAGNONI CATERING CO.. LIMITED.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. " J
THE oldest and leading Catering Establishment In N.S.W. Caterers to tub
Municipal CouncU of Sydr ey, the A.J.C., City Club,'vc &o 8 1 Hl8 Worflhlp the Mayor<
The Dining Saloons for Ladies and Gentlemen are the Finkst nnnrr«om ,
FIRST-CLASS MENU sl^Gond^ M8T and i°fWest in the colony.
SUttf'&ZiSJSSS**™*- Ia “’ ecu °°
® r ay Uclitner,
39 O CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, J>est,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments, wlthtu
f’j
g C. 0
rvrA L
Uf>u<UXb
Si
SA
dri
m
m
m
w
IfS
Jiih-p
V* v
-o
»
k
W\'
•!j93tJBni m pidui ptre 9jqmi9j (jsoin
MR ilia s.jeqBff JQj 9[og
IMPORTERS. .OF SUPPLIES
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, Jbest,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments,
W frrrrv
, c. c
Uf3U<*JXt
r\
BULL DOQ ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreahing,.and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass' Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs or Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering Bu LL DOQ
ALB, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTBLL A CO.,
Sole Agents.
, . VENETTA WAt/ra _
Tki Air to *. woll marktri.y Oaouri tomd'n
illILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
VV of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, Ac.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, Ac.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues will be ready in a few days and
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, Ac., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes. Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, Ac.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ey%sr invented. The Trypograpn
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
St>nd and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM ~~BULLARD.
342 GEORGE STREET.
A. & C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
SIS GEORGE IT BE IT,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
The most liberal house for Pianos and Organa,
for Gash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Inyitid.
A. & C. Huenerbein,
818 GEORGE STREET.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
J. LAWLEK,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
mrra i mum
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRAS8E8
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&o., &o.
fjp 0 ALL WOMEN.
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS A WHITTY’S
Boran_ Soap
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERT
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everythin®
washed with it;
HEAL SCRATCHES. CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
** Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
Ed. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers:
Lewis & Whiffy,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Vo
OSRJ00RFS
nly infallible remedy for
//Ef\Voi/$ J)ebiLi jVT
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
a sits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system: regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In oases at 13a., or four quantities is one for
Ms.; If by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney.!
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Qoulburn*
rtreet. One Door from George-street South.
AYER’S
Hair Vigor
restores, with the gloss and freshness of
youth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
brown color, or deep black, as may he desired.
By its use light or red hair may be darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not always, cured.
It checks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. It
prevents and cures scurf and dandruff, and
heals nearly every disease peculiar to the
scalp. As a Ladies’ Hair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume.
Mr. C. P. Bkigheb writes from Kirby, O.,
July 3, 1882 : “ Last fall my hair commenced
falling out, and in a short time I became
nearly bald. I used part of a bottle of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a new growth. I
have now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but for the
use of your preparation I should have been
entirely’bald.” r
J. W. Bowen, proprietor of the McArthur
(Ohio) Enquirer, says : “Ayer’s Hair Vigor
is a most excellent preparation for the hair.
I speak of it from my own experience. Its
use promotes the growth of new hair, and
makes it glossy and soft. The Vigor is also
a sure cure for dandruff. Not within my
knowledge has the preparation ever failed
to give entire satisfaction.”
Mb. Angus Fairbaibn, leader of the
celebrated “ Fairbairn Family ” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from Boston, Mass., Feb. 6,
1880: “ Ever since my hair began to give sil-
very evidence of the change which fleeting
time procureth, I have used Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, and so have been able to maintain
an appearance of youthfulness —a matter of
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors, actors, and in fact every one who lives
in the eyes of the public.”
Mrs. O. A. Prescott, writing from 18 Elm
St., Charlestown , Mass., April 14, 1882, says :
“ Two years ago about two-thirds of my hair
came off. It thinned very rapidly, and I was
fust growing bald. On using Ayer’s Hair
Vigor the falling stopped and a new growth
commenced, and in about a month my head
was completely covered with short hair. It
has continued to grow, and is now as good as
before it fell. I regularly used but one bottle
of the Vigor, but now use it occasionally as
a dressing.”
We have hundreds of similar testimonials
to the efficacy of Ayer’s Hair Vigor. It
needs but a trial to convince the most skepti-
cal of its value.
) PREPARED BY u)-
Dp.J C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT BROS, and 8. HOFPNUNG & CO..
Wholesale Agents.
Boyd's Beard F.Uxirdid this, and
tvxll do it on cither bald head or
hare face, Fa. cea heavy Mom.
tacheinfromZ to 4 weeks and never k
fails, 20,000 young men already
- - - wear full beards, having used 1 to
8 pkts Ao injury, easily applied, certain in effect. Packets U. t>
3/or 3s 6d., post paid , sent under cover , free from observation
Sole Agent, Box 730, G.F.O., Sydney, A.8. f
Copyrighted.
Copyrighted
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
Sole Agents for Baku’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
B
AVARIAW
(TIERS.
HOP
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of the best Bavarian Hops. Superior to any
other.
—
They take the first place wherever tried, and are
well authenticated by eminent medical men and
well-known analysts.
Bead the reports and testimony which aooom
pany each bottle, and do not forget to make a
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
P. KIRBY,
from the late Mr. Janas Curtis,
TTxxd.erta,lcer-
•4 HUNTER ft PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (1«) years:
Manager for over ten (10) years.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found
last with the Argosy Braces at G owing Bros.
/
'/r
i
GOWING BUGS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, Zs. «d.. 3s , 3s. 6d.,ft 4s. 0
GOWINGBROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, *
ssz and 4»«
WILLIAM BALL,
THE “PROFESSIONAL” ANT) PHARMACEU-
TICAL CHEMIST.
61 Bourkb-strekt East, Melbourne.
THE Toilet and Theatrical Requisite, manu-
factured by W. Ball, are composed of the
purest ingredients, and are guaranteed not to
cause the least injury to the most delicate skin.
There are few ladies now, either in private life
or of the Theatrical Profession, who do not look
upon the
BLOOM OF PEACHES
(registered)
as the one arlicle that is perfectly safe and satis-
factory to use either for the
THEATRE, BALLROOM, OR PROMENADE.
Our Cupids Manufacturing Bloom of Peaches.
“Dear Sir,—I consider your ‘make-up' perfect,
and should never think of using anything else
while it is possible to obtain it.—Yours truly,
Ed. Farley.”
The following ladies and gentlemen have also
written, speaking in the highest terms ot thoce
Toilet Requisites Mesdames Louise Pomeroy,
Alice Deorwyne, Myra Kemble, Eva Davenport,
Roland Watt Phillips, etc., etc.; Messieurs George
Titheradge, George Kignold, Sheridan, Henry
Hodgson, W. J. Holloway, Fred, Marshall, Brian
Darley, Frank Cates, etc.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
Wholesale Agents, N.S.W.:
Messrs. PROSSER & CO., Sydney.
G. F. PRIDDY & CO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th,
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.30 p.m.: Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE [STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
Knillik Papers and Hagaxlnu received by
every Mali.
ROYAL ARCADE. GIOBQB 8T.. iM 8YDWT


JIURNITUK I B HOW ROOM,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell and Spring 1 streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
T IBRART FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
-JLJ TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. '
DRAWING-ROOM SUITED, fashionably uphol-
stered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
'ALL CABINETS for Choice China, Ac.
... . VERY ELEGANT, Just received, Bradley.
Newton, and Lamb,
Novelties in BouooiRand bow window
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
E
ji IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.-The
—LU Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glasd, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
I NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
[ plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble too
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
wlth swing glass attached : PEDESTAL CUPl
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT dHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE. —Fine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 80s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 278. 6d.; Wash stands from 13s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 8d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
*
3
jDQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
c&Otl strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at r■ail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also In Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Plusb, &c.
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
53 received, Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
NAMELLBD and JEWELLED MIRRORS, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
8 EEADLEY * NEWTON, and LAMB,
T^KAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL OHAIR8.-
MJ A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES,
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley. Newton, and Lamb.
H AIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR.
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and Inez-
penslve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-gt.
OILBT PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80a the pair.
Full suites for dining - room—side-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON. TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, couch, easy chairs, carvI
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’CoaneU-street.
iINING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from $ feet long and up to 20 feet.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIL-
Patented.
D
S
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in any
material.
SELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
1 Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered In
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
THE VERY BEST REAIj
MOROCCO SKINS Materials for Upholstery,
rTON, and
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEW'S
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-Btreots.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
BEDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rate».
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB, 0*C(m*
nell and Spring streets.
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 2Ss. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB?
w
I * nd EAEK SEATS 0 feet long. Rustic
Mj I Cast-iron standards, 15s. each. Bradley New-
ton, and Lamb.
BNTWOOD FURNITURE.-A very eomplet.
ktsnrtc-.sat; bast make, lowest prices
B
Socialities, '85.—Illustrated on every page. A
Capital Shilling’s-worth of Fun and Frolic. All
booksellers. A. MKipIey and Co., Sydney. Se-
cure a copy!
The days and nights now warmer grow,
And each bird sings this song—
“ The’ Summerfleld makes short-tailed coats.
Men wear them tery long.”*
MacLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 George-street,
near Hunter-street. Wines from 'the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
Patronize a house where Wolfe's Schnapps la
kept—because you may then rely upon all things
Socialities, 85.—The largest and best Com'c
Illustrated Book ever published at Is (post Is. 3d.)
All booksellers. A. M’Kinley Co., Sydney.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated wltk
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 80* Hunter-street, Sydney.*
SOCIAL
Owing to the great number of guests who
were unable to obtain sitting accommodation at a
previous concert, Mr. Francis Robert Peel was in-
duced to repeat his programme at the Glebe Town
Hall on Friday evening last. The hall was com-
pletely filled, and the various items were fairly
rendered, notably the “ May Queen Waltz ” (Buca-
loss!), by full orchestra, in which seven young
ladles figured as violinists, and performed in good
time and tone. A little girl. Miss E. Grace, about
10 years of age, showed considerable talent in a
violin duet with her brother, and bids fair to be-
come more than an ordinary performer. It is not
always the best performers that make the best
teachers, and this is exemplified in the ease of
Mr. Peel. He most undoubtedly possesses the
power of imparting instruction in the art of
playing the violin, though truth compels us to
say that, as a violinist, be is by no means a shining
light. We feel certain he can’t have heard Kruse
at the Theatre Royal, or surely he wouldn t be
playing ylolin solos here, just now, at all events.
It’s unwise, for had we not had a taste of Kruse
lingering in our mouths when we went to the
Glebe Town Hall the other night, we shouldn’t
have felt so bad about Mr. Peel’s playing. The
f r oung lady violinists looked very nice in their
igbt dresses, especially one in a white lace skirt,
white broobe bodice, and cherry coloured ribbons.
Another was a white cashmere and satin, out low,
with short sleeves. On the whole, the concert was
fairly successful, though rather long.
• • . •
On Saturday morning last about 350 ladios
and gentlemen assembled at the Redfern Railway
Station pursuant to an invitation Issued by the
Gladstone Coal Mining Co., Limited, and proceeded
by special train to particlpite in the ceremonies
attending the official opening of the Gladstone
Coal Mine at Katoomba. The destination was
reached about 1 o’clock. Shortly afterwards the
visitors sat down to a splendid luncheon provided
by Mr. Whittall of Perry’s Hotel, Mount Victoria,
the mountain air having developed an appetite
that boded destruction to everything drinkable
and eatable. After the “ Success of the Gladstone
Coal Mine” had been drunk in flowing bumpers,
the visitors inspected the ingenious and cosily
engineering appliances used at the mine, and re-
turned to Sydney about eight in the evening, after
having had a most enjoyable and instructive
outing.
• • •
The second Tamworth Assembly was held
In the local hall on Friday, the 3rd. Very few
local girls present, but amongst those few was
found the belle—a fair girl in a dainty costume of
whit? satin and Indian muslin, with wreaths of
pansies self-painted. ASydneyglrl, In black and
silver, came in for her sh ire of admiration. A
young lady, with rather pretty arms and shoulders,
showed them as much as she dared in a tres de~
collottei gown of Indian muslin. The sister of
the local Wesleyan parson wore white and
red. White and gold garbed a dancer of very
substantial symmetry from Attunga. The sisters
from Oaklands were present, but the widow did
not look her very best in a mauve costume. The
genial hostess from Goonoo Goonoo was queenly
In ruby salin.l A large party came from New Eng-
land nearly all attired in black and red. From Glen
Garcon cime a bevy of girls, one in white and
coloured leaves looking ever so nice. Music pas-
sable. Supper so-so.
■ • ■
A Masonic ball was held at Hodgson’s Hall,
Adelong, last week, about 45 couples being
present. Three sisters, in their fresh beauty, sec
oil admirably their diff.rcnt costumes-one in
salmon-tinted satin trimmed with deep silver lace,
a second in navy-blue satin, and the third white
tulle relieved with dark-green satin. A peach-i
satin trimmed with swansdown was worn by a
Wagga lady. A petite brunette in ruby velvet and
cream lace, and another in white China silk, with
white satin and beaded lace garnished with scarlet
flowers, looked most refreshing. A young married
lady was stylish in cream silk and black velvet. A
bright and pretty face lent attraction to a hand-
some fawn satin skirt and light bodice. A black
and gold dress was becoming to a neat figure, and
a young debut mte wore aa appropriate white satin
costume. One of Adetong’s neatest dancers was
attired in white cashmere and broche. An elegant
waltzer wore a skirt of cream cashmere and moss-
green plush bodice.
♦ • ♦
A Contingent banquet was given at the
Drill Shed last Saturday evening, about 150 being
present to eat. drink, swear, and otherwise enjoy
themselvec. Ten o’clock saw the end of the fun,
when everybody made for town in as straight a
line as circumstances allowed.
• • •
The first Hyginx of the new season of the
Sydney Owl Club was held in the New Masonic
Hall on the 8tb, and was attended by about 300
people. Dr. Burne, the now President, was intro-
duced to the guests by his predecessor, Mr. Tait,
who assured everybody that he (Dr. Burne) was a
right good fellow, and as nobody contradicted him
we suppose he was quite correct in what he said.
Nice music varied the evening’s entertainment.
Tbe Lyre bird and his pretty little chick played a
duet from “ William Tell ” ia good style, and Miss
Wangenheim saug several song . Mr. Gilpin, of
Lynch’s Bellringers, was very effective lu “Qui
Vive,” and Master Beatties “Laddie” was quite
a gem. Mr. Sam Keenan sang and danced to an
Insatiable crowd, and Bass Hodge, on the saxa-
phone, was “Immense.” A foreign-looking gentle-
man sang something, but even after the 33nd
verso .one wasn’t quite sure whether it was
intended for a comic song or a funeral chant.
Signor Vittorini sang “ Non e ver ” fairly
well. Mr. Hallewell and our old friend Rofl
showed themselves In the hall for a few
minutes, but for some reason best known to
themselves retired without giving anybody the
benefit of their talents. Mrs. Beattie wore a
beautiful gown of pale-brown satin, with bo-
dice and overskirt of a rich brocade. Miss
Beattie In white, touched with pale blue,
looked pretty. Mrs. Menser a dark satin, and her
daughter-sylph-likc In a beautiful and becoming
pure white dress. A charming costume was of
white cashmere and pink plush. Skirt made with
long pleats at the back, and in front a shawl-
shaped apron with wide plush binding; bodice
trimmed with pretty loose Zouave of the plush.
Miss Hodge in pink, was nice, and a plain black
velvet jupo with old gold satin bodice was ex-
tremely tasteful. A most peculiar zebra-like cos-
tume of black and gold stripes was conspicuous—
not for its beauty. Miss Wangenheim wore a hand-
some blue satin, which shone through black
Spanish lace. A pretty girl with a head of nice
flaxen hair, wore a fluffy skirt of blue tulle, and
white satin bodice. Mrs. Clarke, pale green and
cream lace, and Mrs. Keenan in a light pompadour
satin and bunch of marquerites at the throat, were
much admired. Mrs. i*. Kurts wore a neat and
tasteful dress of heliotrope silk slightly touched
with black velvet, and another daughter of Israel
was neat in gray satin and handsome white lace.
Being the first boot of the season dancing was
kept up till 2 p,m„ when the birds parted in high
feather.
• • •
A private performance of the “Flower
Queen” was given by the pupils of a favourite
young singer at her residence in Wagga, to their
friends and relations, the maternal element pre-
dominating. Some of the Flowers looked ex-
ceedingly nice, amongst whom may be particular-
ised The Queen, Tulip, Hollyhock, Sunflower, and
Japonica. The Queen is the possessor of a beauti-
fully rich, pure voice of great range, and has only
to overcome a somewhat jerky style of delivery to
devtlope into an excellent singer. Tbe Lily’s
Binging \yaa also worthy of uytke, whilst the
gentleman who filled the role of the Recluse gave
every satisfaction. The performance reflects very
great credit on the energy and ability of the fair
young musical director. At the conclusion of the
Cantata, several solos, duets, and part songs were
creditably given; prominent amongst these we
may mention “ Dolly’s Revenge,” •* Lily and the
Rose,’ and “A Storm in a Teacup.” Dancing
brought to a conclusion a very enjoyable evening,
* * *
Bachelors’ Ball up at Forest Hill, near Biff
Mimosa, on the 3rd inst., which was so enjoyable
that dancing was kept up from 7 o’clock p.m. till
after sunrise next morning. The best dresses
were an Australian blue, a black with cardinal and
white lace, a ruby, a myrtle-green, and drab with
light trimmings. The people of Big Mimosa are
growing festive what with their cricketing,
horse-racing, and dancing.
• • *
Last Thursday evening, a number of
friends of Messrs. Smith and Matthews, two mem-
bers of the Contingent, gave them a welcome
home in the shape of a social at Pine Cottage,
Devonshire-street, Surry Hills. Dancing, singing,
and supper were the features of the evening.
* « «
On Thursday evening last the members of
the newly-formed Lynwood Club entertained
about 100 ladies and gentlemen, the occasion being
the first social given by this club. The entertain-
ment took place at the spacious building. Ferry-
road, Glebe Point, known as Lynwood, once the
residence of Sir Wlgram Allen, but now leased by
the club, who have fitted up the building In a
superb style, and contemplate further Improve-
ments, viz., the erection of a spacious dancing
pavilion, and transforming the present ball-room
into a billiard-room. The grounds are beautifully
and tastefully laid out, and. occupy a magnificent
natural site. The evening’s entertainment was
introduced by the rendering of D. J. Byron’s
eccentric comedy, “ Uncle,” which was success-
fully acted by amateurs, members of the club,
assisted by a few very clever ladies, who, as far as
the acting was concerned, acquitted themselves as
well, if not rather better, than the sterner sex; a
little less prompting would, however, be advis-
able for a future essay. After the performance,
which took place in a miniature theatre attached
to the premises, the guests adjourned to the ball-
room, where, to the music of a well-known string
quartette, dancing was indulged in till nearly
dawn. Amongst the ladles were, Mrs. T. Clarke,
in pale green nun’s veiling and cream lace; Miss
Miller, attired in a handsome dress of black satin
and broohe, richly trimmed with old gold satin and
gold butterflies; Miss F. Myers, tasteful black satin;
Miss Samper, prune cashmere trimmed with dotted
broohe; Miss Schroeder wore a beautiful costume
composed of pink satin skirt, bodice and drapery
of black velvet and pink Elizabethan collar, and
a younger sister was charming in white mull mus-
lin skirt, with pale-blue satin body; Mrs. Albert
Jonsen wore a costume of lilac satin and broche;
Miss Klein, cream satin; Miss Lipman, cardinal
satin, with black gauze overskirt; Miss Kelly,
black satin richly trimmed with cardinal satin, ant
Queen Anne collar; Mrs. Feldhelm, fawn-coloured
silk trimmed with pink silk; Mrs. Seigel, a black
satin costume; Miss Boyd, cream gauze, with em-
bossed flowers ; Miss A. Schroeder, cream lace
jape and black Spanish lace body; Mrs. El-
wards, fawn-coloured broche and satin ; Mrs.
Israel, black satin, with pink and silver flowers;
Miss M’Nab and Miss Hartley both in pale-green
muslin; the latter wore becoming embellishments
of pluk streamers. Miss Grantham, cream satin
trimmed with edelweiss lace; Mrs. P. A. Hall,
black corded silk; Miss C. C. Schroeder, prune
broohe; Miss J. Bruce, pale blue silk trimmed
with cream Madras lace; Miss Levlson, cream
llama and satin garnished with cardinal ribbon;
Mrs. Law, dark-brown veiling and broche. Re-
freshments were served during the whole evening.
It is the intention of the Club to hold about six
socials during the season, and if we may judge by
the success of the first, invitations will be eagerly
sought after. Mr. W. A. M'Donald, the president.
Mr. J. Levison, secretary, and Mr. W. H. Schroeder,
the treasurer, did all in their power to make the
first social, what it undoubtedly was, one of the
most enjoyable gatherings of the social season.
i • a
The Nevertire picnic, races, and ball came
off at Dubbo last Thursday, but, through some-
one’s anxiety to make it a most select affair, many
of the best people in the district received no
invites. Blackballing was indulged in to a tre-
mendous extent—in fact, it was a decidedly blue-
blood affair. But, for all that, the ball was a com-
plete success, most of the ladies wearing charming
toilettes. Mrs Guy Warren wore green, and two
ladles duplicate costumes of black satin with
handsome coffee-lace and coloured bows. Miss
Baird was very bewitching in ruby and pink, and a
gay Lothario in red hose was quite a favourite with
the fair sex. A lady (name unknown) looked re-
markably well in black, with a profusion of silver
leaves and pink roses. Mrs. Armitage, an old
Dubbo favourite, was nicely gowned in a ruby
satin and broche with cream lace; Mrs. Fitzgerald
in cream and cardinal; and Mrs. Harry Smith and
Miss Smith both very charming in blue. The
bachelor squatters were in immense form, and all
the “ old fogies ” seemed to fancy themselves
quite young again. The Girllambone folk talk of
an opposition picnic and ball to take place shortly.
* * *
A double wedding, which should prove
interesting to Australians, was celebrated at the
parish church of Marston Biggott, England, on
May 23. The two fair brides were Miss Charlotte
Catherine and Miss Margaret adz a Constable,
daughters of the Rev. John Constaole, M.A , rec-
tor of the parish. The elder daughter married
Edward Dowling Hodgson, Esq., of Eton Vale,
Queensland ; and Miss Margaret chose Captain
James Elphinstono Erskine, R.N., A.D.C. You re-
member him, don’t you, girls ? Both brides were
attired in rich white brocaded satin, trimmed
with cream silk, and Maltese lace veils and
wreaths; and their bridesmaids, five in num-
ber, were the Misses Dora, Nell, and Mattie
Constable, Miss Lily Hodgson, and Miss Rachel
Erskine, and all wore dresses of white foulard
trimmed with lace, yellow sashes, and bonnet to
match, and carried beautiful bouquets and baskets
of white flowers. It would fill two of our columns
to enumerate all the presents, amongst which were
enough salt-cellars, candlesticks, and silver-topped
scent-bottles to set up a dozen households. Both
Mr. Hodgson and Captain Erskine also came in for
a share of good things. This is surely something
new, making wedding presents to the bridegroom
as well as to the bride! A useful article we
noticeed in Commodore Erskino’s list was a re-
vised Bible, presented to him by the Rev. Hay
Erskine: and the officers of the Nelson gave him
a silver claret jug. Wonder which he’ll appreciate
most?
m m »
The third of the Narandera Winter As-
sembly balls took place on the llta, and was an
unqualified success. As usual, the belle was a
stranger from Victoria, Miss Plermont, who was
dressed in black, with cardinal flowers; Miss
Glasson, from Carcoar, was in cream, and Miss
Kocquet all black; Miss Berthon in blue and Miss
Spiller in cream looked well ; Mrs. Mack, from
Browley, in blue, trimmed with white lace, Mrs.
Minnette, black and cardinal, Mrs. Williams, in
pink, and Mrs. Stinson, in ruby and cream, all
came in for a share of admiration.
* * * *
Attention [is directed to an advertisement
in this issue re Mercantile Rowing Club ball. All
arrangements are complete, and tickets going as if
they meant it—Dinner at Government House on
Saturday night in honour of G.A.8 A brilliant
plain and fancy dress at the Central Hall, New-
castle, on the ith. Dresses very good and enjoy-
ment immense—Mr. and Mrs. John Barnes cele-
brated their silver wedding at Cootamundra last
week....A nice social was held at Cooma last
Erie ay week in the School of Arts.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-dt-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“J.P. : So indefinite as to be valueless
“.E.A.J.”: He may, qs you say, bo a little man;
but a little man can flourish a writ just as well as
a Patagonian-sized personage ... “ James Lemon ”:
We don’t want to be too rough on the junior
bar, but, to our mind, the strongest evidence
of Johns’ perfect sanity was that he refused
the services at his trial of assigned counsel.
.... ‘Martin R.”; You misinterpret the quota-
tion. Therefore, your intricate dissertation on
Irickett is worth about as much as that Chinese
opm which is sold for sixpence a bushel—“B.
M’Lean” (Gymple): Have you nothing else to do
up there but make wagers for us to decide ? Or
do you travel on it? “Can a father claim the
earnings of a son under age, or can he legally pre-
vent his leaving home ?’’ No. “ Can a woman sue
a man under 20?" No, but she has a remedy
against the youth’s father. "Can a wife hold
shares 1’’ She can against all but her husband. As
against him she must be protected by trustees
‘ Gambaslno” (Tasmania): Thanks for verses,
which we will try to find space for. Cannot send
you a copy of paper with George’s portrait, as all
the issue was sold out. Very sorry that certain of
the Post officials are such practical admirers of
The Bulletin. They are persons for whose
admiration we hunger not. ..“B.D.” (Towns-
ville): Not quite up to the mark this time
E.A.I.”: Sorry that we can’t oblige you, but
If we did the gentleman named might oblige
us to donate millions. We keep your ode to be
sent as a valentine to our hated rival. He also is
a policeman — “ Wagga”: Some of your pars, are
familiar to us. You, of course, know the fruit of
such familiarity. Yaes par. interesting “ M.O.”
Ipswich): Your joke hath neither parts nor mag-
nitude. It helps to fill the W.P.B., though....
“ Rushcutter’s Bay Tragedy” : Our sympathy is
with you in the matter. Had your excellent verses
pome to hand sooner we might have used them...
“J. McC.” (Isisford, Q): Thanks for anecdote,
which we use. Truthful tales of this kind are
always welcome “ B.P.”: Your lines attribut-
ing the wreck of the Cafaors to the Influence of a
Jonah we have referred to the Marine Board. It
is of some merit, but why write an elegy to a
living man?.. ." W. Reynolds” : It is not true
that the bank you name has opened at PInohgut,
but it is reported to be negotiating for premises
at Goat Island...." M.M.’: The fact is all the
other way. The French element in Canada has
not been absorbed by the English-speaking ele-
ment. We recently read that last year there were
oj French-speaking members in the Quebec Legis-
lature, of whom but 13 could speak English. Since
the Revolutionary War the French population
has grown from 40,000 to 1,500,000....“ BiCee Bar-
low”: You ask:
“ Whene’er qp George-street now I shunt,
What crowd* of girls I see,
Watching the A..I.S. Bank front,
What can th’ attraction be ?”
The love of art, of course. We all love art—espe-
cially when It is a representation of nature
* Alberto ”: In neither conception nor execution
Is your sketch up to the mark....“Subscriber”:
Thanks; but the subject Is too lively “Pro-
verbs” (Bundaberg): You want to convert us.
You refer us to no less than 14 chapters of the Old
and New Testaments. Thanks. We lent our Bible
to a Bishop, however, before your letter came to
hand. Ths Bishop wanted to study the precedence
question as laid down by the Carpenter of Naza-
reth. In the meantime, you spell badly.
We refer you to a Bundaberg schoolmaster.
....“C. B.”: The Alaska or Arizona could
steam from London to Sydney in 38 days.
“Mark L.”: Bosh. You are brought up in Court
before a Judge who is a lawyer. A lawyer defends
you and another lawyer prosecutes you; and. If
afterwards, you dispute the amount of the costs,
the matter is decided by yet another lawyer—the
taxing-master. Perhaps a .third of the members
ot the N.S.W. Assembly are lawyers. How can
you expect law reform from such an institution ?
The lawyer is a sane man. Were he to support
reforms proposed in the public interest, he’d be
committing suicide “ Cumberland Election
Oracle ”: Your screed is like Gratlano's conversa-
tion. But, tell us-are you the candidate who "is
liked immensely,” and is *■ devoted to the agricul-
tural industries of the colony ?” Or are you “ the
good all-round man who has an extensive know-
ledge of the country?” It is needless to ask
if you are the candidate “who has lots of
common sense.” You are not. Whoever you
are, we won’t publish your screed “Sunny
Corner”: Sorry that we can't print your matter.
No space for such articles, unless of exceptional
merit “Opposite”: Thanks. Will keep
Penrith”: Your very clever par, is too risqui.
There must be something of a stimulating nature
in Penrith taffy...” Subscriber ” (Port Mac-
quarie); We are credulous, and believe your tale.
No one else would; therefore we don’t give you a
show this time... ” H.H.F.” (Bourke): We grate-
fully utilise your items....“A. Stuart”: Your
ode dated 1st April, 1920, we will hold over till that
date. It may be interesting then. It is clever
now, but not worth its space ...“J.C.”: Your
anecdote concerning a Judge who scaled the roof
of an hotel at 4 a.m. to keep an appointment with
a barmaid and tumbled into a plunge-bath, is well
told, but as we do not notice the vagaries of
officials in Russia, we cannot print it. .. Ajax ”:
Thanks for par, which we re-cast “C.W.”: The
observation is rather rough on the journal which
has circulars printed saying that “ original verses
can be inserted as paid advertisements only,” and
which trusts for its thrilling tales to the shelves
of the second-hand stalls in Paddy’s Markets
“Anser” (Inverell); Thanks for cutting and
letter. We can hardly refer to the matter ...
“Mary Evans”; Pooh! They gave him a woman
and a knife. Why didn't they give him whisky
and a revolver?....” J.P.” &o.; You tell nothing
new, and nothing in a new way “Church-
wardens”: It is not clear why the circular re-
questing aid to augment the stipend of the Rev.
Yarrington was sent to us. We are glad your
clergyman has £400 a year, and are gladder that
you are going to raise it to £500. We also are
going to raise the “ screw ” of one of our employ d 3.
Come along and aid.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Glebe v. Richmond Football Match at
Richmond, Saturday July 18
Plain and Fancy Dress Ball, Albert Hall, ‘
Petersham ,* July 30
Mercantile Rowing Club Ball, Town Hall’.’.'july 23.'
Macquarie Lawn Tennis Club Ball (plain
and fancy dress) West’s Rooms July 34.
The Howard Family’s Dramatic Entertain-
ment, Oddfellows’ Hall, Manly (to-
. night) j u ly 16.
Annual Show of the Agricultural and Hor-
ticultural Society, Murrurundi Show
Grounds j u i y
Newtown Private Social July 34
Sydney Social '.’.July 31.


Hi
FIRST
PRIZE
FIRST i
PRIZE.
AGLBHAWK MECHANICS’ INSTITUTE.
GRAND ART UNION,
Id rrlct accordance with the Act.
VALUE
£500.
SECOND PRIZE, £200.
THIRD PRIZE, £100.
f prizes, value £50 each. 100 prizes, value £5 each.
* •• „ £25 each. 550 ,, „ £1 each.
40 " £10 each, 300 „ u 10s. each,
1000 PRIZES 1 1000 PRIZES I
10,000 TICKETS at 10s. each, obtainable at most
business places in the colony.
N.B.—In proof of the value of the above, the
Committee undertake to find purchasers for the
various prizes at the prices named, and to hand the
winner full amount in cash, less 10 per cent, for
commission.
The drawing to take place in June, under the
supervision of the Mayorand Councillors of Eagle-
hawk and a Committee of Shareholders.
T. H. TAYLOR,
Managing Secretary.
Bull-street, Sandhurst, and
Mechanics’ Institute, Eaglehawk.
SULLIVAN & JACKSON, Agents.
Vaughan Chambers, 142 King-street, Sydney.
JDs
X 8.S. BALLARAT. EX. S.S. BALLARAT.
>EAPES and SHAW PEAPE3 and SHAW,
H
AVB OPENED a large SHIPMENT of
GLOVES.
"NCLUDING Gents’ Chevrettes, Ladies’ Chev-
rettes
ADIES’ Four-botton Tan Florentine GLOVES
UBY, Bronze, and Black ditto ditto,
JglOUR-BUTTON or Clasp Tan KID GLOVES,
WITH Ingrain Twist Points, Black and Self
Colour.
Eight-button Length Tan Mosquetalre.
, . ,HB LARGEST, most RELIABLE, and Cteap-
JL est
STOCK of LADIES’ and GENTLEMEN’S
GLOVES
TN THE AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
ADIES’ and CHILDREN’S GLOVES
JN EVERY LENGTH 8IZB,a n COLOUR.
~pEAPES and SHAW, PBAPB3 and SHAW,
GEORG E-STREET.
WEATHER REQUISITES *
PBAPE8 and SHAW'S, GkORGK-STRBBT.
ADIES’ TAILOR-MADE ULSTERS.
ADIES’ MACINTOSH OVERALLS.
ADIES’ UMBRELLAS.
UMBRELLAS.
GENTLEMEN’S
• PLBNDID VAKIE1Y
AllY CH
d EX1RAOBDIN-
GBNTLEMEN’S WINTER OVERCOATS, from
25s. each
ANT1PLU Y1AN MACIN108HE8 eewn seams
22s. 6d.
TEXTURE MACINTOSHES, 30s. each.
Hi
VERY VARIETY of Warm WINTER
HOSIERY.
ADIES’ and QBNTLBMB,
A GLOVES.
WINTER
JpBAPBS and SHAW, PEAPES and SHAW.
aORU E-STREET, OkORO E-STREET.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
Marshall’s Artificial Teeth.
MARSHALL BROTHERS, owing to the great
Increase of their dentistry practice, have
also taken extensive premises at 133 ELIZABETH
STREET, Hyde Park. They still continue to
insert artificial teeth at the same enormously
reduced price as before, namely, per set
(upper and lower), which are precisely the same
unze-medal teeth advertised by otner firms.
Marshall Brothers gurantre these to be equal in
every way, both for quality, fit, and appearance,
to those inserted by hundreds of dentists (with a
limited practice), who charge double and treble
this amount. The public may doubt this, but
Marshall Brothers otter £10CO to any person who
proves this statement untrue. Consultation
free. Painless extraction under nitrous oxide
gas. MARSHALL BROTHERS, American Den-
tists, 133 Kllzabeth-street, Hyde Park, and Market-
t treet. N. B.- All trams stop at the door.
G00LALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 Greorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
MAG/c
MIRTH
■
■V . .. r
A NEW BOOK,
Containing over 250 Tricks
AND DELUSIONS WITH CARDS, DICK,
AND CONJURINQgAPPARATUS.
Illustrated with blocks and diagrams, fully ex
plain d, simplified, and adapted for home amuse
ment and social entertainments, forming the moa
complete collection of Its kind ever offered to th
Australian public. Mailed free to any addres
ONE SHILLING.
THE WIZARD’S CHANGEABLE CARDS.
These cards change from Red to Black, Iron
eights to deuces and back at the pleasure o
the performer, and elicit exclamations of wonde
and surprise from all who witness them. Pos
free, with full Instructions, Is, 2d.
THE YANKEE RUBBER BABY.
Goes in the waistcoat pocket, yet can be instantly
blown out to llfesize; screams awfully if smacked
Even experienced fathers are deceived by thest
laughter-producing infants, and no home can be
really happy one without their cheering presence
Price, post free, Is.
Cut this advertisement out and post it to us, en
closing 2s. in postage stamps, naming this paper
and we will send you by return pest,
THE BOOKS, CARDS, AND BABY.
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT,
401 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£5 nunui sues i
PACKED in CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS*
Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
£3 WINTER BALE.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 Large Marcella Quilt
10 yards good Sheetli g
20 yards Strong Calico
12 Strong Cotton Tick
20 Wincey Dress Tweed
10good Welsh Flannel
6 yds. Strapping Tweed
All the shove are good
wearing articles.
£5 FREE SELECTORS'
BALE.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 White or Colored Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 White or Unbleached
Calico
6 White or Red Flannel
12 yards Dress Material
12 yds. Cotton Shirtings
4 pair Good Stockings
1 pair Strong Stays
1 dark Petticoat
6 Strong wambroon
6 Brown Ho land
4 Large White Towels
3 yards Good Trousers
Tweed, Buttons,
Threads, &c.
£5 MEN’S CLOTHING
BALE.
1 Suit Tweed — Coat,
Trousers, and Vest
2 Crimean Shirts, large
size
3 Best Cotton Shirts,
large size
1 Best Felt Hat, any size
6 pairs Strong Cotton
Socks
8 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or Pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &c.
£5 LADY'S BALE.
6 Ladles’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladles’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage iree every-
where, on receipt of £5
t DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials-Silks, Velvets, &c.-wlih
piices, and full instruction for sell -measurement.
If applied to.
The £5 Bale system has bsen in operation for 12
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving cue gieatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and sife,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
To love and be loved is the greatest happiness
on earth.
TO procure the above valuable secret (which
has never failed during Madame Sieeman’s
ten years experience) send 2s 6d. Orders addressed
to Madame Sleeman. Box 955, G.P.O., Sydney.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 13th July, 1885.
GLEBE PUBLIC SCHOOL.
BXT i?£d1 0 ™ 0F TJMB POE RBCEIVING TEN-
DERS FOR ADDITIONAL BUILDING.
THE time for receiving tenders for the Erection
ef an additional Building at the Glebe Public
Bonool has been Extended to Monday, the 37th
July, loco.
W. J. TRICK ETT.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, 14th July, 1885.
Tenders for public works and sup.
TENDERS are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office In the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced. If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Adelong
Supply and erection of an Iron
Lattice Girder Bridge over the
Paterson River near Paterson
Township
Additions and Alterations to
Wentworth Wharf
Retaining Wall, Lightkeeper's
Quarters, Newcastle
Erection of Passenger Station,
&o., Petersham
Erection of Morgue, Newcastle
Erection of a Room,Courthouse
Jerllderie
Bridge over Brundah Creek,
road Blayney via Cowra, to
Grenfe 1
Bridge over King Creek, at
Wauchope, road Port Mac-
quarie to Walcha
Erection of Station-buildings at
Muttama to Coolao and Coota-
mundrato Gundagal Railway
Retaming-wall, Lightkeer er's
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a
this office.
Quarters, Newcastle
tri<‘
Bridge over Burrangong Creek,
Young
Tuesday,
31st July,
at 11 o’clock.
Bridge over Barney Dowds
Creek, road Tenterdeid to
Laurence, Nos. 1 and 3
Erection of Porter’s Residence
at Trangle, G. W. Railway
Uniform Clothing, Gov- rnment
Railways
Erection of Barb-wire Fencing
between Glendeld and Picton,
G. 8, Railway.
Tuesday,
28th J u ly,
at 11 o'clock.
LICENSES UNDER THE REAL PROPERTY
ACT.
IN reference to the notice in the Government
Gazette, dated 18th February last, re, Can-
cellation of Licenses, under the 100th Section of
fSt Wi,? 0 *"**..* 0 * °» or before 30th June,
1885, it is hereby notified that the date of cancella-
T«2» of ,c.QK 0 * “c®? 8 .* 8 has been extended from 30th
June, 1885, to 31st August. 1885, inclusively.
(Signed) P. F. ADAMS,
a „ Surveyor-General.
Surveyor-General s Office,
Sydney, 30th June, 1885.
v'
BILLIARD BALLS, CUES,
Tables New Cushioned and Recovered.
THOMAS’S FACTORY, 153 Bathurst Street.
hey will look better than ne
REPLATED BY,R.HELVER
THAN NfcW
I-iCcl3.-IDli.-Ta. Sl3.a,acc.rccfe~
f pz w‘'s.S,;.“ ld M “ 0 t L& 1 5' “c.K'old 10^,?
tiefit, Sydney . and at Melbourne, Adelaide, and Brisbane, Agents-Kirker, Greer, & Co. (Ld.l
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of "
DFVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
.Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, Ao.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmith!^
c and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-flttimr
of every description. “
Plumbing, Qasfltting, Tan
BOULTON’S "FLUSH-OUT.
” " Vll Sy‘Kr ra ’ " VACUUM 1
WATER-WASTE
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Pan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD HORiCS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney
Full particulars and price on application. f
TO ALICE MARY B.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ I have this morning been asked to sign a peti-
tion from the ladies of New South Wales praying
tor the reprieve of the condemned criminal Johns.
I refused to sign the petition on the simple ground
that I thought the man deserved to be hanged.
But I don’t teei quite satisfied with merely declin-
ing to sign the petition; 1 want, as one woman of
New South Wales, even if the only one. to enter
•ny bumble but earnest protest against such a
petition being signed at all.” Thus “AliceMary
B.” in a letter to a Sydney paper. A hard, un-
womanly, and also unmanly letter, in which, at the
eleventh hour, this one “of Eve’s family”
clamours for the life of Johns. Let us have speech
with her:— t
We think you abb the “ only one”—
You fungus of your sex,
Who would be pleased to look upon •
Men hanging by their necks!
We think no other woman would
Proclaim the infamy
Of craving even felon’s blood,
Save Alice Mary B.
Bloodthirstiness we do not love,
As all men know full well,
But “powers of earth, and Heayen above
And—shall we couple Hell ? ”
A hanging girl! a creature “ banged ”
And fair for eye to see, .
Demanding that a man be hanged, •
Like Alice Mary B.! . . .
What are you like? Let us oonjure
Your image up. A fay,
Red-lipped, and rosy-cheeked, and pure
As the white blooms of May ?
We fancy not. This picture suits
Sweet love and sympathy,
And have you these high attributes ?
Speak, Alice Mary B. !
A withered gorgon, chill and drear,
Long scorned oy all things male;
A sort of female Maurice Frere,
Mixed with a dash of Jael;
An aged, moral, “ wizened ” hag,
Of stainless chastity,
Who cries, “ All sinners hang and lag! ’*
Eh ? Alice Mary B.
A searcher for all texts that damn
Eor ever, erring souls,
A soul elect, who finds a balm
In quoting “ living coals; ”
Who gloats upon God’s promised pit
Of endless agony,
Speak! tell us does this picture fit
You, Alice Mary B. ?
A she self-righteous Pharisee,
Who would stand out alone,
From every risk of error free,
And oast a fatal stone;
“ Let those who know not any sin
Cast the first stone,” said He ;
So you, being qualified, begin.
Eh? Alice Mary B.
Miss Alice, whosoe’er you are,
We tell you this at once,
Before God’s awful judgment bar
We’d swap your cnanoe for Johns’;
\ ou haven’t, in a convict’s cell,'
Passed years of misery,
You haven’t yet been penned in Hell,
Miss Alice Mary B.
’Tis true, he stumbled by the way,
And fell, to rise no more;
’Tis true, his footsteps went astray,
E’en from his mother’s door;
’Tis true ho tried to fly his fate,
When he found eyes to see,
Too late that eyesight came—too late,
Miss Alice Mary B.
’ Tis true that, hemmed by evil force,
He trod the bitter path.
The downward path of crime, the course
And end whereof is wrath;
’Tis true he paid the heavy wage '
Of crime repentantly,
Till Woman roused his jealous rage,
Miss Alice Mary B.
We know not well the way the strife '
Arose, but this befel—
A lady brought the Book of Life
To read within his cell;
And brother felons, unashamed,
Flung taunts at him, till he
Did that for which his life is claimed,
Miss Alice Mary B.
That’s all. What crosses have been yours
To teach you well to weigh
How muon a tortured soul endures
Before it turns at baj ?
How can you say that Johns has earned
The death so certainly ?
Where was your trick of judgment learned,
Miss Alice Mary B. ?
If women all wore hearts like you,
The falsehood written here,
The calumny might yet prove true
That nothing except fear
Protects the weaker from the strong—
In some things this may be,
But, as you put it. O how wrong.
Miss Alice Mary B.!
If nothing stronger than the rope
Restrained all crime and wrong.
Where might the weak find any hope
Against the cruel strong ?
If naught but fear could overawe
Mens’ brutish tendency,
Who would be found to frame Fear’s Law
Miss Alice Mary B. ? ’
No; ’tis some spiritual spark,
Some ray of heavenly fire,
That lights us slowly through the dark
To summits fairer—higher ; -
Tis this, far more than shields or swords
Bids timid virtue be;
Yes—consciences are more than cords
Miss Alice Mary B. ■" '
The wild, blind, brutal past is past.
With all its blood and guilt,
w hen gibbets creaked in every blast,
At every cross-road built;
The days are dead that set a stain
Upon our history, r .v,
And thou wouldst have them live aaain
Miss Mary Alice B. ‘ ’
The damned Past—when bloody-laws
By bloody fiends were swayed,
And manv a hopeless Rufus Dawes
Bemath the cat was flayed ;
When, underneath each ghastly stroke,
Men prayed in agony
To die—the days of Warder Troke,
Eh ? Alice Mary B. ?
God pity you ! God pardon you! "
A woman, by your-name,
who would your woman’s hands imbrue
With blood! May utter shame
Confound you, knowing, as you know,
A mother thus would be
Plunged in a bitter, endless woe.
Miss Alice Mary B.
Why should you ask this life to be
To Justioe sacrificed ?
Have you, in prayer, ne’er bent a knee,
Nor ever heard of Christ,
That at an hour when some faint hope
His mother tremblingly
May feel, you call for Johns's rope,
Miss Alice Mary B. ?
A Christian you may be, ’tie true,
For in these latter days,
Christians seek little more to do
Thau utter prayer a,nd praise;
But those who strive in <*iercy’s lists.
Who tread the lines that He
Laid down, seem oftest Atheists,
Miss Alice Mary B.
We hope to see the time arise,
And at no distant day,
When Justice (with unbandaged eyes)
No fellow man shall slay,
hanging lawyers shall have gone
To keep you company
In—well I say in oblivion,
Miss Alice Mary B.


Ask for and obti'n Wolfes Schnapps; the pro-
prietor is.not responsible lor tha effect produced
by counterfeits.
Socialities, '85.—110 pp. of Humorous Wood-
cuts and Comic Letterpress Is. (po>t, Is 35.) All
booksellers. A. M'Klnley and Co., Sydney. Buy it I
‘.‘Our troubles are lessened, our taste
gratified, and we are very well aathtied with our
purchases,’* said the young housewile, as she left
the China shops of Bray Bros., 402 and 404 ueorge-
street.*
I held her little hand in mine,
I clasped her beauteous form.
And swore to shield her from the world,
And from the raging storm;
She met my glance with loving eye.
And said, in accents low,
I wish, dear boy, you d get your pants
Prom Summerlleld and Co.*
Socialities, ’85— Illustrated. One Shilling (post,
i a 3(j.) Everyone has read and enjoyed the Edi-
tions of *83, S3, and 84, and will be better pleased
with that of *85. All booksellers. A. JVTKlnley
and Co., Sydney
Sell Wolfe's Schnapps, it is the Schnapps. A1J
imitations of it you snould treat with the con-
tempt they deserve.
Wolfe's Schnapps is the best remedial aa-ent
known throughout the world.
Remember American Co.’s Hop Bitters
never does barm but good, to the smallest child
always and continually. See and read.
Assjaa®r“ fc, ' i «'
Ask your medical attendant what he thinks of
Wolfa'a Schnapps as a tonic and stimulant.
Political Points
The Victorian Premier hopea that the first
Federal Council, held under the Enabling Bill now
before the Imperial Parliament, will be held In
Hobart at the beginning of next year. What can
the Council do if N.8.W. stay as she Is ?
Mr. David Gaunson sent “strangers” out
of the Victorian Assembly, the other night. He
explained afterwards that he was trying to hit on
a plan to keep newspaper reporters always out.
He regards them as a nuisance to the House.
David should arrange to do all the talking him-
self. Then reporters won’t go.
This is how Mr. Gladstone gets slanged in
Hake s Book about General Gordon:— ‘‘Mr. Glad-
stone, who, by his personal authority, had kept
back the expedition for upwards of two months,
to many people wat as plainly responsible
for Gordon's death as Faragh himself. Mr. Glad-
stone saw lit to remain at the head of affairs, to go
on playing at statesmanship, and paving with good
intention 1 * as much of hell as in his 50 years of
active political life te had left unpaved
A very astute Chinese official, not many
months ago, remarked; —“ England is like China in
this respect, that they both have mandarins who
constantly report to the Throne and country that
everything connected with military preparations
is satisfactory, and that everything Is compu ted,
when they are nothing of the kind. The only dif-
ference is that the Chinese official is corrupt for
money, the Englishman for love of office.” * The
remark,” observes the Paul Mall, “ is perfectly
just, and we commend It to the attention of our
mandaiins at the Admiralty and the Horse
Guards.
The Melbourne Agk, speaking of English
statesmen, says that “ those best respected for
their patriotism and ability, have been gamblers,
spendtbrifs, and adulterers ’ It would be crutl
to suggest that the Aon Intends a complimentary
comparison between British and Victorian legis
Jators, but we will go so far as to make one asser-
tion, on our own account, respecting statesmen on
this side of the line Those least respected for
their p and a have not been gamblers and spend-
thrifts. About the other item we can’t speak with
any certainty, b. cause, as the poet has so touch-
ingly observed:—
“ Oh, my I what a pious world it Is,
And how very good they all seem to he—
But what a * dulling ’ lot you’d find
If you would only raise the blind,
And see ’em on the strict Q.T.”
An English weekly thus condenses the re-
lation of Englishmen to their Sovereign:—“ We
made a bargain w ith the Queen, that if she gave us
her Crown lands we would support her children.
It was a bad bargain, for we never thought how
fruitful the Royal vine might be ; but, like true
men, the English people have kept faith with the
Sovereign to the end. But now that they have
portioned off the last of Her Majesty’s children
there is an end of that bargain, and we must re-
fuse to be cajoled, even by Mr. Gladstone, into
another one ot the same sort. The Royal Family
must simply support itself as other families who
serve the State in England do-out of their own
resources. These, owing to the saving habits of
the Queen, ani the stock-jobbing propensities of
the late Prince Consort, are so enormous that Her
Maiesty has never yet proved her late husband’s
will, so frightened is she lest the English people
will demand to know where all the money came
from that he left behind.”
• •
Port Hamilton, the new British acquisi-
tion, is destined to become another Gibraltar. It
guards the Korean Straits, and secures the
southern entrance to the Japanese Sea. It is only
130 miles from the Inexhaustible coal mines of
Nagasaki, and 600 miles from Vladivostock, and is
therefore in a position to effectively check
Russian enterprises in that direction — Abdurr-
natnanls said to have remarked years ago, when
in exile, that-“It only required the blast of one
Russian trumpet blown ou tho top of the Hima-
layas to set the whole of India in a blaze of revo-
lution.” Some Englishmen of long Indian experi-
ence have affirmed the same thing.
James Gordon Bennett and Maokay’s
syndicate are going to buy the island of Cuba for
£30,000,000. It’s always the way I Whenever we
have got our eye on a little investmest, we are
sure to be over-bidden. Only last week a “ cun-
ning ” little tin saucepan we had set our soul on,
in Oxford-street, was snapped up in the very same
way.
There was war to the knife at Dubbo last
week between the local “cooper tops” and the
fastidious “silver tails,” and Carcoar has the same
story to tell. At the latter township an attempt
was made to Inaugurate a Mercantile Quadrille
Assembly, but the arijtooracy frowned upon the
project, and it fell as fiat as a Gerald Massey
patriotic “pome” or a Herald leader. We could
tell a lot about this Carcoar affair but we forbear.
For, by doing so, we might seem to trespass upon
that field which, by a special Providence, has been
reserved for the gifted—we might say Inspired-
pen of Australia’s only, and always charming,
editress. If that lady deigns to comment upon
such local themes, it would be a work of superero-
gation for us to feebly follow her example—if she
is silent, we are reverently dumb.
During a recent debate in the S. A. Parlia-
ment, Mr. Homburg, M.P., stated—and could not
be contradicted— •* la the Adelaide Court In 1884
there were no fewer than 434 insolvencies, of
which 157 were in formd pauperis, so that only 277
estates showed anything. The total liability
amounted to nearly half a million. The assets
were £267 300, or about Us. 61. in the £. Of this
only about £25 000 was collected, and to get that it
cost in the Court of Insolvency no less than
£13,679. More than half the realised assets went
to collect the small proportion of £26 000 out of
£277,000 That left £11,321 to be divided amongst
the creditors, or just a little above 6d. in the £.”
And now every one of the remaining 49.566 poor
devils who form the adult male population of
this unfortunate colony, is mad with wild regrets,
because he has not, so far, bad the moral courage
to file his schedule.
Here is a true story, a horrible tale, but
gospel every line of it. An old woman and her
usband lived in some alms-houses at Bethnal
Green, London. One day, “ from information re-
ceived,” a relieving officer and a doctor entered
the premises. The old man lay on the bare floor,
with an old green coat over him. He was alive,
but in a terrible condition. He had been stretched
on the floor for six days, slowly mortifying. When
they lifted him up, part of his flesh adhered to the
floor and came away. The rest of the story is too
horrible to reprint. Ho died soon after his admis-
sion to “ the house.” The cause of death was star-
vation, You can imagine the condition of the
room with the body in it—you can fill in many a
dreadful detail that I cannot give you. Imagine
everything, and then think of this, and paint
a picture and send it to the Royal Academy.
When the doctor and the officer entered
the room, they found the old lady sitting
at a table and comfortably having her din-
ner. The verdict of the coroner’s jury was that
the deceased met his death from starvation,
through the neglect of his wife. The report of the
inquest has been sent to Zola. He is the only
writer who could use the details and give us a
dramatic picture of that happy English home.
There is a queer Christian church in the
interior of New Zealand. It is built of logs and
its decorative symbolism inside consists of a flar-
ing portrait of Mr. Gladstone and a page from one
of Air. James Payn’s novels. The natives meet here
once a week and chant the Decalogue and the
Lord’s Prayer, under the idea that In some mys-
terlous way they are “ big medicine.” And haying
written this of the poor Maoris we are borne back
on memory’s wing to the distant past and the
Bunny South—to where, in the centre of scrub and
rook that are calculated to bring insanity upon
the selector, a little church or building used for
church purposes is picturesquely planted. Sun-
day after Sunday the parson visited the place for
afternoon service, but the congregation was only
less discouraging than the collection. But one
Sunday a large accession to the number of wor-
shippers was noticeable, though the collection
varied not. And the next service brought a still
greater crowd. Then the pastor sought the
churchwarden, and congratulated him on the in-
crease. “ But can you,” he asked, “ account for
this sudden development of religious zeal ? Was
it my sermon on the parable of the talents that
touched them ?” And the churchwarden truth-
fully replied: “ Well, no, sir. I don’t think it was
that, but you see last Sunday we raffled two ’orses
and a saddle directly after service, and this after-
noon we're just agoin’ to have a little dance, and
next Sunday we’re goln’ to ’ave races on the flat.
That ’ll bring a good congregation I know.” It Is
rumoured that this churchwarden la soon to be
organising secretary of a Salvation Army.
Some statistics quoted by the Victorian
Temperance Alliance in reference to the big tem-
perance boom in America are well worthy of a
Sasslng smile. Wo are told that, “In Vineland,
few Jersey, there is total prohibition, under the
Local Option law of the State. Yonkers, New
York, licenses 145 saloons, and has, in addition, 75
places where liquor is sold in violation of the law.
Yonkers spends on its police $37,000, and the police
duties of Vineland (with 12 000 inhabitants) are
performed by one constable at the annual expense
of $76.” Presuming that the above is gospel truth
(which it must be, seeing that it is published by
the Victorian Alliance), we are evidently expected
to draw two conclusions from these touching
statistics. Firstly, that the solitary Vineland bobby
—debarred, by the way, from any of the little per-
quisites attendant upon thedlscovery of “drunks”
—subsists upon an income of £15 per annum;
secondly, that crime becomes an unknown quan-
tity among a community of “totes.” Without
questioning the accuracy of “firstly,” it grieves
our soul to throw a little of the cold water beloved
of the Alliance upon “secondly.” Now, among
the London “swell mob ” and the “mug-catchers”
who infest English racecourses there are many
staunch teetotallers and non-smokers. The D.s of
th<? great metropolis can pick out scores of hand-
some, well-dressed young men, clean-skinned and
clear-headed, who make it their proud boast that
not a drop of the'“ blanked poison has ever passed
their lips.” Yet these same fellows are looked down
upon by their own “ pals,” as the “ fancy ” men of
tne wretched Aspaslas who walk the fashionable
quarters of town. The temperance principles of
the bully are as dear to him as to the teetotal
orator, and, from a business point of view, almost
as valuable. To give one more illustration. A
certain notorious English “ welaher” and “lum-
berer,” known in police circles as Bill the Butcher,
is a non-smoker and a sort of temperance apostle
among his ruffianly friends. This gentleman, one©
a heavy drinker, became a convert to the good
cause many years back, from motives of policy,
and over a soothing cup of tea he delights in tell-
ing an assemblage of choice spirits that they can
“ always beat the ‘ coppers ’ if they.’il stick to tea.”
Undoubtedly there is a good deal in Bill’s text, and
thereto wg shall look for an explanation of the
economieal requirements of Vineland.
Woman Items
In Patagonia they fine a man two goats
for killing his wife. Goats must be esteemed of
iittle value in Patagonia.
She: “Going to the ball?” He: “No.”
She: “Why not?” He: “No clothes?” She:
“ Neither have I.” He: “ Well, you can go that
way; I can’t.”
“ What is the difference between an acoi5
dent 'and a surprise?” asked Mrs. Spelter at
breakfast. “All accidents are surprises, but not
all surprises are accidents," replied S. “ If 1 were
to tip over the lamp, it would be an accident. If
you were to say nothing about it, it would be a
surprise.” “I see,” said Mrs. S., dangerously;
“and if you were to come home from the club
sober, would that be both an accident and a sur-
prise ?” “ No, my dear; that would not be an ac-
cident. It would only be an incident.”
Imagine that you have the.run of a Celes-
tial harem, concentrate in one mental picture all
that is charming and beautiful in woman’s king-
dom,’and then gloat over this deliriously delightful
piece of word-painting. It is a sketch of saltatory
bliss at—Dry Plains, N.8.W. “ When we saw their
Hebe forms fantastically whirled in the ever vary-
ing waltz or polka, attired with faultless taste,
their lustrous eyes like diamonds sparkling, we
were utterly lost in admiration.” We sigh to
think that such perfection should be so far
from our prosaic location. But where in this
colony is Dry Plains ?
Menzel, whose paintings are now on exhi-
bition in Paris, has a studio in Berlin adjoining
his private studio, in which his pupils work from
living models. One day a student rushed into his
sanctum exclaiming, breathlessly: “ Herr Menzel I
The model I The young woman who was posing I ”
"Well, what of her?” “She id dead I She has
dropped down lifeless I ” Stepping into the other
room he found her on the floor, dead indeed, with
the horrified students standing around. “ What
an admirable pose!” he cried, as be saw the
corpse; “make a study of it! Quick!” And
seizing a pencil and sketch-block he himself set
the example.
We read that a Miss Charlotte Spiers, of
Plaiston, who recently recovered damages against
a fickle swain for breach of promise, said “ she did
not know that the defendant was only a clerk,
with a pound a week as salary. He always repre-
sented himself as being in a good position, and he
spent a pound a week on herself in presents dur-
ing their courtship.” Nothing more likely. If he
had been getting any more, she would, in all pro-
bability, have found herself limited to a pair of
worsted mits, and a one-and-ninepenny “im-
prover.”—
’Twas ever thus from childhood’s hour.
The ill-paid clerk would cut a dash;
The man above him, far, in power,
Is cautious how he spends his cash.
The reason, since it must be shown,
Is that the latter spends his own.
Touching the controversy now revived for
the fiftieth time during the century, in London, by
a “ British Matron,” as. to the exhibition of paint-
ings of nude figures in the academies, it is related
that on one occasion Queen Victoria, accompanied
by several members of the Royal Family, visited
the Gore Hcuse Exhibition. Mulready’s sudies of
the nude were by themselves in a separate room,
and Mr. Cardwell, fearful of shocking the eyes of
Royalty, directed that the Queen should not be
taken into that room. An accident prevented
this pure-minded advice from being acted upon.
The Queen had wandered from the party to the
door of the forbidden room herself. Her Majesty
opened the door and entered. She exclaimed,
“ What fine works!" and called for the Prince and
Princess to see them. And this reminds us of the
different effect produced by using words of pre-
cisely the same meaning. A “nude” figure is
artistic, a “ naked ” figure is something too horrid
to think of. Yet the terms are synonomous.
The Melbourne Herald recently pub-
lished quite an affecting narrative of how a young
man named Bunt betrayed the trust of a furniture
dealer. It is, indeed, a sad story. The young man
introduced himself to the boss of the furniture
shop as a candidate for the married state. He
looked the character. His extreme youth, the
scent on his handkerchief, the far-away gaze in
his eyes, the pink Mlet dovx peeping out from the
pocket nearest to his heart, all proclaimed him to
be a furniture-man’s legitimate prey. With the
usual professional solicitude, the boss jotted
down an order for a dining-room “set,” and
discoursed affectionately upon the excellen-
cies of the very latest things in sofas. But it
was when they arrived at the question of
the bedroom - suite that the bridegroom - elect
played his trump card. His feelings appeared to
get almost one toomany!tor him at thatdelieate
stage, and, with a pretty litti6 blush, he fetched
out a portrait of the young lady, and mentioned
what a “nice girl” she was Having had
some experience of the tender-heartedness of
furniture - dealers, the staff of this paper are
not surprised to learn from the Herald that
“ by this means the firm were induced to
take more than a business interest in the
couple, and expressed every wish for their future
happiness.” Alas! It is only since they forwarded
Mr. Bunt’s esteemed order, on credit, and that
misguided youth carted away the “sticks” in the
dead of night, that “the Arm” have lost some of
the simple faith in human nature which character-
ises the trade.
Our Fairy
With silver wings and gauze enclad
(A ccstume, these months, somewhat airy),
Quite near the door there stood a lad—
Or lassie, if you will—a fairy.
Phenomenal he who detects
In these aerial things, the sex I
The fairy spoke—" You’ll not be blamed
If with your pens you lash all evil!
The truth tell and you’ll not be shamed;
The truth tell and you’ll ‘shame the Devil.
“ The fact, dear Fairy, we deplore,
We’ve told the truth until we're gore!
“ We’ve told the truth with sobs and sighs:
No guiles us from the truth could sever I
But yet the Davil never dies,
Indeed, seems as robustas everl
‘ He may be shamed; p rhaps that Jot’s his,
But, there I —we don’t believe it is I ”
Up spoke the Fairy, and he said—
“ One fact, to grant you, I am willing,
From what I’ve seen, and heard, and read
Toe Devil takes a lot of killing!
Thus, shame him, though he may not die
We groaned—“ We’il have another try 1 ’’
The Fairy faded, and behold
A scene we d not be advertising;
A party said, in accents bold—
“ Five shillings, or until the riling ”—
We paid the fine, though we did wince,
And- haven't seen a fairy sivee!
BALLADE OF THE HOUSEMAID’S HOSEN.
When early rising is effete
And early morn puts by its prose,
’Twill to the end boast nothing neat
As, last of all, the housemaid's hose?
Curst be the current broad, not deep-
Though worse than rain, or snow, or sleet—
Where Phyllis floods the pave, to sweep
The wily germ or microbe fleet
Down to the curb. For his retreat
The passer-by no refuge knows,
All points in view he's forced to keep.
And, last of all. the housemaid's hosd
envoi.
Prince, aim thy subject welt with deals,
Or deaveri. when be walking goes,
Tdl him to slash what e'er he meets.
And, hist of nil. iltP housemaid's hose!
THE GAS BILL PUT TO SLEEP BY THE NEW YANKEE METER.
When early birds begin to cheep.
And early worms anon do bleat,
And early leaves a laughing peep
From all the trees that line the street.
First of the day’s first sights to greet
The wretch who wakes for weal or woes
.And broom, and pail, and Phyllis feet,
\ And. last of all, the house-maid’s hosel
Than soft Spring morning’s latest sleep
What joy more wholly, solely sweet I
Sad eyes which watch at last must weep
And so their vigilance defeat,
A MODERN BALLAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Amy, twenty years, or nearly,
’Tis since you and I were parted—
Oh I my love, I loved you dearly.
But you left me broken-hearted;
When my day of joy seemed dawning,
Spite of all your vows so fervent;
Why did you, without a warning,
Thus dismiss your faithful servant ?
Amy, Amy, tell me true—
Echo seems to answer—do.
Briny tears, to-night, I’m shedding;
As I write my lingers falter—
I am thinking of your wedding,
Of your blushing at the altar
By his side—an upstart fellow,
Quite unworthy your affection.
Ah I that bridal dress of yellow
Scarcely suited your conlplexiou.
Amy, Amy, tell me true,
Why did you not choose a blue ?
Amy, though you served me badly*
Threw me over so unkindly,
Now, as then, I love you madly.
Wholly, solely, fondly, blindly.
Him you wedded for his “ pieces”—
1 was handsome, he was wealthy—
But if death your hand releases.
Oh! reward my humble fealty.
Amy, Amy, tell me true,
Have you other men in view ?


Disfiguring humors, Humiliating Emp
lions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Iioss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticuba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticuba and Cuticura SoAr, the
great Skin Cures and Beautitiers, externally.
Itching: and Burning: Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticuba Soap and a single application of
Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticuba Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story; I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of ray disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Austbalian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South AVales.
nUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
Vy fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cube (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticuba, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers free from mercury
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes
$1.00; Cuticuba Soap, 25 cents; Cuticuba Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared bt tub
Potter Drug; & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
iilRSIffi
356 George St.
Established
SYDNE
ORGANS
PIANOS
Best Makers
EVERY, INSTRUMENT)
GUAHWTEEP
//!/'
V>
VERY
MODERATE
PRICESl
The Most Liberal?
TIME PAYMENT
SYSTEM.
OVER
I
800
Instruments
ON VIEW
lb SelecKfrom
SYDNEY.
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
1ST LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT BOOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.
JiiCK THOMPSOIT,
A.J.C. 01 GAB DIVAN AND HAIB-DEES8ING SALOON,
91 King-street.
N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSEHOLD a Canister of
Williams’ Australian Yeast Powder!
WILLIAMS'S
, „ AUSTRALIAN __
AST POWDER.
F&cturers AND PATENTEES.
i lt °N.CRIN1WADE& CO.
Williams’ Yeast Powder
MAKES LIGHT BREAD, TEA CAKES,
and PASTRY,
HALF-POUND TINS, SIXPENCE
Beware of Imitations.
TAKE ONLY WILLIAMS’,
This YEAST POWDER, the first manufactured
in the Australian colonies, has from the outset
maintained its position as the Premier Yeast
Powder ; and, in spite of severe competition, its
radius of consumption has steadily Increased.
„ WILLI A MS’ AUSTRALIAN YEAST
li POWDER is the most economical of Baking
,§ Powders, and sold at Sixpence the half-pound
canister.
Wholesale Depot:
VlflGOE. SON, and CHAPMAN,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY,
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 364 and 366 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the late Mr
Boyd’s children, by his executrix. e ac *‘
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manasxr.
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
. mm, ui mcBDDtr mum
Importers of
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ sbpPLIES, &o.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKS
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
£2
in
t
PORTABLE, FIXED
g* gun-miao »■
VERTICAL and HORI-
ZONTAL BOILERS
TEAM
PUMPS
and other
LATHES, PLANING
shaping, scrbwJ
-- f- rr•
STaVinV 1111 ™ 0
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER. &o.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
Head Warehouse -
Iron anl Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office
- 64 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
SYDNEY.
86 QRACECH UROH STREET,
- J


BEAD IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
AMERICAN CO.’S
Hop Bitters
ABM
The Purest and Best
Medicine erer made.
THEY ARB COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Ructau, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
“The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and In addition contain all the best
' and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
* earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
* Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whoso sedentary employments cause
I ‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach,
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
* Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘ without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
' symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
* wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
* dreds have been saved by so doing, at
* a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘ friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘ use the American Co.’s Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, these Hop Bitters are
‘no vile, drugged, drunken nostrum,
‘but the purest and best Medicine
‘ever made, and no person or family
* should be without it.”
0T See that the name Dr. Soule is blown
In every bottle, none other genuine.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £100.000.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Sydney Branch : Royle’s Chambers, Bond-street.
Victorian Directors : I N. S, Wales Directors:
John L, Dow, Esq., M.P., | Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Chairman I Prank Cowley, Esq.
Hon. J. F. Levlen, M.P. I George 8. Yeo, Esq.
Thomas Learmonth, Esq. |
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
Causes on land, rail, or at sea.
Marine Risks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted.
The only Live Stock Insurance Society in the
olonies.
Full particulars can be obtained from the under-
signed.
Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
A. J. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.
Office, Royle’s Chambers, Bond-street.
EAU DK COLOGNE,
4711 4711.
Established 1792.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1873; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, strength,
and Invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the dlite of
Europe.
The large and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of Its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number—4711 changed into 7411, 1147, 4117, &c., &c.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
street, Sydney.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
and Storekeepers, in town and country.
W. WALKER and SONS
Catalogues
POST FRKB.
W. WALKER
and SONS
LOITDOIT and SYDITEY-
}
Catalogues
POST FREB.
ALL STOCK
"WIIIIIIMWIIIII
In their
SYDNEY
are one of the
Largest
hoitsb
Stockholders
Supplied
and
X DIEBCt
Manufacturen
from their
1
w*
k
High-olast
FURNITURE I
mv
ENGLAND
London
Manufactory
and Latest
London Styles
Quaranthd
SYDNEY BRANCH :
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
SOLE IMPORTER OP
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
SOliK agent fok the
SMITH OEGAN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
ru-i'm, •■w-ifcf '/w
I
! mm
5th Half-Yearly Sale
JULY, 1885,
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & QO„
354 George-street, Sydney.
Wb beg respectfully to inform our numerous Customers aud the Public
our USUAL JULY SALE has commenced in the usual way. The Ladles ofSvdn.i
•will no doubt remember what bargains they have purchased at our previous Snilfo 7
therefore we venture to think that a great aud speedy clearance will be effected
W tt tr d S th y S°V r weU ' earned re P utatlon for reaU y n0W Z°od*, Ladies will determine to
ESOSS-A-3LiZE, LLOTD <Sz CO.
354 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
You should be careful that you are not Imposed
upon. Ask for and be sure you obtain Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
SocianiTiss. ’85.—The largest and best Comic
Illustrated Book ever published at Is. (post 1.3j.)
All booksellers. A. M'Kinley and Co., Sydney.
Bristol’s Sarsaparilla reaches the primary
poison at its source and expels It from the system;
hence It is that this powerful yet harmless vege-
table detergent is preferred to every other pre-
paration ot its class as a remedy for scrofula and
other external maladies. To carry off through the
bowels the poison set free by tho action of the
Sarsaparilla, Bristol’s Vegetable Sugar-Coated Pills
are the best laxative.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is an unequalled brain medi-
cine, imparting Healthful vigour to that sensitive
organ.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
CELEBRATED
BISCUITS AID CAKES, TREACLE AND GOLDEN SYRUP,
Self-raising JErated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
8. & A. have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880: Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta LB. 1883-4,
Sydney Agents; W. H. ARIELL & CO., 343 and 345 Kent-street.
A low cry in the night among lights where the
faces were beaming with gladness—
Ah, which one will say whence does a life
come or whither it goes at the close;
From an empire of brightness or darkness, where
Joy reigns for ever or sadness.
To an empire of sadness or joy, or from nothing
to nothing ?—arose
Prom the child, when the air struck its face at the
moment of birth and its being
To humanity throbbed, as the earth to the sun,
as the sun and earth throb,
Loaded up with the things that are blind and the
things that are joyful with Bering.
To the Universe, gloom-clad and glorlou', drink-
ing in hush, laugh, and sob.
He began, and his infancy lloate 1 along down the
stream Into childhood.
Until childhood sailed otf unto boyhood, with
blossom and bird still in view,
And then under a bellying canvas, to home as the
pardoned exiled would
Supple up his light steps, unto manhood glad boy-
hood, pride-garmented, tie w.
It is now you can look at him. See, bow when
suns gather up all their splendour
And while rolling the radiance around them,
go down in a drapery red.
His great eyes watch the crests of the billows,
with tears In them angry ard tender I
Hear his lips speak of cruel things living and
thriving and holy things dead I
He elected bis task, and the laughter which solaces
others to him was,
As he looked o’er the lieets on the waters of life,
but a mockery old,
While a tyrannous Poverty murdered nine-tenths
of his race, and as grim was
And as bitterly madd’nlng the mirth of the
remnant in purple and gold.
He elected his task.. He held to It. He spoke from
his prow o’er fho billows.
He exclaimed for a fairer respect, or
ment of murder as law.
But the sobs alone came up to speak, Interwoven
with laughs from the pillows
Of the fortunate, wealthy, who
order in everything saw.
And if ever another sound sought him, when
laugh and when sob were in chorus
’Twas the whirr of the scourge of the sky with
its whirlwind knots in the air
Swung around, as they say, by the Hand that
parentally stretches out o’er us,
And laid down on the backs of the sobbers ta
carve its fierce shibboleths there.
That was he. You have seen how he stood there.
But now on the waves of tho waters
It is rarely he looks. Let us ask what the world
and the heavens pourtray.
Hear his voice. All the early ring’s deadened.
The wails of the woes of white daughters
Are about him, around him grey fathers rave,
sons curse, wan worn mothers pray.
Hear his pulse throb. And hear, too, the gladness
that leaps from the riot of riches.
See the furnace of fire in his eyes. Don’t, wild
tempest winds, totally drown
fils hoarse words. They are sad, sad :
“Behold on the crests of the waves,
in the ditches
Andthe troughs of the spume are the demons
who slay: False Beliefs. O Eternities,frown
"Not, but hearken I Above reign the demons, tool
there, too; or Nothing is reigning ;
And a litter of lies made a God that it profits the
proud to maintain I
All thope demons must die. Let them die. Let
the pride of the proud, the complaining
Of the poor that look heav’n-ward, perish. Lot
only Humanity reign ! ”
A low cry without light in the night, and the faces
around him were lifeless—
Ah, which one will say whence does a life come
or whither it goes from its pain ?—
Floated out from his lips, and the waves crowded
up. and he went to them strifeless,
And the poor are still poor, the rich rich, and
be liefs that wore crowns then still reign.
-E. LOWE.
Sydney, 25th June, 1885.
The Reformer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]


STUDY ECONOMY
and
HavcyourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
__ Liverpool and Bathurst Sts
B igfe fife parasols made to match coa
; I tvm**- Repairs nertly exe-
cuted
LLAI
UMBR
The fresh food and ice company
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &o., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“ KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
Fresh Food A Ice Co., Limited,
Head Office 21 Harbour-street.
Stables ... Liverpool-street.
Factory Mlttagong.
™£jscmd
or
life m
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses maybe
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Self Preservation. A hook for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. 300 pages, bound in beautiful French cloth,
full gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should be read by the young for
instruction and by the afflicted for X’elief. It will benefit
all. —London Lancet.
Addresstho World’s Dispensary Medical As- M P 1 I
sociation, or Dr. W. R. Parker, No. 69 Hunter II EL A L
Street,Sydney,N.S.W. Theauthormay TUVQCI E"
be consulted on all diseases requiring | f| TO ILL I
skill, secrecy, and experience.
AST LE XSOA/s
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET I
SVD N EM
IMPORTERS OF AILTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
MOULTON’S
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MGOLTON’S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and nc
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
BEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
Stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit),
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price la. 3d.
■ C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor,
PILLS
—• VTT-
Marshall’s
ON It NERVINE
KBGiSTBitau.
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURB for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, Loss of Vital Power, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
Other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. fid., or 25s. a case.
Bole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS, M.P.B.
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists, 104 and
loe Market-street, near Hyde Park, Sydney, and
5 Pltt-street, Circular-quay. TAKE NO Su B8TI-
CUTS.
NO MORE CORNS I
CORNS AND WARTS removed without pain
hy the of Palmer’s Painless, Harmless,
and Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER.
This preparation is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If applied accord-
ing to the directions, it will effectually remove
them in from six to elg ht days.
PALMER’S
FACI/E CURA )£&■>.
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Local.
This most wonderful Preparation has surpassed
all others In speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
how long or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed In producing the desired re-
sults : and it can bo most confidently recommended.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general stores: wholesale by Messrs Elliott Bros.,
Sydney ; E. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton,
Grlmwade, and Co., Melbourne; Kcmpthorne and
Prosser, Dunedin.
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 HUNTER STREET,
Opposite Tramway, Elizabeth Street.
PHYSICIANS’ PRESCRIPTIONS carefullypre-
pnred with Drugs of the purest quality.
French Indiarubber Goods, Ladies’ Abdominal
Supports and Pessaries, Syringes and Enemas of
every description, always in stock.
Country Orders promptly executed.
H. P. SABI £ I,, M.P.S., Mgr.
NEUSTADT and CO.,
COMPLETE
ISOTJSIE
FURNISHERS,
39. 154. 156. A 158 OXFORD-ST]
SYDNEY.
vr HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
jm Eithib for Cash or Tims Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
REMEDY FREE,
ful Errors, Early Decay, Lost Manhood, etc., will
learn of a simple and certain means of Self Cure,
Free of Charge, by addressing
M. B. TAYLOE, Esq., Box 891, Sydney, N.S.W.
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Comer of William-street, Hyde Park.
High-class Furniture
Vt Very Lowest Prices, compatible with the finest
workmanship and finish, for entrance halls,
dining-rooms, drawing-rooms, bedrooms,
and libraries.
'■'ARPETS IN NEWEST DESIGNS AND
FINEST QUALITY.
WILTON CARPETS, BRUSSELS CARPETS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With Hearthrugs to match.
COHLICINE AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL AND
BLACK AND BRASS,
In all sizes and various designs.
U8TRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1873.
Capital—£100,000 with power to Increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES —20 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
Champagne
Haldalack & Co'a.
DRY MONOPOLE.
or ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS A Co., London.
Bole Averts for Heldaleck & Co.. Retina.
E v sh^ld ) usb [PEMEIlT/S
. EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
Id a Mill replete witb the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
IB GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
8S1 Georjce-street, Sydney.
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms.-JoHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don: TFWS.B LAN O & SON., London: JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHA8. OSBORNE &
CO., London.
&? ls ? for the eminent firm of
BuSSY & CO. f London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, &o., and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 Goorae.st., Sydney,
Where Inspection Is Invited.
Are you going to Bourke ?
-Yes; and I am going to stay at the TUBE
HOTEL, which is now kept by
The “LOUIS"
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble. while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin feal velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposesin which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis.”
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
i' send patterns
POST FREE OH
application.
vV
MS
W/m/f
m
mi
m
m
A
DH. O COITITELX.,
52 Castlereagh Street,
ILT.S.W.
REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
, of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases, chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or hy post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effectsNer-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples ou the Face, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure ip Life. Want of
Ambitfofi, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Hda<V*che, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Hack, Stunted Development, Ac., arc
treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
manent, safe, and private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching-, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of every kind, from whatever cause, promptly cured.
It is self-evident that a physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill,
and physicians in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of cases applying* the
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded hy others. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy and perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free Call on or
address DOCTOR J. O CONNELL,
52 Castlereagh Street (ground floor), Sydney.
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robe Makers.
Trousers from Sis. to 40s.
mr N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Co.
W. Pheabsbt & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st.
“VICTORIA” OFNER BITTER-WATER,
The Best and Strongest Natural Aperient.
A Natural, Fluid Magnesia, as a safe, ordinary, and gentle aperient in Inflammation
and Congestion, in Rheumatic and Gouty Disorders, against undue tendency to Fat,
against Haemorrhoids, in Bilious Attacks and Disorders of the Liver.
Nature’s Apebient Remedy during Pregnancy, and in many Female Diseases; fo:
Habitual Constipation, in Organic Diseases resulting from fatty degeneration, to remove
the consequences resulting from excess in diet, &o.
1£ST One wlneglassfui will usually relieve the most distressing headache.
ONE BOTTLE OF “ VICTORIA ” IS EQUAL IN ITS EFFECTS TO TWO OF OTHER BITTER-
WATERS. HENCE IT IS MUCH CHEAPER.
In cases of Indigestion, Stomach and Liver Affections, Constipation, and other Derangements of the
System, as a Family Medicine this has no equal.
Sold in Bottles at /s. £d. and 2s,,
And may be obtained of any Chemist or Patent Medicine Vendor in the United Kingdom*
:
-
; 1=11. • \
Head Offices.
First Fire Society established in me coiony on
the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from
all liability.
,, Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by llgntmng and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
WALTER C RURCH, Manager,
Head Offlces-PITT and KING STREETS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE.
MADAME ELISE,
PARISIENNB DRESSMAKER AND SPECIAL
STAYMAKER.
BEGS to call Ladies’ attention to her superior
FIT, TASTE, and exceptionally reasonable
charges. All orders receive her personal attention
and superintendence.
138 COLLINS STREET EAST.
NERVOUSNESS. Deipordency. 103t (Vitality.
Premature Decay, and all terms of Debility
causlrg loss of Physical and Mental Power, quickly
and easily cured by the French Aphrodisiac
Remedy. Illustrative book free. Address Auo
trglian Agency, P.O. Bjx 166, Sydney.


Student' of adctassei will bermre than surprised
how Wolfe's Schnapps assist tnem iu their brain
work
Notice!—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages for invalids and c jnnoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Pitt-street.
Art Union of Moss Vale, in aid of Widow
and Orpan Fund of Bsrrima Masonic Lodge.
Ticket?, 20s. Will shortly be drawn. Anply at
once for tickets. J. 8. Hyams, Sec., Moss Yale.*
Socialities, '85 — Illustrated, One Shilling (post
Is 31) Everyone ha< read and ei joyed the Edi-
tions of '83, 83. and ’84, and will be better pleased
with that of 85. All booksellers. A. M’Kinley
and Co, Sydney.
Ayer's Hair Vigor promotes the growth
and improves the beauty of the hair. It imparts
au attractive anpe«runce, a delightful and testing
perfume. While it Mi nulates the root?, cleanses
the scdp, and adds elegance and luxuriance, its
1 iagredieuts are harmless and 11 s streets are
enduring, and tbu> it proves itself to be at once
the best and cheapest article for t ilet use.
Mb. DeCotjrot Brown* (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Dock,"
‘Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and "Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, m;.'.y be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Bercaford Chambers, 52 Castle-
-eagh-strect, Sydney Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Laud Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matte r of record in the. Departments and
Supreme Court.*
A NEW DISCOVERY.—Hoffman’s Bucalyptol
(registered) “ Mixture and Injection.” They will
positively cuie ail kidney diseases and disorders,
all urinary complaints and discharges, irritation,
scalding, inflammation, gravel, pains in the back,
&c. A ease incurable in nine months was actually
cured in eight days with Hoffmann’s Eucalyptol
Injection (" purely vegetable ”). Hoffman's Eu-
oalyptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
no8andalwood.no balsam, or anything injurious
to the most delicate constitution of either sex.
Ask for Hoffman’s, and take no substitute.
Wholesale: B. Prosser and Co.; Elliott Bros. Re-
tail : AU principal chemists and storekeepers
Price, 2s. 6a. and 3a. 6d.*
the Renner Manufacturing Co., of Pitts-
burgh. Pennsylv.'n a, U.S.A., make an extraordin-
ary offer to agents, and those wanting employ-
ment, to sell tbeir Renner Combined Alarm and
Door Ball, in the different colonies and counties in
Australia. It is endorsed by over 2000 publishers
in the United States and Canada, and by the 100 000
who are now using them on their doors. It has
never been sold by the trade, but by agents alone.
It will pay 100 per cent, profit, and sells from $4.00
to $6 00 each. Avents in the United States have
taken as high as 22 orders in a single day. It sella
readily on its merits. General agents who can
handle a number of counties, or one of the colo-
nies, can secure those they want by being the flrtt
to comply with our terms. Large illustrated
circulars, containing terms and price-list, will be
sent free. Address: Benner Manufacturing
Co , Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, U.S.A. *
Mr Wolfe must be a happy man, as he is the sole
proprietor of Wolfe’s Schnapps which is thepuroa
spirit in the world.
Printed and Published by Ths Bulletin News-
paper Co- (Limited), 24 Pltt-rt., Sydney, N.8.W.
For Pale, Languid.
emaciated children, with pimply, sallow skin, the
Cuticura Resolvent will prove a blessing at
or.ce, < leansing the blood and liver of fementive
germs which are sure to develop into scrofula,
rheumatism, consumption, or severe skin diseases.
Mothers will find the Cuticura Remedies absolu-
tely infallible in cleansing the system of ulcerative
weaknesses and debilitating diseases Full
directions accompanying each package of
Resolvent for the composition of cleansing
washes and healing application. No household
can Afford to be without these wholesome blood
purifiers and skin beautiffera.
Mashers.— The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 652 Goorge-street, Brickfield Hill.*
A correspondent writes:—If the people knew
the value of Wolfe's Schnapps they would drink
nothing else.
SPORT IN THE FAR NORTH.
Down here in these tame latitudes we can
little realise what the excitement of existence Is In
the Far North. There they grasp the fiying
moment by the hair and shake it for ail it Is worth.
We can only gaze at them from afar off with Im-
potent envy. We lead narrow and uneventful
lives, while theirs are broad and full and sparkling
with Incident. But, if we cannot personally ex-
perience the joyful opportunities of such a life,
let us endeavour to while away a few dull minutes
by contemplating one picture (out of a set) of this
wild, free existence in the Northern Territory.
We will take it from a letter written to the South
Australian Register by Dr. Morice, the late
Protector of Aborigines in the Northern Territory
Before quoting from this, however, we will con-
dense the matter by stating that last year four
settlers on the Daly River were killed by the
natives. The “murderers” were subsequently
secured, are'now waiting the carrying-out of
their sentence. If they had been Europeans, and
instead of murdering four bad mu rdered 400, justice
would have bad to he satisfied with this much. But
as they were not Europeans, another sort of justice
—designed exnresslv for dealing with native races
—came into play. It was necessary to keep up the
prestige of the white conquerors. If this were not
done, a tribe of blacks might at any time raise the
boomerang of revolt, and precipitate themselves
with epear and nulla-nulla upon the poor white
man, armed only with revolver and rifle. So
examples had to be made, as well as justice done.
Besides, the Government felt it to be its duty to
provide inexpensive amusement for its subjects
living so far away from theatres or minstrel shows-
Therefore-now we quote from Dr. Morice s
letter:—“While Inspector Foelshe and a police
party were out securing the actual murderers,
another party, consisting of uon-offloial persons,
but armed and provisioned hy the Government,
were let loose to act as they thought best.” They
thought best to have a good time—a tray time—a
high old sporting time. Why not? What went
they out to do ? Make sketches, or take photo-
graphs of scenery? The Minister of Justice, with
a pleasant humour peculiar to him, made them
promise before they started out that they would
shoot no natives except In self-defence. They
entered Into the joke witn alacrity. They saw It
immediately. The idea was to be that they were go-
ing outbotanising, and gathering geological speci-
mens. This was what the Minister of Justice insisted
on understanding. It was his one little joke. He
made It himself, and he loved it. Therefore, they
look from the Government stores provisions, and
revolvers and rifles, and powder and shot, and
rode out—laughing in their leggings—botanisingi
Oh, yes-and to keen up the drollery, they called
| themselves the Houscbildt Rescue Party—in
accordance with a facetious fiction that they were
going out to rescue a man whose body had been
found several days before. Now, we will Trouble
I Dr. Morice for another slice of his letter:—“ What
this party did has never been made public, but the
officers on board the s.s. Palmerston, which was
lying in the Daly River when the rescue party
arrived there, say that all one night they heard a
constant discharge of firearms. There was good
moon-light at the lime. These may have been
used in self-defence, but as none of the party
were wounded, this seems Improbable. The
general belief in the Territory was that cer-
tain of the party simply shot down every
native they saw, women and children ID*
eluded,” This botanising is great fun when it
is followed up with spirit. Did we not tell you
that life was worth living in the Northern Terr*
tory ? Did we not say to you that it sparkled with
incident—that it was free and gay, and festive I
And have we not shown all this? We think so.
But we have yet another anecdote* While this
party was out three teamsters reported that they
had been attacked by the natives. In self*
defence they shot six of them. Says Dr. Morice:—
“There were three weak points about this tale.
None of the teamsters were wounded; it is un-
usual for natives to attack in the bold way
described; and, lastly, it was admitted that there
were women with the natives (one of the killed
was a lubra, I think). Now, it is well-known that
the natives, when they mean mischief, always keen
their women out of the way. The proper course
would have been to have held an inquest on the
bodies of the natives, and a jury should have
decided whether they came by death through wil-
ful murder or justifiable homiclc e. This could
easily have been done. But.no; the Government
Resident, as soon as he heard of the affair,
arranged that another non-oflicial party should be
armed and sent out to follow up the natives. They
were smt, and returned in due time, reporting
that they did not fall in with any natives. Tbid
answer quite satisfied the Government Resident,
who seems to be of the most unsuspicious nature.
Of course the party were not asked to account for
the Government ammunition they took away, and
a few days after some of the men were boasting
over their cups that they had shot forty-seven,
including Women and children; in fact, that they
had stuck up a camp and killed everyone in it”
Hey I How is that for sport in the wild North ?
Bagged forty-seven at one volley! Women and
children, tool Oh, we told you that we could
show you how pleasant life is in the Northern
Territory Imagine the keen delight of these
eager sportsmen as they stealthily stalked their
black game. Then think of the fine excite-
ment they must have felt as they rode
into the camp with a rush, and peppered away at
everything alive in it. Doesn’t it make you dis-
contented with the dull and bloodless life of civili-
sation ? If it doesn’t, we are sorry for your spirit.
How the shooters must have gulfawo ' as they saw
the lubras rise up to run with their black babiesat
their breasts and topple over head foiemo&t as
some well-cirected shot struck them in the back
of the head or between the shoulders! With such
sportsmen as these, there must have been a good
deal of betting as to who would make the biggest
score. We would suggest that they should shoot
for a cup—the bowl of which might be designed in
the form of an aboriginal skull. This cup
to be presented to the shooter who made the
biggest score for the year. A few lines
more from Dr. Morice, and we will have
to regretfully leave this pleasant subject. He
says:—"It is difficult to say how many natives
have been killed altogether for the Daly River
outrage; but from all I have learned from dif-
ferent sources, I should say not less than 150, a
great part of these women and children.” And a
very good lot, too, we should think. Now, we
have nothing to say against the number killed.
We are not so ignorant of history as not to know
that native races were created for white men to
hunt down, and harry and wipe out with inge-
nious weapons. But what we wish to point out is
that if women and children are shot in this indis-
criminate fashion, the race will soon bo as extinct
as the dodo. Then what will tho mighty hunters
of the Northern Territory do ? It will bo but a
dark look-out for them unless they can get a bill
passed making the Chinese lawful game. There is
a close season for several kinds of game, and we
think the blackfellow should have the same privi-
lege, Understand, »e do not advocate this from
any mawkish motives of humanity and common
brotherhood and all that sort of stuff-we hope we
are above such foolishness—but simply with a view
of preserving him for purposes ol sport. And it
strikes us that as the South Australian Government
has shown so much interest in him from this point
of view it might go further, and send out parlies
to round him up from all quarters of tho Territory,
and run him into a reservation. There he could
bo keptand let outto huntsmen, as they do with a
stag, at so much a head—reductions made when
shooting parties wished to make a wholesale
drive. Something of this sort will have to be
done, and done soon, or there will be no induce-
ments for Europeans to live in the Northern Ter-
ritory. It will be as tame as New douth Wales.
We were in such a hurry to hunt down our own
blackfeliows that now we have none left worth
powder and shot. Let the Northern Territories
take warning from this and shoot their black-
fellows with more discrimination. And now we
must finish this subject, for we have to attend a
meeting called for the purpose of organising a
subscription list lor the “ pore heathen."
OUR SON.
We are a father, we have been so for some time. Our eldest son, over whose
crushed-strawberry cranium twelve gleaming summers have faded and fled, is the sub-
ject of this dissertation. He is a pensiveyouth with a large appetite, and fire enough in
his big emerald eyes to ignite the early blaze ’neath the kitchen kettle, but he refrains
from doing so, either through the agency of his bright orbs, or the unromanticlucifer,
with all the stubbornness of a contemplative nature. Our persua-ive style of oratory,
which has drawn thunders of applause from a crowded and discriminating audience,
fails to find a response in his sixpenny-novel bosoddened soul. When the morning sun
beams through the lattice upon his little face, frescoed with raspberry jam and red
clay, our voice is heard from the next room, pleading, beseeching him to rise and
drink in the sweet air of morn, and gaze upon Sol’s refulgent rays like a cloak of
golden glory advancing to gladden an ex-
pectant world; and likewise to rise the tem-
perature of a certain amount of aqueous
fluid, until it has attained sufficient heat
to extract flavour from the fragrant
Pekoe. But he heeds us not; he is en-
gaging in a death struggle with the
sanguinary Indian chief Black Wolf,
whilst his fair beloved is stretched in a
dead faint on the grass, and her father
reposts not far off, with a scalping knife
through his gills. He is dreaming of
love, gore, scalps, and general ghastli-
ness; and presently we will creep from
our couch, and with the assistance of a
stiff-hair brush, cover the tenderest part of his person with gravelly-rash. Then he
w 111 leave his dear love in the care of Mr. Black Wolf, and array himself iu unrom antic
patched garments, and, sobbing bitterly, he will steal down stairs, there to vent his
emo.iou by burling the oat about by the tail, and s’amming doors. It pains us to
do this, but that boy must be kept subordinate, and we, ourselves, have a rooted ob-
jection, on cold mornings, to gathering up
combustible ma’erial and so arranging it
that it wilt burn with celerity aud dispatch.
We named him Solomon, not that we wished
him to emulate Lis illustrious predecessor
altogether, a thousand w. men wouldn’t turn
out a profitable investment, these daj s, for
instance; but thenume came handy, aud it
was ugly enough, so we fixed it on to him.
Solomon’s intellect is re kirg with the grisly
lus and gory horrors to he found iu the
“ Young Kngi'sbman,” aud the “Young Aus-
tralian ” —the productions of a class of indivi-
duals, whose proud boast is that they were
never properly clear of the D.T. since they
reached their eighteenth b rthlay. And
when we have decision to thrash him, his
super-sensitive temperament rebels, and
following the examples of his fancy heroes
he does up a few useless arlie’es in a spotted
bundle handkerchief, aud su-peoding this to
the terminus of our walking stick, lie goes
off to he Capta'ii of a unn-o’-war, or a
brigand, or a pira'e—anything for an honest
crust. He usually gets hack about night-fall
with a hungry look. There ain’t any Men-
o’-war to be bossed, the brigands have all
started pious p ipers, aod piracy offers but a
meagre existence ploughing the deep on a
mud-punt moored to a stump, fcolormn
skulks about the street til hunger over-
comes all ferrs, then he comes to the door
and snivels, aud we take the pirate in, aid
flail him with a trunk-strap. 'Jhis discour-
ages him, and he stays ’noa’h tlie parental
roof until the absorption of a few more
blood-and-murd-r narratives fills him with
fresh yearnings for glorv. We have tri> d
many devises to turn Lis proclivities into
paths more worthy of a son of ours. We
have changed his literature, kept the pernicious books from him, and borrowed read-
ing from Sunday-school libraries for his especial delectation. But he discards these
interesting little tales with undisguised contempt, and treats Willie, the poor orphan
school-loving hero, with derision; mocks at his pale face, and jeers at his endeavours
to get a job boot-blacking, when there were so many openings for bushrangers in the
countrv parts. Keeping crooked sticks and coloured handkerchiefs out of reach
worked better, he never thought of leaving us without the bundle in a coloured hand-
kerchief slung on a crooked stick ; this was a sorb of necessary appendage, without
which the flitting would he divested of all interest, and when he could not get them,
he just hung round and looked sulky, tid the fit wore off. He is a promising boy. but
we think that with time, and a gooa-sized trank-strap, we may yet knock some of the
promise out of him, and bring him through as a fairly passable parson.
THE TWO GHOSTS IN "HAMLET."
[WRITIEN FOR THE BULLETIN]
(BY A POOR PLAYER.)
Even In these sneering modern days
There Is no dearth—
For him who has the eyes to see
Of wonderment and mystery,
Of terror and amaze.
And still the words are wise
There are more things in Heaven and earth
Than dreamt by our philosophy.
I saw this thing with my own eyes.
• •••**** *
It was a wild and dismal night.
The sky with storm was blind,
The gas-jets, like to wraiths of light,
Flared wanly in the wind.
K And, as a sail blown into land.
The old drop-scene blew In.
The play that night was “ Hamlet”—and
The audience was thin.
They came with slow and shuffling feet,
, And each one In the gloom,
Instead of searching for a seat,
- t Seemed searching for a tomb.
The house inside a drear look wore.
But ‘on the front” ’twas worse ;
©no wretched cab stood at the door—
It might have been a hearse.
It might have been a hearse, indeed.
As you wll see, good friend,
If you are hold enough to read
This story to the end.
For just as eight o’clock had struck.
There came a message quick
(In gloomy keeping with our luck 1),
To say the Ghost was sick.
Most conscientious man .we had—
Was always at his post—
No actor there that was not sad
To hear this of the Ghost.
But some must live though others die.
And, though we missed the Shade,
His part at once was doubled by
Him who Laertes played.
He had not the majestic port
Of the First Ghost: a span
In stature less was he-ln short
He was a little man.
The thing looked comic, I confess,
But then our case was hard:
How can you get tall ghosts—unless
You buy them by the yard ?+
The gentlemen who pack a hoarse
Will see this reason’s strength—
Though it seems strange tall ghosts are scarce >
Since all men die at length.
The curtain rose ; still grew the talk ;
The first scene started fair ;
But—horror I—when the Ghost should walk
Behold, Two Ghosts were there I
And one was short, the other tall;
One stout, the other lean.
Then clammy terror fell on all
Who played in that first scene.
Horatio first was put to rout,
Fear did Marcellus seize,
The bold Bernardo he crept out
Upon his hands and knees.
But what was stranger far to most,
The Little Ghost took fright!
And disappearing from bis post,
Was seen no more that night.
Then someone cried at last, “A trick 1
And vot y well put on!
This is the Ghost was shamming sick—
Seize him I”
The Qhcslwas gone!
Then swllltly did a call-boy go,—
His feet the gravel spurned,—
To where the First Ghost lived, to know
If he had yet returned.
“Returned I ” the ancient dame replied,
Who answered to the knock,
“ He aint got there yot 1 ”
“ How?”
“ He died
As it struck eight o’clock.”
Next morn, when “ props.” comes to his post,
A grisly sight he spies -
The body of the Little Ghost
A-hanglng from the files 1
• ••• ••*•
O man of sneers ! this tale should drive
One thing into your head—
The conscientious man alive,
Is conscientious dead.
Not much did this poor player know,
But y j t he had a heart;
’• He knew our fix that night, and so
He came to play his part
One last time—though his mortal thread
Was out by Death his knife—
And all who saw him play it said
He played it to the life.
* Grave-yard, of course.—Author..
