

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—Wc. 92.—Hew Series.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1885.
Fries—64.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1885.
By Jingo!
It is possible that the origin of the term
“Jingos” has, rtcent as it is, already been
forgotten by some people. It serves our
purpose to refer to it. At the close of the
Russo-Turkish war, when the victorious
Muscovite appeared disposed to take advan-
tage of his success to appropriate conquered
territory, with slight regard for the suscep-
tibilities of Great Britain respecting the
balance of power in the East, it seemed
possible that, under DTsraelx’s guidance,
England would be precipitated into a war
to restrain the conqueror. The musio-halls
of London resounded with so-called patriotic
songs, of which one particularly tickled the
fancy of the intellectual habitues of these
resorts. The refrain of this precious ditty
was vigorously ohorussed nightly by excited
crowds of warlike oounter-jumpets. It ran
thus—
“ w© don’t want to fight.
But, by Jingo I if we do,
We've got the men, we’ve got the ships,
And we’ve got the money too I ” *
Thenceforth the advocates and supporters in
England of a policy of energetic adventure
were dubbed “Jingos,” by way of derision.
These gentry have evidently broken out
with a fresh access of their peculiar form of
swaggering insanity, in consequence of the
fall of Khartoum, the consequent failure of
tiOrd Wolssley’s expedition, and the seri-
ously-compromised position alike of his
detachments, of bis main force, and of the
whole situation in Egypt and the Soudan.
We are apprised by cable advices, emanating,
not from the ordinarily unimpassioned
Reuter Agency, but from the own corres-
pondent of the S.M. Herald and Melbourne
Argus— in other words, emanating from the
Tory Standard —that the public indigna-
tion and disgust throughout the United
Kingdom at the news of the fall of Khar-
toum is unparalleled. Allowing for the
strongly-prejudiced source of this allegation,
ibis still significant, and,probably, under cer-
tain limits,true. Considering whence it enam-
ates, it may probably be read to mean that
the Tory Press everywhere has availed itself
of the event to raise a howl against the pre-
sent Liberal Administration, and that the
voice of cooler counsel has, for the moment,
been overwhelmed by the mingled clamour
of interested denunciation, national morti-
fication, and general confusion and dismay.
Reuter’s agency, which is, as a rule, less
impassioned than the special Tory cable
correspondence of the leading Australian
papers, but which, nevertheless, has, all
through the Egyptian affair been so dis-
tinctly Jingo as to raise a suspicion that the
Hebrew management in England has been
influenced by interest or sympathy with the
bond-holding usurers, supplements the Spe-
cial’s advices with a statement that the
English Press is unanimous in declaring that
the latest incident has rendered retreat from
Egypt impossible. It is quite probable that
under the impulse of the first excitement,
some such expression has been general
among the leading journals. But we take
leave to doubt the alleged unanimity, and
we do not forget that the “ leading” jour-
nals are not those which to-day most accu-
rately represent tbe views of the “ people ’
of Great Britain. We doubt, for instance,
whether the London Echo, a Radical even-
ing paper of much influence, or Reynolds’,
the working man’s weekly organ, will have
committed themselves to any such declara-
tion.
It is, in fact, the shriek of wounded vanity,
not the voice [of calm reason, which thus
reaches us from the old country. But there
is room to hope that emotional gaspings
will be succeeded by the deliberate deter-
minations of wisdom. There is no denying
the prime proposition of the school that to
retire from the Soudan now and from Egypt
shortly, without repairing the reverse at
Khartoum — even should the retreat of
Wolseley’s main body, let alone his com-
promised detachment in advance, be pos-
sible without incurring fresh disaster—
would involve a loss of national “ prestige.”
Now,prestige, as known to music-hall Jingos,
is a shadowy sort of phantom, consisting of
little more than a misty halo of glorified
vanity. But to the statesman and political
philosopher, prestige has a substantive
reality and a tangible >alue To a nation,
as to an individual, a reputation of being an
awkward customer to tackle, prompt to re-
sent affront or wrong, and stubbornly re-
solute never to quit a quarrel or a difficulty
without having the best of it at all hazards,
right or wrong, is quite a valuable charac-
ter. It may save more trouble and avert more
combats than it costs to acquire it. And
that property of “ prestige” is all that the
practical statesman would trouble his head
about. The shadowy and sentimental as-
pects of the thing he will leave to the
habitues of the music halls, and to inconse-
quential gushers of like calibre. Such men
as Pitt, or Talleyrand, Metternich, or
Bismarck, for example, would simply
balance in their minds the proa and contra’s
of the positions. Would the preservation
of prestige at the present moment involve
a loss of real strength, or plunge the
nation into embarrassments such that,
in reality, greater advantage would be re-
tained by sacrificing prestige for the mo-
ment ? The nations are to-day little apt to
be deceived by fine terms. Prance, for ex-
ample, has prestige to maintain in connec-
tion with her war against China. By put-
ting out her full strength in that campaign,
she could uphold her prestige. But if, as a
matter of fact, the effort left her with
depleted battalions and exhausted strength,
the Germans would not be soared from
attacking, should occasion .arise, by the
terrors of the “prestige ” preserved at such
a cost. To vary the simile, the most deter-
mined fellow would cease to be regarded as
formidable, if, as the result of a desperate
fight, undertaken to keep up his reputation
as a man not to be trifled with, he was seen
to be exhausted, strained, and crippled. A
fifth-rate pugilist could have thrashed Tom
Sayers any day during the month after his
encounter with Heenan.
• •
There are undoubtedly strong reasons in
point of sentiment why Great Britain
should, as a measure connected with pres-
tige, annex Egypt and conquer the Soudan.
To do so would rehabilitate her reputation
as a great power, of late considerably
compromsed. But, if to do so sacrificed
or exhausted the actual strength for
the sake of the name—bartered the
substance for the shadow—the proceed-
ing would plainly bo suicidal. Those
who insist that Great Britain must now
annex Egypt, assert, in fact, that circum-
stances have forced our nation upon one
horn of a most deplorable dilemma. To
retire, they say, would now be equivalent to
a confession that England is unequal to oope
with the situation—that she has ceased, In
fact, to be a “great ” power. But to remain
in Egypt, and to put forth her full mill,
tary strength in the Soudan—the centre of
Africa—does this involve no risks? How
this question might be answered is explained
by the passages which follow, from an
article published in the London Daily
News of December 26th, under the heading
of “ Foreign Intrigue Against the English
Government." (By One Behind the Scenes):—
“ Prince Bismarck detests tbe present English
Government, and is determined to wreck it if he
possibly can. Austria and France will lend him
their willing and complete co-operation. The
passages which the Paris correspondent of the
Daily News has cited from the French Opportu-
nist Journals are, in their way, an Illustration of
the temper of certain political parties in France
against this country His desire, often
expressed to successive Ministries, is that England
should take over Egypt absolutely, and make of
her an English possession. This would have been
a letting-out of the waters. It would have been
the opening of a great chapter of miscellaneous
and universal annexation. When England had
felt herself entitled to seize upon Egypt, and had
been upheld in that course by such a Power as
Germany, England could not have objected to any
seizure Germany desired to make; and the example
of Germany would have been followed by France
and by Italy; and there would have to be some
new maps of the world made for the instruction of
young scholars—and old ones, too. Prince Bis-
marck holds Mr. Gladstone and his official
colleagues responsible for a cheek to tbe am-
bition of Germany, and he is angered; and
he is not a man who gets angry and then
forgets all about it The
intrigue, I presume, will not succeed; but afc
the same time, it would be idle to try to persuade
ourselves that it has no chance of success. If
Germany, France, and Austria are determined to
combine in an effort to humiliate England in
Egypt, it is obvious that they can do so, and in
such a way as to make their action only damaging
to an Administration, and not a downright Insult
to a nation. We cannot go to war off-hand with
Germany, France, and Austria combined. Even
if we could, there will be good care taken not to
give acy pretext for such a course. Prince Bis-
marck does not, by any means, desire openly to
offend tbe English people; what he wants to do is
to thwart, humiliate, and injure Mr. Gladstone.
There is undoubtedly a very strong feeling against
England at present in Berlin. The harshest things
are said of us there every day. Prince Bismarck
does all he can to increase and inflame tbe bad
temper. But he does not want any open rupture;
the policy bo has at heart will, he is of opinion? bte
better served without anything of the kind."
* * *
We have referred to this matter before,
with reference to a phase which we need not
again dwell on here—tbe autocratic con-
spiracy against Liberalism, the plot of the
three Emperors, of which one part seems to
be to set the two great Liberal nations ol
Europe, France and England, by the ears.
But in connection with our present argu-
ment, we have quoted enough to show that
for En gland to recover prestige in Africa may
involve sacrifices elsewhere, which would
effectually dissipate all the prestige so re-
gained, and something more substantial be-
sides. Egypt and the Soudan would, held
by England, constitute for her a second
India. Now, to hold India necessitates the
maintenance in that dependency of an army
of 60,000 men, without reckoning the native
troops. The revenues of India have thus
far sufficed to defray the cost of this army,
albeit the original wealth of the country has
been so fearfully depleted by the taxation
requisite that when a bad season affects the
crops, the inhabitants have no savings to
enable them to tide over the difficulty, and
a devastating famine invariably occurs.
Thus, quite apart from the question of Euro;
pean complications resulting from the* per-
manent seizure of Egypt by Great Britain,
two separate difficulties have to be contem-
plated, The first is how to find another
army ol occupation to hold the natives
THE LATE COLONEL FRED. BURNABY.


Annual Income exceeds One MUUoji
w ter-**
9»«^i
00«g5^^
Lightning and Oas BzpHosion Damages Paid.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Botfle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, « 4s. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINH
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT
2s. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts,
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN-iN FLASKS,
Is. 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke's Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
C. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
SYDNEY.
in subjection, and the second ia how
to defray the cost of such an army
presuming that it could he created.
We will pass over the first, which is a
speculative subject. There are men enough
in England to fill the ranks of a sufficient
army, provided the inducement were suffi-
cient. But inducement means money. Now,
the revenues of India, that is to say,(the
proportion of the produce of its native in-
habitants appropriated by taxation, is all
available. But the case is different with
jjjgypt. The revenues of that unfortunate
country are hypothecated to a swarm of
bondholders of different European nationali-
ties. The claims of these persons have
already been made subject of political con-
cern by the Governments of the nations to
which the individuals belong. Very serious
complications have, even at the most recent
moment, been occasioned by the determinar-
tion of tho different European Powers to
impose conditions relative to the manage-
ment of the Egyptian revenues and finances,
and at the present moment the questions
thus created are iu a dangerously unsettled
condition. Referring to the attitude of
the Continental Powers with respect to this
very matter, the writer of the article already
referred to says :—
“ The meaning of It Is that unless England puts
herself to the humiliation of beseeching the great
Continenal Powers to favour her with some sort of
reply to her proposals they will not consider it
necessary to send her any answer. ‘ Really it did
not occur to us,’—this is the interpretation of the
meaning of the Powers—* it did not occur to us
that proposals such as yours could be made seri-
ously or could call for any answer from sensible
men. But of course, if you say that you really
were in earnest when you made them, and that
you would rather we sent some sort of answer
than none at all, then, not to seem rude, we will
tell you in plain words what we think of them,’
This is the manner in which the Continental
Powers believe themselves warranted in treating
us.”
The situation would, were Egypt annexed
while such claims upon its revenues re-
mained in existence, be quite intolerable
and horribly dangerous. Conceive what
our position in India would be now if
Russia, France, and Germany insisted on
having a share in the management of the
finances, and if, besides, the Caliph of the
Mabommedan religion claimed there, as he
does in Egypt, the rights of sovereignty.
Already, indeed, the idea has been mooted
that, for the extrication of Lord Wot-
8BLBY, a great army shall be despatched,
of which part shall be Indian native
troops. By expanding the application
of this idea, it might be possible to
hold India with Egyptian native re-
giments, and Egypt with Indian troops.
This is a plan which was carried into prac-
tice by the Roman Emperors. The result
was the fall of the Empire, after it bad
been for centuries the prey of the alien
generals of its alien-filled legions. Such re-
courses mark the decadence of a nation.
To undertake the oonquest of a country
merely as a satisfaction to mortified pride,
would be mere blood - guiltiness. The
Soudanese had done Great Britain no in-
jury. We had no quarrel with them. The
Turkish oonquerers of Egypt had been
impelled by pride and ambition to
invade that country. When England
unjustifiably undertook, in the interests
of the usurers of Europe, to support the
miserable Khedive against the nation he
misgoverned, the fact that the Soudan
should be relinquished was acknowledged.
Gordon was despatched to effect the evacu-
ation of the country. He failed in his mis-
sion. The next thing was to extricate Gor-
don. This also has failed. There is no logi-
cal or moral sequence in the proposition that
because some Egyptian garrisons, whom we
did not send to the Soudan, could not be
brought away, and because a splendid man,
sent to bring them off, is himself a captive,
it is encumbent upon Great Britain to sub-
ject the patriotic natives of the Soudan to
oonquest and servitude. The situation
js indeed embarrassing, as is every situ-
ation which proceeds out of an origi-
nal crime. But the roar for blood and
satisfaction is a wild beast roar, not the At
expression of the determination of a civilized
nation. This lusting after slaughter has
never failed to bring its punishment upon
the nation which has giyen way to it. Uni-
versal empire is a bloody dream, as it always
has been. We sometimes wonder that there
does not ring in the inner ears of our coun-
trymen, with prophetic reseuauce, the lines
of Cowpbb—
“ Rome shall perish! Write these words
In the blood that she has spilt.”
Ahsit Omen. To avert it will demand a
policy different from that of conquering,
doomed, splendid, fated Rome.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Assassinations Good and Bad.
We rejoice to observe that even the Echo can re-
cognise principles—when they suit. With reference
to the attempted assassination of ODonovan
Rossa, the little satellite of the Sydney Morning
Herald actually inculcates that the woman who
did the deed is worthy of being regarded with the
same enthusiasm as Charlotte Cohday who
stabbed Marat. The Echo endorses Carlyle
when he says “ History will look fixedly at the one
fail apparition of PiUJiwm U>ftP4y.” And
proceeds to comment thus:—"How are we to
Judge this Englishwoman ? She is said to have de-
clared that she shot O’Donovan Bossa ‘because
she was English, and he was O’Donovan Bossa.’
What did Charlotte Cordav say at her trial ?
‘ It Is I that killed Marat,’ she boldly confessed.
* By whose instigation ?’ ‘ By no one’s.’ ‘What
tempted you, then ?’ ‘ His crimes. I killed one
man to save a hundred thousand; a villain to save
Innocents; a savage wild beast to give repose to my
country. . . .’ How many thousand English
hearts will fail to see in Bossa’b atsallant a modern
Charlotte Corday?” Good. Excellently good.
But how comes it that the Echo could find no-
thing but detestation to express for Sophia
Perovsky, when that woman was put to death
for her part in the assassination of the late Czar of
Russia ? Her plea was identical, and tenfold more
apposite. “ I killed one man to save a hundred
thousand; a villain to save innocents; a savage wild
beast to give repose to my country.” In the case
of O’Donovan Bossa the above enumeration ia
spoilt by hyperbole. What “ hundred thousand ”
were endangered by the potman, bloodthirsty,
and cowardly as he was ? He was not even to tkc
Czar, as Saul was to David. “Saul has killed his
thousands, and David his tens of thousands ”
chanted the women of Israel. On the head of
Bossa the blood of perhaps a score of victims
lies. On the soul of the despot Alexander the
“ hundred thousand ” victims was no extrava-
gance of speech. Under the bloody rule of his
cowardly regime a whole nation groaned, and from
Siberian mines myriad voices ascended to the
throne of the Eternal, crying for justice and
vengeance. Yet the Echo shrieked at the name
of the Russian woman-martyr, and now pours
incense on the Englishwoman who at-
tempted to kill a potman. There can be
but one interpretation of a distinction so
remarkable. According to the ideas which
control our poor little contemporary, it is out-
rageous to kill a monster if he be crowned, but
commendable to kill one if he be a “ common per-
son ” in humble circumstances. Go it I ye mental
cripples.
Dear Scotland.
Says an English paper:—“The forests of Scotland
yield 10,000 deer annually, and the number is likely
to increase enormously.” This industry is en-
titled to every encouragement, as from It comes
the chief food supply of the poorer classes, who,
having wilfully abandoned the culture of the rich
soil everywhere open to them, have, in a fit of in-
dolence and surfeit, wandered away into cities and
towns, and given themselves over to sumptuous
living In garrets and factories. This disgraceful
exodus set in more than 200 years ago, and we
have it from eye witnesses, that where formerly
there were smiling glens, waving cornfields, and
flocks and herds, and all the [peace and plenty
that comes of undisturbed industry, there are now
no cottages to be seen, no curling smoke going up
at eventide, no sound of the cottar’s evening
hymn, or the laughter of barefooted happy
lasses, but only the oraok of rifles, as the
poor, hard-worked landowner and his friends
bring down the fleet-footed deer that are to steam
on the tables of the old settlers. There Us hope
for a country where the landed gentry, filled
with patriotic love, utilise, for the benefit of
the reckless and the poor, the waste lands of
a country. Scotland has millions of acres of land
suitable for tillage, but somehow the people do
not cultivate It. Nothing, therefore, remains but
to stock it with deer, and for the wealthy owners
to distribute the venison pro rata among the de-
scendants of the original holders. It is evident
that this will have to be the solution of the trouble
with the Skye crofters, who are always discon-
tented. They will have [to be urged to get away
into the cities for awhile, and allow the land to be
turned to a practical purpose—deer farming. In-
deed, it is doubtful whether a little legislation
might not hasten the work. The great holders,
perceiving the importance of simplifying land
tenure in Scotland, have already exercised a little
pressure by raising rent and doing a bit of evic.
tion, but the process is slow. What Scotland wants
is more deer, and the landlords, we trust, will
never rest till every glen shall echo to the horn of
the hunter, and every peasant, lazy and proud as
they are, shall have gone after the others into the
factories or shipped off wholesale to Canada or the
South Seas.
Loyal India.
At a moment when a great flood of thoughtless
talk is being poured out to the effect that Great
Britain must now make up her mind to definitely
annex Egypt, and thus add another India to her
dependencies, it is interesting to consider what
sort of tenure India is held by. Here, for example,
is what one native paper in India says of their
English capitalist rulers:—“The fiendish English-
men say, laughingly, that the people of Madras
, died of starvation because they were improvident.
If those whom they have robbed of everything
lament, the fiendish Englishmen call them rebels.
To beg for employment is impertinence. They
call men Idle if they cannot work on account of
weakness caused by insufficient food.” And here
is anotherForeigners have taken possession of
India and are sucking her dry. The people of India
look on in a helpless manner. Their best interests
are sacrificed for the benefit of the English.,’
Says the Dacca Prokash, a Bengalee newspaper,
in its issue of the 27th July:—“ Foreigners have
taken possession of India, and are sucking her
dry. The people of India look on in a helpless
manner. Their best interests are sacrificed for
the benefit of the English. Over and above this*
innocent natives are insulted and killed. At every
step the people send up a cry for succour when
the English whip or the English kick falls upon
them. The demons are engaged, heart and soul,
in violating the chastity and taking the lives of
Indian females. What a heart-rending scene 1 It
is matter of regret that the people of India do not
gird up their loins to get rid of the oppression
of white men.” Thus another Bengalee journal:
—“ A brave prince, like Holkar, could have been
easily avenged upon the English for the humilia-
tion of his family, by the leadership of the rebels
during the mutiny. Had he done so, It would not,
hare been easy to quell the mutineers. But Hol-
kar rested ia peace in his State, Showing skill In
defending the residency and in saving the JIvpb of
Xopllfttgep §ad Jhi» (Jtepisy
heroism, which presents a striking contrast
to the cowardly behaviour of Colonel Dur-
and, has made narrow-hearted Englishmen
his enemies.” The capitalist Press never pub-
lishes such uncomfortable quotations. It pre-
fers to keep up the old delusion so fondly
cherished before the last mutiny up to the very
day when native regiments shot down their British
officers, that the people of India love us and bless
our rule. But all English journals are not so
crassly complacent. Thus a Democratic paper, for
instance:—“Not very long ago it was thought
quite unpatriotic among our
class of politicians to say a word about econo”
mica), financial, or political dangers in India. The
affairs of India oould only be properly understood i
so it was urged, by the men who had had experi-
ence in administration—the very people most con-
cerned in suppressing the truth.': It is astonishing
how titles and ribbons magnify the abilities of
commonplace Anglo-Indians; and how much plea-
santer it is to believe them than to doubt them
when they say that all is for tho best in the
best of possible empires. But now, somehow,
there is a growing uneasiness about [our great
dependency, not only in India itself, but at the
India Office here. Whenever a native paper
speaks out, it says plainly that India Is being
“ sucked dry; ” that natives are commonly ill-used
by Europeans; that torture In the gaols is com-
mon ; that taxation is unbearable; and that they
feel that the day of retribution is not far off. Now
all this, though often put forward by men as little
capable of fighting as the mass of our own literary
class, is true. India has been ruined, the people
are disaffected, and, alike in the native states and
in our own territory, they are making ready to
fight. It is all very well to say that anarchy must
be the result. That may be, but even anarchy for
a time oould not be worse than the permanent
starvation our rule Inflicts upon the mass of the
ryots.” Again, in Justice, Mr. H. M. Hyndman,
writing on “ the Ruin of India,” Insists that
“ the people of India are very heavily taxed in-
deed,” and says England takes at least £20,000,000 a
year oat of India, “in order that our capi-
talists and our retired officials should live
in ease and luxury on the starvation and
misery of the unfortunate Indian ryots.”
Russia is steadily advancing towards India. The
Lahore Civil and Military Gazette, as quoted
by the Times, says there are several Russian officers
residing at Cabul. The preparations, says the
Times, have been advanced to such a degree, that
Russia can, at any moment, enter on possession
of Herat. An understanding has been come to
with the surrounding tribes; the petitions asking
Russia to take possession are already signed, and
it depends solely upon Russia to hasten or post-
pone their realisation. Thus far, M. de Giers has
taken no action, bis conviction being that Mr.
Gladstone's fall would be detrimental to Russia,
and that the occupation of Herat might alarm the
English and occasion bis fall. Whenever M. de
Giers is no longer afraid of Russia being injured
by Mr. Gladstone’s fall, possession will be taken
of Herat without the possibility of an obstacle.
Fizzled Out.
That is Just what the annexation meeting at the
Town Hall did. It fizzled out. It began, con-
tinued, and ended like one of those conical things
that little boys make out of spittle and gunpowder
which feebly spits and splutters away to nothing.
And be it known that whilst all sensible people are
satisfied with the result, or, rather, non-result of
the meeting, its termination—a failure—was not
due to the O’Sullivan, or Mr. Walker, or Mr.
Buchanan. It would be a pity, indeed, if any one
of these three gentleman possessed much public
influence. No; the reason why the meeting was a
fiasco was, that the heart of the people was not In
it. It had been got up by a few fussy aobodies, to
whom no one pays attention, and at it they met as
opponents a set of equally fussy fellows, who got
on the right side by accident and wanted to “show
off.” But of those present, by far the larger part
viewed the German scare with indifference, and
only came to hear an ex-Premier. And the ex-
Premier kept himself in harmony with the meet-
ing, for, like it, he just “ fizzled out.” No doubt
be bad a nice, red-hot speech ready to scathe
the Government, scorch Lord Derby, and pour
contempt on all who did not revere and ac-
cept Parkes and all his works. But he was wily
enough to see that this would not go down, eo he
piped in a much more moderate key. Instead of a
trumpet blast, we got from him the squeak of a
tin whistle. The meeting should teach a lesson to
certain people, and would do so only that these
people are unteachable. There are a lot of pur-
blind journalistic mannikins who think that they
know or can lead public opinion by leaders in the
Sydney daily papers. And some of these began to
tootle away fiercely about the intense public feel-
ing that German annexation in the Pacific had
caused, and was causing. There being no response
to their little puffings and blowings, and they
being laughed at for their petty arrogance, this
meeting of monster excitement was got up to
show how the people were on their side. And the
meeting has shown that the people never were,
as they assuredly never will be. on the side of
these fellows. But the lesson will be thrown
away. However, it was Just as well that it should
be given.
A valued correspondent writes to us conveying
his reflections with respect to the fall of Khar-
toum, and the consequences that event may pos-
sibly involve. We may remark that his ideas as to
the degree to which Wolseley's army is com-
promised had already occurred to us, as the fall of
Khartoum seemed so timed as to suggest the
thought that the Mahdi could have taken the
place whenever he wished, and had refrained for
the distinct purpose of luring Wolseley far into
the boudan, with the design of having him at a
disadvantage. Our correspondent says Of
course the catastrophe that has occurred was not
expected by those who knew nothing of the
Soudan and the Soudanese, but it was most
distinctly predicted by men like Sir 8. Baker.
Gordon will not be injured by the Mahdi—
of that, I think, we may be well assured. The
Mahdi will recognise that he is a devote of his own
kidney, and will hug him to his bosom. He may
offer him a small harem, but that is all in the shape
•f to which he is likely to sublet him. But
WlUfffg 1§ Utt
what is impending. It certainly will not surprise
me although the Wolsely expedition share a
similar fate to that of Hicks Pasha. And then
the Mahdi will march on to Cairo and there estab-
lish, or attempt to establish, the Arab Caliphate,
which is to supersede the Caliphate of the Sultan,
and that will involve, or be preceded by, the over-
throw of the Khedive, and the disruption of Tur-
key as well. The Eastern Question will be upon
us again in a most tragic and Imperative shape, for
its solution will mean, among other things, the
erection of a barrier to Iceep back the Musselman
Invasion that would inevitably follow any great
success on the part of the Mahdi. I remember
very well that the present Mahdi is only the fifth,
and that, according to Islam prophecy, all the
Mahdis are to fail till the sixth presents himself;
but even if I believed the prophecy, this would
afford little comfort. It is. not because these pro-
phecies are true, but beca use they are belleved’by
the Mahomedans, that they are serious, practical
factors of the most formidable description.”
The shooting of O’Donoyan Rossa, the notorious
organiser of the dynamite raid against the British
nation, is a very cheerful episode. It will pro-
bably be discovered that the enterprising English-
woman who pistolled the man Is a crank. But
there is a lot of method in madness of this kind
and society owes a great deal to Its cranks. Pro-
bably no political assassination was ever yet com-
mitted by a person In a normal condition of mind.
But political assassinations have frequently been
real acts of justice, which have, with excellent re-
sults, supplied the deficiencies of law. If, for
example, a despot so exercises his power as to op-
press his people to the limits of endurance, there
will be a certain proportion of excitable and en-
thusiastic individuals whom the sense of the
general suffering will “ exalt.” These people be-
come ready to make any personal sacrifice to re-
lieve society of its scourge, and under their dagger
or bowl, the oppressor dies. This is really not
inhuman or unnatural. It is a strictly natural
sequence of events, exactly corresponding to
what theologians term “ Providential.” Given a
certain intensity of oppression, a corresponding
proportion of more or less frantic enthusiasts
is certain to be produced. O’Donovan Rossa
created his own assailant. Nature, which abhors
a vacuum, creates an assassin wherever the law
fails to provide an executioner when one is re-
quired. This was the case in the Instance of the
late Czar of Russia, and it is again the case in the
instance, absolutely parallel, although at the
opposite side of the figure, of Rossa, the dynami-
tard. No penal enactment, except suoh barbarous
laws as provide for torturing of criminals, can be
For continuation of “ Plain English,” see next page


Thb Rates or Subscription to Thb Bulletin
are—Fori one year, 24a.; half-year, 12a. 6d.:
quarter, 6a. 6d.—In advance.
Thb Advertising Bates are 5s. per Inch i
special positions in the paper 7a. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as followsOn ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive Insertions
16 per cent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or Intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
(“ Plain English,” continued from page 4.)
too severe, when levelled against political assassins
and explosion-mongers. No severity, oven inclu-
sive of torture, would operate so as to suppress
such exploits. The true enthusiast or crank—and,
we repeat, there have been noble cranks, from
Judith to Charlotte Cobday and Sophia Per-
ovsky— is inspired with the martyr spirit, and is
not deterred by the knowledge that, for the life
taken, his or her own life will have to be given.
But there are hosts of notoriety-hunters,
hangers-on in every great agitation—creatures
who are merely lovers of crime, not haters of
wrong. And these are the sort whom crushing
laws would deter. The steel would still reach
tyrants, were the most frightful agonies the doom
of their executioners. The fate of the late Czar
proves this. But the O’Donovan Rossas, the
Careys, and such like wretched cattle would con-
fine their energies to keeping pubs., and satisfy
their vanity by aldermanio positions, were the
laws against outrage and political murder more
severe, more certain, and more far-reaching.
Tyrannicide is a virtue, whether the tyrant be
splendid on a throne, or squalid In a pub., and
really we have no ill-feeling against the enterprising
Englishwoman who tried to wipe out that craven.
Rossa— a man who seems to have made a profit-
able trade in mock patriotism and real murder.
We never repose the slightest confidence in pro-
fessors of patriotism who are benefltted by their
professions. The only patriot who is entitled to
unreserved confidence and esteem is the patriot
whose devotion brings to him only suffering and
contumely. Here is a precept for our readers;
Esteem no patriot who is not held in detestation
and contempt by a majority capable of determin-
ing bis worldly prosperity.
Ii is a pity that the leading columns of the Echo
should be opened to writers who use them for a
display of ignorance. In a single issue—that of
February 3—two examples of this occur. In one
article it is stated that “ the Civil Service is really
a sort of approximation to the Socialist’s dream,
for within that service the State undertakes the
remuneration of every man’s work, finds some-
thing for everyone to do according to his capacity,
stipulates for his proficiency, pays him fairly for
his work, and keeps competition down to a mini-
mum." The passage affords evidence that the
writer has never read or comprehended a single
work on Socialism. He solemnly quotes a bur-
lesque, and asks the Echo readers to share his ig-
norant belief that it is the genuine article. Again*
referring to some occurrence at Wellington (N.Z.),
the Echo man mixes up hypothesis with assertion
in a curiously malignant fashion. He writes:—
“ Jf the Wellington Freethinkers represent the
universal brotherhood, the policy of their body is
to insult those who differ with them, even at the
side of their friends’ graves, being the last place
any people of ordinarily humane instincts would
think of.” And in the next breath pronounces
that “ this is the Frcethought notion of elevating
mankind .” The Echo seems to run a sort of Free-
and-Easy, in respect of definitions.
BRIEF MENTION.
The monarch most revered in Woolloo-
mooloo—The Pope of Rum.
David Buchanan says: “My idea of a flat
is a prisoner who pleads ‘guilty’ while I am at
hand to defend him.”
A lawyer, named Hentage, recently com-
mitted suicide at his boarding-house. He chose
prussic-acid as his poison. He considered its action
more speedy than sausages.
Three pedestrians and a billiard-marker
were upset in a boat down the harbour, the other
day. They received no inconvenience from the
sharks. Tbie sharks know better.
ALL THAT WAS LEFT OF HIM.
A bit of whisker, half a thumb—
Oh, what has been his crime ?
His fate was fair, his doom was just—
He wrote a pantomime!
He was about to be hanged, and just before
the drop fell, he nodded to the clergyman who had
offered him spiritual consolation, and remarked,
“I’ll see you later.” Whereupon the clergyman
felt quite sorry that he had spoken at all.
A London daily announces the marriage
of Mr. Adams and the Hon. Miss Coleridge: and
in another column is the following ominous ad-
vertisement:—
Second-hand Mangle for sale, cheap.
At the recent banquet to Mr. Badgery, at
Moss Yale, that gentleman, in the exercise of a
wise discretion, took everything after the chair-
man. To this circumstance may be, perhaps,
attributed the happy fact that the genial gentle-
man is still amongst us.
An ingenious Italian has trained a troupe
of parrots, and they have rendered some very
fair selections from “ Norma.” An excellent
chance .now opens to train a cockatoo troupe.
With an accompaniment of saw-sharpening, the
effect would bo amazing.
That virtuous journal, the Christian
World, which advocates a warlike policy in
Egypt, was perfectly horrified at the conduct of
Lords Northbrook and Wolseley in setting out for
that country on a Sunday. This tip should now
be worth “improving” by the goody-goodies.
Un rabbin raoonte a un jeune Israelite, de
neu f ou dix ans, fils de millionaire, i’histoire palpi-
tante de Joseph et de Potinhar : Etlevertueux
Joseph, dit-il, s’<floign<5 de Potiphar en laissant
dans la maison son manteau. Monsieur le rabbin,
sVcria Penfant, c’dtait done un Mont ?
Some consternation has been occasioned
in Kempsey by the announcement in a local
journal that it is to shortly publish “ Darkest
Before the Dawn,” by R. P. v. hitworth. We un-
derstand that the steamboats have It in contempla-
tion to take intending tmigris away at excursion
rates.
The attempt to get out the men of Jack
Want’s yacht, who had boy for breakfast, boy for
dinner, and boy for tea, for several days, has
proved unsuccessful. Still, now that it is known
that only six months’ imprisonment “ hangs ” to
browsing on boy, that article of diet may ia time
become popular.
THE SMASH.
“ None of the bookmakers have been
seriously injured.”—Daily paper.—
’T has ever been, you must declare,
As history has shown:
The devil always will take care
Of his beloved own.
A man was taken to the Dublin hospital
because he had swallowed 17 half-sovereigns. We
are prepared to cover that amount to any man
who will come within 25 of the number of jokes
that will be sent in to this office on the subject.
Once for all: 17 half-sovereigns is no joke. The
man referred to was no joke. He had something
in him.
The Queensland Figaro leads off an
article with “ Let us bow our heads in shame.”
After looking through the last issue we certainly
encourage him to bow his head in some direction.
It seems to have been screwed on by a left-handed
man, with bandy legs, and a cook eye, just at the
moment when he was trying to stand on one leg
and look into his ear for a bet.
ROMANTIC!
“ A bridegroom at 84.—William Spicer,
age 84, and Mrs. Belinda Ann Wood, age 73, were
married a short time ago at Ballston.”—
’Tis droll to see these ancients.
Now welded into one;
To “ lead new lives ” they will begin—
The old are nearly done.
It is said that when a Spanish ass was
entered in the name of Bismarck for some donkey
races in a Victorian mining town, the German
residents took it as an Insult. Hans is getting very
touchy. It is about time we considered who was
responsible for naming the king of the Ballarat
tribe King Billy—that being plainly an insult to
the late William the IV. of blessed memory.
At the inquest on the murderers executed
at Liverpool, it was stated by the surgeon that, In
each case, death had resulted, not from fracture of
the spinal column, but from sheer suffocation—
and that one of the men had probably remained
conscious for a minute after he fell. Just think of
itl A minute of consciousness at the end of a
rope—sixty seeonds of speculation at the door of
heaven or . Ugh!
The Natnoi Independent recently had
its plant seized for not having been registered.
Things were fixed up the other day all right, how-
ever, when the editor went round to the Gunnedah
police-office, and brought away the type in a hand-
kerchief. The composing staff having borrowed
a fruit barrow, carted round the machinery; and
now the mighty organ in question once more
thunders on a startled universe.
A Melbourne lady was fished out of the
Yarra, in which pellucid stream she had attempted
to drown herself the other day. She gave as a
reason that she had found her husband under the
influence of liquor. If all wives were so super-
sensitive, half the husbands In Australia would be
in mourning. There would then be a chance for
the female population of Tasmania, now, we
understand, chiefly employed In biting its nails.
What made a man who had been “ on it ”
for 27 years, mad with rage, recently, was to read
in the directions of a patent medicine he had pur-
chased, the following preliminary direction:—“ In
order that this compound may prove efficacious,
it will be necessary for the patient to at once
give up the use of all alcoholic and intoxicating
liquors.” Fancy that, when he had only recently
been 15 days chained by the leg in a padded cell.
The Paris Assurance Companies have long
since ceased to make an advance on the price of
premiums of duelling journalists. The agents
now say : “ Fight as much as you like ; the only
thing we fear is the spell of opera-bouffe artistes.
Look at our tenors ! What have they become
since the inauguration of this species of opera ?
Shadows I” We know this to be a fact. What’s
the cause of it? Something in the catgut, very
likely.
“I leave you, brethren,” said the rev.
Farewell, as he buttoned up the purse of sove-
reigns, and shed tears; “ I leave you with emotions
I can scarcely express, i came amongst you a
stranger—I leave you ” Here the rev. gentle-
men broke down, and retired into the vestry,
where he was discovered a short time afterwards
sampling the sovereigns with his teeth, and draw-
ing largely on the damnatory clauses of the
Athanasian creed every time he came across a
purlous coin.
“ What a mystery is life! How do I know
that anything external to myself exists ? I eat, I
sleep, I dream. Truly, this existence of mine is a
great secret, which I do well to keep." So solilo-
quised a Port Macquarie oyster, who flattered him-
self he was still in his little bed, when a knife
entered his residence, like the Mahdl’s troops
through a Khartoum wall. •* A sixpenny plate,
please,” said a man ina George-street fish-shop;
and, as the oyster stared around and glided down
the man’s throat, he murmured: “ An open secret,
by gosh.”
Mr. Thomas Maekay, of Ballarat, had been
for a considerable time in the Ballarat hospital,
with a bullet in his head, which the doctors could
not extract, and, says the Star, he has now, to the
surprise of the medical men, left the institution in
fair health, and with the bullet still in his head.
The proposal to put a charge of powder into his
ear and fire him off, was, we hear, rejected by that
gentleman, who proposes, now, to abandon other
pursuits, and devote his intellect to writing leaders
for the Star, for which his present accidental en-
dowment will eminently fit him.
Westward Ho! Also, westward the tide of
wisdom sets, and gilds the foam of heavy wets.
We don’t often “ burst "into rhyme, but as others
are going on the burst, pray nave us excused.
Bourke is about to sell drinks at three pence. We
knew it would come. The grinding tyranny of asix-
penny oligarchy was bound to go down before the
advancing tide of enlightenment. Let the friends
of the pewter look forward to the day when not
threepence, but free drinks shall be the birthright
of every man. Alas, we may not live to see it:
but we are certain If we do, we shall not see it and
live—long.
In summing-up a ease recently at a Welsh
county court, Tn which there were many contra-
dictory statements by two Welsh farmers, the
Judge.said that the Jury would have to consider
which was the greater liar. Both the debtor and
the defendant admitted being parties to a fraud.
The foreman stated that “of the two liars the jury
believed the defendant.” How would this prin-
ciple work in a libel action where a thief, who had
been kicked out of every other colony and had at
last settled down in N.S.W., practically charged an
editor with being a liar ? The Jury could say: “ In
this struggle between the alleged liar and the
known thief we find for the thief with one farthing
damages.” And then, of course, the Judge could
certify for costs.
A young Jewish lady of 20, called as a
witness in a London law suit, deposed that her
father was a money-lender, and that she herself,
when between 16 and 17 years of age, began to
trade in the same line under the name of “F.
Smith and Co.” Humph 1 This pretty wolf in
lamb's clothing further said that she bad a fixed
place of business, but never went there, *’ because
she had a manager, Mr. Samuels, her father’s
clerk. She left her affairs entirely in the bands
of her mother.” Poor Marcus Clarke, when in
the hands of the Hebraic money-lenders of Mel-
bourne, who had a habit of making their victims
accept of hospitality, used to say that he once
danced with a thin Juive who was padded with his
dishonoured promissory notes.
Sydney, Monday, February 9.—Tramoar.—
“Tickets, please-snew Clifford could do it.”
Bank Manager’s Room.—Haggard commercial man
—“ I wish to overdraw to the extent of —— ” B. M.:
“ Can’t do it any more. About Beach, now—do
you think ” Street Corner—“ Got a match ?
Thanks. Oh, he’s got no staying power. Why, If
Hanlan liked, be could .” E. N. Office.—Man
with dismal countenance: “Putin this advertise-
ment, please, about my wife’s death.” Clerk:
“ Ob, believe me. Beach will give him a doing.”
Sick room, father dying.—Disconsolate son; “ Any
hope, doctor ?” Doctor: “ None. Beach will have
to be in better form than Clifford, if he goes for
my money.” This Office.—Country subscriber:
“ Who do you think will win when Hanlan has to
face Bea —.” Sub-editor, seizing a gun: “D—
the whole crowd. Clear I"
When the brain is wearied, the nerves un-
strung, the muscles weak, use Hop Bitters. Bead.
Mashers.—The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 652 George-street. Brickfield Mill.*
It is generally admitted that there can-
not be anything more exquisitely delicate for per-
fuming the handkerchief than MURRAY and
LANMAN'S FLORIDA WATER, but its great
and distinctive property is its adaptability to the
uses of the bath. It is the only perfume that we
know of ESPECIALLY AND PARTICULARLY
suited to use in this way; the power it has of im-
parting to the waters of the bath great soothing,
refreshing, and invigorating effects, is peculiar to
itself.
That weakness and lassitude so frequent
in fast growing children, may be easily remedied
by a tew doses of Hop Bitters. Read.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
Theo. Holtfort”: It was in 1664 that the
Prussians and Austrians crushed poor Denmark.
The war of 1868 was between the Prussian and
Austrian robbers over the division of the sno<ls.
It was ended by the battle of Sadowa (Konig-
gratz), 3rd July, 1866, out of which the Austrians
P R “® as badly damaged as out of Marengo ...
Rix We won’t insert your lines. But we may
tell you in confidence that if your education
(judging by your handwriting and spelling) only
equalled your idea of poetry you could hold your
own in any crowd. Entre nous—all knowledge is
open to the person who has mastered the alphabet.
Why not, Instead of frittering away your time
on rude verses, educate yourself and then
write? “B.R.C.": There’s no branch of
the Scottish Land Restoration League in Australia.
But it is certain that before long societies affiliated
with those in the British Islands will be started
here....“A. Allan”: Only a Philadelphia lawyer
could give a sitisfactory answer, ...“G. H.”: The
‘ Financial Reform Almanac,” from which wo
quoted, caa be had from Longmans, Green, and
(Jo., London. We doubt if you can obtain it in
Australia, but you might try some Sydney or Mel-
bourne booksellers....“R. P. Flanders”: Not
adapted. The incidents are uninteresting and not
well told “ Draper and Co,”: We think with you
that there isagrand l ining future beforeNortbern
Queensland. But so there is before all Australia,
for that matter. In Sandhurst (old Bendigo) the
comparatively small amount of ground opened
up alter thirty years' work is astonishing. But
then, you see, ours is not a mining paper....
"J. J.” : Received; next week....“ F.A.H.”: May
use—“Ballarat Subscriber”; These people are
quacks, all. They are ingenious beggars, too, but
surely, the address—Box 000, G.P.O., Sydney-
should put you on your guard. Now, look here.
If you knock off alcohol, opium and tobacco—
particularly opium, if you ve been in the habit of
taking it. Let tea and coffee, too, slide for a bit.
and take from 10 to 20 minims of tincture of gelso-
minum three or four times a day for six or eight
weeks you will find life ever so much pleasanter..
“Australian”: The London Echo is quite right.
Australians stick to the Imperial connection, be-
cause It pays them. When it ceases to pay—welL
they’ll cease to stick. Of course, that decision of
the Mayor's, that Davy Buchanan’s amendment
was “treasonable.” is unutterable “rot.”.. “J.D.**
(Darlina hurst): There is one method, and one only,
by which Great Britain can recover her place
among the powers—universal military service.
We don’t advocate it, bust's the only way, all the
same—“Dubbo”: How can we tell “who is the
bloke that Bogan Sal. is shook on ?” What do we
care?” Ourgreatcbargoagainsttbe Education Act
is that it taught imbeciles like you how to write...
“Tyro”: There’s no doubt that the grey matter
—the receptacle of thought—of the brain is im-
proved by physical and mental exercise. Taka
plenty of both. You re . Who’s next?.. “New
Chum”: Mining is like a coy woman—woo
it properly, and it will smile upon you at last....
“Anxious”: “Have we room for a poet on our
staff?” We have—for two or three. We de-
C ended on two to put us over the fall, but the
oat race killed one, and the other is in hospital
suffering from the old thing, combined with an
attack of policeman's baton. Fes, we want poets.
“ Ina Maud M.”: worry your last was not illus-
trated. Pity you didn’t mention It when you were?
here.
A Christmas in Loudon: — “ In the pre-
sence of a number of Dissenting ministers andlayr
men, Mr. Lewis Seigenberg’s Christmas gift of 6000
loaves of bread ana half a ton of meat was alvea
to the most deserving poor of Islington on Christ*
mas morning. The place chosen for the distribu-
tion was a vacant piece of ground at the rear of a
furniture shop in upper-street, where over 2000 of
the most indigent clamoured for the Cbristma*
dole. Several of the adult recipients ate in a most
ravenous manner the raw meat, while In many in-
stances the children who accompanied them de-
voured the bread before they left the scene.
Nearly 1600 families participated in the gift.”
A terrier which had received an injure to
one of its paws went by itself to Charing Cross
Hospital, London, and, barking until the porter
opened the door, held up the wounded limb for
him to see. The man called the house-surgeon,-
and the dog, following him to the accident-room,
was there treated, acting throughout with an in-
telligence which is at once both touching and per-
plexing to reflect on, and testifying its gratitude
for the relief afforded in the most pathetic and
unmistakable way by barking and licking the sur-
geon's hands. Indeed, so loudly and persistently
did it bark its acknowledgments that eventually ft
had to be put out, and afterwards it remained
“ hanging about the door” for some two hours.
This is the latest “ perjury” foisted on the nobio
British public per medium of the London D.T.
You’d never think it, as you look at those
beautifully curved girls on the block. It is not
the higher class ones only, but even those who
work; they all, if their corsets flt, have line
figures. Of course, personally, we should never
dream of doubting them. Yet a sculptor, who
has seen! undraped symmetry in all parts of the
world, and not long left some of the leading
Italian studios, told us some curious things. A
sculptor needs a good figure for bis model even
more than a painter, who can often be satisfied
with a fair face, or a gracefully-falling dress.
The sculptor must, as a rule, nave absolute
natural roundness of form. Our sculptor says—
“ A really good figure is a rarity. Our models do
not all necessarily come from the poor classes;
frequently girls of good family do not object to
sit to us. But so many who, in the street,
would pass for good figures are not of
the least use. Their knees are crooked,
arms bent or ill-proportioned, waists pinched
in—or something wrong. The large hips you
see in the street are often real, but not when
seen with a jimp waist ; that is to say, many
figures are broad, but they are beyond the
power of the most rigid corsets to com-
press. There are exceptions; but large hips and
small waist look horrible to an artist. Women
have come to me proud of their hands, because
they were tiny; but every finger was warped, or
so puny and weak as to be useless. There is no
beauty in such a hand, unless it is gloved. That
hides its defects to a great extent. No figure can
be good unless quite free from sharp angles, and
fairly rounded. Yet a fine, full figure would not
look the best when dressed; it would appear—ex
cuse the term—fat. Whereas, a figure really thin
and lath-like, often, with the aid of the modern
dressmaker’s skill, appears enchanting, and the
ideal of symmetry. A ’sylph-like figure’ is a
misleading expression. The figure may appear so
when dressed ana filled up; but ungarbed, such a
one would be simply a scarecrow. A petite figure,
on the other hand, Is different. That may be a
form of really exquisite outline, on a very small
scale. They are noc at all uncommon. But to find
a really fine figure, that Is, a well-grown woman,
with no notable deficiency in any part, is ex-
tremely rare. I will give you the dimensions of a
model, who possessed the best figure I have known.
She was attractive, yet not very pretty—really
fine tiger as seldom go with a pretty face. She was
5ft. 5.n. tdl.', 32in. round the bust, and261n. round the
waist, 36in. around the widest part of hips, Oln.
from arm-pit to waist. You see, she tapered Bin.
from the bust to the waist; it does not seem much,
but it was ample in a healthy frame. Her feet
were 9Wln. Jong. That seems long, but never
mind-altogether, those measurements represent
the best figure I have seen. There are few models
in Sydney, good ones—Indeed, a really good one
would not meet constant employment at a fair
rate. There is great competition in Paris for first-
class models who know their business. Character ?
Well, many are good and respectable in a ways
but others are so-so. The life is hardly one that (L
sensitively modest girl would choose; and,‘per-
haps, when they find the occupation not so easy as
they expected, some try an easier path. But ladies
are always liable to give way to carelessness. And
it is not right to blame the artist; he is not always
thinking of such things,”
COMMON POLITENESS.
“KETCH ’OLD OE THIS 'AM, MISS, Will rER!"


Personal Items
“Prince Edward, of Saxe-Weimer,” is to
succeed General Sir Thomas Steele in the com-
mand of the British troops in Ireland. In Bis-
marck's Interest, we suppose.
The eldest son of the Prince of Wales is to
go into the Grenadier Guards, and not into the
law. Such geniuses as he could, on their merits,
more easily gain “ scarlet ” than “ silk.”
IThe Duke of Connaught has got into trouble
In India, and there is, as usual, *'a woman at the
bottom of it.” An eminent official, one M’Neill,
has boon sent out by the Quoon on a special mis-
sion to her giddy sou.
“Ilannie” Want is getting a tremendous
practice in London, and has more appeal oases
oefore the Privy Council than any other lawyer in
the “ Big Smoke.” His work is so great that he has*
taken a partner. He has a most imposing array o
clerks, and seems to have got into the monied cart
of the city, for bis offices are In Lombard-street.
Lord Macdonald, now on tour here, is a
large land-owner in the Isle of Skye, whore his
tenants appear to bo sustaining nature on grass
and boulders. His lordship is simply making a
tour of pleasure, after which he contemplates re-
turning to the demesne in N. B. It is not improb-
able, we should say, should Lord Mao. carry out
his resolution of interviewing his territory, that
the matter will be further “ ventilated.” No
italics, please, fair oompo.
Dr. J. L. York, who, during the past 17
years, has been running a Freetuought crusade
among the hardy miners and unsophisticated
ranchmen on the Pacific slope of the “Hookies,”
is about to visit Australia ou a lecturing tour. He
has been eminently successful in promulgating
the gospel of liberty in the Western States, and
ranks high among its best advocates. He Is a pro-
found thinker, an eloquent speaker, a dear rea-
soner, and an earnest worker In the field of
liberalism. We can do with a few of his kind In
the colonies. Cant and hypocrisy have had a long
innings.
Speaking of Judge Docker, the Bourko
Watchman says: “For some years wo have
listened to the snivel of the learned Judge. We
have his capability to a T, from his wig down to
his boots.” That is all very well so far, but hold
on till the writer of that shall have committed a
few more of his devastating Jokes, and the “high
death rate ” amongst his readers shall be sheeted
home to the real perpetrator. Then when that
wig is removed, and the black cap sits jauntily on
Docker’s head, and “ May the Lord have mercy on
your soul” rumbles through the courtr-how then
about his oap-abilities ?
David Syme, of the Melbourne Age, who
is expected shortly to visit London, will find, when
he arrives there, that he is regarded as quite an
enterprising filibuster. Still David’s party, if they
did use dynamite in New Guinea, were not the
first to introduce that commodity to the Papuans;
as that idol of the Australian fair sex, our old
friend Signor D'Albertls, frequently bad recourse
to It, both as a means of providing himself with
fish, and as a useful mode of alarming the natives
during his exploration of the Fly River. Many
things we have heard from the Signor’s own lips,
lead us to oonolude that the New Guinea natives
are not very amiable persons, and that the ex-
plorer who tried to navigate the Fly unarmed
would fare badly.
Lord Reay advocates the representation
of the Australian colonists in the House of Lords.
This is an excellent idea. Baron Hennlker Heaton,
Marquis Parkes of Hallelujah, Viscount “Jannery”
John, O.M.G., ihe Earl Roberts of Three Star,
C.M.G., Lord Groom of Cockatoo, There’s a list
for you. Apropos, the Hon. William Henry Walsh,
M.L.C., of Queensland, once said a smart thing
about Groom, the present Speaker of the Queens-
land Legislative Assembly. A new Government
was in course of formation, and as Groom had, as
Invariably happened, ratted with great effect, and
helped to put out the previous Government, the
question arose what should be done for him in the
allotment of offices. “Oh,” cried Walsh, “make
him—make him Groom of the Stole."
The Queen (ofriRoumania writes (very
badly) in the Queen, under the signature of
“ Carmen Sylvia.” She must write for the papers,
she says, when her old man’s name In the whole of
his dominions is not good for a sixpenny drink.
It is understood that Her Majesty’s continual ap-
plications for stamps wherewith to post her
“ copy,” and entreaties for “ silver” on account
of unfinished serials have proved a source of em-
barrassment to the cashier, who has been sternly
Instructed by the editor to make “ no further con-
cessions.” Her Majesty contemplates shortly re-
signing this branch of Industry, and going out
charing for her Mistress of the Robes. They are
agreed as to the 8s. a day, and all we understand
Her Majesty is holding out for is the usual sup-
plementary pint of porter.
Mr. Baliance, native minister of N.Z., has
a level head, well balanced on a pair of broad and
sturdy shoulders. He does not worry himself Into
a shadow over the souls of his sable bretheren
[Sable bretheren is good.—Bn. B.], but he does, for-
tunately for them, take some interest in their cor-
poreal salvation. Since his late visit to the in-
terior of the North Island, where he enjoyed the
hospitality of several great and mighty Rangatiras,
he has addressed a circular to the Maori people, in
which he has strongly advised them, If they expect
to become healthy, wealthy, and wise, not to
overload) their table de holes with putrid fish,
stinking vegetables, and such like delicacies, but
confine their eating to a moderate allowance of
good fresh food, well cooked, of which there need
be no scarcity in any part of New Zealand.
Miss Annie Teesdale, lieutenantess in the
Salvation Army at Blenheim, N.Z , was charged
with obstructing the thoroughfare, and soaring a
bullock team into the river, with the appalling
noise made by the detachment she commanded.
On being called on for her defence, this is what
Annie said:—“We all stood still and the policemen,
too—bless them; all I hope is they are all saved.
Our object Is to get people to hear salvation; we
like to keep peace with everyone, but best of all
we like to please God. If Mr. Fildes is annoyed
with the noise here, I do not know what ho will do
in Heaven, as they make a tremendous noise
there.” You see. Annie has been there, and knows
all about it. “And the policemen, too-bless
them.” That's what we say, Every time we
meet a bobby we invariably give him our blessing
— and a wide berth.
Just after Madame de Sevigne had com-
pleted her first waltz with Louis XIV. she naively
exclaimed: “ Oh, he is the greatest king In all the
world!” Those ladies of Australia who. ou the
same principle, argue that Prince Albert Victor of
Wales is the greatest prince in all the world will,
no doubt, bo delighted to hear that that somewhat
sheepish young gentleman has actually had the
impudence to pose as a public orator, with a view
to Justifying the Whig toadies in granting him
£15,000 a year from the pocket of the noble British
taxpayer. Yea. Albert Victor is now a “ hard-
working prince,” and has started in business as a
sort of royal Dan O’Connor. He tells the British
Volunteers that Germany is the country to bo imi-
tated in almost everything. This is exactly what
might have been expected of a prince who has not
In nla veins one drop of English blood.
The Grand Duke'*of Hesso has succeeded
in divorcing Madame Kalomiue, whose final appeal
to the Imperial High Court at Leipsio was re-
jected, with costs. The “Judges” carefully re-
frained from giving any reasons, as in<je§d they
well might, considering that the facts were simply
that this mean ruffian (baying deliberately, mor-
ganatlcally and legally, married Madame Kalomio©
whose elevation or degradation to the position of
Grand Duchess was disapproved of and resented
by his so-called subjects), finding himself in dis-
favour with the epileptic Emperor, took steps,
after living with the woman for a few days, to
avail himself of the corrupt complaisance of the
courts and rid himself of her. The child who will,
ere long come into the world, has thus already been
declared illegitimate. Such is the “Royalty” of
the German loafers who batten on the English
workman.
Mr. Upjohn, of Victoria, a gentleman who
has done the State good service in several little
ways which we need not particularize, is dis-
quieted in his mind. The horrors have laid hold
upon him, and he fancies that there are people in
this beautiful world seeking an opportunity to
murder him. We can quite understand his feel-
ings, poor fellow, for rum, ere now, has affected
us in a similar way. But the awkward part of the
business is that the venerable worker-off can see
no escape from his dilemma—according to his own
f lain, unvarnished tale—save in “ doing for the
nspector-Qeneral, and then doing for himself.”
This is rough upon the I.G. While there are so
many parsons about, all “ fit and seasoned for the
passage,” surely our old friend might make a
wiser selection in his final victim, ere himself
leaving for that shore
Where the rum will cease from troubling,
And the hangman is at rest.
Here is one of the most charming things
in Tennyson’s new drama, “Becket”:—
1. Is it the wind of the dawn that I hear in the pine
overhead ?
2. No; but the voice of the deep as it hollows the
cliffs of the land.
1. Is there a voice coming up with the voice of the
deep from the strand,
One coming up with a song in the flush of the
glimmering red ?
2. Love that is born of the deep coming up with
the sun from the sea.
1. Love that can shape or can shatter a life till the
life shall have fled ?
2. Nay, let us welcome him, Love that can lift up
a life from the dead.
1, Keep him away from the lone little isle. Let us
be. let us bo.
3. Nay, let him make it his own; let him reign in it
—he, it is he;
Love that la born of the deep coming up with
the sea.
It is said the object of Lord Macdonald’s
visit to Australia is to ascertain what opening
there is for frozen venison. His tenants In the
Isle of Skye have been raising some objections to
starving, and soma have gone so far as to pretend
that their forefathers, having lived on the land,
they have a sort of title to exist on It. Where
these revolutionary notions spring from it is hard
to say—from the devil, likely, who has no respect
for property—but there was clearly only one
course for Lord Macdonald. If he were to forego
his rents, he would, by implication, be impoverish-
ing himself somewhat: and for a peer to be poor is
to stultify not only the whole peerage, together
with royalty, but to strike a deadly blow at the
ultimate constitution of things. So he raised his
rent, and he got evictions like a gentleman, and is
now, wo hear, about to turn the land to deer-
grazing. A wind that brings nobody good is an
ill one, and we view with pleasure an English peer
working his estate on business principles, and we
look forward with watery mouths to the day when,
in beastly hot weather like this, we can sit down
and say to our butler—” Er—ah—Jeames, I think
I’ll take—er—yes, a nice slice or two of that frozen
Skye venison,—er-a glass of sherry first, please—
thanks. God bless the Duke of Arg No— God
bless Lord Macdonald.”
About “Sir Roger Tiohborne,” who, it is
painful to note, figures In Michael Davitt’s book,
in the chapter on “ Bogus Noblemen,” the writer
says:—“ His arrival in Dartmoor, after completing
the usual probationary period in Mlilbank Peni-
tentiary, created unusual excitement among both
warders and prisoners, but particularly among the
latter. ‘SirRoger’ soon became the Hon of the
place. To fall into exercising file with him on Sun-
day was esteemed an event to talk of for a week
afterwards by the fortunate convict who had, for
once in his life, rubbed his skirts against one of
England’s aristocracy. To settle an argument
upon any topic—legal, political, or disciplinary-
required but the assertion, ‘ S*r Roger Tlchborae
says so,’ an Immediate acquiescence in the oonclu-
slvenoss of the facts or opinion advanced was the
consequence. It is bare Justice to add that, unlike
the ordinary bogus aristocrat, ‘ Sir Roger ’ never
‘Hashed his rank’—that is, when he walked or
talked with other prisoners, he did not * put on
airs,’ or adopt the patronising manners that both
outside, as well as in prison, usually denote alike
the parvenu and the impostor. Whatever the man
really is, victim or fraud, Tiohborne or Castro, he
exhibited, while under my observation, an indivi-
duality and a bearing in marked contrast to the
ordinary impostors and criminals with whom ho
was associated.” According to Mr. Davitt, the
“ Claimant ” expressed great contrition for the un-
manly aspersion he had cast upon Mrs. Radclilfe.
Sir Moses Montefiore, who has just passed
his hundredth birthday, is rich, and tolerably well
petted by the public. But all centenarians are not
in so good a case. William Ashworth, late a ma-
rine, wanting barely six months of his hundredth
year, is an inmate of Falmouth workhouse. He
has seen more active and prolonged service at sea
than, probably, any man living. He was born at
Sheffield in May, 1785. His first service was in the
Baltic, in the Crescent frigate, when the Hero,
Defence, and St. George were lost. He next as-
sisted at the blockade of Brest, in the Magnificent,
seventy-four. They encountered two French
frigates, of which, after a long and severe Iflght,
one was taken, and the other sunk. Ashworth
has wounded by the splinter of a shell in his leg.
Amongst other services, he sailed in the Leyden
in August, 1813. He was afterwards present at the
bombardment of Algiers (1818), and he served on
board the Indexible and Conqueror guardshipa at
St. Helena, when Buonaparte was confined
there. He mounted guard over Buonaparte—the
only man now living, most probably, who ever
did so. He has no pension or allowance, because
his mother, without his knowledge and against his
will, procured his discharge before he had served
the twenty-one years necessary to obtain one.
Ashworth did not enter the Union till he was 85
years of age. He is still hale, and in possession ef
all his faculties. Hs can walk flve miles a day, and
declares that be can even see better than he could
a few years ago.
Sydney Smith said orthodoxy was his doxy,
and heterodoxy was anyone else’s doxy. Two-
thirds of the Norfolk Islanders, under the superin-
tendence of Lottus, by the grace of God Governor,
&o„ have given practical application to the Bishop’s
definition. They had, however, a much shorter
way with dissenters in Ireland some forty or fifty
years ago. The Protestant clergyman of Passage
West was Sam Lloyd, a good fox-hunting, hare-
coursing, cock-fighting, salmon - fishing, and
snipe-shooting saver of souls. He had a somewhat
peculiar way of reading the Church service. He
interspersed it with greetings to his friends as they
entered the church, and directions to the new-
opener for the comfort of the congregation. Thus
he would sayAlmighty and most merciful
Father—(Good morning, Mrs. Moriarty; 'tis late ye
are the day)—we have erred and strayed from thy
ways like lost sheep—(John, close the window
over Mrs. Flanagan’s head; sure, she's got the
ague in her left cheek). We have followed
too much the devices and desires of our own
hearts-(Be me soul the salmon will be leppin
like fieas this morning). We have left un-
done t hese things which we ought to have done,
—(it’s glad I am to see you out again, Major
O’Toole; how’s the leg)—and we have done those
things which we ought not to have done (John,don’t
be putting Mrs. Muloahy into Mrs. Dwyer’s pew.
You know they’re not spakin), and there is no
health in us (Take that little devvil, Jimmy
O’Brien out; he’s not well of the smallpox yet).”
This is a little discursive, but we are getting to the
bed rock now. Some Plymouth Brethren started
a conventicle in an upper room of a house in Pas-
sage West, and Sam Lloyd, hearing of it, just went
there with a hunting-whip and cleared them all
out, saying that if they did not fear God they
should learn to regard man. And when be was
prosecuted for assault, the Jury found him not
guilty, on the ground of extreme previous provo-
cation.
The troubles of the godly are great in
number, even as the grains of sand on the sea-girt
shore. This statement has been reluctantly
squeezed out of us after tearfully spelling through
a graphic recital of the trials undergone by “ an
'umble follower of the Loard,” who alternates be-
tweeg tjj© aameq McDonald and 8peo9»r, Just
as occasion or emergency demands. George-his
first name, by-the-way—made a good start In life;
he graduated In the Sunday school, as a pupil;
rose to the proud position of teacher, and eventu-
ally blossomed forth into a Church of England lay-
reader in Adelaide. But as time rolled on, the
semi-reverend Mao—as we intend to call him for
short—fell away from grace, through a laudable
ambition to become suddenly wealthy, and hence
his close acquaintanceship with the secret service
limb of the “foorce.” After a varied career in
South Australia, Mac. migrated to Melbourne,
where, in certain circles, he was known as the
“swindling parson.” He adopted the “giltsix-
pence” dodge, and was doing fairly well at the
business, but in an evil hour for himself he visited
Mr. Harnett, of the Tankerville Arms, FItzroy,
tried on the “gilt sixpence,” and failed. Harnett
had been too long in the Russell-street barracks to
get left very badly by such a thin device. So he
was run in, and notwithstanding his pious asser-
tions that he was innocent as the unborn babe, the
Fitzroy salons sent him up for two years: which
reminds us, by the way, that the Government of
Victoria could dispense with the services of a paid
E risen chaplain now, by giving a show to the
rethren of the white-choker who involuntarily
have made Pentridge their abiding city for specific
periods. Mac. would be able to improve the shin-
ing hour in turn with other followers of the
Loard at Pentridge. The prison authorities
utilise the talents of most other professions in
gaol, why shouldn’t they make their clerical
patrons do something for their keep ? [Oh, give
us a rest. Perdition is full of such conundrums.—
Ed. B.]
W. H. L. Bailey (alas! when again shall
thy quips and quirks, and ponderosities bring pro-
vender to the maw of the ruthless penny-a-liner?
when again shall thy He bald, as it comes to our
weary desk, smell redolent of a five-shilling par ?
when but that’s enough parenthesis) came from
Temora to Gundagai in Irish, and went out in
Latin on the 31st January. “ Fitus nemo sine nos-
citur—nobody born without faults,” begins Wil-
liam in his farewell leader, and at every inch the
old Latin grammar grows bald with the loss of its
quotations; and, as his tears of regret trickle down
the complaints in the farewell column, we look to
th* bottom, and also splash out some surplus Latin
—HincUke lachrumae. It appears that William
came there, not to make money, but “ to arouse
the people of Gundagai from the dormant state
they had been in for 20 years, to a knowledge that
they were not serfs; that they were in a free,
liberty - loving country, and not settled in
the servile passes of Russian Siberia; that
they were God’s creatures, breathing the
atmosphere of freedom, not slavery,” &c„ but
that One, who had promised to find the “ shug ”
for the prosecution of this glorious campaign, had
“ caved,” and that, as it was impossible to carry on
without that One, the poor Gundagaites have once
more to fall back “ to the merciless foes of Pro-
gress, J. B. Elworthy (opposition editor) and his
followings,” From his farewell address we also
gather that his paper had won its way to the
bosoms of all classes—miners, free selectors, Irish-
men, storekeepers, and there is ground for believ-
ing even that Chinamen have felt an incipient
craving to learn to read, when they have observed
a corpse rise at midnight, pick up a loose Hebald
that had blown on his gra?e, and after reading it
I by the moonlight, stuff it in between his ribs and
whisper the Chinamen, “ You tell Bailey all a same
paper welly nioey here—send him leglar,” and dive
back into the grave. Oh, yes; the Heeald
touched the heart of Gundagai, but the ads. were
miserably under-paid (machinations of the dia-
bolical Elworthy), and so W.H.L. leaves that dis-
trict to its sins and sorrows.
“Now the butther is oomin’ out ov the
shtirabout,” as they say in the sunny South of
France. And, why ? you will ask. Well, as its an
open secret no* 7 , we don't mind letting up on the
whole affair. You spe, ’tis this way:—For many
years the source of the brilliant wit that flashes
through the lurid pages of the only Alfred’s Even
Noose was a deep and dark mystery. Some of the
quid nuncs asserted that such mirth-provoking
sallies could only emanate from a cemetery;
others, who imagined that they could pierce the
almost Impenetrable veil of the sanctum, ascribed
' the side-splitting jokelets which illumined the
brevity column to a reflective William-goat that
used to browse upon the end pages of funnltles
from the “ Family Herald while a third section
of the community, holding a firm belief in the
,transmigration of souls, generously, if not Justly,
accredited the scintillating wit to the soul of an
undertaker of the Pleoscene period. But they
were, individually and collectively, wrong. And
it is more than probable that the secrecy which
had hitherto enshrouded the funny man of the
Noozb and Jkenil (Alfred should subsidise us for
advertising his sheets in small caps.), and rendered
him as profound a mystery as the author of the
Junius Letters, would for ever remain almystery
had not the gifted Alf. found it absolutely neces-
sary to seek the invigorating climate of Europe,
there to revel in that well-earned rest which lit-
terateurs of his mental calibre require. As a matter
of course, Alfred was banqueted, and as a natural
consequenceThe toast of “The Press” upended the
brilliant staff of Market-street on its hind legs.
Then the dread secret of the prison house was re-
vealed—loud calls (punctuated with malarial hic-
cups) were made for Mr. Angus Mackay, editor of
the Jehnbl, to respond, when he, ’blushing like
a seventy-year-old maiden, put his best leg fore-
most and made a speech, “fairly bristling with
humour”—we quote the Nooze. We have care-
fully, thoughtfully, and, we might add, prayer-
fully, waded through that slough of Joe Milieriam.
When we started in we felt joyous and gay, but aa
we proceeded on our dread, though self-imposed
task, we gradually saddened down, the lowest
depth being reached when we struck that trans-
pacific legend of the impecunious editor. That
was too much for us. It drove us to drink rum
and assault our time-payment furniture with a
broad-axe. Still there is something gained by
knowing the author of the wholesome fun that
coruscates in the Nooze and Jernbl, but ’tis very
little after all—only Angus Mackay.
Tom Collins, who, for many years repre-
sented the borough of Knaresborough in the
British House of Commons, is dead. Nothing
very remarkable in that, you will say. We admit
it. But when alive, Tom was regarded somewhat
in the light of a curiosity. And, maybe, with
some show of reason. His stooped and shrivelled
form, and jaundiced face, were not suggestive of
an Adonis, and—to put it mildly—the unpreten-
tiousness of his apparel betokened less of the
Bond-street fashionable tailor than of the Israel-
itlsh “ old do’ ” shop of Petticoat-lane. Neverthe-
less, old Collins raked the stamps together, and
prior to his happy release from the cares of this
world, he could put his name to a piece of paper
for nearly a million sterling, with the serene con-
fidence that the cash would be paid on sight. The
secret—if such it be—of his acquisition of wealth,
may be briefly stated. He was of rigidly methodic
habits, and miserly to a degree. When in the me-
tropolis, he always lived in one room on the third
floor in Charles-street, and ho took his very frugal
meals at the Carlton Club. For years he acted up
to a rigid rule, which limited his daily expenditure
to 4s. 6d., and so that he should not be tempted to
revel in extravagancies, he never took more than
that sum when going on a tear round in the city.
His wardrobe consisted of two suits of mourning
clothes which he wore on alternate days for variety,
and an evening suit, to which he seldom gave an air-
ing, and he was never the proud possessor of an over
coat or a rug. When travelling by rail, he always
rode in a third-class carriage—because there was
not a grade cheaper—and it was his proud boast
that he hadn’t ridden in a hired vehicle for more
than 20 years. Sometimes he used to pay visits to
his estates in the country, and on those occasions
he would go out among his tenants with
a basket on his arm, and' purchase from them
what food he required. He was known on
one occasion—along time ago—to unbend himself
to the extent of inviting a well-known official of
the House of Commons, and two of its most no-
torious hon viveurs to dinner, and as it was the
first time that he had been known to be guilty of
such a stretch of hospitality, they went. And
when the quartette settled themselves down to
what three of them fondly hoped would prove a
square meal, they discovered, when the covers
were removed, that a whole rabbit had been pre-
(or the repast—that, and nothing more.
THE SUNDAY QUESTION.
HOFFICER (to CricUter): DON'T YE KNOW IT'S WICKED TO PLAY CRICKET ON THE
SABBATH ?”
CRICKETER: “ANY WORSE THAN PLAYING SOLDIERS. HEY, OLD BOY?"
C‘EST POSSIBLE.
“ Haclan says he put every ounce of muscle
in him to win on Saturday.”—Rum:—
Now why, dear Ted, when you can’t fail,
Indulge in such a “ fairy tale ” ?
But, if your strength’s length you did reach,
Ged help you, in your race with Beach!
We love you, Edward, but we long
To see you cease this silly song;
We’ve timed your powers to a minute,
And, really, there is nothing in it I
We want—of course, you know we do—
To make on yon a pound or two;
But beating Clifford thus, we say,
Has “ put the betting clean away."
We've had, we own. a splendid grin
O’er your most fearful, hard-earned win;
But our smiles fade, Canadian son—
How can we get our money on ?
Let Aloock smile, and Layoock crow—
But how do we stand here below ?
go chance, we say it without guile,
f making, now, our “ little pile!”
No tens to one, when next afloat
You might q brf$(; get in yoyr boat /


TWENTY THOUSAND FOUNDS.
A great sale, for two weeks only. Sum.
merfleld and Co., the great Juvenile Outfitters,
235 and 237 Pltt-street, are selling off their tremen-
dous stock. Some very groat bargains. Twenty
thousand pounds to be cleared out to make room
Ladles, bring your boys. Knlcker Balts, 4s. 11(£
to 5s. lid.; Knlcker Suits, fli. 6d. to 8s. fld.s
Trouser Suits, ITs. ed. and 21s. Summerfleld and
Co., Great Juvenile Outfitters, 236 and 337 Pitt*
street. •
A GREAT BALE.
8UMMERFIELD and CO., the great Juvenile
Outfitters. 386 and 287 Pltt-street, Sydney, are sel-
ling at a great reduction the whole of their Im-
mense stock of Boys’ and Youths’ Clothing.
Ladies, do not miss this opportunity for genuine
bargains. Stock must go to make room for our
winter consignments, Tweed remnants half-price.
Knlcker suits, 4s. lid., 5s. lid., 7s. 6d.; half the
English cost.*
Notwithstanding his penurious habits, Collins was
a most entertaining and agreeable fellow, full of
information, and waspossessed with some original
and striking Ideas. Well, after all, some of our
i>nlonlal statesmen are a bit mean too. Twas only
a few weeks ago that long Jimmy M Kean, ex-
M L A , blurted out In a Melbourne police court
that a "son of a Cabinet Minister was then receiv-
ing his primary course of education in the Govern-
ment industrial schools. And we’ve an Idea that
the lengthy police court lawyer should be an
authority on those matters. In our own bright
colony, however [We don’t want to hear any-
thing about the statesman of “our own bright
colony ’’—they at least are unimpeachable.—
Ed. B.]
There is a boy in Adelong by the name of
TRrown. When we say there is.Jwe are possibly
assuming too much. Perhaps it would be safer to
taav that there may be, as he has laid himself out
for such a life or desperate adventures as would
render him a somewhat Insecure investment for
an Insurance office. His last reported escapade
was in connection with a circus. What boy Is
there breathing who has not at some time or other
cherished a secret Intention to join a circus at the
first opportunity ? What man Is there who, on re-
calling the visions of his boyhood, can conscien-
tiously place his hand upon his heart and any: ‘I
never nourished a wild desire to be a clown ?” If
there be such a man wc are sorry for him. He has
passed through childhood unoheered by any of its
golden illusions. But the boy Brown Is now revel-
ling In the midst of them. The circus came to
Adelong, with music, and pomp, and pageantry,
and the blood of young Brown was set on fire by
It He Immediately made up his mind to be a bare-
back rider of the bounding steed or nothing. Not
a word did he say to his parents about this inten-
tion. He foresaw, being a boy of quick percep-
tions, that, as their views of his future were
rather utllltarlam than ornamental, they would
not quite coincide with such a proposal as
this. So he quietly absconded from the paternal
dwelling under cover of the darkness, and came
not home any more that night. The parents, says
the local paper, “ were in a great state of alarm,
.as it was feared one of the camels had eaten him.”
The italics are ours, and are intended to empha-
sise our admiration of the intelligent views of
natural history current in Adelong. Wo have
always respected the oamel as the ship of the
•desert, but in future we shall revere it as a re-
ceptacle for boys. The boy Brown, however,
seems to have been reserved for greater things.
He was caught the next morning by one of the
circus-men In the act of surreptitiously conveying
away a number of wild beasts, with the supposed
object of starting a menagerie on his own account.
There was no defence possible, as the animals
were found concealed upon his person—the royal
Bengal tiger in his trousers pocket, and the
Abyssinian hynsna— In his hat. Of course, these had
to be returned to the circus proprietor, but that
gentleman was so disgusted at the occurrence,
that he packed up all his menagerie in a hen-coop
and humped them out of the town on his back
rather than enrich any of the local hotelkeepers by
paying for horse-hire. The owner of a wild beast
show and circus combined, is not a man to be trifled
with. What the subsequent proceedings of young
Brown were we are unable to say, but we shall not
be surprised to hear of him next as the captain of
a crew of desperadoes cruising about in a rakish-
rigged handbarrow, wlthi the pirate flag at the
peak, and spreading terror and dismay among the
Chinese gardens on the banks of the Tumut River.
He is not the kind of boy to wear out his life In in-
glorious ease, wh.lle there are deeds of high em-
prise for him to do. But we have noticed that as a
rule the boys who begin by picturing their future
career In lurid and bloodstained colours as brig-
ands, buccaneers, and pirates, end by wash-
ing in the outlines In quiet neutral tints, as
tallow-chandlers, greengrocers, milkmen, under-
takers, and even vergers. 80 It may be with
young Brown. Let us hope he will turn out a
milkman, as in such case his early familiarity with
wild beasts will keep him from being struck with
terror at the sight of a cow.
Michael Davitt’s two volumes of prison-
experiences—“ Lectures to a Solitary Audience
are the books of the day in England. Mr. Davltt,
by the way, Is now en route for Australia. His
book exceeds any mere record of personal experi-
ences, slnee we are enabled to study whole classes
of criminals, and, by tracing their history, to con-
sider how best to check the growth of gaol-birds.
Mr. Davitt’s own views upon this question are
entitled to the closest attention of statesmen,
philanthropists, and educational teachers of all
denominations. He would not allow any nice
points relating to the Inherent rights of parents to
stand In the way of children being removed from
vicious surroundings, but would at once place
them in State schools, where work should be the
complement of mere book learning. After devot-
ing nearly the whole of his first volume to Inci-
dents of prison life, he turns from this dark side of
human nature to consider what are alleged to be
defects in our system of penal servitude. In the
second volume appear suggested remedies for
social evils of various kinds—general pauperism
and poverty, the wrongs of Ireland, and the low
wages of labour being the most prominent. A
tender vein of sentiment is touched in the dedica-
tion:—“To the memory of the little confiding
friend, whose playful moods and loving fami-
liarity helped to cheer the solitude of a con-
vict cell; to my pet blackbird, * Joe,’ these
prison jottings are affectionately dedicated,’’
while pity is the predominant feeling which
Mr. Davltt expresses for the wretched creatures
with whom he was compelled to associate In prison,
it is not un mixed with indignation against society
for its neglect of the waifs and strays of city and
town. He traces two-thirds of the criminal life
of these countries to the poverty and squalor in
which the children of the poor are reared; the
next to total neglect of their moral training at the
age when ideas of right and wrong ought to be In-
culcated by means of precept and example; and
the crowning Influence of drunken, depraved, or
indifferent parents. Pursuing this subject In a
later chapter, he thus traces the evolution of
pickpocketsBred la the slums of London,
Manchester, Liverpool, Glasgow, Birmingham,
Dublin, or other large city, otlow and Invariably
drunken parents, often the offspring of unfortu-
nate women, sent out thieving when but eight
or nine years old by mothers who are little better
than prostitutes—what wonder that these wretched
creatures should grow up as ignorant of right
and as prone to snatch at whatever comes within
their reach as the less depraved, irrational animals,
which but follow a law of their nature In seizing
upon anything that excites their craving? Would
society rid Itself of this social pest, or rather,
would it emasculate the agencies which nourish
the infancy and train the maturity of this par-
ticular class of criminal, let the offspring of crime
and pauperism be taken as young as possible
from the atmosphere of vice or degrading squalor
In which they are to be found, and be removed to
kindergarten schools, entirely away from parents
who will only rear them for a similar pursuit to
their own. Let the State demolish what remains
of city slums. Let every low drink-house be
swept away, and f let society apply itself in solemn
earnest to provide not only better houses for the
poor, but opportunities for more elevating recrea-
tion, and then, and not till then, will the low pick-
pocket and the bruiser type of ruffian begin
to be improved off the face of civilised life.’’
The bsok is most favourably received by all the
London papers, one of which—the Standard—
remarks:—“We may say at once that the story
ends happily—so far as the bird-hero is concerned.
‘ On a lovely morning’ in this self-same year 1881,
when the ‘ inspiring garden was aglow with the
bloom of the late Summer flowers’ which Mr,
Davitt had been allowed to sow—the friend-
ship was dissolved. ‘ A day which would
fill one’s whole being with a yearning to
be liberated — a day of sunshine and warmth
and beauty. I opened his door with a bremb-
ling hand,.when, quick as a flash of lightning,
he rushed from the cage with a wild scream
of delight, and in a moment was beyond the walls
of the prison 1 He taught me the lesson, which can
never be unlearned by either country, prison, or
bird, that Nature will not be denied, and that
liberty is more to be desired than fetters of gold.’
* Liberty’—that is the word which fires Mr. Davitt’s
imagination and underlies all his philosophy. If
we are constrained to say that his devotion to an
•jdeahas led his judgment disastrously astray, let
us confess that there is nothing sordid, nothing
selfish in his errors.” This is a good deal for the
Tory Standard to say. We deny the “ judgment-
astray” part altogether.
* * •
Poor old Te Whiti, the Maori prophet and
patriot, has been done for at last, Hfs life has
been taken by an Insurance agent. We always
knew he would come to a bad end—prophets
always do.
• • *
Another bit of Irish humour. Mr. Cos-
telloe, who, having told the police something, was
shot and badly wounded, some time ago, has now
been found hanging from a tree; and as he had but
one arm, people are wondering howjhe managed to
hang himself so artistically. . .Mr, C. T. Studd, the
English amateur cricketer, who visited us with his
brother some time ago, has become a missionary,
and gone to China Count Moltke writes to
deny that ho has ever expressed any opinion as
to Wolseley’s operations in Egypt—The censor-
ship exercised by Lord Wolseley over the Press
correspondents with the Nile expedition, is de-
scribed as absurdly severe. Nothing passes ex-
cept ” jam.” By and bye the truth will be told....
Princess Dolgoroukl, the late Czar’s concubine,
has married the Italian diplomatist stationed in
Russia—“to which country she was afraid to re-
turn unless under the protection of a foreign
Power. She is still an attractive woman. Her
eldest son is the image of the Czar.”—On a
recent night in Dublin, during a recital of
“ Shamus O’Brien,” a piece which gives anacoount
of the career of an Irish rebel, the reciter was in
the middle of the passage which deserlbes the
scene on the scaffold, when one of the audience,
a young woman, shrieked and fainted. She was
carried out and restored with difficulty, and it
was then learned that she was the sister of Joe
Brady, who was executed for the Phoenix Park
murders The theatre-directors of Germany
have just been forbidden by the Court to produce
any play in which ancestors or collateral relations
of the Prussian Royal Family are represented,
without special permission. Now, as “Hamlet,”
by the relationship between the Russian Princes
and the House of Denmark, may be deemed
an “ancestor,” this play will have to be
struck off the repertoires of German theatres I
Captain Flood, of the Liverpool Irish Rifles,
has been compelled to resign his commission for
having permitted “ God save Ireland” to be sung,
with drum accompaniment, by his corps—"the air
in question being one which most people identify
wltn rebel movements.” Captain Flood, we
read, “ is a thoroughly loyal Irish Protestant.
Some people would insist upon God resigning,
should He ever actually save Ireland.....As
Prince Albert of Wales 1# to be entered as a law-
studeot, there may be an idea in the fertile brains
of Her Majesty to institute a system of hereditary
Lord Chancellorshlps—which would be Just as ra-
tional as the system of hereditary monarchy.
From all we have seen, heard, and read of the
eldest son of the Prince of Wales, ho is too
big a softy and not a big enough rogue to be a
lawyer Miss Fortcscue, we notice, now testifies
to the “ excellent quality” of somebody's soap,
and says “it keeps the hands from chapping.
Miss Fortescue’s palm is now so well greased
that it’s not likely to chap for a long while
King Alfonso, of Spain, is in a consumption....
Prince Krapotklne is said to be dying in his French
prison Earl Cairns said at a recent Y.M.C.A.
meeting that “ a young man often left home when
temptations were strongest. He did not believe in
secular efforts at self-improvement.” _ Humph!
His son, Garmoyle, the theatres, and Miss Fortes-
cue. Cairns evidently isn’t a humourist—The
“ Claimant ” has had a good reception at Liverpool,
where he asked a large and sympathetic audience
to aid him in obtaining a repeal of the Tlchborne
and Doughty Estates Act. which, he said, had been
“ smuggled through Parliament.” Mrs. G. Balllie, a
lady well known in most United States cities, has
been for some past busy amongst the Skye
Crofters. She has gone completely over the
island, and made herself familiar with all wants
and grievances, especially those of the women.
To gain a more perfect idea of their surround-
ings, she had the hardihood to spend an entire
night in one of these cabins, with all its difficul-
ties as to ventlllation and firing.
A PULLING PROCESSION.
Everybody but a Baptist minister will
laugh at this openly; and a Baptist will hide be-
hind the kitchen-door and yell.-[Ill Ed. B ]
m * *
We know this is going to be a trenchant
article, because we are primed to the muzzle with
inspiration. It’s going to be a sporting article,
too, though sporting is more out of our line than
piecing together epic poetry, or inditing pars
euioglstic’of Alfred, or friendly (“.sends oft for
Frank. The fast is, the sporting editor of this
journal did not feel, on this occasion, equal to
writing a descriptive account of this glorious
aquatic contest. He may. if the price of rum
rises in the market, be ready for duty shortly; but
at present the persons who are told off to watch
him night and day do not advocate his early re-
turn to his aquatic duties. We may tell you that
he had never written anything previously in this
paper, but his inane appearance, his odd boots, at
once attracting the editor’s attention, he was
engaged forthwith to do the “frowning foam
and ** limpid rooks” business. Thre “ bob to go
up the river and interview the rival oarsmen
proved, it would seem, too much joy for him, as
he was apparently “ got at,” at an eai ly hour, by
one or other of the scullers, for, his condition,
when he arrived at tho office (In a dray), bordered
on the despicable. He could utter nothing but
one mystic monosyllable, but he handed over,
with a kind of triumphant smile, his note-book,
and was then driven away to the look-up; his hic-
cup being such, as he departed, to cause the
commercial staff of this Journal to consider that
“ another foreign man-o’-war had arrived in the
harbour.” The (we hope) temporary absence :of
the gentleman alluded to will, we have no doubt,
prove a source of annoyance to the editor; and
you will understand this the more when we tell
you (in detail and a jingle) what the absent one
was engaged for. Now read:—
[The author of this magnificent lyric here
hows his thanks from a private box.] The applause
having subsided, we now commence to dive into
our subject in real, solid (trite, this I) earnest, and
present to our readers a sketch which, if it do not
attain notoriety, will, at least, become historical.
We have seen nearly every race that has been
rowed on the Parramatta River for the last 97
years. To this circumstance we attribute the fact
of our now possessing two foreheads. We don t
regret it, however, for the one at the back of our
head is very convenient for the kid to draw on.
We have generally—having In view the importance
of our position—gene in the Press boat; but this
Idea, so far as we are concerned, is certainly ex-
ploded. You can’t make capital out of the Press
boat for anything descriptive. It was different in
the old times. We remember the first race that
was rowed over the champion course. It was be-
tween a man (of Andalusian extraction, we be-
lieve) named Murphy and an Irishman called Cara-
voglia. As, however, an asterisk was subsequently
put in the newspapers against the latter name,
it is only rational to suppose it was an as-
sumed one. At this time, we may mention, the;
only two pressmen then in Sydney were our--*
selves and Doctor Lang. Upon the invitation of
Captain Cook—who had but a few weeks before
landed—we journeyed up the river In hs barge;
and bad what Frank terns “ an excellent view of
the contest.” We forget who won now, hut we
remember the good old Doctor pestering us to get
married all the wayjup; and pressing on us, effu-
sively,;hls card of terms. After the race, the Press
was hospitably entertained by the gallant captain
upon very old “salt horse,” and very new rum; on
which occasion the noble circumnavigator, in re-
plying to the toast of his health, made the follow-
ing memorable speech
*• Gentlemen of the Press and Marine,—I rise to
propose the toast of one unborn. (Sensation.)
Once have I cast a girdle round the globe; and ere
long the fire of which we have partaken may
prove too much for me. (No, no 1) I do not fear
the native's spear; but there is that strength in
the contract pork, which, combined with the bis-
cuits—several of which have crawled ashore with-
out leave, and are, consequently, under arrest—
(applause)—wllKoause me, at the Juvenile age of 08,
to be embedded in an early grave. But I dreamed
a dream, and I know that my memory will be per-
petuated. There will be born in 1870 a vision who
shall Immortalise me. His surname will be
Smxth, and Doctor Lang will christen him on the
usual terms—' B-rd-tt.’ He will be lovely, and do
battle for his country with an umbrella. (Ap-
plause.) Marine, I will now retire to my gunyah.”
He then retreated, leaning heavily on the shoulder
of bis bodyguard.
• * •
Going to an aquatlo contest in the Press
boat Is, as we have hinted, a feeble amusement.
You always see the same faces, 'chiefly those who
you wished had been decently Klrby’d long ago.
And then to behold the aquatlo authorities with
thirty-bob chronometers, counting strokes, Is a
dreary spectacle; but some humour lies In the fact
that no two reporters ever make the number alike.
We were a company of dull dogs, and there seemed
to be only one mouldy old Joke amongst us, and
this, too, was made by the canvasser of a religious
paper, who had collared his editor's ticket. It was
something about a new chum saying to a water-
man—“Where can I find an aquatic reporter;”
and the waterman replies—" Oh, somewhere in the
neighbourhood of tho Dottle and Glass.” And we
remember on one occasion, when some miscreant
cracked this sorry wheeze, a gentleman, whom
Melancholy had Marked tor Her Own, said it was
"almost good enough for Punch.” He was him-
self the conductor of that magnificent publication.
• • •
The only way really to get any fun out of
a boat race Is to wade in with the mob. By this
means you get a chance of infusing a little light
and shade into your article by depleting the atti-
tude of tho respectable, and the vagaries of the
uncombed.
• ♦ *
We waded in with the mob.
mm*
At about 1 o’clock there were at the wharf
we elected to start from, two steamers. One was
an ocean-going vessel, which was 3s. Gd.jiand the
other a paddle-wheel wheezer at a florin. We were
sorely tempted by tho Imposing appearance of the
larger vessel to rashlv sacrifice two rums on the
altar of Aquarius, but being tickled by the tone of
tho cough of the harbour boat, we decided upon
enriching tho proprietor with our bullion. There
was one arrangement, with regard to both boats,
which we considered eminently satisfactory. They
were each to start Immediately. We had provided
ourselves with a dissolute-looking bag containing
refreshments, both liquid and solid. We had
sandwiches, a meat pie, six peaches, some bread
and cheese, and a bath bun. And there was that
within a glngerbeer-bottle—but wo leave Its con-
tents to the imagination of the Intelligent reader.
The steamer filled rapidly, with people of both
sexes, and we decided to take up a position on the
zlno roof, right—to quote a nautical term —“ In the
eyes of her.” Then, drawing out the penny ECHO,
we commenced to read and munch. It was not till
we had read through that brilliant sheet, and wore
chuckling over a Telegraph leader, that we
looked round on'the assembled crowd, and saw at
once enough to convince ua that our proceedings
were looked upon with derision. We gravely
waded through the Bum and took up the Distress.
We knew our time was coming. Two c. clock—
half-past three. “ When are you going to start.
Captain?” "Immediately." By this time tho
passengers were getting hungry, and thirsty, and
irritable; and we noticed that the contents of our
satchel, Instead of being looked on with contumely,
began to be favourably criticised. Quarter to
four—papers put away and replaced by novel,
“ When do you reckon to oast off, Commander?”
“ Immediately.” " Thanks 1 ”
mm*
Off at last, and steaming up the river
under a darkling sky. Great good humour pre-
vailed amongst the people, and shortly after we
passed through the bridge, a gentleman with fea-
tures of an Hebraio oast commenced to beguile the
excursionists into playing an unlawful game. It
was a simple pastime. You put a shilling down on
a piece of coloured cloth the man had, threw some
dice, and the man won. Indignation soon pre-
vailing at the excessive simplicity of the recrea-
tion, the man put up his cloth, and wanted to
wager. His offers of <5 to 4 on Hanlan were, how-
ever, received in gloomy silence. Suddenly it
commenced to rain I Whuish I Patter I Whulsh I
Then what an opening of parasols and gathering
together of skirts was there 1 At this moment* the
Government boat, with Dan O’Connor apparently
In command, gave us the go-by, and we could not
but remark that there was a larger number than
usual of glazed eyes In the Legislative steamer.
Some misguided rustic on our craft attempted to
get up a cheer, but was very properly howled
down by his Infuriated fellow-passengers.
* * •
While drifting about near the winning
place, we backed our opinion to the extent of
4s., with a very perplexed gentleman from Illa-
warra. “ Why,” said he. “ are they laying 3 to Ion
Hanlan, when|they say|Cllfford is a bettenman than
Beach ?” We slewed round upon our ooll of rope,
and beckoned him to loan further over the rail.
“ Because,” wo said, solemnly, “they are not play-
ing • Jo ’ In Sydney, now.” But he didn’t oatoh on,
wandering away aft with an expression on his face
that plainly showed he thought we were demented.
In spite of the frequent showers and lowering sky,
the sight on the river was probably the most at-
tractive ever witnessed. It was certainly so to us;
and we should bo an authority, having seen every
boat race rowed over the champion coarse since
the Murphy-Caravoglla contest In 17871
* ♦ *
They’re off; wild excitement all over the
vessel; though, for all we can see of them, the
combatants might be pulling on the Seine for
(/alette and glory. Atlastl Why what’s this? The
same hollow old spectacle that .we bave
been so often treated tol One man paddling
leisurely, in while the other is labouring all over
the course I It is a siok affair, and our boat re-
ceives the rival scullers gloomily. The Illawarra
man is terribly despondent. He begs a “ nip,” and
subsequently somewhat recovers his spirits, but
still keeps murmuring under bis breath—“There’ll
be hell to pay at Wollongong 1 ” It was pleasant,
though, when the mournful procession was over,
to see Hanlan show all his teeth la a “ vast sub-
stantial smile,” as he landed, and was received
with a warm welcome by a select party of his
friends, each with bis tongue in bis cheek.
• . •
Not so pleasant was it at night to stand
outside Double's and listen once again to the same
dreary old platitudes about the "best man win-
ning,” and the “splendid struggle for the first two
miles.” Bosh I
MANAGER’S TROUBLES.
MISS EVELYN EVERGREEN: “COME, NOW, MR. GARNGROVESON, CAN’T YOU
GIVE THE PART TO SOME ONE ELSE? I FIND IT SO DIFFICULT TO MAKE DP
FOR A MIDDLE AGED CHARACTER LIKE THIS ONE.”
We wanted a reporter who,
With eagle-eye, at Hyde,
Would tell ua Beach rowed 23;”
And “ ‘collared’ bis new slide.”
Intelligence like this we lack,
And for it, you know, burn:—
That Clifford rowed with *’ a straight back,”
Was “ slow In his return 1”
That Hanlan ** early was afloat.”
And—this, you know’s, a lark—
Did “ easy work ” upon the course,
And certainly “ keeps dark.”
That Kelly said, “ I can’t deceive
(They like this, though it’s * sick *),
I really ‘ honestly believe ’
Our man will * do the trick.’ ”
That Laycock, who was training Ned,
Had “ ev’ry praise deserved;’
And Alcock simply “ shook his head ’ —
“ His manner was reserved.”
Enough 1 We can’t write in this style.
Nor sporting verses croon;
Have patience for a little while—
He may bo better soon.
*
EBBRtfAftT 14, 1885.
•mm BULLETIN.


REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OP THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
ALC0CK&CO.'S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
BOLE AGENTS:
m isos d to.,
375 George-st., Sydney.
1 tsr TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED.
Royal Hotel,
Bungendore:
FIRST CLASS ACCOMMODATION.
J. McMAHON, Proprietor.
IN THE PRESS, and to be published shortly, the
HISTORY OP THE YEAR 1884.
A complete record day by day of every event of
interest to the colony, in town or country. Com-
piled with great care, and intended to fll', as a
work of reference, a long-felt want.
Send 5a. 6d. stamps to
JOHN WOODS AND CO. (Llmiled),
Bridge-street, Sydney.
m
COMFORTABLE TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash Insure*
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are three kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persona who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth dally,
they will net only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations.
gee that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox ana
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London .”
n
ASTHMA.COUGH; BRONCHITIS.
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladles, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each box bears the name of “ Wilcox and
Co., 839 Oxford-*!* set, Loiulon.”
298 George Street, Sydney.
description of Sh’rta made to measure
A perfect fit guaranteed.
Professional Directory*
I I8COOK8' FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
L olalty Union. Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
1, apply F. K. Hlscooks..
HORACE BENT, with Hlsoocka’Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
TO AMATEUR THBATRICALS.-Scenery Sup-
plied or Lent. O. Pehkiman, Scene Fainter,
No. 7, back of Academy of Music, Caatlereagb-st,
w.
Sydney
Theatre royal.
Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and MuscmovB.
Lessee, Mr. 8, Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager—Mr. H. H. Vincent.
Doors open at 7 30. commence at 8. Carriages, 10.40.
Immediate and Substantial Success on Iho reap-
pearance of the Royal Dramatic Company
In the two New Pieces :
An Elegant Comedy in one act, entitled —
WRITTEN IN SAND ! WRlTlfetf IN SAND I
and the Screening Karel cal Comedv. in 3 acts,
NITA’S FlhST 1 NITA’S FIRST I
The same programme will be repeated every even-
ing until further notice.
Special Notice —Prices of Admission.- The
Management beg to announce that the prices of
admission which have been so popular In the
Theatre Royal, viz.. Dies* Circle, 6s.; Stalls, 3s.;
and Family Circle. 2s., have been reverted to.
Tickets tor all parts of the house at Bastway’s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4. No free list.
BW OPERA HOUSE.
Lessees & Managers ... B. Majeronl & W. J. Wilson.
Treasurer and Secretary ... Mr. Joe Brown.
Stage Manager Mr. George L opold.
MAJBRONl"and” WILSON’3
COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
THIS EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
Offenbach’s chef d'ceuvre,
LA BELLE HELENE 1 A
LA BELLE HELENE I
LA BELLE HELENE 1- MAGNIFICENT
LA BELLE HELENE I
LA BELLE HELENE j PRODUCTION.
Prices of Admission :-Bores, £3 2s.; Dress Circle,
5s.; Stalls, 3s ; Parquette, 3s.
Box plan now open at A. and C. Huenerbeln’s
Music Warehouse, 318, George-street. Stalls and
Parquette Tickets may be purchased at Roberts’,
tobacconist, adjoining the theatre.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. Wybert Reeve.
Under the Management of A. T. and J. F. Dunning,
THIS EVENING,
the favourite Opera Bouffe of the day, In 3 acts,
entitled
MANOLA MANOLA MANOLA
MANOLA MANOLA MANOLA
one of the most successful Comic Operas ever
composed ; received with enthusiastic applause
wherever perlormed ; and will be produced with
all the superb and elegant costumes, beautiful
music, and picturesque groupings which gained
tor Manola such great success. To bo followed by
the
GRAND BALLET OF NATIONS,
by a Corps de Ballet representing the different
nations; received every evening with thunders
of applause.
Admission Orchestra Chairs, 6s.; Stalls, 8s.;
Family Circle, 2s. Box Office, Nicholson’s, Qeorge-
street. _
OF MUSIC.
Mr. F. B. Hiscocks.
HISCOCK8’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION.
Immense Success of the First Part, with new and
beautiful Songs, Sparkling Wit and Humour.
Concluding with the Laughable Sketch,
THE BANKER’S WIFE I
Admission, 4s., 3s., 2s., and Is. Box Plan at
Paling's. Carriages at 10.15.
0 A D B M Y
Lessee and Manager
r
H E
A U 8 T R
WAXWORKS
A L I A N
Opposite the Cathedral,
Eg” Just added, a Portrait Model of
ARTHUR ORTON,
The Tlchborne Claimant,
Open dally from 10 a.m. till 10 p.m.
Admission, One Shilling; Children, half-price.
N
N
HOP. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, 251
Gastlereagb-street, near Bathurst-street. P.8.—
The ball-room Is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, ana Is superior In ventilation,
Borlnsr floor, &o. Mo decorations required.
MADAME CHARBONNET KBLLERMANN’3
CONSERVATOIRE DB MU81QCB,
149 Phillip Street.
MADAME KELLBRMANN, having secured a
commodious residence in a healtny position
two minutes from Domain, is willing to receive
pupils from the country or neighbouring colonies
as Boarders. Exceptional references given and
expected. Apply 149 Phllllp-street.
IVTUSICand the Flute TAUGHT by Mr. WOOD,
Ivl pupil of Dlpple. Rockstro, and Clinton.
Reference kindly permitted to Jno. Radcllff, Esq.,
premier flautist of the world; also to Luscombe
Bearelle, Esq., operatic composer, &o. For terms,
&o., apply Haddock’s Library, 381 George-street.
N.B. A fair price given for flutes of modern make.
WANTED, five GENTLEMEN—le., Junior
Lead, Old Man, Walking Gentleman, and
two Utility, to join the “ Howard Family English
Comedy Company.” Open in Brisbane, Monday,
March 2nd. Salary and return passages guaran-
teed. Apply, stating lowest terms, care of J. B.
Hickie, Lessee.
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL, GOULBURN.
THIS handsome Bijou Theatr?, completely re-
modelled, Is fitted with every convenience,
and has one of the best stages in the colony (50 x
80), Is now open for engagement on very moderate
terms. Seats comfortably in dress circle, 260; pit
and stalls, 500. The population of the city is nearly
8000, and the Hall, which is now the most popular
place of amusement, is situated In the most cen-
tral position of the main street. Mr. Charles
Turner, of the Montague-Turner Opera Company,
says:—“The Hall I consider second to none In New
South Wales. The acoustics are good; the stage
and dressing-room accommodation is superior to
any Hall In the colony. Applications addressed to
M. E. PULLEN, Secretary, will receive prompt
attention.
Academy of music
(Late Albert Hall).
Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
The Coolest and most comfortable Hall In A us-
tralla. Seating capacity, 1300 ; stage: depth, 49ft.;
width, 68ft.; height of grooves, 16lt.; proscenium,
26 by 20; dressing accommodation unlimited. Kent
or shares. For open dates, apply to DUVAL and
gMITH, lessees, Tattersall’s Hotel, Brisbane.
h
r
i
SMITH & HANNELL,
THE SHIRT MANUFACTURERS OF
AUSTRALASIA,
R.BURGIS
TAILOR. .
H ff( B L/ x C !
BURGI8’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
I from 16s. 6d. Ali garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house tor
a good, genuine suit ot clothes. 170 P1TT-8TREKT,
Sydney. Sair.ples and diagrams tor s*^measuring
Forwarded to anr nnrt of the colon*
CHURCHILL’S SYRUP OF THB HYPO-
PH08PHITE8.
THESE SYRUPS have so thoroughly obtained
the confidence of the Medical Faculty that they
are now preferred to any other preparations as
rtenernl Tonics
The Svrup ot Hypophosphites of Lime hssproved
itself for many years most useful in cases of Con-
sumption and diseases of the Pulmonary Organs,
It is also most beneficial to debilitated constitu-
tions proceeding from any cause whatever, as it
contains two of the most necessary ingredie- ts for
building up the Human Frame, namely, Phospho-
rus and Lime.
Churchill’s Syrup of the Hypophofiphite of Iron
is one of the best preparation* of Iron and Phos-
phorus that has been offered to the public. As a
permanent tonic it has been found more service-
able than any other preparation of Iron, and is
especially recommended to those suffering from
the effects of a long residence in a hot climate.
Churchill’s Compound Syrup of the Hjpopbos-
phltes contains Lime, Iron, and Soda, and as a
general Tonic has been found most useful. Deli-
cate children have derived the greatest benefit
from going through a course of this medicine,
which supplies nearly all the elements necessary
to develope in perfection the Human Frame, To
Ladies suffering from General Debility, any of
these Syrups can be taken with most beneficial re-
sults, but as almost every constitution differs, one
may give better results than the other. To be had
from all Chemists, and Wholesale from ELLIOTT
BROS., Plft-street, Sydney.
Intercolonial Cricket Match!
NEW SOUTH WALES y. VICTORIA.
FRIDAY, SATURDAY, MONDAY,
13th, 14th, and 16th February,
18th, 14th, and 16th February. 13th, 14th, and]6th February.
ASSOCIATION CRICKET GROUND.
Intercolonial Cricket Hatth—Victoria i In U Wilts.
Friday, Saturday, Monday, Tuesday, Eeh. 18, 14, 16, and 17,
Gates open at 10.80 a.m. Play to commence at noon.
Luncheon, 1.30 p.m. Game resumed at 2 15.
PA*S CHECKS TO GROUND ISSUED BETWEEN ONE AND TWO O’CLOCK ONLY.
ALL VEHICLES MUST BE OFF THE GROUND BY TEN O’CLOCK A.M.
Admission to Ground, Is.; Grand Stand and Lawn, 3s. 6d. extra; Children, half price.
Carnrick’s Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk
(Composed of about equal proportions of Pure Cod Liver Oil and Condensed Milk digested).
IT affords us much pleasure to announce to the Medical Profession and the Public that we have suc-
ceeded in combining these nmrltive substances Into a permanent, palatable, and easily assimilable
form:
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk has the following advantages over Ihe Plain Oil and the
Emulsions now in use 1st. Plain Cod Liver Oil is unpalatable to must persons, but in comhinat on
with condensed ( digested) milk, as exhibited in this preparation, it will usually be taken by the youngest
child with a relish. 3ud. oils are prepared for assimilation principally in the duodenum ; comeqnently
Cod Liver Oil, when taken plain, often offends the stomach, The Oil and Milk in Peptonized God Liver
Oil and Milk are digested, and it will therefore usually agree with the most delicate stomach. 3rd.
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk contains double the nutritive and flesh-forming principle* found in
the Emulsions of Cod Liver Oil. 4th. It Is well known that the Emulsions of Cod Liver Oil usually
contain from 60 to 75 per cent, of water. Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk contains 53 per cent of
best Cod Liver Oil. and in the place of water we use condensed milk, reduced in vacuo in our labora-
tory. 5th. The milk is condensed to the consistency of the Cod Liver Oil, and when combined, as in
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk, It forms one of the meat pleasant and nutritious compounds that
can be conceived or produced.
This Preparation is acknowledged far superior to any of the Cod Liver Oil Emulsions ever
introduced, it being already digested, it may he retained on the weakest stomach.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with HY p OPHOSPHITES OF LIME AND
SODA. To be obtained of the Principal Chemists and Druggists in the colonies.
The Maltine Manufacturing Co., Linx., 24 aud 25 Hart-st., Bloonxubury, London, W.C.
Wholesale Agents in the Colonies Elliott Bros.. Sydney; E. Prosser & Co.. Sydney; Felton, Grim-
wade, & Co., Melbourne; Rocke, Tompsltt. & Co., Melbourne; Duerdin & Sainsbury, Melbourne; F H.
Fauldmg & Co., Adelaide; A. M. Blcklord & Co., Adelaide; Berkley, Taylor, & Co., Brisbane; Elliott,
Bros. & Co., Brisbane; New Zealand Drug Co., Brisbane.
Samples and Full Particulars may be obtained of
W. T. PALMER, 104 King-street, Sydney.


Waltham Watch Agency.
REVOLUTION IN THE POSTAL SYSTEM.
PRODIGIOUS efforts are being made by the
New South Wales Government to bring the
Postal Department up to the requirements of the
time. Once pledged (to the introduction of the
parcels-post system, which has proved a national
boon in the United Kingdom and the United
States, the Sydney Minister is expediting the work
of making his Department a safe, cheap, and
speedy medium of transit for all descriptions of
portable merchandise. This means that goods
may now be despatched through the Post Office
and delivered as quickly as a letter to any address
in either colony. The significance of the thing is
that it virtually brings the most distant resident
down to the doorstep of the best and cheapest
establishment in the great free-trade metropolis.
The man who has led the way in encouraging this
new and beneficial system of traders undoubtedly
Mr. T. M. ALCOCK, Jeweller and Watchmaker, of
the Haymarket, Sydney, Australian Agent for the
World-renowned Waltham Watches. For the past
15 years Mr. T. M. Aloock has been doing business
with people who have never been in Sydney, and
who have never seen or entered his shop.
Thorough, straigbtgoing, honest treatment of
patrons hundreds of miles away has won him a
permanent hold on the entire inland community
of each colony, and he now does a larger parcels-
post business in Jewellery and watches than any
other three houses of either city. The Waltham
Watch has given Mr. Alcock a further hold on the
inland public. By personal negotiation with the
Waltham proprietors at their works, Massachu-
setts, Mr. Alcock secured concessions as the Wal-
tham agent which placed these famous watehes be-
fore the Australian public at manufacturer’s
prices. The parcels-post system completely links
the whole Australian public, as it were, on to the
great Waltham factory. Mr. Aloock forwards
these watches to any address in all Australia, pay-
ing the postage, and taking all the risk of safe de-
livery. By these means Waltbams have gone
broadcast throughout these colonies. Mr. Aloock
handles every watch before despatching it, and he
alone executes the order. Of upwards of 10.000
purchasers there is not a single customer who has
complained or expressed dissappointment at Mr.
Aloock's treatment of their favours.
THOUSANDS in ALL GRADES to select from at
MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES.
Mr. ALCOCK gives a Three Years’ Guarantee
with every Waltham Watch, and, in addition to
this, issues with each watch sold the Company’s
Certificate, as follows:— *’ Watch. No. , and en-
graved with our Trade Mark, was manufactured
at our works, and is guaranteed by us to be made
of the best materials on the most approved prin-
ciples, and to possess every requisite tor a reliable
Timekeeper.”
For any defect in material, workmanship, or
performance under fair usage, we at all times hold
ourselves responsib'e.
General Agents, for the American Watch Co.,
ROBBINS and APPLETON.
R. ROBBINS, Treasurer,
T. M. ALCOCK, Agent,
073. Qeorge-street, HaymarketSydney. .
GENT.’S SILVER WALTHAM WATCHES,
In Hunting or Open Face, with Crystal
Glass Sterling Hall-marked Cases.
KEY WINDERS.
No. 1,—Seven Jewels, steel balance. A
sound reliable timekeeper .. .. £3 10 0
No. 3.—Seven Jewels, steel balance. Extra
heavy full size cases, specially
built for bush use
No. 3.—Seven Jewels, good balance. Very
superior finish. Perfect time-
keeper ...
No. 4.—Full Jewelled, compensation ba-
lance. Very highly finished: suit-
able for extreme climates
No. 5.—Compensation balance, extra
Jewelled. In separate settings;
very superior movements
No. 6.—Three-quarter plate bands, to set
at back, good balance, seven Jewels 8 5 0
No. 7.—Three-quarter plate, compensa-
tion balance, full Jewelled. Spe-
cially rated ...
3 10 0
3 5 0
8 15 0
4 4 0
4 0 0
PATENT KEYLESS.
No.S.-r-CELBBRATED RIVERSIDE, adjusted
keyless fine movements, three pair extra fine jewels
in setting, exposed pallets, compensation balance,
in silver case, 7 guineas; in massive gold cases 15
guineas. Note.—Read Swiss Commissioner’s speech
re this wateh, and if you are in want of a perfect
time-keeper, buy one at manufacturer's price of
the agent, T. M. ALCOCK.
No. 0 -CELEBRATED HILLSIDE, seven Jewels,
compensation balance. Very highly finished, and
perfect time-keeper, £415s. and £5 5s.
No. 10.—Full-sized extra stout cases, compensa-
tion balance, full jewelled. This movement is
specially built for hard usage, and is a perfectly
reliable time-keeper. In two prices, £5 5s. and £5
Ids.
No. 11.—Full sized, three pairs of extra fine
Jewels, in settings. Adjusted. This is a very
superior movement. £7 7s.
No. 12— Named “P. ti. BARTLETT,” Waltham,
Mass., four pairs extra fine Jewels, in settings,
compensation balance. This watch is the acme of
perfection. £7 7s.
No. 13.—Ladles’ very superior, full Jewelled, com-
pensation balance. Engraved cases. £4 10s. and
£6 6s.
LADIES’ AND GENT’S GOLD WALTHAMS,
In Hunting or Open Face, with Crystal Glass,
Standard Hall-marked Gold Cases, of various
grades—
£8 8 0 £11 11 0 £17 10 0
9 0 0 14 0 0 30 0 0
10 10 0 15 15 0 up to 76 0 0
A magnificent stock of every grade of Wateh
made by the Waltham Company, including a rich
collection of Presentation Watches, in plain and
fancy engraved oases,
Duplicate parts of every Watch made by the
Company kept in stock. Waltham Watches re-
paired with the Company’s Materials on the
shortest notice.
THE ENGLISH PATENT LEVER WATCHES
ALSO COMPETE IN ALL AUSTRALIA.
Recognising the value of the better class of
English Patent Lever Watches, T. M. Aleook,
while in England, visited the great watch factories
of London, and entering into large contracts,
arranged for the manufacture of a splendid and
superior class of English Patent Lever Watch,
the BEST and cheapest ever imported to Aus-
tralia.
No. 1.—Crystal Glass or Hunting Case 'I .. £3 10 0
No. 3.—Ditto, extra jewelled and superior
finish 4 4 0
No. 3.—Ditto, highest grade, futl-Jewelled 6 5 0
No. 4 —Ditto ditto, superior adjusted .. 6 6 0
No. 5,—Rotherham's celebrated Levers .. 4 10 0
No. 6.—Rotherham’s Compensated Balance 6 5 0
No. 7.—Rotherham’s Chronometer Balance,
highest quality 6 6 0
No. 8.—Rotherham’s Adjusted, compensated
balance, very superior 7 7 0
An unequalled stock of the above in 18-carat
gold oases, from £12 to £20; in keyless. £20 to £50.
SUPERIOR CHRONOGRAPHS.
T, M. ALCOCK is now in a position to offer to
the public generally the Cheapest and Best
CHRONOGRAPH for racing and timing purposes
ever made.
Illustrated Catalogues Forwarded Free.
All communications to be addressed,
T. M. ALCOCK,
Waltham Watch Agent,
«f» eeorge-st., Haymarket. ■yduey.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
THBATM ROT An —" Nlta’s First” P* 8
OTeba House—“ La Belle Helene ” «•
Gaiety Theatre—"Manola ” *»
academy or Music.—Hisoocks’ F. Minstrels „
Not rail Oh of a house at the Gaiety on
Saturday night. The weather, the boat race, and
the piece succeeded in half-emptying the stalls
and decimating the pit. Hanlan’s backers flowed
steadily to the public-houses, while those who
planked their money on Clifford stayed at home
to “ chaw the rag." Then, again, the piece—
“ Manola”—is nowhere, compared with its prede-
cessor, “ Boccaccio.” It drags a good deal, and,
although possessing some tuneful movements, the
proportion of dialogue—during which the orches-
tra sit bashing mosquitos—is so great as to be-
come depressing.
* * •
Manola, a Creole girl (Miss Ivanova) and
Beatrix, a Spanish Countess (Miss Leaf) are school
mates. Their education completed, the next step
was to find them husbands, and so Beatrix Is be-
trothed to the Portuguese Don Brasiero (Mr. Lls-
sant), while the Creole wench is “ mashed ’ on
Miguel, the Don’s equerry (Mr. Loredan).
Spaniards and Portuguese are enjoying them-
selves in the old, simple, throat-cutting style so
congenial to the insouciant southern tempera-
ment, when Beatrix sets out for Lisbon to Join her
Hand, and fill his happiness to the bung-hole. She
is captured by bandits, who severely drop her,
but not before she had talked their cap-
tain to death. To Lisbon had also gone Manola,
and as Miguel’s master, Brasiero, was mak-
ing things uncomfortable all round, on account
of his sweetheart’s non-arrival, his trusty
equerry persuades the Creole to personate
Beatrix, sign the marriage contract with the
Don, and—stop at that. So, while Beatrix Is jaw-
ing the robber chieftain into an early grave, her
mercurial school-fellow, Manola. Is turning
Brasiero’s head with love, and doubling Miguel up
with jealousy. Things quickly become as
“mixed” as a Kent-street hash, or an Irish-
faotion fight; and Beatrix, on her arrival, has all
her work to do In disentangling affairs. Of course
there is an infinity of scope in “ Manola ” for that
delicate double entendre to which the French
tongue so readily lends Itself. All this is carefully
banished from the English version, so that even
“ Marshal ” Booth might take his mother-in-law
or maiden aunt to the opera without fear of
having their morals tampered with.
* * *
Appleby is in his element. He is Don
Calanazas, a bibulous Portuguese Prince, and it
is mainly through him that the fun—such as it is—
Is kept up at all. Like other princes—[Hush 1 not
so loud.—Ed. B.] —advanciog age, while expanding
bis waist-band and multiplying his grog-blossoms,
has left unimpaired his taste In pretty faces and
well-rounded ankles. What time he can spare
from the worship of Bacchus is cheerfully devoted
at the shrine of Venus. He is old, pimpled, blear-
eyed, and tipsy. But in lovely woman’s eyes,
what are age, blotches, and tioslness, when the
owner has blue-blood throbbing in his veins?
What would it have mattered to Dolgorouki, if
A lick had been palsied and spindle-shanked?
Well, this old reprobate’s artistic tomfoolery pulls
“ Manola" through, but, as we said, will never
make it the success “ Boccaccio ” was.
♦ * •
And Loredan—the Creole’s fancy “bloke”
—extracts from his part every atom of fun (and a
trifle more) it contains. His by-play is natural and
excellent. His voice is pleasing, although it Is not
the sort of thing to arouse your enthusiasm, or
make you “take It up ” when you saw in the glass
both bowers and the “ joker ” In your adversary’s
hand. Whatever he does, appears to be just the
proper thing to be done. A piece would have to
bo as dull as a Salvation Army address, or as a
country paper’s leader on “The Fall of Khar-
toum ” (there’s not a penny “ squirt between this
and the Barooo that hasn T t Its little squeak about
the “ treacherous ” Mahdl and his “ rebel hirelings”)
if he and Appleby couldn’t scruff it through one
way or another.
• * »
Mr. Llssant's Don Brasiero was wbatthe
Bum, with reckless novelty, would call an " even ”
performance. You could find no particular fault
with It, and yet It was received with a calmness
bordering on apathy. Of course. It is not easy to
arouse much feeling in a thin house, with the rain
dancing on the roof, and in a town where the
publio-nouses close at 11. This may account in
some measure for the fact that the efforts of
Ivanova and Miss Leaf were received with depres-
sing composure. Pablo (Mr. Bruce), old Calabaza’s
flunkey, was chiefly remarkable for the weird
attractiveness of his legs. But the affronts to
which this poor fellow was subjected would have
stirred the blood of a tailor’s dummy. No portion
of his person was safe from cowardly and wanton
bombardment. When he stooped or turned his back
the meanest advantage was taken of his position
to brutally insult him. And Don Brasiero had an
alde-de-oamp (Mr. Johnson), who was constantly
arriving from the front to tell his master how hos-
tilities were progressing. This rapparee wore a
breast-plate that would have deflected a round
shot, and a battered tin hat of cruel suggestiveness.
* * *
Thirteen instrumentalists, we think, we
counted, who watched the baton of Mr. Juncker,
and wove into one harmonious whole crotchet and
quaver, dotted minim and shake. Mr. Juncker
kept his crowd well in hand—by no means a very
hard task, considering he had under him such ex-
Iierlenoed players as the leader, Mr. Boyd, and his
leutenant, Mr. Miller. In this orchestra could be
heard, too, the unmistakable note of the oboe, an
Instrument without which a band Is no more com-
plete than a nursery without a rocking-horse, or a
policeman without a brogue. It is only necessary
to take up any orchestral score, note the work
given to the oboe by every composer, and then
reckon what is lost by having these tit-bits given
over to the flute, or transposed for the clarionet.
* * * *
It was one ot those bumper houses which
artists love to dream about. At eight o’clock
there wasn’t a vacant seat In the place, but we
think such a heap of the little woman that we
didn’t mind standing a bit, not we, even although
we had a pair of new boots on (bought expressly
for the occasion), which pinched like blazes. We
are speaking of the Opera House on the night of
little Grade’s benefit. It was oulte unfeeling
though of all those mashers to load those wreaths,
bouquets, and all sorts, on her ail at once. How on
earth did they expect her to carry them all—such a
mite as she is, tool It was very neat ot her to
sling three or four of the wreaths round her
neck like so many horse-collars, and no doubt it
delighted the senders hearts to see their donations
pressed so close to hers, hut it would have been far
better had they all dabbed together, and chartered
one or two of the Orient four-wheel waggons for
the occasion, and sent the whole lot around to
the stage door, with their compliments. We
have a decided objection to seeing one
of our prime favourite's lives endangered
In this way with this same flower pelt-
ing; but the funny part of it is the dear little
thing didn’t seem a bit scared—in fact, she seemed
to like it rather than otherwise.
• • •
“ Madame Angot ” went as smoothly as it
has done all along, If not more so, as everybody
seemed to be at their tip-top best. A thunder-
storm gave a pleasant variety to the performance,
and it also gave some of us who were fortunate
enough to be near the windows a nice refreshing
shower-bath. And this was the last of “ Madame
Angot ” for the present season, and was a fitting
wind-up to the merry little opera.
• * •
, If little is sacred to the ‘French sapeur,
nothing Is holy to the eyes of the Opera Bouflttst.
Stories that have oome down to us hoary with the
rime of ages are seized, garotted, ravished by
these harmonious Thugs, and so we find ourselves
ridiculing what we formerly reverenced. £11 this
was running through our heads as we sat in the
Opera House the other night to hear a new ver-
sion of the “ tale of Troy divine.” It was M.
Offenbach’s report of the case, and differed in some
Important particulars from Homer’s. “ La Belle
Helene” Is the name of the Frenchman’s “ Iliad.”
The friendliest turn that could have been done to
Offenbach would have been to “ corpse” him when
he had written finis to “ La Grande Duchesse”—
just as Conway should have been pole-axed when
Called Back” was finished. And yet “ La Belle
Helene” contains many pleasant, sparkling move-
ments which were given with spirit and received
with acclaim,
• • •
Miss Plaisted is the fair Helen, and if her
old-world namesake were half so entertaining you
forgive Menelaus for the coarse language he used
on hearing she had left with the Trojan vagrant,
and was well on the road to Ilium. As Paris—
evil-hearted Paris, Priam’s cowardly son — Mr.
Harding trolled in a way that filled many elderly
maiden ladies in the audience with regret that
they did not live in those old days when to be
“ Half-naked, loving, natural, and Greek”
was the height of rural felicity.
* * *
Miss Spencer was Achilles. You see we’ve
f lven no sketch of the plot of “ La Belle Helene.”
t would be unmeaning if you did not know the
story of Troy’s ten years' siege and final fall, and
supererogatory if you did. Of course the men
who burlesque such subjects are men to be
avoided. They are men to whom no vllliany
would come amiss—men who would deceive their
wives, kiss their housemaids, or run mining
shares into their best friends (shaft down 200ft.,
lode expected to be met with in the next few feet.
Booh I). They are the people who would put a
divided skirt on the Venus of Milo, and knioker-
boekers on the Apollo-Belvidere. Mats revenons.
Miss Saville’s Orestes was pleasant all through.
Unlike the Orestes of story—who, it will be re-
membered, took the old man’s part In the family
squabbles, and ended by insinuating a butcher’s
knife under his mother’s fifth rib—he was an
attractive little ruffian,(who enjoyed a harmless
liaiso7i, and when funds were low, could “ring in
the tall grey ” with the best of them. Calcbas
(Mr. Leopold) showed that the priests of those
times were by no means the fools we fancy they
were. Gods I what lives they must have lived—
“ When the world was fresh and young.
And the great deluge still had left it green.”
How did those old humbugs keep their counte-
nances? You might as well ask bow those of
to-day keep theirs when they have to pray for
rain or beg the Deity to protect soldiers who are
about to destroy an inoffensive people. (This last
clause was squeezed out of us by reading of the
Archbishop of Canterbury’s appeal to the “First
Cause ” to make the British rifle bullets fly true
In Egypt. Ehcu!)
* * *
We have a lot more to say of “ La Belle
Helene,” but must defer it. It is capitally staged,
and the merest glance at the dresses sets you won-
dering—not at their archaic cut, but at the depths
to which female taste has fallen since then.
# * * *
Hiscocks has a new programme, but the
customary crowd of people. We went on Satur-
day, and got so thoroughly drenched that our
week’s earnings went on gruel and Dover’s pow-
ders. What wonder, then, that bitterness fills our
soul—a bitterness that the remembrance of Bent’s
fooleries, Keenan’s imbecilities, and Amery’s
melody cannot dispel. Once upon a time—at Sam
Keenan’s birth, ’tls said—Nature smiled. Sam
smiled back in return, and Nature has never been
known to smile since. One look at the child’s
cavernous . [No. Walt till you. get round
again. We believe in honest criticism, not vulgar
vituperation.—Ed. B.].
• • • •
Mr. Harry Hyndes’ proposed concert,
which had to be postponed In consequence of the
indisposition of the young Australian pianist, is
still without a positive date. Mr. Hyndes is not
only generally indisposed, but is suffering from a
gathering in the thumb, which, of course, thumbi-
oaps his playing altogether. If possible—thumb
permitting—the concert will be given on Thurs-
day week, the 26th Inst.
• « » «
Now, now, we can write about the Royal
again with a light heart and unruffled prow, for at
last the frost has thawed, and all’s well.. The one-
act comedy, “ Written in Sand,” open* the show,
and is a bright enough little morsel, as far as it
goes, with nothing very new about it, b ut we have
long ago come to the conclusion that thore is noth-
ing new under the sun. Here we have Kate Shir-
ley (Annie Mayor—sweet-voiced Annie Mayor)
engaged to a fellow, but, somehow, her heart isn’t
in it, and goes forth to another man, Frank Seaton
(O. J. Titheradge), who is an artist in a brown
velvet coat. (We may remark, en passant, that we
know an artist here in Sydney who wears a- brown
velvet coat, but he’s in the musical line, not the
painting. Wonder if there’s any special magic
about a brown velvet coat!) Kate sits on an open
well and talks to Frank as he sketches, and in an
absent-minded way scratches his name in the sand
with the point of her parasol. Then, when she
discovers what she has done (as if she didn’t know
all along), she is taken shy and throws her cloud, or
shawl, or something, ever it. But when she leaves
him to go and see that the vegetables are on for
dinner, or something, he sees what she has done
and takes it for granted that she wouldn't spoil her
parasol by turning it into a pen with which to
write his name unless she thought a mighty lot of
him.
* * *
Kate has a cousin, Tom Potts (H. H. Vin-
cent), who is a ne’er-do-well, and is always bor-
rowing her spare shillings; but, fur all that, she’s
fond of Tom, and when she sees him give some of
her shillings away In charity, she is overcome with
admiration at his generosity. Lordy 1 what tender-
hearted, easily-gulled creatures some girls are, to
be sure I But Tom isn’t altogether a bad sort, but
we wanted to throw a turnip at his head for per-
sisting in smoking a dirty black pipe in the
presence of snob a nice girl as Kate all the while.
Well, anyhow. Fairfax Rendail, the fellow Kate's
engaged to (Mr. Herbert Flemming), gets Jealous
because she kisses Tom and talks to that other
fellow Frank, and they have some words, but he
won’t ’give her up for all that. But, however.
Sister Winifred (Miss Jenny Watt-Tanner), who
spends her life in looking holy and taking around
a basket of other folks’ stuff to the poor, sees
Fairfax, and identifies him as her husband,
who forsook her some years back. Seeing how
matters stand between him and Kate, she sends
a letter to the latter, exposing her faithless
husband, but as no name was mentioned, Kate
thinks the artist was the bad 'un, and you’d better
believe she loses no time in slating him. The chief
interest in the comedy is centred in the scene
where she tells Frank he is the basest scoundrel
unhung. Frank looks amazed and iunocent, and
evidently thinks Kate has got a touch of the sun.
He stands her tongue in silence, and when she’s
done telling him he is a married man and the like,
he quietly sits down and wonders out aloud
whether he has any family or no. Titheradge is
Immense here. Of course matters get cleared up
when sister Winifred comes and faces the right
fellow, and Kate gets her brown velvet coated
man alter all, and is happy ever afterwards. These
five artists make the very best of their parts, and
to make things more real like, we can hear the
genius of the village practising on the organ In the
church close by—a privilege he enjoys In consider-
ation of his widowed mother supplying the par-
sonage with eggs, butter, home-cured bacon, and
other dainties. Knowing lot, these parsons; they
don’t tell us this in the play, but we know it by
the shape of the church and sound of the organ.
♦ ♦ *
“Nita’s First” oomes next on the pro- :
gramme, and the man who wrote it didn’t know
half so muob about babies as we do. Certainly,
there’s this to be said, that these youngsters who are
Inconveniently In the way never will die, and can
stand twenty times as much hardship as an ordi-
nary kid. Why, these latter are so sensitive, that
If you hold their beads an eighth of an Inch too
slanting, or let one little toe peep out from the
long skirts, they take eroop or teething, or some
other infantile disease, and as often as not
die. But Nita's first was a stunner, and stood
being sent from house to house, and police
stations, with not even a feeding-bottle in the
cradle, like a brick. The play is full of screatn-
ingly-funny situations, all brought about by the
baby of Nila’s, and certainly not the least amusing
character is that of Miss Prim (Miss Annie Taylor),
who is a maiden lady, and has beenlfearfully scan-
dalised by having this (ahem!) infant left inside
her hall door. But you all remember this lady in
“Impulse,” and when we say she’s as good as
ever, it needs no more to let you know she is
worth going to see. Pattie Browne also pleases
us in the character of Jane, and does any amount
of fibbing to screen her master, who wasn’t to
blame all the time.
* * #
Jemmy (Hans Phillips) is one of those
cheeky youths in an Eton jacket who eats his
breakfast in the most stolid fashion all the time
bis unoie and aunt are snarling at each other. You
wouldn’t believe Hans was anything more than a
boy, to look at him eating eggs. Irascible Flz-
zleton (Mr. Arthur Redwood) tires us to death by
the way In which he Is always getting on to that
marvel of patience, his wife (Miss Watt-Tanner)
and Mrs. Fred.;Fizzleton (Annie Mayor), as the vir-
tuously indignant wife, looks madder than we
ever thought she could. Fred. Fizzleton !(Tlther-
adge), who is the chief baby victim, can’t convince
his wife any how, and there's no end of war
before Will Falrlelgh (Flemming) and his wife
(Conny Deorwyn) find they can arrange so as to
take care of their own baby, for the old father
found out they were married, and forgave all-
even to the (ahem I) Infant. We forgot to say at
the beginning that this giddy pair bad packed the
baby off to their brother (Fizzleton), so as to keep
it out of sight till such a time as when the old
father should know and forgive the secret mar-
riage, and all that. But, as the letter which was to
accompany the cradle didn't turn up till after-
wards, why how was Fizzleton to know where the
hamper came from—and if he did, in his confusion,
rush out with it, and shove it inside Miss Prim's
door, who could blame him ?
• e ♦
It wouldn’t be easy to get a better all-
round company together, and, judging by the at-
tendance since the death of the Pantomime, we
have little hesitation in saying things at the Royal
intend to gee. We have some faults to find cer-
tainly, but they will keep till the next time.
# m #■ *
The cry is still they come to the Mel-
bourne Royal, and the oheoktakers are constantly
being cursed for crying, “Hold, enough!”—be-
cause theatre can’t. (There’s enough real spirit of
humour in that sentence to fill an 18-gallon cask—
but no matter) It’s useless to raise our shapely
eyebrows and protest against the barbarity of
putting up pantomime in this enlightened nine-
teenth century, in the face of real good biz. Our
motto has ever been that “the crowded house is
a cough drop to the captious critic,” and as this
is a pretty alliterative motto, made up all by our
own selves, we must stand by it even though we
weep for the public taste. But the fact is, there
are divers dainty divinities at the Royal who
would make a success of a worse Job even than
“ Cinderella.” “ Cupid, that nasty, naughty, naked
little boy,” as poor Tom Robertson dubbed him,
is mixing himself up in things a lot. Half of the
bearded boys in Melbourne are dying for Nellie
Stewart, we guess. They don’t tell their love, but
as they crowd the gangways of the stalls, they
look it—something awful. An artistic little rent
in Cinderella’s kitchen gown, through which
gleams a shoulder composed of lilies and alabaster,
has driven most of the bank clerks into downright
idiocy. We know how they feel, bless you, and
so must Miss Nellie, In spite of the spirituelle,
innocent sort of way In which she hangs on to her
broom. Oh, she's nice, is Nellie.
* * *
The fellows who haven’t formed a hope-
less passion for Cinderella, dote on Maggie Moore.
She’s La-di-da, the valet of Prince Peerless.
“ Oh I the last rays of feeling and life must depart,
Ere the bloom of that valley shall fade from my
heart.”
When a namesake of Maggie's threw off them
there lines he just expressed our sentiments to a
T. When we die, and the doctors cut us up for the
purpose of discovering the materials of which
great men are composed, they’ll find “ M.M.” en-
graven on our heart, like “ Calais ” on the tough
old organ of Bloody Mary. Meanwhile, we are at
liberty to live and love.
» * *
Harry Taylor and Greville don’t alto-
gether take our fancy as the Ugly Sisters, but this
is hardly to be wondered at. After gazing upon
Cinderella, and La-di-da, and the peerless Docy,
one doesn’t like to see lovely woman cari-
catured. It’s foolish, perhaps, to have such
prejudices, but we can’t help that. Its hu-
man nature, and as Mr. Squeers put It, “She’s
a rum ’un, is natur’ ” John
Wallace makes up well as a half-starved page. We
have a fellow feeling for Johnny, partly because
he’s so kind to Cinderella, but chiefly because he
looks as though he hadn’t got outside of a good
square meal tor six months. At the first glance at
where his stomach ought to be, and before we saw
him dance, we thought he must be on the press-
genius and good grub, alas! are) so seldom associ-
ated. Our bosom is too full to say any more about
Cinderella, at present.
« « « «
Miss Blanche Lewis has been out of the
bill, “ throughlindlsposition,” at the Opera House,
and Mabel Tracy has reigned in her stead. We
thought there was a little lack of esprit about
Blanche the last time we saw her. Very
likely she was sickening for something, and
we tremble as we remember how we hung
upon her every breath as she warbled.
Never mind; if the disease wasn’t any more catch-
ing than some of the melodies in “ Sinbad ” we
may yet escape infection. Mabel is a sprightly,
shapely sort of sailor enough, but, as a matter of
fact, an archangel couldn’t make much headway
through the Cimmerian gloom of the Opera House
show.—
Charming Mabel, ’tis no fable,
Does as well as she is able:
But the Pant., in sober truth, aint worse a curse.
There are certain scenes in Sinbad
So absurd that, tho’ we’ve seen bad.
It is doubtful if we ever have seen worse .
However, as a change is about to come o’er the
spirit of Rignold and Allison’s disappointing
Christmas dream, further lamentation will not be
required. On Saturday we are promised “ My
Partner,” and a peep at Kate Bishop in a new
character. (Little, fluttering heart, be still!) The
change comes not an hour too soon.
She listened with an air of languor while
the agent dilated on its “proximity to schools,
stores, churches, ’’ but when he spoke of its “mail
facilities ” she roused herself to inquire if they were
a disensraged lot, and when the agent unblushingly
assured her that such was the fact, she urged her
pa to buy it.
August Flowbr.—The most miserable
beings in the world are those suffering from Dys-
pepsia and Liver Complaint. More than seventy-
five per cent, of the people are afflicted with these
two diseases and their effects : such as Soul
Stomach, Sick Headache, Habitual Costiveness,
Palpitation of the Heart, Heart-burn, Waterbrash,
gnawing and burning pains at the pit of the
Stomach, Yellow Skin, Coated Tongue and disa-
greeable taste in the mouth, coming up of food
after eating, low spirits, &c. Go to your Druggist
and get a bottle of August Flower. This valuable
medloine has oared thousands and thousands
sufferers and is known in all civilized countries.
Two doses will relieve you. it costs only 3s. ftd. a
bottle. Sample bottles Od.


PEPPER AND SALT.
K$re Is an advertisement from the Mel-
bourne Aon, which is a singular proof of the asser-
tion that about tastes there is no disputing :—“ Un-
furnished bedroom, use slttlngroom; couple, baby;
Peace.—Aa* Office.” It is an old sailor’s sayingi
that the man who would go to sea for pleasure
would go to hell for pastime. Similarly, we con-
sider that the people who yearn after the company
of a baby for peace, would seek the society of an
ice-cream man for quiet, or the seclusion of a
boiler-factory for reflection. But there are such
people. We have ourselves, at various times, lived
In houses where a baby was the chief feature. But
not long. It was not safe. A fiendish desire to
commit infanticide used to grow upon us with
•uoh appalling rapidity that there was nothing for
ns but to make a Herod of ourselves, or fly, and,
as Herods are unpopular in these puling days, we
fled. They talk about babies being little lambs
and innocents, and all that. But after an exten-
sive experience of them, we feel competent to say
that they are compounds of concentrated villainy
end determined malevolence. Ton can depend
upon it, that the doctrine of original sin is no ec-
clesiastical fable. The propounders of it were no
strangers to the infant nature. All babies are born
with an Innate instinct to wallow in vice. We
qbudder to think of what our fate would have
been if we had died in our infancy Instead of liv-
ing to a green and vigorous old age. Let us,
therefore, drink to our green and vigorous old age.
• • *
Here is a gem of reflection from the
Advertiser:— “ When a man gets himself into
gaol there Is no great rush of people to wish
him the compliments of the season.” There Is
an undercurrent of pathos In this remark, which
leads us to the Irresistible conclusion that the
writer knows what he is talking about. And we
can tell you this is a great thing to say of any
editor further inland than Cootamundra Bailey.
It contains a suggestion, too, which might be of
some value to ornamental printers. They should
prepare a quantity of Christmas cards, headed—
“To Friends in Gaol.” The design might be a
heap of blue metal, surmounted by two spawling
hammers crossed, with a bower composed of
handcuffs and leg-irons. If everybody remem-
bered their friends in adversity to the extent of
sending them one of these tokens of esteem, we
are of opinion that the enterprising printer might
soon retire on his pile. We do not say what sort
of a pile.
• • •
He was writing a critique on Max O’Rell’s
“John Bull and his Womankind,” when his
thrilling gaze fell upon this passage:—” I will re-
peat it, cry it upon the housetops, Irom the cradle
to the tomb, ourselves to be led like lambs
by women. The chains are charming, the servi-
tude Is of the sweetest, but servitude It is, none
the less;” and he went on to comment: “ Here we
have the genial Frenchman paying that tribute to
the weaker sex, dictated equally by reason, in-
clination, and Scripture. In our]hours of sickness,
when care and worry and the contest with the
world have worn out body and mind, it is then that
the gentler hands Of woman” Here he glared
over his spectacles at his wife sitting opposite,
and roared: “By the Lord Harry, if you don’t
chop up that morning wood and leave everything
ready for me to have a cup of coffee in the morn-
ing, and get that collar-button sewn on before
you go to bed, so help me thunder, I’ll lug
you out by the feet at 5 In the morning—mind
that!;” and he finished the sentence: “Gentle
hand of woman prepares the evening meal, and,
with her cheerful smile and heavenly patience,
sheds a holy radlence on the family circle, knitting
closer those holy bonds which give to the name of
home its unique significance.
. • »
There is a story told of a young gentleman
of the name of Cleombrotus, who was such an en-
thusiastic admirer of the old Academy that he
sprang off the gunwale of a Greek galley into the
sea with the remark, “ This nijjht I shall sup with
Plato.” And great was the fame he achieved
thereby. If he had lived in these days and at-
tempted the same heroic feat, what would have
been the result ? The question is interesting, as
showing the difference of ancient and modern
ways of looking at things. And, fortunately, it
is easily answered. A short time ago a Swedish
fireman jumped off a steamer into the Newcastle
harbour, after expressing a wish “ to see Jesus.”
He (the fireman) was promptly hauled In again,
and conveyed to the lock-np, where the constable
in charge deposed that he received him in a state
of delirium tremens. The magistrate before whom
he was brought the following morning evinced a
praiseworthy horror of his going to see his
Saviour in such a state, and remanded him for the
production of witnesses. Most likely he is in gao 1
now, Instead of being in glory. This is the result
of being born two thousand years too late. And
this reminds us of a German sailor, who was wrapt
into such an ecstacy of enthusiasm through hear-
ing of the splendid achievements of the Confeder-
ates during the war of secession, that he sprang
from the topgallant yard of a Confederate cruiser,
observing on his way down that he was doing it
“ for the glory of General Jackson.” This sort of
hero-worship considerably eclipses Carlyle’s. Who,
for Instance, can imagine Carlyle going without
his dinner oven for the glory of his great Frede-
rick? But Carlyle is dead, and, after all, did be
not die for the glory of James Anthony Froude ?
• • •
1 The atmosphere thickens. We wanted
light from all sides at the present Juncture, but
Back from the Grave.


the Riverine Evening Star, of February 4, gives
this weak-kneed reason for not joining In the
meUe “ We are again compelled to hold over our
usual leading matter and some other items of in-
terest, In consequence of the extreme pressure
upon our space. Mr. Quirk, of Yerong Creek, was
thrown from his horse on Monday, and sustained
some unpleasant bruises on the right side, but for-
tunately no bones were broken.” And so the dis-
cussion re federation and annexation has to be
postponed until the Riverine Evening Star
speaks. Meantime, Khartoum has fallen. At the
present time of writing, the fate of Gordon and
his gallant comrades Is unsettled. We shall, as
patriots, want to know more about this “ holding
over” of leading matter and “ pressure on our
space.” Mr. Quirk’s ribs must not stand In the
way at a time like this.
■ • •
They were business men and old ©hums,
and they were not doing very well. One had a
very dry weatherboard store crammed to the root
with straw, the other had a wooden store full of
oils, and resin, and tallow, and kerosene—and, of
course, both were heavily Insured. “Awful
times,” says Brown. “Awful’s no word for It,”
says Jones, thinking of overdue bills. Just then*
the postman threw In the Victorian Express,
published at Geraldton. Still with gloom on his
brow, Brown opened the paper. A smile of bright
hope shimmered down his countenance, as he
passed over the paper and pointed out this to
Jones. “There Is no Act In Western Australia
empowering a coroner to hold an Inquest In case
ef fire.” “ Your hand,” said Jones, clasping the
other. “ Saved I We are made men. What’s
freight to Perth ? ”
* * *
A London correspondent of the Adelaide
Advertiser has been contrasting the verbosity
of our barristers and the formalities ef our Judges
with what now obtains In England. He gays i—
“Let a verbose young counsel begin before crabbed
Mr. Justice Field, and be will quickly find himself
pulled up with ‘ Yes, yes, Mr. Blank. Pray, what
Is your next point 7’ ” Again: “ The Lords of the
Judicial Committee of the Privy Council sit at
Downlng-street In plain morning dress—without
wigs, gowns, or other legal paraphernalia, and
quietly over-rule the decisions of the ermine-
robed, banded, and bewlgged Chief Justices Way,
Stawell, and Martin; while the Lord Justices of
the Court of Appeal wear simply the costume of
the ordinary Q.C.” And the writer goes on to ex-
press a hope that our Courts will follow suit.
Perish the thought—
A COMFORTABLE ASSURANCE.
In a cemetery, not more than a Sabbath
Day’s Journey from Redfern Railway Station, has
recently been placed a board, whereon is painted |
an intimation that persons wishing to inspect the
grounds ean obtain the key from (say) Mr. Bento- !
min Bodysnatoher, care of Mr. Tobias Wakem.
The intimation finishes with the astounding asser-
tion—in a line all to Itself—that “ repairs are
' neatly executed.” This Crispin-like announcement
forces one to the conclusion that the gentleman
who “undertakes” the work must be a shoemaker,
combining the “ heeling” art with his knowledge
i of “ soles.” It is a sad piece of business, however*
and has led us to break out all over, as follows:—
A Tingha correspondent of the Armidale
Croon winds up with—“Grass abundant, but
money awfully scarce.” We have tried to grasp
the meaning of this. “ Grass abundant ” —that’s
on account of the rains, no doubt; but “ money
awfully scarce.” Is it possible that in a young
country like this anybody can be short of money?
If so, let them send particulars to this office, and
we will soon see what can be done. Our charge
for insertion is 7s. 6d. per inch In friendly matters
of this sort. We cannot bear to see people short
of money—and we are the people.
• • •
The Armidale Chronicle, a paper for
which we have a great deal too much respect to
accuse it of stating anything rash or heady
enough to bring on complications, the upshot of
which no man can foresee, has committed Itself to
a statement, which, when read In Washington and
New York, cannot fall to excite bitterly hostile
feelings on the part of the Americans towards
Armidale. It says that the “ large surplus revenue
of that country is an evil which must, sooner or
later, be got rid of.” Now, won’t Wall-street see
in a moment that this is an insinuating attempt on
the part of the Chronicle to get a portion of the
odd twenty millions sent oat to open up “this
rapidly-growing district?” Antlll, Jackes, and
Co., proprietors, must really be more careful, or
we shall have to “ name ” them.
This is a story of a high Church dignitary,
who left tens of thousands of pounds to his rela-
tions and £500 to the poor—no doubt with the con-
dition tbat they should chip in a cheap amen re
the repose of his soul. Came a day when the
Archbishop was to visit the fold of this holy man;
and this holy man knew that a bishop carries a
crook. So, Monsignor, who held building blocks
in all the choice places, took Time by the forelock
and pigtail also, and fairly ripped the hair off his
head. He sold those blocks to a faithful son of
the Church, and put the money in the usual place
—his pocket or the poor-box, we forget which.
When the Archbishop arrived, Monsignor “laid
him on” to this faithful brother, with the result
that the whole of the late purchases were trans-
ferred to the Church. The Monslgnor died, and
many masses were said for the repose of his ?
* * *
They’ve posted sentries all round Windsor
Castle now, as suspicious characters have been
noticed about. The other day a shabby but deter-
mined-looking man was walking up St. Alban's,
street, when he was challenged by a soldier with a
loaded rifle. “ Let me pass, soldier,” said the old
man. “-Not me I You must come to the guard-
house,” Having previously been searched In a
sentry-box, he was marched off. On being charged
with loitering, be gave the name of the Earl of
Shaftesbury. On hearing of this circumstance,
Her Majesty was “much distressed,” but com-
mended the gallantry and devotion of her noble
army 1
• •
Saturday was a field day at J. D. Young’s.
We called in before going to the boat-race, and
he took us aside mysteriously. “Splendid muster
of the Press In the bar,” he said. “Where?” we
asked, bewildered, since we recognised none of
them. “Hush! they’re right along the counter."
“Are they? Thunder! Then what’s that man
with the black eye aad the hare-lip.” “ Hum I Oh,
he is the editor of the Bungooroora Star. He’s
going to send my hotel along in the Eastern dis-
tricts.” “ Ob, Indeed,” we said, “ then who is the
party with a club foot, and no shirt collar?”
He’s just down from Quldoondah, where he has
established a paper to meet a long-felt want.”
“ Who’s the party with a patch In bis pants and
the shakes, then?" we enquired. “Not so loud!
Special correspondent of the Fbesh Creek Sig-
nal.” “ And who’s that with one front tooth and
no socks?” “Come farther away! That’s the
Berlin correspondent of the Bald Rock Express.
There are five more of the ’push ’ about.” “ But
what—” “Come in this corner,” said the worthy
alderman, dragging us over towards the office;
“they all live here.” “ We thought you didn’t ”
“No; no more we do. They don’t live in the
house; they camp in the building.” “What! in
the corridors ?” “ Oh, no,” replied the alderman;
“ they reside in the rooms formerly occupied by
the talented promoters of the Newsletter.’*
“ But there’s no furniture ” “ Not a stick; they
sleep on the Newsletter’s exchanges. That man
there-that’s his 16th this morning!—with only
three hairs and the palsy—he’s the boss.” “ Ob, he’s
the boss, is he ? ’ “ He writes the fashion articles
for the Jackadandah Jackal. He and the
dramatic correspondent of the Siroogow Times
have the board-room to themselves. The others
with that small man who’s lost one coat-tail,
occupy severally the secretary’s apartment and
the clerk’s office.” “ Do you board them ? ”
“Partly; each man gets a gallon of beer a day,
and what he can pick up. But I don’t let them
get the bulge on me, either. My regul-r custo-
mers are allowed the first onslaught on the * good
things provided.’ Each man takes his beer in a wash-
hand basin at ten, and then he’s looked in till the
rush is over.” “Oh, that’s the. way you do it?”
“ Yes; you see I want to be sent along In the
country papers. Cheap.” “ Does he belong to the
Club, that fellow there with the loose eyeball ?”
“Indeed ho does; he Is second In command. Ho
writes,” continued J.D., sinking his voice to a
whisper, “the funny police comt pars, in the—-.
Nothing like keeping the Press sweet ” “ Well,
if you can keep that section sweet, you are a clover
fellow. Ta, tal” And we left J.D. gazing admir-
ingly upon his protigis.
A recent sub-leader In that giddy old rag,
the Presbyterian, opens up In this style :—
“ Balaam was a man who looked both ways.” This,
we believe. Is the first historical allusion to a cross-
eyed man on record. And, by the way, Balaam’s
range of vision appears to have been almost as
circumscribed a« that of some of his black-coated
descendants of the present day, for we are told
that, upon one occasion, he failed to see as far as
the nose of his own donkey.
Mark Twain has a new book out, entitled
“ Huckleberry Finn." We extract from It Mark a
entirely new reading of Hamlet’s sollllquy:—
“ To be, or not to be; that is the bare bodkin
That makes calamity of so long life;
For who would fardels bear, till Birnam Wood
do come to Dunslnane,
But that the fear of something after death
Murders the innocent sleep,
Great Nature’s second course,
And makes us rather sling the arrows of out-
rageous fortune
Than tty to others that we know not of.
There’s the respect must give us pause:
Wake Duncan with thy knocking! I would thou
oouldst;
For who would bear the whips and scorns of
time,
The oppressor’s wrong, the proud man's con-
tumely,
The law's delay, and the quietus which his pangs
might take,
In the dead waste and middle of the night when
churchyards yawn
In customary suits of solemn black,
But that the undiscovered country from whose
bourne no traveller returns.
Breathes forth contagion on the world.
And thus the native hue of resolution, like the
poor oat 1’ the adage,
Is sloklled o’er with care.
And all the clouds that lowered o’er our house-
tops.
With this regard their currents turn awry,
And lose the name of action.
’Tie a consummation devoutly to be wished.
But soft you, the fair Ophelia:
Ope not thy ponderous and marble jaws,
But get thee to a nunnery—go!
When we are racked with rheumatic pains
till we are worn out, or have come home diffu-
sively and fallen down the well, we have one de-
vice to draw off the pain. We convert it into
mental agony by running through our contempo-
raries We carry in onr breast pocket the Mel-
bourne Bulletin of any date, for the contents are
equally venerable and curative. Here, for In-
stance, when patent oils bad failed, is a piece of
poetry, Intended to be tenderly humane, which
cured us of the gout. It is about the railway acci-
dent:—
" How did It happen ?” the injured say,
As they, maimed and torn, on a sick-bed lay;
Well, after enquiry, the jury confess
The disaster was c tused by carelessness.”
And here are some dramatic notes: “ Johnny Col-
lins and Charley Holly are in Queensland,”
“Johnny Collins and Charley Holly have part-
nered,” “Johnny O’Neil ’fetched ’em ’ in the
policeman’s song,” “Jemtnie Wheeler continues
his tour with the Ohio Minstrels,” ” Jim Kennedy’s
spec in Albury resulted in untold wealth,” and'so
on, for two columns, with the Johns and Jimmies
of whom nobody ever h*-aid or ever wished to.
Further on (and this shifts the pain In acute casts
of pleurisy! we are startled to learn that •• Prince
Bismarck is a man of mark,” and that “Edmund
Yates is sentenced to four months’ ohokee,” and
toothache gives way like magic, and we harbour
only schemes of blood and murder we can never
execute, when we find this exquisite versifica-
tion:—
“ Yes, Billy Hopkins, you a<-e right;
The greatest bill we’ve seen,
Whose life upon the stage we know’s
A glorious trlump been.”
No wonder the paper is found in every servant-
girl's room where draughts and neuralgia are
prevalent.
When death shall end thy cares, my friend,
In here yon can be suited;
Tobias dares to say: “ Repairs
Are neatly executed.”
'Tls not quite clear, what he does here
To prove a corpse recruited;
Yet he declares that all “ Repairs
Are neatly executed.”
Tls doctrine sound, that underground
We never get quite rooted;
Hence, It is possible, “ Repairs
Are neatly executed.”
Do corpses stark (a question dark,
Now to be fairly mooted).
Coffins, or stones require “ Repairs
Bo neatly executed 7"
It must be moved, and hence be proved,
And never be refuted
Through after years, that all “ Repairs
Are neatly executed.”
A man might think (If steeped la drink)
This notice should be hooted.
Why interfere, If all *’ Repairs
Are neatly executed.”
Once on a time, a man of crime,
Who murdered and who “looted
Despite his prayers— without “ Repairs,
Was neatly executed.”
What I take the wig from Slattery’s head,
And gown from off Colonna’s back;
Make Salomon in moleskin plead,
Or David rant in a tweed sad
Can Martin, Faucett, Docker sit
In dust-coats, and deal out good law ?
Or A. G. Taylor show his wit
When told to give the Court less Jaw ?
“ Whereas,” “ aforesaid,” “ pro and con,”
“ Ft facias ” and “ rule nisi ” fled—
Why, ere a man’s speech half is done,
Our client’s free, ere he’s half-bled.
Farewell to repetition’s charm.
The counsel’s hope, the client’s woe;
Wake, brothers I hear the dread alarm —
With wigs and gowns gone, we must go!
I’ve heard that all to pieces fall—
Till now, ’twas undisputed—
How nice to think that here “ Repairs
Are neatly executed.”
When comes their day to fly away,
All ready dressed and booted,
Each sole declares that all “ Repairs
Were neatly executed.”
2. HIS FATHER WAS ALSO A WHEELMAN BEFORE HIM
1. HEM! BEHOLD YOUNG WHEELMAN
The World Moves.


" CAROLS OF COCKAIGNE."
(BY OUR OWN AGENT-GENERAL.)
London, Jan. 2.
At last the Queen has allowed her youngest
daughter to do what every girl In Sydney would
wish to do long before she attained the mature age
of soven-and-twenty—namely, to capture a hus-
band in order that she mar boil her billy under
her own little roof-tree. The stately Times tells
that “ at Osborne on December 28 the Queen gave
a conditional sanction to the betrothal of Princess
Beatrice to Prince Henry of Battenherg, the con-
dition being, that the Prince and Princess reside in
England after their marriage and in close proxi-
mity to Her Majesty.” It is an open secret that
for many years Queen Victoria has at times suf-
fered from attacks of that hereditary “ dottiness,”
which in the case of her noble ancestor, George
III., led to a Regency, and also to that Regent,
when he subsequently ascended the throne, eter-
nally trying to kiss the forbiddingly iron and un-
klssable features of the Duke of Wellington, and
imagining that he (George IV.) had beaded a fiery
charge at Waterloo. The long-continued and
gloomy seclusion of the Queen at Osborne and
Balmoral simply means that those palaces are used
by the gilded figure-head of the British State
as retreats during her period* of mental depres-
sion, and thither she Is taken when the Court phy-
sicians anticipate a recurrence of the malady,
which, as the years go by, makes faster its hold.
Princess Beatrice would have been married long
ago, but for the fact that her personal devotion
has been absolutely necessary to her mother.
• • •
Beatrice is a tolerably sensible, buxom-
looking young lady, who if not as clever, is cer-
tainly not so cranky as her sister Louise. The
eccentricity of Lome’s erratic spouse takes the
form of what may be described as hydrophobia,
coupled with an aversion to Pears soap and
a love of art. Among the queer Bohemian
geniuses of London is a slovenly gentleman,
who is better known as a dramatist than as
a portrait-painter. He bad a studio in Chel-
sea, whither Louise, in the days when Lome
was wooing her, was wont to wend her way-no
doubt to escape from the boredom of that Cale-
donian prig. She could not “ abide” his “ poetry.”
Her artist-friend’s studio was an upside-down
sort of place, very like a “ Jerry-built” house after
an earthquake, and its gifted o wner usually had
on hand (one or two of those yellow-haired dam-
sels euphemistically described as “ models.”
These things, however, did not in any way
disturb Louise But one morning the slipshod
painter (who really is known to his friends as
cherishing a strong distaste for nail-brushes and
polished boots) received a note in the lovely cali-
graphy of the Princess:—”! cannot visit your
studio any longer, because I notice that you never
tub." The indignation of Mr. W. knew no bounds.
“ By heaven I” be exclaimed to his friend, the late
Dante Gabriel Rossetti, “I could have borne it
from any other woman, but you know as well as I
do that Louise can’t have seen soap and water
since childhood's days.”
* * *
The lengths to which Prince Henry is pre-
Sared to go in order to secure an English Princess,
i evidenced by the fact that he undertakes to live
with his mother-in-law. This young man must,
indeed, be good. 'He is probably cousin-german
to “ the good young man who died.”
• • •
But, to return to Beatrice. Of course, the
creature is a German, his full name being " Prince
Henry of Sohwlllensanfengermansausagesohwe-
dischturnlpsteln.” Yet that eminently respectable
British journal, the Standard, says:— Prince
Henry’s brother. Prince Louis of Battenherg, is
more than half an Englishman, bolding, as he does,
a commission in the British navy,” This is the
kind of logic by which the British taxpayer is re-
conciled to providing another alien princeling
with bread and cheese and kisses. We live and
learn. Now, I know all sorts of things. For in-
stance, I am a musician, because I had a brother
who once lived in the same street with a man who
played the concertina. “I am an Englishman, be-
cause I have my German paw in the capacious
pocket of the long-suffering British public.”
* * *
Let us from Court to courtiers. There Is
Sir Samuel Wilson, who, from the corduroy of the
bullock-puncher, has risen to the plush of the in-
digenous lacquey. It reminds us of a little ballad
we once wrote, with the merry refrain—
" O dearie, dearie me
What different coves we be
To when we punched the bullocks
On the plains of Werribee!”
Sir Salmon’s present address is, as all ths world
knows, Hughenden Manor, Hughenden, Bucks,
and it is uncharitably asserted that he took Dis-
raeli’s country house as an advertisement- The
supposition may be perfectly correct, but the car-
roty colonial knight has his reclame very cheap, as
all he pays is £300 a year for the rent of the old
Manor-house—the farms, shooting, &o. being let
out by the owner on separate leases. This “ cheap
ad.” is Salmon’s greatest crime in the eyes of all
the other members of the little plutocratic Aus-
tralian colony in London, especially in those of his
namesake, the Hon W. Wilson, a rival Cabbage-
Garden senator, who is now here, and who once
described Samuel in a certain august chamber as
“a titled cad.” “Why.” exclaimed William, re-
ferring to Hughenden, “ I have to pay much more
for my slice of a terrace in Barlscourt Road, out of
which I can’t get a par. even in the Argus I”
Kelk is the man who, in London, humps
round the plate on behalf of that glorious work,
the evangelisation of the poor benighted Jews of
Palestine. In Jerusalem there are 20,000 Hebrews,
on whose conversion over £7000 of Christian
money has been annually spent since 1876. But
not a single Jew has been raked into Kelk’s fold—
so says one Courtenay, a seemingly very pungent
and straightforward person, in a letter to the
Times. But the Rev. Kelk alleges that in seven
years be has converted no less than 12 live Jews,
of whom three were baptised in Christ Church,
Jerusalem, ” and the rest elsewhere.” Admitting
Kelk’s figures as to the nine “ elsewhere” Jews,
one finds that it coats near £1000 per bead to in-
duce the poorest Semites in creation to renounce
the God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob,
and to abandon the hope of being gathered in to
the bosom of the patriarch. Listen to the re-
morseless Courtenay, as he sums up the achieve-
ments of the saintly Kelk:—” Ho neglected to dis-
tinguish between those of adult nominal converts
ana of boys who had been fed, clothed, and edu-
cated in the society’s school till they were sup-
posed to be manufactured into fit candidates for
the sacred rite, and forgot to state how many of
those persons turned out to be impostors. . . .
The published accounts of the mission were
cooked. Boldly asking in the Timks for money,
Mr. Kelk said that each boy could be maintained
for £15 per annum, thereby raising the incon-
venient question as to the expenditure of £828 in
the education and maintenanee of five boys in
1879, as stated in the reports and accounts for the
year.” Mr. Courtenay evidently fails to grasp the
position. Marcus would have told him that
the balance between £828 and five times £15 had
left Palestine for the land of the bounding kan-
garoo, and was being lent out in Swanston-street,
Melbourne, at U00 per shent.
• •
And, talking of Jews. A Times advertise-
ment the other morning announced to us that Mr.
Abraham Cohen Isaacs had decided on being known
henceforth as—what do you think? Well, as Mr.
“ Roderick Leslie.” It—that is to say, the “ Rode-
rick”—fairly took away the breath of the nation,
and sent Mr. M’Eaohearn, Sir Thomas M'llwralth’s
partner, into a deep faint on the biggest office-
ledger In Penohuroh-street. When an ordinary
Englishman changes bis name, be generally goes
for an old one, as did the late Mr. Bugg when he
•boldly re-christened himself by Times advertise-
ment — ” Montmorenol Plantagenet Norfolk- 1
Howard.” But this can’t have been Mr. Isaacs’
reason. He had, no doubt, heard of the financial
success of Miss Lotinga, the dark-eyed Jewish
paiden, of Sunderland, who, at the age of sweet
17, embarked In a money-lending venture all on
her own account, underjthe attractive Gentile ap-
pellation of “ F. Smith and Company.” But, in
the matter of nomenclature and everything else,
no one can deny that the English Hebrew has the
fullest possible freedom. We have all so long
been familiar with Judaic Montmorencis and Mon-
tagus that one Is tempted to search the New Cut
In the hope of discovering a Mr. Aaron Capulet.
• « •
Mrs. Langtry is preparing to open Edgar
Bruce’s splendid new theatre, the Prince’s, in
Coventry-street, Piccadilly, and to snuff out Mary
Anderson, who just now has the game and the
story all In her own hands. Mary is the best ad-
vertised female “mummer” extant, and, contrary
to the habit of too many of her order, has con-
trived to make professional capital out of her
personal virtue, the greatness whereof is the
theme of never-ending wonder and ceaseless com-
ment. Mr. and Mrs. Labouchere assert, it is true,
that chastity is not necessarily a concomitant of
histrionic capacity, and Henry and his Henrietta
ought to know. Mary Anderson is nine years
younger, and half-an-inch taller than Mrs. Lang-
try, and she boasts a “ pure Greek profilebut, to
quote that grim cynic, Thackeray, “ wait till she
comes to forty-year. The Yankee beauty has
not been built to last. The rage about her is but
an apottieosis of coldness. Her attractiveness is
that of the mere statue, and recalls Byron’s
lines—
“I’ve seen much finer women, ripe and real.
Than all the nonsense of yourstone Ideal.”
In short, she Is a “pasty-faced ” lady of that order
which looks “ lovely In death.” or under the lime-
light. lu contraire, Mrs. Langtry is a superb
English beauty of flesh and blood, fit to be the
mother of heroes—a perfect combination of
strength and grace, despite the vicious American
allegation that “ her footprint is the grave of sen-
timent.” She will probably endure Madame Ves-
tris, whom Charles Mathews married when she
was approaching four-and-forty; for, like hun-
dreds of her lovely countrywomen whom one
meets in walks abroad these crisp winter morn-
ings, she adds to her magnificent physique a com-
plexion like a peach, eyes like bluebells, and teeth
that glitter as the stars. Mary Anderson is a
stage-beauty; Mrs. Langtry is a beautiful woman.
• • 9
Miss Anderson got her “society manners ”
on the stage; Mrs. Langtry got her stage manners
in society. On and off the boards Mary is always
acting. Her beloved mother, her careful step-
father, and her personal virtue, are splendid stock-
in-trade. Accompanied by all these things, she,
the other day, Just before the production of
“ Romeo and Juliet ” at the Lyceum, paid a visit
to Stratford-on-Avon. On arrlvinglat the monu-
ment of the “Divine Williams,” she, to the
astonishment of even her stepfather, who is accus-
tomed to and encourages her pranks of affecta-
tion and mock-heroics, prostrated herself before
the statue and offered up a sort of inspired
address. Now, the world thinks Mary Anderson
classic-featured and interesting, but it does not
think her a histrionic genius. It is safe to predict
that when the Jersey Lily shall have made her
rentrie, the classic nose of Mary will be consider-
ably out of Joint.
• • •
That highly moral "son of the Mause,”
Archibald Forbes, is just now having a bad time
at the hands of the newspapers, and is in daily
anticipation of Madame Sara Bernhardt appearing
with a revolver at his little box in Fulham. On
9th September last, be described S«ra, in his " Lon-
don Jottings," in the pious and prurient S. A.
Advertiser, as an abandoned, hopeless drunkard,
an utter wreck, whose day was done. He said he
bad seen her speechlessly drunk on the stage of
the London Gaiety Theatre—so drunk that she had
lost her looomotory powers, and was compelled to
hang on to a table in order to keep herself on her
feet. The basis of Forbes’ cowardly slander, if
indeed, it can be said to have had a basis, was that
Madame Bernhardt was nervously exhausted and
iil through the crushing combined overwork of a
French and English season. She has just given
the lie to the Insufferably bumptious and vulgar
ex-dragoon, by making, this week, in M. Sardou’s
new play, where everything depends on her alone,
perhaps the greatest triumph of her unrivalled
artistic career. "Suffered a recovery,” will per-
haps be the explanation vouchsafed by the coarse
cavalryman. But think you that Victorien Sar-
dou, the world’s foremost playwright, whose in-
come is thousands a month, would trouble himself
to invent a drama especially, if not solely, adapted
to the genius of Sara Bernhardt, were she a drivel-
ling, shattered drunkard ?
• • *
Forbes is the person who, when in Aus-
tralia, gratuitously constituted himself the unc-
tlous censor of journalistic morality. He travelled
in our country tor a month or two, and is now one
of the great Australian authorities of London. In
circles such as the “Royal Colonial Institute”
( alias " Freddy's Debating Club ”) he is regarded
as a perfect Antipodean oracle. The S. M. Herald
prints his garbage, and is said to ludicrously over-
pay him tor bis clumsy and ill-chosen words. We
have seen how he " jots ” in the 8. A. Advertiser.
Ex uho discs omnes!
• mm
I attended, the Other day a meeting of the
Imperial Federation League, " Buckshot ” Forster
in the chair. Tbe usual set of colonial " represen-
tatlve” men were present. The Agents-General
were there; Sir Salmon was there; so were the
illustrious honorary secretary, Mr. Frederick
Young. and the ingenious Mr. F. P. Labllliere, of
Pump Court, Temple. I looked in vain among the j
crowd of alleged colonials for any one whose name
was ever beard of in a representative sense by the
people af Croagingolong or Manaro. Judge of my
astonishment, wnen suddenly a small, squat man,
with a Shakespeare collar and a straggling beard,
arose and lifted up his squeaky voice:—“ I have
lived in the colony of Queensland for a quarter of
a century, and I stand up to say that there arc two
men whose names are known and respected not
only in that colony, but all over Australia—in fact,
they have become, as it were, Household Words.
Need I say that I refer to Sir Robert Herbert, and
Mr. Frederick Young?” Well might Mr. Merrl-
man, the forceful ex-Premier of the Cape, dig in
the ribs his neighbour in the next chair, and re-
mark : “ 1 don’t know Australia myself, but I pre-
sume that’s all a lie. Our little friend is evidently
after a bit of blue ribbon,”
♦ * *
A few lines as to the leading lights of the
“Royal” Colonial Institute, which, by the way,
holds solemn conclave over a tailor’s shop in the
Strand. Mr. .“Pump” Labllliere, of whom we
read much in the Homb Nbws, European Mail,
and other luminous publications, whose benevo
lent columns are so easily accessible to self-adver-
tising aspirants to greatness, is understood to base
his claims to Australian eminence and Australian
gratitude on the fact that he was, some 35 or more
years ago, born in Victoria, whose early history he
has written in two singularly dull and forbidding
volumes. Mr. Labllliere has never been in Vic-
toria since his childhood, but as be knows the
Agents-General, reads the Victorian newspapers
and Hayter’s statistics, and talks about them in
public on every possible occasion, he will, in Lon-
don, be reverenced as an Australian authority
long after he has entered upon his second child-
hood. Dean Swift once said that the fact of being
born in a stable didn’t necessarily make one a
horse. But as Mr. Labllliere first saw the light in
Port Phillip, he is regarded as an eminently repre-
sentative Australian by that large and respectable
section of the British public who still patriotically
stick to the grand old belief that Tasmania is in
North Queensland, that New Guinea’s the capital
of Fiji, and that Van Diemen’s Land is the princi-
pal suburb of Botany Bay.
* ♦ *
Mr. Frederick Young who, in the offices of
the Times. Pall Mall, and other London papers
worth reading, is treated as the Great Australian
Encyclopedia and Complete Letter-Writer, and on
whose sapient epistles the able editor invariably
confers the dignity of “ leaded ” type, has never
been to the colonies at all. Having: acquired finan-
cial Independence as a brass-worker In the City, he
has become a man of leisure, and has kindly taken
Australia under bis protection. Frederick, who is
a delicate-looking: gentleman on the solemn side of
50, strongly reminds one, In his personal appear-
ance, of an individual who, In Sydney, aspires to
eminence as an authority on art. He wears a
flower In bis button-hole, talks like a well-bred
old maid, and (like Murray Smith, Cashel Hoey, and
Garrick, Q C.) is perspiring for knighthood.
♦ * ♦
Apropos of this field, Smith is the favourite
for first place, but two of our men, Dailey and
Stuart, will, no doubt, pass the post with him next
Queen's Birthday. Freddy knows It, and sighs
deeply when he sees those artful telegraphic
soothing-powders, so adroitly manufactured In
Maoquarle-street for the old Downing-s treat klep-
tomaniac.
* • *
Just read this. In English official docu-
ments, all titles, telegrams. See., are reproduced
verbatim. Now on 24th September last, Mr.
Stuart cabled thus to Sir Saul Samuel:—" Disagree
with Mr Service’s proposal, urging Lord Derby
hasten New Guinea, and extend protectorate over
all Pacific.” From this it would really appear
that the present N.S.W. Government are Bis-
marck’s agents in Australia. But that is not the
only point. How does it come to pass that the
Cornstalk Premier, at an extra expense of ten and
elghtpence to our bleeding colony, alludes to the
V ictorian Premier as Mr. Service ?
♦ * *
Which reminds me that a two-and-nine-
nenny cable rate for the Australian Press is said to
have at last been definitely arranged, despite the
strenuous opposition of the monopolist journals.
The credit is due to Baron Reuter and Mr.
Henniker Heaton.
•
George Darrell is up and about again.
The doctors say he narrowly escaped the cold and
silent tomb. Ada Ward called upon him during
his illness. She has a kind heart, has Ada, but
she has also a morbid love of munching funeral
baked meats, and of decking with fair flowers
the new-made graves of members of the perfesh.
She brought unto the pallid George an armful of
chrysanthemums and a bundle of yellow-back
literature, spick and span, from Mudie's. George
smiled faintly, and was evidently delighted. But
then, George is not a man of imagination, or he
would have exclaimed on seeing at his bedside
the slender figure in the sealskin cloak, " Here
are the eagles I ” Had I been in such a case, I am
afraid my mind would have reverted to the tomb-
stone in the Melbourne cemetery whereon one
may read the name of "Welle" in letters that
“re not very large, and of Ada Ward In letter!
which are not very small.
• • *
Next in importance to George Darrell is the
New Guinea question. Colonial politicians whose
patriotism consists in a mere desire to get handles
to their names, can’t afford to talk straight to that
fountain of honour’’Lord Derby. Service and
Herry are aggressive because “for private reasons
pretty well known In public,” they can never
hope to be fraternised in K.C.M G.-ship with the
Mudir of Dongola. ibis is a good job for Vic-
torians. Other Australian “ statesmen ” are meek,
ror other reasons. The Agonts-General, on all oc-
casions, roar like doves in Derby’s presence. How
the yet untitled Murray Smith must enjoy handing
Service s threatening and dogmatic telegrams t'y
the Secretary of State for the colonies!
The late Colonel Fred Burnaby.
Colonel Burnabt, whose portrait appears
on our front page this week, some years
ago, when he was Captain Burnaby, wrote
a book. Khiva was at that time in the
mouths of all who thought—who does not
think so—that Russia’s advance in Central Asia
means a big fight south of the Himalayas at no
distant day. Captain Burnaby determined to
reach Khiva, and the Russians determined he
should not. He won; partly through his know-
ledge of Asiatic tongues, but chiefly through
pluck. Frederick Burnaby was born in 1842. His
rather was a clergyman of the Church of England,
J n 1859 young Fred got a commission in the
•Oxford Blues.” Priests of the English Church
preach peace, but they must surely be the most
belligerent of mortals. They pray for peace in
their time, rise from their knees, and apply to the
Horae Guards for commissions for their sons. In
the army, the adolescent Burnaby became a “ ter-
ror ’ with the foils and gloves, but he broke down
under the hard physical strain, and went abroad
to recruit. It was in 1875 that he started on his
perilous ride to Khiva. Subsequently, he rode
over most of Persia and Turkey in Asia.
Wherever a fresh field of adventure was opened,
Burnaby made a dash for it. To remain
in England while British soldiers were making
their way into the heart of Africa was for him
impossible. He was with Stewart’s column of
1500 men on the 17th January, when from ten to
twelve thousand Arabs made a dash at it. The re-
sult has been told all the world over. The Arabs
left a tenth of their number to coquette with
bouris, and of the British a tenth also were placed
hors de combat, about seventy being killed out-
right. Among the latter was Colonel Frederick
Burnaby. He was a born soldier, and he met a
soldier's death. In Burnaby there was much to
admire. The word •* fear” had no place in his
vocabulary. But he believed in a good many
things, which are now, happily, either completely
dead or rapidly passing away. He would have re-
tained the “ cat” in the army and navy, and would
probably have added another tail or two if he
had his way. But then the Duke of Cambridge,
our present Commander-in-Chlef, whose military
renown (it runs in the family) was the only thing
that prevented Czar Alexander—of pious memory
—from breaking with us a few years ago, enter-
tains similar views. It is the Duke’s opinion that
a British regiment without triangles is not much
to be feared. In public affairs also, if Burnaby
had bis way, he would have made short work of
peasants’ grievances, and of the journals that cir-
culated them. But he is gone, and over his dis-
tant grave might, with Justice, he written
Cl ait le brave Burnaby ,
George Hawke.
Georoe Hawke Is a bricklayer’s labourer. There
is, you may say. nothing startling abeut this.
Bricklayer’s labourers existed long before George
Hawke crawled to the top of a fence to cry for the
moon. They will be found pursuing their useful
calling when he and bis shall have melted away
into the azure of the past. Well, on Sunday tbe
26th of January, 1886, Hawke came across the gap
made in the railway line near Cootamundra. Be-
low him was a raging torrent. He knew a
train was approaching from the South—
so across he would get, at all hazards.
This he managed by crawling along the
rails and sleepers loft banging in mid-air
when the line gave way. Then he started at a
spanking pace along the line to warn the doomed
train, but found his way blocked by other chasms
made by the rushing waters of the swollen creek.
Into one of these the southern train dashed Just as
Hawke had almost reached It. There was nothing
for him now but to give the alarm and assist in
rescuing the wounded. This he did, and the Traffic
Manager subsequently described his aid as “in-
valuable.” His conduct throughout was that of a
brave man. and when we read that the Govern-
ment have offered him a post on the railway, pre-
sented him with a watch and a fifty-pound note,
we cordially say “Bravo, Mr. Hawke, may you
live long to see the money increase and to wear
the chronometer.” We recognise in George Hawke
a genuine man— one of the sort that is never, by
any chance, turned into a C.M.G.
So many clergymen, Sunday-school teach-
ers, Salvationists, etc.,have of late been prosecuted
in England for acts of indecency, that it would
really seem that salaciousness and a certain florid
and now very prevalent form of piety are identical
commodities. Offences of this character, on the
part of persons ostensibly religious, can only be
accounted for by the heretical supposition, which
will hardly recommend itself to tho holy papers,
that when a man or woman allows the emotional
to outweigh the logical, he or she has much to fear
from the policeman. A “ sense of sin” is too often
but tho reaction from past passion, just as the
‘virtue” of such thin-lipped Pharisees as Ban
Cairns (who, ere the ink had dried on the £10,000
cheque given by him to Miss Fortescue, to atone
for the follies of his lordship of Garmoyle, had the
impudence to lecture to the London Y.M.C.A., on
“How to bring up a son”),ls a constitutional falling
attendant on their very bloodiessness.
From the returns of the English public
analysis, it would appear that once in four times,
on an average, a prescription made up at a
chemist’s shop is not composed of pure drugs, in
strict accordance with tbe Pharmacopoeia, One out
of four, at least, is the average of samples of
drugs purchssed by private persons for analysis
which are found to be adulterated; but, as tbe
authorities of the local Government Board ob-
serve, a private purchaser’s suspicions have pro-
bably been pretty strongly aroused before he
exerts himself thus to bring them to a test. Of
samples purchased indifferently bv the officers
appointed by the Adulteration Act, the proportion
is one-seventh—& sufficiently large one, however
to suggest unpleasant reflections when the im-
portance of a medicine being exactly what it
purports to be is taken into account. It is fair to
note that many of the samples reported against
appear not to be adulterated in the ordinary
sense of the word, but are merely, from having
been originally defective, or having deteriorated
through keeping, below the standard strength.
The result, however, as the Board point* out, is
that a prescription compounded of such drugs
may fall altogether to produce the effect which
would have been produced by drugs of proper
Quauty. In other cases (we are told on the same
official authority) preparations of expensive drugs,
such as quinine, are either unduly diluted, or that
a prescription of three grains would contain only
two grains, or a cheap drug (cinchonine for
example) is substituted. If such a state of things
exists in England, what must be the case in Aus-
tralia, where practically there is no check on
adulteration ?
“Th© Potent Poison quite o’eroomes my
Spirit,” cries Hamlet, as he falls, touched with
the deadly bane with which the foil of Laertes was
tlppOT. Oh I that the world would exclaim against
the quicker and more potent poisons that lurk In
the spurious imitations of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Be sure you obtain Wolfe’s Schnapps.
MR. GEORGE HAWKE,


"THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession .]
New, ladies and gentlemen, prepare to be
loaded no with information. We see that Dam-
nier is back in Newcastle, giving them The
white Hand,” which is probably a translation of a
Paris piece, called “ Le Pied Noir.” Alfred has
apparently given up the idea of “ forming a cir-
cuit ” and no wonder 1 for we understand that
Tamworth licked him. There is that about Tam-
worth which would wreck any company, we
know a talented troupe that went up there from
Singleton (another dramatic tomb!) on the strength
of a “powerful requisition,” signed by the most
influential citizens of the town. Great things
are expected under these circumstances; but, as
the push was blacking up, the agent came behind
with a startled look, and stated that the 245 in-
fiuential residents who signed the requisition ex-
pected to go in free. This being indignantly re-
used by the manager, the populace took the
fmii’ and that night the company played to
cat-calls and the bellmen. Next
morning it took an early walk—to Newcastle
ywestce mygtiref It is from the N.Z. Times
p.J/fPPy Hours Retreat,’ Mr. E. A. Hart’s pretty
Mii?5V e8 I de ?. ce at Kllbirnie. will be offered for
byMr. Francis Sldey. Liberal terms for
daw. « .S 11 granted to the purchaser.” Next
H . ap fi y Hours Retreat’ (Mr. E A. Hart’s
BaioP'« r?u at WKfibirme) has been withdrawn from
•• ,parts remind us of a joke which (like
Mantana ) is still evergreen—
** A PPy Ours, what’ for you ?”
Would cry this genial ma’am
[And no one ever dared to smile) -»
Ash, aricot, or ram ? ”
“iVim did moderate biz. with his
and rooiu?™ UP . Nor th, and If he has any savee
big h?n ul ant8 ?0 . home > be will organise one
ctmn trv’ ro re ’ aD j glve U P busking about the
acrosa a* -whether it has ever flashed
to? sort of a “push” he has
SSdW l he frlvy Council. With regard to his
area8 » he can depend upon it that If he carves
it long, they’ll cut it short....The Montague Tur-
ners have been giving the “ evergreen ” with suc-
cess in Brisbane. A little paper there (sadly dull
it is, too 1) says:—" Everyone knows the
plot of ‘ Maritana ’ ” That man evidently does,
and he is, we suppose, nearly everyone !
Gordon is in Brisbane with the Turners, and seems
to have eventuated a big go. G. has got a splen-
did voice, and is very fond of it. Probably this
leads him to so frequently treating it The Tam-
worth Hooke, in its blushing innocence calls
“The Workman” “a play by Frank Hadory, in
which the devotion of one sister to . . . ”!!!.. And
this is a really tip-top joke:—“A variety star lately
showed to limited audiences. On his last night bis
patrons had not only dwindled, but the few pre-
sent seemed oblivious of his jokes, so he stepped
to the footlights, and, after thanking those present
for their liberal patronage, added, * And if any of
you are dissatisfied, and would like your money
returned, you will find my acting manager at the
door, and I’ve no doubt he’ll—see you d—d first.”
Lardelli (who has gone home to England to
study vocalism under the best professors Tipper-
ary can producejjwas given a big concert by the
Amateurs at Newcastle. He was also given—what
is mom to the purpose-a puree of sovs Pancv a
man being named Lardelli. Is it possible ? We
suppose so; but how funny it would be to
see the trial in Pickwick labelled — “ Pick-
icko and Bardelli.” “Franko Bennet'i,” would
be equally droll It Is stated by the N. Y.
Mirror that a favourable notice can be purchased
of any London critic for £20, According to this,
three favourable notices would be all some of our
critics would require to write during the year!
The other night A. L. Burton played Romeo at
Narrabri. He seemed to have escaped The
Tamworth Hooke says Dampier has brought
“ scenic and mechanical appointments not hitherto
seen here.” We said that once of a spectacular
play at the Queen’s.and you wouldn’t b-lieve how
angry they were—Is this to be believed ? From
Fox’s N. Y P. G : —" Bandmann, the great Ger-
man-Amerlcan scene-biter, is playing * Hamlet ’ at
ten cents a head in the various dime museums of
the country. This is about where Daniel belongs,” i
By the way, Daniel has got another Beaudet ...
Teddy Davies, when last heard of, was at Quorn,
S.A. Ho 1s going to take another pub., it seems,
but be has intimated pretty plainly that he has no
desire for “an extensive theatrical connection.”
Let’s see, re B. D. D.:—
I made this stew myself—
It’s hot and hot and ready.
There 1 taste it with a drop of sauce;
Now, aint it lovely, Teddy i
The Morning Prayer says:— ‘ The gan Fran-
cisco mail steamer brought to the colonies Miss
Gertie Roy, a young and handsome lady, who has
written and played in several burlesques, which
have been very well received in America.”—
We know these “ works,” and nearly each
Has turned out, here, a duffer;
But, as it is a lady, we
Will have to grin and suffer.
Let’s consider. YesI Juvenile George Loitch’s
and Charlie Mac.’s crowd at Hobart are, it seems,
doing a stroke. “The Madman” has made a hit.
It is by a gentleman of t*ie name of—Walker.
Maggie Knight is the attraction. We wonder, by
the way, who—but that’s none of our business.
[Vague, this.— Ed. B.] We are sorry to hear that
Fred. Marshall is in a bad way, though why they
took him to Port Elliot, S.A., is a mystery. The
Australian experience of the two brothers forms a
pad story I... We cull the following from f he
Maitland Lyons:— “ This evening, the Marlon Wil-
lis Company played • East Lynne ’ at the School of
Arts to a well-filled house. The company is a
* strong ’ one, and deserves to be patronised. They
propose to return in a few days, and give another
performance, present arrangements preventing
their appearing to-morrow night.” Hem!
We remember Keogh’s company when it was play-
ing at the Queen’s. It was then very “strong,”
indeed—as strong as onions could make itl ...
Liverpool (where the party makes the paper—his
Evening News sample has crown-d him with
gioryl) is going ahead, for has not Mr. R. Lean
been giving them “Photographs from life, dis-
played by means of the lime light on a disc of 325
square feet.” We understand the illumination
did not gee well on the first night; but Mr. L<=an
pacified the rustics by explaining that he had been
disappointed in his supply of lime. In this show,
which he conducts all by himself, this Lean may
be said to get all the “fat.” ...The Lanyon girls
have square heads. For their season in Adelaide
they engaged Mrs. Chippendale, who seems to have
drawn a lot .qf money; while the ancient Rainer
is doing well at Garner’s with his sparkling enter-
tainment. And the A.L.Y.G. Informs us that Dan
Barry and Company are In the south-eastern
towns playing “ London by Night” and “ Sham-
rock Green,” which he stuffs the agriculturists*
was written expressly for Jhim by C. S. Parnell.
Dan’s feet and his imagination are almost of equal
extent.. What nowr Oh, Auckland. Learn,
then, that Mr. H. Tichborne is lecturing there
(probably in a sentry-box) on “Cannibals.” This
man bas evidently a lack of wit; or he would
style his discourse—”Cannibals who will Eat
Anything but a Reporter.” Then, by putting up
a notice that no gentleman would be admitted
without boots, he might be sure of burking un-
favourable comment. And did we tell you that
Flora Anstead bas “ severed her connection” with
Genevieve Ward. This came about, of cours°, by
W, H. Vernon shakmg-hands-good-nlsrht with
Flora, by inadvertence, twice. Genevieve is a
prince—we mean a princess—in her own country.
Europe claims the lady for its own I Mrs. G. B.
W. Lewis, and Teddy Haygarth are slapping
“Cora” (“Article 47”) at the folks in fine
style, and we learn that when Mrs. G. B. W. I,
reaches Wellington she intends disbanding her
company; when, of course, Teddy Haypartn will
once more join the (apparently) immortal Keogh,
And a Professor Hugo has been pitching about
wrinkles. He advertised, we hear, that no lady
with wilnkles need attend, and, in consequence,
the Terapennce Hall was. on the night he opened,
a eea of crinolettes— And a Mr. Barber, < f Warr-
nambool, recently went to Hamilton (Vic.), to give
the people a touch of his limelight. Mr. B. was
well received by the pound-keeper, whom, we
should not be suprbed to hear, turned out to be
his aunt. The Hamiltonians also possess a troupe
of “Juvenile Minstrels, ’ on whose efforts
many an unhappy father has struggled to
smile— And w e must not forget to Jet you
know that the Wellington amateurs recently pro-
duced “ Trial by Jur>.” with dismal results, hav-
ing previously lashed the audience into a state of
fury by a desperate attempt to knock “ Ruth’s
Romance” in four rounds. The discomfiture of
the spec tators was. we are told, considerably in-
creased by the band during the evening playing
several “popular selections.”... .The Vag. and
the Baldwins were recently at Hamilton (Vic.),
where the Vagabond lectured on “ Cam ibals and
Convicts He had Known.”
Impressions of the Boat Raco.
(OUR ARTIST STATED TO US THAT THE SOBJECT REQUIRED DELICATE HANLAN. HE IS EXPECTED TO BE ABLE TO LEAVE HIS BED IN A WEEK OR £0.)


«* BEACH’S ff
INTERNATIONAL J0N8ULTATI0NS.
SYDNEY CUP and NEWMARKET
HANDICAP
NOW OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10s. EACH.
First horse £250
Second do 100
Third do 50
Starters, not 1, *, 8 60
Non-starters .. .. 60
£600
Address-*
“BEACH,”
Care of J. O. Deeble,
Hotel, King-street, Sydney
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
It is on the cards that Atkinson, who was
recently defeated by Lees in a Queensberry match,
will have another shy at his late victor.
The English clubs have formally prohi-
bited jockeys from betting on races or running
horses. The penalties for non-observance of this
rule, amount to instant and eternal disqualifica-
tion.
John Roberts, jun., will concede either
Bennett or Mitchell 3000 start in a game of billiards
13,000 up (spot-barred), for £100 up to £500 a-side,
and they can have the choice of makers in naming
the table.
A Maitland man, armed with a club, is on
the look out for the Nooze man who tipped Clif-
ford to win the race on Saturday, He was one of
the readers who “ devoured greedily all the in-
formation published in the Evening News rela-
tive to the race.”
At the Victorian Cyclists’ Union Cham-
pion meeting, F. H. Sohackelford won both the
mile and ten-miles championships with ease—the
former in 2min. 53 4-5sec., and the latter in 31mln.
24 3-6aec. A strong southerly wind was blowing
during the afternoon.
The Melbourne Sportsman says Edwards’
trip to America has proved a failure, both finan-
cially and as regards winning races. This is mis-
leading. An outsider reading the par. would ima-
gine it was necessary for a pro. ped. to win races
in order to gather in the dollars. As a rule, it is
’tother way about.
On 12th Deo., a desperate prize-fight for
£20 took place in Birmingham, between Jim Lane,
son of the famous pugilist, Hammor Lane, and
Withers, of Walsall. The fight lasted, without
Interruption, for an hour and twenty minutes,
when Lane had his man beaten, and knocked him
out of time. Withers was fearfully punished, and
was knocked down several times.
In England, the other day, a three miles
running match took place for £10 and a gold
medal, between R. Frogley, the boy champion
walker, who received 176 yards start, and C. Car-
penter (9Hi years old). Frogley gained consider-
ably on his start, and although he walked the last
lao* won by over 200 yards in 20 mm. 30 sec. The
winner is a promising “ baby ” of some four sum-
mers 1
Bell’8 Life clipped from the Melbourne
Sportsman an account of Joe Thompson’s inter-
view with the Colonial papers’ representative on
the return of the Leviathan from the • grand
tour ” The clipping commences: The welcome
I received from the Earl of Rosebery and the
Countess was only the beginning of my reception
all through England.” And Bell publishes it
■without comment. They merely head the par
“ Fact and Fancy.”
On 23rd January, at Dunedin, N.Z., A.
Hancock, who came from home with the 50-mile
championship tacked to his name, was defeated by
local Scott, who covered 114 miles In the 34 hours.
Raynor is over in Maoriland on the same old
game, and is almost sure to have a shy at the win-
ner. The peds. are doing well In New Zealand,
and It is to be hoped they will make the land of the
Moa their permanent residence. We can’t say
they would be a big loss to Australia.
Maogregor, the English racing sire, is de-
funct. It isn’t necessary to go over well-worn
ground, and tell of how Mao., as a dark ’un, won
the Two Thousand Guineas In the easiest style on
record, and started the hottest favourite ever
known (9 to 4 on) for the Derby, because all old
turfites know the story. Mr. Merry, the owner,
always believed, by the way, that Mao. was
"nobbled” for the great Bpsom event, but, as
dead horses tell no tales, we are never likely to get
at the truth about that. The bold Macgregor did
fairly well at the stud, and one of his sons, Scot
Free, won the Guineas last year.
Says the London Echo— “The decisive
victory by Shaw’s team over Murdoch’s eleven at
Adelaide should teach those gentlemen in this
country who have the choosing of men to repre-
sent England a wholesome lesson. It Is a notori-
ous fact, known to all but the kid-glove mashers,
that professionals are at all times better men to
rely on than gentlemen; and yet when a team has
to be selected to do duty for England against
Australia at Lord’s or the Oval, we always find a
large majority of amateurs in the eleven. The
fact is, that while professional players keep in
good trim all the time for the fray because it is
their living, gentlemen are apt to make too free
o’ nights, as they have nothing to lose, even
though the match should on the next day go
against them.”
The Glebe Rowing Club is a go-ahead little
affair, and when its members bring its name into
prominence, we are only too glad to be able to
give them a “ tarn.” They had an eight up the
river on Saturday, and it was after the race was
over and the steamers were kicking up a bit of a
dust that their coxswain, Mr. Wilson —W. of that
ilk—brought his eight into prominence. An or-
dinary coxswain would have flown from the mad-
ding surge, but not so Mr. Wilson, who tried to
carry a few tons of it home in the boat. But he
rather miscalculated his carrying capacity, and,
together with his gallant eight -Messrs. Ickerson,
Robertson, Burrell, Oox, Smith, Coker, Flannery,
and B. Eisenstaeder—thought it Just as well to
swim ashore and empty their boat before proceed-
ing on their perilous Journey.
In England, at the recent six days’ bicycle
tournament at the Westminster Aquarium, the
I winner turned up in J. Blrt, who covered some-
thing over 630 miles, the longest distance ridden in
one day (eight hours) being by Blrt, 1C9J4 miles-
Ten starters put in an appearance, and all but
three finished up. The running proved a series of
accidents. Says Bell’s Life:— “Birt, though he
had rather’more than his fair share of falls, had the
good luck not to meet with serious injury. Haw-
ker, however, who, barring accidents, must have
troubled the winner, was terribly knocked about.
Weston, though not so badly injured as the Leice-
ster rider, had the misfortune to smash up a couple
of machines, and having to wait until another
could be procured, thereby lost several miles.
This rider was certainly a long way the freshest of
those who finished. Garner, Armstrong, and
Drury, too, were all more or less injured.”
The latest about Jim Maoe, “ champion of
the world and Australia as well ” (whose son, by
the way, is now a revival-preacher in New York),
is that he officiated as time-keeper at a little priv-
ate mill between James Smith of Clerkenwell and
Woolf Bendoff of Jerusalem and elsewhere. Ben-
doff is the young man who lately succumbed to
Knifton, otherwise the Eighty-one Tonner, after
an hour’s fighting. Smith's fame (if any) has
hitherto been purely local. The contest was under
Queensbury rules “ as arranged for endurance —
that is to say, the rounds were of three minutes
each, with one-minute intervals for refreshment,
no wrestling or hugging was allowed, and the con-
test was not supposed to be over until one of the
combatants had either been knocked out or had
given in without being subjected to that process.
Bondoff is not a marvel of cleverness, but he is
more clever than Smith. What Smith lacked In
science, however, he more than made up in this
instance by hitting power, in which Bendoff was
very deficient. Twelve brisk rounds were fought,
the earlier of which were in Bendoff’s favour. As
soon, however, as Smith went in to fight his man
there was really but one In it—and that one was
not Bendoff, who received his quietus on the point
of the jaw forty-eight minutes after the com-
mencement of operations. Mr. Chute of Isling-
ton, and the Rev. John Baldock seconded Bendoff.
Great was the surprise in acquatic circles
when last week it was given forth that changes
had taken place in the constitution of our Inter-
colonial eight-oar crew, and that the selection
committee, crew, and whole bilin’ consisted of
Sydney Rowing Club. The nine now stands-
Bros, Johnson, two Gadens, Brodle, two Kennedys,
Moppet, and Simpson. The report is going the
rounds that Brett, Seale, and Martin, for private
reasons, refused to row; but, as a matter of fact,
the trouble is that several of the Sydney men
would not row if Brett was in the boat, and Brett s
clubmen would not start without him. without
going into the right or wrong of the Sydney
men s objection, the precedent is bad. Brett, who
is ten to one the best oarsman in the colony,
recently had all aorta of charges brought against
him as to his status as an amateur by the Sydney
men, which they were unable to substantiate, and
if the Sydney men are to dictate to the selection
committee who are, and who are not, to row, It
Is about time the race tell through, so far as Its
intercolonial character is concerned ; and we
trust the Press will impress—no joke intended—
upon the public, that the coming race will be Syd-
ney Bowing Club, and not New South Wales, v.
Victoria. The selection committee have not
acted well In this matter. After picking a man
they had a right to stand by him. In the face of
all objections, which could not be upheld, and if
any members of the crew refused to row, better
let the race fall through than fetch up an eight
to make a holy show of the colony. In conclusion,
we would ask, just to show on what lines the
eight has been picked, what has young Oaden
ever done with an oar to merit inclusion In the
crew, before Burke, of the N.8.R.O., or Pickering,
of the M.R.C. ?
There is a great deal of talk in England
just now over the action of the Jockey Club, who
will, it is said, decline to allow Gurry to train Mr.
Abington’s horses at Newmarket. Mr. Abington,
whose proper name is Mr. Baird, of Cambusdoon*
Is, it Is said, possessed of a million for each finger
on his hand, and he certainly owns the largest stud
in the mother country. He was.though, sometime
since convicted by the Grand National Hunt Com-
mittee of pulling a hoise, and the sentence of
“ warning off ” was passed upon him. This sen-
tence the Jockey Club extended to all meetings
under their control, and It was not until this year
tnat he was pardoned. It is only right to say on
Mr, Abington’s behalf that his defence was that
the horse he was riding was an awkward hanging
brute,and that he had to pull him up in order to pre-
vent him going over the rails. Of course, after Mr.
Abington had paid the penalty for his indiscretion
became back to the turf and took his proper
position as an owner, and no wins were more po-
pular than those of Busybody in the One Thou-
sand and Oaks. Matters, in fact, went on swim-
mingly until the autumn, when Bedford Lodge
was to let, and Lord Hastings and the Duke of
Portland had nearly completed arrangements for
taking it, when it is said that Mr. Abington took
ft over their heads. In the same week that Bed-
ford Lodge was taken it seems that Mr. Abington
was the guest of Archer, and it was in connection
with this business that the Duke of Portland
ordered Archer to send in his cap and jacket. Mr.
Abington having taken the Lodge, it was his in-
tention to, in time, have all his horses trained
there; and all the horses belonging to Mr. Peck,
together with numerous others belonging to
friends of his. were also intended to join the esta-
blishment, when Archer was to be first Jockey for
the stable. All these arrangements will now be
thrown into confusion.
After Saturday’s work, it is to be hoped
i we shall he spared more of the Idlotlo trash that
has 1)660 so rife In our aquatic circles since the
advent of Beach and Clifford, with regard to the
powers of the pair to last over a three miles odd
course at the top of their pace. Clifford has
proved the fallacy of the idea, and Beach is no
different to Clifford, Haolan, or any other man In
this respect, and if carried along beyoadMs pace
for a mile and a half, or two miles, without a
chance of easing up, must crack for a cer-
tainty. Why the Idea 18 current that Hanlan can-
not stay, is beyond us. His build, though not so
powerful for fa fair and square lift of dead
weight as Beach, is, in our opinion, every bit as
likely to last over a course, taking into coaslder-
Stlon that he has 14lbs. less of beef and a lighter
oat to hurry along. Hanlan is always spoken of
as a small man, but he is small only In height, as
proved by a man of his Inches turning the scale a
shade under list, after his heavy preparation for
Saturday last, and in the midst of an Australian
Summer at that. It is Hanlan’s extraordinary
turn of speed for a mile or so that has hitherto
allowed him to win In every oase, with the exoep-
tlon of Beach, with such comparative ease over
the latter portion of the course. We often hear
of “second wind” In connection with sporting
men, but very few men are possessed of the
quality. Hanlan must be one of the few,
and the lead which he invariably has at the
critical moment, gives him the opportunity to
ease up and obtain It. But it goes without
saying, a man must be in the pink of con-
dition to get his second wind, and we feel
assured it was to this want of condition Hanlan
had to play second fiddle to Beach. Any man who
has rowed knows how, when almost dead beat, say
pulling double sculls, he has eased up for a few
strokes, pulled himself together, and, provided he
had a bit of condition, finished the race compara-
tively fresh. This Is the sort of thing we fully ex-
pect to see at the next Beach-Haman race. To
look the matter soberly In the face, what has
Beach ever done to merit the Idea he can beat
Hanlan, given the latter In condition. Beach’s best
Serformance has been in beating Trlokett, and
olng wonders for his party In private ; hut
Saturday showed how much that sort of thing is
worth. If Hanlan Is in as good condition on the day
he meets Beach as he was when he met Clifford,
and has a sufficient lead beyond the mile to take a
breather, Beach will, Indeed, be a wonder It he
pegs along at the same oldpace and passes a com-
paratively fresh man of Hanlan’s turn of speed.
But, as we before said, it is a physically impossible
feat for any man to perform, and though It is
scarcely a safe venture in the face of the present
state of public opinion, we are fully prepared to
see Beach totally collapse before two miles of the
course has been covered.
Nothing could have been more in accord-
ance with our preconceived notions, than the way
In which Hanlan defeated Clifford; and the man- 1
ner in which the latter completely closed up at a
mile and a half, seemed almost a judgment upon
the long ’un and the “ clever ” party at his back,
who, up to the last, skited In such a ridiculous
fashion as to the staying powers of their mush-
room of more than extra rapid growth. Clifford s
row on Saturday last proved him a perfect wonder
considering the very limited experience he has
had In a wager boat, and the mistake made by the
“clever” party was In not keeping their tongues
between their teeth, and letting him work grada-
ally up the ladder. A match could, no doubt, have
been got on with Pearce, as wo stated In a pre-
vious Tssn e, but we are not sure they would not
have been barking up the wrong tree In that
quarter also, for, given “ Foaty could be Induced
to go In for a proper course of training, and re-
duce himself to first-class condition, we believe
him to be about class enough to just defeat the
Illawarra man. The arrangements for keeping the
course clear, and steamers following the race, were
simply wretched, and unless some alteration Is
made In the future, scullers competing In events
of any moment will be compelled. If only for their
bodily safety, to change the scene of their opera-
tions to quieter waters. The Achilles (Umpire s
boat) the Admiral and Commodore, In the Interests
of the scullers, the Leila, and a private launch,
followed the race. Whether the Leila is a hard boat
to st* or, we cannot say, but certain It Is she has
become notorious for the dangerous manner In
which she flirts about at these races. On Saturday
last, she stood a fair show on more than one occa-
sion of being run down, one minute being under
the bows of the Commocore, and the next with the
Achilles bumping up against her stern, Mr. Garvan
in one instance seizing the flagstaff on her taffrall
and attempting to slew her round. All the boats,
at one period of the contest, were dangerously
close to Clifford, ana the feelings of a thoroughly
exhausted sculler, with four or five steamers tear-
ing along only a few lengths in his rear, may be
easier Imagined than described. It Is certainly a
big incentive to urge him along, but should he, by
any means, fall out of his boat, or even lose way
oft her for an instant, nothing short of a miracle
would prevent the juggernauts in his wahe from
smashing him up. It will be recollected. Beach
rowed Reynolds to a standstill in light skiffs, when
the latter tumbled headlong out of his boat. Had
steamers then been following in the manner they
do at all our Mg races, the darkey would now be,
for a certainty, down among the dead men. On
Saturday, a launch and three or four boat loads of
the “ f ooroe ” were on the scene of action; to have
a look at the race, no doubt, being their only
object, for they certainly made no effort to keep
the course clear. Approaching The Brothers, the
scene was simply disgraceful. A fleet of boats,
packed like sardines, were moored right out into
the Fairway, and when Hanlan arrived at Bland-
vllle, he had to make a complete detour of
the pack, and make the best way he could
to the judge’s boat, which was so surrounded
with craft of all description, that It could not be
distinguished after the flag dropped. Clifford
suffered even worse than Hanlan, for a steam
launch crossed him, followed by a “ geordle
four-oared crew, from the Balmain Bowing Club,
who received a well-merited hooting from the
steamers. The Achilles picked up Hanlan and his
boat at Gladesvllle, and a heavy rain and wind
squall from the southward came on during the
lournev up the river, but by the time the men
were out on the water it had cleared off, and bar-
ring a slight shower, Just sufficient to freshen the
men up oa their journey, It remained smooth and
calm till the contest was over. On the steamer,
Hanlan looked fully alive to the gravity of the
situation, and It was not till the pair had gone
through their preliminary canters, and drawn up
for the start, that the anxious look left his fea-
tures. Clifford, who chose the southern position,
loomed up a perfect giant alongside the little
Canadian, who looked smaller and finer than usual
by reason of the absence of his blue guernsey,
without which the public have never before seen
him row In Australia. At the post, Hanlan was
skittish as a two-year-old. After a couple of
breaks away, which Clifford refused to recognize,
Clifford made a very lumbering start on his own
account, when Hanlan responded by taking a half
run upon hla slide, dipping his sculls like light-
ning, and gaining fully a quarter of a length
before the pair settled down to their work. Wait
till you see him ‘ scratching,’ ” remarked, on the
way up, an alderman belonging to the clever
party, thereby Inferring that Clifford had been on
the fox during his training; and now that we saw
him “scratch” we liked him less than ever.
Hanlan continued to draw away,and must have had
a length to the good at Uhr’s Point, which he In-
creased to a clear length of water between the boats
half way between Uhr’s and the beacon. Hanlan
then seemed satisfied as to the powers of his man,
and eased up, Clifford being only a length In the
rear at the mile beacon, which Hanlan pawed in
the slow time of 6mln. lOsee., so close that he had
to rest his right scull on the water an instant to
clear It. At a mile and a quarter the cry rose that
“ Hanlan was done, Clifford was drawing on him.
Closing the gap ho certainly was, but It was on
sufferance only, for when some mile and a half
had been cleared, and Clifford had drawn up nearly
level with his opponent, he appeared to get groggy
with hla right scull, and when the spent-wash from
a steam-launch reached him It proved the last
straw on the camel’s back, and he completely
closed up. Hanlan, without quickening, drew put
a couple of lengths lead, and from thence out the
contest resolved into the procession we last week
prophesied It would, the Canadian winning by any
number of lengths In 2Imln. 5seo. Hanlan pulled
In the most perfect form from first to last, and,
judging by spins we have seen him do when on
the job," we feel pretty sure he was not thoroughly
extended at any portion of the race.
Mb. DbCoubot Browns (lat© Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“ Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “ Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person*
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney. *r Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality-, Ew Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
M A cheap Breakfast Table,” was the cry
of the party of progess who, a few years ago,
knocked a lot off the duty on sugar, coffee, cocoa,
and such like comforting compounds, and mads
“ a nice cup of tea ” a thing for the poor, as well
as the rich. They knew the world, did those Free-
trade legislators; they knew, that the way to a
man's heart is through his stomach, and that the
cheaper his food the better he liked it. We have
nothing much to grumble at here in the shape of
Customs duties ; of course ,we must have a few
dollars to make up for tramway losses and other
departmental blunders, which will occur In
the best regulated (official) families. Per-
haps, when Sir ’Enry is in power again,
or when the city railway is finished, or when
the IS epean sends its crystal waters to the relief of
parched suburbanites—no dates yet fixed—we shall
foe better off still. In the meantime, remembering
all the time that “ a contented lot is a continual
feast,” we will spread our tables with such plea-
sant edibles and luxuries as are within our reach,
and, not wishing to be behind our neighbours, will
give an early look in at the Great Table Linen
Show now going on at Anthony Hordern and Sons,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket.*
ANOTHER DYNAMITE OUTRAGE.
Mr. Shaughnessy O’Bossa was just showing
a friend of his a little invention of his for
blowing the British Government to smither-
eens.
When in walks a third party, who was
not in the secret at all, at all. Mr. O’B.
hastily put the invintion in his ooat-tail
pocket.
That evening he addressed an assembly
of his compatriots; d’ye mind ? Having
forgotten all about the invintion still in
his coat-tail pocket, the action of which
coat-tails became animated, in the excite-
ment of debate,
Which was the cause of—the complete
ruination of Mr. O’B.’s coat.


NOTICE OP REMOVAL.
COME ME DUTIES,
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR PROM GEORGE-STREET.
omplere
at
* 1/ \UV-
° Dentist S s
'QU-t, markets? Z YPN E '
THEY have ARRIVED.
An immense delivery
° YANKEE RUBBER
BABIES.
Goes In the waistcoat poo
ket; blows out to life size:
is washable, durable, and
unbreakable ; resembles
life, for like the real article
It coos at pleasure, and yet
screams awfully If smacked
Experienced fathers are deceived by these laugh-
ter-producing Infante, and no home Is really a
happy one without their presence. Prise (post
free): largest, Is. fid.; medium, Is. 3d.
Also, Just In, a large assortment of Conjuring
Tricks. Catalogues on application.
1
t’fi'n—
•v
*
THE WIZARD CARDS,
changing from eights
to denoes, from black to
red, and back again at the
pleasure of the per-
former. Post free, with
fall instructions. Is. 2d.
I’m a Daddy • I’m In
Love; The Mother-in-law;
I’m a Parder; and Be
fore and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever Issued, £ la each set.
Price, fid. per set, or 6 sets for 2s.; by post, 2s. 2d.
The Three Donkeys. The newest “ have ” out.
bend for them, but keep It quiet. Price, Is.; by
post, Is. 2d.
The Sooner Dog—a wonderful little animal;
roars of laughter follow him wherever he goes.
Is. fid.; by post, 2s. fid.
Napoleon in Council, very rich. Is. fid.; by post, 3a.
HORTON and CO., 401 George-street, Sydney.
Box 641, G.P.O.
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate In Medicine and Surgery, Registered
Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours : 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., 7 to 9 on Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday Evenings.
Ladles’ Waiting Room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
11,52 Castlersagh-street (upstairs.)
Send for Free Treatise on Vitality and Nervous
Debility, Diseases of Women.
Illustrated Works on Deformities, Electricity
and Its Application. Hernia (ruptures), Varicocele,
<feo., &o. . „ ,
—-• “ in-
Gonsultation farce by mail or In person.
Deformities. Specific. Female, and Nervous
Diseases, a Specialty.
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of William-street, Hyde Park.
High-class Furniture
At Very Lowest Prices, compatible with the finest
workmanship and finish, for entrance balls,
dining-rooms, drawing-rooms, bedrooms,
and libraries.
CARPETS IN NEWEST DESIGNS AND
FINEST QUALITY.
WILTON CARPETS, BRUSSELS CARPETS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With Hearthrugs to match.
COHL1CINE AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL AND
BLACK AND BRASS,
In all sizes and various designs.
COMPAGNONI CATERING GO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE oldest and leading Catering Establishment In N.S.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor,
Municipal Council of Sydney, the A. J.C., City Club,'o , &o.
Tne Dining Saloons f6r Laaies and Gentlemen are the Finest, Coollest, and loftiest in the colony.
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar-Good Wine List.
GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. (after the
Theatres. Select your own steak, Ac., and see it grilled in the room. This is one of the acquisitions
ot the oltv, and a long-felt want. Inspection invited. Club rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Club
and City Club, upstairs. Ei D. TOLLKMACHE, General Manager.
Foster’s Bugle Brand.
*1
1
a*
~* ri.
Sr
EE
m
stfca
i
r^
4r
dS
ss
9*C
Pni
fel
Vi
•aeS
m
cr:-
f=*£
K
: =rk
SJ
SSpS&l!®
SSA -1 -
H*
:V
K
rs
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
ArrsiP-ioo 0J8 epam
raoqi oas 07 aajqBiAi nBuiaftao* j£ay ‘S N
g©
<r nYH r i r iy<i
CXNT
‘133UXS 39U039 OZC
‘anvoM t
I OOOVHOX HSIMMiliL 3Hild
apura 071918*10 189(i »qi 0J« svuivdono
asv
: sooovaox iayoiHawv xeannd:
011918*10 189(1 oqi 018 <W31N¥ld 010
SENT FREE, by POST ONLY, In an Envelop®.
SOCIAL
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders which
cause ,Impediments to Marriage, and all
Chronic Diseases; also, How to choose a partner
for life, so as to live happy and produce healthy
children; and how to regain and preserve your
health, &o, &c.
Address: B. T. SELBY, Medical Herbalist,
Devonshire-street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for SALB
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
xn
EARTH E N WARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and OO.’B
Cognac.
J.T.QA YEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN "and SONS’
Edinburg n Pale Aie.
ESTABLISHED I860.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
IMPORTER of ill
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRASSES,
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX,
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
Ac., &c.
BLEND
JMAW
BLEND WHISKY.-Thls Is a BLBN
V of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, cor
binlng fulness of body, with piquancy and delloa<
of taete and flavour. CATTBLL k CO* So
Agenta.
yy ASTE PAPER Hqop_ Irp]
Office,
Cases for Sale. Apply Pul
and Empty
er, Bulubtin
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capital—£100,000 with power to increase to £1,000,COO
BONUSES—20 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
:
. :
m
f** 3 * Head Offices. <R£»
First Fire Society established In the colony on
the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
prefits every year.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from
all liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlemert for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
The BAST ALA and STOUT In the Market.
BOLD B7 ATX STOREKEEPERS AND WINE*
MERCHANTS.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
Dgssss&n
fe only irrtaumfe remedy for
//ERyblfsJJEBllljYT
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system: regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at Via., or four quantities is one for
S6s.; If by coach, as. ftd. extra. Agents for Sydney,]
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Qoulburn-
Btreet, One Door from George-street South.
mo A L L WOMEN.
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDiilFUL DISCOVERT
IN SOAP 1
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with it;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
0T Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
Od. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers:
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
VENETIA WALTE:
Tk» 4ii to ht wM mirrJart. Oownrc hxmui.
isr
*
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC In the city.
Music.—Newest Bongs, Pieces, Dances, Ao.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, Ac.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, In variety.
New catalogues will be ready In a few days and
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, Ao., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed In best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Gases, Hand Bags, Fans, Ao.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most Important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM~BULLARDp
342 GEORGE STREET.
W. R. DRAPE & CO.,
MINING BROKERS AND AGENTS,
Mining: Exchange,
FITZROY STREET, ROCKHAMPTON.
Comm
vast
missions entrusted to our care executed with
mt and despatch. Latest Mining Intelli-
frota the surrounding fields.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Offices—PITT and KING STREETS.
S
FECIAL NOTICE.—ALTERATION Of AR-
RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAT
Swimming Baths
(the -nly pure sea-water bathe near Sydney.)
Open every day for Ladies and Gentlemen from
6 a.m. till dark.
Admission. 3d.; Children, accompanied by adults,
2d.; 100 tickets, 21s.: Monthly Tickets, 5s.; An-
nual Tickets, from 1st September, 21s.
|»" SWIMMING TAUGHT by Mr. Frederick
Cavxll. the world-renowned swimmer, who swam
from France to England In 13 hours, 20th August.
1877. Six Lessons, 21s. The North Shore Ferry
Steamers leave the Circular Quay for the Baths
every quarter-of-an-hour.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
R.N.
It la of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should be carefully compared, as largo
quantities are being imported Into New South
wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent. In favour of LORNE HIGH-
LAND WHIBKT.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
J. MASSEY, Jw.,
nun UI ORGANS
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found it at
last with the Argosy Braces at Gowlng Bros.
i/.
GOWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. Gd., 3s., 3s. 6(1, & 4a. Gd
GOWING BROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, &o.
332 and 498 George-strcet,


F
URNITUKI SHOW ROOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Sprinir streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATBTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion : well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, Ac.
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley.
Newton, and Lamb.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &o.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-pound bedroom suites.-tim*
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB. O’ConneU-atreet.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble ton
and tfle back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached : PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 3 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s-
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, from!0s.6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
• : y»
O
OQft' PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
pWOtl strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves lor
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also In Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
CCA8IONAL TABLES, elegantly dnlshed la
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &o.
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
CrConnell-street.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-strcet.
ThRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
J J A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inez-
penslve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, Q’Connell-st.
OILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSINGS
with swing GLASS and WASI
marble top, 80a the pair.
FABLE,
STAND,
XHIILL SUITES for DINING-ROOM—8IDE-
JD BOARD, DINNER WAGGON. TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
I ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK OH A IB-
Patented.
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, Instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It Is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort Is desired.
The frames arc of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds cqm-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when fc Jded, Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, If required,
2a. fid, extra.
AGATBLLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, whlca can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FtTHS*!-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery,
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
BDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
B
B
B
ED8TEAD8, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell and Spring streets.
W
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 36a. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 30s: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
Bentwood furNiturb.-a very complete
Assortment; beat make, lowest prices.
GENTLE, BUT EFFICACIOUS.
Wyndham-atreet, Alexandria, Sydney. Feb. 14,1884.
Gentlemen,—I beg to inform you that I have
uaed Emil Freae’a Hamburg Tea in my household
with good results. My children have taken it as
an aperient, and its action haa been gentle but
efficacious.
Yours faithfully,
Joseph Linoard,
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
VERDICT OF A POPULAR BONIFACE.
I have tried Hamburg Tea, and my household
have proved it to be gentle but efficacious as an
aperient, and I can strongly recommend it.
G. A. BROWN,
Exchange Hotel,
West Maitland.
SOCIAL
The Assembly Hall. at n /Ks/rS’
decked with evergreens and Chinese la tems,
vlmtlon of Mr and Mrs. C. W. Crawley to enjoy an
evening party.’ Though the host and hostess were
toe e msWs r aVsent though some; unforeseen dr-
Staff’M& l.ilUc'playcd hosts excellently Miss
SWoSm- a yoi.il* lad, from Ibe Terraco,
i
nlive-green and garnet, danced w'-11 ana recti vea
plenty of attention: while Miss i'Lffailv
and Mias Dunne in black and old were equally
favoured. Misses King, Wilson, Ko e r •
Phillips (Wagga) were ail neatly toileted Mra.
Eifynatrlok wore slate colour anw lace, ana a
young lady visitor from Pine Lodge, in whRe and
pale blue, made many pine to lodge in her affeo
tions Music was good, by Homan a band, supper
and floor tho samel and after 34 programme dances
and several extras by ladies, all dispersed in a
happy mood about 5 a.m.
• • •
The picnic of the Drapers’ Association this
year, will be one of the largest affairs of the kind
ever held. It is the third annual gathering, and
the preparations are on a scale worthy of one of
the most Important and influential branches of
trade in every civilised community. , What we
would all be without togs is too shocking to
contemplate. A number of valuable prizes have
been given; there being five boat races, chief of
which is the Drapers’ champion race with single
sculls, all conducted under the management of
Mr. Stephen Punch: and there are ten athleUc
events, which will be supervised by Mr. T. M.
Malone, the champion of Australia. A band will
play all day in the splendid pavilion for dancing,
and Tom Caddy is confident that the 36th February
will see a grand day at Cabarita.
We hope no one will think for a moment that
our innocent little rhyme Is going to demoralise
the dear damsels. We don’t mean that a girl
ought to do what she oughtn’t—no, not for the
whole world, and a new Summer hat with feathers
on It thrown in. If we thought a girl wasn’t per-
fectly sedate, we wouldn’t speak to her. But we
are firmly convinced that the lively girl gets to
be most loved, and when a ballroom is well
lighted, especially in the corners, and there’s good
music, just see how nice everything is I It was
last Friday they asked us to this little party in
West’s rooms; for, some ladles having given one
Just a month ago, the young men got up a reply,
and managed it in a flrstrate style. A score of
dances were on the programme, and Mr. Webster
played them all in beautiful time. One of the fair
inviUes was the pretty daughter, in cream, of a
partner in a large George-street firm ; two
were Phlllip-street sisters, representing nicely
Morning and Evening, in fancy costumes ;
and two were fair Forbes-street sisters, as Nancy
Lee and Lizzie Stofel respectively. Blue and pink
garbed the sister of a young softgoodsman; and a
sleeveless white toilet suited a beautiful Waver-
loy dancer. A city brunette sparkled in a well-fitted
bodice of white satin and a skirt of fine Oriental
muslin, with gloves and streamer of cardinal. A
third sister, from Phlllip-street, who has all her
conquests before her yet, personated Lawn Ten-
nis prettily; and a friend from near by was an
Italian Peasant, chiefly remarkable for
quiescence all the evening. The Queen of Hearts
was from Paddington; two nice girls in white
were from Waverley Road, and from Pitt-street
appeared two young sisters in fancy dress and
high spirits. Dawes Point sent a girl who’d be
appreciated by anyone who likes grace, and espe-
cially good temper, and who wore a pretty dress
of cardinal satin and white veiling skirt; and New-
town contributed a maiden in blue broohe and a
skirt of veiling the same colour as her name. A
Troubadour, Lawn Tennis Player, and Sailor were
the best characters taken by gentlemen. Throe
young ladies from Churchill were adorable in
evening costumes; and a Sicilian Peasant is posi-
tively the last we can remember with any distinc-
tiveness, Catering was done in the very best style
by Baumann. #
The Birmingham and Midland District
Club last week gave a concert and dance. Hither-
to the usual meetings have been confined to the
male members, but the admission of ladies and the
addition of a dance proved very successful. The
Club rooms are at the top of 301 Pitt-street, and
were specially decorated for the night. Over the
platform were the arms of Birmingham, with the
motto “Forward,” surmounted by the badge of
the district, a knotted rope Mr. JohnJSale, Presi-
dent, took the chair, Mr. Joe Somers took the
niano, and the numerous audience took every-
thing else that could be sat or stood upon. The
concert opened by Mr. Wenban singing “An-
chored,” with his usual spirit, followed by Mr.
Macro with “The Three Old Maids of Lee.” Mr.
D Flenberg sang “ The Gauntlet,” and “ Gather-
ing up the Shells;” Mr. Lockhead gave the old
favourite “ Will of the Wisp ”—he had to dig down
nrettv deep for some of the notes, and Mr. Bar-
rington. in addition to a pretty nautical ballad,
gave “True till Death,” both In splendid style.
Then there was a rustle in the audience, and the
air was softly agitated by the dulcet tones of two
claret-velvet-bodloed young ladles, who attacked
the duet “ Whispering Hope," with a good deal of
effect Two comic songs were added by Mr. Dodd,
and two by Mr. F. Jones, at which the ladies—in
snite of toilet restrictions—laughed, and curled
ur> and spasm’d, until it seemed almost certain
something would give way. After Misses Davey
had duetted the “Convent Bells,’ the presi-
dent, having inveigled Mr. W. A. Paine on
the stage, presented him with a souvenir
from his friends in the Club. It was a medal
having the Birmingham shield In gold, circled
with a border. &c„ and while Mr. Paine shed his
thanks and fixed the medal on his watch chan, Mr.
W K. Keyte was called upon to receive a hand-
some gold-mounted meerschaum with an inscrip-
tion. Upon these two gentlemen, as honorary
secretaries, most of the Club work had fallen; and
both they and Mr. J. W. Keeling, who was its first
promoter, certainly did a deal that night to make
all their guests feel pleased. After the Mashlest
Masher’ ’by Mr. Little, and “Boys of the Old
Brigade.” by Mr. Wenban, chairs were cleared for
a, dance. Refreehmenta wars, however, previously
circulated, and then the ladies shook out
their skirts, and prepared to enjoy them-
selves fourteen separate times, which was quite
enough on an oilcloth floor and a hot night.
There was a happy independence in dress which
enabled all to feel they were about right, whether
their style was quiet or gay ; and the idea of
warmth given by three sisters in claret velvet
was counteracted by a number of whit" toilets,
one being from Paddington, two from Redfern,
&o. A little brunette was suited by a light blue,
while a giddy cocoa-oashmero-olad girl enjoyed
herself like anything; a burgundy-broche garbed
a semi-blonde, who was young and happy; and a
young lady, whose symmetry was of a taper type,
was vastly elaborate in black broche and crimson
attachments. From Newtown came a fair girl in
white India muslin and apricot lace, set off with a
rose-patterned edglhg—pretty enough for a verse
all to her sweet self. So here it is—
On Wednesday, last week, the employees
and friends of Summerfleld and Co., formed
a large picnic party at Athol Gardens. Foot and
boat races occurred, and there was plenty of danc-
ing to a string band. The steamer Mascotte took
visitors in several trips, and in the evening when
lamps were lighted, the pleasures incidental to
twilight, so highly appreciated by young per-
sons of assorted sexes, were so enthralling that it
was 10 o’clock ere the last return boat got away.
At luncheon, Mr. Summerfleld gave “the Land we
Live in,” to which Mr. T. B. Walcot replied.
Mr. F Jones, managing partner, proposed tho em-
ployees, for whom Mr. W. H. Chapman responded;
and the ladles were again the theme of praise
from the lips of the inimitable Dan. The company
was photographed. Indeed, a harbour picnic is
hardly complete now without the camera.
♦ * *
An unparalled aot of journalism has been
perpetrated in Melbourne. Last week, the Argus
published in two closely-printed pages the name,
age, and salary of almost every lady and gentle-
man in the Civil Service of Victoria. The Argus
is a sedate newspaper, published once a day. It is
respectable even to solemnity, and the one thing
on which it specially prides itself is, that it never
decends to “ personalities.” We don’t know
exactly what the expression means—it is one in-
vented by newspapers of that particularly heavy
kind. Intended, no doubt, to convey some feai-
ful though vague stigma upon those less ponder-
ous papers at which they so frequently hurl it.
We don’t know its precise meaning, but since all
newspapers are filled with the sayings and
doings of men and women, it is hard to see
with what their pages would be filled with, if
not with personal news. But there is news and
news. To mention that Mrs. De Vere wore a
beautiful robe at a ball, and describe it fashion—
to record a wedding—or hint that Mr. Fitzjones is
about to be married, is, to the Argus, a thing in-
expressibly shocking, maugre the fact that these
circumstances are really news, and of considerable
social interest. Even In their freest flights of de-
scription, the lighter papers do not go so far as to
publish a lady’s age, or inform the public how
much money a gentleman puts in his pocket on
the first of every month. It has remained for the
Argus to commit an outrage on the “ personal
and entirely private affairs of nearly a thousand
ladles and gentlemen, well known in Victorian
society, beyond any yet on record. That these
private particulars should be kept on record for
official purposes is, perhaps, necessary. Such a re-
cord is comparatively obscure, and only accessible
to those who make a special matter of seeing it.
But that the ages of ladles, and the incomes of
gentlemen, should be thrust, unwanted, under the
notice of the whole community, simply because
they are in the service of the State, is unnecessary,
and a disgraceful piece of rudeness. No intrusion
on private affairs by the lowest ephemeral literary
rag, at which the ponderous dally paper professes
such horror, could transcend this deed in inexcus-
nbleness. The Argus has done a very offensive
thing.
At the Melbourne Town Hall, a grand
Shakespearian Fair has Just been opened by Lady
Clarke. There are about three hundred stall-
holders. and the peculiar feature of the Fair is
that they are all dressed in the characters of
Shakespeare’s heroines—those attached to each
stall taking the parts in the play after which it is
named. There are concerts and music, and an
elocutionary contest carried on daily. The Fair
will remain open nine days, and the stalls are
named after the nine best known of William’s
dramas.
* ♦ ♦
The employees of the well-known city
firm of Myers and Solomon held a fine picnic at
Sandringham. Arriving at 11 o’clock, light re-
freshment was discussed, and then the programme
of sports commenced. The races were ably con-
tested, and capital prizes given. Appetites for
luncheon were well sharpened by the salubrious
sea air, all were able to appreciate Host Rust’s
catering. Mr. John B. Watson occupied the chair,
and proposed “ Our Employers,” testifying to the
consideration always evinced by them towards
their “hands” during the last quarter of a cen-
tury. Mr. Mark Myers responded. Mr. L. Scott
proposed the “Travellers,” regretting that some
were, perforce, away from the festive scene, and
Mr. George Bird returned thanks. Other toasts
followed, and all adjourned then to the cricket
field, where a match was contested between mar-
ried and single, the latter winning by 16 runs, and
the trophy falling to W. Thomas, 69, not out. As
to the races, Mr, I. Myers won the All-comers
Champion; H. Grant, the Boys’; George Bryce,
the Youths’; and W. Thomas and J. H. Jarvis the
single and married handicaps respectively. Mr.
Henry Myers, jun., presented tho prizes. A plea-
sant moonlight drive home ended the day.
* * * *
Harry Hyndes’s concert didn’t come off.
He bad a gathering on his thumb instead of in the
hall.... At Coolangatta, Tweed Heads, the principal
attraction on Separation Day was the meeting of
the local cricket team with a Tallobudgery eleven,
the latter being victors. Dinner at Host Harri-
son’s followed, as heartily tackled as it was tastily
provided, and in the evening a ball was held in the
Government boat-shed. Dancing kept up till an
early hour For his successful endeavours to get
Pyrmont Bridge open free, Mr. F. Abigail, M.P.,
was presented with a valuable lot of silverware
by his friends. There was a great deal of fizz and
fuss on the festive occasion, and the little hero
said such happreciatlon made’im feel ’appy; hit
was one of tn« ’appiest hevents ’e ’ad ’ad hin ’is
'ole career There will be a banquet and a ball
at Orange on the 36th instant to celebrate the visit
of the Ministers ... At a tea meeting in Liverpool
Town Hall, last week. Rev. W. J. Cuthbert re-
ceived a purse of sovereigns, and a concert fol-
lowed.... Nigger entertainment in aid of Presby-
terian Church, Grenfell, netted £30... At Nymagee.
the Kangaroo Assembly bad a bail on Anniversary
night. Tne favourite dance was the hop waltz—
Same night, Nundle Presbyterians had a concert
and dance... Mr. Andrew M’Credie elected presi-
dent of tho Burns’Club ...Miss Maud, daughter
of the Hon. G. R. ulbbs, Treasurer, was to be
married yesterday at Penrith... A very enthu-
siastic banquet lately given at Auckland, to Mr.
Thomas Bracken, M.H.R, pressman and poet,
having left a surplus, the money was devoted to
theipurchase of an album, filled with views of
Maori scenery ... At Parramatta, last week, a large
concert audience filled the Victoria Theatre.
Misses Moss, Morley, Mrs. Williams and male
singers contributed vocalisms; the Half-Holiday
Association played the farce of ‘ Irish Justice;
Byron’s “ Pride of Abydos” finished the evening.
Proceeds in aid of Mrs. Burge and children....An
entertainment at Campbelltown in aid of the show
funds, came off on Thursday. Songs, comic and
sentimental, were followed by a dance, which the
local girls voted the best part of tho evening...
Among the passengers by the Indus, for London,
were Commodore Brskine, Lady and Miss Innes,
Miss Constable, and Sir Wlgram’s newly-married
daughter, Mrs. Maxwell....At Ballarat,on the 18th,
it is expected the largest wedding celebration yet
held there will take place. It will be that of Mr.
Elias Jones to Miss Rose Hyams, from Adelaide,
and over a thousand invitations are out for the
dinner and ball A large banquet at Tamworth
was given to good-bye Mr. Alfred Beveage, an
old resident and boss cricketer. -.The British
army will be flagship on Saturday at Snail s Bay
regatta, tickets for gentlemen being 3s. Steamers
from foot of Rrakine-street—Last Friday, the
employes of Mr. Louis Nicholson, of the musical
warehouse, George-street, welcomed him home
from his honeymoon. Mr. N. won the daughter
of one of Sydney’s cleverest artists.... Mr. Kong
Meng, the millionaire Chinaman of Melbourne,
celebrated his silver wedding-day by a very grand
party. Over a hundred guests were present at
Kooyong, Malvern, and when supper came, and
Mr. Pilley proposed the health of the host and
hostess, Mrs. Kong Meng herself rose and char-
mingly replied* The ball was followed, last week,
with a juvenile party.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ Constant Subscriber ” (JuneeJ.); Much obliged.
Keep on sending little pars., and subscribing to
the paper....” C.H.B.. We have taken the
pith; but why did you send us exactly the
same words as you sentanother Journal ? Don t
“do it again; please don’t....” Odd Couple : If,
after the set had been formed some time, a
couple left it to Join another, they would be
mannerless. Let us make the matter quite
clear. Before the set is completed, if a lady
sees an objectionable person, or for any reason
desires to go elsewhere, it Is possible to retire
without discourtesy. Or, if particular friends
ask a couple to Join them, a few gracious words
of excuse to the others standing in position
would be the proper thing. But to leave a set
Just when the music is starting, is inexcusable
rudeness. As to what you shall do—you might
say “thank you,” very sweetly; woshouldn t
advise you to go beyond that. Bear in mind,
there is no rule by which you can compel per-
sons to be polite, if they are naturally the other
way; and if anyone at a ball shows he is ignor-
ant of manners, that gives you no right to
teach him. Try the “ thank you.”
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Oxford Private Social Club Concert
(Protestant Hall) February 13.
Snail’s Bay Regatta February 14.
Drapers’ Association Picnic (Cabarita) February 36.
Grocers’ Annual Picnic (Cabarita) March 10,
“SAVING MOTHER."
(A little bit of every-day life.)
The farmer sat in his easy chair.
Between the fire and the lamp-light s glare;
His face was ruddy, and full, and fair.
His three small boys, in the chimney-nook.
Conned the lines of a picture-book.
His wife, the pride of his home and heart,
Baked the biscuits and made the tart.
Laid the table, and steeped the tea
Deftly, swiftly, silently.
Worn and weary, pallid and faint.
She bore her trials without complaint—
Content, all selfishness above.
In the patient ministry of love.
At last, between the clouds of smoke
That wreathed his lips, the husband spoke:
“ There’s taxes to raise, an’ interest to pay;
And if there should come a rainy day,
’Twould be mighty handy. I’m bound to say,
To have somethin’ put by, for folks must die,
An’ there’s funereal bills, and mourning to buy;
Besides, there’s Edward, and Dick, and Joe
To be provided for when we go.
So, if I was you, I know what I’d do:
I’d be saving of wood, as ever I could—
Extra fire don’t do any good;
I’d be rather sparin’ of coffee and tea,
And whiskey 1s good enough for me;
I’d be very careful about ray clo’es,
And look out sharp how the money goes;
I’d sell the best of the cheese and honey,
And eggs is always worth good money;
Then there’s the carpet you wanted new—
I guess we’ll make the old one do;
And as for the Wermeim Sewing Machine,
Which Beale and Co.’s traveller, bland and keen,
Said was the best that ever was seen,
You’d better get rid of it, slick and keen—
What do they know about women’s work ?
Do they reckon women were made to shirk ?
Why, that same fellow had called before.
And sold a piano to Jones, next door;
He called it a ’ Hapsburg.’ I can’t douy
It's a rare good sort, if you want to buy;
But playin' don’t pay, and Jones is a fiat
To sink his coin in a thing like that.”
Dick, and Edward, and little Joe
Sat in a corner, all in a row;
They saw the patient mother go
On ceaseless errands, to and fro;
They saw that her form was bent and thin,
Her temples gray, her cheeks sunk in;
They saw the quiver of lip and chin;
And then, with a warmth he could not smother,
Outspoke the youngest, frailest brother—
“ You talk of saving wood and oil,
And tea and sugar, all the while.
And doing without the sewing machine,
The greatest help there ever has been—
But you never talk of saving mother! /"•
Family Wines and spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hockings and
Co., 143, Pitt-street.*
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
coQsummated. 60i Hunter-street, Sydney. 1 *
Think and Act:—After many trials,
Messrs. Dalm and Oertel succeeded in preparing a
most delicious Lemonade from Australian lemons.
They discarded imported, unwholesome Oil of
Lemons. Give it a trial. Aerated-water works, 403
Pitt-street.*
Make a little par.
About a little party,
For those small things are
Often very hearty.
True, when the thermom.
Climbs up near to boiling,
Then it’s not far from
All enjoyment spoiling.
Still, when duty calls,
We’re found always busy.
At these little bails,
With Amy, May, and Lizzie.
Maggie, too, and Belie,
Clara, Em, and Kitty—
Don’t their names rhyme well
In our little ditty ?
Nice girls, every one.
All to dance they’re able;
Filled with ice and fun
At the supper-table.
Girls, take our advice,
Do not think it folly—
If you’d bo thought nice,
Be off-hand and Jolly.
For a glamour was thrown round the place
By the presence of one so fair.
By tho girlish grace of that dainty face,
And the sheen of her nut-brown hair.
There were eyes that followed that muslin light,
As it circled down the floor—
For the belle of the night that fluttering white.
With its edging of roses, wore.
There were roses hidden in either cheek,
By those blushes only found
Which lovers would seek — which so sweetly
By which womanly beauty’s crowned.
For roses she had a decided taste—
There were roses round her hem,
Around her waist there were roses placed:
Who wouldn’t be one of them f


l&~ PRICE LISTS POST FREE. TWENTY PER CENT. UNDER
SYDNEY RATES.
V<
I
i
m~ IMPORTER OP MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS AND FITTINGS
OF EVERT DESCRIPTION.
J. STANLEY,
CONCERTINA DOCTOR,
WILLIAM STREET, BATHURST.
I
Infants and Children
[
t "What gives our Children rosy cheeks, '
I What cures their fevers, makes them sleep; 1
T Caw tor la. 1 1
I When Babies fret, and cry by turns,
v What cures their colic, kills their worms, - I
f Castorta.)
j What quickly cures Constipation,
, Sour Stomach, Colds, Indigestion;
*■ Castnrlii. j
. Farewell then to Morphine Syrups, I
» Castor Oil and Paregoric, and x j
L HallCastorla.1 j
“ Castoria is so well adapted to Children
that 1 recommend it as superior to any modi*
cine known to mo.”—H. A. Archer, M. D.,
Ill Oxford St., Xew Tork.
Elliott Bros., Sidney, Agents.
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dearest Belle— There was a concert given at
Manly one night last week in aid. I believe, of the
Rowing Club. Why these rowing and other clu bs
are always requiring pecuniary aid, I never could
make out ; but they are, and that’s a fact. Well,
ns we had nothing better to do, and as the weather
Was perfection, we steamed over. It always makes
tne impatient to see bad management in anything,
and when we found that there was no special
steamer to take us over, and that it would be 8.30
before we could possibly arrive, unless we started
at an impossible hour, we were very nearly turn-
ing back. But as Mr. Charles Huenerbein was on
board, and very truly remarked that we needn’t
fret and fume, for it would be impossible for the
concert to commence without him, as he had the
opening solo to play; so we took our seats (dirty
ones) and calmed down. The Ivanhoe pavilion
was nearly filled with Manly fashionables when we
arrived, and, notwithstanding that they had had a
(good half-hour’s wait, their faces beamed with
•Satisfaction when Mr. Huenerbein took his seat at
the piano and played one of his own compositions.
Then they had Mr. and Mrs. Radcllfl, also Mr. and
Mrs. Harry Woods, and were, as a matter of course,
charmed with them all. Madame Radcllff looked
so very nice in her pink satin with the white bugle
)ace>and was in such excellent voice that everything
She sang Was encored. As for Mr. Radcliff, I am
(Sure I don’t know whether he looked charming or
(otherwise, for when he plays his flute we are all
cars. Hut I fancy he looked all right, for some-
body behind us, who would talk, remarked, when
he and Madame came on together, “ What a nice-
looking pair they are!” Well, there’s ho doubt,
the Manly folks were in luck’s way that night, for,
besides hearing the choicest selections of these
two stars, Mr. Harry Woods sang a duet with
Madame Kadcliffe and the “ Roll Call ” particularly
well. I think they might have provided a better
piano for Mrs. Woods, for a soloist of her stamp is
Purely worthy of the best instrument procurable.
Her r ‘William Tell ” duet, played with Mr. Hue-
toerblen, was very enjoyable indeed; in fact, the
whole concert was quite a pleasant affair.
You have often asked me to tell you whether
the Manlyltes dressed in those pretty Continental
hea<-slde costumes we have read so much about.
Well, no; they do not, and the fact has often as-
tonished me. It seems so absurd to stroll on the
beach dressed in regular town costume—silks,
Satins, &o. How .much more appropriate would
bright-coloured serges, striped boll&nds, and the
like be, with nice, soft sea-Bide hats? I have
got half-a-domen girls to promise to help me
to reform this state of affairs as soon as
opportunity otters, but whether they will have
herve enough to go against the stream when|the
time comes, i cannot tell. We like wearing black
or dark dresses when we go to Manly, for sitting
about on the sand rubs all the town dust out of
them more effectively than any amount of brush-
ing, and makes them look quite fresh and new
again. A good scheme isn’t it. But I was going
to say that although the people over there give
very little thought to their sea-side costumes, they
Can dross for a concert as well as any of us. Mrs.
Woods wore a tasteful dress of deep cream Madras
ttiuslin, profusely trimmed with black ribbon vel-
vet. ana round her neck a handsome string of
brilliants. There was a lovely child, with long
blonde hair, and big blue eyes, who was a perfect
type of a young Australian beauty. I do so lov«
to gase upon anything beautiful, but every time I
turned to feast my eyes upon the sweet little face,
t found the round orbs rivetted so determinedly
PU UUf party that I had fain to content myself with
mere passing glances. Children are such funny
little things! Now, had she been a few years
older, and more conscious of her beauty, she would
no doubt have been sufficiently accommodating as
to have taken her eyes off us for a moment, and
thus have given us an opportunity of indulging
freely in our admiring stares. But she was evi-
dently unconscious of her charms, and stared back
at us as only a child can. No doubt she was
amused at the fantastical fashion in which Edith
had dressed her hair. It was so funny and out*
iandish-looking—but she says she copied it from
a French model, so I suppose it is all right. I
haven’t time to-day to describe it to you, but
when next 1 am on the subject of hair I won’t for-
get it. Anyhow, it seemed to interest this pretty
child. Miss Yeend, in pink veiling and broohe,
and her sister, with the pretty baby face, were
amongst the audience, and each in their different
ways looked, as Ned said, awfvUy nice. I also
noticed Mrs. Pinhey and Mrs. Harry Prince, but
was not close enough to see their dresses. We had
a special steamer to convey us home, and I can
tell you there are many worse things than atrip
from Manly by moonlight, with a cool breeze blow-
ing and pleasant company on board. Oh! yes; I
can assure you there are.
At last I have been to see those wonderful new
waxworks, and—well, I’m glad it’s over. I learnt
a lot, too, at this show. 1 found that Motes was
nearly twice as big as an ordinary man, and that
his beard was long in proportion. Being a very
hot day when we went, it was quite refreshing te
see the water running from the rook so nicely—
real water, mind you, not wax. And there was
Mrs. Langtry, too, but the most prominent fea-
tures in this figure are the feet, which arrest the eye
at once. They haven’t been sparing of material
in these feet, but, of course, they wanted to be true
to nature, and we all know the Lily has large ones.
Then the Royal Family, which is fenced off from
the common herd, came in for a share of our at-
tention, too. also the ex-Bmpress Eugenie, with
her pale, pale blue eyes. And Shakespeare, with
bis wonderful forehead, stands upon a pedestal.
Of course there are all sorts of monstrocitles, such
as the “ fat boy,” “ fat woman,” Chang the Giant
(which, by the way, is really a good likeness) with
one of the Midgets sitting on his hand. When we
had aeon all there was to be seen, we sat down
near to the entrance door and got the man in
charge to set the orchestrion going for us, which
he did very obligingly. We were very tired—
too tired to talk—so sat in silence listening to
the music. Presently in came a countryman, with
an open catalogue in his band, and took up his
position directly opposite us. After consulting
his guide, he looked us over in a puzzled sort or
way, and scratched bis unshaven chin as it he
couldn’t quite make things out. We were just
beginning to feel annoyed at his impertinence,
when he called out to the door-keeper, “I say,
Mister, what be these figures, they ain’t marked
down here ? ” I quite pitied the poor man when
Cousin Maud, who was with us, burst into a ring-
ing laugh. He did look so abashed and foolish.
And I don’t think any of us felt quite compli-
mented at being taken for wax figures, but it was
a very hot day, and I dare say the poor man had
found it necessary to quench his thirst pretty
often, which may have made him rather dazed and
stupid, which would quite account for his making
such a mistake. It was very comical, though, and
that alone was worth the admission money.
It is quite true that Herr Alpon has resigned his
position as conductor of the Metropolitan Ifieder-
tafel, on account of some slights he has received
from members of the committee. For my part, I
think it only right that the conductor of a society
should have some say in the selection of music
and soloists. Indeed, if be is not capable of
making a choice, he must Indeed be a nonentity,
and everybody knows that Herr Alpen is not
that. The committee may have something to say
on their side certainly, but really I do not think
Herr Alpen has been as generously treated as his
merits deserve. I am truly sorry that he has
found it necessary to resign, but feel satisfied that
he had just cause for so doing. The rumours
about the Sydney Liedertafel being at war
amongst themselves were, I am glad to say, ex-
aggerated. They are going to give the “ Desert ”
again at their next concert, which is undoubtedly
the best thing they have yet sung.
I suppose I ought to be ashamed of myself for
saying so, but I was really glad Hanlan won the
race on Saturday. I felt he would win, for he has
looked so confident of late, and, had I been a man,
I should have bet on him—really I should. So,
now he will be our hero again, and he and his
handsome shadow, Mr. T. M. Alcock, will be quite
too proud to sp iak to anyone, I suppose. I am in
dire disgrace with our Australian boys for being
so jubilant over the Canadian’s success, but I care
not for that.
I wanted to tell you something about Grade
Plalsted’s benefit, which was tendered her the
other night at the Opera House, but time forbids.
Suffice it to say that the house was crowded, and
the fascinating little thing is, indeed, hard to
please if she wasn’t satisfied with her warm recep-
tion. She is a great favourite with us now, and is
one of the best little actresses we have ever had in
comic opera. Oh, come now, I think this is quite
long enough, and it’s post time besides.
Your loving
MAB.
Song.
Do you remember,[Daphne, love, the Summer days
gone by,
When, hand-in-hand, we wandered, love, beneath
the Summer sky,
And on the hills, from leafy shades, looked down
the grassy ways.
And watch’d, uprising from the vale, the dreamy
Summer haze ?
The Summer haze, the Summer haze,
Of bygone, happy Summer days.
Do you remember, Daphne, love, the many happy
hours .. .. .
We whiled away together, love, beneath the haw-
thorn bowers? .
Ah I then your heart was all my own—it had not
waxdd cold;
And I would buy, with life, again those Bummer
days of old.
Ah, love! through your inconstancy, my Summer-
time has fled;
My cherish’d hopes are scattered all—like wither d
leaves, are dead :
Yet Mem’ry mingles in my dreams the thought of
other days.
When from the hills we watched, my love, the
dreamy Summer haze.
The Summer haze, the Summer haze,
Of bygone, happy Summer days.
A. M.
Amongst the items of cable intelligence
last week was an announcement that “Italy in-
tends to occupy the port of Massowah on the
coast of the Red Sea.” This is a more curious state-
ment than might appear at first glance. It is not
so verylong ago—just before the expedition under
Lord Wolseley to extricate General Gordon was
determined on—that the British Government de-
spatched an emissary to King John of Abyssinia,
soliciting his aid to operate against Osman Digna.
It was understood that an array of 40,000 Abys-
sinlans was to be marched into the Soudan, and, as
a consideration for that assistance, the British
Government offered to King John this very port
of Massowah which Italy is now about to appro-
priate. The inferonoo is inevitable thatvour
Government had generously offered to King John,
as a bribe for his assistance, a valuable property
which didn’t belong to them.
We read that a son ot the Bishop of Ro-
chester has recently become a Roman Catholic,
and that at Newcastle (N.8.W.) a son of a bishop
recently joined the Salvation Array. What there
is about the soul of a bishop’s son more than the
soul of the son of anybody else, is a tough ’un to
the lay mind. All we know is that when a bishop
dies or his son turns apostate, the prayers of the
whole Christian community are placed under re-
quisition to get him back to the fold or pull him
through purgatory. But the apostate’s case is
different. The Church, on one side, wrestles
mightily for the return of the prodigal; the other
chants lusty Te Deums. They have this wander-
ing soul in a sort of ipull-devil pull-baker state—
the tt.C.’s at the feet, the Protestants at the bead.
By the time they have done, whichever side wins
examines the prey, and finds—no soul at all.
At tho recent meeting of the Benevolent
Asylum committee, some amusement was afforded
—at least—we mean to say, considerable indigna-
tion was expressed at a little anecdote which was
told in all seriousness about the ingratitude of an
Inmate of the lying-in hospital, who on being
“ kindly spoken to ” —these are the very words —
by one of the nurses, suddenly turned round and
snapped, “Oh, stow your bloomin’ yap. You’d
do tho same thing if you got the chance.” This
reminds us of another appalling tale told of a
select crowd of Social Purity ladles in a neigh-
bouring colony, who gave a tea, toast, and twaddle
sort of shivoo to all the fallen sisters they could
round up, and, having blown the Aspasias and
Travlatas. and Dolly Toarsheets out with victuals,
the fair philanthropists at once prepared to bom-
bard them with touching appeals to renounce the
miserable lives thej were then leading, and be-
come more good and virtuous, although, perhaps,
starving members of society. All wont well until
one smug, well-fed lady, dressed in a 30-gulnea
costume, and blazing with jewels called out; “ Oh,
my poor dear girls! whatever can we do to pre-
vent you from going headlong to ruin in the fear-
ful manner that you are, and to persuade you to
give up the sinful lives you'are now living ?” And
then, short, sharp, and clear came the voice of a
disgusted reveller named “Chinaman’s Annie”
who yelled: “ Why, keep yer sanguinary husbands
at home ov a night, an' then there’ll be nothing
for us to do but go to th’ gaol, or service.” That
knocked all the grit out of the Social Purists in
one act, and—bow one thing brings up another I—
castor oil, for instance—this latter item reminds
us of another little anecdote of a certain legal
luminary who, losing patience with a prevaricat-
ing witness of extremely shady reputation en-
quired severely: “Do you know what adultery is,
sir?” Upon which the witness meekly replied:
“Not very well: but whenever I want that infor-
mation I shall certainly go to you for it.” “ That’ll
do;” said Mr. Fuzzbuzz, as he took bis seat, and
turned pea-green with suppressed pleasure at the
delicate compliment paid to bis private morals.
Dreams.
This does the God of Love delight to list,
As down the air his speeding arrows shine.
Noting, with joy, the lips that just have klst
In honour of the good Saint Valentine.
Fantastic things.
In ill-defined relation to each other, seem
To weave the gorgeous fabric of a dream:
Beggars and kings
Reversing parts, to suit Imagination’s theme.
Thoughts flit, like birds,
Across expanses of our sleep-created space;
And, swift as swallows after insects, chase
Imagined words,
While we, entranced, observe the strange, unequal
race.
Here, too, we dream
Of shadow-faces and unreal things
That, with our slumber, fly on silent wings
When Morning's beam
Along the eastern sky a ruddy brilliance flings.
On children’s eyes
The fingers of the angels surely stay.
For, when the hues of sunset fade away
And daylight dies,
On sealed lips sweet smiles in bright profusion
play.
The dreams of some
Are but the reflex of their daily toll—
Strange bubbles from the business strifes that boil
Till men succumb.
Struck pitilessly down in Nature’s fierce recoil;
Then others sleep
And do not rest, for horrid phantoms glare
From every cranny of the trembling air—
Stern watch they keep,
Till Crime’s wild record to the world lies bare.
Hence, Dreams 1 Away 1
Nor vex the calm dominion of the night
With grisly shapes, that vanish with the light.
Sweet Slumber, stay J
And draw the veil of peaceful darkness o’er our
sight.
INA M. W.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ever!
W. J. BRAND.
Sydney, 9th February, 1885.
Wbils some men weep and others laugh, the world
Rolls swiftly on along the path of Day;
While some men laugh and others weep, the way
Grows dark, and, with the darkness swathed and
furl’d.
The world rolls on along the path of Night.
Or way of Day, or path of Night, it rolls.
And with it roils the wave of human souls.
But those who laugh say always it is light,
And feel the flush of Day upon their eyes;
And those who weep say always it is Night,
KING JOHN, OP ABYSSINIA.
And feel that on their eyes the darkness lies;
And always rolls the world, and always rise
From off the rolling waves unto the skies,
“’Tis Day I”—“’Tis Night I”—the feuds of human
cries.
In Part.
There ore strange voices in the wide, high halls)
In which the Spirit walks; and in the light
That shudders between day and night there falls,
Through sudden silences of troubled air,
A heart-beat; yet, although we search the night
And all the day, no human heart is there.
In Winter, when the trees have lost their leaves.
In Spring-time, when the trees call back their
birds.
The Spirit, walking, stands on lonely eves.
And looking, wondering, sees a Face, and cries;
And, crying, hears the cry, and those strange
words
As sound and echo pulsing: but it knows
Nor whence nor whither sound or echo flows.
St Valentine’s Day.
I saw pert Cupid wear a merry face,
1 heard his laughter ringing, clear and loud,
As, bow in band, descended he apace
From heaven to earth, astride a roseate cloud.
It was the morning of a joyous day—
A day given o’er to love, if love there be—
And happy Cupid, mischievous and gay.
Aimed many shafts in laughing ecstasy.
Then lovers gaily took a golden pen
To write “sweet nothings” to their “dearest
heart”;
And coyest maids forgot their shyuess then.
And softly said, “Say we shall never parti”
While in the air a babel of sweet verse,
A rhyming murmur eohoed high above;
And Cupid, speeding o’er the universe,
Laughed at the mighty influence of love.
Yet sometimes o’er fair Cupid’s face there came
A look of anger. Something did annoy—
Did vex—did chafe—(the words all mean the same)
The almost cloudless pleasure of the boy.
’Twfts when a verse like this, amazed, he heard:—
“Ugly old fright! you'll never get a beau;
’Tis your red hair, like carrots, that deterred
The men from saying * Have me ’ long ago I”
Such sounds as these the little god provoke.
For, on St. Valentine’s, all evil spite
Forgot should be; and nothing should be spoke
But pretty rhymes—allusions, swift and light;
A ringlet scented with a rose’s soul,
A wreath of blue forget-me-nots, above
An amorous couplet on a satin scroll,
Supported on the pinions of a dovel
A promise to remember for all time
The trembling kiss she left upon your cheek:
And. in a pretty rigmarole of rhyme.
You softly tell her bow bw love you seeb—
Carmen Eroticum.
When, in the pride of your glorious manhood,
Proudly you stand on the thundering shore.
While white surf, up-dashing, comes roaring and
lashing
The rooks and the caverns, which, answering, roar,
Disdain not the sea-breeze caressing your fore-
head.
Seek not a shelter where cool water drips—
I stand on our shore here, and waft evermore,
dear.
Out on the breeze a sweet kiss for your lips.
When, in the dawning of day, comes a song bird,
Singing and chirping, and singing again,
Oh I hark to its singing—its melody ringing—
Chase not the songster away from your pane I
For I, in this land that you left far behind you.
Pray of the song-birds to ravish your ear;
I say to them, “Charm him, but do not alarm him.
For, oh! in my heart, I do hold him most dear.”
And, again, when the sunlight streams under your
window,
And rests on your cheek for a second, maybe,
My idoll you deem not—beloved, you dream not.
His rays are directed, are pointed by me!
And when the sweet sunrise comes flushing the
heavens.
I say to it, " Kiss him! ye arrows of light;”
And at night, on this far strand, I pray to the star-
land:
“Send, send down your beams for my darling’s
good-night I”
l»A M. W.


Political Points
Charles Bright is to edit the Shroud, and
write leaders lor the Rum. Let us sing to the
praise and glory of God.
Mr. Stuart’s complaint is catching. They
are saying now that Mr. Colton, the South Aus-
tralian Premier, has no backbone.
The Hon. L. Glyde (South Australia) Is
Boyle Rooheian. As posterity has done nothing
for us, he does not see why we should bother our-
selves about posterity. So he told the Norwood
Corporation not to be in a hurry to repay their
municipal loan, but to leave it to posterity.
It is not as a politician but 44 as a maker of
books” that the Maitland Mercury, a facetious
paper, welcomes Mr. Froude to Australia. If Mr.
Froude makes a book about Australia as true as
that be made about Ireland, there will be other
grounds for bis welcome whenever he returns
hero.
The Hurley Town Councillors drink
llmejulce and water at their own expense. The
Sydney aldermen drink—JNo space for a cata-
logue of alcoholic drinks — Ed.'B j All right: out
that out, but let me Just say what they do drink
they are quite ready to take at anybody’s expense.
That’s all.
Mr. Stout, the New Zealand Premier, says
his Government is one of compromise between
Radicalism as represented by himself, and Conser-
vatism as represented by Sir Julius Vogel. And
to this the New Zealand Press reply that they
want to know which gets the upper hand, and
whether Codlin’g the friend, or Short.
In the absence of politics, West Australia
is doing its best to keep up public interest of some
kind. There are garden parties at Government
House, and the calender for the Criminal Sessions
Includes cases of murder, manslaughter, indecent
assault, burglary, horse stealing, cattle stealing,
and robbery from the person. So that things are
not quite so dull as might be thought.
And now it is the Central Australian
that slates Gladstone and all his works. If this
kind of .thing goes on, we ourselves must believe
that the British Prime Minister is a “doderlll.
And since the Central Australian, In the same
issue that It wipes out Gladstone officially, contra-
diets a rumour that Mr. Luffy, the town bellman,
writes Its leaders, its political acumen should not
be sneezed at.
It now seems that when the news of Ger-
many’s annexations in the Pacific was first pub-
lished, the Victorian Premier, Mr. Service, sent a
sensational telegram to his Agent-General, saying
that the end had come at last, and that the bitter
feeling caused in Victoria would outlast a century.
The Agent-General presented this telegram to
Lord Derby, and the British Foreign Office con-
tinued to take things calmly.
It is noteworthy that the prime movers
in the recent meeting at the Town Hall, with re-
sneot to the policy of the British Government in
the Pacific, wers all either missionaries, Orange-
men, or the oats paws of the Orange Lodges.
Missionaries, Brown and Sutherland ; Orangemen,
Abigail and M‘Coy; Catspaws, Sydney Smith and
Hallelujah Henry. When we say catspaws we em-
nlov the term in a qualified sense. Sometimes the
Orange Lodges use these oreatvres, but just as
often they use the Orange Lodges.
Well, surely the New Guinea question is
at an end now. Lord Derby has presented the
Melbourne Hunt Club with a stag and two hinds
from Knowsley Park. Now. Knowsley Park is
iust another example of that land monopoly
which must vanish sown either by the good sense
of all parties, or by a terrible lesson from one. If
we had heard of Lord Derby’s giving up Knowsley
Park to the support of men instead of deer—if
hifl Htair and two hinds had not reared and fattened
on land in Lancashire enclosed away from an
overcrowded population, we might understand
his lordship’s liberality. As it is, we fall to see it.
The New South Wales Parliament have
more than once had to consider a Bill for the
abolition ot oaths in ail oases of purely statutory
swearing. Of course, to abolish oaths as acces-
sories of genteel conversation is a matter that
could not be legislatively accomplished. But our
Parliament may well refuse now to reconsider
their determination as to statutory oaths. Thank
6od, we live in a Christian land, and when we find
a Hindoo In the Melbourne Police Court offering
himself to bo sworn on a glass of water, our legis-
lators may well shrink from swearing over any-
thing less sacred than—a glass of whisky and
water.
The principal measure to be produced by
the Government next session will probably be the
Local Government Bill, and it is considered quite
on the cards that they will fall to carry it through.
The malcontents who are created by the acts of
any Administration are increasing in number
proportionately to the duration of the present
Government’s term of office, and next session the
Cave of Adullam is sure to be fuller than ever.
In such case, a dissolution and an appeal to the
country is among the possibilities of the next few
months. By the way, we observe that Parliament
is farther prorogued till the 1st of April. Wonder
whose happy thought was ?
In political circles it is rumoured that a
good deal of quiet canvassing is being done in East
ydney, in the interests of Sir Henry Parkes. It
is, of course, net likely that, at this stage, the
knowing old knight will be prepared to aokno w-
ledge that anything Is being done with his au-
thority; but that feelers are being put out by his
4 ‘friends” seems to be unquestionable, and, in
view of the previous positively last farewells
which Sir Henry took of political life as a pre-
liminary te scrambling in again, few sensible
people will hesitate to believe that, it an opening
were prepared and a chance of a fresh term of
office loomed ahead, Sir Henry would find excel-
lent reasons for 44 sacrificing his own ardent desire
for repose to the interests of the country.”
The complacent persons who give the
name of Alarmists to all who elect to look uncom-
fortable probabilities in the face, have always
ridiculed the allegation that Russia has a fixed
purpose of wresting India from English sove-
reignty. Now, one of the many grounds upon
which this conviction is based, la the alleged will
of Peter the Great, In which testament the suc-
cessive steps towards that climax are specifically
Sresorlbed. Up to a certain point, these steps
ave been steadily followed by successive Russian
monarchs. But, notwithstanding such apparent
evidence of the genuineness of Peter’s alleged
Eolltioal testament, the complacent brotherhood
ave maintained that the will is a modern Inven-
tion, like Mother Shlpton’s prophecies. Prince
Bismarck is of a different opinion. In conversa-
tion with M. Karl Braun, a Saxon deputy, pub-
lished In December last, in the Dbutgh Revue,
Prince Bismarck Is reported to have said, 44 1 do
not believe that Peter the Great’s will Is apocry-
phal.”
When Prince Edward attained his ma-
jority on the 8th of last month, bis father did a
wise thing in refraining from demanding an
establishment for him. Certainly, he only did
what was right, for what does a chit of a boy of
21 want with a house ef his own? But when
royalty does the correct thins:, it counts two to
them. It’ll make Wales popular for a month or
two, this tremendous stroke of self-denial.
Lord Roseberry is a dangerously clever
Peer. He is a radical thinker, with aristocratic
sympathies. He perceives that the anomalous po-
sition of the House of Lords as at present constitu-
ted must, unless modified, lead to its abolition.
If he were a radical only, Lord Rosebery would be
very well pleased at the prospect. Being an aristo-
crat as well as a radical, he is disturbed, and wants
to save the House of Lords. He implores the Peers
to reform their own chamber. This is perniciously
wise advice, and if followed, might perpetuate, In
a modified form it is true, but still perpetuate, an
institution which is essentially absurd and bad. For-
tunately, there is not the least likelihood that the
Peers will pay attention to Lord Rosebery s warn-
ings and advice. The average Peer Is not any
wiser than the average man, and is so inflated with
his own God-given divine rights to enjoy even the
most absurd and intolerable of his present privi-
leges, that he will simply abuse Lord Rosebery for
an impertinent and revolutionary schemer. So
that, despite the dangerously sagacious Rosebery,
the House of Lords will stalk with imbecile dignity
to its doom.
Here’s another instance of the Jingo spirit
of the 8. M. Herald's London correspondent. He
writes:— 44 If, by hook or by crook, the final act In
the Egyptian crisis can be postponed until Lord
Wolseley gets Gordon away from Khartoum, then,
Serhaps, we may scuttle out of Egypt, leaving our
onour, our prestige, and our national self-respect
behind us.” Thus, to quit Egypt will be to
“scuttle out,” and will involve loss of honour,
prestige, and national self-respect. And it Is the
moral S.M. Herald which publishes and adopts
these sentiments. Let’s see, now. When we en-
tered Egypt, we declared to the whole world that
we only intruded in order to secure to the Egypt-
ians the benefits of a settled Government, and we
pledged our national honour that we would not
remain in the country. Consequently, by retiring,
we carry out the Intentions we announced, we
keep our word, we maintain our self-respeot, and
we uphold our national prestige as a nation which
discharges its obligations and deals honestly. Un-
less, of course, to retire at Inconvenience to our-
selves be “to scuttle,” to break our word bo to
maintain onr honou r and prestige,and to make our-
selves liars in the face or the world bo to preserve
our national self-respeot I Queer Ideas of honour,
prestige, and national self-respect, the Herald
and its correspondent have, eh ?
Readers of the S.M. Herald are enabled
to obtain a very good Idea of the light la which
events and circumstances appear to the Conserva-
tives of all European States, by perusing the letters
from the Herald’s “ own correspondents,” from
the different European capitals. The anomaly of
having all Enrooean events shown to Australians
—In the main. Liberals In sentiment—through Con-
servative spectacles, Is one which concerns the
proprietors and readers of the Herald- But the
public should be reminded from time to time that
these letters are not fair and impartial narratives.
They out-Tory even the Tories of the places where
they are written. ThusJthe London correspondence
of the S.M, Herald is believed to emanate from
the Standard, the most ultra-Oonservatlve paper
In Great Britain. There Is Internal evidence
against this presumption of authorship, since the
Standard itself la not by any means so outrageous
in its Conservatism as are the letters of the S.M.
Herald’s correspondent. An instance of the
misleading character of these letters is afforded in
one dated December 28, and published in the 8.M.
Herald of February 4. Commenting on the an-
nexations by Germany in New Guinea, the corres-
pondent says:— 44 The Australian community in
London, however, find one consolation for this
state of things in the factjthat it is Germany, and
not France, which has made the'annexations, and
some of them are inclined to look upon Germany’s
action as beneficial to the extent that it will, at least,
put a stop to the ambition of France in that quar-
ter.” 44 The Australian community in London ” is
a euphuistlo expression. Intended, probably,to Indi-
cate that lively group of things which is bounded
on the north by Sir Daniel Cooper, on the east by
Sir Saul Samuel, on the west by Tommy Holt, and
on the south by Jack Henniker Heaton. That
Germany, Instead of France, has planted itself In
New Guinea, New Ireland, and New Britain, may
pour balm upon the souls of Anglo-Anstrallane.
But we don’t see why It Is likely to. It may be
grateful to the parvenu tribe in their oapaoity of
ultra-Oonservatlves. But we suspect there is more
of the missionary than of the politician in the man
who has imagined this preference. The Germans
are (nominally) Protestants, and the French are
(nominally) Papists. In that circumstance may be
discovered the true reason for the preference so
strongly Insisted on In many quarters. As a mat-
ter of fact, there Is really little difference, outside
the nominal and official, as the bulk of the man-
hood of both nations are Free-thinkers. In
France, the Catholic religion lingers only
among the bumpkins of the agricultural dis-
tricts. The cultivated and educated men of France,
from President Grevy down to the ow vriers of the
workshops, laugh at the priests. In Germany, even
the women are similarly affected, and when that
paltry old ballet-glrl-loving-dear-Augusta-thaoka-
be-to-God-for-all-ttiis-oamage hypocrite. Pious
Billy, dies, the Germans will be Freethinkers from
Emperor and Empress (our own Princess Royal,
an out-and-out Freethinker) down to full-private
Hans. But, as a matter of fact, only Conserva-
tives of a leaden type would find political cause of
gratification that it is Germany and not France
which has grabbed in our vicinity. In regard to
race and sentiment, the British people are more
closely In sympathy and kinship with the Ger-
mans. The German people are. Indeed, our
brothers, while the French are but cousins. But
the misfortune is that, as yet there does not exist
for practical purposes of foreign policy any Ger-
man people at all. What we have to deal with is
a very different affair. It is the German Govern-
ment. The German people are Liberals, Radicals
—aye, are in larger proportion than any other
nationality. Socialists, as the last elections, showed
with startling force. But the German Govern-
ment is autocratic, aristocratic, repressive,
and Illiberal. Englishmen would sooner have
Germans for chums, perhaps. But the British
people would looser have to deal with the
French Government, which Is Liberal and
representative of Liberal institutions, than with
the German Government, which represents little
else than the arbitrary purposes of two unscrupu-
lous and arrogant old men—Pious Billy, the Panst
of international polities, and Bismarck, who plays
Mephlstopheles to Billy’s Faust. A correspondent
writes to us from London in a very different strain
from the correspondent of the 8. M. Herald. “I
send you,” he writes. 44 among other things, the
latest extracts from the papers relative to New
Guinea, which I am sorry we have lost. Germany
Is the deadliest enemy of England, and unless we
look out, ere ten years have gone by, we shall hive
Bismarck’s Pomeranians on guard at the Bank of
England. It would be no snoh difficult matter as
complacent people seem to think, to land 50,000
Germans or so upon the Eastern coast after part of
the Fleet had been decoyed away elsewhere by an
artfully arranged scare. It is becoming plain to
the British publlo at last that the Power with
whion they should make friends is France, and
that our good, modest. Protestant brother, the
German, will make blackpuddings of eur blood if
he gets half a chance.”
Those who did not attend the annexation
meeting at the Town Hall missed a treat. It was
real fun from start to finish. The combination
which upset Hallelujah Harry’s apple-cart was of
the most remarkable character. It comprised sup-
porters of the Stuart Ministry, who were afraid
Parkes was about to be galvanised Into public life
by the movement; Secularists, holding the views
or the English Radicals against extension of the
Empire; Irishmen and Irlsh-Australlans, embit-
tered against Sir ’Enery; Germans and Scandina-
vians (many of them wharf-labourers Invited by
E. W. O’S.), and philosophical supporters or
the right of Germany to occupy the is-
lands of the Pacific. The Irrepressible Tommy
Walker, of tranoe-mcdlum fame, was there,
and when he made an effsrt to speak the din
began. Tom was evidently that night under the
twofold Influence of Stonewall Jackson and
CBdlpos, for, in spite of the most virulent oppo-
sition, he insisted on being beard, and concluded
by tabling a conundrum In the shape of an
amendment, which no sane person has yet been
able to solve. Then oame the irrepressible
Daovld Buchanan, with his evergreen proposition
for the establishment of an Australian Republic,
but this was strangled in the most ruthless manner
by the chairman. Of course it was not to be
expected that the redoubtable B. W. O’Sullivan
would be absent on an occasion like this, and,
therefore, we were not surprised when he bounded
on to the platform, and began an energetic oration
in defence of the Gladstone Government and the
Germans. But, mark you, such small fry as J. C.
Neild and F. Abigail were beneath the notice of
this ° lineal descendant of a thousand kings.” He
reserved to himself the right to assail the largest
vessels in the enemy's fleet, and, holding an
amendment in his hand, he gallantly went
for Sir IHenry Parkes, General M‘Iver, and the
Rev. G. Brown, much after the fashion of the ** at-
tack of the Vanguard” on the huge three-deckers of
the Spaniards. The poor chairman was more to be
pitied than blamed, for on the one side he had the
supporters of annexation claiming that the reso-
lutions were carried, while their more energetic
and noisy opponents were clamouring for his de-
cision on their side. The climax arrived whan the
©’Sullivan and Walker Jumped on the platform
and called for three groans for the chairman, and
then invited the crowd to a meeting outside, which
was held, and where the Mayor was denounced in
language which was forcible, if not polite.
Vive Lc Sport I And this reminds ua that
when the noble red man requires a little recrea-
tion, he takes his rifle, his knife—and his life—in
his hands, and boldly faces the bellowing buffalo
on the prairies, or takes it out of the terrible
" grizzly ” in his lair. With the noble white man,
however, the ease is very different. His vein, as
bully Bottom would say, is not quite “so lefty;”
as was recently shown in the case of Lord Wlm-
borne and bis friends, who, according to a lick-
spittle London journal, went on the warpath in
the forests of Auchnashellaoh and Conlln, West
Ross-sbire, last season, and killed ninety-two stags,
the heaviest of which weighed “clean.”
Besides this, 224 hares were nagged the day after
the deer-stalking—as it is facetiously called—
ceased. In the cose of these brave sportsmen,
something like fifty “beaters” were employed to
round up the game, and drive it within a few
ff-et of where the slaughtering heroes stood, and
at no time did the wild enthusiasm of the sport
ever rise beyond the calm insipidity of a cold
potato. This, however, is nothing to us, but
where the thing bites badly is in the fact that in
order to enable a crowd of mudheaded nincom-
poops of the Lord Wlmberne stamp to enjoy them-
selves after their own cowardly fashion, thou-
sands of honest men and women are compelled to
huddle together in wretched hovels, and starve
on food at .which the very dogs of My Lord would
contemptuously turn up their noses. Small won-
der, then, if the predicted time arrives when the
tables will be reversed, and the Journalistic
records will read—Skye Crofters Noakes, Stokes,
and friends bad excellent sport this season, bav-
lug shot no less than ninety-two noblemen, thirty-
eight of whom were lords. The heaviest was a
prime old buck, weighing ISkjst. “ clean.” When
noblemea-stalking ceased, Messrs. Noakes and
Stokes amused themselves potting baronets, no
less than 224 being bagged in one day. The game
was in splendid buckle, and the crofters amused
themselves most oonsumedly.
MOEIARTY’S MUDDLE; OR, STILL AEPEN ON OUR WATER.
Mr. Moriarty (loq.): “In three short years’ time the
bright pellucid waters of the Nepean will lave the
arid streets of Sydney.”
. (A period of 50 years elapses.)
| {“ Owing to a trivial technical error, and
the unfavourable nature of the past season,
a slight delay has occurred m our present
work, but I have now great pleasure in in-
forming you that in three short years’ time
the bright pellucid,” &o.
(A period of 100 years elapses.)
“The gross obstacles thrown in my
way by a clique, which is secretly led
by audacious pseudo-engineers out-
side my department, and the vile and
dastardly libels heaped upon m© by a
hireling press, have caused some slight,
but to me, most vexations delays in
the present work, but I have now
great pleasure in informing you that
in three short years’ time the bright
pellucid,” &o.
(A period of 500 years elapses.)
“ What I • 1 The miserable public
grumble, and say they don’t believe I
can fix the Nepean supply at all, do they ?
Well, let them do the job themselves, and
when my time comes to die let them
write on my grave i 4 Here lies one who
was killed by his country’s base ingrati-
tude*’ "


BARGAINS! BARGAINS!! BARGAINS!!
Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
BOSS-A-LIB, LLOTD cfc CO.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO, ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
pgr - Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
Ladies should secure the
CHEAP LACES AND UNDERCLOTHING AT ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.’S SALE.
4s. in the pound taken off your Bill.
Thousands of Remnants of Laces, Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laces.
Remnants of Ribbons. Remnants of Ribbons. Summer Millinery. Summer Millinery.
A MAGNIFICENT STOCK ALL INCLUDED IN THE SALE.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
Umbrellas Umbrellas. Parasols. Parasols,
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.,
NEAR THE GENERAL POST OFFICE.
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robe Makers.
Trousers from 21s. to 40s.
N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Co.
W. Shearsbt & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st.
W. H. ARIELL & CO.’S Agencies.
KENT STREET (near King-street', SYDNEY.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S Celebrated Biscuits, Cakes, Treacle, and Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MILLS Prize Victorian Oatmeal, Flour, and Pearl Barley
DILLON. BURROWS & CO.’S Prize Assorted Confectionery and Bonbons.
A, M. HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, in and 11b. tins.
SWALLOW & DERHAM’S Queensland Refined Sugars.
ANGLO-SCAND1NAVIAN Gold Medal Condensed Milk, the best in the market.
R. WH1TT1NGHAM & CO.’S London Provisions and General Merchandise.
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.
BOUEEE,
Is the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel In the Western district. The Table and Liquors
cannot be surpassed, even in the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. First-class Stabling.
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor.
Holiday Presents.
v.
PALING
AND CO. (Limited),
HAVE JUST RECEIVED A MAGNIFICENT SHIPMENT OF
COTTAGE,
UPRIGHT GRAND
SEMI-GRAND,
CONCERT GRAND
PIANOS,
by the
MOST RENOWNED
MAKERS
in the
WORLD.
AMERICAN
ORGANS,
b
BELL and CO.,
PALACE CO.,
STORY and CO.,
at
PRICES to SUIT ALL
CUSTOMERS.
These instruments have been SPECIALLY SELECTED by Mr. W. H. PALING, who is NOW
IN EUROPE, and may justly be considered ’ 8 WOW
ID HOST IEEE
of Musical Instruments ever introduced to Australia.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms.
Mr. PALING has also FORWARDED a COMPLETE ASSORTMENT of
MUSICAL BOSSES,
FROM TWO TO SIXTEEN AIRS.
These Goods will be Sold at Unbeard-of Prices.
IV. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
T AfiE THOMPSOIT,
A.J.C. CIGAE DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON,
91 King-street.
N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
READ^THISI
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Frice.
Sliver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and Jewelled,
with the latest Improvements,
£3 10s. each,
Warranted for three years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 PUt-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
Black Swan Hotel.
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
TTIIR8T Class Accommodation for Private Faml-
X? lies. Green paddocks, shooting, Ashing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place Is unsur-
passed. The inagnlttolent s.s. lllawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o clock.
I AAA domestic paper fashions
lUl/V/ shown In our Illustrated Catalogue
Price, Threepence ; by Post, Fourpence.
CHAP PEL & CO.,
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern and General Sewing-machine
Agency,
746 GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and all fittings, &c., kept In
stock.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GENT.’S 50, Is. 6d.; 100, 2s. 6d.
LADIES’ 50, 2s. Od.; 100, 3a Od.
Address, 6d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. 6d.; 250, 6s. 6d.; 500, 10s.; 1000, 15s.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
TIE DIRECT Sim CO.,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
M. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
200 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
From the Strand, London.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 854 and 366 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the late Mr.
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney*
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manases.
. and CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
II, mWl, d HM1T HUMS,
Importers of
ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD WORKING MACHINERY
KAIL Mm^ N 5 d 9THBR CONTBACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS.
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT. PUMPS. OOAUHBDILDKH&’
materials, squatters’ supplies, &c.
BAB, PLATE. SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRU8HWABE
FENCING WIRE,
WOOLPACKS
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRON MON
QERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
if
PORTABLE, FIXER
BN-
VERTICAL and HOk
... ZONTAL BOILERS
' jsrf S TEAM
PUMPS
and •(%
Jgg kaVAV IULUN0
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
f foundry
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, &o.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse - ... 54 YORK STREET,
Iron an l Implement Yard - - HAY AND ENGINE STREETS.
Bulk Stbrea - HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HAB»(*U«.
SYDNEY.
London Office - - - - 85 GRACECHURCH STREET.


NNAIAF
I Se=—1=3 I
<Jus> opened by
LAHG*El
<54- & 5(® Wi Li.ijAM,
PLE.NDID L ADIES4(!)ENTlj||
Tfjc Pasfry'-. Tea. Cream ,F(efreshmenfs
The Cafe & Refreshmenf daily From 5 A M fall 3QP.M
On Sun ctf .54a II PM.
Orders to of Town to JIP.M
Specially Established for Private Order Trade
MUCj
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
I
i
oS
m
AT
If Es
tK,
r
FijU
c v '
|r Sami!
acbnts for
iS'BAKER’
any plate*
'STAm* 4* ..
A
01
Mi
fi£
HEAD IT ALL.
It may Save your Ufa.
hop bitten
AKM
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARB COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchu, mandrake, and Band eton.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘ and Valuable Medicines in the World,
'and In addition contain all the best
1 and most effective curative properties
* of all other bitters, being' the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
* and life and health restoring agent on
4 earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Age
and Inflrm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
* Men, Labourers, Ladles, and all those
'whose sedentary employments cause
'Irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
* Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
'these Bitters are invaluable, being
'highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
* without intoxicating/’
** No matter what your feelings or
'symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
* wait until you are sick, but If you only
•feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘dreds have been saved by BO doing, at
* a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician,
"Do not suffer yourself or let your
* friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘ use Hop Bitters.”
"Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
‘without ft.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
M ebourne, Australa, Rochester, N. Y., U. S.
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
WeakNervpiisMfin
Whose debility, exhausted
Powers, premature decay
and failure to perform lire’*
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will bud a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
L n .9^’!r orou " manhood in
stomacl?<5n
• instruments. This treatment of
Nervoua Debility and
, r- -ThyslcnlDecay ieuniformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis
new and direct: methods and absolute thorw
oughnesa. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting' Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., 52 Caitlemgh Bt., Sydwy
Christmas Presents and New
Year’s Gifts I
U8T RECEIVED, a Large Assortment of
Gold & Silver Jewellery,
SUITABLE FOR PRESENTS.
Ladies’ Gold Drees Rings, from 10s.
Ladies' Silver Watches, from £810s.
Gent.*s Silver Watches, from £3 10s.
And other articles too numerous to mention.
C . OKAN T ,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER.
B84 George Street, Sydney.
Country Orders promptly attented to.
MEDICAL. TESTIMONY.
Chapel Street. Prahran.
1 eonBlder there are no superior or more reliable
Hop Hitters than those known as
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
JOHN COO KB, M.R.O.8., Eng., L.8.A., Lond.
Burgeon Alfred Hospital, Melb,
m
cm
or
life
KNOW THYSELF
4 .Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
tohdusted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pro.
JBAtnre Decline in Man, Errors of Tooth, and the untold
■fpjlftorlM resulting from Indiscretion or excesses may be
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-
Vjhwra and road the new work issued by the World’s Dig-
Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
*V, * Pi eserrfttlon. A book for every man, younc
pjld(|le-nged, and Old. It shows how lost health may he
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
W, <*"♦« and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
•V years is such as probably novor before fell to the lot of
avivnhtfoioion OArt i i i v , .« , *V U Ul
„ — - — uovui uciure leii to U1C Jot O
Wypbysician. 800pages, bound in beautiful French cloth
tay gut, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense thar
hay other sold in the country for 3 guineas, or the money
Will bo refunded in every Instance. Price, only 12 6 bv
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
ledal awarded the author bv the National ~~
the author by tke'National"Medical
Association, to the officers Of which bo refers.
. The Science of Life should be read by the vounsr for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all*—London Lancet.
lA a 3* e,8tlw Werld’s Dispensary Medical As-
sociation, or Dr. W. R. Parker. No. 6>J Hunter
■Street,Sydney, N.S.W. Theaathormay
W consulted on all diseases requiring
9KU1, secrecy, and experience.
$ jliOUNTC AST LEg sq^
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE ST REET
S FDN KV.
IMPORTERS OF ALL THE
ilEWEST SHAPES.
SOLE IMPORTER OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
mmi
Hjiwh
iilIHUIUIIIIIMJIIII
V-
SOLE AGENT FOR THE
SMITH ORGAN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
THEY WILL POSITIVELY
CURE
Nervous Headache in 6 minutes!!
Bilious Headache in 5 minutes 2 1
Neuralgia in 5 Minutes!!
Falling Hair and Baldness!!
Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp I
Promptly Arrest Premature Grayness. Make the Hair grow long
Glossy. Immediately Soothe the Weary Brain. 5
5-
-3
Crewkerne, Nov. 12, 1880
Sir,—My patients have given
me a very satisfactory account
«>f Dr, Scott’s Electric Hair Brush.
One lady assures me that she gets no
neuralgia in her face if she uses it, and
others state that by a few minutes’ brush-
ing with the Electric Brush, a nervous headache,
or one arising from overwork or debility, is quickly
removed. The invention is, I think, very valuable
I am. your obedient servant, G . F . WlLLBi MD> M . R . C .s.E.
From Dr. Lbmprirrr, D.C L
HTSivr the PRINCE and PRINCESS of WALES. PRINCE
ubste^c U es h prSmC a t 0 perTantnt S elTt P ro iti0n ’ rese “ bli^ g ebon y : a combination
amediately upon the Hair GfanrL f netl % l Current « which acts
.ested by a 68 ’ P ° W6r ™ alwa * 8 be
PURE BRISTLES—NOT WIRES. Wire Brushes injure the Scalp
and cause baldness and irritation.
The Right Honourable WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE M P
has written upon the merits of Dr. Scott's Electric Hair
Brushes, and nas added them to his Toilet. lr
CHURCHILL-daughter of the Duke of
Marlborough (hero of Blenheim), and sister of
Lord Randolph Cbm chill, of Parlia-
mentary celebrity-uses them regularly
and thinks them unequalled for
the hair.
A Handsome
Unbreakable BRUSH,
Elegantly Carved & Mounted
Gentlemen,—I have known and appreciated the great advantages of vour pi.i!, 1 ” u College, Oxford. Dec. 28, 1881.
I feel it my duty, as well as my pleasure, to earnestly recommend it* noTtriedTt' S °“ e kiln ? 1 ’, an , d> aa . 1 fl " d the bunefit3 increasing.
Your Flesh Brush is only one more proof of the enormous future open to the soientifln d fc 099 *^ 1 / imagine how material its comfort is.
Bribes are Indeed a wooder. and well worth the money 1 BOieutiflo development of useful and beneficial domestic appliances.
. ~ Yours faithfully, 0. Lbmpribrk, D.C.L., &c.
F Hio*e Bvuahe* oan be obtained of all Chemist* and Fan
't to any part a xtr --i.-j r —— — ——*— L
can be
Jd tfnlon Bonk
rtife gteralae.
t3T Send for Circular of
l>r. Scott’s Electric Flesh
Brushes , Corsets, & Belts
for Ladies’ and Gen-
tlemen’s use.
* oan be obtained of all Chemist* and Fancy 8torokccpers,’o» will b6 for
tan be
which
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
STREET, SYDNEY.
P.O. BOX 221.
Hero's an item which we know will cause
%l» toad of the City Water Mismanagement Supply
■wHroop down and hug us worse than a V.M.C.A.
/■Wor does his best girl when a train darts the
•jCflog pair through a half-mile tunnel, as the oars,
mwl along to a Mount Victoria plonlo. A few
marble ago, one of our noble army of drummers
spoiled Into a leading hotel In the "Whereat”
district, looking, aflor his day’s Journey, some-
thing like a relic of the Old Red f undstoue period
tied up In a dlrtv bed quilt. Having seen to his
horses, and Axed up his ait, the bagman requested
the landlord to show him where the batn-room
was. " Math-room -bsth-roora,” exclaimed the
puzzled Boniface, as he slowly woollen his bead
with bis oails; "y’ mean th* place t’put yer bag-
gage in,'I s'posel” "Baggage be flammed,”
roared the other; "no. The place to have a bath
—to wash in,” ‘ Oh, now I tumbles.” replied the
host; “jer wants a sloosh, I s e. Well, to telly’
th trooth, sir, our bath is very much out ov re-
pair Just at pre»eut: In laut, y’ might as well try to
bogey In a sieve. Y' see, it s a thing that’s hardly
«ver called for here. An', between ourselves, sir,
I don t think much ov baths In general. Seems t’
ms t’ bo somethin' In th’ water about 'ere that
makts th’ thing onhelthy.” Just here, an aui-
maien old rag-stack tottered Into the bar, and on
catching sight of this object the landlord’s face
brightened up with a heavenly smile, as he caught
too drummer's arm and exclaimed, "See there,
•ta; there’s a hexample for yerl That’s mv old
■dad, OS year old last Joon, an’ never had a hath
isiooe th' day bin nurse fust washed him. Now,
J** be said by me, sir, an’ don’t you hov no more
WM If yer want t’ live to be a good, sound,
wealthy olo man like he Is.” But as the “Commer-
•wl” had no soon ambition, be filed off to the
rtver and courted death by washing himself all
over. After wbloh he weut down on his knees,
and eternally thanked heaven for allowing him to
’•'o a deed which would prevent bis being asked to
sleep that nicht with the ancient man who hadn’t
been soaped far 82 years.


THB
IQNO
flazio.
m
~
233
m m m
FAMOUS
Migmon
KtAJLTO-
■JfcTE VER previously did Any piano win such a hold
on the public as the Mlgnon has done since
Its introduction. Our competitors have no doubt
done their level best to rival us—blazoning 1 forth
their bald Imitations with a tremendous flourish
of trumpets. What result hare they to show,
excepting to point to the gradual death of all their
offspring ? The reason Is soon found. Inferior
instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted ®n the
public. But the right-thinking public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales of the Mlgnon Plano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found Its way Into every town almost of all
the colonies—In victoria and New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north of Queens-
land ; in New Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE MIGNON
can be found, and its name is really a household
word.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for Its size defies all would-be Imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, because the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be had'on very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for first-class work and
richness of tone.
Illustrated Catalogue, with full description
of THB MIGNON and all other good instruments,
on application.
NICHOLSON* AND GO.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
MOULTON'S
FRUIT
Liver COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON’S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
Oil BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
jtnown, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit>
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price Is. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
Marshalls
TONIC NERVINE
ABHOISTimn.
SAFE, CERTAIN. & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss ot
Appetite. Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
ComplaintB, Loss of Vital Power, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effects It at once removes all craving
tor Alcohol. By its richness in phosohorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALLT
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour V
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d., or 25s. a easel*
Sole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS, M.PA 1
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists, 164 and
1 rL Market-street, near Hyde Park, fcvdney, and
pircular-tfuay, TAKE NO SXJB8TL
£ T A L I A N EMPORIUM
FANCY CHINA WARE,
„ comprising:
TEA BETS, DESSERT SETS, VASES, ORNA-
MENTS. &o.
FANCY GOODS IN GREAT VARIETY.
Silk Fans, Ladies’ Belts, Sunshades, Dolls, &o.
The Latest Novelties always on hand.
Best quality with reasonable prices.
B. JtAltMOlT, 410 Georgre-street.
NO MORE CO&NS !
CORNS AND WAHT8 removed without palo
by the use of Palmer’s Painless, Harmless,
and Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER.
This preparation la the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If applied accord-
ing: to the directions, It will effectually remove
them in from six to eie ht days.
PALMER’S
FACUE CURA
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Local.
This most wonderful Preparation has surpassed
all others in speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
how long or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed in producing the desired re-
sults: and it can be most confidently recommended.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general stores; wholesale by Messrs- Elliott Bros.,
Sydney ; B. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton,
Grimwade, and Co., Melbourne; Kempthorne and
Prosser, Dunedin.
NEUSTADT CO.,
COMPLETE
HOUSE
FURNISHERS,
39, 154, 156, & 158 OXFORD-ST]
SYDNEY.
13r HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
Either for Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers
MANHOOD RESTORED I
A Clergyman having tried every known
remedy for the Curb of Nervous,Exhaustion,
Premature Decay, &c., has at last discovered a
simple Self-Curb, which for the sake of suffering
humanity, be will send FREE the Prescription
which CURED him. Address, with self-addressed
stamped envelope—
Dr.'B.jA CLARKE, P'O. Box 293, Sydney.
HOWLANDS’ MACASSAR, OIL pre-
serves, strenghtens, and beautifies the hair; It con-
tains no lead or mineral Ingredients, and can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or goldeu-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
HOWLANDS’ KALYDOB is a most cool-
ing, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands, and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures ; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &o.
HOWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TTHE pro-
duces Immediately a perfect change In red or grey
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and per
manent brown or black, which colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer In perfumery for Rowlands'
articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, Loudon, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bros. E
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Compagnonl’s.)
THE undersigned, recognising the want of a
FIRST CLASS TAILORING ESTABLISH-
MENT, have OPENED the premises lately occu-
pied by the Bank of Australasia, at 168 PITT-
8TREBT (THE WEST END HOUSE) where they
Intend to carry on a High-class and Fashionable
Trade.
The public may feel assured that we shall be
able to maintain a high standard, when we state
that our Mr. Ward has had some years’ experience
in the best houses in Lo.idon, Paris, as well as in
first-class Sydney Establishments, namely, Farmer
and Co.’s and David Jones and Co.’s.
Our Mr. Wilson has had fully 20 years’ expe-
rience In the Australian trade, and has just re-
turned from England, where he visited all the
principal Woollen Mills, including that of Hud-
dersfield, as w»ll as West of England and Scotch
Mills. This will be a sufllclent guarantee that the
tastes and requirements of the public will receive
the attention they deserve.
In conclusion, we desire to say that we hope to
obtain a fair share of patronage, in return for
which we guarantee first-class work, all hand-
made, well shrunk, perfect fit, and all In the latest
London and Paris styles.
Soliciting a trial, we remain,’
U— Very truly yours,
FREDERICK WILSON,
HUGH WARD,
Fashionable Tailors, Robs and Habit Maters.
West End House,
lag Pittr street, Sydney.
-A.'brala.a.incL’fS
E»Ule<i
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy 1
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; thev can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
Immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
fJAMES MACGREGOR,
808 GEORGE STREET.
W
fiw
IM I
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLKAQKNT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGBN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFER
THE
In Dpi: Sing
Mu
it.
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever introduced into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, EASY TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine in the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS in Town and Country.
83T" Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE to
any part of the colony.
B. O. Holtermann & Co.,
Sons Agents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J. TURNER ROBINSON A CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-straet,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BBST-ASSORTKD
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
|Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
A. & C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse ,
818 6EOKGE IT HE B T,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
' The most liberal bouse for Pianos and Organa,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Intited.
A. & C. Huenerbein,
318 GEORGE STREET.
W. H. GHARD AND CO.
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
LIBERAL ADVANCES made on WOOL ©p
other PRODUCE shipped to their London
Agents, Messrs. Redfern, Alexander and Co., 8
Great Winchester-street, E.C.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well-
known firm is given to all consignments.
DENTIST.
(Of America)
Q UARANTEES
Pirfttl Fit ul Mastication,
HT PRICES MODERATE.
Corner George and Market Streets,
OVER HUNTER’S BOOT PALACE.
vQUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
IS"*
8
o
p.
O
*
4
o
a
Cj
m
&
n
to
8
*
&
o
m
tn
m
%
i
€>
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
Tli.© X5©lia"bl© BvLgrgrles!
m
S
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THB
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY.
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS. 9
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
tW BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOQK.
WILLIAM Merchant & Importer.
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sidney (near Petty’s Hotel,)


A POPULAR MINSTREL MADE HAPPY;
OR, PROM JEST TO EARNEST.
“For seven years,” writes Mr. Horace Bent, of
the Federal Minstrels, “I have suffered from an
acute neuralgic affection of the right knee and
rheumatic gout, which became so severe during
our season at the * Gaiety ’ in September, ’83, that I
was obliged to relinguish the active duties of my
profession and keep my room for a couple of days.
I had tried several strong liniments at various
times, some of which gave me partial relief. In
the course of my lecture and sketches I had fre-
quently mentioned, jocularly, St. Jacobs Oil; but
it never occurred to me to apply it to my own ail-
ments until a friend who happened to be in my
room whilst I was complaining of Intense pain re-
minded me of its claims, and sent out for a bottle
right away. I u?ed a little of it immediately, and
found instant re ief, repealing the application
again later on in the evening. Prom that night I
have never felt either the neuralgic affection of
the knee or the rheumatic gout return, and I
would have sent you this acknowledgment earlier
but I thought it best to thoroughly establish the
permanence of the effect; and have to subscribe
myself a firm believer in the virtues of St. Jacobs
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.8.W.*
price 3s. 6d. per bottle.
Printed and Published by Thb Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 24 Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W*
Here are the gay particulars of a judicial
case which is so properly mixed that we don t be-
lieve oven a Supreme Court jury h0 . r .®
entangle the legal knots in It. even with their best
time-payment teeth. The other day, in the Rue
do Grand-Cheno, Lausanne, a bull-dog P a
Cmsar, the property of a perfidious rosbif-punlsh-
Ing English galoot, saw a Irench cat quietly
perched on a fence, thinking sadly of Quatre-Bras,
and Madame Angot, and the good old days when
houchcr Robespierre and thegulllotlnecnabled her
to enjoy "prim© outs” for breakfast, every
morning. The oat—Toinette was her name—caught
sight of the dog, and recognising In him a brag-
gart descendant of the brutal victoraof Waterloo,
she spat twice In his eye, stuck her tall out as stiff
as a ship’s Jibboon. and shouted, “Long live the
Great Republic.” A second later, and the dog
was over the fence, with Are In hla eyes and
enough splinters In hla Southern hemisphere to
run a Tandstlckor match factory for the next ten
years. The moment Cfosar sprang, Toln»tte re-
cognised the fact that the less she had to do with
the dirty dog from Britain, the more there would
be left of her for other and far more congenial
purposes, and she accordingly shot out for the
other side of the road like a Roman candle tied up
la a well-worn door-mat. Caesar, of course,
thought he’d go where glory waited also, and so
close did he get to Tolnette’s tall at last, that she
was forced to yell, “Any port In a storm; and
turning a flip-flap, at once fell head first down an
open cellar-door. Caesar wished to return, out his
legs kept on, and he, too, went through the trap
with all tbe graceful ease of a Theatre Royal har-
lequln on the night of his flrtt pay day. It s P^
peoed. however, that the °®l‘ a V -2d the port
longed to a large wine merchant, and the port
that Toinette reached was a fln ®v however
crusted.” It takes a deal to drown a oat. however
[a fact which, in our childhood s ha PP£ j^v’ a nd
mastered far more readily his
the dog. declining to follow the fashion of his
countryman, the “fleeting Clarence posltivtly
refused to be drowned in the wla0 ‘° a ?k also-
falling, either Toinette or Caesar knocked out the
tap of this famous port tun, however, and thepre-
cious contents at once rushed out aod f.-rmed
quite a charming little Swiss Carmine l afe ®^
the catastrophe was discovered. The quantity or
the wine lost was 3800 litres, and its value was-aoo
francs. Toinette escaped, but the bold gendarmes
who entered with bayonets In their hands and
cloves on the breath [they all do ItJ found Cresar
crumpled up la the middle of the lake as dead as
hlfl eelebrated namesake. The wine merchant has
lodged a claim against the owner of the dog; while
the proprietor of the cellar demands
|rdm his lodger, the wine merchant, tor damages
done to his premises. Should he come off victorious,
who will not pity the luckless Briton who owned
the dog that chased the cat that tapped the port
that ruined the vault that was hired by the mer-
chant who “ squared” the man who let the house
that’s damaged through the sack spilt ? And, by
the way, there is a valuable hint In this for the
brilliant genius who undertakes to wrestle with
our next Christmas pantomime. But then, again,
It would scarcely pay the management who find it
difficult to keep some of their stars off the liquor
even now.
This is the very latest in the way of
“ dawgs.” Eight Russian fishermen were recently
letting down their nets for a haul when a sudden
squall struck the boar, and It immediately “turned
turtle.” The men wore just about dropping off
the bottom of the craft from sheer exhaustion,
when a water-spaniel, named “ Black,” swam off
to the wreck with a life-buoy la his mouth, and
this so cheered the men that, after some trouble,
they all trot safely back, by means of the buoy, to
the shore. Black’s heroic act excited so much ad-
miration for him that the Grand Duke Vladimir at
once bought him for a very handsome sum, and so
enthusiastic were the visitors to Biarritz, where the
Duke was staying, that they got up a subscription
for the plucky dingo and gave him a dinner, to
which all the dogs In Biarritz wore also invited,
and the municipality voted 60 francs to buy him
the silver collar which he now wears. The Invita-
tions to the dinner read : “ Black has the honour
to request his friends, the Biarritz dogs, to join
him at dinner.” Black’s former owner was a
bathing-machine man, who seems to be rather
sorry now that he wasn’t born a spaniel, and
“ Black ” compelled to run an old tub on wheels,
and live respectably on four sous a day and the
perquisites.
From the Wiloannia Welkin we learn that
that district Is fast working its way Into the glean-
ing vortex of illustrious achievement (all elo-
quence did not leave these shores when the last
tones of Alfred died away from our ears). Wil-
oannia has two strings to her bow —one, a string of
onions; the other, of tall men, who, no doubt, are
In no small degree indebted to that nutritious
vegetable tor their present Himalayan stature.
Mr. M’Kenzle and Mr. For be?, of that region, went
Into the garden of Ah Kim, and after some trifling
purchase, they strolled away out, just rooting up
five onions en route and pocketing them. The
house of Ah Kim followed the ruthless Invaders
and claimed his property, but the onions were
thrown away, and he was flouted. He sued
M'Kenzle, valuing the onions nt 6d. a piece, and
the judge fined that gentleman £3 and costs, at the
same time telling him that he was liable to a £20
fine. In the progress of the case, Forbes admitted
that he was the man who pulled up the succulent
bulb, and that he gave them to M’Kenzie. He got
clear, of course. Then the Dogberrys, on reflec-
tion, had up the actual plunderer and fined him
£2. Which shows how much more blessed it is to
give than to receive. But the second claim to the
empyrean apex of illustrious corruscation (and we
can spell, too, Alfred) Is that Wiiotnnia “ can boast
of, perhaps, taller men and more tall men than
most other towns. The other day, six gentlemen
met In the bar of the Mt. Murchison Hotel, the
shortest of whom was 6lt, lin., while three mea-
sured 6ft. 5in., 6ft. fin., and 6ft. Sin.” Now, It
strikes us that, should Wiloannia ever again suffer
from drought and decide to pray for it, they have
only to send to M’Kenzie for one of Ah Kim s
onions to rub his eyes with while Forbes groans,
and then about twenty of these lomr men could be
screwed on head to heel, and a few hundred sheets
of galvanised Iron be spread along their hacks,
they could then be stretched out to any district
where It rains and the town be supplied with
water In unlimited quantities.
This is the true tale of a Smythe and a
Smith, both of whom reside in ope of our fashion-
able marine “subbubs.” Smythe—with the “y”
and the “ e,” —recently lost his wife, and plain old
Smith with tbe “1,” lost a boat about the same
time. Both losses were duly, and simultaneously
advertised; but, owing to either the Inclemency
of the weather, or the intelligent compositor
having met a man who “ held it ’ shortly before
he set to work, the two names were messed up
In the most careful manner possible. A few days
after this, old Mrs. Fussaafether and two other
Little Bethel ladles called down to condole with
the man who had lost his wife, and if possible tap
him for a fiver, or see how he felt about fasten-
ing on to a second rib, and as they happened to be
guided by the delusive ad., they of course dropped
into the house of Smith, and then part of the
battle raged as follows :-Blowlng her nose In a
snuff-lined mmcholr, the worthy leader of the
woman’s warfare crowd began, “ It’s ’ard to bear,
we know, Mr. Smith’ coz she was such a dear little
thing, ’an you must miss her awful now, I’m
sure." Not exactly knowing what was up, the
old man hitched his pants, and stammered out,
“Well, yes; but y’see she got dam . I mean
she began to get very leaky of late, an’ so I ordered
another three weeks before she went. Got her
lyin’ down under a tarpolln up th’ yard there
now.” This so staggered the two Little Bothel
belles that they moved closer to the open door,
but the spokeswoman, recovering herself, went
on to say, “ But oh, Mr. Smith, wasn’t that rather
premature. We trust she was fully prepared to
go?” This only tangled poor Smith up all the
more, and scratching nis head, he slowly replied,
“ Well, Missus, y’ see a couple o’ Post-office chaps
took her roun’ th’ harbour one day, an’ between
them they loosened three ov her ribs, an’ nearly
bust her back in two, an’ hold on : where the
the deuce are y’ all runnin’ to ? Here's Mrs.
Smith jest been down to the pub. an’ got a flask
o’whisky. That ole boat wasn’t worth but
he was wasting his sweetness on the desert air, for
his disgusted comforters were then on board a
steamer for Sydney.
A meeting was held in the Cathedral at
Armldale to commemorate the escape of Bishop
Torregiani from assaslnation on Christmas morn-
ing, when a lunatic fired at him at the altar. Dean
O’Connor, and “our worthy gaolor,” says the
Chronicle, “delivered eloquent speeches.” At
the conclusion, the Dean trusted “ the audience
would play on the key note that had been struck,
till they handed In a good round sum.” Tbe key
note that night was £170, and we would ‘go one
better’ any day lor that amount,and stand as a
target to any number of bad shors, and be a key
note for a year, and call £169 a good round sum if
we could only have half a show. We observe,
however, that the Protestants did not feel the im-
portance to the world of this providential dellver-
ance-at least not to the extent of subscribing any
part of the £170 And this, somehow, reminds us
that there is a difference of opinion in the world
as to the relative importance in the eyes of heaven
of the continuance of any particular man or faith.
Here Is a copy of a missionary’s letter, addressed to
the Secretary tor Wesleyan Missions by the Rev.
John Watsford, and dated from Lakemba, in Fiji,
July S3, 1849. We came across it In a Wesleyan
magazine, of 1850, which we were compelled to
read, when all other literature was In pawn. The
Rev. John, we believe, still walks the eartb, but
we have grave misgivings about his congratulat-
ing the world on the escape of any particular
bishop:—“The two Roman Catholic Jesuits here
have been very active, and have tried every means
to extend and strengthen their system of delusion
but we are very thankful to be able to state that
they have lost more followers than they have
gained during the last year. We have preached;
the truth, aid exposed their errors; and our peo-
ple have received more light, and the confidence
of many of theirs has been greatly shaken. After
all, we cannot but feel very much while they are
so near us. We know how Popery deceives, and
we know how congenial their outward show and
ceremonies are to the corrupt mind. They hare
studied the Tonguese and Fijian character; ana
they make their system as pleasing and attractive
as possible. Their priests are very zealous, and ao
all they can for the cause in which they are en-
gaged.”
While a policeman was passing a church
during service a man came out and said to him
“You are wanted In there,” and passed on. ne
only meant that there were plenty of vacant seats,
and that It might be beneficial to the “ foorce to
hear the tarruth once in a lifetime or so. ine
bobby, however, thought he was wanted in the
interests of law and order. He accordingly stepped
majestically into the sacred edifice and lopkea
about him for tha culprit requiring his attentions.
An usher, thinking he wanted a seat, motioned
him to follow him along the central passage, and
stopped at a pew immediately in front of the pul-
pit, where sat ono of the deacons of the church
having a whole sitting all to himself. Pointing to
the vacant space the usher retired, and the
“bobby,” thinking the deacon was the “party
for whom he was called in, went up to him, tapped
him on the shoulder, and motioned him to come
out. The deacon looked up with amazement, the
parson stopped preaching, and several young per-
sons of both sexes, In the congregation, whom the
deacon had been catechising rather severely a few
days before, commenced to laugh and giggle. As
the deacon did not budge, the policeman caught
him roughly by the collar, and dragged him out
into the passage. The deacon resisted violently,
and, in fact, instead of turning the other cheek
as a deacon ought certainly to have done, ho
kicked the policeman on the calf of the leg, and
hollered out “blue murder,” “fire and brim-
stone,” and wanted to know, in fact, what this was
all about. Several members of the congregation,
thinking naturally that the deacon had killed his
wife and drowned his children, as none of them
were at church, went at once to the officer's assist-
ance. and the deacon was dragged, pushed, kicked,
and hustled out of the church and was speedily
conducted to the look-up. Then it occurred to the
policeman that he would like to know what the
deacon had done, so he went back to the chureh,
which he found empty, though there was still a
good crowd standing about the doors. He was
eagerly questioned about what crime the deacon
had committed, but as that was the object of his
own quest, he was not able to satisfy their curio-
sity, except to hint that it was either a murder or
a bank robbery, he could not exactly say which.
After searching for some time, he at last found
the usher who had shown him to the deacon’s pew,
and of whom he enquired what the deacon had
done. The usher did not know, and the policeman,
after vainly trying to get to the bottom ef the
mystery, at last decided to go and ask the deacon
himself. The deacon, on being questioned, shortly
told him to go to a certain warm place, and so
aggravated the bobby that he kept him in durance
vile all Sunday night, and only let him out on
Monday morning wuen he saw there was no chance
of a prosecutor turning up. The deacon brought
an action against the “ foorce ” for false imprison-
ment. The bobby is now a bobby no more. The
man who sent him into the church is still at large. (
“For sale. Splendid cottage piano—cost
£75. No reasonable offer refused. Property of a
poor widow, who needs cash through a sudden re-
verse in fortune.” That’s an ad. taken hap-hazard
from the long list of similar announcements which
flood our daily advertising sheets—sometimes
facetiously alluded to as Journals. No doubt,
many of these notices are genuine, because ours is
a young and innocent land, as yet, and such things
as bogus ads. or put up jobs are almost unknown
amongst us. But we have just struck the dying
depositions of the counter-clerk of a New York
daily, touching a rosy little game the piano
peddlers play over there, and which seems to pay
even better than preaching the gospel, or bottling
Cooktown rum into real Old Red Heart, or Jamaica
bottles. “ 1 was wolfing my lunch by fits and
starts, one day,” said the dying clerk, “when a
respectably dressed, well-to-do sort of woman
bounced into the office as if she owned the whole
block, and was rather proud of her property, and
slamming down an advertisement, with the re-
quisite change on the counter, smiled like a female
alligator on its 17th birthday, and then skipped
briskly out again. For three years after, that
woman had a similar ad. in the paper every day
announcing that she had for sale, at her residence,
a piano which she was forced to let go at a tre-
mendous sacrifice indeed. The advertisement in-
variably stated that the instrument had only been
in use a week, and was in every respect as good as
new, but that sudden reverses, or a decision to
move out f town, had forced the owner to sell
the piano at once. For he first month or so, I
thought that her ladyshi t was having a deuced
hard time trying to sell her rlze medal terror, but
she seemed so gay—almostgiddy, in fact—that I
began to sniff a rodent, and ao, one winter
night that she was obliged to wait till
a shower cleared, I got her ‘ under the pump,’
and drew outa ooufessioh that she sold pianos in
this way as a regular, and remarkably good paying
piece of business, She had an arrangement with
the manufacturer, by which he furnished her with
a fresh piano as soon as the last one was sold, and as
they are all of cheap make, but rather showy, they
manage to go off very well. She is anxious to keep
her business very quiet, but it has been noised
abroad, until she now has several competitors, and
the Sunday papers will invariably have the names
of four widows who are obliged to sell their pianos
at once.” We therefore see that the elder Mr.
Veller's advice touching vldders was by no means
uncalled for, as every one of these poor lone crea-
tures in the piano racket drove a roaring trade
and waxed fat on the gullibility and greed of their
fellow citizens. The persons most to be pitied
seem to be the piano makers, who must have
tempestuous time of it, owing to the fierceness of
the competition in their trade. This life-and-deatb
struggle among the wire stringers apparently be-
gan since the rage for Grand International and
other Exhibitions set in : the trouble being in-
creased by the liberally advertised fact that at each
show the makers of every piano in the world got
the highest award that could be made. Since then,
all sorts of dodges have been worked to push the
tuneful goods, but the employment of alleged in-
digent widows takes the cake as yet for originality.
What a blessing it is that in this righteous land
such games are never—well, scarcely ever—even
heard of amongst us. Now, then, Bridget Aman-
da, dig into that 90-guinea time-payment peanner,
and let us hare something classical and new, such
as “Grandfather’s Pants, or “ Pa’s Chronometer’s
In the Pawnshop.”
This most uncommon and becoming theatre gown has a plain skirt of broohe
edged with lace. Princess dress of broche, open in front and trained at the back,
trimmed with ooquilles of lace on each side, and a thick coquille on the upper part of
the train. Pelerine of broche edged with swansdown. A band of swansdown edges
the open front and encircles the neck. Sash of satin. Parements of satin and lace;
lace collar.
