

THE BULLETIN
V Jl. 3.—No. 123 -New Series.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1885.
** lot-64.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1885.
Laud.
“ The land is the source of all wealth.”
The phrase is George’s, and no weightier
words were ever spoken by prophet or seer.
The present Parliament of New South Wales
have passed a Land Bill, which, whatever
its other merits or defects, possesses the
cardinal error, common to all its predeces-
sors, of recognising the right of private pro-
perty in the soil. We are far from hoping
that any arguments of ours against this
vicious principle, or any examples illustra-
tive of its deplorable results, .will have an
effect upon the legislators who adopted it.
Their tenure of power is too short, and they
are too busy battling for existence to turn
aside and examine first principles. Our
hope is that, by keeping before the public
the indefensibility of private land owner-
ship and supplying examples of its perni-
cious consequences, the people of New South
Wales and of all Australia may at last be
brought to see that the gospel, long ac-
cepted by thinkers here and there, but first
formulated and preached by Henry George,
contains glad tidings—that it is a message
which, if accepted and acted upon, would
go far to establish that well-being so essen-
tial to the preservation and progress of
society. From all countries where, accord-
ing to the Malthusians, increasing popula-
tion presses against the means of existence,
comes the same wail—the rich aie getting
richer and the poor poorer. In all, whence
the pitiful cry comes, there is one never-
varying condition—the land no longer be-
longs to the State. The one source from
which all wealth must be drawn, directly or
indirectly, is in the hands of a few. Where
certain effects are observed in countries
differing widely in position, population,
climate, and race, and where, on examina-
tion, it is found that in all the same con-
dition—the alienation of the soil—precedes
those effects, the assumption that it is the
cause of them is a fair one. If it can be
shown that, as the land in a new country
falls into private hands, the gulf between
rich and poor widens daily, the conclusion
that the alienation of the soil is one of the
causes, if not the chief cause, for this widen-
ing process is reasonable. But could it be
further shown that, where land was held in
common, or, at least, where exclusive
ownership was not acknowledged, the con-
trast between wealth and poverty was
scarcely appreciable, then the conclusion to
which we have referred becomes a cer-
tainty. We believe both of these to be
true.
♦ ♦ ♦
New Zealand is capable of supporting as
large a population as Great Britain. It has
now about half a million of people, or close
on one-seventieth of the number in Eng-
land and Scotland. A few weeks ago a
number of working men waited on Sir
George Grey to beg him to use his influence
in procuring passages to South Africa for
them and their families. They had come to
this Southern Britain to live and labour-
come to establish for themselves and their
children the homes denied them in the land
of their birth. But they discovered after a
short time that very little good land was
available. The best had been secured in
huge block, by capitalists, companies, and
jobbers, who could afford to sit idly by till
the lapse of time and the inevitable increase
of population gave them their fortunes.
They were in no hurry—they could wait.
But the workmen, depending on their daily
labour for-.their daily bread, could not.
Here we have a country as extensive a? the
British Islands, with an unrivalled position,
and superb climate; a country which only
became an English possession within the
memory of middle-aged men—reduced by
the operation of vicious laws to the necessity
of denying homes to those who crossed tbe
globe to find them. To the exclusion of
those who came after them, men were
allowed to become possessed of land they
could never use, to add block to block, and
holding to holding, to gratify an insensate
greed. One result among many is that, in
a country of yesterday, the insolence of
wealth and the abjectness of poverty are
almost! as vividly contrasted as iu the
densely-peopled countries of the old woild.
Many years ago we travelled through the
Waikato Valley, before General Cameron
and his troops broke the back-bone of the
Native rebellion. The tribes were wailike
and semi-barbarous, but the land being held
in common, there was rude comfort every-
where. Every Maori was at least well-fed,
and enjoyed a freedom compared with
which the life of the English labourer or
Irish tenant farmer is slavery. Through
miles of peach-grove?, and over fern-clad
hills we wandered, but there was no sign
of poverty in the land. All that country
was subsequently confiscated; the soil
passed into private hands, and want
appeared. To-day all the violent contrasts
of old lands can be seen there copied with
startling fidelity. The rich man drives by
in his carriage, while the poor man almost
begs for leave to toil.
In the Western district of Victoria are
millions of acres of land of surpassing fruit-
fulness. Bounded by the lines drawn from
Geelong to Ballarat, thence to Hamilton,
from the latter to Portland, and from Port-
land back to Geelong is a quadrilateral of
deep, rich, volcanic soil, capable of growing
food sufficient for all Victoria. In this
veritable land of milk and honey aie
cabins as squalid as any to be found in
Connemara or the Isle of Skye. In the
midst of bewildering abundance are to be
seen hovels as mean as any in the
Bog of Allen. The contrast between
Nature’s prodigality and man’s ineptitude
is the first thing to strike a stranger. To
find a parallel to it, one must go to the rich
uplands of Southern England, or travel
through the fertile valleys of Southern
Ireland, and observe the condition of the
agricultural labourers. Why have the most
repellant features of those lands reproduced
themselves in a country occupied but little
over a generation? The answer is easy.
Similar causes will produce similar results.
The land is monopolised. It has passed for
ever into the hands of a few. The heritage
of all has become the property of an insigni-
ficant fraction. The increase of population
and the consequent struggle for existence
have raised the value of land from a few
shillings to from £70 to £100 an acre. In
many places it is let in small farms, at from
£7 to £10 an acre per annum, and this enor-
mous unearned increment, instead of going
to the State, goes into the already well-lined-
pockets of those whose fathers’ greed se-
cured the soil when it might be had almost
for the asking. Yet there are among ns
men who, with the lamentable and inevi-
table results of allowing private property ip
land staring them in the face, misinterpret
the lesson taught, and blindly adhere to a
system whose consequences, in all countries,
have been so calamitous.
* ■ • ' *
“ The American people have failed to see
the essential injustice of private property ip
Lind, because, as yet, they have not felt its
full effects We [Americans] add
knowledge to knowledge and utilise inven-
tion after invention : we build schools and
endow colleges: yet it becomes no easier for
the masses of our peoples to make a living.
On the contrary, it is becoming harder. , ,
The gulf between the employed and the em-
ployer is growing wider; as liveried car-
riages appear so do barefooted children.
Beggars are becoming so common that
where it was once thought a crime little
short of highway robbery to refuse food to
one who asked for it, the gate is now barred
and the bull-dog loosed. , . , These are
the results of private property in land.”—
(•‘Progress and Poverty.”) Results precisely
similar, and traceable to the same cause, are
beginning to appear in Australasia. As
might be expected, they make themselves
felt in the smaller colonies first. Even in
these the population is so insignificant com-
pared with the area of the country that the
full effects of this monopoly are yet far
from being felt. But that they will go on
increasing from year to year with the in-
crease of the people and the alienation of
the laud is as certain as a geometrical de-
monstration. Even in the larger provinces,
New South Wales, Queensland, and South
Australia, the consolidation of great estates
gives promise of a coming struggle. We are
stupidly following in the footsteps of the
Americans in spite of the warnings their ex-
perience holds out. Among them the state
of affairs is approximating daily to that of
England, where the pauperism in the cities
is the inevitable result of the seizure by the
nobles of the sail which once supported a
thriving and independent yeomanry. Their
“tramps” of to-day are but the modern
counterparts of the “sturdy beggars” who
swarmed in England under the Tudors, who
were created by the earth-hunger of the
aristocracy and against whom was directed
the bloodiest legislation to be found in any
code or country.
• * *
Where is the remedy for all these ills, pre-
sent and prospective? It is not far to seek.
First establish the principle that there is a
fundamental difference between property in
land, which is not the result of man’s labour,
and property in things which are. Until
this is recognised as an axiom the way of
progress is blocked. Secondly, allow no
person more land than he can reasonably
use, and, as on a gold-field, only so long as
he uses it. This could be compassed by
means of a progressive tax. If a person’s
ambition lay in the direction of wide do-
mains, knowing that such greed, however
flattering to his arrogance, was prejudicial
to his neighbours and to the State, he should
be made to pay for his hobby. This tax
should increase not in arithmetical but in
geometrical progression till, over a certain
number of acres, it would be prohibitory.
The acceptance of those two principles
would ensure the happiness of countless
millions of Australians yet unborn. Instead
of the vulgar pomp and bitter want of Eng-
land: instead of the vast monopolies and
deepening poverty of America, an age of
prosperity, progress, and plenty—such as
poets have dreamt of and enthusiasts have
wasted their lives in endeavouring to real-
ise—would dawn for this great South land.
“But,” it may be said, “among all the
countries which are acknowledged to be iq.
MU, DION BOUCICAULT.


A NEW BOOK.
250 Tricks and Delusions
CARDS, DICE, and CONJURING APPARATUS,
and also containing over 100 tricks and deceptions’
with cards, Illustrated with blocks and diagrams,
fully explained, simplified, and adapted for home
amusement and social entertainments, forming
the most complete collection of its kind over
offered to the Australian public. Mailed free to
any address ONE SHILLING. °
THE WIZARD’S CHANGEABLE CARDS.
These cards change from Red to Black, from
eights to deuces and back again at the pleasure of
the performer, and elicit exclamations of wonder
and surprise from all who witness them. Post
free, with fuUJnstructions. Is. 2d, w
Comic caricatures.
..I "i, a Padder,” “I’m in love,” “I’m fwDaddv ”
Before and After Marriage.” “The Mother-In-
Law. ’ Five separate sets, each set consisting of
five character sketchings that have convulsed with
laughter every gathering at which they have
appeared. Price, post free, la. 2d.
WONDERFUL JAPANESE DRAWER BOX.
The performer sends round a pretty little box to
the company, which they fill with rings, coins, etc.
Directly the performer takes it in bis hand the
articles Instantly vanish and the drawer is shown
empty. Price 2v. post free.
GIVEN AWAY I
Cut this advertisement out and post it to us. en-
closing 5s. in stamps, or a P.O, order for 5s.. and
we wUl send you by return of post the above-men-
tioned goods, together with either of the follow-
in jar articles
A LADY’S HANDSOME BROOCH or EARRINGS
GENT’S SCARF PIN or SET OP SCREW STUDS
of the finest American Roll-plate Gold, guaranteed
to stand the acid test, and to wear for 10 years,
alone worth double the money, for which we
MAKE NO CHARGE.
N.8.W. stamps taken at par, other colonies add
Id. to each Is.
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT,
BOX 641 G.P O. 401 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
J.
TURNER R03INS0N 4 CO.S'
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HaIX,
478 Georga-straet,
_ . d _ . Established 1864,
HAS TH1 LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY.
DIRECT PROM THE MANUFACTURERS
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only |9s.
Small Bottle. , ,1s. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
from Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS,
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINB,
li. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3s, per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT POET
Is. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Potties, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN-IN FLASKS,
lr a 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henkeja Prize Medal Brand,
In stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST BIZI.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
C. W. ROBERTS
Deorge and SSarket Streets*
SYDNEY,
CHB RATES Of 3UBSOBIPTION tO THB BULLBTI»
are—For one year, Z4s.; half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
Tub Advertising Rates are 5s. per Inch!
special positions In the paper 7s. 8d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertionsf
16 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 85 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps ©f any Australian
Dolonv may be Bent,. If more convenient.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket only.
The “Palace” Nursing Cor-
set, all bone, in white
and drab, 5/3,
The “Haymarket” Corset,
in white and drab, agreat
favourite, 5/6.
The “Acme” C Corset, the
queen of corsets, perfec-
tion itself, all sizes, 9/6,
and a
Grand Choice
of
other Corsets.
We desire particular attention not only to the
prices of our Corsets but also to their style and
quality. Unless well made and accurately
modelled the corset only spoils that which it is
intended to enhance—the beauty of the figure—
and it is with the utmost possible confidence that
we say that our Corsets possess all the needful
qualifications in the eztremest degree. Specially
wo would point out our price for the celebrated
“ Acme” c. Corset, tyqth Ipwcp V aa asked by
hyusjs,
the van of civilisation, does not this right
of private property in the soil obtain? Is it
not common to France, Germany, Austria
and Italy, as well as to England, America,
aad Australia? Nay, further, is it not
notorious that in countries where ihe priu
ciple is not acknowledged—where land k
common property—all that we understand
by the word civilisation has made little if
any progress? The i|aori tribes held the
soil in common; so did. the Red Indian?.
But Hie refinement which characterised
them is scarcely that which you would re-
commend us to copy. It seldom got be-
yond eating , their enemies or roasting
them. At one time slavery w»s uni-
versal, It is now confined to countries
cither non-progressive or barbarous. Be-
fore the French Revolution, the advocates
of slavery, of whom the Christian Church
supplied no inconsiderable number, would
be equally justified in saying, “All the lead-
ing nations practise slavery. It has been the
custom from time icpmtni.orial. The great
empires of antiquity were almost founded
on it. 1 he arts, laws, and literatmea of
ancient nations, where it was an institution,
still challenge men’s admiration. It has the
sanction of Gob Himself. When you can
show us a nation which, without slavery, has
ever attained greatness, then, and not till
then, shall we be willing to listen to your
pleas for its suppression.” It was by great
estates that Greece, and, afterwards, Italy,
were ruined. In both, the soil, “in spite of
the warnings of great legislators and states-
men, passed finally into tho possession of a
few, population declined, art sank, the
intellect became emasculate, and the rtce in
which humanity had atlained its most
splendid development, becime a by-word
and reproacn among men.” In modern
European countries, tho private ownership
of land i an be traced to the usurpation of
chiefs and priest!*, assisted by lawyers—
“ those conservators of ancient barbarism,”
as Voltaire calls them. Had such usurpa-
tions not occurred, civilisation would now
be much more advanced than it is, se me of
tho most merciless massacres cf history
would have been avoided, and Europe to-
day would not be staggering under the
weight of armed men ready to fiy at each
other’s throats.
Press-Gagging.
Ever. since the invention of printing, the Frees has
been struggling to'flve itself from the incubus of
priestly dictation and State censorship. Before the
close of the third quarter of the fifteenth century,
a far-seeing Bishop p£ the then dominant Church
Is reported tp Uav.e said: "We must destroy this
thing, or it will destroy u«,” The "thing” could not
be destroyed, so it was manacled, and it has never
been completely free from chains since.
» • •
i In Australia, at the present day, it is lees free than
la Conservative England. The Ju iges of N S .V/.
Supreme Court have ruled tkat the P.css has no
privileges for outspokenness beyond these belong-
ing to every oitizeq. They might have justly de-
clared that it was placed by law under restraints
unknown to the individual critic who chooecsto
give his thoughts expression by the torguo instead
of the pen. Thelaw demands-from anyone who
propcses to print his thoughts in a cheap periodi-
cal fashion, so that the noorcst may benefit by
them, that he shall flrstgivo heavy securities for
his good behaviour-such behaviour to be gauged
by the authorities whom it may bo his highest
duty most vehemently and persistently to attack
Nothing more Infamous could well be conceived
It Is as a survival from the bad and priestrldden
past that so presumptuous a piece of legislation
could alone present Itself at this day. It wss taken
over by these colonies en bloc, with the musty
mass of stupid statutes England possessed in 1833
It was a dead letter In the old country for years,
and in 1S69 was repealed— Charles Bhadlaugh'
with his National Reformer, having, the pre-
vious year, defied it to do its worst. In Australia
It has been a dead letter too for the most part
until now, in Melbourne, where it has been re-
vived at the lidding of the priests, who have
always striven to keep a gag on the Press.
* * *
Joseph Symes, tbo Freethinker, hss for more
than a year been printing and publishing a
paper called the Liberator in the city of the
Cup Carnival, which hard-shell Presbyterians and
Conventicle Cantwells have thus far kept clear
of Sunday museums, libraries, reading-rooms, and
art galleries. Joseph has printed what he believes
to be the truth about these " self-elected saints’ 1
and their superstitions. Joseph may be wrong or
he may be right. He is cot Infallible, any more
than the Cantwells. All he asks is to be allowed
to publish bis thought as he deems best without
Cantwell censorship. There are more than 80
papers in Victoria issued, like the Liberator,
regardless of the inlamous Act, and without a
tlcket-of-leave from the Government. But they
do not make free With the sanctuary as Joseph
does. Hence, it is at Joseph, and not at them,
that the police are set, and the Attorney-General,
Kehferh, has the impudence to avow publicly
that this difference occurs because the other
Press folks treated him and his myrmidons
politely, and Joseph did cot. Acd there are
people in Victoria who continue to plume them-
selves in the belief that they live in a free country
where the laws are administered impartially.
♦ • ♦
Sensible people not far gone in the dry rot of
Maw worm servility, should bo shocked at the per-
petuation of this pretenos of a Press censorship.
Let each newspaper register its responsible
publisher, so that if an offence be committed the
offender may be known; but giving security f r
good behaviour is only worthy of a community of
couvlot’. Now Z inland can get alonir satisfac-
tory mwuiWjb a Mjvus *ea wby
not Australia ? Nay, even old England has set us
the example! Is it not abominable that under
these sunny skies, and with our larger arena and
aspirations, we should don the leprous clothes oast
off by the legislative ghouls and harpies of the
times of the Charleses and the Georges, and
find them clinging around us so that we cannot
smite the Tartuefes and the Cantwells as freely
as they may smite us ? They, forsooth, to he vir-
tually censors over the Press, when it is the first
business of an honest Press to squelch them!
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Caesar Smith.
One of the most humiliating things attaching to
the Governorship of a colonial dependency is the
way the domestic affairs of Her Majesty’s repre-
sentative are canvassed. The proportion of
Jeameses in a colony is much above what it is in
a kingdom. The advent of a new Governor is the
accession of a new master. Curiosity, solicitude,
rumour, fill the servants’ hall. We know, of
course, that Lord Carrington is comicg out to
occupy Government Home. Sydney. Everybody
knows it. He will probably be as good, or as bad, a
Governor as any other British peer willing
to live abroad for a while. Yet the Jeameses
are all a-flutter. It is not his Lordship's head
they think about. It is not anything he hat
done in science, literature, art, or sta esman-
ship. Up and down in the city, and pro-
bably In the country as well, the solicitude,
the curiosity, the rumour, all concern his Lord-
ship’s eating-department. Consequently, the fol-
lowing extract from the passenger-list of th<
Carthage, to leave London on 23nd prox, por-
sesses absorbing interest;—” Lord and Lady Car-
rington, sister, three children, two nurses, twe
ladies’maids, one secretary, three alde-de-cemps,
three footmen, one butler, one under-butler, on'
valet, one groom of the chamber, 13 other ser-
vants.” The Sydney Morning Herald hat
gone over and over the Intelligence. To the
Echo there appeared to be great fascination
in the item “ one valet.” The Mail ex-
tracted great satisfaction, we should infer, from
the record of “ one butler.” Then came alorg the
Evening News with “three footmen,” followed
fast by the D.T. and Tribune with “thirteen
other servants.” In other woids, the prominence
certain metropolitan papers give to our new Go-
vernor’s private and domestic concerts is such as,
if he can think for himself, will Inevitably lead
him to believe that he is coming to rule over a
colony of ex-butlers, body-servants, and kitchen-
wenches. We think it unfair to thus mislead him.
The Dramatist and the Divine.
The moral status ot the stage has been a fruitful
source of controversy these ages bt ck. The Rev
James Jeffehis, of the Pittstreet Congregational
Church, Sydney, and Mr. Dion Boucicault, al
present performing in the Sydney Theatre Royal,
are the latest to enter the lists, Mr. Jeffehis
asserts that the theatre professes to teach morality,
but not alone does notact up to the profeislon,
but ministers to vice. Mr. Boucicault denies
both profession and ministration. The first thint
noticeable in the controversy as it stands in print,
is the difference in manner between the lit era rj
styles of the divine and the dramatist. Each is a
representative of hi3 calling. The pen of the
dramatist is light, facile, flexible; that of the
divine, stiff, heavy, morose. What the dramatist
writes is agreeable, even when the reader doet
not agree; what the divine writes is agreeable
only whoa the reader is in cordial concur
rence. The composition of Mr. Jeffehis lecture is
much better than that of his letter. Lectur.
and letter, however, look the one way. In the
controversy he aims at solids. He seeks an eternal
motive in whatever tinkler, or sparkles, cr ripples
It goes without saying that he is as much a foe ol
the ball-room as of the theatre. He cannot clutch
an eternal motive ia airy gossamer and fantastic
tricks. Thl? is no abnormal condition of intellect
It Is a logical product of convictions with theli
roots in the unseen, and their leaves and branches
in the seen. A cleric who is half a worldling is
now-a-days, called a liberal-minded man. It is not
observed that he ia generally half a worldling be-
c iuse he is only half a cleric. It will compensate
Mr. Jeffehis for the shortness of his repute for
liberality, to have it conceded that in this matter
ho is altogether a cleric. On the other hand, Mr.
Boucicault is not altogether a dramatist. In
inserting that the drama does not profess to teach
morals, he not alone errs as to a fact, but reveals
his own ideal of dramatic work. The dramatists
who sit about the sides of Olympus worked in
their day, for the world’s botternese. Those
.* hose fame shines from the tip, or near the top
worked hard for it. The dramas of antiquity are
powerful moral stimulants. They are, and declare
themselves to bo, lessons on duty. The dramatist
the poet, the priest were once convertible term .
Gradually the offices became distinct, but the
sense of purpose in the front of work remained
with each. This moral purpose exists in all great
plays. It is found in some of Mr. Eoucicaults
own. Indeed, Mr. Boucicault appears to have
forgotten not only the historical spirit of the
drama, but his own opinion of his own dramatic
work. Quite the other day he explained in Mel-
bourne and in Sydney how seriously he shaped his
compositions to remove from the English mind
certain brutal notions respecting the Irish charac-
ter. This ia presenting the drama as a moral
teacher. Mr. Boucicault on the drama abso-
lutely is wrong, on the drama, in as far
as he has made it the business of his
own life, he is unsettled, u e ejects the
profession of moral teacher, while at the
same time he professes it. Hence we infer
that his dramatic ideal is unfixed. When, how-
ever, the dramatist, who is not altogether’ a dra-
matist, meets the cleric, who is altogether a cleric
on the second issue, the result is in favour of the
stage. On what grounds can it be held that
theatres minister to vies? Dirge areas must be
covered in considering the question. Individuals
go wrong everywhere. Farces and comic operas
figure as the pernicious bogies of the controversy.
These things should always be separated from
pwutftfltl tb'-aj v tVatUvr
and label them all with one name entangle every-
body. But who, with any fair knowledge of these,
will seriously set them down as ministering to
vice ? They create laughter. They fill the eyes
with whimsical spsotacles. They amuse for a
couple of hours. Now, Mr. [ Boucicault
is right in contending that there is a place
in life for suoh recreation and that the en-
joyment of it does not reveal a vicious tendency.
We purposely exclude mention of a certain
class of French opera-bouffe, which both con-
testants condemn. The issue lies essentially here.
Mr. Boucicault thinks enjoyment, as enjoyment,
is acceptable. Mr. Jefferis Is not content unless
the enjoyment move to a spiritual end. We are
thus back upon the wcrld-old trouble. Messrs.
Boucicault and Jefferis did not originate P.
Their lucubrations in the Press will not end It,
Mr. Jefferis’ dissatisfaction with the drama is,
however, a higher tribute to .the dramatic spirit
than Boucicault s satisfaction with it. The for-
mer recognises its transcendant potency, if only
it would arise and speak in earnest. The latter,
as we have stated, does not acknowledge, when
confronting this issue, that it is any of its busi-
ness to speak in earnest at all. Mr. Jefferis
clothes his dramatist with a priestly robe. Mr.
Boucicault ties around him a commercial apron.
In a world of Jefferises an Aeschylus would
be again a possibility. In a world of Boucicaults
all would be Darrells.
Political Bluff and Imperial Billy.
The much-tiumpeted New South Wales Health
Bill is before the Council. When the Ministry
announced their intention of passing a “ drastic
measure” on this subject during the present ses-
sion, the most unsuspecting and bucolic of critics
grinned with incredulous derision. This Bill has
been a trump-card to exhibit at rural banquets, it
is played for a purpose in the Council, and it is
meant to win the trick at elections. If it accom-
plishes these ends, the Ministry will be satisfied
As the Bill entails the expenditure of public
money, it must, in terms of the Constitution
Act, originate in the Assembly and be Introduced
by a message from the Governor. But Mr. D alley,
being a combination of Napoleon, Disraeli, and
Blackstone, asserts that he can get round that.
He will pass the Bill through the museum of poli-
tick antiquities, minus the money clauses, and
send it down to the Assembly with these latter
printed in red ink, hoping that the respon&ible
legislators will accept the message from the
Governor at that stqge, and complacently join him
as conspirators against the Constitution. The
Ministry may have a servile following in the
Assembly, but servility will not accept such a gross
attempt at usurpation as this. Strangely enough, it
was the Attorney-General who ripped the Constitu-
tion over the Soudan expedition; now he attempts,
by indirect mean?, to break down the safe-guards
which the C institution imposes. It is an instruc-
tive eight to see the Attorney-General of the
colony setting law at defiance, and his action
in so doing shows that the Ministry, of which
he is so brilliant a member, has benefited
politically by its power of nomination to
the Upper House, as well as by its oppor-
tunities of railway extension in the Assembly. Of
the Bill itself, it is not necessary to say very much.
It Includes many,subjects, from quarantine to the
touching of milk-dishes by a person who has had
eoarlet fever. Some of the clauses would simplify
existing legislation, but the majority of provisions
would, in the opinion of most persons, only render
still more complicated and obscure the legal
remedies which now exist. We have yet to
karn that such a measure was the thing the coun-
try howled for aboye all others. Remedies there
are in the Statute Book for the chief evils which
this ict is to eradicate, but efficient use is
never made of the greater part of them. It is
vigour of administration, not further legis-
lation, that is urgently required. Take, for in-
stance, the question of adulteration. How many
prosecutions have ever been initiated under the
present Act, which provides for analysis and heavy
penalties on conviction ? The Health Act really
required is one to prevent avaricious capitalists
from building terrace-houses on plots 20 x 50, with
backyards just large enough to contain a well and
necessary outbuildings. So long as this evil Is un-
ebecked, it is idle to prate of measures for con-
serving For legislation in this
direction it is vain to look to the Ministry which
idol.ses Imperialism, worships wealth, and despises
Democracy.


The purity and excellence of Klngsford’s Oswego
Cornflour is unequalled.
Tis hard to get rid of a debt,
A birth-mark, a wart, or the gout;
A hang-nail, a corn, or a stye
Is a difficult thing to “ knock out.”
But with calmest contentment and ease,
We on these small worries rpay smile,
If our clothes are by SummerfleW made—
You can’t touch him for cheapness and style.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps Is a remedy for most physi-
cal ailments. You cannot err by using it.
Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour can be obtained
in Milb. and lib, packets.
Political Points
Abstract of the debate in reply.—N.S.W.
Opposition (to Government): “YahI You’re
•havers,’” Government (not without dignity):
“ You done the same when you was in.”
A telegram from Junee says :—“Mr. Fisher,
of Mimosa West, who has been an unsuccessful
applicant before the Wagga Land Board for the
conversion of a pre-lease into a conditional lease,
proceeded to Sydney and obtained the conversion
without difficulty. This has created considerable
excitement amongst the other applicants whose
cases are Identical with his.” We should think it
had.
Thadeus O’Kane remarks that both the
ex-Premier and the present Premier of Queens-
land belong to the quasi-arlstocratic order, which,
In every Australian colony, combines to ride the
people like donkeys and to arrange matters so that
the cunning few, the Brahminlcal class, shall pay
the fewest taxes and the ignorant masses the
largest share. Thadeus goes straight for a Land
Tax.
The new Victor ian Licensing Bill only al-
lows ratepayers to exercise the franchise when a
Lccal Option vote is being taken, and it confers
no power on the manhood-suffrage electors. This
is regarded as a direct insult to the colony on the
part of Mr. Berry, the whilom advocate of Demo-
cracy, and the Hon. W. M. K. Vale, ex-Attorney-
General, has declared it to be “ a blow at manhood
suffrage.”
Mr. Colonna-Close, barrister-at-law and
orator, descendant of the illustrious Frangipani,
said, the other day at Narrabri, for which consti-
tuency he is a candidate, that the N.S.W. Ministry
‘‘are only waiting apolitical burial, after having
deservedly acquired the right to the following
memorable and undying ‘In Memoriam,’ ‘Hie
jacet ’—‘The Jim Crow Ministry,’ as an inscription
upon their tombs (applause, and laughter). This,
gentlemen, will carry them triumphantly upon
the crested waves of the eternal sea of ridiculous
obscurity, and which, when read by future politi-
cal generations, will land them on the ignominious
shores of the purling waters of the classic Lethe
(laughter).” That’s not from Macaulay, anyhow.
The N.S.W. Parliament had hardly
assembled when the Attorney-General assumed
his congenial role of “ Oily Gammon.” The hon-
orable gentleman has only one real opponent in
that refuge of incapables, the Legislative Council.
That opponent is the venerable bibliopole, Mr. W.
B. Piddington, who seems to have given up books
and taken t® studying the Government Gazette,
a journal not at ail appreciated by ordinary people.
Mr, Dailey listened very quietly to Mr. Piddleg-
ton’s comments upon monetary matters, and then
took the seat from under him, by proposing him
as Chairman of Committees. Of course he did not
fora moment explain the real financial position of
the country; indeed, he could not. ButheOily-
Gammoned Piddington, and that was better—from
a Ministerial point of view. How can the Min-
istry be defeated while Plain William plays his
hand so well ?
If Victorian ambition were allowed full
swing, it would not be content till it had annexed
the universe. Following on the Intimation that
Germany had made a claim on the Caroline Islands
the Melbourne Weekly Times came out with this
spirited observation:—“ We cannot help remark-
ing the supineness of Australian statesmen in
allowing such lair territory as the Lesser Philli-
pines to pass out of the grasp of Great Britain.”
Neither can we. It is exceeding strange and
weird. We shall expect to see, before lomr, that
paper, and others of its class, suggesting the an-
nexation of the moon. They have a population
ready for it in their own offices, anyhow. But,
mark you, they are dumb as the perished dodo
concerning the annexation of the lands of the
people by squatters and syndicates, and other land
-sharks, large and small, that is going on here
every day, under their noses. It would not suit
their game. We can wait, though. The time is ap-
proaching when a change will come o’er the spirit of
their dream—or if it does not come, they will have
to go to the Golgotha of all the other deadheads of
history.
It cannot be said with truth that the
childish, non-argumentative, personal element is
confined to that august institution, the Sydney
School of Arts Debating Club. To the discredit of
members, it must be recorded that the objection-
able element has predominated in the Assembly
since the opening of the present session. Mr.
Trickett describes Sir Henry Parkes as the “ slan-
derer-general,” to which Sir Henry retorts that
Mr. Trickett is the “ Ministerial blockhead.” Mr.
Coonan talks of Mr. Wisdom as the “ sneerer-
general,” and Mr. Wisdom retorts that the
Government supporters are the “ servile fol-
lowers” of “ great boasters and greater bunglers.”
Mr, Proctor reminds Mr. Levien that when he is
m the Assembly he is not at Gosford, and Mr.
fievion retorts: “ Neither am I in a fog, as the hon.
member has been of late; nor am I in the witness-
box. If I were, I should know how to get out of
a. Sir Henry Parkes, following the boyish prin-
ciple of “ you’re another,” says that the present
Gtivernor “ is the most insignificant, smallest-
minded Governor we ever had,” whereupon Mr,
Gameron chimes in: “ He knows more of Muscovy
ducks than politics.”
“I can’t talk to you now; England’s in
*[gory] mess, and we must get her out of it.”
ihus the N.S.W. Minister of War to a deputa-
tion praying that a Government flume be erected
rrom Gibson’s Bight, Macleay River, at Kempsey,
m order that Farmer O’tirabbit’s land may be
duly irrigated at the expense of the nation, the
said farmer having “stuck to” their member
through thick and thin in every election. This,
however, is what really occurred:—Member Head-
mg the Deputation (arresting the flight of gigantic
Minister): “Here, come on, George; it will not
detain you a moment .” “Whail and perhaps
‘he corses of our gallant armies blackening where
Arabia’s golden fountains throw down their
golden sand .” M. H. theD.: “ Oh, all right.
Adose gentlemen are my honoured constituents;
they now perceive how business is transacted in the
Public offices. As for my little vote .” “ Minis-
ter (calling him aside): “ Come here. Muggins; you
be m this. I’ll put you well forward. You shall
“‘8n something that goes home. Why, this moans
«u Order all round, and a Baronetcy for Dailey.”
m. H. the D. (aside): “ I’m there.” Aloud to con-
stituents “ Gentlemen, I must now leave you.
(Murmurs.) Duty calls me hence. (‘OhI’) My
dtd is now sought, not for a small constituency,
°ut for an Empire I (Laughter.) Thus I leave you
''(consternation)—to paddle back big with the oon-
jootion that your member is about to distinguish
himself where bullets rattle and faulchions flash,
upod.bye. Let me name the Art Gallery as a place
bi pleasant and innocent resort. Mention my
and there will be no charge for admittance.”
auq he skipped away arm-in-arm with the Minister
Just as the deputation was going to tearfully im-
Piore him to resign.
Mr. Cyrus Fuller, of Parramatta, an-
nounces that he will wait for the general election
ah*® going in for Central Cumberland. He is
i bout to take compassion on the youngsters, and
them have a flutter for Lackey’s seat. He feels
'.with us) that it would be too small to go out now.
when—wo quote him—“My business plans and
my plans for a thorough canvass of the whole of
the electorate have been laid so as to mature for
the general election.” Few electors, we trow, will
be able to withstand this, we should say:—“ If I
am accepted as one of your representatives, I shall
endeavour to maintain that confidence, and up-
hold the dignity and honour of the position by a
display of the same active intelligence, energy,
skill, and perseverance which have enabled me to
attain and maintain the business position I now
occupy.” And yet to think we have frequently
said to this gorgeous individual—“ We’ll take that
sixpenny box-of-hrloks, and you may put up the
crying rubber-baby also; and all we want now Is
threepenn’orth of ‘ alley-tors.’ fand a spade and
pail for little Robert.” As Nicholas Nicklehy’s
pretty sister was to ‘ save him a broken bead, if he
talked till midnight,” so, we trust, Cyrus’ modesty
will at any rate save to him his £40. And this re-
minds us. we must begin to read the leaders again in
the Cumberland Mercury. We remember them
when Cyrus put up last time. They used always to
begin in these terms:—“In the peculiar position
in which we are placed, it Is not of course for us
to say ’’—and then they waded full blast Into the
other candidates. A newspaper is a dangerous
thing to possess at election times 1 You ask A. G.
Jones I This is what he will sayNewspaper,
Sir I I wanted no newspaper support. Why. dur-
ing the election, dear old boy, I forgot I had a
newspaper.”
It was not to be expected that the N.S.W.
Parliamentary session would extend over a
lengthy period before the attempt ascribed
to Messrs. Stuart and Harnett to secure pos-
session of nearly five miles of the foreshores
of Port Jackson under the Oyster Fisheries Act
would be referred to, and explanation be de-
manded from Sir Alexander Stuart. The irrepres-
sible Abigail was the member who broached the
delicate subject, and in dealing with It he displayed
more smartness than even his greatest admirer—
we suppose he has admirers—would credit him
with. His Incisive thrusts with that sharply-
pointed lingual organ of his made the Premier
wriggle again and again, and, finally, the newly-
created knight found himself most uncomfort-
ably cornered. Mr. Abigail was as cool as
an oyster may be supposed to be when
it is reposing In Its valvular house in
George's River slime, and Sir Aleck was in the
condition of an oyster which has been removed
from its pearly tenement and is in process of being
stewed—he was decidedly warm. This suggests
some cannibalistic reflections. [Which are care-
fully struck out, as, unlike oysters, they will keep
—for ever.— ED. B ] Sir Aleck protested that he
knew nothing about the little game, and directly
he heard of it-he being in New Zealand at the
time—he wrote to his attorneys directing that his
name should be withdrawn from the applications.
Be it remembered that this action was not taken
until after public indignation had been aroused
and it was made manifest that the people would
not tolerate any further monopoly of the fore-
shores of the harbour by hungry land-sharks. Sir
Aleck's display of injured innocence caused the
little West Sydneyite to make the pertinent en-
quiry: “ How came the Premier’s name to be asso-
ciated with the applications ? ” “ It was fraudu-
lently used,” thundered forth the indignant
knight. “And has action been taken to punish
the person who fraudulently used tho hon. mem-
ber’s name ? ” asked Mr. Abigail. “ Yes,” replied
the Premier, “ and I have taken care that he did
not get an inch of the land that he applied for.”
As by this time Sir Alexander had fairly lost his
temper, Mr. Abigail refrained from making any
further inquiries. But there are other questions
which the public would like to have answered. Is
not the act of attaching a person’s name to a
document, without that person’s consent, deliber-
ate forgery ? Is not the forgery of a most serious
character, when tbe result of it might be large
personal gain and) gross public robbery? Has
there been any prosecution for forgery in connec-
tion with the “fraudulent” use of Sir Aleck’s
name ? It would be well for Sir Aleck to satisfy
the public on these points.
The formidable indictment made in N.S.W.
Assembly last week against the administration of
the Land Act, is not likely to inspire any great
degree of confidence in the minds of people who
thick that the measure is a good one. If there
was one principle more than another in the Act,
which it was thought would operate to the ad-
vantage of the public by checking abuses which
were known to exist under the old law, it was that
of local boards, but the idea has been ruthlessly
dispelled by the uncontradioted statement that
one board recommended that 30 selections be for-
feited, as the members of the board were.not satis-
fied as to the hona fides of the applicants, and that
the Minister actually ignored the recommendation
in all of the cases with the exception of two.
This statement is all the more damaging when
associated with another uncontradicted statement
made through the medium of a country news-
paper, that Messrs. Gumming and Martin, she land
agents, who are related to Mr. Farnell, announce
that they make a specialty of dealing with for-
feiture cases. It is distinctly asserted that these
agents informed certain selectors that It would be
useless to take any action whilst Mr. Wright was
administering the Department temporarily, but
directly Mr, Farnell recovered bis health It would
be all right. These statements having been made
In the most open manner they ought to be met by
the Government and refuted on the strongest
evidence, or Mr. Farnell ought not to be
allowed to retain his position. If the state-
ments are true, they recall a state of
things which would justify the use of much
stronger language than that which, coming from
the pen of Sir Henry Parkes, the Afsembly de-
clared was a gross libel. On the other hand, if the
Government can show that tho statements are not
true they would strengthen their hand by disclos-
ing the fact, as undoubted proof of the falsity of
the assertions would cause people to doubt many
other charges which are made against the adminis-
tration of the Act. When the Act was under con-
sideration, it was contended that the professional
land-agent would cease to exist, but now we are
told that tho passage leading to the Minister s
office is always crowded with gentlemen who
‘know the ropes,” and, consequently, the selectors
who have been led to believe that under the new
system they could manage their own business suc-
cessfully find it impossible to get an audience with
the Minister. What becomes of the much talked of
Land Court, in which all the business was to be
transacted in public ? Another fact which gives
rise to the suspicion that the Department has been
disposed to unduly favour the squatters Is the
withdrawal of the regulations a few days before
the first land office day. But the gravest allega-
tion on this score is that the runs have been so
divided as to embraee the best land within the
leasehold areas. Mr. Stokes, one of the members
for Forbes, says that a run in his district, called
Burrawang, has a frontage of 40 miles to the
Lachlan River and that the whole of this frontage
is included la the leasehold area, and further that,
in this particular case, a point on which a general
understanding was arrived at has been violated.
This understanding was that the resumed, or
selectors’ area, should be nearest to the township.
“ But,” says Mr. Stokes, “selectors leaving Forbes
will have to travel 20 miles over the run before
they reach the land which is open for selection.”
Mr. Stokes, who has been a consistent supporter
of the Government, says that 90 per cent, of the
people in his district were in favour of the Act
when it was passed, but, owing to the maladminis-
tration of it, nothing would please the same pro-
portion of them now but the repeal of the
measure. One speech like this carries with it
more genuine condemnation than all tho speeches
which avowed members of the Opposition could
make. Another charge which the Government
have to meet is that they have created unneces-
sary reserves here and there, and everywhere. If
radical changes are not made, there can be little
doubt that the measure which brought the Stuart
Government into existence, will be the means of
putting an end to their power.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Corretpondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“Phelim O’Loan”: Screed on application
The spelling is the best point in it . ..“Euca-
iyptus”: Barring all luxuries, foreign and domes-
tic, what are you giving us?—“R.R.”: Thanks
for critique of performance, which we have
already noticed. The speech of the newly-arrived
parson is simple blasphemy—“Graphic”: Al-
though the editor is, as you say, “a M.A.,” he
cannot tell you the Latin for “Blasted Newspaper.'
He is conversant only with classic Latin. Ask the
Jernil man. He ought to know — “Jelly Fish”:
As Sir Alexander Stuart has publicly stated that
some person has been fraudulently using his name,
the inference is that the person will be prosecuted.
It cannot be suspected that the highest law-
maker in the land will overlook a felony....
“L. Mason”: Yes, the Marquis of Salisbury has
been in Australia ...”Currajong” (Hobart): We
shall always be glad to hear from you. Letter for
you posted to G.P.O., Hobart...." W. W. Walton ”:
Sir Archibald Michie is in Melbourne. They say
he will be the new Victorian Attorney-General
should Mr. Kerferd get a judgeship — “ Eatre
Nous”: The fact that Dubbo decided by a large
majority of one to present an address to the
Governor is gratifying, but wo would have had a
still higher opinion of tbe sense of your townsmen
if tho decision had been the other way. That men
can be persuaded to present fulsome addresses to
anyone at the dictation of water-pipe Wright is
what puzzles us “Burrowa Boy”: Yes. We
buy ideas. But we buy them by the skull-full.
Get somebody to cut off your head and send it
to us, postage paid. If we find anything in it
worth buying, we will drop the remuneration
In and seal the skull up and return it—that
is, if you really require it. This is the only
way in which we can trade with you—.
Arundale : Mr. Targett, M.L.A., is attached to
the Sydney Evening News staff "A Noble-
man”: You aren’t likely to see much beauty In
Sydney harbour if you board at the coffee-stall
and sleep In the Domain... “Wilenspiegel”
(Townsville): An “s” was emitted. (2i Though
the headings have been abolished, the matter still
retains its place in The Bulletin. Always glad
to hear from you —“ Bourke Justice”: If we
published your par , although It may be perfectly
true in the main, yet, If some infinitesimal error,
such es “ afternoon ” instead of “ morning ” crept
ip, we would be liable for damages, not only for
the trifling mistake In time, but for what was
proved to be absolutely true besides. This is
N S.W. libel law at present “H.R.”; Cannot
insert, even to oblige you....“ G.K.” (Gundagal):
Artist at work day and night on your cartoon. He
has got “Rose just done the milk-squeezing” fin-
ished, and is.weaving hta highest inspirations into
the three-legged stool, minus boots, stockings,
and magpie.” —“ Sigma ”; The-more enlightened
Protectionists (there are enlightened ones, well
conversant with all tho great writers on political
economy) do not deny that, under certain condi-
tions, Free-trade is the true policy. The mistake
the Free-traders make is In supposing that their
theory is of universal application-suited alike for
young nations and old—lor those In leading strings
ss for thoco fully grown. It would be just as
re asonable to suppose that the solid food adapted
for a mature man fis equally adapted for an infant.
— J.W.L”: Ycur somewhat malicious letter
reminds us of the tact that once upon a time in
N.S.W. a man was sued by another for libel, the
offence being that the defendant had called tho
plaintiff a ‘ Wesleyan.” “Moaning thereby to
imply ” (as the plaintiff stated in that quaint legal
language so dear to the logal profession and ex-
pensive to suitors)‘.that he was dishonest in his
busint ss transactions.” We cannot see that the
term Implies anything of the kind. If, for in-
stance, we say that a man is a Romanist, no one
would imagine that we mean by this that he is a
burglar and wife beater; or, if a man is an Epis:
copalian we don’t .take the term as Implying
conviitlon for arson, and petty larceny, nor
is a ‘'lujah lass” synonomous (always) with a
hen-roost-explorer, and shop-lliter “E.E.”:
Kiandra. We attack general abuses, not mere
personal wrongdoings of the kind you mention. ..
“Drahic”: We don’t understand you, and we
don't remember your "last letter.” “F.T.C.”:
Next week—“Children’s Picnic”: The reading
public does not care to know that your children
filled themselves to the ivories with cake, and
that the usual disastrous results followed. Only
the waste-paper basket hungers for description
of this kind “J.8.L.": A flaming libel in 33
lines of doggerel. We will postpone consideration
of it till doomsday...."J.P.B.”: “Blower Jack”
needs some consideration, so we hold it over
“ Norine,” we thank jou for and will publish
“ The Martyr ”: Will see what we can do with it.
— “Subscriber” (Down South); Not much in it.
The poor woman had no right to expect that the
Bishop would allow her horse to graze in his un-
used paddock. She shbiild make the same request
to a notable Freethought squatter in your district,
— "A.F.” (Puddledock) : Your lines contain
none of the essentials of verso. This is
the truth, and may prevent your striving
further after the (to you) unattainable
“ Bayard You deprecate stinging epithets when
applied to errors of judgment. Are not errors of
judgment often errors of will that have become
crystallised by being left alone? It would carry
us too far to follow your latter “C.O.”: A
“ frustrate ” poem may or may not mean a “ fust-
rate” poem— “Han Grubber”: What are you
giving us?—“C.R.”: Your versos too forcibly
remind us of Alfred:—
“ Pale death could scarcely find another
So true a wife, so fond a mother:
In all her actions she was kind,
And left her loved ones all behind.”
And. now that tbe subject has come up. how
briefly, yet how tenderly, does the Alfrodian
bard trace the self-sacrificing love of the expiring
parentl She fee la she is going on a long trip, and
that it will bo slow and lonely without the children
to spruce up of mornings, and then hunt about all
day with a thick-soled over-shoe. We can imagine
her for a moment undecided, but finally, with a
disregard of self which has no parallel in
history, she goes alone on her journey. We
criticised your opening lines some 94 years ago
“ Samuel L Wo haven’t so bad an opinion of
ourselves—either in regard to our impartiality or
our judgment-asto think wo often throw into tho
waste-paper-basket manuscript on which genius
is indelibly stamped. But we get a deal o? writing
from people who think themselves geniuses. If any
genius brought us even an ode deifying Dailey in his
capacity as a nigger-slayer and sheriff’s officer of
the wretched Tewllk Pasha, or a poetical aooatro-
phe addressed in ail seriousness to the holy fore-
quarter of the Soudan donkey, we'd be prepared
to trade with the writer. Don’t imagine for an
instant, dear sir, that, because it is your misfor-
tune to differ from us, you are a genius and we
are dullards whose suiien prejudice and blind
bigotry prevent ua from seeing the light of
heaven which twinkles In your godlike
eye. It Is plain enough that you think you are a
genius, and that these lines are a proof of the
truth of your opinion:—
“ Who loudly boost how mp,ny pints they can
swill.
To mingle among such from year to year,
It is anuff, O God, the soul to kill I
Rude jests from Irish Pat, insults from boxing
Bill.”
Now, setting aside the spelling, which, we admit,
shows originality, and the grammatical construc-
tion, which is entirely your own, we would ask
what person, other than yourself, would be edified
or Interested by such stuff. When a man is as ob-
stinate as you arc, and as incapable as you seem to
be of fitting Into any groove which is directed by
reason and Intelligence, he should reserve his pro-
ductions for hla own delectation, and not insist
upon tilling waste-baskets already piled six inches
above the top. We pass you on now to "boxing
Bill,” and trust he may deal with you la his most
scientific style —“W.G.P.”; .The London Inner
Circle railway was completed and opened to the
public abaut the end of last year... “C.O.D.”;
Reoeived — “F. Horsley”; If the papers sent arc
fair copies of tbe journals named, the death marks
arc already on their little foreheads.
It came to us in the form of an invitation from
the directors,of the “ Australian Native’s Associa-
tion.” It was sighed by Alex. J. Peacock and O. B.
Wilson, and expressed the pleasure they would
feel in meeting us at the Royal Hotel, George-
street, Sydney, when they would “explain the
aims and the constitution of the Society.” But it
omitted to say that one of the things aimed at by
the V ctorian young men in sanding their dele-
gates to Sydney was to present Mr. Dailey with
a testimonial expressive of their admiration
for his conduct in violating the Constitution
of New South Wales by sending a force of
badly-drilled men to assist In butchering badly-
armed Arabs who were struggling to free them-
selves from a galling despotism. If the young
natives of Victoria can see anything to admire
in a course of conduct which put law and humanity
at defiance “ in one act” their chance of founding
a vigorous organisation in . New South Wales is
slender indeed. We wouldn’t join any society
which not only countenanced but extolled what
has been shown to be the cowardly murder of
men belonging to the poorest and bravest race on
earth. We wouldn’t be seen at even a dog-fight
held under the auspices of this bogus “ Australian
Natives’ Association.”
The Philharmonic Society Practises at Goulburn.


Personal Items
thyself.” The late Countess was a great leader
in the fashionable world. A dally letter passed
for years between Beaoonsfleld and the Countess
in a correspondence which may yet see the light
and be more appreciated than what we have yet
had from Disraeli’s pen.
A canvasser in Forbes, N.S.W., got an
order, the other day. It was this way. He waited
on a lady whose husband was from home. Like a
careful wife, she declined to trade during the old
man’s absence. There was nothing for it but to
call again. He called. This time “ 8ir Watkin ”—
a one-armed aboriginal—was in the yard chopping
wood. Even Sir W.’s closest friends agree that he
Is not a professional beauty. “Husband returned?”
perkily enquired the canvasser. “Not yet,” was
the lady’s response. “ Dear me, I thought that
was him," said the man Ingenuously. It was then
he got the order—to git. He gat.
The recent little “ scrap” in London, when
Sir George Chetwynd put up one of the noble
“ shutters” of the Earl of Lonsdale, reminds us
that pugilism is not quite a lost art among our
blessed old nobility. The Marquis of Queensberry
(illustrious founder of tho Queesberry rules), the
Beresfords, and, in particular, the Duke of Hamil-
ton have ail earned honourable distinction with
their “ fives.” It’s part of a nobleman’s educa-
tion to learn how to use his hands, and a very im-
portant part, too, with some of them. It enables
them to deal a pack of cards to advantage and to
take their own parts if the “ pigeon ” cuts up
rough.
In Sydney, last week, an elegant young
actor, who for some time previously had had a
series of blood-curdling ’scapes from bailiffs et hoc
genus, turned insolvent. He had not obtained his
certificate, and, as his company were off to Mel-
bourne, a leading creditor took out a warrant and
had the unfortunate debtor “laid by the heels,”
to use an archaism. Not one of the “pro.’s”
theatrical friends would go bail, so he had to spend
a very unpleasant night. Next day, however,
when he appeared before the “ beaks ” a friend
outside the profession guaranteed what was neces-
sary. The case was settled out of court, and the
“ pro.” went off to Melbourne to fulfil his engage-
ment.
The last has not, perhaps, been heard of
Sir Charles Dilke’s little love-affair with the wife
of a political friend. As a curious way of obtain-
ing a prejudicial verdict on tho matter, Sir Charles
laid his statement of the case before his con-
stituency, and it is needless to say, put a good face
on the matter. It is now said that he offered
£35,000 to the injured husband as hush-money.
Whether this solatium was taken or not is in dis-
pute, as it is said that the “political friend ” feared
to Injure his prospects at next election by so
settling matters. “ Money heals the hurt which
honour feels ” in these anti-duelling days, but it is
not a safe thing with public men so to settle up
privately.
Burke and Wills, in their effigies of bronze,
stop the road—or the tramway road—in Collins-
street, Melbourne. In these times, statues, like
loafers, have to “ move on.” It is a debated
question whither the monument is to bo taken.
Tasmania has a Mr. Malaprop in J. Dooley,
® D ®. th® members for Devon, who lately de-
scribed himself and colleague as being “ on an
oasis in the middle of ocean with the tide coming
Mr. Purves, the colonial Charles Russell,
was slang-whanging in Court the other day. “I
fl 0P® you will not force me to assume an offensive
attitude, said the Judge (Casey). This encouraged
the miserable who at the time was the object of
Mr. Purves’ barristerial attentions. “ I have heard
loud-mouthed calves like you before,” remarked
the witness.
Joseph Symes, on David Syme—Symes the
plural on Syme the singular; “ The infamous Age
refers to Mr. Syme as the ‘notorious,’ &o. This is
just like the Age, the weathercock, the chame-
leon, the ornithorynchus. the Proteus, the ohi-
mmra, the harlequin—the thing with neither the
conscience, consistency, nor principle, except
money-making.” v
An Adelaide man recently figured as oo-
respondent in a divorce suit. The saddening side
ol this incident is that an Immediate female friend
P “ naughty boy” is vice-president of the
local Social Purity Society. The poor man has a
dark prospect before him. The pious lady will
feel Impelled to reform him, and trot him out at
the society’s meeting as a “purified co-respon-
dent.
Old colonists have done queer things. One
Brown, a shepherd, well supports such statement.
Years back he thought to provide for his old age
by giving up his savings to a Geelong man named
Boss. The conditions were that H iss should in
future provide for him and also allow him 2s. and
two fixs of tobacco weekly. Brown got tired of
this private Benevolent Asylum arrangement, and
appealed to the Court to have it set aside. The
Court has, however, held both parties to their
agreement, and left them each to pay their own
costs of quarrelling about it.
The lately-deceased Countess of Chester-
field, who has died at 83, was sought but 10 years
back, in matrimony, by Lord Beaconsfleld, who
was then 10 years her junior. His first wife was
So years his senior when they married, so that.Dis-
raeh must hive, had a different opinion to Shake-
speare as to “ ever let thy love be younger than
Tho triangular reserve in Spring-street, near the
old Princess’ Theatre, is that selected by a com-
mit'ee of the City Council, but some of the non-
commlttee ones are dissatisfied with the selection.
The Carlton gardens and the Treasury reserve are
the pet spots with them. The matter is to be
further debated before the site is finally fixed.
The Spring-street selection is, however, about the
finest vantage ground for such a monument. The
site seems made for such a purpose.
Mr. United States Minister Phelps, at a
banquet given the other day to Prince Albert
Victor, out-grovelled even Sir Salmon Wilson and
the rest of the Australian colony in London. Re-
ferring to Mr. Wales’ big boy, Mr. Phelps observed :
“lean cast for him out of the stars that shine
upon him no happier horoscope than that he
should follow in his father’s footsteps.” If you
are very, very clever, you will see that this may
be read in two ways. “ If current scandals had
leaked out before the banquet,” writes one of the
Minister’s New York journalistic admirers, “we
doubt if even Mr. Phelps would have ventured
such an outrage on decency as to propose the
Prince of Wales as an example for any young man,
even for his own son.”
The still beautiful Countess of Dudley is
(according to last week’s cablegram) about taking
a trip to Australia for the benefit of her health.
There’s no doubt the old Earl led her a weary time
of it for the last two or three years of his life, and
her nerves must require bracing up. The Countess
was a faithful attendant of her husband after his
reason failed, and if she had to listen to many of
his wandering disclosures of his early escapades
the wonder is that she’s alive at all. It is to be
hoped that the young Earl, who has inherited a
fair share of good looks from his mother, won’t
go it” to the same extent as his long-haired
parent did. Remembering the disaster that befell
the “old governor,” it's pretty certain that the
present Earl will refrain from pursuing les amours
in the neighbourhood of Constantinople.
They again say that James Gordon Ben-
nett, the proprietor of the N. Y. Herald, is coming
out to Australia shortly to show us how a dally
paper should be run. He must either forget or
not know that there is a Bennett here already—
one Alfred who has shown us all that years ago.
But let him come out. He may be charged to the
roots of the hair with enterprise, but when he sees
the Paris correspondent of a South Australian
daily writing all about the French fashions and
the complications in the Chamber of Deputies in a
back-cellar behind the machine, and the dramatic
“cricket” wrestling with the cashier for an ad-
vance of three- and-ninepence to get his boots
half-soled and heeled, we think James Gordon will
be Inclined to give in that there is small show for
him in a struggle with Journalism reduced to such
a science as this. *
“Spotted typhus,” and not small-pox, has
been the cause of the Mahdi’s death. Such is the
name given to the pestilence bred by unburied
dead bodies. It followed the great fire of London,
in that plague in which the spots upon the bodies
were the most noticeable evidence of this dreadful
distemper. The Mahdi bad better have kept out
of Khartoum, and so avoided the fate he met.
Strange vengeance has been thus done for Gor-
don’s death. Faragh Pasha, who betrayed him,
was put to death within two days after wards. And
now the Mahdl has followed the betrayer. The
Arabs-children of the desert—are greatly averse
to entering cities. Had the Mahdi been regardful
of this inherent repugnance, and avoided Khar-
toum, the victor might have escaped for a time
from so soon following the vanquished. What a
romantic story it will all make in years to come!
“ The English Bookmaker” is one name
that Mr. Sutton has given to himself, but the
Divorce Court proceedings dub him as Mr. Robert
Standiah Slevier. The romantic marriage he made
but awhile ago was a supposed case of “ love at
first sight.” The lady, who now sues for a divorce
as Mrs. Amy Slevier, was tending a stall at a fancy
bazaar on Emerald Hill when met with by the
popular promoter of ready cash betting I Their
suburban home, out Brighton way, was lacking in
nothing that a Claude Melnotte could think of as
bliss-promoting. And now the dream is over and
nought remains but Divorce Court details of
the rude aw&kening. Shakespeare foresaw some-
thing of that sort when he despatched both Romeo
and Juliet during the honeymoon. If they were
to endure for all time as true pictures of perfect
lovers they could not, in the unfitness of things in
this world, be left alive much longer.
The Age publishes “ A Missing Letter,” as
from Sir Alexander Stuart to Mr. Service, as a
contribution on the Federation business. It is, of
course, a “squib,” and not of the best of that
sort of thing. In the conclusion of the column-
length of arguments given, the N.S.W. Premier is
made to say that he will only agree to federation
on the nine conditions he enumerates, among
which are :—That Sydney shall be Australia’s
capital, and the Governor-General and staff be
resident there. That it shall be head-quarters—
naval and military. That the Supreme Law Court
shall be there, as also all gaols, and everybody
shall be, “as occasion requires, hanged there.”
That all railways shall radiate from Sydney, and
petty officers, to be called superintendents, be
appointed to reside in what has previously been
the capitals of the colonies. Something of this
will doubtlessly be done—when anything is done
in the matter.
Dr. Johnson is reported to have said, when
asked why he should interest! his philosophic
mind in such a sordid thing as the sale of a brew-
ery, that it was not the brewery he saw but the
opportunity It gave of “becoming rich beyond
the dreams of avarice.” Being a wise and far-
seeing man he at once recognised the potentiality
of Beer. Mr. Latham, the Melbourne brewer, is a
living example of the Doctor’s sagacity. Gut of
beer alone he—Mr. Latham—has built a magnifi-
cent mansion near Kew, which is said to have cost
£35,000. As he does not seem to have found an
appropriate name for it yet, we will suggest two
or three. How would Long-Sleever Lodge do ?
But that would be too humble a name for such a
structure. Tangle-foot Towers would sound
better; or, if Mr. Latham has a taste for foreign
names, Palazzo Portergaff ? We make no distinct
charge for the?o suggestions, but if Mr. Latham
should think to send us a barrel of the Carlton
brew we think we could nerve ourselves to sample
Many have been the notices of Victor
Hugo; nis late death and that grandest of funerals
given to him. None of them, however, refer to
that 30 years’ silence as a novel-writer which oc-
curred between the appearance of “Notre Dame”
and Les Mlserables.” He had been “ nailed ” by
one Renduel, the publisher of the first-named
novel. Into signing an agreement to let him have
for publication his two next novels on same low
terms. Renduel did wonders out of “ Notre
Dame,” but waited vainly for what was to follow.
Hugo waited for Rendu el’s death to release him
from his stupid agreement, but Renduel lived on
in the expectation which, perhaps, did much to
keep him alive. Patience has its limits, and so
when “Les Miserables” was readv Hugo had to
come to terms and pay Renduel £100 for a re.ease.
The novel, however, brought £30,000 to the author
as a solace, and that also helped to kill the obstinate
Benduel—another solace, no doubt, to Hugo.
Peter, king of the Clarence River blacks,
has desired us to Intimate that, in the event of
war being declared, he will offer the services of a
contingent from his tribe to the “grand old
mother, in her hour of need.” He has already
appointed the following gentlemen as officers, and
will himself (in accordance with the example
recently set by another patriot) accompany and
lead his troops: Colonel, George Quartpot; Majors,
Hopping Billy and One-eyed Charley; Captains,
Jimmy Carter, Karabubla Joe, and Billy the Dog.
His Royal Aboriginal Highness wishes it to be
distinctly understood that his desire is purely to
strengthen the hands of England, and show ag-
gressive foreign Powers thatjthe original holders
of the Australian soil are “ on the shoulder.” He
will positively decline any honour or distinction,
though, if the Throne of England expressly com-
mands it, will accept a K.C.J.D.K.Z., **** Motto.
Pure prize medal Hollands, is. (id. per bottle. Sub-
scriptions to the Idiotic Fund will be received bv
Halliday, M.L.C.
“How is it,” asks Reynolds’ “ that while
the judges are always publicly pitying the luck-
less suitors who come or are driven into court, no
changes are made? For the simple but amply
sufficient reason that Parliament is so crowded
with lawyers, and so many lawyers sit in the
Lords, that when the reform is attempted, it is
stopped. The late Lord Chief Justice Cockburn,
for instance, set his face for years against some
really trifling alterations in the judicial system,
and they were only accomplished at his death. The
same spirit bands all the lawyers together. It is
to their interest to make law costly, because it
pays them; to keep it tedious, because it pays
them; to keep it a puzzle, because they must
therefore be consulted in legal matters, and thus
again they get paid. Astonishing though it may
seem, so thoroughly are lawyers protected that if one
of the body is an unutterable scamp, a scoundrel who
robs a widow and an orphan of their all, he escapes
imprisonment. Ihe only thing done to him is a
mysterious process called *striking off the rolls,’
which does not harm or hurt the f ellow, and which
merely prevents him trading in his own name.”
In some colonies, a solicitor who robs his clients
isn’t even struck off the rolls. A man must be
mad to rob a client illegally when it is so easy to
do the selfsame thing in a respectable way.
Thus our London correspondent:—“The
World, some time since, fiercely attacked Sir
Samuel Wilson. When I say fiercely, I do not, by
any means, imply unjustly. Sir Samuel was
shown up In his true colours, as a humbugging,
paltry-minded, little souled plebeian, buying his
way into society—crawling over his money-bags
towards a peerage. Severe, no doubt; but, as
there are hundreds and thousands of men whose
services to the State should place them in a list of
candidates for honours miles above Sir Samuel,
whose sole claim for consideration is that of
assiduous and systematic licking of royal and aris-
tocratic boots, and as this precious K.C.M.G, was,
and Is, also trying to wriggle into the House of
Commons, it was perfectly legitimate journalism.
But stay a moment! Mr. Yates—the proprietor
and editor of the World -suddenly pays a visit to
Sir Samuel at Hughenden, sees the miserable little
tubby figure of ‘the descendant of Alfred the
Great ’ in Burke's chair and in Beaconsfleid's study
—gods! did ever fate perpetuate such a piece of
horrible bathos I if the word may be so applied—
quaffa his burgundy and consumes his spring-
chicken, and—well, of course, we don’t know any-
thing more, except that the result was a most
favourable and abjectly flattering article on Sir
Samuel Wilson in the World. How was it
managed ?”
Any inebriate whom Dr. M'Carthy has
kept unwillingly in subjection at Northcote, Mel-
bourne, is now avenged. Judge Moles worth has
decided against the Doctor’s right to the Inebriate
Asylum and its25 acresof land as his own freehold.
The Doctor thought to “snavel” it, much as
another doctor did, in Sydney, the property of the
Presbyterian Church, in years long gone by.
M‘Carthy had got public subscriptions in the early
years of the seventies for founding this asylum.
He then got a grant of land made to his trustees.
Government aid had to be obtained for getting
the Asylum Into working order and legally detain-
ing the obstropolous ones within its walls. Very
soon the Doctor showed yearly balance-sheets
with largo liabilities. At this the Government de-
murred. Here was an opportunity for doing
something—to which M'Carthy was equal. He
offered to take over the affair altogether, and re-
lease his trustees from the liabilities. That was
done in 1877, since which the balance-sheets have
been all right and the 25 acres of suburban land
have quintupled in value. A land syndicate would
make a fortune out of them, no doubt—cut up
into building allotments. The Lunacy Commis-
sion, now sitting, found Dr. M'Carthy dealing very
high-handedly with them, and refusing them all
information. To “ mind their own business ” was
the sum of his answers to them. The Attorney-
General was set in motion, and a bill filed in
Equity to declare the Institution a public one. The
Judge has decided that it is so, and that M'Carthy
must rc-convey to the trustees the premises built
with subscribers’ money and the land granted by
the State. We are sorry for the Doctor—if our
sympathy will do him any good.
Next to “ Robinson Crusoe,” the accon*,.
of Mayor Playfair’s visit to the BenevohS?
Asylum is the most entertaining reading
™ et in a more than ordinarily protracted jttl*
Mr. Playfair is Sydney’s chief magistrate, and k 1
adhering strictly to business in the hutchenS*
line, carved out fame and fortune with a cleft*? 1
He also carved sheep. The other day, atteV,^ er '
by a glittering retinue, he visited the Benevolo?
Asylum, and pointed half-a-dozen morals with
neat little speeches he made. Among other thi* 111 ®
he said that “ he felt proud that the Almightv k 88 . 1
placed him in a position in which he could
forward and entertain these poor people.” mi} 9
Pursuing a useful avocation, a sharp man ill*
Mr. Playfair, mustjhave noticed that the Aiming*
nearly always sides with the butcher who ««, y
the cheapest meat. Indeed, if an uncornpromi 8
ing Agnostic were to start a shop S
door to the Mayor’s, and sell for three-halfpo?? 1
a pound the beet for which his Worsen®
was charging 2d„ we would back the sceptic s».8
is the ingratitude of human nature that
members of the Young Men’s Christian Asaor??
tlon would be found purchasing infidel sausS
in preference to the orthodox but dearer min*
meat next door. For a butcher nothing is
commendable than a firm faith in provident '
except a stock of cheap loin chops. When he
sesses both his success is assured. Mr. PlavfW.'
visit was prompted by a desire “to ffJ
how the working classes of the city 2
living. But he chose the wrong day and ik®
wrong places for his researches. We could dlwSS
him to sundry suburban public-houses in who.
back-parlours during divine service on one SnT
day evening he would learn more of the workfr?'
classes—their peculiarities and “poison”-??,? 8
during a life-time spent in visiting asylums. SQ
The “ Langtry ” fracas in Hyde Park
London, between Lord Lonsdale and Sir Qeor*i
Chetwynd, must have afforded peculiar sattsfi?
tlon to Edmund Yates of the London Wohld ti
event furnished good “ copy ” for the paper and.
good “ licking ” for the “ prty ” Earl whose ?!,
action post Yates so dearly, as, according to nu
accounts, Sir George had a lot the best of the tni*
up. An edifying scandal, truly-two married m? -
coming to blows about another fellow’s
A ° d > Jw the way, this sets us speculating as t'
what the Marchioness of Hastings—as Sir Genr»i°
wife elects to be styled-thinks of It all Timel '
when she, then Lady Florence Paget, had all thf
‘ bloods’* at her nod, when the town chuctu?
over the story of her elopement with the harn™
scar urn Marquis of Hastings and consequent iii*'
ing of Henry Chaplin. A few years later she nh
tained a fresh lease of notoriety by bestowing
waned and widowed charms upon Sirofni'
Chetwynd, a mere boy. Looking back. It
not long since that people were smiling 61 ??
the devotion of the youthful Baronet f n
the faded beauty. But it must be 16 years ago
more, and a good deal happens during that tim?
especially In exalted spheres. The Marchlonei??'
now a middle-aged mother, while the once
Sir George hankers after strange goddesses
kneels at the shrine of the beautiful Langtry 8 u
well, if the Jersey Lily lives long enough, she too
will be able to moralise on the briefness of Beauty’s
reign, like the female flowers who have budded,
bloomed, and withered off before her. We see that
the Sydney D.T. treated its readers on Monday to
a leader on the “ Lily fracas.” In noting that the
Prince of Wales had removed the names of the
wrangling gallants from his invitation lists, it
points out that there are limits beyond which
H.R.H. does not permit those who associate with
him to transgress. What are these limits? In
this case the Prince's exceeding virtue in drawing
the line will stand the risk of being put down to
jealousy. The Prince would make matters clear
by announcing at what particular stage of Im-
moral behaviour candidates for his presence are
doomed to exclusion.
According to Mr. Suttor, M.L.A., a new
code of tactics has been introduced into military
science by Captain Mulholland, late of the N.S-W.
Contingent. Military science is progressive. The
development of deadly weapons necessitates the
introduction of fresh formations and novel
methods of attack and defence. The method that
Captain Mulholland is credited with having in-
vented consists in falling rapidly to the rear, hav-
ing first fallen smartly on his stomach. To the
man whose stomach is perforated by spears or
bullets life is, at best, but a dull affair. Existence
loses most of its attractions when you can’t hold
your meals. Lying on the stomach with the feet
towards the enemy preserves somo of the most
vital organs from injury. Opinions may vary as
to the good breeding of presenting one’s self in
this fashion even to an enemy, but there can be no
doubt at all concerning the safety. Whether this
masterly movement will be adopted generally in
the British service remains to be seen. The mili-
tary authorities are proverbially conservative, so
that it may be some time before the old-fashioned
and stupid plan of facing your enemy is entirely
discarded. And now that we’ve said so much wo
must go on and say a little more. It is this. Three
months have gone by since the Contingent re-
turned and was disbanded. Had Captain Mulhol-
land behaved as Mr. Suttor says he did, the matter
should have been investigated either in the Soudan
or in Sydney before the disbandment. To bring
it forward now is useless and cruel. But little
credence should be attached to the stories told by
men lately released from a discipline which, how-
ever necessary, must have been irksome and gall-
ing to most of them. Discipline is a plant of slow
growth. To be efficient, men must be subjected to
it when young, and continue under it for years.
Unhesitating obedience is not learnt in a day. It
should be remembered too, that Captain Mulhol-
land had the name of being something of a marti-
net. That alone, in such a raw and heterogeneous
force as the Contingent, would be enough to get
him disliked. If half the stories we have heard of
the officers of the defunct corps were true, all
those gentlemen should have been tried by court-
martial and drummed-outln a body. Now that a
scape-goat has been made of one unfortunate,
it is possible there will be no lack of evidence
against him, on the principle of “now he’s
down, kick him.” We believe that Mulholland
was unpopular—among the men because he was
a disciplinarian, among the officers because he was
not one of society’s curled-darlings. In the
A few of the New Roll of N.$,W. Justices of the Peace.


QUOD FACIMUS VALDE FACIMUS.
(What we do we do well.)
TOUR PHOTO.-If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
couueel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices—C-D-Vm; Cabinets’ 30s. per dozen.
CBEELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE.
Aaanal Iimai nmii Oh* Ml
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
IMPERIAL CLUB HOTEL
Richard Street, Bourke.
THE above Hotel is now open for the accom-
modation of Residents and Visitors to Bourke.
No expense has been spared in the Furnishing of
the above, and the Proprietor guarantees that all
patrons of his establishment will meet with every
comfort that modern civilisation can procure.
ROOMS CAN BE ENGAGED BY TELEGRAM.
Wines and Spirits of the Best Brands.
GOOD STABLING.
A. J. O’GRADY, Proprietor.
F
ISHlNG TACKLE
Wholesale and Retail, as under:—
Plaited Silk Fishing Lines, 2s., 3s., 4s., 10s., 20s.
each. Twisted Silk Lines, 2d., 31., 4d., 6d., 9d., Is.,
Is. 6d., 2s , 3s., and up to 10s. each. Fishing Rods, a
large assortment, from 2s. 6d. to 50s. each. Winches
for do, 2s. 6d. to 30s. each. Artificial Flies, all
sizes. Artificial Fish, Frogs, Insects and Spoon
Baits. Gut Casting Lines, Cork Floats, and Por-
cupine Floats. Honks on single and double gut.
Hooks on gimp and brass and copper wire. Shark
Hooks, Silver Steel Fishhooks, Hollow Point
Limerick Hooks, ordinary Limerick and Kerry
Hooks, Treble Tag Hooks. Our own make ma-
chine thread Fishing Lines, from 3d. to 3*. 6d. each.
Our Patent Hemp Undressed Fishing Lines, made
specially for fishermen. Also, our special 100
yards Machine Thread Pishing Lines, wonderfully
strong, yet very fine. First-class Salmon Gut,
Colonial-made Lines of'every description. Fishing
Nets, Cork and Salmon and Herring Twine.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
Sydney Bottling Co.
Al® & Porter Bottlers,
late
Macquarie place.
PHILLIPS &~COMPANY,
418 George Street,
Sydney.
Ale: Quarts, 7/-; pints, 4/6
Porter: Quarts, 7/; pints. 4/6
Trade Liberally dealt with.
TERMS-CASH.
PE APES &
SPRING SHOW!
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING MILLINERY.
PEAPE S and SHAW’S SPRING COSTUMES.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING DRESS
FABRICS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING FABRIC
GLOVES.
PEAPES and SHAW'S SPRING SHIPMENT
KID GLOVES,
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING HOSIERY,
from J. and R. MORLBY'S.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
LACE GOODS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
EMBROIDERY.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
.PARASOLS.
EF" SPECIAL NOTICEI
All the above goods are
Now Open for Inspection.
Large Shipments
for other Departments are
CLOSE AT HAND,
and a constant flow of
NOVELTIES
will be opened up
DURING THE SEASON.
PEAP KS & SHAW,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS,
324, 326, 328 George Street.
J. NO A HE,
320 ft 446 George Street,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
Just Unpacked, ex s.s. Rome,
12 Cases Real HAVANNA CIGARS
(Finest Brands), consisting of
“ANTONIO MURIAS”
“ VILLAR OF VILLARS ”
‘ HENRY CLAYS”
“REAL”CABANAS
“LARRANAGA”
“ RTTICA”
“ MORALES ”
“ PLOR DB NARES”
“PARTAGAS”
“INTIMIDADS”
“PLOR DB CUBA”
“E8PANOLA ”
“LA CORONA”
J. NOAKE,
320 & 446 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
(gENT POST FREE FOR Is. STAMPS.
Sociol Science.
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders, Chronic
Diseases, Impediments to Marriage, &c.. How to
choose a partner for life so as to live nappy, How
to Regain and Preserve your Health, &e.
Address—R. T. 8BLBV, M H , Devonshire-street,
Surry Hills, Sydney.
ANHOOD* RESTORED1
' A Clergyman haring tried every known remedj
fortheCUREof NERVOUS EXHAUS-
TION, PREMATURE DECAY, &c.. has at
last discovered a simple SELF-CURE, which, fox
the sake of Buffering humanity, he will send FREE
the Prescription which CURED him. Address*
srith self-addressed stamped envelope— *
Dr. E. A. CLARKE, P.o. Box 292, Sydney.
THE LARGEST AND ONLY LEGITIMATE
TIME-PAYMENT FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THE COLONY,
365 PITT STREET.
D B. BOYD,
63 CASTLBRBAGH-STRBBT, SYDNEY
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY*
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours!
10 a.m. to 4 p m. Monday, Wednesdays
and Saturday Evenings *1 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Diseases ft
Specialty.
BoxlSOGPO.
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£9 DRAPERY SALES I
PACKED in CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
BT Carriage paid by mall all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
*5 WINTER RALE.
1 pair Largo Blankets
1 Large Marcella Quilt
10 yards good Sheeting
20 yards Strong Calico
13 Strong Cotton Tick
30 Wincey Dress Tweed
10 good Welsh Flannel
,6 yds Strapping Tweed
All the above are good
wearing articles.
£K FREE SELECTORS’
BALE.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 White or Colored Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 White or Unbleached
Calico
6 White or Red Flannel
13 yards Dress Material
12 yds. Cotton Shirtings
4 pair Good Stockings
1 pair Strong Stays
1 dark Petticoat
6 Strong Oambroon
6 Brown Holland
4 Large White Towels
3 yards Good Trousers
Tweed, Buttons,
Threads, &c.
fiS HEN’S CLOTHING
BALE.
1 Suit Tweed — Coat,
Trousers, and Vest
3 Crimean Shirts, large
size
3 Best Cotton Shirts,
large size
1 Best Felt Hat, any size
6 pairs Strong Cotton
Socks i
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or Pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &o.
£» LADY’S BALK.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladles’ Camisoles
3 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
For acoouohements, wft
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials-Silks, Velvets, &o.—with
instruction for self-measurement.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for la
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
RILEY BROTHERS, *■
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Just give Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour a trla
when you are next cooking.
Wolfe's Schnapps— Beware of would-be rivals
of this great elixir—Always get Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Art Union of Moss Vale, in aid of Widow
and Orpan Fund of Berrlma Masonic Lodge.
Tickets, 30a. Will shortly be drawn. Apply at
once for tickets. J. 8. Hyams, Sec., Moss Vale.*
No complaint is more general than that of
the liver for which Wolfe’s Schnapps is the best
antidote.
To make a good Custard you should use Kings-
load s uswego Cornflour.
BEST IN
THEWORLD
OFFICE-31 LOMBARD ST. LONDON.
m :
EE
LOWEST
IN PRICE
SCOTIAN -HORIZONTAL ENGINES,
‘ALBION” L0N6STR0KE HORIZONTAL ENGINE'S.
CLIMAX” \ZERT10AL ENGINES & BOILERS. '
'“CLIMAX” PORTABLE-KIOISTINg ENGINES;
f BRITON”*HORIZONTAL SOMPOUND LAUNCH ENGINES.
INSERTED COMPOUND MARINE ENGINES.
*• PORTABLE STEAM CRANES.
VERTICAL.GORNISH.S MARINE BOILERS.
0
LARGE STOCKS;FOR FULL PARTICULARS AND PRICES APPLY TO
D.£W.ROBERTSON,SYDNEY, SOLE AGENTS NEW SOUTH WALES
J.W.SUTTON &C0, BRISBANE,SOLE AGENTS
ROBISON BROS.& CO, MELBOURNE, SOLE AG ENTS «>VICTORIAr
rinremment enquiry which la promised, these two
should be kept prominently in view. In
Ivivate life, at least, Mulholland has never shown
any want of pluck.
As an elaborately eulogistic sketch of the
oneensland Premier has just appeared In a pious
ttfllbjurne magazine, It might be just as well to
fndeavour to give our N.S.W. readers another
.otimate of the forbmost man in Queensland to-
SaV Samuel Walker Griffith is the son of a Con-
Srovational cjergvman, who once ministered to a
finck as small as faithful at heart and hand. It
Bras rather a good thing for him when a “ call ” ar-
Jired from Brisbane, where he came to the devout
nf Wharf-street Church, who still have him as
♦hair spiritual leader. Samuel knew what genteel
nnverty meant, and what little amenities grace
fhe intercourse between a pastor and his flock.
Ue shone at the Grammar School, and car-
5,,,1 off prize after prize, but finally he got
«n exhibition which enabled him to go to Sydney
University. He was noted for his intense applica-
tion both at school and University, which, after
ill has more to do with what the world calls suo-
pms than has so-called genius. Then he got into
the office of the late Premier of Queensland, Mr.
Macalister, a solicitor, one of the finest men the
inlony ever turned out. From that time to
Bventually getting a seat in the House, where, as
indefatigable in Opposition as on the Ministerial
benches, he has always taken the advantages
which have fallen in his fortunate path. One rea-
son of his political success is that he has never
had to contend seriously with a rival. The
Liberal party may be honest enough, but
they are frightfully wooden-headed, and will
follow like dogs at a master’s call. Samuel
chamoloned the “ noble wurruklng man ” against
the squatters, on the principle, perhaps, that the
former had the more votes, which must tell in the
long run; and he was right. It is said of him that
after being bantered and badgered by some
northern sugar-growers at Mackay, he asked, on
coming out: "How many votes are these men
worth ?” He was known as a most dogged and un-
scrupulous oppositionist, when fighting the MT1-
wralth Ministry. He was always ready and very
willing to throw over his instruments when they
had become useless or Impracticable. No one on
his side of the House had such an uncon-
querable determination, or such physical and
intellectual endurance, and when the, M‘I1-
wraith Ministry fell Samuel came in as the only
one who could lead the party he had made. He
leads them now, and rules them with a rod of
iron. His only possible rival, Mr. C. 8. Mein, who
was accounted a finer speaker and more liberal-
minded man, but whose health was not good, has
been recently removed from the Upper House,
and put on the Supreme Court Bench, and Samuel
is alone in his glory. He has none of the states-
manship of Sir Thomas about him; he has gained
his way among small men, by small means, and he
is now but a comparatively great man among
small ones, a Triton among minnows. He is
emotionless and passionless, and has but very few
personal friends. He is respected, but not loved,
it may be unnecessary to add, moreover, that Mr.
Kinnalrd Rose, the author of the eulogy in ques-
tion, is almost a new chum, and was selected some
months ago to be one of the commissioners in this
kanaka business, for which he has just received
£150 and his expenses. He is a canny Scot, as bis
article shows.
Mark you this. The editor of the Bkga
(N S.W.) Gazette has had enough of the
Standard man. And as enough is said to be as
good as a feast, the Gazette editor is in luck once
more. These are some scathing sentences he
wrote about a recent banquet, at which it appears
his rival was present and he was not. Hence,
we suppose, the gall. “ A not uncommon misfor-
tune,’’ he commences, “ comes to people at set
and solemn gatherings, namely that the indis-
cretion of one guest can spread, like yeast in a
beer barrel, until the assembled mass rises to la
state of frothy agitation.” This happy and alto-
gether characteristic simile leads him on to a
reference to some "unpleasant business which,”
he says, “ might have remained in the obscurity
where it was hatched, but the Standard drags
It into prominence, and makes of it a peg whereon
to hang the editor’s shirt of Neesus (per-
haps some one will tell him what this means);
and perhaps we ought to say. rather, his Har-
monia’s robe.” By our halidame but these
be wild and fearsome words. There must
surely have been play-actors in the town-
ship of late. Listen, however, to this burst
of editorial envy and uncharitableness:—" It
amuses us to observe how famous or rather
infamous for spiteful catlike scratchings this fel-
low has become since be added a second pair of
breeches to hlswardrobe, took to the hypothetical
making of railways and highways, the manufac-
ture of crass hyperbole, and the arduous disse-
mination of the thieves’ English commonly termed
‘slang.’” You can see now that it is the second
pair of breeches that troubles him. He—a man
with barrelsful of beefsteak and Intellect within
hlm-how could he be expected to sit down quietly
with a soogee-bag round his loins while his brain-
less rival flaunted about in the light of day with a
second pair of breeches ? It Is too much to ask of
human nature. And now, shall we give you the key
to this little quarrel ? Whisper then. It is that one
of the Gazette men could not go to the banquet
because his only collar was in the wash at the
time. Trust us for pointing out with an unerring
pen the weak spots of country journalism.


rjlHE GOSFORD MODEL FARMS.
5 to 8 ACRES FOR 403. PER MONTH.
No interest. Torrens’s Title. Immediate Pol*
session.
Steamer Lands Passengers on the Estate.
These model farm?, containing, as shown on the
plan, about 5 acres, are subdivided in such a man-
ner that not an inch of land need be wastrd, and
the terms of purchase,
40i. PER MONTH,
must certainly be within the reach of all.
THE Q03F0RD MODEL FARMS.
The Subdivision and laying out of these model
frrms has received all the attention that extensive
experience and scientific knowledge can bestow,
the chief aim having been to allot the b’oeks in
cuoh a way that both water aspect and undulations
may be equally distributed, so that not a foot of
ground need bo unproductive, and to what happy
result this has been attained will be realised on
inspection.
CLIMATE.
Situated as this land is, it possesses an attraction
in climatic inlluence that should not be lost sight
of. The saline atmosphere is tempered with the
soft breezes of the distant forest reserves selected
by Government, and jealously guarded against
devastation. That a remarkable effect is always
felt by visitors to this spot who have travelled in
all directions with little or no advantage, but who,
within a few hours of arrival, have found the
bracing effects materially apparent on the appetife
and spirits. There is no living for doctors, but
provision merchants grow wealthy.
That not only is this selection essentially suitable
to the farmer and agriculturist, but our mer-
j chants, lawyers, professional men, and wealthy
[ tradesmen, will find some of the grandest, most
picturesque, and salubrious sites for marine and
country residences ; our sportsmen's charming
shooting boxes, camping grounds, overlooking the
mighty South Pacific Ocean, or the plac'd lakes
and rivers of Wamberal, Terrigal, or Erina; lakes
that, although not perhaps quite so extensive as
in Scotland or America, yet affording equally as
much sport, pleasure, and health. Boating, fish-
ing, shooting, and bathing. Invalids may recruit
exhausted nature in the health-giving ozone and
intermingled aroma of forest breeze wafted in its
native purity.
MINERAL RESOURCES
The mineral resourcas of the whole of the
county of Northumberland are boundless in ex-
tent and wonderful in richness, and soon the pro-
duotof the vast coal fields will be pouring into
the capital over the now constructing line of rail
instead of by sea, as at present. This alone will
be of immense importance to all interested.
FERTILITY OF SOIL.
Not even California or France can excel the
character and capability of production. The soil,
gener illy, is a sandy loam, the usual colour being
black dust grey, varying into rich sections of far-
famed chocolate lands and red alluvial, unsur-
passed in productiveness and remarkably easy to
work, possessing virtues that it will take years of
cultivation and heavy crops to exhaust. The
agricultural and mineral wealth of this section lies
undisturbed, patiently waiting the levelling and
productive hand of the energetic and enterprising
settler.
Within the boundaries of this district almost
every product known to the use of man can be
grown. All that tends to the comfort and happi-
ness of mankind can be cultivated in abundance.
The only thing necessary to develop these re-
sources is population. The rich alluvial soil has
capacity to support In affluence and comfort all
who are fortunate enough to become possessed of
these freehold farms, and have sufficient foresight
and energy to develop their resources. It may be
justly claimed that this district surpasses the very
richest land known in South Australia or Queens-
land, with the additional advantage of a genial,
healthy, and salubrious climate, and in no other
section of the country can this be found. Out-
door work is practicable all the year round, and
the farmer need not slave six months that his
Stock may survive the year out.
FARM PRODUCTION of all description can be
raised in prolific crops—corn, wheat, oats, barley
and perennial grasses abounding.
FRUITS—ORANGES and LEMONS, in particu-
lar-reach such enormous magnitude and luscious-
ness on these farms that truly astonish orange-
growers in other districts. There are many mam-
moth orange trees, over 30ft. high, growing on one
of the farms, bearing enormous crops, which the
oldest inhabitant reports to hove remembered for
the past 40 years: if this is true the trees are cer-
tainly wonderful; and notwithstanding that they
are entirely neglected, so far as manuring and
pruning goes, they appear in better health than
six-year olds In some of our celebrated orarge-
produeing districts, where as much care and nur-
turing are bestowed upon them as upon a thor-
oughbred racehorse.
POULTRY —It would be. indeed, a difficult task
to select a more fitting locality for this industry,
and we trust that as soon as these farms get set-
tled our markets in large centres may be better
supplied with what are now looked upon as
dainties.
TIMBER.
On the Model Farms that are not yet settled will
be found a plentiful supply of really fine timber,
consisting of red gum, box. turpentine, tallow,
cedar, blood, ironbark. and other varieties. Most
of these are utilised in local labour, where may be
seen the process of shipbuilding and other trades,
splitting laths, beams, palings, railway sleepers,
ship timber, ships’ keels, fencing, &c., &c.
BOTANICAL PRODUCTS
On a portion of tlrs property, designated “ The
Sylvan Grove,” are found some magnificent speci
mens of
GIANT PALM and FERN TREES,
reaching 50ft in height, and which, in the Sydney
market, will yield large returns. Other specimens
of ferns, from common to the most rare, sro
plentiful.
' FACILITIES FOR INSPECTION.
It ia the desire of the Vendors of the Gosford
Model Farms that all buyers should personally in-
spect the land before buying, and to Induce this
special facilities are offered, so that there can be
no excuse for parties not succeeding in securing
the particular location that their experience indi-
cates as suitab’e to their requirements.
Special Steamer SATUHD KY NEXT. 19th in-
stant, leaves Circular Quay at 8.45 a.m., returning
at 4 p.m. Tickets at the Rooms.
Plans and illustrated pamphlets, entitled the
Farmers and Settlers’Guide, containing 50 pages
of descriptive and useful matter, profusely illus-
trated with photographic views taken in and
around the property, sent to any address by
BOYD AND KING,
Property Auctioneers,
96, PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
A 5 or 8-acre MODEL FARM for 40*. monthly.
Professional Directory-
GEORGE PE thIMAN. Scene Painter, Theatre
Royal, Bri <> ne. Disengaged.
fil HEATH B R O Y A L.
JL Under the management of
Messrs. W illxamson, Gabnkr and Musgkov*.
Lot sec, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo L. Goodman.
Ac,log Marager, H. H. VIccant.
Farewell Performatfces of Mr. Bcucic«ult.
THE BJUCIGAULT SEASON
must positively terminate on Wednefday, Oct. 7 h
THIS . i HURsOAY) EVENING, SEPTEMBER 17
iiauc.'cault's (harming Pl»r, in one act, emitleo
KERRY.
KERRY Mr. B JUCICAULT.
After which, at 8.40,
the most popular of all Irish Dramas,
arr ' ARRAH-NA-POGUE.
SGAUN-THE-POST .. .. Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Entirely new Scenery by Gordon and Hennings.
Prices of Admission: Dress Circle 5s.; Stalls, 3a.;
Family Circle, 3s.
Tickets for all part# of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel.
Box plan open at theatre from 11 till 4. No free
list. Agent for Mr. D mclc&ult, Mr. W. Macmahon.
NB W OPBRA HOUSE.
Under the Lesseoshlp and Management of
MAJERONI and WILSON.
TO-NIGHT, at 3 o’clock. Carriages at 10.30,
CROWDED HOUSES.
Press and Public one verdict only.
A BIG SUCCESS. A BIO SUCCESS
THE HR1GANDS THE BRIGANDS
THE BRIGANDS TH R BHI'+ANDS
THE BRIG AN US THE BRIGANDS
lu preparation, THE BOHEMIAN GIRL, and
L’ucnmbe Searelle’n most popular Comic opera,
BOBADIL BOBAD1I, UOBAD1L.
Saturday, October 3rd, Mr. George Darrell in his
sensational dram?, THE SUNNY tO’ Ttl.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Huenerbeln’s Music
Warehouse, 318 George-street. Tickets for all parts
of the house may be obtained at Roberts’, tobac-
conist, next theatre.
AIBTY THEATRK1
Lessees ... ... Messss. CLARK and RYMAN.
Acting Manager .. A. LITHERLAND CUNAKD.
House Packed, Convulsed, and Glorious Reception
of the New Programme.
Come and see the new Novelty,
RED STOCKINGS.
Come and bear the beat vocalists
In the profession,
RED STOCKINGS
Come and see the pretty circle of
RED STOCKINGS
Last 10 nights of Australia’s best
entertainment.
RED STOCKINGS.
Box plan at Sandon’s, next door Huenerbeln's.
Admission—Orchestra Chairs 3s, Stalls 2a, Balcony
Is. Doors open at 7.30, commence at 8.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager .. .. F. C. Hiscocks.
TH T 8 AND EVERY EVENING.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS of
THE GRAND DOUBLE COMPANY.
LEON and CUSHMAN COMBINATION
in conjunction with
HISCOCK’S FEDERAL MINSTRELS.
Concluding with Leon and Cushman’s Comi 3 Ope-
retta, Her Majesty’s Opera; or, Patti’s Visit to
Rothschild’s House.
Prices : Reserved Orchestra, 4e; Stalls, 3’.; Par-
quette, 3a.; Gallery, Is. Plan box at Paling’s.
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George street, Hayaoarket.
Lessee and Director ... ... Mr. Frank Smith.
CROWDED and FASHIONABLE AUDIENCES.
IMMENSE SUCCESS IMMENSE SUCCESS
of
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY COMPANY.
Pronounced by the Press and Public the most re-
llned Entertainment given in Sydney. Minstrelsy,
Olio, Farce, Every Evening.
The whole terminating with a
SCREAMING FARCE.
Gentlemen ushers In attendance.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 3a; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
CHAS. AUSTIN, Business Manager.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Prank Smith.
Lynch Family Bellringers
(Organised 1867)
GRAND FAREWELL SUBURBAN CONCERTS.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday)—Town Hall, Hunter’s Hill
FRIDAY-FOUESTERS* HALL ST. PETER?.
MONDAY-ODDFELLOWS' HALL, MANLY.
Burwood, Asbfield, Petersham, to follow.
HARRY LYNCH. Manager
New masonic Iiall,
Castlereagh-strect. _
SEPTEMBER 24th, 35th, and 38nr.
P3ETRY! HUMOUR ! PROGRESS!
Mr. M. HUME has made arrangements with
Mr. Thomas Bracken,
the celebrated New Zealand Poet, Journalist.
Lecturer, Humoutist, and Elocutionist,
for the delivery of a
COURSE OF THREE LECTURES
on the above dates.
1 THE POETS OF IRELAND.
3 THE PRINCE OF IRISH HUMOURISTS.
3. THE TRIUMPH OF DEMOCRACY.
Theeo Lectures have quite recently delighted
crowded audiences throughout New Zealand—
Were admitted to bo a rich intellectual treat, and
eulogised by the entire Press of the Colony.
Admission. 3a , 3s-, D.
Mi*s Annafta Scasl
HAVING rested her voice for six months, after
a long and successful tour through New
Zealand, would be happy to
RESUME HER PROFESSIONAL DUTIES ON
THE STAGE ONCE MORE.
tpr Line of Businesa Opera Boufife, Concerts,
Burlesques.
This ycung lady artistbeing an emi nent musi-
cian, would have no objection to travel with a
tirs -class company as Pianist.
All theatrical managers please addrots letters,
for the present, Post Office, Young.
C* IMlgS
sSQjiB
LO An t
-
WA
sir
WAREHOUSES. SYDNEY,
The Mew Zealand Loan anl Mercantile Agency Company
(LIMITED',
HEAD OFFICE ... .. ... LONDON.
Ca/pitaJ. - - £3,500,000.
THIS COMPANY WILL CONTINUE TO DISPLAY AND SELL
WOOL!
ON THE MELBOURNE SYSTEM,
■At their YVarehouses,
SBIDG-E STBTvn
SYDNEY.
If reserves are not reached, the nominal charge of one shilling per bale only will be made.
WOOL SALES. EVERY TUESDAY. _ SHEEPSKINS AND HIDES, EVERY FRIDAY.
Way Bills and all information can be obtained on application, or will be sent by return of post.-
Sydney Wool and Grain Warehouses.
H. H. Lft&G, Produce maogger*
SK fl* £S ff\S2W2t^
street, Sydney ; and at Melbourne, Adelaide, and Brisbane, Agent. °KRker, Grew. & Co.^Ld.) 19 PUt '
THE SYDNEY SPOr
DEPOT.
389 GEORG E-STREET SYDNEY
(Opposite Royal Hotel.)
BlCYCLESrfRICYCLES,
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles
and Tricycles
Have Every Improvement,
OUR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Hoads fen
the universal club
BICYCLE,
fitted with Improved Bail Bear*-
h£?J° ro ? t a J? d back whoelfy
I ? rk s. Patent Head and
D-tachable Bent Handle Bar
Easy Slide Spring, Hubs Plated!
Biach Enamelled Spokea,
Price, £13 lOs. At the price
we defy competition.
1885 Universal Club, a thoroughly reliable and eaay-runnmg
machine. Ball bearings to both wheels, and improvements.
JAMES MARTIN & COMPANY, 388 6eorge-st., Sydney
GHAS. OTTE &C0~
Electrical Engineers,
113 Pitt Street.
Electric Batteries for surgical and household use, Electric Bells
Private Telephone*, Electric Lights, Lightning Conductors, Dyna-
mos, and all Electrical appliances fitted at the shortest notice, at
25 per cent, under usual price.
CHAS. OTTE & CO., 113 Pitt Street


■J
f
wmm m ,
1ST THIRTY SHILLINGS.
I3T thirty shillings.
The Autophone!
IAHTS triumph of musical invention Is acknow-
.. lodged cn all hands to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It Is a wonderful little Instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 22 reeds, plays in throe keys, and all the
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the Inventor, the world
was first indebted for the Organctte; but that was
too expensive to coine within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
study, be has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of cost and crudeness.
It requires no skill te extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &o , &c., Ac. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy.
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that “ he who runs
may read,” It is brat adapted to t he kind of music
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power in
executing pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card-holder for convenience
in singing. It will be found invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one ; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument In the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
or
474 GE0R6E STREET, SYDNEY
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities—from
everywhere, In fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can effer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corre-
spondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they wiil recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by all educators and moralists
that music is the great refining influence, and
especially with children its effect for good is
boundless. The love for music which music in
the family engenders,' is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whple force of teach-
ers, pastors, i nd parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other
wise hard task an easy one..
The price of the Autophone Is 30s.,
and where good music can be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any patent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each AutOpho c for 30s. we
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogues of tunes at any time.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents for Australia:
Oriental Gold Company.
474 Georgc-strcet, Sydney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets.
Time after all is the one grand test. Wolfe s
Schnapps has been 35 years before the public.
Ladies, when you are next cooking just give
Kiugsford's Oswego Cornflour a trial.
The wearied and anxious business man
should uie Wolve s Schnapps-
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—“ Arrah-na-Pogue ” p. 8
Gaiety Theatre—“Red Stockings” „
opera House— ** The B rigands ”. „
Alhambra— Variety Company „
Academy of Music— Minstrels ,,
“ The Brigands ” was put on the stage of
the Sydney Opera House last Saturday. This Is
one of Offenbach’s lees popular comic perform-
ances. The Melbourne public were treated to It
years ago, but so weak was the applause It evoked,
that it was not able to sail to Sydney. Conse-
quently, Saturday was its first appearance here.
• • »
The first act shows a rocky mountain
pass. A company of brigands assemble. The
music is rapid and lively. Plorella, daughter of
the chief brigand, enters. She describes her life
with the gang, interspersing the description with
pistol-shots and other deeds of alarm. Soon Fra-
goletto, a young farmer, presents himself
as a suitor for Fiorella's band. He is made
a member of the gang. The duet sung by
the pair of lovers is spirited and catching.
The second act brings us to a country inn-
keeper’s. The brigands enter Pipo’s in a variety
of disguises. Some blind, some deaf, some
crippled, they surround the mystified host, and
gradually work themselves into the appeal,
“ Faoitote oarltatem.” This is the most original
and striking piece of music in the opera. It is
followed by the lo$ting-up of Bmifaoe and his
household, and the assumption by the brigands of
the garments of cooks and scullions. Then barons,
police, soldiers, and the embassy of Grenada find
their way to the place. The third act opens in a
saloon in the palace of the Duke of Mantua. The
brigands are finished off here. Fiorella, having
saved the Duke on a former occasion, now suc-
ceeds in obtaining the Duke's pardon for her
father and the rest of the gang.
* • •
The incidents are not distinctly presented.
Great attention la required to hold the thread of
the narrative. The thread is found at the end not
to have been worth holding. The comic elements
are few and heavy. The jokes are ponderous.
The puns have seen service In the circus ring. The
libretto is language in a state of hash. Yet the
music makes it tolerable. Offenbach abounds in
resources. He multiplies instruments, and a pas-
sage dull at basis, be elevates by fantastic tricks
on string or pipe. There is nothing in the Count
de Gloria’s song, as far as mere melody goes, vet
the accompaniment of tambourine, castanets, and
flutes, makes it acceptable.
• * ♦
Mr. Charles Harding was Falsaoappa,
Chief of Brigands* He had enough to do, but it
was not the sort of work he shines at. The Sub-
Chief (Mr. EJwin Kelly) tried to be more funny
than his part permitted. The result was that a
man with less native drollery would have been
more droll. Mr. Edwin Lester played the rakish
Mantuan Treasurer. He had to tell the house how
he squandered the funds of the Duchy on amatory
adventures. He told it in song, winding up each
verse with “And that’s the sort of man I ami”
The song was not unfavourably received. The
fact discounts the judgment of the house in other
matters.
• • ♦
Miss Plaiated was Fiorella. Her appear-
ance with carbine and revolver was a little too
terrible. As usual, she did her work with all her
heart in it, but, although her part demanded
plenty of action, it was almost destitute of that
vivacious wilfulness to the representation of
which she seems instinctively to spring. Miss
Saville was the young farmer. Her business was to
make love to Fiorella. She did it after a way. She
sang some lines very well, but the want of hearti-
ness observable in her when playing female parts
was still more conspicuous in her Fragoletto.
Male attire does not improve her. Miss Harris
appeared as the Duke of Mantua. We postpone
saying anything about her voice. She looked well,
she moved well; she made an excellent Duke.
* ♦ »
A large number of other people had parts,
but they achieved or perpetrated nothing signal.
Mr. Clint exhibited some picturesque scenery, and
Mr. Searelle conducted with more than usual
energy and power.
* * * *
*If novelty is pleasing, this notice should be
popular; it is written for the public, not for the
profession. And it’s a pleasant thing, too, mind
you, to write nice things about the “pros.,’ 1 and
to stand at the “corner,” with a simper, about
free lunch time, and receive their tributes of ad-
miration re your scintillating humour and drama-
tical acumen. We've had lots of this in our time,
and it was really not until a distinguished member
of the variety profession gave us a dig in the ribs
one morning, and called us a “sikarstic dawg,”
that we awakened to the fact that we were a great
writer. However, we re not young any more now,
and we have c ased to care for the adulation which
three lines of straight praise will engender. So
this is written for the public; and, dear reader, If
you keep your ear well flapped forward, you shall
receive, by-and-bye, such modest entertainment
at our hands as is in our power to build u p for you.
• • ♦
For we have a vast and expansive field
this time; a field of “ infinite variety.” Look in
the advertisement columns of the dallies; gaze
upon the hoardings of this city, and what appal-
ling lessen do ye learn there! Simply this:
Sydney has gone mad on minstrelsy. The list
of names v e read over with ghostly wonder.
Hiecocks alone, at his popular and fashionable
lounge does not content himself with mere
variety veterans. He must have, in bis bill, sirs,
nothing less than Monuments of Minstrelsy. The
Only Leon, for instance 1 Well, this charmer
and a not excruciatingly funny tsmbo are a
“Combination” now, just as The “Only”
was a Combmalion nearly two decades ago.
Then there’s Horace Bent—whatl-call him only
a “MonumentI” Why, Horace is the Leaning
Tower of Minstrelsy—the entertainer of half a
century. Then look at those three singing
memorial minstrel statues—Braham, Ball, Ameryl
They can’t be alive now, you'll cry, Aren’t they ?
Just get one of them to ask you to supper. There
are minstrel troupes (for It is Saturday night) per-
forming all over the city—at the New Masonic,
the old Masonic, at the Protestant Hall, and down
in the Haymarket; while the “Rsd Stockings”
have located themselves at the Gaiely. It is in a
dreamy condition of bewilderment that we hie
thither. As we approach, more familiar names up-
rear themselves before us upon day bills, names
which might have been hoisted out of catacombs
to do duty, in moncgr-ima, upon hearse-panels.
The proprietcr, we sse by the bill, is Mr. Solomon;
that alone, in its cool and chilling majesty i How-
ever, we're not going to be awed by this attempt,
at “side,” on the part of Mr. J. We remember, when
Johnny was last au impresario, how he used to
come down to the theatie with an evening dress
suit and a lavender tie, and uniertake to look
after the comfort of the swells in front.
* ♦ ♦
Johnny being absent from the scene, we
ask wboisrespo .eib e for these “Red Stockings,”
which have been so cunningly billed? As we
thought; two immonals—Prank M. Clark, and
Gov. Add. Ryman. That’s attraction enough to
beguile us into entering and—. Thunder! it
can’t be! Why, Litherland Cunard is the acting-
manager! Awful though the apparition is, we
feel that it is in its proper sphere. He la in grey-
cool grey—and he smiUs! This from a man, every
separate hair of whose head we have seen parted
by a rifle bullet countless times, and have marked
him in awful moments when a sneeze would have
signified an ear gone, and a hiccup would have
been fatal. Ugh! A programme, please— Kirby!
• • •
The curtain goes up, and it is very pretty
indeed. The scene is a soft and summery land-
scape, before which are ranged twelve young
women in a rather distressing condition of " make-
up,” through which, however, is to be detected
the usual genuine expression of llstlessness, so
inseparable from those who have to assist nightly
in dumb show at performances of a comic nature.
Their dresses are short, loose, white-embroidered
“baby” frocks reaching to the knee, and the
famous red-stockings complete the costume. At
the back are two otherfglrls elevated In swings,
one of whom evidently poses for the beauty of the
show, and whose symmetry of form seems to be
undeniable. Looking at her, we are somehow re-
minded of a rather hysterical novel we read years
ago, and which made a big splash when it came
out. It is called “ Coming thro’ the Rye,” and tfce
heroine, contemplating herself in her glass
before descending to a grand ball, thus ad-
dresses her mirrored counterpart: “You don’t look
so much amirs, there, all by yourself; but
wait till you get down among the rest—that will
take the conceit out of you.” Added to these at-
tractions, Mr. Frank M. Clark occupies the chair
allotted to “ bones,” while tambo, who faces him.
finds a representative in a gentleman who is billed
as “ Mr. George Jones.” On a platform in the
centre, immediately behind tbe girls, are perched
three individuals in white jean clothing and straw
hats. The interlocutor occupies the centra, and
we could have wi filed him to have exhibited, a less
wearied appeeranoe. But the work of controlling
28 red stockings on the stage for 130 nights has
already set its mark upon him; and this is even
observable when he tolls you later he’s “ Lonely
no more” (no wonder I) in, as it occurred to us, a
rather battered baritone. While the oro wd were
singing the opening chorus, we began to wonder
who was going to give the show. We were not
long in doubt—Mr. Frank M. Clark was I He had
worked hard in Melbourne for four solid months,
and be had now come amongst us to enjoy hbn-
self. Think of that suddenly dawning upon the
unfortunate critic, who is glued oonclentiously to
his fauteiul! Agony 1
• • •
Miss Amy Rowe gave us “ Memory Bells”
in a way that afforded much satisfaction, and was
authoritatively encored bp a self-constituted
claque amongst the unperfumed in the gallery.
After this Mr. Frank M. Clark commenced to
entertain the audience, and this he did, except
when Interrupted by the performers, during the
remainder of the evening. Ida Osborne chiooed
in, for Instance, and most bravely sang “ Kiss-
ing goes by favour ” A fine rich voice
has this lady, and well-cultivated too. The
last song in the first part was allotted to Mr.
T. Bergln, who sang the “Romany Lass" under
gloomy circumstances, for the “gods” were all
agog to see the rough-and-tumble finale, “The
New South Wales Contingent,” in which were to
appear (so said the bill) “ Messrs. Clark, Ryman,
Jones, and the Company.” This is what they did:
Clark marched on at the head of two scarecrows
in red, he himself being costumed as au impossible
Zouave, and armed with a wooden sword about
ten feet long. With this weapon he punches the
Contingent into line, and butts at it, and hustles it,
treating the audience the while to a string of the
most heartrending and melancholy gibberish. Toe
outrage culminated in this wise. Mr. Clark went
off and procured a number of sticks and bladders,
with which he at once commence 1 to belabour his
forces. There was, however, a motif to this dreary
clowning. The Idea was that when the bladders
struck the padded breasts of the Contingent, they
were to rebound amongst the audience and so
cause a comic diversion! All the bladders but one,
however, turning out failures, the curtain de-
scended amidst a grim and solemn silence, which
even the “ gods ” didn’t try, didn’t dare, to break.
♦ * m
The second part opened with a clog dance
by Miss Davenport, who demonstrated to the
audience in the first tw o bars how much she bad
been taught to do with her feet, and how meagrely
she bad been instructed in tbe art of employing
her arms, and increasing the poetry of motion by
a cunningly-posed head. Mr. Bergin was then in
request, and gave the “ Queen of the Earth ” with
the air of a man who was determined to fulfil his
contract, even though he lost money by it. The
gods didn’t want singing, they wanted dancing.
So Mr, B. could, amidst the vacarme which pre-
vailed, do little moie with his Queen, than confide
her, with gentleness, to the conductor. After
another dance (encored) from another lady (the
prompt side swing one, we think), Mr. Frank M.
Clark and Miss Lillie Linden came on to do their
“ Flashes 1” First they sang a duet called “Mr.
and Mrs. Malone,” which passed off quietly
enough; then Frank came on as a jiokey, and
did a song and danoe, accompanied by Miss
Linden on the harp.
♦ ♦ ♦
We have seen a few jockeys in our time,
but we never saw one anything at all like Frank.
However, considering his previous exertions, Mr.
Ciark danced very creditably. When, at length,
he danced himself off, Miss Lillie Linden settled
hersef down to a little bright banjo, and began to
sing comic son-ts. We do not remember to have
heard anything sadder than this since Tom Sayers
cast hia mantle of gloom over the same temple
some few years ago, when he was a tip-top swell,
as anyone could tell, for one consecutive week at
a trifle over £3 anight. Oi her banjo Miss Linden
Struck chords “ irregular and sharp,” and having a
voice to match, was in great form for enteitalc-
ing. The burden of one song was that if your girl
didn’t seem sufficiently pliable at the first go-off,
you were to “smack her round the ‘ kisser ’ once
or twice.” Another little playful ditty the lady
favoured us with was equally redolent of humour
and quite as chaste in design. This was about the
“ boys,” with their moustaches and eye-glasses,
doing a “ great kill" in the best box at the theatre
but whose washing consisted of “a dicky and a
pair of cotton socks.” We had only just wiped
away the tears conjured up by the sublime pathos
of these delicate dirges, when behold, Clark is on
the scene again as a pantomime policeman, and is
bellowing out “The Man of Education,” which is
set down as one of hit "specialities.” In this
character, Mr. Clark pulls out every stop and lets
bis fancy run riot; the result being that he made
our head ache violently in the first five minutes,
and we haven’t got over it yet. His make-up,
meant to be funny, partook strongly of the ghastly,
and the dreary patter in which he was one minute
the dandy policeman of Bourke-street, and the next
the pride of King-street (so did he mix up the two
cities), was calculated in time to break the stoutest
heart We left after this, in a deeply dejected
condition, neither waiting for Mias Amy Rowe’s
“ grand repertoire of ballads,” nor for tne re-ap-
pearance of the “ Man of Elocation ” in a “ laugh-
able farce ” written for the company by Frank M.
Ciark.
* * * *
To-morrow night (Friday) W. B. Warner,
of Hiscocks’ gang, takes a benefit at the new
Masonic Ha l. He is youig, Australian, and, in his
line, clever The only pity is that he has ar-
parentiy never had a onance of attending a Uo-
versity. At the Academy his eccentricities h ive
always procured a noisy encore. And he im-
proves, too, on acquaintmoe. which is a good de.l
more than can be said for many others in his pro-
fession. We trust his, “ beu.” will be a substantial
one.
« » « « *
Harry Lynch, who steadfastly declined to
march through Woolloomooloo at the head of the
Salvation Army, has been “scooping ” the suburbs
during the week. It is whispered that the article
on “ Hells ” in the new edition of the “ British En-
cyclopedia” is from Henry's pen. From the
suburbs, he will strike a bae-line for Melbourne,
where he is entered for a two-months’ ring
Tiunce he goes to South Africa.
* * 9 9
Tbe gifted Mr. Thomas Bracken (author
of “ Lays of the Land of the Maori and the Moa ”)
gives his first lecture in Sydney at the new Masonic
Hall on Thursday, 34th Sept, on “The Poets of
Ireland.” "The Prince of Irish Humorists” will
be given on the 25th, and “ The Triumph of Demo-
cracy ” on the 28th. Mr. Bracken should have a
good hearing in Sydney.
« m m 9
A theatrical event of unusual interest will
take place at the King-street Ooera House, Syd-
ney, oi the 3rd Oct ib r. “ The Sumy South ” will
be produced. This remarkable play is by George
Darrell. Annie Mayor is to be the leading lady,
and everything is to be on a scale of lavish mag-
nificence.
99mm
Pinero’s “Lords and Commons ” has been
put up at the Melbourne Opera House —and put
down again. This comedy was originally produced
at the Haymarket Theatre, London, and there it
had a fair run. But the London success, we
fancy, was due more to the reputation of author
and players than to any solid merit of the piece.
Out here, Pinero has no admirers as yet. “ The
Squire,” which created a furore at home, was pre-
sented to us under conditions—we won’t be too pre-
cise—that stifled any sentiment of admiration for
Its clever author, and stirred up only the
worst passions of our nature. “Lords and
Commons” is better payed than was the
unhappy “Squire,” but it hasn’t half as much to
recommend it from a literary point of view
Allj the characters in “ Lords and Commons” ap-
pear to have been conceived in a bilious mo-
ment. and to suffer from liver complaint. The in-
terest of the story, such as it is. centres round a
woman, who, having been repudiated by her hus-
band as a bastard within balf-an-hour of their
marriage, takes herself off to America, tumbles
into the inevitable fortune, becomes the pur-
chaser of her impoverished hubby's baronial hall,
and returns to England with the laudable inten-
tion of making herself derned unpleasant. She was
married when she was 16, and was probably so dis-
guised in blushes at the time that the orty bride-
groom doesn’t recognise his thirty-minutes’ wife
In the dashing grass widow who comes to take
fiossession of nis ancestral diggings. This sounds
mprobable, but it isn’t, because the wife altered
wonderfully while she was away. A picture
which she places over the mantelpiece shows us
what she was like at 16. She was like Saint Ce-
cilia with the mumps. But at 30 she Is a grace-
ful living testimony to the virtues of an American
climate, and the result is that the man who let
her slide in the Saint Cecllian days, wins back her
matured affections, and is naturally astonished to
find that such charms have been saving up for
him during 14 weary years. That is the plot of
“Lords and Commons,” and it unfolds itself
in four acts, and an Infinity of ill-natured
talk. The impoverished patricians are the
Caryls of Caryl, and differ from the Carols of
Christmas. They teach no lessons of peace and
goodwill. They do nothing, in fact, except talk
about their ancient race, and “ bilk ” the trades-
people. En passant, let us remark that we usually
throw iu a little allusion to our lineage when
we’re trying to get credit for another loaf, and can
recommend the device as truly patrician. George
Klguoll didn’t seem quite at home as tbe high-
born husband, but be bad a lot to put up with.
His mother was a dreadfully trying old woman,
and we hope she 11 be decently interred before he
brings “Lords and Commons ’ to Sydney. On the
other hand, we rather liked his sister, Miss Har-
wood, for she was a nice girl, barring cer-
tain mistaken notions about the efficacy of
blue blood. Kate Bishop was the cist-off
wife, who cime back to hate and remained
to love. We liked her immensely in the
remaining mood, but fancied that she hated in
rather too loud a key. That can be forgiven,
though, for the sake of the pretty stage pictures
she made in the twilight of a well-mounted garden
scene. An attempt to throw in a verse here, and
get a rhyme out of “skylight” and “twilight,”
failed miserably. And there are some other people
who come from America to assist in turning the
Caryls out of their baronial hall. Mrs. George
Riguold, for instance, who gets some of tne
author's smartest lines and does justice to them,
advises Kate Bishop to “ roll her husband under
her foot like a grass-worm.” Rolling worms
would seem to be a regular feminine pas-
time. Then, in Brian Darley, we have a
“swell”—a Pall Mall lounger—who, after eight
years’ exile in California so far., forgets him-
self as to address a lady In her own drawing-room
without removing his hat or nis pipe. One couldn’t
stand that at any price. Why, we once spent 10
years among the Zulus without losing an iota of
our natural pollsn and refinement of manner.
When we returned home with one sook and a
weary heart, the cook said we “ was Just as much
the gentleman as ever.” And we see no reason to
impugn the cook’s veracity. To resume, how-
ever, “ Lords and Commons” Is a soothing sort of
piece to go and see when you've fallen out with
the rest of your species, and it contains some un-
pleasant remarks which may be advantageously
treasured iu the memory for future use when re-
quired.
* * * *
Paris L’ Illustration is eloquent over
Remenyi’s powers of improvisation. We read how
on one occasion ho awed a group of Frenchmen In
a hotel after dinner. The Liszt of the violin was
got Into a dreamy mood. He and his bow were in
the "sanctuary of poesy,” as he softly assured
them. They were not long in bringing him round
to accept the “ Marseillaise ” as a theme. Then
these Frenchmen were In glory. L'Illustration
describes their transports in a column of hvper-
bole. The Instrument emitted cries, aspirations,
prayers. It breathed enthusiasm and liberty. It
must have been a fine thing to see tbe artist, head
erect, eyes shut, arm sawing, and the audience
now trembling, now weeping, now dancing, now
shouting “ sacre !” Why did not Remenyl get into
the “ sanctuary of poesy ” when in Sydney ? The
immortal Dan ought to have lifted mm in by the
collar. We feel aggrieved at not having seen the
great master in his inspired moments. “Are you
often that way?” asked the Frenchmen, drying
their eyes, when Remenyi laid down the fiddle.
“Pas toujours," he replied, ‘je dirai meme que
e’est rare.” But, Dan I He could have lifted him
by the collar. -
• • • •
From oqr London correspondent:— “I
met Bland Holt the other day. He is at present
sticking to his father—old Clarence-and the pair
are just concluding a season of antiquated dramas
at tne Surrey Theatre. I asked Bland did be think
of returning to Australia, and learned that he has
every Intention of doing so when he can get
hold of a good thing, whether in the shape of
opera bouffe, comedy, or drama. Good thing s are,
however, not particularly plentiful. Sims’ great
melodrama, ‘The Last Chance,’ was a pitiful
frost. A heap of the money the Gattls made over
* In the Ranks * was swamped in ‘ The Last
Chance.’ This fiasco would go to prove that in
the construction of melodrama two heads are
better than one. Nearly all the •uccesstul melo-
dramas I remember were the result of col-
laborations. alliot Galtr's * True Story told
in Two Cities,’ at Drury Lane, was another
of the recent conspicuous failures. I went
to hear Patti in ‘Faust’ a few nights since
and was horribly disgusted. The opera was,
figuratively speaking, thrown at the audience like
a bone to a dog. Toe staging was something exe-
crable. With the exception of Scalcbi, Patti’s sup-
porters were terrible duffers. This may give joy
to the old Montague-Turner crowd. Farley is >*
better Mephislo. in every respect than the man I
siw, and 30 or 30 years ago when he was a little
younger, Templeton might almost — although
not quite—have been equal to the Valentine. I
remember hearing Chanes Turner worry and fret
through ‘.Salve Dimora,’ and, although the per-
formance was not altogether a pleasing one, he
always bad the pluck, notwithstanding the im-
minent risk of apoplexy, to make a grab at the top
C. The man at Oovent Garden ignored the note
altogether, contenting himself with a mild A. I
would rather- apart altogether from mercenary
considerations—be Mr. Patti than Mr. Turner, but
at the same tithe I would almost as soon hear
Annis as Adelina sing the jewel-song. At the con-
clusion of the song the former, I remember, used
to shake brilliantly for several bars. Patti, who
systematically pursues a saving policy, contents
herself with about a bar. On the whole, Mrs.
Turner certainly gives you most for your money.”


BRIEF MENTION.
There is a steamer trading from Melbourne
to Bairnsdale which is called the Abstainer. It
has about the most drunken gait of any boat
on the coast. So much for a name.
There is a glacier in Switzerland that
moves a quarter-of-a-mile a year. We have no
glaciers In Australia, but we have the N.S.W.
Legislative Council and the Parramatta train.
The Broughton Creek (N.S.W ) Literary
and Debating Society has just held Its nineteenth
annual meeting. The Society has now killed
Charles I. 19 times, and found Wellington to be
greater than Napoleon 25 times.
O’Sullivan, one of the Sydney Domain
orators, lectured at Bungendore on Thursday
night last. The Bungendore people have now
sent O’Sullivan further South, In the hope that
he will be attacked with an incurable cold.
Coming home after viewing the N.S.W.
Government phalanx file Into Parliament House.
Servant girl (to recalcitrant Infant): “Now. if you
don’t turn to and be a good boy, Johnny, I’ll take
yerhaok and give yer to that nasty, great, big.
hugerley bogey we seen talking to t'ie Gover-ior.
“ Sir Henry Parkes charged the Govern-
ment with ‘ hocusslng ’ the N.8.W. assembly.”—
Behold this charge, like a mirage
In mystic space straight slabs;
Why “hocus” men, who nine in ten
Will take their 20 drinks ?
Here is a queer advertisement from the
Melbourne Age:— “Parrots, two, grrad talking.
List of 40 sentences on applic.ii on r , etc. We
presume the 40 sentences were obtained for ob-
scene language. This open encouragement of
larriklnlsm in the lower animals should, as the
S.M. Herald would say, ** he deprecated.
From the Kiama Independent Lost,
from the Independent Office or adjacent thereto,
a wicker Waste Paper Basset. The finder will ob-
Ug-e by leaving it at this office. J. Weston. This
la indeed a revelation to us. We never thought
Weston had a waste-paper basket. It always
seemed as if he put everything into the Inde-
pendent.
The Governor laughs at theN.S.W. artillery
horses, and says they look to him like a special
breed. His Excellency needn’t laugh. They have
seen service before he came into the country.
Three years in a Cobb’s coach and seven in a
hawker's cart or a ’bus are bound to tell. Wbat is
a broken knee or blindness to a war-horse ? He has
one advantage over younger cattle. He couldn t
see the enemy, and, as it takes some time.to teach
the commands halt or forward, you have him to
rights by calling out, “Fares, please,” or “ Gee up,
d — you.”
Says the Melbourne Herald “ There is
really something strange in the assumption by
magistrates that people who carry Bibles about
with them mush be out of their minds.” What do
these magistrates think of those other judicial
goats who cart the guide of their youth and Secret
of England’s Greatness about with them, and force
a man to rub it with his nose before they will be-
lieve ho ever had a mother ?
For hardshell, old-fashioned Scripture-
sticklers Tasmania takes the buns. So as not to
forget their religious obligations, they have
dabbed three of their towns “Jerusalem,” “Jeri-
cho,” and “Paradise." Thev possess, also, a Kiver
“ Jordan.” and Labe “ Tiberius.” There is an idea
atloatin the "Tight Little Island ” to expend £500
I in widenin ' the nad to Paradise. This, we con-
1 alder, would bo a 11 vrr vnt waste of public money.
I The people who hurry along that track now-a-
days are not a bit crowded even though the road
is narrow.
There are some things said in all simple
sincerity that put the finest jokes of the conscious
humorist to shame. Here is one of them. An
Australian immigration-agent describes some of his
English experiences In a Melbourne paper. He
gives this as one of the questions put to him by an
intending colonist: "Is it possible to tame the
laughing-jackass so as to make him pull a cart or
carry a load ?” Isn’t it splendid 1
Mr. Mason, M.L.A., Victoria, asked the
House the other day what had become of the in-
ferior wines and spirits which the Customs De-
partment had refused to allow to go into public
consumption ? He did not receive a satisfactory
reply, and then, with an owlish air. and a wink,
went on lwitha question about two recently-de-
ceased Customs officers. They must have been
bad spirits to kill Customs officers.
“ What’s all this about?” asked a Sydney
alderman of a friendly reporter who had waxed
his moustache and taken a grip of “ The French
Phrase-book” ere setting out to attend last week’s
French meeting “in honour of the memory of
Victor Hugo.” “ Dr. Laure,” said the pressman,
“is to deliver an oration on the genius of Victor
Hugo, and there is to be music.” “I should like
to go in,” said the alderman, “ but I shouldn’t
enjoy it. I never read anything of Victor Hugo.
I’ve had to work hard for my living. I never
had your chance, young man, to learn Hightalyen.’
The young man whom we mentioned in
our last issue as striving to get a divorce from his
wile under most extraordinary circumstances and
failing disastrously Is, though young, a practical
philosopher of a very high order. His wife reports
that he said to her, previously to bringing the
action: " It I got three years in gaol it would be
the bast thing that ever happened to me, for I
would learn a trade there, and when I came out I
i coaid clear away to America.” We do not think
the young man is too sanguine in his views The
Is said to be a considerable demand for
in the States. 8rnetl
Mr. W. H. T. Brown, the member fn*
Camphelltown in the Tasmanian Parliament •
very bitter against rabbits He stated i“v
House the other day, when speaking on the fln»
cial statement, that it was his belief rsbhits wS
be called to account in the next world lor thi-
actions in this. If that be so. the squatters win
run a chance of never getting rid of them.—
Yes, sirs, with a diabolic exultation
And a wild derisive laughter.
Wo see the rabbit master of the situation
Both here and in the hot hereafter.
The Horsham Times (Vio.) stated in alat«
issue that it could not publish its customary gt,n
plement, on account of its compositors havin'
been seized with the fog-fever. These count,
papers are becoming too polite to live mucj
longer. Euphemism is a qM days.
vigour among the farmers. In giv en t ? e
Horsham Times would have ° a rp e n uest to the
cause of the trouble, coupled with a requ th a0 y
local publicans not to supply the siau , thet * 0
more of it till the paper was out. Ana bome iy
styles we prefer the latter, as being mon?
and more honest. ij^e
Thank Heaven! Let us 8 r ?^ be ’ Ea(r iisii
Queen’s collie, Noble. Is not dead. A fu i fact-
papers were requested to 8t , at ?,„hBhind them w
They did. We are not going to bei b h 11( j ren ba«,e
our loyalty. If Her Majesty s gran ffl|ce it
any pets, such as guinea-pigs, or wn^. ar0 also
would relieve our mind to know tha 1 tl jjgghoul“
in good health. Such information as gat
not be withheld. The Empire yearns t° the c oiiie
tnis reassuring information conoer bft( j been
la timely in more ways than clear the reP 8
dead it would have been difficultsuspicion that n
tation of Teck from the gloomy busp ugt get.
had killed him and converted him mw
“Woodman, Spare that Tree!”
Mb. Dibbs; “The words used by Sir Henry Parkes ngainst his Excellency now wore of n di “SrBoetul character. Sir Henry any'pu'ho
Governor to be about the einallest-minded Governor that ever occupied that high position in the Oolony. (Hoar, hear.) These w „__j i( , nort 0 f j) C h a tc,
man! ami he uttered them dared not send a report of the speech and his attack; on the Governor to the great Liberal, John Bright, -licport o; ueoaw.
“ Woodman, spare that tree !
Touch not a single bough,
It used to shelter thee,
W by go and back it now ? ”


There is a feeling of annoyance against
Mr. Graham Berry among many of the residents
Of Melbourne just now. In fact, he is rapidly
getting himself dlslised for two reasons—one of
which is that he wants to take awty their means
of living from publicans, the other that he is
doing his best to compel their surviving r latives
to travel 26 miles before they can bury them
That is the distance ft im the city at which he
proposes to have the new necropolis. There is a
rumoxlr that his real reason for this is that he
fancies the ghosts of those publicans he sends to
early graves will perhaps bo too tired or not
think it worth their while to come so far to haunt
him.
A fearful scene occurred in the Melbourne
P * y Council last week. Fltzglbbon, the Town
cierk-the great Fitzgibbon-the Fltzglbbon who
wrote a lutle tract scattering the theories of
rv.? ry 1 , G ? orsr P into dust, was Insulted in the
r^9 cll ' chamber - He was reading some corres-
pondence, when a brutal ruffian cried, “Speak up.
There was a horrible pause, during
Which Fitzgibbon looked at his interrupter. He
JS. y ? “m one long death-dealing glance, and then
th ® reaaln < » hey higher. And the
ruman making no more of Fitz. than if he were
httnA„ rd l narj L every( i ay tow,n clerk, rubbed his
nands together and said, “Ah, that’s better!”
wifv? 5? en „ as , tbIs mu8t be 8ad| y unacquainted
wth the Scriptures, or else the story of how
El'sha settled the youngsters with a She-bear has
no terror for them.
In connection with Mr. Berry’s determina-
tion to bring up all Victorian foundlings as
staunch the Australian says:-
Meant.me the authorities may be allowed to act
°C !i Uu £ u i e , fl0 1 i ? force, and bring up children
9/ origin in the faith of our Sovereign
the Queen. State-protected orphans could
not go to heaven in better company.” This,
taougb Possibly true, Is certa*n/y irrelevant. No
well-conducted female child could fairly object to
fhnro h RMf 6 iV~i knowdn E that Her Majesty was
there, Dot it is quite another thing with our
Gracious Sovereign s male descendants. After the
earthly experience children have had of those
chivalrous men, the prospect of meeting them In
he .ven is by no meins a cheering one.
. Tll « Sydney Echo has made the astound-
G °Z erjir J'kat a Paddington alderman has
8 l ow 4 ae consideration for the lives and
nghts of the ratepayers, he having on his property
a terrible chasm, bordering on a roadway, and
Krnn® d ‘‘°;?iA by an insu ® cien t fence. Says the
Echo. Aldermen ought to govern themselves,
l in lu wltb a 7 ew to their own welfare, but
the coavenience and safety of the general
, p , ubli ° This going too far. We had always
the first duty of an alderman was to
regard corporation revenue as plunder, to be
fought for in the Interest of his own ward, and to
get spent as speedily as possible In making Im-
provements in and around where his own personal
property is situated. The public Interests, indeed I
What saith the apostle St. James-” He that pro-
vided not for his own household is worse than an
inflaeL
From New Zealand comes a story of some-
thing very like cruelty. At a concert held in
Dane virke, a muscular parson introduced two little
boys to his admiring friends, and offered to back
them to put up dumb-bells against any one double
their age. A boy of 10 years raised a dumb-
bell in one hand 185 consecutive times, and a baby
of four years and two months old lifted two 61b
bells at arm’s length above his head 78 times. Both
these interesting children had to be told to stop by
uP. 1 ! .trainer.’ or they might have continued the
ohlld-like recreation all night. If that N. Z par-
son knows no more about the spiritual soul than
he does about the human body, h is flock have a
bad look-out. By the way, when there’s such an
outcry, and properly so, against little children
workmg in factories, it’s oad to read of a room
tun or people gloating over the dumb-bell prac-
tice of a four-year-old. Perhaps they were all
parsons.
“ A. B writes A man having employed
a solicitor in a case, he (the solicitor) asks for and
gets money to commence proceedings, but does
not proceed with same. What course Is left for
the man ? He should place the matter In the
hands of another solicitor.” “ A.B ,” the corres-
pondent In question, thus addresses us:—“Dear
bulletin, 1 h e above cutting Is from the* An-
swms to correspondents'’ column In the T. and C.
journal. The advice seems excellent, and the
man must be a fool indeed not to follow It. I
would, however, ask the following question- If
®t c +B nd fl 8ol i cit 2 r acts ln Precisely the same man-
ner as the first, of Course I hand the matter and
the money over to a third, and so on until my
r 1 ! g 9P e ‘ .The question Is, therefor/
do when I have reached that ln-
Rw e hi ohi^* ge K you think that I may possi-
bly be able to band the matter over to another
solicitor without banding over any money ? All
P tber solicitors may perhaps subscribe and pay
the last. Do you think it is worth trying ?•* v y
Yiotoriu’s Attorney-General, Kerferd, has
at length given his reas -n for specially prosecuting
the Liberator. i« dealing with adenutatinn
' r ,°“ ' h . e Provincial Press Union he said thWhlre
ye ealhr/e number ot papers which refrAin«d
Planking sureties that they would not ooml
mlt blasphemy and sedition, but when he wrote
to them he always received courteous replies, ailed
with suave promises On the contrary, the here,
tical Symes stated point-blank his detomlnatlon
not to run bis paper on a ticket-of-leaTO prinolK
in a missive which did not once mention
MAN WITH NO BACKBONE: " WILL YOU OBLIGE ME BY CONSIDERING YOURSELF KICKED?”


Rev. Mr. Jefferis, L.L.B,, says he is “ too
genial.” We think so, too, or, considering his pro-
fesslon, he would hardly Joke with Scripture
texts. He applies the beautiful passage regarding
the lilies—“ They toll not, neither do they spin;
yet Solomon, In all his glory, was not arrayed like
one of these,’’—to “ fast ” girls with stilt heels and
Improvers. This Is coming It “rayther” strong
for a parson, and reminds one of the heavy
humourist who twisted Hamlet's line—“ O my pro-
phetic soul I my uncle I” into an allusion to a
pawnbroker.
Kuow ye all men that Wolfe’s Schnapps has
no rival as a stimulant.
Everybody should know, and those who
do not ought to, and those who do know will please
tell everybody else they know, that the greatest
care is taken to keep the choicest, l«teat, and most
varied stock of Chine, Glass, and Earthenware In
Sydney at Bray Bros., 403 and 401 George strpet *
Lord Chesterfield, the pink of politeness
In his day, said that a true gentleman should be
always “ suaviter in modo, fortiter In re,” which
means mild in manner, strong in action. This is
precisely the case in Ayer's Cathartic Pill s
Nothing operates so mildly and yet so powerfully
in removing disease.
The pain from Boils and Ulcers which
sometimes break out on the body, would seem to
be beyond human endurance,but fortunately there
is a sure and speedy relief for the suffering patient,
A course of BRISTOL’S SARSAPARILLA will
heal every sore, and render the blood too pure to
reproduce the pustules.
The morning-glory's blooming
Beside the window sill.
The bumble boe Is booming
Along the sunny hill;
Full soon the bunyip’s music
The jackass’ laugh will drown,
But Summerfleld is selling still
The cheapest goods in town.*
Mb. DbCoubot Brown* (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
•• Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “ Manual of
Minerals.” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresf ord Chambers, 63 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, sw Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Mr Land Titles, Mr, Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps—Keep it always in the house
and then you will nave a friend in time of need.
For light pastry, cakes, &c., just try Kingsford’a
Oswego Cornflour.
Boyd and King report having sold, on the
ground, on Saturday last, in subdivisions, Gosford
Model Farms, of 3, 5, and 8 acre», at from £15 to
£30 per acre, amounting to £3710 Os. 01. The sale
is oeing continued .*
That Wolfe’s Schnapps is a medicine contain-
ing great virtues is undeniable.
If you want good puddings use Kingsford’a
Oswego Cornflour.
Kerferd as an extra-polished, whole-souled, three-
ply gentleman, with the talent and grace to fill
and glorify the eminently honourable position he
occupies. “ This,” says the legal functionary,
“ was defying the law, and it only remained for
me to do my duty.” Symes will learn, when its
time for him to die. that an Attorney-General has
to be “ cracked up ” or he’ll set the mighty State
man-trap just at the door of the newspaper-office
and lecture-hall.
Not long ago, Mr. David Syme, of the
Age, intimated that the Prince of Wales should be
excluded from Melbourne society. Now Mr.
Blrney, of the Irish and Australian World,
says he should be excluded from Narrabrl society.
This is pushing things to a desperate pass.
At Fine Gold Creek, on the Palmer (Q ),
the blacks swooped down lately. There were only
a few Chinamen fossicking among tailings on the
spot where the Caucasian once so plentifully
abounded. The blacks carried away one of these,
and stripped, roasted, and ate him. Thus is
another twist given to the ocmplexlty of resurrec-
tion.
The perfervid and Rev. Dowie, once of
Sydney, now of Melbourne, has enjoyed himself
vastly since a mysterious someone put two
penmorth of dynamite under the floor of his
vestry and exploded it to frighten oats away.
Dowie gathered the women together in the taber-
nacle on the Sunday after the “outrage,” and
curdled their sympathetic blood. Providence,
according to Dowie. gave him a straight tip as to
what was going to happen, and favoured him with
a vision on the night previous to the two
penn’orth going off. In this vision he saw a figure
lying on a bed covered over with a white sheet,
with trembling hand he lifted the sheet, and saw
the classic features of Dowie—" still in death. ’
You should have seen Dowie's female admirers
while he was pitching this vision into them. They
groaned, shrieked, and covered their eyes to shut
out the horrible picture of Dowie “ still in death.”
For ourselves, we kept somewhat calmer during
this narrative. In the first place, we don’t fancy
Dowie ever will be still In death—he’ll rouse him-
self up every few minutes to swear at the Press.
The Melbourne Coroner recently made a
profane remark to the effect that soms people get
their Bibles in as they get in their beer—In bulk.
The occasion of this was that the only Bible he
could find at a certain hotel, when holding an in-
quest there lately, was a huge family one, which
tne witnesses bent down to instead of lifting up,
on taking the oath. This reminded him that on
another occasion he rode 15 miles to find that the
only thing to swear on was a portion of John-
son’s dictionary. We have heard better than that,
though. A coroner in this colony told us that
when once conducting an Inquest on a swagman
who had died suddenly somewhere In the back
blocks, the only printed thing of any kind he
could procure to swear witnesses on was one of
Bradlaugh’s pamphlets, which some Atheistical
sundowner had left behind him in the newest
shanty. But fortunately, before the coroner was
reduced to choosing between this and the Chlne'e
form of swearing by blowing out matches, one of
the witnesses discovered in the lining of his coat
a leaf from a pamphlet entitled, “ The Drunkard’s
Doom,” which had been given him by a bush
missionary about a month previously, and the
rest of which he had used up In pipe-lights. On
this, therefore, they had sworn to the satisfaction
of everybody.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
I ft than be glad to Tune this Mom potted up
secretaries of racing clubt and managers e t
sporting events in general .1
RACING.
A.J.C. (Spring) September 19, 22, 24, 29
Cooktown T.C September 23. 23
Dubbo J C September 30. October 1
Ballarat Hunt and T.C • ■ • 0c * obe Z }• Z
Melbourne H.O. October a
Rosehill R.C October 6
Mudgree Tattersall’s R.C. (Spring) °£tober 8, 9
Sydney Turf Club ■ -October 12
Victoria A.T.C. (Spring) - October 10 17
Berrlma District R.C October 13.14
Eureka T C October
Canterbury Park R.C • .October 17
■Wollongong T.C October -I, 22
Moonee Valley • • • October 34
V.R.C. Spring October 31, November 3, 5 i
Queensland T.C November? 9
Liverpool J.C November 9
Wlillamstown R.C. -V.) November9
Canterbcry (N Z.) J.C. Spring ...November 10. Bi-13
Nerandera J.C • - November 12 13
Murrumbldgee T.C. (Spring)....November 18.19, 30
Yerong Creek - - - - November 33
Hookampton (J.C November 25 26
uunnedah (Annual) November 25. 26
Narrabrl J.C December 2, 3
Brisbane Tattersall’s December 19
Canterbury Park R.C December 19
A.J.C. (Summer) December 28
Victoria A.T.C. (Summer) December 26
Rosehlll R.0 December 28
V.R.C. (Summer) January 1
TattersalTs (Annual) January 1
AQUATICS.
North Shore R C. Regatta September 19
Backhouse v. Nelson September 19
Newcastle R.C. Regatta September
Lake George Regatta October
Davis v. Maclean, at Woodburn October
New South Wales R A. Regatta October 3
M.R.C. Branch Regatta October 17
Double Bay Regatta October 31
ATHLETICS.
8.A.A.C. Sports September 19
B S.A.A C. Sports September 26
Newcastle Cricket and Football Club's
Imports September 26
Eight Hours’ Art Union and Sports, Agri-
cultural Society’s Grounds October 7
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
A vastly-improved jumper is Meander,
who won the steeplechase at the last Moonee Val-
ley (Vic) meeting. This gentleman enjoys the
distinction of being about the biggest ’chaser in
training, and if he continues to Improve—which
he should, being now only a five-year-old—will do
big things, especially over heavy ground.
• ■
Wrestling is a thriving industry just now,
especially in Melbourne. The Graeco-Roman match
between Miller and Whistler is to come off at the
Theatre Royal, and if the worthy gladiators can
succeed in filling the house at the prices asked,
they won’t do amiss. Four hundred chairs on the
stage at a £1 a chair sounds promising. We won-
der if the tree list will be entirely suspended.
• • •
Newstead, the favourite for the Y.R.C.
Derby, has arrived safe and sound at Melbourne,
and made a favourable impression on the “talent.”
That there have been a lot of fibs told about the
condition of the Adelaide crack is certain, for the
horse looks big and well, and shows signs, withal,
of having done plenty of work. If the market
opposition to Newstead has been based only on
tales about him doing no work, he is likely to be
backed for a lot of covering money at the finish,
and start a very warm favourite. However, the
horses are not at the post yet.
a • •
Although W. G. George forfeits his title
of amateur champion runner by taking on Cum-
mings, the professional, for three matches, his
sportsmanlike pluck is bound to be highly appre-
ciated. A meeting between these two men has
been talked about for a long while, but it was
thought the "amateur” difficulty would always
stand in the wav. That George has not been
afraid to come off his pedestal and tackle Cummings
as a professional proves his confidence In himself,
and sets a bealtny example to many amateur
“ champions” in other branches of sport. Nor is
George the class of cock that crows only on his
own dunghill, or, in other words, tights only on his
own course. Ho was equal to crossing the Atlan-
tic and lowering the colours of the vaunted L.
Myers in two out of their three events. George
has won the one-mile event, Cummings the four-
miles. The latter will probably win the ten-miles.
• * ♦
Appropriate weather greeted the first day
of the Hawkesbury Race Club's Spring meeting,
and the attendance on the course was large
enough for effect and comfort. Belle Brandon
was “spotted ” for the Hurdles, but she came to
grief, and Rocket won by a neck from Confidence.
Seven starters came out for the Guineas, W.
Kelso’s First Chester, with young Kelso In the
saddle, being the favourite. He justified this pre-
ference by winning easily from Eagle Grange,
Angora three lengths away third; time, Imin.
Lsumah beat Princess of Lome by a
length, Uproarious [third, in the Public Auction
Stakes. For the County Purse, Prodigal and Ooo-
labah ran a dead beat, and the former after-
wards cantered over alone, Coolabah having
Eulled up lame. The Malden Plate was won by
ennox, Bnerand Miaorah being second and third.
A big crowd and dust galore on the second day,
Saturday. Dictator made an easy appropriation
of the Disposal Stakes from Junius, Princess of
Lome third. Nordeafeldt, at even money, ,won
an easy victory for the Hawkesbury Produce
Stakes from Eagle Grange,Lennox third; and then
the Hawkesbury Grand Handicap came on the
board. Recruit led the field till well into the bend
for the home stretch, when he died away, and,
nearing the straight, Folly showed In the lead,
with Wanda a few yards off, and Prince Im-
perial a length away third, full of running.
Rounding into the straight, the Prince answered
like a racehorse when called upon by M’Grath,
and, shooting past the leaders, went in a
bee-line for home, pursued by Despot and
Broker, Polly, Wanda,'and Ellington having cried
“ a go. Ellis, on Despot, made a great effort,,but
Prince Imperial was more than equal to the occa-
sion, and won by a length and a half, with somf-
thingto spare in the splendid time of J
The Broker, three-quarters of a length away,
third. My Lady beat Halycon by a length for the
Two-year-old Stakes, Ptolemy third; Pet Girl
made an easy win of the Members’ Handicap from
Recruit, Mlnorah third; and Miss Mayo’s ns
Ravensworth finished the day’s sport and the
meeting, with a win for the Ladies’ Bracelet,
Rapid second and Raven third.
• • *
Tom Taylor, the well-known Melbourne
boxer, ped , and coursing man, has vacated the
Cabbage Garden and pitched his camp at George
Donnelly’s old ranche at Randwick, where a hand-
some display of trophies won in ring and field are
on view.
• m •
The Oriental Bicycle and Sydney Tricycle
Clubs were evidently aware of their inability to
provide a decent afternoon’s sport on Saturday
last, or why resort to the little dodge of “running” (
the dallies that Bennett would, during the after-
noon, [endeavour to beat the mile-'ecord ? Disgust
was shown on all sides when It became kno>*n
that Bennett would not make the attempt. If
Bennett authorised the executive to publish the
statement that he would endeavour to lower tne
mile record he had a right to carry out the pro-
gramme, even though there was a bit of a breeze
blowing. The racing was not of sufficient interest
to call for full notice, and it is a pity that
the last meet of the season should leave such an
unsavoury impression even upon the very limited
portion of the public who put in an appearance. |
The wind must have been terrible, certainly, when
the same paper, which says in all faith that the
wind was too high for the bicycle trial, remarked
in connection with the Pressmen’s boat-race on
Saturday: “ A better afternoon for the race could
not well have been chosen. The weather was cool,
with a pleasant breeze, the water had hardly a
ripple on its surface, and the contestants had the
benefit of an ebb tide.” As the boat-race and
bicycle trial were to have started about the same
time, the ‘ high wind ” business would appear to
be j ust a trifle too thin.
9 m *
Mick Nathan was not long in making a
nibble at the tempting little bait thrown cut
to him with regard to a match with Jaci
Hall. The Victorian says he is prepared to meet
Hall for £300 in Victoria, as he will not box in
Sydney any more. However, Nathan may be in-
duced to change his mind, for a meeting between
the pair In Sydney, properly worked up, would
raise no end or enthusiasm amongst the lovers of
the game, and a corresponding amount of “ gate ”
for the competitors. Hall is good on his feet, and
is a two-handed fighter, with hitting power of no
mean order, and has youth on his side; and
whatever Nathan might have been able to
do with him in his day, as the men now
stand we fancy Hall would prove the bet-
ter of the two. However, as in rowing circles
after Hanlan paid us a visit, Sullivan’s advent to
Australia will no doubt stir up matters pugilistic.
Patsey Shepherd writes to a friend in Australia
that be is going over to England with the redoubt-
able John L., and from thence they will most pro-
bably pay us a visit. We are afraid that when
the great John L. does pay the antipodes a visit
he will find his occupation gone, so far as rough
fighting is concerned, for we have not any good
men big enough to make even a shadow of a fight
with the bulky Yankee slaughterer. However,
Hanlan is believed to have done well here; and
properly managed, we daresay there Is as much
more waiting for Sullivan to come over and
scoop in.
• • •
Crashed again ! On Saturday last four-
oar crews from the composing branches |of the
Sydney Daily Telegraph and Sydney Morn-
ing Herald competed over a two-and-a-quarter-
mile course on the Parramatta. Both crews were
in good condition, or rather would have been had
not the major portion in each boat been “ suffer-
ing a recovery” from severe colds, so the Herald
says, but the intelligent reader may take that for
what it is worth. Anyway, both crews dashed
away to the tune of 40 to the minute, but they
soon settled down to a more Christian-like stroke,
when the Herald commenced to draw away, aou
eventually won with the greatest ease by seven'
or eight lengths. It is a significant fact that the
nearest pub, to the winners’ house of slavery is
Bowden’s, some hundreds of yards away, whilst
the losers are surrounded—[Quite sufficient.—
Ed. B 1
* * * r- .
We wonder how the Honorable John feels
about his cast-off Honeydew and Prince Imperial ?'
Pretty sore, we should say, especially after the
Prince breaking a “record,” Such a genuine
sportsman deserves better luck. Prince Imperial
was ridden to perfection by M'Grath, who made a
great rush at the home turn, and gaining the
inside running, finished like tne tradesman that
he is.
_ Wednesday, September 10,
Dear Peg, —This has been a hard week; so
much to see, and so great the variety that I feel
“ mixed-up ” with the effort to keep my ideas
straight and compact. First there was the open-
ing of Parliament on Tuesday, 8th inst., by the
Governor. For some occult reason, it was a much
more notable affair than usual, and everybody
went, While those who didn’t tried to, but came
to grief on a very palpable rook. You know our
present Parliament Houses are exceedingly primi-
tive, not to say mean. The Legislative Council-
Chamber can only seat about 100 visitors. Against
this let Black Rod issue 700 tickets, deduct the re-
sult, and you have a foregone conclusion! Gentle-
men's tickets were mere waste-paper, for they
were not allowed inside. However, that was not
a matter of regret to them, as the most Imposing
portion of the pageant was the procession from
Government House. First, a detachment of Light
Horse, then the gorgeous State chariot, with coach
and footmen in powdered wig and scarlet livery
—Inside, Lord Augustus, in Court-dress, cocked-
hat, and white feathers. The Permanent (Force
is drawn up as Guard of Honour to the Parliament
House, and all salute as the Governor alights,
while a few bars of the National Anthem
announce the event to those inside the building.
In the Council-Chamber there has been growing
expectation, as the visitors and grave senators of
the Upper House gradually drop into their places.
There is plenty of time between 11 and noon to
take stock of faces, or pirate a few fashions.
Looking round, one sees on either side ladies sit-
ting three tiers deep. Costumes do not strike one's
eye, as heads are chiefly visible. Nearly every-
one is .bonneted, the few hats being high and stiff.
As the clock is on the stroke of noon, the white-
haired president (Sir John Hay) enters in gown
and lace ruffles. The ceremony commences with
the swearing-in of the new members. This Is hardly
done when Black Rod announces the coming of
the Governor, who is met at the entrance by
the president and conducted to the vice-regal
chair, followed by a motley of red, gold,
and blue, clanking swords and spurs. These
are the heads of the military and naval
forces. The scarlet and gold ot Major-General
Richardson and his officers contrasts with the
beautiful R.A unlfoim of Colonel Bingham
and his satellites; while Captain Brooke, ot H.M.S.
Opal, is strikingly conspicuous in his full-drees
naval uniform. There is silence while a message
is dispatched to summon the “Faithful Com
mons,” whose coming is deliberate enough to give
us time to wonder where they are to find stand-
ing-room. However, in they come at last—pell'
mell—headed by the big, powerful-faced Speaker,
like a lot of exuberant boys shaped into decorum
for the time being by the dignified atmosphere of
the Upper House. One cannot but be struck by
the contrast between the two legislative bodies.
The grey hairs, bowed figures, and grave,
faces of the Councillors tell of the guif ot
years which separates them from the members of
the Assembly. Few of this latter body lock
past their prime, while many have all the
fire of youth and vitality in their faces—
a sort of dogged democracy withal, in their non-
chalant attitude. Why isjngenuous diablerie a'-
waysso much more interesting than high-toned
respectability, I wonder ? Boon atter halt-past 13
the reading of the dreary speech is finished.
Lord Augustus Lottus has performed the opening
ceremony for the last time in his term of office,
and returns to Government House with the same
state as he came—but, significant fact—scarcely a
cheer is heard from the thousands of sight seers
who crowd the street and balconies of Macquarie-
street. The pageant is over, and we quickly dlr«
Cerse, leaving the members to buckle on their
arness, and prepare for a warlike session.
The opening of the new building for the
use and comfort of the Sydney Young Men’s
Christian Association took place on Monday
last. It la a handsome building, standing
at the corner of Pitt and Bathurst streets,
and seems to possess unlimited capacity in the
matter of-offlee rooms [and great staircases. The
principal stairway naturally leads to the great
hall, which la a large, weil-proportloned, airy
room. A small stage occupies the end opposite
the entrance, while galleries fill either end. It is
only when you stand in one of these that you
fully realize tne size and height of the
hall. Tne opening was followed by a com-
plimentary lunch on Monday, and since
then a conversazione of arts and sciences
has been held dally, also evening concerts and a
Fiower Show. The latter was slightly feeble, and
seemed to rest its success upon a singularly fine
white azalea in full bloom. The pictures were
Chiefly composed of those already seen in
of the Colonial Art Institute Exhibition. Pigue-
nit’s “Huon Rivet” and “Mount Wellington”
were to me again as forbidden fruit. There were
two of J. R. Ashton’s that pleased my fancy—
“ Morning” and “[Evening]” on Lane Cove. Then
one of Daphyn’s,i“ In the Gloaming,” There were
many exhibits of mechanical skill, but we had not
time to go thoroughly into the motive force of
electricity or steam, so turned to the simpler com-
prehension of Bennett’s trophies, which were so
numerous that they occupied two glass-cases and
a table in one room. It is quite refreshing to find
one young man capab'e or so much energy; at
the same time one could wish that it had not [all
run to pot-hunting and bicycle.
On Thursday, the 11th, Miss Gilder gave a very
pleasant musical evening at her residence, Camp-
bell Lodge, Potts’ Point. It enjoyed two com-
mendable characterls’ies one of which was some
good vocal auu instrumental music; the other,
much pleasant company. Among the guests were
Lady Martin, the Misses Martin, Mrs. Darley. the
Misses Darley, Mrs. Weston, Mrs. Frlsby, Mrs. and
Miss Salomons, Mrs. and Mits Wilkinson, Miss
Bhuffrey, Miss Watt, Mrs. M’Cabe, the Misses
M’Cane, Mrs. Drynan, Miss Rierz, Miss Gilder, the
Hon. J. Josephson, Miss Josephaon, Mr. and Miss
Campbell, Mr. Caldwell, Mr. Palmer, Mr. Olliffe,
Mr. Ogllvie, Mestrs. F. and H. Wilkinson, Mr. and
Mrs. Lingen, Mr. Chadwick, and many others.
CORRA LYNN.
P.S.—I must, womanlike, add a postscript to tell
you that the Union Club bachelors ball is fixed to
take place at the Exhibition Building on the even-
log of Friday, 25ta. What joyl
C L.
“At a show in Hobart the principal sights are a three-headed calf, a most diminu-
tive dwarf, and a member of the late New South Wales Contingent who plays a brass
instrument, and whose uniform furnishes an immense attraction.”


Most popular amongst tbe ladies Is Kingaford’s
Oswego Cornflour.
Why do you drink Wolfe’s Schnapps? Because
I know from experience it does me good.
The most delicious of all preparations for Pud-
dings, Custards, &o., is Klngsford's Oswego Corn-
flour.
“I was recommended to use Wolfe’s
Schnapps by a raedtc„i "’an t f large experience
who c i cntly knew its value.”
THE WICKED WORLD.
“The Vagabond” has been ill at Rock-
hampton “of fever contracted at Jericho.”—In
regard to the recently-published statement that
Constance Kent, the murderess, was lately dis-
charged from prison at the age of 41, a correspon-
dent of the Melbourne D.T. says she died in gaol
many years ago How to cook grasshoppers:—
First catch them to the extent of a bushel, and
steep them for two hours in half a gallon of pork
brine. Then boll the lot together for 20 minutes,
rinse in luke-warm water, and dish up. Before
ago have stood that colony close upon iCdOO. The
Commission of Inquiry cost £1624, maintenance of
Islanders £713, and the chartering oi the A.S N.
Company’s Victoria £2625. Yet the was
well spent and the Queensland public don't grudge
it— N. 8, W , according to the Victorian Govern-
ment statist, now Increases in population twice as
fast as Victoria. One more year of such progress
and the elder colony will have the more people.
Hayter Is a poet, it is true, but he cannot carry
fancy and imagination into his figure-work. We
shall beg of him to acquaint us with his theory of
the Causes. That will touch the poetical side of him
...The human heart ordinarily weighs 6oz. to 7oz.
In Sydney, last week, a man died of syncope (after
a fight) whose heart weighed 23oz 'Frisco has a
four-eared man. He seems to have been specially
designed for the N.8.W. Upper House....The 8yd-
Bathurst Times complains of the wholesale de-
struction of young carp, tench, &c., in the Mac-
quarie River* and concludes by saying that if steps
are not soon taken to put a stop to this, the river
would “ soon be depopulated deflshent is prob-
ably meant.
♦ # *
A mechanical telephone, which in no way
depends upon electricity, and is very effective up
to two miles, is now having a great success. It
only costs a fourth of the price of the electrical
telephone, and Is simplicity Itself. Attached to
the wall is a circular walnut case, about nine
inches in diameter, enclosing a highly sensitive
diaphragm made of finely-plaited strips of willow.
In the centre Is fixed a small perforated nickel
disc, to which is attached the connecting wire.
This is the entire apparatus, that at the other end
eating, nip off tbe heads aQd tails, as when dealing
with prawns, and then, with a little fresh bread
and honest butter, you have a meal fit for the
gods themselves....One Sidney Herbert has, we
are astonished to Had, been allowed to leave
Charter! Towers alive. For a week it had been
announced that ho would lecture on “The Main
Chance.” The people wondered what it was, so
they rolled up and tilled the hall; whereupon the
beguiler Herbert locked the door, blandly faced
the expectant audience, produced a bundle of
“ proposal ’ -forms, and announced that he
was in the life-assurance business The
kidnapped islanders whom the Queensland
Government sent back to their homes a few weeks
ney Wah Cby announces that during last year
in England, 49,550 persons joined the Wesleyan
Church, while the net gain at the close of the year
was only 2861. The regular churches have been in
the habit of pointing fingers at Army backsliders,
and this Is the way one of them is tickled in re-
turn. Why do not ail religious bodies draw up
tables of each others’ backsliders ? That would be
fair business and interesting statistics The
Nepean Times has discovered that 10 persons
have clubbed together and subscribed 3d. per
quarter to secure a copy of that paper. Our ex-
change is astonished. So are we There
is a considerably acrimonious discussion going
on in the musical profession in Melbourne
just now as to the mode of teaching music to be
preferred in schools. And just to show you how
the Licensing: Bill has stirred up bitterness among
all classes, Abe Blue Ribbon musicians are, to a
man, in favoigr of the Tonic Sol-fa system The
being exactly similar. So delicate is the diaphragm
that the softest whisper can be transmitted and
heard quite plainly, The ticking of a watch hung
near the dial can be distinctly heard at the other
end. and the notes proceeding frim a small musi-
cal box are reproduced with complete accuracy....
Brown Jones’s grandmother died 1 st week, end
left Brown Jones some £20,000. A friend called in
to congratulate him. ”Ahl” sighed Jones, “it’s
all very well, old fellow, but the wife’s mourning
will come doosid expensive." ‘‘Ma, If a bear
should swallow me I would die, wouldn't I ?”
“ Yes, dear.” “ And would I go to heaven ?”
“Yes, dear.” “And would the heir have to go,
too? - ’... She: “You said your love was eternal,
and now we have been married only three months
and you are cold and bitter.” He: •' Yen needn't
make such a fuii. In the name of .eaven, how
long do you expect eternal atf action to last ? For
ever, eh? The revised veislon of the Old Tes-
tament shows some strange corrections. “ Mules,"
for instance, is altered to “hot springs;”
“ wounds ” has been revised to “dainty morsels; ”
and “ llnec-yarn ” has been metamorphosed to
“ droves of horses.” But the most startling
change, perhaps, is the new reading, “ all they that
work for hire shall be grieved in soul,” of the old
passage, “ all they that make sluices and ponds for
fish.” Yet after all, the change from "sole” to
*' fish,” is only using the species for the genus
The latest lunatic freak of the King of Bavaria is
to desire Mias Mary Anderson to give a perform-
ance of “ Galatea ” for his sole delectation. No
wonder the old boy wants some diversion, con-
sidering that half his subjects have sent the bailiff
in, and that foreign creditors are moving for his
compulsory sequestration. Mary would not go....
Thus Reynolds:—” Prince Henry of Battenberg
has been converted by royal patent from a
‘ Serene Highness * into a ‘Royal Highness.’ We
don’t quite understand the difference, and don't
want to, but obviously there was some danger of
Incongruity in criling a man 1 serene ’ who Is com-
pelled by hts marriage articles to live with his
mothfr-in-law.”
Trifles Light as Air.
Speaking of preaching reminds us that, according to an-
Other eminent divine, we may go- fishing on. Sunday, if W6
only in trar own boat. Hiring, it would appear, is sin-
ful. How about going to church in a hired pew ?
This is how the femaile portion of Dr.
Jeffries’ congregation will appear when®
they practice what he preaches about
dress. ’ \
w“d; pcr “ 0 ' sn mm
— *• ■—
} W bfct Parliament has accomplished so f6*v
The temperance people are at it again, AH Ikad shots,
Visitor, but^hother 8 he° meant Ie7or M “ 8 ’ *’ cx^ laimed tk e urbana
3mow. meant her 01 the flowers, perhaps she will never
~ This is how a Contingent
Lieutenant “ made history,’*
according to Mr. Suttor.
M.L.A ■ ‘


Wolfe’s Schnapps should be in every Camp
Ciest. . ..
The sale per day now exceeds 60,000lbs. of
ford’s Oswego Cornflour. . y, e
Wherever you go always ask and obtain
celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Ktngsford’s Oswego Cornflour superior
Similar articles in the market.
PEPPER AND SALT.
The fashionable papers say that the eldest
daughter of the Prince of Wales is now of mar-
riageable age. Well, if no German is forthcoming,
our income will run to a three-roomer and balf-a-
ton of wood to start with. We believe, with some
persuasion, we could borrow a pair of flat-irons
from the woman next door, and get the kitchen
utensils on time-payment, besides a week’s credit
—if not more—with the grocer and the baker. The
butcher would be a subject for diplomacy, but ,we
are right with the milkman. We would scorn to
obtain the hand of the Princess under false
representations, so we will say at once that
If she accepted us she would have to wash
the dishes herself, and do her own ironing.
We have a servant, but as we have, from time to
time, borrowed all her wages back from her to
buy rum, we hardly dare ask her to do more than
come home at night in time to fetch the beer.
Of course, we would have no objection to taking
up quarters In Windsor, with the rest of the
family, if the Imperial Government could see its
way to letting us have the usual little allowance,
but we should stand no familiarity from Batten-
berg, and we would probably be a trifle haughty
with Teck. The only other stipulation we would
make would be that if we happened in any mad
moment to lend our drees boots to the Grand
Duke of Hesse he would have to, at least, bring us
Pack the ticket. With this understanding, we
would have no objection to joining the family
circle of the Guelphs. Oh, and another thing—we
must have our little rum-and-mllk in the morning
regularly. But any of the Lords of the Bed-
chamber could run out to the corner and fetch
this for us, we suppose. There is our offer, any-
how, and—though we are loth to say too much in
our own favour—we think it is about time there
was somebody in the Royal family of England who
could speak decent English.
* ♦ *
Mr. James [Balfour, M.L.C. of Victoria,
will be soaring up to Heaven one of these days
between the wings of a cherub. He Is altogether
too good for this sinful earth. This, by-the-way.
The other night he was enthroned at a Salvation
Army meeting diffusing an atmosphere of sanctity
around him that you could cut with the back of
an oyster-knife. Among other remarkable things
be said was this:—“ The object of the Army is to
give a man the solace of religion to replace the
craving for drink.” Noble sentiment, isn’t
it? But the Lunacy Commission burst it
up with a lot of other noble nonsense. In the
course of his evidence before the Commission,
Mr. S. W. Brierley, late deputy medical superin-
tendent of the Beechworth Asylum, said that “ hu
attributed much of the insanity produced to the
religious excitement caused by the Salvation
Army, and that 13 cases which occurred at Beech-
worth in a period of two months were directly
traceable to that cause.” Now, we put it to Mr.
Balfour squarely—but perhaps he would like
better to read it in rhyme. It is the Salvation
Army fashion, anyhow. Give us room then;—
At a “Reformed Drunkards’ ” demonstra-
tion held in the Melbourne Town Hall, one gentle-
man stated that after being a confirmed drunkard
for 10 years, he had at last joined the Harmy.
What a ghastly climax I—
We are glad William Miller, late of New-
town, has got five years’ hard labour. He was
really a creature of such astounding poverty of
intellect that he Is utterly unfit to be at large.
Now, mark what he done. (This comes of going to
1 those confounded minstrels I):—
He had lived with a gal named Joanna,
Whom he kept in a very poor manner,
Tho’ he swore she’d his heart
He to her would not part
In a fortnight as much as a “ tanner.’*
Then disgusted, at length, cried Joanna:
“I will slither straight back to Aunt Hannah;”
So she flies, in a funk,
With a half-corded trunk,
Leaving “ fairwel ” scratched on the pi-anner.
To return to prose, William meets Joanna with
her aunt, and just as the girl seems about to go
back with him, he shoots her with a revolver, and
runs away. Arrested, and run in, he framed, it
seems, his defence on the “ American plan.” He
contented himself with addressing the Court, and
his speech, though Anglicised by the Herald, was
substantially as follows;—“ Wa’al now, look It
here, Jedgo and jury-gentlemen, this case here
makes me lalf, that’s what it does; it makes me
laff. Why, what's it all about? Is it ser’ous
that his Honor is cocked up there all on my ac-
count ? If it is ser’ous, let the clerk at once do a
bleat and tell the Court who’s mare’s stole. Ha I I
thought sol There’s no mare stole, then let’s
eome to the consideration of this little affair, which
Is, Jedge and gentleman, laff able In its simplicity.
Whafs the case, then, but a little jumble up
between a gentleman, a six-shooter, and a gal.
The lot’s afore the Court. Here is the gentleman;
the constable’s got the pistol; and that’s the gal as
is a sittin’ there near the young counsel with eye-
fenders, lookin’—It’ll be in the papers to-morrow-
in a condition of Interesting pallerl Very good I
What does she say ? She says I fired at her; the
old woman who was playin’ ‘gooseberry’ up the
lane, ditto. Now, listen to what I say. Holding
her tight in my arms, I was explaining the work-
ing of the little toy I’d purchased for her—useful
things, these times—when it went off sudden.
What do I do, gentlemen, at this juncture ? Per-
ceiving the girl is wounded, I run away.
There, I own, I was apparently lacking
in chivalry. There never was anything chi-
valrous in running away. What occurs? Am
I permitted to send a doctor to the scene of the
accident ? lam not. If I’d a bin the leanest
meanest, aiflredest mongrel, with a kettle on the
end of its a’mighty tall, I couldn’t a bit more
closely followed or madly grassed. And here I am
standin’ afore you completely emptied out in
point of explanation. Gentlemen, I wait on you.
The poor gal was a bit flurried, but there! I for-
give her; and when in a few minits you send out
to her her lion-hearted boy, as we walk away in
loving converse from this here court-house, we
shall be the envy and the cynosure of every eye.”
The Judge, however, characterised Mr. Miller’s
defence as “ monstrous,” and William has gone
on the roads accordingly. His nonchalance, how-
ever, will long be remembered in the musty pre-
cincts of that cruel court.
• - •
Kergovatz, a German chemist, has dis-
covered a new way of preserving the dead from
decay. The body is rubbed over with a substance
called plumbagine, and is then plunged into a bath
containing copper in solution. It the corpse is too
poor for that, he may take his last dip in zinc,
while the wealthy dead can take it out in gold or
silver, thus swindling old Death cf his boast that
we brought nothing into the world and can take
nothing out. When this coating is spread over the
body a man can turn into his grave for ever and
defy corruption. He can destroy the tooth of the
historic worm to all generations, and turn up all of
a piece when called on. We had waited long for
this discovery, and now death has no further ter-
ror for us. We look with cheerfulness for
It has been a subject of remark in the
extreme upper circles that the two last meetings
of the tf.s.W, Patriotic Fund Committee have been
unlUumcfi by tbr seraphic countenance of the
Mide> y s vr.-y Cupid—that is to say, Mr. h,
Burdett Sm tb, vs p. Why, when the thing was
just inaugurated, 11. B. moved nearly all the reso-
lutions, and at the conclusion of each meeting, it
was noted that tears Invariably coruscated upon
the blotting-pad. But, at the pass things have
come to, we cannot but think that it is only in
accordance with the usual dignity of Burdett’s
proceedings that he refrains from taking part in
proceedings in which 14 adipose magistrates
assemble together in order to vote £111s. 8d. to
recoup the charwoman for energies expended
upon the rooms of the committee, and 10s. “for
present needs ” to the widow of a member of
the Contingent, to whom a jelly from the banquet
proved fatal. He brought it in his hat, poor fel-
low, for the lonely watching wife at home,
mixed up with a score or so of match-heads and
five loose cartridges. Peeling thirsty in the
night, he —. We shouldn’t be a bit surprised
if little Bob didn’t show up at the next meeting
either. For when it came to the test, he would
be bound, in the interests of subscribers, to move
that this committee, while heartily sympathising
with her affliction, regrets to inform the Widow
Busket that her application, touching as it is,
hardly comes within the scope of thone objects
for which the Fund was peculiarly subscribed.
Woman Items
Adelina Patti has got rid of the Marquis
de Caux at last. They are no longer In co.—the
decree of divorce is made absolute by the French
Court. Nicollni, presumably, will soon be put in
possession of the charms he has for so many
years appropriated, and Mrs. Grundy will smile
approvingly upon their virtuous loves. Patti, by-
the-way, appears to have made her nearest ap-
proach to anything like failure In “ Carmen,” a
fart she attempted for the first time last season,
n the ordinary course of nature she will soon
have to resign the sovereignty of song to one of
the young ’uns, and retire to her castle in Wales
to sing duets with the faithful Nick. May they be
happyI
Statistics are dreadful things—especially to
the women. It appears that in Queensland a
woman’s chance of getting a husband is twice as
good as it is in Victoria. Figures show that, in
spite of Mr. Kinsman’s help—with his Gretna
Green marriages— only half of the marriageable
women find husbands I In all the other polonies
of Australia it is very different, and more in the
Queensland way. Years ago the low marriage
rate was attributable in Victoria to the smaller
number of females to that of males—so giving
less of choice to would-be husbands. That is no
longer the case, and yet the marriage rate gets
lower every year. A commission ought to be ap-
pointed to sit upon the matter. The result would
be probably as interesting reading as anything
published by the Pali, Mall Gazette.
Lady Granville Gordon has opened a mil-
linery shop in London’s fashionable quarter. Re-
turning Australians will find it in Park-street,
Mayfair, with the name of “ Lierre ” over the-
door. A French name best sells millinery. Her
ladyship is daughter of one Roe, an Irish distiller
who failed lately for more than a million, bringing
down the Munster Bank in his fall. She married
Lord Granville Gordon, younger brother of the
Marquis of Huntley, addicted to cricket and the
turf, who lived on the allowance his wife received
from her father. We lately noticed a volume of
verse, “ Odd Half Hours,” his lordship published
He is now in the position of MantillniT and will
have to use, probably, all the devices of Dickens’
hero to extract coin from his milliner-wife. It is
well that her ladyship has so qualified herself for
business. The Princess of Wales and the Empress
of Russia did similarly in learning millinery and
dressmaking. During the very poor days of their
maiden-life, it is well known that they made every-
thing which they wore when they could have so
little foreseen the future.
Affairs matrimonial in Western Queens-
land. Thus the Aramac Mail:— “ A young lady
In service—[Humph I— Ed. B.]—at Muttaburra was
engaged to be married on Monday, and had ob-
tained the consent of her mother. From some
cause the views of the mother underwent a
change, and on Saturday night she proceeded to
the house where her daughter was employed, and
took forcible possession of the bride and her
clothes, using very expressive language. The
mother was joined by a young gentleman, who
acted as champion, and they proceeded to the
camp, where the daughter was chastised. The
mother’s champion and the Intended bridegroom
got licked. A number of sympathisers rolled up
to take forcible possession of the bride, and hand
her over to her Intended, but they were dis-
suaded from carrying out their intention. Last
night, the young lady complained that her feet
were cold, and obtained permission from her
mother to warm them at the fire. Taking advant-
age of an opportunity, the would-be bride disap-
peared, and has not been heard of since. It is
rumoured that a summons will be taken out against
the mother for using bad language, and taking the
lady forcibly away from her hired services. Great
public sympathy is felt for the young couple.”
There have been various schemes for sus-
taining female virtue and redeeming fallen women.
We remember when it was proposed in Melbourne
that the ladles of the White Cross Society should
wear a ribbon in the front of the dress to announce
that they themselves were pure, and to induce un-
fortunates to apply to them. We thought at the
time that the first object could be more expedi-
tiously attained if those ladies simply winked with
the left eye as they promenaded Collins street. The
Anglican Bishop of Adelaide now says that “ if
ladies will determine to exclude depraved men from
their social gatherings, and refuse to allow their
daughters to be given in marriage to those who
they know are leading a life of sin, they will be
taking a very decided step in helping forward the
cause in the right direction.” However, despite
the exhortation of the good Bishop, we predict
that Lord Noodle from Plcoadilly-clrcus and 8t.
John’s Wood—“one of the Montmorenci-Planta-
genets, my dear, and a most desirable alliance for
Angelina "—will continue to have his way in these
loyal colonies, although his name has been black
ened in Divorce Courts, and although his charac-
ter is such as would merit dismissal were he a
swine-herd.
Miss Emma Dash, of Brighton (Eng.) has
placed herself in a very delicate position. Emma
is what is called “ susceptible,” and became much
enamoured of a stranger whose acquaintance she
made while strolling on the esplanade of the
famous marine resort. After five days of ever-
increasing admiration for the stranger, Emma
crowned her bliss by getting married to him. For
two more days existence was one roseate-hued
dream to the happy wife, and then [Most likely his
week’s holiday was up.— Ed. B.] “hubby” lied
from wedded joys without mentioning whither
hla letters were to be forwarded Emma, it ap-
pears. discovered that the mysterious bridegroom
w as already a married man, and a party answer-
ing to his description was promptly “ lagged ”
for bigamy. Now comes the delicate part
of Emma’s position The prisoner swears by
ah that’s holy that be didn’t marry Emma—
that he never saw her before in hie life. Emma,
on the other hand, is positive that she did languish
in the prisoner’s embrace, but the difficulty Aps
in the proving it. You see. she was only mar
ried for two days, after a five days’ courtship
and she wouldn t be so well acquainted with—
what shall we say ?-the gcogrdphp of her husband
as are more experienced matrons. It Emma was
a very shy bride, the chances are that she ll never
be able to identify that husband. One thing she
is quite certain about— someone married her.
The beauty of divine Mary Anderson
whose photos, are fully appreciated in Australia’
seems to have poetised some of the “ pros.,” in ad'
dition to paralysing the Prince of Wales. Anv
way, Terries, who enjoyed the elyslum of Romeo'
ing after Mary’s Juliet, has dropped into verse
since he got better, and been poe-tising on the
sweetly original subject of the River of Time and
a certain island located therein—
“ And the name of that island is • Long Ago,’
And we find our lost treasures there.
There are brows of beauty and bosoms of snow
_(Now heaps Of dust, though we loved them so)
There are trinkets and tresses of hair.” ’
Rather an old familiar aroma about the rhyme
but a deal of truth about the tresses, and bosoms’
and trinkets, we guess. Bill Terriss has made
a lot of mashes,” and—as jeune premier in
Irving’s company for many seasons — had
plenty of opportunities of making ’em. He’*
a dark, good-looking fellow, with a shapely
ftkore thatappears about 15 years younger
than it is. The editors of little “society ’’ papers
are “ full up of pink,” perfumed letters, enquiring
Terriss age, and they generally “give him away” bv
answering his youthful idolaters after this fashion •
— Is he more than flveiand twenty ? Of course he
ml J; e can * tel1 you the a « e of bis eldest child ”
That s rather rough on the young man, because he
isn t 40, and the sex will go mad after him. Only
the other day we were reading about a girl stand-
ing up in the dress aircle of the Lyceum and yell-
ing out “ Terriss 1” at the end of an act, Uq.
maidenly, perhaps, but better than never telling
your love, and going in for the “ worm i’ the bud”
business—much better. And if Terriss doesn’t
add one of that girl’s tresses to the heap of “wool”
that he’s already piled up on that precions island
of Long Ago, he isn’t the fellow we take him for.
Nathaniel Kinsman, the Melbourne “ mar-
riage” parson, is a grand institution. There’s no
fuss, ho idle by-play, no license, no pew-opener or
verger—none of the things that are wont to chill
the heart of an expectant bridegroom—about
weddings at the little house in Fitzroy. It’s mar-
riage mads easy there.—
Thither you haste with the girl of your taste,
In whom all your future is centred;
Then knock at the door—in a moment or more
You’ve both of you blushingly entered.
Your business you mention, Nat. gives his at-
tention
And smilingly goes to a cupboard—
Brings out a certlf., nils it up in a “ jif,”
And bums to himself “ Mother Hubbard
Then bosoms fast beating, you start a-repeatlng
A service, and blow your young noses;
One moment you linger to put on her finger
A ring, while she’s red as the roses,
Then you stand on a chair as you murmur a
prayer,
Kiss the Book and exclaim “ Holy Moses!”
Give the parson his fee and discover with glee
That it’s less than a fellow supposes.
He wishes you joy, saying “ Be a good boy,
And never, sir, sieh for another;’’
He bids you “ Good night!” then you know It’s all
right,
And without any worry or bother
You’re fastened up tight, and you skip with de-
light
To think how first-rate you went through if,
But have quite a sharp shock when you find from
the clock
That it took but Aw minutes to do it.
Our champion cricketer, Billy Murdoch, they say
took a passing interest in the Wilkinson divorce
case, just heard in the Melbourne Supreme Court.
It turned chiefly on the legality of those romantic
little nuptial knots which Nat. Kinsman ties, and
the verdict decisively upheld the dignity of Nat.’s
splicings. This is satisfactory, because that indus-
trious gentleman has already fixed 3937 couples,
and if Wilkinson had contrived to come out of his
ordeal a bachelor, there might have been a lot of
bachelors on hand in the course of a few weeks,
Melbourne mashers must have taken a back seat
in that case. What chance would they have stood
with the girls against a lot of jaunty, free-at-last
sort of fellows, possessing the inestimable attrac-
tion of being just divorced from “ the missus?”
A correspondent favours “Givis” with
some leaves from the diary of a Southland (N.Z.)
girl, aged 17. The colonial equivalent for “ keep-
ing a diary” is often “keeping a dairy;” the
Southland girl, it seems, keeps both. She arrived
In Southland from the old country in February,
18i9, and proceeded without delay to set down the
good resolutions she had formed for the regula-
tion of her new life:—
“ February 13 th—
“ My cows with kindness I will treat,
And give the hungry pigs their meat;
Whate’er I do. I’ll do it well,
And then I shall not go to
—bed with the painful reflection that I have been
neglectful of the brute creation.”
Two days later she comments on the climate:—
“ Feb. 15. —Another charming day, barring the
wind and rain. When once you are really con-
vinced that the climate is delightful, you do not
notice these little drawbacks —
* Come to this sappy land,
Come, come, away;
Eat meat that is not canned
Three times a day.
Come, my friends, and do not fear,
Very cheap is flesh of steer,
Sigh not for good English beer
Come, come, I pray."
Some time later she visits Invercargll, and attends
the services of the Salvation Army:—
“Sunday.—Day of rest. Have made it so. Spent
some time in composing a hymn for the WAR
Cry:—
“ I’ll strive to be a holy lass
And never give my parents sass,
Or yell and curse, and kick the cat,
Or spoil my go-to-meeting hat.
“ My hair in decent braids shall hang,
No longer will I wear a bang;
To fringes I will say ‘adieu,’
And to the curling-irons, too.
“ No captivating glance I’ll try
To shoot from corner of my eye;
My waist no corset’s clasp shall feel—
Good-bye to whalebone and to steel.
“ All men agreed that I was neat
About my ankles and my feet;
But now my skirts shall drop so low,
- They will not even see my toe.”
And so on, through some other stanzas, conduct-
ing to the consummation that is never longaoseut
from the thoughts of a gin of 17.—
“ Thus some good man in me shall find
A wife entirely to his mind.”
This promises, at any rate, better things than “I?
experiences of the mad tailor at Timaru, who,
week, committed suicide, alleging as the cauo
that since his wife had joined the Salvation AiW’
she had made his house “a hell upon earth. f
Southland girl will do better than that. Cur e
respondent adds:—A year before this she wn
“ Must remember how wrong it is to kies■
mother or bite my father, unless they
me.” So it is evident she had 80D ? e the
thoughts before her orthodox conversion ny
B.A.
Hark you, pious Jimmy Balfour,
Let us put this matter plain,
Let us ask you what in Cain
Are the odds ’twlxt going mad with
Rum, or water, on the brain ?
Have you reckoned, Mr. Balfour—
Pardon, please, our careless rhyme—
When a man who likes to prime
Himself with liquor, loses reason,
All the fun he has meantime 2
Let us whisper that your plan of
Swiftly paralysing grog
Is—you must be In a fog—
Something worse than curing snakebite
By the bite of a mad dog.
A DRUNKARD'S TESTIMONY.
On the blessed Harmy platform
Stood a ruddy-vlsaged man,
Down his cheeks in greasy channels
Tears of briny sorrow ran;
He was old, his hat was battered,
And this ruddy-visaged “ bloke ”
Rum-like odours round him scattered
As in rum-like voice he spoke.
“ Friends, my heart was pure and sinless
When I came in ‘ forty-nine ’—
* I was handsome, brave, and fearless—
All that earth could give was mine;
Fortune’s fairest gifts were showered—
Aye—were showered at my feet.”
(Here his ruddy visage lowered.
And we saw his bosom beat.)
“ In the joy of early manhood
These poor bleared eyes were bright—
Strong I was and full of vigour,
Ever foremost in a fight;
Slx-feet-two I stood, with socks on,
Slx-and-thirty years ago—
I could fell a dozen oxen
With a single angry blow.
•’ See me now, debased and withered,
See me now and ask, forsooth—
Where are gone the chest-dimensions
Of my happy, hopeful youth ?
See me now and take my measure,
Five-feet-four from toe to crown,
And ere you give your lives to pleasure
Think how drink has dragged me do inn.
“ Yes, my friends, it's drink that did it,
As with many hundreds here;
I’ve committed murder, arson,
Bigamy—through bottled beer;
Beer, and wine, and wantons’ kisses
Made me e’en the thing you see—
Once, aye, once, I whacked the missus.
Now, the missus pummels me.
Ain’t it awful, friends and brethren ?
Don’t it make you pause and stop
On Destruction’s brink, and say you’ll
Ntver touch another drop ?
Lost my health, my situation—
Everything, through cursed drink }
Now, I’ve taken up salvation—
Oh J pan mortal lower sink ?”
THE LAST DIP.
We shuddered when we thought how Death
Spared neither young nor old;
How rosy cheeks and laughing eyes
All turned at last to mould.
We wouldn’t mind cremation, for
To be a good white ash
Suggests we shall need Masses
And may spend in life the cash.
And then we’ve thought of freezing, and
Of being boxed in lead,
When old nurse Death shall come to tuck
Us in our little bed.
We’ve thought of being vaulted in;
Or seeking our last bed
Miles down beneath the deepest sea,
Among the nameless dead.
We thought to climb the highest Alps
And in eternal snow,
To wrap us in its winding sheet
And lie for ever so.
But now we’re happy, for we’ve struck
The very thing, and that’s
The little dip in metals
That occurred to Kergovatz.
We’ll “lay us down ” contented in
A lasting suit and strange.
Of sovereigns in solution, which
We’ll never need to change.
We’ll have our gold about us,
Board and lodging ready paid,
Nor by landlords nor by bailiffs be
For evermore waylaid.
Thus we’d speculated hopeful on
Herr Kergovatz’s plan;
But, alas, such golden visions
Are too good for mortal man.
For when peace hold our bosom, and
Hope filled the golden cup—
We forgot some irate creditor
Would come and dig us up.


Bray <Sc Lilclitner
32 O CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
COMPAGNONI CATERING GO.. LIMITED.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 7 7
THE oldest and leading: Catering: Establishment in N.8.W. Caterers to His Worshln the Mayor.
Municipal Council of Sydney, the A.J.C., City Club, &o., &o vvorsmp me mayor,
The Dining Saloons for LadleslandGentlemeni arethe Finest, Coollest, and loftiest in the colony.
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY* Private Bar—Good Wine List
BT GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. (after the
Theatres. Select your own steak, Ac., and see it grilled In the room. This is one of the acquisitions
or the city, and a long-felt waut. Inspection Invited. Club rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Clue
and City Club, upstairs. Et D. TOLLKJIACHE, General Manager.
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, Jbest,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments.
IMPORTERS, .OF SUPPLIES
<1
‘IS
I
ll
%
e
C
Co .*>
'ts
a *Ke
i
£•5
|3
9.
?-jy
o
kj
•Si
w
if
R
•s»
c
9*
■*-
c
9s
0.
o>
■s.
fV
3^
9,
m
<5»
& '■■■:>
w
Co
c?
S£\* ;
a
az
C" ■%
Catalogues post free
TO ANT PART OP
AUSTRALIA.
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, th<
most reliable and rapid in the market.
BULL DOGt ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL.
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass' Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALB, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTBLL & C0„
Sole Agents.
Tlf&e Jjlmie' tfUfc , JMetasien
riLLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
▼ V of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, Ac.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &o., at lowest prices.
Printing—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels.
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, Ac.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Christmas and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock.
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM BilLLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
ARTIFICIALTEETH
Complete srr
V ,,ftRUOlv f M
MARSHALL BRO?
DENTISTS
133 ELI ZABETH ST
N
OTICE TO THE TRADE
Now landing ex Late Arrivals.
HALP-TESTER NICKEL BEDSTEADS.
HALF-TESTER BRASS BEDSTEADS.
HALF-TESTER IRON BEDSTEADS.
STUMP BEDSTEADS.
FRENCH BEDSTEADS.
BLACK and GOLD BEDSTEADS.
BLACK and BRASS BEDSTEADS.
50 Cases of No. 14 AUSTRIAN CHAIRS.
450 Cases of AMERICAN CHAIRS.
760 Bales of BEST JAVA KAPOK.
10 Bales of COTTON FLOCK.
20 Bales of CURLED HAIR.
10 Cases of TOILET GLASSES (Assorted).
20 Cases of ROWCLIFFE SPRING MATTRESSES
15 Bales of BLACK CURLED FIBRE.
12 Bales of WHITE WOOL FLOCK,
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st., Sydney,
IMPORTER of FURNITURE. UPHOLSTERER,
and BEDDING MANUFACTURER.
T
A L L W 0
HAVE YOU USED
MEN
LEWIS & WKITTY'S
Borax Soap
er- TKy IT for FLANNELS, linen, laces,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERT
IN SOAP I
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everythin*
washed with it;
HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and GUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
tW“ Sold by every Storekeeper and Grooer at
fid. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers:
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GENT.’S ... .. ... 50. IS. 8d,; 100. Ss. M.
LADIES’ 60, 2s. Od.; 100, 3a, Od.
Address. 6d. extra.
Moat Business Cards.
100. SS. 6d,; 860. 6s. 6d.; 600. IQs.; 1000, 16s.
NO CHARGE TOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
Hi Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
he buTi m a,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
AYER’S PILLS.
is
A large proportion of the diseases which
cause human suffering result from derange-
ment of the stomach, bowels, and liver.
Ayeb’s Cathartic Pills act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused by their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt, and
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of these
Pills by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation in
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
substances only, and are absolutely free from
calomel or any other injurious ingredient.
A Sufferer from Headache writes:
“ Ayer’s Pills are invaluable to me, and
are my constant companion. I have been
a severe sufferer from Headache, and your
Pills are the only thing I could look to
for relief. One dose will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. They
are the most effective and the easiest physic
I have ever found. It is a pleasure to me to
speak in their praise, and I always do so
when occasion offers.
W. L. Page, of W. L. Page & Bro.”
Franklin St., Richmond,Va., June 3,1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Pills in number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. We constantly keep them
on hand at our home, and prize them as a
pleasant, safe, and reliable family medicine.
FOR DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable.
J. T. Hayes.”
Mexia, Texas, June 17, 1882.
The Rev. Francis B. Harlowe, writing
from Atlanta , Ga., says: “For some years
past I have been subject to constipation,
from which, in spite of the use of medi-
cines of various kinds, I suffered increasing
inconvenience, until some months ago I
began taking Ayer’s Pills. They have
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
have vastly improved my general health.”
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to the
Whole physical economy.
prepared by
Dp. J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell,Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
YOUNG,
OLD. AND
MIDDLE-
AGED.
All experience the wonderful
beneficial effects of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
Ears, or any scrofulous or syph-
ilitic taint, may be made healthy and strong
by its use.
Sold by all Druggists; $1, six bottles for $5,
ELLIOTT BROS, and 8. HOFFNUNG & CO.
Wholesale Agents.
*mi» before MOUSTACHE and WS1SEEES. »ifons after
Boyd’8 Beard Elixir did this, and
I toill do it on either bald head or
bare face . Forces heavy IIout-
tackeinfrom2 to 4 weeks and never ,
20,000 young men already ' v
copyngntea. wear full beards, having used 1 to Copyrighted.
8 pkta. No injury , easily applied, eertain in effect. Packets 1«. 6 d.
each, 3 for 3 s. 6 d.,post paid , sent under cover, free from observation•
Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent,Box 730, G.P.O., Sydney,N.8. W‘
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market. |
WILLIAM BALL,
THE “PROFESSIONAL” ANT) PHARMACEU-
TICAL CHEMIST.
61 Bourke-street Bast, Melbourne.
THE Toilet and Theatrical Requisites, manu-
factured by W. Ball, are composed of the
purest ingredients, and are guaranteed not to
cause the least injury to the most delicate skin.
There are few ladles now, either in private life
or of the Theatrical Profession, who do not look
upon the
BLOOM OF PEACHES
(registered)
as the one article that is perfectly safe and satis-
factory to use either for the
THEATRE, BALLROOM, OR PROMENADE.
Our Cupids Manufacturing Bloom of Peaches
"Dear Sir,—I consider your ‘make-up' perfect,
and should never think of using anything else
while it is possible to obtain it.—Yours truly,
Ed. Farley.”
The following ladles and gentlemen have also
written, speaking in the highest terms of these
Toilet Requisites Mesdames Louise Pomeroy,
Alice Deorwyne, Myra Kemble, Eva Davenport,
Roland Watt Phillips, etc., etc.; Messieurs George
Titheradge, George Rlgnold, Sheridan, Henry
Hodgson. W. J. Holloway, Fred. Marshall, Brian
Darley, Frank Cates, etc.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
Wholesale Agents, N.S.W.;
Messrs. PROSSER & CO., Sydney.
C. F. PRIDDY & GO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7tb,
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.30 p.m.: Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
STD NUT,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
mm
UAS
OTUDY ECONOMY
and
Ha ve yourU mbrella Frame*
1 re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
641 George Street,
i Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sta
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exs-
sated
B
AYARIAN
ITTERS.
HOP
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of the best Bavarian Hops. Superior to an
other.
They take the first place wherever tried, and ar
well authenticated by eminent medical men an
well-known analysts.
Read the reports and testimony which aooom
pany each bottle, and do not forget to make g
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Cuktis, *
TJi3ic3.extalc©r,
■4 HUNTER i k PHILLIP ITI1ITI,
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years:
Manager for over ten (10) years.
Been hunting for ease aU my life, and found
last with the Argosy Graces at G owing Bros
0
fi
4/.
G OWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argos y Braces!
Argosy Braces, Zs. «d.. 3s., 3a. 6d.,fc 4a. q
GOWING~ BROS.,
MIN’S MERGERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS. A
SSZ ud 49S bioni-atrMt,


Jjl UBNITUKI BHOff ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and T.A MR,
O’Connell and Spring: streets, Sydney.
and
Hall furniture, hatstands.
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
T» X^AS1LFURNIT DRB, CENTRE and SIDE
r BOOKCASES, secretaires,
READING and LOUNGE CHAiBS. *
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, In EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
’JftT for Choice China, &o.
’ jUBt reCeIyed ’ Bradl^>
B b ? room SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with T-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
varlety. BRADLEY, NEW®!
and LAMB, Spring and O’Coaaell streets, Sydney.
IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
id Bedroor ? Sulfe, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BDRQQM SUITES (Fashionable Early Eng-qgh
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with slivered
d i Gr; WASKSTAND. with marble top
Md til© back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE
swing glass attached; PEDESTAL http*
BOARD, and ISI CANE SEAT dHAIRS, 16 guinea/"
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB."
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables from inT
6d.; Dining Tables, from R K Mm
r£~T r f'T? Tom 27s- « d -; Washatands from ISsfel -
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes from site ’
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Sideboard
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, fromlOs. 6d.; Writlmr
Drawers, from 60s. BRADLRV*
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and street
m
I
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
S’*"'*-**-* strong, and durable, Trichord full
OompassCelesto Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
case. Free at rail or wharves loi cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
iiASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
inaterial° mS " ew desi F ns covered to order in any
KOCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and restful,
vr-onnelf BrasBey ’ Newton, and Lamb,
Drawing-room cabinsrs.-Bariy English,
Anglo-Japanese, and Cbiooendale designs.
Just opened. BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
r urnlture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sts.
RAWING-ROOM FURNITURE.—The latest
xT?IJr eI .°, p . I1^ nt of fashion. ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exqusita examples are now on
vmw In our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY. NEWTON, and L 4MB.
Elegant novelties in bbdkoom furT
NIT CRB. full suites, in S ATINWOOD, ROSE-
WOOD, and other CHOICE WOODS, richly inlaid.
Will well repay inspection.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-st.
FOLDING-SCREENS (3 and 4 f old) for the Draw-
ing and Dining Rooms and Office. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
GARDEN SEATS, 30s: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, G’Connell-street.
Rattan verandah lounges, 203.; and
large variety of Chairs, &c ; special designs,
extra quality. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sts.
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for oluhs, restaurants,
smoking rooms, &c.
Self-adjusting hammock ohair-
Patented.
i
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet Ingenious in Its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when fc Jded. Price SOs. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required.
2 s, 6d. extra.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
IRON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, Spring & O’Connell sts.
COPYING PRESSES? BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
WALL MIRRORS and BRACKETS—Novelties
in plush and velvets and in all woods,
from 5/6.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled in colours. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
COMMODE CHAIRS ; BIDETS, with PAN;
Shaving Stands. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted with
pulleys and cords, 6 x 8, 9/6; 8 x 8.11/-; 9 x 8.
13/-; 10 x 8.14/-; 13 x 8, 10/0; 13 x 10. 30/-.
BRAOLEF, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ICE CHESTS, with CUPBOARDS, all sizes, from
37s. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
FURNIT URE-THE LA RGB8T 81OCK IN TH E
COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, A LAMB,
Spring and O’Conueil streets.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flair and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 60i Hunter-street. Sydney.*
BEALE & COMPANY.
BEALE & COMPANY
Beale & Company.
SYDNEY and BRISBANE.
SOLE IMPORTERS OF THE
Sweet Hapsburg Piano,
SWEET “HAPSBURG” PIANO.
Which, by Judicious Selection and Addition of
all Valuable Improvements, they have raised to
the Premier Position among Instruments in Aus-
tralia.
The Principal of the Firm is at present Visiting
the Continent of Europe, and the
SHIPMENTS NOW ARRIVING
contain all the
VERY LATEST IMPROVEMENTS.
MORE ARE SOLD THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY than of
ANY OTHER MAKE.
Ever Growing and Widening Popularity Attested
by High Testimony Dally Volunteered.
BEALE
Will Deliver a
A “Hapsburg” Piano,
A “Haydn” Organ,
on
A “Haydn” Harmonium,
(CARRIAGE PAID)
To any Wharf or Railway Station in New South
Wales upon the most
LIBERAL TERMS OF TIME-PAYMENT.
Catalogues Free on Application.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
Sydney Show Rooms,
386 and 613 GEORGE STREET,
13 CENTRAL MARKETS,
151 OXFORD STREET.
BRANCHES and TRAVELLERS THROUGHOUT
THE COLONY.
SOCIAL
'When the ladies of Manly said they in-
tended this year’s flower-show to eclipse the three
former ones they didn’t overrate their powers, for
a more beautiful floral display than met the eye
upon entering the Pavilion at noon last Thursday
could surely never be imagined. And m-ver were
flowers vended by prettier damsels, who had taken
care to enhance their charms by gowning them-
selves in the daintiest possible costumes. How
was one to resist buying the shilling button-holes
offered for sale by such living pictures ?—even
though the same flowers could be got by the cart-
load by j ust climbing up to “ Fairy Bower.” If y ou
ventured a remark to this effect to the gentle
maid who was pricking her pretty Angers In her
attempt to pin the weed into your coat and watch
for new customers at the same time —which, by
the way, irritated some clients not a little,
as people didn’t tnlnk it too much to ex-
pect her close attention during the pin-
ning process tnrown in for the shilling—she
immediately replied, “Oh, but you must re-
member it is for a good cause.” Eheu! it's
the old story, when money is wanted for
a good cause —that is, the Church —the means
taken to obtain it are always condoned, no
matter how questionable they may be. But
this begging tor money under cover of, sell-
ing flowers which are everybody’s property is
certainly the prettiest fraud of all, and one
cannot say a word against it, excepting that one
much questions, if this annual wholesale ransack-
ing of the bush around Manly continues, whether
the people of the next generation w ll believe
such beautiful plants ever existed within cooey
of Manly Beach. But this is perhaps meeting
troubles half way. Everything this year was
on a most magnificent scale, but at the same time
the arrangements were more stiff and formal-
looking. The beautiful green arches savoured too
much of a master hand, and caused visitors to fancy
they detected a Searle’s skill in the lettering of
“ Moss Vale,” the charming retreat of Mrs. and the
Misses Hall. The careless grace of the amateur
florist was almost entirely missing, and yet it is
a fact that scores of fair ladles were kept busy for
a whole week assisting to fix up the stalls, &c. In
fact, a stupendous amount of money and labour
has been spent this year on the show, and it’s to
be hoped the promoters will reap their re-
ward. The miniature garden which stretched
across one end of the pavilion was the
care of Mrs. Austin, the Mayoress of Manly,
assisted by Mrs. Hetherington, the Misses Kauson
and other ladles, and at the opposite end of the
room Mrs. Morris’ floral bank, surmounted by the
Prince of Wales’ feathers, formed by graceful rock-
Mlies, came in for a good share of admiration. One
of the most tasteful stalls was that of Mrs. Row,
which showed a lake surrounded by a mossy bank,
blackfellows, kangaroos, and other touches of
nature, whilst anchors, lyres, and harps, composed
of pure white flowers, filled up the background of
the stall. A pair of pretty bird-cages, encased in
flowers and moss, were seen on Mrs. War burton’s
stall, and other tasteful conceits far too numerous
to mention. As a matter of course, the costumes
worn on the opening day were in most oases ex-
tremely tasteful, and the prevailing material was
canvas cloth. A pretty stall-holder wore one in a
delicate cream colour, trimmed with gold braid
and buttons, t he braid placed in close rows across
the bodice, hussar fashion, and the graduated but-
tons running down either side of the skirt—
a very bizarre effect. Two small traders wore
soft cream veiling, the draperies of which
were hung with green silk pompons; large
cream bats with cream trimmings, Mrs. Austin
wore fawn-coloured Drooade, and one of her
young assistants a twine-coloured canvas cloth,
with heavy lace draperies, and small fawn sailor
bat, lined with ruby velvet. A striking drees was
composed of a most beautiful plush basque, ex-
actly the shade of a cairngorm, over a shot silk
skirt of the same hue. Mrs. Harry Prince wore a
piquant costume of white flannel, the jacket and
skirt edged with numerous rows of narrow crim-
son braid. Miss Jenny Watt-Tanner, who was
escorted by Mr. Vincent, wore a light pompadour
polonaise, over a ruby sateen skiit, and little Miss
Bouclcault looked sweet in a light blue zephyr
dress, and small white sailor hat trimmed with
crimson ribbon. A tailor-made small black and
white check costume, with toque to match, was
neat, and a grey aud black striped silk, trimmed
with silk cords and black velvet, was worn with a
black plush tippet and black hat, with pink
feathers. tQuaint-looklng was a full black lace
skirt and a dull gold and brown striped broche
jacket. Miss F. Fitz-Stubbs wore a pretty combi-
nation of pale-pink and olive-green, and her sister
white lace over a violet underground. Most of the
stall-holders wore aprons of the daintiest make —
some of flne canvas, bestrewn with brilliant
floral designs, others of a more substantial
material, but all looked as coquettish and sweet as
the wearers.
♦ * *
I The office of the Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney.held their f o l r. h a anual sports
meeting ou Saturday last, when a most enjoyable
afternoon was scent The stbam launch Mary
conveyed about 100 officers and friends to Cabarita,
Parramatta River, and had on board the Balmain
Coldstream Band, which added considerably to the
afternoon’s enjoyment. Having arrived at their
destination, the sumptuous lunch that host Correy
had prepared, was discussed. A move was then
made for the grounds, where the programme of
sports was successfully gone through. A party
of ladles arrived early in the afternoon in the
steam yacht Ena, which was kindly placed at
the disposal of the committee by Mr. T. A. Dibbs,
Amongst the guests were Mrs. L Lord,
Mrs. Cape, Mrs H. E Lord, Mrs, Harper, Mr. and
Mrs. Delvitle, Miss Warded, Mies Farquhar, Miss
Tiley, Mrs and the Misses Dibbs, Mrs. and the
Misses Giden, the Misses Street, Miss M. Smith,
Messrs. G. H. Reid, P. J. Clark, C W. Cropper, W.
Goddard, Clive Smith, F. Raymond, and many
others. The sports being concluded, Mr. Dibbs
kindly presented the prizes, and after a vote of
thanks and three cheers had been accorded to the
ladies, dancing was Indulged in till dusk, when the
various st amors conveyed the well-pleased com-
pany back to ti^n,
* ■ *
Last Thursday, the 10th inst., Miss Blanche
Montagu was married to Mr. Day, architect, in
St. James’ Church. The bride, who was
given away by her father, Mr. Henry Neville
Montagu, looked very sweet in a trained
white satin gown, trimmed with lace, a long
veil and orange blossom wreath, she carried
a bouquet of white flowers. Two bridesmaids
wore pink, and two cream, and each scattered
Mowers from small baskets in the pathway of the
1 ride as she left the church. The travelling dress
was pale-blue veiling, with ruby velvet facings;
email white Medici bonnet becomingly trimmed.
♦ ♦ ♦
The crowded condition of the various
steamers on Saturday last plying between Sydney
and Manly Beach afforded ample explanation of
the meagre attendance at the last 'cyclists meet.
Certainly there were a few young Udies whose
loyalty to their particular ’cyclist not the most
marvellous flower-show in the world could entke
from the Association ground, and with these few
the poor boys had to be content. Not even the
man who made such a guy of himself in a Turk-
ish costume of wide red trousers, blue blouse and
red turban, and sandwiched himself between two
enormous boards, upon which were stretched
gorgeous bills recounting the many attractions at
Moore Park, succeeded in sending a crowd. But
the ’cyclists have had a good innings, and turn
about’s fair play. Cricket next Saturday I
* * *
Our French citizens had taken some pains
to make the old Masonic Hall look less dreary than
usual upon the occasion of their Soiree Litteraire
et Musioaie given in memory of Victor Hugo on
the 8th inst. In order that nobody should forget
whose memory they had met to honour, dozens
of pictures of the poet peeped out through the
flowers and ferns which adorned the platform and
walls. The audience was a most brilliant one,
and the handsome Comte de late
French Vice-Consul la Sydney, but now pro-
moted to the Consulship in Melbourne, escorted
the ladies to their seats with the politeness
of a true Frenchman. Mons. de Court, French
Consul, occupied the chair, and after de-
livering an address which was short and to the
point, he introduced Dr. Laure, who lectured in
French for an hour, and afterwards sang for half-
an-hour, upon which the audience cried, Oh,
Laurel” The Doctor has a good voice, which
might once have been even better—but six verses
to a song I Even for the sake of Victor Hugo, that
was more than one could stand with patience.
Mors. Matho played a brilliant pianoforte
solo from “ Traviata Themes,” transcribed by him-
self, and Madame Marius sang Gounod’s serenade,
but this lady’s vocalisation does not impress inthe
way she evidently Intends it should. The
lady was attired in an indescribably beautiful palo-
blua satin dress, with broche draperies in &
slightly deeper shade, and wore a wreath of small
flowers; Madame Kellermann, who wore a dress
composed of the French colours, cerise, white, and
blue, played Lkzt’s transcription from "Faust”
brilliantly—most brilliantly. Then there was
another recitation in French by one Mons. Tisch-
bauer, after which Kowalski made his appear-
ance, and received a hearty welcome. His solos
were “ Autour de Mon Clooher” (Kowalski) and
" Vale de Concert” (Wieniawski). Willimoff was
in good form, as he generally is when he plays
without the aid of his music, and his “ Masainello
solo is always welcome. Madame Cornillon,
whose voice favours quantity rather than quality,
emulated Dr. Laure's example and sang a song of
many verses. Why won’t people understand that
three verses are enough even for the best of songs
sung in the most finished style ? Two verses are
better still, and there are cases when one or less is
amply sufficient. Mons. Leon Caron (violin) and
Madame Kellerman (piano) played the Kreulzer
sonata, and Madame Van Rompaey assisted con-
siderably by accompaning various songs. Hand-
some bouquets adorned by streamers in the
French colours were handed to each lady after her
performance, and had the programme been cur-
tailed to a reasonable length the entertainment
would have been a most pronounced success.
• * ♦
A plain and fancy dress ball was given in
aid of the unpretentious-looking Warialda(N.8.W.)
Hospital, on Friday evening last, in the local School
of Arts. Although this same hospital can’t boast
of a very imposing outward appearance, still, as
inside its walls a vast deal of suffering is relieved,
and as it is the only refuge thereabout for the
unfortunate, we are glad to be able to ray the ball
was a success. Some of the principal dresses were:
Miss M. Horne, Little Red Riding Hood; Miss F.
Campbell, America; Miss B. Campbell, Fairy
Queen; Mrs. Horne, Night; Mrs. Wilkinson, Swiss
Peasant; Miss A. Horne, Highland Lassie; Miss
Gilmore, Highland Girl; Miss Rusden, Good Luck;
Miss F. George, Albanian Peasant; Miss Radford,
Madame Pipelim; Miss A. Searle, Rose; Miss
Playle, Glass With Care; Miss Reynolds, Nurse;
Mrs. M’Donald, ISoubrette 15th Century; Mr. F.
Cox, Evening Dress Reversed; Mr. Wilkinson,
Turk; Mr. Hope, Clown; Mr. Wynn, Middy; Mr.
Monsou, Count Charbone; Mr. Shearer. Cricketer.
Mr. A. Hoy carried out his duties as M.C. to every-
body’s entire satisfaction.
• ( •
The young gentlemen of Waverley have
been for some time past forming a “ Tennis Club,”
and next week they commence operations.
Several meetings have been held, at which each
gallant had the privilege of naming a lady mem-
ber. I}ut the Waverley bovs are oppressed with
shyness, so shrank from naming their own par-
ticular lady friends; they chose rather to submit the
names of their grandmother’s aunts or nieces
instead. One bold little chap was courageous
enough to whisper the name of the fair one
nearest his heart, but perhaps that was because he
feared her wrath more than the chaff of the
members of the Club.
♦ * m
The Rosehill Private Quadrille Assembly
ball, held in Parramatta on Friday, the 11th, was a
very successful one from all points of view, and
was admittedly one of the most enjoyable of the
season. The decorations, consisting mostly of
camellias from the well-known Camellia Grove,
wore quaint and pretty. A graceful and accom-
plished “ developer” of the young idea was “in-
tense ” in a nicely-fitting dress of pale-green
nun’s veiling, relievlngly trimmed with white
lace: Miss Dawson, too, was dainty in pink bodice
and cream lace jupe; Miss Johnston, pink satin;
Miss Stilme, cream broche top and pink skirt
trimmed with flowers; Miss Goodwin, black grena-
dine and old gold; Miss Hillas, pale-pink satin;
Mrs. Johnson, lavender satin and cream lace; Miss
Hill, lavender satin top over black grenadine
skirt; Miss Dahrmkamp, blue satin and white
ribbons; Miss Cox, cream satin and lace; Miss
Poole, old gold and blue. Skipper’s band scraped
out choice music in good time, and the fun was
incessant till 4 a.m. ...
• • *
On the 9bh instant the bachelors of Appin
gave a ball, to which nearly 300 guests were in-
vited. The young ladies up there glory in fresh
complexions and lithsome forms. A blonde with
golden hair was tastefully dressed, and a Miss
Mullholiand was a great favourite. Miss Dwyer
was charming in sky-blue, aud Miss Byrne attrac-
tive in all white. Three sisters from Sugarloaf
were particularly sweet, one in white and two in
biack. Mr. Winton catered a good supper, and
Mrs. Winton and friends decorated the refresh-
ment room very skilfully.
* * *
Mrs. Healey, of Cranbrook House, Young,
gave a most enjoyable dance on Thursday, the 10th
inst. Some very handsome dresses were worn by
the guests, notably a black lace over black satin,
a black silk canvas cloth trimmed with ruby
broche and fringe; a cream satin, embellished with
lace and broche; a cream net, over cardinal satin,
garnished with maiden-hair ferns; and the hostess
was gowned in a black satin, trimmed with real
lace and real flowers.
• • •
A delightful evening waa spent at Colla-
balaa, Dumaresq River, Queensland, on the 4th
instant, when high revel in the shape of a delicious
little dansante was held by the charming hostess
and genial manager of that station. Tne three
daughters of a neighbouring station - holder
charmed the troop of bachelors with their beauty
and grace, and few left the hospitable roof at
daybreak entirely as heart-free as they entered it
the previous night.
» * •
The old Parramatta Amateur Dramatic
Club played “ Checkmate ” the other night in the
local theatre for the benefit of the widow and
orphans of one of their deceased members. Mr.
T. D Little, who has played nearly every low-
comedy character in Parramatta since the ama-
teui s have shown there, appeared as Sam Winkle
to the evident satisfaction of himself and the de-
cisive amusement of the audience. He was made-
up exceedingly well, and gave the lines with so
much humour, that an old gentleman in the dress
circle burst his waistcoat and almcst collapsed
through exhaustion. Mr. George Brodie, the re-
cognised heavy lead of the defunct Club, was a bit
stagey as Sir Everton, and overdressed the char-
acter by wearing a pair of pants a couple of
sizes too stout for him. Little Miss M’Locker
was deliciously naive as Martha Bunn, a de-
licious Bunn In tact, and played up to Sam
with not a little chic. Miss Ferguson threw some
good business into the character of Charlotte, but
was a trifle too heavy at times. Young Goodin,
who distinguished himself ss Joseph in “Riche-
lieu,” made a great thing out of the small part of
Parsley, and seems to possess an amount of natural
ability for the tunny line not often met with.
The others assisted to make the comedy “ gee,”
and the performance altogether was a meritorious
one. Something like £60 will be cleared.
The Coonamble Hospital ball (plain and
fancy) was held in the Templars’ Hall, on the
10th inst. Amongst the principal characters
assumed were—Miss Moore, as Miss Hardcastle;
Miss Blackett, charming, asi Cherry Ripe, and
an exact Imitation of that pretty picture; Miss
M’Carry, an Ambulance Nuree; Miss Kingsmlll,
much admired in a Watteau costume, with pow-
dered hair; and Miss Yolkhart, a neat little House-
maid. Some very handsome evening costumes
were worn, which had previously played a part at
the Bourke Railway opening festivities. Miss
King’s graceful figure was (shown to advantage
in cream satin brocade and pearls. A recently-
made bride was lovely In white surah with tulle
waterfall and pearl fringe. A blonde from Loo-
loon was attired in pale-pink silk decked with laoC,
and wore diamond ornaments. Miss M’Mahon
wore white silk trimmed with lace and flowers,
and her sister white h rocade garnished with scarlet
flowers. A Hebrew maid wore a handsome pink
and ruby satin with fehthers on corsage and in the
hair. The genial bank-manager, Mr. Evans, made
an active MC, and da ncing kept up till a most
unfashionable hour, tout the back-block folk don’t
take their pleasures in instalments—they make the
most of an opportunity when it occurs.
* * *
A few days ago the marriage of Mr. Ernest
Needs, of Nithsdale, and Miss Larcombe was cele-
brated by the Rev, John (Gardner at Bay ley Park,
Campbelltown, the reslden ce of the bride’s parents.
The bridal party consisted of many relatives and
frlenfs of the happy pair. Conspicuous were the
mother of the bride, wearing a pretty brocaded
silk richly trimmed with Uice; Miss Larcombe, the
sister, in shot silk with .brocaded bodice: Miss
Johnson, pretty dress of fawn cloth and velvet;
Mrs. Baird, sister of the bridegroom, in a hand-
some costume of nuns’ veiling; Mrs. A. G. Beve-
ridge, another sister, looked handsome in a lovely
ficelle dress. The bride was charming in a rich
brocaded silk, trimmed with fawn lace, and a
beautiful lace draping. A sumptuous breakfast
was spread for the many guests. The travelling
dress of the bride was a handsome combination of
silk and satin.
Dissipation at Hunter’s Hill again. This
time it was a private ball given toy a number of
ladies and gentlemen in the local Council Cham-
bers. Music and refreshments were alike excellent.
» * t *
The ladies of Wingham gave a return ball
to the bachelors of the town the other night.
About 30 couples present, and everything went off
merrily.
• * ♦
Mr. G. F. Forsyth, of the “ Works,” led a
Bathurst belle, Miss Richards, to the Cathedral
altar on Wednesday last. The bridesmaids hailed
from Dubbo, and the breakfast was at the resi-
dence of the bride’s relatives. Presents costly,
and included a diamond necklet worth no end
of money.
* * * ■*
Up at Nerang, Queensland, they have
been quite festive. The Oddfellows have been
giving their first ball, which attracted all the
beauty for miles around to the Nerang Divisional
Hall. The ladles’dresses were gorgeous, and fun
Immense.. The miners at Charters Towers don’t
waste much time in beating about the bush In
marriage matters. A week’s courtship suffices for
them. A sensible r plan, as it saves an immense
amount of time, soft speeches, and presents.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
[Noth.—Social items, in order to ensure inser-
tion for the current week, should be to hand no
later than Tuesday.]
“Osborne C.C.”: Much too late—“Glen Innes”:
Please observe our rule. Surely you aren’t
ashamed of your name I....“Terpsichore” ;
Yes, by all means, “ keep on doing it.”
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Zetland Lodge, Town Hall. September 17.
The Australian Club Ball, Exhibition
Building September 1&
Mrs. de Groen’s Evening Party, Leigh
House .September 31.
Mayor of Petersham’s Ball, Peter-
sham Town Hall September 31.
Eureka Annual Ball, Professor West’s
Academy September 39.
Railway Officers’ Picnic. Botany September 30.
Plain and Fancy Dress Ball tendered
to Mrs. Martin by her pupils and
friends at the Dancing Academy..8eptember 30.
The Mayor of Sydney’s Ball, Sydney
Town Hall September 30.


“ BEACH'S”
CONSULTATION
ON THE
Metropolitan and Melbourne Cup,
NOW OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 108. BACH.
First Horse, £250,
Address—
“ BEACH,”
Care of J. G. Beetle,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney
Please apply early.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, 19Sh Septemtu r, 1886.
flTBNDBRS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
' I PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will bo taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
F. A. WRIGHl.
“THE LYCEUM.’’
Newcastle,
SITUATED IN THE BEST PART OF THB CITT
It is capable of seating 500 people,
and suitable for
MUSICAL & DRAMATIC ENTERTAINMENTS.
The Stage (10ft, by 21ft.) is furnished with
STOCK, SCENERY, Ac,
For Terms, apply
COLIN CHRISTIE,
‘‘The Lyceum,”
Newcastle.
REWARD, TWENTY POUNDS.
CAUTION.
It having come under my notice that some un-
principled person or persons have been receiving
money and work, through false representation, on
my behalf in Southern and Western Districts, £20
reward will be given for Information that will
lead to his or their conviction,
W. G. NUNNERLEY,
Certificated Pianoforte Tuner, representing WIL-
LIAM BtlUCE, Pianoforte, Organ, and Music
Warehouse, 197 Pitt-street, and Macquarie-plaoe,
Sydney.
NATIVES’ ASSOCIATION.
To all Australian-born Residents of Sydney.
The Board of Directors of the above BENEFIT
and NATIONAL SOCIETY, being desirous of ex-
tending its operations to N.S. Wales, is sending
over two delegates with full power to organise
and open branches. They beg earnestly to appeal
to ail old memters of the Society resident In
Sydney, and to all Australians who desire to belong
to and asjist a National and Patriotic organisa-
tion, to give these delegates every assistance, and
to help them to establish large, prosperous, and
i-fluential branches. The chosen representatives
—Mr. A. J. Peacock, President of the Board, and
Mr. O. B. Wilson, ex-President—will be in Sydney
on September 13. and their address will be “ Royal
Hotel,” where all messages and letters may be left,
and ail information obtained.
By Order,
(Signed) F. C. WAIN WRIGHT,
Secretary.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SVD N E.VT
IMP6RTERSTIFAUTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
r
FOR SALE. — TAXIDERMIST’S BUSINESS,
of many years’ standing. Proprietor retir-
ing on account of health.
For particulars, apply
A. ALDER.
George-street,
Brisbane.
j A U T I O N .
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO THE PUBLIC.
In consequence of an attempt to substitute in-
ferior and spurious articles for “ Dr. Scott’s Bleo-
trlo,” the Pall Mall Electric Association, 5t, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, desire to caution the public
against purchasing any counterfeit of the follow-
ing goods Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets, Dr.
Scott’s Electric Belts, Dr. scott’s Electric Hair,
Flesh, or Tooth Brushes, Dr. Scott's Galvanic
Generators, and Dr. Scott’s Electric Insoles.”
Every genuine article bears the word “ Electric”
and the name of Dr. Soett, as also does the box
containing same. The extent of our trade, and the
marked appreciation of the public having Induced
certain parties to manufacture a line of worthless
goods, having something of the general form and
external appearance of ours, and variously styled
“ Magneto-Electric or Electuic Magnetic,’’
we respectfully ask that parties who have been
influenced by the many testimonials we publish,
all of which are strictly genuine, or the universal
reputation of our goods, to give electricity a
trial, will see that the name of Dr. Scott and the
word “ Electric” appear on every article purchased,
In addition to this, we have recently registered a
new trade mark—an oval label with our local
address, “Pall Mall Electric Association, 5i, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, N.S.W,” in marginal lines,
encircling the device of a mailed hand holding a
group of thunderbolts.
vv..vir.£
Of.
$
B
$
$
«-,o
tu
$5
A s we are the only parties in Australia importing
these goods direct from Dr. Scott, and are prepared
to guarantee the genuineness of every article
bearing this label, we advise purchasers to see
personally that this trade mark invariably appears
on any and every Electric Corset, Belt, Insole
Generator, Hair, Flesh, or Tooth Brush, they may
desire to purchase. This borne in mind, much
vexation and disappointnu ut will be saved; and
we respectfully request th .t any person who hat
been Induced to buy any of those imitations undei
the Impression that they were Dr. Scott’s Electric,
will at once communicate with us.
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle anc
pleasant support, encircling the waist witl
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by; he
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Wornbv
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continenta
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial?
&
m
M
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &o., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing oases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size ol
Corset usually worn; or, whore the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece ©f common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
eieeteic ran,
64 Margarot-straet,
SYDNEY.
P.O, Box 221.
RAW VASELINE.
B
A
FOR Softening and Preserving' Horses' Hoof .
Kill* parasites, and prevents their growth.
As a Leather Preservative it is Invaluable-pre
vents it cracking, and renders It waterproof
From its anti-corrosive qualities, umqilled as i
metal protector, and for keeping In perfect ordti
Firearms. Machines, &c. It is the sole inaterir
used for the above purposes in the Austrian and
Oerman armies. Sold by all Saddlers and Store
keepers.
SOLE AGENTS:
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
125 York-gtreet, Sydney.
DR. T H O M A I
may be consulted oa
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affections
Medical Establishment, 203, Eli/.abeth-etreet,
near Bathurst-street.
Hours : 9 till 10 daily.
Dr. Thomas is the only medical man advertising
in Australia who has passed the degrees of an Eng-
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations passed
-Licentiate of the Royal Colltge of Physicians.
London, 18 B 4; Member of the Royal College ol
Surgeons, London, If59.
OOBERT BUTCHER * CO.
(Late William Long),
tr WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders receive promnt stun ion.
READ THIS!
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS 1
Manufactured by
THE GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS CO.,
SALE.
Certificate by Wm, Johnson, Government Ana-
lytical Chemist :—
“ Government Analyt'cal Laboratory.
“Melbourne, July 14tb, 1884.
“ I have examined Trood’s Hop Bitters (manu-
lh ey are remarkably pleasant
an , d 88 , a general tonic and promoter
a KP etite fi 0r i inV r?l ld8 £ nd y° UB » people are no
doubt excellent. The Hop Aroma is delicately
combined with a fragrant fruit flavour, producing
areally elegant preparation, which may be relied
deleterious and ree from anything
(Signed) “ WM. JOHNSON,
“Analytical Chemist.”
rHESE celebrated BKters have been proved by
analysis to be a pure, del'cate. palatable com-
pound, and are invaluable in affording relief in all
nmwes°otc 180rder * stomach, liver,
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Will be found a perfect “ Balm of Gilead” to all
who are suffering trom shattered nerves, an over-
worked brain, or lassitude; they are. in tact
nature’s brain and nerve food. ’
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Are an excellent appetiser, and may be taken
with perfect safety by the most delicate Invalids
and young people.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
E rich and purify the blood, and are an exquisite
conic and stimulant. If you are sick, no matter
from what cause, use
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS.
The large and Increasing consumption has
gained for the GIppsland Hop Bitters Manu-
facturing Co. a wide celebrity.
Beware oit Imitations,
And use only those manufactured by the
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS CO.
They are pronounced to be the best and only genti-
le Hop Bitters manufactured In the colonies.
THOMAS TROOD & CO.,
Sale, Nov. lit b. Proprietor.,
To be obtained from all the leading merchants,
chemist s, and hotels in the colonies-
T° rouptoT Journalists.—Leaders, Telegram.
M. an d Sydney Letters, supplied by competen
ilterary man of long experience, on moderat
terms. “ Beta,” Bulletin Office.
Alex. Borthwick. r ,
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c. *>iaSS»
231 O-eorgre-st., S^rd-n-e^r.
HORDERN’S
ON THE
Brickfield. ZE3C111.
Ill STAT Mil CORSET DEPARTMENT.
(Q.
Co
v_V
£
"0
«'0
uO
■
)
It
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Pb.ee oe Chabge.
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays I
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
2s. lid., 3b. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., 5s. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., 8s. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s fl
|EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS, 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill,
-Orders from the Country will receive Immediate and careful attention.


Wolfe’s Schnapps —Buy original un-
opened bottles of the only genuine Schnapps.
Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour has no equal in
the world.
Kidney and Urinary troubles are universal,
the only safe and sure cure Is American Hop
Bitters—rely on it. Read.
It was not far from the scene of the last
great railway accident that a lady was paying a
complimentary visit, when the four-o’clock tea-
set was called into use, and the conversation
turned upon the beauty and reasonableness of tne
Combination Dinner and Tea Sets, costing 80s, at
Bray Bros’. China and Glass Warehouse, 403 and
404 George-street, Sydney.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps —Purchase the genuine
and repudiate all shams.
I or Blancmanges, Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour
cannot be surpassed.
“A Woman’s Reason."
Editor Bulletin,—Sir, I very much like the
candid and dispassionate tone of your friend
“Austral” who, manlike, airs the seamy side
which we women, from whatever reason, turn
away from the daylight. I, like him, have re-
mained single, and I don’t mind letting your
readers into the cause. I had several girl friends,
some of them pretty, some just the reverse. One
and all, our single object had been to secure a hus-
band, but the means employed, of course, differed
with the Individual. The pretty ones trusted to
touch adornment of their persons, and nothing
more; the others strove to render themselves
agreeable by studying and adding useful arts to
the aforesaid endowment. But, mark the dif-
ference—the beauties are married, the others are
old maids still. However saltish, rapacious, coarse-
minded, your belle is sure of her game. She has
only to be free-and-easy, the rest works itself out
according as opportunity arrives. The inlmltab'e
conscious selfishness of man’s nature is what she
trades upon—man, who looks no further than the
personal gratification of a,pretty face and a neat
figure. Weill They reproach us with husband-
hunting; they say that our single object in life is
to hook some unfortunate. ’Tis true. But who
makes our laws for us but man ? Whose tastes do
we consult in dress and everything, but his I If he
admires small waists, we have to pinch and screw
ourselves into unhealthy elegance. If he likes us
decolleUee, down go our bodices to the level which
his sovereign will points out, spite of catarrhs and
consumption. Our moral code is made by him.
He writes all the books with heroines which we
are obliged to imitate In order to please him. He
will allow us no other career but that of marriige
"She’s a regular blue-stocking,” says Jones of
some girl who tries to think for herself, and as in
duty bound, we hate blue-stockings as much or
more than our masters. Papa Brown, “whose
brows ache with the annual tributes of a spouse ”
(as says the meanest and most selfish of poets, and
of men d fortiori), will not have his daughters
learn to support themselves. Oh, no I It is so un-
womanly! They must sit like patience on a monu-
ment, smiling at eligible male acquaintances, and
doing- their best to please and captivate. “My
dear, you must not be too farouche with young
men; they don t like it,” says mamma. “But
they are intentionally rude; they eat, drink, and
make merry at our expense, and make a favour of
flirting with us, and sometimes kindly marrying
us, replies a daughter, whose shoulder is not yet
accustomed to the burden. “ See that old girl,”
say the young-bloods,, when she is now an
old maid, she wouldn’t ‘ catch on ’ to anyone
before, and now there is no one who will come
near enough to get hold of.” What can we be but
fishers of men ? You keep all the good things for
yourselves, and raise a most hideous outcry against
innovations which attempt to give us a place In
creation. Can you suppose that if our education
were as good as yours we would be behind you in
capacity (heaven save the mark I) ? I know the in-
fo «?- ore than one manage myself, and would
like to give you the reverse of the cameos which
your bachelor-friend delineates with so much
cynical truthfulness. Moved by various causes,
Jones throws the handkerchief to some girl of his
acquaintance, whose face and figure please him,
which handkerchief is grabbed with avidity, and
the marriage comes off, tne lady (or her parents,
same thing) standing all expenses. “Jones has
been roped in,” say his friends; “ I hope she’s got
some money, so that he can go it a bit, and drop
something amongst us.” Now, the first discovery
of the ocune premiere is that her idol's feet are of
brass; the next that the toes are mixed with clay.
Jones soon finds that the children are a cursed
nuisance, and that the races are too ex-
pensive to take his wife there; also that cool-
drinks possess all their ancient charm and
absolutely require a not small portion of his
1^,°9 I ? e t° *? e , dev oted to them alone for the good
® f .. hl s heaith and faculties; further, that it Is
better for one person to see everything that is to
be seen than to halve the number of pleasures
and double the sharers of them. Just at first the
state of affairs is generally this: both Jones and
his wife are wholly wrapt up in one individual—
namely Jones; but this cannot continue for ever.
Mrs. J., who is the weaker vessel, though easily
moulded, is incapable of self control; she cannot,
she has not the force of character necessary to
adopt and keep to a sort of armed neutrality.
She becomes naturally shrewish, high-toned, and
generally nasty, particularly hating her husband’s
male friends, amongst whom she well knows that
his time and money are wasted. She has the
same capacity for enjoyment as ho has, but how
many opportunities ? Almost any man, if he took
the trouble, could make his wife contented, and
even happy, for a woman—as some one of you
has truly said—is susceptible of indefinite chang-
ing and moulding by a stronger will. But no;
Jones wants, and will have, his pleasures, and
doesn’t care a rap how his wife gets on at home.
The consequence Is a cat-and-a-dog life, for a
woman has not the force of character and strength
of will to abstain from railing when she cannot
get what she wants. Now, a man has these divine
attributes, and so, with some show of truth, ap-
pears to be the injured Innocent who, toiling all
day to put bread into the mouths of his wife and
children (this is the touching phrase invented by
masculine special-pleaders), gets nothing but hard
words and bad treatment when he comes home.
Scoldings and want of sympathy on the part of
wives are an undeniable fact, but the blameable
party is further to seek. Mrs. Brown is a shrew,
but what is Brown ? She has no sympathy
with his pursuits, and she makes opportuni-
ties of wreaking her spiteful temper on
his friends. iWho spoilt her temper and what
cause has she to love the said friends ?
A woman by nature and by education is very
tlon tU 'Sh b a U f«l^ e K a ?i iever 8 ! e both sIdes ot a ques-
tion. ohe feels but does not reason. Now Smith
pursues a line of conduct wonderfully well calcu-
lated to extinguish that early feeling which might
have become affection if it had received th^n.
£ uel. Even when things are at sixes and sevens
a little judicious unselfishness on his part would'
make matters right again. His only merit h
A lnevita ble results meekly when they arrive
As org as women are brought up in theVresent
soulless and slipshod fashion, so long will thev bn
Give us 8 8 a ome?K 0 t d i n tho & bt -“Winded!
8 v. me x n £ to do, and teach us
thin^ about, and we will do something else and
b0 K Ut ? t ? er “atters than setting <firr cans at
unwary bachelors, to our mutual undoing For
marriages, as they are at present made, are little
both partfes. the CaU * 8 majeur6 o£ unhappiness to
AUSTRALIA.
Sitting on the Fence.
Mb. Baker “ was not prepared to say he would give the Government thorough support-he was not going to sit behind them to be one of their partizans,” etc.
N.S.W.: "EZEKIEL, WHAT ARE YOU AND YOUR FRIENDS WAITING FOR?” —Daily Papers.
EZEKIEL: “OH, WE ARE ONLY WAITING TO SEE IN WHICH FIELD THE CROP MAJORITY WILL SPRING.”


KRUSE’S FLUID MAGHESIA AND INSECTICIDE.
K J{ ACnUT¥ J o7?he M 8 A TOMA S CH, BILIOUS 7 Jnd FLATULENCE.
Invalids and Children. miaous HEADACHE, and a MOST GENTLE APERIENT for
%&“ See Medical Opinions Accompanying each Bottle,
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout the Colonies,
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
from the Depredations of the Moth. Bedroom Furniture Shin lfc F r^ 8erv ® s Pur "
may be Cleansed of Insect Vermin by Kit USE’S n8 ’ F ° Wl H ° U808 ’ aad Dog Kennel *
Sold In Tina, Is., and upwards, by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
! - ELLIOTT BROS. » a .
K. PROSSER & CO. 1 Syduey *
TitLO US©ll©,Tol© IBvLgpgi©© I
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE * MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS *
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Buckboard Waaaons.
__ BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
W XT*T JAM FLEMING, Merchant A Importer.
22 & 24 Clarence-street. Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
, and CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS )
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
u, warn, aid meet mum,
Importers of
I and REQUIS;
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACK8
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
—
rF
itiMTKjTc
m
il-
PORTABLE. FIKBB
C W&ID W
4 BOUjBRS^ 1
team
-r-C, pumps
and othei
LATHES, PLANING
■~jr SHAPiNG. SCREW
mShinss dkii ‘ linc
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASI
- FOUNDRY
ISi' 1
HI! PATENT ROLLEI
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, Ac.
|C WT Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
Head Warehouse - - - - 54 YORK STREET,
Iron ani Implement Yard - - HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
Bulk Stores
London Office
HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
SYDNEY.
- - 86 GKAUKOH UROH STRMJK&
cura
DISFIGURING- HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
CtmcuBA Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticuba and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
pUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
W fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and, 1 erspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Itching and Burning
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, Instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticuba Soap and a single application of
Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticuba Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail
Cuticura, the Qeeat Skin Cube (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), Instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which 1
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of ray disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Austbalian Consignees,
B. Towns & Co., New South. Wales.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
Cheml, “ 0t ,to °<
Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
-For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticuba, 50 cents per box, large boxes
$1.00; Cuticuba Soap, 25 cents; Cuticuba Shav-
per botUe’ 15 cent8; Cuticur - 4 - Resolvent, $1.00
Prepared bt the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.8.A.
oj
HPai^
fr> LIM '~°
rm OS
E>sr7iMf. ,
ove*800orr*..
- -I ‘
Baumann,
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
BT fcjDTJJpgSOW AND $«f**SHMIiNT fcOOMy TOa LAiW and GUNTLBMIN.


w. WALKER and SONS,
Catalogues
POST FEKB.
LONDON and SYDNEY.
Catalogues
POST FRBB.
W. WALKER
and SONS
ALL STOCK
in their
SYDNEY
are one of the
Largest
BOIJII
Stockholder*
Supplied
and
DI8BOT
'Icmufaetureri
from their
IM^I
Higk-elan
FURNITURE I
ENGLAND
London
Manufactory
and Latest
jj London Styles
Guabantmd.
SYDNEY BRANCH j
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
* take cheer, for American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will onre yon.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
'weak and dispirited, without clearly
* knowing why, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Hevive yon.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
* taxed yourself with your pastoral
* duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘and work, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Restore yon.
“If you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your overy-day duties, or a man of let-
‘lers, toiling over your midnight work.
Hop Bitters will Strengthen yon.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any Indiscretion or dissi-
* pation, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, as is often the case, Am. Co.’s
Hop Bitters will relieve yon.
“ If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
‘ that your system needs cleansing, ton-
‘ ing, or stimulating, without Intoxlcat-
' ing, American Co.’a
Hop Bitters is what yon need.
“ If you are old, and your blood thin
‘and Imnuro, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘ unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Am. Hop Bitters will give yon new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS, «s made by the Ame-
rican Co , Is an elegant, healthy, and
‘ refreshing flavorring for sick-room
‘ drinks, impure water, etc., rendering
‘them harmless, ani sweetening the
* mouth, and cleansing the stomach."
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in
bottle. Shun all others as vile poisonous stuff.
THE AUSTRAL ASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LIMITED.
Capital £100,000.
Head Office : Melbourne.
New South Wales Branch : 171 Castlereagh-street.
N. 8. Wales Directors:
Andrew Town, J.P., Esq
Frank Cowley, Esq,
George 8. Yeo, Esq.
Victorian Directors:
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P.,
Chaii man
Hon. J. F. Levien, M.P.
Thomas Learmonth, Esq..
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insure!
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natura
Causes on land, rail, or at sea.
M arine Bisks on Stock covering mortality or or
Merchandise accepted.
The only Live Stock Insurance Society in th<
oionlee.
Full particulars can be obtained from the under-
signed.
Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
A. J. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.1
Office, 171 Castlereagh-street. a
EA D D S COLOGNE,
4711 4711.
Established 1793.
Gol I Medal, Moscow, 1872; P rl?e Medal, Vienna, 1878
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, strength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the llite of
Europe.
The large and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of Its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number—4711 changed into 7411. 1147,4117, &c., &o.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents-ELLIOTT BROTHERS. Pltt-
street, Sydney.
To bo had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
and Storekeepers, in town and country.
SOLE IMPORTER OP
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET,
SOLE AGENT FOR THE
SMITH OBO-AN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
w-
€
CASH YBBSTJS CREDIT.
ROSBAUE, LLOTJD & CO.
ARE TRADING ON THE LONDON SYSTEM OF READY MONEY *
R. t L. & CO. are now prepared to “* FULLY 0N «'THIRD LESS
R„ L. & CO. buy for cas h in all the Home and Continental Markets.
We are now showing our fl rat c onsignment of Paris and London Millinery.
Parasols and Lace Goods of every possible design.
Canvas Ribbons (plain and fancy). New Frlllings, Linen Collars. Cuffs and Wa at ,
All new shapes and designs. ’ uua ’ ana bet8 > at very low prices.
Silk Handkerchiefs from Is. each. Fancy Cambric Handkerchiefs.
Extra Long Silk Gloves, In every colour. Torchon Laces,'remarkably cheap.
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING DEPARTMENT
Every article hand made, at London prices.
N.B. In this department we make a special
giving perfect satisfaction to all our customers
parcel to
r , 8 - e11^ 8 chea P aa Possible, and we are an™
. Ladies in the country should write for approbatioij
ESOSS-A-Z-iIE, XjXjO’SrUD dc CO
OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET,
SYDNEY. ’
Eczema and Bad Sores.
Tour Cuticura haa done a wonderful cure for
me more th*m two years ago. Not a sign of Its
reappearance since. It cured me of a very bad
eczema which had troubled me for more than
twenty years I shall always speak well of Cuti-
Cura. I sell a great deal ot It.— Frank C. Swan,
Druggist, Haverhill, Mass,
I bad a dozen bad sores upon my body, and tried
all remedies I coula hear of and at last tried your
CuTicura Hemepiks and they have cured me,—
Jno. G a skill, Hebron, Thayer County, Penn.
■ For Pies, Puddings, Custards, Blancmanges, &c.
use Klngstord’s Oswego Cornflour.
Ask your medical attendant what he
thinks of Wolfe's Schnax»pb as a means of
promoting digestion.
Hop Bitters does notexhaust and destroy,
but restores, cures, and make new. Gtt the
genuine American Co. Look up.
Ladies, if you want your Pastry light, use Klngs-
ford’s Oswego Cornflour.
Scrofula and all forms of scrofula dueaf
are rapidly purged out by the use of Ayers’
Sarsaparilla.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW ANOrIELL’S
CELEBEAT
BISCUITS AND CAKES, TREACLE AND HOLDEN SYRUP
Self-raising /Erated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
S. * A. have obtauied lllsif*** 60 *** *“ “
Sytfnay Aganta: W. H. ARIELL & CO., 343 and 345 Kent-street.
A Letter from England.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gone, gone!—all my bright visions scattered
Like leaves by the withering blast
Of winter—my projects all shattered;
Is this my reward, then, at last
For my saving, and stinting, and scheming.
The lone, cheerless life 1 have led:
To find that I’ve only been dreaming—
That she whom I toiled for is dead.
Great God 1 what a heart-wrecking message!
Yet, almost, I knew It before,
For my soul has been chilled by a presage—
A forecast of trouble In store I
These weeks past, from night until morning,
From morning till night, ill at ease,
Methought that a whisper of warning
Was borne to me over the seas.
Poor Lueyl bow well they all loved her—
So patient, they say, and so leal;
Ahl the lapse of long years had but proved her—
Time’s test found her trusty as steel.
I hear, now, her fond voice repeating
Our promise a hundr-d times o’er;
I feel, now, the warm bosom beating,
Which shall beat against mine nevermore.
Nevermore hand In hand through the meadows,
The still, shady lanes, shall we roam;
Nor watch from the porch the gray shadows
Grow deep round her dear cottage home,
And the soft purple mists slowly sweeping
O’er river, and upland, and plain—
I may kiss her fair face when I'm sleeping,
But waking—no, never again.
Oh I Why did I linger 7 I fear me
She suffered far more than they guessed—
Her words were but written to cheer me
While her sorrows lay hid In her breast.
’Twas ever so, e’en when we piarted,
Though I’d no more pluck than a child—
She brushed off the tears as they started.
And looked at mo bravely, and smiled.
They seem to Imply by their letter
That sickness came on her by stealth—
Poor darling I the first time I met her.
Her face was the picture of health;
And I’m racked by a wretyJhed misgiving
That If I'd but stayed at .her side,
My Lucy might still have been living—
’Tis a question too late to decide.
Long waiting has killed her—my beauty;
I should have returned at all cost.
But I talked of the future, and duty;
The future—and Lucy Is lost.
I have striven for name and position,
For riches too recklessly sought;
But with her I will bury ambition—
Suffice It, I'm wanting for nought.
She will sleep ’neath the mound which she lightly
So oft pointed out as her grave;
Where the sunshine in summer falls brightly,
And willow-boughs mournfully wave;
By the church with Its lvy-c|ad steeple
Fast crumbling in honoured decay—
There the most of her village-born people
Hare slumbered this many a day.
I will never return. All the summers
God grants me I’ll pass Ip the South;
But I’ll ever be kind to new-oomers
For the sake of their land and my youth.
My youth ! well, I’m crushed and down-hearted.
And though, measured by years, I’m still young,
All the light from my day Is departed,
And my life seems a song that is sung.


A BOON TO THOUSANDS!
Vanhood and Vigour of Youth
Restored in Four Weeks.*
ff
-ff.
aii!ia;iimi!iiH
ESSENCE OF LIFE
Rtitores manhood to the moat shattered and debilitated Con
•titution from whatever came arising, in FOUR WEEKS,
Failure is impossible if taken according to the printed di-
rections. which are very simple, and require no restraint or
hindrance from business. ’ .
This invaluable remedy affords relief, and permanently
cures all who suffer wasting and withering of the nerves and
muscular tissues, Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Disturbed
Sleep, Trembling Sensations, Dullness, Spermatorrhoea, all
Urinary Deposits, which cause incapacity and degeneracy,
total and partial prostration, and every other exhaustive de-
rangement of the system ; regenerating all the important
elements of the human frame, and enabling man to fulfil his
most sacred obligations. ... , . .
In cases at ias., or four quantities in one for 36*.; if by
coach, as.»6d. extra.
NATURE’S GREAT REMEDY I
DR. RICORDS
SANATIVE PILLS
for strengthening the system, purifying the blood, regulating
the bowels, and removing all vitiated humours, bilious and
Liver Complaints, Rheumatism, Gout, _ Scorbutic Affections,
Costiveness, Skin Eruptions, and all diseases of the nervous
system. This never-failing remedy affords at once a new
Uase of life to the sickly and aged of both sexes, imparting
a beautiful and clear complexion, a sure sign of health,
strength, and vigour. Price, as. ; by post, ad. extra.
AGENTS FOR SYDNEY 1
Messrs. W.BARCLAY & CO.,
AS 0 6 VLH URJV STREET,
One bodn From GeOrgb Street South,
And may be had of most Chemists. 6
Parcels packed securely and free from observation, writ to
Queensland, New Zealand, or any part of the Australian
V Colonies, on receipt of Post Office Order or Stamps,
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
Lost Vitality, fcc.-A simple and positive
means of Self-Cure, by an eminent
French Hospital Physician- Sent Free
Medico, P O. Box 760. Sydney.
cm
or
life
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from Indiscretion or excesses maybe
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or .A. Preservation. A book for every man. young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 135 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable._ So found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. SOOpages, bound in beautiful French eloth,
full gilt; guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
anyother sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should be read by the young for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all. —London Lancet.
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As- I ip ■ ■
sociation, or Dr. W. R. Parker, No. 69 Hunter H t A L
Strfeet,Sydney,N.S.W. Theauthormay TUVOCl
be consulted on all diseases requiring I fl I u L L r
skill, secrecy, and experience. "
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
tf- URALGHA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
RAINS, BRUISES, L3URNS. SCALDS, & c and
iaken internally cures DIARRHCBA, DYSENki&RY,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other tutfarna achee
knd pains. .
Price, 2/- Sold EveryrrSiere-
C. E. MOULTON, sole PROPn; :or,
MELBOUENl] AND b.DNEY,
PAINT
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED.
Abate, certain, & speedy cure for Ner
vousand General Debility, and all complalntt
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, Loss of Vital Power, Ac. By Its tonli
And soothing' effects it at once removes ail craving
for Aloohol. By its richness In phosphorous anc
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSH ALL’t
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4a. fid., or 36s. a oase.
Bole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS,‘M.P.8.
rdney, and
J SUS8TI.
The MereantHe Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1889.
INCORPORATED BT ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 187?
Paid-up Capital 4300,000
Reserve Fund 4150,000
Chaim
Auditors:
Jas. Soroggle, Esq. I Hon. H. B. Cohen, If-'
General Manaqbb: I Sborbtart:
F. A. A. Wilson. | Hector Allen.
Branches in Nbw South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyngan
Bourke, Manly, Byerook, and Parramatta.
Branch in Queensland ;
Brisbane.
London Branch : 168 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G | Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers :
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan
olal Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted dally.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
NEUSTADT and CO..
COMPLETE
HOUSE
FURNISHERS,
39.154, 156, <t 1OXFORD-ST
STDNBT.
Directors:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.O.M.G.,
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George 8. Calrd, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidiey King. M.L.O.
Hon. Philip i
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.t
tr HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
—- Either for Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALI
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash. Purchasers.
TO weak jVjE(\rssv'r,,s
I-,-. -7 ■ wi fc.SU errors, early decay,
lost vitality, premature ileeliite, nervous weak-
ness, etc,, I will send yon particulars of a
certain, simple, and sure means of self cure,
1 ree Of Charge. Address, in confidence,
Prof. M. Z». TAYLOR,
68 Elizabeth St.,
SYDNEY N.S W.
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN.
Comer of William-street, Hyde Park.
High-class Furniture
At Very Lowest Prices, compatible with the fine
workmanship and finish, for entrance halls,
dining-rooms, drawing.roems, bedrooms,
and libraries.
'ABPBT8 ™ n NBWE8T l DMWN8 AND
KIDDKRMTl| E CAB 0 Allf T8,
With Hearthrugs to matoh.
XST CORLICINE AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL AN
BLACK AND BRASS,
In all sizes and various designs.
USTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIBT
_ Established 1872.
wltb P°. wer t0 increase to £1,000,1
BONDSES—20 per cent, paid annually since 187
C. B. ■ODIMI,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers
?°Av^ T1^. 0 |-Ji LA ,r N ® & SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHAS. OSBORNE &
CO„ London.
Q-tealao AGENT for the eminent firm of
BOSSY & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, &o„ and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 Goorne.st., Sydney,
Wher,- Inspection is Invited.
Champagne
Haldsleck A Go's.
DRY MONOPOLE.
Of ALL WINK MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS A Co., London.
' Pole Atrenta for Heldsleck A Co„ Reims.
.
IPEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IB MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD,
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL.
| ESI Georire-street, Sydney.
I
i
I
for Infants and Children.
Castorla cares Colic, Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation,
Gives healthy sleep and promotes digestion, |
Without injurious medication.
“Castor! a is so well adapted to children that
I recommend it as superior td any prescription
known to mo." IT. A. Archer, M. D., i
111 Oxford Street, New York. J
Elliott Bros. 1 , Sydney, Agent*.
Depot for tiie World’s Patented Articles
GEORGE ST., Opp. Wynyard St.
" AMERICAN
NOVELTY CO.
FANCY GOODS
NOVELTIES
a.
Bring your Wife and Children with you.
Nobody pressed to buy
TT/ANTED a number of Gentlemen who will have their
V N heads shaved as above, and gua.-antee to attend. all
meetings and side-walk gatherings. SALARY LIBERAL.
DSE PEARL CEMEHT Wood, kc., and everything
but Iron. Is. Bottle.
No more pain after one
application. Don’t be
afraid tc use it freclv. Nc trouble to the Teeth. Is. Bottle.
TOOTH m TINCTURE.-
ZDstrlir5.gr HarTooiaa: Hotel,
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Railway Oates).
STEPHEN HOPKINS (Late of Wagga Wagga), Proprietor.
tar ESPECIAL ACCOMMODATION FOR COUNTRY VISITORS.
DB. O CONNELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
S-Y-ZDZtsTE-y, 3ST.S.-W.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and'N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases, c h ron Ic,
USP'SMSv.flvn.R 4 special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL Is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous, Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effectsNer-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Face, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
, i t — treated with unparalleled success. Cures ner-
manent, safe, and private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post 1
Skin Diseases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of eve,ry kind,, from whatever cause, promptly cured. Muun ®
It is self-evident that a physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill
and physicians m regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of cases applying 8
charges are kept low-ofteu lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill and get a
speedy and perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free (Ml on or
dreSS DOCTOR J. O CONNELL ® 1
52 Castlereagli Street (ground floor), Sydney.
1
m
CO
o:
CJ
on
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpasse
Crispness distinguish Wilson's Ame
rioan “Extra Toast ”BI:CUIT8. Fo
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessort
nothing equals them. Delicious witl
milk, superb with wine, and Incomparlh]
with coffee or cheese. w u
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agent*,
74 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Head Offices. «*ia
I First Fire Society established in me coiony on
| the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders back
, part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
[profits every year.
Poliey-hcdersare perfectly free by law from
all liability .
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
W ALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Offices—PITT and KING STREETS.
DR. BRIGHT’S FHOSPHODTNE.
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental ana Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility, Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline and la a
marvellous uedicine for renovating Impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought upon the
individual a* to the process. It moves the lungs,
liver, heart, kidney, stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour, yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, and is the most powerful blood purifier
of the present day. Sold by all chemists.
Agents— Elliott Bros,


Invalids and children—give them Eingsford’s
Oswego Cornflour.
If you are ordered Schnapps your medical
attcndent naturally supposes you get Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
MacLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 George-street,
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
Kingsfords Oswego Cornflour made of American
Indian Corn, pure and unadulterated.
Printed and Published by Th» Bulletin News-
i naper Ot. Ursitoi). H Pltt-dt,. Sydney, MW.
Klngsford’s Oswego Cornflour takes the full
flavour of every kind of Seasoning.
Wolfe’s Schnapps would not have stood a test
of actual trial for half a century were it not an
excellent spirit.
Notice I—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Bookings, 113 Pitt-street.
No kitchen is complete without Kingsford s
Oswego Cornflour.
Counterfeits are lively but they have not yet
arrived at any successful imitation of WOWB's
srnMin do
Plain Bill and the Man of Blood and Iron.
It will be necessary for Plain Bill Dailey to go to
Germany and open the eyes of Bismarck at once.
No other man but Plain Bill can do It. Two Iron
statesmen like thtse could look each other In the
eye and fight an Intellectual duel on equal con-
ditions. This Is what Bismarck has come to thick
of our great Anglo-Saxon race: “ He [Bismarck]
had recently obtained certainty that the Germans
were able to compete everywhere very advan-
tageously w llh the English, They were more
sober, more tetive, less lavish in expenditure,
more persevering with their undertakings, and
more certain of support from their countrymen
than the English; and, consequently, they only
wanted equality and liberty in the field of com-
merce.” Clearly the Man of Soudan must go home
and grapple with this German ogre. We fancy we
see the two closeted together. Bismarck—six feet
two—stands with his back to the fireplace, and
looks down on Plain Bill—live feet odd. Plain
Bill, with folded arms and a thick wrinkle in the
back of bis neck, surveys the Iron Chancellor with
a calm and piercing glance. It is enough. The
two great minds rake each other’s measure at
sight. Then the game begins. Bismarck slowly fills
a meerschaum with a bowl about the size of a tea-
cup, lights it and commences to puff. “He hides
himself in smoke so that I shall not boabloto read
his lace,” says P.B. to himself, and Immediately
selects a huge cigar irom a box on the mantel-
piece. A momentary droop of an eyelid is all the
sign Bismarck gives of his appreciation of this
fine counterstroae. Silence while you could count
a hundred. Then the Prince, taking the pipe out
of his mouth and shrouding himself in a cloud of
smoko, says abruptly—
“ Ycu haf goom see me, Meesther Dailey. Vat
is der peesness ? ”
Plain Bill is not to be caught like this. He
knows the Machiavellian duplicity that underlies
this gruff straightforwardness of manner. He
determines to fight the Chancellor with his own
weapons. Leisurely, therefore, he emits a long
thin wreath of vapour and answers:—
“My business, your Highness, principally con-
cerns the negotiation of a commercial treaty with
you for the purpose of— ”
Bismarck: “Purpose of potztansend teufelsl
man—spik shorter 1”
Plain Bill (nettled, but not to be Hurried in
this fashion;: ‘‘For the purpose of informing you
that I am about to put a poll-tax upon German
bands, and a prohibitive rate upon German saus-
ages.”
Bismarck (with a hoarse laugh): “Donnerand
blitzen, you are great yoker, Meesther Dailey.”
Plain Bill: “It is no joke, Prince, I assure
Sou. It is my intention also to include lager and
verwort in the list of —”
Bismarck (sobbing): “Oh, Meesther Dailey, vat
haf you said? Yat vill mine poorDeutscherin
your leedle Hand do den ? Dey vlll die,”
Plain Bill (in a tone of offended dignity):
" Your Highness forgets. New South Wales is not
an island. It is a glorious and sunny land washed
by tbe azure seas of tbe South, where freedom
flourishes and contentment reigns, and the green
hills rise to kiss the heavens and the valleys rejoice
with verdure and ”
Bismarck (impatiently); “Ob, Got tarn—and
muttons! Ya—1 haf heard so; but (suddenly) vat
money haf you in der banks in—vat you call—
Seednee ?”
Plain Bill (“seeing” him): “Only a trifle.
Prince. And the harbour bristles with torpedoes.”
Bismarck (gravely): “Ya, dat is der visdom.
But dey knows nodlng of dese dings doun dere. 1
loaf you. Meesther Dailey, for your grade leedle
speeches I hear oaf, und for because you are der
freund of der grade Sfaairman nation, so 1 veel
show you how we do dose dings here if you veel
show me yoost a leedle plan of bow dose toube-
does are blaoed in you bewdifool harbour.”
Plain Bill: “I have no plan about me. Prince;
and 1 forget just now the arrangement of the
torpedoes in our peerless harbour.
Bismarck (concealing his chagrin): “Veil, no
madder; noder times vill do. But dat vas grade
meeledary coup you made in der Soudan. I can
tell you, Meester Dailey, it fridened me!”
Plain Bill (complacently); “Yes, I thought It
would make a bit of a stir in Europe. Some of
them threw cold water on it, but I knew what I
was about.”
Bismarck (reaching out his hand): “ Gif me
your hand, Meesther Dailey. You are a statesman
afder mine own heardt.”
Plain Bill (filling up with glory): “Thanks,
Prince. You are too kind. I only did my little
best. The scurrilous writers of Sydney jeered at
me enough over it, but if they could see me now I ’
(Suddenly, in a tone of easy familiarity): “ Bis-
marck, old boy, there are few intellectual plea-
sures to cum pare with that produced by the con-
tact of tyfo minds Jffie oyrg,”
Bismarck (a sudden spasm passing- across his
features): “Few, Indeed, mine friend. You are
von grade loedle statesman I efer see.”
Plail Bill (nearly brimming over with glory):
“ Ha I my enemies shall yet admit It. The youth-
ful intellect at Manly vaticinated not erroneously
of me. (More emphatically and with traces of
tears in his eyes). Bismarck, you can count on
my support as long as you live.
Bismarck (rising) : “ Den der Shairman race
shall rule der world—und vee doo shall rule der
Bhaiiman race.”
Plain Bill (brimming over buoketsful of
glory): Say no more. 1 will come to you and
take my stand in the centre of universal affairs.
I am lost in an Insignificant colony. Only tell me
what station you think it best I should take to
thoroughly co-operate with you.”
Bismarck rings a bell—enter secretary.
Bismarck to him; “Gif dis leedle Herr pass-
port over der Rhine. He vill co-obsrate best mit
me by serving mine friends der French, Avf
wUderschcn Musther Dailey.”
GRANF'R’S POCKET-BOOK.
We (writes a correspondent) have seen an ar-
ticle in the Sydney D.T., entitled “My Grandfather s
Pocket-book.” It is written by the Hon. W. H.
Suttor. That copy of the paper is carefully laid
aside for perusal on Sunday, because the contents
are sure to be interesting; and we confess to
fluctuating so much between Jeffris’ new dog-
matics, Barry’s new Academies, Moran s new cap,
Camm’s Martineau talk, and Pastor Allen’s views
of prophecy, that we are taking time on the
Sabbath to cool our head. We say nothing now of
the further complications of Joe Symcs’ diatribes.
°r Tom Walker’s athletic-plugging. Let us deal
with one thing at a time. “My Grandfather's
Pocket-book.” The very phrase throws us back
into a humiliating antiquity. As we saw our grand-
father Ids*', he was much more suggestive of
pockets than pccket-books. In this new time a
pocket-book suggests crisp bank-notes, miEcella-
neous memoranda, and a visiting-card or two.
Granf’r Dick carried none such. He carried a
snuff-box with a silver lid. He wore a brown coat
that reached to bis knees, and from his knees down
he wore around his well-kicked but still massive
shins (the old boy had been a wrestler) drab stock-
ings, and he wore shoes with buckles. The but-
tons at tbe back of his coat seemed to us then
(seven years old) the size of saucers, and his] back
to present a surface little short of an acre. We
remember these details, because we were sitting
behind his “ pad” (saddle), and he said, in telling
one of the tough lies of George the Second’s time,
that time was in his youth, when he only
wanted “ balsh ” enough (Cornish for stout
twine about half clothes-line size) to strap
a church tower on his back and carry it to
Truro. “ But,” he said, with a groan, “ GrandfVs
an old man now.” But, about his Pocket-book,
and how we saw it. The old maq had come over
to kill a pig. He had the knife in his waistband,
and the tub on his head. The boys stood around
to see a clean “ stick.” and the old man’s coat was
left in the kitchen. If there is any pleasure in this
life it is for a boy to go through an old man’s
pockets. Under the flap of his left skirt, then,
was a marble-edged ledger. As he is now
dead, we don't mini giving a specimen or
two of hla entries, only altering the spelling.
How he ever learnt to write we never could
make out, but he had, somehow. “ April
16,1783: Cargo brandy, Dufeuillet and Co., Mar-
seilles, landed safe. No excisemen this time. Sold
73 guineas worth to , —, , and divided the
rest with Tregloarand Sam. June 14, 1783: Lett
three kags with Mrs. Bennett. The cargo, good
condition, 14 guineas. No excisemen but Trevi-
thick. He got 7 guineas and two kags. Going to
be war in France. December, 1783: Thought we
had a good cargo for Christmas. Could profit 100
guineas. Three excisemen found us out. Jem,
like a fool, killed two of them, and the other
runned away. No more smuggling for me.
’Reekin’ is moro respectable. Safe, too.”
Leo Taxil was an uncompromising sceptic.
A person with that name could scarcely be any-
thing: else. He wrote “ The loves of Plus IX.,”
andjotber little brochures, which always made him
welcome at the iiresides of devout Catholics.
But he is now a reformed man, has become “con-
verted.” and promises to be a shining: light. How
did bis conversion come about ? Well, in a way
you d.never guess. It was through a carriage ac-
cident to his wife. His conversion followed clcse
on his wife’s inversion. Why, it would pay Mother
Church to hire out carriages without llnch-plns
to confirmed doubters whose wives liked driving.
We offer this suggestion entirely in the interests
of orthodoxy.
In Saturday’s Sydney War Cry “General”
Booth’s manifesto on the immorality question is
given. In the practical spirit of his system—the
General is becoming quite a Pope ,ln his way—he
designates the steps to be taken at once, not only
to reclaim fallen women, but to frustrate the
schemes of those who lead innocent girls astray.
He believes that there are in Lona on alone 50,000
fallen women. “Many of these poor girls,” he
says, “ do not survive the first ear. Some of the
stronger and more fortunate (?) last tix or seven,
or even longer. Three years is their average life.
So that, at that rate, every three years 50.0C0 are
swept away to the grave, and a new army ot 50,000
innocent creatures has to be found to supply their
places.”
Thus the poor editor of the Bourke
(N.8.W.) Watchman:-” W© have received a
writ for libel from Doctor Floyer, of Bre-
warrina, for publishing a paragraph sent us by
our Brewarrina correspondent some time since,
anent a valuable horse. How Doctor Floyer is
interested in the matter, we are perfectly ignorant,
but we dare say he is in a position to prove his
connection with the animal. However, ‘ Barkis is
willing; ’ but libel-actions, as we know from pre-
vious experience, mean money out of pocke*-, win
or lose, and we would ask those who owe us small
amounts to pay up. We are willing to fight the
Doctor, if we nave the means to train, and our
tardy debtors ought to find them. We are anxious
to see how many * white men ’ we have upon our
books.”
The virtues of a dead townsman are thus
recorded by an Arizona editor:—" We drop a tear
as we record the demise of p k r Billy Muckrow.
His genial presence and hearty laugh added a new
grace to the most exclusive saloons of the town.
We say It without fear of contradiction, Billy was
as square as a chessboard. He was no chump.
He never killed a man without cause. He never
forgot to settle his score on the slate. He never
refused to go out on a hunt for boss thieves, nor
to ante-up his little pile when ho bucked the
tiger and lost. And he was a rustler when out
with the boys. But bis crowning virtue was that
just before his death he paid us a tbree-years'
subscription in advance for tne Howler, and we
assure his widow that the paper will be delivered
to her on time every week. Stranger go thou and
do likewise.”
The Argus bewails the bad look-out
which our wool-growers now have. The market
for wool gets worse and worse, with no prospect
of getting better. The reason why is shown in
the opposition elsewhere—raised by the large
profits our squatters have made, and the shows
such rs Sir Samuel Wilson and others make of
their wool-gotten wealth. The river Plate dis-
trict of South America is our great rival, sending
now to the London market as much wool as Aus-
tralia does. The Gape district is following suit.
The 700,000 bales sent by Australia 10 years ago to
the London market have now increased to upwards
of a million, and with another million bales, re-
ceived from South America, the market for wool
Is glutted, and prices fail rapidly. Texas is busy
in the same way, and the attempt to introduce
wool into China has not succeeded. The Chlnkies
will neither wear woollen clothing nor adopt
railways, nor do anything not of their own Initia-
tion, We are sorry for the sq u alters.
G old-mining adventurers and shareholders
have, sometimes only, in Australia to deplore
losses. What is the case occasionally here appears
to be the rule elsewhere. English capitalists can
be got to put their millions into ventures in India
and the Transvaal for which they never see any
return whatever. Baron Grant’s last bubble,
“The Llsbon-Berlyn Company”—a Transvaal af-
fair—was floated successfully a couple of years
ago in London. One hundred and fifty thousand
sharts were taken up at £1 a piece, which are now
unsaleable at a shilling. At a lately held meeting
of the Company, the chairman set forth how the
money had been spent. Machinery, £36 000; cost of
transport, £35,000; payments to officials, £13 000:
preliminary expenses, £10,689; bank charges and
exchanges, £2365; directors’ fees, £1284: printing
and postage, £1088; office expenses, £3234;
Legislative Council, have, we notice, elected to be
politically known as “ Mr.” Mackellar and “Mr.”
Creed respectively. At this we don’t wonder. It
has long been a matter of much surprise to us that
any qualified medical man cared to bear in Sydney
either a University title of “ Doctor” or the cour-
tesy title of “ Doctor” generally accorded by the
public to a member of a college of surgeons or to
a man holding the M.B. and the M Ch. degrees.
Any and every illiterate quack who has chosen to
assume the honourable designation of “ M.D.”
bas been spoken of in the columns of the
Sydney daily Press as “ Doctor” So-and-
Sj. They do these things better in Mel-
bourne, where people all round seem to have a
somewhat keener sense of tbe eternal fitness of
things. You never, for instance, find the Argus
speaking of an unqualified impostor—say of some
impudent, ignorant fellow, who, but a few years
ago, was washing bottles at Ballarat or cooling
his heels at Berrlma gaol—as “Doctor.” The
Argus, in referring to every medical man as
Mr.,” unless he happens to possess the Univer-
sity degree of M.D., acts in the interests of com-
mon honesty and decency, and therefore does
what is perfectly correct. The line now taken lu
the matter by the 8. M. Herald is simply mon-
strous and unpardonable, for every quettion of the
kind can easily be settled by reference to the
Medical Register. When a leading daily
paper calls a man “ Doctor ” who isn’t a doctor at
all, it but lends powerful aid to imposture, and
often puts hundreds of pounds into the pockets of
a man who is as dangerous to society as a vag-
rant cobra or a stray alligator.
Kratns. £2394; payments to vendors of property.
£18,873; payment to mortgagees of same, £13,000.
A total expenditure of £114,114 was shown, and a
committee of enquiry was voted as the only satis-
faction shareholders are likely to have for their
loft money. When the member for Maldon, Mr.
M Intyre, went to London, some 15 months ano, to
float a company to work the Maldon mines ho
could And none to listen to him, though he had a
venture to put upon the market worth any num-
ber of Indian and Trantvaal swindles. John Bull
is very bull-headed In such matters.
This is how an English writer deals with
a well-known prelate's garden-party “ His
palace is an imposing pile, approached by a tine
sweeping drive, well-kept lawns, profusion of
flo wers, and endless greeneries. As we drew near
the reverend prelate was engaged in doing, with
his wife and daughters, the honours of a large
garden party. Had some excellent iced straw-
berries and cream, and was introduced to a distin-
guished member of Parliament, who, so I under-
stood, had written a powerful pamphlet in defence
< f the emoluments of the Establishment. The
bishop is a well-bred gentleman, with a soft voice
a peculiar hat, and, it seemed to me, many super-
fluous button-holes on his coat. Told him I had
read his sermon on ‘ Dives in Hell,* which much
pleased him. We then talked about the early
Christians, and he instanced St. Paul as his idea of
a modern bishop. Distinguished member joining
us, argued that the defect in St. Paul's position
was his obvious want of £5000 a year, ana a scat
in the House of Lords. I think the bishop was
about to agree with him, when the conversation
was interrupted by the handing round of a tray of
pineapple-cream. - Asking tfce bishop if ho had
been in the neighbourhood of the fever-dens in the
Kast-end, he assured me that he had not; but that
he always taw in such places the beneficent work-
ing of a wise Providence, who allowed the plague
to come upon the land, lest we should rejoice too
greatly in its fatness, and forget that we are but
wanderers and pilgrims leaning on broken reeds
Saying this with much feeling, and, at the same
time, helping himself to a second plate of the
pineapple cream (which, by the way, wes ex-
cellent), he sighed geptly, and took a hand atlawn-
tennie.”
The Hon. C. K. Mackellar and the Hon. J.
M. Creed, who are both members of the medical
profession, and have just been called to theN.S.W.
Tha European Situation The Workman-Donkey Jibs.
