

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.—No. 115.—New Series.
SATURDAY. JULY 25. 1885.
Prloe-64.
Tfw Bulletin
SATURDAY, JULY 25, 1885.
Punishment— Capital and Corporal.
jpst as the scientist by studying geological
records can trace the various stages of de-
velopment from a five-toed, lop-sided ani-
mal, the size of a sheep, up to the cart-horse
with which all of us are familiar, so the
historian, by studying a country’s laws, can
follow that nation’s advance from savagery
to civilisation. Nor does the analogy stop
here. In neither case is the improvement
uninterrupted. The animal will frequently
‘throw back ” to a type of an earlier period,
while among the legislative enactments will
often be found laws sanctioning barbaric
usages or penalties which the nation in its
journey was supposed to have left far be-
hind. This applies more particularly to the
penal records of a country. Page after
page of that saddest of all books—the
one in which man’s inhumanity to man
is most legibly written—may be studied, and
the student, as he reads, rejoices to find
the gradual change from mercilessness to
moderation. Still he reads on, following
the nation’s upward course by the light of
the enactments before him, till suddenly he
comes to where the progressive penal type
is “thrown back” like the natural one.
There, in the book before his eyes, he finds
retrogression where he expected progress—a
step backwards instead of one to the front.
In the recent penal code of no country in th e
world is that backward step so obvious and
so uncompromising as in that of New South
IVales.
♦ * *
A study of the lately consolidated criminal
code leaves no escape from the conclusion
that either the rulers of New South Wales
are out of sympathy with the European and
American methods of criminal treatment,
or that the citizens of New South Wales are
among the greatest scoundrels in the world.
No third conclusion is possible. In order to
persuade colonists to lead decent lives —to
impress upon them that the ways of trans-
gressors are hard—the chief reliance is placed
on the gallows and the lash. Crimes which
would be met with a few years’ imprison-
ment in England, America, or the so-called
despotic countries of Europe, with us spell
death. Sometimes a reprieve is granted to
the felon’s body and he is suffered to live—
sometimes the reprieve is for his soul, which
is vised for heaven, being unfit for earth.
Offences which in the countries named
would result in a few days’ imprisonment,
or a few shillings fine, are met among
us by a method much more heroic—the
triangles, the cat-o’-nine-tails, and the hang-
man—by a method referred to by James A,
Froude as “ the pressure of the lash.” In
every little hamlet scattered throughout the
immense area of New South Wales will be
found a whipping-post, numerous thongs of
knotted whipcord tied to a stout stick, and
a sturdy official prepared to dexterously
fillip the skin off men’s shoulders for ex-
pressing in coarse language doubts about
the Trinity to a crowd of bullock-drivers
outside a bush shanty. In any prison in the
land any free-born male Briton who believes
in Magna Chartaand “ Rule Britannia,” but
who, having stupidly knocked the wrong
man down in a street row, is obliged to view
Nature through bars, is also obliged to be
extremely civil while expiating his mistake.
A prisoner in Bathurst thought otherwise,
and was saucy to a warder one morning.
His views underwent an entire change after
the twentieth lash.
« « •
With regard to bodily torture, there is one
singular fact which seems to have escaped
other observers—at least, we do not remem-
ber to have met any reference to it. It is
that this growing passion for flogging is
entirely confined to people speaking the
English tongue. In most of the states of
continental Europe, corporeal punishment
has entirely disappeared, while in the less
advanced ones, such as Russia and Austria,
it is rapidly declining. When the officers
of the Italian war-ship were taken over the
Melbourne gaol, shown the whippingpost
paraphernalia, and had its uses explained,
they were days before they got over their
disgust. Even from tho Russian A rmy, the
abomination has almost disappeared. Our
correspondents during the Russo-Turkish
war were astonished to find that the Mus-
covite soldiers, whom they imagined to live
in an atmosphere of blows, were very sel-
dom beaten. But there is hardly a British
colony in Australasia in which a tipsy man
who forgets himself is safe from the “oat,”
or in which the evidence of two lewd women
will not send him stripped to the triangles’
Take an example. A bushman came down
the country to Melbourne some years ago.
By the time his cheque was ended, delirium
tremens had begun. Wandering into the
Fitzroy Gardens, he divested himself of some
clothing, rolled it into a pillow, and went to
sleep under a tree. Being a stranger, the
sentence was light—three months’ imprison-
ment, seasoned with three whippings of 25
lashes each. The Argus, the Svdney Morn-
htg Herald, and journals of their class
would call it a “sharp lesson.” Our name
for it would be “ Kalmuck brutality.”
* m m
In the chapter, “ How Modern Civilisation
may Decline,” Henry George says:—“ The
return to barbarism, where it is not in itself
regarded as an advance, will seem necessary
to meet the exigencies of the times. . . .
For instance, flogging, as a punishment for
certain offences, has been recently restored
to the penal code of England, and has been
strongly advocated on this side of the At-
lantic [America]. I express no opinion as
to whether this is or is not a better punish-
mettfor crime than imprisonment. I only
point to the fact as illustrating how an in-
creasing amount of crime and an increasing
embarrassment as to the maintenance of
prisoners (both obvious tendencies at pre-
sent) mi-ht lead to a fuller return to the
physical cruelty of barbarous codes. The
use of torture in judicial investigations,
which steadily grew with the decline of
Roman civilisation, it is thus easy to see,
might, as manners brutalised and crime in-
creased, be demanded as a necessary im-
provement of the criminal law.” From the
whole tenor of the chapter it is evident that
George regards the re-introduction of
bodily punishment as a far from hopeful
sign. Indeed, from the present penal code
of New South Wales to the adoption of tor-
ture in judicial investigations there is but a
short step. Having studied that code, the
idea suggests itself that a law giving the
Bench power to order an unwilling witness
to be beaten till his evidence was accept-
able, would not be displeasing to some of
our Judges. For such a law numerous pre-
cedents could be found in English juris-
prudence, and, since we have torture at all,
it is hard to see why wo should not have it
in its entirety. We frankly commend this
to the Bench.
• ■ •
But to proceed. This disposition of people
speaking the English tongue to return to a
mode of punishment which most of the
greatest modern men of our race hoped was
buried deep with the rack, the thumb-screw,
and the scavenger’s daughter, is a really
singular circumstance. George attributes
it to the increasing luxury of the rich and
increasing brutality of the poor arising
from the constantly-growing inequality of
condition—the rich daily becoming richer
and the poor poorer. The inequality itself
he sets entirely down to laud-monopoly.
But such disparity, although, perhaps, not
in a form so acute, exists in France and Ger-
many as well as in England and America.
Yet no whisper as to the advisablenees of
reviving torture is ever heard from France
or Germany. Again, no such gulf separ-
ates rich and poor in Australia as in
Europe. Yet it is in Australia—par-
ticularly New South Wales—that the
“lash” flourishes or is flourished most
vigorously. Nor will the fact that the
convict leaven is still active in our com-
munity, especially in high places, entirely
account for this passion for tormenting.
Just as soldiers who themselves were
whipped and who ultimately rose to com-
mand their former comrades were the
staunchest advocates of the “cat,” so pros-
perous felons, who in their wild youth had
interviewed the triangles, became in age its
fiercest supporters. This we know, but it
will not account for the prevalence in Vic-
toria, South Australia, and New Zealand of
the desire to whack. For convictism never
laid its paralysing hand upon them. Tho
only cause to which we enn assign this desire
on the part of English-speaking people to
revive the whip is the universal use that
was made of it in England and America
down to a very late period. The love for it
as a means of enforcing virtue has not yet
been worked out of the race. The England
of the Georges and of the earlier years of
Victoria was governed by the slick. It was
not until the other day that its use was dis-
continued in the army and navy through
the death of a soldier while undergoing
punishment. We, ourselves, have seen ten
men from one regiment wait shivering in
the biting wind till their turs came for 50
lashes, indeed, we have spoken to two men
who, for deserting in India, received 800
lashes each befoie being cut down! Think
of it—standing bound for an hour while the
flesh was being slowly cut from your bones!
Horrible!
• ♦ •
The advocates of flogging keep up a shrill
scream of “all your sympathy is for the
culprit and none for the person he maims
or the society he outrages.” But it is pre-
cisely because our sympathies are with
society that we object to whipping. To us
and those who think with us, it matters little
whether the prisoner takes his punishment
in silence or screams lustily. But it is pos-
sible to brutalise a people as the English
proleteriat were brutalised by the con
stant spectacle of the gallows and the
triangles before Brougham arose to de-
nounce them. The man or woman who
wit-esses a flogging or a hanging for
the first time or reads a true account
1 of one is never the same again. A sense of
I loathing seizes one against the laws which
THE LATE ALPHONSE DE NEUVILLE
(Painter of " Rorke's Drift,” in the N.8.W. National Gallery.)


permit suoh barbarities. It is not too much
to say that the hanging of Johns and the
publication of his speech in the papers
caused more harm to the community than
the reprieve of ten murderers. It was be-
cause of the wide-spread demoralisation re-
sulting from public executions and whip-
pings that both were ordered to be per-
formed in private. The supporters of the
rope and the whip can, therefore, choose
whichever horn they like of the following
dilemma. By p - nishing in private without
a newspaper report there is no example ex-
cept to the sufferers and a few onlookers ; by
punishing in public—or in private and let-
ting the Press publish sickening details—
you brutalise the community. They can
take their choice.
• ♦ •
About capital and corporal punishments
there is an odd peculiarity which might be
termed psychological. There are many who
cannot stand on the top of a steep cliff, or
of a high monument, without an almost un-
controllable impulse to throw themselves
off. Strangely enough, there are those who
cannot witness or read about either of the
punishments named without a desire to
commit the very offence which brought the
culprit to the scaffold or the triangles. In
the British army we witnessed many in-
stances of this after flogging. Men who had
previously shown no disposition towards a
certain offence, saw one of their comrades
whipped lor it, and, after moping about the
barrack-room for a day or two, went and
committed the very crime for which they
formerly showed no liking, and the penalty
of which they knew. It is only just to the
authorities to say that the wishes of the
men in this direction were always accommo-
dated. Some may doubt this, but any old
naval or military officer will bear us out in
it. Again, it is extraordinary how men
come to the triangles, time after time, for
the same crime. We remember to have known
a soldier lashed ten times in three years
for the same offence. Of the four young
men whipped at Wolloomooloo, some time
ago, one turned up a few weeks afterwards
to answer a charge precisely similar to the
one for which he so recently suffered. On
these matters of capital and corporal punish-
ments we have not said as much as we
would wish. But we have said enough to
show that as repressers of crime they have
been credited with a virtue they do not
possess, that their tendency is to brutalise, not
the culprit alone, but the whole community,
and that, if the criminal code of a nation is
a fair index of that nation’s place in civili-
sation, New South Wales is away on the
loft of the line.
Lessons from the Dead.
We have no desire to keep open an old sore merely
for the sake of harrowing the public mind. But
Johns’ death must not be- vain. Alone of the
Sydney Press we pleaded for his life; alone. If it
must be, we shall enforce the lesson of hla death.
In future the relation of the jury to a prisoner
tried on a capital charge must be better acknow-
ledged. The relation of a Judge to the prisoner at
the bar must be such as to preclude the possibility
of pre-concelved ideas. The right of a prisoner
to insist, when his life is at stake, that evidence
affecting his case be publicly tendered in Court,
must be upheld. A consistent regard for the
sacredness of human life must be enforced. The
power of hanging for an attempt at murder must
be taken away. These are what Johns’ death
teaches.
* * *
Johns' jury recommended him to mercy. They
hoard the whole case as it went on in Court. Any-
one understanding jurors knows that such a
recommendation is an Integral part of the verdict.
Let them know the recommendation will not avail
and the verdict will be different. English jurists
admit this. They say that to the perjuries of
juries many legal reforms are owing. People used
to bo hanged in England for small larcenies. Forty
shillings was at one time a capital amount. If
jurors would find “guilty,” the law, despite a re-
commendation, took its course. The result was
that jurors stood up for humanity and violated
law. For having done so our ablest jurists now
honour them. It is recorded that a woman was
proven to have stolen two sovereigns, three half-
sovereigns, fifteen shillings, and a bag of coppers.
The jury found her guilty of having stolen 39j. 6d-
Johns’ jury recommended him for mertsy. Will
another jury run the risk of having an integral
part of their verdict set aside ?
» m *
Next, the Juclge should have no preconcep-
tions. Nothing detrimental to Judge Win-
dexer is conveyed by this. He himself is author
of all we want to say on the point. He tried the
prisoner before, sentenced him, and congratulated
himself, apparently, on the fact that he took no
part in reprieving him. Any man with that pre-
conception of a prisoner’s character was not, we
think, the absolutely best- person to try him on a
fresh count. Next, a prisoner is entitled to his
witnesses. Of course, a culprit might want to
subpoena the whole country, but things are to be
taken in reason. In the case in hand, the witness
subpoenaed and not produced seems to have been
very necessary. At all events, His Excellency
said that, if all that afterwards came out bad come
out at the trial the result might have been dlf-
ferent. All this should have come out.
• • •
Again, respect for the sacredness of life should
be consistent. It will not do to let off murderers
who are women, and hang murderers who are men.
That la making sex a qualification of crime. It is
throwing over the abstract idea of the sacredness
of human life, and making the awfulness of a
tragedy hinge upon whether the pex-petrator
wears petticoats or pantaloons. Parliament wil 1
want to weigh this subject seriously. Our Execu-
tlve Councils are eccentric, or have lost their
heads in an!ethical maze. The heirs of a century,
they should be made to remember the heirs of 18
centuries. Two years ago, at Kirkdale Gaol, in
Liverpool, England, two women were hanged for
poisoning. Our Executive, the other day, let off a
pair of poisoners because they wore dress-im-
provers. This shows great refinement of mind, no
doubt, very large tenderness, and chivalrous no-
bility in presence of beautiful womanhood. It
may be impossible for us to enlist, at the present
stage of our history, a Ministry with the requisite
amount of practical hardness about it. Cultured,
sensitive, fresh from the well-springs that inspire
all that is sweet and tender in literature, science,
and art, the gifted sons of Comus who sit in Cabinet
and sing each other’s praises, as if Macquarie-
street were Helicon, can hardly be expected to see
all the blackness of a crime when it is lovely
woman who stoops to folly. Again, power to hang
for an attempt at murder must be taken away. We
discriminate between an attempt at rape and rape,
and between attempts at and actual commissions
of other offences, and why not discriminate here ?
England discriminates. The civilised world dis-
criminates.
* * *
Johns’ death teaches these lessons. We write
now, not to avenge, but to prevent. If vengeance
be due, Parliament will take'Jt. If the Executive
Council have made a mistake, the mistake is great.
It is not one of money, it is one of blood.
Let Parliament see to that, and when Johns’
case has been investigated and its lessons
learned, it will be well to reflect on the
advisableness of altogether abolishing capital
punishment. The one thing will lead to the
other. Blunders are possible on all sides. Juries,
Judges, Executives, all may err. It is idle to say
we obey the law. That is what Pontius Pilate
said when he washed his hands. Men with sensi-
tive respect for their fellowmen will not be Pon-
tius Pilates. Other countries have prisons for
criminals, while we have the gallows. If a mis-
take be made it may, in one case be set right, in the
other never. In the latter case, sensitive men feel
the blood sticking to them. Mulhall, in his sta-
tistics, says that in 1820, 46 persons were hanged
for forging Bank of England note;, and that some
of these notes were found afterwards to be good.
Sir Fitzroy Kelly stated before a Royal Com-
mission in England that he well remembered be-
tween 1803 and 1810,23 cases of capital convictions,
“ seven of which were mitigated and the rest exe-
cuted,” and that the innocence of the whole 23 was
afterwards established. It may be said that these
were errors of fact, and that there is no doubt
about the external fact In Johns’ case. That is
true. But if in regard to an external state of a
criminal such errors could be made with English
processes of investigation, wbat reliance can be
placed on our processes of investigation into the
external state of a criminal ? We are dabbling in
error and in blood.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Berry and the Barmaids.
Mb. Graham Berry’s new Licensing Bill, now
before the Victorian Legislature, proposes to
abolish barmaids. The abolition is sought on tem-
perance grounds and on grounds of morality. It
is said that a handsome girl behind a bar induces
many a man to drink who otherwise would not
drink. We grant that it is so, but why ? Because he
is lonely, or weary, or something; and, as he looks
through the door, in on the desert wastes of his
existence comes the light of a pair of dancing
eyes, and the gleam of a sparkling glass. That
makes him feel happy. Happiness begets the
social sentiment. Accordingly, he goes in and
drinks. Because she tempts him to drink, the
temperance-advocate wants to remove Iher. Be-
cause she lights up his desert wastes we want her
to stay. If she be abolished, a segment of
gloom will be left without a cure. The man
who is cured that way is entitled to consider-
ation. Others have free-will and can seek
the cure that pleases them. There is strength*
we admit, in the plea of the abstainer. His heart
bowed down with woe, he is passing the door.
Accidentally he lifts his eyes, and they slope to
the right. Who is that? Red-dimpled cheeks,
little rosebud mouth with pistils of pearly teeth,
arched brows pencilled and pointed, and eyes
laughing like the merriest of twinkling stars. He
thinks it is Circe. He sees the enchanted cup
which turns men into beasts. He lingers. He
thinks her Laverna. He sees her look at the till.
He lingers and scans, and then he thinks her
Parthenope, and then he thinks her Euphro-
synk, and then he thinks her Aurora, and then
he goes in and gets drunk, and has to be brought
home on a shutter. The abstainer’s plea to abolish
her has, we repeat, strength; but it has to be set
against the plea of the man who wants his gloom
to glow as a midsummer day and his desert places
to blow and bloom into yellow and golden sun.
flowers. On the other hand, barmaids are not the
solo causes of drink. Roberts’ of Sydney is one
ot the best bar-businesses in Australia. The
attendants there are men. The stand is, of course,
good, and the liquor in high repute. Legislation
cannot provide good stands, but it can demand
good liquor, and respectable surroundings and ac-
companiments. People will not be made virtuous
by Act of Parliament. But they can be made con-
form to the externals of virtue. Everyone wishes
the girls well. By raising the character of the
public-houses, and not by attempting to abolish
the girls, is good likely to be effected. In well-
conducted hotels, like many of those in Sydney,
the barmaids are decent girls. In some of the
grog-shops, where you can get no meal, no bed,
and no anything but liquor from Lethe, and
fused fire, abandonment is plastered in rouge on
the cheeks and Ups of the women. Let Legislature
shut up these whisky mills, and the stigma attach-
ing to the profession of barmaid will soon dis-
appear. On moral grounds, Mr Berry’s move-
ment is unsound. It implies that barmaids
are especially lax. People should study sta-
tistics more attentively. The records of the
Lying-in Hospital in Melbourne were exposed
lately. Barmaids came off exceptionally clear.
Dr. Warren showed lately, in the S.M. Herald,
that during all the time he has been attendant on
the Sydney Lying-in Hospital only two—we are not
sure that he did not say only one—of the patients
were barmaids. The fact is that any occupation
which brings a girl into contact with men is
morally dangerous. That is the truth underlying
all these crusades. Why, then, on moral
single out barmaids for abolition ? The records
referred to show that more domestic servants
than barmaids are led astray. If barmaids must
go, factory girls should go, girls employed In
various kinds of shops should go, and away, most
solemnly and certainly, should female cooks go.
If Hebe must give place to a bearded Ganymede,
assert the logical complement of the moral prin-
ciple. Come up, round and ruddy Rosy. Yield
your place on the kitchen hearth to this
almond - eyed son of Confucius. Our moral
times require it. Dimpled Phyllis, put no
more your shapely arm through our door
ajar in the early morning. Hand the shav-
ing-water to that black kanaka from the Isles
of the sympathetic cocoa-nut. Our moral times
require it. Is not this humbug ? But the queerest
thing of all in this Melbourne movement is that It
is Mr. Berry who has undertaken to abolish bar-
maids. It is he who so abhors the abomination
of female desolation behind public-house bars.
After all the statements, slanderous of course,
that have been made about him in the House, this
attitude of ejector of Phcebes and expeller of
Hebks makes the public lift its sleepy eyelids.
The public tries to smile. It suggests, as we have
done, the logical complement of the principle.
Phew! the suggestion doesn’t trouble the great
Radical. He is determined to abolish bar-girls,
and is willing, It appears, for sake of the purity
of the world, to follow it logically up by abolish-
ing shop-girls and factory-girls, and servant-girls,
and all girls. He is old now. He doesn’t care. He
is full up. But time was-aye, time was. And
time is for people now to reject his motion.
Let us Grovel.
Talk to a man’s wife and ybu will mark in her
speech her husband’s pulse. Read what the Echo
says and you will know what the S.M. Herald
thinks. In the present case, however, each of the
journals named may be allowed to speak for
Itself. Both condemned in unmeasured terms the
holding of a public agitation for the reprieve of a
convict whose case was under the consideration
of the Executive. And yet, only a week or two
previously, the Echo wrote an hysterical article
demanding the reprieve of two women convicted
of murder by poisoning at Maitland. The lucu-
bration in question was published after the two
hags had been condemned, but before the Execu-
tive had finally dealt with them. The S.M. Herald
joined In the Echo chorus, and it is an open secret
that one of the Ministers stated that the opposi
tion of the Press and public would have rendered
it absolutely impossible to hang this precious pair
of female fiends. So now we have arrived at this
position: It is perfectly correct and seemly for
the Herald and Echo to do their best in the way
of coercing the Executive on behalf of a couple of
lewd, bloodthirsty women who have been ordered
to hang; but it is grossly indecent for any
other newspaper to print, or for any ether person
to speak a word in favour of a male convict who
has been cast for death. One old woman, the
Herald, has a perfect right to advocate the cause
of the other old woman, the Maitland hag; and
the young woman, the Echo, is performing a
most commendable action when it, out of, as it
roundly admits, “feelings of chivalry,” insists on
the right of the other young woman (of Maitland)
to put strychnine into her husband’s food, and
Into his medicine, without running the risk of
facing the hangman. Let us keep, dear friends, in
the station to which it has pleased Divine Provi-
dence to call us, while our betters of Hunter-
street help the rest of the constituted authorities
of the colony to decide, in secret, whether men
shall die. Thank Heaven, we at last have had our
rights and our duties clearly defined. Agitation
by two certain newspapers of Hunter-street is
good and proper, not to say holy and commend-
able. Agitation by any other newspaper, or by
public meeting, is low and vulgar, and a menace
to the law. Let every decent citizen straight-
way fall on his marrow-bones and thank the
Almighty who has allowed the establishment In
Sydney of a penny morning paper, whose con-
ductors, so far, do not seem to be utterly given
over to the policy of dry rot.
Gag, Bladder, and Waddy.
If anyone dared to say that the public of New
South Wales were, in the words of the poet, con-
tent to—
“ Toil onwards as tolls the dull bullock,
Unreasoning, brutish, and blind,
With Ashtaroth, Mammon, and Moloch
In front, and Alecto behind,”
he would very likely be denounced as a carping,
envious creature from Victoria, or some other
benighted country whose national institutions
were beneath the iron heel of a debased and ignor-
ant proletariat. Yet it doesn’t seem to have
occurred to a single newspaper in New South
Wales that the ectlon of the Government the
other day in threatening that they would shut up
the Sydney Theatre Royal by taking away its
license in the event of a certain lecturer being
permitted to hold forth within its walls concern-
ing the case of a prisoner who had been condemned
to death, was as distinct and unjustifiable a piece
of bumptious tyranny as has ever been perpe-
trated. The discretionary power vested in the
Government of the day with respect to the class
of entertainments or speeches which should be
permitted within licensed theatres, was never
intended to be used for purposes such as that
to which it has been applied in this instance
by the Government of New South Wales. The
ground on which the Attorney-General pro-
hibited the lecturer from referring to the case of
the condemned mvn was that the question of his
fate was still under the consideration of the Exe-
cutive Council. Yet, though the Attorney-
General holds and exercises the power of gag-
ging a political opponent by the very simple
operation of threatening the unoffending licensees
of the Theatre Royal, he is, at the same time, per-
fectly well aware that he is utterly impotent to
control or modulate the public voice when it is
lifted up over the self-same question in any
place in Now South Wales whatsoever, save in a
licensed house of public entertainment. There is
nothing to prevent fifty or a hundred thousand
psople yelling all together on the subject in the
Domain if they choose; ten thousand people miy t
if they like, assemble and openly talk the matter
over at the Queen’s statue; all the newspapers in
the land have full power to print Inflammatory
articles on the case of a man who, though he hag
been sentenced to death, has not had his doom
finally pronounced by the Executive; and yet
forsooth, a few pretty tyrants, who happen to
have in their hands the regulation of places of
public entertainment, use their power to silence a
man whose views are not their views. The con-
tempt of Court business (where some lawyer-poli-
ticians, who, by means upon which we do not now
care to dilate, have managed to scramble on to the
Bench, act as prosecutors and judges in their own
case) is bad enough; but now, it seems, we of
New South Wales are to suffer pains and penalties
including the suppression of free speech, because
the Stuart Ministry has invented a new crime-
“ Contempt of the Executive.” Are the Ministry
prepared to pursue their policy in this matter to
its logical conclusion by introducing to Parliament
a Bill making it a criminal offence to publicly an-
ticipate or endeavour by public meeting or other
wise to influence the action of the Executive
Council in the case of a condemned prisoner ? And
as we know that they dare not do so, even in this
dull colony, where full half the population act as
though they were ’ perfectly content ;to be driven
to market with rings in their noses by “consti-
tuted authority,” we ask whether there is any
member of Parliament who has sufficient pluck
and public spirit to do his duty by tabling are-
solution in terms which will give the Govern,
ment an opportunity of endeavouring to justify
its policy of gag ? Mainly for a less offence Parkes
was kicked out of oflice.
“Fighting for Fun.”
The other day another paroxysm of the Soudan
agony was developed in the form of a banquet to
the returned warriors. Lieutenant Lee proposed
“the members of the Contingent,” and said, inter
alia, “as far as he could see they would have some
work to do before long. He hoped so, for then
there wouldjbe some fun.” These remarks appear
from the reports in the morning papers, to have
brought down the house. It is the sort of thing
thattheJSydney Press has recently been rhapsodiz-
ing over as an awakening of the military spirit.
Fighting “for the fun of it I” When gangs of
larrikins hanker after that species of diversion, the
whole vocabulary of Christian civilisation cannot
provide a hard enough name for it. It causes us to
fix up triangles and resort to the savage logic of
the cat-o’-ninetails. For want of a harsher word,
we generally call it brutality. It la brutality.
And, if the Haymarket “Bummers” appear in
uniform with their numbers multiplied by a thou,
sand and long to fight the Sussex-street “Reds’*
with gatling-guns instead of hob-nailed boots, it i s
a brutal longing still. Let the war-cry be “ Bum-
mers,” “Old England,” “ Erin-go-Bragh,” “Vive
la France,” or any other shibboleth, the brutal
nature of the pastime remains the same. “ Bum-
mers” are counted a pernicious and disturbing
element in our social life. In international life the
uniformed fighters for fun take an exactly analo-
gous position. The military spirit and the larrikin
spirit, when used in this spirit, are exact
synonyms for the brute sense. Suppose
the Lieutenant has his wish gratified, and he
gets a chance of joining in a big international
fight. Let the Haymarket represent England,
and (say) Sussex-street France. Instead of
the cry “Bummers,” the Lieutenant responds to
the watchword, “Old England,” and simultane-
ously a little bandy-legged Frenchman rushes out
of a peaceful vineyard in La Vendee and howls
for a gun, because he hears people shouting
“Vive la France.” He and the Lieutenant meet
for the first time in their mortal lives, and the fun-
loving Lieutenant playfully jabs a bayonet into his
entrails and shouts “Australia for ever I” The
Lieutenant has had his fun. As for the vine-
dresser from La Vendee—serve him right. He
should have stayed in his vineyard. But we must
multiply his case at least fifty thousand times
before the war is over. The widows and orphans
of these wretches become a woeful burden on the
State, and if there has been any fun In the fight at
all, an almost equal number of the Lieutenant’s
country-women will be placed in a similar con-
dition. Glorious fun, this, no doubt. And
to complete the side-splitting humour of the thing,
all that remains is to see the Lieutenant minus an
arm and with a silver-plate Inside his skull, marcl *
ing at the head of his regiment to a solemn thanks-
giving at the cathedral, after the fun is over.
Bishops are always found waggish enough to join
in these diversions, and to ask the Lord to deliver
us from every species of evil, from droughts (o
heretics, but to leave us the paramount curse of
all time, viz., Lieutenant Lees’ fun.
"The Echo Defends the Governor!”
By means of an exceedingly ingenious series of
glaring misstatements the Echo proves entirely
to its own satisfaction that the Governor had no
power to grant a reprieve in Johns’ case. The first
statement is that the Governor can grant no re-
prieve except with the advice of the Executive.
Possibly this is the Echo reading of section XII.,
Instructions to the Governor, which runs as fol-
lows:—
“ The Governor shall not pardon nor reprieve
any such offender unless it shall appear to him ex-
pedient so to do upon receiving the advice of the
said Executive Council thereon; but in all such
cases he is to decide either to extend or to with-
hold a pardon or reprieve according to his own
deliberate judgment, whether the members of the
Executive Council concur therein or otherwise,
entering, nevertheless, on the minutes of the said
Executive Council, a minute of his reasons at
length, in case he should decide any such question
in opposition to the judgment of the majority cf
the members thereoi.”
Yet, in the face of this, it is asserted that the
Governor’s oath prohibited him from coming
to any decision I Further, we are told that
the prerogative passed into the bands of the
Government shortly after the accession of
her present Majesty. This is absurd. The’
office of signing death-warrants was certainly
undertaken by the Home Secretary upon Her
Majesty s accession, but the prerogative of mercy
still remains to the Crown. This is evident from
the fact that the prerogative in New South Wales
was delegated to our Governors. It will be appar-
ent to any but an Echo intellect that Her Majesty
could not as.ign to others what she herself did not


ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket (only).
Spcng’s or Lovelock’s Enamelled Mincers—No. 1,
6/6; No. 3,10/-; No. 3,14/-.
The above prices deserve particular note for
their extreme lowness. The articles merit con-
sideration because of their great usefulness. A
visit to our Ironmongery Department will repay
anyone for the time spent. We make a special
feature of all Kitchen and Household Requisites,
our prices for which will be found lower than those
q uoted ia the wholesale trade.
OHM ONE’S
SWISS CIGARS
Have been recognised as the BEST for half a
century.
QUOD FACIMUS VALDB FACIMUS.
(What we do we do well.)
YOUR PHOTO.-If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what Is but well-meant
couueel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices- C-D-V.,; Cabinets* 30s. per dozen.
CREELMAN A CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADa
J f TURNER ROBINSON 4 CO.S’
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 18M,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
Sasnal I BOO ms lICMil OM Mllll.lt>
Liarhtnlng'and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Largo Bottle, only ,9s.
Small Bottle, , Is. fid.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOB INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT)
2s. per Bottle.
RUM,
lo Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN-IN FLASKS,
ls,9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke a Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
SYDNEY.
TH« BATES or StJBSCRIPi ION CO THB BULLETIN
are—For one year, 84a.; half-year, 18s. 6d.;
quarter, 8s. 6d.—In advance.
Thi Advertising Bates are 5s. per Inch i
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows :—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.; For 36 consecutive insertlonsf
16 per cent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 85 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
From the Newcastle Herald “The N.8.
Wales Government are about to place another
joan on the English market—this time £5,500,001.
Poor unfortunate taxpayers! And while we bor-
row money with one hand, and wring taxes from
he pockets of the working classes to pay It with
*be other, we throw, without any constitutional
,ight whatever, the sum of nearly half a million
nto the sea over a Soudan fizzle! Faugh! Weare
gtek of such government.”
This, from Reynolds’ Newspaper, is a
forcible illustration of the truth of our argument
in last issue:—“The Lords have been at it again.
During the past week they have been doing their
utmost to emasculate the Registration Bill. . . ,
The Commons wisely decided that the acceptance
of medical relief from the rates, on occasions,
should not disqualify a man from having a vote,
and a clause was inserted in the Bill to that effect.
But the Lords have cut out this clause, and the
consequence will be that thousands upon thou-
sands of the poorer classes, who may meet with
misfortune, but who are in no sense paupers, If
the Lords have their way, will be deprived of their
votes under the new Act. This conduct is consis-
tent with the past history of our so-called Upper
House. Everything the Lords say or do is directed
against the public weal. They are the personifica-
tion of selfishness and its necessary concomitant,
narrow-mindedness: the avowed enemies of pro-
gress in whatever form it presents itself to them;
the embodiment, in short, of everything that men
Imbued with the proper feelings of manhood ought
not to be. By the cutting out ot the clause in regard
to medical relief, a householder will be deprived of
his vote if he accepts of medical advice for his
child, though that child has been contaminated at
ihe public schools, where the parent by law is
compelled to send It. Who pays for the parish
and other medical officers ? Why, the very per-
sons that the Lords would deprive of their votes,
if they accept his advice, after having been taxed
for him. The proposition of the Lords will, there-
fore, prove not only a great hardship to thousands,
but is also a great injustice. And this loads us to
ask what about the numerous pensioners supported
at the public expense ? The people of these islands
are taxed over £3,000,000 annually for their support.
Why should they have votes who are really publio
paupers, and honest men, who are not paupers in
any sense, be deprived from ex-rcising this right ?
The reason is not far to seek. The great majority
of the country’s pensioners are either relatives or
relatives of friends of members of the House of
Lords. What is sauce for the goose ought to be
sauce for the ginder: but it will never be until
the Lords are either swept away, or deterred from
interfering with the will of the nation as expressed
through its legitimate mouthpiece, the House of
Commons.”
Advise all your friends to use Wolfe's Schnapps.
ossess But the Echo says that “ if Lord Loftus
had granted a reprieve, the Ministry would have
resigned.” What a calamity I But why should
f? y have resigned ? Does not our contemporary
that there are others than the Ministry in
the Executive Council? How, then, can the Min-
istry be responsible for advice which they cannot
control ? Looking at the article as a whole, we
must either charge its author with colossal ignor-
ance or wilful perversion of facts. We
“fer to give him the benefit-of the doubt,
and consider that it is want of knowledge
that has put him into this awkward position.
Why did not the Echo in this matter heed
t he voice of its aged granny, the Mail, which
truly says:-
" The prerogative of mercy which belongs to the
r-own is vested In the Governor, who may exer-
Maoit contrary to his Ministers’ advice. The
banner Johns, when under sentence of death for
hfiing a party to the Wantabadgery murder some
vearf ago, was reprieved by his Excellency in this
way."
In this instance the Echo has been trying to
teach its aged ancestor to suck political eggs, and
the demonstration has lamentably failed. And
what a picture of New South Wales Journalism
this contradiction displays I At the office of our
Hunter-street contemporaries, His Excellency is
belauded on the first floor, belaboured on the
second, and the third journal on the basement
looks on in sullen sillence. His Excellency is a
demigod on the first floor, while upstairs he is not
even a statesman.
A Chinese Church.
At Botany, the other day, Dr. Barry, the Angli-
can Primate, laid the corner-stone of a church for
converted Chinese, and then laid himself out for
an all-round discourse on corner-stones, of which
he appears to have a really comprehensive know-
ledge. Of the few hundred Chinese who devote
themselves to various humble industries—chiefly
market- gardening —in the neighbourhood of
Waterloo and Botany, some 15 or 30, It appears,
have become converts to Christlanlty-have for-
saken Buddha for Barry. It is of little use to
convert men if you do not also, by constant ex-
hortation, keep them from backsliding—from re-
turning to their old errors and hardened ways. It
was to provide a sanctuary for this purpose that His
Lordship laid the foundation-stone of the Botany
Chinese church. Whether the rescued brands are
Ritualistic in their tendencies, with a strong lean-
ing towards vestments and Rome, or whether they
are unmistakably “ low ” church, with a penchant
for hymns and tea, we are not told. From
the well-known love of their countrymen for the
"tom-tom,” it is probable that the “Salvation
Army” is the sacerdotal section towards which
they will naturally gravitate. But these matters
are of secondary importance. What is of real
moment is, whether, by this conversion, it will be
easier to bring fowls to maturity between
Waterloo and Botany. If the average period o f
fowl life in the vicinity of the places named can be
shown to have increased, and if that increase can
be fairly attributed to the conversion, then none
will rejoice more than we. But if it should unfor-
tunately occur that the life of a chicken in the
neighbourhood of the newly-laid foundation stone
is on as precarious a footing as of old, then we fall
to see what benefit the recent conversion confers
on public or poultry.
TO CORRESPONDENTS .
Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“ O.W.”: Your sort of dignity is the starch
of a shroud. ...“A.B.”: Thanks...." Oyster John-
nie”: Clever, but old and risquS "A.H.” (Wel-
lington): Your humour is too latent, and your
handwriting is illegible "Constant Reader”:
We agree with you that the Dubbo paper exceeded
the bounds of propriety. Possibly the word was
a misprint. Honi soil, you know, dear girl, and
we expect that the editor swore also when he saw
it “ Warrnambool ” (Victoria): Cannot tell the
height of the highest orange tree in Parramatta
district during the last three years. Perhaps some
of our subscribers will. Meantime, you might send
measurements of the largest potato grown in
Warrnambool since the flood — "J.W.” (Mount
Hope) : Thanks. We condense “Opposite ;
Not point enough in your par. to make it interest-
ing except to your aunt and the bellman—
“James Wawn”: We dont like to put it too
straight in brutal prose. So, with the object of
circuitously reaching the point we twang the lyre.
The moral is for you, James: —
“ A Constant Reader ” (Singleton); Thanks
"Dana”: Your story Is clever and well told, but
is not quite suited to our columns. It is, among
a variety of other things, much too long
“J.P.B.”: Your lines are good, but the subject
has already been fully treated in this paper. Try
something fresh “Bell”; You want us to “in-
oert ” your screed in our “social colom.” Well,
wo won’t ..."C.H.R.”: Your lyrical romance is
not of sufficient merit to justify its publleation.
This verse for instance—
‘ Then low from the soup-tureen out ho drew.
With a hasty and trembling hand,
Two pieces of leather, his lost boots he knew,
Whilst the boarders looked stupid and bland,”
seems to us to be hardly up to the mark
“Dareel”: We don’t think the companies will
lower their fares to England much, even on ac-
count of the Colonial Exhibition. Passage-money
is cut fine now-a-days. The Orient Co. will give
you a return passage, flrst-class, for £105 in as fine
and well-litted boats as ever went through water.
— “ W.W.”: You are on the cremation racket,
and think resurrection is easier after incineration
than after inhumation. This is a strong argu-
ment, no doubt, and is, we believe, used by that
theological filibuster, Talmage, whose at-so-
much-per-column appears off and on in Australian
weeklies. But, whisper, 1s not the notion a lit le
blasphemous ? You imply you go In for cremation
to save the Lord trouble on the Day of Resurrec-
tion— You send neither name nor ad-
dress. We want some guarantee of the originality
of your verses...." J.T.A.H.”: Not suitable; but
it should be of value elsewhere...." Oyster
Johnnie”: Deal with current topics of all-round
Australasian interest. ..“W.H.E.”: Thanks
"P.S.”: We have already stated a dozen times
that people who make us involuntary bailees of
Iheir MS. do so at their own risk...." W.S.W.”:
Johns put in a plea of temporary Insanity. If you,
on a similar trial, pleid permanent insanity, we
will help you by putting in your letter as evidence.
...." H.H. J.”: Thanks.... “ J. M‘C.” (Toowoomba):
Mr. Traill is in England. Verses enclosed are very
good, considering circumstances. Rhyme, how-
ever, sometimes bad; rhythm rickety. Writers
may not have sublime thoughts, but young
writers, especially of verse, should be obliged to
conform strictly to mechanical conditions. The
more sublime the thought, the greater the charm
of this conformity. The weaker the thought, the
greater the outrage of non-conformity
"C. Wilson”: We don’t know any wood capable
of resisting the attacks of cobra (teredo navalis) or
white ants. West Australian jarrah won’t, accord-
ing to the Northern Territory paper "Austra-
lian”: We cannot republish "How he Died.” Per-
haps Mr. Farrell will one day issue some
of his admirable verse in book-form. We
cannot at this moment tell you the date
on which the piece was published "Amo-
roso”: You haven’t sent your address, which
we must have in regard to the originality of
your verses... "Hero”; Only a sample of the
usual sectarian ebullition of 13th July. Orange
“loyalty” and Soudan " patriotism” will be quoted
to the shame of this generation in a coming age....
“Militant or Military”: Not pitched for poetry,
and not pithy enough for printable doggerel. You
have skill, but get out of the atmosphere of comic
songbooks. Please remember, for those who
affect your vein are partial to it, that " ye " can
never be the object of a verb. “You” or “ye”
may be subject. You say, “Never can belong to
ye.” You hear, “you” object —“ J.R.T.” (Went-
worth): Cutting noticed elsewhere. Such favours
always welcome...." J. Moylan”; The Victorian
Government prosecute the Liberator (Atheistic)
people for publishing without registration; but
they don’t prosecute the Advocate (R.C.) people,
though their paper also is not registered. The
reason is that the Atheists are, so far, in a hopeless
minority, while the Pope’s crowd are so numerous
and powerful that they must be considered—if not
absolutely toadied to. Now you know ail about it.
“Selina W.”: We don’t agree with you. A
great many other things should bo abolished first.
Let the Legislatures commence by putting down
certain low city grog-shops with the "up-stairs
and “ private ” bars let off at high weekly rates to
women whose characters have “ goned afay into
the ewlgkeit.” This reform can be brought about
by simply shutting up the dens in question, which
shouldn’t be licensed at all....“Metrop.’: If we
did, the old lady would have a dive at us for
£10,000 damages—and she'd possibly get a few of
them...." E D.”: Will try to work it up. Always
glad of such material—“Antiquarian ”; You say
that what you describe happened ages ago. Quite
so. All our readers heard it then— ‘ B.A.H. :
Yes, we knew that he had a billet of 13s. 6d. a week
there. It was while in that position that he
learned to despise Liberal maxims ‘ Tom
Mayhim”: Your stuff is better than Sladen s.
Still it might be that, and yet be bosh. Which it
is “J.F.P.” (Barcoo, Q.): There is reason in
your lines, but no metre. Poetry requires both.
"H.T.”: Thanks for Scotch excerpt. Will con-
sider for next week "G-lrondin” Thanks for
your letter...."T.W.” Will read and consider....
“ Opposite : ” No fear “ Silvern ” (Vic.) : We
have selected one of your pars, for treatment.
The others, we regret to say, are “ under par.
You write well, but should condense—" C.M. :
" Chaste” marble means white marble. The word s
meaning is not confined to the construction you put
upon it “ M. J. Dodds”: No, dear boy. Wehave
not payment of members, but we have two stipen-
diary hangmen, a splendidly-trained corps of dog-
gers. and a set of triangles in every town. The gal-
lows and the lash are the only real educating powers.
.." E.V.B.”: Your compliments are gratifying. Re
Alfred the Great and the effect of capital punish-
ment, you must remember two things. First, that
every ten men were then mutually responsible for
each other by the law of frank-pledge, and second,
that no gaol system was possible. We do not
believe in the deterrent effect of hanging, but
think that the gaol system should be so modified
as to reform, or, at least, restrain, each criminal.
Do we think Dailey’s day-dream of a league with
America will be accomplished ? Yes; but not till
the glory-seeking, honour-hunting class of politi-
cians has passed away, and Democracy become the
creed of all men. When Jingoes disappear, such
unions will be made, but not before...." Winner ”
( Mackay): Certainly not...," J. Callaghan ”; Darri-
well, 3 30-%; Martini-Henry, 3 303^.
THE PROGRESS OF CIVILISATION IN N.S. WALES.
Adolphus Green was tall and slim,
Yes, tall and slim was he,
And oft the thought occurred to him
Of what he’d like to be;
In city cares he felt no zest,
A poet’s life, he thought, was best;
His mother, too, with joy confess’t
He wrote most prettilee.
So Dolphus, by ambition fired.
His office-stool forsook;
And, hearing bards are most admired
When poet-like they look.
He bought a little velvet coat,
In which he sat him down and wrote
Some verses, which he used to quote
To mother and the cook.
Such verses I such seraphic rhyme
From mortal pen ne’er came;
The cook declared “they was sublime.”
(His mother said the same )
A MORAL LESSON FOR THE INFANTS OF AUSTRALASIA.
“A half-caste boy of U years has, at Mudgee, been sentenced to receive 18 lashes.”
Adolphus, like some more we ween.
Exclaimed with high and lofty mien,
“ I’ll send them to The BuLLKteen,
And steep myself in fame.”
He sent them—waited for awhile
(And twanged his little lyre),
And then, with calm expectant smile,
With hope still mounting higher.
He read, “ Your verse is most profound,
It suits us fairly to the ground,
A place for such is always found.
We've put on the fire."


Personal Items
The will of the late George Fort+scue,
M B.. of Sydney, has been proved under £33.391,
to almost the whole of which Mrs. Fortescue
succeeds.
The Sydney correspondent of a Southern
weekly, a Civil servant, says The Bulletin
“ dodges cowhide.” It’s more than certain of Ms
friends did. They couldn’t dodge it when strapped
to the triangler.
The whirligig of time and its revenges.
Not so very many years ago, Graham Berry and
Major—beg pardon, Colonel, Smith—were brother-
Ministers, and (at least platonlcally) fond of the
fair sex. Now we have Berry, on one band, pro-
moting legislation to abolish barmaids, while on
the other, the Majah, who is just now out in the
cold, publicly presents a testimonial to the Ballarat
“Hebes” for “courtesy and civility invariably
displayed.” Humph! Berry no longer loves sweet
woman. The Major still loves her. The Majah
will, wo predict, outlast the Honourable Graham
Berry.
A Mr. Vincent Holt
baa published a sort of
Poor Man’s Friend in the
shape of an enthusiastic
pamphlet on “Insects as
Human Food,” in which
he tells us that meal-
worms are fattening, and
cockroaches, properly
cooked, are as palatable
as mushrooms. And a
Northern journal, after
slating the work, ob-
serves i “ We wonder
whether this Mr- Holt is
a relative of Hon. Tommy
Holt, of Sydney. Old
Thomas, politically speak-
ing, would never eat a
grasshopper. If he could
sell it.” Flat burglary 1
by tho Mass! flat burg-
lary! Why, Thomas has
just sent £500 out from
England to be distributed
among the Sydney chart-
ties by the fair hands of
Lady Augustus Loftus.
General P. H.
Soratchley, H. M. Com-
missioner for New Gui-
nea, who was recently
made a K.C.M.G , has, we
see by the papers, started
business as a full-blown
knight, under the name
and stylo of “ Sir Peter
Scratcnlejr. Now, ignor-
ing the fact that the gal-
lant General’s surname
isn’t half so pretty as
(even though, in these
cynical and irreverent
days, it sounds a great
deal more real than)
Montmorencl or Planta-
genet, we are tempted to
ask “ How about the Sir
Peter?’” Who does not
remember what Lytton
wrote in “ Kenelm Chill-
ingly” "Some names
stimulate and encourage
their owners; others de-
ject and paralyse them. I
am a melancholy instance
of this truth. Peter has
been for many genera-
tions, as you are aware,
the baptismal to which
the eldest-born of our
family has been devoted.
On the altar of that
name I have been sacri-
ficed. Never has there
been a Sir Peter Chillingly
who has in any way dis-
tinguished himself above
his fellows. That name
has been a dead weight
upon my energies. In the
cataloau© of Illustrious
Englishmen there is, I
think, no Immortal Sir
Peter, except Sir Peter
Teazle, and he only ex-
ists on the comic stage.”
So that General Scratch-
ley, who no doubt wishes
to distinguish himself,
has, in assuming the
name of “ Sir Peter,” un-
dertaken a heavy re-
sponsibility with a still
heavier handicap. But
perhaps the General
thinks that he has sulli-
cientlydistingulshed him-
self by becoming “ Sir ”
Peter.
We read that peti-
tions from nearly every
New Zealand district
have been presented to
the N.Z. Parliament,
praying that tho employ-
ment of barmaids be pro-
hibited. The barmaids of Wellington purpose
holding a meeting to protect against the proposed
abolition of their employment. It has been pointed
out that the first 35 signatures on one of the peti-
tions presented were those of bmk-clerks. In
these alleged facts-quoted from the Argus
— we see a reason for abolishing bank-clerks
at the same time as we abolish barmaids.
The average height of the members of the
Bismarck family is 5ft. llin. Prince Bismarck him-
self is flft. Sin. In his stockings. He could put all our
Ministry into his hat and forget all about them till
he felt his head itch. This is a humiliating re-
flection.
Where is the illustrious Mr. Duneen, who
not long ago tried to murder a constable in whose
custody he was, by taking h’s revolver and shoot-
ing him, in the railway carriage ? Mr. Duneen, too,
was sentenced to death, but he wasn’t hanged.
Ho, it is said, was sent to a lunatic asylum, from
which he has since escaped. How is it that affairs
concerning the distinguished Mr. Duneen have
been kept so quiet ? Is it possible that he can be
“ well-connected ? ” It will pay a member of Par-
liament or two to look into this little matter.
Sergeant Flood, who was stationed at
Greta (V.), and saw some life during the rouee-
about times of the late Mr. Ned Kelly, recently
sailed far England in order to be identified p.s the
heir to a little matter of a legacy of £7000 be-
queathed by his father. Flood was one of the
officers Mr. Kelly generously promised to roast
alive if he was ever lucky enough to happen
upon them; but fortunately for the sergeant the
Glenrowan ball led to other matters which eome-
what diverted Ned’s attention from his promise.
Robert Mattoon, Q.O., a celebrated crimi-
nal lawyer now In America, asserts that he has a
large number of letters written by Adele Hugo,
favourite daughter of Victor Hugo, which he has
some thoughts of publishing. The New York
Herald says Adele made the acquaintance of an
Englishman named Pisner when with her family
in Brussels. Pisner deceived her into a mock-
marriage, was afterwards gazetted a lieutenant in
the British Army, and sent to Halifax. Adele fol-
lowed him, but he refused to acknowledge her.
She lived in various towns in America, drawing
from Victor Hugo about £25 a month, and writing
constantly to Pisner. It is believed she died in a
private lunatic asylum in Boston.
Donald Dinnie, the Scotch athlete, has a
good chance of distinguishing himself, let his
match with Miller result as it may. There’s a big
bear—a very big bear—on exhibition in Melbourne
just now, and Donald, being in a super-valiant
mood a few nights back, offered to wrestle the
bear for £35 up to £100. As the bear wasn’t present
at the time, no match was made, but after hearing
of the challenge Bruin has decided to “ take on ”
the brawny Scot, and has sent his proprietor to ar-
range terms. This gentleman merely stipulates
that Dinnie must not “strike or kick the bear,”
nor “touch the bear’s muzzle.” This latter seems
rather an unnecessary clause, because no one who
has had the felicity of seeing this bear can have
any fear about his opponent wanting to remove
the muzzle in the course of a friendly encounter.
If the match comes off in catch-as-catch-cao style,
we will put our little half-crown on the bear.
One way and another, the nobility of
Britain are playing it down pretty low lately. The
Hon. Herbert Buncombe, son of the Earl of
Feversham, attends nightly at two or three of the
London music hails, so as to keep his noble eye
upon his wife, one of the rather notorious “ Sist'. rs
Leamar.” It s about two years since the Hon.
Herbert shocked his papa by marrying one of the
fascinating “sisters,” who were just then enslav-
ing the hearts of half the shop-boys in London
with their rendering of a slightly suggestive duet,
entitled, “We’ve just escaped from the Harem.”
Nellie Leamar took the inevitable leave of the
music-hall stage when she became the Hon. Mrs.
Buncombe, but as cash has run short with the
Earl’s hopeful son, Nell is now hack at the “ old
game,” and has renewed her partnership with
Kate Leamar (“sister” only for professional pur-
poses) in the singing of ballads that are termed
“serio-comic.” It’s safe to bet that the ’orty
husband always keeps a sharp look-out on his wife
upon Saturday mornings, when the ghost walks.
A big fellow writing in Vanity Fair on
6th June, is quite put out at the sympathetic way
in which English journals spoke of the death of
v ictor Hugo. “ So far as I have ever been able to
gather, says he, “he entertained very chaotic
notions concerning the constitution of Society,
political economy, and religion; and he always
appeared to me to be afflicted with a sort of moral
hysteria.” Yah! Bo far as he has been able to
gather! And how far has that been ? This is the
sort of man that Hugo could neither make sage
nor fool of. He was fit for no part of the show in
which Gwynplaine was reared. He should be left
at the corner of a street leading to Notre Dame,
to be pelted with orange peel and coffee-dregs. He
goes on:—“The French people being so emotional,
naturally have maundered considerably on tho
subject; but for English journals to seek an emu-
lation of their sorrow is both nauseating and ridi-
culous. We called this writer a big fellow.
We hope some friend in England will go
to the office of Vanity Fair and measure his ears
with a surveyor’s chain.
The Melbourne Daily Telegraph quotes,
with a growl, from the Inverness Advertiser, a
“stick” of stuff like this;—“If Australia possessed
one-half the natural advantages of the United
States, she would have renounced allegiance to
the mother country, and established a republic.
The origin of many prominent public men can be
traced without trouble to the days when the most
desperate of Britain’s criminals were * lagged ’ to
Australia. Many of the most wealthy farmers in
Australia were evicted from the old country. . .
The Duke of Edinburgh was shot at in Sydney and
robbed in Adelaide—two trifling circumstances in-
dicating loyalty.” Dense ignorance of Australian
affairs must oppress the Scotch people, when they
can swallow such wickedly false statements. Still
it is hard to hit on a good and expeditious way of
disproving the allegations. Perhaps if we asked
the Duke of Edinburgh to write out an account of
his experiences here. No; that wouldn’t do. He
would tell us to go to Coventry. Perhaps if we
asked some of our leading citizens to write out a
genealogical history of their families. No; that
wouldn’t do. They would tell us to go to Hades.
How shall we dispel this dense Scotch ignorance ?
Mr. Edward Combes, C.M.G., &o., &c., &c.,
who is now in England, has suddenly blossomed
into a very distinguished personage indeed. The
London Daily Telegraph of the 27th May, in
its notice of the Royal Academy pictures, says :—
“Mr. Edward Combes. C.M.G., ‘ Canobolas Moun-
tain Range, from the Beneree Lagoon, New South
Wales.’ (1145). Landowner, legislator, geographer,
and traveller, Mr. Combes adds the accomplish-
ment which is alike helpful in all his capacities, an
artistic proficiency which makes him a welcome
contributor both to the Royal Academy and to
the Royal Institute of Painters in Water Colours;
of which last he has but recently been made an
honorary member.” Exactly. Mr. Combes is not
only an artist (of a kind), but he is also—“d’ye
moind me now ” —a trustee of the fortunate
Art Gallery of N.S.W, The poor artist in Eng-
land knows this. The poor artist wants to sell his
pictures. What little artistic judgment the emin-
ent Mr. Combes may possess is in serious danger
of being disturbed by all this journalistic glorifi-
cation. It looks as if the poor artist had, in the
interests of his kind, been working the news-
papers to beslaver Mr. Combes. Mr. Combes is a
vory good and well-meaning man. But we have had
too many high-priced duffing pictures stuck in our
gallery lately. When we hear of a trustee being
thus belauded—as always happens when one of
them visits England—we can estimate to a nicety
the value of the jam.
Patrick Francis Guerin, with £720 in
bank, died the other day in Melbourne from
disease of the lungs and starvation. He was 60
years of age, and lived for many years past in a
lodging-house in Bourke-street. He hawked
candles about the town at night. Whatever the
weather, he was ragged and badly clad. He
allowed himself only 3s. 6d. worth of food in the
week. Thus he went on adding shilling to shil-
ling and pound to pound without enjoyment him-
self, without friend to leave it to, without institu-
tion to endow, without ambition to buy a C.M G -
slup. One would like to make a psychological
study of a mind of this kind. It is not unique, but
it has not yet been exhaustively treated. It strikes
°??r a l^P 0 W L erful .exemplification of the tyranny
of Habit. The opium-eater, the chloral-drunkard,
the votary of alcohol, are not the only victims The
who deprives himself of necessaries, under, at
first, clre necessity or voluntarily, may keep on
practising the deprivation, increasing it, even with
abundance about him, developing it, enlarging its
scope in ail directions, until he becomes sensible of
the most exquisite satisfaction in contemplating
ms own emaciation. He knows he is travelling to
death, just as the opium-eater knows it, but as in
the latter case so in the former, the road is full of
alternate light and darkness, the feet are pushed
on, the victim must proceed. Habit is all-power-
ful. A thousand labyrinths lie around human
life, and when a mind gets into one of them, its
convolutions to the gate of Death are interesting
to speculate upon.
What sad histories are recorded in the
newspapers in a few curt lines! Recently the
Melbourne papers told us that an old man—we do
not care to give his name—was found dead and an
inquest was held with the ordinary result. Then
the deceased was buried—we suppose in the
ground of the nameless—and the book was closed
in this world. But who was Le? A man who at
one time held a most prominent mercantile posi-
tion in Melbourne, who took his stand among the
magnates, and was looked up to and respected
He was a partner in the then biggest auctioneer-
ing firm. The old man went wrong somehow, and
became a mere bar-room loafer. One accomplish-
ment alone sustained him. He could play the
piano. He used to go from hotel to hotel and play
for the frolicsome; his payment being a pint of
beer, which he would quaff with a gusto and
celerity that were the envy of his toping friends
His particular resort at one time was an hotel
close to the stage-entrance of one of the
theatres. That was always a rendezvous of
theatrical folks and their friends, and he
never enjoyed himself so well as when playing for
them. What a deplorable existence! yet how
many such has one known in one’s time; how
many such the reader can remember 1 It was a
sad end, his; but, after all, he was happy in his
way. If he got a pot of beer, it compensated him
for having to sleep on a doorstep that night. And
many a time ha did sleep in a worse place. If the
reader could but scan with the eye of a detective
the wretched creatures who assemble at that
deserving but ill-supported institution, the Syd-
ney Night Refuge, what a story he could tell I
Mr. George Coppin,
who is Grand Master of
the Victorian Freema-
sons, will be thankful to
anybody who can give
him reliable information
as to whether the late
General Gordon was a
Freemason. If he was,
then George Is prepared
to hold a Lodge of Sor-
row for him at once. Mr.
Coppin is one of the most
genial of men, but is the
victim of a strange hallu-
cination that he is never
happy unless he is mourn-
ing for something or
other. It will be a pity
if it should turn out
that Gordon was not a
Freemason—a pity for
Mr. Coppin. The views
of Gordon himself upon
the subject would b e
worth - well, Alfred
would probably give
several shillings a column
for them now.
Come on, you, Zach-
ary Barry, and listen to
this harrowing tale.
There was, some months
ago, out here a young
“ nobleman ’ —we speak
according to the conven-
ances - one “ Lord ” Wil-
liam Neville, who had
been carefully brought
up in the fear of God
and the Thirty-nine Ar-
ticles, and the scorn of
the Scarlet Woman. He
came out here, and the
Scarlet Womau wove her
nets round him—in the
insidious way that Zach-
ary well wots of—and
now he is a minion of
Rome and Darkness. The
London Tablet-an or-
gan regarded by ail true
Protestants as a repre-
sentative of the combined
views of the Pope and
the Devil—triumphs over
this victory in the follow-
ing cruel fashion:—“Lord
William Neville, whose
conversion we recently
announced, has arrived
in Rome from Australia,
and is staying at the
Hotel Buropa. On Fri-
day last, he was amongst
those admitted to assist
at the private Mass of his
Holiness the Pope, and
he received the holy
communion from the
Pope’s hand.” Hey.
Zichary, are you asleep,
9 r have you gone on a
journey ? What has put
out your torch of Faith ?
Behold the night is dark,
and the Devil is abroad
devouring your subscri-
bers. Go to! You will
have to put more brim-
stone into your articles—
more lava into your
leaders, or the Scarlet
7Voman will lure away
your staff from under
your very eyes. It might
not be—this is between
ourselves, of course—the
worst thing possible for
you to make terms with
the Scarlet Woman your-
self while you have still
some shadow of power
remaining. Who knows
but she might make you
Grand Papal Chiropodist,
if you made overtures to
her in time ?
It comes all the way from South Australia
and ean be depended on. The highest ollicialm
Adelaide is of a serious turn of mind, and attends
church with pleasing punctuality. At a dissenting
csivoo—tea and prayers ad. lib.-to which he was
dragged a while ago, there was a collection, and
he was on the spot calling out the names of the
givers as they planked their coin upon the mate
JninU he^M a8 T Hia with his back to the
pulpit. Mr. Jones, £5,” announced the man who
carried the baize-covered electro. “Mr Tones
gives £5,” repeated His Excellency with a seraphic
smile and an Oriental salaam to Mr. Jones P At
last the plate came unto the pew where safe in
splendour the obese retired grocer, Mr Skm
thorpo, with Mrs. Skulthorpe and the Misses
Skulthorpe. “ Mr. Skulthorpe, £25/- S
tically announced the collector. "Mr Skni
thorpe, £35,” echoed His Excellency. ’ "Mrs
Skulthorpe, £10,” continued the plate-bearer
“Mrs. Skulthorpe, £10.” repeated the Queen*
representative. “Miss Skulthorpe, £5 " said
the man who humped round the metal. “ Misa
Skulthorpe. £5;” went round the rafters in
the silvern tones of viceroyalty. Then followed
the two-guinea donation of Miss Belinda Skul-
thorpe; and the plate-bearer, who had gone right
down the row, was about f proceed to the nlxt
pew. under the impression that the Skulthorpe
family had been panned out right down to the last
bit of gravel in the ecclesiastical prospecting-dish
But it was not so. The pious Mr. SkGlthorpe was
not yet sated of the glory which came of havTng
it announced to the assemblage, by the month Tie
His Excellency the Governor, thatVrTlkufthorol
was not only wealthy but liberal. So Mr Skni
thorpo slowly motioned tte collector to hold hard
for a second or two, the while looking towards
Heaven and wearing an air which plainly told the
admiring but envious crowd that ha was des-
peratoly wrestling with his feelings as a father
At last he could no longer repress his emotion"
Tears as big as horse-beans coursed down his vast
expanse of cheek as he subbed out: "Baby Skul-
Another Injustice to the Poor Drunken Man.
The Comptroller of N.S.W. Prisons says he wants a tread-mill set up in fraol for habitual drunkards.
MR. PATRICK M‘BOOZER (loq.): “WHY-. I’D RATHER LIVE IN THE PARK THAN IN THE GAOL, NOW.”


DR.SCOTT'S
■s et
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by; hi
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
If you have any pain, ache, or ill-feeling
from any cause; if you seem “pretty well,”
yet lack energy and do not “ feel up to the
mark;” if you suffer from disease, we beg
you to at once try these remarkable cura-
tives. They cannot and do not injure like
medicine. Always doing good, never harm.
There is no shock or sensation felt in wear-
ing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during the
first hour they are worn their wonderful
curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all
the old-time health and good-feeling come
back. They are constructed on scientific
Erin c’pies, imparting an exhilarating,
ealth-giving current to the whole system.
Professional men assert that there is hardly
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily
practise the same, as your own physician
will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance
from those usually worn, as we substitute
our flat steel magnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in quality and design.
They are elegant in shape and finish, made
after the best French patterns, and war-
ranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents.
few
*9
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Arc universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &o., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-
called) nave failed.
The prices are as follows
s. d.
6 6
8 6
10 C
16 0
16 0
No. 1
No. 2
No. 3
No. 5
Electric Belts..
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Eleotrio-Magnetio
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with ils. fid. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece ef common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or Currency, to the
PALL MALL
It ■!,
64 Margaret-street,
SYDNEY.
p.o. Box an.
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£9 DRAPER! DRIES !
PACKED In CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
*5 WINTER BALE.
1 pair Largo Blankets
1 Large Marcella Quilt
10 yards good Sheeting
SO yards Strong Calico
13 Strong Cotton Tick
30 Wincey Dress Tweed
10 good Welsh Flannel
6 yds. Strapping Tweed
All the above are good
wearing articles.
FREE SELECTORS’
BALE.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 White or Colored Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 White or Unbleached
Calico
6 White or Red Flannel
IS yards Dress Material
13 yds. Cotton Shirtings
4 pair Good Stockings
1 pair Strong Stays
1 dark Petticoat
6 Strong oambroon
fi Brown Holland
4 Large White Towels
3 yards Good Trousers
Tweed, Buttons,
Threads, &c.
£S MEN’S CLOTHING
BALE.
1 Suit Tweed — Coat,
Trousers, and Vest
3 Crimean Shirts, large
3 Best Cotton Shirts,
largo size
1 Best Felt Hat, any size
6 pairs Strong Cotton
Socks
8 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or Pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Cob
lars, Ties, &c.
LADY’S BALE.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
3 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children's Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of tbo most fashion-
able dress materials-Silks, Velvets, &c.—with
prices, and full instruction tor self-measurement,
if applied to.
The £5 Bale system has bsen in operation for 13
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
RILEY "BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
A NEW BOOK.
Containing over 350 Tricks
AND DELUSIONS WITH CARDS, DICE,
AND CONJURING (APPARATUS.
Illustrated with blocks and diagrams, fully ex-
plain d, simplified, and adapted for home amuse-
ment and social entertainments, forming the most
complete collection of Its kind ever offered to the
Australian public. Mailed free to any address
ONE SHILLING.
THE WIZARD’S CHANGEABLE CARDS.
These cards change from Red to Black, from
eights to deuces and back again at the pleasure of
the performer, and elicit exclamations of wonder
and surprise from all who witness them. Post
free, with full instructions. Is. 3d.
THE YANKEE RUBBER BABY.
Goes in the wristcoat pocket, yet can be instantly
blown out to life size; screams awfully if smacked.
Even experienced fathers are deceived by these
laughter-producing infants, and no home can be a
really happy one wit hout their cheering presence
Price, post free, Is.
Cut this advertisement out and post It to us, en-
closing 3a. in postage stamps, naming this paper,
and we will send you by return post,
THE BOOKS, CARDS, AND BABY.
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT,
401 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
To love and be loved is the greatest happiness
on earth.
TO procure the above valuable secret (which
has never faiQed during Madame Sleeman’s
ten years’ experien oe) send 33 '8d. Orders ad dressed
to Madame Sleec mo, Box 955, G.P.O., Sydney.
A mild stimulant, a gentle tonic -Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Arsenic and quinine are not desirable
commodities to carry abont in one’s system, and
Jt is to be hoped that the poisonous ague remedies
have had their day. Ayer's Ague Cure is a sure
antidote lor the Ague, and all malarial levers, and
is perfectly harmless, leaving the system in as
good condition as before the disease was contracted.
See that you obtain Wolfe's Schnapps.
n.nme in Heaven, £11” “ Bahy SkuUhorpc, in
K; fl," repeated the collector. ” Baby
Skulthobpe. in Heaven, £1,” said His Excel-
N.S.W. Water Conservation Commi3-
. nn h as, at least, done one good thing—furnished
Innd for a laugh. One of its members, who repro-
of, an up-country electorate, while lunching,
iho nther day, stumbled on his principal supporter.
4a a matter of course, “ fizz ” followed freely.
•* RvJovel” said the legislator, at last, “ I must be
rff B°st of friends,” etc. But, bethinking hlm-
piif he enquired: ‘‘Do you know anything of
«at’pr-gettlng ?” ‘‘Know anythingl” exclaimed
ms supporter; “ why, man, I have put down more
wells put up more dams, and excavated more
tanks’ than any other one man oft the island.”
•‘Shove on your bat and come along, old boy; you
ore lust the man I want,” and on the pair went till
thev neared the Colonial Secretary’s office—in
which building the Water Commission holds its
aittings. Before going in. however, Mr. Back-
hiocks (such was the supporter's name) suggested
tw a “nip” would settle the champagne down
and cut the cobwebs out of their throats. “ All
riiht ” replied the M.P.; ‘‘there’s some ‘grand
took ’’ up stairs.” They turned into a room before
antnring that in which the Commission was sitting
and “did” a couple of whiskys. Mr. Back-
blocks, after this, was duly introduced to
the water-men as the very man wanted—“one,”
said his friend, “who can put us in the
wav of doing something.” Baekblocks was
soon called upon to state what he knew about
water conservation. He, however, began with
the big drought of 39 and dwelt at length on each
successive one and their results between that day
and this. Mr, Chairman, exasperated and dis-
annotated in the extreme, at last said, “ This is very
drv evidence, indeed, Mr. Baekblocks. You do
not however, appear to have come from a very
droughty country just now.” “No,” answered
old Baekblocks; “but 1 appear to be in one.”
•‘ Well,” retorted the Chair, “I presume that you
know where to find what you want.” Baekblocks
without another word, cleared. Some half-hour
later the Commissioners, having finished their
business for the day and pocketed their fees, stood
in the great hall donning their overcoats, when
suddenly the door of the Governor’s private room
opened in front of them, and Baekblocks came
forth evidently on the best of terms with himself
and all mankind. “What the were you
doing in there?” demanded his M.P. friend.
» Who the do you suppose you are speaking
to? First answer that question, and I’ll answer
vou ” “Beg pardon.” “That’s enough,” said
Baekblocks, “ I,” continued he, “ was in there
drinking good whisky and nice cool water, and, in
addition chatting with a very decent old cove,
whom I found there when I went in to get what I
was told to go for,” “ Who was the gentleman ? ”
enquired the Commissioners almost in one breath.
“Darn’d if I know,” said Baekblocks; “all I do
know is that he’s got a nose of his own, and that he
is a devilish civil old chap. When I told him what
I came in for, he got up and produced the whisky,
and somehow we got into a yarn about the bush.
I however, trod on his corns a bit when I told him
tnat he appeared to have a first-class billet. I
asked him what he was in the service, and what he
got for it, but he turned a deaf ear to this.”
“Why, you old fool, that was Lord Loftus. You
mistook the door.” [We don’t believe this story.
The allegation that His Excellency produced
whisky is, under the circs., absolutely incredible.—
Ed. B.]
We have in previous issues credited the
Mayor of Melbourne with considerable humour.
And not for nothing, either. It is not often you
find this sprightly quality In civic chiefs. Mayors,
as a rule, are men of obese intellects. They are
solid and serious and dignified In a dense kind of
way. as befits men who preside over grave coun-
cils in which rates and iaxes, dust and drainage,
are discussed in heavy and solemn earnest. But
genius lights up all things. The genius of drollery
is strong in Mr. Carter—albeit, he is often uncon-
scious of its workings. An instance of this uncon-
scious cerebration of the comic quality occurred
in a speech delivered by the Mayor at the late
meeting of the Licensed Victuallers to protest
against the new Licensing Act. “I judge,” said
Mr. Carter, “the future by the past.” Here the
orator paused to allow the audience time to
ponder over the chaotic possibilities involved in
this statement. Then he plunged into the follow-
ing series of extraordinary arguments:—“ The
history of the world shows that, so far as we
have any account, Intoxicants were discovered by
Noah after the flood. What follows? That the
teetotallers lost Paradise. A teetotaller was the
first murderer, and teetotallers were so evil that
Providence swept them away in the Flood. We
then find that the Patriarchs, the Egyptians, the
Jews, the Assyrians, the Babylonians, the Per-
sians, the Greeks, the Romans, more recently the
great nations of Europe, Including last, but not
least, our own grand ancestors, were all drinking
people; and we find that civilisation has been ac-
complished by drinking people, and that the bar-
barians have, as a rule, been teetotallers. Here,
in this country, were not the natives teetotallers ?
Is it desirable that we should revert to their level ?
We read that at the Flood the earth was filled with
violence No wonder. I have seen one or two
teetotallers fill the Legislative Assembly with vio-
lence, and a population of them would make a
second Flood welcome.” There is the Alpha and
Omega of the whole question for you. If you
think the example of the Patriarchs, Egyptians,
Jews, Assyrians, Babylonians, Greeks, and Romans
not good enough for you to follow, then to you
Mayor Carter has nothing more to say. You are
without the pale of reason. Yet have there been
sound doctors of divinity who have held that the
apple eaten by Adam was a species of intoxi-
cant, and that the original sin was neither more
nor less than the sin ot drunkenness. If, however,
this theory is untenable, and, as the Mayor says,
the teetotallers really did lose Paradise, then will
we, at the conclusion of this paragraph, send out
for another jugful, and drink unto their confusion
forevermore. Not that we seriously regret the
joss of Paradise so much. If it had come down in
the possession of man till this time, we, with our
usual luck, would have had little responsibility la
looking after our share of it. We should probably
have been paying—or owing—a heavy rent for a
roost on the upper branches of one of the trees
there. When the Mayor came to the statement
that “teetotallers were so evil that Providence
swept them away in the Flood,” there was not a
dry eye in the assembly. To think of so much
water and nothing to mix it with, was more than
those soft-hearted Licensed Victuallers could bear.
Yet, in spite of Mr. Carter, we believe that drink
existed from the beginning and previously.
The great Irish historian, M'Gladhriaan, states
that there are traditions of its existence
among the Irish autochthones as eaily as 300 years
before the Creation. This knocks into unrecogni-
sable fragments the fable about Noah. And as to
the argument about Cain being a teetotaller, it
cuts both ways, but worse on the side that smites
the Licensed Victuallers. For it is quite in the
manner of teetotallers to argue that it Cain killed
his brother while he (Cain) was sober, he would, if
he had been drunk, have wiped out the whole
human family, and so strangled all these disputes
before they were born. There is, however, much
truth and no little epigram in the Mayor's con-
cluding sentence. If it would tot clash with his
present duties we, ourselves, would not be unpre-
pared to offer him the market price for jokes. It
must be distinctly understood, however, that this
offer is open to no other Mayois.
* ♦ ♦
A well-known Queensland sugar-planter
(long manager of General Fielding’s Maryborough
estates) died the other day in the person of Mr.
Waller Boughey. Deceased was sixth son of the
late Sir Thomas Boughey, Bart., of Agulate,
county Stafford, and was 47 years ot age.
EXCITEMENT IN ROCHESTER.
An unusual article from the Rochester, N. Y.
Democrat and Chronicle, was published in thi
paper recently, and has been the subject of much
conversation both in professional circles and on
the street. Apparently it caused more commotion
in Rochester, as the following from the same paper
shows:—
Dr. J. B. Henlon, who is well-known not only In
Rochester,but in nearly every part of America sent
an extended article to this paper, a few days since
which was duly published, detailing his remark-
able experience and rescue from wbat seemed to
be certain death. It would be impossible to enu-
merate the personal enquiries which have been
made at our office ss to the validity of the article,
but they have been so numerous that further
investigation of the subject was deemed an
editorial necessity.
With this end in view, a represent!ve of this
paper called on Dr. Henion, at his residence on
Andrews-street, when the following interview
cciurred:—
“ That article of yours, Doctor, has created quite
a whirlwind. Are the statements above the
terrible conditions you were in, and the way you
were rescued such as you can sustain.”
“Every one of them and many additional ones,
few people ever get so near the grave as I did and
then return, and I am not surprised that the
Public think it marvellous. It was marvellous.”
How in the world did you, a physician, come to
be brought so low?”
By neglecting the first and most simple
symptoms. I did not think 1 was sick. It is true
1 had frequent headaches; felt tired most of the
time; could eat nothing one day and was ravenous
the next; felt dull indefinite pains, and my stomach
was out of order, but 1 did not think it meant any-
thing serious.”
“But have these common ailments anything to
do with the fearful Bright’s disease which took so
firm a hold on you.”
“Anything? Why, they are the sure Indications
of the first stages of that dreadful malady. The
tact is, lew people know or realise what ails them,
f am sorry to say that too few physicians do
eitner.
“ That is a strange statement, Doctor.”
But it is a true one. The medical profession
have been treating symptoms instead of disease
tor years, and it is high time it ceased. We doctors
haye been clipping off the twigs when we should
strike at the root. The symptoms Ihat r ejust
mentioned or any unusual action or irritation of
the water channels Indicate the approach of
Bright’s disease even more than a cough an-
nounces the coming of consumption. We do not
treat the cough, but try to help the lungs. We
should not waste our time trying to relieve our
headache, stomach, pains about the body, or other
symptoms, but go directly to the kidneys, the
source of most of these ailments.”
».rpk ig then, is what you meant when you said
that more than one-half the deaths which occur
arise from Bright’s disease, is it Doctor?”
Precisely. Thousands of so-called diseases
are torturing people to-iw, when in reality it is
Bright s disease in some one of its many forms.
It is a Hydra-headed monster, and the slightest
symptoms should strike terror to every one who
has them. I can look back and recall hundreds of
deaths which physicians declared at the time were
caused by paraylisis, apoplexy, heart disease,
pneumonia, malarial fever, and other common
complaints, which I see now were caused by
Bright’s disease.”
“And did all these oases have simple symptoms
at first?”
“Every one of them, and might have been cured
as 1 was by the timely use of the same remedy—
Warner’s Safe Cure. I am getting my eyes
thoroughly opmed in this matter and think I am
helping others to see the fact and their possible
danger alsi. Why, there are no end ot truths
bearing on this subject. If you want to know
more about it go and see Mr. Warner himself . He
was sick the same ■'s I, and is the healthiest man
in Rochester to-day. He has made a study of this
subject, and cm give you more facts than lean.
Go, to, arid see Dr. Lattimoro, the chemist, at the
University. If yau want facts there are any
nnaatity of them snowing the alarming increase of
Bright’s disease, its simple and deceptive symptoms
and that there is but one way by which it can be
escaped.”
Ful y satisfied of the truth and force of the
Doctor s words, the reporter bade him good day,
and called on Mr. Warner at his establishment.
At first Mr. Warner was enclined to be reticent,
but learning that the information desired was
about the alarming increase of Bright’s disease,
his manner changed instantly and he spoke very
earnestly:
It is true that Bright's disease has increased
wonderfully, and we find, by reliable statistics,
th it ia th 3 past ten years its growth has been 250
per cent. Look at the prominent man it has
carried off: Everett, Sumner, Chase, Wilson,
Carpsnter, Bishop Haven and others. This is
terrible, and shows a greater growth than that ot
any other known complaint. It should be plain to
every one that something must be done to check
this increase or there is no knowing where it may
end.”
“ Do you think many people are afflicted with it
to-day who do not realise it, Mr. Warner?”
“ Hundreds of thousands. I have a striking ex-
ample of this truth which has just come to my
notice. A promiae.it professor in a New Orleans
medical college was lecturing before his class on
the subject of Bright’s disease. He had various
il aids under microscopic analysis, and was showing
the students what the indications of this terrible
malady were. In order to show the contrast
between healthy and unhealthy fluids, he had pro-
vided a vial, the contents of which were drawn
from his own person. ‘ And now, gentlemea,’ he
said, ‘ as we have seen the unhealthy indication, I
will show you how it appears in a state of perfect
health,’ and he submitted his own fluid to the
usual test. As he watched the results his counte-
nance suddenly changed—his color and command
both left him. and in a trembling voice he said:
‘Gentlemen, I have made a painful discovery; I
have Bright’s disease of the kidneys,’and in less
than a year he was dead.”
“ You believe that it has no symptoms of its
own and is frequently unknown even by the person
who is afflicted with it.”
“ It has no symptoms of its own and very often
none at all. Usually no two people have the same
symptoms, and frequently death is the first
symptom. The slightest indications of any kidney
difficulty should be enough to strike terror to any
one. I know what I am talking about, for I have
been through all the stages of kidney disease.”
You know of Ur. Henion s case ?”
“ Yes, I have both read and heard of it.”
“ It is very wonderful, is it not?”
“A very prominent case, but no more so than a
great many others that have come to my notice as
having been cured by the same means.”
“You believe then that Bright’s disease can be
cured?”
“ I know it cm. I know it from the experience
of hundreds of prominent persons who were given
up to die by both their physicians and friends.”
J.YOU speak of your own experience, what was
“ A fearful one. I had felt languid and unfitted
for business for years. But 1 did not know what
ailed me. When, however, I found it was kidney
difficulty I thought there was little hope, and so did
the doctors. I have since learned that one of the
physicians ot this city pointed me out to a gentle-
man on the street one day, saying; ‘There goes a
man who will be dead within a year.’ I believe his
words would have proven true if I had not fortu-
nately secured and used the remedy now known
as Warner’s Safe Cure.”
“ And this caused you to manufacture it?”
“No, it caused me to investigate, and I de-
termined as a duty lowed humanity and the suffer-
ing, to bring it within their reach, and now it is
known in every part of America, is sold In every
drug store, and has become a household necessity.”
Tne reporter left Mr. Warner, much impressed
with the earnestness and sincerity of his state-
ments, and next paid a visit to Ur. S. A. Baltimore
at his residence on Prince-street. Dr. Lattimore,
although busily engaged upon some matters con-
nected with the State Board of Health, of which
he is one of the analysts, courteously ausweredthe
questions that were propounded him:
“ Did you make a chemical analysis of the case
of Mr. H. H. Warner, some three years ago,
Doctor? ’
‘‘Yes, sir.”
“What dil this analysis show you?”
‘ The presence of albumen and tube oasts In
great abundance,’’
“ And what did the symptoms indicate?”
“A serious disease of the kidney.”
“ Did you think Mr. Warner could recover?”
No sir. I did not think it possible. It was
seldom, Indeed, that so pronounced a case had, up
to thattime, ever been cured.
“Do you know anything about the remedy
which cured him?”
“ r es. I have chemically analyzed it, and upon
critical examination, find it entirely free from any
poisonous or deleterious substances.”
Wo publish the foregoing statements in view of
tho commotion which the publicity of Dr. Henion’s
article has caused, and to meet the protestations
which have been made. The standing of Dr.
Henlon, Mr. Warner and Dr. Lattimoro in the com-
munity is beyond question, and the statements
they make cannot for a moment be doubted.
They conclusively show that Bright's disease of
the kidney is one of the most deceptive and
dangerous of all diseases, that it is exceedingly
common, alarmingly increasing, and that it can be
cured.


THE SYDNEY BICYCLE CLUB.
FOURTH ANNUAL INTERCOLONIAL AMA-
TEUR CHAMPION BICYCLE AND TRICYCLE
RACE MEETING.
Under the patronage and rules of the New South
Wales ’Cyclists Union.
To be held at the
N.S.W. CRICKET ASSOCIATION GROUND,
Moore Park, Sydney, N.8.W.,
SATURDAY, 22nd AUGUST, 1885,
PROGRAMME:
1. One-mile Bicycle Championship of N.S.W.—
Special Club Trophy .
2. Ten-ralles Bicycle Championship of N.S.W.—
Gardiner Cup
3. One-mile Bicycle Handicap _ _ .. ,
4. Three-miles Bicycle Handicap—The Ladies
Bracelets
Competitors in this race must be nominated by
ladies. . ,
5. One-mile Bicycle Handicap, for Malden Riders
only
This race to be ridden on Roadster Bicycles.
Minimum weight, 351bs.
6. Two-miles Tricycle Handicap
GOLD MEDAL FOR FIRST SCRATCH MAN
PAST THE POST. IN ADDITION TO THE
THREE PRIZES ALLOTTED TO THE HANDI-
CAP; ANY COMPETITOR ALLOTTED A START
TO BE AT LIBERTY TO GO PROM THE
SCRATCH MARK IF HE CHOOSES.
THREE PRIZES IN BACH EVENT.
ENTRIES CLOSE AUGUST 10, AT 9 O’CLOCK
P.M , AT CLUB ROOMS.
7. 150 Yards Handicap Foot Race
8. 440 Yards Handicap Foot Race
9. Parade—Prize, Silver Bugle, for the Club ex-
celling in appearance and manoeuvres.
All events open to all amateurs.
E. H. MCRAE,
Honorary Secretary.
All communications and enquiries to be ad-
dressed to, and entry forms obtained from, the
Club Clerk, J. Copland, at the Club Booms and
Headquarters, 85 Market-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
E
AGLEHAWK MECHANICS’ INSTITUTE.
GRAND ART UNION,
In strict accordance with the Act.
VALUE
FIRST FIRST
PRIZE dtOUUi PRIZE.
SECOND PRIZE, £200.
THIRD PRIZE, £100.
4 prizes, value £50 each. 100 prizes, value £5 each.
4 „ „ £25 each. 550 „ ,, £1 each.
40 „ ,, £10 each. 300 „ „ 10s.;each.
1000 PRIZES 1 1000 PRIZES I
10,000 TICKETS at 10s. each, obtainable at most
business places in the colony.
N.B.—In proof of the value of the above, the
Committee undertake to find purchasers for the
various prizes at the prices named, and to hand the
winner full amount in cash, less 10 per cent, for
commission.
The drawing to take place in June, under the
supervision of the Mayor and Councillors of Eagle-
hawk and a Committee of Shareholders.
T. H. TAYLOR,
Managing Secretary.
Bull-street, Sandhurst, and
Mechanics’ Institute, Eaglehawk.
SULLIVAN & JACKSON, Agents.
Vaughan Chambers, 142 King-street, Sydney.
B
(X B.S. BALLARAT. EX. S.S. BALLARAT.
)EAPES and SHAW PEAPE3 and SHAW,
HAVE OPENED a large SHIPMENT of
GLOVES.
INCLUDING Gents’ Chevrettes, Ladles’ Chev-
rettes.
1" ADIE3’ Four‘botton Tan Florentine GLOVE3
11
UBY, Bronze, and Black ditto ditto,
F
OUR-BUTTON or Clasp Tan KID GLOVES,
WITH Ingrain Twist Points, Black and Self
Colour.
LSO, Bight-button Length Tan Mosquetalre.
rllHE LARGEST, most RELIABLE, and Cheap-
■ est
S
TOOK of
LADIES’ and
GLOVES
GENTLEMEN’S
’N THE AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
ADIB3’ and CHILDREN’S GLOVES
’N EVERY LENGTH SIZB,a n COLOUR.
3EAPKS and SHAW, PBAPE3 and SHAW,
G
EORQE-STREET, GBOBGB-STREBT.
w
BT WEATHER REQUISITES
T PBAPBS and SHAW’S, QEORGB-STRBET.
ADIE3’ TAILOR-MADE ULSTERS.
ADIB8’ MACINTOSH OVERALLS.
T ADIES’ UMBRELLAS. GENTLEMEN’S
Mi UMBRELLAS.
PLENDID VARIETY and EXTRAORDIN-
ARY CHEAP.
GENTLEMEN’S WINTER OVERCOATS, from
25s. eacn
4 NT1PLUVIAN MACINTOSHES sewn seams
f\ 22s. 6d.
S
I)
OUBLE TEXTURE MACINTOSHES, 30s. each.
HI
j\VBRY VARIETY of Warm WINTER
HOSIERY.
K ADIES’ and GENTLEMEN
1 M GLOVES.
WINTER
)EAFES and SHAW, PEAPES and SHAW.
ET, GEORGE-8TRBET.
DR. BRIGHT’S PHOSPHODYNE
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental ana Physical
Depression, Nervous Debility, Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Energy. Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Decline, and is a
marvellous medicine for renovating impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought upon the
individual as to the process. It moves the lungs,
liver, heart, kidney, stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour, yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, and is the most powerful blood purifier
of the present day. Sold by all chemists.
Agents— Elliott Bros.
THE SYDNEY SPORTS
DEPOT.
389 GEORG E-STEEET SYDNEY
(Opposite Royal Hotel.)
BICYCLESjT^TRICYCLES.
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles
and Tricycles
Have Every Improvement.
1885 Universal Club, a thoroughly reliable and easy-running
machine. Ball bearings to both wheels, and improvements.
OUR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadster.
THE UNIVERSAL CLUB
BICYCLE.
fitted with Improved Ball Bear-
ings to front and back wheels.
Hollow Forks, Patent Head and
Detachable Bent Handle Bar,
Easy Slide Spring, Hubs Plated,
Black Enamelled Spokes,
Price, iB13 lOs. At the price
we defy competition.
JAMES MARTIN & COMPANY, 389 George-st., Sydney.
"1
6i
AVOID COMPLICATED FOREIGN BRACES.”
66
a.
CREDENT A/'
SIMPLEST AND BEST . FOR MEN AND BOYS,
WHOLESALE only at
16 AC 1*7 CHEAPSIDE, LONDON, 353.C.
And of W. PENNY FINDLAY & EDO,, Melbourne Sc Sydney,
II the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel In the Western District. The Table and Llquo
cannot be surpassed, even In the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. First-class Stabling
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor.
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OP CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
mr BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WII-LIA.M FLEMING, Merchant & Importer
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
I
■
A
for Infants and Children.
Castorla cures Colic, Constipation,
Some Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation,
Gives healthy sleep and promotes digestion,
Without injurious medication.
“Castorla is so well adapted to children that
1 recommend it as superior to any prescription
known to me.” H. A. Aechek, M. D., i
t HI Oxford Street, New York. 1
Elliott Bros., Sydney, Agents.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
.Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
ur Braes and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Btacksmithingi
Plumbing, Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Elec trie and Pneumatic Bell-fltting
of every description.
” & “PAN” CLO
1EYBNTBR8, &0.
BOULTON’S "FLUSH-OUT,” ”VALVE,” &_“PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PRE '
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Am Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney*
' Full particulars and price on application.
Professional Directory.
G
BO RGB PBIRIMAN, Scene Painter, Theatre
Royal, Bri i moo.
»X1 H B A T R B B O Y A L.
3 Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Motgrov*.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo.L. Goodman.
Special Notice.—Overture at J-45. when the
audience are politely requested to be seated.
Grand inauguration of the Omm Sewon. bv
WILLIAMSON. GARNBB. and MUSGHOV B 8
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
TRBMEND0U8 RECEPTION
and
EXTRAORDINARY SUCCESS
of •
LA PETITE MADEMOISELLE
Pronounced by the public 1 1 1 be the
MOST MAGNIFICENT PRODUCTION
and Grandest Spectacle ever seen in Australia.
Prices of Admission; Dress Circle 5s.; Stalls, 3a.;
Family Circle, 2a. . ,
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway s
Box plan open at theatre from 11 till 4. No free
list. Doors open at 7.15. Carriages at 10.50.
N
BW OPBRA HOUSE.
Lessees Messrs. Majeronl and Wilson
Sub-Lessee Miss Genevieve Ward.
Continued Triumph of the Ward-Vernon Season.
LAST TWO WEEKS
ot
and the celebrated Actor, Mr. W. II. VERNON.
Complete success of Sydney Grundy’s new Play,
RACHEL RACHEL,
Which Will be repeated for the last time
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING.
TO-MORROW [FRIDAY),
fiEftEFIT tendered to Mr. W. H. VERNON,
NANCE OLDFIELD.
Art Ornaments from John Sands’, George-st.
Handsome Furnishing by David Jones and Co.
Prices as usual,
limit-, Agent. Signor Agbati, Business Manager.
AIBTY THBATRB1
Lessee Mr. B.N. Jones, treasurer MnH.Musgrove
Doors open at 7.30. OvertureatS. Carriages at 10.15
No Free List—Public Press excepted.
SPECIAL COMEDY SEASON,
under the direction of _
Messrs. WILLIAMSON, GARNER, & MUSGROVE
Success most legitimate of the young English
comedian, Mr. FRANK THORNTON.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY,
Mr. Frank Thornton ai the Rev. Robert Spalding
A SPECIALLY-SELECTED COMEDY COMPANY
The furniture and appointments from Hamilton’s
Globe Filrniture Depot, Park-street.
Admission— Parquette Stalls, 93.: Stalls, ,13.; Hal-
bony, 3s. Box plan at Nicholson’s Music Ware-
house, George-street.
General Business Manager, Mr. H. R. Harwood.
Aoadbmt of music.
Leasee and Manager.. Mr. F. B. Hisoooks.
50th Week, and Last Three Nights
of the
LEVIATHAN SHOW.
HISOOOKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION
Bvery Evening In their Refined and Amusing
Entertainment.
To conclude with W. H. Bent’s Pantomimic Faroe,
A SUBURBAN BUGBEAR.
Admission, 4s., 3a., 2s., and Is. Box Plan at
Paling's. Carriages at 10.16.
M
ABONIC HALL, YORK STREET.
Lessee
Harry Lynch.
SECOND SEASON, MONDAY, JULY 37. 1885,
and every evening during the week,
THE WORLD-FAMED
Lynch Family Bellrlngors,
IN THEIR ORIGINAL CONCERTS.
FOURTH CHANGE OF PROGRAMME.
Admission-4s.. 3s., 3s., Is. Box plan at Paling’s.
Doors open at 7.30, overture at 8, Carriages, 10.16
"THE LYCEUM,’’
Newcastle,
jSrfctlATED IN THE BEST PART OF THE CITY.
It Is capable of seating 500 people,
and suitable for
kUSICAL & DRAMATIC ENTERTAINMENTS.
The Stage (40ft. by 24ft.) is furnished with
STOCK, SCENERV, &c
tor Terms, apply
COLIN CHRISTIE,
“ TBs LtCEUJt,”
Newcastle.
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL,
GOUIiBtTBN.
ririHtS Theatre, one of the best in the colony, Is
•I open for Engagement. Particulars from
M. E. PULLEN, Hall Secretary.
A GRAND COMPLIMENTARY CONCERT
A (Under Distinguished Patronage)
WU1 be tendered by the Choir of Sc. Patrick’s,
\ assisted by numerous Artistes and Amateurs, to
HERR HUGO ALPEN,
in NEW MASONIC HALL, on WEDNESDAY
EVENING, July 20,1886.
Programme.— Part I.
Alpen’s Grand Mass, in D, by Full Chorus and
Grand Orchestra (kindly led by Herr Kretsch-
mann). Principals—Miss Moon, Soprano ; Mrs.
Banks, Contralto ; Mr. F. Brewer, Tenor;
Signor Vittorini, Bass.
. Part II.
A Brilliant CONCERT, In which Mrs. F. Riley,
Mrs. F. Brewer, Mr. J. T. Brown, Mr. Dinnles,
Mrs. Clancy, and Herr VOQRIOH will take
part.
Tickets, 4s.; Balcony, 3s.; Back Seats, 2s.; to be
obtained from the principal music warehouses.
FRANK BREWER, Hon. See.
LICENSES UNDER THE REAL PROPERTY
ACT.
IN reference to the notice in the Government
Gazette, dated 18th February last, re Can-
cellation of Licenses, under the 100th Section of
the Real Property Act, on or before 30th June,
1885 It is hereby notified that the date of cancella-
tion of such licenses has beon extended from 80th
June, 1885, to 31st August. 1885, inclusively.
(Signed) P. F. ADAMS,
Surveyor-G eneral.
Surveyor-General’s Office,
Sydney* 30 th June, 1885.


Important kmsit!
THE
ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
BEG to Inform the public that, In consequence
of the
EXPIRATION OF LEASE
of their present premises, they have commenced
their
GtRAND
CUMINS SUE,
Which will
LAST FOR A FEW WEEKS ONLY!
The Goods are all marked at an
SUCTO!
as will be seen by list below.
PRICE LIST.
Ladies’ Handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 10s, 15s
17s 6d, and 20s each
Handsome Jewelled Barrings, 4s and 5s per pair
Ladies’ Choice Necklets, 5s each
Ladles’ Choice Necklets, best American Plate, 20s
each
Ladles’ Elegant Bangles, 4s, 6s, and 10s per pair
Choice Lockets, 5s each
Handsome Gem Rings, 4s and 8s 6d each
Wedding and Keeper Rings, In Solid Gold, 7s 6d
each *
Ladies’ Handsome Lockets, 10s each
Ladies’ Elegant Crosses, 4s, 5s, and 6s each
Ladles’ Brooch and Earring Sets, from 5s to 16s
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Sliver, 3s 6d each
Gents’ O. G. Watches, Hunting, Open-Faced
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 30s each,
warranted 3 years
Ladies’ (same as above.)
W These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, In hunting or open
faced crystal glasses £4 0 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balance ..£600
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers
Ditto ditto, compensation balance
The celebrated Waltham Watch, In hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses..
Ditto ditto, compensation balance..
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance Is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph, £5 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
firrade £0 0 0
Ditto, In hunting oases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £8 10 0
£4 10
£5 0
£3 15
£4 16
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £10.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 4s
each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, half round buckle
flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck rings
2s 6d each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 3s, 4s. 6s, and 6s 6d per set.
Same as above, only haif sets, Is 6d, 3s, and 3s per
set.
Best American Patent Spring Solitaire Suites,
5s per set.
Gent's elegant Seals, 4s each.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4s each,
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, 6s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pins, Is,
6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, 5s, and 5s 6d eao
Very best American Pencil Cases, 3s 6d each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Match Boxes, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign Purses, 4s each.
Richly engraved Bracelets, 6s each.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully Jewelled, 8s, Ids,
12s, and 14s each.
Broooches, Brooches, Brooches, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 61, 3s,
3s 6d, 4a, 4s 6d, 5s, 5s 6d, 6s, 6s 6d, 7s, 7s 6d, 8s, 8s
6d, 9s, 9s 6d, and 10s each.
PLEASE NOTE.
All goods will be sent post free, with the excep-
tion of the watches, orders for which must be ac-
companied with an extra amount of two and six-
pence to defray postage expenses. Send in your
orders early, as the goods must be sold, and no one
should miss this chance of procuring the beautiful
gems at less than cost price.
Note the Address :
The Oriental Gold Co.,
474 Gaorga Street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS,
The Doctors recommend Wolfe's Schnapps.
I held her little hand in mine,
I clasped her beauteous form,
And swore to shield her from the world,
And from the raging storm;
She met my glance with loving eye,
And said, in accents low,
I wish, dear boy, you d get your pants
From Summerfleld and Co.*
Gill for Wolfe's Schnapps and take no other.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
- ROTAr-“La Petite Madamoiselle” p. 8
Hm78K-“ Rachel ” .•
Theatre-" The Private Secretary ” ,
ACADEMY ° f Music.—Hiscocks’ F. Minstrels..
The appearance of Mr. George Musgrove
in this city never fails to call up a nervous flutter
in the breasts of the seraphically shaven and the
curiously curled. For it is known to them that
George chiefly manages the vocal and anatomical
part of the great firm’s affairs. No sooner is he
announced to arrive in any city, than joy gleams
in the eyes of the oyster-men, and suburban cot-
tages for “ married couples without incum-
brance” are at a heavy premium. Simulta-
neously with his actual advent, attornies' clerks,
who had previously been noted for briskness, take
four hours to tile an affidavit; and,even when you
call round to lubricate your loan office (eight
Instalments overdue) you are told by the boy in
charge, that “ Bister Sholomunsh has gord oud for
a few biddits.” Men who ought, properly, at the
time to be perched on stools in banks, lounge half
the day about the theatre-bars, absorbing perilous
port, and swallowing Satanic sherry; and the en-
quiries by elderly gentlemen at the stage-door are
so frequent, that every time the opera company
arrives, the door-ketper goes round and tells his
Building Society to begin “to hoist up another
terrace!” Ones “opera” is announced, and the
fitful form of Musgrove pervades the theatre and
its entourdge inside the house, a pronounced
change becomes at once apparent. Ushers, eager
to “ mind ” tne coats of gilded humanity at half-
a-crown a “ go,” cast off their comedy linen, and
aopear in operatic bucklers of astounding appear-
ance. The decayed tragedienne in the cloak-room,
too, having in view the approaching shower of
gold, begins to entertain serious thoughts of hav-
ing her willow-pattern soup-plate tin-lined and
copper-fastened, and hastens to replenish the
stock of nerated waters and other liquid luxuries
“from the choicest brands.” Prior to the com-
mencement of the opera season, the theatre gen-
erally is treated to a “dust down and a llckover; ”
but in the case of the Theatre Royal that process
waa rendered unnecessary; the noble structure in
question having been for so many days previous
to the opening under the disinfecting influence of
Herr Insecticide Kru e.
* • *
On the present occasion, Mr. Musgrove
has returned to us with a company which he calls
“the Largest and Best Ever Heard in Australia.”
Mr. Musgrove has done this before, and will pro-
bably do it a?ain, for he is a gentleman of superior
spirit and of infinite enterprise! Our business,
however, Is less with the company in the aggre-
gate than with the members in detail; though it is
but just to George to admit, at the start, that he
has many names in the present troupe, which only
— (we quote him) — “ an enormous outlay ”
could have attracted to the colonies. This
much being effusively conceded, let us pro-
ceed to chronicle, as pleasantly as possible,
what this, "the largest and best company,” are
called upon to do, and how they do it. They are
called upon, then, to perform “ an entirely original,
military, and romantic opera;” the music by
Charles Lecocq and Co , and the libretto by Henry
8. Leigh and W. H. Harrison. Of Henry 8. Leigh,
we know that he was an elderly gentleman who
came to the fore years before many of us were
born, by writing “ Vers de Societd ” of the Pella
Cruscan order, which read drolly enough in these
prosaic days; and subsequently achieved further
fame through publishing a volume of London
ballads, called, aptly enough, “Carols of Coc-
kaigne,” a work upon which we considered, until
we had seen “ La Petite Mademoiselle” and perused
the lyrics, his reputation principally rested. Of
Mr. Leigh’s collaborateur, in the piece, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, we had known little beyond that he was
a popular conductor, gradually (they all do it!)
blossoming into a distinguished composer! But
wc had no idea that he could write. The fact, all
things considered, comes upon us as a startling
surprise! It also reminds us of a certain little
incident, que void.
* * *
We had, at one time, a most excellent
typographic foreman. He was sober, industrious,
and a perfect workman. We respected him highly,
and made a point of always giving him all the tea-
flght and suburban-concert tickets that came to
the office; and this rendered him greatly respected
also in the neighbourhood in which he resided.
One day, however, towards the close of the
eleventh year of his servitude, while handing us
some papers, he Slid, with a blush, that we should
And in the bundle, “a little thing of his own which
he had dashed off in a moment of inspiration,”
Our action was prompt. We told him to go, im-
mediately—in his apron—in the rain—anyhow—we
didn’t care! He tearfully represented that he had
15 motherless children, and had had nothing in the
house for three days but the bailiffs. But we
laughed a demoniacal laugh, and were adamant.
He died shortly afterwards, being knocked down
by a ’bus while crossing over to a newspaper office
to hand the editor “a nice sharp article on a
current topic, which he thought would just suit
his columns.” This by the way.
» * *
With commendable modesty the authors
have refrained from claiming the particular parts
of the play for which they are individually respon-
sible, and this tends to make the critic’s work the
more easy. We have not now, for Instance, to
overwhelm with fervid congratulations the par-
ticular author of this opening chorus of the first
act:—
“ Come in, come in, ladles we greet you,
No cause for fear, no cause for shame;
While you are here, be sure we’ll greet you
With the respect your sex can claim.’ 7
Neither have we to bedew with tears of congratu-
lation the writer of the gem which immediately
follows:—
“ Citizens’ Wives.— Sirs, at your feet we humbly
fall.
“ Juviqne. —It must not be I nay, not at all!
Let us hear at your leisure,
Your wills and your pleasures ” (sic).
• m m
Another lyric in the first act that struck
us with much force is a “Song of the Game of
Bowls,” which agreeable pastimethe authors (with
their minds, doubtless, on bigger things intent)
seem to have strangely confused with football.
Reid:—
“ If you’d played at bowls at all, sir,
And could take your mem’ry back—
You’d remember there’s a ball, sir,
Which for short we term the ‘ Jack.’
In the noble art of bowling,
'Tis for all the rest a goal;
At the start we send it rolling,
Just as far as it may roll.— [ 1!]
"We pursued when once it started,
Wheresoe’er it led the van;
None was faint or feeble-hearted.
Like a herd of deer we ran.”—[I!]
However that may bo, the first line of Juvigne’s
song—“ The Notary’s Wife ”—
“ AngoulSme is a town full dear,”
impressed us as possessing a picturesque spirit of
poetry for which the author is deserving of a
much more than passing notice 1 Many persons
may consider that this bit of a chorus, now, is of
peculiar merit:—
“ Three times before to-day
Here have we been invited 1
We scarcely need say—
We are all delighted I ”
And, as a specimen of the humorous lyrics of the
opera, we cannot do better than append the fol-
lowing:—
“ Good people all, behold in me
A very popular M.D.
’Tis mine (sic) to rid you of your ills
With powder, potion, plaster, pills.
My name is famous, too, in story,
And bleeding is my special glory,
In fact, my patients all agree
I am a popular M.D.
Stir up the mortar round and round,
And with the pestle pound, pound, pound,
Senna and salts, a rousing fee,
I’m a popular M.D.”
This, which is a portion of a quartette sung by
Robert Brough, Woodfleld, Doyle, and Wallace,
may be regarded as the crack “ funny ” song of
the piece; and we really think that anyone would
lay themselves open to a charge of being greedy
if they expected anything funnier than that.
Having, then, dispelled all doubts (if any existed
in the public mind) as to the beauty and humour
of the lyrics, we will now- after ringing the bell—
proceed to other matters.
• • *
To begin at once, then, “ La Petite Made-
moiselle’ is a spectacle of great magnificence, and
it openly relies, as its principal attractions, upon
the dances and ballets that are introduced into the
opera. But, strangely enough, in the second act
when the Countess (who is a captive) pretends to be
sick, and a “ Sxbot dance” and a pierrot dance ace
given to enliven her, it is somewhat dishearten-
ing to read in the “ argument” that “ the various
entertainments provided for her amusement
failed to dispel her melancholy.” The house, how-
ever, was not so difficile, bestowing a splendid
burst of applause upon the glittering interior, and
encoring the Sabot dance in fine style. While on
the subject of the scenery, we may mention that
both of Mr. Gordon’s other efforts were received
with equal favour, and. Indeed, it would be impos-
sible to overpraise the staging, so gorgeous and
artistic is it in its every detail. The evolutions of
the military in the first act, by the way, are capi-
tally managed, but we should like some explana-
tion at the hands of the Captaln-Commanoant of
the Royalist Army with respect to his firing a vol-
ley of blank cartridge into the stalls. The bearing
of poor people there, if not fervidly demonstra-
tive, was certainly inoffensive.
* * ♦
The acting presented many remarkable
features. Not the least singular of these was the
failure of Mr. Robert Brough to make so big a
hit as we had expected in the character of
Tamborean, the stereotyped innkeeper, who seems
to prowl through every comic opera, We do not
know, of course, whether the c'ownlng ho Indulged
in with Boisvillette (well played by Mr. Frank
Boyle) in the first act is “ business ” set down for
him by the authors, or some little thing of his own.
Miss Nellie Stewart, who has returned with all her
charms (and all her arms) was, on the other hand,
quite a success as the Countess Cameroni, She had
a tremendous reception, and was overwhelmed by
baskets of flowers thrown to her by the eye-
glassed and walnut-brained section of the com-
munity. There was great applause in the second
act when Miss Nellie reached for and successfully
clutched the high Q. for which sue is so greatly
famous; and it was a matter of general remark
that the young lady had made great strides in her
vocalisation. Miss Nellie, we hear, has been study-
ing for some time of late—at Milan, probably—we
should not like to hint at Dubbo.
» • »
To Miss Emma Chambers has been en-
trusted a part (Jacqueline) to which is attached a
great quantity of talk, alt of which is as stupid as
Scott and as bald as Boucicault. She worked very
hard, did Mias Emma, but couldn’t succeed in
*• getting them ” in one single Instance. And this
reminds us. The little lady in question would do
well to take the key she sang “ Harlequin and
Columbine ” in, step out early on the first conve-
nient morning, ar.d—drop it down a moss-grown
well. Mr. W. H. Woodfleld, though evidently ner-
vous, sent the show along with fine vigour, but he
was ill at ease. What oppressed him must have
been his boots, which were peculiar, inasmuch as
they were military boots in front and pirate’s
boots behind; so that when he faced the audience
he was a Captain, and when he faced the fort he
was a Corsair. There is much humour in this.
Those boots should have a little scene to them-
selves I And now let us say that Miss Docy Stewart
made a merry Madelon, and sang a fortune telling
song with great spirit; but Miss Aggie Kilton
(hem I) was sadly overweighted in the part of Ju-
vigne. Mr. John Wallaea played a low-comedy
steward, and, through no fault of his, turned out
to be the personification of gruesome melancholy.
The rest struggled on valiantly, but in a general
way may be said to have been defeated by the
dialogue with great slaughter.
♦ * ♦
The music is merry, but hardly “catch-
ing.” The composers of it are simply set down as
“Charles Lecooq, Strauss. Asoh, Bouheur LU.
Ascher, and Blchourg.” We are inclined, at once,
to give the palm for melody to Asch; and now
what the others had better do is to go round to his
boarding-house and—eat him.
♦ ♦ *
We are glad that the Widow O’Brien got
a good “ send off ” at the Royal on Friday night,
for John is as merry a man as ever was Juliet’s
nurse’s husband. Mr. E. D. Davies was likewise
considerably crowed at. " Aint it lovely, Teddy?”
* * -tr *
“ Rachel ” was played at the Opera House
on Saturday night. This was its first presentation
in Sydney. It is a comedy-drama written by Mr.
Sydney Grundy for the Ward-Vernon company.
It tells the story of a supposititious child. Rachel
has married a younger son. Sir Phillip Grant, the
elder brother, persecutes the pair. Rachel loses
husband and baby. Her baby, by a series of not
very cleverly designed Incidents Is, through the
instrumentality of a villain called Captain Craven,
substituted for the dead daughter of Sir Phillip.
Rachel, after years in gaol, becomes governess at
Sir Phillip’s. She gradually works out the history
of her charge, and learns that Miss Gladys Grant
is her own daughter. In avenging herself on Sir
Phillip and saving her daughter from Craven her
faculties have full play. She finally wins.
• * ♦
Mr. W. H. Vernon played the part of Cap-
tain Craven. This is a luxurious knave who has
been drummed out of the army and is prepared to
prey on anything and anybody. He is clear-
headed, ready, and abounds in resources. He la
not a hypocrite. Ho shows no veneer of regard
for the proprieties. Still, he is not a braggart. To
adequately represent a character like this the
actor must know fully what he can do, and have
confidence that he is doing it. Mr. Vernon does
not once strain for effect. He neither mouths nor
mimics. He employs none of the trade tricks of
the stage villain. He embodies the dramatist’s
creation, and lives it naturally. His figure is good.
His face, inclining to the stolid aspect, suits the
man of the world. There is no nervous Intensity
about it. He could not make much use of it to
express emotional passion. In refined comedy it
has its sphere. It would be difficult to indicate
anything in his Captain Craven one would like to
see done differently. He has not simply studied
his role, but the piece. He is, therefore, always in
his place at the right time, and in the right way.
He is not aggressive. The same equable audacity
possesses him when be is completely beaten and
the police prepare to handcuff him as has animated
him ail along.
* * m
A situation in tho play is much like the
analogue of one In “ Forget me Not.” There
Stephanie and Sir Horace Welby have a verbal
duel, with Alice Verney between. The woman is
beaten. Here, Mrs. Athelstane and Captain
Craven have the duel with Gladys Grant between,
and the man is beaten.
♦ • •
Mr. Lawrence works out the fortunes of
Sir Phillip Grant. This is an unscrupulous charac-
ter, but irresolute. Craven turns him round his
finger. He tries to summon up some moral
courage now and again, but at a word from the
heavier scoundrel ho falls back from grace. The
part is consistently represented. Mr. Haygarth
made an affable policeman. Ho was a sergeant in
the prologue, and a superintendent in the drama.
The 15 years that turned the property-baby into
the bouncing Gladys did not make Mr. Haygarth
look a day older. Mr. Branscombe was the local
political orator. He carried in a poem on Miss
Grant’s “natal day.” He read the poem in fairly
good low-comedy style. The poem was stuff.
Somebody near said it was written for the only
Jebnel,
• * *
Many of the resources used by Miss Ward
in the character of Marquise Mohnvart, she em-
ploys as Mrs. Athelstane. She wears the same
calm look of power and purpose. She speaks in
the same cold, chill, clean, yet from time to time
sympathetic tone. There is a crime behind, a
secret beneath, an object in front. She is on the
brink of a pit. As Rachel, at the close of tho pro-
logue, she is carried off to gaol. In the drama she
is companion to Gladys Grant in the house of Sir
Phillip Grant, and wears the name of Mrs. Athel-
stane. She is a widow. Sir Phillip a widower, and
thus she gets scope. She resembles Caesar's type.
In her crimson silk and black lace she looks fit to
command. A man has not much chance with a
widow. A widow is defined as a woman who has
got the best of a man. She has been there, and has
come back winner. That is why she sails in so
fearlcsfiy any number of times after. That is why
a man, when he sees her, should run, unless he is
cocksure of his virtue. Of course Sir Phillip came
creeping over with “ bis heart and his hand,” after
a while, and Mrs. Athelstane could have taken
him and buried him had she liked, but he was her
brother-in-law, so she merely shattered his peace.
• • •
Miss Watts-Phillipa was Gladys, She had
three delusions to support. She had to pretend
she was in love with Harold Lee. As Mr. Inman
played Harold this was no easy task. She is a
daring girl, however, and when it comes to a ques-
tion of love, her fortitude is great. Still, it is not
right for a woman to let it be thought that she
can be won by such love-making as Mr. Inman’s.
It raises hopes among the idiots of the audience.
They go right away and hunt up the home of their
girls. They look at them as Mr. Inman looked.
They talk as he talked. Then the girls, unless they
are as badly in want of love as Gladys, call their
fathers and the big dogs, and these innocent young
men are hammered and eaten. Miss Phillips had
also to support the delusion that she was a 16-year-
old daughter. This was a severe trial. She letdown
her beautiful fair hair, and arched her delicately
drawn eyebrows, and sa d: “ Oh, Mrs. Athelstane,
Harold is 21, and is to be called to the Bar next
week, and I am sure if he is old enough to be a
barrister he is old enough t j be a husband, for it
can’t be near so difficult.” When you heard that
and looked at the back of her head you took her
for 9. But the third delusion was the hardest to
support. She had to show how she would act on
hearing her mother was a convict. In one sense
she did it very well. She bowed down her young
head and gathered the fair tresses like a eloud
about her. She wept bitterly. She sobbed aloud
that her reputation for respectability was now
gone, that no man would ever marry her, and she
begged, entreated, prayed that her convict mother
would never be allowed to come near her.
*. ♦ *
We don’t take account of other offences
Mr. Sydney Grundy has committed. We are
thinking presently of this particular passage. If
it be in the text as Miss Phillips gives it we would
like somebody to catch Mr. Sydney Grundy, fill
him up with rum, and put a light to him.
* * *
Mrs. George Gordon’s Margaret was a
realistic piece of acting. She was the Hag of
Artillery Court, Westminster. We know the un-
lovely old woman of sin who lives down at the
bottom of human dregs. That is she; bad face,
bad teeth, hollow eyes, ribald tongue, an Ate in
ashes, a Harpy in rags—that is she. In her squalid
den, with the old bare table, the old corner cup-
board. the old kettle and teapot, the old candle,
and the old pipe -that is you, Margaret. Mrs.
Gordon did not manage her pipe very well. It
wouldn’t go. But her cough was good, her hobble
was good, and she took out of her text every par-
ticle of meaning the author was able to suggest
when she bandied words with her lodger. With
the prologue she disappears; dies likely in Pen-
tonville.
♦ * * *
The comedy-farce, “ The Private Secre-
tary,” at the Gaiety, which is undoubtedly de-
stined to have a long and brilliant run, must be
denied a lengthy notice this week. Whenever we
try to write of it an uncontrollable burst of hilarity,
induced by its recollection, supervenes, and until
we are in a calmer mood, it will be of no use at-
tempting to dwell on its details.
« « # •
The . walls of Jericho fell down at the
blowing of Joshua’s ram’s-horn. In like manner,
the Lynch Family of Bellringers rang at Par-
ramatta, and the whole population rolled up as
though each bell had been a dinner-bell. These
clever performers appear again in Sydney, open-
ing at the Masonic on Monday night next.
THE PAGE.
-Twas long ago-so Jong indeed
That really it seems almost ages!
we fell in Jove-this story heed-
w-ith one of Mr. Musgrove s pages.
The date we haven’t overhaul'd,
But since that time we’ve got quite bald.
>Twas Love’s Young Dream I It would have ta’en
let then, our soft heart to harden;
wo sometimes lunch’d out at “The Steyne,
And very often drove to Baden.
We jewels gave her, too, behold!
That “ wore superior to gold.
The sweet hours passed—oh, sorry fate!
Without the usual lovers’ wrangles,
wo see her borne down by the weight
Of "centrifugal silver” bangles,
ivsch one, as said the vendor placid,
“ guaranteed to stand the acid. )
she was a simple girl, at first,
And loved to paddle in the water;
rioveloped but a moderate thirst,
Content was with a glass of porter,
che said she loved, in any weather
For us to pick up shells together.
>Twafl on the broad Pacific’s shore—
(Let’s hope no alcohol disguised her)
She said, “ Ta, ta! you are a bore
Those jewels had demoralised her!
We knew when she cried, “ Cease to bore us,
The “ white-haired boy ” was in the chorus I
jje was a youth with golden hair
(By him we must have looked quite raddled),
And daily in the ocean air
With him (to cut It short) she paddled.
“We’ll realise, one day,” said he
“Upon that joker’s jewellry.
“ I’ve read, that in the Isles of Greece
’Tls sweet to live, seductive siren;
My information, piece by piece,
Had been derived from reading Byron.
Of Love ’tis one Ionian sleep—
And peanuts there is awful cheap I ”
They went to realise next day
Oh, thunder I ’twas a sorry flutter I
We saw the swain of our false fay
Biffed out into the running gutter!
But still against us was Fate dread—
The miscreant fell on his head!
Uow, mark I though we’ve grown bald and grim,
Have lived through many weary ages,
The chorus has its grip on him—
And she is still one of the pages!
There are the germs of, sirs, we wis,
A terrible revenge in this I


BRIEF MENTION.
At Parramatta court, a woman, on being
asked her profession, said: "lama widow. J ust
so.
From the Bundaberq and Mount Perry
Mail:—” An advt. of special Interest to those who
wear clothes appears on our third page from
Messrs. Pollock, Tutty, and Co.”
The Echo says that Johns stabbed Roberts
without any provocation. If so, surely he must
have been mad. If not, the Echo is wrong. This
latter contingency 1s not Impossible.
Barmaids are to be abolished in Victoria
by Act of Parliament. Let us marry the dis-
banded members of the Contingent to the dis-
banded Victorian barmaids, and give the latter
dowries out of the “Patriotic Fund. Thus will
all our troubles be settled.
A reporter recently took ill in a Victorian
boardiog-house, and died. Although bis character
was reputed good and he was employed by a lead-
ing paper, circumstances arose which excited the
suspicions of the police, and enquiries are to be
made. On opening hla portmanteau, two clean
shirts and three shillings were deteoted.
“Doctor,” he said, sadly, as he held his
hand over his left ear, and swung round as though
he were on a pivot, “ can you do anything for my
neck? I was —” “I know all about It,” said the
medico, hastily scribbling a prescription; “you
have what we call the Joint Stock neck. Rub this
on night and morning, and walk down Pitt-street
In future.”
A young lawyer’s clerk recently arrived in
Sydney from Ireland, and got employment in a
local practitioner’s office. His first duty was to
write out a legal document, which should have
been headed “The Supreme Court of N.S.W.—in
Ejectment.” But the force of the youth’s early
training was too strong for him. He wrote Instead
“ In Eviction.”
There was considerable rejoicing in the
Sydney “foorce,” the other day, when Constable
Sullivan was told to leave the Court “ without a
stain upon his character.” On the other hand, the
cabman and his witnesses are pensive. For, you
see, the natural inference is—not that we infer
anything. The awkward part of it seems to be
that Mr. O’Malley did 1
There has been a series of Mayoral balls
in Melbourne and its satellite cities lately. Some
were glittering and gorgeous; some high-toned
and select; some free and unfasttdious. But,
though so various in style, there was one feature
beautifully common to all. And that was the
number of advertisements for missingpyeroiiats
which appeared in the papers of the days following.
“ Count Peter Schouvaloff, the new Rus-
sian Ambassador at Berlin, arrived in that city on
Monday, May 18, with his family from St. Peters-
burg. A special goods train SC waggons con-
veyed the count's furniture and effects. This
reminds us of when we were up North. We tola
the landlord that our baggage-train of similar pro-
portions might be expected any minute. But ne
declined to “ suspend.”
The Melbourne Heralp men, looking out,
like the Athenians, for some new things, have
found that the amount of the fines imposed by
police magistrates depends largely upon the
humour in which the P.M. is at tbe time. As if
they didn’t know all that before I This affectation
of rural innocence is calculated to make the clerk
of every court in the city and suburbs weep for
the short-lived memories of man.
The Queensland Ministers’ visit to Towns-
ville was turned to advantage by tradesmen. A
“ Liberal ” draper exhibited in his window the
Griffith hat, the Rutledge hat, the Moreton hat.
the Beattie trousers, the Foxton suspenders, and
so forth, A butcher opposite, whose politics are
supposed to be very MTlwraithian, followed suet,
and exhibited Rutledge’s rumpsteak, Griffith’s
liver, Beattie’s chops, Moreton’s sausages, and so
forth.
“When doctors differ! ” But how about
when doctors agree ? ’T was in a Southern N.S. W.
town, and local society has been much exercised
in mind. A single woman was very seriously
ill. Two medicos saw her and pronounced her
case (rheumatic fever) hopeless. The local holy
friar and sisters of mercy waited on her to admin-
ister, &c, but as the death didn’t come off that
day, the rites, &o.,were postponed till the next,
which, the medicos agreed, would bring to the
patient the crash of doom. This time it did occur.
The death ? Oh, no, dear reader, not death, but
life. A bouncing baby. How's that for diagnosis?
Extract from a Melbourne paper:—“At
the Inquest on Barbara Coyle, who died from the
effects of drink, the husband was required as an
important witness. In his stead a message was re-
ceived from the Hotham police, stating that at the
time he was incapably drunk in the lock-up.”—
O Barbara, it seems a sin
That death so oft should lurk in gin;,
Yet no! with ev’ry draught we quaff
We shorten more this life of toll—
Thank your three-stars you’ve shuffled off
Your mortal (ah, and erring) Coyle.
Remarks the Sydney D.T.“ Our London
correspondent, in tfie letter given to-day, states
that the G.F.S. are sending out two singularly
eligible servants for Bishop Barry. —
Who wouldn’t be a Bishop -well!
To get these girls “eligible ”
To enter the domestic lists ?
But folks will hesitate no jot
In wondering, with grins, of what
This e-li ge-bll-i-tee
(And “singular” ’tis termed, you see)
Consists.
We read that Professor Thompson says
that were a single drop of water magnified to the
size of the earth, its atoms would then appear or a
size between a cricket-ball and a pigeon’s egg. It
would be interesting to see the experiment tried
with a gill of Queensland rum, too. What a sight
the barking iguana with the dragon s head would
present! There’s even “ money in it.” You could
i show the slides on a tablecloth borrowed from the
pub , then you could stand by and see all those
idiots “ who are their own enemies ’ slink: in. ana
try to look oblivious of having a bottle of Elixir
of Life in one pocket and a flask of gold-cure
in the other. We once knew a man who went in
for a course of this stuff, and, after a year of it.
we asked him If the bogies were less Haunting than
when he started. “Oh, yes,” he replied, sadly;
“ I’m cured of that, but the weight of my stomach
comes terribly heavy on my bunions.”
Things are lively, journalistically, up at
Port Douglas, N.Q. This is the way they talk of
the man they suppose to be P.D. correspondent of
the Cooktown Courier “ The gentleman is an
ex-retailer of stale ale. The correspondent is one
of such. The name is not wanted of the rascal
who let his three bondsmen in. The Courier was
hard up for * matter ’ when it published such un-
truthful trash,”—
You’d think, p’rhaps, pooh! that when thess two
Meet in the pub., they will do battle;
The eyes of both half-filled with glue,
And each performing the rum-rattle.
Bosh I not of anger one sole trace
They’ll (hie) indulge In an embrace.
Here’s a chance for somebody. From the
Manning River Times: ” Hearse.—Now that the
district is so far advanced it is a pity that the
bodies of our deceased friends should have to be
conveyed to the burial-ground in a common cart.
Surely some of our undertakers would find it a
profitable speculation to have a hearse always in
readiness, that our dead may be carried to their
last resting-place in a vehicle especially devoted
to the purpose.” This sad and Ingenious para-
graph conjures up old recollections. Memories
of the Far North, what time the festive Billy
Little, who possessed the only vehicle on
the goldfield, was wont to lend his cart
to take to the altar the blushing bride—to
wit, the latest barmaid at the Rise and Shine. And,
when it had done with the bride, it took the cold
clay of the fever-stricken digger to its last resting,
place-the little cemetery by the creek. And then
—ye gods!—it took round the meat. For Bi'ly was
a butcher.
At the Hon. A. Lyttleton’s wedding in
England a little boy attired in full cricketing cos-
tume attended the bridegroom This was to show
that the latter was a cricketer. Tbe idea is capable
of indefinite extension. For instance, at the
wedding of one of the Soudan heroes, a goat might
bo of the party to commemorate the groom's feats
of war. Again, at the nuptials of a “Brevity”
man a page might carry a pair of scissors and a
paste-pot. Further, we can see now that there is
no better chance for advertising than the mar-
riage ceremony; therefore, when Shortweight the
grocer marries, a bag of sugar and some sand
might be placed in a prominent position near the
altar; while a Jar of white spirit, with a recommen-
dation to try Pecksniff's Imported Whisky, would
notlfv the fact that that well-known merchant was
giving himself away. There’s money in this plan,
and if we were sure of renting our altar to adver-
tisers for a sum sufficient to cover the ’moon
expenses, we would really try it ourselves. The
symbol of our profession would be the
Testament. The plan might further bei ex mnded
to funerals; the rent of the hearse for a. d ver> 181 th B e
purposes would surely cover the price ox
cherry-case. .
Twelve warriors left Parramatta for
Soudan. They all returned to their native tow"
and were banqueted there a few nights ago. -
the exception of a rapidly-healing boll oaoae
their necks, they came back as sound as w he i
left, indeed, tnelr aggregate weight was
greater than when they started— showing l blch
it they slept in any zareba it was the one in
the commissariat stores and canteen wcr e
But to the banquet. Captain H. Byrnes « as m
chair, and. after telling the guests how every / dg
from Lapland to Patagonia was turned tow f
Parramaita when the news was llished tnax^^
her sons had sworn to start at Suakim &
out at Timbuctoo, way was made lor Sergea
Coates to respond. Tula belligerent n 9H‘ d c0 jntuliy
sioned officer wiped his n>°uth, dj£ “ atta
twirled his moustache, and said: l he Farr ,
i boys were never behindhand. They fg c ient
bers of the No. 1 company, and that wMBUiu
for them ” (prolonged cheers). Neve r
hand! How the wprds call up after
memories! For we were a soldier once, “Rented
an audacious campaign, our colonel compxm‘ nt#
us on never being behindhand— always
He also remarked, absently, that the brea
A Cabinet of Cripples.
“ THE GOVERNMENT ARE HARD AT WORK, IT IS SAID, AND A GENERAL RELAPSE OF THEIR HEALTH IS FEARED, IF THEY ARE NOT CAREFUL. -Ten'.erfield Star.


We have, during the last fortnight,
counted no leas than 18 N'.S.W. j rurnals which ex-
press themselves iu favour of the complete
abolition of capital punishment. Ths latest is the
Cumberland Mercury, which tersely remarks: —
The simple fact is that hanging is a relic of bar-
arism in any case, and in view of its revision by
Public clamour the death sentence la rapidly be-
coming grimly ridiculous.”
If people at Townsville (Q.) are only as
anxious to get salvation as they are to obtain Eng-
lish fish, no one of (hem nred hanker after swap-
ping his chance of a harp and halo for less than a
Mount Morgan gold-mine. At an auction sale at
that city, frozen salmon from England realised up
to Us 61, per lb , codfish 61., sole up to
4s, 6d„ and turbot 8s. per lb. Other consignments
are to follow.
too, was always there. For years we’ve pondered
over that observation of his, and wondered
whether he had any sinister meaning in coupling
our name with the vehicle. We have no wish to
Institute a comparison between our case and that
of the Parramatta braves. Still—[a column is
here excised by order of the editor.]
Mr. Miiclean, Comptroller-General of
N S.W. Prisons, yearns for a treadmill! The man
Is easily satisfied. Whilst some see in his depart-
ment nothing but disorganisation and lack of
classification, all that he discerns in it is that there
is no treadmill 1 Should he get the treadmill he
hankers after, bis next yearn will be, no doubt,
for a pillory. If he is allowed to “do the retro-
gressive,” and erect a mill, we shall have our
larrikins trolling Oliver Wendell Holmes’ cele-
brated lines on all possible occasions: —
“ Wake up, wake up, my duck-legged man.
And stir your solid pegsl
Arouse, arouse, my gawky friend,
And shake your spider lege I
And though you’re awkward at the trade
There s time enough to learn —
Bo lean upon the rail, my lad.
And take another turnl
They’ve built us up a noble wall
.To keep the vulgar out.
We've nothing in the world to do
But just to walk about—
Bo (aster now, you middle men,
And try to beat the ends,
It pleasant work to ramble round,
Among one’s honest friends.”
The New Guinea Nugget.
Not so long ago a Queensland magistrate and two
policemen, assisted by a few kanakas, crossed
Torres Straits and annexed New Guinea. The
island is a good deal larger than Franc?, and its
annexation by the small British and foreign con-
tingent named Jay a long way over anything re-
corded of Cortez or Pizirro. It was majestic in its
impudence. All true Australian hearts went out
to those daring men, watched them leave in their
fragile barque, followed them across the treacher-
ous coral sea, and, with a great sigh of relief, saw
them land and put in their pegs. And they were
far from being adequately armed for such a reck-
less enterprise. The kanakas had waddles only,
while the constables had to put up with a couple
of shovels with bamboo handles. After the an-
nexation, the Ahgus and the Aoe-Iwo journals
which love each other with a love passing that of
woman — sent expeditions to open up the
new land Both expeditions failed—some say
because their Bibles ran out; others, because
their grog gave in ; while a third section of
the public was mean enough to hint that
neither expedition got 100 yards from the cocoa-
nut tree it struck on first landing. We disbelieve
all these stories. The AnauS people discovered
an Isthmus, while the Aoe voynaeurs saw at least
two capes aud an island from the top of a stately
palm-tree. Oh, and on the return journey to the
beach a member of one of the partias-we forget
which—sat on a rock in the middle of a brook to
light his p pe and think. He had his little hammer
with him, and, absent-mindedly, chipped a piece
off the stone It was full of gold. Without
knowing it he’d sat on a quartz reef of uncommon
richness. He kept dark. At first he tried to fetch
the lode with him, but, failing that, he took the
piece of stone broken off, and, rejoining his party,
fell unostentatiously into the ranks as if nothing
had happened. There was cutenesa for yru. It
wjs only the other day that he exhibited his speci-
men in Melbourne, and floated a company on it.
Wakley from Sandhurst was there. We know
Wak„” and could always back him to be the first
to know when to sell South New Moons or buy
United Devonshires. And people call stock-broking
a business! Why, bless you, it’s an art, & fine art,
the finest of the arts. But we digress. When the
company was formed and everything ready for a
start to New Guinea, an unimaginative lapidary—
a fellow without the least romance in his plodding
nature-came up and said that he knew the whole
history of the golden stone, that it came from Tas-
mania, was never nearer New Guinea than Mel-
bourne, and was bought from him by the plucky
explorer for £20. What was to be done ? Nobody
would go to New Guinea to find out the rights of
the case, and from the known Conservative habits
of the Papuans, it was unlikely they would shift
their island down Melbourne way to be examined
and prospected. In this emergency up chirruped
Wakley as gaily as If he’d just “ run” 1000 Koch’s
Pioneers into old Crowley. He had perfect
faith in New Guinea, he had. “ Wak.” has
the most childlike faith in everything — even
in Jews. He thought New Guinea could be
depended on—would not go back on its best
friends like that—could always be found when
wanted (if the steamer didn’t try to chip the end
off a coral reef on the way), which was more than
could be said for a good many people he knew.
Then he wound up by offering £33 for each share
of the “Imperial, Amalgamated, Never-siy die,
Papuan, Mammoth, Gild-in-tha-stonfe, Quartz-
mining Company, limited,” that was in the market.
This is the last we heard of the great South Sea
Island nugget. There 'll be some fun over it yet.
We know sjme of the Bendigo men who’ve taken
the matter up. If there’s gold in New Guinea,
they’ll find it. They may get it In the ground, and
they may find it in some of the new settlements—
but they’ll stumble on if, you’ll sje. If not,
they'll swoop down like locusts on the new Ger-
man colony and devour every sausage in the land.
As for Wolseley, I’ve said It before, and I would
say it to his face, that it’s high time be gave
up his soldiering and took to the pick and shovel.
Osman Digna is a fool. If he and the Mahdl were
to work together, they could sweep everything
before them from the Cape of Good Hope to
Cairo. 1 always said Hicks was a fool,
and would come to no good. What do I
think of Stewart and Baker? The big-
gest asses that ever went out to fight. No,
Burnaby could not ride-he used to sit his horse
like a kangaroo on a cow. Did we kill any Ar*bs?
Not many. I popped over a few mys-lf one night
jest for practice. I couldn’t lie down in a hot stuffy
tent, night after night, do ng notbi g; so I goes out
and tackles the first half d; zan men. Big ? Not a
man of them under 8:x-foot seven. Shot two aud
bayoneted the rest. Got the spears home now.
Show cm to you. Landlord, dll that pewter again,
aud give me a bottle to take home. Deferred pay
in a day or two.” " Can’tdoit,” said the landlord,
bin Khakeed now, too often,” and the weary
warrior made through the door and said to the
Boudaner shivering round the corner. " Can’t do it,
Bill. Take back the suit. We must try a new lay.
This par., from a Newcastle paper, has
already caused a revolution In our domestic affairs
and made us roll in agony of spirit through the
long sleepless nights:-“‘A horse, a horse, my
kingdom for a horse,’ exclaimed the great Cooley,
as his beautiful animal reared up and fell upon his
manly chest, whilst he was cilmly seated In bis
buggy ready to start for the fray, and expired yes-
terday about 3 p m.” How. we have asked our-
selves, did the beautiful animal manage to fall on
tte great Cobley's chest? Or can it be the cus-
tom for Newcastle horses to calmly seat them-
selves in buggies? Will the writer step round and
solve these doubts for us, and also say whether it
was the beautiful animal, the great Coblev, or the
buggy which expired at 3 p.m.? AVe will wallow
in woe till we discover these things.
“It is my opinion that Gordon’s military
exploits have been greatly over-rated,” he began,
“and that with due precautions, Khartoum need
not have fallen. And then there’s General Gra-
ham, why the look of the man is enough The
man couldn't sit a horse, let alone lead an army.
The N.S.W, Loan,
MR. HAVE-’EM-ON-TOAST ABRAHAMS: "SO, SIR SAUL, TOU VANT FIVE AND! A-HALF MORE MILLIONSH I VAT FOR?"
SIR SAUL: “ WELL, TO PAY FOR KILLING THE SOUDAN GOATS AND THE BABBITS, AND FOR MAKING THE RAILWAYS.”
MR, ABRAHAMS: "VAT RAILWAY? YOU MEAN THE RAILWAY FROM SUAKIM TO BERBER?”
SIR SAUL: "NO, THE NEW SOUTH WALES RAILWAYS.”
MR. MONTMORENC1 ISAACS {aside): ‘ VELL, ABRAHAMSH, VE BETTER LET HIM HAVE THE MONISH, SHORTLY. HE’S A VILD EXTRAVAGANT YOUNG MAN, BUT
HE HAS PLENTY PROPERTY, AND VE LL OWN IT ALL ONE OF THESE FINE DAYS.”


If the “strong Government” desires to
know what the opinion of the country Is concern-
ing the Johns case, we will be most happy to show
at this office howling libels oi the Governor, the
Executive, and the Ministry out from at least
fifteen country papers.
“Major” Barker, of the Salvation Harmy,
has done a real good stroke of business. He has
“ rescued ” the son of a General (not the hallelu j ih
article, but a real, hona-flde, earthly warrior), and
an old comrade of Sir Henry Loch’s, Governor of
Victoria. This young gentleman has been used as
a card of Introduction to the gubernatorial pre-
sence, with the result that Sir Henry has been
Induced to “consider what personal subscription
he would offer to the Army.”
A strong position taken up by the autho-
rities In Justification of the hanging of Johns, was
that he was already suffering for a capital offence.
That position is thus overturned by the Ballarat
Star of 13th Inst.“ It Is hardly fair to aggravate
the crime Immediately under consideration by
bringing to bear upon the evidence other misdeeds
of which the law has already taken cognisance.”
This is certainly the proper view of the case, even
from a legal standpoint, and proves what an unto-
ward misfortune it was that the man had not good
legal advice.
At the Armidale Circuit Court some
months ago, a man named John M'Carthy was
sentenced by Judge Wlndeyer to the fearful pun-
ishment of eight years’Imprisonment for sending
a threatening letter to a young woman in Tam-
worth. A petition is now being largely signed for
the remission of part of the sentence, and concern-
ing the movement the Inverell Argus says:—
“ While In no way wishing to enter upon a
discussion of the merits of the case, we trust that
the effort to obtain some reduction of the term of
imprisonment may be successful. The general
impression la that the sentence was too severe, and
that imprisonment for 13 months (considering that
M’Carthy is a married man, with five children)
would have been sufficient.”
St. James Budget, an ultra-Conservative
London paper, publishes the following from its
correspondent in the Soudan anent the N.S.W.
Contingent:—“ I cannot refrain from a few words
indicative the disappointment generally in- \
dieted by the Australian Contingent. Sir Gerald
Graham inspected them a few days ago, and their
drill and driving showed that they had a good deal
to learn. Perhaps it 1s too much to expect that
garrison volunteer artillerymen should be able in
a month to attain proficiency in horse artillery
drill; but we might, at any rate, expect silence at
drill and abstinence from rough language.” The
same charge against our warriors was published
by Truth, but, of course, our local contempor-
aries discredited thii as coming from a Radical
source. What will they say now of the utterance
of a rank Conservative organ ?
The Melbourne Leader, the organ of the
Intelligent democracy of Victoria, thus speaks of
Johns:—"The attack he made, and for which
be has been executed, bore no trace of that
malice prepense which the law holds to be essential
to the crime of murder. It was obviously a result
of the sudden impulse of a disordered intellect.”
That is tantamount to the way the case 1 joked to
us. Wo did not, however, argue that the impulse
was sudden, but we contended that the intellect
was disordered. The Leader continues:—"The
equitable way of dealing with Johns would have
been to shut him up for life, utilise his labor for
the State as far as possible, and see that no further
opportunity for irresponsible homicide was af-
forded him. It is always a matter for regret when
the law in such oases is strained against the puolic
feeling of what is just." For the sake of the colony
of N.S.W., we regret that the Leader is not
published in Sydney. The soft, badiy-trained in-
tellects that have possession of the leading
columns of the weekly offshoots of the Sydney
dailies are evidently unfit to grapple with the in-
terests of any organism higher than a turnip's.
This is a cutting from the critique on the
Metropolitan Liedenafel concert in the poor little
Echo:—"The society were Indebted to Mr. Lewis
Scott for the libretto, so to term it; and, as he has
a right to be mentioned In a notice, the following
lines may be taken as a fair sample of the
writing :—
‘ Welcome them home with a proud ovation;
Tell them we hail them the pride of our nation;
Years to come will be heard the bright story
Mow they made Australia’s glory.
One would have thought that we ourselves had
done enough to place on record for all ages the
trip of the Soudan Contingent.” Notice the word
“ Indebted.” It contains a perfect tornado of sar-
casm. Mr. Lewis Scott Is In himself a Triune cele-
brity. He writes verse everlastingly, he Is an
alderman, and ho is the would-be expeller of The
Bulebtih from the Sydney School of Arts. He
has also been permitted by his official superior to
publish in the Sydney D.T. of Monday corres-
pondence which shows most conclusively that in
I discharging the duties of his office be does not take
! tip. There is nothing like keeping one’s-self
well before this cynical and cruel world.
The Hon. Francis Ormond, that rich,
shining light among Victorian elders, has been
congratulating his brethren at Edinburgh upon
the healthy condition of the Church In his adopted
colony. The Hon. Francis (we were going to say
Frank, only It s'semed impiou"’, almost) mentioned
with pride that “ their Church in Victoria was
evangelical and orthodox to the core. They had
about 190 ministers, and out of that he only knew
of six who were on the broad platform, all the
others being thoroughly evangelical ” It’s satis-
factory to hear that 184 of these good men breathe
perdition from the narrow platform, but the
thought of the stray six maddens us;—
Oh I fan us, put eau de cologne on our forehead I
’Tls fevered and throbbing; our tongue, too, Is
torrid,
And over our system a feeling quite horrid
Has come—we are getting hysterical.
This fearful emotion Is caused by the notion
That unorthodox In their forms of devotions
(Great shade of John Knox I give us more of that
lotion)
Are six of these gentlemen clerical;
And spite of the teaching and earnest beseeching
Of fellows like Francis, there’s that in their teach-
ing
(Pray pass us the brandy, it keeps us from
retching)
X Distressingly unevangelical,
sail) [We burled him on Monday— Eh. B.]
Robert Bink, aged 37, a butcher’s clerk,
was found lying dead at a water-table in Main-
street, Brisbane. He had been recently discharged
from the hospital as incurably affected with rheu-
matic gout and asthma. Robert was seen walking
about in shirt and trousers a few minutes before
he was found dead; and there has been some
speculation amongst the Queensland men as to
how he came by bis death. Does seem strange,
too. When a man's ankles swell to the size of an
elephant's thigh, and his elbows feel as crooked as
the soul of a candidate for West Sydney, and when
be has to sleen in a butcher's shop, it is strange be
should take to the water to cool himself. Let no
such perish unsung; when the harp that once still
feels equal to doing it twice—
Two curiosities of crime. A gentleman in
this city recently from America was shown over
one of the great prisons. In one cell was a man
who had been sentenced to Imprisonment till
death. His crime was murder, and the confine-
ment was solitary. Only the official word from
some warder as he banded the miserable fare in
through a smad aperture and wmked away. As a
slight breach of prison regulations, the visitor
was allowed to enter. There was a little light
from above, but no possibility of seeing sun or
sky. "Come in,” said the old man. "you needn’t
be afraid of me. The only things I ever see are a
fly or a flea, and they're always welcome ” French
revolutions had gone ny, the great Civil War of
his own country had raged around, and all the
turn i It of two generations had passed without
bringing so much as an echo to him. He had been
there tor fifty-four years! The second was that of
a man imprisoned for attempted murder in Pitts-
burg. On the opposite side of the river Is a town
connected with It by a long bridge of nearly half
a mile. The sentence was 20 years, shortened for
good behaviour to 16. On the morning of his
release, he was presented with the regulation $5,
and walked out a free man, full of hope for tne
future and with the best wishes of the officials.
He started along the bridge breathing the air, and
hoping what we may imagine. Very few people
were astir as he stepped along to bury himself once
more amongst the busy throngs of men. The very
first man he met, in the middle of the bridge, was
the man who had got him his sentence I From the
prison he was seen to clutch him round the waist,
and hurl him down into the foaming river 100ft.
below. In one hour he was back in his old cell to
await a certain fate this time.
We read that “Mr. Robert Wallen, who
has just retired from the editorship of the Aus-
tralasian Insurance and Banking Record,
admits that he has earned 12 000 guineas during bis
15 years’ connection with the Melbourne Press.
This in addition to his business as a sharebroker.”
“ Admits,” indeed! When a man “admits” any-
thing, it is almost fair to assume that he does so
unwillingly, and is just a little bit ashamed of it.
Now, Robert is, probably, by no means proud of
his weekly “ Talk on Change ” contribution to the
Australasian. It is the dreariest comic column
we ever oast eyes upon. It is “ mournfuller ” than
London Punch; sadder than “ Stella ” in the S.M.
Herald. Its jokes are more tenebrous than those
of Lewis Scott’s pantomimes, and afford almost as
direct an incitement to alcohol or the chloral-
hydrate bottle as the bard of Leichhardt’s latest
libretto for the—Heaven help It I—unhappy Metro-
politan Liedertafel. Robert, the line which has been
clearly marked out for you by Divine Providence
is, not humour, but statistics. At least we used
to think so, and we have been paralysed all
down one side ever since we read that “the
admirably-compiled stitlstlcs that have for
years appeared in the Banking Record, were
entirely the work of the editor’s wife and
daughter.” May the Lord pardon you, Robert.
As a “Melbourne Correspondent” writes: “The
revelation is almost as surprising as the assur-
ance, made on oath by a witness before the
Lunacy Commission, that some of the cartoons in
Melbourne Punch were drawn and prepared by
an inmate of the Kew Lunatic Asylum. The
statement was made by the chief warder of the
institution, and he ought to know. According to
the chief warder, the artistic lunatic, or lunatic
artist, in question was paid a good round sum for
drawing the celebrated cartoon that appeared in
Punch depicting a boxing-match between Bishop
Moorhouse and the enemy of man's salvation, in
which Satan was evidently getting the worst of
the encounter. Most people will feel inclined to
agree with the chief warder that a man who earns
*9 a week by his skill with the pencil, and pockets
it all himself, is not a fit subject for a State
asylum, more especially as the only trace of
insanity about him is an irresistible propensity to
let bis hair grow long and fall in wavy ringlets
half way down bis back.”
A correspondent, who knew Frank Johns
from his boyhood, sends a sketch of his career,
which we thus condense. He (Johns) was born in
Ballarat East, and went to Mr. Dimsey's school,
where he proved himself of bright intelligence
and attentive to his lessons. He had to be pun-
ishei no mpro than his fellow scholars. Mr.
Dlmsey to this day speaks warmly of the boy, and
was one ot those who exerted themselves in
Ba larat to save his life. While at school, young
as he was, Johns began to show his peculiar
nature. He was a handsome lad. with very sensi-
“7® feelings, and of a very aspiring disposition.
When he left school, he went to work in
the factory of Mr. Long, ex-Mayor of Ballarat
East. In Mr. Long he made a sincere friend. His
employer never had a fault to find with him, and
he states the lad was remarkably aspiring. All
those who came into contact with Johns in these
happier dajs agree that he was ambitious to be-
comesoraethingoutof the way the cynical reader
will remark-that he succeeded), and that he was
very seutimenta! and romantic, in these very
qualities which, under other circumstances, would
have made a place for him in the world,
were the roots of his tragic fate. To the
influence of blood- mdthunder tales, act-
ing upon an imaginative mind, that fate, too,
may be in some measure attributed. His friends
D |*«r could explain how be fell into the clutches'
of Scott, alias Moonlight, but the reading of
penny awfuls ’ —possibly of the Evening
News order — undoubtedly made his mind
eageriy recipient of tue seductive falsehoods of
Scott, who had great powers of persuasion, and
knew how to paint in words. Not that Johns seems
to have ever contemplated anything criminal;
he was simply overcome with the glamour
of Soott's glibness, and eagerly accepted the
position of secretary to Moonlight, no doubt
looking upon it as a realisation of his
dreams, “something out of the way,” Soon
after this, Moonlight organised his gang. That
Johns was a willing member of it there is no
evidence to show. He declared himself he was
threatened with death if he would not join. Such
a threat is just the one Moonlight would use,
knowing the lad was a devourer of penny novels,
in which ‘Join, or die ” is the stock business. His
subsequent career is too familiar to need descrlp-
tion. It is of interest to notice, though, the pecu-
liar ideas of law they have across the border. Mr.
James, M L.A. of Victoria, speaking in Johns’
favours actually denounced the conduct of our
authorities in appointing the same Judsre to try
Johns for the second otfence who had tried him
lor the first. By-the-way, it is a fact that when in
gaol here Johns was allowed to devour such ap-
petising literature as the lyrics of Byron and
Shelleyand ‘’The Sorrows of Werther,” which
he quoted extensively to some members of the
medical profession who during his last days
visited, him officially. No wonder he got himself
hanged.. On ttunday last a lot of people held a
flower-service ” at his grave, and extolled him as
a • herb” and a “martyr.” Such ill-advised and
gushing tawdry absurdity of the “show ” order
can only have the effect of exciting derision. The
peculiarities of Johns' organisation, which had
been intensified a thousandfold by the effects of
our monstrous gaol-system, would, In all proba-
bility,’ have rendered him an unsettled element in
the social system had he been released from gaol;
for his own sake, perhaps, it is well that he is dead.
But, though we have no gush to offer at the grave
of the unfortunate young man, we none the less
deplore the concurrence of apparently preventi-
ble circumstances that induced the sacrifice of his
lire.
According to the Standabd, Bismarck,
when asked that the German Emperor should
arbitrate between England and Kussia, said:
Were I asked to arbitrate I would accept
all the documents, however numerous, irom both
sides with the greatest civility and thanks, and—
put them very carefully, all without exception, in
i the best fire-proof safe 1 have. After a year I
should be asked, ‘How far are you with your
| arbitration?’ I should answer, ‘ J'ttudie,’—'L am
considering.’ After another year 1 should be
asked-very urgently—the same question. I should
answer again, ‘Am still considering.’” After
this it was not considered necessary to ask Ger-
many to arbitrate.
. In support of the arguments in our last
issue in favour of the adequate payment of Par-
liamentary represensatives, we may observe that
a Payment of Members Bill has been carried in the
south Australian Assembly, and a similar Bill,
the maximum amount of remuneration at
i200 for the session, has just been passed In the
Assembly of Queensland. In this latter colony the
principle of the Bill has been always able to secure
a majority in its favour In the Lower House, but
on the various occasions on which an effort was
made to legislate in the direction, the Council,
which is a nominee one, blocked the way. One of
the most dubious shifts Sir Thomas M‘I1 wraith
made was his repudiation when he became Pre-
mier of the faith he profe sed while in Opposi-
tion to have in the propriety of payment
of members- In any case, three of the five
colonies on the island have now espoused the
measure in earnest. N.S.W. and the Crown
colony of West Australia alone stand out. Out-
side Australia we have Tasmania aiso with the
question to the front, and with what appears to be
a majority behind it, while In New Zealand pay-
ment of members at the rate of 200 guineas a
session is the rule. With the exception of our own,
and, as we have said, the Crown colony of West
Australia, nearly every British dependency pays
its reoresentatlves. All foreign countries possess-
ing Dmocratlc institutions pay their representa-
tives. What seems to impose upon us in New South
Wales is the tact that members of the English House
of Commons are not paid. But in England there is
a leisured class. Here there Is a wealthy class, but
not a leisured class. Out of leisure has grown
knowledge, and diamonds and Democratic senti-
ments are found together in England. The union
cannot be expected to be effected here for a long
time. Even in England there is a tacit admission
that payment of members is a just principle. The
parson and bishop are paid for their services.
They do not think that taking money in the wav
of salary lessens their usefulness, dishonours their
office, or tempts adventurers. If people will not
waken up. New South Wales win soon occupy the
position of odd man out ” in the game of life.
If asked to drink call for Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The Barmaid-Abolition Craze.
One of the Victorian 346. ( The last of them, a.d, 1949.
THE LAST OE THE VICTORIAN BiRMAIDS.
THE VICTORIAN LICENSING REFORM BILL ALLOWS THE 340 HEBES, NOW OFFICIATING, TO RETAIN THEIR POSITIONS, BUT PROHIBITS THE EMPLOYMENT OP ANY OTHERS
THE 34<5 NOW HAVE A MONOPOLY; T3E ONE SURVIVOR WILL HAVE IT IN A.D. 1940.
Robert Bink, aged 37,
Judged ’twas time to go to Heaven.
“ My pains," said he “ no tongue can tell,
I’m sure it can’t be worse in belt;
If I remain I cannot work.
Still I my duties cannot shirk;
I’ve got to rise at 4 o’clock.
Take down the shutters, scrapo the block,
Walt for the slaughter-cart to come—
So cold (for I'm forbidden rum),
And while each qulv’ring muscle shakes
I’ve got to cleave out chops and steaks.
And know, as customers begin
To call, who ‘ wants some suet In.’
Farewell, old earth, I’m quite ‘full up;’
No longer will I qualf the cup
Fate to my lips persists to hold,
But risk at once a measure bold.
• Farewell, gout, asthma, while I’m able
I leave ye—at the water-table,”


At the Oosford banquet the Minister for
Lands was yelled at as “ Honest James.” Tnls is a
new name for him. “Honest John” was what
they used to call the Knight of Clovelly.
The Ballarat Courier says: —“The
action of the New South Wales Executive In hang-
ing the youth Johns will some day recoil very
strongly on Itself, as lhat action has been carried
out in defiance of all justics or reason.”
Buy Wolfe's Schnapps by the bottle.
The days and nights now warmer grow,
And each bird sings this song—
Thp’ SUmmerfleld makes short-tailed coats,
Men wear them very long.”*
For rheumatism and gout Wolfe’s Schtiapps.
THE WICKED WORLD.
The Rev. T. E. Owens Mell says the in-
fluence of a master mind and skilf ul hand is not
observable in the N 8.W. Government’s treatment
of the returned Contingent. Nor was it in the
despatch of that body Mr. Service is getting
alarmed about the goings on of tin Hallelujah
lasses. Some of them requested permission to go
through the Government departments, " in order
to talk to the young men about the state of their
souls,” he says. The Cootamundra paper, in
speaking of a kerosene accident, lucidly remarks
that the "victim was frightfully burnt in the
lower part of the township.*’ A Tasmanian
widow had six tributes to the affection of a
former husband, and when she was again asked to
enter into the matrimonial state, her lover
objected to commence the partnership with so
stock-in-trade. So the dear little things
Incontinently packed off to an Orphan
sylum, and yum-yum happiness was the reward
0 the loving pair. Then the hard-hearted autho-
* les sent the "kids” back. By and bye we shall
ear they’ve been arrested for vagrancy.
• • •
King Louis of Bavaria, who philandered
80 extensively with our old friend, Lola Montez, is
poor, and, worried as he is by the sarcasms of
e sausage-builder and lager beer man.it is not
!; ange that he should look to the drama as a
It f ° e ’ though he loves the drama, he loves
his ih ' aims0 K a i° ne > and has, therefore, ordered
heatrical manager to produce " Theodora” at
lei f 6x^ense °t £10,000, and admit no one but him-
•••.The table service of Mrs. Langtry is said
to be the envy of London fashionable society. It
is devoid of colour, excepting where the white
porcelain and transparent glass are relieved by a
white border and the two L's of her monogram....
The total exports from South Africa amount to
£7,500,000. £5,000,000 of this, in the way of ostrich
feathers and diamonds, go chiefly to the adorn-
ment of women.... The war over the State educa-
tion of children in some States of America is very
fierce. In connection with it, a man who wants to
bring up his child independently of State control,
writes a pamphlet entitled “ Who owns the child:
Its father and mother, or Tom, Dick, and Harry,
and Mary Anne ?’ That is a suggestive title for a
fiamphlet —"Is the Turkish Civil Service system
ike ours?” asked a traveller in the East of a
pasha. " Are there retiring allowances and pen-
sions, for instance?” "My Illustrious friend and
j oy of my life,” Replied the pasha, “ Allah is great;
and the public functionary who stands in need
of a retiring allowance when his term of office
expires, is an asst I have spoken.” Rey.
J. N. Farnham, of the Presbyterian Church,
Lynn, Mass., had his boots measured the other day.
Colonel Smith, of Ballarat, is nowhere. Rev. Farn-
hara takes coverings numbered 35. They are 20
inches long and wide....Miss Helen Taylor
(daughter of the lady whom John Mill
married) is the first lady candidate for Parliament,
and stands in the Radical interest. Shortly after
the arrest of Mr. Parnell she denounced Mr. Glad-
stone as a "dastardly miscreant” for his Irish
policy. Should Miss Taylor get into the House
of Commons, she may be relied upon not
to behave herself as a gentleman. . ..The
pedagogues of Australia complain of not being
treated generously by the State. Well, here
is how they are handled in Germany, Last Easter,
Schoolmaster Schnell, in Fieeth, Mecklenburg,
aged 76, was retired after 52 years’ faithful service
on an annual pension of £7 4s. and four cords of
firewood — This Ingenious catalogue of error J is
not from the Sydney Evening News, but is cut
from a French paper:—" Yesterday, at the church
of St. Martin, in the environs of London, took
place the marriage of Mme. Gladys, Duchess Dow-
ager of Londesal, to Mlior Robinson, Count de
Grey. The bride belongs to the highest and most
ancient nobility of England, and is the sister of the
Count of Pembroke-Wilton. The bridegroom,
on the contrary, is the elder son of the Mar-
quess de Ripoy who was the first of the Nababs
to be ennobled by her Britannic Majesty ”
A wonderful thing has happened in England. A
firm of solicitors have been censured by a Judge
for delivering to the executors of a dead man a
bill of costs and disfeursements for £516 103. lOd
subsequently reduced by the taxing master to
£126 9j. 3d. The Judge added, “Their conduct
fills me with feelings of utter disgust.” The
Judge is too good for this world-full of attorneys.
....The marriage of Prince Lichtenstein to the
daughter of a Vienna merchant is creating a tre-
mendous fuss on the Continent. The dominions
of the Prince are about as extensive as the horse
Eaddock of a colonial Some time ago he
ought a Krupp gun, for the defence of his
domain, but found he could not fire it off without
putting the projectile into the territory of one of
the neighbouring potentates. The gun being thus
practically useless, It was, by order of the Prince,
converted into an equestrian statue of His Serene
Highness, and now adorns the public square in
his capital. The latest is that an Indianaoolis
man, who was out of work and very hard up,
wrote an unsigned note stating that he had dro wned
himself and begging that the canal might be
dragged for his body. Then he applied to the
authorities for the job of dragging the canal, got it.
and cleared lOOiol. for the work. .Tom, aged 12,had
been to the circus, and had become an enthusiastic
gymnast. “ Look here, - ’ he shouted to his small
sister, as he stood on his head and waved his heels
in the air, “don't you wish you could do this?”
“ I’m too little to do it now,” said Flossie, with an
admiring look at the performance, “ but when I
get to be a great big girl I bet I can.”. Chinese
girls never kiss. We have seen many Chinamen,
and wonder not. .. A gentleman of the name of
Kenard has invented a living machine, which, no
doubt, will bo found a benefit to the public in
general, and persons who cannot pay their hotel
bills in particular. It is carried in the breast
pocket, and can be expanded in 10 minutes, en-
abling a gentleman to alight from a three-story
hotel into the street. Mr. Kenard should make a
rapid fortune—but this is probably a canard — A
Good Reason.—Irate Wife: "What do you mean
by coming home at this time In the morning ? ”
Inebriated Husband: “’Tain’t my fault, m’dear.
They’d all gone; didn’t have any one to talk
to.” — The Maharana of Baroda offer a corps
of Amazons for the defence of India, and pro-
mises that they would be glad of a chance of fight-
ing the Russians. The ladles are probably un-
married, and want to have the enjoyment of fur-
rowing the features of some man with their war-
like fingers. We predict that they will come out
of any engagement with the foe with Uying
colours. A woman always does get out of an en-
gagement well : the man always suffers
" I see,” said one school girl to another, “ that
Henry has married one of the coryphees in the
ballet of a theatre. I wonder what a ‘ coryphee ’
is ?” “ I don’t know; but I s'pose it must be some
kind of a girl. I don’t think he'd marry anything
else,” was the logical reply. “By Jovel magnifi-
cent woman, Charlie,” he said as she swept past
them on the block. " Sorry I can’t say as much
for you, sir,” replied Beauty, who overheard the
compliment. “ Pooh, why not? Why, can’t you
tell a flaming lie, os I did?” was the chivalrous
query—The Arrowsmtths have already printed
320,000 copies of “ Called Back,” which has yielded
them a profit, so far, of £5000 .. A Salvation
solder at Sheffield was apprehended for desert-
ing his children. He was a member of 541 corps,
so bad evidently “ got sal vatlon ” wholesale He
also “ got ” three months.
LORD AUGUSTUS: “ I SUPPOSE I WAS FOOLISH IN THE ADMISSION I MADE TO THE DEPUTATION. AH, WILLIAM, IT’S A TERRIBLE THING FOR A MAN IN 'MY POSITION
TO BE TROUBLED WITH SO SOFT A HEART.”
WILLIAM: “YES, AND THE WORST OF IT IS THAT PEOPLE OUTSIDE ONLY GIVE A FELLOW CREDIT FOR HAYING A SOFT HEAD."


“ BEACH’S ”
CONSUliTATION
, ON THE
Sllr Joseph Bank’s 4th Grand Handicap*
to be run at Botany, August 33ad, 36th, and 39th,
1885 ; also on
Hawkesbury Handicap, Metropolitan and
Melbourne Cup,
NOW OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10s. BACH.
First Horse, £350.
Address—
“BEACH,”
Care of J. G, Deeble,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney
Please apply early.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURHS
*« $naU be aUul to nave tme %nae» p&et$a up ■fit
$eeretariet of racing clubt rnd manager t of
iporting evente in gencraL 1
RACING.
Charters Towers J.C J ul F 23>
Liverpool J.C V Ju ,lLi
Cmterbury Park R.C a
Tmnworth R C August 5,6
Rjsehiil R C ; •• •
Townsville (Ann ual) • • • August 1*, 13
Northern Hunt Club, at Rand wick.... ..August
Canterbury Park R.C .September 5
Hawkesbury (Spring) September 10 12
A J.C. (Spring) September 19, 22, 24, 26
Rosehlll R.C .October 3
Canterbury Park R.C . October 17
Liverpool J.C November 9
Canterbury Park R.C December 19
A.J.C. (Summer) ..December 26
Rosehlll R.C December 28
AQUATICS. n A
Newcastle R.C. Regatta September
M.R.C. Outrigger Race September
Davis v. Maclean — September 5
M. Branch Regatta October 10
ATHLETICS.
Qulrlndi Handicap August 5, 6
Sir Joseph Banks Fourth Handicap.... August 22,
22. 26, 29
Mudgee Sheffield Handicap September 1
CYCLING.
N. ’Cyclist s Union Race Meeting July 25
Sydney Bicycle Club (Annual R.MJ, Asso-
ciation Ground August 23
SPORTING ATHLHTH MEMS.
Acknowledged, with thanks, Oxhenham’s
handy little Turf Register for July.
Ted Sutton and Archie Farrell are to run
150yde. on the Hamilton Road, tor £200 a side, in
seven weeks’ time.
By cable we learn that in the county
cricket match between Yorkshire and Notts the
former won easily.
The Gundarimba cricketers defeated Lie-
more ditto by an innings and 3t runs. Mr. Murphy
made top score with 52.
Lees, the boxer, who is about to do the
provinces, states he will not accept any challenge
for three months, when Abbott, from Wagga,
shall have first show.
Presentation by the Newcastle cricketers
to Messrs. Clarence Hnnnell and Henry Stokes.
Mr Hannell hes been Identified with Newcastle
“ sport” for the past quarter of a century.
The Melbourne Sportsman credits Clar-
ence Whistler with having nald that John L. Sulli-
van'S lighting weight was over 15 stone. Either
Clarence or the Sportsman must be a bit mixed
An Auckland (N.Z.) paper says there is a
show of a local 13st. amateur tackling Mathews,
the Yankee boxer, who has been carrying all
before him in Maoriland. If the set-to eventuates
it will be in private.
Turner’s Flat Cricket Club proved the
champion of the Macleay, and secured the Rethel
and Co. Challenge Cup. At the presentation of the
trophy it was decided to form a Macleay River
Cricket Association.
The Foibes Athletic Club, wo understand,
are about to bold an nrn« teur boxing competition,
list, and under, for a £25 trophy, to come off at
show-lime. Here's a chance for raetropoliun
amateurs who fancy themselves with the mittens.
From March 23 to May 29, Fred. Archer
won 70 races out of 170 mounts on the English
turf. C. Wood came next with 43 wins out of 155
mounts. In Australia, Hale: heads the list with
20 wins out of 76 mounts, and Nicholson follows
with 25 wins out of 154 mounts.
Burly “Teddy” Weekes make a rapidly
profitable deal In blood stock at Moonee Valley
(Vic.). He bought, Albanus, the winner of the
Sailing race, for £80; and within 45 minutes the
new purchase pulled off the Latest, Handicap,
together with a nice little wager lor Teddy. Evi-
dently Weekes knows the time o’ day.
A race for horses belonging to members of
the Sydney Light Horse cavalry corps, and used
bv them on pando at least two months nrior to
the date of entry, 7 futlongs; weight, Sit lllb ; to
be ridden by members in undiess uniform, has
been added to the programme of the Northern
Hunt Club meet, to be held at Bandwiok on22.d
August.
Jack Hall has severed his connection with
the Sydney Amateur Boxing Club It seems
strange Hall and George Powell cannot be brought
together. Neither of the men is at a loss for
backers, and, as for Powell’s alleged wish for a
24-foot ring, we cannot see how that can avail him
much, as of the two we believe Hall is the quicker
man on his feet.
W. H. Golding has started boat-buildirg
In a new shed at B ig Tree Point. Golding was the
builder of the 23ft. half-decker, Nereus, the
“daddy” of her ciats, which was some time since
destroyed by fire, and the first boat to be laid down
In the new shed will be a craft of a similar class.
It remains to be seen If Golding can create a dupli-
cate of the Nereus.
Says London Bell’s Life:—“In answer
to an inquiry as to whether Cummings Intended to
avail himself of Mr. George’s acceptance of his
challenge, the professional champion telegraphs
that he will make three matches as proposed, i e .
at one mile four miles, and ten miles, each £200
a side, and on receipt of fair articles will sign and
forward a deposit.”
Some of the best English greyhound blood
was disposed of at Melbourne last week. Amongst
others, Mornlngton, by Misterton—Coomassie, was
sold for 65 guineas. Both sire and dam are winners
of the Liverpool Waterloo Plate, Coomassie hav-
ing landed the blue riband of the leash on two
consecutive occasions. Unless Mornlngton belies
his parentage, he should do well at the stud.
The English billiard season wound up with
the match ht twfen John Roberts, jun., and Joe
Bennett-3000 points up on a championship table.
The stakes were £100 a side, and the champion up-
held the title In a most decisive fashion, defeating
Joe by 1040 points Roberts has only quite re-
cently settled Cook on the so-called “champion-
ship ” table, and, as Cook and Bennett were the
owly two men who ever showed any fondness for
the small-pocket game, It is to be presumed—and
hoped—that very little more will be heard of it.
The senior footballers in and around Syd-
ney were particularly busy on Saturday last. At
St. Leonards the Universities met. ar d defeated
the locals bv 26 points to nil; at Newtown, the
Burwoods defeated thp locals by 19 to nil (P.
Chapin m 2 goals, Wfioicott 1 goal). On the Agri-
cultural Ground. Balmain and Red fern played a
draw, neither side effecting a score; and. on the
same convincing Arfotna put the Walla-
roos through by 4 points to 2, Jacob kicking a goal
from He 11 for the victors.
The wrestlers are likely to have a gay old
time of ft in Melbourne for some time to come.
On August 1 Miller and Dlnnle are to,wrestle at
the Bijou Theatre, Bourke-street, Grasoo-Roman,
Scotch, and mixed, best two falls out of three, for
£100 Miller will o doubt win the first, Dlnnie th«
Second, and the contest will probably rest on who
is best at the “mlxid” game. This will be catoh-
as-catch-can ab >ve the waist, tripping allowed,
wrestling not to be continued cn the ground for
more than two minutes. On the following Satur-
day, Clarence Whistler and Thomas are matched
for £100, to wrestle beat of live falls, mixed style,
wrestling on the floor not to exceed five minutes.
Whistler says after he is done with Thomas he will
wrestle either Miller or Dinnie Grteoo-Roman or
catch-as-catch-can.
W. G. Grace bids fair to retain the title of
English "champion” in spite of his increasing
years At the annual match at Lord's, between
M C.C and Ground v. Nottinghamshire, in the
second innings of the county, W. G. took no fewer
than nine wickets at a cost of but 20 runs. The
wicket was very treacherous, but In spite of this,
the fact that Barnes, Gunn. Flower?, and Selby
were dismissed on any wicket for six runs is little
short of marvellous. In addition to his destruc-
tive bowling, the champion headed the score with
53.
The Selection Committee appointed to
choose an Intercolonial football team to represent
N.S.W. in the Queensland tour, to commence with
a match in Brisbane on August 19, met on Friday
afternoon, when the following men were picked
for practice:—Backs, Tlley, Walker; half-backs,
Cleeve, P. Chapman, Creer. Macarthur, C. Bob-
berds; quarter-backs, E. Cameron, Caird, 8. Chap-
may, Fiigg, Harris; forwards, G. Cameron, H.
Ford, A Ford, Graham, Hickey, H. Lee, Oxley,
O'Donnell, Parker. Shaw, Smith (Burwood), C.
Tange, Telfer, Walters. f
The Balmain-Burwood bicycle sports
duly came off on the Association Ground on
Saturday last. Mr. J. Reed. 105 yds , won the one-
mile maiden handicap; J. F. Peers proved himself
the one-mile Balmain champion; H. H. Lambton
won the Burwood mile championship; the 150 yda.
flat race fell to A. H. Eden, 13 yds ; the mile open
handicap was won by J. Buckingham, 100 yds ; E.
Rogers won the umbrella raca; C. R. Wood won
the live miles open, from scratch, and the mile
trie ycle handicap, with 70 yds.; and J. Pbizackerly
was first in for the ladies’ bracelet, followed by
Try and M. Remshard.
It is the proper thing for footballers to as-
semble on Saturday nights outside the King-street
/Arcade, and talk over the battles of the day. Bach
one proudly tells of the wounds received during
the afternoon, but proud la the man who can show
bis honourable scars without talking about It.
The proudest, man In this respect last Saturday
night was a tall St. Leonard’s man, who had a m se
and pair of eyes such as the redoubtable Tom
Sayers could never have surpassed in his palmiest
days. The nose was ajperfect poem, and it Is not
unlikely he will but sniff the battle from afar for
some weeks to come—that Is to say, if he can sniff
at ail.
We have received communications from
several corre pendents asking us for the facts In
connection with Parni.n’s recent visit to Sydney
for the alleged pu pose of neetlug Foley. We are
uick and ti ed of .he subject, and trust we huve
heard toe last of it. Faroaii in Sydney and Farnau
■on bis own dunghill appear to be very different
' personages judging from the account uf tils trip
given by Farnaa to the Melbourne Sportsman
Farnan’s saying that toe threatened to hit Foley Is
all bosh, for those who know our little champion
oest are awarn that had such a th eat been made,
the Melbournian would, ere this, have been placed
m a h tie plot which Foley keeps lor the burial of
ais dead. Farnan gave Foley neat in Sydney, and
it would have been more manly on his part had he
acknowledged it when ho returned to Melbourne.
It is said the fall down stairs sustained by
the sculler, Thomas Clifford, is more serious than
was at first expected, and that, having Injured
his spine, In all probability ho will not alone be
unable to again row a race, but that It Is a toss up
it be will be able to work on his farm. It makes a
man almost feel like moralising when a Heroujifl
like Clifford starts from the top of a flight of steps
in the pride of his health, strength, and manhood,
and reaches the bottom next thing to a cripple,
That Clifford in any case would ever have
reached the top rung of'the aquatic ladder of fam<?
we do not believe, but, nevertheless, Tom Clifford,
straightforward and honest as the sun. is a loss to
the Australian sculling world that it cannot well
endure. However, Clifford may imagine he is
worse than he really is, and wosinoera'y trust such
is the case.
The thirteenth Victorian Coursing Club
Waterloo Cup was run to a conclusion on Frld> y
last. The deciding course for the Waterloo C *p
fell to Mr. A. Balme ns white and black bitt h
Rhodanthe. by Rebellion from Wf stond, wbi ;h
neat Mr. H. E Lord (ns) blue and white bitch
Siesta, by Brigadier from Hilda. For the Waterl 1 i
Purse in the final round Mr. Watson’s (Mr. W It
Rounsevell's) Red Hind beat Mr R. Donova
Tom Sayers, and won the stakes; and Month out h
and Bugle divided the Warwick Stakes. Rho-
danthe, the winner of the Cup, was bred by t o
Hon. W. B. Rounsevell, of Adelaide, and was pu •
chased by Mr. A. Balme, at Mr. H. M’Quad 's
recent sale, for 150 guineas. This is her secoi d
Waterloo, and out of the 48 times sbe has bee i
slipped has won 43 courses. In fact, her wins are
coming to be looked upon as a matter of course.
S$ys London Life : — “Professional sculler s
have not yet ceased to marvel at the defeat of
Hanlan in Australia, and are still trying to explsi i
that unexpected phenomenon by declaring that
the climate did not suit the Canadian. However
this may be, the victor, Beach, seems to have pru-
dently resolved never to row for the champion-
ship except on the Parramatta River; so that all
challenges to meet him in this country or in the
States may be regarded as hruta fulmina. This is
the easiest interpretation to place upon the offer
of Wallace Ross to row the new champion over
the Putney course. Godwin, who must bar-re-
garded as our best man in England, is content with
challeoglng Clifford to row on the Thames, a
match In which the Britisher would have about as
much chance as a jackas* entered for the Derby.
The superiority of colonial professionals becomes
more easy to understand when one hears that
since the Beach Hanlan race more than £3000 has
been collected without any difficulty as a mark of
encouragement for the winner.”
Lord Harris has urged the committee of
the Kent County Cricket Club to protest against
the bowling of Crossland and Nash, the two Lan-
cashire “throwers,” and to refuse to play any
more matches with the Northern county so long as
these two men figure in their team. A lively con-
troversy is likely to ensue over this business, for
while there is no doubt that ’Arris represents the
public feeling, it is equally certain that Hornby,
the Lancashire captain, honestly believes in the
legitimacy of Crossland and Co.’s bowling, and
considers it a shame that they should be deprived
of their livelihood. His Lordship’s Indignation
appears to have come to a head immediately after
the last match between Kent and Lancashire, in
which Crossland was cruel enough to take his
wicket each innings — disposing of him for a
“ duck” on the first occasion. For all that, Birlow
had th? best bowling average on his side, as he
usually doeS. Crossland, *' chuck or no chuck,” is
not so very deadly after all; if he were, the ques-
tion of his unfairness would have been decided in
the affirmative long ago.
The Charters Towers (Q.) School of Arts
Committee scored a record when they recognised
the noble “art,” and let their hall for a glov.-fight
between E. Easton and T. Moralee. Just before
the genuine business of the evenlrg commenced,
the police put a stop to what looked like a show
for a turn-up with the raw ’uns between a couple
of the “ talent ” on the stage, from which it might
be inferred that the’after-proceedings were rather
lively. After the usual snake hands, the gladia-
tors went to work and sparred around in a rather
loose manner for some time, Easton getting one
on to Moralee’s shoulder. After «nether short
bout, Moralee landed one with his left on Easton’s
ribs. The men closed then, and though they were
called off, they stuck together and wrestled until
Moralee was thrown heavily on the stage. This
ended the fight, Moralee declared the winner,
as under Queensberry rules throwing is not al-
lowed. The result was received by the audience
with cries of “light it out,” “sanguinary swindle,”
and many more too numerous to mention. £39
was raked in at the “ gate,” and all the thanks re-
cslved by the 8. of A. Committee for their endea-
vour to build up the lowly fortunes of the local
“ Arts ” (with which is now incorporated the
“ noble ”) is a par. by the local editor, which con-
cludes: “The School of Arts Committee should
not let the hall for such a rowdy performance.”
A “late member of the London Athleti >
Club” writes us as follows;—“ I see by a
paragraph in your Athletic Mems. that Myers, of
American fame, probably Intends making a series
of matches with Hutchens, the professional cham-
pion. If he does, I should say so much the worse
for Myers at any distance up to 300yds , unless h‘-'
has vastly improved as a sprinter in the last lw>
or three years. When Mvers first made his appear-
ance in Entr'and, in 1881, ho came with a paper
record of 9 4-5»ec. for iOOyde. We poor amateurs,
of course, thought he would sweep all before him;
as none of us even aspired to even time The
London Athletic Club at their Summer Meeting,
gave a scratch lOOyds. race as a sort of test before
the championship. Myers entered, along with all
the best sprinters in England, but much to the
disgust of many people, did not start At the
Championship meeting, held a month later, at Bir-
mingham, he entered for the lOOyds, and started,
with what result ? The heat was run in 10 3-5?ec ,
and he was not placed, being beaten by J. M.
Cowie, F. P. Cleaver, and T. M Malone; so much
for the record of 9 4 5 sec Surely, if he were able
to make such time, he could have walked in. At a
quarter of a mile, I believe there are few men who
cm come anywhere near him Again, in refer-
ence to his running Hutchens When he was train-
ing at the London Athletic Club grounds for the
1881 championship, I saw him and Hutchens have
many a spin together, but he could never make
Hutchens go out of a canter in a sprint.’ ’
It was a pleasant interior, on the whole ;
pleasant because of its many sporting phases, and
what are we if not sporting? Something, of
course, but not a great deal! The central figure
in the interior was Mr. Clarence Whistler, a wrest-
ler who recently arrived in the Zealandia from
America. Mr. Whistler is a young man of 39 He
has a tawny moustache, and is otherwise pic-
turesque. His foot—unlike that of Largan—is not
obstructive; and when he assures you that he has
beaten Muldoon, Blbby, Delamas, Cbristol, and
others, and that be has an unbroken record, he
does so in tones which possess (or seem to) the
rhythm of truth. We were rather disappointed in
Mr. Whistler, chiefly, we think, bcc ause he was not
obtrusive in the article of “Alaska” diamonds,
and exhibited an appearance of thorough sobriety,
which, considering that he is a newly-arrived
“sport,” must, if not characterised as phenomenal,
at least be regarded as most satisfactory. Clarence,
it scorns, comes here with a lot of “stuff,” ano
whm he wrestles his own “plunder” is at bis
back. His style is the Grteoo-Roman, and he left
the other day, by the Ly-ee-moon, for Melbourne
to try conclusions with Dinnie and Miller. Mr.
Whistler d ies not say that he can throw William
over his shoulder and fracture his spine, but h's
friends do. The issue of the contest will, there-
fore, bo looked forward to with Interest For it is
understood tha‘ all the athletes with whom
Clarenc has contested have tnk~n it heavJy out
of the American Siato hospitals In writing thi?,
we look back to the interview with some feelings
of pride. It was a reunion, anyhow, of a distin-
guished nature. Lawrence Foley, Esq , a blaze of
diamonds, introluetd us to the new arrival; and
John (otherwise Jack) Thompson, officiated in a
double sense-as bottle-holder. Prior t> com-
mencing to discharge his duties as master of the
ceremonies, Mr. Foley desired it to he placed on
record that the other night he offered to box Far-
nan for 01.. and Mr. P. declined. Larry then
offered Farnan 6i. and a cigar to box him, and
still Mr. Farnan refused. There was a fifty-pound
note “ sticking out” a mile for him if ne would have
only pretended to box; but the Melbourne man
couldn’t see it. We, ourselves, thought the
champion (L. P.) looked a trifle “ soft,” but
he assured us he was as hard as nails'
Amongst the company congregated at Larry's
athletic hall on this occasion was Tom Ma-
lone, the great runner. Mr. Malone possessps
one great advantage ; he does not look like a
runner. He is tall and spare, and might be a
duke but for his exhibition of jewellery. Malone
was accompanied by Frank Hewitt, Esq , a gentle-
man who runs a very fast 100 yds., ana whom we
have got rich by backing. Frank is an elegant
creature in the height of toe prevailing mode, and
he is the further possessor of a black moustache
of asymmetrical nature. Wo shall always love
Frank Hewitt. The moment there is any tempor-
ary depression in our financial affairs, we back
Frank directly, and sj get rich again with very
little delay. But, we don t want people to
forget Mr. Clarecca Whistler, For, let it be re-
membered that, although he may not have much
of a record in the Koran, he has a very excellent
one, Indeed. In Fox's N.Y. Police Gazette. And
that Is near enougn Heaven, as these times go.
[?] OF DISOBEDIENCE.
[?] FOR OUR YOUNGER READESS.
CHAPTER 1.
" Now, Edwin.” said a mother to her offspring! "yofl
are old enough to scratch gravel for yourself. Go out into
the world; I have nothing to give you but my blessing and
this bit of advice: Mind your own business, and touch
nothi ig that docs not belong to you.” And with tears in
her eyes she threw her Wl wing around her loved onc’i
neck, and they separated.
CHAPTER II. ,
"Ah!” says Edwin, who, although scarcely out of 1iL
dear mother's hearing, has already forgotten her advice:
••Here is a basket of corn,
and I am hungry.”
chapter hi.
Yielding t" temptation
CHAP 1 EK IV,
■Greediness,
CHAPTER V,
•Gllitlnny.
CHAPTER JCI.
Acknowledges fcofO an$
CHAPTER VI .
•After emptying the basket,
Orests a bit.
CHAPTER VH.
Locomotion impossible.
CHAPTER VIII.
Flight equally so.
CHAPTER IX,
Exhaustion, "
CHAPTER X.
Another futile, attempt.
POLL COTT.
[FOR HE BULLETIN.]
“ A remarkable case of reformation through the
exertions of the Salvation, Array has occurred at
Newcastle. The notorious Poll Cott, who has
been drinking in the district for 48 years and con-
victed 250 times, addressed a large list
night at the Salvation Army barracks, de. ■ ' g
her past career and exhorting others to . ,< -a.
She has now been reclaimed nine Weeks. 1 ’
Ah! happy is your lot, Poll Cott,
Ah! happy is your lot!
In hell they say ’tis hot. Poll Cott,
In Heaven they say ’ns not!
In h~.11 are all th- curst, Poll Coti
In Heaven are all the blest
And hell’s a lot the worst, Poll Cott,
And Heaven's a lot the best!
They-say, to make dead sure, Pull Cott,.
Ot Heaven, that, here below,
One’s play is to endure, Poll Cott,
No end of pain and woe ;
That those who make a hell, Poll Cott,
Of earth, when once they die
In Paradise will dwell, Polt Cott
For all eternity!
They say those who live well, Poll Cott,
And have whole heaps of fun.
Will frizzle down in hell, Poll Cott;
When once this life is done ;
They further say, old Nick’s, Poll Cott,
For ever on the watch
Across the river Styx, Poll Gott,
This class of soul to catch !
You’ve euchred the Old Lad, Poll Cott,
And very badly too,
If ever he was “had,” Poll Cott,
He has been had by you;
He held you in his mesh, Poll Cott,
He thought, beyond a doilht- 1
You've tipped him something fr’esh, B*jll
Cott,
By deftly wriggling out!
Your life was full of sport, Poll Cott,
You always went the pace ;
You often faced the court, Poll Cott,
You were a noted “ case.”
You’d long gone to the bad, Poll Cott,
For you prayers seemed in vain,
And Satan thought he had Poll caught
When—here you are again!
For eight-and-forty years, Poll C >tt,
Since back in ’37,
You’ve had uncounted beers, Poll Cott,
You've run a Private Heaven
For all those years you drank, Poll Cott,
All you could get to drmk,
Until your soul had sunk, Poll Cott,
As low as soul could sink.
What diffe ’eni kinds of laps, Poll C cti't-
You have enj >yed, since you
First swallowed Schiedam Schnapps, Poll''
Cott—.
First Upped up Mountain Dew !
Full many a glorious swig, poll Cott,
You’ve had of bottled stou r ,
Of Bulldog brand, and P.{r, Poll Cott,
When anyone would “shout.”
Full many a brandy-hot, Poll Cott.
Yog've spoiie 1, and we should think
Thatyou could fell us what, Poll Cott,
Is quite the loveliest drink.
•Ah! down your throat has gone, Poll Cott,.
. Full many a lordly fi ;sk,
Full mauy a demijohn, Po',1 Cott,
Full many a lull-sized cask
Of gin, or beer, onutn, Poll Cott,
But all that j oy is p?st,
You’ve heard the holy drum, Poll Cott,
The blessed tromb »nes’ blast.
Prom every fiery stuff, Poll Cott,
Your life has gained some zest,
But now you’ve nad enough. Poll Cott,
And so you “ give it best.”
Ah! mauy a half-and-half, Poll Cott,
You’ve delicately drained;
And many a shandygaff, Poll Cott,
While yet your soul was chained;
Ah! often you’ve got “full” Poll Cott,
On every sort of blend—
On Thistle Blend and Bull, Poll Cott,
But now you've made an end,
We envy you such fate, Poll Cott,
Just at the proper hour,
Before it was too late, Poll Cott,
You felt the Harmy’s power.
So now away you go, Poll Cott,
Washed white as any dove,
From splendid times below, Poll Cott,
To splendid times above.
You must have felt, O chaste Poll Cott,
Some pain such bonds to burst,
To have at last to waste, Poll Cott,
Such educated thirst.
But past the gates of death, Poll Cott,
They’ll hail you with del ght.
Unless upon your breath, Poll Cott,
The seraphim get tight!


COMPAGNONI CATERING GO.. LIMITED.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 7 •
40 H “ w °-“'> lhe “»-■
T “ Bu,me »■«>• coion,,
Iy GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 am to 11 n m rafter the
Theatres. .Select your own steak, &c., and sectlt grilled in tho room. This ?s™ne of tEiTacauialtlons
or the city, and a long-felt waU. Inspection Invited. Club of the Prince Alfred Yacht C?“
and City Club, upstairs. R» D. TOLLKMACHE, General Manager.
Bray <fc Liclitner,
3? O CONNELL STEEET, SYDNEY,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments, ,, thtuU1I „tmouo<ufor notiom:
Cl
9 ss
c:
£2
g .00
(0
2 w
o
UfZtCKUXt
CO
5S
m
■
dn
S
i
yv\
-
Ss?s
- : j*" V '
fit
i-
\w
<31
JS
is-
eq; m pidBJ paB aiqBqaj isohi
»q» B<-*9qBa J0 J Binary eiog
IMPORTERS .OF SUPPLIES
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments, hm taction, tor noti«c
Ijjp 0 ALL WOMEN.
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
tkt rr for flannels, linen, laces,
oold R watek 00DW0RK ’ elther H0T 01
rr is a wonderful discovert
IN SOAP I
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with It;
HEAL SCRATCHES, CH VPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
kw Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
6d. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers ;
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
KSSKNCEopUFE
remedy for
Ei\Vbifs JjebiIijyT
This invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustlve derangement of the system: regenerating
all the Important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In oases at 12s., or four quantities Is oneior
IBs.; If by coach, 2a. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,!
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulbum-
street. One Door from Georsre-*treat South.
AYER’S PILLS.
A large proportion of the diseases which
cause human suffering result from derange*
ment of the stomach, bowels, and liver.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused by their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt, and
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of these
Pills by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation in
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
substances only, and are absolutely free from
calomel or any other injurious ingredient.
A Sufferer from Headache writes:
“ Ayer’s Pills are invaluable to me, and
are my constant companion. I have been
a severe sufferer from Headache, and your
Pills are the only thing I could look to
for relief. One dose will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. They
are the most effective and the easiest physio
I have ever found. It is a pleasure to me to
speak in their praise, and I always do so
when occasion offers.
W. L. Page, of W. L. Page & Bro.”
Franklin St., Richmond,Va., June 3,1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Pills in number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. We constantly keep them
on hand at our home, and prize them as a
pleasant, safe, and reliable family medicine.
FOR DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable.
J. T. Hayes.”
Mexia, Texas, June 17, 1882.
The Rev. Francis B. Harlowe, writing
from Atlanta, Ga., says: “For some years
past I have been subject to constipation,
from which, in spite of the use of medi-
cines of various kinds, I suffered increasing
inconvenience, until some months ago I
began taking Ayer’s Pills. They have
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
have vastly improved my general health.”
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to the
whole physical economy.
prepared by
Dr.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass,
Sold by all Druggists.
All experience the wonderful
beneficial effects of
YOUNG,
OLD. AND
MIDDLE-
- AGED.
ilitic taint, may be made healthy and strong
by its use.
Sold by all Druggists; $1, six bottles for fS.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
Ears, or any scrofulous or syph-
,de *
ELLIOTT BROS, and 8. HOFFNUNTQ & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
WTM before MOUSTACHE and WHISEEBS. eefors after
Boyd*s Beard Elixir did thin, and
«dll do it on cither bald head or
bare face, forces heavy Hons -
tache in from 3 to 4 weeks and never ,
Jails, 20,000 young men already
wear full beards, having used 1 to Copyrighted,
3 pkts. No injury, easily applied, certain in effect. Packets 1«. 6 d.
each, 3 for 3«. 6 d.,post paid, sent under cover, free from observation-
JLddress, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent, Box 720, G.P.O., Sydney,N.6. FT*
Copyrighted,
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALB. which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO.,
Sole Agents.
VENETTA WALT*
Tkt Air to (X wM marlaai. Ouwmr* to tmui.
V '
P/3 eantahSi
I'd
Pe-i.
-r
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues will be ready in a few days and
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed. Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most Important Copying
pograpn
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograp
takes oif 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
8 nd and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
A. A C. HUENERBEIRTS
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
SIS 6EOB6S ITKEIT,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
iar~ The most liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Ihspiotion Cordially Iwyitid.
A. & C. ZIuenerbein,
818 GEORGE STREET.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
mm of nn
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRA88E8
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&o., &c.
THE LATEST WOTK8 AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, th<
most reliable and rapid in the market.
Mr. William Ball.-Dear Sir,—Allow me to say
that I find your ‘ Bloom of Peaches ’ superior to
anything of the kind that I ever used before.—
Yours truly, Emelib Melville.”
“Dear Sir,—1 have never used anything equal to
your ‘Bloom of Peaches.’— Maggie Mooue.”
“Dear Sir,—I have the greatest pleasure in re-
commending Mr. Ball’s ‘Bloom of Peaches’ and
‘Fett-Puder’ as being invaluable.—Yours truly,
Alice bees.”
To he obtained of all chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
“ FETT-PUDEB,” a delicate and invisible
powder for the face. Beautifully perfumed.
White, Pink, or Cream, to suit all complexions.
Price, 1/6 per box.
Manufactured only by
WILLIAM BALL,
Tho “ Professional ” and Pharmaceutical Ctemlst,
61 BOURKE STREkT, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale A gents for Sydney ;
Messrs. B. PROSSER & CO., Wholesale Chemist a
G. F. PRIDDY & CO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th,
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.30 p.m,: Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
* Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
iBgllih Papers and Magazines received by
every Mall.
gOTAL ABOAJDB. OBOROS 8T, 4M 8TDM1T
B
AVARIAN
ITTERS.
HOP
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of the best Bavarian Hops. Superior to any
other.
They take the first place wherever tried, and are
well authenticated by eminent medical men and
well-known analysts.
Read the reports and testimony which aooom
pany each bottle, and do not forget to make a
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jinn Curtis,
XT n<d.ertalcer,
■4 HUNTER 9l PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (18) years;
Manager for over ten (10) years.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found
last with the Argosy Braces at Cowing Bros.
\
m
y:
GOWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. 6d.. 3s., 3s. 6d.,& 4s. 6
SOWING - BROS.,
MIN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS,«
SSX and 498 Caorga-atraat.


PURNITUBI SHOW BOOM.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
O Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
Hall furniture, hatstands, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES.
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, fashionably uphol-
stered, at all pricea. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
ALL CABINETS for Choice China, Ac.'
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
OVELTIBS In BOUDOIR and BOW WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feei
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLBY, NEWTON
»nd LAMB, Spring* and O'Connell streets, Sydney,
171 IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
1A Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glasa, and two chairs. Th® lot for £8. BRADLBY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
EDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 3 CANE SEAT dHAIRS, 16 guineas.
, BRADLBY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE. —Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 30s.; Kitchen
iJressers, from 27s, 6d.; Washstands from 13s. 6d.:
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80sl
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.: Cedar Sideboards,
from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLBY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
i}QK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oUOtl strong, and durable. Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also In Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Plush, &c.
ifNHIFFONNIBR WHATNOTS, effective design*
Just received. Bradley,' Newton, and Lamb,
O Connell-strcet.
NAMELLED and JEWELLED MIRRORS, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-street.
ThRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
XJ A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Pricea, from 13s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inez-
penslve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND.
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-straet.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D
S
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK OH AIK—
Patented.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in any
material.
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
s
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered In
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room furni-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery,
Open to Inspection. BRADLBY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streeta.
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
B
B
EDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates,
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con*
nell and Spring streets.
A8H8TANDS, with marble, from 3Ss. each"
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
W
■ AWN and PARK SEATS 6 feet long. Rustic
1 i Cast-Iron Standards, 15s. each. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb.
B
HNTWOOD FURNITURE,—A very complete
Assortment: bast make, lowest prices
The following extract, besides showing to
aristocracy-worshippers the character of the idol
they bow before, will also do something to explain
why the Palo Mali, Gazette has been bundled
out of West End Clubs and threatened with sup-
pression, as per a late cable to the S.M. Herald:
—“ The Sentinel for June publishes some extra-
ordinary particulars as to the notorious Jeffries
case, which was bushed up so comfortably at the
Middlesex Sessions. The names of some of the
aristocratic patrons of the woman s establishment
are published. If the statements made are true—
and they appear to be founded on the depositions
of witnesses who would have been examined, bad
not the woman pleaded guilty—we can well under-
stand the eager anxiety to bring the case to a sud-
den end. According to the Sentinel the doors of
the Middlesex Sessions were virtually closed
against the public by the police, who declared that
they had orders to admit no one. One member of
the committee only succeeded in obtaining entry
into court with great difficulty, and he was the only
spectator in the space allotted to the public. The
Sentinel further not only declares that the coun-
sel on both sides retired for a private consultation,
but adds that it was understood in court that the
Judge closeted himself with them. Mr. Besley,
the counsel for the prosecution, it will be remem-
bered, made an extraordinary speech which would
have better become the counsel for the defence, in
which he [said that Mrs. Jeffries’proceedings were
free from public scandal in the ordinary sense of
the word. Yet one of the witnesses whom ho was
instructed to call was a gentleman who was pre-
pared to swear that he had repeatedly complained
in vain to the local inspector of police; while
another witness, a former servant of Mrs. Jeffries,
would have said that she left the house because of
an outrage committed on a child of 18, who had
been brought up from the country. It only re-
mains to be added that although Mrs. Jeffries has
pleaded guilty, and thus in groat part established
the statements of ex-inspector Minahan, that
officer has been punished by being degraded in
rank, and thus virtually thrust out of the service,
and that bis appeals to the Home Secretary for an
impartial investigation of his case have proved
fruitless.”
A WONDERFUL INSTANCE OP CANINE
INTELLIGENCE.
WAS IT REASON OR INSTINCT ?
Not long since, a friend of the writer was pre-
sented with a cross-bred colley puppy, which at
once became the favourite companion of his
children. They speedily taught the dog to fetch
and carry, and his owner, noticing the unusual in-
telligence he displayed, took him in hand and
gave him a thorough training. Happening,
shortly afterwards, to boast of the animal’s per-
formances, a doubting listener offered to bet that
the dog would not recover and bring to his master
within two hours an article dropped on the road
during his absence. The wager was readily ac-
cented, and the two gentlemen, accompanied by a
referee, took the dog out on to the main road to
decide it. They had not strolled far before “ Shep-
herd ” started a rabbit, and during his chase a
bunch of keys was dropped on the road, and left
far behind. After another 15 minutes my friend
called his dog with a “Hie away, old man, find
’em,” and pointed down the track. Cooking his
ears, and glancing at his master, away went
“ Shepherd ” on the back trail. It happened that
a “ Sweet Hapsburg Piano ” traveller coming up
the road in his van noticed the keys, and picking
them up, locked them in the drawer of a “Wonder-
ful Wertheim ” Sewiog Machine till he should find
their owner. Looking round shortly afterwards,
he was surprised to see a handsome dog quietly
trotting behind his van as if bent on accompany-
ing him. He got down at the next house to de-
liver the machine, the dog. to hij delight, fawning
upon him most aifectionately, and following him
into the house, where he deposited the machine
and commenced to give the usual instructions to
his customer. As he pointed out its wonderful
capabilities the dog sat looking at the machine
with the strongest interest, but no sooner was the
drawer taken out and set on a chair, than he
pounced on the bunch of keys with a joyous bark,
and was half-way up the road before the specta-
tors had time to follow. The keys were in his
master’s hands in one hour 58Hs minutes from the
time they were dropped, ana the wagerer went
home a sadder and wiser man.*
Ball Boom Specialities.— Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated witk
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 60i Hunter-street, Sydney.*
Many have been sold, but there are plenty
still to choose from. In fact, this extraordinary
wide choice has always bewildered buyers, and
mad a it desirable that an absent person should be
present to assist them in choosing their crockery
at Bray Bro.’s, whose stock is incomparable.*
SOCIAL
Only a moderate crowd gathered at the
Association Ground to witness the Burwood and
Balmain Amateur Bicycle Sports on Saturday last,
and the fev ladles who did attend exhibited noth-
ing very startlingly new in their toilettes; moss-
green is still the colour, but violet-a bright, beau-
tiful violet—seems to be following closely In its
wake, ready to take its innings when the former
colour is out. Certainly the handsomest dress on
the lawn was a brown and gold velvet velours
redingote, over a plain brown velvet petticoat-
hat, brown straw with handsome gold plumes A
neat coitume was navy-blue serge, with white
vest. A horse-shoe of violets adorned the left
shoulder, and the hat was in accordance with the
dress. Rather bizarre was a fawn and brown com-
bination-skirt of brown velvet, drapery and
vest of fawn cashmere, coat-shaped jacket of
velvet and brown gaiters, high-crowned fawn
straw hat, trimmed with velvet and plumes. A
lady wearing a rust-coloured plush dress was
accompanied by two little girls in deep blue,
broche velvet pelisses, and pretty cream
straw hats. A clever young pianist wore
a Prussian-blue silk dress slightly touched here
and there with crimson broche. A complete cos-
tume of brown corduroy was more uncommon
than tasteful, and was worn in conjunction with a
brown velvet hat nearly a foot high. Quite neat
and pretty looked two sisters, one in green satin
with rich chenille fringe trimming, and the other
in ruby satin. Both wore high-crowned white
velvet hats. A pretty, dark-eyed lady wore a
handsome black silk dress, draped with rich lace,
small dark bonnet with crimson velvet strings. A
combination of myrtle and sage-green was rather
uncommon; skirt of myrtle velvet bad side panels
of save-green corded silk, vest of the silk, and
jaunty hussar jacket of velvet. A more apathetic
crowd never assembled at the Association Ground
—even when three ’cyclists got bad “spills” It
failed to raise any enthusiasm. In the early part
of the afternoon the Naval Brigade band was a
welcome boon, but as the hours wore on the
J (layers seemed to lose their vim, and got shock-
ngly out of tune at the last.
The circle at the Theatre Royal was
thronged with swallow-tails and handsomely-
attired ladies last Saturday, the opening night of
the oomic opera season. There’s nothing 1 like
comic opera to bring out the dudes and dudesses.
One of the latter wore an extremely handsome
amber-satin gown, the bodice out V-shape, and
round the white neck a string of amber beads.
Mrs. M’Quade, in a cream dress and spray of
natural flowers, had in her company a nice-looking
lady In a rich black dress, cut low, and short
sleeves. A handsome brunette, who possessed a
shaoely head of curly black hair, wore a pearl-
white satin with prettily-devised bertha of floe
white net, almost covered with tiny bunches of
real violets; and to her right sat a fair girl
with a wealth of golden hair. In a pale-blue
broche gown elaborately trimmed with crys-
tal lace which shimmered like diamonds at
every movement. A costly-looking 'dress was
a white net covered with crimson chenille
pendants. A Macquarie-street belle looked very
lovely In pale-blue. Several ladies wore the new
arm ornaments, which are simply two or some-
times three straps of black velvet tied on a bow
round that part of the arm which is left bare be-
tween the glove and the shoulder. In some cases
this strange ornament enhances the beauty of the
arm, whilst In others it looks ridiculous-just as if
it were meant for the purpose of tying the skin and
bone together to prevent them dropping to pieces.
Natural flowers were much in vogue—two ladies,
in charming black net dresses cut low and sleeve-
less, having entire berthas composed of them.
Flowers in the hair are still prohibited, nothing
but jewelled ornaments and long tortoiseshells or
gilt pins being allowable for theatre-wear. An
eccentric, but “ fetching ” toilette was of mouse-
coloured velvet, with chocolate feather trimming
round the well-cut bodice and short sleeves. The
auburn bairlwas dressed iu the fashionable basket-
Elaits, and fastened with numerous silver pins.
Ilss Nellie Stewart, who, by the way, got a splendid
reception as soon as she tripped on to the stage,
looked her best as the Countess in bodice and train
of royal-blue velvet over a yellow satin quilted
petticoat, the latter being edged with a rope-fold
of the two colours. Miss Emma Chambers was a
pretty picture in hood and gown of crushed straw-
berry satin embellished with brown feather trim-
Ing; and to look well in crushed strawberry is an
art in itself.
• • *
A fashionable audience met at Paling’s
rooms last Tuesday evening at the invitation of
Madame John Woolner, in order that they might
judge of her capabilities as a pianiste. To say that
Midarae Woolner is not a good painstaking pianiste
would be unjust; to aver that she Is a yreat one
would bo equally untrue. In her first solo
(Chopin’s “Nocturne”), it was plainly evident
that Madame was extremely nervous, aud we are
willing to make allowances accordingly; but her
Sarformance at the end of the programme, the
larch from Tanhiiiiser, was too laboured, the
turns too imperfect, and the artistic finish too
absent, to make the item more than passably
eojoyable. There is much to be admired in
Madame Woolner's playing, but, in justice to
other pianists our town possesses, we must
admit that we have heard better work. A plea-
sant face and a pleasing manner, added to her un-
doubted musical knowledge, should, however,
ensure the lady of popularity as a teacher of
music in Sydney. Mrs. Richards gave two very
nice harp solos which proved a welcome novelty;
and Mr. Friedmann sang Lostis' “ Good-bye,” and
“ Non 6 ver.” This gentleman is heard to far
better advantage in a room of ordinary di-
mensions than in the Exhibition building, where
he made his first appearance in Sydney. The
other night we discovered that his voice was
round and full, though a little bit unsteady, and
not always in perfect tune. “Non ver” is so
stale that it requires a more marvellous organ than
Mr. Friedmann possesses to make it “ go down.”
“ Good-bye " was certainly a better choice, and
was also better rendered. Half-past nine saw the
close of the soiree musicale.
• ■ •
The Sydney Amateur Photographers held
their first Conversazione at the School of Arts last
Tuesday and Wednesday evenings. This is, as yet,
quite a young society, but some of the exhibits
were extremely creditable. It generally requires
only half an eye to detect the amateur work
among the professional, but there were some land-
scapes by Messrs Jeanneret Henry, and Rouse
which would have deceived good judges. And
particularly good was a group of picnickers,
wherein the features came out as sharply
as if each one bad been taken separately.
Some poor photographs there certainly were, but
these only lent additional charm to the good ones.
Messrs, Bray and Uohtner had a neat little
court to themselves, where they exhibited all the
latest improvements in the photographic line.
They show a Yankee camera, which is so crowded
with conveniences that it leaves nothing to be
desired save knowledge of how to work it—but
that’s a mere nothing. Their dainty little ladles’
cameras are another feature, being light,
compact, and Inexpensive. This just reminds
us, that amongst all the amateur exhibits, we
do not remember seeing any with ladles’ names
attached. This is rather curious, as the photo-
graphic pastime is very popular at home, the
Princess Beatrice being quite devoted to it, and
as the President of the Society, Mr. E. L. Monte-
fiore, remarked, this Australian climate being par-
ticularly favourable to the photographic art, the
wonder is our sisters are so slow to take it up. The
old objection of blackening the fingers in the
manipulation of the negatives is done away with
by the dry plates, so we hope by the time these
amateur photographers hold their next exhibition
to see that Sydney ladles have taken this hint.
• * *
The Botany Social and Kinking Club held
another of their enjoyable meetings last Wednes-
day, and despite tne inclement nature of the
weather, about 30 couples attended. By some
mistake, the 7.30 tram, which was to have taken
Sydney visitors to Botany, did not keep its ap-
pointment, so many returned home soaked and
disgusted. But amongst those who were there
Mrs. Glendenning looked very nice in a pale-blue
plush bodice, open V shape, with an Elizabethan
collar studded with pearls, over a skirt of pale
blue and cream silk looped up with ruby and
cream roses. A coronet of pearls adorned the
head. Miss Thelwell, in a ruby broohe bodice,
cut low and sleeveless, with a bunch of roses
nestled on the left shoulder, was very charm-
ing. The skirt was of pink satin, one side
of which was covered with cream lace, the op-
posite side being embellished with bunched
drapery of ruby broche and pink ribbons. A
waterfall back of ruby broohe completed the
costume. Mrs. Thomas was attired in a very
becoming dress, which was a combination of gar-
net satin and dove-coloured silk. Mrs. Corbett
was charming in a neat cream cashmere with
draperies of cream silk, the whole tastefully re-
lieved by pale-blue satin. Miss Stephen looked
well in a bodice of black velvet and cream Indian-
muslin skirt with loops of ribbon-velvet in accord-
ance with the bodice. The room was nicely hung
with flags and Chinese lanterns, and Messrs. Geddes
and Corbett discharged their duties as M.C.’s to
everybody’s satisfaction.
• * *
The tenth concert of the Metropolitan
Lfedertafel showed a most marked Improvement
on any concert this society has given, but, for all
that, until the instrumentalists make bigger
strides it would be as well if Mr. Edwards would
keep them well within their scope, and put
Wagner aside for a while. It’s far better to play a
little composer well than a big one indifferently.
Now, that’s the worst thing we have to say
about the Metrop. this time. Everybody re-
gretted the absence of the sweet tenor, which
necessitated the omission of two good items in
the programme. The part song which found
most favour was the “Wild Hunt,” a nice
effect being the echo behind the stage. The
baritone solo in the part song “ Ruby Tide ” was
encored—and we much wondered why. The
light and shade in all the choruses, which was
the strong point of the Sydney Liedertafel when
Mr. Edwards was their conductor, was a welcome
feature the other night. Mr. Harry Hyndes
played some of his sweetest solos as only he can
play them, and Mr. Hallewell sang two solos which
were, as a matter of course, encored. Perhaps no
song has retained the affection of the Sydney pub-
lic so long as “ Simon the Cellarer,” and as soon as
the first notes bad been struck and recognised the
satisfaction expressed by the audience was warm
and entire. Mr. Hallewell gave this in response
to his second encore. If Mons. de Willlmoff was
not quite up to his usual mark, who could
blame him, considering the dampness of the
atmosphere ? Not we, certainly, knowing as
we do, that he always does bis best, and
most times bis best pleases us passing well.
Herr Patek joined Mr. Huenerbein and Mons.
Wlllimoff in an instrumental trio, which was
delightfully played. As the concert was over by
10.15, there was surely no occasion for the rush
for the door during the rendering of the last
chorus. It quite spoilt the item for those who
wanted to listen.
* • *
Last Thursday night a gay and festive
company assembled in the Mechanics* Institute,
Goulburn, the occasion being a return ball given
to Mr. and Mrs. Payten, of Thornleigh. The belle,
a pretty little blonde recently united in wedlock,
was clad in pale-blue silk draped with lace. Thorn-
leigb contributed an interesting galaxy of plump
and pert maidens, thoroughly versed in the art of
waltzing—one in pale pink, with lace flounces,
being much sought after. Two sisters from Ciln-
ton-street; the one in pale blue, and the other in
Sink nun’s veiling, were equally charming. Miss
[‘Connell looked extremely well in white satin,
and met with much appreciation. The Misses
Beegllng were bewitching in lace skirts with satin
bodices. Miss M*Abater in pink silk garnished
with cardinal flowers, Miss Simons pink nun’s
veiling, and Mrs. Moon similarly attired, all added
greatly to the attraction of the bail. Dancing
from 9 o’clock till 3.30 next morning.
¥ * ♦
The Howard Family, assisted by a handful
of amateurs, have been giving a series of enter-
tainments over at Manly Beach last week.
“ School ” was the attraction on Thursday night,
to which all Manly turned out en masse. The
Misses .Howard and Sherwood were the school
girls, and very pretty ones they were, too; and
Mr. Paul Howard played the part of Beau Farln-
tosh. Mr. Harry Woods, who was the chief insti-
gator of these entertainments, looked handsome
enough, as Lora Reaufoy, to persuade any girl to
run away from school and marry him. His leg-
gings, considering the state of the weather
outside, were rather clean, but otherwise
his “ get-up ” and acting were more than credit-
able. Mr. Eldridge, a well-known amateur, made
a good Jack Poyntz, and Mr. J. Allen, as Dr. Sut-
cliffe, gave evidence of very fair theatrical talent.
The ungracious part of Krux was taken by an
amateur calling himself Mr. C. Glossop, which
isn’t his name. He looked so repulsive that even
the windows shivered when he shuffled on to the
platform—but it was his duty to look thus, and he
did it to perfection. Was there ever an amateur
entertainment without a catastrophe? Of course
not; they would cease at once to be funny if
everything went along smoothly and without a
hitch of any kind. In the scene where all the
girls get indignant with Krux for his sneaking
behaviour, and commence to pelt him with every-
thing poltable they can lay their hands on the
curtain stubbornly refused to drop at the right
moment—indeed, it wouldn’t drop at all. Tableau:
Girls pouting, cross, and embarrassed, casting
furious glances at the offending curtain, till at last
somebody had to climb up and drag it down by
main,!orce. This was more amusing to the audience
than to the actors, who hadn’t the presence of
mind to make their exeunt curtain or no curtain.
On Friday night the same company gave another
entertainment In aid of the Oddfellows’ Hall Fund,
• • *
Herr Alpen is to have a complimentary
grand concert tendered to him on the 39th, which,
we are assured, will be quite a musical banquet.
Herr Vogrich has consented to play a solo, and
some of our best professionals and amateurs are
to take part also. Part of Herr Alpen’s Mass in D
is to be performed, to which the composer has
written an overture which has gained the ap-
proval of Herr Vogrich, so we may safely look
forward to a musical treat. The concert is to be
held in the new Masonic Hall.
* ♦ ♦
About 300 guests at the ball given by the
Aurora Lodge in West’s rooms last Monday night.
Very handsome was Mrs. Evans in white satin
sleeveless skirt and wreaths of rose chrysanthe-
mums. Miss B. Crones, white satin bodice and white
lace skirts, trimmed with pearls, was also nice.
Mrs. Vaughan, drab silk and lace; Miss Lee, old
Sold bodice, with skirt of deep lace and flounces:
[iss King, blue broche bodice, and white lace
pipe; Mrs. Milligan, brown satin skirt, bodice and
drapery of flowered satin; Miss Vaughan, black
satin bodice and black lace skirt; Miss Collins,
pink satin and white lace; her sister, in dark-blue
satin and white lace; Mrs. Griffin, pink satin dress,
cut square, and trimmed with coffee lace and
wreaths of red and white roses; Mrs. Garcia, pink
satin skirt, bodice, and panier of stamped ruby
velvet adorned with pink ostrich feathers; from
Wbollahra came a lady in pink satin bodice and
white satin skirt trimmed with Oriental lace; Miss
Combes, black satin skirt and cardinal bodice; Mrs.
Myers, mauve and white silk dress, trimmed with
white ostrich feathers; Mrs. Marsh, prune silk
skirt and velvet bodice; from the Glebe came a
pink satin and white lace trimming. Miss Combes
sang two songs after 13 o’clock, and Master Beattie
also contributed a song. The catering of the C.C.
Co. was in good style, and the Professor s band
provided splendid music.
• • •
To-night, Thursday, the long-talked of
Mercantile Rowing Club Ball comes off at the Town
Hall, and has a very favourable prospect of suc-
cess. The whole of the tickets have been disposed
of privately, and it is satisfactory to know that
the number of visitors cannot be increased by
door payments. Needs’ band plays. Guests are
recommended to write their names in full on their
programmes; then,if the cards are dropped, there
is every likelihood of their being returned to the
owners, or put in the basket provided for the
purpose.
# * m m
The bachelors of Bungendore gave a most
enjoyable plain and fancy dress ball last
Friday week; and, in response to their invitation,
about 160 guests assembled to partake of their
hospitality. The most successful ball ever held in
the district The Scotch ball of the Sydney
Thistle Club was a complete success. Kilts and
plaids almost universal Nice party given in
Oddfellows'Hall, Tingha, on the 17th, in honour of
Mr. M’Bride, a member of the Contingent.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
[Note,—Social items, in order to ensure Inser-
tion for the current week, should be to hand no
later than Tuesday.]
“B. B. Goak Your item much too stale to war-
rant insertion.... “Luna Too late.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Plain and Fancy Drees Ball, Albert Hall,
Petersham — July 30.
Mercantile Rowing Club Ball, Town Hall..July 23.
Macquarie Lawn Tennis Clqb Ball (plain
and fancy dress) West’s Rooms July 34.
Newtown Private Social July 24.
Sydney Social July 31
Plain and Fancy Dress Ball, Albert Hall,
Petersham;.., J uly 30.
Madame Charbonnet-Kellermann’s Con-
certs August 8,11.
Herr Hugo Alpen’s Complimentary Con-
cert, new Masonic Hall July 39.
Glebe and Albion Football Match, Went-
worth Park July 35.
Plain and Fancy Dress Ball of the Amazon
Quadrille Assembly, Mr. Giltinan’s
Academy, Sussex-street August 4.
Grand Masonic Ball (Sydney Tarbolton)
Town Hall August 13.


RAW VASELINE
m
A
SOFTENS and Preserves Horses’ Hoofs, Kills
Parasites, and prevents their growth. In-
valuable as a Leather Preservative, rendering it
soft, pliable, and waterproof, and prevents it
cracking. Prom its anti-corrosive qualities, un-
equalled for keeping free from rust and in
perfect order all metal goods, firearms, machines,
&o. It la the sole material used for the above
purposes in the Austrian and German armies.
Sold by all Saddlers and Storekeepers.
SOLE AGENTS :
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
12K York-street, Sydney.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
Marshall’s Artificial Taeth.
MARSHALL BROTHERS, owing to the great
increase of their dentistry practice, have
also taken extensive premises at 133 ELIZABETH
STREET, Hyde Park. They still continue to
inseit artificial teeth at the same enormously
reduced price as before, namely, £I> per set
(upper and lower), which are precisely the same
prize-medal teeth advertised by other firms.
Marshall Brothers gurantee these to be equal in
every way, both for quality, fit, and appearance,
to those inserted by bundreds of dentists (with a
limited practice), who charge double and treble
this amount. The public may doubt this, but
Marshall Brothers offer £1000 to any person who
proves this statement untrue. Consultation
free. Painless extraction under nitrous oxide
gas. MARSHALL BROTHERS, American Den-
tists, 133 Bllzabeth-street, Hyde Park, and Market-
street. N.B.—All trams stop at the door.
NERVOUSNESS, Despondency. Lost Vitality.
Premature Decay, and all forms of Debility,
causing Iops of Physical and Mental Power, quickly
and easily cured by the French Aphrodisiac
Remedy. Illustrative book free. Address Aus-
tralian Agency, P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT or PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital J8W.00S
Reserve Fund £150,000
Directors:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, E.C.M.O., Chains
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George 8. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Qidley King, M.L.O.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. I Hon. H. B. Cohen, Hr
General Manager: I Secretary:
F. A. A. Wilson. I Hector Allen,
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyngan
Bourke, Manly, Byerook, and Parramatta.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 168 Leadenhall-street.
Directors :
Edvard Chapman, Esq. I Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G | Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank 6f England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Flnan
olal Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted dally.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo.
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
G00LALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 Gleorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
. ,
rnrr PRESCRIPTIONS are to
I If EL* be found In the “LIGHT AND
LIFE,” for the speedy cure of Nervous Debility,
Lost Manhood, Despondency, &o. A copy of
this book will be sent free, sealed. Address—
8. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy.
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
ANHOOD RESTORED!
A Clergyman having tried every known remedy
forthe CURE of NERVOUS EXHAUS-
TION, PREMATURE DECAY, &c.. has at
last discovered a simple SELF-CU RE, which, for
the sake of suffering humanity, he will send FREE
the Prescription which CURED him. Address,
with self-addressed stamped envelope—
Dr. E. A. CI.ARKE, P.O. Box 292, Sydney.
mO Country Journalists.-Leaders, Telegrams,
and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. “ Beta.” Bulletin Office.
The Sydney D.T. is to be enlarged. This is
not a paid-for advertisement—it is simply a polite,
round-about way of suggesting that there may be
times when the State may be over-burthened.
Mr. John Tebbutt reports having seen a
new comet, recently discovered by Barnard, the
astronomer of Nashville, U.8. It cannot be seen
through any telescope of less than 4-lnch aperture,
and, consequently, amateur astronomers will Und
that the ordinary glass-bottomed pewter is useless.
The original genuine article—TFol/e’s Schnapps,
They are selling very fast, and well they
might, for they are tiptop value. Several persons
have bought two sets and recommended others to
go and view the new Tea Sets, and combination
Dinner Tea Sets at 15s. and 80s , respectively, now
showing at Bray Bros., 403 and 404 George-street.*
The massive gates of circumstance
Are turned upon the smallest hinge,
And thus some seeming petty chance
Oft gives our after life a tinge.
The things that make our daily life,
Soon out of memory’s grasp will fall,
But Summerfleld’s Cork Tweed outlasts .
The most enduring of them all.*
Insist upon having Wolfe's Schnapps.
F. A. WRIGHT.
HEY WILL LOOK BETTER THAN NE
HAVE VO UR OLD
REPLATED BY,R.HELVER
.1-1-
THAN NEW
GRANVILLE.
IN THE HEART OF GRANVILLE.
THE CITY AND COUNTY INVESTMENT, LAND,
AND BUILDING COMPANY, Limited,
are now selling at
their Offices,
16 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY,
forty-two splendid well-elevated ALLOTMENTS,
in the heart of the town,
near the Railway Station and Public School,
and all the Great Manufactories.
BUSINESS AND VILLA SITES,
GRANVILLE.
TERMS: £5 per lot deposit, and the balance may
extend over 10 years, repayable by instalments
of 5s. 6d. per week for each £100 of the pur-
chase-money.
And
the Company will LEND to Build to the extent of
90 per cent, of improved value.
The Company confidently recommends these
choice allotments to all persons desirous of really
good speculations, as land in a first- class position
in Granville is every day becoming more scarce,
and the allotments now offered will be worth, in a
short time, double the prices now asked for them.
FOR PLANS and PRICES apply
CITY AND COUNTY INVESTMENT, LAND,
AND BUILDING COMPANY. Limited,
16 ROYAL ARCADE,
SYDNEY.
XjCcDa.-IDli.-a. d z Sli-sacc-rccDs
3-Star 10-Years’ Old Whiskies. The Oldest, Purest, and Most Mellow imported. GOLD MEDAL8-Cal
outta, NZ. and 8. and W. Australia. HOLLAND & CO.’S OLD TOM GIN. G. H. ADAMS, 119 Pltt-
strect, Sydney; and at Melbourne, Adelaide, and Brisbane, Agents-Klrker, Greer, & Co. (Ld.)
ON THE
DBricls:±xelcL Hill.
m 5TAI AID CORSET ILFARTMEIT.
(C
e o
Oi
#'0
uO
I
'NH
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Free oe Charge.
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
2s. lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., 5s. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., 8s. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s 6
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS, 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill.
.—Orders from the Country will receive Immediate and careful attention.
A JINGLE TO JESSEP.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Idolatry, our strong right hand
Will find a flaming scourge in,
We’re death upon all candles, and
All statues of the Virgin.
Yes, Brother Jessep; yes, old son,
Your views we quite agree with—
But, hold!—we’ve enough “ copy” done
To have a howling spree with.
We quite believe you, till you rake
This Orange gullelessneas up,
Then we yell out, “ For mercy's sake
Hang—well, IT, Brother Jessep! ”
We have been all night long, hy the light of a tal-
low candle, gloating over the report of the Orange
corrobboree in the Goulburn Penny Post. We
have got through with It. Our soul blazes with
indignation, and we are ready to rush forth ana
confront any death—even from reading the Pro-
testant Standard— in order to give light and
freedom to our brethren —to counteract the
diabolical Influences of Popery—to baffle the
damnable machinations of the Church of
Rome! We have pored over the utterances of
Brother Kenny, of Dr. Ellis, of Brother Madgwiolr.
and of Brother Jessep—and we are much moved.
We want to rise up and get a Graeco-Roman grip
on the hellish errors of the Papists. We want to
burst up the immoral Idolatries of Roman Catho-
licism; we want to rush out and deny the real
Presence in a voice of thunder, to confront the
sallow-faced promulgators of pernicious doctrines
and prove It on their bodies, generally. Our eyes
have been unsealed, and we are awake to tie
iniquities going on around us. We want to be up
and doingl But, alack! What I We have not the
wherewithal to purchase a poignard to plunge in
the bosom of the first padre we meet! Diable!
That we should be so poor! We have not even
enough coin to get a threepenny drink. We must
see to that first. So we go to work to grind out
“copy” for The Boolbytken. And for text we
take Brother Jestep’s statement that “from the
time of William, not a single instance could be
shown in which a Roman Catholic was injured by
an Orangeman,” and on this hint we speak:—
Give us a well-tanned Papist’s skin
To write, with Wood, this verse on
About the Woman of all Sin,
The baleful Scarlet Person;
We crow for holy Roman gore—
We don’t drink any other—
We never felt so wrath before
As at your words, O brother!
If the foul Pontiff’s bosom we
Could but contrive to get to,
From Rome’s curst yoke we’d set men free
By means of a stiletto;
No more would he teach from his throne,
Lies, Protestants must all shun.
If we could cope with him alone
Armed with our little falchion!
Would we could fly this land, at once,
Of kangaroos and emus,
And liberate the hapless sons
Of Romulus and Remus.
Would we could grasp our brand and say—
“ With you, Rome’s powers will all die—
Take that!—get out and clear the way,
We’re worse than Garibaldi! ”
Thus at one strong blow would be freed
Full many a hopeless nation
That bows before the hellish creed
Of Transubstantiation.
How would our proud Australian land
Her double glory flaunt, if
She held the champion sculler, and
The slayer of the Pontiff!
But, brother, ’mid your words of fire,
One thing we think is silly—
We do profess we never tire
Of hearing of King Billy.
We’re glad to think the other king
Was licked with so much slaughter,
We lie upon our backs and sing,
For hours and hours, “ Boyne Water.”
But you say that since William’s days,
And they were wild days, no man
Who was an Orangeman, did raise
H<s hand against a Roman.
Denounce once more the Triple Crown I
Crack virtuous Queen Bess up!
And, O, run bloody Mary down.
But—hang it, Brother Jessep I
All night we haven’t slept a wink,
Through this strange thing you’ve told us.
Your speech, to us, as meat and drink
And red uncounted gold is
Until you get to there! You ask
Us why ? We’ll not deceive you,
In truth till then you simply bask,
But then—we don’t believe you.
Till then you got on right enough,
You and the other brothf rs,
You mouthed some fine heroic stuff,
You, far beyond the others.
Though all, be it well understood,
Were vigorous and zealous;
Ah! who could read with placid b.'ood
The words of Dr. Ellis!
Ah I dull his brain must be, as lead,
And cold his heart and callous
Who would not mark the great words said
By this great chum of Sala’s!
AndtMadgwick, winking right and left.
Was quite a verbal “ terror; ’’
While Penny, showing touches deft,
Exposed much Roman error.
But you, O Brother Jessep—you,
The dauntless secretary—
You put the Roman faction through,
And gave them Tipperary.
Beneath such blows they soon would run
A signal of distress up;
We glory la a lot you’ve done,
But-hang it, Brother Jessep!
You say that when our ‘ ‘ noble boys ”
Went out, their lives to barter
For fame, they took-oh, joy of joys!
A special Orange charter
With them, and by the strange old Nile
One night, the dears assembled
And held an Orange meeting, while
Goats, friends, and spbynxes trembled
(Though you forgot, we think, to add
That when the Mahdi heard of
Your tame be went stark staring mad,
And shaving straight his beard off,
He said, “ This game is growing mean,
Farewell to Imposition!
Farewell False Prophecy ! Too keen
I and the com petition!”).
You say, then, with a stern low breath,
With visage growing grimmer,
That Orangemen should, to the death,
Hunt every Orange trimmer.
You say that round the parent tree
Young Oranges should press up;
You’re right, so far. and we agree
But—hang, it Brother Jessep!,
You say our hand is to the plough
To check the dire advances
Of that dark evil creed which now
In Italy and France is
Almost as popular as when
It was the sole religion,
Lest we be borne back once again
To times and teachings Stygian.
You fulminate till from your words
We almost see the sparks fly;
With angel’s wings, ’mid kindred birds,
You make Sir Henry Parkes fly.
To write our rapture down our pen
Would need a bran new nib on,
When you name ’mid illustrious men
The Standard’s own M’Gibbon.
Such words as these have filled our soul
w ith high and holy ardour.
We long to burst from all control
And smite the Papists harder
With bitter, cruel, heavy words
And weapons, keener, smoother, -
With far more efficacious swords
Than that of Martin Luther.
We yearn to hew them hip and thigh,
For every vile transgression;
We burn to trample down that He
Auricular conte.sion!


The Manaro Mercury, in reference to the
Johns ease, expresses what ultimately will be
found to be the opinion of the reflective members
of the community:—“ Our small twopenny half-*
penny Executives administering the affairs of a
Sopulation not larger than a fourth or fifth rate
nglish town, exercising a prerogative over the
lives of men equal to that of, the power which
manages the affairs of a mighty nation, is too sug-
gestive of pigmies attempting to wield Jove’S
thunderbolts. We should like to see capita!
punishment abolished entirely, and the gallows*
the lash, and all other barbarous modes of punish-*
meat relegated to the same limbo of disuse which
has received the thumbscrew, the rack, and all
other such instruments that the diabolical in-
genuity of man has invented for torturing his fel-
low-creatures. The spirit of the age is becoming
more and more in favour of the abolition of capi-
tal punishment ” The opinions of the Sydney
dally Press on this question should not be, and are
not, taken outside Sydney in the way these easily
befooled papers believe.
This little idyll from Alstonville, near
Lismore, N 8.W., must be quoted just as It ap-
pears in the local Chronicle:— “ One night this
week a newly-married young couple took up their
abode here. The first night passed quietly enough,
but the second night beggars description. A large
party led by a well-known resident commenced
tln-kettllng. To this the couple offered no objec-
tion, innocently thinking it was the usual way of
welcoming new arrivals. After a time, however',
the same became fast and furious. Seeing the
young couple were not to be upset by or-
dinary means, the crowd proceeded to ex-
traordinary means. First, two windows were
forced open, a coffee-table worth about 15s.
smashed, a large copper boiler had the bot-
tom knocked in, sundry other goods and chat-
tels were demolished. The crowd then pro-
ceeded to mount the roof and batter the Iron,
while others of a literary and artistic turn com-
menced writing on the walls the foulest language.
The next thing was to turn the taps of the water
tank to let it all waste; the last threat was to
break the shop windows, which, however, they
seemed afraid to do, as by this time the occupants
had found a revolver and cowed the lot. One
would naturally ask: Why all this ? The young
couple are perfect strangers, both teetotallers, and
cannot possibly have done anything to annoy a
single person In Alstonvl'le.” We do not wonder
that the young couple should become, in the com-
prehensive language of the Lismore Hal lam,
“ fast and furious ” under such influences.
How to Cure Salt Rhoum.
Had salt rheum in most aggravated form for
eight years. No kind of treatment, medi-
cine, or doctors did me any permanent good.
My friends in Malden know how I suffered.
When I began to use the Cuticura Recuedibs my
limbs were so raw and tender that I could not
bear my weight on them without the skin crack-
ing and bleeding, and was obliged to go about on
crutches. Used the Cuticuha Remedies, the new
blood purifier, internally, and cuticura and
Cuticura Soap, the great skin cures and beauti-
fiers, externally, five months, and was completely
and permanently cured.— Mbs. S. A. Brown,
Malden, Mass. Reference: Any citizen of Malden,
Mass.
Use your intelligence and buy only Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Art Union of Moss Vale, in aid .of Widow
and Orpan Fund of Berrima Masonic Lodge.
Tickets, 30s. Will shortly be drawn. Apply at
once for tickets. J. S. Hyams, Sec., Moss Vale.*
The Renner Manufacturing Co., of Pitts-
burgh, Pennsymn a, U.8.A., make an extraordin-
ary offer to agents, and those wanting employ-
ment, to sell their Renner Combined Alarm and
Door Bell, in the different colonies and counties In
Australia. It is endorsed by over 3000 publishers
in the United States and Canada, and by the 100,000
who are now using them on their doors. It has
never been sold by the trade, but by agents alone.
It will pay 100 per cent, profit, and sells from $4.00
to $6.00 each. Agents in the United States have
taken as high as 33 orders in a single day. It sella
readily on its merits. General agents who can
handle a number of counties, or one of the colo-
nies, can secure those they want by being the first
to comply with our terms. Large Illustrated
circulars, containing terms and price-list, will be
sent freo. Address: Renner manufacturing
Co , Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, U.b.A. *
A cordial the marvel and admiration of the
world— Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Look for £1 orders in large bottles of Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Mashers.—The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter. 662 George-street, Brickfield Hill.*
Notice !—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hock Inga, 143 Pltt-street.
MaoLaughlin’a Bodega, 306 George-street,
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
Mb. DbCotjrot Brown* (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“ Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “ Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Berosf ord Chambers, 52 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney. «r Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
A NEW DISCOVERY.—Hoffman’s Eucalyptol
(registered) “ Mixture and Injection.” They will
positively cure all kidney diseases and disorders,
all urinary complaints and discharges, irritation,
scalding, inflammation, gravel, pains in the back,
&o. A case Incurable in nine months was actually
cured in eight days with Hoffmann’s Eucalyptol
Injection (“purely vegetable”). Hoffman’s Eu-
oalyptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
no sandalwood, no balsam, or anything injurious
to the most delicate constitution of either sex.
Ask for Hoffman’s, and take no substitute.
Wholesale: B. Prosser and Co.; Elliott Bros. Re-
tail : All principal chemists and storekeepers
Price, 2s. 6a. and 3s. 6d.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps for liver and kidney com-
plaints.
Woman Items
Some of the Exeter Hall organs have re-
cently compared the crank, Mrs. Dudley, who shot
Kossa, to Jael, who plugged a tenpenny nail
through the head of the sleeping Sisera. By the
way, we are beginning to weaken on the Bible in-
cident, for we never knew a woman yet who could
drive a nail without stopping at least a hundred
times <o blow on her fingers.
At MaytoWn (N.Q.), the other day, accord-
ing to the local paper, a strong-minded voung lady
offered hertelf (modestly valued at £100) and her
possessions (no less delicately assessed at £30. and
including a cottage, two cows, and six goats) in a
matrimonial r*lHe, 150 members at a sovereign
each; highest thrower the lady, lowest the cottage,
cows, and goats The winner of the former, it is
understood, bought out the latter.
Lilian Russell, the pretty American opera
bouffUte, who holds very broad views on the mar-
riage question, is suffering a temporary eolinse of
her boauty. Some poisonous ingredient in her
“make-up stuff” hrs brought about such a vio-
lent eruption on the face that the lively lady has
been obliged to forfeit all engagements for the
present. Lilian, it may be remembered, caused
some little scandal by pairing off with “Ted”
Solomon, the composer (already married), and
wearing on the occasion of her dibut in London, a
brooch, whereon glistened in diamonds, T.E D.
It is to be hoped that the ardour of the author of
“ Biliee Taslor” has not been cooled by the dis-
c jvery that boauty is only akia-doep.
Apropos of tlie “ British Matron’s ” now
celebrated letter to the Times protesting against
the exhibition of nude art: —
u.joii; Oh, British Matron, are you then
" ' A bona fide prude ?
Are there not certain seasons when
Your own fair neck is viewed ?
And how about the ball-room belle.
Where are her sleeves gone, pray ?
These stricture on Fine Art don’t tell,
While she’s dieolleUe.
In his second lecture on the gentle “ Elia,”
Gerald Massey observed “ Lamb used to call his
books his midnight darlings. These he liked to
embrace in largo folio, and And a huge armful-a
taste said to be characteristic of some small men
in the choice of their wives.” This reminds us of
one of our crack N.S.W, jockeys, who, whilst
single, used to say, “Gimme, a straight half mile
of a girl for my money.” He got one to his liking
at last, and now, when he happens to be late in
town, the missis canters along, puts him carefully
in her apron, and then hawks him home.
“Gipsy” in the Jbbnil says:—“The cli-
mate of Now South Walts does not seem favour-
able to the growth of roses in girls’cheeks. The
majority of young ladies one meets are colour-
lees.” It is true that, as “Gipsy” says, Sydney
girls, unfortunately, too often affect that com-
plexion which in hue resembles the imported
cabbage but over the mountains almost univer-
sally complexions are of such brilliancy that the
waratah and Johnny Battle s rose curl up and
wither away out of pure envy. We once knew a
rural maiden who: —[Twenty lines of “jam” ex-
cised.—Bn. B.l
Under the heading of “Strange conduct
on the part of an omnibus driver,” the Melbourne
D.T. published a very turilliog letter from a lady
residing in a Melbourne suburb. The fair corre-
sponded proceeds to relate how her ’bus was
detained 10 minutes beyond its usual starting time
by the disgraceful conduct of two men just enter-
ing an hotel. These rufhans called out to the
driver “ Wait till wo go in and have a drink.”
Melancholy to mention, the driver did wait until
they came out, when one of them “handed him
something,” and then the ’bus started. Fortun-
ately, it is but seldom that a newspaper has to
chronicle deeds like this.
An Adelaide (S.A.) clergyman is suing
for a divorce from the wife, erstwhile of
his bosom, but now alleged to be of some-
one else’s The someone else is a brewer, and
former leader of; the parson’s choir. Looking at
the thing dispassionately, we can’t feel all the sym-
pathy with the reverend petitioner that we might
reel. As a practical minister of the Gospel, he
must have gained an insight into choir morals,
and should have kept a sharp look-out on his little
wife accordingly. A brewer who sings in a choir
ought to be a pretty dangerous sort of combina-
tion of a man. Holy spirit mixed with ungodly
beer knocks even strong men under.
The controversy on the propriety of the
studies of the nude, exhibited this year at the
Burlington Academy, was raging fiercely wheu
the last mail left. And this question has opened
up the still more interesting one concerning the
amount of clothing necessary for the human form
divine at the banquet hall or ball-room. A
foreigner giving his testimony has stated that he
feels v ry often a burning sense of shame at din-
ner parties or balls, when “ the nakedness in all
perfection of representation” is exposed to his
gaze, and has confessed that he very often does
not know where to look when his fair neighbour
at the dinner table speak s to him. A man to sen-
sitive is much to be pitied. He should come to
Australia, if ho wishes to avoid such exhibitions.
That much-talkei of beauty, Gladys, Lidy
Lonsdale, who has just married Earl de Grey, is a
remarkably handsome woman. She first appeared
in society in 1876. She is a beautiful giantess, be-
ing over 5ft. 10.n.—so tall that she never has heels
to her shoes, and yet her figure is graceful. Her
complexion is brilliant, her eyes dark and magnifi-
cent. Her nose is rather prominent, and her beau-
tiful dark hair has been rendered still more beau-
tiful by the chestnut tints it adopted five years
ago. la 1878, she startled the gossips by marrying
the Earl of Lonsdale, a dissipated nobleman, who
spent most of his time yachting. Her brother,
Lord Pembroke, who was out in Australia years
ago, lu his yacht, and was joint author of that
celebrated and fascinating apotheosis of Tahiti,
“South Sea Babbles,” was so opposed to the mar-
riage that he refused to be present at the wedding,
and she was given away by her younger brother,
Sidney. Toe marriage did not turn out a happy
one; a daughter was born in 1881, and a year later,
Lord Lonsdale died.
This item is partly nautical, partly sport-
ing, and partly bellicose. It proves, at any rate,
that the naval warriors of Victoria will never be
beaten by an enemy for want of pluck. Two men
of the Naval Reserve quarrelled the other day.
Strange to say, the quarrel was over a woman.
Like men of spirit, they agreed to settle the mat-
ter in the immemorial fashion, by an appeal to
arms, or rather flats. It is somewhat curious to
think that, with all our civilisation, two men
should fight for the possession of a female in pre-
cisely the same manner as two bulls or two tigers
for the exclusive ownership of a female of their
species Adam Lindsay Gordon had more regard
for truth than politeness when he said that: —
“ Men at the bottom are merely brutes.”
If the brutes could write poetry, they might give a
still lees flattering estimate of the unfeathered biped
called Man. But this is a digression. The chivalrous
combatants, accompanied by their seconds and a
number of admirers, went down to a secluded
place on the banks of the Yarra, and proceeded
quietly but firmly to plug one another. This
diversion went on for about an hour, to the
delight of all the spectators except one—a marplot
by the name of Morris—who left the crowd, and
in about an hour’s time arrived on the scene with
two cab loads of constables. In the meantime, the
men had gone lower down the river and were still
fighting. They saw the police coming, and crossed
over the river by a ferry, leaving the guardians of
the peace in the frt q uently-q noted position of Lord
TJllin. It is understood that these two hours of
hard slogging were not enough joy for these glut-
tons for gore of the Naval Reserve. When they
are able to get up out of bed again the fight is to
be renewed. But the real Joke of the affair is that
(according to rumour), while these two bulls of
Bashaa were knocking the breath out of each
other for her, the woman had quietly cleared out
with a third party. The moral of this is obvious,
Always be tlie third party!
The Adelaide Divorce Court has intro-
duced to our notice a letter written by a Mrs.
Liddon to her husband on the occasion of her
leaving him for ever, which furnishes a touching
illustration of the forgiving nature of Eve’s
daughters. ,We give some leading extracts:—
Dear Bob,—I am sorry to tell you I am going
away up North on a station to live with Tom. I
promised him to go the time you went to town
and kicked up such a spree. . . . Cannot braik
my promis to him. I will take off two children.
Hope you will take care of yourself, and not go
drinking as you always have done. You have
your own self to blame for this. You have
treated me bad for the last three or four
years, and I have' been waiting my chance
since then. Hoping you will take these few words
as they are given you. and do well for yourself. .
. . . . Get a tent and put the things down in it.
and then you will be all right. With best respects I
remain, Annie.” Our opinion of the sex has
increased tenfold since reading Annie’s note.
Here we have a woman who has been “ treated
bad,” so she says, for several years, leaving her
husband, not with curses, but with best wishes for
his future welfare, and a sweet, womanly sug-
gestion about being “all right in a tent. Des-
pairing of doing justice to the theme, we handed
Annie’s letter over to one of our poets—a married
poet-and he has reproduced It in verse, which
will never die:—
Good-bye, my dear Bob, I am sorry
To tell yer I’m going away
With Tom and two kids, but don’t worry—
I don't, I am thankful to say;
The last time you went on the “ tear,” Bob,
I said as this step I would take.
And a promise, as well you’re aware, Bob,
Is what I’m not given to braik.
Yes, I’m going away to the station
With Tom-it’s a plao? in the North—
But a word, Bob, of stern exhortation
And warning, before I set forth:
For Annie’s sake give up the drinking,
You always was fond of the pub.—
If you hadn’t been, Bob, dear, I’m thinking
I still might have called you my hub.
So my reasons you s*?e for eloping—
It’s you, your own self, that’s to blame,
And I write these few lines, Bob, a hoping
A Financial Eclipse.
You’re well, as they leave me'the same.
In a tent you’d be right as a trivet,
And if on the past you reflects.
Don’t weep, for I freely forgive it
And sends you my kindest respects.


J-A.CKZ THOMPSON,
A.J.O. OIGAB DIVAN AND HAIR-DEESSING SALOON.
91 King-street.
N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA AND INSECTICIDE.
7T-
is®
.
C : iv - ■ •' :*•*.
a^P
Ml?
M •.
.1'
-
KRUSE'S FLUID MAGNTSIA, the Universal Remedy for INDIGESTION, FLATULENCE,
ACIDITY of the STOMACH, RILIODS HEADACHE, and a MOST GENTLE APERIENT for
Invalids and Children. _. .
See Medical Opinions Accompanying each Bottle.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout the Colonies.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
Effectually destroys all noxious Insects, such as FLEAS, FLIES, BEETLES. MOSQUITOES, and
COCKROACHES. It is quite harmless to Dogs, Birds, Fowls, and other animal*. It Preserves lura
from i he Depredations of the Motn. Bedroom Furniture, Ship Cabins, Fowl Houses, and Dog Kennels
may be Cleansed of Insect Vermin by KttOSE'S INSECTICIDE.
Sold In Tins, ls„ and upward?, by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
[Sydney.
ELLIOTT RKOS.
IS. PROSSER & CO.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 364 and 366 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody
Everybody
Everybody
Everybody
Everybody
Everybody
Boyd’
Everybody
Boyd’s
should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio,
knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work,
knows that the best assistance only is employed.
should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia,
is invited to inspect the Establishment.
is informed that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the late Mr.
s children, by his executrix.
should remember the address :
New Palace of Art, 364 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Managul
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL
II EMMIE, ml
Importers of
Aimj, ttllU TT 111 L/Iil VX I UHDAi X UIUIU,
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &o.
JAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
JALVANI8BD OORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
3ILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSH W ARB
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACK8
BREAKING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
L£haTmT
"S »c
PORTABLE, FIXED
and SKMI-FIXED EN-
GL* ES
VERTICAL and HORI-
. ZONTAL BOILERS
Sr? TEAM and other
Sgf! PUMPS
-Jj. LATHES. PLANING,
8HAPDG, SCREW-
Bf.SCU! ING, and DRILLING
Qr MACHINES
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
h SHAFTING
r - QUICKSILVER, &o.
price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, &
•9
Head Warehouse - “
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office -
- 54 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
SYDNEY.
- 86 QRAOEOfi URCH STREET.
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
1,088 of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured > by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Boar, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
■with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura v Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ Jiow to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Bcautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
3for Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and Now
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co-, Rostou, U.S.A.
p..,,
•SSI
mail
356 Geof\geSt.
Established
SYDNE'
PIANOS/ ORGANS
Best Makers Only
EVERY INSTRUMENT"
GUARANTEED
VERY
MODERATE
pricesI
The Most Liberal
Time payment
SYSTEM.
OVER
instruments
ON VIEW
To SelecKfrom.
SYDNEY.
107 Pitt-Btreet,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
er LUNCH KON AND HKKKKHHM KNT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.


W. WALKER and SONS
LOETDOKT and SYDKTEY.
Catalogues
POST PREB.
W. WALKER
and SONS
Catalog™
POST FRE*
ALL STOCi
■ ■
iai
||lig
In tnei*
SYDNEY
H
are one of the
Largest
HOVSI
Stockholders
Supplied
and
life 1 -
DIEBG)
Manufacturer «
from their
M
|i I
Loudon
H<|h<elan
Mannfaotor
FURNITURE
and Latest
London Stylt
’VhDlW'i&k
-'i
ENGLAND.
GUARANTIIJ
SYDNEY BRANCH:
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
READ IT ALL.
If may Save your Life.
AMERICAN CO.’S
Hop Bitters
ASM
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buctau, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
“ The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘ and in addition contain all the best
• and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
‘ earth.”
They dive New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Infirm.
“ To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
• Men, Labourers, Ladles, and all those
•whoso sedentary employments cause
• irregularities of the Blood, Stomach,
• Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
• Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘ these Bitters are invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘ without intoxicating.’
“No matter what your feelmgs or
• symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘aliment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
• wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
• dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘ friends suffer, but use and urge them to
• use the American Co.’s Hop Bitters.”
“ Remember, these Hop Bitters are
• no vile, drugged, drunken nostrum,
‘but the purest and best Medicine
‘ever made, and no person or family
‘ should be without it.”
IJT See that the name Dr. Soule Is blown
In every bottle, none other genuine.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £100,000.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Sydney Branch : Boyle’s Chambers, Bond-street.
Victorian Directors :
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P.,
Chairman
Hon. J. F. Levlen, M.P.
Tnornas Learmonth, Esq.
N. S. Wales Directors:
Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Frank Cowley, Esq.
George 8. Yeo, Esq.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
Causes on land, rail, or at sea.
Marine Risks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted.
The only lave Stock Insurance Society In the
olonies.
Full particulars can be obtained from the under-
signed.
Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
A. J. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.
Office, Royle’s Chambers, Bond-street,
E
A U D E
4711
COLOGNE,
4711.
Established 1792.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1872; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, strength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors. , , , ..
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the tSiite of
Europe.
The large and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only In
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number—4711 changed into 7411, 1147, 4117, &c., &c.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
street, Sydney.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
end Storekeepers, in town and country.
SOLE IMPORTER OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
SMI "Tie: OHQAF.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
■'
±Sfi
m
5th Half-Yearly Sale
JULY, 1885.
354 George-street, Sydney.
We beg respectfully to inform our numerous Customers and the Public generally, that
our USUAL JULY SALK has commenced in the usual way. The Ladies of Sydney
will no doubt remember what bargains they have purchased at our previous Sales;
therefore we ventureto think that a great and speedy clearance will he effected, and
we trust by our well-earned reputation for really new goods, Ladies will determine to
attend the Sale.
BOSSiilLIS, X. (35 CO
354 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The most popular beverage in the colonies—
Wolfe's Schnapps.
Nothing purifies and enriches the. blood
and destroys all poisons In the system lilte
American Co.’s Hop Bitters. Read
Wolfes Schnapps has been 40 years before the
public.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
BISCUITS AND CASES, TREACLE AMU BOLDER STED1
‘ -o
Self-raising JErated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
ttS8*FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.-^®
». & A. Lave obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
Sydney Agents: W. ML ARIELL & CO., 343 and 345 Kent-streeL
“Michael Carey,” says an exchange, “died,
at Parramatta. Ho had resided in the town CO
years, and at the time of his death was HO. Years ago
he started a forge for the manufacture of horse-shoe
nails. A few davs prior to his death he appeared
at the Appeal Court against the asseesment on
some of his property.”—
Faithful till Death.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Through grey cold mists ere morning sun had
clelt them,
She sought the lovely shore
To ask the waves a question oft repeated—
Shall he return no more ?
Summers had passed and flowers had bloomed and
faded
Since that soft tranquil day,
Where from the crags she watched the bark which
bore him
Sink westward far away. ,
Each rope and spar stood out in perfect vision
On the bright sunlit track,
But though she hailed the oft-returning sunbeams,
The ship had ne’er come back.
Heedless of dangers which attend the darkness,
She hurried through the gloom,
To where old ocean gnashed his teeth in anger,
As to a hallowed tomb!
Too far she went amid the mists of morning,
And those old crags can tell
Of one at least whose fireside chair is vacant—
One who loved passing well.
Her bark, with gilded spars and sails of sunbeam,
Before the breeze hath run
Across the silvery wavelets of the ocean
That rolls beyond the sun I
D. W. MAGILL.
Melbourne.
Full three score years beside hla forge
Did sturdy Michael stand.
And fashion nails with way arms
And broad and sinewy hand.
While through these years his sparks tlew round,
And his great anvil rang,
We fancy ’mid his sounding stroke
Some song line this he sang—
“ Oh well I mind, boys, Waterloo;
I was a youngster then.
I mind the soldiers coming home,
Poor crippled, broken men.
•'I mind the bonfires on the hills,
I mind the joy-peals ring,
I mind of fathers ne’er come back.
And mothers sorrowing.
" And now on this old spot, where I
Have hammered out fourscore.
And forged some thousand kegs of nail?,
1 never shall forge more.
“I wonder, too, where all those nails
Ou which I spent my toll,
Now that those hoofs are long turned dust.
Die rusting in the soil.
“ Seme fell from out the plough-horse shoe.
And lay beside the seed;
Nor cared to stir, but saw serene
The fate pi corn or weed;
“ Nor budged beyond an inch or two
In each succeeding year,
To say to the invading plough—
•Ail right, old boy, still here.’
“ How some were for the flying hoof
Of a chased bushranger;
And horse and man on some parched plain
JLay down no more to stir.
“And some were for the Governor's steeds,
And racers long forgot;
They rust on road, in swamp, or hill,
In graves remembered not.
“ Farewell I The charcoal of my health
Is burning down full low.
The tongs of age my spine has gripped.
My lungs like bellows blow.
“And now, my fellow citizens.
While still some strength remains,
Give the old man seme token you
Appreciate his pains.
“ I’ve served you now years three score odd,
I can't just mind the dates ” —
“ We will,” the aldermen exclaimed.
And charged him double rates.
Unto the court with tottering step
The veteran appealed.
But harder nails in all his life
He never had annealed.
“Farewell,” said Mike, “ I leave a world
Given o’er to heartless wrongs,
I go where golden anvils ring,
Gold sledges, and gold tongs;
“ But soon a burning-handled sledge
Ye'll wield without a spell.
For ever and forever, for
There's no ‘ eight hours ’ in,”


STUDY ECONOMY
and
Ha ve yourU mbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-llned and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sta.
Parasols made to match oos
tmnes Repairs neatly exe-
cuted
TEETH
(COMPLETE SET),
£5
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
UMBRELLAS
I ' I
DENTIST,
MAKKET STREET,
One door from Qeorge-strcet.
r//r
mcB
or
life
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, andtho untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses maybe
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Seif Preservation. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 135 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
anyphysieian. SOOpages, bound in beautiful French cloth,
full gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should ho read by the young for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all. —London Lancet.
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As- M P 1 I
sooiation, or Dr. W. E. Parker, No. 69 Hunter, fl t A L
Street,Sydney,N.S.W. Theauthormay TUVOCI C
be consulted ou all diseases requiring | fl I uLLl
skillj secrecy, and experience.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM.
'■‘■URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC1 /E.
RAINS, BRUISES, TURNS. SCALD 3, &C and
•»keainternally cures DIARRHOEA,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other xuternc aches
Mad pains
l*rice, Q/- Sold Everywhere,
G. E. MOULTON, sole prop:!: rats,
Melbourne b . DNEY,
PAINT
_ _ BBG18TBKSD.
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURB for Ner-
ft*- vodb and General Debility, and all complaints
nwS. prl ? g from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Aootnache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Doss of Vital Power, &c. By its tonic
ana soothing effects it at once removes all craving
°°h°l* its richness In phosphorous and
elements. MARSHALL’S
AJJNXC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
system. Price, 4s. 6d.. or 26s. a case.
MARSHALL BROTHERS,:M.P.8.
Ififtiyfacturing and consulting Chemists, 104 and
near Hyde Park, Sydney, and
rOTaf treet ’ Circular-quay. TAKE NO SDaSTI-
NO MORE CORNS I
CORNS AND WARTS removed without pain
by the use of Palmer’s Painless, Harmless,
and Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER.
This preparation Is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If applied accord-
ing to the directions, it will effectually remove
them in from six to eight days.
PALMER’S
FACUE CURA
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Local.
This most wonderful Preparation has surpassed
all others In speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
how long or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed in producing the desired re-
sults; and it can be most confidently recommended.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general stores; wholesale by Messrs. Elliott Bros.,
Sydney ; B. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton,
Grlmwade, and Co., Melbourne; Kemptbome and
Prosser, Dunedin.
Sydney Pharmacy.
76 HUNTER STREET,
Opposite Tramway, Elizabeth Street.
PHYSICIANS’ PRESCRIPTIONS carefully pre-
pared with Drugs of the purest quality.
French Indiarubber Goods, Ladles’ Abdominal
Supports and Pessaries, Syringes and Enemas of
every description, always in stock.
Country Orders promptly executed.
H. P. SAB I EL, M.P.S., Mgr.
NEUSTADT and CO.,
COMPLETE
ZHZOTJSS
FURNISHERS,
39,154, 156, & 158 OXFORD-ST\
BTDNBT.
HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERT REQUISITE,
ZT Either tom Cash or Tima Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND A LI
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers
snlFpring from Ilia
effects of youth flit
. oj-rors. early decay. ■
lost vitality, p re in at me decline, nervous ivenl,-
ness, etc., I will send yon particulars of a
eortain, simple, and sure means of self cure,
Free of Charge. Address, in confidence,
Prof. M. B. TAYLOR,
68 Elizabeth St.,
SYDNEY 1NT.S W.
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
ANT)
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Comer of William-street, Hyde Park
High-class Furniture
At Very Lowest Prices, compatible with the finest
workmanship and finish, for entrance halls,
dining-rooms, drawing rooms, bedrooms,
and libraries.
CARPETS IN NEWEST DESIGNS AN
FINEST QUALITY.
WILTON C.VRPETS, BRUSSELS CARPETS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With Hearthrugs to match.
HT COBLICINE AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL ANI
BLACK AND BRASS,
In all sizes and various designs.
USTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
C SB^5lr<£i9P’ ( 399 with power to increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES—20 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
oomi.
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a varied Stock of
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms .-JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
? on A^ ri l OS -^ BLAND & SON., London: JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHAS. OSBORNE &
CO.. London.
rv? 1 ®? A OENTfor the eminent Arm of
BCJSSY & CO., London.
Q&^ e Jl Rft f \ Qar i Ca8es ,- Cartridge Belts, &c., and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 Georpe.st., Sydney,
Where Tnsoectlon is invited.
Champagne
Haldsleck & Co'*.
DRY MONOPOLE.
Or ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS A Co., London.
Sole Ao-ents for Held sleek &. Co„ toi™.
E V 8HmJLD'USE [I'i’iMELT I* S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE Is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
18 GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
8S1 George-street, Sydney.
Are you going to Sourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TUEF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
The “LOUIS”
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them to stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend-
the “ LOUIS” VELVETEEN: "
Every yard of genuine bears'.
the name of “ Louis."
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
post free on
application.
Vjr
1
m
MM
manent,
Ski
of cvqry
DR. O COUlTELXi,
52 Castlereagh Street,
ZLT.S.W.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases,chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or hy post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. "When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effectsNer-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Face, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
, , . - _ —— treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
safe, and private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
n Diseases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
kind, from whatever cause, promptly cured.
It is self-evident that a physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill,
and physicians in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of cases applying the
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and 'get a
speedy and perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or
address DOCTOR J, O CONNELL, '■ ‘
52 CaHtlereagli street (geouhd floor), Sydney.
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Hablt p and Robe Makers.
Trousers from Sis. to 40s.
BT N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Co.
W. Sheabsbt & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st,
Carnrick’s Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk
(Composed of about equal proportions of Pure Cod Liver Oil and Condensed Milk digested).
IT affords us much pleasure to announce to the Medical Profession and the Public that we have sue*
ceeded in combining these nutritive substances Into a permanent, palatable, and easily assimilable
form.
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk has the following advantages over the Plain Oil and the
Emulsions now in use 1st. Plain Cod Liver Oil is unpalatable to most persons, but in comblnat’on
with condensed ( digested) milk, as exhibited in this preparation, it will usually be taken by the youngest
child with a relish. 2nd. «dls are prepared for assimilation principally in the duodenum ; comenuently
Cod 1 iverOil, when taken plain, often . tfends the stomach, The Oil and Milk in Peptonized Cod Liver
Oil and Milk are digested, and it will therefore usually agree with the most delicate stomach. 3rd.
Peptonized Cud Livi r Oil and Milk contains double the nutritive and llesh- forming principles found In
the Emu sious of Cod Liver Oil. 4th. It Is well known that the Emulsions of Cod Liver Oil usually
contain from 60 to 75 per cent, of water. Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk contains 53 per cent of
best Cod Liver Oil. and in the place of water we use condensed milk, reduced in vacuo In our labora-
tory. 5th. The milk is condensed to the consistency of the Cod Liver Oil, and when combined, as in
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk, it forms one of tne meet pleasant and nutritious compounds that
can be conceived or produced.
This Preparation is acknowledged far superior to any of the Cod Liver Oil Emulsions ever
introduced, it being already digested, it may be retained on the weakest stomach.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with HYPOPHOSPHITES OP LIME AND
SODA. To be obtained of the Principal Chemists and Druggists in the colonies.
The Maltine Manufacturing Co., Lim., 24 and 25 Hart-st., Bloomubury, London, W.C.
Wholesale Agents in the Colonies Elliott Bros., Sydney; E. Prosser & Co., Sydney; Felton. Grim-
Samples and Full Particulars may be obtained of
W. T. PALMER, 104 Klng-straetp Sydney.
Head Offices.
-First Fire Society established in me coiony on
the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits e i ery year.
if > £ li^:ilolder8 are Perfectly free by law from
all liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates*
WALTER C flURCH, Manager.
H/?ad Offices —PITT and KING STREETS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE.
MADAME” ELISE,
PARI3IENNE DRESSMAKER AND SPECIAL
ST AYMAKER
BEGS to call Ladles’ attention to her superior
PIT, TASTE, and exceptionally reasonable
charges. All orders receive her personal attention
and superintendence.
138 COLLINS STREET EAST.


Wolfe's Schnapps, certified by the medical pro-
fession as ttic purest spirit procurable.
Bristol’s Sarsaparilla is safe at all seasons.
The very weakest and most delicate person may use
it without fear. Its effects are to cleanse the blood
expel foul humors, aod give new strength and
vigor to the whole body.'
The only perfectly pure spirit procurable—
Wolfe's Schnapps.
Printed and Published by Tn» Bunuxiw News-
paper Co. (Limited), 84 Pitt-at., Sydney, N.8.W,
There is no calculating- what the human frame
can bear, fortified by the celebrated Wolfe's
Schnapps.
Purify the blood, cleanse'the stomach, and
sweeten the breath with Hop Bitters. American
Co-’s only genuine. Head.
Vitalize your enfeebled system and live; there
la health and strength in every bottle ot Wolfe's
Schnapps ,
MRS. FOOTT'S POEMS.
When a writer sits down for the first tune
to make a collection of his fugitive pieces he is
likely to be astonished at the quantity of bad work
that has left his hands. Almost allof it that addressed
itself to topics of the time has to be jettisoned.
The very things that gave the compositions their
charm on the occasion of their appearance are,
looked at from the table land of art, mostly
blemishes. All such pieces must, therefore, go.
Yet these pieces represent a great portion of every
writer’s work. That is why, with abundance of
intellectual power in Australia, we can show so
little that is instinct with permanent art value.
Poetry, especially, should have a lasting basis. It
is rad to find good poetry piled upon an ephemeral
incident. It is prodigality. It induces, also, upon
the writer a habit of requiting a current incident
as a stimulus to work. The incident monger will
do nothing great. If a man have genius, almost
belter be a slave to dram drinking than to inci-
dent-hunting. The alternative course pre-sup-
poaes leisure. Pew have that. We must keep pio-
duoing furiously, as Bagchot says, that we may
keep consuming Indefinitely. Literary excellence
is the growth of refinement. “ Refinement is only
possible when leisure is possible.” Women, with
us, have a better chance of leisure than men. But
it is not often women devote their leisure to intel-
lectual art. When an instance occurs it, therefore,
merits prompt recognition. The authoress should
feel sure of sympathy for her efforts and of praise
for whatever success the effort atialns.
• • •
Mrs. Foott’s collection of fugitive pieces is
very moces'ly offered to the public. The volume
is small and the pieces are short. Her thought
does not reach a high altitude, but then it does not
aim high and miss. In structure her verse is con-
ventional. The couple of variations she makes
from this show that she has flexibility and music
enough to justify an essay into more difficult
fashions of rhythm and rhyme. She does not
appear to have read largely. There is no atmo-
spere about her style. Her words do not breathe.
But she has sweetm 89, tenderness, delicacy, and a
little of the rare gift of suggestiveness. In the
poem called *• In the Land of Dreams ” there is a
touch of exquisite sensibility. The faculty is
again active in the poem called “ No Message.”
in this faculty the genius of the female mind
should be the strongest. The male mind dowered
with genius is always strong in it.
* ♦ ♦
Her use of attributes is good while she
keeps to bush life. "Rushes are black by the
river bed.” In a time of drought on the inlands
rushes turn black. The idea of withered stalks
wou'd not suggest blackness to many writers.
Even writers who saw them would, unless they
attended very carefully to the point, be in-
fluenced, in their description, towards a colour
more immediately associated with the notion
of withered things. In nothing so well as in
its use of adjactives can the temper of the
literary mind be tested. By his adjectives a
talented man can be readily distinguished from a
commonplace one. Adjectives and adjective
ohrases are the draperies of a substantive thought.
The commonplace man who Is wise tries to avoid
them, or to use those only that, by reason of their
homeliness, have as substantial a significance as
the things they qualify. Thereby has perished
eloquence. Thereby will perish poetry, too, if
commonplace men are allowed to meddle with it.
Away from bush themes Mrs. Foott is not so
happy. In the poem of the "Magi” she speaks
of the “sore furnace of the world.” Her thought
is apprehensible, and is indeed very fine, but she
das not secured from among the adjectives flitting
about her when on this passage the one that
exactly suits the requirements. In her poem on
iho "Melbourne Exhibition” eho introduces
"Acre’s stubborn spires.” This qualifying word
has a meaning, but one can feel the poet used it
when distressed with hunting after a better one.
• • •
She sometimes sets a thought wriggling.
In "Ton Belated Swallows” she says:
“ The day is dead, the light is dying,
The night draws near.”
By inverting the order of the three expressions a
more natural sequence of events will lead up to
"darkness drear.” The need for such inversions
Is, however, rare. There is more reason to com-
plain of loose rhythm and faulty rhyme. No
writer of verse should be excused for bad rhyme,
tt comes from a bad ear, a bad eye, or negligence.
Anyone of these can make of a poet a poetaster.
Mrs. Foott makes 41 precious ” do service with
gracious,” and 44 for us” harmonise with 44 sor-
rows.” It is well also she should observe that
44 neither” is not succeeded by " or,” and that the
word 44 slid” has been so worn to death by people
who affect comic writing that its use in emotional
poetry is not elevating. To say 44 a spirit slid
forth unseen,” as in the poem on Napoleon is not
good. The word 44 glide” is hackneyed, hut it is
far better, we think, than 44 slide, 4 ’ as applied to
the motion of a ghost.
* * *
With the exception of a poem for children,
the longest piece in the volume is 44 The Melbourne
International Exhibition. 44 It is a pity she put
this la. Rarely are verses on such subjects worth
reading. There is a sound of the factory about
them. The writer must give a line to all the goods
displayed or to the people who own them. He is
not free to create or reject. The materials are
there, and in they must go somehow. 44 A man of
genius, 4 ’said Edgar Allen Poe,” if not permitted
to go his own way will do worse in letters than
if he had talents none at all.” This is not with-
out a little truth. To be given a houseful
of furniture and things and a crowd of people,
and told to put them into poetry is tempting one
beyond one’s strength. Mrs. Foott succeeded,
however, in distilling one good lino from the lot,
8ho tells that ’‘bright eyes beam upon us like
stars fn m ch ulswept space.” In the rest Of it
she talks to the people at largo. People at large
have their ears in their feet.
a o *
Mrs. Foott’s book is worth buying. Wo
hope she will write another, and we expect it to be
better worth buying In descriptions of Austra-
lian scenery, she gives some true touches. They
are lew, but they indicate perception and power
that way. It were to be desired that she would
I throw ml her force into that direction in her next.
There is plenty of room for her. If she woras
well there will be for her a hearty welcome. To
readers who have not yet received her book, we
offer, as a sample of Mrs. Foott’s skill, an extract
from her poem, 44 The Aurora Australis 44
44 We live to-night
In what shall be the poet’s world;
The lauds ’neath our Aurora’s light
Are as the rocks the Titans hurled.
44 From Southern waters, ice-enthralled,
Year after year tha rays that glance
Shall see the desert shrink appalled
Before the city's swift advance;
44 Shall see the precipice a stair.
The river as a road. And then
There shall be voices to declare
4 This work was wrought by manly men.’ ”
♦Where the “ Pelican Builds,” and other poems
by Mary Hannay Foott. Brisbane: Gordon and
Gotcb, 1885.
AN OUIDIAN HEROINE.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
(BY AUSTRAL.)
“I shall only have a week in Paris, and want to
make the best of it I A word from the wise, you
snow, is what the proverb should have said, as the
word to the wise may be uttered by a fool.”
“ And if so would be quite enough heard from
the fool, and so make the proverb right enough as
It goes.”
“ Well, but about Paris, now ? I want to do
something out of the common there, and what
others would not think of, or, thought of, might
neglect doing.”
“That’s the right idea, old chappie, whatever
you do. Wherever you go, do something to re-
member it by.”
B,“Well, now, your advice to that good end,
please I ”
This short conversation occurred between an
Australian on the run-round “at home,” when
there for a brief visit, and his home-staying old
friend, well acquainted with the “ lions ” of the
English and French capitals.
" There are so many things you might do in that
way,” he said, “ Pans is so full of notabilities and
notable things. What do you say to seeing the
heroine of one of Oulda's novels ? ”
“ Is she anything else besides that to make her
worth a visit ? ”
“Oh, yes I She is the heroine of Ouida’s novel*
‘ Puck ’—that ‘ Avlce Dare ’ who divides with the
dog the Interest of the story.”
“ What’s her name when she is at home ? ”
“ Her christened name was Alice Donovan, and
she never acquired another by matrimonial means.
When she left the Irish town in which she was
born and lived until nearly out of her teens, she
adopted ‘Cora Pearl’ as a travelling name. It
sticks to her as ‘ George Sand’ stuck to Madame
Dudevant, and ‘ George Eliot’ will stick to Miss
Evans.”
“ • Cora Pearl ’ is not literary ? ”
“No! She began as a ballet girl-something in
the Lola Montes way, and was an equally great
failure on the smaller stage of life represented by
the theatrical boards. Nature intended her for that
arger stage outside, in which one sees by far
more of the dramatic, the comic, the tragic, and
the farcical.”
“ She was the fashionable or professional beauty
of Paris for a long time—was she not ? ”
“For all of the time of the Empire 1”
I “ Rather out of date by this time, surely ?’•
fe.“ Oh, dear, no 1 As good-looking as ever she was,
and being better acquainted with the world and
its varieties of people, much better worth calling
upon. You might use my card as an introduction,
but your own would suit better—underwritten as
from Australia.”
■“Is this modern Ninon of the gay capital equal
to your Langtry in appearance ? ”
(%“ Nothing of the sort I That’s why I want you to
see her. She has not, and never had any preten-
sions to beauty. Her face is plain, and her figure
anything but good, and, to my thinking, not even
graceful. You will wonder, when you see her,
wherein lies the fascination which she, for a
quarter of a century, so strongly evidenced.”
“ You want me, on this occasion, then, to play
Delilah’s part—to find out wherein lies the strength
of this feminine Samson ? ”
"Yesl—as you want to do something out of the
common. She might fascinate yom I which would
be a new feeling for one so insensible, hitherto, to
feminine charms.”
“ Oh I I shall be quite safe.”
“Don’t be too sure of it. Russian princes and
American millionaires become as spell-bound by
her as Antony was by Cleopatra. She will likely
add an Australian to her retinue of slaves some
day, and you may be fated to be the one.”
“ I am not to be bluffed out of it that way I It’s
Just ten to one that I go and see this sphinx-
Parislan.”
“ Do; and let me know the result-so doing will be
only fair in return for the good thing in the way
of Parisian doings I have suggested to you.”
On the way across the Cnannel 1 got into chat
with a friendly fellow-trayeller. Bringing the
conversation round to the subject of my intended
call I asked his opinion on it—whether visiting the
lady would be worth losing the time which might
be given to any of the “ lions.” He answered:
“Well, I could never see anything in her. I
have stared at her with an opera-glass once or
twice as she sat in the theatre, but thought her no
beauty worth even that trouble.” I said:
“ One advantage I shall have, if I call upon her,
will be that, though so fashionable and for so long
fashionable in Paiis, she will understand the Aus-
tralian language. In that of the French our talk
would be very limited.”
“Your language is hers, and she speaks the
American just as well. You might persuade her
to go to Australia and show there before the other
professional beauties come. Hitherto, it is re-
ported very commonly, Cora has refused all offers
of marriage. She is said to have had them in
plenty, for she is rich as a Rothschild.”
“ What’s her object in life then—so far as you
know it?”
“ ‘ When I am raised up I will draw all men to
me I’ appears to be her motto and her motive in
life. She has certainly done that. She keeps a
splendid mansion and gives parties at which 1 all
the talents ’ are glad to be present. Journalists,
academicians, authors, actors, and artists, are to
be found at these assemblies. The Countess of
Blessingtoa—another Irish girl—did not do better
in that way, but then she was a beauty compared
with Cora.”
It came then, to this-that I must make my pro-
mised call—the which I did on my second day in
Paris. A friend, whom I met with there, got for
me an introductory note, and did not throw cold
water on my ardent intentions. “You will,” he
said, “ be but doing at Rome as Rome docs. It is
quite in the way of things Parisian for travellers
to make a call upon Cora.”
The modern Ninon lived, I found, in the most
fashionable outskirt of Paris, and in one of its best
houses. The ante-room in which I awaited her
appearance showed taste, as much as splendour
and luxury in its furnishing. I was inspecting
the costly paintings hung around wheu she en-
tered. Her smile of welcome had much to do
with the pleasing effect of the reception. Her
voice was pleasant, and go were her eyes
—which were evidently Irish ones, lighted up
with that light which only Irish eyes seem to
have.
44 Your friend writes," she said, 44 that I am to
ask you to my next evening party 1 I have a curd
party to-night, and shall be happy to see you.”
44 Only too pleased to come,” I said, taking a
chair opposite to the one offered to me. Cora
opened the conversation at once. I was from Aur-
tralla, she said, and then began to ask me 50 quer-
THEY HAD BEEN MARRIED SIX WEEKS, AND SHE SAID: “NO, DON’T 00 STAY OUT
LATE, BUT COMB HOME SOON TO OOR ‘LITTLE WIFEY TIBET I”*
tions at least about that wonderful country. It
was like India, she supposed; the white people
were quite lost among the black natives ?
I assured her that it was all the other way,
and enlightened her much about the mar-
supials and the other wonders of the Southern
land. She was. I found, notan intellectual woman,
and perhaps for that reason all the more pleasant
company to the mindless whom she met with.
That she could bo all things to all men was evident
enough during the twenty minutes of pleasant
chat which she accorded to me. Her Irish blood
and breeding had given her a lively wit, and that
nature had supplied her with powers of observa-
tion and memory were points soon to be perceived.
THEY HAD BEEN MARRIED SIX YEARS, AND SHE SAID: “IF YOU GO OUT TO-NIGHT,
SMITH, I’M GOING TO LOCK UP THE HOUSE AND GO OYER AND SLEEP AT
MOTHER’S.”
In years she would pass for 10, and would, I
thought, take it ill if anyone had said that, for one
of her sex, she was not in the prime of life. Won-
dering what I might best say to her in the way of
a bold question, 1 asked —
“ What is that most of your admirers so much
admire you for ? Is it wit or wisdom, or anything
that I may fail readily to see in this brief inter-
view ?”
“Ah, ah, monsieur!” sho answered, with the
pleasantest of laughs, “you must find that out for
yourself, and you’ll ao so if you fall in love with
mel I must tell you, though, that 1 fall in love
with nobody. I am a selfish woman only because
that I never fell in love. I suppose I have a heart,
but from childhood I don’t remember that it ever
troubled me. The world is very heartless when
you come to know it, so that I have to be satisfied
that I am most like the world.”
This was an open confession of utter heartless-
ness by a wordly woman of gay, heartless Paris.
In the time of the tinselled Empire she might have
been taken as its representative in all its pro-
minent characteristics, and well represents now
what remains of the hollow, thinly-veneered sham
that fell to pieces when real patriotism was wanted
from its people. Having accepted the invitation
for the evening, my leave-taking was a very brief
one. I had seen the much talked-of CoraPearl-a
hardened, hollow sham in woman's shape, who
looked upon mankind as a thing to ho worked upon
as raw material only. A strong constitution and
great vitality were accidents of birth with her.
The way of her life and its results did, therefore,
but illustrate the French philosopher s maxim
that happiness, as such Frenchmen understand it,
is ensured by possessing “ a bad heart and a good
digestion.”
When f reported to my friend the invitation I
had received for the evening party he said:
“ And don't you go I You won’t get away with-
out paying pretty smartly for your visit. You’!'
meet very pleasant people there and get a glass of
good wine—several glasses in fact, but you’ll come
a way with empty pockets. Cora is a great card
herself, and cards are well played at her parties.”
So that, instead of going to see Cora at cards I
went to the theatre to see Madame Judio,
another celebrity of the Parisian feminine world.
Few folks, I was told, come away so well satisfied
as I was with ray visit to the Parisian Circe.
