

THE BULLETIN
Vol 3.— No. 135—New Series.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1885.
moe-Sil.
The Bulle
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1885.
Lord Carington.
When first the news was received that our
late Governor was to be succeeded by Lord
Carington it caused a great deal of sur-
prise. Considering that Baron Carington
was in the prime of life, had an ample
private income, possessed various country
seats and a town house, was member of half
a dozen of the leading London clubs, and
was a boon companion of the Prince of
Wales, it is little wonder that surprise
should be expressed at his determination to
expatriate himself for a long period from a
country where life under such circum-
stances could be rendered fairly comfort-
able. The friendship of our future King
alone should go far towards making any
man or woman happy. Indeed, we are
warranted in believing that the number of
British homes to which his Royal Highness
has brought contentment and pleasure is
much larger than is generally supposed.
When it is further remembered that Lord
Cabington commanded a crack militia re-
giment, was a captain in the Royal Horse
Guards, and was joint hereditary Lord
Great Chamberlain in right of his mother,
astonishment at his accepting a post in a
distant colony was not lessened. We do not
know what are the duties of a joint Lord
Great Chamberlain, but, no doubt, they are
important and require close attention. Some
provision was probably made with the other
“joint” in the partnership to carry out the
whole contract during Lord Carington’s
absence, and it is certain that proper pre-
cautions will be taken to ensure the ade-
quate performance of the duties. It would
not add to our new Governor’s comfort to
learn that while he was on one side of the
globe levelling up colonial society to a high
plane of breeding, some person on the other
side was muddling matters by neglecting to
keep the palace Officials up to their work.
• » »
The Cabingtons are Smiths. It was
not till 1839 that the father of th© present
baron obtained the royal licence to change
the unassuming name under which his pro-
genitors had secured fortune. It was in
1796 that the first Smith became a peer of
Ireland. In the following year he secured
an English baronetcy. The foundation of
the family was laid by a Mr. John Smith,
whose son Thomas, in sporting language,
carried on the running. About the name
Smith there is a sturdy independence which
for Democrats, possesses a peculiar fascina-
tion. Had it been ours we would not have
changed it for Bourbon or Nassau. The
fact of John Smith being succeeded by a
son Thomas may throw some light on the
curious circumstance of the family’s predi-
lection for the combined names. Certain it
is that a family of Smiths without a John
Thomas Smith would be extremely difficult
to And. But, after all, these matters are of
minor importance compared with the fact
that our new ruler is certain, from a social
standpoint at any rate, to be a marked im-
provement on the elderly gentleman who
lately left our shores, and whose public
service was chiefly connected with countries
in which the Democratic sentiment is looked
upon with marked disfavour.
♦
It is thought b y many that the appoint-
ment of Lord Carington is but the first
step towards Imperial federation, of which
a section of British and colonial statesmen
appear to be such staunch advocates. We
see in it no hope of such a consummation.
Wo look forward with hopefulness to an
entirely different solution of the colonial
question. We believe that Australia must
ultimately make up her mind to go alone
like the United States, and that the policy
which teaches her to rely on others instead
of on herself can only end in disaster.. This
is a view we have consistently advocated.
While the colonies are disunited and sparsely
populated the English connection is ob-
viously advantageous. But what benefit
could a united Australia, with ten or fifteen
millions of people—an Australia which, un-
less the breed rapidly deteriorates on pass-
ing south of the equator, should be able to
defend herself by sea or land—derive from
apolitical connection with a distant coun-
try ? This is a question which the advocates
for “closer ties” never attempt to answer.
We submit the impossibility of answering
it satisfactorily until it can be shown that
the United stales, during any part of their
career, had any cause to regret their inde-
pendence. They had surely no cause to re-
gret it during the long Napoleonic wars,
when, instead of wasting their energies by
land and sea, they were rapidly laying
down the lines of that marvellous pros-
perity they enjoy to-day. Nor had they
reason to regret it during later old-world
complications. The reasoning which applies
to the American Union gams rather than
loses in force when applied to Australia.
Would independence affect our trade with
the world or the world’s with us? Only by
increasing it, if anything, for, among other
things, it would prevent the ruinous war
risks so promptly demanded when a Euro-
pean autocrat thinks it time his trained men
should be treated to a little exercise in the
noble art of killing their neighbours. We
have never yet heard of a nation's refusing
to trade with another because that other
was free. Then, again, it would set free
English war vessels for services where they
were most required. Would it check British
or European immigration ? It has not done
so in the ease of America. What effect,
then, would Australian independence have
when the country is sufficiently advanced
to demand it? Chiefly that of raising at
once a loose congerios of provinces into a
powerful empire and starting it along that
career of progress for which its size and
position so eminently fit it. In the social
and political air of an independent state
there is a tonic quality which is never found
in that cf dependencies. This is well seen
on crossing from the States into the Do-
minion. The contrast between the brisk
life of the former and the slip-shod stag-
nancy of the latter is everywhere observa-
ble. Surely the Australian future in which
we believe is a nobler one than that which
would keep us in perpetual leading-strings ?
* * «
But, besides all these objections to the
formation of fresh ties between ourselves
and tne United Kingdom, there are others
scarcely less potent. With us democracy is
so far advanced that the hereditary principle
1 a? appl'ed to Government or to social status
is well-nigh dead. Many affect to believe
that it is not; point to the success of some
colonists in securing such “ honours ” and
the struggles of others to obtain them. Let,
however, an attempt be made to introduce
the principle into political life and its mori-
bund state will soon become apparent. Yet
there is no doubt that in the social sphere it
still possesses a certain attractive power. It
is against this that we colonists have parti-
cularly to guard. The deference paid by
some Americans to high-sounding titles,
whose possessors’ only claim to distinction
lay in enjoying large estates, frequently
accumulated by fraud in bygone times,
carrying a black or white stick in front of a
procession of elderly men in knee-breeches,
or, on state occasions, appearing in the dress
of Merry-Andrews, has often been satirised
by travellers. Australians have been accused
of a similar weakness. It is no doubt in de-
ference to this supposed partiality, that a
commoner, however able, is so seldom sent
to govern us. The founders of the Great
Republic were keenly alive to this penchant
for meretricious appellations and guarded
against it by abolishing hereditary titles
and introducing into the Constitution of the
newly-emancipated nation a clause forbid-
ding any citizen to bear or acquire one. if,
then, it be said that in spite of this some
vain Republicans—ignorant of what consti-
tutes true honour—still hunger for them,
the fact merely shows how wise were the
great men who watched over the cradle of
the infant state in determining that such
hunger should go unsatisfied. Considering
the inevitable future before Australia, it
would be wise if a sfcnilar far-seeing pro-
vision were adopted here. If not, the Aus-
tralian aristocrats of the near future will
have the mortification of being obliged to
forego the “honours” for which their
fathers schemed.
• • •
We have always held the view that for the
government of the United Kingdom or of a
British colony a Monarch or a Governor is
as superfluous as a fifth wheel to a coach.
There is no single function performed by
the Queen of England or by the Governor
of New South Wales that could not be more
satisfactorily performed if no place existed
lor either officer in either Constitution.
The Americans, too, have already discovered
that a President is an entirely redundant
official, in whose bands lies a power for ill
which should be confided to no single man
and whose election periodically confuses
the whole State machinery. The result is
that in Mr. Lockwood’s work on the Ame-
rican Constitution, published last year in
New York, and alio wed to be one of the
best books on the subject, it is proposed to
abolish both the Presidency and the Senate
as “ monarchical rags.” But even granting
that a colonial Governor is an absolute
essential—that, without him, anarchy would
quickly supersede law—where is the neces-
sity for obtaining one from England ? Sup-
pose that on his arrival, seven years ago
Lord Augustus Loftus had gone to sleep—
a feat which some colonists were rude
enough to suggest that he actually did— and
never awoke until the other day when he
left our shores, how much worse off would
we be ? Surely, among the million people
in the province one could be found who
would perform the duties appertaining to
the office quite as well as the old man who
recently parted from us with no poignant
ebullitions of regret on either side. Indeed,
at the present moment, although we are not
violently partial to the officer administering
the government, justice compels us to say
that he loses nothing by comparison with
bis predecessor, whose only claim to our
regard was his frugal and creditable do-
mesticity. It is bad enough to be obliged
to give a person sixty thousand pounds for
doing work which you do not require, bub
HERBERT £ FENCER.


it is even more annoying to think that you
have no voioe in appointing your own paid
servant, and that the post is with-held from
even the ablest in the very community that
pays the money.
• • •
With Lord Cabington, our new Governor,
we have no fault to find. Possibly this is
due to the fact that we know nothing about
him. We believe him to be an English
gentleman, whose lines have been cast in
exceedingly pleasant places. It is almost
certain that the social observances so
neglected by his predecessor will receive
due attention. It is equally certain that,
among the reasons for his coming among
us, salary holds no place. But we object to
his class, and the political and social privi-
leges they enjoy without having been earned.
We know that his advent will be the signal
for the usual outburst of what one of Eng-
land’s greatest novelists called "snobbery,”
and, in this young Democracy, we object to
that worship of rank which has made the
Englishman the world’s laughing-stock. In
a word, we object to see extended to Lord
Carington a deference which would be
withheld if he came to us as his progenitor
—plain John Thomas Smith.
The “Honour and Dignity” of the New
South Wales Parliament.
The vote given in the New South Wales Assembly
which resulted In the election of Mr. Thomas
Garrett as Chairman of Committees—a position
which, under the rules, carries with it the office of
Deputy-Speaker in the absence of the Speaker—
shows either a majority of the members must
have been completely blinded by patty prejudice
or that they can have no conception of what are
commonly termed the “ honour and dignity” of
Parliament. In the election of an officer to pre-
side in Parliament there are, or ought to be, two
considerations to guide members —the first and
more Important being that the man to be
appointed is one whose political character is
without a blemish—without the faintest suspicion
of anything “ shady;” if his career in the ordinary
walks of life bears the same blameless record all
the better. The second consideration is that the
candidate possesses the necessary qualifications
for the performance of the duties. These are
propositions which cannot be disputed by anyone.
« • •
Now, let us inquire whether the conditions are
fulfilled in the case of Mr. Garrett. As to his
fitness for the office we have not a disparaging
word to say. On that ground the Assembly could
not have exercised a wiser judgment, because,
undoubtedly, there is no member who has a
better knowledge of parliamentary procedure, and
a mind more peculiarly constituted to grasp the
technical niceties of it, than Mr. Garrett has.
But Is his political character without suspicion ?
For our purpose it is quite sufficient to put this
qualified question. Have the public forgotten the
celebrated Scrimes case, or the more recent
Milburn Creek compensation case ? The facts of
the latter must be fresh in the minds of everyone.
Upon this case we are content to rest our argu-
ment, because this was the only case in which
skilled intrigue and manoeuvring failed to prevent
a definite issue being put to the House for its
determination. In the elaborate report prepared
by the commissioner who was appointed to thor-
oughly investigate the matter, that gentleman
(Mr. Salomons, Q.O.) summed up, as far as Mr.
Garrett was concerned, in these words
“ If the facts are as they appear on the evidence
of Mr. Bussell, the abovementioned transaction
in shares—apart from the affair of the gold watch
and chain—seems to admit of only one Interpreta-
tion, that is, that Mr. Garrett has to receive
either the value of the £3000 shares or the £500
represented by his promissory note, as a corrupt
reward for services rendered by him to the com-
pany as a member of the Legislature.”
On the 10th November, 1881, Sir Henry Parkes,
the then Premier, proposed a motion, which, after
a preliminary recital of the accusation, contained
these distinct terms
“ That in the opinion of this House the said
Thomas Garrett, Esq., in these transactions has
been guilty of conduct unworthy of a member of
this House, and seriously reflecting upon the
honour and dignity of Parliament.”
The voting on this was—ayes, 38; noes, 40; or a
majority of two in favour of Mr. Garrett. The
public must well remember what expedients were
resorted to by the friends of Mr. Garrett to save
him from the degradation of expulsion from Par-
liament, the principal of these being the resigna-
tion of Sir John Robertson, rather than that he
Should become, to use his own words, “ one of the
accusers of two gentlemen with whom I have
been for nearly a quarter of a century connected
In public life.” A letter written by Sir Henry
Parkes to Sir John Robertson contained this
explicit statement;—
“ Of the conduct of these two gentlemen, as dis-
closed In the evidence, you hold an opinion equally
condemnatory with that held by your colleagues.”
To this day. Sir John has never contradicted this
assertion, so that it is only fair to assume that it is
strictly true. Without considering the merits of
the case in any way, we contend that the facts
which are quoted above clearly establish that Mr.
Garrett’s political reputation is not without
suspicion, and that, therefore, the vote of last
week is one which absolutely disgraces the
Assembly. Of course the members are not
responsible for the fact that Mr. Garrett Is one
of their number, the electors of Camden having
on two occasions since the Milburn Creek case
Was last heard of In Parliament, testified by their
Votes that in their opinion his great political
ability—of the turn-coat order—counterbalances
any presumed weakness with regard to the prin-
ciples of honour.
• ♦ *
But if the 53 members who voted for Mr. Gar-
Ibett’s election to the position of Chairman are
open to condemnation, what measure of it ought
be meted out to those of them who in 1881 said
that he had been guilty of conduct unworthy of a
member of Parliament, and then in 1885 said that
he was worthy of an office which would make him,
under certain circumstances, the guardian of the
rights, privileges, and liberties of Parliament ? On
comparing the two division-lists, we find that the
following members are in this unenviable posi-
tion .'—Messrs. Abigail, H. Clarke, Davies, Fos-
ter, Garrard, Henson, Suttor, W. J. Watson,
Dr. Renwick, and Sir Henry Parkes. In the
course of a debate the other evening the latter
gentleman said that the Dibbs Government had
been guilty of greater crimes against the “ Con-
stitootion ” than those for which many illustrious
Englishmen had perished on the block. What has
Sir Henry to say in palliation of his atrocious
crime against the honour of Parliament ? Speak-
ing coolly and deliberately on the 7th December,
1881, or four weeks after the vote on Mr. Gar-
rett’s case was taken, he said—we quote from
Hansard
" I say that vote is a red-liot brand of
shame on the Parliament of the country,
and it never will be wiped away; and I say
further, that no case of corruption can
arise in this country which can be brought
home to the offender in Parliament, if that
vote is to be taken as a guide and a pre-
cedent.”
The only excuse which could be offered by Sir
Henry and the nine other gentlemen named for
their inconsistency—which is quite Incomprehen-
sible and unpardonable without such excuse—is
that disclosures made subsequent to the 10th
November, 1881, unmlstakeably established Mr.
Garrett’s innocence of the serious charge made
against him. But no such disclosures have been
made, or, if they have, the public have been kept
in ignorance of them. It is certain that if any-
thing had transpired to put Mr. Garrett’s
position in a more favourable light, that indivi-
dual would not have failed to make it known far
and wide. This is not a case in which the principle
‘‘Let the dead past bury its dead ” applies, as the
Sydney Daily Telegraph contends. The prin-
ciple may be a very sound one with respect to
purely personal feuds, but it is utterly untenable
in a case like this, in which the “ honour and
dignity ” of Parliament are Involved. It is not
too late for the Assembly to retrace its steps, and
we hope that some member will have the courage
to move that the resolution appointing Mr. Gar-
rett as Chairman of Committees be rescinded.
It would be casting an unmerited reflection on the
Assembly to say that among its number there is
not a member as to whose qualifications for the
office there can be no question.
* * *
From all this it is plain that the New South
Wales Parliament has no conscience, and that the
New South Wales daily press has neither a con-
science nor a memory.
The Sentimentalism of Hanging.
An original entertainment of a highly suggestive
character was given In the Grafton School of Arts
on one of the nights of last week. It was a
travesty. Only that it was given at night it might
fittingly be called a travesty on the Day of Judg-
ment. Matthew Friske, the murderer (an old
foreigner), had been condemned to be hanged.
The Mayor of Grafton appeared to think the man
could be turned to better account. A meeting of
residents was summoned, sundry speeches were
delivered, a division was called for, and votes
were counted. Forty-nine pronounced in favour
of confining the man for life, and 54 in favour of
hanging him as soon as the law would allow. The
spectacle of that improvised jury haunts the ima-
gination. It consorts with scenes in Dante’s
“ Inferno” and Milton’s “ Paradise Lost.”
♦ * *
The red hands of that Russian Fin repel special
interest in his fate. But the fate lifts up the most
momentous of human questions. Must mur-
derers be murdered ? When a human beast assails
Society with tusks and claws, has Society no
alternative but to strip its teeth and rend him in
return ? The essence of the murderer’s crime lies
in the fact that he treats his victim as if the victim
were a beast. Beckoning up the advantages to be
derived from the slaughter, he forthwith draws
his knife and consummates the deed. Society’s
object is to eliminate this quality of savagery
from the individual mind. But what is the
method it employs ? As an instance, It seizes that
Russian Fin, ties his hands, and puts a rope around
his neck. A deformed, malformed New South
Wales’ Thersitbs, with a noseless face of knuckles
and slashes, hideous, horrible, deals out a dog’s
death. When the body has ceased to kick, this
amorphous monster humps it away on his back as
a butcher humps off the carcase of a slaughtered
pig. Does this method tend to eliminate the dis-
position to savagery ? Is It not itself savagery in
the full enjoyment of public approbation ?
♦ • •
The conscience of Society is, in the main, the
aggregate of the consciences of the majority of
the individuals that compose it. Where the ma-
jority is bloodthirsty, laws will be bloodthirsty.
But individuals pass away rapidly, while laws,
once written, die hard. It follows that blood-
thirsty laws sometimes subsist where the majority
that devised them has disappeared. Their survival
at this stage is an outrage on the con-
victions of many, and a standing incitement
to bloodthirstiness in those in whom vio-
lence is hereditary. The aggregate conscience
represented by law makes for the individual
of weak moral sense a personal conscience. Be-
cause the murder of a criminal profits Society,
Society commits murder. When, then, the mur-
der of a man profits a criminal, the criminal will
apprehend the ethical parity. Thus, while the
extinction of a murderer is under one aspect a
gain to society, it is under others a loss. The
principle established by the extinction, finding its
way down among the strata where moral sense is
feeble, becomes a power. Hungry eyes look up
through grime and squalor. Living In the desert
places of want and misery, starved people stare
at a riot of riches. Extinguish or die ? Vice, too,
looks out from slimy slums. Extinguish or die ?
The voice of Society rings down upon them, an-
nouncing that when its existence is threatened, it
always murders. Is not that a magic cue to hun-
ger and vice ?
o»o
The prospective execution of Friske affords
the Sydney Echo an opportunity of arguing that
the only sacredness in human life is the sacredness
of utility, and of referring to those who oppose
State-murders as sentimentalists. The phrase
used in the argument is specious. The Echo ab-
stracted it from a bad source, however. It 1s
found among the wild philosophies of the less
sound French rhapsodists. But the Echo, in
stealing it, forgot to try to understand it. If
the only sacredness in human life be its utility,
then many human lives are less sacred than the
life of the ox or the ass. An average dog is more
useful than the best lunatic. White-headed,
palsied grandfathers are less useful than even
knock-kneed cab-horses. When we don’t want
the dog .to perpetuate his breed we drown him.
If we choose to sacrifice the services of our cab-
horse we are at liberty to shoot him. If the
sacredness of utility be the only sacredness in
human life, why not drown our lunatics and shoot
our crippled mother? Is the sacred usefulness
of the Echo staff conspicuous ?
* * »
But if the words used in argument by the Echo
lead to error, those used in objurgation go more
astray. Instead of sentimentalists being against
hanging it is these people who [support it. Those
who would confine criminals as they are confined
in the Maison Centrale, at Louvain, act from rea-
son and experience. The more barbarous any
rule, the more barbarous will become those sub-
ject to it. The more reverence the State shows
for the sacredness of human life the more a re-
verential feeling will be extended among the
people. Hanging never put down any form of
offence. When administered in England for minor
crimes, the minor crimes attained a higher pro-
portional average than when the death sentence
was remitted. As remission followed remission,
a section of the public prophesied that crime
would flow, wave upon wave, over the land until
all order and morality would be submerged.
Practically, England hangs but for one crime to-
day, and, as a matter of fact, order and morality
are as high and dry as ever they were.
Those who argue for the substitution of life-
imprisonment for the gallows rely, therefore*
on the combined force of reason and experience.
The advocates of hanging trust, on the other
hand, to sentimental notions. They think that
hanging a man infuses terror among evil-doers.
They formerly hanged their men in public, so
positive were they that their notion was right.
They found out in time that a publicly-hanged
man did not terrify. To-day they hide him while
they hang him. They now believe this the way to
terrify. But there is no more evidence in favour
of this way than in favour of the other. They
sometimes fall back upon the mere necessity of
destroying the man. They fear he will repeat his
crime if let live. But manifestly there is no evi-
dence to prove that he actually will repeat it.
Thus, then, the people who advocate hanging
shirk the teachings of experience and offer a con-
geries of apprehensions as a substitute for reason.
They hang men to placate the fetish of a false
terror. The Grafton 49 who wanted to imprison
Friske for life were practical men—men, anyhow,
of sound Instincts; the 54 who clamoured to hang
him were sentimentalists. Brutal sentimentalists.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Publicans and —Judges.
It has frequently been levelled as a reproach
against the publicans that they do not, as a body,
repudiate and bring to justice those members of
their body who bring disgrace upon it. Whenever
the Licensed Victuallers’ Association claim that
the profession is, as a rule, a decent and honour-
able one, this retort Is sure to be made. If so
exact a purism Is expected of publicans, what
may be looked for from the Bench of Judges, who
arrogate to themselves so superlative an attitude
of dignity and of elevated morality? Yet,
when imputations of Indecorous and Ignoble
conduct are publicly and repeatedly alleged
against one of their number, they give no
sign of perturbation or of anxiety to
relieve their order from the stigma alleged to
be fastened upon it by the eccentricities of one of
themselves. Several of the New South Wales
country papers have referred to the charges made
by a Southern journal against His Honor Judge
Macfarlane. The Bega Standard made distinct
charges against His Honor, in language of very
deliberate plainness—charges which, if true, de-
monstrated the unfitness of the accused to occupy
a judicial position. His Honor, to whom was open
the same civil remedy as is available to every
citizen, is said to have elected to solicit the then At-
torney-General for a criminal prosecution against
his challenger. This, we hold, was a dis-
tinct attempt to bring about an abuse of
position and authority. It failed, however,
so far that the Attorney-General of the late
Government, while declining to treat as a crimi-
nal a journalist who might simply have been dis-
charging a very important public duty, took part
with the accused Judge to the extent of softening
his refusal to prosecute by Insulting reference to
the journal in which the charge was made, as “ a
hole-and-corner-paper that few persons ever
saw.” Practically, such an expression was, If
made, not merely Insulting, but commercially
damaging to the journal concerned, which was
thus punished by the highest executive Minister
of the law for the “ offence ” of apparently being
solicitous respecting the purity and elevation
of the personnel of the Bench. The Gov-
ernment of the colony having thus evinced
its conception of duty under the circum-
stances, the allegations which leave a smirch
upon the fair fame of the judicial body
remain on record. It is singular that under such
circumstances the Judges, as a body, remain as
quiescent as it is alleged respectable publicans do
when one of their trade is by public notoriety
charged with keeping a disorderly house. It
might surely have been expected that a body of
men who claim such extraordinary deferences
and attitudinize so openly as beings of a virtue
almost superhuman, have not on the instant, and
with one consent, insisted on a searching investi-
gation, carried out on the ordinary principles of
judicial proceedings, which place the accused, not
the accuser, in the dock.
A Melbourne Letter.
At the last sittings of the Supreme Court, Mel-
bourne, Mr. Justice Holroyd ordered flogging in
every cose In which the law allowed It. Some-
thing, signing Itself “ Victorian,” sent us an
Argus clipping giving a detail of the sentences.
The cutting was accompanied by the subjoined
note:—
“ Here is a fair eut from this day’s Argus. You
can gush over it in your usual slip-slop manner.
Please note that New South Wales judges are not
alone in their belief in the power of the lash. Some
carcases are fit for nothing else—in fact, know no
other fear. It may have happened that those who
howl so persistently may have deserved, though
they may have escaped its infliction. Verbum sap.
" Victorian.”
We have never said that the judges of New South
Wales were the only ones who pinned their faith
to torture for the suppression of crime. The be-
lief Is common to the whole of Australia, and is
largely due to the absence of enlightened foreign
public opinion and to the leaven of conviotism
with which our institutions are still impregnated.
Among the hundred and eighty millions of people
inhabiting France, Germany, Italy, and the United
States it is possible that offenders as brutal exist as
any whom Justice Holroyd sentenced. This 1s
certain to be the case, unless, indeed, half the in-
habitants of Victoria may fairly claim to be
criminals—a claim which we are far from
disputing. Why, then, do not the foreign judges
fall back on that torture which was once as pre-
valent in their countries as now in ours? Just
because the people have advanced beyond it—
have discovered its noxious tendency—have found
that it not alone brutalises the culprit, which is
a small matter, but brutalises the whole com-
munity, which is a very serious one. If the untold
treasure which for ages has gone to feed fat
priests for teaching falsehood and fat lawyers for
practising chicane had been devoted to the cause
of humanity, the day of Holroyds and " Aus-
tralians,” of knotted whip-cord and bloody backs,
would long since have become a dim legend of the
past. One might forgive the savagery if it could
be shown that it had the desired effect, and that
other punishments were less efficacious. But, so
far is this from being the case, that the more you
flog the more you will have to flog. We guarantee
that at subsequent sittings of the Melbourne
Supreme Court, Judge Holroyd will have further
chances of showing how superior he, the narrow-
minded, cold-blooded “ equity” lawyer, is to the
puling humanitarlanism of the age. The time
must surely come when even Australians will be
sufficiently advanced to look back with disgust to
those who advocated this useless abomination. If,
as our correspondent says, “ some carcases are fit
for nothing else,” we can only reply that we know
of but one, and leave him to guess who owns it.
Personal Politics.
A more humiliating spectacle than the late pro-
ceedings in the New South Wales Assembly has
never been witnessed since a Constitution was
first granted to the colony. For much of the
present political degradation Mr. G. R. Dibbs, the
nominal Premier, is directly responsible. Beaten
at the elections in the most unmistakeable man-
ner, he crawled back to the position from which
the electors had ignomlniously hurled him, and
trusted to the "ratting” of the Boltons,
Ewings, and Burkes, to maintain him in place
and power. The audacity of his conduct startled
the whole body of electors, his obstinacy in still
pretending to rule with a miserable majority of
two, disgusted them. Had the division resulted
from a discussion of the Government policy, there
might have been some excuse for a temporary re-
tention of office, but the debate was purely per-
sonal. The question was, "Are the Ministers
worthy of our confidence ? ” Fifty-six members
answered that question in the negative, fifty-eight
in the affirmative. We have called Mr. Dibbs the
nominal Premier. He is nothing more. Any one
of his supporters has the power of determining
his fate. Any one may make a useless bridge
or a town-clock the price of his support
for, as we have pointed out, the question as to*
Premiership is simply one of personal fitness, and
few members would forsake any principle in
crossing the floor of the House. Can any more
degrading position be Imagined? The Premier
holding his position in virtue of a town-clock I To
attempt to lead the House under these circum-
stances is simply to open the door to political
immorality of the basest kind. Opposition mem-
bers, seeing the straits to which the Government
is reduced, can calculate to a nicety the number
of bridges their votes should bring. Mr. Slattery
the Minister for Justice (I), by his hint to this
effect in a recent debate, has done much to assist
the process of mental arithmetic necessary for the
calculation. In the interests of political purity
and good government it is at this juncture the
clear duty of Ministerialists to go into Opposition.
The question for them to consider is not whether
Mr. Dibbs or Sir John Robertson Is best fitted to
lead the country, but whether the present Govern-
ment, in the face of their crushing defeat in the
country and their subsequent proceedings in the
House, can be trusted to maintain purity in our
political institutions. The Ministers may not sea
the evils which their infatuation involves, but to
those who have no personal interests at stake, the
result of their conduct is clear. We do not suppose
for one moment that any one of the occupants of
the Treasury benches refuses to vacate on account
of the advantages which flow from the retention of
office—they simply hang on because the election,
as well as the recent prolonged and abusive debate,
turned almost entirely on personal qualifications.
The contest now is nothing more than a series of
duels— Parkes is pitted against Dibbs, Robert-
son against Abbott, Slattery against Foster*
The present Ministers will not acknowledge to
defeat by their present individual opponents on
the opposing benches. And this reveals the
causes which have produced our recent, and
present legislative degradation. No one of our
boasted leaders seems able to enunciate and up-
hold any definite political principles. The Ministry
on the hustings pleaded for a fair trial of the
Land Act. Mr. Abbott, in his first speech in Par-
liament, caught many votes by promising amend-
ments. Sir John Robertson once spoke of re-
pealing the Act, now he would be satisfied with
amendments. So with other members. In fact,
if a Robertson Ministry were now to come in,
they could not be regarded as political apostates
if they carried out all that this Ministry has
promised. If a foreigner were to ask’what are the
alms of our parlies in Parliament, and what caused
the division of members into parties, Sir HENRY


AMUSEMENT
r 9° r . eoel £t of the advertised price, any of the
following Tricks will be sent by return post:-
nlS^ 8 \ PPE , ARING CARI) BOX.—A card
Ei shnl/n * h ®, box In ® tan tl y vanishes, and the box
is shown quite empty. Price Is., post free Is. 6d.
oatio^tJq^ GI miF ORK: R OX.'-A capital multlpll-
fJ- * h 5® e corks are placed in the box,
ThB C H^a 8 S? n b J the audience to be quite empty.
°n. and when removed there are
found six corks within. Price Is., post free Is. 6d
CARDS 0P THR NORTH'S CHANGING
cardawhiur change instantly to other
t “e i,‘.° a. 1 " 08 *
THE GREAT HAT AND DIE TRICK A unlifl
ma,P>a1? e 2 co !?P^ etely through the toy of a ventle-
“ a °^ bat and 18 found Inside. Price Is. 6d* .post
0 w£ HB m -A.RYEL CIGAR CASE.—The ease is
vanish 11 / 3 ? % ne c J5 ar8 * which instantly
sassi. s*L“,Sttft£s" uu ' iu
.THE MAGIC SNUFF BOX.-A most excellent
trick. No opening: can be discovered anvwbeie
It looks just like a solid pleceofwooda^djfo
3s ” o B 8t Tee2s!‘edf ° Pfm “ bUt the ° wuer * Prlce
CARDS MA gici AN’S PACK OF FORCING
ARDS.—No conjuror with card tricks can nro-
w tr P cka°ean^ Rhout f them - The most astound-
• cfcs caa be performed with them Verv
superior cards. 3s. 6d.. post free 3s. y
ev^rv M c2n1 u^r ND w^ R K CHIEF -- Indi8 P en8ab,G to
arHpL, fi. r j r ' Watches, rmgrs, coins, and anv
disannna? a?th un £®F this handkerchief, instantly
shaken and t uh Ua ’ h th . e handkerchief is thorou« h ly
Prt£a. , «5V£»™e'a. t ‘‘ < ’ ““ dleno8 each ““»•
THE MAGNETIC PACK OP FLYING CARDS
Can be made to run up and down the arm or
body, and elongrated in the air two or three feet
ofThem fa?lW 8t v eautlfl V re » ularJt F without one
post free 3s. Very astounding:. Price 3s. 6d ,
THE MAGIC DIE AND HANDKERCHTPP —
A solid wooden die is placed under the handker-
chief, and felt to be there by the audience one of
Jhom may be allowed to hold it The performer
tho Pr f 8 ‘° * Eone 1 ” and Instantly takes
Ji? d shakes it to show the die has
dfe itseff thorougrhly, whilst the
oi+iiif 6 n «f°nnd inside a canister or any other
article. Price 3s. 6d„ post free 3s. 6d.
BOT-m^° ND P ERFUL JAPANESE DRAWER
performer sends round aprettvliiiit.fi
box to the company, which th«v ah k ,^ t _ e
'Tl Delias round aDrettvUui
box to the company, which they fill with ■ Hir
&o. Directly the performer ti£,
It in his hands, without removing it from
the articles Instantly vanish, and the drawer”!
shown empty. Price Is. 6d., post free3s 1
,noA Sual
after this is done, opens the case, and finds it fn?
post W fre?3sf nd the p r?ce & St
THE MYSTERIOUS CANDLE AND rr
WITCHED HANDKERCHIEF.-The performer
and n fith?J u ard H candle K out °f a tlght-flttinv
a Sr He then borrows a lady’s handknr
chief, burns it to ashes in the caniSe, and placed
n ? 8andle ln the case ayaln. The* lady
I® tMed on to open the case, which is handed
to her. She does so, and finds her handkerchiftf
restored therein but the cand & entirely vone
Very excellent trick. Price 3s. 6 i„ post free 3s°
Idftoeachls? 1 * 8taken at par ’ ofcaei colonies add
Address all communications;
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT
BOX 641 G.P.O. 401 GEORGK-8T., SYDNEY
Between King: and Marxet Streets, opposite t*ho
Royal Hotel, and no other address.
C. W. EGBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle. , [u. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
from Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Hu Od. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
*a. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT,
la. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottiea, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Priori.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
Is, 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henkess Prize Medal Brand,
In atone bottiea and square bottles,
LABQBST aren,
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MALLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
SYDNEY.
Th» Rates of Subscription to Ihi Bulletin
are—For one year, 34a.; half-year, 12a. «d.:
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
Thb Advertising Rains are 5s. per inch!
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
moh. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods- as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions!
16 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under &1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Wolfes Schnapps is greatly used in hospi-
tals for medicinal purposes.
himself could not tell him. To the advocacy of
underlying principles none devote themselves.
Members are not concerned as to the direction the
coach of State shall take; It may get bogged in the
marshes of corruption or stick in the sand-wastes
of Conservatism. That apparently is of no conse-
quence. The only point worth debating is as to
whether Sir John or Mr. Dibbs shall hold the rib-
bons. Prom this state of political prostitution
nothing but the advent of a Chamberlain or a
Graham Berry (the Radical Berry of old, not
the present “ Liberal” of that name) can deliver
the colony. Let one arise who can submit a con-
sistent Radical platform, and if he be in any way
gifted with the arts of oratory and the genius of a
statesman, a majority will speedily enlist under
his banner, if only to free the country from the
disgraceful and petty personal politics which have
for so long defiled the Parliamentary records of
New South Wales.
Sir Alfred Stephen and Colonial Church
History.
At the laying of thra foundation-stone of
the Sydney C. of E. Chapter-house last week, Sir
Alfred Stephen Is reported by the dally Press
to have spoken thus: —
“ It has been the happy fortune of our Church
in this colony to have possessed in Its pastors, from
early times, men .... having . . . intense
earnestness and devotion to duty, supported by an
energy both of mind and body that seemed to defy
fatigue, and animated in all their intercourse by
never-falling charity and goodwill towards all
men. Vivid memories of more than half a century
recall to my mind as examples the first missionary
from our Australian Church- Samuel Marsden,
&c., &c.”
Now, we do not deny that Samuel Marsden
was a man of much energy. There have been
many energetic hangmen. But it never can be
forgotten, nor shall it ever be, while we can help
it, that Marsden was the creature who at Parra-
matta sat on the bench as a magistrate and day
after day ordered accused men to be flogged until
they confessed the offences Imputed to them-
The name of Stephen is not a synonym for
mercy, and it is alleged that he took an active
partin framiog our present barbarous criminal
code. Is it then th? impudence, or the ignorance— I
or can it be the sympathy ?—of the Lieutenant-
Governor of New South Wales, which prompts
him thus to hold up Samuel Marsden, the
reverend flogger, as an “ example of never-failing
ChrlsPan charity and good wiil tosvards men ? ”
The Prayer of Bolton, M.L.A
From the Inverbll Argus we learn that the Rev.
R. K. Ewing, in the course of a recent sermon,
said
“ He had read with regret, in the 8. M. Herald
(reporting the opening of Parliament), an incident
that occurred on the occasion. On© member of
the House in concluding his speech expressed a
hope that their deliberations would be crowned
with the blessing of Almighty God. Would it be
believed that a sentiment so lofty, so entirely in
keeping with the grave responsibilities resting
upon the Legislative Assembly, was received with
laughter? Such, however, was the case; and it
was shocking to contemplate the attitude of mind
displayed by the country’s legislators in that un-
seemly exhibition.”
Take the last sentence first. We agree with Mr.
Ewing that the attitude of mind displayed by one
of the country’s legislators was shocking to con-
template. And that one was Mr. A. T. Bolton>
the junior member for Murrumbldgee. His
cry throughout the electorate was, "Send me
in that I may help to repeal the Land Act.” This
sentence is from his printed address which, an
exchange asserts, was published in the 'Wagga
Wagga papers on the very day of the elections
“A great deal has been said as to giving the
present Land Aet a fair trial, but I am so con-
vinced (and have ever been so) of its unjust and
unworkable nature, that I feel nothing short of
absolute repeal can effect a proper remedy.”
But having by these words won the votes of the
electors, he, on the very first day after the meet-
ing of Parliament, betrayed his trust by support-
ing the Government which up to that time had
not offered to make any definite alteration in the
clauses of the Act. Mr. Bolton then stands in a
very awkward position. Either he misrepresented
his convictions to his constituents or he sup-
pressed his real sentiments when addressing the
Speaker. He himself took away the benefit of
the supposition that he had completely changed
his convictions after election, for he strove to ex-
plain that he had used the word “repeal ” at some
election meetings without considering its force,
hut had afterwards withdrawn the expression!
Yet, as we have seen, the word remained in his
address on the day he was elected. There is no
getting away from the position: Mr. Bolton, by
his own utterances, has taught men to regard him
as a political humbug, and a clumsy one at that.
He showed, by seconding that address, and by the
words used in so doing, that political honesty was
a quality for which he had no respect, and having
exhibited his own political degradation in this
manner, he had the audacity and effrontery to ex-
press the hope that “ Members on both sides of the
House would join him in praying that the blessing
of Almighty Got> would attend them in their
labours.” No wonder that members laughed!
The “ blessing of Almighty God ” will be much
wanted in Parliament if there are to be many
more exhibitions of this political Chadbandism.
As Mr. Bolton is so fond of seeking Divine in!
spiration, we would like to know whether it was
by this that he was prompted to break his plighted
troth with Murrumbidgao, If it was, we think he
will want a lot more such “ inspiration ” to enable
him to satisfy his supporters concerning his sub-
sequent achievements. And if such manteuvres
as his are to be looked for as the result of “ Divine
blessing,” we ask, with all due reverence, that
Parliament may not receive the gift for which Mr.
Bolton desires to pray. The Government now*
have a majority of two. Had the junior member
for Wagga not broken his hustings promises the
numbers would have been even. We desire to
congratulate the Premier on his victory. The
shameless apostacy of the Murrumbidgee Chad-
band has saved the Ministry. But to return to
the Rev. R. K. Ewing. He possibly did not know
the circumstances under which this invocation
was made, and was not aware that those who
laughed did so in acorn at the contrast they
saw in the words and actions of the honour-
able member who so fervently desired the
favour of the Almighty. The members doubt-
less thought it strange that a man whose
word In political matters is now not worth utter-
ing, should put himself forward as one specially
able to propitiate the Omniscient. We have often
derided the same thing-. We decline to believe
that the assumption of a white tie, sepulchral
voice, and cant expressions, proves a man to be
any holler than his neighbours, and we always
doubted whether one whose word was valueless,
was specially qualified to secure blessings for us,
which we ourselves were unable to obtain. We
require that a man should deal fairly with his
neighbour, before ho presumes to talk of his
transactions with the Almighty, The line dividing
cant from piety, hyprocrlsy from sincerity, is
easily drawn when we become conversant with
the actions of the man who utters the one pr ex-
hibits the other. We scorn the pleading to heaven
of a man whose word we cannot believe, no
matter whether he be a member of Parliament, a
Domain howler, or a parson (like some Sydney has
seen) whose cloth is merely a mask for the
flagrant wickedness committed by means of its
protection.
From the Bourke (N.S. W.) Watchman;—
Northerners have a free and easy way generally
of doing things. A Mrs. lloffy had been sum-
moned for sly grog-selling, and was lined £50.
The witnesses acted in a free and easy style in the
box, one coolly attempting to light his pipe, while
another would bo damned if he knew where he
lived, but thought anywhvre would do. A man
was lately picked up la the bush near Glenbar
station in apparently a dying state. Restoratives
were at once applied, and he was shortly able to
give his name as Felix Bosquet. He had had nothing
to eat for eight weeks. I Humph I-Ed. B ] When
found he faintly expressed a desire to be left alone
to die.”
The career of the electric light is worth
special notice. The latest progress report is of
the manufacture by an American Arm of “ storage
batteries” of all sizes and prices. One of the
smaller, weighing half a pound and looking like a
pocket luncheon-case, costs five dollars at first
price, and three pence to replenish it. By its aid
the light of four candles can be obtained for five
hours. A great help will be thus given to the eyes
of those who labour late at night. Very minute
lamps are being constructed by which, when
electrically lighted, surgeons can examine the
throats of patients.
A sad case of defying duly constituted
local authority is reported from Inverell, N.S.W.
One fine Sunday morning recently, the municipal
inspector of nuisances espied the local “ bobby ’>
bathing in that stream of which he (the inspector)
was the guardian, custodian, and rootleorum.
Here was an opportunity for distinction, not to
say promotion, with a possibility of a medal as an
heirloom for the family of young nuisances.
Promptly the inspector made for the bobby;
hastily Robert donned his breeks, and hurriedly
bundling the garb of sacred blue under his official
arm scud for bare life. In full pursuit started the
nuisance man, but being scant o’ breath while f ul
o’ body, he had to succumb to the fleeter “ fut ” of
the man who should have been in blue at that
especial moment. The local thunderer argues
against such a state of society when municipal law
can be defied by a blue-coated guardian of the
peace. We don’t view it in the same light at all;
it we d been that bobby we’d have locked the in-
spector up. and charged him with tearing the
" Queen s uniform ” from our sacred person.
Perhaps there is no town in the world
where poetic sentiment is raised in such large
quantities as at fctratford-on-Avon. American
visitors are accountable, in a great measure, for
this state of things. The old fashioned native of
Stratford was as matter-of-fact a man as you
might And, but the emotional displays of the
Yanks over Shakespeare s tomb—wetting the stone
and drying it with their lips, and so forth—have
had an elevating influence upon the townspeople.
The young men are wearing low collars and
pointed beards. The petty details of trade are ab-
horrent to many of them. A local butcher is the
latest illustration of this seeking for the Ideal. He
drowned himself. Not because business was bad
or the wrong horses had been winning, or the
missus had taken up with the undertaker. Noth-
ing of the sort. The butcher imparted to a per-
sonal friend the burden on his soul. “ He was
tired of killing pigs.”
The old man—it was near Casino—had just
got the forge finished, and was blowing up, getting
a heat on to a link which wanted welding. He had
heated two or three pieces of light iron, and
thrown them round loose to have some fun with
the boys. Presently Prank came over. “ Give us
that piece of Iron, Prank,” said the old man.
Frank picked it up and put it down again. Hi 8
subsequent remarks are unfit for publication-
Then the old man laughed till the tears came into
ms eyes, and told Frank that no one but a bevel-
edged tool ever picked up iron in a blacksmith’s
shop. “Anyway,” he continued, “I’m going to
make links out of this here—Hogan’s ghost!” The
old man had picked up the hot end of the piece he
was working at. And as he rushed across the
house shouting, “Fetch the kerosene, ’less
y want me to be a one-armed cripple,” Frank lay
on the ground and laughed till his ribsshook loose.
And now money won’t induce the old man to pick
a cold chisel off the gate post without first spitting
on it to see if it's cool.
At Normanton (Q.), some years ago, one
Charley Murphy bought a hogshead of rum from
Towns and Co., as per sample, but as the article in
bulk was adulterated in Murphy’s opinion, and
not up to sample, he refused to pay, and the
matter was brought before the Bench, Mr. Lands-
borough being then police magistrate. The Bench
decided it would be desirable to have the rum
analysed, and so sent for [a certain resident
chemist who was at the time a publican in Nor-
manton, when the following little episode afforded
some amusement to the habituis of the court-
house :-MagistrateWhat are you?” Witness:
I ve been a publican for twelve months, and a
chemist all my lifetime.” M.: “ Can you analyse
jmmj w * < with Profound emphasis): “Ishould
so, your Worship I” Sub-Inspector Coward
(filling a long-sleever to the brim): “Do you call
that good rum ?” Witness (after first critically
scanning it against the light, and then drinking it
off slowly without a wink): “ Yes, I call that good
rum. M.: ‘What quantity will you require to
make a n analysis, doctor, and how long will you
take? W, (after considering the chances of
getting possession of the hogshead); “ I couldn’t
analyse less than five gallons, your Worship, and
it would take me three weeks.” The Court roared
—even the Bench lost their stern gravity for a
moment, but only for a moment. “ That will do,
doctor, said Landsboraugh; “ we’ll dispense with
the analysis, thank you.”
THE JUDGE HOLDS HIS NOSE.
“The Rushcctttbbs’ Bay Sewer. —Sir Joelnnes writes“I desire to support, as
emphatically as I can the pathetic and forcible plea in your paper for some mitigation
of a foul and cruel wrong under which we residents of the eastern suburbs of Sydney
have long been groaning. Rightly is this filthy open sewer called a pestiferous fever-
bed. It is almost impossible to describe the sickening and prostrating effect produced
by merely passing over the Rushcutters’ Bay Bridge. What must be the effect to
those poor creatures—some hundreds—who live, exist rather, in its immediate neigh-
bourhood ? Twice every day I hold my nose hard and keep my mouth tightly closed
as I canter rapidly over the vile place; but the foul exhalations spread far and wide.”


Personal Items
“Ted Evans,” the well-known N.S.W.
cricketer, is not, as has been reported, suffering
Irom sun-stroke.
Writes our London correspondent:—“Mr.
Henniker Heaton—[Give him a rest, please.—
Kn. B.] You needn't get angry. I was only going
to say ne sends his kind regards to all enquiring
friends.”
The controversy in England about paint-
ing from the nude has elicited the fact that Mr.
Horsley, who started the cry, evolved his nude
figures from his own Inner consciousness. What
a nice Inner consciousness Mr. Horsley must have!
Those people who are so excruciatingly
loyal that they would kiss the very door-mats
Royal personages wipe their feet upon will re-
ceive a rude?shook at the allusions made to Her
Majesty in the new volumes ot the Greville “Me-
moirs” just published.
We learn with felings of ecstatic gratifi-
cation that Prince George of Wales has been suc-
cessful in obtaining flrst-class certificates in sea-
manship and torpedo knowledge, and a thlrd-ciaas
In navigation. But why not first In navigation,
too ? Isn’t the Prince of Wales a Field Marshal ?
For the Faithful. Pope Leo is credited
hgr L’Indespendanch Bhlgb with practising a
considerable amount of cruelty in one of his
favourite pastimes—via . catching larks. Decoy
birds, blinded wltfti a red-hot needle, are used to
attract the homeward-bound feathered songsters
who are then netted, the Pontiff himself proving
very expert at both catching them and afterwards
crushing their beads betwixt finger and thumo, as
uounoet boxes used to be held. Holy FathefT now
think of that. Pwhatnlxt?
By General Scratch-
ley’s death the A.M.P.
Society is “struck” lor
£70.0.
No one has thought
of this before. Capialn
Mulholland’s brother
officers maintain over
Butter’s charges a rigid
silence Let’s see I What
does silence do ?
Some of the mem-
bers of the N.S.W. Geo-
graphical Society are
jealous of the promin-
ence assumed In regard
to their association by
Sir Edward Strickland,
and are threatening vari-
ous things.
The young Duke of
Newcastle, now of age
will be at liberty to solve
the celebrated problem
to which his astonished
father gave utterance.
His “ Cannot I do what I
like with my own 7 ” was
answered by a roar of
laughter in the House of
Lords which re-echoed
throughout England. Tbo
trustees have cleared off
all the debts of the mud
die-headed old man, and
present the heir
with a clear £o |1 ,0U0 a year
Young “Newcastle” is
another Bute in bis be-
liefs and proclivities, and
so be and his wealth are
likely to go over to the
B. C. Church.
One of Bismarck’s
peculiarities la his wear-
ing a conspicuous Iron
ring, bearing the Inscrip-
tion of “ Nltschewo,” on
one of his fingers. This
is a memento of an acci-
dent the “ Man of Blood
and Iron ” once met with
In Russia. He uses it,
moreover, as a kind of
memento mori. “ Nlts-
chewo” in Russian is
something equivalent
to the English “Never
mind I ” a sentiment
which may be called Ni-
hilistic in Its essence, and
which it is good for men
in high position to bear
in mind. In critical mo-
ments Prince Bismarck
always looks at bis iron
ring, and repeats its in-
scription, “Never mind I”
Prince Bismarck says that “ a legible sig-
nature is not only demanded as an official duty,
but is an act of common courtesy.” The screed
of O’Malley Clarke, P.M., of Sydney, would be a
suitable Australian Christmas card for the Prince.
It would raise a Pomeranian blister on that
chiselled brow.
Frank Stubley, who had perhaps better
luck than any other working miner since gold was
first found in Australia—he took over £100,000 out
of one hole in a year or two and then ‘ 1 Knocked it
all down”—is, we read in a Northern paper, “ now
prospecting about the Sellhelm. But,” it is added,
M he has not found St. Patrick the Second.”
Marshal Serrano, just deceased, bore the
reputation of being father of the late King
Alfonso. Several other of the Spanish “ nobility
and gentry” were more than suspected of having
occupied the place of Don Francisco d’ Assisi,
Isabella’s wayward husband, who was heard on
once occasion to remark that he wished he were a
man, as in that ease, biowed if he’d stand it.
The Maokay magistrates and the Premier
of Queensland have had a correspondence relative
to a kanaka case recently tried up there. The
magistrates have been heard from last. They
curtly inform the Premier that they decline to
hold any further correspondence with him. Who
will say in future that the man who writes J P.
after his name has no sense of personal dignity ?
When waiting for the jury’s verdict in his
last trial, Joseph Byrnes— known in orthodox
circles as the shallow blasphemer—did not take
kindly to having to pass the time in a cell. He re-
quested his Honor’s permission to remain above,
hut it was refused, and he had to go down below-
verifying the prediction of the Authorised Ver-
sion, the .Revised Version, and Thumper Dowlc.
Apropos of th® statement that Dr. Anna
M. L. Potts has been arrested in London on the
charge of being a man in disguise, we may men-
tion that twelve months ago, when her likeness
was given in certain Australian Journals, a lady in
Sydney declared the face to be that ot a man.
There was something in the eyes which, despite all
assurances to the contrary, forced her to believe
that the scientific leoturess belonged to the
stronger sex.
The rebuilding, decorating, and furnish-
ing of Lord Bute's palace of Mount Stuart will
have oost nearly a million I There are no poor in
Scotland. Lord Bute has been converted to Roman
Catholicism. Now he had better be converted to
Christianity. By the way, when the Marquis
’verted to Rome, he wanted to become a priest,
but the Pope demurred and told him to get mar-
ried. as he (Plus) wished to see another “noble ”
English family in tho Church.
Godfrey Egremont, poet, journalist, and
building society “ manager,” has been arrested at
Heidelberg, Germany. The defalcations charged
against him now total over £9000. The Adelaide
building soe'ety, of which Godfrey was secretary,
promised each of Its clients a house free of rent,
provided certain conditions were fulfilled. God-
frey fulfilled certain conditions, and they are now
bringing him back to Adelaide to Instal him In a
house free of rent for some years, at all events.
Our old friend, Bertha M. Clay, the
authoress, died many months ago, and now—this
shows the grit of Queensland journalists—some of
our Northern contemporaries make the startling
announcement that they have "made arrange-
ments with Mrs. Clay to publish another of her
stories, the title being ‘Put Asunder, or Lady
Castlemaine’s Divorce.’ ” It is surprising enough
to find that Bertha, though in heaven, continues
to work as of yore; but what chiefly astounds us
is that the great gatekeeper should allow any N.Q.
editor to sneak about the jasper doors waiting for
manuscript.
We notice that the Rev. Campbell (once
of Victoria) has djpd, leaving £33,700 behind him
It is easier for a Campbell to enter the eye of a
needle than for a rich man tp enter the kingdom
of Heaven. There is no doubt that that is true
every time. And here, now, we have the Rev.
Hurst, Wesleyan minister, of Burwood, going up
to knock at Sc. Peter’s little wicket, and leaving
behind him cash to the amount of £112,383. If the
Rev. Campbell sees the Rev. Hurst going up he
ought to sit ;down on a boulder and wait awhile.
Then both could continue the rest of the journey
downhill, arm in arm.
The Melbourne D.T., commenting on the
Everill expedition, says that “ missionary explora-
tion is not conducted to au acoomBanlment of
journalistic tom-toms.” Is it not? Does not
evpry missionary who can write at all load up the
S.M. Herald and other confiding papers with an
account of the lands he traverses and the souls he
saves ? One great difference between secular and
missionary exploration, as far as newspapers are
concerned, is that the leader of the former gener-
ally consideis it indelicate to pose as the sole
chronicler, whereas the leader or the latter holds
the horn all the time, and blows while he has a
breath.
The portly and imposing figure of Mr.
Garrett Byrne (says the Sydney Express, K.C.
organ) will be recognised in the English Commons
when the Irish phalanx flies into Opposition quar-
ters in the Parliament of 1886. He will be a wel-
come visitor to English parties. ... By his
fidelity to fatherland he has proved his descent
from the fighting Byrnes of Ballymanus. The
home ot his fathers was in the mountains, find
their sport was spearing the Saxon with as muo»
pleasure as they would ‘ gaff ’ a salmon or clip off
a fox s brush.” All this is very funny Just ima-
gine the portly and rubicund J. G. O’Connor, of
the Express, gaffing”the imperious Saxon!
„ Yet another Waterloo veteran has died in
N ’°-W. His name was—but no matter. Here is
an idea for showmen. It has just struck us, and
we believe there are millions in it. You would
never guess what it is. Vet. like all great ideas,
it is simple in the extreme. It is to start an exhl-
bitlpn of Waterloo veterans. There would be an
initial difficulty about finding a place big enough
to hold them, and. at the same time, leave room
for the audience, but that might be got over by
selecting only those who had seen “ Bnney.” and
had been personally commended by Wellington
for bravery on the field, besides being able to
show at least six soars of sabre-cuts and bayonet
wounds—in front. We believe the exhibition
would be a huge success. And now we wait to
* tRrt '^^ iey can re * y u i )0n us for a
The poor tditor of the Bourke (N.S.W)
Watchman complaineth:*” Our Libel action.
—To-mprrow we depart for Sydney to convince.
If possible, four good men and true that we ought
not to hand over £500 to Doctor Floyer, of Bre-
warrina. for printing a panegyric upon his beauti-
ful bay horse. If we have the sympathy of any
of pur debtors we should like it to take a substan-
tial and practical form. We appealed to them
soma time since, intimating we were anxious to
Unci how many 4 white men * there were among*
them ; only one responded, Mr. M'Dougal, of
Goodooga: it Is not dangerous to express our ad-
miration of him; but of the others we confine
ourselves to thinking a lot. However, we hope to
soon return chock full of ‘Wise saws and modern
instances,’ to again take up the weapon that is
mightier than the sword—for getting you into
Our old squatter-kings are dying out.
Peter Manifold, of the Camperdown (Vie.) district
is now added to the number. HU wealth will be
fully half a million. The Victorian part of it is
sworn at between three and four hundred thou- 1
8»nd, and the State will net on that alone some
£30,000 of probate duty. His N.S.W. and Queens-
land properties will pay duty in those colonies
when the will is proved there. Mr. Manifold had
to leave his huge belongings all to other people’s
children. His widow takes a life interest in
£30,000. The rest of his estate g oes to brothers
and sisters, nephews and nieces, friends and ser-
vants. We do not notice that anything is left to
charities. His brother John la the most favoured
legatee, and to John’s eldest son. William Thomp-
son Manifold, is deputed the onerous office of exe-
cutor and trustee, the duties of which, in so large
an estate, will be occupation enough for him for
some time to come.
The’R.C. Plenary Council of Australasia
have been “taking a rise” out of poor old Arch-
biahip Goold. The Council affirmed tho necessity
of appointing a coadjutor Archbishop of Mel-
bourne, and a number of the members “ eulogised
the ability and zeal with which Dr. Goold had or-
ganised and administered the Church in Victoria
during his 38 years' occupancy of the see of Mel-
bourne.” It is a singular thing that Dr. Goold a
laity have never been able to recognise his “ability
and zeal,” and that he Is regarded by them as one
of the most retrogressive and “do-nothing ” pre-
lates that ever existed. But perhaps the members
of the Synod meant that his “ability and zeal”
consisted in the capacity he has shown to become
very opulent, and erect a beautiful mansion at the
pretty marine suburb ot Brighton, where the
venerable gentleman resides. And this reminds
us that the entente cordiale never existed between
Archbishop Goold and the late vigorous Arch-
bishop of Sydney, Dr. Vaughan. The coolness
between the two prelates was the cause of a good
deal of comment In Roman Catholic circles.
Few amongst the many able magistrates
of the metropolitan centres of the colonies can
dispose of a charge-list with more celerity than
Mr. B. Baddome, the respected dispenser of early
morning justice at the Adelaide City Court. He
knows all his Monday morning visitors of the male
persuasion, and deals their dose out with a
practised and unerring hand. His lady clients
occasionally “ wrastle a fall ” with him, but tho
musical cadences of Samuel’s voice are never
varied by “boorak,” “ guiver,” or “jam” from
the lips of the and tne “ sundry
shillings or ” reaches the ears of the fancy
fair often in the middle of her defence. “Mary,”
he queried one morning of a blighted rose, “you
have not been here for some time, how is it that
I see you this morning ? Charged with keeping a
disorderly house, too.” “ Well, Mr. Beddome,”
promptly responded the lady, “you know better
than that, when you’ve been down at my place
you never saw anything disorderly, and ”
“Forty or ,” and the broad shoulders of the
P.M. shook with the effort to keep down his mirth.
He can take a joke.
Dr. Kevin Izod O’Doherty, who has been
elected to the Commons for Meath. «nd returns to
Queensland only to settle his domestic affairs,
was, as is well known, transported to Tasmania in
1849 for having taken part in the IrDh national
movement of the previous year. Two London
juries could not agree to a verdict, but the third,
well and truly packed, gave the necessary decree
which sent O Doherty to Van Dleman’s Land un-
der a sentence of 10 years’transportation. With
John Martin he arrived in the penal colony in
1819. Subsequently he was granted a pardon to
reside anywnere but iu the “ United ” Kingdom.
With this privilege he arrived in Paris, and re-
sumed his studies, and while there he made a fur-
tive expedition to Ireland and carried off the
talentvd “ Kva ” of the Nation, to whom he had
been engaged before his conviction. In 1856 a
free pardon was granted to the ’48 men, and Kevin
Izod O’Doherty availed himself of Victoria’s
“grace” by concluding his medical studies in
Dublin, where for some years ho practised his pro-
fession. He emigrated first to N S.W., and thonce
to Queenaland, and in Brisbane be settled down to
work, and distinguished himself as a physician.
The Hon. W. Pearson, of Victoria, is well-
known as a self-made man and a credit to his
maker. He made his way to fortune by luckily
investing, 18 years ago, in 600 shares of the Long
Tunnel Mining Company at Walhaila, Gippsland.
These 600 shares, on which £3 only has been called
up, have paid him: an average dividend of £1200
monthly during all that long time. The total divi-
dends paid by the Company amount to nearly a
million sterling. As the month is one of four
weeks only, Mr. Pearson has netted nearly sixteen
thousand a year from this source alone. He is as
thorough and as honest a sportsman as ever
backed a horse or started one. Hence his indigna-
tion at what has happened to his famous racer,
Commotion. This horse stood well for the Cup
race, and did a splendidly fast gallop in October
-causing his owner to back him at once for a
large stake. He was found to be crippled same
evening. Swellings appeared on bis legs, caused,
the trainer contends, by hard blows on the sinews.
Mr. Pearson offered a reward of £500, which he has
now Increased to £1000, for discovery of the scoun-
drel who Instigated a stable-hoy to this devilment.
It is thought, by Mr. P., to be chargeable to the
bookmakers.
As we write, it seems they are going to
try and give Mr. Playfair another term of office
as Mayor of Sydney, and again “ shunt ” Mr. John
Young. So far as we are concerned, we ex-
perience no pointed interest in either of these
gazeile-like creatures, though, as we are about to
have a large number of cultured English critics
amongst us, it would certainly be preferable to
exhibit a gentleman for Mayor of the city who has
even a superficial glimmering of the laws of
English syntax. We have heard several of Mr.
Playfair’s orations, and we have no hesitation in
saying that they absolutely shriek for the services
of the night-school. We don’t know precisely
whether Mr. John Young is a oetter grammarian
than Mr. Playfair, or not. There is oma thing cer-
tain: he could not by any adverse combination of
circumstances, be a worse one! And, by the way
Lord Carington, on his arrival, will have many
trials, and we might suggest, in order to save him
one of them, that that distinguished and eloquent
official, Barry Fox, be appointed to read the ad-
dress instead of the Town Clerk; though, if the
Council insist upon Mr. Wooloott spelling through
the usual yard of flatulent bosh, we might suggest
that they dress him up in a suit of armour, ana
order him to keep his visor down.
The S.M. Herald quotes a story about the
late Lord Houghton (Munckton Milnes);—“A thief
who had robbed his lordship was arrested, and
Lord Houghson went to see him in gaol. He ques-
tioned him as to his motives, and the man replied
that he was known as a thief to the police, and
that they prevented him getting a Jiving. Lord
Houghton asked him if he thought he could live
honestly. The man replied that if he could get to
Australia he was sure he could do so, and Lord
Houghton took him at his word. He gave the
man a cheque tor £100, and went to the trouble ot
seeing him on board ship to the Antipodes
Several years afterwards the man wrote to thank
his benefactor, and to tell him how he had kept
his word. When last heard of this man was hold-
ing an important local office in Australia, to which
he had been elected by the suffrages of his feilow-
oitlzens.” It will hardly be necessary to remind
people that Mr. Barabbas was elected by the suf-
frages of hi° *ellow-citlzens. Lord Houghton’s
thief-friend was probably elected to the N.S.W
Parliament, and joined the lund-syndlcate-r'aii-
way-resumpuon ring. Or perhaps he became an
alderman, ana found full scope for the exercise of
his predatory Instincts at Sydney Town Hail.
A cab proprietorhas
conceived an idea which
will speedily render him
independent. He has
ordered a cab that will
fit Harry M'Quade, M.P.,
comfortably.
The poor Marquis of
Lome has received his
coup de grdee. Cold-
shouldered by his royal
mother-in-law. snubbed
and seml-deserted by his
Princess, the poor little
Marquis is now denied
the solace of a seat in
Parliament. Something
will have to be done with
him, however. The
chances are that the
Queensland Separation
scheme will be floated,
and Lome sent as Go-
vernor for the new
colony.
The question of a
memorial to Sir Moses
Montefiore has been
mooted In Melbourne. A
meeting of the Jewish
community was con-
vened, ana at this meet-
ing further evidence was
given of the grand busi-
ness capacity of the
ehosen people. The pro-
moteis decided to “invite
the co-operation of their
Christian fellow citi-
zens.” Truly a generous
invitation. Ail the Chris-
tians know about the de-
funct Sir Moses is that he
died worth a million of
their money.
Captain Sir George
Beaumont is coming out
in the Massilla. He is a
Leicestershire ' baronet,
and, according to the
Sydney dailies, “traces
his descent from the late
France, Louis
Vlll. But, then, Sir
Samuel Wilton is proved
to be descended from
Alfred the Gieat. We
always thougnt Sam had
royal blood In his veins
since first we saw him.
Still, we would gladly die
if we could only see the
long line of people
through whom the Saxon
Monarch’s blood passed
before it reached him.
We could guarantee some
of them had hair on their
teetn.
During the progress of the British general
election campaign, a Dr. Millar strongly advised
Mr. Samuel Pllmsoll against marriage. If he
Samuel married a young wife, said the doctor, he.
Samuel, would be unable to coruscate in the House
ot Commons. Samuel, in defiance of this kindly-
meant professional advlca, got married, got de-
feated, and now has to devote himself to ruling
his household instead of helping to rule the
nation.
The second series of the “ Greville Me-
moirs’’ are quite too utterly indiscreet. Here is
an extract about Queen Victoria:—“The Queen
wrote to all her family and announced her mar-
riage to them. When she saw the Duchess of
Gloucester in town, and told her she was to make
her declaration the next day, the Duchess asked
her if it was not a nervous thing to do. She said.
Yes; but I did a much more nervous thing a
little while ago.' ‘ What was that V ‘1 proposed
to Prince Albert.’ ” “ Dagonet ” says the following
story will be in the next volume: —“ At the coro-
nation everything was in a muddle. The Arch-
bishop of Canterbury was flurried, the Lord
Chamberlain was flustered, and nobody could tell
the Queen what she ought to do. In the middle of
the service a large wasp settled on the Arch-
bishops nose. The vast congregation tittered;
but the Queen, with great presence of mind, ex-
claimed, ‘Don’t move.’ With a well-aimed blow
of her sceptre, she smashed the wasp on the spot.
Then she whispered to the Lord Chamberlain, * If
his nose bleeds put a key down his back.’ ” And
this in the one after that:—“Lord Rolle, who was
90, tumbled up the steps of the throne in coming
to do homage. As he lay there sprawling and
unable to rise, the Queen, with great presence of
mind, exclaimed, * Bring a broom and a dustpan
and sweep the poor old gentleman up I’ The
housemaid was a long time gone, whereupon Her
Majesty, anxious to relieve the aged sufferer from
his embarrassment, said to the Lord chamberlain,
‘Don’t wait; pick him up with the tongs.’”
We see that Benson, notorious in connec-
tion with the “ turf frauds” and subsequently a
Crown witness against Meiklejohn, Druacovltch,
and Co. for complicity in the London “ detective”
swindle, has got his release on a tlcket-of-ieave.
It was generally considered that the English
Government played Benson false in not giving
him his ticket years ago, for he was undoubtedly
led to imagine that nls information about the
“ D.s” would be rewarded with a considerable
commutation of sentence. This Benson is an ex-
traordinarily clever Jew. In the turf frauds he
was on)/ part schemer with Kerr, but previous to
A Satirical Carrot. FLXEOENDE BLA.TTER.


BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Booms,
386 and 613 GEORGE STREET,
13 CENTRAL MARKETS.
151 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS In EVERT
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry—
371a Pitt-street, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH of SEWING MACHINE
MECHANICS,
The “ BEALE ”
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Wertheim Sewing Machine,
The “ Hapsburg” Pianos.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AND COMPANY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
:SoIe Importers
BEALE AND COMPANY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANT LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
or,
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN MOTUAL PROVIDENT
SOCIETY,
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DIVISION OF PROFITS,
INTENDING Policy-holders are reminded that
all policies effected before the 31st icstant,
wiil share In the distribution of profits to be then
made.
RICHARD TEECE,
Acting Secretary.
QUOD FACIMUS VAI DE FACIMU8.
(What we do we do well.)
TOUR PHOTO.-If you are
unde elded where to go to
obtain an a rtistic and really truth-
ful potog taph of yourself, ac-
ce Pt whe ,t is but well-meant
couusel, j tod pay first a visit to
the voBtil mi-c leading to the Bur-
lington G atteries in the Sydney
Arcade. 0 'here you can inspect an
arrayof p ortrsiture, not of select-
ed specii nea& but the every-day
work of Jreelman and Co., which
for artist ic execution and elegant
finish, c Duple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine yoi ar choice In their favour.
You wifi! ther eby be but endors-
ing the almost universal, opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies O. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potog rap hers.
Prices—C-D-V.,; Cabin eta - 30s. per dozen.
CEEELMAN & >20.,
BURLINGTON GALLB RIBS, SYDNEY ARCADE.
J, TURN EH ROBINSON & t-U.'i
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Gciarga-straat,
Rs abllahed 18 6 i,
HAS THE LABG 68T AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFaCTURER*.
PF” Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS bo
Order, wall made, wraU shrunk, and a perfect tit
guaranteed.
NNUAL CHRISTMAS FESTIVAL.
PEAPES and SHAW
invite special attention to their large a c sortment of
FANCY ARTICLES. SUITABLE FOR
PRESENTATION.
They comprise almost
E VERY CONCEIVA RLE ARTICL E OF LUXURY
CHRISTMAS CARDS,
ranging in price
FROM ONE PENN if TO ONE FOUND EACH.
PEAPES & SHAW’S
ELEGANT
ARTICLES -{
for
PRESENTATION.
Ladles’ Hand Baas, with
and without fittirgs
The larveat stock of beau-
tiful Fans in me city
Scent Caskets, Boudoir
Nlcnacs
Card Cases, In sliver,
Ivory, pearl, and Rus-
sian leather
Purses. Memo. Tablets,
Pocket Books
Cabinet and Carte de-
Vislte Screens
Photo. Cases, Photo.
Frames, Albums
Pocket Mirrors, Tourists’
Cases, Writing Cases,
Writing Desks
Fitted Dressing Cases,
and Bags, &o.
PICNIC LUNCHEON BASKETS,
ail sizes.
HILDEGARDE,
the new game of cricket for ladies.
PARLOUR, FIELD, and LAWN GAMES,
In great variety.
PEAPES & SHAW’S
GRAND
ASSORTMENT
of
TOYS and GAMES.
f Lawn Tennis Set s, Cricket
I ditto, Croquet ditto,
Klmrolette, James the
Janitor, Parlour Skit-
tles, Toys for the little
ones, solitaires, Ger-
I man Tactics.
-J Mechanical Toys, Horses,
, Dogs, Cows, Sheep, Hnb-
j bits. Monkeys, Rocking
Horses, &c., &c.
!Work Baskets, Work
Boxes, Combination
Boxes of Games. Com-
1. bination Boxes of Toys.
DOLLS, DOLLS, DOLLS, LOVELY DOLLS.
BOY DOLLS, GIRL DOLLS, BABY DOLL°,
TALKING DOLLS, CRYING DOLL“,
LAUOHING DOLLS, SLEEPING DOLLS,
We shall show This Day
PEAPES & SHAW'S |
SPECIAL SHIPMENT I
j
CHRISTMAS
MILLINERY,
I
a special Shipment of
Millinery, Imported di-
rect from Paris expref s-
ly for the Christmas
Trade, Choice and Sty 1-
ish Goods, and they will
be found cheap, being
marked at a minimum
rate of pr< lit to meet
the extraordinary com-
petition now existing.
JUST OPENED,
the
NEW CARINGTON SQUARE-SHAPED
PARASOLS.
COMB AND SEE THEM.
They are the Fashionable Novelty of the Day I
PBAPFS & SHAW’S
LACE
DEPARTMENT,
Full Of NOVELTIES.
f Novelties In Rufflings,
I New Linen Sets, New
I Lace ditto, F,chu« and
Lace Mantles, Black
Spanish Mantillas,beau-
tttul Frwieh Cambric
and Fancy Handker-
chiefs.
A Special Importation of
beautiful Rea! and Imi-
tation Laces, in every
width, colour, and dc-
I scrip’, ion.
Our Laca Department is
1 crowded wlu New
L Goods and Novelties.
A BEAUTIFUL ASSORTMENT
of
EVENING JERSEY BODICES,
in all the
NEW LIGHT SHADES.
JERSEY JACKETS IN ALL COLOURS,
63. lid , 7s. Od , 83. 6d., 10j. Gi , and 123. 61.
COME AND SE«: TRKM,
THEY ARB EXCEEDINGLY CHEAP.
r
PEAPES & SHAW'S |
GLOVE
and
HOSIERY j
DEPARTMENT. 1
BEST MAKES.
LOWEST PRICES, j
I
er Hosieiy and Glove
Department is replete
wn n all the newi st and
most, leliahle Ooocs.
Our Hositry from J.
ptiu R. Morley s, our
Kid Gloves !rom Dent s
and our Fabric Gloves
f rom Fuwni s Brothers’.
It is will known these
makers cannot be
beaten, and we are sure
our prices c mnot be
either.
324, 326, 328 Geokge-etheet.
Madame VAILLANT, Parisienne Dress-
maker, has the honor to notify that she
has reft Messrs, f-uckley and Nunn s, and started
a first-class Dressmaking, Corset, and Mantle
making Establishment with Madame Ilise, ol
128 ColllDS-street East, Melbourne.
PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT—ELECTRIC BELTS
MESSRS. NEILD and CO., on behalf of The
Magnetical-Electric Appliance Oompani,
earnestly desire to call the attention of the pubnb
to the fact that, in consequence of the success
attending the sale of the above Company’s Elec-
tric Belts, Corsets, &o , a so-called Caution has
been published, emanating from an agent for
Electric articles, who, prompted by a motive to
attempt to monopolise the sale of such articles,
the principle of which we emphatically assert has
been known to the world for at least twenty years
and are now being manufactured in Great Britain
by dozens of firms, and variously styled for the
purposes of a trade mark only, but avowedly par-
taking of the same nature, being an adapta-
tion of the element of Magnetical Electricity.
We ask, therefore, those who desire to adopt
the treatment of Electricity for constitutional
or local derangements, to compare our Elec-
tric Bells, Corsets. &o, with those of other
manufacture, as they are undoubtedly of su-
perior Electrical Strength, design, quality of
material, and elegance or flulsh. The 15e.
Gent.’s Belt is the best ever offered to the publlo
for electrical strength s\nd quality. Gent.’s special-
power Electric Belts, 20s. These Belts are manu-
factured erprcesly for tropical climates, and are
very durable, as also are our Electric Corsets,
Lung luvlgorators. Spine Bands. &o.
THE
magnetical:-
5
*
M
The “ Msgnetical Electric” Appliance Company’s
ELECTRIC BELTS, Corset Lung Invlgorators,
Spine Banrs, Kneecaos, Insoles. &c., &c, is the
only perfect method for generating the curative
properties of the continuous current of Electri-
city, without the aid of batteries or use of acids,
without incurring any risk of undue action upon
the most delicate invalid, and impart Health and
Vitality to all who wear them.
The MAGNETICAL ELECTRIC TREATMENT
is now admitted by Medico-Electric Scientists, and
many leading Physicians, to be the most valuable
Electrical Remedial Agent for the Cure of all
Nervous Diseases, Affections of the Heart. Epi-
lepsy, Spinal Complaints. Rheumatism, Lumbago.
Sciatica, Paralys’s, Gout, General Debility, Indi-
gestion. Female Complaints, &c„ &c , and is now
adapted for the Successful Treatment of all Lung
Troubles, hitherto without the domain of Electric
Agency.
One of tho Special Features of this Treatment Is
the MAGNETICAL ELECTRIC CORSET, which
Is unsurpas £ ed for Its curative properties In all
female troubles, and Is of superior shape and
manufacture. Price, 10s., 15a., and 20a.
The Guinea Special Power Electric Belt is the
seme as sold in England for £3 3s. Thousands of
people of all ranks In the United Kingdom have
testified to the beneficial results of the Magnetical
Electric Treatment; and Testimonials from lead-
ing Medical and Scientific Men are in our pos-
session,
GENTLEMEN'S BELTS are manufactured of
superior material, In the shape of a riding belt,
and are very durable. Send size of waist, outside
first garment. Price, 15s, and 20s.; if mailed, Is. 6d.
LUNG INVIGORATOBS, 20s.;
KNEECAPg, 7s- 6d.; SPjNK BANDS, 10s.
INSO LES.lnvaluabjo for cold feet, chilblains, and
defective circulation, 5s. 6d. Send size of boot, or
paper pattern of iuside (Is. 6d. for postage).
All correspondence treated with the greatest
despatch. Post-office orders to be made payable to
B. S. NEILD & CO., 158 Pitt-street,
Sole Proprietors " Magnetical Kleotno” Appliance
Company, London and Sydney.
a
or
ECONOMICAL FURNITUR
ECONOMICALFURNITURE
/ /
f..~u ( f
r- THE LARGEST AND ONLY LEGITIMATE
TIME-PAYMENT FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THE COLONY,
365 PITT-STREET.
The weak, the nervous, the dyspeptic the
sleepless, owe more to Wolfe’s Schnapps than any
other cordial.
A man in a smoking-car on a railway train
leaned over to the man who sat in front of him
and said: “Have you a match?’’ “Yes, but I
have not a cigar, ” was the prompt reply. “Then
you can’t want the match,” said the first man,
sweetly; and thentne second man’s wile remarked
that the little boys’ school suits at 8s. lid., sold by
Summerfleld and Company, Piti-street, were un-
surpassed in the colony.*
Individuals afflicted with gravel or other
kidney difficulties need Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Here is Summer upon us, causing a mighty
thirst. Don’t fail to obtain your supply of Lemon-
ade, aeltzer. Soda Water, Ginger Ale, Tonic, Potass
and Lithia Water (for Gout), of Dalm and Oertei,
Crated Water and Cordial Manufacturers, 403 Pitt-
street. Delivered regularly in town and suourbs *
Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps and enjoy good
health.
»■ 4s. in the £1 allowed on all cash purchases
made at Bray Bros., 403 and 40l Georg e-street,
during their sale now going on. The largest and
best assorted stock in Australia to choose from.
Remember, these prices are only during this sale.*
BEST
LOWEST
W.
IN PRICE
THE WORLD
OFFICE-SI LOMBARD SiT.
m
LONDON.
Scotian -horizontal engines,
‘ALBION” L.0N6STR0KE HORIZONTAL ENGINES.
CLIMAX” \7ERTI©ALjEN@INES & BOILERS.
'“CLIMAX” PORTABLETJOISTIN® ENGINES.
‘BRETON”‘HORIZONTAL COMPOUND LAUNCH ENSINES.
INVERTED COMPOUND MARINE ENGINES.
• ' PORTABLE STEAM CRANES.
Vertical.cornish, g marine boilers. !
LARGE ST0CKS:F0R FULL PARTICULARS AND PRICES A°r,V ,0
D.& W.ROBERTSON.SYDNEY, SOIL AGENTS NEW SOUTI, WAitS :
J.W.SUTTON &C0, BRISBANE.SOLE AGENTS "“QUEENSLAND.
ROBISON BROS.& CO,MELBOURNE.SOLE AGENTS -VICTORIA
3E
CD
■2L
o
m
IM
O
iM
WM
S*. 1
O
os-
's
that he “ did” twelve months for swindling the
Lord Mayor (bless his heart!) out of a cool thou-
sand. The Lord Mayor was administering a fund
for the rellet of distressed French provinces, and
Benson represented himself as mayor of a pro-
vince that was In most urgent need, and was only
bowled out after getting away with the “ gilt.”
He paid dearly for his guilt then [Excuse him,
he’s young.—Ed. b.] As a witness against the
D’s, Benson ** ran rings round” Montagu Wil-
liams, the barrister who tried to cross-examine
him, and perhaps damaged his own cause by show-
ing the Court his dangerous cleverness. The man
is a creature of impulse, too. On two or three
separate occasions he attempted suicide in prison.
He used to set lire to his straw-mattress, and
quietly repose among the flames. Lameness,
caused by horrible burns, led to his easy identifi-
cation in connection with the “ frauds.” During
his second incarceration, Benson repeated the
roasting performance. He must have been
anxious to anticipate the wrath to come.
“I observe,” writes our London corres-
pondent, “that a baritone, named Ltthgow James,
is now singing in Sydney. As I chance to know
a little about him, and as his history is a singular,
not to say a romantic one. I will briefly give it to
you. Well, one day, many years ago, a black-
smith worked at his anvil, singing the while. A
stranger who chanced to be passing, thinking he
recognised an uncommonly good voice, stopped to
listen. The blacksmith was Lithgow James (or
James Smith, of Lithgow); the stranger was
Joseph Duggan, the composer, and professor of
singing. The result was that Lithgow left the
anvil for the piano—the smithy for the music-
room. In due course ho was brought out in con-
certs; but, though a gifted man, he by no means
proved the mine ol wealth that our singing
farmer anticipated. Later on an engagement was
found for the new baritone in Durand’s Opera
Company. It was then that he met the now
famous Miss Florence.St. John—who was even then
a widow. They were married; but prolonged hap-
piness did not, apparently, ensue. There must
subsequently, have been a divorce, for Florence
is now understood to be the wife of M. Marius.
Joe Duggan will never get over the disappoint-
ment Ltthgow James occasioned him. He tells
me he will never try to polish a rough diamond
again. Duggan, by the way, was a great pal of
Balfe’s and 0* Vincent Wallace’s. He has written
miles of music, and still writes; but he is too
deep for the British public. Q'he only air of his
which ever became really popular was * Yes, ’tis
a spell,’ the parody of which, ‘Yes, ’tis a smell,’ is
perhaps as well remembered as the original, I
heartily wish Lithgow «U success in Australia.”
It is nara to say when Mr. Frawncis
Habigall, M.L.A., is at his best. Some say it is
when bringing a hammer down with emphasis
upon an awi—others, that his talent lies in pro-
specting the political dust-heap. But, judging
from the last meeting of the Sydney hospital
directorate, he can hold his own in making things
lively in that useful institution. He had two sub-
jects to bring forward for discussion—one, the
price of surgical instruments ; the other, the
apparent waste of food. “ He had noticed in the
dirt-boxes a great deal of wasted food. He thought
some change was needed in the dietary scale, as
they evidently got too much food.” The presi-
dent, a medical man, explained that in a Hospital
it is impossible to prevent waste. You can bring
food to a sick man’s bedside, but there is no law
to compel him to eat it. From long experience in
hospital practice, we feel justified in offering the
following suggestions, which we trust will meet
Mrr* Abigail’s views. At the Sandhurst hospital
(Vic.) the price paid for surgical instruments some
years ago, and the chronic plethora of the
pig-tub, attracted the attention of a committee-
man. To remedy the former, we were empowered
to open up negotiations with a neighbouring
blacksmith who engaged to constr cot instruments
of any pattern—the more grotesque the better—
at a quarter of the price for which they could be
obtained from London. At first there was some
difficulty in getting patients to submit to have
their limbs removed by instruments that appeared
more adapted for pig-killing than for surgery.
One injured miner left the institution in a temper,
observing that if his thumb had to oome off he
would prefer having the job done with a knife in-
stead of a scythe. But it was in preventing the
waste of food that the chief difficulty was found.
At last, by only employing nurses who engaged to
go round the wards after each meal and eat any
things which happened to be left, the trouble was,
in some measure, got over. But the mortality
among the attendants increased at such a rate that
the extra cost of burying them almost made up
for the previous waste. Now, we believe that Mr.
Abigail has the good of the tsydney Hospital at
heart. If so, he might be induced to attend there
every Monday morning with a spoon—twice a
week, if the waste is so great as he says—and enjoy
a nutritious meal. We pledge ourselves to pro-
vide the spoon.


New masonic hall.
THURSDAY. 17th DECEMBER, ]8&>.
MR. Ff ALLEWELL’S CONCERf,
afsisted by members of the
Sydney Liedercafel, The Metropolitan Liedertafel,
Mors. Henri Kowalski,
Mr. Hallewell’s Glee Party,
and all the leading Vocabsts and Instrumentalists
in Sydney.
Admission, 5s. Box Plan at Messrs. A. and C.
Huenerbeins, 318 George-street^
H. J. SAMUELL, Manager.
Lynch family bellringers
(Organised 1867)
Manager Harry Lynch.
NOW ON TOUR SOUTHERN DISTRICTS, N.S.W.
Queaubeyan—Thurs., Fri.. Sat. 10. U, 13th Dec.
Cooma —Mon., Tues., Wed . 11th, loth, 16th
Nimniytiholle—-Thursday, 17th
Rombala—Fridav, Saturday, 18th, 19r.h
Candelo—Mon.. 21; Begs, 23 to 26th Df cemher
Returning to Sydney -a 4th February, 1886.
Huster’s
SACRED & CLASSICAL CONCERTS,
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
NEW OPERA HOUSE.
Doors open at 7 p.m., commence 7.30, For pro-
gramme, see Saturday’s papers.
Seats—2)., Is., 6d.
Conductor Herr Kitster.
T°
ACTORS, ACTRESSES, MANAGERS, &C.
THE THEATRICAL NEWSPAPER
BUREAU.
All the chief London Theatrical Papers on sale,
including “Stage,” "Theatre,” "Topical Titm-s,’
"Dramatic Ur view.” "Bat," &o, at moderate
prices. Postage free to any addnsi in Australia.
Write to Manager, „ „„
10 IMPERIAL CHAMBERS,
Bank Place, Collins-street, Melbourne.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 7th December, 1885
TENDERS FOR NEW BUILDINGS.
TENDERS are invited for the Erection of a
Public School and Teacher's Residence at
Rand wick.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney-
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for New Buildings,
Racdwick Public School," mu.t bs lodged with
the Under Secretary, Department of Public In-
struction. at or before 10 o’clock a.m , on Monday,
the 21st December, 1885.
The Mini-ter does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tend* r.
W. J. TRICKETT.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 5th December, 1885.
TENDERS FOR CLASSROOM.
TENDERS are invited for the Erection of a
CLssroom at the Chatswood Public School.
Plans and Specifications may be ssen, and Forms
of Tender obtained, at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Classroom,
Chdswood Public School.” must be lodged with
the Order Secretary. Department of Public in-
struction. *t or befme 10 o’clock a.m., on Monday,
the 21st December, 1885.
the Minister dons net bind himself to accept
the lowest or any Tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
Department of Public Instruction.
Sydney, 2nd D*cember, 1885.
TRNDEK1 FOR WOODEN BUILDING.
TENDERS urn invited for the Erection of a
Wn-iden Building at the Macdonaldtown
Public School.
Pious and Specifications may be sem. and Forms
of Tender obtained, at the office of the Department
of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Wooden Build-
ing, MEcdonaldtovn Put lie School,’’ must be
lodged with the Under Stcretary. Department
of Public Instruction, at r» before 10 o clock
a.m., on Thursday, the 17th Decem ber. 1885
The Minister does not bind hlmsel to accept
the loweet or any Teuder. TIUC^EIT.
N1 W OPBBA HOUSB.
Under the Leaseeship and Manairwmem ot
Messrs. E MA.TERONI and W. J. WILSON.
FOURTH WEEK. FOURTH
and Brilliant Reception of
Mr G. w. ANSON.
Miss FLORENCE WAGE,
Mr. hKNRY ALLEYNF,
and Majeroni and Wilson’s Comedy Company, in-
cluding- Mr. J. L. HALL.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING,
will be repeated the grand
DOUBLE PROGRAMME,
commencing at 7 50 with the Comedietta, written
by the late Marcus Clarke, entitled
THE MAN IN POSSESSION.
To be followed at 8.45 with the 3-act Comedy,
written bv Henry J. Byron,
COURTSHIP. . .
Prices as usual. Box plan at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse, 335 George-street. Day tickets at
Cole’s Book Arcade, Gf orge-street. Furniture
supplied by the Globe Furnishing Warehouse.
Gaiety theatre.
Proprietor .. .. .• Mr. John Solomon
Managerfor Mr. Solomon, Mr. B. N. Jones
Manager for Mr. Dampier, Mr. F. Gunther.
The performance of Valjean, Saint or Sinner, will
be under the immediate patronage ot the
SYDNEY ASSOCIATION FRANCATSB.
Last Night hut One of the DAMPIER SEASON,
previous to his CHRISTMAS SEASON.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING,
will be produced Mr. Dampler’s great London
success.
SAINT OR SINNER
SAINT OR SINNER,
dramatised from Victor Hugo's grand work, “ Les
Mlserables.”
Tickets may be purchased during the day at
Cole’s Book Arcade. Box Plan at Nicholson and
Co.’s,
The Olympic
(late Old Masonic Hall. York-street).
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. M. L. Raphael.
Stage Manager . .. Mr. D’Arcy Stanfield.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, December 10th.
and every evening.
The splendid Burlesque of TT _
PRINCE HASSAN; or, THE ARABIAN KNIGHT
Last night of the brilliant double programme,
COURT CARDS AT HOME,
with its array of Handsome Ladies, Costly Cos-
tumes, and Sparkling Dialogue. .
Special Notice.—Active preparations are being
made for the production of the Drury Lane Pan-
tomime, MOTHER GOOSE and The Enchanted
Beauty, on BOXING NIG HT, December 26’h.
Several snecial engagements have been made,
including Miss IDA OSBORNE, tne charming
vocalist, and other Ladies well known to the thea-
trical world.
Million Prices—Stalls. 3s.; Gallery Is. R'served
seats, at Nicholson's. 3s.
H. TREVOR AH. Business Manager.
Academy «» p music.
Under the Management of
RIQNOLD ALLISON, and HTSCOCKS.
Sixth Week. Unabated Success.
RICKARDS-LEETE GQMRIN ATION.
THIS »nd EVERY EVENING,
SPOONS. SPOONS. SPOONS. SPOONS.
Lightning Cartoonist Sketches, National Local
Celebrities.
Prices, 4s., 33., 3s , and Is Rox nlan, Nlcholeon’s.
No Free List. Manager lor Mr. Rickard®. Buchan
Hepburn. Acting-Manager for Bignold, Allison,
and Hlseocks, G. A. Coleman.
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George street, Haymarket.
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
THE HIT OF THE SEASON.
Triumphant Success of the
NEILLSON FAMILY NEILLSON FAMILY.
Houses nacked from door to ceiling.
Hundreds unab'e to obtain admission.
Enthusiastic Reception of
Miss ALICIA DEARLOVB, the Elecn’c Spark 1
Audience perfectly electrified.
Hong after song encored,
Highly refined Entertainment.
The most powerful combination in the colony.
THIS (Thursday) EVENING at 8 o’c ock,
and until further notice.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 3s; stalls. Is;
balcony, Is.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 2nd December, 1885.
TENDERS FOR WATERCLOSETS. FENCING,
ASPHALTING, AND REPAIRS.
B ENDEBS are invited for the Erection of
JL Watercloseti and Fencing, and tor Asphalt-
ing- and Repairs, at the Ultimo Public School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Waterclosets,
Fencing, Asphalting, and Repairs, Ultimo Public
school,’’ must be lodged with the Under Secretary,
Department of Public Instruction, at or before
10 o'clock a.m., on Tuesday, the 3lst December,
1885.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, December 8,1886.
TBNDER for PUBLIC WORKS and 8U".
PLIES.- TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For fu 11 parti-
culars see Govsknmknt Gazsttu, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will bo announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and supplies
I Dates to which
Tenders can be
received |at
this office.
Construction of Railway from
Pearce’s Corner to the North
inhere, with a branch line for
coal traffic to Bald’s Head
Contract lo. Road up Burrago-
rang Mountain
Supply and Erection of Foot-
way and Widening Roadway
of Lennox Bridge, Parramatta
Suonly of Billet-wood, Railway
Department, 1886
Supply of Drain Piper, Roads
Department, 1888
Tuesday,
December 15.
at 11 o’clock.
Additions to Reformatory,
Shaftesbury
Additions to Water Police Court
Additions to Spec'acle If land
Magazine
Fencing, Tank, &c.,Courthcu?P,
Qnuindi
Br dye over P.mnenbarra Creek,
road Upper Hastings to Port
Marquxrie
Supply *f Buil’imr Stone, Par-
rama'ta Gaol, 1886
Bridge over Joto- son's Creek, at
Clarence Town
Erection of Station Buildings at
Wol’ongong
Erf ction of Static i Buildings at
Gundacai
Bridge ov>r Winburn isle Creek
road Fee to Du' rnana
Supply of tour (4> T'ftm Care,
Nort'i Shore Cade Tr-mway 1
Const-U' t on of Timber n>”dire .
on Erick Pi, r* over Railway
at MiJthorpe. G W. Radway '
Construction of Walls. &e . Evo-I
leigh Workshop 0 . No-*. 5 to 15
Err ction of Sheds for Stoats,
Victoria Barracks
Tuesday,
December 23,
at 11 o’clock.
Bridge over Met.i Rivor, at Tel-
lers g:-, road Narrabri tnd Mo-
gil to Muogendi
Construction of Public Wharf
at Wickham
Erection of sued for Voluntee-
Engineers. Victoria Barracks
Supply of Building Sand for t v e
Kxift’ng Lines, Branch Rail-
way Department, during the
year 1586
Hydraulic Elevators for Gene-
ral Post-clfico
Tuesday,
December 29,
at 11 o’clock.
Conatrur-fon of Tramway, New Tuesday,
castle to Wal fend and Platts- February 3, 1868.
burg
W. J. LY NB.
mmr
£
V'
&
d ra L
S3
<0
&*
a
%
3
W>
**
v*
o
7-
<>
«S
4;
£
£
*«£
*3
£
?3 |S
%
«|
p^fTOMAN.
oURY,BUXTON&C°
ENCL1SH.ALES
Burfon-on-Trenl 1 .
CO
URN
5#
MUNZERB^
Jtkjhnisseurs deS-M L t
Border
%-
0
C 1 '
*
*
'C?
7
m
m
AB&0 L
ZU^A 1 '
\5
OHNE
Messrs. iLLT I GITS Wine ui 5:irii Siam aid dpi!
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
Loudon Agents: Messrs. Amui u.llt i Co., Wormwood Ch-.mbers, Wormwood-stre-t, B.C.
professional Directory.
GEORGB PEdHIMAN. Scene Painter, Theatre
Royal, Brisbane. Disengaged.
MIS S ANN ETTA SCASI
OPEN TO ACCEPT ENGAGEMENT
Pantomime, Burlesque. Conceit. Opera Bouffe, &c,
137 Phillip Street.
rers H B A T R B ® O Y A L.
' I Under the management of
tL it . Williamson. Garner and Mcsgroys.
Se” Mr. S. La zar. Measurer. Geo.L. Goodman.
TRIUMPHANT SDCCE33 of
wiriTAMSON UAKNKB, and MUtsoROVB’S
WI %Y ALCbMIC_OPERA COMPANY.
THIS (THDRSDAT) EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
“ 1 V an d u nt il further notice.
THE MIKADO
THE MIKADO
THE MIKADO
THE MIKADO
or,
THE MIKADO
TUk MIKADO
THE MIKADO
the MIKADO;
THE TOWN OF TITIPU.
Admission: Drees Circle. 5s.; Stalls, 3s.; Family
Circle, 3s. . _ .
Tickets for all parts of the house at East way s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre daily fr
10 till 5. No Free last.,
“In Sixty-Four.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We sat in old Tom Dixon’s store
On Back Creek rush, in '64;
Within the miner’s laugh rang gay,
Without the storm-king held the sway.
The bottle passed, the tun was high
(Those days knew not the sound of sigh);
Each story bristled bold with “ I,”
When sudden came the words “You lie.”
No more—no less—two miners young
With ready fists, as ready tongue,
Had differed warmly “ how ” or “ why,”
And Joe gave Jim the speedy lie.
Stripped to the waist in seconds five
They sought the street; we, as the hive
Will follow where the queen-bee leads,
Filed out to view their doughty deeds,
And, in the lantern’s feeble light
Stood by spectators of the fight.
They two were mates, as brothers tried.
But “ liar ” is a fighting word
’Mid British men wherever heard;
Who gives the lie must “ step outside,”
Though vein-charged from the same red tide.
’Twere well, indeed, it should be so,
The hasty word begets the blow;
Brief space will passion's torrents flow
When muscles’ force dulls temper’s glow.
Fierce was the battle, long they fought,
Oft “countered,” “stopped,” and "clinched in
sooth,
Each with his best endeavour wrought
To prove the mighty power of truth
On principles Nat. Langham taught;
Full twenty-five fierce rounds they brook,
Each oft the other’s “ dice-box ” shook.
And “ conk ” and “ peepers ” tell the tals
That mighty truth must e’er prevail;
For Joe, who gave the hasty word.
Through closing “lights” sees features blurred,
His brawn-bound chest with blood stains
Proves Jim has “ pinked ” him in “ the mark.”
Now on his “lug’’the victor "lands.” _ __
Then in his “ grub-works ” plants both hands, ,j —
And with a “ facer ” in “ the mug ”
Jim clinches with the “ Heenan hug,
Then surely grips his “ half-arm hold,
Get’s Joe’s head snug in “ chancery s fold,
And “ deals it out ” with steady lunge
Till skyward speeds the blood-stained sponge,
Then Jim, the victor in the fray,
With Joe, the vanquished, walked away,
For though they’d fought, what matter so,
cull faithful friends were Jim and Joe.
They bathed their bruises coaoed tnelr togs,
And once more round the fire we sat.
Old Tom heaped high the roaring logs,
The ioke sped round, the merry chat.
With glasses charged again we amfied,
h Jlm pfclld .bread
were Mid;
" As I was saying, JimDlneen,»
"nf^n^sald*Jo^ 0 *^wky,*y ou said Green. ”
Dlneen, sa „ j called you that
tb.
I know’d Green warn’t the party’s name.
WeU° well, old man. there’smo.harm done.
We’ve give the boys a bit of fun.
Here Tom. old pumpkin, set em up,
FiU every man’s pint-pot or cup.
We’ll drain ’em tothebettona cman >f
. n j drink mv mate and Jim JJineeu.
(Jim came of an
The Conquest gave his title birth,
were friends the more,
Forgot in peace the cause of war, .
Nor o’er the vanquished proudly bot®.
But men ’mid men were wen those days.
Since '64 we’ve changed our ways,
Now men to (/entle-meamust crawl
He who has much would fain nave aii,
God’s fair, wide wor1^) 8
To hold the classes gold can breed .
The poor man’s life is one misdeed
Upojna in living—he is poor
From bench and pulpit speeds the word:
« Bone, lash, and gaol are for the boor,
•iweet Mercy’s voice is seldom heard.
God grant that this fair land of ours.
Though lab’nng ’neath unrighteous laws,
vr av npver hnow the fearful hours
Which Time records, when public cause
la taken in " the People’s hand
And sword and flame lay waste the land;
When brother’s nand lays brother low,
And parricide deals cruel blow.
The worm when trodden under foot
Will turn to strike tbe heel
And men when likened to the brute
The brutish nature will reveal.
’Twere well that Justice, wisely swayed.
Should o’er our land her pinions spread,
That Mercy should her wisdom aid
To judge the living; of the dead
Hod sneaks, that mercy after death
To sin-stained souls he will extend;
Now Mercy speaks with bated breatu, _
She dare not be the poor min s friend,
But Justice, Mercy, and Eight
For rich as noor must yet prevail.
If Right begotten be of Might
In woe and pain shall Peace travail.
’Twere wise to heed the gath ring cloud
And mark the rising storm’s approach,
When murmurs swell to thunder s loud
’Tis late to put away reproach.


V"
.I!" 1
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
THIS triumph of musical Invention Is acknow-
ledged on all hands to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It is a wonderful little Instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 22 reeds, plays in three keys, and all the
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the inventor, the world
was first Indebted for the Organette; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
study, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of cost and crudeness.
It requires no skill to extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &c., &o., &o. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy.
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that* “ he who runs
may read.” It is best adapted to the kind of music
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power In
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card-holder for convenience
in singing. It will be found Invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one ; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
or
474 6E0R6E STREET SYDNEY
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities—from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can offer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corre-
spondence, wo have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by all educators and moralists
that music is the great refining influence, and
especially with children its effect for good is
boundless. The love for music which music in
the family engenders, is more potent In forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, and parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other
wise hard task an easy one.
The price of the Autophone Is 80s.,
and where good music can be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autophone for 30s. we
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogues of tunes at any time,
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents for Australia:
Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-street, Sydney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Market*.
What protects us against disease? Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre ROYAL-" The Mikado- p. 8,
Gaiety Theatre— “ Saint or Sinner ” ,
The Olympic— “ Prince Hassan
Opera Hohbb— “ The Man in Possession ”...
Alhambra— Variety Company „
Academy of Music.— Rickards-Leete Com-
bination „
On Monday night one of the coolest places
In Sydney was the circle of the Opera House. The
new system of ventilation had something to do
with this. And as the public was represented by
several payers, several doubtfuls, and several dead-
heads, the plan had fair play. “The Man in Posses-
sion” (one of poor Marcus Clarke’s trifles) started
the ball with a melancholy roll. The piece is in-
tended to show the amount of human nature you
can find in the breast of a bailiff if you only dig
for it, and the scandalous way in which this class
of person has been so long misrepresented. This
bailiff, Chuff (Mr. Hall), who quarters himself on
the Fitza'len family during the officer’s temporary
absence, is an official possessing many loveable
qualities. It is an odd thing that when you come
across an elderly person with a week’s beard, a
battered hat, a four-inch interregnum occupied
by doubtful linen between the bottom of his waist-
coat and the top of his pantaloons, and boots of
primitive construction, you may be sure he is
good at heart. Of course this certainty is strength-
ened when you observe him remove his hat and
take his dinner ©f sausages out of it. There is
a mysterious connection between sausages and
virtue that has never been properly explained.
♦ * *
To get back. Captain Fitzallen has a
young and lovely wife and a baby called “ Toot-
leums,” of which both parents appear proud.
This partiality was hard to understand, as th“
child was evidently made uo of pillow-cases and
miscellaneous odds and ends hastily thrown to-
gether during the overture. This was obvious later
on, when under maternal caresses, the poor infant
dropped its lower limbs and a portion of its trunk.
But this mishap in no way interfered with Mrs.
Pitzallen’s (Miss Lewis) affection for the other half.
The Captain—like most men in his profession—is
in the hands of the Jews, and leaves home to call
on some of those simple people who advertise to
lend money without security. It is during his
absence that old Chuff, the bailiff, gets into the
house, and stays there till the master’s return.
From the very first his appearance is against him.
He smokes strong tobacco and eats raw onions.
These, combined with the studied negligence of
his dress, are accomplishments which do not re-
commend him to the dainty mother and her fasti-
dious maid. But he takes to the baby, nurses it,
feeds it, sets it to sleep, and behaves generally so
unlike the professional men of his class with whom
we were once acquainted that we fancy the genus
must have changed. In the middle of all this the
captain returns with the money, is naturally
pleased to see a touzle-headed old man caressing
his child, while fumigating the house with the
smell of onions and navy twist, and at once tries to
“ Larry Foley” him. This brings out explanations,
when the outraged father apologises and offers
Chuff a sovereign. It is here that the author is
least successful. He makes the bailiff refuse. The
piece Is of small account, and becomes at last
tedious. There is a Hibernian cook (Miss Mam-
waring), who calls herself Irish Mary. She has
fortunately little to say. No audience, however
small, could stand much from her There was a
feeling of general relief when she retired, and
hope possessed us that the noise heard shortly
after her departure was caused by her falling
head-foremost down the front steps, at the bottom
of which she would be found with her head hope-
lessly split on the scraper.
• * »
“ Courtship” followed. It is a charming
comedy where a lot of old materials are artistically
worked up into new forms. But it is not so much
in plot as in dialogue that Byron Is happiest. In
“Courtship ” the dialogue ripples and dances along
until at last you begin to think that life among
people who are always so dreadfully ready with
an answer could only be made tolerable by spend-
ing an occasional evening at a debate on “ Science
and the Bible,’’ at the Christian Young Men’s As-
sociation. Miss Vivian (MUs Wade) is a wealthy
young lady of blood so blue that a chunk of sky
would look red beside it. She has three admirers.
One loves her for her family tree, anotner for her
family plate, and the tnird (helas !> for herself.
The “tree’’man is one Gubbins, who rose from
behind a counter—probably through the till—till
he “ bossed ” the show. He commenced with the
customary half-crown which he, no doubt, stole.
His success was due to nail-making. Had it been
diversified by occasional stretches of stone-
breaking, some people might have come by their
own. But this is a remark which is so widely
applicable that we feel we’re treading on danger-
ous ground. From appearances he had left
Thackeray’s “age of reason” a long way behind
and had the “ sixties ” well in sight. Like many
of our colonial sheep-breeders he thought it time
to found a family, and was determined to run it
on an aristocratic pattern. For this purpose he
wanted a female descendant of the Crusaders. If
Charles H. had been mixed up in the descent so
much the better. In the hands of Mr. Anson this
dreadful Gubbins kept you in a chronic simmer of
enjoyment. The piece de resistance was when he
proposes. It was here that he set us athinking of
poor Marshall. Judging by the limp manner in
which he escaped from the interview, he, sooner
than go through a similar one, would take his
place under the counter again and remain there.
We are not given to praise—it’s not in our line
and the editor won’t stand much of it—but in
“ Courtship,” at all events, we decline to see Mr.
Anson improved upon.
• • *
Then the “plate” lover, Claude de Courcy
—the name alone is enough to m»ke you assault
him on sight—is one of your true blues. It would
be hard to say how many Fair Rosamonds, Nell
Gwynnes, and, perhaps, Moll Flanders, contri-
buted to his being. He is “ chic ” Itself. He would
be pulp afier a five minutes’ interview with ua.
He snubs Gubbins in a dull, exasperating way
that makes you feel how much more successful
the performance would be if his head Instead of his
estates were in chancery. The third and successful
suitor, Mr. Douglas, is a young man of high at-
tainments and excellent principles. So fastidious
is the gentleman that, although palpably in love
with Miss Vivian, and—except he was a complete
donkey—aware that he was not *‘ indifferent ”
(London Journal) to her, he won’t propose be-
cause—she’s rich. It is because she’s not that
we’re still single. As Miss Vivian, Miss Wade is
graceful and seductive. She has a good stage pre-
sance, and receives the gawky attentions of Gub-
bins without embarrassment. Miss Lewis was a
noisy hoyden and Mr. Hodney— her fiance—an
angular youth, who behaved in the drawing-room
as if he were on the cricket ground. Mr. Harry
Power was the convential stage uncle, who spends
his time in the West Indies, and returns with
much money and little liver. The ship in which he
is supposed to have taken passage founders at sea,
and, although it would be uncharitable to wish
that he hadn't missed his boat, still if some pain-
less way could be hit upon of getting rid of these
troublesome old parties, who apparently never
know when to die, the theatre would offer addi-
tional attractions to playgoers.
» * *
Thursday night, during the Anson season,
is set aoart as the fashionable performance, and
the “Great Pink Pearl” is underlined for early
production.
♦ * * *
We should enjoy the Sydney Alhambra
much more thanjwe do now, if we could divest
ourselves of the impression (which haunts us
like a loan-office man when there) that we are
wickedly trespassing on someboly s family vault.
Way this should be so is a mystery, for the name
ought to conjure up visions of Oriental opulence
and Moorish magnificence, but it is only when
from the open side-door the odour of Paddy’s
Market rides in on the wings of the sea-born
breeze, that we become sensible of our exact
location. As a place of amusement, the Alhambra
how res’s upon the a? x of popularity, and
dangles its legs on both sides, just as In-
dependent members in the N.S.W. Assembly
bestride the fence of indecision, and flourish
their number nines impartially over each
opposing phalanx. There is an exhilarating
and candid enthusiasm about Alhambra audiences.
If they don’t like an item, the yells of ** No more,”
are not less loud than the call of “encore” for
anything which commends itself to their cultured
taste. And the encores largely predominate,
while the crowded audiences give colour to the
rumour that Frank Smith, lessee, wearied with an
embarras de richesses, is about to start another
evening newspaper as the easlestway of obtaining
relief from a burden of oppressive wealth. When
we were there on Saturday night, there was not a
vacant seat. We declined to go on to the platform
lest this should divert attention from the stage
houris, so we stood up at the back, and an 18-stone
man. seeing our toes vacant, took a lease of them
for the remainder of the evening.
* * ♦
Miss Alicia Dearlove does a large share in
attracting “ the talent ” to the “ ’Al’ambrer.” Her
top-boot dance is a very fine piece of work, and
her singing is of a taking order. Walter Keen
sings comic songs whicn make the soulful
“bobbers” rise and yell in undiluted ecstasy, and
Millie Herbert's patriotic ballads evoke an im-
mense amount of latent millietary ardour. Amy
Rowe and Minnie Hope can fetch encores every
time, and their countenances are radiant as those
of Lands Office clerks on “ screw ” day. Teddy
Shipp and George Gardener engineer the bones
and tambo and the wheezes appertaining to their
positions with improving ability. The perform-
ance closes with a farce which abounds in tender
pathos and is replete with humorous misadven-
ture. Some of the situations are of sensational and
sublime interest, and abound in humour of the
most hilarious kind. The plot is—[Editorially
struck out.]
» m m m
“Court Cards” have been shuffled once
again at the Sydney Olympic, and several fresh
trumps now appear. Miss V. Valentine is the
most notable of the new arrivals, and her voice
and presence are both acquisitions to the com-
pany. On Saturday she played Plppo, a leading
part in “ Orpheus,” and her performance then was
worthy of much kudos. She has good nerve, and
when she overcomes her present habit of clipping
her sentences, will shine with enlarged resplen-
dency. The business she now undertakes is a pro-
motion for which her abilities are sufficient
qualification. Emily Fox shows immense im-
provement in her later efforts, and is fast climb-
ing the ladder of artistic excellence. By the way,
the D.T.says that these maidens should wear more
“ drapery.” Now we know that he cannot be the
literary gentleman who always comes with an
opera-glass. But what a cruel suggestion this Is—
cruel to the mashers, we mean. And’what a mag-
nificent ad. for the Olympic!
• • •
Of “Prince Hassan,” the burlesque pro-
duced on Monday night, it is not necessary to say
very much. We prefer to leave a longer descrip-
tion until we know what it really is. as the piece
was “gone through,” on Monday night, there was
little to enthuse about. There seems to be some
fatality attending first nights at the Olympic, and
as we are tamed for our wisdom, we would, with
submission, suggest to Mr. Raphael that he should
never put anything on until the second night.
After the fall of the curtain we were asked why
the production was such a lame affair. " Lame,”
we replied: “ of course it was lame: don’t you see
this is the O-limp-ic ” But that was only our fun.
On Tuesday night, “ Prince Hassan ” ran as easily
as cataract water out of the joints of Hudson
Bros.’contract water-pipes.
■ u ■
Last week we scoffed at the appearance
of the stuffed magpie in a former piece. The day
the comments wore published to an eagerly ex-
pectant universe, a tall man of imposing stature
and haughty mien strolled into our office. He
seated himself with much ceremony and began
hacking away at a plug of sheepwash tobacco,
which, in obedience to the promptings of our
generous nature, we always keep handy for visi-
tors. “You were quite right,” he said, patronis-
ingly, “ about th"t magpie. I have no wish to
conceal the truth from you. It would be useless.
[We bowed our acquiescence ] The magpie was
dead. You see it was this way. The boss did get
a live magpie and used him tor the first rehear-
sal. Next morning it was dead. He got another.
After two rehearsals it, too, died. We found out
what had caused the deaths of both birds. You
see there are fifteen girls there, and they are all
wearing new dresses. Well the fact was—Hush,
not a word I—the girls, well you know what they
are—they talked them to death I That was only
the ghost of it that you saw.” And pocketing the
remains of our visitors’ plug of “ sheepwash,” he
left with precipitation.
* * * *
“Saint or Sinner?’’has been put on at
the Sydney Gaiety to run for a short season of
five nights, and so far has succeeded in drawing
good houses. The piece is a dramatisation from
Victor Hugo’s “Les Miserables.” Jean Valjean, a
convict, whose nature has been brutalised by the
lash and the galleys is the central figure, Dampier
handles this character with much force; the sound
of his broken voice, which seems to come from
toe vicinity of his bump of veneration, being alone
worth, etc.
* ♦ *
Mr. Dampier takes his company 'to New-
castle (NS. W.) for a short season, opening there
on the 13th, and returning to the Gaiety for the
Pantomime season on Boxing night. During his
abscence the “ Private Secretary ” will occupy the
boards,
* * * *
Splendid houses have faced the JLynch
Family at Goulburn during their six nights stay
there. This is a feather in the cap of the truthful
Harry, for Goulburn is not a good show town by
any means, as many a variety company has learnt
by sad experience. When we were there we no-
ticed I that artistes who came to that very moral
township on first-class tiofeets, usually rode away
In the dark and silent night on the too of a lime-
truck. The local papers go into literary hysterics
over the various items of the Lynch menu. The
company is en route for Melbourne, but, as all the
chief towns have to be delighted en passant,
Harry Lynch will probably bo in the Southern
capital about Cup time. Judging from the news-
paper reports of the success qf the show, the
Family should have enough money by the time
they reach Victoria to buy the colony it they take
a fancy to it.
Mr. Charles Bright is always well worth
listening to, ana last Sunday evening at the
Royal was no exception. Mr. Bright is what may
be termed a “ warm ” member, and he dealt with
a “ warm ” subject. He criticised the Bible “ as
seen by the eye of reason.” Illustrations were
given of many biblical stories by lime-lfght views
alleged to be photographed from an old Bible pub-
lished some 150 years ago, and the pictures were
terribly, and in some instances, comically realistic.
* * *
A large audience assembled on Sunday to
bear Dr. Jefferies orate about “ Our Controversy
with Rome,” and the generally expressed opinion
was that the whole caooodle of R.C. Prelates were
knocked silly in one round. Dr. Barry is on the
warpath at St. Andrews, and seems likely to have
a long run. Fair audiences have been the rule
lately, and we understand that the receipts have
been such as to satisfy the management.
* * * »
It is somewhat late in the day to speak
about Pinero’s comedy, “The Magistrate.” now in
Its fifth week at Melbourne Bijou, and still hum-
ming, Undoubtedly this is a clever trifle. Every-
thing of Pinero’s is clever, though no author's
works are mere heipltsslv dependent upon the
performers for success. Moreover, unlike “The
Money Spinner,” tho “Squire,” or “Lords and
Commons,” this latest prouuction leaves no bitter
taste in the mouth alter being digested. Not that
it wants much digesting. Without a very strong
company "The Magistrate” would degenerate
into farce. It bas a polish which might easily be
blurred by slovenly hands, and a satire that re-
quires careful bringing-out. As played at the
bijou the comedy has made a well-merited suc-
cess.
♦ • m
The plot of “The Magistrate” turns upon
one of those harmless deceptions so often prac-
tised by lovely woman. Mr. Posket, a London
“ beak,” marries the widow of an Indian officer.
She has one son. The widow, in knocking off a
trifle of five years from her own age, is forced to
represent the *• boy,” Cis, to his step-father as being
14 instead of 19. Master Cis. (who, by the way,
doesn’t know his own age, bless him!) is kept in
Eton jackets and collars, but the horrible preco-
city of this young wolf in lamb’s clothing occasions
his dear mother a lot of anxiety. The secret, too,
is in danger of being disclosed through the unex-
pected returned to England of a certain Colonel
Lukyn. The Colonel, who chances to be an old
friend of Mr. Posket’s, was godfather to Mrs. P.’s
hopeful son 19 years ago. If he arrives on the
scene before the good lady has time to “ square ”
him, the fat will be in the lire. Hence all the
trouble. Mrs. Posket and her sister track the
Colonel to a French restaurant, where the giddy
warrior is about to sup in company with the
sister’s lover. They stay for oysters. Ladies, in a
general way, are “whales ” at oysters, especially
when they cost 3s. 6d. a dozen—but, no matter.
In the very next room to the Colonel’s party
are Mr. Posket and the “boy,” who has lured
the “ governor ” into dissipation during his wife’s
absence. So seductive is the influence of oysters
that everybodyiistays after closing-time. This is
comprehensible. We have been chucked out our-
selves many a time and oft. On this occasion,
however, the police make a raid on the bouse.
Mr. Posket and Cis escape by tumbling off a
ricketty balcony, while the two officers and the
ladies are run in and appear before Posket at the
Mulberry-street police-court next morning. The
“beak,” in his excitement at finding the wife of
his bosom in the dock—under an assumed name-
gives the whole party “ 7 days without the
option,” and rushes home to meditate upon the
perfidy of the sex and his own miserable culpability.
Of course they get out—not until the unlucky
Colonel has been subjected to the regulation
washing— explanations ensue, and the irrepres-
sible “boy” is packed off to Canada] to reform
himself. We should imagine the climatic change
would be beneficial. If a Canadian winter doesn’t
take the cussedness out of a boy, nothing will.
* * *
Most of the work falls upon Messrs.
Brough and Boucicault. jun., as Mr. Posket and
young Cis. The former runs his Lord Chancellor
performance very close in point of merit. The
weakness of Mr. Posket in the hands of his step-
son, land his agitation in the magistrate’s-room
are well depicted. Mr. Posket’s conduct, remem-
ber, is not to be gauged by that of his compeers.
He is a tender-hearted “beak,” addicted to pay-
ing half the fines he Imposes. Would it had been
our fate to appear before such a man in our un-
regenerate days I ,We might have had a bank
account at the present moment. But enough of
these sad memories. Mr. Boucicault has the
physical and artistic qualifications necessary for
master Cis. His face and figure carry him off as
14 to unsuspecting observers, but the twinkle in
his eye is a good five years older. Miss Boucicault
appears only once or twice, as a young
music - mistress, but the apparition is one
to dream about and drivel over. We will
content ourselves by dreaming. Everybody
else does well. Mr. Titheradge makes a good
Indian colonel. We would give much to see the
old warrior washed by the prison authorities. We
can hear him saying; “ By G , 1 protest against
this indignity,” and the warder replying:
“ Co-o-me on, and not so much of it.” How often
have we vainly protested against those ablutions
ourselves! Mr. Flemming makes a careful sketch
of Mr. Posket’s brother magistrate—the only un-
exaggerated character in the comedy—and the
minor male people act in thoroughly finished
style. Of Miss Watt Tanner’s Mrs. Posket we
hardly know what to say. The part was written,
we believe, for Mrs. John Wood, who is now play-
ing it at the Court Theatre, London. The styles
of these two ladies are vastly dissimilar. What
suits Mrs. Wood can hardly display Miss Watt
Tanner to the best advantage. As the sister,
Miss Trevellyan developes agreeable comedy
powers. That the looks handsome and high-toned
goes without saying. However, we’ll say it. A
generous nature takes delight in paying compli-
ments, because they cost nothing. That’s all
about “The Magistrate.” But stay 1 Miss Emma
Chambers plays the chamber-maid divertlngly.
She is romantic, and takes in Bow Bells. That’s
because the scene is laid in London. Sydney
slaveys, with a turn for romance, always cry their
little eyes out over The Bulletin.
* » m m
“Shadows of a Great City,” in spite of
superb mounting, clever acting, and a plot quite
equal to the average drama, failed to “ catch on ”
at the Melbourne rtoyal, and “ Saints and sinners”
has taken its place. Of this something next week.
The title sounds intensely human.
♦ * * *
From our London correspondent“ You
no doubt heard some weeks since that poor old
Clarence Holt (Bland Holt’s father) broke his arm,
but you very likely haven’t been told how it
occurred. It was In this way: Clarence was re-
hearsing a man in a part on the Surrey stage one
morning. The pupil was a duffer, and the teacher
i became lexclted. ‘ My dear man, that isn’t the
adjective way to do it I’ cried Clarence; "this is
the crimson way to do it.” And springing back to
illustrate, the unfortunate old gentleman fell
down an open trap and broke his arm. 1 believe
that you will have Bland out there again shortly.
I can imagine the yell of welcome he will receive
from the gallery upon his first appearance.”
» • « •
One of the chorus maidens attached to
D’Oyly Carte’s “ Mikado ” company in New York
has been “letting on”to a reporter about the
good times the Lotties and Tottles are enjoying
“ after the opera is over.” She says: “ The hospi-
tality of Americans quite takes one aback, don’t
you know. One no sooner meets a man than he
has one eating oysters and drinking champagne
somewhere. I actually don’t know somelof the
men I’ve eaten with here.” Dear little innocent I
’Tis sad to think of young girls, so far away from
their mothers, being exposed to the allurements
of the succulent oyster and the fascinating fizz.
We trust Mr, Carte signed an agreement with the
parents of those damsels similar to the famous
treaty entered into by those eminent Australians,
Spiers and Pond, respecting the barmaids taken
over to the Paris Exhibition. Messrs. S. and P.
solemnly undertook to bring the Hebes back to
Old England in the same unimpeachable condition
as when they went away. The girls used to take
the air in a private omnibus, with the firm’s
manager mounting guard as conductor. Theatrical
managers please copy. Pantomime season is
coming on, and we shall hope to see the ballet,
closely veiled, driving around in a break, with the
“ Triumvirate ” occupying; box-seats and flicking
away the mashers.
* * * *
Fleming Norton is returning to England
from Brisbane, by way of India. He has done a
two years’ tour of the colonies, and seen pretty
well all of Australia and New Zealand. He was
formerly a clerk in the War Office in London, and
retired for a more active occupation. He found
it In his two hours’ monologue which has taken
him around the world. Not the worst thing he
has done, in a remunerative way, has been the get-
ting of a £560 verdict against Williamson, Garner,
and Musgrove for broach of contract. He got not
only the verdict but the money also, which does not
always happen. He is grand as a whistler, and
may shine in that way in the movement now be-
gun in Italy, for whistling operas in place of sing-
ing the music. He is good also, and at his best, as
a punster, in which way we have heard few better.
In his entertainment ho was unfortunate in fol-
lowing on the heels of Maccabe.


PEPPER AND SALT.
From a London paper we clip a par. which
is likely to cause a considerable flutter among the
female sex. Here it is:—“ Ladies with undeve-
loped charms need no longer rely upon the ser-
vices of artfully-disposed pads of wadding [As if
they did /-Ed. B.] —to fill out their dresses and
give roundness to the flgiure. We have just been
reading of a preparation that is guaranteed to
develop a beautiful form in 60 days, and whose
effect is stated to be permanent and easily dis-
cernible within 10 days after the first dose is
taken.” We shall have ladles to whom Nature has
already been bountiful, protesting against this
preparation. But their protests will avail nothing.
Men will choose their brides In a scraggy state,
and dose them up to the required weight. Already
we hear of such cases. Let The Bulletin bard
sing;— „
That Preparation.
Young William had a mind to wed, but, very sad
to state,
Not one among his lady friends seemed suited for
bis mate;
Ho liked ’em plump and pretty, too; poor William
sighed in vain—,
His pretty friends were thin as laths, the plumper
ones were plain.
The fair Matilda charmed him most, but. oh I she
was so slim,
Each time he squeezed her arm he felt she’d neve r
do for him;
While Mary Jones was all he wished in figure—
but, alas I
Such teeth, and eyes, and halr-ahl no, tha*
couldn’t come to pass.
So still beside his lonely hearth our William used
to sigh.
Until one day a little ad. came underneath his
eye —
Which stated how a maiden by the easiest of ways
Could double her proportions in tne space of s'xty
days.
Bill hastened to Matilda, for he knew her love wa s
his,
And whispered how he worshipped every feature
of her phiz;
He s»id he’d like to win her heart (here tender
grew bis tones).
Provided It could beat beneath the bust of Mary
Jones.
She trembled like an aspen-leaf; then, gazing on
the ground,
Deplored the fate which hadn’t made her figure
plump and round;
But William brustied away her tearj, and, with a
gentle smile,
He bade her read the ad. and give the “ Figurine”
a trial.
Bill went and bought a bottle, and Matilda took a
dose,
And when she woke next morning not a garment
would “ come close;’’
So plump became Matilda’s form—below, ail
round, above—
That William, in a week or two, scarce recognised
his love.
He took her In his arms, and then his rapture was
complete,
Beneath the bust of Mary Jones he felt her bosom
beat.
Our William vows that wedded life is Paraiise on
earth,
And all who buy that “Figurine” will get their
money’s worth.
[We’ve sent our office boy for two bottles.— Ed. B ]
* * «
With pleasure we observe that the police
force is growing in popular estimation—In Vic-
toria, at any rate. Chief Commissioner Chomley
advertised for 80 extra troopers, and no fewer
than 260 applicants came forward. This is a result
which either speaks well tor the force or badly
for the Victorians. We will take the more hope-
ful view of the matter, and burst into a little
hymn of praise:—
I?ow that our onetime velvet cheeks are
furrowed and pimpled by the ravages of time and
wine, and our bead resembles Bismarck’s in the
sole particular of being equally bald, we find our-
selves taking a cynical Interest in any young man
“ starting life.” The fire of hope burns brightly
in his heart as he goes bounding off upon his
journey, thinking only of the winning post. The
same Are burned In our heart once, perhaps, but
it finally flickered out on our ninetieth birthday,
when an uncle whose death we had ardently
longed for since childhood, was discovered to have
added a codicil, leaving everything to be equally
distributed amonglthe members of the Sydney
police force. We, too, bounded gaily from the
mark, dreaming of nothing but the golden goal
of prosperity. And bitter experience has taught
us to wonder, when we see a young man
making that delusive start—how soon he will
tumble in the race, and whether it will hurt him
much. Humph I Permit us to explain this burst
of sentiment. A tawny moustachioed “ masher.
who flashed his fine raiment from the dock of the
Melbourne City Court onlv last week, is respon-
sible for this drivelling. He had been arrested in
a high-toned boarding-house the previous even-
ing, on a warrant issued in another colony. Em-
blezz'.ement, of course. 'Twas mentioned that
the prisoner had persuaded a young lady to ac-
company him on his trip to Melbourne and share
those fortunes so suddenly darkened by the un-
wonted smartness of the D. s. Quite a common-
place, everyday sort of story, in fact. Smart,
gentlemanly, well-educated young fellow come to
grief, and “a lady in the case.” But for us it had an
interest. We happened to have seen that particu-
lar “masher” start in life. The recollection is
vivid in our mind now. He startert from Liver-
pool, with a little black-eyed, brand-new bride,
bound for a Canadian port. Our attention was
attracted by the crowd of friends accompanying
the happy pair on the tender that bore us all down
to the steamer. Among them was a most enthu-
siastic pai'son. We remember that distinctly, be-
cause, when the final leave-takings were concluded
and the tender was putting off, the long-coated
gentleman made a little speech about our interest-
ing young fellow passengers, expressed the
hope that they would soon be back in old
England with the inevitable big fortune, and
called for "three times three.” The cheers
were renewed again and again till the tender dis-
appeared in the mists rising from the Mersey.
Such was the auspicious start in life of the young
man we had quite forgotten till we saw him
standing in the dock of the Melbourne Police
Court. We couldn’t help feeling for the poor
masher come such a “ cropper” so early In the
race, A parson’s benediction was evidently no
guarantee against catas trophe. And the mention
of the young lady in connection with his last voy-
age set us wondering about the wife who accom-
panied him on his first. A rum thing is life, dear
friends.
* ■ *
“Emperor William of Germany always has
a qhapter from the Bible read to him imme-
diately after dinner.”—Sydney Evening News.
Wondrous strange. Fain would we swallow
this Scripture-reading business, but William’s
penchant lor the green-room proves a laryngeal
impediment too stupendous. No, ’tis far too
flimsy. Prithee, ASolus, favour us with a winged
messenger to waft our version of [this post-
prandial theology towards the land where dwells
this Potentate Teutonic. Right. Now William,
attention.—
He was 36 to the day, and the post brought
the usual bundle of birthday-cards with the
legend, “ To account rendered ” at the top, and a
notification in red ink at foot, “ that unless,” &o.,
&o. It then dawned upon him that with all his
varied mental endowments and intimate acquaint-
ance with the principles of finance, as shown by
his able critiques on budget-speeches, be could
not reasonably claim equality with political
financiers. In short, he was their superior
on only one point—he owed everybody else, and
now thought he would do himself a turn, and ode
himself. Taking threepence out of his right
pocket, and leaving an I O U for it, he placed it in
the left pocket, and feeling a fresh accession of
moral power, started off Mlltonlcally—
Now and then it becomes oar painful
duty—while holding the mirror up to natur>-tn
draw attention to the Insincerity of clertomeu
and their utterances. Even the moat clrcums,ieot
(and they are not all models of propriety) are apt
to Impute too much purity to their own motives.
When a parson speechifies at a wedding breakfast
we notice that it is always “ respect for the
family’’which lures him to the festive board—
never the champagne. And so in all his duties
and pleasures. The spirit is omnipresent, and the
flesh just nowhere at all. With pleasure, then, we
observe that the Rev. J. Gibb, of Footic'ay (Mel-
bourne), is not ashamed to admit that he keeps
his eye on the main chance. This very worthy
gentleman, in accepting a call from a church at
Dunedin, Informed the Presbytery that he was
“ induced to do so on account of the stipend being
larger and the sphere more extended.” Such
candour is healthy and worthy of our muse.
“ Captain Sir George Beaumont sailed for
Australia on November 5th. He is a direct des-
cendant of Louis VIII. (sic!), King of France."—
Sydney Daily Telegraph— (and every other Aus-
tralian daily paper which adores the nobility).
Things must indeed he stagnant in Ade-
laide. This la one of last week’s telegrams from
the South Australian capital, “A city bank clerk
s missing, but it is thought ho is only away on a
frolic.”
We learn from the Sydney War Cry that
General Booth is prepared to furnish Salvation
Army soap, with his portrait on each cake; Sal-
vation Army china, glassware, sheets, tableoovers,
towels, cutlery, and window-curtains; Salvation
Army tea, newly imported, and “ Salvation Army
serges, to be inspected at the tailoring ana dress-
making department.” The Churches will have to
follow suit. We shall soon have the Wesleyan
petticoat, the Church of England dolman, and the
R.C. bustle. The following from Raymond Ter-
race, N.8.W., also appears in the War Cry:— “ We
then mustered for march, and with a goon band to
the front, and torchlights flaring, we paraded the
street, while the Devil yelled and threw his rotten
missiles about in all directions.” (Hallelujah!;
Some more War Cry:— “The people were sur-
prised to see Mrs. Lovelock march Into Lambton,
on Saturday night, as a special for Extension Sun-
day. We had a spiritual meal at 7 a.m., and bless-
ings were shed on us abundantly by God all day,
until at night our hearts rejoiced over three sin-
ners at the feet of Jesus, and £3 for the Extension
Fund.—A. U, for Capt. Moyle.”
At last British general election there were
returned 357 Liberals, 63 Home Rulers, 'and only
233 Conservatives, giving the Liberals a majority,
when united (as usually they were) with the Home
Rulers, of 186 over the Conservatives; and even
when the Home Rulers acted with the Conserva-
tives, of as many as 63. Vanity Pair estimated
that on this occasion there would be returned 340
Conservatives, and predicted a Tory victory on
the following grounds:-(D That Gladstone’s
ability to manage foreign affairs was distrusted;
(3) that the future of the Liberals was rightly
looked for and found, not In the weary and halt-
ing phraseology of Mr. Gladstone or in the timid
hedgings ot Lord Hartlngton, but in the bold
avowals of Mr. Chamberlain, who “had, with
reason, alarmed every man who has a shilling that
he calls his own.” In his speech at Birmingham,
on 5th January, 1885, he said: “ I ask what ransom
will property pay tor the security which it enjoyt?
Society Is banded together in order to protect
itself against the instincts of men who would make
very short work of private ownership if they were
left alone. This is all very well, but I maintain
that Society owes to these men even something
more than mere toleration in return for the
restrictions which it places upon their liberty
of action.” “ Finally, ’ said Vanity Fair, •• the
avowal of hhe determination to disendow and
disestablish the Church of England is the greatest
of all the great mistakes Mr. Chamberlain has
made. It has aroused a feeling, not merely among
Churchmen, but also among Dissenters and Roman
Catholics, of bitter hostility to the project itself
and to its authors ; and there is not a pulpit or a
school in England whose influence will not be,
and is not now being, used against the Liberal
party, which is Identified with that project.
Whatever Radicals may believe, England Is still a
profoundly religious country, and this plan for
robbing the chief religious body In the country of
its private propety and Its public position, has
rallied against the Liberal party men of e-mrv
religious denomination.” And yet the Liberals
(i.e., the Radicals, for the Liberals cannot go over
to the Tories) have won. The Radical advance is
magnificent.
The subjoined cutting tells a story regard-
ing the social condition of Ireland very different
from which we are accustomed to read in the Aus-
tralian dally Press. “Our own correspondent”
usually looks through rose-coloured spectacles,
and wears a collar so high that be can’t see any
one lower—if anything could be lower—than a
C M G. It is of more consequence that the corn-
stalks, gumsuckers, and bananamen should know
that “ His Excellency has taken his departure with
20 domestics and 150 tons of luggage,” or that “ C.
J. Roberts. Esq., C.M.P., M.L A„ has sailed for
Sydney,” than that common people are dragging
out almiserablejexistenoe atMd. for 18 hours’ work.
“ The ’Derry Journal, in a report of a meeting
held at miskeel, gives some rather startling details
as to the miserable wages earned by the Irish
stocking-knitters:-One speaker said—‘For years
the knitters in Glenfln, Boylagh, and the Rosses
were eagaged in the manufacture of stockings and
gloves. There was much puffing about the busi-
ness. distinguished strangers were shown over the
big stocking emporiums; he believed that even
one of the Viceroys of her gracious Majesty had
once visited Qlonties and gone away much pleased
at the flourishing condition of this Industry; but
did It ever occur to any of those Cockney
tourists to inquire as to the prices paid to the
knitters? Well, he should enlighten them upon
that point before ho resumed his seat, At the
present rate of wages it takes a woman or girl to
work 18 hours out of the 34 to earn l)4d per day.
Another speaker said— 1 We ask that ihe knitters
be paid at the rate of twopence per pair; at this
price, an expert knitter will be able to tarn the
handsome wages of 41 per day. For this she can
buy lour or five pounds of Indian meal. Mind
(said Mr. Gallacher) the woman who werks the
livelong day to earn 31. or 4d. is not sure of getting
paid In, cash after ail. If ihe stocking-merchant
deals In grocerks or soft-goods the poor knltteis
are supposed never to ask for cash down. They are
expected to buy n bonnet, a shawl, or something
else; if they ask for the money, ten to one if they
are not ref used a fresh supply of yarn next time
they call, and this after, la many cases, a walk of
six or seven miles. Is not that the fact ? (Cries
of * Yes, yes ’ and cheers.) In my opinion an end
should, once for all, be put to that state of things.
If I employ a man to work on my farm for a
Shilling a day, that man is entitled to his well-
earned shilling; it would be cruelty If, instead or
the cash, I offered him a llsbiog-rod, an old fiddle,
ora pair of cist-cff paois, lor which perhaps be
had no occasion. 1 say then, the wonmn who
works a whole day fox’ 3d. is at night entitled to
get her money. Wo ask no unreasonable price.
The following motion was adopted; ‘That no
member of the Tniskeel or Glenfln branches give
a place for the distribution of yarn to any manu-
facturer who declines to pay the knitter at tne
rate o p 8s per ; pl» d e.’”
The latter-day youth has a noble ambition,
He likes to be seen on a horse,
And he’s keenly alive to the social position
Attaching to men In the “ force:”
Cads once cut disparaging jokes at the “ copper,”
Bat now let all sniggerlngs cease—
Their conduct of late is so perfectly proper
That everyone loves the police.
The jovial squatter, in town and a-boozlng,
Can swallow his lotion with zest,
And sleep on the kerb without danger of losing
The watch that reclines on his breast;
A “ mu?” never finds a rough hand on his collar,
And has to procure his release
By tipping the “ law” to the tune of a dollar—
No, not with our present police.
Their manners are changed and their morals are
mended
They did some sharp practice of yore,
But, let us be joyful, such scandals are ended—
The reign of the “ shepherd” is o’er.
So here’s to the “ copper I”—pray fill up a bumper
In token of pardon and peace—
May all men respect the cerulean jumper
Of the purified, pattern police.
Bill, we think you study Boaz,
David, Sally, and the rest,
After having “ tucker,” so as
The “ Bologna ” may digest.
As you list how Nimshi's Jehu
Urged his chariot’s wild career.
Then we think, oh. Bill, we see you
Lapping up your lageftr-beer.
While they read to you of Ruth and
David’s cuckold, poor Uriah,
Come, now, Kaiser, tell the truth, and
Own you snore before the fire.
AN DE TO MYSELF.
How soon hath Time, the subtle thief of youth
Stolen on his wing my six-and-thirtleth year,
I who delved deep to drink the well of truth.
To drink at last and chronicle small beerl
Was It for this I waded in chin-deep
In history and in metaphysio lore ?
Where are the hours I stole from nightly sleep,
To catch from Homer the old Oosan s roar ?
To catch from thee, Jack Milton, thy great strain,
Or follow Dante through the mystic shades,
To burrow deep in Mill’s or Spencer’s brains.
And now rhyme sweetly on the noxious trades ?
Shall I, who learnt how Buifico or Chatham spoke,
Or Cicero thundered in his native tongue,
Now chronicle the rot of each mopoke
With brazen front bawled from each brassy
lung ?
Why did I learn how suns and systems roll.
Or, how life on our planet first appeared—
K 1 must hear how Dlbbs or Parkes cajole,
Or words of wisdom through O’Connor's beard ?
Must I, who know Bulgarian, Servian rule,
The rise of Austria, KuEsia, and the Turk,
Turn from my theme to contradict each fool
Who squares in bawling what he owes in work y
Why have I traced how creed i have come and
gone—
How priestly plundering, and how royal theft.
Have scourged the world, if now, my life half
done,
I find these scourgera swarming right and left ?
Away, ye ink pots—pens and books away;
Welcome, oh, fish-cart, hawking let me go;
Wisdom cry out in streets in the old way,
But this time let the cry ring out Fish-hol
If this is all I’ve got at thirty-six,
What shall I be when I am seventy-two,
If statesmen's actions now appear all tricks.
And equal dodgers, Christian and Jew ?
But, after all, I may not live till then,
For whom the gods love early go to heaven—
Upon the whole, I think I’ll try again.
And string it out at least till thirty-seven.
When the average “rook” gets the chance of a
rise.
An increase of corn and of oil,
He usually turns up the whites of his eyes,
And prates of " congenial toll.”
Better wages, we know, ever tempt him to flit
To pastures and fields that are new,
But never, till now, was one heard to admit
That “ brass ” was the object in view.
We here have a parson of sentiments large,
Who speaketh of silver and gold.
And hlnteth, in fact, he’d be glad to take charge
Of a rather more lucrative fold.
All hall I to a man with the pluck to confess
(How seldom his like do we find)
That a parson, in spite of his singular dress,
Is like all the rest of mankind.
TO THE JAYNIL-ONE.
“CRUEL TO BE KING.”
Now, listen I this will do you pood I
You wince, of course, that’s certain!
You hide your “ mutf ” beneath a hood,
Your "fut ” behind a curtain.
You want for your stupendous faults,
A gentle dose of Attic Salts.
The yulgar rough you may deceive,
But that’s for your repentance;
He does not know—would not believe
You can’t conclude a sentence.
He’ll make, of you, perchance a fuss—
What’s joy to him is death to us I
Your style, when you wag that beard white,
Most damnably does rile us!
With Syntax, Dan, have one more fight
And let him rip—iEschylus.
He’s dead—and sometimes, Dan, we swear,
When you will skite, we wish you were!
The drunken plaudits of a few
You take for an ovation,
While all the rest are cursing you
For your dread iteration!
You are a kind of public pet,
That's why they haven’t killed you yet.
’Twould seem, you e’er appear to think
You pose before the rabble;
Yet when you rave, the cultured shrink—
It is such a dreary “ babble! ”
Disjointed bosh, devoid of wit —
Oft we have nearly died of it I
You’ll squirm nowl but hold on to Pat!
Get all your speeches burnt, sir;
Forget—purge out—we tell you flat,
Just everything you’ve learnt, sir!
Sink—this will make your marrow creep—
The present Dan five fathoms deep!
PHEUGH !!
Oh, bliss ! to behold this Baronet bold.
Now sailing across the sea ;
So blue is his blood, and so terribly old
Is the Baronet’s famllee.
All nobles are worthy our love and respect.
But this is a knight of romance—
For. marry come up, he’s descended direct
From Louis the Eighth of France.
How awful to trace one’s chivalrous race
Back to such ages remote ;
The Baronet’s form must look quite out of place
In tight-flttihg trousers and coat.
His gallant forefathers in armour were deck’d,
And capered around with a lance—
Grammeroy I Odds Bodds ! he’s descended direct
Prom Louis the Eighth of France.
Any commonplace lord hitherto we’ve adored,
A duke nearly drove us Insane ;
And ’cause certain Princes once journeyed
abroad
■We’ll never be sober again.
So if in our movements you shortly detect
Any signs of Bt. Vitus’s dance.
Put it down to that noble, descended direct
From Louis the Eighth of France I
By night and by day we fervently pray
For mariners out on the deep ;
When breezes are blowing we shake with dismay
And can’t enjoy victuals or sleep ;
For, only suppose—if that vessel were wreck’t
(3’death I there is always a chance),
With a party aboard who's descended direct
From Louis the Eighth of France I
Let’s meet him ashore and our mission is o’er ;
We'll never write verses again ;
But can pack up our traps for the Beautiful
Shore,
Persuaded we’ve not lived in vain.
Inscribe on the tombstone (a corner select,
Adjoining our cousins' and aunts'),
“ He once saw a noble descended direct
From Louis the Eighth of France.”
A SONG OF SUSPENSE.
Tiring hither the Jute and the lyre—
Permit us to warble a lay,
’Tis music ou<- senses require
To drive melancholy away ;
Our slumbers are broken at night,
And oft when the chamber Is dark,
We wake in a terrible fright
Crying, “ What has become of that clerk ? ”
Tol, lol,
“ What has become of that clerk ? ”
Perchance he Is roaming about,
A-weary, a-hungered, a-thlrst,
With no one to feed him or “ shout,”
(More likely he's gone on the “burst I ”—Ed.B.)
Maybe he is come to his end,
And lies still, and chilly, and stark—
But may the good angels defend
From such a misfortune that clerk,
Tol lol.
From such a misfortune that clerk.
The office, we doubt not, Is dull,
The eyes of his comrades are blurred,
And the manager’s bosom is full
Of sorrow for what has occurred ;
At each passing footstep he’ll start
And eagerly make the remark—
With hand on his quivering heart—
“ Can that be my wandering clerk ? ”
Tol, lol,
“ Can that be my wandering clerk ? ”
But life is so saddened and dree
We cannot continue our song';
Oh, clerk I if these verses you see,
For pity’s sake hurry along ;
Return like a lamb to the fold,
If, haply, you’re having a lark,
And let the glad story be told
That nothing’s gone wrong with the clerk,
Tol lol,
That nothing’s gone wrong with the clerk.


BRIEF MENTION.
rifles were served out to the newly-
privates Wnted. ro corp,-Oorpse. D, * W ° 0rP ‘’ tw0
JsSirr 1 ffltA JS£
The prisoners of Pentridge Stockade (Vic.)
of «PParel. They will be
lca i ly ’ lf not gorgeously, arrayed in knlcker-
witb red Btr lped stockings and
high-laced boots, ao that in future we shall be
able to distinguish them from a football team only
by their more refined and modest bearing.
“The Arthur Gordon range of moun-
tains,” according to Captain Everill, “doesn’t
exist.” By and bye, perhaps, we shall be told that
the Strickland River, discovered by Captain
Everill, doesn’t exist.
A Hong-Kong exchange informs us that
the degree of Kd-Yan coincides with M.A. We
always thought so; and Yum-Yum with B.A., and
so on,and so on. What a “beautiful science is
langwldges,” to be surel
One of Sir Patrick Jennings’ newly-ap.
primed judicial Solons recently found occasion to
curtail hi* household expenses, and, naturally
enough, bis first care was to“atc>phis newspaper/’
And, in doing so, the gifted judge of pigs ex-
plained that 14 ho took more nor he could rpaH
b© any easy matter
For robbing the Synagogue in Bourke-
street, Melbourne, a young man got five vears
penal servitude a tew days ago. Jf popular liberty
is to be trifled with like this, life inVictoria will
soon not be worth the living! om wm
Proposed by the London costers to hold a
biennial donkey-show to commemorate the name
and services of the late Lord Shaftesbury. nI?
drlunffi -show held to commemorate the
SSSSSgSS? t “f,*°°' , “<»‘-* P S«tdldthe8oud.n
The travelling public did owe a debt of
gratitude to the Queensland S.S # Co. t but now the
account is fully squared. In the company’s classi-
floation of fares we find the following-” Bulls
and Entires charged the same as saloon passen-
gers.” Thank you 1 But why?
“ In the foundation-stone (of the Sydney
C. of B. Chapter-House) Jar there were placed
copies of the Daily Telegraph. Sydney Morn-
ing Herald, Chubch of England Record, and
AUSTRALIAN Churchman.’’ Why were then*
papers buried ? Was it because they were dead ?
t Where’s the bay horse. Joe ?” “ Dead.”
? Now » w bat have you been doing to
that horse to make him die?’’ “Doing to him?
Nothing, the horse died like you’ll die soon—
of old age and scarcity of breath.” “Won’t do, i
Joe, wont do; you must have done something to i
that horse. How is It he never died before 1 That’ll
ahr.^i 5 hJ ° ff u your wages.” And the embryo Cobb
shook bis horses up and drove away.
™,£ b0 # 8norti Pg one rolled up and did its
press describe h D ’’ Tha8 does the Sydney Ex-
ralfwlv In jlM th .?<J un P. ln g over of a man by a
“ work of exeo.Ulnn “°5 tln^? ne is * ood ’ wh,le
Express thinks forcibly suggests that the
hanged. * * the poor maa should have been
The Sydney dailies, who must always have
something aristocratic to yowl over have
Cttr?ngt 1 on’s1mrJfis 0ha Tu iDer the pral8es of Lord
8 o?1=M 8 V ft* a a 0011 j° b the attention
dlvmjdrwm ’t“£ e >r i5, 1, p 0 e'?l5 U i^S?“ e^ e b e °“gJ-S3 t
vent of Lord Carlngton hlmsJf. Otherwise the
morning papers might get the BarPs horSl
elected to the Union Club and the Legislative
Council.
One Hassan, a follower of Mahomet, was
recently i ut in the witness-box In a Queensland
Court, He was asked whether he would like a
Koran or a Bible to swear upon. “It is imma-
terial,” said Haesan; “all the ho'i’S are brothers
and sisters. ’’ By the beard of the Prophet, he was
not so far astray.
“ If it hadn’t been f >r me,” remarked (he
Sydney barriiter who lor the Lord kr< •• « ■ <>w
raaey years has been spoken of by iho evening
News as a “ rising advocate “ If it hadu t been
for me,’’ said that member of the Bar as he sat at
supper on the Back-blocks circuit, “the first client
1 ever had—an aboriginal, by the way—would have
got ten years.” “ Weil, what did he get ?” “ He
was hung.” And a breathless silence, as me 0
thought of their future fate, fell over that usualY
merry room.
Some of the natives of the New Guinea in-
terior, according to Captain BverlP, “are a flue
race of men. and have a remarkable peculiarity—
large noses of the Jewish type.” After this, we
shan’t be surprised to learn that the New Guinea
king’s name is Cohen. Jewish The
Papuans must be a tough race to deal with.
One by one they fall away. 1858 was an
eventful year for N.8.W, In that year Mr. Dallev
first accepted office and Mr. Conn’s greenleek par-
rot was bwn at Narandera. The parrot died last
Monday, fuH of honours and deeply regretted Be
was a beauiifnl speaker—jou should have heard
him glorify N.8.W. for rescuing England in her
hour of rued—and to his words the dwellers in,
Naranuera listened enraptured. But he is dead 1
fbf‘ior^« ay ! 8g ? a Wacklng-bottl«oopy‘of
the late Mr. Ananias reported to tte Cnnktoum
police that be n»d found the corpse of a white
SS- * foorce.” With that promptitude which
in variably characterises their movements when
I ? 8n ’ linn| ediateJy proceeded to the
thrtV a ™ 0,1,r lh e raaturroves o« tne south side of
!l e^";i r,lvour K,ver ’ about two miles out of town
h ,^ n f f0 Th a f a « 0Uplt ”; f c “ re, uliy-rolled-up green
hio.g. Their first inclinations were to smite the
Informer from the possum fat on his topmost hair
Cow., to the aepnaltcoi cret*- on his heels, but they
subsequently telented on learning that he had
i eo^r l A Dr «rk 6 ? rs a missionary who had died
£. fe 7al 8y D . for i?; a mi stake was one that
even St. Peter himself might have made under
similar circumstances, unaer
A Preliminary Grovel.
THE SYDNEY D.T. MAN INTERVIEWS LORD CARINGTON 8 BLUE-BLOODED EQUINE8, AND SO ON.
l\ Uif / / '
\ lordship's chief bottle-washer and captain
\ of the bed-linen has brought with h, T a domertU
c&lou Uta, whion the exhibits as a gfcat novelty
We saw a goose in the back yird which
could .Htaud oo one leg for hours at a stretch
without gelling dizzy But this feay have
been oue Loftus forgot to pavK
up. We didn't like to ask.
\ His lordship’s oook has a canary bird who»e
■ chest notes are superb. He slugs airs by the old
t, musters duly. We could have listened for days,
X If wo didn’t have to write for a living
Hu lordship hM brought
with him a cunning Ihtie ,ab-
blt, which, being regarded as
vermin” in the eyes of the
bus ip be kept hidden
behind l.Uo wood-ehed lor the
M-.euu / i
I'l
His lordship's chambermaid
showed us. in entire eoufldeme
u goldfish wbu o «he brought
till the way in a gio bottle ttUed
with wai"r. As wu udow more
about gin than .veil about flab,
we i ouid have made the* neoj
longer if we had aeon tho Dottle
J S S There whs also u red herring
J that died from on the way out. And Lad
to mane the roat ul tuo voyage m a driod atato.
His lordship has a«oat who has a great antipathy for now*.
paper people This boast w.U have to up wheue?£
' ,ou : Oovorement House if Sis lordSw P
warns the apooohea auii Ureases to got ioto the papers *
Bis lordship’s white elephant is In a high state of sagacity and if wn
nerhtns ny e t!l , ,U h g Ut * daisy. A trifle abooMhe ts"
?h!*^ P3 ’ K Ut beaulirull J’ rounded angles, aud plenty of head above
abrna ” e ■ P°« tlf tempei ament. His lordship is so particular
TheTtulka areniade ““ **’ “ “* lrttttk ‘ U owo po^«'
His lordsbip’i edu-
cated pig is ibe grand- ~~ •
est pig of tne kind we ever met W*
learn from his owu lips that be speakt
IDS languages. and never used tpiriti
(ub til he came to the colony' in aoy form fciis groom assured us thai
be never gives him the least trouble. During our interview be ur«
Uanelv allowed us to soratcu bis back
How shall we ttnd words to describe his lordship’s cow : Horns that
, are uogarih 's line of beauty r*«*r?oDined. Large lustrous eyes, such a«
° poets have raved about, and such * tail! If we wrote by the column, in-
stead of by the day, this tail should have an article by itseil. It would
nuutt; about IU columns nonpareil.
h»?. e „ 1^( " ,r8 art ’ D8 5 rp Wlt " wh ' i, f‘ <tars. They
liPir hnn' stance of the wheeler-; , but
tncir bone and less are undeniable. ■»
mate may not In* hi broody about
the head an Ins off-bide < ompauiou, but
he Is a real nice horse. ,1
ii^h^h° 0 f roupJhr«rt aa, " Pnlias^f e ? Lord Ca ' inRton ' 5l,ve9tock - Hdsayj: “His lordsftip’B
roughbrecL , # « flla huacl struck me as being o£ the l>Qst % broad in the jowl.
witii a kindly tempered, intelligent countenance."
t ,<Hl » Excellency »oee In for «ub*tano«. not blood, in hia
ooaobera. Tha ofl-wneeler is .-.ptendicl behind loins, has wand
l legs, with muscle to the Docks. >•>
i ' In thl, week> SYDNEY MAIL
will 1>0 published
p OTlTRAITR of four of tsjrd Carrington'! Hom-l, Wliith erritud
Iasi a««i bv the Kolwr-I-Htnd
A LEADER and > " HEELER of th, FOVR-IN-HAKO.
lady carhlvoton’s favoubitf. hack
LOHP CAHRlNOTO.N’g C1IAKOEB.


Wolfe's Schnapps a powerful and whole-
some tonic.
This week will be long-lived in the memory
as the advent of the nohle Lord Carington in our
beautiful colony, and the commencement of the
cash discount of 4s in toe £1 sale of Bray Bros,
grand stock of Dinner, Tea, and Toilet Sets, and
General Crockery. Remember, only for a few
days. Address: 403 and 404 George-street.*
When, on the day the Governor left, the
Sydney Lance-ahs came cantering up to Govern-
ment House, we said to a veteran trooper who was
near us: “Why is it that they always canter?
“Because," replied the veteran, drily, “if they
trotted they’d fall off.” We don’t want anyone to
be heroes but ourselves I
There is a spiritualistic circle at Cooktown
which meets in a prominent hotel, and which had
a seance about a night of two before the an-
nouncement of tho safety of the New Guinea ex-
pedition. The ghost of Captain Everill duly re-
sponded, and gave full particulars of his massacre
—locality, where skull at present, and other valu-
able details, which they proposed to forward to
the relief expedition lor their guidance.
The coach leaves Blayney (N.S.W.) at
5 am., and in an hour arrives at the house of a
publican named Death. (There are six brothers
named Death in the district, all good Orangemen.)
All hands, even tne Judges on circuit, take a drink
at Death’s door.” Further on, at Carooar, is a
pub. kept by one Hade. Then all hands have a
drink at Hade’s. From Death’s ooor to Hade’s,
the next stopping-place, a most natural tramitlon.
Says the Tamworth Josephs:— “ Bathing
Is to be commended on account of Its tendency to
health and cleanliness, and Is a habit that should
be encouraged." a his Is his war of anrounclng
that the residents of that drought-smitten mori-
bund city should go In for tnelr annual dip, and,
being so invigorated, receive such an accession of
vigoro is spirits that they will come up on the
New Year and risk another quarter’s subscription.
Thus chirrups the Burwood correspondent
of tne Sydney War Cky;-‘‘ We arrived here on
Saturday niuht. Just as toe meeting was over, and
were greeted py rhe lads with a snower of over-
ripe egtrs. Goa bless them.” Amen to that. Like-
wise, Seelah! The man who would ask Gods
blessing on a rotten egg would go down on his
knees and recite tbe Seven Penitential Palms In
order to ensure a kick from a healthy Jackass.
And, now that thf' warm weather ha> set In, what
a terrible sense of humiliation an over-ripe egg
must experience when it lights on the back of the
neck of a Salvation Army.drummer I
In the matter of fighting,' the Irish are a
resourceful people. A couple of natives of the
distressful country were taken to a Melbourne
police station for having it out over a drop of
“ the Fenian.” There was only one cell vacant to
put the “ boys” Into, but they were handcuffed to
keep them out of mischief. They were equal to
the emergency. When the warder came round he
found them butting one another with their heads
like Soudan goats.
A Macleay River blackfellow was sent
some distance to borrow a bottle of brandy.
Jimmy, as might have been expected, did not re-
turn to the station that night, but arrived about
midday on the next day with a bottle, from which
the cork had evidently been drawn, and which ap-
peared to contain very pale brandy indeed.
Jimmy explained that it had rained where he had
camped on the previous night, and that rainwater
had soaked through the bottle!
For a bold, healthy challenge commend us
to a correspondent of tbe Port Macquarie
Neava, who writes over the name of ’J.
MTntyre.” He challenges one Mr. J. h Bmhven
to prove him (Mae.) to be “ mean, Idiotic, ana
untruthful." Most people don’t want to be proved
either mean, or idiotic, or untruthful; hot Mao.
wants to be proved to be all three This Mr.
Ruthven is, acoording to the hold MTntyre, the
great I, King of Wiseacre, I presume."
The Sydney Scottish volunteers have de-
cided on wearing the kilt. A painful rumour was
circulated last week that the Government intended
to change them into a mounted infantry corps, arm
them with thistles, aod mount them on donkeys.
We believe the report is a wicked invention de-
signed to bring the force into contempt. Besides,
tho donkeys would gel up in the middle of the
night, break into the armoury and eat the regi-
ment's weapons. No Government dare entertain
such a project.
Great hardships in volunteering in New
Zealand even now. Majah Jackson and the Kihl-
Kihl Kavalry (please spell with a K for sake of
euphony), had to go without dinner at Mercer
through the action of a new-chum engine-driver,
who refused to atop any longer than necessary to
water his engine. This serious breach of discip-
line was duly reported to Government by the
Majah. One subaltern said ho was sorry he had not
“ awwested the engine and marched it to the
guard-woom.”
Up Narandera way arcadian simplicity
prevails in the police-court proceedings, “ so
we’re tould,” A man arrested primarily for
drunkenness was afterwards had up for horse-
stealing, and the magistrate asked the policeman
if he had addressed the usual caution to the pri-
soner on taking him Into custody. “I did that
same, your washup,” said the constable. “What
did you say to him?” asked the magistrate. “Faith,
your washun, I Just told him that Mac. would give
him h—11 in the morning.”
The vet. in charge of Lord Carington’s
stud has written to explain the true cause of the
death of one of his Lordship’s horses en route to
Australia. We were panting for these particulars,
A. rumour was published to the effect that the
noble gee-gee expired from the results of chafing
(the vet. calls It chafing, but that must be only his
fun) against his box. This, it appears, is far from
being a true explanation of the tragedy. The
horse died of congestion of the brain. That’s the
worst of having brains. Noblemen often run
fewer risks than their horses.
From Hyde a D. T. correspondent writes :—
“The f-alvatlon Army in Hyde appear to be doing
wonders. No less than four aldermen have
Joined, and about 30 of the principal storekeepers
and settlers, berides abour. 150 of the lower orders."
Which was the lowest order in the human family
was long a disputed point among ethnologists
until common consent fixed upon the Ryde aider-
man as the modern representative of the mammals
of the old red sandstone age But it appears that
150 of a more primitive genus still have been
brought to light through the Army’s tambourine.
The lower orders of Ryde I Ciel!
A Berlin correspondent writes us to know
the prospects of profit in introducing here a
couple of his German patents. The first is—“ A
new method for keeping dead bodies.” We
thought at first this applied to meat-preserving,
but we now find it refers to human bodies. We
shall answer that there is no particular want here
for keeping them—that we know of. The second
is—" A patent for elastic artificial teeth.” Elastic
teeth will be a novelty. The teeth will have to
give way to tbe meat, we suppose, instead of the
meat to the teeth, as is usual. This will be an im-
provement. When we try to masticate the steak
at our boarding-house there will now be a little
give-and-take in the struggle. Formerly, when
Greek met Greek, something had to give. And
it wasn't the steak that suffered.
TANNED.
He had told us the ten-times repeated, worn dog’s-
ear’d and dismal old story.
He had seen better days in his lifetime of changes
’twixt gutter and glory—
How he sighed as he told of his strivings ’neath
Liberty’s crimson-stained banner,
And wound up his mile-long peroration with
“ Give a poor fellow a tanner."
We were “ Jack,” for we’d heard it so often, that
tale of the times which have perished—
Dispelled evermore are illusions which we erst-
while too fondly had cherished,
Never more can we credit the tales which in youth
were our sympathies fanning,
So we reached for the twig at our elbow, and gave
that poor fellow a ** tanning.”
Extract from “The Mikado.”
(As sung nightly, without great success), at Parliament House, Sydney.)
P1TT1-SINO (77. Parkes, with Opposition Chorus):
“Oil, HK’8 GOING TO MARRY YUM-YUM, YUM YUM,
AND WE THINK THAT YOU'D BETTER SUCCUMB-CUMB-CUMB.”


Wolfe s Schnapps ia a most comprehensive
preventive and remedy against all diseases.
The member rrsa ia his place to soe}k
( bummerfield’s trousers will Jit you well).
A Tu 8 g .^ ea . t ’ tmt hla v ,Cd was weak.
And why they d elected him none could tell.
He lookei to the Gbair with a bpamlnsr eve
R^T r 6rfield s cutt ers fm m name wert brought) •
« toUKUM JT 118 88 dumD as a busted drum/
Andne seemed oppressed w tn a migncy thought.
At last with a sudden strength he spok?.
. 1 r;lo cheamy w 1, clothe each youth
A R«rl he ? r /°' e lte House-ana why?
Becaua* for ouce he haa told me truth! *
Wolfe's Schnapps should be in every house,
no^PH 8 f Dd f of physicians and analysts have
certified to the purity of Wolfe’s Schnapps,
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
The final heats of the Sir Joseph Banks
Handicap were run off on Saturday afternoon last
at Botany, in the presence of between four and
five thousand people, the major portion of whom
were lucky enough to see the beads of the contes-
tants bob up and down as they covered the ground
—rather a poor return, we fancied, for the half-
crown invested in admittance to the sport. Frank
Smith’s handicaps are now an institution, and be-
fore the next is run off, we should say it would be
to his advantage, as well as the onlookers, if ac-
comodation were provided with the view of
giving the thousands who patronise these con-
tests a chance of seeing them run off. Casslmer
of Mudgee, was in great form, and in the flna
heat covered his 140yds. in the stated time or
14sec., some 4yds. ahead of Flanagan, another
10-yds. man, who was, in turn, ahead of Hyam
9yds. Cassimer was greatly fancied by his party
and it is now stated he can oe backed level against:
the great Tom Malone for 125yds.. or will take
3yds, fromthe great gun in 150yds. Cassimer
secures £150 and a gold chronograph by his
victory.
« ■ «
Laurence Foley’s deposit of a couple of
centuries still remains uncovered, from which it:
may be Inferred that Peter Newton does not in-
tend to toe the scratch. The deposit has now been
down nearly the stipulated time, and unless some
aspirant for championship honours steps forward
within the next few days, Foley may lay the flat-
tering unction to his soul that he has frightened
the newspaper-fighters into silence. He has been
doing a lot of work, and getting Into something
like “ kip ” again. Next Saturday has been fixed
upon as the opening night of Foley’s Gymnasium,
at the rear of the White Horse, and Foloy deserves
every encouragement for his pluck in entering
upon such a big affair. It is his idea to give
a first-class athletic entertainment at a moderate
charge for admission, and on Saturday evenings a
programme of fencing, single-sticks, gymnastics,
and boxing will be gone through. The “wind-
up” will consist of four rounds between Foley
and a heavy-weight who came over recently
with rather a good reputation from N.Z.
* • *
Amateur and professional watermen will
he hard at It next Saturday, the former in John-
son s Bay, at the Glebe Rowing Club regatta, and
Jhe latter on the historical course, where young
Charley Matterson and C. Nelson meet for JBIOO
aside. Matterson rows in really good form, but it
seems a pity such a promising young sculler should
go through a heavy training and a gruelling race
over the Parramatta. We do not think he has
sufficient stamina to beat Nelson, but, should he
do so, it is to be hoped he will not be rowed to
pieces before he has matured. At the Glebe re-
gatta, senior fours, trial fours, maiden pair-oars,
junior double sculls, and senior single sculls
will be gone through. Robertson, Ickerson, and
Williams remain in the senior single, which we
fancy will be carried off by the first-named ; and
Burrell and Maitland, who represent the Club in
the open junior double, are going so well, that
we expect to see the trophies remain in the local
shed.
* * *
John Roberts, junior, is a champion, not
only in name but in reality, at billiards. A uotic-
able feature of his play recently was a break of
185, executed by him with almost electrical speed.
By the watch he was timed to have scored the 183
in five minutes and a-half, certainly an extraordi-
nary feat, and no doubt it was the fastest exhibi-
tion*of all-round play on record Robert*, in
October last, offered to take 2 to 1 that he beat the
spot-barred record break, viz, 360, during the next
fortnight, and also offered to take 10 to 1 that he
scored 501 without the aid ot the spot, in a single
break between then and Christmas.
9 9 m
Myers, the American champion, has been
record-breaking again, having, on Oct. 3, at the
Olympic Club Sports, beaten his own half mile re-
cord of Imin 55 3 5sec , which time he has thrice
made, viz . at New York, on Oct. 8,1881; at Brook-
lyn, on Sept 16,1882; and at Birmingham, oa July
7,1884, by l-5stc Tnis. with the exception of F.
Hewitt s loan 53isec., accomp'lshed in New Z -a-
land on Sept. 17,1871, is the best ever made, the
neatest approach to it being J. Nutiall, Imin.
•>5-%«ec.. accomplished In hla race with Fleet, at
Manchester, on August 31, 1867. At the same
meeting Myers distinguished himself. Barry, the
Irish athlete, threw the hammer 114 feet, which
beats the American professional record 13ft. lOin
and their amateur record, 17ft. L-in., but falls short
of the English best distance under the new condi-
tions.
* * *
Sydney aquatic talent was well repre-
sented at Goaford regatta last Saturday. Don-
nellys last Ib-footer. Our Boys, sailed by her
owner, George Fletcher, won the dingy race, and
would have won the handicap but for some bung-
ling on the part of the starter, who sent Our Bovs
away a couple of minutes behind time, which gave
her but four minuses’ start from the Lucia sailed
by George Ellis, instead of six, and as the’ Lucia
only led her by a bare minute at the finish, we
suppose Fletcher was justified in his little growl
Seven “canvasers” started for t'ie dingy race
but only the Olivette and Tomki finished the
course. In the order named, the stiff southerly
proving rather too much for the mosquito fleet.
In the sculling races, H. Messenger rowed in good
form and made an easy win of the all-comers, in
wager-boats. Croad and Dayies bested Messenger
and btannard for the double-soulls; and W fltan-
nard won an outrigger race.
Mr. W. C. Quintou has beeL appointed
handicapper for the Manning River Jockey Club.
t^t lf he makes nobetter effort in that direction
than he has for Windsor Farm, there will be
gnashing of teeth up Manning River way The
owners of the light division about to run at
Windsor Farm, now call down a benlson on their
dl , cap P er , when Mr. Quinton’s name is men-
51° w/ JI And * the way, we notice the special
for Windsor Farm is fixed for 11,30. This is right
enough for the sporting “profession,” but the
general public do no care to throw away a day
over an outside meet. J
• * *
Archer, the crack English jockey, recently
refused an offer of a retainer from no less a per-
?®°a?®tbat ‘Wales ” himself, and now w© hear he
has just declined an offer of rather a different
a A 8prier ~ or - ™ther a full-blown
rose of nobility. A well-known racincr Duchess
H”? ln *° the seventies, has made Fred an offer
helnn D .f‘ni‘‘l^i for r 1 UD 2- Archer rode Gay H ermit,
w1th D 1vrnH Jio the Duchess, and ran a dead heat
Wh «? 'he failed to win, Archer
£ in Dd ini? £500, instead of the customary {
/iliinat USt a^l? r this her ladyship broached the
ThiS?*? question of a matrimonial partnership.
VPftrH nirt Ch onU r^ fle( v, te(1 i H ® r la dy*hlp 1® OVCF 60
and Ar <>her is only 30. He wrote a re-
Ahtann'i an8 . we . r . to h er ladyship s offer of an
hnrao 06 ’ r. but u tetter was characteristically
t(?nrtoH*v,^ e 8ai ? was overpowered by the in
honour. but that, metaphorically speaking,
Life? rlde the wei » ht -” So says Bell's
• • •
rJl^ r0 l cSS0r ”» Arthur G. Clampett. who is
socTa Z VS** 0f < the Young Men 8 Christian As-
at Polw^Tth? 1 or 1 * *?. 8hortl y.to take a benefit
nf BTHhif® 1 h5 ' yVoollootnooloo, when a series
thrmiorh c? 11 8w i m9 and race8 will be gone
tho°Ji£ h V Clampett came from the States with
Diomm?n tat a?. of h ° ldiD ff the long-distance cham-
His moat f euQ arkable feat was per-
aui^and^ttpL^?^8’ J>riB00 ’ He wore a Boy ton
whLhsi^il. 8 ? t0 8wlm the Golden Gates.
dashed against the rocks and his suit
fhZ,£h d water-lodged. After a Dig struggle
™Ichfd\w. br h ea T 8 and undercurrents he
bt Pd ward n’o i hen ha ,wa9 rubbed into condition
Ha ?u a^u an ? Charles Mitchell. Ciam-
SuffiMafnf S< J, with Charies MitcheH. the champion
° f an * land . when the latter was preparing
for his encounter with Mike Cleary. At the
coming benefit, Foley, the cuampioa boxer, will
2£iSV? a i cb with Corbett, the latter being re-
stricted to breast stroke. *
* * *
The smartest police feat yet on record is
w D n e o re h C a e ™ 7 Permed by the Cincinnati police.
MtbJ^J l0h i, eve < d . lm Perishabl i renown of an
entirely new aca origin*, onaracter, by pulling ”
u d .f'i'n. S , r ?^ 0!!Ue mls take tor a gambling
® , f n® raid w s made while service was being
SnVnB 11 !,?’ hut the police thought they ha1 got
on to a new and entirely fresh form of gambling
and w<.nt for the chief Rabbi as the croupier in
expla a nn they said they had been educated in a
secular manner, and that religious performances
and ceremonies formed no part of their drill. How
were they to tell ? How, indeed!
• • •
Tom Osborne, the well-known English
jockey, who recently arrived in Victoria, has
entered into possession of poor Rowe's training
establishment at Caulfield. Osborne should have
no difficulty in securing patronage, for fie was
br 2 l ? g J U P ri * ht school. Any way, he is
not likely to fall into the error of overtraining his
horses, so fatally fashionable in many cases. It is
to be hoped that we shall see Osborne in the pig-
8kiQ when h© has anything good on th© board, for
no more accomplished rider ever crossed a horse.
• • *
The very unsportsmanlike trick of shoot-
ing trout is being commonly practised in Vlc-
torlan waters Deep Creek and Jackson’s Creek.
A fine fish of 81b. weight was disposed of in this
way, and the attention of the Inspector of
Fisheries has been directed to the matter. In the
eyes of Izaak Walton’s disciples shooting trout
ranks next to tickling in piscatorial iniquity. The
former, certainly, isn’t as fine an art as the latter.
♦ ♦ *
A brood mare named Pasta, just imported
to Melbourne by Messrs. Yuille and Co., brings
the very choicest strains of English racing blood.
She is by Macaroni (Derby winner of 18(13) out of
Monaco, the latter being a full sister to Rosicru-
cian. Rosl. is one of the late Sir Joseph Hawley’s
breed, and for some time stood at a fee of one
hundred guineas. This very blue-blooded mare,
Pasta, is in foal to Struan, and if pedigree goes
for anything, her yet unborn son or daughter
should be able to pay training expenses.
• mm
In these latter days we had fondly
imagined that •* nobbling the favourite ” was a
device peculiar to playwrights and sixpenny
novelists. The story of a stable-boy being paid
£200 to lame grand old Commotion previous to the
Melbourne Cup, sounds too sensational to be true,
but apparently there is something in it. Any-
way, Mr. Pearson offers £1000 for the conviction
of the man or men who put up the job, so there
“"■£ prounda for believing that some-
fivii c? li r ? lous Intent, ’ &c, &c, did compass
fJiht^f a H nB * *1?® Popular r*vourlte. Such a
h«fi^ rf fcacdal basn,t cropped up since
n b K* 7 ere Prepared for Bend Or. an
liiOg-hsh Derby favourite. The Eavlish nag got
P ’ £^ ere , 8 bttle doubt, but the game was
discovered in time, and he subsequently pulled off
thejrrear, event. Commotion’s •’nobblers” were
th^ lr .generation to rely on the glorious
uncertainty of physic. The “ champion ” got such
a crack on the leg- that he will never run again.
CORRESPONDENCE
(Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
Courage : Your subject is hackneyed,
ana your verse rather knock-kneed ; it has
some merit, but not enough to keep it out of our
M > s - 8 - • Quill-Jostler’j(Araluen): There
is only one go.den rule to observe when writing
tor newspapers. Always imagine that your cor-
rhff?fL ndt,n< ; e 18 an advertisement that costs a
shilling a line, cash down. Its wonderful how
concise a person can be when writing under this
restraining influence •• W.J.W.P.”; Has no
I-£ ere 5? e whatever to you. Bend the revelation
around in a wheel-barrow, or “ prammle,’’ as soon
as you find out ail about it “S.N.”: Metre is
7, er8e - Your heart should learn to sob
out its grief in cadences, not in Irregular jerks....
carrottv-pole”: Of no use unless of general in-
terest. You see your little village is not exactly
the hub of the universe “Maud S.”; Your
t attempt at a parody does not win ourhin-
qualifled admiration. For one thing, “Much
uarker Days ’ has been widely read, so that your
screed is not so “ previous ’ as it should be
, ; We have no yearning for libels of the
description sent by you. ’J he man who is libelled
snows all about it, but no one else would till they
read the evidence given at the trial. .."Demo-
crat : The idea of colonial peers is to us such a
howflng joke, that we cannot think it necessary
to start a petition. The idea has been evolved by
a popularity-hunting Englisnman, who is lauded
to the skies by the Sydney Press because he sent
a congratulatory televrim commending the Sou-
dan exprditlou —"KH” (Forbes): thanks,
but we have already had the item...
ottn ,koye’’: Ifasavltgi Hank oflicer were to
abscond with deposited money, the Government.
not the depositors, would lose “Bell Bird •
You verses are not flrst-r te Try to write some
bush verse, _ without killing a bushmaa or stock-
man for a subject. From the style of the bulk of
hush Poetry we receive, we are beginning to be-
lieve that stockmen and drovers employ ail their
spare time In dying- for the benefit ef bucolic
bards.... “M.M.B.”; Many thanks for your note.
Will look Into the matter “ Rio ”: You say you
are not spiteful. It would possibly be considered
a breach of etiquette were we to contradict you.
— “Gundagal”; Your scribbling, as per sample
received, is no use to us. And yet your town
seems lively enoug h to run a dozen napers, for in
one letter you tell us of six rough-and-tumble
fights, three deaths, four doctors, a set of false
teeth, and six cases of gout “ Magdalen Faux
pas—false oar—“ M.m.G.”: The Sydney Herald
is not a Catholic organ “J.L” (Redfern): Do
not see our way clear to do so now “C.E.J.”:
You are quite right. Dr. Sims does not travel as a
“phrenologist.’ ... “Subscriber”: Oar artist has
been lockeu up la his own room for three days
grappling with your subject “Gunnedah”:
Yes, every man may have his price, but every
other man mayn't be able to pay it
llrutus”: (1) Wo try to think for ourselves, and
don t slavishly follow anyone’s lead. Some of our
Ideas about Henry George and Free-trade you
will sea in last week’s Bulletin. (2) A Creole is
not necessarily of mixed blood; he Is the son of
white parents, and born In one of tne tropical
islands—You have clearly no right to
express your dissent In so violent a way as to stop
a theatrical performance, for a majority of the
audience may wish the entertainment to proceed.
But you have just a« much right to hiss as another
has to applaud....“E. Abel” (Grafton): We don’t
think much of the abilities of some of the doctors
entrusted with the task of reporting as to the
sanity of prisoners. Down South, not long ago, a
couple of doctors jointly reported on the cases of
two prisoners—one convicted of murder, the other
charged with horse stealing. Both were declared
sane, and the murderer (who, It Is now almost
certain, was a lunatic) was hanged. The borse-
thlpf escaped and drowned himself. His body
was recovered, and at the post-mortem a walnut-
sized tumour was found on the brain. So
much for the opinion of bush psychologists
“Hiram Abiff ” : Will try to use....“ Con.”"
Thanks for contribution to the W. P. B... “ f!
Purcell ” : The Glebe is only a suburb of Sydney!
— “ C. Jansen” : Lawyers should have good
memories. That is how the proverb has been
altered.... “ Geebung ”: Unsuitable. A parody on
this oft-parodied poem should be as strong as the
odour from the Glebe Island Abattoirs. You?
last verse is decidedly wanting- in force “ J w
vT in 5 : . Professor I ” you call dim. Every
f to r £ er .. wh »Tr Uts toe-nalin dubs himself a “Pro-
no 8 VQnf’n'.UQT, VlCl0ria P You—who are evidently
no Victorian— remark that •• Those who so ner-
dowl^ at the flogging system) may them-
selves Have deserved, though they may have
d AHi, lnfllctlon *” Ther e’8 another way of
thnVftiri“*% * B ? tte r- Y .ou may not have escaped
nnrt ba P ds ot the common hangman,
f’ns’ilf r “ ho J P 8t his **'1 io the steel-trap
theirVifin »° luduce “j 1 the other foxes to cut off
you a f® no douDt desirous of dragging
your own level and that ot the
degraded wretches from whom have sprung too
«V d °H 9< -' who. H by re-enacting brutal laws be?
of Ana^U» e « b h° d “‘ ta i ned p8st ’ make the nam «
or Australia a by word among the nations
Juste Milieu ; »1) It was Judge Lilley, of
(-•) tiolonel strange was the prose-
r anrtkr, T oo e ° a8e W8S heard at the Mansion House,
London, years ago, and Is to be lound reported
M8’’ : Very likely. but. as Josh
nothin* r u?= ar 8 ‘a The . man who iz stnkiy honest,
nothing hss, and nothing more, will ptobahlv
*J eavuD > but he won’t he mutch oi a kard
when he gets tfaare Juste Milieu”* The
® d J^ ard Rossell Daunt, who presicuted Tub'Bul-
letin for lioel. is the man whose certificate in in-
ras been refused. 1 he Insolvency Com-
missioner a comments on his business career and
HvRi\ r f.° lD t ,r ~ t h a n 82Ct iJ OII8arerepo ' ted lD the S.M.
Herald ot 7th October ••HR.”; He is an ihi-
nr^ea^nr, a tnorou khpaced impostor, who,
not long ago, was a waiter, ano a tad waiter/too
« H m,n ba8 Th te S *!, ept .7 altlD « r 20 minutes for our
soup. The Sydney dailies call mm “ Doctor.” lust
( as they give that title to every other humbug who
I rnansgesto gei a door-plate of the conventional
and emblematical metal on credit, and starts
«wurt l if 1Dk tpedicine,” while all the time he
should be picking oakum or washing bottles. By
r ay * 0I 3L e of u the best-known advertising
® yd °®y Quacks, who also calls himself •• Doctor ’
8p ®f. en ot as ‘ Doctor” by the o.M Herald)
hn?fi P I actl^ P8 011 a dead man s diploma, washed
bottles acd cleaned boots at a Mouthern hotel a
few years ago •• J. Keefe”: We spell (Jarmgton
Tf tm? De r * Decause i(: 18 shorter, aud It suits us.
Jr you write us again on this subject we will spell
It with a k. There now I.. ‘ Democrat’’and a
thia 1 ob dbber 8 ; Neither time nor space lor notice
bbd® week,.... Nemo.’ : ‘ihe local sergeant of
PPJ*®® you al1 luiormation Toe man
hfewlnawker g * e8t warehoU8 ° ln began
Tho Other Half.
One Half of Olbbs’ Majority.


The N.S.W. PREMIER INSPECTS HIS PARLEA-
MENTARY MAJORITY.
Under date October 14, tlie World re-
marked, “ Now, an election la generally a surprise,
and with the example of what has just happened
In Prance, who shall say what Is going to happen
here ? ” Who, Indeed? Oh, prophetic Edmund!
“In the whole course of my life,” said Sir
Henry Parkes the other evening, “ I have studied
one thing, and that was to get the most competent
men I could, regardless of all other considera-
tions.” Exactly. That « why he made a pal of the
underground-engineer.Uohn Davies.
John Lucas still retains his seat in the
N. 8. W. Upper House, and is a very regular at-
tendant notwithstanding that all the other mem-
bers seem to have sent him to Coventry. He must
be sadly in want of some one to fraternise with to
help to while away the time occupied in dreary
debating.
Mr. John L. Dow, the Victorian M.L.A.
and agricultural peripatetic philosopher, told the
people of Kara Kara, the other night, that if Eng-
land gets luto a war in which she is likely to be
overmatched, the United States may be relied
upon to come to her assistance. That Is not the
talk of a man with the faculty of prevision active.
It is Dowtage-dotage.
Queenslanders are getting ready for a stiff
fight over the payment of members question. The
constitutional issue is to go before the Privy
Council. But as soon as any member draws trom
the Treasury his share of the money voted last
session, a test case will be “ made” out and brought
before the men Court. If the case go against him
the penalty will be a fine of £500 and the loss of his
seat.
A British Radical candidate recently said :
“ It is all ruhbisa to say tnat the English Church
would go to the wall; all that Disestablishment
would effect would be the removal of some of the
happy hunting grounds for the biggest fool of the
family.” And the heavens didn’t fall and crush
that speaker, nor did the earth open and swallow
him. Truly are the times out of joint. Or has
“Divine Providence” retired from mundane
business?
Professor Pearson moved in the Victorian
Legislature, the other day, “ that the warders in
the prisons ought not to be kept on duty more
than nine hours a day, except in cases of emer-
gency,” and the Hou. Johu Woods, of lar-
Brush” fame, moved, as an amendment, that it be
eight hours instead of nine. Chief Secrstary
Berry, the quondam friend of the working man,
and whilom leader of Democracy, voted against
both motion ana amendment.
The Sydney D.T. says “Melbourne is the
capital ot Australian Toryism.” What has Sydney
done that it should be forgotten In this connec-
tion? The D.T. should know that the capital of
Australian bastard Toryism, Jingoism, Imperial-
ism, and Toadyism, stands upon the banks of the
odoriferous Port Jackson, and that its morning
papers are both foreigners, the elder journal being
an emigrant from Bxecor Hall; the younger, the
product ot Victorian Conservatism.
Mr. Darley, Q.C., according to Mr. Want,
entertained sucu a bad opinion of Sir John
Itobertson’s Land Law. that although it was the
principal source ot his income, he said tnat he
would do hia best to destroy the goose that laid
the golden egg. How does this tack on to the fact
that Mr. Daney was the representative of the
Parkes-Eobertson Government in the Upper
House when Sir John introduced his Bill to con-
solidate the old law ? We should like to meet the
N. a. W. politician whose lexicon contains the
word “consistency.”
The Newcastle Herald notices that Sir
Henry Parkes has been lecturing there on behalf
of the United Methodist Free Church, as the
lecture realised £35, it is believed that Father Ah
Chow has his oblique eye on Sir Henry, and hopes
he will lay the foundation stone ot a new joss-
house. If he does he will intimate that, despite
his Inauguration of a poll-tax on Mongolians, he
had always had a leaning towards the religion of
that industrious body of citizens wno follow the
imposing religion of Fo, but soorm the dry practi-
cal morality of Confucius.
Sir Henry Parkes, in his Newcastle lec-
ture. said that Earl Salisbury earned his bread at
one time by writing lor the Press, and is now
Premier of England; but, strange to say, no did
not draw the obvious parallel—that he hlmsa r
once earned his bread by writing the Hmpirk, <md
subsequently became Premier, and yet too p arallel
would be obvious, even to Dawvld Buchanan,
who notes great points of resemblance between
Mr. Gladstone and Sir Henry. But perhaps Sir
Henry, who has notoriously spent a lifetime la
acquiring all the other virtues, is about to cro »n
his last years with the omy remaining virtue-
modesty. The novelty ot the acquisition ought to
add years to his life.
The strange political unpopularity into
whlcU Sir James M'Culloon, of Victoria, fell eight
years ago, has never left him. It has given him
apparently a distaste lor Victoria and its peopie.
It is now currently reported, and printed, that
he and Lady M'Cullooh leave Australia in
February next to permanently settle in the fogs
and east winds oi Groat Britain. It Is to ha hoped
they will not there forget the land which gave
them the little matters of title and fortune. Says
Euripides, "The laud 1 1 which 1 have been prosper-
ous la my true country,' which was the reason
why the old man spent ms money where ue mace
It. But the Hip was never made a C.M G., and so
given a polished handle to hia front door.
Hallelujah! Sir Samuel Wilson nas failed
to secure a seat in the House ot Commons, whilst
Hennlker Heaton has been returned by a large
majoiity. This shows the folly of mere wealth
attempting to secure English honours. Hennlker
also had wealth, but thea-blr Samuel hal not the
renutatlon lor intellect that caught on m the case
of Heaton. We consider this a triu mph of mind
over wool. Heaton spent his days and nights in
Australia in studying deep books, and his lame as
a writer is second to tew on the Town and
Country Journal. All that time Sir csatnueis
head was a wooi-gathevlng, and it is believed that
but for his startling resemblance to the late Lord
Beaconsfleid In literary tastes, his money would
not oven have placed him as a worthy successor
to the estates ot Hughenden.
Mr. Harold Stephen, M.L.A., will shortly
L trodnoe into the N.S.W. Assembly a tiill tor the
abolition of Hogging. The measure, we are glad
to hear, will have thesupport of Sir Henry ParKes,
who is opposed also to capital punishment. The
fact of such a bill being introduced by a Stephen
strengthens the theory of the progress of the
species. Sir Alfred Stephen (Lieutenant-Governor
of N.S.W.), Mr. Harold Stephen's uncle. Is the
Methusaleh of the Gallows, and Groat Panjandrum
of tne Cat-’o-nlne-Tails. That, in the short space
of a generation, even a member of a collateral
branch of Sir Alfred Stephen's family should
appear to be mollified into wnat is, according to
our notion, a properrespeot for humanity, enao e'
the optimist to think of the time when crime shad
be absolutely eliminated from the world.
Thadeus O’Kane, of the Northern Miner,
who is now really a convert to N.Q. Separation,
thus discourses:—“The Constitution [of the new
colony] should be considered, so that Separation,
when it comes, shall be no ‘ leap in the dark.’ Some
people say: ‘Let us get Separation first; it will oe
time enough to arrange all details after vai-us ’
We say the Constitution of thenew colony and the
broad lines of its initial policy should be laid down
before then, and should bear the impress and
stamp of the will of a democratic people. Why
should the free people of the North accept a Fiuch-
Hatton Constitution, a replica ot N.8». and
Queensland nomineeism, a tag-rag of English
aristocratic snobbery, of offic’al flunkeydom,
meanness, and servility? Is there any necessity
whatever for an Upper House ?” Thadeus thinks .
The atrabilious Mr. Edward Langton, who
was, twenty years ago, the, Free-trade aoott e of
Victoria s Parliament, nas been for tea years out
of the Assembly. Helosf ci«to in politics, seem-
ingly, through an action for libel which ho brought
nine years back against the age.- rec iverlng £1090
damages.* In a second action against the same
paper he recovered only a farthing. In an action
for damages caused by a railway accident some
five years back, he failed to get moro than £9 1,
greatly to his disgust. He is now about to renew
acquaintance with political life, aud advertises
that he will, at the coming general elee'ion, off jr
himself tohlsoldconstituenev of West Melbourne.
He will have no chance unless M'Mahon resigns—
which is, by the wav, not uniltrcly. In that event,
however, there is Sir Bryan O’Loghlea waiting for
his old seat.
This how the urbane, mellow-tempered
Dawvid Buchanan, the irieud and literary chum
of the late T. Carlyle, speaks of Robespierre, and
levels his description ac Sir Henry Fames:—" A
gaunt, ungainly, awkward figure, who o-eeps
rather than walks through life, addicted to writing
gingerbread verse—a living walking formula and
bundle of hearsays—a thing of shreds and patches
made up entirely of other men’s thoughts and
Ideas—a slimy, croaking, hollow-yolosd, sea-green
and yellow-complexloned hypocrite. i hat s one
of toe results of the iniquitous Eleven o clock
Closing (Parkes’) Act. Wo sympathise with Daw-
vld as the door was slammed in his face exactly
at the tick, and he had to turn back with tho sup-
per-beer-jupr empty in bis hand and wanh out
the whisky-jug just to get the flavour. Under
such circumstances we always write that way
ourselves.
Mr. Howard Spensley, owner of the Royal
Arcade in Bourko-street. Melbourne. Is now M.P.
for Central Finsbury. His competitors were Mr.
Saul Isaac, Master of the Clockmakers (city)
Company, Sir John Bennett, the loading London
watchmaker, and Mr. Wm. Muller, a city merchant.
Sir John, Mr. Spensley, and Mr. Miller all stood on
the Liberal ticket, and yet Mr. Isaac, on the Con-
servatlve one, f?ot beaten. We notice that Alia-
tralian titles are recognised at home, as Mr.
Spenslev figures all through, quite unquestioned,
as the “Hon. Howard Spensley. a title, by
courtesy, which he acquired while Solicitor-
General in Gavan Duffy’s Ministry, and which
we had thought only to be recognisable in the
colony of Victoria. The full report Is not to
hand, but we Relieve that Sir John Bennett did
not go to tho poll, recognising, as a watchmaker,
the time o’ day too well.
Mr. Kerferd, the Victorian Attorney-
General, has been causing much talk and many
letters In the dailies lately. It Is said that, like old
Marjory in “Simon the Cellarer,” he has been
“ heard to declare that he ought to be settled lor
life.” A Bill now before the House, and being
rapidly rushed through it, is mainly to provide for
the appointment of another Supreme Court judge.
The Attorney-General has ane* offlcio nvht to any
vacant Judgeship during his term of office. The
fear of many seems to be that he will appoint him-
self to this billet. As he is far more of a politician
than a lawyer the profession do not desire him on
the bench. Besides that much, it 1» strongly urged
that there are now no arrears and but few cases
set do wn for hearing, and so no need I or any ad-
ditional judge. Mr. Kerferd is, it is thought, keep-
ing the Commlsslonership of Titles unfilled as
something to fall back upon. It looks likely, as
this snug billet has now been six months vacant.
Mr. Kerf erd is evidently taking caro of himself for
what may happen at ensuing general election
The Victorian legislators have gone into
the usual colonial blunder of over legislation To
stop the beastly spectacle of boys ana women
crowding into Courts to gorge on prurient details
and cruelly torture the unfortunate witnesses, it
was decided rightly to exclude them. But not
content with this, these wise men went further
and decided that the Court might exclude all per-
sons not directly intf rested In the case, including
reporters. Nobody needs be told what a dan-
gerous power this Is to lodge m the hands or a
Court. Colonial lawyers and judges are not no-
torious for the chastity of ail their dealings, and
it is concelveable that ca«es may occasionally
ariie when Judge or counsel may find it advisable
to cast a brotherly wink at one another and clear
the Court of inconvenient hearers and reporters—
just as did the Westminster magistrates in the his-
toric Jeffrey’s case. It Is not so long ago that a
judge was found dead in a brothel, and it need not
he long before another may be found there very
much alive, Indeed. Surely It should not be so
difficult a feat to secure nubile decency without
treading on public liberty I
A Radical journal thus scathingly ad-
dresses Lord Salisbury, the Tory leader, on the
subject of his hopeless alliance with the Irish
Nationalists:—“Our attitude is honest and manly:
but yours is simply shameful For years you
have opposed every remedial Irish measure, for
years yon have made political capital cut of every
Liberal Irish concession. You taunted us with
toe Kllmalnham compact. Vou shrieked aloud
that we were philandering with treason whenever
our statesmen urged the redrtsi of Irish wrongs;
and now you eat all your words, you go back
upon your entire policy, and In order to secure a
few Irish votes at the general elrctlon, you-the
Queen s Prime Minister—enter into an alliance
offensive and defensive with the men who threaten
to boycott English goods, to make English legis-
lation impossible, and to overthrow English rule.
Che Irish have a right to try for all they can get.
They are patriots, though they may be mistaken
ones. But your attitude, my lord, is not natriotlo
You are on your knees craving help of the men
you have denounced »s traitors; you are the
patron of the Moonlighter, the boon companion of
the boycotter, the ”
Listen to Vanity Fair (of 24th October),
the ‘ Toriest ” paper, in England:—“ Too coalition
in France between the Opportunists, or Moderate
Liberals, ani the Radicals, will not survive the
elections; the new Chamber will be divided l'«to
three parties, described by the Decays as an un-
constitutional Right, a Mountain, and a Plain;
and the irreconcilable Radicals will force the
Government to follow their lead In attacking re-
ligion and confiscating property. Much the same
result would follow in England from the immoral
coali’Ion of the Whigs with the Radicals, if the
people of England were so forgetful of their duty
as to give them a majority at,the coming election.
The Whig would then be pushed into a corner,
and Mr. Chamberlain would hare his own way in
disestablishing the Church, confiscating the land,
and setting up gratuitous and godless schools.
The other day it was cabled to the Australian
dailies that “Mr. Chamberlain bad ruined the
Liberals.” That was j ust after a , fe
successes. Now that It Is plain the bibermlfl have
b iat,on the Tories, the tremendous significance of
Vanity Fair’s admission that tue Radicals ar© to
be the ruling power, will be seen at a glancs.
This is from the Sydney Express (RX\),
and it ought to know:-” We regret that wears,
unable to give any authoritative affirmation to
tne rumour which has for some time been circu-
lated to the effect that Mr. Parnell had re-
ceived into the Church It has even been stated
that the Irish National leader abjured toe errors
of Protestantism some months ngo. I he wonder
is that a man of such logical acumen, and Possess-
ing so conspicuous a capacity for grasping facts,
should have continued to be a member of the Dis-
established Irish Church.” It is indeed singular,
.still, when we consider the history °f t h ®
Cnurch, and the obvlous'y inadequate replies It
vouchsafes to some of the most momentous ques-
tions. the fact of Mr. Parnell a holding aloof is.
after all. not so wooden ul. Hi U by no means
singular. Of the great men living In the world at
the present moment- statesmen, scientists, hit era-
teurs-how many have any real belief in the
stupid dogmas to which e lolesiastlca cling
such obstinacy ? No Institution ev -r enjoyed the
opportunities of the Chuich for raising mankind,
or neglected them so persistently, notwith-
standing her claim to a divine origin. If .her
origin could only be judg ed by some oi her acts.
It Is not heaven that would ue credited with her
birth. .
Encouraged by his brilliant oratorical
Successes. Mr Chamberlain, tne Radical chief
(says an English writer) goei merrily on and waxes
more brilliant as he goes. His annihilation ot
Lora Salisbury was exquisitely accomplished.
“ The Cockney from the smoky town took the
haughty lord of many acres, oroke him across
his anee, jumped upon him. and left him smashed
destroyed, and pulverised.” The medical profes-
sion is reaping the benefit of Mr. Chamberlain s
speeches. The. Conservatives all oyer the ooun-
try fflve wfty to sucki unooDtrollAble treozy when*
ever this gentleman opens his mouth that their
health is seriously undermined. It Is not on y
candidates like Colonel Brookfield who lose their
sober senses and shriek aloud for Joseph to be
strung up on a gallows, but the quiet, stav-at-
home old Tories are quite demented. Every
speech of Mr. Chamberlain s. it Is calculated,
drives 2000 Tories temporarily Insane, causes 300
fits ot apoplexy, brings on 850 attacks of gout, and
la at the root or about 5000 cases of sudden lacia-
positlon. Joseph is simply driving the poor old
Tory party raving mad. At the Caricoo, whenever
he has delivered a speech five doctors are always
in readiness to attend to the members. Lord
SaPsbury himself is never allowed by his medical
adviser to read one of Joe’s speeches until he
has taken off his collar and cravat, sponged his
head with cold water, and taken a stiff glass of
whisky.
We have received the “ Report of Chief
Inspector of 8>ock (N.8.W.) lor 3881.” It is a
valuable addition to the current literature of the
day. Armed with this, the Government Gazette,
Hansard, and the Sydney teno we could, it
suitahiy subsidised, Inauca such a general emigra-
tion from the old world as nas never been seen
since the original exodus. The “Report” reaches
to some 500 pages, but the report occupies less than
13 of these, the balance Delug devoted to an im-
pertinent exposure of the private affairs of
Farmers Jones, Brown, &c., the extent of their
holdings, the number of their animal possessions,
their cats, dogs, goats, children, wives, mothers,
grandmothers, and so on. This interesting pub-
lication employed £1091 13i. Id. of the public
money for an issue ot 1500 copies, being at the
rate of nearly 15s. for each book. Now that Go-
vernment has commenced this system of Inquiry,
let us have more of it. Let us know how much
money our merchants make annually with their
profits on the original outlay; let us know the
names of all who, since the foundation of the
colony, hare been convicted of any offence, been
insolvent, transposed, imported, hanged, flogged,
or likely to be so; let us know the circulation of
the newspapers, with their poltical principles; let
us know the wnole number of the elect in the
colony; and, above all, let us know when we will
have a Government which will send these holders
of sinecure offices splitting wood.
Curious are some of the items of news of
the general election in Great Britain. Justin
M'Carthy may now add to his “ History of Our
Own Times ” that he was defeated at Londonderry
as a Parnellite, while his son (also a litterateur)
succeeded on the same ticket at Liverpool. The
probabilities were all the other way. The Queen’s
son-in-law has been deleated at the London suburb
of Hampstead by the President of her Council.
That such a good man and one who has done such
service as damuel Pmnsoli should be beaten
by Howard Vincent, is tor our regret.
The humourist of the House, Sir Wilfred
Lawson, has been unsuccessful, and so has the re-
presentative of the House of Kothschlld. Our
visitor, Sir William M'Arthur, has not been ns suc-
cessful as our later guest, Howard Vincent, finding
himself, as does Lord Canqgton’s brother, nowhere
on the poll. Both Labouchere of Truth, and
Borthwlck of the Morning Post, are again re-
turned. Old Londoners will think it queer to read
of a member for “The Strand,” but that is the
name of the London sub-divisional electorate re-
presented by Mr. W. H. Smith. While luck has
favoured three new Australian candidates.lt has
deserted that old one, Mr. Childers. Two manufac-
turing cities near to each other show very
differently Indeed. Birmingham is all for Liberals,
and Manchester for Conservatives. Jacob Bright,
John’s brother, is her« rejected. He was never
returned on his own merits, but by family In-
fluence—John Bright being, In fact, “Jaeooa
ladder ” In that matter.
Mr. Chamberlain goes for Church Dises-
tablishment, graduated taxation, payment of
members, free education, and peasant proprietors
—the latter to be established at the public expense.
Why he should have inserted a peasant proprietary
in his programme is not quite clear, considering
that tuoh a measure would be altogether in favour
of the Tories, in the Irontrankot whose enemies
the pushing Birmingham screwmaker claims a
place. Parcel England out into small farms, giv-
ing to Hodge the fee simple ot the ground, and the
result will be precisely similar to what it has been
in Prance, where the main strength of the re-
actionaries Is derived from the peasantry. English
landholders, whose fathers grew rich on Church
robberies under the Tudors, turned the yeomanry
Into vagrants by depriving them of the interest
they possessed In the ground they tilled, and im-
pudently enclosed public commons, would no
doubt be glad to secure a vast sum of money for
land which was, in many cases, obta'neu by care-
faced fraud. But a sense of the injustice ot allow-
ing private property in land at all is making head-
way. That the ground, which was not made by
man, and which is the ultimate source of all
wealth, should be seized and held for the benefit
of a few is a wrong so palpable that the wonder is
that it was not destroyed long ago. Mr. Chamber-
lain is quite too late in the day. When tne lessons
taught by Gporge have sunk into the public mind
and stiown how legal chicanery, continued through
centuries has robbed the people of their inherit-
ance, far more drastic measures of land reform
than that snadowed forth by Mr. Chamberlain will
be demanded.
4 And so,’ writes our London correspondent,
‘Dibbs is now Premier of N.S.W. 1 1 anew him
seven or eight years ago; he was one of the very
last men I should have prophoslea would ever
attain such a position. Indeed, he was then—on
the account of the Chinese labour business—the
most disliked man in the country. But I now re-
member that there was a great amount of pluck
and combativeness in him, and if I had as much
“savee ” then as 1 have now, [ should have pro-
bably predicted that he would have punched his
way upward. Talking of punching, reminds mo
of an incident in which Dibos was prominently
concerned, of which I was a spectator, but which
was kent out of the papers. It was either in the
year *77 or ’78 that a meeting of the Australian
Mutual Provident Society was held in the Chamber
of Commerce, especially convoked io consider the
desirability or otherwise of published lists of
members of the Society for the use of candidates
for directorships Nor withstanding the presence
of a number of bald and grey-headed dignitaries
—including, if I remember aright. Sir Saul Samuel
—the meeting was, to say the least of It, conducted
in rather a heated fashion, hut a crisis was
reached when G. B Oiobs acknowledged that
he had had a list ot members privately prepared,
and had made use of it. Upon hearing tnis state-
ment, a man at the other end of the room, with a
plenitude ot whisker and a sparsity of teeth,'
bounded to his feet. For the life of me I can’t re-
member his name, but I believe he was an
official of some kind. * 4 The man who would
do such a thing is a scoundrel 1" he yelled. G.K u.
rose to his full height—6ft. 3in., or thereabouts
and quietly walked round the room with the re-
mark: “I did not quite catch what that gentle-
man said. ’ Standing opposite the man with the
whiskers be asked him to kindly repeat the re-
mark. “You are a scoundrel, ’’ shrieked the man,
his hair sticking straight out with fury. There-
upon Dibbs let out with his left and struck.his
traducer on the nose. He of the whiskers made *
dab at Dibbs with his umbrella, and then they
were sepiratod and the chairman begged the re-
porters present to take no notice of the little
unpleasantness. And, unless I am very much
mistaken, this ia the first time that the incident
has ever Deen recorded la print, unless, indeed, it
may be found in ibe minuted ot cie A.ftf.r.b.
, Prince op Wales.
TWENTY YEARS ”” H ° ULD
GLOOM.
No fireworks now at Potts’s Point,
The times are too much out of joint;
No dinners at the AVlndaor Royal—
The ott-ted tcoundrois proved disloyal.
No special trains the guests to bring,
No iced champagne-no anything!
Vacant his seat, that golden chap,
Ah I his seat vacant—what a gap 1
We've marked him there, as uo reclined,
A Monument without a Mind I
An eye glass, boots, a watch and chain—
A breathing thing, without a brain I
A Senator—Oh, shed a tear I -
Without the guost of an idea.
He could not speak—the reason chief
Is that he was too full of beef 1
instead of eloquence galore
Beet oozed out at every pore 1
When he with memoers erst did rank
He sat there one tremendous blank!
O, horrified we arc to note
A dinner will not get a vote 1
Nor liquorof the ‘ proper sort”
Ensure the groveller’s support I
Confound it, sirs, this world of sin
Is really not worth living in.
Now he is gone, with his swell togs.
There’ll be no Minister for Dogs.


GOMPAGNONI CATERING GO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. * 7
THE oldest and leading Catering Establishment in N.8.W, Caterers to His Worship the Mayor.
Municipal Council of Sydney, the A.J.C., City Club, *0., See. ’
The Dining Saloons for lAdies and Oentlomen iare the Finest, Coollest, and loftiest in the colony.
FIRST-CLASS DAILY. Private Bar —Good Wine List.
GrHILiIi “ * ri jn *■
- RILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. (after the
Theatres. Select your own steak, Ac., and sec it grilled in the room. This is one of the acquisitions
or the city, and along-felt waotT
and City Club, upstairs.
Inspection invited- Club rooms of the Prince Alfred Clun
Si D. TOLLESACHE, General Manaarer.
wimwco.
LIMITED,
356 George-strefit,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
* of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EAST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W. H. PALING & Co.
356 Georgre-street, Sydney.
'">J£AO "A
A CHANCE to secure a first-class
Farm at Gosford, for £15 per acre,
payable at the rate of 2s. per acre
per week and no interest, is an oppor-
tunity for a profitable investment that a
iiiinr m a ai never allows
WISE MAN*«
month a large number of actual set-
tlers availed themselves of this liberal
offer by the Vendors of the Model Farms,
n|"|| 111| I IT Blocks, and com.
mIIIiIiH I improve-
UwWWlI I ments on choice
lands, well adapted to dairy, live stock
and general farming purposes, from which
AC" A Hi A A can k® se l ecte( i that
■ U HI IVI he excelled
I ■■ 111*1 in the Australias,
FOR PARTICULARS, MAPS, ETC., WRITE TO
BOYD & KING,
AUCTIONEERS,
96 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
WILLIAM BALL,
THE “PROFESSIONAL” AND PHARMACEU-
TICAL CHEMIST.
61 Boubke-strebt East, Melbourne.
THE Toilet and Theatrical Requisites, manu-
factured by W. Ball, are composed of the
purest ingredients, and are guaranteed not to
cause the least injury to the most delicate skin.
There are few ladies now, either in private life
or of the Theatrical Profession, who do not look
upon the
BLOOM OF PEACHES
(REGISTERED)
as the one article that Is perfectly pafe and satis-
factory to use either for the
THEATRE, BALLROOM, OR PROMENADE.
ii
Our Cupids Manufacturing Bloom of Peaches
‘ Dear Sir,—I consider your * make-up' perfect,
and should never think of using anything else j
while it is possible to obtain it.—Yours truly,
Ed. Farley.”
The following ladies and gentlemen have also
written, speaking in the highest terms of these
Toilet Requisites :—Mesdames Louise Pomeroy,
Alice Deorwyue, Myra Kemble, Eva Davenport,
Roland watt Phillips, etc., etc.; Messieurs George
Titheradge, George Hignold, Sheridan, Henry
Hodgson, W. J. Holloway, Fred. Marshall, Brian
Darley, Frank Cates, etc.
‘To he obtained of all Chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
Wholesale Agents, N.S.W.:
Messrs. PROSSER & CO., Sydney,
CONTINUED SUCCESS
OF
RILEY BROTHERS’’
0
ORIGINAL
£5 mniT sms!
PACKED In CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
. C u ai T? a K e pald by mal1 a11 over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer. .
16 s y8,temha8 been In operation for 12
yean, during which time we have despatched over
factfon h ° USand bale8 ’ a 1 the greatest satls-
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
£5 LADY’S BALE.
® Ladles’ Chemises
? pairs Drawers
* Night-gowns
„ Ladlus' Camisoles
3 Ladles’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longcloth and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
fit mourning bale.
35 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
:1 Lady's Bonnet
!l Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVES.
On receipt of 3a. In
Stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 3 or 4-
button kid orsilk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For accouchements, w<
have also a Bale contain-
ing Ir-lant s Clothing
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5
15s.
We send, carriage free
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for ilfteer
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We havo a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shal
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials - Silks, Velvets, &c.—witt
prices, and full instruction for self-measurement
if applied to.
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford street, Sydney.
Originators of the celebrated £5 Bales of Drapers
NOTICE.
A DVERTISERS and others will please take
notice that Mr. FRANK A. HALL is NO
LONGER CONNECTED WITH THIS OFFICE
as Canvasser, Collector, or otherwise.
W. H. TRAILL,
Managing Director.
The Bulletin Office,
Sydney, November, 1885.
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
18 GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
881 (George-street, Sydney.
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
AUCTIONEERS,GENERAL COMMISSION
AGENTS.
SALES of HORSES and PEDIGREE STOCK
he'd daily at the CITY HORSE and CATTLE
occupied by Mr. Kiss). Also, sales
S-rnw at HOMEBUBH and CORPORA-
TION YARDS.
Office-175 CASTLEREAQH STREET.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found
last with the Argosy Braces at G owing Bror,
A
m
/
WL
GOWING BROS
Have Just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
-fiLrgosy^Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. 6d„ 3s., 8s. 6d.,4k 4g. a
BOWING - BROS.,
MAN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, If
MS had 411 dMriMtrwti
CHRISTMAS CARDS
AND
CHRISTMAS SATIN ART PRINTS.
ALL STATIONERS.
Sole Agents, ROBERT JOLLEY & CO.
WeLBIKIKNE and STBSUY.
. XHP**e*XX\\XVXVXG\v
PAUL LIEBE^^i'
UNLIKE OTHERS
DOES NOT
FERMENT
WPW
* LVi:
DR. THOMAS
may be consulted on
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affections.
Medical Establishment, 208. Elizabeth-street,
near Bathurst-stmet.
flours: 9 till 10 dally.
Dr. Thomas is the only medical man advertising
in Australia who has passed the degrees of an Eng-
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations passed
—Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians,
London, 18*4; Member of the Boyal College of
Surgeons, Loudon. 1859.
AYER’S PILLS.
A large proportion of the diseases which
cause human suffering result from derange-
ment of the stomach, bowels, and liver.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused by their derange-
ment, ineluding Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt, and
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of these
Pills by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation in
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
substances only, and are absolutely free from
calomel or any other injurious ingredient.
A Sufferer from Headache writes:
“Ayer’s Pills are invaluable to me, and
are my constant companion. I have been
a severe sufferer from Headache, and your
Pills are the only thing I could look to
for relief. One dose will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. They
are the most effective and the easiest physic
I have ever found. It is a pleasure to me to
speak in their praise, and I always do so
when occasion offers.
W. L. Page, of W. L. Page & Bro.”
Franklin St., Richmond,Va., June 3,1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Pills in number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. We constantly keep them
on hand at our home, and prize them as a
gleasant, safe, and reliable family medicine,
'OR DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable.
, . J. T. Hayes.”
Mexia, Texas, June 17, 1882.
The Rev. Francis B. Harlowe, writing
from Atlanta , (?«., says; “ For some years
past I have been subject to constipation,
from which, in spite of the use of medi-
cines of various kinds, I suffered increasing
inconvenience, until some months ago I
began taking Ayer’s Pills. They have
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
have vastly improved my general health.”
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to the
whole physical economy.
prepared by
Dr.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass,
Sold by all Druggists.
OLD, AND
MIDDLE-
AGED.
All experience the wonderful
beneficial effects of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
Ears, or any scrofulous or syph-
ilitic taint, may be made healthy and strong
by its use.
Sold by all Druggists; $1, six bottles for $5.
ELLIOTT BROS, and 8. HOFFNUNG & CO.
Wholesale Agents.
H
OILOWAY
PILLS.
A never-failing remedy in all Derangements of
the LIVER and STOMACH, they may be used with
perfect confidence by young and old.
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years is
a guarantee of their efficacy. Thousands of testi-
monials, from princes to peasant®, attest their
marvellous virtues.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st,, London
Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxurd-
street, London, they are spurious.
STUDY ICUNUkl
and
HavcyourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
Ell George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
... Parasols made to match ocs-
■Stumea. Rsp alia neatly bas-
aatsfi
UMHRlUAS
•i—
&
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this wond-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage In the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULLDOG
ALB, which is to bo obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTBLL & CO.,
Sole Agents.
tAl&n f false. t/'lMetasiery
f'f
P
rf
ft
Pf
\\f ILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
ft of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &c.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &c.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, In variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograpn
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Bond and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLiABfl~BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
ARTIFICIALTFETH
DENTISTS
133 ELI ZABETH ST
CLEARANCE SALE. BONA FIDE.’
J. LAWLER,
608 George-si., Sydney
(Established 1860).
FRONT PREMISES having BEEN CONDEMNED,
the
WHOLE STOCK MUST BE CLEARED
AT A SACRIFICE.
SALE CAN ONLY LAST ONE MONTH.
NOTE-ONE MONTH ONLY.
BEDSTEADS
BEDDING
COTS
GLASSES
FURNITURE
CHAIRS
BLANKETS
QUILTS
MUST BE CLEARED
to admit ef
NEW PREMISES BEING ERECTED,
for which tenders have been called.
SALE CAN ONLY LAST ONE MONTH,
So Purchase Early,
BARGAINS I BARGAINS I BARGAIN'S I
at
J- Lawler's,
608 GfiOAGfi SYDNEY.


D R HI T U B ■ SHOWROOMS.
BRADLEY, NiWTON. and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets. Sydney.
Hall furniture, hatstands.
CHAIRS, LARGP. ASSORTMENT.
Library furniture, centre and bide
TABLES. BOOfCCAS :s, 8BCRBTAIBB8,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, In tiXQUlSITB
taste, the very latest fashion ; ’▼ell worthy oi
Inspection, Bradley. Newton, and Lamb.
ALL CABINETS for Choloo China, ®o.
VERT ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woodc.
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON.
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
IHIGMT-FOUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
li Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washatand, dressing table an-
glasa, and two chairs. Tht< lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB. O’Connell-atieet.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—W ARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 3 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and IAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 30s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 37s. 8d.; Washstands from 13s. 6d.:
Cheat of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s ;
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.: Clothes Horses, fromlOa. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streefa.
.•sv
•« ■
3
OQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oWOt) strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone. In handsome
Case. Free at rail or wharves lot cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
ku ASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
JO rooms. New designs covered to order in any
material.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and restful,
a speciality. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O'Connell-street.
Drawingroom cabinets.-Early English,
Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs.
Just opened. BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sts.
n RAWING-ROOM FURNITURE.—The latest
development of fashion. ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically Inlaid with
coloured woods. Exqusito examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEW ION. and LAMB.
Elegant novelties in bbdhoom FUR-
NITURE. full suites, in 8 ATTN WOOD. ROSE-
WOOD. and other CHOICE WOODS, richly Inlaid.
Will well repay inspection.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-st.
FOLDING-SCREENS (3 and 4 'old) for the Draw-
ing and Dining Rooms and Office. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
GARDEN SEATS, 30b: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
ATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES. 203.; and
large variety of Chairs, &o ; special designs,
extra quality. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sts.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for clubs, restaurants,
smoking rooms, &g.
SELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIL-
Patented.
= S
53
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet Ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, Instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It Is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort Is desired.
The frames arc of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ton pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four Inches in thickness
when ft mod. Price 80s. BRADLEY. NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
3s. 6d. extra.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb.
RON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, Spring & O’Connell sts.
C
OPY1NG PRESSES. BRADLEY. NEWTON,
and LAMB. Spring and O’Connell streets.
LMTALL MIRRORS and BRACKETS —Noveltiea
F ▼ lu plush and velvets and in all woods,
om 5/6. ,
Elegant” Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled in colours. Bradley, Newton, and
amb.
■'lOMMUoE CHAIRS; BIDETS, with PAN;
j Shaving Stance. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb
rAPANBSK BLINDS (extra quality), fitted with
pulleys and cords, 6x8 9/6; 8x8,11/-; 9x8,
/-; 10 x 8.14/-; 13 x 8, 16/6; 12 x 10 20/-.
BRauLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
fCE CHESTS, with CUPBOARDS, all sizes, from
L 27s Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, spring and
’Connell streets. .
T1URNITURE—TH E LA KGBST STOCK IN THE
tj COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
(Jring.and O’Connell streets.
Emma Boynton.
A STORY OF GREAT SUFFERING.
I have been afflicted for one year and nine months
wlthwhat the doctors called rupia. I was taken with
dreadful pains in my head and body, my feet be-
came so swollen that I was perfectly helpless, sores
broke out on my body and face, my appetite left
me, 1 could not sleep nights, I lost flesh, and soon
became so wretched that I longed to die. In this
condition, after trying various remedies, I engaged
two homoeopathic physicians, Dr —and Dr.— >,
and was under their treatment a year and a half,
and failed to get even temporary relief. My
disease grew worse; my sufferings became terrible.
I tried “faith cure,”but was unsuccessful. Kind
friends then tried to get me into the City Hospital,
but the superintendent, after seeing me, declined
to admit suoh a case as mine there, and said I
would not live six weeks unless I was relieved.
On the 30th of April last I sent for Dr. F. M. Blod-
gett, of boston. He came, and after an examina-
tion, pronounced my case the most hopeless he had
ever witnessed. My photograph, which was then
taken at his desire, while I lay propped up in bed,
showed the disease as it appeared ou my face ; but
no picture could possibly indicate how much pain
and suffering lendured. t he eruption had increased
to great burrowing, foul-smelling sores, from
which a reddish matter constantly poured, forming
crusts of great thickness. Other sores appeared on
various parts of my body, and I became so weak
that I could not leave my bed. In this condition,
and by advice of Dr. Blodgett, I began the use of
the Cctiodba Remedies, the Resolvent inter-
nally three times per day, and the Cdtxcuea and
CuxiCDBA Soap externally. In just sixty days.i. e.,
June 30,1 was so far recovered as to be able to go
alone to the gallery and sit for my photograph,
which shows more than words can do the wonder-
ful cure these remedies have wrought in less than
nine weeks. The sores have all disappeared from
my face and body, my appetite and strength have
returned; 1 am free from pain, my flesh is increas-
ing and leangoaboutandenjoy life. My restora-
tion to perf ect health is now only a matter of a few
weeks. My friends think my cure miraculous;
and I shall never cease to think that the Cxttioxjba
Remedies have saved my life
iSMMA BOYNTON. 39 Chapman Street.
Boston, Mass , July 17,1884.
Knowing the composition and curative value
of the Cdticdba Remedies, I recommended them
to Miss Boynton, with the results above described.
I indorse her statement as a faithful and true ac-
count of her sufferings and cure.
F. M. Blodgett, M. D. Hotel Pabthia.
Boston, Mass.U. b. A.
Ask for Wolfe's Schnapps and take no other.
When refreshing slumbers fail to visit
your pillow, take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Mb. Db Ooubot Bbownb (late Deputy -
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guido,” and Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Arbitrator. Adviser,
and Mining Titles Agent, Beresford Chambers,
53 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
Sedentary pursuits are enfeebling. Then
take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps, the grandest tonic in
the world.
SOCIAL
The weather at Brisbane on 19th Novem-
ber was, as usual, fearfully hot for the opening of
Parliament, and most of the ladies who assembled
there were attired in light summer costumes
Lady Musgrave (who was accompanied by Bishops
Barry and Stanton) wore a very pretty dress of
light fawn satin covered with ficelle lacs and a
Marie Stuart bonnet, the crown being comptsed
of a network of pearls with ficelle lace and
feathers. Mrs. Griffith was elegantly attired in
white,embroidered with deep red and white; small
white bonnet. Mrs. Macdonald Patterson’s very
stylish costume was composed of shot navy-blue
silk vest and side draperies of navy and salmon-
pink striped corduroy velvet; cream bonnet, with
salmon-pink velvet. Mrs. Mein looked elegant in
cream satin and lace, charming French bonnet.
Mrs Joph looked exceedingly well in white Indian
muslin with black velvet waistband and cream
and gold bonnet. Accompanying her was Miss
Annie Macdonald, in black silk and white bonnet.
A beautiful dress was of rich mauve satin, the
shade now so popular in London and Paris. Cream
and ficelle, as in Sydney, appeared to be the reign-
ing colours.
• » *
The usual annual dinner was given on
Monday, November 30, by the Sydney Reform
Club, to their president, Sir John Robertson, to
celebrate the anniversary of his birthday. The
chair was taken by the vice-president of the Club,
the Hon. George Thornton, and the Hon. G. R.
Dibbs occupied the vice-chair. The usual loyal
and complimentary speeches were made, and Sir
John Robertson had a most enthusiastic reception.
Before Lord and Lady Augustus Loftus’
departure for Europe, they visited, with Sir Henry
and Lady Loch, several places of interest in
Melbourne. On Thursday, the 3rd of December,
a party consisting of His Excellency Sir Henry
and Lady Loch, Lord Augustus and Lady Loftus,
the Premier, the Chief Secretary, with several
members of the Ministry, attended at the Exhibi-
tion building for the purpose of inspecting the
Victorian Exhibits for the Indian and Colonial
Exhibition. The majority of the exhibits have
been already despatched to Europe, but the dis-
play of goods still remaining conveys a most
favourable impression of the resources and in-
dustries of the colony. The present Exhibition does
not comprise more than one fortieth of the im-
mense collection already brought together under
the skilful direction of the committee, aided by
the secretary, Mr. James Thomson.
• * *
The marriage of Mr. Prank Fowler, the
pianist, and eldest son of the Frank Fowler, the
well-known Australasian author of olden days,
and Miss Ethel Addle, the leading lady of toe
Grattan Riggs company, took place on the 20th
October last at the Cathedral, Newcastle, N.8.W.
* * v
Quite a stir was created in Burwood on
Tuesday, December 1st, when Miss Griffith, of
Burwood, was married to Mr. Sydney Nott, of
Rodmyre. The wedding was an unusually pretty
one, and long before the ceremony crowds of
would be spectators were unable to gain admis-
sion to the church. There were fourteen brides-
maids, whose dresses were nearly as pretty as the
wearers, one little maid of about six summers
looking particularly charming. The ceremony
was performed by the grandfather of the bride,
and only one thing was wanting to make it a per-
fect little wedding—music. The bridal party,
numbering about 100, then repaired to Lau-
renny," where an excellent breakfast awaited
them. The happy pair left shortly afterwards for
“somewhere,” but where it was no one could
discover, as great precaution had been observed
in order to “ keep it dark.” Mr. and Mrs. Griffith
gave an enjoyable ball the same evening.
• • •
Paling’s Christmas Annual, containing 11
songs, with choruses, is a good shilling’s worth.
“ Babbling Brook,” one of Sam Keenan’s favourite
songs, and “Vemta,” a waltz song, are amongst
the number, A penny a song is pretty reason-
able, especially if they are as well printed as is the
case with these contained in the Annual.
♦ * •
A most enjoyable day was spent by some
70 or 80 friends and relatives at the residence of
Mr. and Mrs. W. Fullagarand Mr. and Mrs. H. W.
Fullagar at Parramatta last week on the occasion
of the anniversary of their wedding days, lennls,
bowls, and round games at the residence of the
latter in this afternoon, and dancing, “spooning,
and innocent enjoyment at the house of the former
in the evening.
* • •
Madame Charbonnct-Kellermann javes
her matinee muslcale in the Protestant Hall on
Saturday afternoon, 13th. The programme is
short but choice, and as Madamo will be assisted
bv her best pupils and some picked professionals,
the entertainment is certain to be successful.
At the end of the programme. Sir Patrick Jen-
nings will present the prizes and medals to the
successful pupils.
• • •
Miss Pattie BroWo ha? accepted an engage-
ment at the Sydney Theatre Royal for the Cnrisc-
mas Pantomime. That’s goad.
.> «. •
A very successful fancy dress ball was
held in the Academy of Mu«ic. Carcoar, N. S. W.,
on Wednesday evening, December 2nd. The
guests were received by Mrs. Robertson and Mr.
Burge, who appeared as Cherry Ripe and Gretohen
respectively. Over seventy guests partook of
their hospitality, and carried out a well-arranged
programme of twenty dances to the strains of ex-
cellent music provided by Bathurst professionals.
With two or three exceptions, every one appeared
in fancy dress, the costumes of the ladies es-
pecially being ‘.varied and tasteful. With so
many excellent dancers amongst the fair sex,
the task of nicking out the belle was excep-
tionally difficult. Of the married ladles.
Cherry Ripe and the Queen of Hearts—
the latter character being admirably sustained
by a charming lady from the City of the Plains
were perfect waltzers, and dressed with exquisite
taste. Of those ladies still eligible to brighten the
home of some disconsolate bachelor, a petite
demoiselle, from Orange, who looked bewitching
as Esmeralda, danced divinely, and was perfectly
suited in her character. The usher, in announc-
ing the various arrivals, would occasionally cause
a slight sensation by giving his own version of
the costumes. When it was heard that a Britain
Pheasant was about to enter the room, anxiety to
inspect the plumage of this bird was naturally
aroused, and it took some time to realise that a
Breton Peasant was the real intention of the lady s
costume. Of the otner ladles, two sisters, who
appeared as Folly and Bo Peep, had no lack of par t-
ners: the remaining characters represented being
Nancy Lee (J», Snow (2), Night (3), Good Luck,
Fairy Bell, Fe«ret-Me-Not, Swiss Peasant, Spanish
Lady, ClariceVFiower Girl, A Little Sweep, Gipsy,
Fortune Teller. Red Cross Nurse, Scotch Lassie,
Starlight, &o. Of the gentlemen, a popular doctor
from Cowra, long resident in the district, looked
perfectly happy and delightfully cool as a Sicilian
Boatman; his wife appearing in the evening dteis
of an Egyptian Lady—a rich costume well suited
to her figure The most complete chtractor
was that of Mr. Pang Whang Shee, whos« smile
was even more childlike and bland than that
of Bret Harte's Celestial. Two gentlemen of
the Elizabethan and Stuart periods wore very
becoming costumes, as also did a couple or
youths attired as Neapolitan I sfi-rme c Tu«
military and navy were well repress t » , the face
of one man-o’-war’B man especially being artlui y
sunburnt. A Captain of the Royal Navy looked
as if he had worn the uniform for years. Pierrot
was there, and may have been a fool, but his folly
this time took the shape of entertaining the
visitors, for he and the Andalusian were the
founders of the feast. There were the usual
Cricketers, Footballers, a Stockman, Digger, Blue-
coat Boy,, soldier of Port de la Halle (this
from the usher sounded uncommonly like a swear
word), and a couple of Evening Costumes. The
Queen of the Fairies was a delicate, graceful little
lady, who was well attended by sundry small Gay
Cavaliers, Sailor Boys, &c. The small son of the
Mayor was becomingly attired as a Courtier in the
time of Charles I. There were exactly the same
number of ladies as gentlemen present, and In
consequence, few of the former were allowed
much breathing time, and the most enjoyable
evening that the oldest resident (who was present)
can remember in Carcoar was brought to a close
just before daylight.
* ♦ *
The Bazaar epidemic is spreading, Wool-
lahra being the latest suburb to be seized
therewith. The school-room of the Ocean-
street Congregational Church was the scene of the
“business of pleasure ” on Saturday evening the
28th November. Decorations were tasteful, stalls
pretty, articles useful, ornamental, and bric-a-
brac Visitors thronged. Sales amounted to £130
the first three days. Stall holders were Mrs. Moore,
Mrs. Skye, Mrs. Borton, Mrs. Blumer, and two
daughters, Mrs. Churchill, Mrs. Hall, Mrs. Hewlett,
Mrs. Whitehead, Misses Walles, Misses Bozon, and
Miss Young. These ladies worked hard for weeks
to produce a charming result. The feature was a
“ Mock Art Gallery,” which represented emblem-
atically, by play upon words, local and familiar
names. For instance: The programme list of pic-
tures read:—” Circular Quay,” and the visitor was
amusingly disappointed when a bent key was
shown; “Bradley’s Head” was a photo, of the
late pastor, the Rev. Mr. Bradley ; “ Sydney
Heads” our celebrities in group; “Food for
Tears,” onions; “H.M- the Queen in bronze,” a
penny; “H.M. Bracelets,” handcuffs; and so on,
causing much merriment. Flower and refresh-
ment stalls, concerts, with drum and fife band,
each admirably managed, added to the comfort
and happiness of all. The object of the Bazaar
was to liquidate debt on the school-room.
* * *
Mr. Cowdery, C.B., of Redmyre, was
married on the 3od December, to Miss Giles
(daughter of Mr. Giles of the well-known firm in
Sydney), at Croydon Congregational Church. The
bride, and her maids, who “ were seven,” looked
charming. The latter—two of whom were the
Misses Thompsons, nelces of the bride—wore cream
dresses, relieved by cerise. The happy pair will
spend a week of the honeymoon at Moss Vale, and
the rest of the time at Melbourne, before return-
ing to their home, which is to be at Burwood.
♦ * *
Several of Mr. Donald Manaon’a particu-
lar friends have decided to picnic him on Satur-
day, the 19th, prior to his early departure lor
America.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Madame Charbonnet-Kelllermann’s
Pupils’ Concert December 13
Herr Francik’s Musical Entertain-
ment, University Hall December 13
Seventh Annual Regatta of the
Glebe Rowing Club December 13
cert, New Masonic Hall December 17
Messrs. Needs’ Pupils’ Bill, Niths
dale December 17
Mr. F. G. Halle«ell’s Benefit Con-
cert, New Masonic Hall December 17
Sydney Liedertafel Concerts (3), Pro-
testant Hall Dec. 33 & 33
Wednesday, December 9.
Dear Peg,— “ Curiosity, thy name is woman
(as well as man), is a quite natural paraphrase,
especially in cases where Fashion is concerned.
Otherwise so many spectators would not have
climbed the distant heights of North Shore in the
very hottest hours of last Thursday. May be
“One touch of nature” “makes us wondrous kind,”
and a common bond of sympathy draws women
together on momentous occasions. Whatever be
the cause. St. Thomas’, North Shore, was peopled
with an expectant throng of sight-seers before
3 p.m. waiting the coming of a distinguished
bridal party. This brilliant, sun-shining Decem-
ber Thursday was to see Miss Emmeline Blox-
some, youngest daughter of Oswald Bloxsome,
jun., and granddaughter of Oswald Bloxsome,
senr., the Ranges, Mossman’s Bay. married to Mr.
Ernest Fisher, a handsome, wealthy young En-
glishman. 8t. Thomas’ is now a fine, airy, well-
proportiohed church, in the form of a cross, with
plenty of subdued light falling through the beau-
tiful stained-glass windows. For this occasion it
was made exceedingly pretty by flower decora-
tions. Across the chancel was thrown a thick,
evergreen rope, having a wreath of pure white
flowers suspended from the middle; the altir-
rails were decked with bead fern, ,and flannel
flowers; the lectern was almost bidden by ferns
and delicate roses; pots of bright colenses and
palms stood about, making in all a fit entourage
for the beautiful bride, who walked up the alsie
on her father’s arm, looking radiantly happy and
very lovely. Her bridal array was rich white
satin, made as simply as possible, the front
covered with one deep piece of gold patterned
lace; the back, a plain long train. She wore a plain
white tulle veil over her hair, which was done
high, and had one or two white blossoms placed in
the front In her hand she carried a most remark-
able bouquet. To begin with, it was simply huge;
to go on, it was made of an outer circle of liannel-
liowers and maiden hair, then came Souvenir de
Malinais on roses, and last of all, tuberoses, with
those lovely croton leaves—Adrantum Farley-
oasis —disporting their loveliness here and there.
The ceremony was performed by the Rev. Mr.
Chllde, incumbent. Mr. Reginald Bloxsome acted
as best man; but you will grieve to hear there
were no bridesmaids (which was a pity, seeing we
might have expected something very artistic in
the matter of garments), so the bride’s father had
to no double duty, and hold her bouquet, looking
remarkable the while in his novel capacity, es-
pecially as he scorned the conventional wedding
garb, and appeared in a light fawn suit. The
Duke of Manchester tried to introduce this sen-
sible fashion here a year ago; but we are absurdly
conservative about some things, so the suggestion
lapsed for want of adherents. After the vestry
businesi. the organ pealed out the glorious “ Wed-
ding March,” and we craned our necks eagerly for-
ward to catch first sight of the happy pair down
the long aisle. It repaid us with a shock, for in-
stead of the twain, one approached carrying the
b 'uqoet. For a moment we smiled, and com-
preoood volumes in a look, after the charitable
manner of our kind; ft moment mote and
we recognised the best-man, who, as avant~
courier, thus avoided the ignominious posi-
tion of being utterly over-looked in the
wake of so much interest. It was a bold
stroke, especially with such a master-piece of a
bouquet. Then came the guests crowding out—
not by any means in happy confusion—for they
were limited in number. Among them were Mr.
Oswald Bloxsome, sen., Mr. Lloyd Bloxsome, Mr.
Cacll Bloxsome, Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell. Mrs. W. W.
Billyard, Mr. C Billyard, Mr. Christopher Rolles-
ton, Mr. and Mrs. F. P. Adams, Mrs. and Miss
M'Farland, Major and Mrs. M’Kenzle, Captain and
Mrs. Bouverie, Major and Mrs Savage, Mrs. Arthur
MacArthur, Miss Bold MaoArthur, Miss Valliant,
Mr. and Mrs. Flood, Mr and Mrs. Partridge, Miss
Mann, Mrs. Whltton, Miss E. Stephen, Mr. Burn-
side, &c.
Mr. Bloxsome afterwards entertained his guests
at a garden party at The Ranges, in honour of tte
event. Mr. and Mrs. Fisher spend a brief honey-
moon at Penrith, and leave by the Kaisar-i-Hlnd
about the lltb, for England, where they intend
to reside.
This year, ’86, will long be remembered with sad-
ness by nearly every leading family in Sydney.
It has been fraught with so much sorrow to so
many. Scarcely one but has bad to mourn the
loss of some near relative. And now in its last
month comes the sudden swift news that Sir Peter
Scratohlev. High Commissioner for New Guinea,
is dead. Without hesitation he accepted and set
forth on a thankless mission last August, although
knowing well that his constitution was peculiarly
open to the insidious diseases of the tropics ; and
there, in the midst of his duty, he caught malarial
fever, and passed away amid all the discomforts
of shipboard, before the Governor Blackalt could
reach the cooler latitudes that might have restored
him. In the zenith of his vigorous manhood he
has given his life at his country’s command, dying
in the breathless, intense heat of the tropics, with
neither kith nor kin to cherish last words or ad-
minister loving offices. Poor man 1 He is said to
have suffered little ; but just think of those last
five days; and nights of agonising sleeplessness—
the doze with open eyes, that would only close to
see more vividly some wild phantasmagoria
passing in eerie disorder before the tormented
brain 1 At Lady Scratohley’s wish the body of her
husband will only remain here a few hours,
before going on to Melbourne.
This sad occurrence will cast a shadow over
Lord Carington’s arrival. On Monday night Lady
Loch entertained our new Governor and his party
at a ball at Government House, Melbourne.
Among the passengers by the Messagcrles steamer
“ Oceanion,” which arrived in port on Thursday,
was Mr. Wellington, Private Secretary to Lord
Carington, who has now returned to Melbourne to
conduct the Vice-regal party here. Mr. Walling-
ton’s name will be familiar to many, as he has been
out in Australia several times already. First,
as ‘.travelling tutor |to Mr. H. Callendar ; then in
the same capacity to Mr. Musgrave, another young
Englishman; and finally as aide-de-camp to Sir
William des Voeux. late Governor of Fiji, with
whom he returned to England a year since.
The naval news is easily summed up. It con-
sists of the return of the Opal to port on Thurs-
day, the Nelson’s departure for New Ireland on
Saturday, and a sort of general frost among the
officers of the fleet in consequence of Captain
Paul’s recall to England on the score of ill health*
He received sunstroke down at the islands during
the last trip of H.M.S. Miranda, and is invalided
home. His place is to be filled by Captain Cross,
of H.M.S. Undine, whose vacation there makes
room for Lieutenant Arnold of the Nelson. The
Undine is still away, and Captain Paul intends re-
turning by the Kalsar-i-Hlnd. Lieutenant Broadey,
of the Nelson, will be locum tenems on the Miranda
until the arrival of Captain Cross.
An engagement is announced between Mr.
Donald M’Intyro, of Kaynga, Upper Hunter, near
Mussellbrook, and Miss Minnie Maguire, of Gee-
long, Victoria, niece of Mrs. Bettington, Par-
ramatta.
Another engagement is given out between Mr.
Archibald Young, son of the late Mr. Adolphus
Young, of Reading, England, at one time M.P. for
Norw'ch, and his cousin. Miss Throsby, second
daughter of Mr. P. Throsby, The Briers, Bong-
Bong.
Lady Stephen held her last reception at Govern-
ment House yesterday (Tuesday) afternoon from
3 to 6. It was very crowded, but more of it anon.
Mrs. Robertson, of Denbigh, Maoloay-street,
Potts’ Point, gives a dance at her home to-night.
flDDD A rWTKT
CORRA LYNN.


New Quiuea is evidently no land fora
white settiement just now. Professor Denton
died of fever, Captain Armit and Mr. Morrison
had to retire to recruit, which Mr. Morrison has
not yet done. Now the first Intended Governor.
Sir Peter Seratohley, has gone, and altogether the
place seems to be a second Sierra Leone—“ the
grave of Englishmen.”
The Sydney Mail, in an evil hour, strove
to heap contumely upon Lord Carington’s stud by
showing what were satirically announced to be
the portraits of four of the vice-regal mokes.
This is surely misprision of high treason. We
bear the Mail no malice, but if anyone else dares
to follow this evil example we hope that the lash
will be wetted with the gore of the offenders.
The Melbourne people have been express-
ing their sympathy with poor Mr. Stead, of the
Pall Mall Gazette, by bolding a meeting at
the Temperance Hall. Along with a good deal of
sense, there was a good deal of bosh talked at this
meeting. One clergyman made a violent attack
on Mr. Poland, the Crown Prosecutor, as if the
veteran barrister was personally responsible for
Stead’s persecution. Absurd. It’s the “tm-fair
land of Poland ” which has disgraced Itself over
this miserable business.
A large party of gentlemen responded to
an invitation to inaugurate the new mail contract
between ’Frisco and Sydney by a pleasure trip In
the Union S.S. Co.’a new steamer Mararoa In and
outside of Port Jackson. Glorious weather and a
capital champagne lunch helped along a good
time. The Mararoa is a grand boat. In her con-
struction all the modern devices of ship building
have been liberally employed. B er drawing-room
is larger even than that of the Orient S.S. Austral,
the finest boat that ever entered Port Jackson. In
the Mararoa the saloon and first-class state-rooms
are in the fore part of the vessel as in the Austral •
the smoking-room is the best we have ever seen
on a steamer, and the promenade space on the
hurricane and other decks is cf the amplest En-
terprising people the N Z. Union Company.
.No business to be done in the JS’.S.W. Par-
liament until Mr. Dibbs makes his financial state
ment. This is to be the test question. There fa
more depth in the elongated G.R D. than some of
his opponents credit him with. By keeping™™*
fl °^ ncial 8tat ement until a day or two before
the adjournment for the Christmas holidays he
secures for himself and colleagues another
month s pay for certain I another
Schnapps need ° f a 8tiniulaut tak e Wolfe’s
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
MITTAaONa.
FIRST CLASS ACCOMMODATION FOR#1“™ A™, TRAVELLERS, COMBINED WITH
The Best Brands of Ales, Wines, and Spirits always in Stock.
BUGGIES AND HORSES ON HIRE OR SFECIALLT ENGAGED.
PETEK MURPHY, Proprietor.
m
iB
on
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Cnspness distinguish Wilson’s Ame-
rican ‘Ejrtra Toast ” BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or desa«rt
nothing equals them. Delicious
r . mi fl uperb with wine, and incompatible
co with coffee or cheese. p riDie
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street, Sydney.
OFFORD & CO.’S HA1S
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
__ Next to Eoyal Hotel, and at 652 George Stieet.
HORDERN’S
ON THE
33xiclc:fi©ld. Sill.
01 STAT MO C0I151T DBPiBTMBFT,
II . S)
/e
CD
Oi\
O
'~0
.
«'0
il u0
%
w c.
}
v^y
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Free of Charge.
Nursing and Riding Stays.
\ \
LORD BYRON HAS ARRIVED AT ADELAIDE.
Lord Byron as we knew I Lord Byron as we ex'
him in the past. | pect to see him now.
(With the The Bulletin's compliments to Mel-
bourne Punch.)
Wolfe’s Schnapps promotes assimilation of
the food.
No stimulant is more reliable than Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps has often been pirated
but has never had a rival. ’
As an antidote to the consequence of late
hours Wolfe s Schnapps stands preeminent.
Something upon which we can relv—
Wolfe’s Schnapps. J
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a donor and preserva-
tive of health.
All diseases requiring invigorative treat-
ment are cured by Wolfe’s Schnapps.
As a strengthener of the weak Wolf’es
Schnapps is absolutely matchless.
l08t y° ur appetite ? Then take
Wolfe s Schnapps.
Eodiiy irreguiarities and weakness can be
remedied by Wolfe’s Schnapps.
If troubled with business cares and over-
work, indulge in Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Persons who work behind desks and work-
tables to them Wolfe’s Schnapps is recommended.
Wolfe’s Schnapps, the purest, safest, and
best article of its kind ia use.
« and 8Urest of regulating tonics
is Wolfe s Schnapps.
J Call in and See our Stays!
■ Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
2s. lid., 38. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., 5s. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., 8s. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s 6d
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS. 666 and 668 Bnclcfield H,H.
MB.-Order, from ch. Cotmtry will rec.lv. Immediate and caretul attention.
THIS WICKED WORLD.
The Sydney Evening News says that a
man who got Into the Southern mail train at
edfern, slept all the way to Junee. We saw him.
He read three pages of the Jernil before it over-
powered him. He asserts that if he had read
three pages more he would have slept till the day
Judgment... The Kapunda Herald, which, by
the way, is written by one of the clearest-headed
journalists in Australia, reports the death of the
ourang-outang at the Zoo. The filling of the
funny column of the Protestant Standard
will, therefore, necessitate fresh arrangements....
At the Taree (N.8.W.) District Court, four full-’
grown men are reported to have sworn that they
stood by and allowed a young man of 21 to commit
three unprovoked and separate assaults on two
of their number, who did not attempt to defend
themselves. These witness-box heroes should
have gone to the Soudan-and stayed there....
The New Reform G.M. Co., Lucknow, NSW
have turned out £2000 worth of gold in a fort-
night. ... More Sydney Evening News “ Another
untimely blast, which occurred this afternoon in
the railway tunnel near Queanbeyan, resulted in
the wounding of four navvies. One died and two
were seriously injured. All were removed to the
hospital and cared for by Drs. Fitzpatrick and
Richardson.” What? The dead man was cared
for by Drs. Fitzpatrick and Richardson? “Flat
* he ma9sl ” Verdict for the plaintiffs,
£50,000,000— Brevity may be the soul of wit, but
it is evidently an entire stranger to our law con-
coctors. In a recent Sydney trial, Mr. Salomons,
y.u, quoted a clause in an Act of Parliament,
at page 3293, and another at page 3978. No
wonder the bulk of the New South Wales Govern-
ment Printing Office staff is bald-headed
Potztansandhundertenfeltounerweseldomskum-
hazeljack I”said Prince Bismarck; he had just
read that the New Guinea expedition were not
massacred after all. “ Shoost de jobs vor mein
vnend Dailey to undertake,” The Tamworth
Observer says many of the defeated candidates
in the N.8.W. general elections have not yet
settled up for their electioneering printing....
Dion Boucicault, though accused of bigamy,
calmly moots a scheme for bringing 4000 or 5000
British tourists to New Zealand annually...
During the last five years 3000 aliens have been
naturalised in Queensland. Most of them are
Germans Judge Munday says tho Macleay
district is too much addicted to law. This is what
comes of having a cherubic attorney as the pre-
siding genius of the locality. .. At Townsville, Q„
a shark 15ft. long attacked the boat of John
Bishop, coral getter, seized the rudder and broke
off a portion with its teeth. Bishop defended the
boat with a stout pole, but was compelled to throw
everything nearly overboard to divert the shark’s
attention. He then allowed the boat to drift
into shallow water. For a distance of three
miles the shark followed closely, but when
close to the shore the monster disappeared
Mrs. O’Gorman Auffray, the “ escaped nun,” was
stoned lately at Hamilton, N.Z. She is willing to
suffer for conscience sake “Rose Tint, at the
Sydney Central Police Court, for being an habit-
ual drunkard, got two months’ gaol.” Rose Tint
was a bit “off-colour,” not quite pink When
Judge Noel was last at Mackay, Q., three months
ago, he left his notes behind. He wired for the
book to be sent to him at Southport. It was sent
addressed “ Southport, Brisbane.” The P.O. au-
thorities sent it to Southport, England, and it only
returned on the morning the Court opened Mr.
G. K. Sims (“ Dagonet”), the celebrated drama-
tic author and ballad-writer, has had part of his
upper jaw removed surgically Dr. Benyafleld,
of Hobart, has devised an effectual means of
landing strawberries in Sydney, from Tasmania,
in good condition. He packs them in screw-down
bottles filled with sulphur-fumes, and can make
from £350 to £300 out of an acre of straw-
berries sold at a shilling a quart The
Austral isian mentions that a young scion
of English nobility, who quitted the colonies in
April last, leaving behind him many sporting
debts unsettled, has failed to return any satisfac-
tion to the inquiries of his creditors, and is in con-
sequence to be posted as a defaulter. Treason 1
At Mudgee, N.S.W., Mary Scanlan, 13 years of age,
was bitten by a black snake on the little finger of
the right hand. She called her slater Eliza, only
10 years old, to chop the finger off. For that pur.
pose she laid it on a stump. The brave girl did
not flinch, though her sister made several attempts
before she succeeded in severing the finger. The
sister then bound up the bleeding slump, and
when they reached home the father cut off the
jagged end with a razor and dressed the wound.
....“For rabbits, £50 000 ; for sugar planters,
£50.000; for miners, £10,000, This appears to be
the Governmental order of creation: rabbits first,
then sugar planters, then the wandering diggers.’”
Thus Thadeus O'Kane. ...The length to which
bigotry will go was shown at a Penrith (N.S.W )
meeting, where one Jessup, an Orange “Grand
Master,” censured the Stuart Government for
changing the name of South Creek township to
“ St. Mary’s,” on the ground that the latter was
too Popish.
♦ * »
Seventeen years ago the proportions per
thousand men in tho British Army were as fol-
lows English, 593 ; Irish, 308 ; and Scottish, 94
The figures are very different now. On the 1st of
January 1885, the proportions were English
730; Irish, 178 ; and Scottish, 78. The numbers on
this date were respectively English, 131,031;
Irish, 31,133; and Scotch, 13,730 ; whereas in 1868
they were 106,810, 55,583, and 17,011. The Conserva-
tlve Globe assumes that the falling off in the
numbers of the Irish is due to their ever-in-
creasing hate of the “Saxon oppressor.” “I
never can enjoy poetry when I’m cooking,” said
the old lady, “ but when I step out to feed the pigs,
and h’ist myself on the fence, and throw my soul
into a few lines of ‘ Walt till the clouds roll by,’
it does seem as if this alrth was made to live on
after all.”—A new grain, a hybrid between
wheat and rye, has just been produced. The
public will wait with no small degree of interest
to see the kind of whisky it will make.... Lawyer:
“ You in the Crimean; how much are you paid
for telling untruths ? ” “ Less than you are, or
you would be in a Crimean shirt too I ’’....From
advertisement of sea-side hotel;—“ Nobody dresses
here, and health and happiness are most sought
for.”.... Obituary from a bucolic “ Deceased had
accumulated a little money and ten children.”.
The late Earl Dudley left £30,000,000, and ac-
knowledged having made a million a year for
three years running. He Invested the vast bulk
of his wealth so as to cheat the revenue of suc-
cession duty.... In 1883, Patti received 1000 guineas
for each appearance in America... .A thoughtful
person has written to the Pall Mall Gazette
declaring that hanging, so far from being a pain-
ful operation, is a most delightful experience.
After the drop you enjoy a series of ravishing
emotions, and your Elysium only ends when you
are cut down “Is anybody waiting on you?’
asked the polite salesman. “Yes, sir,” replied the
blushing damsel. “ That’s my young man outside;
hewouldn't come into the shop.”.... Zukertort and
Steinltz are to play for the chess champion-
ship of the world ...No less than 1300 operators
had to work at the chief London telegraph-offlce
on the day upon which “ tannergrams” (sixpenny
messages) were inaugurated. Nine words are the
London allowance for the body of the message.
The two first messages to go through were thus
worded-" Tours, truly, you can’t expect more for
j the money.” The second was a conundrum, to
which the answer is not (officially) known—" Why
Is a ‘tannergram’ like a new-born baby?”...
Mr. Balguay, a London P.M., is in hot water with
the ladies just now for saying that in nine cases
out of ten it is the woman who leads the man
astray....Mrs. Langtry has been playing for six
nights in “ Peril” at the Grand Theatre, Islington
London, where George Darrell lately produced
“ The Sunny South.”—Tom Moore said to Peel*
on looking at the picture of an Irish orator: “ You
can see the very quiver of his lips.” “ Yes,” said
Peel, “ and the * arrah’ coming out of it.” At a
Ute fashionable wedding an old stager was sur-
prised at the handfulls of rice thrown after the
departing bride and bridegroom. “ This is a new
fashion,” he said; “in my time they threw old
shoes and slippers for luck to the pair.” He was
answered: “ That fashion is altered now-they
throw rice and say go /” When the laugh had sub-
sided the punster added: “You’ll aver me silly
2 ni ?.. yo £ , won ’ fc make erroneous
statement if you dol ....Princess Beatrice’snroflle
is an exact counterpart of the Queen’s. Not even
blechinis missing.... A Paris paper says
that the Prince of Wales smokes 40 cigarettes
a day, and Indulges in one between each course at
dinner while on the Continent During the lata
Germany manoeuvres a nonagenarian, wearing
the Iron Cross of 18)3, was brought by his friends
in a waggon to see the Emperor. When the latter
saw the old warrior making attempts to alight, he
called to him to remain seated, as. being the older
of the two, it was his (the Emperor’s) place to go
to hl “- This ho did, sat down by the old soldier
an mv,° hatted i freely ‘ Presently the Emperor said :
11# * h ,} 9 I s 8 Pleasure we may not have again in this
life, and with evident emotion seized the
Oldman by the hand and shook it warmly
An international beauty show is advertised in
fav> d0 « D nH fl + 1 M t ? r^n i8 t0 A be £50 °- the second
£300, and the third £200.. .A mussel has been
found at Newhaven. Scotland, which held a six-
pence firmly clasped between its shells, the rim of
the coin just showing beyond the edge. Verilv a
tme Scotch mussel .. One Gunner, a Liverpool
man, has discovered a mode of keeping house at
¥*1 Would have continued to
benefit by it had he been wise enough to keep his
own counsel. But in an evil hour for himself and
his scheme, she boasted that in one year he had
saved £70 by the means which he had adopted
His plan was to make his wife an object of public
contempt by advertising on the first of each
January that he would not be responsible for anv
debts she might contract. The next step was to
send her out shopping, and when the bills came in
he repudiated them, and referred the tradesmen
to the advertisement Thus an English news-
paper :— A reliable authority states that during
the present reign £100,000 has been paid by the
Public on account of the * extra ’ (Royal) Knights
of the Order of the Garter, of whom there are now
twenty-eight against the half-dozen existing when
the Queen came to the throne. We shall next be
called upon to nay for their stockings as well as
their garters. Perhaps we have already done so ”
' ‘ H ‘AS® y°u tfoing to travel alone, miss ? ” he
88 £Gd t he STirl he met on board the steamer
That depends upon you, sir.” she coyly replied.
General Booth is starting a Salvation Navy
There is consistency in the idea. Heaven would
have but a poor notion of British power if the
navy were not saved—A Parisian beggar has, by
dint of hard drinking, grown a nasal organ of ex-
traordinary colours. A card stuck by the side of
his face informs people that a red appearance of
the nose confronting them is Indicative of “ tem-
perate weather; for a rose-like colour they must
read warm; ” and violet-coloured pimples mean
cool. The last reading of the nose, which had
turned beautiful lilac-colour, was “ cold.”


Good news for the unemployed. The
Riverine Grazier (some bucollo gentleman, evi-
dently) knows Sydney newsboys, some of whom
not 15 years of age, earn £3 to £4 per week. These
same boys devote Sunday to a gigantic spree,
taking their Dulolneas down harbour. Who
would pencils bear and stump round reporting,
when by selling "llteratoor ” such privileges may
be attained ? A Dulcinea, a trip down the harbour
on Sunday, and £4 per week! There wont be i
reporter in the Sydney Nooze office 48 hours after
this is publicly known. To quote the O Sullivan,
M.P., wo “decided to endeavour to elucidate the
truth of this statement.” “We makes a trifle, o
course,” said one urchin in our enquiry;
“ but not thirty bob, let alone £4—wish we did
and wo wouldn’t earn our salt by selling Hechos;
fortinitly for us. they takes Heohos .back at the
horfloe.” Another said: “It’s too thin. Guv nor;
you just try it. You sells our papers, and well
run your show.” Did we exchange ?
Some Australian mining facts. The Day-
Dawn G.M.Co . Charters Towers (Q.), last half-
year treated 8339 tons of quartz for a yield of
16,T96oz smelted gold; average, 20z. 6>5gr. per ton.
Total cost of raising and treating the stone, £3 4s
2Ud- per ton. This grand mine, whico, we are glad
to say. is still in the hands of the working men
who “discovered” it. has in six yea's yielded
£459 302 la. 5d. worth of gold, and paid £302,599 8s.
in dividends; the yearly yield has been nearly
30,000oz. smelted gold, or about £99,000 sterling.
Over 3000 diamonds are the result of 13 days’ wash-
ing at Messrs. Wra. Cooper and party’s Now Banco
diamond mine. Muodooran. N.8.W. Slxtv loads of
dirt yielded 1951 diamonds, weighing 388 carats.
This was from the tailings. Prom the dam 1053
stones were taken all over in 13 davs’ work. Many
of the stones are above the average size. The
Sunny Corner (N.8.W.) Silver Mining Co.’s report
shows that last half near 16,538 torn* of ore were
smelted, producing 40»,TO5oz of refined gold and
silver bullion. 39l,909oz. have been shipped to
London under advance, leaving 13,796oz. upon the
mine. During the half-year two dividends of 5s.
each per share were paid, and a third of 2s. 6d. de-
clared payable on 2nd December-in all £40,000.
A WORD OF WISDOM.
If the heart of man la oppressed with care,
It won’t help him any to go on a tare—
He should always keep his head quite clear
By drinking nothing but 8T. LOUIS LAGER
BEER.*
Wolfe's Schnapps imparts healthful vigor
to the brain.
MaoLaughlin’s Bodega, 308 George-street
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Gold Luncheons, &o.*
LOLLYPOP LAND.
Where is it? What is it? What latitude is
it in? What are its exterior peculiarities and its
Internal curiosities, and which is the way to It ?
Lollypop Land Is nowhere In particular ; It is un-
known to geographers, neglected by scientists,
uncared for by geologists, and yet may be set
down as a very Important location in the gas-
tronomies! districts. Like the “will o’ the wisp ” It
may also be described as everywhere, and like the
“will o’ the wisp ” its alluring temptations some-
times lead the little people, who are its principal
visitors and inhabitants, a good deal astray-at
least when they stay too long in the midst of Its
enchantments. The rivers of this land of promise
are of syrup and sweet juice, its mountains are of
sugar, its towns and villages are built of molasses
and sugar-cane, the windows of its houses are of
the purest gelatine, its climatic influences are
soothing and softening, and have for ages past
been recommended by the faculty in oases of
mental distress in patients not over seven. Such,
however, are its attractions that anatomies of all
ages dock to its pleasant pastures: and. indeed,
there are reported cases of ancient dames, on the
wrong side of eighty, and tottering “bon vlvents”
who have passed a century, deriving considerable
benefit from Its joys. Lollypop Land, like dear
old England, throws out colonies in all quarters of
the globe, and this Christmas the most prosperous
we know of is to be found at Anthony Hordern
and Sons, Palace Emporium, Haymarket.*
If suffering from mental depression take
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Gloom and despondency removed by
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Dancing is hugging set to music.
The bachelors of France, who won't marry,
are threatened with a poll-tax. When it Is de-
cided legislatively attack the brooders of
N.8.W. a stringent Flogging Bill will, no doubt be j
In'troducad.
Among curious announcements in the
London Times during October appears the follow-
imr among the births, deaths, and marriages:—
“ Mirths On the 31st September, at Cottesmore
Hall. Oakham, Rutlandshire, Juliet, the who of
Mr. Romeo, of a son.”
He had descanted for hours on the beauty
nf her brown eyes, and the Tart looked with her
leering, longing look in his face, and said. “ I have
hoen frequently, on aoeeuatof my eyes, called a
Coinese.” "Really. Why?” “Because people
say I look so like a Horizontal.
When the Women’s Protection Bill was
before the Victorian Legislature the other even-
ing a sage and sad-eyed member advocated a
measure for the protection of our colonial youths
“he said he believed many young fellows were
led astray. This opens up a new line for the social
reformer: “ The fair-faced, modest, trusting
voiith and the black-hearted deceiver, the Jyirg
virago,” will be quite a refreshing ch»nge.
A wealthy Hamburg merchant who 1 rtely
emigrated to the Golden Shore has left ,£500 to be
competed for by bald-headed men. The baldest
man takes the stakes, and the competition is onen
to the world. We have sent in a sworn alli-avio
and a plan of our cranium executed by Hoo
WhftQ that money comes out, we intend present-
ing the patrons of this paper with a bjauti'uhy-
tlnted picture of Her Majesty the Q J«en. 8x10.
if “the missus’’ wishes to wake us now, sue ims
to drag us about the bedroom by an ear; she long
ago lost her “ man holt.”
In Ouida’fl naughty novels the princesses
all Ouida’s females are princesses or ballet-girls)
invariably smoke rose-coloured cigarettes. Rever-
ence for the sex has hitherto prompted us to olose
our eyes and our heart against such pictures of
fashionable feminine dissipation. But what do
we read In a London paper ? That the Prince of
Wales, dining at the National Casino of Hungary,
smoked rose-coloured cigarettes, in company with
Princess Louise of Coburg and Countess Ester-
hazy. Great Scott I and we’ve called on prin-
cesses innumerable without putting as much as a
plug of tobacco in our trousers pocket. We were
reared In the old school, donoherknow.
We keep abreast of the times here in Aus-
tralia- In the Brighton bigamy case at home the
question is the identity of a husband. In Mel-
bourne last week, the case of Moore v. Moore, at
the City Court, was the identity of a wife. Mr.
Moore, a commercial traveller, disputed that the
Mrs. Moore who sued him for maintenance
was his wife. He had not seen his wife, he said
for ten years, and believed her to be dead —heard
that she had died in the hospital, but never en-
quired. He swore to the present claimant on him
not being his wife, but half a score witnesses
swore very differently. The result was an order
for maintenance at 303. a week and suretyship for
Its payment, and then came Mr. Moore’s committal
for trial for perjury—as the wind-up, which the
Bench thought he so well deserved.
King Theebaw, of Burmah, against whom
a British army was sent, having quietly “backed
down,” Is to be deposed and sent as a State
prisoner to the Andaman Islands or elsewhere.
“ He will receive a pension; wfll be allowed to re-
tain his harem—the only restriction being on his
liberty of ordering a wholesale slaughter of his
wives and relatives as the result of a domestic
quarrel.” Now, as Great Britain is going to make
Burmah moral—i to annex the country and go-
vern It by “ the Secret of England’s greatness ’ —
we altogether fall to see why the giddy Theebaw
should he given a lot of money to keep a lot of
women. John Bull, who Is governed piously, is
only allowed one wife whom he is permitted to
kick on payment of a small fine. Theebaw, simi-
larly. should be granted one wife, and the good
old English privilege of “ walloping his own
nlggor.”
From America come glad tidings of great
joy to a certain section of the community. Red
hair, which has long- been a mark for something
akin to ridicule, is now to be regarded as Nature’s
kindest gift. The old opprobrious cry of “ Car-
rots 1 ” is hushed. Science informs us that auburn
locks are an honourable outward indication of the
wearer’s inward spiritual grace. Instead of sneer-
ing at a man as “ginger,” we must henceforth
refer respectfully to the fact that he possesses &
heart ss warm as his head. Someone has dis-
covered, says a London paper, “ that red-headed
people seldom grow rich, and are equally seldom
poor. It Is probably because they are
frugal, temperate, and withal generous and
liberal.” That theory is assuredly correct. We
take our own case. We are red-headed and not
rich. But to resume. The rage for auburn,
started in America, and extending to Europe, de-
serves to be encouraged In Australia. It Is for
the girls we would plead. Golden hair, and dark-
brown hair, and the beautiful “ violet-black ” of
lady novelists, have enjoyed favour long enough.
Allow ginger to have a look in. The next time
“Cinderella” Is out up let the heroine sport a
bunch of carrots and her "ugly sisters” excite
derision in long golden looks. In short—
A Night in the Bush.
The Down and Gumtbek Jernil man has always
sighed for a “ spell ” in the bush. His fondest hopes are
at last realised, and here we And him trying to ascertain
why the dickens he can’t sleep.
“ By J—go! ” he cried in despair—“ I’ll try the table.”
• • * Dreams that 100,000,000,000,000 subscribers to
the Jebnll are reading aloud to him the “Advice to
Farmers’ ” column, and at the same time prodding him
with agricultural Implements.
Let us bow to the ruling of Fashion—
’Tls useless to kick at the pricks—
We will strive to develope a passion
For curls of the colour of bricks.
The fashion that regulates dresses
Extends to the hairs of the head,
And nothing goes down now In tresses
Like Bed.
The blondes and brunettes have their season,
We've seen It again and again.
And no one can furnish a reason
Why auburn should not have its reign.
The world shan’t have cause to reprove US
As wanting In taste on this head—
Sing hey I for the daughters of Rufus
So Red.
“THE STRAIGHT GRIFFIN."
DORING THU HONEYMOON.
(FOR THE BULLEIN.]
“ Tell me, golden-headed angel.
While you on my bosom rest,
And Impart unto my vest-
lire a sheen and smell
In his desperation he thinks of camping under the table
on the floor, but finding that valuable “ spaoe ” already-
occupied, he thinks better of it.
He makes the best of it, hoping to get through the
night somehow. Turns in again, uttering smothered
religious ejaculations which we cannot ask our printer
(a man of pronounced Free-thougut tendencies) to put
into type.
ALONE—IN MELBOURNE.
Sweet Clementine, at seventeen,
Was known as “ Miss Malone;”
We loved, and would have married boen.
But Kinsman, at his “ Gretna Green,”
Cbanged what came after Cleme ntlne
To Smith—now I'Malone.
Job’s comforters outside.
THEY ARE SEVEN.
Let other men sing of their Claras and Maya,
Their Adas, their Fannies, their Lenas, and Nells,
With optics of azure and sweet winning ways.
Their figures of Venus, their voices like bells.
But I sing a girl with a face like a dish,
Her form had been left out to dry in the rain,
Her voice, just the thing that a boatswain would
wish,
“Her name, unouphonious and homely, is Jane.
My first wife was lovely, her hair wai her charm,
My second a Venus in figure and face,
My third was a model-you ne'er saw her arm,
| |My fourth, the presentment of feminine grace.
My fifth had those eyes like the star-studded sky,
Which twinkle, laugh, sorrow, which whisper or
smile:
Care fled from my heart when my sixth wife
was by—
[Oh. give us a rest. Did these six ladles die 7—
Ed B.]
There, that is my trouble, they six are In life,
But to miss this last ohanoe were the act of a
dolt,
My Jane Is so ugly she’ll be a good wife,
And she's rich 1 might, marry—and then
do a bolt.
Of oil and Rlmmel;
Is there aught in life can change El-
Yslum into hell—
Make HbUe of HimmclT’
“ Husband,” and sho spake him softly,
While her head upon his chest
Interfered with his digest-
ive organ’s junction;
With extreme unction
Spake she, “ Men to maidens oft lie
Before the function,
With small compunction;
We’re wed, now mind me,
Ne’er try to blind me
With stories artful,
Of ‘ cares a cartful,”
Of * business hurry,’
Of ‘toil and worry,’
Of ‘short of money,’
That Isn’t funny.
When earthly troubles
Burst sky-born bubbles,
The older leaven
Makes hell of heaven.
And married ladles
At once raise Hades;
If you * cash up' whenever I ask you,
Then in Heaven you ever may bask you,
If I have to ask twice you won’t find things as
nice,
While a third time of asking will—well*.
Through Elysium’s keyhole waft zephyrs from
Sheol,
And, In fact, dear, you’ll likely amell Toohet.”
He awakes to find himself upon the floor, with the lis-
ing sun pouring its scorching rays upon his bald head, aud
750,750,962 flies preying upon his nose and other exposed
parts of his body. It was on this memorable night mat
he conceived the id-,'a for that sanguinary “ Christmas
Supplement,” which will blight many a country home
this year.


PIMPLES to SCROFULA
Never Travel Without It.
K<? c<y
storekeepers
a «« V .A r—~ ’ WHOLESALE
$<S^o4 rLLI “^R'MWADEUCOI
_____
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
Wanted in Every House.
Wanted in Every House.
rySFIGURINQ- nraORS. Humiliating Eru,
LoatnaoLi- Jt Hnrpif “2 P"™ in £.S kia . Torture,
. . f .r 1 L11C c?Kin, and ocalp. wit
ix)86 or Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured b
i^tJrna n n A ll^ LVENT . the new Blood Puriiiei
?. nd Guti cura and Cuticcba Soap, th
great bkm Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
Itohing ami Burning Skin Diseases
Bakers', Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch
tn wr PUe8 ’ - and J)ellcate Irritations pecuiia
8exeB > instantly relieved by a warm ball
S ° A . P i nd a «ingle y a PP TcaUon o
Cuiicura, the great Skin Cure. This reneatet
dai y, with three doses of Cuticura liLoi vkwt
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin am
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
viol
r 0 LVEVT A d iJ ’ if w , ra PP ed about the Re
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials sol
fH 0rn t to be |°, re the Br itwh Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferei
Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
n« ,^; f haV .®i S ? ent hundreds of dollars, and got
™ r ?l>ef uutl1 I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty four page
book, How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Tovers & Co., New South Wales.
fJDTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
Vjd’ and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
r Cuticnra, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use). Instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and loilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beantillers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail ch. w, ..mi wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, isriiauia, and New
?i e nn a ?^™P UTICtr S A > 50 cents P* • large boxes,
$1.00 Cuticuba Soap, 25 C ( >,ts ; m icura Shav-
per bottle’ 15 CentS ’ IL-oolvext, $1.00
"'REARED Pi
Potter Drug J .icnl t'o , Boston. U.S.A.
Xla.© 23eIls,Tol© IS^xg-gies!
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STRFFto®* * UHT
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES
California and Eastern Buckboard Waaoonn ’
«T BKST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES only "jEM !N B ST!f,V
WILLIAM FLEMIKO, Merchant & -
“ * 84 Olarenoe-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.) * f '
and CO.,
(J. A. BOBERiS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. 0. CHALMBRa. R, q. WaTKINH
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
iSH, ait Mfflffll
of
MIMING, CEQ8HJNO i . M m,,,K, ;^NTb COA^ D I I ?Sffi BN ’“
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED sod PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BBU8HWARB
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACK8
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
%>x4
2*1 Mr
yf e
1ft
PORTABLE, PIT
oAii Mli,li “> j
;? _ v fo*S 0 AVo'ajS
If POMPS “ «*
£ 1 ATHE8, PLANI1
ES?S!
HAMMERS
1 TOtJNL E KY B 8 BlU
I, 8H T A^a“ 0Ll '
QUICKSILVER. Ac.
Prlc© Lists and Catalorues fumlshad on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London unoa
- 64 YORK STREET.
' and engine STREETS.
SYDNEY™*' 1 “ HAKBOlJ a-
- « G&ACBORUBCB WTKNMJ.
YANKEE DOODLE
rv
*
O/ *-S0N& SO<* S
CONQUEROR
COliQUE rOR
T Q B A C C O
TWIST & PLUG
; D1X801* & SONS, Sydney popsesa the largest Factory, Mer ii'actore mor e
than any fccr- rr in thp southern hemisphere ** lobacco, and consun e more Leaf,
EST VaNaaK DOODLE. CONQUEROR; Sir Boxer, Champion, and Di*son- P n.t n , v. H0CO8
ZDarlian.g' Hstrloo-a.3: Hotel
H t ItBOUR STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Railway Gates).
®TEPME?a HOPKINS (Late of "Waggo Wagga), Proprietor.
t ESPECIAL ACCOMMODATION FOR »TTV'j h y visitors.
HOWLANDS ODONTO is the best, purest
"nd most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Moilth depends in a great measure upon the
* mndness or the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
in r pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish- •
irg ihe teeth and keeping them sound and whito
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; suc’j
t owlands Odonto has always proved itself to be
HOWLANDS EUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet t owder, and
tias lately been much improved. Each box hasi
" side the lid a certificate of nuntv from Dr
K~d wood, Ph D , F.O.S , &c. Sold in ihree Tints •
« hite, rose, and cream.
HOWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now
e also had in a golden colour, which is especially
. jiteo for f»ir or golden haired children and per-
o''ns Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Bowlinr sf
HM icle-, of 30 Hatton Gar-mu, London, and avoidl
spurious wortnlees imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents - Elliot Bros*
R Prosser & Co , Sydney.
gENT . POST FREE FOR bj. STAMPS.
Social Science
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders, ChrtwJc
o s - ises, Impediments to Marriage, &c.. How to
om.ose a partner for life so as to live happy. Hew
t. Regain and Preserve your Health, &c
Address-R. T. 8BLBF, M.H., Devonshlre-street.
-’’urry Hills, Sydney.
jjAWHOOD, RESTORED >
■ A Clergyman having tried every known ran*' ,
_ > CURE of NERVOUS EXHAU j-
T 1 ON, PREMATURE DECAY. &c., haa a*
aat - Uncovered a simple SELF-CURE, winch, for
«*i» take of snflering humanity, he will send FREE
Prescription which CURED him. Add raw,
self-addressed stamped envelope—
Or. E. A. CLARKE, P.O. Box att. 8 T dnej.
r|lHE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, EASE
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
I3T" THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time wri«n» wTJ-Ti?
faster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half tb© space occunied hv non
writing 1 , beautiful copies may be taken in
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchant
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and autff
reporters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time. the
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY and CO.,
85 Clarence-street,
WDE. DE NOUVELLES’
° 1 d p a n x ' )e J ier ! ced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
a „... „ _ Starched linen,
sold by all Grocers and StorokosnArfl af _
? a Hn et - bv Elliott E pfouer
“ d 8 °”
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless Imitations
5°ShVSzcr bc * r *° <r the “Sssass
J. »CTT«R F ,ELn.
Lizzen. O-loss
T°and U 8° t 5Li°T Ur e n e allat8 -~ Leader »* Telegrams,
library mu su PP lled PT competent


W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and SYDNEY.
Catalogues
POST PBBB.
Catalogues
POST PBBB.
INttUNit.
ALL STOCK
In tknif
BYDNKV
Huiiai
■uppitad
i ■
OIKBCT
from their
A ■
ai
London
Manuf&oto' y
and Latrai
London atfin
•sm
OUAKiST tin.
SYDNEY BRANCH 1 :
81 CLARENCE STREET, BYNYARD SQUARE.
1885 Universal f'l.na, a thoroughly reliable and easy-running
machine. Hall bearings to both wheels, and improvements.
THE SYDNEY SPORTY
DEPOT.
389 GEORG E-STREET SYDNEY
(Opposite Royal Hotel.)
BGYCLE8 # JTRICYCLE8.
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles
and Tricycles
Have Every Improvement.
©UR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadst r.
THE UNIVERSAL CLUB
BICYCLE,
fitted with Improved Ball Bear-
tags to front and back wheels.
Hollow Forks, Patent Head and
Detachable Bent Handle Bur,
Easy Slide Spring, Hubs Platen,
Biack Enamelled SpoKes,
Price, £13 10s. At the price
we defy competition.
JAMES MARTIN & COMPANY, 388 Nearge-st., Sydney.
B
k
A
for Infants and Children.
Castorla euros Colic, Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation,
Gives healthy sloop and promotes digestion,
■Without injurious medication.
“Castorla is so well adapted to children that
I recommend it as superior to any prescription
known to mo.” H. A. Auchek, M. D.,
111 Oxford Street, New Tort. .
Elliott Beds., Sydney, Agents.
D
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are suffering from poor health
'or languishing on a bed of sickness,
'take cheer, for American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will cure yon.
“ If you are simply ailing, If you feel
‘weak and dispirited, without clearly
' knowing why, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Revive yon.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
‘ taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘and work, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters will Restore yon.
“If you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
‘your avery-day duties, or a man of let-
ters, toiling over your midnight work.
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
‘ patlon, or are young and growing too
* fast, as is often the case, Am. Co.’s
Hop Bitters will relieve yon.
“ If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
• that your system needs cleansing, ton-
‘ ing, or stimulating, without intoxicat-
‘ ing, American Co.’s
Hop Bitters is wliat yon need.
“ If vou are old, and your blood thin
• and imnure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘unsteady, and your faculties waning.
Am. Hop Bitter? win give yon new Life
and Vigour.
“HOPBITTK! S.?«i adeby theAme-
‘rlcan Co , is >10 eiegant, healthy, and
‘refreshing linvn rinii for sick-room
‘drinks, impure w»ter. etc., rendering
‘them harniiaKK. mi 1 weetenlng the
‘ mouth, and cieansiW t e stomach.’'
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickn .s or suffering, or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in
bottle. Shun all others as vile poisonous stuff.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LIMITED.
Capital £100,000.
Head Office : Melbourne.
New South Wales Branch : 171 Castlereagh-street.
N. 8. Wales Directors:
Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Frank Cowley, Esq.
George S. Yeo, Esq.
Victorian Directors:
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P.,
Chairman
Hon. J. F. Levlen, M.P,
Thomas Learmonth, Esq.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs Insured
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
Causes on land, rail, or at sea.
Marine Risks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted.
The only Live Stock Insurance Society in the
olonles. •
Full particulars can be obtained from the under-
signed.
Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
A. J. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.
Office, 171 Oastlereagh-street.
EAU DB COLOGNE.
4TU 4711.
Established 1793
Gold Medal.) osoi-'. 1872; Prize Medal, Vie"”*. 1873
This Bau iiu o«>..«irne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last ymn-s, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Ex notion the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney I m«n.atlonai
Exhibition, for its superior sweetD'**. s mngth,
and invigorating qualities, excelling ail other com-
petitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the <litc of
Europe.
The large and constantly Increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number—4711 changed into 7411, 1147,4117, &o., &o.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, PiH-
street, Sydney,
To be had at the princlp-' Perfumers, Druggist*,
Storekeepers, in town ,\n country
When a sudden noise or the least excite-
ment sets your nerves In a tremor, take Wolfe s
tchnapps.
Indigetdion, weak stomach, irregularities
of theb wds, cannot exist wiien American Hop
Bitters are use 0.
Neither trickery or ct m petition has been
kb e to tffei-t 1 he reputation o( Wolfe’S Schnapps
AVer's Ague Cure is ’he only remedy
known which is certain to c re fever and ague
, ernaneutly by expelling the malaral poison
wb ch pioui c->- the oieeast. U does this surely,
uno leaves co 1 1 *Uecls upon theeystexn. Nothing
is no thoroughly depietsiMv and dhcouragingas the
n« liodical r -mru ot the alternate chills, fever, and
sweating p« culiar to this disease.
Be warned in time and take Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Persons whose blood is thin and watery,
take Wolfe’s c'cbnapps.
Persons whose avocations keep them in-
door* should take occasionally Wolfe’s Schnapps.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
A
»
CELEBEATED
BISCU1IS BE CASES, TBEACLE
Self-raising yErated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
£. & A. have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.B, 1883-4,
Sydney Agents: «» H. ARIELL * CO., 343 and 840 Kant-Straat.
What next? Punch and Judy has been
Bowdlerised, and a goody-goody show Is being
run for drawing-room purposes. In the new show
hunch, after Killing Judy, and throwing the
••Kid” onto’ windows, is seized with a fit of re-
morse, subsides into a corner and dies to slow
music. Then the showman rises to toe occasion
and moralises: “Thus you see, my dear young
friends,” &o. The old style was the best—Newgate
oidinary. Jack Ketch, the gallows, and all. At
any rate much more suited to N.S.W, and
Judge . Hush!
Anything is good enough for a nigger.
The unfortunate blacks and Chinamen charged
with murder In the Northern Territory, are
doomed to die of “ suspense” instead of “ suspen-
sion.” Some time ago they were tried, convicted,
and sentenced to death by Judge Pater. It was
then found out by Chief Justice Way that Judge
Pater had no right to try them. This little fact
seemed to have escaped the notice of the new
Northern Territory Judge. It then became clear
that the men must be hanged somehow, and Mr.
Attorney-General Kingston brought In a Bill to
make the thing valid. Kingston shortly after this
went the way of all Attorneys-General, and
D iwner took no the running. Alter a heavy
tu'sle or two with Coke upon Littleton, became
out of the Chamber of Horrors, and said he had
the hang of it, and concluded that Kingston's Act
could not be made retrospective, and yet the fact
remained that the men were destined to be hanged.
Downer then brought in a Bill which was
made retrospective enough at any rate to try the
men over again whilst the previous conviction re-
mained unquashed. In order to give the prisoners
a show another counsel was assigned to them,
albeit the facts remained the same. Until the first
conviction is judicially removed the men could, it
is fair to suppose, plead autrefois convict, because
the sentence remains on the record of the Court,
which is now clothed with authority to try them
for an offence that occurred before it had such
huthorlty. Then,if such plea should be sustained,
comes a greater muddle still, for the prisoners,
although convicted, cannot be punished because
the conviction was ultra vires On the other hand,
U the plea be not sustained, the wretched beings
■will be sentenced to death twice, the sentence
being, presumably, not concurrent but cumula-
Uve. Not having nine lives to barter away like a
oat, but being only men, and poor ones at that,
now -will they be able to pay the penalty ?
Friends.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I knew a maid, and loved her well,
Yet always feared my love to tell,
Until, at length grown bold,
I met her all alone one day,
And, in a simple, manly way,
To her my passion told.
She heard me speak, and sweetly flushed
(I loved her better when she blushed—
When rose with illy blends):
“ I cannot love you, sir,” she said;
Then, with a smile, she bowed her head—
“ Perhaps we may he friends I”
Oh, cold, cold words to lover’s heart!
Better a thousand miles spirt
Than friend to her you love;
So thought I in my deen dlUress
When, weighed down with unhappiness,
I sought the leafy grove.
The vision of a winning glance.
Of cheeks that glow and eyes that dano,
Perplexed me where I went;
Until in time, my love subdued,
1 sought her in a gentler mood,
Witn friendship’s boon content.
And often in our pleasant talks
At dewy eve, or moonlight walks,
Her arm would rest In mine;
And to my heart the soft caress
Of ribbon gay or dainty dress
Was rapture moat dhine.
The days went by—the summer came;
1 kissed her then In Friendship’s name —
’Twss Krlendshlo’s privilege.
1 told her so; she bent her head.
And, blushing deeply, softly said,
“ Why not a lover s pledge ?”
I took her in my arms, and there
I kissed her cheek and forehead fair—
a lover’s honest kiss.
She was not angry, nor demurred—
1 tblok I caught the whispered word,
“ Is friendship nice as this ?”
L. D.


A BOON TO THOUSANDS
Yo
Manhood and Vigour of Youth
Restored in Four Weeks.®
ff
I
aHBBfc
ESSENCE OF LIFE
sanhood to th« most shattered Mid dabiUtatad eea
•illation from whatever causa arising, ia FOUR WEEKS,
Failure is impossible if taken tecaroing to the printed di-
rections, which are very simple, and require no restraint or
hindrance from business.
This invaluable remedy affords relief, and permanently
awe* all who setter wasting and withering of the nerves and
muscular tisanes, Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Disturbed
Seep, Trembling Sensations, Ditsiness, Spermatorrhoea, all
Urinary Deposits, which cause incapacity and degeneracy,
ratal and partial prostration, and every other exhaustive de-
rwogement of the system ; regenerating all the Important
elements of the human frame, and enabling man to fulfil his
stoat sacred obligations.
In oases at its., or (bar quantities in one for its.; If 69
tench, ss. id. sxtra.
NATURE’S GREAT REMEDY I
DR. RICORDS
SANATIVE PILLS
For strengthening the system, purifying the Wood, rcgulatini
die bowels, and removing all vitiated humours, bilious and
Liver Complaints, Rheumatism, Gout, Scorbutic Affections,
Costiveness. Skin Eruptions, and all diseases of the nervous
system. This never-falling remedy affords at once a new
lease of life to the sickly and aged of both soxoS, imparting
n beautiful and clear eoiAplaxion, n sura sign of health,
strength, and vigour. Fries, ss. | hy post, si. uulra.
AGENTS FOR SYDNEY I
Messrs. W.BARCLAY & CO.,
. 43 OOXJLBVRN STREET,
~ Own Doon prom Ouorou Stuurt Sooth,
And may bt had of moat Chemists. 9
Pareolt paekod ooourely and froo from ohorvailon, oont U
Quttmland, Now 21 aland, or anu part of tko AootraHn
Oolonlot, on roeolpt of Not Offieo Ordor or Stamp*.
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
Lost Vitality, &e.-A simple and positive
means of Self-Cure, by an eminent
French. Hospital Physician- Sent Free
Medico, P.O. Box 766. Sydney.
m
CIEfJCE
or
LIFE
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untoli
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses may b
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis
pensaxy Medical Association, entitled the Science of Lit'
or Self Preservation. A book for every man, young
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may b<
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions fo:
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience foi
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot o:
any physician. 300pages, bound in beautiful French eloth
full gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense thar
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the monei
will be refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal' awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should be read by the young foi
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all. —London Lancet.
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As- llPf 1
sociation, or Dr. W. R. Parker, No. 69 Hunter tAL
Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Theauthormay TUVOCI T
be consulted on all diseases requiring J || I oLL.1
skill, secrecy, and experience.
MOULTON'S PAIN PA INT
CURES ALL PAIN,
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
•ST* URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC IE.
RAINS, BRUISES, TURNS. SCALP3, &c and
•aken internally cures DIARRHOEA, PTTSEN Y,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other iutfarna aches
ind pains. _
Price, 2/- Sold Everywhere.
C. E. MOULTON, sole PROPnroR,
MELBOUENli AND GL'DNEY,
PAINT
Marshall:,,
fONlfc NERVINE
TKA.DE MARK—“TONIC NERVINE.”
AoaiT.ii, GKxtTAlN, & SPEEDY OURBior Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia.
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
&o. By Its tonlo and soothing effects it at once
removes all craving for Aloohol. By its richness
in phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NBRVINB nour-
ishes and gives vigour to the whole system.
Price, la. 6d„ or 26s. a case Sold everywhere.
Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS, Registered
Chemists. 104 and 106 Market-street, near Hyoa
Park. Sydney, and 5 Pltt-struet. ;oirauivr-auay,
N.B.—All Imitations illegal. TAKE NO SUBSTI-
TUTE.
A U T ION
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO THE PUBLIC.
In consequence of an attempt to substitute In-
ferior and spurious articles for “ Dr. Scott’s Elec-
tric,” the Pall Mall Electric Association, 54, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, desire to caution the public
against purchasing any counterfeit of the follow-
ing goods “ Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets, Dr
Scott’s Electric Belts, Dr. scott’s Electric Hair.
Flesh, or Tooth Brushes, Dr. Scott’s Galvanic
Qeneiators, and Dr. Scott’s Electric Insoles’
Every genuine article bears the word “ Electric”
and the name of Dr. Scott, as also does the box
containing same. The extent of our trade, and the
marked appreciation of the public having induced
certain parties to manufacture a line of worthless
goods, having something of the general form and
external appearance of ours, and variously styled
“Magneto-Electric or Electric Magnetic,’
we respectfully ask that parties who have been
influenced by the many testimonials wo publish
all of which are strictly genuine, or the universal
reputation of our goods, to give electricity a
trial, will see that the name of Dr. Scott and the
word “ Electric” appear on every article purchased
In addition to th‘g, wo have recently registered a
new trade mark—an oval label with our local
address, “ Pail Mall Electric Association, 54, Mar-
garet-street, Sydmy, N.S.W,” in marginal lines,
encircling the device of a mailed hand holding u
group of thunderbolts.
d
Of
$
£
As we are the only parties in Australia importing
these goods direct from Dr. Scott, and are prepared
to guarantee the genuineness of every article
bearing this label, we advise purchasers to see
personally that this trade mark invariably appears
on any and every Electric Corset, Belt, Insole,
Generator, Hair. Flesh, or Tooth Brush, they may
desire to purchase. This borne in mind, much
vexation and disappointnu nt will be saved ; and
we respectfully request th t any person who has
been induced to buy any of those imitations under
the impression that they were Dr. Scott’s Electric,
will at once communicate with us.
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by; he
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continenta
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial?
I ‘
It—3
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phj
sicians as the best, safest, and mosteffeotu:
remedy for spinal Complaints, Inoipien
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumour-,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &o., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-
called) nave failed.
The prices are as follows
No. 1
No. 8
No. 3
No. 5
Electric Bolts..
a. d.
6 6
8 6
10 6
15 0
16 0
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. addyd; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece of common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
uac mil,
B4 Hargaref-sfraat,
SYDNEY,!
P.0 Box 881,
CtfCt
New
-r
rm
SiANo
n bAn
1
-y.
=M
, j *a; ,
WAREHOUSES, SYDNEY.
Hie lev ItM Lou ul Mmutili %itj Cmpuj
(LIMITED'.
HEAD OFFICE ~ ... LONDON.
Ca/pitstl - - £3,500,000,
THIS COMPANY WILL CONTINUE TO DISPLAY AND SELL
WOOL!
ON THE MELBOURNE SYSTEM,
.At their Magnificent Warehouses,
BEIDG-E STREET,
SYDNEY.
EVERY LOT WILL BE CAREFULLY VALUED, AND SPECIAL ATTENTION WILL BE
BK8T0WBD UPON SMALL FARMERS’ PARCELS, WHICH WILL BE PLACED ON A FOOTING
OP EQUALITY WITH THE LARGE CLIPS.
It reserves are not reached, the nominal charge of one shilling per hale only will be made.
SHEEPSKINS AND HIDES, EVERY FRIDAY.
WOOL SALES, EVERY TUESDAY.
Way Bills and all information can be obtained on application, or will be sent by return of post.
H. H. LANG, Produce Manager.
Sydney Wool and Grain Warehouses.
■
NS
i
28
■ \
NEW AND INGENIOUS READY-ACTING DOG-TAIL AND CAMERA ATTACHMENT, FO
TOURISTS.
A patent Is now pending by the Inventors.
They claim the dog’s tail and the instantaneous shutter, also the combination of the shutter and
dog s tail, also the whole dog, and the general application, la the manner substantially and for
the purpose described.
i £i.sr SJ iclitner,
32 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, In great variety, from *3. Catalogues post free.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
SOLE AGENTS for BAKER’a DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID In the Market,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied ,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies.
CALLAGHiN.
Caterer and Confectioner,
6B4 OEORGE STREET,
WEDDINGS, BALLS, PICNICS. AND PARTIES A SPECIALITY.


CHRISTMAS
AT
THE PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET.
“ ’Tls a poor heart that never rejoices,” and a
doubly poverty-stricken soul it is that withholds
the flood of joyousness at Christmas-time, when
everyone else is glad. Signs are not wanting that
the coming and now near at hand Christmas of
1885 will be a merry one; everyone seems to be
wearing a gay face, and things are looking up all
round.
A NEW GOVERNOR,
a nobleman of rank and distinction, whoso repu-
tation for courtesy, kindliness of heart, and social
qualities is of the highest is close upon our shores,
and has already proved that ‘‘Rumour with her
thousand tongues” has not, in his case, been a
false prophet. A bad Government isjtottering to
its fall, and ia on the eve of being buried with the
mistakes of the past. There is a glimmering of
Parkes and useful statesmanship on the political
horizon; the future looks prosperous, and is
almost bursting with now railways—half-finished
water schemes, olficial reformations, and national
prosperity.
.It is the solemn duty of all who in any way cater
for the publ c benefit, or the public weal, to do all
in their power towards making
CHRISTMASTIDE
a pleasant and enjoyable season; and bearing this
in mind, and considering how fully alive they are
to the responsibilities imposed upon them, it is not
at all singular or wonderful that
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
the well known Universal Providers, should have
made special efforts in that direction. Let us
therefore, in the interests of all who wish to leave
no stone unturned in the quest after enjoyment at
Christmastime, take a little peep in at
THE PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET,
and obtain an insight into some of the
PLEASURES UNUTTERABLE
provided for all who make that wonderful estab-
lishment their Chirstmas Mart.
Surely the fairies have been at work, or perhaps
the wicked magician, who spirited away Aladdin’s
Palace of Gems, has turned from the err«r of his
ways, and has started a new and useful career by
etherealizlng Christmas at The Palace Emporium,
Haymarket.
Magic we don’t believe in, because our 19th-cen-
tury common-sense says *‘ Don’t,” and yet the
wonders which meet us can hardly be ascribed to
anything else. Oh I those almost
CELESTIAL DOLLS I
We can fancy the children delight, we can picture
the joy of the juvenile, the ecstatic bliss of little
Mabel or tiny Maud as with something like ma-
ternal solicitude, she fondles that beautiful waxen
effigy of humanity with the skill and care of the
mother of a dozen babies. But we must at once
dismiss these little creatures called Dolls with the
remark that upon a mundane descent, in the form
of ,an inquiry into the cost of possession, we can
see at once that the loveliest little maid in Sydney
need not go without her Christmas Doll. Move
we onward, and we recognise once more the touch
of the same magic hand. We see Toys on every
side; we are in a world of Toys; the atmosphere
teems with Toys; every available inch is occupied
by them. We are impressed with the idea that
“TOYS OF CHARACTER AND INGENUITY—
—Toys of transcendent beauty and attraction—
and we involuntarily hold our breath and gasp
for words. Where do they come from.Rhese mani-
pulations of everything under the sun. How can
we classify and arrange them in our bewildered
mind? If we name one we must name all;
if we praise the Intellectually-disposed toys, we
must also laud the comical ones; if we say “Good”
to the whimsical oddities, we must likewise cry
“ Excellent ” to the thousands of others. We give
It up, with the advice that ocular demonstration is
the only cure for the difficulty, and pass on to the
next division,
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS.
What a wealth of meaning there is in this little
phrase! What a host of human affections in the
words, and in the wondrous collection that we
now attempt to describe, what a choice for all!
Christmas Presents have a wide range, and, as far
as our humble opinion goes, at
THE PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET,
they have a wider range than anywhere else.
There is a
JEWELLERY CASE,
and it literally is crammed with pretty trinkets in
every form—watches and chains and all kinds of
inconceivably beautiful nicknacks. It is indeed
a casket of gems, which, if the riches of Golconda’s
mines or the Koh-i-noor itself were added to it,
could hardly be more attractive than it is. Here
is a chance for practical Illustration of true love,
the result of operating upon which will, we ven-
ture to say, be worth cartloads of sighs and a dic-
tionary full of vows and promises. And, if the
fancy inclines to something else, we are pretty
sure that fancy can be satisfied whatever form it
may take. There is a richness and a rarity in the
exquisite display of
ELECTRO-PLATE
that is eminently pleasing. There is the correct
time of day unmistakeably delineated on the faces
of everyone of the pretty and useful CLOCKS
as they tick away to the merry tune of passing
time. There are heaps of things we don’t know
how to name, and there is one SHOW CASE full
of such, and in which colour and shape, and de-
sign, are so artistically blended, that our eyes are
fairly dazzled at the charming sight. There are
useful presents and ornamental Ipresents—work-
boxes, clocks, inkstands, pnoto. frames, trays,
card cases, musical boxes, bats and balls, rocking-
horses, tricycles, and everything else than can
possibly come under the name or denomination of
a Christmas present.
There is always a craving after novelty at
Chrlstmaa-timo, and there is one thing we are sure
of, that seekers after that scarce commodity may
be amply satisfied at the show provided by our
friends,
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
and for special Illustration of this, we turn to
what those enterprising caterers are pleased to
call
THE LOLLY BUFFET,
at which is dispensed Confectionery in its most at-
tractive and sugary form, and the novelty of
which we speak is in the form of
A HUGE PYRAMID
composed of over 1300 packages of sweeties weigh-
ing nearly a ton, and representing a concentration
of sweetness truly novel and remarkable. The
lollies used in this monument of sugar are all of
colonial manufacture, and from the top of its
towering height waves a flag bearing on one side
the name of the colonial manufacturers—Dillon
Burrows ;Co.—and on the other the appropriate
motto, “ Vcni vidi vici.” That the children will
come to see it we have no doubt, that they will
see it is equally sure, and that they will eventually
conquer the pyramid we have not the slightest
doubt. Chips from the pyramid may be had, we
are informed, for sixpence each.
We must conclude, but ere we do so, do not let
us forget those important little mementoes of the
festive season,
CHRISTMAS CARDS.
Our friends ot Palace Emporium celebrity are
making something more than a speciality of them
this year, and we are told that numerically their
show of Christmas Cards reaches over
THREE MILLIONS,
and from our own experience and from the Cards
shown tons—we can vouch for the fact that there
are none better in Sydney. A special line of
Christmas Cards at fourpence to sixpence per
dozen is a singular specimen of how much artistic
excellence and gem-like effect can be procured for
a very little money; and it ail proves; how well
Anthony Hordern and Sons are providing for the
Christmas wants of the people of Sydney. Some
very pretty and fascinating
PARISIAN SACHETS
which, at twopence each, are marvels of delicious
perfumery and wonderful cheapness.
With a passing glance at the hosts of entertain-
ing books, cheap as entertaining and instructive,
a word of notice of the beautiful drapery goods,
and a declaration generally of the excellence of
the Christmas preparation at the Palace Em-
porium, Haymarket, we close this brief notice
with this advice to all—go and see it.
Bllenvale, Townsville, Aug. 18,188a.
Gentlemen,— 1 have much pleasure in advising
you that 1 nave used St. Jacob's Oil in my family
for sore throat and rheumatic pains with great
success, and consider it one ot the best remedies
ever put btfore the public. I have also used it
upon my poultry for croup and throat disorders,
and have always found it give immediate relief.
1 would recommend every poultry farmer to try
it. and they will lind that their coops, instead of
beimr empty, wilt be filled with strong, healthy
poultry.—Yours faithfully. & WKLL1NGTON-
iNote —A drench of from two to five drops 8t.
Jacob’s Oil. diluted with warm water, is a really
simple, reliable, and harmless remedy for anyin-
ternal disorders of poultry. We believe Mr. Wel-
lington s success has been almost phenomenal,
whilst some of his neighbours have sutfered very
heavy losses.)
Wolfe's Schnapps enjoys an unbounded
popularity unsurpassed by any other article in the
colonies.
Notice!—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by liocklngs, 143 Pitt-street.
When your food tortures instead of
benefiting you, then is the time to take Wolfe's
Schnapps.
No good health with thin impure blood.
Hop Bitters make rich blood, good health and
strength. American Co.’s is genuine.
Wolfe's Sclmapps removes the various
causes which give rise to dyspepsia and urinary
complaints.
In case of emergency you should keep a
bottle of Wolfe's Schnapps on the premises.
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), SI Pitt-st,, Sydney, N.ti.W,
It is proposed that on the occasion of her
jubilee, the Queen shall review the volunteer
troops, as in 1861, when 100,000 men marched past
her in London and Edinburgh.
Signs of the times. Over 200 writs of ca.
sa. are *‘out” on one ot the Northern (N.S.W.)
rivers. This is an Indication of the fallacy of being
s-duce l hv the blandishments of syndication. All
the available local money was locked up in sub-
divisional blocks some time ago. Result ca. sa,
and ruination. Individual Insolvency and circum-
scribed national credit offer a dismal outlook for
sunny N.S.W.
Thus a contemporary : —“ Facts have
leaked out from the men of the Harrier,
that the whole proceedings of the men-of-
war in New Guinea are a farce. The natives re-
ceive two days’ notice to clear, and shells are then
tired into the bush. Any rotten old canoes left on
the beach are chopped up. The prisoner on H.M.S.
Diamond is said not to be one of Ml tier's murderers.
The murderer escaped at Dinner Island, eluding
the Diamond’s sentries. sir Pater Scratchley,
who sleeps on deck, heard some one panting in
the water ; the Governor Rlackall boat was
lowered, and the presumed murderer was cap-
tured after an exciting chase, and the full use of
the boat-stretchers. The officers now make a pet
of him.” It is refreshing, in these days of lash and
locs-up, to learn that the humanity which should
ever caaracterise proceedings of annexation is
not entirely dead within the breasts of
the officers of the Harrier. No doubt
the effective and regular way of dealing
with the natives would be to steal on them in
camp, and massacre as many as possible, in the
interests of Christianity and civilisation. But as
the savages, probably, consider they have some
slight claim to their island home, in spite of its
being “ annexed.” we are at one with the late High
Commissioner. No slaughter should be made—that
is, no general slaughter—until copies of the papers
bearing upon the question have been laid before
the natives. Then up with the banner of England,
send forward the ghost of the goat, the donkey,
the patriotic Dailey, the sinless Strickland, and
slay and spare not. Drive the bloody savage into
the sea, ravish his women, murder his children,
and take his lind. Whoop for our civilisation I
More legal presumption. In a newspaper
libel case, tried at Armidale the other day, Mr.
Julian Salomons, the eminent Sydney Q.C., in-
structed the jury to the effect that in the event of
their finding for his damaged client the amount of
cash awarded should be sufficient not only to con-
sole for the damages, but to meet the fees of a
brilliant counsel brought all the way from Sydney
for the occasion. In one way this Is right. If a
man wantonly break the glass in another man’s
window, he should be obliged not only to supply
new glass, but to pay the glazier for putting it in.
In another way, however, the festive Julian’s ex-
hortation goes too far. If a Sydney man whose
window was broken sent to the Gulf of Carpen-
taria for a glazier, the expenses involved would
not be allowed by any Courl. The primary right a
man wrongfully damaged in reputation or pro-
perty possesses is the right to have the damage
repaired or atoned for at the expense of the
wrong-doer. The legitimacy of this end jus-
titles the employment of necessary means. But
was it necessary to bring a leading counsel
all the way from Sydney to Armidale ? If so, may
not an aggrieved person bring counsel—say
Purves from Melbourne, or Charles Russell from
England, and put It to the jury that in estimating
the damages inflicted on his character, the saloon-
fares, and sea-sickness, and “poker” losses of his
advocate are to be entered up ? It the amount ot
the decree is to be contingent on the amount of
a lawyer s fee, a man with a small lawyer will not
be considered damaged to the same extent as the
same man with a big lawyer. To call a client of
the hitherto briefless Brown a man-eater, may
stand one £30. To call a client of the silk-gowned
Jones a man-eater, may stand £10,00J. This is
where the eminent Mr. Salomons’ address to the
Armidale jury “ lands ” the public mind.
Ballads for the Times.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
la a back street of Sydney, when Christmas was
near,
No bright native youth over felt half so drear;
No harp like his own could so dismally twang,
And he wanted to cry, but he rose up and sang—
“ Shall the harp, then, be silent I played on before
Because a gaunt wolf scratches loud at the door?
Shall I ‘cave In’ at once for the things that are
past?
No: I’ve not been the first fool, and shrn’t be
the last.
“ The world Is no harder for me than the rest,
And millions were weeping while I had my jest;
There are good men around me who toil like the
slave,
And look for peace nowhere except In the grave,
•• Then away with the dumps, change the tune of
the song—
It’s not the great world, but my liver that’s
wrong;
Start again, and give over to drtam, day and
night,
Of a heartless and cowardly suicide flight.
“ There are half-crowns to win, there are crowns
to be broke
Of all the loud fools who in public have spoke;
When good men are treading a bard up-hill
track,
They’ll tramp all the better if slapped on the
back,
“ Deep lessons from books to the world I may tell.
(I must first fish up Tom’s only hat from the
well);
I may sing to my countrymen words brave and
wise
(Keep your thumb from that jam-tin, Jack;
won’t tell you twice);
“ I may lash the proud rich who are grinding the
poor
(Who slams all the time that Infernal old door?i;
Let me show the deep scheming of Parkes and
of Dlbbs
(Whin this boy, dear; here's Joe again telling me
fibs),
“ How they handle our members as so many tools—
First gull them with olap-trap, and then call
them fools;
How they speak to our people with eloquence
rare,
And gain or lose seats with a bridge in the air.
" How they dwell on their deeds in the days that
are gone,
And by turns nag or slaver o’er poor old Sir
John,
Who wasted our acres In millions before.
And 1s dying to fritter a few millions more.
“Shall I tell how the eloquent Garrett may
thrive,
While Nln. gets It hot for his poor twenty-five ?
Shall I tell how the land-agents’ business may
roar,
While Tom works the city, and ’Zeklel Carooar ?
“ Then how for Instruction, in Dlbbs’ hour of
need,
He fixed on a man who ne’er had time to read ?
Why Abbott his arrows on Parnell directs ?
Why ? He's nosons-ln-law who want fifty-pound
cheques.
“ How Jurymen nod while the judge takes a nap,
And the greatest oollectlsn-plate is a red cap;
How plenary synods and foundation-stones
Mean structures of folly built up of dry bones ?
“ How the parsons are praying while Freethinkers
And In praying or thinking there's no thought
at all;
How Governments, wending their way to the
tomb.
Try to stay the last foe in the banquetlng-room ?
« Then how often In private groat contracts are
lot
And more borrowed millions are plied on our
debt; , , ,
While we fail our true workers strong arms to
direct, . , ,
We religiously Free-trade importers protect.
“ When our chiefs should be steering the ship of
the State,
Buchanans are snarling, O Connors orate,
And higgllngs and haggllngs resound through
the land,
Like a sort of political Salvation band.
“ And then there's the din of those mud-headed
tribes .. . , . ,
Who, because they can t write, turn professional
scribes;
Who on questions of State from their scale never
flinch— .
Three miles of dull leader, and of sense not one
Inch.
« Then I’ll turn from the haggllngs, the tumults,
and strife, . . ,
And sing of all fair things that beautify life;
How the angels unseen, midsr. our bitterest pain.
May sing— : (That Infernal old door slams again I)
•* May sing a soft song that may make poor hearts
g-lad
(Take away that tln-whlstle—it drives a man
AntTwhlsper, as upward they mount to the sky
(In the name of all thunder, who’s made baby
cry ?),
•• That joy comes with morning, grief lasts but a
night
(No; don’t want your cabbage, John. Out of my
A few years of tolling and all will go well
(Lord, what next is coming—the mufiin-man s
bell).
« press on with stout heart, never give way to
(Tell the baker you’ll pay him next Monday, my
E that the landlord won’t wait for his
rent ?
Well, he’ll have to, that’s all, for I’ve not got a
cent).”
* * * * * *
Thus he sang and his ham he laid wearily by,
Threw open the sash, and looked out on the sky;
He had sat down to write out the song he’d
begun.
But his gloom came again—his last candle was
done.
All sounds had died out, and the moon rode on
heard the poor tooth-cutting baby’s
l&stj slgb;
Looked down on the yard which contained not a
And was’ just about starting again to get sick
When a stream of moonlight through the pane
darted through.
Lit up on the bare floor a small worn-out shoe.
Which pleaded “ Is ‘ caving ’ the thing, pa, for
I boy,” he muttered; “ I’m d —- if 1 do,”
SAVED BY "THE CUP."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Cup Carnival is usually charged with in-
directly, If not actually, leading up to much sul.
oide, murder, and sudden death, much picking and
stealing, evil speaking, lying, and slandering; and,
in fact, of being the embodiment, in one week’s
enjoyment, of the seven deadly sins. Parsons
point a moral from its vicious influences; scribes
“ slate ” it as a sink of immorality, a hotbed of
vice, and a garden of iniquity; teetotallers aver
there is poison in the Cup, and alleged Christian
pilgrims of other sects and ages howl their denun-
ciations of the whole affair. But each year they
goto see the races, and back the wrong horse.
Hence the wail. The sin and vioiousness are not
visible In the race, nor are they noticeable, to the
worldly eye, amongst the people; the horses are
not apparently sinful, the details are all correct
and Christianllke, but the Institution is wrong and
savours of Satanlty. (It strikes me that last is
rather a good word.) I have seen a few races for
the Cup, and I don't think there is so much blame
attachable to it as it usually receives. And as The
Bulletin always takes the part of the bottom
dog in the fight, and as the Institution under
notice is annually in the position of disadvantage,
I shall, through these columns, relate one instance
in which the Cup saved a man’s reputation.
In “Darriwell’s year” I was relleving-officer in
a Victorian bank, and had been for some time at
one of the larger branches, taking the places of
the various clerks as they obtained their annual
leave. Amongst many nice fellows In the office
was Harry Boyle, head ledger-keeper; he had been
three years in the same position, and had never
applied for leave. Such a circumstance was un-
usual; however, it excited little comment, for
Harry, It was known, supported out of his not too
liberal salary his mother and sister, and there
could not be a great surplus for holiday expendi-
ture when the trade accounts were paid. Withal
he was a bright, happy fellow, and the idol of his
mother and loving sister. He was, too, a universal
favourite both amongst his fellow clerks and the
clients of the bank, and highly popular outside.
Cup Day was a holiday, and Harry, almost at the
last moment, resolved to go to Melbourne and see
the race. I had no Interest in It that year, and had
accepted an invitation from a country friend to
spend a day at the farm. Boyle came to me at
noon and asked if I would take his ledgers for the
remainder of the day. It made little difference to
me, half an hour’s extra work at close of business,
and, of course, I at once acceded to his request.
The train left at 1 o'clock, and by It he went. At
four I had finished my own work, and proceeded
to post up his ledger entries. I had almost finished
and was Just handing the last batch of cheques to
the cash-book keeper, when I was surprised to
notice, in one very operative account, a number
of debit entries in the credit column. I took in
the whole situation at once—Harry was operating
on this account for some purpose of his own,
hence bis repeated refusals to take holidays; hence
his sudden resolution to see the Cup.
A train left for Melbourne at half-past four. I
must go by that and see him. Only ten minutes
remained at my disposal in which to obtain his
ad iress and get away.
It was of no use proceeding to the city and
trusting to chance to find him, and yet my time
was so brief that I almost resolved to take this
step. Luckily, at this moment, his sister entered
the bank. It was a common proceeding on her
part to call for him if she were down town about
closing time. I then learned that she knew no-
thing of his journey, and I could see she was
alarmed at my equally erratic flight to the gay
metropolis. However, he usually stayed with
friends, whose address I obtained from her, and,
bidding her a hasty farewell, I sped by cab to the
station, and just reached the gates as the train
moved. The station-master himself, who was on
the platform, was a personal friend of my own, so
the official hand was held up, and the engine
slowed down to a foot pace as I dashed aboad;
but for this timely accident I could not have been
a passenger by that train.
Kemember, I was not certain there had been any
roguery. 1 had no time to look over the account.
My act was one of impulse, and now, as we dashed
along, I scarcely knew whether the step was that
of a wise man or a fool. Anyway, I should see the
Cup, and that Itself was worth the little trouble I
had been occasioned.
We reached Melbourne tolerably early, and, as I
could not rest with the troublesome indecision
burdening my mind, I jumped into a cab, and
went to Harry’s address at once- My entry seemed
to break up some pleasant little party, and, as I
was ushered into the room, I saw at once my worst
suspicions were not unfounded. Boyle turned
deadly pale, staggered as he rose to greet me, and
sank back as a man suddenly paralysed.
“ Don’t be alarmed, Harry,’’ I said, for bis friends
had naturally been astonished by his behaviour;
"there's nothing wrong at home, old fallow. I
saw Miss Doyle just before I left. I merely
wanted to know If you had seen Ted Dalton. I
want to meet him to-morrow.”
I bad purposely wandered in my speaking to
give him a chance to come round, and he, though
fully aware of my discovery, faced the music
"like a man.”
"Dalton,” he answered, "yes, I saw him to-
night, he Is staying at—Wait a minute, I'll go down
with you.”
‘ Let us go and have a drink, for Heaven s sake,
he said, as we gained the street, " I feel as if I had
lost sll my heart. You know everything ? ”
• No. Harry,” I replied, as we entered the nearest
hotel, "I do not. How much Is it ?”
" Two hundred odd.”
“ Good G , where has it gone ? ”
" On Darriwell”
"On DovrriwellV’
“ Yea, no other, you think me mad, so I may be.
T drew him long ago in Miller’s sweep, and I have
thought of nothing else since. Fred, old man, he
" For your sake, Harry, I hope he does, but I do
not think he has a thousand to one show. Harry,
Harry, what folly, what madness, It was to do this
thing. Think of your mother and sister!”
“ It is for them, Fred. If it comes off they will
be beyond the reach of want.”
" But, If it fails?”
“ In that case, Harry Boyle will be found dead
on the North Melbourne railway line to-morrow
night.”
“And then?”
" 1 Insured my life last month for £3000, so they
are safe In any case.”
" Have you no friend who would advance the
sum nec cssary to ad j ust the deficiency ? ”
"None, old fellow. Now, let this thing drop, I
feel better since you know it. Let us go into
town.”
We strode along briskly in silence. I was not
good enough to despise him nor bad enough to
sympathise with him. Here was a young fellow
prepared to sacrifice his life for his mother—that
was good. He had stolen money to that end—that
was bad. Surely if extremes meet Harry was
standing on the neutral point, where vice merges
into virtue. The whole thing was ahead of me. I
could not adjust anything like an equitable
balance, so wejwent into an oyster-saloon and
assimilated sundry dozens of the toothsome
blvalvis. (I slept that night as calmly as though
f had no participation in a committed crime,
and a premeditated one; in fact. I forgot the
whole sffair long before I went home that even-
ing.) 1 nad no trouble; my accounts were square,
and there was no reason why 1 should not have a
night of It. In the morning I had to use the shoe-
horn to put my hat on with. I had a head on me.
It was Cup Day.
You will find a very nice account of It in the
daily papers of a few weeks back. Alii Cup days
are alike. They only differ in description.
Darrlwell won in 3min. 30J4secs.
And that night two of tne happiest fellows in
Melbourne booked for the country once more.
We aroused,the crusty old messenger, got out the
ledgers, and straightened the account by passing
cross entries. x . . .
Next day Harry and I waited upon the head of
the firm whose name had been used.
“Mr. I said to to the white-haired old
gentleman, “ Mr. Boyle’s won largely over Darri-
well’s victory.” . .
“lam very glad to hear it, Harry, very glad;
but betting is an unwise thing for a young man in
your position.” ,, ,
“ I shall never bet again, sir,” fervently replied
the young man.
“And Mr. ,” I continued, “ there has been a
trilling error in your account this last few weeks,
which Is now adjusted. Will you kindly sign these
two cheques as vouchers ?”
Very gravely, vary kindly, the old man crossed
from his seat and laid his hand on my fellow
clerk’s shoulder:
“Harry, my boy, give me a solemn promise
never, while you live, to touch a card or pencil a
bet again. Promise me as you would your father
—my sons are older than you.”
And with bowed head and in broken accents he
nromlsed—one of these promises which come
from deep down in the heart.
Harry is still in the same bank, and probably
there is no more respected officer now in its ser-
vice, none more strictly conscientious, none more
highly thought of.
But three people in the world know that Darrl-
well saved him from disgrace and the crime of
self-murder.
We three only and The Bulletin, which makes
us four, know that, in Darri well’s year the Cup
scored one on the side of the Fifth Commandment.
But you will say it hedged a little on the Eighth.
Ah, well, we all hedge a little occasionally on one
of the ten to try and come out square with the
balance of the mandates.
