

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 100.—New Series.
SATURDAY. APRIL 11, 1885.
Price—6d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, APRIL 11, 1885.
The Millenium.
It is a curious fact, that althougtfthe Mil-
lenium is one of the promises held forth by
orthodox Chistianity, to express belief in
that promise exposes one to a charge of
heterodoxy. It is orthodox to pray “Thy
kingdom come on eaith, as it is in heaven,”
but it is regarded as impious and ridiculous
to believe that what is asked in that
petition can be realised. The expecta-
tion, one is commonly told, is absurd. You
cannot alter human nature. To expect a
Millenium involves a negation of the doc-
trine of original depravity, and that would
never do. We are quite content to face the
ridicule, and to sustain the imputation of
heresy, by declaring point blank that of the
two irrcoonoileable orthodox doctrines we
prefer the one which the theologians have
elected to discard. We do not believe in
the essential depravity of human nature,
and consequently we are free to believe in
the possibility of realising the Millenium.
On one point, at least, there is universal
agreement, viz., that the Millenium would
be an excellent condition. It follows that
it must be a meritorious enterprise to strive
for its attainment. But, singularly enough,
the first movement anyone makes in that
direction brings upon hisj head a pitiless
shower of mingled opprobrium and ridicule.
He is delared part scoundrel and part fool,
and all visionary. Let us consider what
conditions are to characterise the millenial
state. There is to be no war. There is to be
no wickedness. There is to be no sorrow or
suffering. Briefly stated, the whole promise
is summed up in three words, “ Peace and
Plenty.” Well then, why not ?
• •
In order to consider the case methodically,
jt will be best to reverse the order of the
words, and make the phrase run Plenty and
Peace. For it is obvious that unless there
be Plenty there cannot be Peace. It is
indeed inconceivable, we freely admit, that
human nature, however elevated, could
reach the eminence which would be requi-
site before one portion of humanity would
consent calmly to lay down their lives in
order that the remaining proportion should
be relieved from starvation, and enabled to
revel in abundance. There must be Plenty.
Here we have practical objection the first.
Political economists have declared that
there cannot be Plenty. The Rev. Mr.
Malthus—a very honest man—stops the
way with his theory on the population ques-
tion. He demonstrates that “ there is a
constant tendency of population to increase
at a greater rate than the means of subsis-
tence,” and proceeds to argue that unless a
large proportion of the human beings
brought into existence by natural pro-crea-
tion were somehow killed off at an early
stage of their career, the entire race would
perish by universal starvation; and indeed
if the natural increase could by any miracle
be all fed, they would not have standing
room on the face of the earth. Clearly,
therefore, if Mr. Malthus be correct in his
ideas, the Word of God is all wrong, and as
Plenty is unattainable, Peace also is impos-
sible, and consequently the Millenium is an
absurd fancy. Now, singularly enough, the
orthodox have decided, en masse, that the
Word of God is wrong in this matter, and
Mr. Malthus is'right. And, by odd coinci-
dence it happens that certain heterodox
persons have of late taken to insisting that
in this very matter the orthodox doctrine is
correct, and the so-called orthodox who
have elected to believe Malthus in prefer-
ence to their own Inspired Revela-
tions, are wrong not to have stuck to
their Faith. Led by Mr. Henry GtoBUE—
the man with the brain-pan resembling in
altitude and capacity the dome of St. Paul’s
Cathedral —they affirm that the orthodox
tradition is all right, Mr. Malthus all
wrong, and the Millenium, consequently,
quite within the scope of possible realisa-
tion. While the orthodox, misled by their
preference of Malthus over Christ, de-
clare that there cannot be Plenty for all,
and, consequently, there mmt perpetually
be a struggle for what insufficient provision
Providence has made for mankind, the
heterodox affirm that there can be Plenty
for all, and need be no struggle, provided a
plan of fair-sharing be devised and adopted.
The orthodox pronounce that any project
for fair partition must be useless, and, con-
sequently, mischievous, and, thus impressed,
resist and resent every proposition tending
in that direction ; whereby orthodoxy is re-
garded as a most creditable and respectable
frame of mind by all persons who have
more than the average share of the world’s
wealth.
• * *
Where is the use of sharing when there
won’t be enough to go round and sustain
life ? ask the conservatives, triumphantly.
This is precisely the sort of inquiry which
would suggest itself to a boat-load of cast-
aways ip mid-ocean, with food only suffi-
cient to keep half the people alive till land
is reached. I hen kill the other half—and eat
them, too, if hard pushed. Just so with the
conservative, orhettr-orthodox theory. Half
the human beings who areborn into the world
must be destroyed to save the rest. Conse-
quently, man must of necessity continue to
devour man till the end of the world. Wars,
pestilence, famines, and all the catalogue of
allied horrors must continue, and the Mil-
lenium can never be attained “ on earth as
it is in Heaven.” So that the Lord’s
Prayer is, in that particular, an unmeaning
form of words! “But,” cry Bradlaugh
and Mrs. Besant, “all this catalogue of
miseries can be abolished. Physiological
science has shown a simple prevention. It
is easy to avoid bringing human beings into
existence merely to be a scourge to others
and a misery to themselves. Follow the few
simple instructions which are the Fruits of
Philosophy, aud enjoy the blessing of God.
Read, act, and the Millenium is restored to
you. ’ “Sooner perish,” responds Ortho-
doxy and Respectability. “Let people
rather curse God and die in wretchedness
than have recourse to such novel devices to
enter into the promised joys!” But Henry
George stops between the disputants. “Your
repulsive device is unnecessary,” he says to
the one. “Your denial of an article of your
own faith has been a useless bit of apos-
tacy,” he remarks to the others. “Popula-
turn does not tend to increase in a more rapid
ratio than the means of subsistence. There
is now, and always will be, Plenty for alP
only it is unevenly distributed. Divide
fairly, and there need be no want.”
* * ♦
We cannot here do much more than indi-
cate the line of demonstration Mr. Geohgb
adopts. Book ii., consisting of four chapters,
of his great work, is devoted to the elucida-
tion of this phate of his subject. As illus-
trative of his method, however, we may
quote a couple of passages
“If the tendency to reproduce be so strong as
Malthusianism supposes, how is it that families so
often become extinct-families In which want is
unknown ? How is it, then, that when every pre-
mium is cfl'ered by hereditary titles and hereditary
possessions, not alone to the principle of increase,
but to the preservation of genealogical knowledge
and the proving up of descent, that in such an
aristocracy as that of England, so many peerages
should lapse, and the House of Lords only be
kept up from century to century by fresh crea-
tions ?
“ For the solitary example of a family that has
survived any great lapse of time, even though as-
sured of subsistence and honour, wo must go to
unchangeable China. The descendants of Con-
fucius still exist there, and enjoy peculiar privi-
leges and consideration forming, in fact, the only
hereditary aristocracy. On the presumption that
population tends to double every twenty-five
years, they should, in 3160 years after the death of
Confucius, have amounted to 859,559,193,100,709,.
070,198,710,638 souls. Instead of any such unimag-
inable number, the descendants of Confucius,
2150 years after his death, in the reign of Kangri,
numbered 11,00J males, or say 33,000 souls. This is
quite a discrepancy, and is the more striking when
it is remembered that the esteem in which this
family is held on account of their ancestor, ‘the
Most Holy Ancient Teacher,’ has prevented the
operation of the positive check, while the maxims
of Confucius inculcate anything but the pruden-
tial check. Yet, it may be said, that even this in-
crease is a great one. Twenty-two thousand per-
sons descended from a single pair in 3150 years is
far short of the Malthusian rate. Nevertheless,
it is suggestive of possible overcrowding. But
consider. Increase of descendants does not show
increase of population. It could only do this
when the breeding was in and in. Smith and his
wife have a son and daughter, who marry re-
spectively some one else’s daughter and son, and
each have two children. Smith and his wife
would thus have four grandchildren ; but there
would be in the one generation no greater number
than in the other—each child would have four
grandparents.”
• ■ •
It is also a matter of common knowledge,
established by statistics, thatalthough there
is a condition of misery so abject that it acts
as a check on reproduction, it is not the
comfortable classes who* are the most proli-
fic. A reasonable amount of comfort t.p-
pears to reduce to equally reasonable limits
the reproductive function. The cottage of
the hind and the garret of the operative
swarm with children ; the hovel of the
starveling and the palace of the noble or
millionaire are commonly dreary for l ack of
children’s voices ; while the home of the
fairly well-to-do middle class is neither
| crowded with children nor desolate for lack
of them. It may, therefore, reasonably be
expected that reproduction without increase
mightbe anticipated were all the inhabitants
of the world blessed with plenty without
superfluity. At least the subject is deserving
of attentive investigation and consideration.
* * m
Although without Plenty it would be vain
to expect Peace, it does not necessarily fol-
low that if there were Plenty Peace must be
a consequence. In fact, it is apparent, on
the most superficial examination, that there
would not be Peace unless the Plenty was
distributed with reasonable fairness, so that
none should monopolize so large a propor-
tion as to leave others a supply inadequate
for the comfortable subsistence requisite to
permit of a happy and contented existence.
This seems to bo the condition of the world
just at present. We do pot remember to
have seen it alleged, eyca by the most ar-
HENRY GEORGE,


Annual Income exceeds One Million*
$0
\*A-
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, ( 4s. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per .Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
A /STRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT!
2s. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
Is, 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke s Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH A STD SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
C. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets/
•YDWET.
dent Malthusian enthusiast, that over-popu-
lation has already been arrived at. That
parts of the world are over-populated
has been affirmed, and need not be
disputed, so far as our argument is
concerned. But it is not pretended
that were population distributed over the
surface of the globe, so as to relieve the
more crowded regions and bring into use
the, at present, sparsely peopled tracts,
there would not be abundance of space, and,
by exertion of rea?onable industry/ of pro-
duce to support in comfort the entire
present population of the world. It is
always to the future that the disciples of
Maltiius point with warning finger. Thus,
it may be stated that, at this very epoch,
there exists Plenty, and we have not Peace.
This opens tho way to an extraordinary con-
sideration, namely, that we might enter
upon the Millenium now (no matter what
the future might witness, in the event of
Maltiius’ theory proving correct) could we
but hit upon a system which would equalize
conditions.
* * *
But that brings us back to a point whence
wo started —the natural and inherent de-
pravity of human nature. Supposing it
were possible at once to equalize conditions)
tho inequality of men’s dispositions, abili.
ties and temperaments would, objectors
declare, immediately operate to bring about
a reversion to the pre-existing differences
of condition and of comfort. The energetic
and talented would produce more than the
sluggish and stupid, and society would
speedily and certainly re-arrange itself into
rich and poor. We think this is absolutely
indisputable. We do not believe in a
miraculously instituted Millenium; We
think it must be evolved gradually, like
every other grand and solid institution.
The human lace could not, we believe,
throw off in a day or a century the charac-
teristics made hereditary by thousands of
years of persistent evils. But that is a very
different matter from lending assent to the
doctrine that human nature is essentially
bad; that it is disqualified from purification
by an original and- essential depravity.
The question here is—how much of the evil
of existing conditions is duo to man’s
native depravity ? And how much of man’s
present depravity is due to existing—and to
tho hereditary influence of past—evil con
ditions? Some light is thrown on this en-
quiry by a fact generally established, dis-
tinctly and conveniently stated by Tenny-
son, through the mouth of his “Northern
farmer,” that “tho poor i’ the loomp is
bad.” In other words, it is from the dis-
tressed classes that all but a small propor-
tion of tho officially recognised wicked—the
criminals —are derived. It is only the Very
rich and the very poor who steal. Monarchs
and other rulers steal whole countries.
Pauperised people steal herrings and
purses, and so forth. Emperors, and Kings,
and Presidents wantonly murder wholesale
—by battalions and thousands; destitute
classes produce murderers in the retail line.
Now, suppose there were neither very
splendid and powerful persons, nor very
destitute persons, murder and thieving
would obviously sink in an extraordinary
ratio. Suppose that society were so con-
stituted that the acquisition of more than a
man was entitled to as adequate reward for
his own personal exertions—the institution
of wage-slaves Imug absolutely abolished
—was discouraged by every possible means,
by every sort ot enactment, and by the
whole force of a wholesome social influence,
the struggle for existence would positively
cease. It is just this struggle which seems
to us to prevent and suppress the good that
Is naturally in human nature. There are
thousands of men in this city alone, who are
scrambling with intense and anxious eager-
ness to “get on.” The imperative obligation
of trampling lost one be trampled, is every-
where recognised and openly admitted. The
business-man grinds down his hands to the
lowest market-rate of wage, because, if
Smith pays his hands a shade more than
Jones, Jones undersells Smith and takes
away all his business. Therefore, Smith
must grind the faces of his poor, or become
himself one of the poor and have his own
face ground. And so on all round, in au
Infinity of ways. The bottom of the social
scale is too terrible almost for contempla-
tion. The fear of being thrust down amidst
that squalid, writhing, miserable mass,
squirming in want and degradation, drives
men mad, and turns their blood sour.
• * *
Yet the native good—the original virtue
as opposed to the original depravity hypo-
thecated by the theologians—which can be
distinguished underlying the artificial habit
of even the hardest and grimmest of grab-
bers is really amazing. There isn’t a man
of them who hasn’t sentiments of charity,
love of right and justice, and feeling for
his race, jammed away in his heart some-
where, and needing constant stifling and re-
pression. Whenever they dare—until, in-
deed, the habit of accumulation has be-
come a disease, as not uufrequently happens
when the original nature has been of the
meanest sort made—they are generous, and
kindly, and just, and sympathetic. We ap-
peal to every reader whether that is not a
fact within his own experience, that the
hardest man among his acquaintances
shows sometimes that he either ha*, or
once had, a soft kernel. And as to
the vicious and criminal, the brightness of
their compensating qualities often dazzles
the eyes of those who care to look for such
phenomena. Now, suppose that social ar-
rangements were such that all good natural
qualities were fostered, and all the bad dis-
couraged! Suppose that middle-class case
and culture were within the reach of all.
Conceive how invention would flow if the
millions of minds, at present locked up by
ignorance and indigence, were set in motion.
Would human nature in the aggregate pre-
sent then so formidable a barrier against
the possible realisation of a Millenium ? If
not, then surely it will be worth while to
examine dispassionately, and consider at-
tentively, every proposition made to bring
about a re-adjustment of social conditions,
which would bring within measurable dis-
tance the realisation of that promise of the
Founder of Christianity—the milleniura.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
J. Henniker Heaton on Australia.
Mr. J. Henniker Heaton tells the English peo-
ple that there are 450,000 men of military age in
Victoria, and that Australia could put in the field
from 30,000 to 36,000 troops properly armed,
officered, and disciplined. This thing is getting
beyond a Joke. In Victoria there are about half a
million of males. Mr. Heaton says nine-tenths of
them are fit for military service, and cultivated
Englishmen, with means at hand to obtain trust-
worthy information, believe—or affect to believe—
him. It is bad—it is humiliating. Some means
should be adopted for muzzling the dunces who
go abroad to lie about us. The different colonial
executives should send immediate instructions to
their Agents-General to flatly deny this person’s
outrageous assertions, arising from ignorance or
worse. We cannot suffer ourselves to be always
misrepresented—as was the case when we offered
England 500 trained infantry and had not a man
under arms. To possess 450,000 men of serviceable
age Victoria would require a population of from
three to four millions instead ot one. If every
inhabitant of that colony were of the male sex she
would not have more than 200,000 fit for military
service, unless children in arms and men in their
dotage were taken. There may be a slight prepon-
derance of males over females in the Southern co-
lony, but this scarcely affects the question. France
has a population of (say) 40,000,000. According to J.
Henniker Heaton, 18,000,000 of those would be fit
to bear arms! Tho “blowing” propensity of
Victorians was ridiculed rather ill-naturedly by
Trollope. He would have died before his time
had he met J. Henniker Heaton. The fiercest
fanfaronade ever blown by a sporting Melbourne
publican would be as a Jew’s-harp beside Heaton s
trombone. And 30,000 (we take the lowest figure)
disciplined troops I Yes, it is too bad. In broad
Australia there are certainly not more than from
five hundred to a thousand men whom any ex-
perienced officer, whose post did not depend on
political intrigues, would pass for active service
to-morrow, against a disciplined enemy. There
are probably not four hundred. 20,0001 It is mon-
strous. Our Macauley or Froude (we forget
which) is not handy, and so we cannot call to mind
the name of that Englishman who, long resident
in Spain, told Elizabeth, when asked what he
thought of her troops, that they were in every
way admirable, but that—it was as well the Span-
iards did not effect a landing. If ever a great hu-
miliation should fall on England, or on Australia,
we may be sure that the Henniker Heatons of
society are at the bottom of it.
Political Podsnappery.
The desire to get rid of an Eastern-looking man
who, in company with a mastiff and a bludgeon,
bivouacked in our drawing-room and freckled the
carpet with expectoration, alone tempted us to
take the job. But it is over, and wo are free. Our
commission was to search through late issues of
the various Australian journals for references to
Russia. We found some hundreds, all pitched in
tho same key—variations to the same theme.
From the Melbourne Argus to the Bungondore
Screamer, Russia’s political perfidy and insatiable
earth-hunger supplies the motif for a crescendo of
petulance. But this style of treating the subject
is merely a direct invitation to the unanswerable
Muscovite tu quoque. “ For people who have no
appetite,” wrote a Russian lady lately, “ you Eng-
lish have made a remarkably good meal.” There
Is no nation whose political morality will stand in-
spection. Daring the seventeenth and eighteenth
centuries and the earlier years of the nineteenth,
England secured magnificent possessions by right
of conquest. She took Canada from the French,
crushed the native Government of India, and de-
prived Holland of South Africa. She holds them
still, and should, therefore, be the last nation in
the world to chide others for following in her
footsteps. If English and Colonial journalists
would only bear this In mind, they would cease—
by refraining from condemning foreigners for
actions for which they applaud Britons—making
their country the world’s laughing-stock. We
have said there is little political rectitude among
nations. If France thought she could march to Ber-
lin to-morrow, she would march. If Russia could
take India, or England thought it advantageous
to hold the Soudan, India would be taken and the
Soudan held. But for Czar Alexander in 1875,
Bismarck would have repeated on the Loire the
dose administered five years before on the Seine.
Britain has no desire for fresh territory, except
for the purpose of securing her present posses-
sions; but that is no reason why other countries
should not have. To us, then, it appears that tho
position taken up by those writers who whine
about Russia’s duplicity is an untenable one and a
contemptible. The true, the manly stand to take,
would be this:—” We hold India, Gibraltar, Hong-
kong, and a number of places to which you say
we have no right. We intend to hold them against
you or against the world, if necessary. About the
manner in which they were acquired, we will not
argue. If you think you can take them, you are
at liberty to try—only it might be as well not to be
in too groat a hurry. We do not flatter ourselves
that it is your affection for us or your admiration
for high principles that keeps your hands off. If
you are determined to acquire any of these places,
we are equally determined you shall not.” Now,
if our dear brother journa'ists, whose writings
throw such a light on the world's affairs-you can
keep nothing from them—would only adopt this
style, would only stop pelting stones at France for
her little flirtation with Tonquln-at Germany for
her desire to possess tropical graveyards, and at
Russia for tho longing eyes she turns towards
India, while all the time our own dear people in-
habit such a palace of glass, they would give satis-
faction all round. As it is, their lugubrious wail
bids fair to keep the name of England prominently
before the world as a “shocking example” of
political Podsnappery.
"How Beautiful are the Feet.”
On a recent occasion, feeling that, after an acute
attack of the “blues,” we had a desire to be in
love and charity with all men—hard though it be5
for Included in that all arc some of the greatest
scoundrels yet unhung—we found ourselves
seated in an orthodox manner in an orthodox pew
in an orthodox church, with an orthodox minister
in the pulpit, and an orthodox verger at the door
guarding an orthodox soup-plate. We were
hoping to hear something of the “ soft phrase of
peace,” but not so; for, after singing a beautiful
hymn, the theme of which was the great brother-
hood of humanity, we were startled to find that
the subject of the discourse was “War.” Yes,
war to the knife; and in right glowing terms did
the preacher descant on thefglories thereof, whilst
emblazoned above his head in a tongue which
some of the people did not understand, we read:—
“ Gloria in excelsis Deo, et in terra pax hominibus:
Bona voluntatis." As the sermon proceeded, we
fell into a reverie, which, we believe, is quite
orthodox, and in our mind’s eye we saw a horrible
scene of carnage, blood, and murder, bracketted—
for the sake of convenience—under the generic
term, “War.” There wfre men who had never
seen each other’s faces before running bayonets
into each other’s eyes and battering out each
other’s brains in the most rough-and-ready
fashion; half dead savages, ill-prepared to
die, according to the preacher’s creed, and,
therefore, in danger of perdition, lying in
the throes of death from bullet wounds and
sword cuts inflicted by Christian soldiers, who
were trying to show that the religion of the meek
and lowly Nazarene was superior to Paganism.
Widows and orphans were crying, away over the
sea, for loss of husbands and fathers and for bread,
and parochial clergymen were administering
parochial comfort to them in a parochial fashion,
As the pardon spoke, he held in hi hand a little
book containing a compendium of his creed, in
which were the words found between two uncut
leaves, “But I say unto you that ye love your
enemies-L“by jobbing their eyes out.”— Revised
version.]-bless them which curse you, and pray
for those who despitefully use you.” In our re-
verie we could hear guns booming and see frag-
ments of human anatomy flying In the air, and
while we were eagerly looking for some further
illustrations of the above beautiful words, we
were brought up with a round turn, and recalled
to consciousness by hearing the whole congre-
gation intoning the words “ From battle and
murder and from sudden death, good Lord, de-
liver vs ” — [“ but not our enemies.” — Re-
vised version ] The Scripture tells us of a
a Peter, who smote off the Jear of a soldier in
defence of One whose compeer has never been on
earth, having been rebuked and told that “ they
who live by the sword shall perish by the sword,”
and yet from the Archbishop of Canterbury, with
his specially prepared oration, down to the lead-
ing brother in the Little Bethel, they still insult
the great Creator of the universe by ask-
ing His help in the noble work of blowing
into eternity their less civilised brethren.
We in our sinful way could not help thinking
that El Mahdi had just the same right to pray
thus to Allah; but as we were beginning to get
a little more perplexed than usual, we dropped
our orthodox coin with the hole in it Into the
plate to help on the cause of he “ little heathen,”
and then wandered away, and resolved as to the
whole conundrum to give it up. We felt we were
getting out of our depth, and, furthermore, that
we are not, as a rule, supposed to interfere with
religious matters. Wpuld that we were, for then
we would tell all bellicose parsons that they must
either burn their New Testaments or cease their
mock heroics about warfare.
The Argyle Signification.
While Sir Henry Parkes and Mr. Osborne were
making antagonistic appeals to the electors of
Argyle, the daily papers at Sydney busied them-
selves and bored their readers in anticlpativo
Intorprctratlon of the significance of the verdict
of the ballot box. With that miraculous unani-
mity which has lately reduced all the daily news-
papers into public interdependent echoes of one
another's opinions, they decided in hot haste that
Mr. Osborne’s defeat would mean nothing less
than a direct denunciation of the Soudan under-
taking—that through Argyle all Australia would
be glorified or dishonoured—and that the re-
jection of the hominee of the Jingoes would
be interpreted in European circles (save the
mark!) as the people’s disapproval of their repre-
sentative’s ratification of an excusably unconsti-
tutional action of the splendide nefas character.
Had Mr. Osborne headed the poll, the readers ot
these journals would have had their digestion dis-
turbed by the plethora of congratulatory homilies
upon tho obvious popularity of Mr. Jupiter
D alley's action. The fates willed It otherwise,
and now the self-same journals are again unani-
mous in abasing their columns to prove that Sir
Henry Parkes’ return means—nothing. Such
Quixotic pranks and devious dodges deceive no
one capable of exercising the reflective powers of
average manhood. It is true that Sir Henry
Parkes announced that he did not desire
the contest to be narrowed down to the
Soudan issue; and, as drowning men grab
a floating straw, so the Soudan apologists vio-
lently wrench this admission into an annihila-
tion of all political significance. They fail to
observe—or, observing it, are too uncandid to
credit their conscienciousness with the deduction
- that it was the most natural thing in the world
that Sir Henry Parkes should prefer to affix to
his claims for election such substantive services as
his past career comprised, rather than rest his
chances upon his idiomatic idea of one convulsive
contention. In him the hope naturally protruded
itself that a few, who might hold no definite
opinions on the Soudan question, would yet per-
mit the candidate’s past political achievements to
act as a stimulus to their sympathy. Such inci-
dental items are common to every contest, and
do not disturb the main corollary as to the deflni-
tiveness of the verdict, seeing that, by a similar
force of circumstances, Mr. Osborne palpably
bid for-and no doubt obtained-the votes of a
few scoffers at the military craze whose Parkes-
sophobia is greater than their hatred of war.
These lateral exceptions only prove the rule. The
“ burning question ” at Argyle, and throughout
the colony, was (and probably will be) the Soudan
expedition; and whilst Mr. Osborne reached the
grand climacteric of super-sentimentalism in his
rapturous definition of “tho gods having come
down” to Australia "in the likeness of Mr. Dal-
ley, his opponent, on the other hand, was the one
central figure of bitter, outspoken opposition to
the movement. What signification, but one, can
such a choice have ? The Soudan sympathiser was
defeated, and the arch-enemy of the enterprise
triumphed. The contest was close, but none
the less significant when the details of the
struggle are closely inspected The Government,
aware that its reputation was at stake, bent its un-
divided energy to according Mr. Osborne its
whole moral and material support, Mr. Dalley
responded to the invitation from Argyle and the
challenge from Sir Henry Parkes by (it may be
argued, and assuredly was believed) Illicitly fa-
vouring Mr. Osborne's candidature. Mr. Code-
land, an ex-member of the Ad ministration, threw
his influence into the latter's scale, and Mr. Wal-
lace not only conceded to Mr. Osborne whatever
support he had been led to expect, but actively
and in person aided the latter's campaign. Mr.
Rankin s supporters had been previously drilled
into an anti-Parkes attitude of political belief.
The daily papers (.vhich slobbered “ the sick lion”
in the days when he held the keys of the Treasury
and distributed the patronage of Government ad-
vertisements) diurnally dedicated their columns
to monotonous and ravenous abuse of Parkes
and extreme eulogy o. Osborne. Sectarian s>m-
pathy was supplicated by them; old abuses of
power were revived; old scandals were remodelled;
old sores and ancient canards were resurrected;
and subtle detractions from the main issue were
attempted on the whisper of Bank-nomineeism.
It is even stated that a telegram was made public
on the eve of polling-day, which purported to
come from Beach, the boat-puller, advising the
©lectors to support Osborne. All these tricks
failed to do more than make the contest a
close one. In the teeth of the heavy handicap
of all these facts and Actions, and allied with the
unpopularity and former caprice of the candidate
opposing the nominee of the Jingos, yet anti-
Jmgoism secured the victory, and the apologists
lor the war fever stand self-condemned. With a
revival of his ardent astuteness, Sir John RobeAt-
SON, scenting the victory from afar, endeavoured
to secure it In significance of the unpopularity of
the new Land Act. Rut there is another slgnlflca-
tlon B°t yet paraded in the papers. The Govern-
ment lost this first election in spite of the advan-
tege of being able to centralise their whole power
and influence at a bye-struggle. How can they (as
the authors of the military movement) or their
supporters (as the aiders and abettors of this t.ia-
toncal evolution of manhood suffrage) expect to
fare, when, amid the collective worry and accu-
mulative antagonism of the general election, they
have to disperse and disburse the influence they
vainly centralised and consolidated at Argyle ?
Colonel Christie’s Retirement.
The twin items of prominence in a recent cable-
gram were-flrst, that the Contingent from this
colony were within earshot of the firing, and
secondly, that Colonel Christie, one of the
officers, had resigned his position in the troops.
Lest sceptical people should allege any affinity in"
these two items, It is requisite that Colonel Chris,
tie’s retirement should be more fully explained*
If strained relations between himself and brother
officers grew up during the voyage, then it is well
that the public should know the particulars and
adjudge the odium proportionately. If It was
never Intended that he should go into active ser-
vice at the Soudan, then why was that gallant
officer befooled by being deported to the edge of
the conflict, and then withdrawn ? If illness lay
at the root of the resignation, then the folly has
already lost the colony one military notable, whose
efficiency stood high In, at least, public repute.
Th« other suggestive causes need not be canvassed,
as being all more or less Improbable; but enough
has been said to show that the bald announcement
requires to be supplemented by a narration of the
fullest visible reasons for the abrupt step.
On the Ta mai Hills.
1e that mighty man, Bismarck, could only be in-
duced to divert his public cares by mentally eye-
ing the various phases of colonial military hys-
teria, through which we are lately passing, the
irresistibly comic incidents would aid a better
fusion of the “ blood and iron ” with which his
composition is credited. Our fighting fervour
has, Indeed, been fed by fanaticism and fattened
by fuss. Manhood suffrage received a cowardly
blow when the expedition received its irrespon-
sible inauguration, and a second blow was struck
when the assault was condoned by men who owe
their political being to that sacred suffrage. The
dubious devices of humbug and the sordid arts of
For continuation of “ Plain English,” see next page


hypocrisy were largely drawn upon to give a false
splendour to the expedition to Suakim. "Vt is
needless to add that the country is already reaping
its reward in the shape of condign punishment and
retributive remorse. Not all the tinsel of Jin-
goism nor all the inventive genius of soulless sen-
timentalists can prolong the hectic heroism with
which our troops were first fallaciously invested.
At the meeting of the Imperial army and colonial
squad. General Graham poured out on the public
ear the cant complimentary phrases which might
well have been anticipated from the whole tone of
the crusade. In the same pure spirit of compli-
ment which prompted the original offer and its
acceptance, the leaders of the Imperial army wel-
comed our colonial contribution, thus implicitly
imitiating the views and oracular utterances
of their masters, as a'l great generals duly
do. The contagious example of their su-
Perior officers incited the common soldiery to
cheer. Had these effusive compliments rested
here, the effect would have been characteristically
strong, but General Graham seemingly knew not
where to halt, for, under the fierce flush af enthu-
siastic hospitality, he promised that our troops
should be placed in the front rank in action, in
conjunction with the celebrated regiments of
Guards. No doubt General Graham anticipated
that he was making this promise to “an effective
battalion of Infantry,” as per Mr. Dalley’s
maiden military cablegram. The delirious delight
into which this announcement threw the Jingos
has bien, by after events, all too soon and all too
suddenly dispelled. On Good Friday, it seems, the
crucifixion of Osman Digna’s army was resolved
upon. Meanwhile, the artillery section of the
Contingent had been left in garrison duty at Sua-
kim, »nd the infantry portion had executed on the
Previous day a ten-mile march, sans fans, sans
umbrellas, sans cabs, sans everything but baggage.
Instead of being paraded next day in the front,
they were placed on the Reserve Corps, where
only spent bullets could reach them. Without, it
would appear, firing a single shot, three of their
number were unlucky enough to receive trifling
personal mementoes of the campaign. For this
share in the scrimmage (in which the British ap-
pear to have lost one man and the enemy none)
one of our contemporaries gushingly applauds the
bravery and steadiness ot “ our noble boys,”
who smelt powder, and-actually I—liked it, and
who behaved so splendidly t iat the Commander
has a dim idea of awarding them the post of
honour—in the rear rank—in the distant future I
The ludicrous edge of these assertions is the more
conspicuous when the detailed account of the
battle of Tamai is considered. Osman Digna
having deserted the Tamai hills, almost the whole
available strength of the Imperial army is trotted
out to subdue and conquer—not Osman Digna—
but the hills of Tamail The remnant of the rebel
army discharged a few shots at their advancing
foes, killed one man, and wounded eight with
spent bullets, and then retreated to join the mam
body. The Imperial troops then poured in an
effective fire of artillery—not Into the enemy s
bodies-but into the naked hill-side, after which
they burnt the deserted huts and then returned to
their breakfast of (let us hope) fried fish and hot-
cross buns, satisfied with the performance of a
great military achievement, which would, be-
fore night, be cabled round the world, and
frighten Prince Bismarck out of his slum-
bers, and scare the Russian generals out
of their seven senses. What a burlesque
upon war, horrid war! Still more ludicrous
are the reasons politely vouchsafed by General
Graham for his omission to assign any post of
honour to our Infantry. These facetious reasons
range from the defective service of provisions the
night before, to the lingering taint of the ship’s
rolling motion, and from inadequate acclimatisa-
tion to other circumstances. These significant
“ other circumstances ” are profound subjects for
conjecture, though it is more than probable that
the General feared that ill-drilled and semi-dis-
ciplined troops would throw the front rank into
confusion in the intricate manoeuvres of a march
to battle. It is sad, however, to think that “our
brave boys ” had to suffer an eclipse on account
of the laches of the battery cook. Can the con-
troller of the cuisine department be a traitor?
Can it be (to metamorphose an old truism) that,
when Dalley sends soldiers, Digna sends cooks ?
Alas, that patriotic bravery should be so exacting
that It needs must feed and fatten before it can be
permitted to fight—even empty hilltops!
The Rev. W. G. Lawes writes, taknlg ex-
ception to statements in our last issue to the effect
that the men-of-war were driving the beche-de-
mer fishers from the vicinity of New Guinea, in
the interests of the missionaries, who are repre-
sented as employing gangs of labour to work
those parts, and as trading in the shell. Mr.
Lawes writes:—“I can state most emphatically
that no missionary, white or brown, in New
Guinea, has ever employed a native to collect
beche-de-mer, or been In any way connected with
beche-de-mer fishing. Neither has the mission, or
any missionary derived the slightest advantage,
nor made a single penny by any beche-de-mer fish-
ing on the New Guinea coast. I do not know
what the journalist’s code of honour may be, but
to an unsophisticated man like myself, it seems
very much like New Ouinealwarfare to attack an
absent body of men from behind a hedge.”
We publish Mr. Lawes contradiction with plea-
sure. If wo could believe that all missionaries
were as single-minded and faithful as ho, we
would for over after hold our peace. If Mr
Lawes will reperuse the paragraph he will observe
that it professes only to give the views of “cer-
tain Queensland journals.” And with respect to
the journalist's code of honour, even an “unso-
phisticated man”—and we believe Mr. Lawes is
really one of that rare species—must perceive, on
reflection, that if it were a part of that code that
nothing distasteful to missionaries must be pub-
lished until “that absent body of men” happen
to be en masse in the place where the newspaper!
published, that would bo equivalent to a rule of
perpetual silence no matter how grossly mission-
aries might bo perverting their mission. And as
to probabilities, Mr. Lawes cannot bo ignorant
that there have been instances of trading mission-
aries.
In Florida there lives a man named
Howard, who calls himself Lord Baltimore, and
declares that he intends to prosecute a claim to
the Throne of Great Britain. Until recently, he
kept a store, but upon the strength of his repre-
sentations. and of some old documents which he
freely exhibits, several Georgians, who ought to
know better, have advanced him money, and are
encouraging him to carry his case before the Eng-
lish courts.
Well done! by our country, to send home so
promptly
The succour which greets England’s hour of need,
The noble display of our troops is but equalled
By the beauty of Summerfleld’s superfine tweed.*
An Alarming Intrusion.


Personal Items
Hugh M‘ColI, the great advocate of irriga-
tion in Victoria, is dead. Keat’s epitaph might be
happily applied to him: —“Here lies one whose
name Avas writ in Avater.”
Mr. C. F. Studd, the cricketer, passed
through Singapore, the other day. en route to
China, where ho is to be a missionary. He held a
prayer-meeting in the Singapore Town Hall.
From a letter addressed to the Times by
Henniker Heaton it would appear that Henniker
thinks a #reat deal of Colonol Roberts and not
very muen of Colonel Richardson or of Sir Saul
Samuel. This is very sad, indeed.
Anecdote of Carleton, a Melbourne Bohe-
mian of the past. Carleton was a good Catholic,
and used to wear a little crucifix on a chain hung
round his neck. One dhy he met a friend whose
tongue appeared about to start on an Arctic vey-
agfe—being wrapped in fur,, so to speak. The
friend asked him if he had such a thing as the
price of a drink on him. “ The price of a dhrink,
said Carleton (who was of Greek descent through
Milesius); “why it’s only this blessed morning I
pawned me little Jaysns for flppence. And he
burst into tears and tripped up a little girl who was
going on an errand, with a stick he called Napo-
leon, and picking up the coppers that rolled out of
her hand, plunged into a pub. with his friend.
This story is probably true. It was the friend who
told us. ,
J. C. Williamson was in great form at a
mutual-admiration banquet given in London the
other day by the friend of “ Silly Murdoch, Pot-
tlnger Stephens, of the Topical Times. J. C. W,
said, among a variety of other things, that ho only
wished they had in “his country”—America, we
presume—so good, and clever, and straightfor-
ward, and honest a paper as the Topical Times
aforesaid. We have a copy of the last number of
the paper which J. C. W. has for ever rendered
famous. It is evidently a very straightforward
paper. Speaking of the London Eh A it says: "The
editor of the HOGBUCKET has proved himself not
only a scurrilous person, but a sneak and a
coward, for none but a sneak and a coward would
try to bring a man’s private and sacred affairs into
publ'C derision and contempt. Having said so
much, I readily leave Mr, Ledger to wallow in his
congenial and congenital miro.” There! “These
be thy gods, O Israeli”
Lucilla Yseult Dudley, the lively young
thing who displayed such bad pistol practice at
O’Donovan Rossa, is much to be commiserated
over one incident in her career. In 18T8 she ob-
tained a Christmas engagement in the pant, at the
Prince of Wales’ Theatre, Manchester. She was a
“mermaid,” and presumably well made, sa ’tis
scarcely surprising to learn that " she there formed
an intimacy with a Cheshire clergyman.” Hence
our commiseration, for, as a result of this gentle-
man’s clerical attentions, Lucilla, the mermaid,
had a baby. Considering that the clergy always
do have large families—somehow or another, this
is scarcely surprising either. Lucilla, poor girl!
had forgotten the solemn injunction of Solomon,
specially addressed to the fair sex—" Put not your
trust in parsons or, maybe, she had never read
that particular portion of the Scriptures. Now,
most Sydney mermaids are up to all the little
blandishments of the cloth, and might come soath-
less through a church picnic. This is because they
read The Bulletin and know ’em.
Melbourne society, if you please, has been
a good deal concerned on account of Lady Loch’s
cold. She caught it, unfortunately when she went
to open the cancer ward of the Austin Hospital.
It wasn’t sufficiently violent to compel her lady-
ship to stay in the hospital, then and there, but It
was very bad. It must have been bad, because
grave announcements appeared in tUo Melbourne
dallies to the effect that the Oovernoress was “ con-
fined almost entirely to her own room.” Society
got dreadfully upset (more so than the dis
tinguished patient. In fact), until just before
Easter the little Herald, Avhich is quite a penny
courtier in its way, came out with this reassuring
par.:—“ Lady Loch is considerably better to-day.
She was able to leave her room this morning, and
if the weather continues favourable, she will be
restored to health in plenty of time for the enjoy-
ment of the holidays.” '1 hen society was restored
to health, too. The little bit about Lady Loch en-
joying the holidays Avent'stralght to the hearts of a
good many among the femine cremc of Melbourne.
Their thoughts reverted to the old days when they
used to enjoy holidays—on steam roundabouts or
at kiss-in-the-ring.
The past life of Mrs. Dudley, the unsuc-
cessful imitator of Charlotte Corday, has, of
eourse, been stirred up, and with the Inevitable
result (for who among us, after all, would care
for tbe test ?) of muddy waters. Her career seems
to have been a peculiarly checkered one, and the
fact of her having attempted suicide several
times Justifies the assumption that she is not fixed
very securely upon her “ pereh.” Among other
callings she gave the “ profesn ” a turn, with the
result that sne succumbed to the insidious wiles
of a second Rev. Hlppolytus Stock : —
“ I’ve sworn to be a celibate,
And marriage vows are not fer me;
But holy love and passion great
A mingled fate for us decree.
I claim you; who shall dare say nay.
Or tear you from my arms away ?"
and so on. Those who have read “Jon Duan ”
will remember the context. Mrs. Dudley became
the Church’s temporary bride, and gave birth to
an illegitimate daughter. The holy libertine made
her an alloAvanoe for a short time, and then left
mother and daughter to shift for themselves.
Ex-Governor Stanford, of California, has
been spending a vast amount of money on the
obsequies of his son, a lad of 111, who recently died
in Rome. Tho floral decorations at the funeral
cost $20,000, and the mausolum will cost $350,000.
Dr. J. P. Newman, a Congregational minister, was
engaged to preach the funeral discourse, over
which tho newspapers are making merry, as well
they may. Here is a specimen:—“ Think of him
as a rapt listener to the mature conversations of
such men as Sir Joseph Hooke, Sir William Jen -
ner, Baron Rothschild, and Dr. Schllemenn, ask-
ing or answering questions. It was the reproduo"
tlon of Christ among the doctors at the age of 13
Our youth should read his biography, which will
be more fascinating than romance, and more
edifying than the creations of the imagination.
His tomb will be the shrine to which our youth
will go on a sacred pilgrimage, and from it they
will gather flowers and grasses as mementoes of
what he Avas to them.” For this ridiculous rhodo-
montade Dr. NeAvraan is said to have received the
enormous sum of $19,000. “ Ridiculous rhodomon-
tade" is a good phrase. We wish we had thought
of it when our own prelates and parsons in and
out of the Press were churning out similar epilep-
tic dribble.’about that paltry creature the late Duke
of Albany.
Most amusing (says a London paper) is the
sickening snobbery displayed by these Avould-be
“superfine censors.” On the day Mr. Gladstone
Avent to the theatre, the news of Gordon s death
had not been received. It was received on tho
folloAving morning (Wednesday), and on the even-
ing of that day the Prince of Wales went to an
entertainment at the paradise and inferno of gam-
blers, Monte Carlo, and also to the carnival, where.
In the “ battle of the flowers,” the Prince seemed
thoroughly to enjoy himself. He was accompanied
by Captain Perceval and two ladies, and drove up
and down the boulevard, pelting and being pelted
with blossoms, his “hearty laugh” being “a
treat ” to hear* On the Thursday, his brother amj
sister-in-law, the Duke and Duchess of Edinburgh,
went to the Royalty Theatre. We have no desire
that Royals should forego their enjoyments, or
even forget for a time tnat they are those weary
isolated beings known as princes; but what we do
desire is, that the balance should be held evenly.
If it was bad taste or brutality for tbe Premier to
go to a theatre on Tuesday before the reported
death of Gordon had been received, was it any
better for the Prince of Wales and the Duke of
Edinburgh to indulge in high jinks on the follow-
ing days? But the sycophantic Press makes no
reference to these princely diversions, although
they had an excellent opportunity for morally
rebuking them.
The Premier of Queensland is, it is well-
known, a man of extensive scholastic knowledge.
You wouldn’t think that to look at his hand-
writing. If you caught a hen with the staggers,
dipped her claws into a keg of ink, and set her to
walk over a ream of paper, she would do things
about as neatly as the great Samuel. Nor does he
look like a man who lived a large part of his time
down among the Greeks and Romans. You would
not know him from one of the men Hunter keeps
selling 4s. 6d. shoes at the unprecedented reduced
rate of 4s. a pair. There is the same look of
self-sacrificing gravity, and the same glower from
the corner of his eye at the trousers pocket you
keep the purse in. But when the Hon. Samuel
Walker Griffith proves the intimacy of his rela-
tions with the grand old names whose winged
words of eloquence and poetry make light as they
cleave thejatmosphere of intellect he is as should be
anticipated, in tbe elegance of his diction when
on occasions of national Importance, he pours his
thoughts into the huge orifices his countrymen
call ears. He proved it that way the other daj.
He hit the tympanums as if they were the belly-
boards of fiddles, and set the people arguing since
as to what precisely be did mean. He called
Queensland, for instance, a flapdoodle country.
She is enthusiastically proud of this designation.
But not content with being proud, she has begun
to ask what sort of country a flapdoodle country
is. Thereupon, the men that know everything
started to answer the query in the morning paper.
The wisest of these says he was at the banquet,
seated quite near to the Premier, heard every word
distinctly, and is ready to aver that the word used
was not ilapdoodle, however flattering the expres-
sion may be, but flatdoodle, a word of totally dif-
ferent etymology. So the land is in throes.
Samuel, great man that he is, having oast his apple
of etymological elegance on the ground, retires
into himself and refuses to participate in the ad-
judication."Arise, O spirit of erudite criticism, and
resolve for the land or the banana whether, in the
march of nations, it is to be known as a flapdoodle
or a flatdoodle country!
We have heard of many smart Chinamen,
but Chang Rei Lun, the late admiral of thejCeles-
tial fleet, could give a rook and some pawns to the
lot. Since the trouble broke out between his
country and France he’s had seven steps in pro-
motion, and is now (or was before being visited by
the Pekin Jack Ketch, who returned to the capi-
tal with the Admiral’s pigtail, the head attached)
a mandarin of three feathers and five buttons
How did he manage it ? By killing 3,311,918
Frenchmen and sinking 500 of their ships. When
the first French gun was tired this ferocious sea-
dog steered his vessel into a small but snug har-
bour on the coast, murdered all the people in the
neighbourhood, and then sat cosily down like
Napoleon to write his victorious bulletins. The
authorities at Pekin were delighted, as well they
might, considering the wav this pirate swept the
seas. No French vessel in the Pacific could hope
to escape this officer’s vigilance and daring. Every
month the Emperor received plain, manly descrip-
tions of how fleets of barbarians had been rammed
or torpedoed by this sea-king, and every month
Chang Rei Lun got advanced another button. But
his ingenuity over-reached itself. He commenced
sending French heads to Pekin. At first they
were received with demonstrativeness, but, as
time went on, it struck the authorities there that
there was a curious family likeness running
through all the skulls, and, besides, that there were
of a decidedly Confucian build. Suspicion was
aroused, inquiries made, and it Avas'ultimately dis-
covered that this terror’s junk had been for 13
months comfortably docked on a mud-bank Avhile
he and his “ braves” scoured the country for
heads. And now when the Pekin people pass his
head, as it smiles from the topmast spike at the
palace-gate, they also smile, and say “ Welly smart
man, Chang Rei Lun.”
Henry Taylor is a Melbourne man of con-
siderable promise. At the present time ho is held
back from further advance along the path to
glory. He married a very good looking girl a few
years ago. Many remember the transaction, and
not a few envied Henry his bliss. He avhs at that
time aa unassuming young man who used to speak
eloquently at tea meetings ijind save away his odd
pennies for the conversion of the distant heathen.
His chief trait was his determination. To say a
thing was to do it sooner or later. He Avas auto-
cratic. As if one supremo .virtue was not enough,
Uo was also impulsive. 4 good man, both auto-
cratio and impulsive, is bound to he heard from.
His wife heard from Henry. She was the first to
hear from him in a tangible way. She, it appears,
was also the last to hear from him. His chronicle
is that he thrashed her a couple of times a week.
Her health gave way. When Henry Avasn t
doubling her up rheumatism was. It was often a
tie between Henry and rheumatism as to which
would grip her first, or wriggle her moat. In
general Henry won. Sometimes they double-
banked his poor wife. Then she us?d to cry a go,
and stretch herself out Henry took this to inti-
mate that she concurred in his benign rule, and he
extended a royal pardon to all her offences. He
used jocularly to say he had secured the pacifica-
tion of Ireland. By Ireland he meant Mrs. Taylor.
But bis jocosity was always interrupted by the
recovery in a day or so of his wife. He used to
rub bis brow and say, “ Another threatened rising
hi Ireland.” He used also prepare to pacify her
again. For one instant in the whole of his wedded
career, he did not lose confidence in ultimate vic-
tory. His determination to achieve it was as
strong us at the start, and his brilliant impulsive-
ness as keen and buoyant. She was taken to the
Melbourne Hospital latdy. She could not speak,
she could not move, hut she wasn’t dead. A
detective and a constable meandered down
Swanston-street, and seeing Henry, they whistled
for him. Ho is in gaol now. The important ques-
tion is, not what will happen his wife, but what
the distant heathen will do for Henry’s odd
pennies ? He can’t get out to visit the meetings
now. Shall the heathen perish ? Should not a
deputation wait on the Chief Secretary and obtain
the appointment of a Government officer to go to
Henry with the plate ? If not, where is the use of
deputations any way? We may as well not be
Christians.
And so the Rev. Tnglis, erstwhile of Bal-
larat, but with a sort of freelove affection for
every congregation that will listen to him, has
made his way round to the Glebe, and is now
Bounding the heavenly foghorn to the Presbyte-
rians of Sydney. He can whirr, can the Rev.
Inglis. Under excitement, and it is interesting to
watch him working himself up to that heated con-
dition, he goes with a swish not unlike the sound
that accompanies a circular saw on its way through
a log of knotted ironbark. His admirers call him
an orator, and undoubtedly he possesses a good
deal of the declamatory vehemence that charac-
terised the old school of oratory. In our list of
his abilities, however, we think the trait most
deserving of notice is a certain kind of pungent
humour in which he indulges with apparently the
most stolid unconsciousness. In illustration: We
recall an occasion in which he occupied a seat on a
platform beside the great Graham Berry. We for-
get the precise object of the meeting, but the
cause championed on the occasion must hare been
one of those semi-religious, semi-political ones that
bring statesmen in among parsons, and that the
general public is disposed to treat with large un-
concern. Berry had spoken; had pelted his words
about with that abrupt audacity which he culti-
vated when fighting oligarchs, and had sat down.
Then the nuggety Inglis, who, by *he way, had
always been the enemy of Victorian Radicalism,
spread himself and began. The cause they had at
heart, he said in substance, appeared to be unsup-
ported by the majority of the public, but the
appearance was contrary to the fact. He could
not, indeed, point to a large following, but he
could point to the Chief Secretary of the colony.
This satisfied him that, notwithstanding the out-
Avard coldness, the majority of the people were
either with the cause or were about to fall in with
it. For they knew Mr. Berry as well as he did, and
they knew that Mr. Berry had the keenest scent of
any man in Australia as to the direction public
opinion was taking, and that his agility in getting
to the front of it and assuming the post of leader
was equal to the keeneas of his scent. Therefore,
he was sure that, even though the cause Avere a
bad one, it Avas on the way to the great heart of
the people. The Rev. Inglis then showed that the
particular cause in hand was not a bad one—an
inference, he feared, might be drawn by those
with long memori s. The exponent of Radicalism
eyed the sly parson, and Avas no doubt glad at the
close of the exordium that Mr. Inglis hM taken to
the Church instead of to the cross benches in the
Victorian Assembly. ___
Thaddeus O’Kane (we don’t say Mr. Before
William Tell) became the recipient of some deli-
cate considerations lately, and no parson appears
to have been so much astounded at the circum-
stance as himself. He had found his Avay to Bris-
bane. The atmosphere of Charters Towers, dense
and sultry always, had been growing utterly op-
pressive with a pitchy, pasty, sticky kind of sour-
I rilous profanity, and Thady determined to go for
a mouthful of fresh air. When in Brisbane, he
kept a good deal on foot. He took great Interest
1 in the public buildings. With a smile hidden away
I behind his pocket-handkerchief, he climbed most
of the steps ho saw leading to big front doors.
And ho opened most of the doors, and broke a few
words with the white-faced people he found in-
side. The general run of civilized amenities was
as follows:—Thady: “Good day.” Public officer;
"Good day.” “D’ye know me?” P. O.:
“No.” T.: “I’m O’Kane—Thady, you know, of
Charters Towers. You know the Northern
Miner? Eh?” P. O.: “ A miner I Oh, taking up
ground. There’s plenty of gold yet in the North.”
T.: “No, no. I’m Thady O’Kane. Surely you
have heard of Thady O’Kane, the only honest,
straightforward. Intelligent journalist In Austra-
lia!” P. O.: “Oh, yes; Mr. O’Kane, yes. What
can I-ah do-ah for you ?” T.: “ Merely dropped
in. No business in hand just now. Nice weather,
isn’t it?” P. O.: “Extremely, Mr. O’Kano, ex-
tremely.” T.: “Good day.” P. O.: “Good day.”
Whereupon Thady writes up to his own paper,
audits myriad readers are informed as follows;
“ I went to several of the Government offices. It
is a common tbing for us to hear of the incivility,
discourtesy, and insolence of State officials. These
reports are lies. They behaved towards me with
the very greatest consideration, and were in all
respects courteous, obliging, and gentlemanly. J
was not once called a double-dyed villain. 1 was
not once called a perjured apostate. I was not
once hit with a bride. The Civil Servants here are
a credit to the country, and henceforth the sneak-
ing rascals that pour their slimy comments on the
heads of refined gentlemen AVlll do well to first
scrub their scaly pelts until they are fit to rub
shoulders with educated and cultivated gentle-
men.” And while Thady was writing In this
strain, the public officer was saying to those about
him: “That was a newspaper fellow from some-
where. I never read anything but the cqlumns oa
lawn tennis and cricket. You heard him say he
was the only honest, straightforward, intelligent
journalist in Australia ? Every one of them says
that. They’re a rum lot.”
Thus a London correspondent about sdac
old acquaintances of Australian playgoers:—“ 1
walked to the nighbourhood of Uusaell-square the
other day to see Fred. Mervin. I might have gone
by underground railway, but it is not safe now. I
started in the ’bus, but, as a man got in with an
American accent and a black Gladstone bag, I
cautiously alighted, and, being too * stoney’ to
cab it, I (to rpeat myself) walked. I found the
‘ Tambour Major, (it was.11 a.m.) sitting over the
morning bloater, and attired In a many-coloured
dressing-gown. Directly I entered he began to
cough violently. Poor Fred. I I fear that that
cough, which is meant to explain the want Of suc-
cess he has met with since his return to London,
will really affect his lungs in the end. Since his
short engagement with Henry Paulton in ‘ Lilies’
he has been ‘ resting.’ Finding that Fred, had
nothing particularly original to say, I left him to
finish his bloater, dress, and saunter down to the
Green Room Club, and made my way into the
Tottenham Court Road, and took the tram to the
‘ Mother Red Cap.’ From thence I walked a little
way along the Camden Hoad, and—but if I
gave the address.Sft Pattie (for my visit was
actually to your well-beloved and magnetic
friend Pattie Laverne) would scold me for
having brought tho entire boiling of amorous
Antipodeans visiting London about her ears'
What’s that you say? The handmaiden who
opened tho door said that Mrs. Laverne (for there
is a Mr. Laverne, don’t you know ?) was engaged,
but I said I could wait, and was shown into a
dainty little sitting-room. Presently I heard a
well-remembered A'oice from below stairs, and the
awful conclusion was forced upon me that Pattie
Avas actually cooking. I remember being present
at the first dress rehearsal of ‘ Tambour Major ’ la
Melbourne; the stage was waiting for La Fille, fof
whom there wera frantic calls on all sides. Sud-
denly she came running on with her dret# only
half-buttoned. ‘ Well, if that’s all the time 1’ta
got, God help me,’ she said. On this occasion, she
kept me waiting about four minutes, and when
she came in, with a clean ruffle on and a well-pow-
dered nose, she looked as If she had never peeled a
potato in her life. She greeted me most affection-
ately, and, naturally enough, we began to talk of
old times at once. She candidly admitted her re-
gret that she had not stayed in Australia. * The
people were so fond of us. I might have saved a
fortune, if I had stayed.’ Again she remarked: ‘ 1
think Sydney the most beautiful place I know.
What a fool I was to leave it I’ I agreed that she
was, and asked why she didn’t stay. ‘I was too
greedy,’ she said, with one of the little ‘ Tambour
Major ’ laughs—you remember them ? —‘ I wanted
£<50 a week, and Musgrove.wouldn’t give it.’ She
told me that she has given up the stage for good,
and in future will sing at concerts only. And
now,’ she said, as I was leaving, * you mustjeomo
to my little Sunday evening reunions. You will
meet Sampson, of the Referee, and Howard Paul,
and a lot of nice people.’ Of course I promised,
and also, at her earnest request that I would send
her a copy of The Bulletin as often as possible.
George Carey was at the Grand ; for a long time,
and afterwards he supported Rignold at the Hol-
boru theatre in a ‘dead frost,’ entitled ‘Adam Bede.’
I think the ‘ frost ’ was more'due to the threatre
than the play, for the former is an ill-starred
house, and the latter is not by any means a bad
drama. Rignold will probably play it in Sydney,
so you will be able to judge for yourself. Carey
has gone to India at a salary (according to his own
statement) of £30 a week. Don’t be surprised if he
turns up in Australia and produces a play entitled
* Troubled Waters,’ by W. O. Tristram and George
Carey. In the caste of Paulton’s comedy ‘Lilies,’
at the Avenue Theatre, you may have remarked
the name Maurice Drew. Are you aware that
Mowry—the young man Miss Pomeroy left behind
in India—and Maurice Drew are identical ? Drew
was for many months in London without a ‘shop.’
and the wonderful appearance he kept up earned
for him the title of ‘ the mystery.’ By the way, it is
true that George Carey gave Dewhurst (now Ghost
to Barrett’s Hamlet) a severe punching in India ?
I have tumbled across the ubiquitous J. C. Wil-
liamson several times lately. He has been laying
out money very freely, his latest purchase being
Mark Quinton’s Inew play * In His Power.’ This
latter consists of a string of striking situations
from old plays ('Schoolfor Scandal’ and ‘Diplo-
macy,’ among others) skilfully connected. It is
utterly devoid of good writing, and exceedingly
short. It’s the old story: ‘Marie Wilton’ made
Bancroft, ‘ Madge Robertson ’ made Kendall ‘ Miss
Heath’ made Barrett, and so on, ad lib, and Miss
Ada Cavandish is making Mark Quinton. She may
be said, in fact, to he • in his power ’ in more senses
than one. And even at the risk of being charged
with longwindedness, I mustn’t forget another old
friend of yours. I mean the lengthy and lovely
Agnes Consuelo. You probably know that Farnle
put her on la ‘ Rip Van Winkle ’ at the Comedy, in
which she was a failure, and that as Laundy in
‘ Chilperic ’ at the Empire, she scored failure No. 3.
The consequence is that she has abandoned, after
having been abandoned by, the lyric stage; and, as
you will see by advertisements in the theatrical
journals, is going in for the drama. For weeks she
has been posing as a manageress, and tbe name of
the plays which havejbeen read to her is legion.
The fact is that it has b'een cautiously whispered
about that a certain recently defunct Australian
A.D.C. left her a small fortune. You probably
know how much truth there is in that rumour.
Miss C. herself says that her grandfather has re-
cently died and left her money. At any rate, she
has at last, alter occasioning much disappointment
among aspiring playwrights, ordered a play from
a new man named Appleton. The plot is to con-
sist of Zola’s ‘ Nana ’ toned down and well watered.
In fact, a Nana who will repent in the end and be-
come good. The idea is Consuelo’s own, conceived
with a view to suiting her capabilities. The play
is to be entitled ‘ Zana.’ If a trial is given in Lon-
don before the tour is entered upon, I will be
there, and will send you my impressons. And now,
dear Bulletin, as I have only just time to dress
for the D uchess of Eel Pie Island s * At home ’ ;(for,
bless you, Henniker Heaton and Sam Wilson aren’t
the only Antipodeans who can mix with the
‘quality ’), I must dry-up for the present.”
• * *
The Mandalay correspondent Ran-
goon Times states:—“It is confidently reported
here that his Majesty has offered to place 3000
trained troops at the disposaljof the British Go-
vernment for service in the Soudan.” Humph!
This trumps our trick of 500 untrained men
The Shanghai Mercury says:—“ A rumour is cur-
rent to the effect that the German corvette Stosch,
which left here a few days ago, in en route to the
Samoa Islands, Avhere she will hoist the German
flag.”
Don’t use stimulants, but Nature’s brain
and nerve food—Hop Bitters. See.
A SKETCH AT MANLY.
WHERE IGNORANCE IS BLISS, &c.


ALCOCK & CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES
I
SOLE AGENTS;
■P
375 George-st., Sydney.
time payments, it required.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
Ned Warmoll.
Infants and Children
►
"What gives our Children rosy obeeks,
"What cures their fevers, makes them sleep;
Castorla.
■When Babies fret, and cry by turns,
■What cures their colic, kills their worms,
Castorla.
7
'i
■What quickly cares Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Colds, Indigestion ; 1
Castorla. >
’ Farewell then to Morphine Syrups,
r Castor Oil and Paregoric, and ' i
Hall Castoria. '1
“ Castoria is so well adapted to Children
that I roeonnnond it as superior to any medi-
cine known to mo.”—H. A. Aecheu, M. D.,
Ill Oxford St., ITaw York.
Elliott Eros., Sidnoy, Agents.
MASON BROTHERS
LIMITED,
14 and 16 Spring Street
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY.
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARK
GLASS. CHINA.
AND
EARTHBNWA R B,
WINES. BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.'S
Cognac,
J. T. G \ YEN’S
Bohn-’p’ a md Genera.
A. MELVIN and SONS*
BdlnbUi fin Pale die.
Nervous debility, lost vitality,
Weakness, and Premature Decay.—A favour-
ite Prescription of an eminent French Hospital
Physician for simple self-cure. Free to any suf-
ferer. Send your address, on a stamped envelope,
to C. C. W., Box 766, G.P.O., Sydney.
YEN ETTA WALTZ*
Ait to »« icefl tmtrkai, 0*iy>nf«*ti!fWWBilt.,
pp^cantabji
M
PM
ZT'
WILLI AM BULLARD hu the Largest Stock
of MUSIC In the Sty.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &c.
I art Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues will be ready in a few days and
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books. Letter and Note
Papers, &o., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed In best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prises, in parcels.
LI upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
Music and Books bound In any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograph
“kes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which Is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
S;nd and obtain full particulars of working.
KOlTiklj HOTEL
BOTTRKE,
la tie largest and best-appointed Family Hotel In the Western district. The Table and Llquo
ctnnot be surpassed, even in the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. First-class Stablinp-
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
as
I
mm
SEA-SICKNESS CURED.
DR. BUKER’S
SPECIFIC AGAINST
Sea, Sic3s:ra.ess
Never failing to give relief to those who suffer
from this most distressing malady. Stopping im-
mediately all nausea, and enabling you to enjoy
the pleasures of the voyage.
Agents on board all steamers.
SOLE AGENTS:
GIBBS & CO.,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY
c The Scat of War In the
Soudan.
A MAP, showing the routes between Suakitri
Khartoum, and Dongola, with notes of tho
latest events, and four local Sketch Maps, has just
been compiled and printed from the most authen-
tic sources.
are now published, folded in cover,
! to be obtained at the Surveyor-General - *
OMee, kebia Hood Lane, o* George*
T. T. ADAMS
8u»v*yor-«gOMAl,
Surveyor-General’s Office,
(Sydney, iflth March, 1M5.
Copies
price Is.
lira* oh
5S
pd
9*1.
&
3 rt t
«
*:
*
*
%
h
tdrr
w*
$>
V
o
75
<>
<£
y
At.
Ob'
<D
g}
<s
%
<%■
3URY.BUXT0MD
ENGLISH ALES
BuNon*on-TrenK,
URN
CO
MUNZER
<WU>tMlSSEUR3 of S M
0 B6RDM
is
eft
«a
Si
ii
w
rn
***
P
< 1
o'*
AS
ABSOV.
1°
fUbA'lt
OH ME
rs. ALLT S CO.’S Wilt d Spirit Store: aid
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
London Agents: Messrs. Arthur Ai.lt & Co., Wormwood Chambers, Wormwood-street, E.C.
OBTAINABLE EROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
CELEBRATED
nil! AID CAKES, TREACLE AND SODDEN STEDF,
Self-raising;
Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE*
S. & A. have obtained Eirst Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven Pint Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1888-A


ODDFELLOWS’ HALL, GOULBURN.
THIS handsome Bijou Theatr?, completely re-
modelled, is fitted with every convenience,
and has one of the best stages in the colony (50 x
30), is now open for engagement on very moderate
terms. Seats comfortably in dress circle, 250; pB
and stalls, 500. The population of the city is nearly
9000, and the Hall, which is now the most popular
place of amusement, is situated in the moat cen-
tral position of the main street. Mr. Charles
Turner, of the Montague-Turner Opera Company,
says:—“The Hall I consider second to none in New
South Wales. The acoustics are good; the stage
and dressing-room accommodation is superior to
any Hall in the colony. Applications addressed to
M. K. PULLEN, Secretary, will receive prompt
attention.
D
N
N
PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly f urnished
in Australia, to Kent for Balls, Wedding?, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castlereagh street, near Bathurst-strcet. P.S.-
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all bt
thrown together, and is superior In ventilation,
soring floor, &c. No decorations required.
J. TURNER ROBINSON A CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Georga-street,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-A8SORTFD
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Kgr- fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatantecd.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 30th March, 1885.
TENDERS FOR ADDITIONS, &C.
TENDERS are invited fob Additions, &o. to the
Public School buildings at Stanmore.
Plans and Specifications may bo seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Department
of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Additions. &c„
Stanmore Public School,” must be lodged with the
Undersecretary, Department of Public Instruc-
tion. at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on Monday, the
20th April, 1885.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender. w. J. TRTCKETT.
Department of Public Instruction.
Sydney, 30th March, 1885.
TENDERS FDR ADDITIONS, AND IM-
PROVEMENTS,
TENDERS arc invited for Erection of Additions
and for Improvements at the Gardener's
Road Public School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment ot Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Additions and
Improvements, Gardener’s Road Public School,’
must be lodged with the Under-Secretary, Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock
a.m., on Monday, the 20th April, 1885.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 7th April, 1885. T"
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to aocepl
the lowest or any tender.
Erection of Gallery,
house, Wilcannia
Court-
Timsday,
IJJth May,
at li o’clock.
F. A. WRIGHT.
after before MOUSTACHE and WHISEEES. mfors
Boyd's Beard Elixir did this, and
| trill do it on cither bald head or
bare fare. /V. cea henty Mona •
tar he in from" to 4 weeks and never
• Jails, 20,000 young men already - . .
Copyrighted. wear full beards, having used I to Copyrighted.
3 pit's. JVb injury, easily applied, ter tain in effect. Packets 1«. 6a.
each, 3 for 3 s. Gd.,post paid, sent under cover, free from observation•
Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent,Box 730, Sydney ,N.S.W t
DR.SCOTT'S
;C tric Co,. S( , t
Z't
l
£
m
‘•v
W
m
Sh,
r
fell
Dr. Scott's Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by the
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial?
If you have any pain, ache, or ill-feeling
from any cause; if you seem “pretty well,”
yet lack energy and do not “feel up to the
mark;” if you suffer from disease, we beg
you to at once try these remarkable cura-
tives. They cannot and do not injure like
medicine. Always doing good, never barm.
There is no shock or sensation felt in wear-
ing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during the
first hour they are worn their wonderful
curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all
the old-time health and good-feeling come
back. They are constructed on scientific
principles, imparting an exhilarating,
health-giving current to the whole system.
Professional men assert that there is hardly
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily
practise the same, as your own physician
will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance
from those usually worn, as we substitute
our flat steel magnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in quality and design.
They are elegant in shape and finish, made
after the best French patterns, and war-
ranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents.
I
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for topiual Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation. &c., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by' a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. Gd. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece of common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
mi
54 ftlargaret-sfreet,
SYDNEY.
P.O. Box an.
New opera house,
Kindly given for the occasion by Messrs.
Rignold and Allison, also Majcroni and Wilson.
SATURDAY AFTERNOON NEXT,
GRAND MATINEE. _ .
Under the distinguished patronage of His Excel-
lency, Lord Augustus Loftus, G.O. B.; the Hon.
W. Bede Dailey, Q.C., Acting Colonial Secretary ol
N.S.W.; His Worship the Mayor of Sydney, ecc ,
In aid of the
SOUDAN PATRIOTIC FUND,
by the;
COMMERCIAL DRAMATIC CLUB,
H. M'Quade, Esq., M.L.A., President; J. H. Ram-
ford, Esq . Patron.
GRAND DOUBLE BILL.
DELICATE GROUND,
and
Byron’s Eccentric Comedy, in three acts,
NOT SUCH A FOOL AS HE LOOKS.
Doors open at 1.45; Matinee at 3.30 sharp.
Prices as usual. Seats can be reserved at Nichol-
son’s Music Warehouse, 835 George-street.
Lewis Armstrong, Hon. treasurer.
Geo. P. Bull, Hon. Secretary.
FRED. BUCKLE, Stage Manager.
N
EW OPERA HOUSE.
“TUESDAY AFFERNOON NEXT. April 14th.
TUESDAY AFTEKN'iON NEXT, April 14*h,
GRAND COMPLIMENTARY MATINEE,
tendered by
RIGNOLD and ALLISON,
and the Musical and Dramatic Profession of
Sydney, to
WILLIAM BEACH, Champion Sculler of the World
Programme In Future Advertisement
Business Manager ... .. G. A. COLEMAN.
C A D B M Y_
Lessee and Manager
O F MUSIC,
Mr. F. E. HiSCOCKS.
44th Week, and Continued Success of
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION
Every Evening In their Refined and Amusing
Entertainment.
Terminating with the New Topical Burlesque,
entitled THE IDES OF MARCH.
Admission, 4s., 3s., 3s., and la. Box Plan at
Paling’s. Carriages at 10.15.
UARINI’S ROYAL ITALIAN CIRCUS
and MENAGERIE of TRAINED ANIMALS.
as*
The Big Show open every night at 7 o’clock,
performance oommencinR at 8, at liolmore r arK.
Under enormous pavilions —seating capacity, .>0,10
people. Over 7000 delighted spectators were pre-
sent at tho two performances given (afternoon
and evening) on Easter Monday. New and power-
ful monster holiday programme specially arranged
by Signor Chiarlm for tho Easter Holidays. Ihe
biggest and best show in tho city. Afternoon
performances every Wednesday and Saturday
at 3.30. Doors open at 1.80.
L. MAYA, Secretary.
S T -
Lessees
GEORGE’S HALL,
Melbourne.
Clark and Ryman.
OPEN ALL THE YEAR ROUND.
First-class Artists, Novelties, Combinations—
either Musical, Dramatic, Minstrel, or Operatic—
treated with.
Silence a respectful negative. ..
This popular place of amusement is now in its
full tide of success—houses packed to the doors
nightly. Pronounced by the Press, public, and
profession to be the best entertainment ever seen
in Melbourne.
Notice—The title of -Red Stockings” has
been duly registered, and anyone infringing this
title will be prosecuted according to law.
JOHN FANNING,
Business Manager.
OWL CLUB.
GARDEN - PARTY
Will take place
THURSDAY, the 9th APRIL,
at the
Sir Joseph Banks’ Gardens,
BOTANY. _
Tickets—Double, 30s,; Gent.’s, 31s.; Lady’s. 13a,6d.;
can be procured from any ol the Board of
Management.
MORRIS MENSER, Hon. Sec.,
384 George-street.
fW Special return tram, 11.30 p.m.
/Vs U Wiigen Oils.
A CERTAIN CURE FOR ALL SORES, &c.,
ON HORSES AND CATTLE.
THEY stand unequalled for Sore Shoulders,
Sore Backs, Saddle Girth and Wind Galls,
Strains, Sprains, Stakes, Bruises, Sweat boils, Con-
tusions, Fistula, Wounds of all descriptions. Sore
Necks of working bullocks, Sore Teats, Greasy
Heels. No ’bus proprietor, carrier, or stock-
owner should bo without thorn. They will heal
any sore, no matter it freshly done or of years
standing. Dozens of Testimonials from well-
known carriers. No spell requu-ed to effect a
cure. The healing properties aro wonderful, leav-
ing no scar. The hair grows thick and even, leav-
no trace of recent wounds.
“ TRY THEM.”
May be obtained from Chemists and Storekeepers.
COSTELLO & GREY,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
TO SUFFERING HUMANITY - .
ALLEN’S BLACK WINGEN OILS are une-
qualled as a Cure for Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Neuralgia. Toothache, Stings, Lumbago, Sprains,
Strained Sinews, Sore Throats, Piles, internal and
external; Itch, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Jars,
Wounds of all descriptions.
-TRY THEM,”
and you will find your pains ily before them in a
most miraculous manner.
COSTELLO GREY,
08 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
Professional Directory.
HI8C0CKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hlscocks..
W.
Sydney
HORACE BENT, with Hlscocks’ Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
TO AMATEUR THEATRICALS.—Scenery Sup-
plied or Lent. Q. Perriman, Scene Painter,
No. 7, back of Academy of Music, Castlereagb-st,
Theatre royal.
Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrovb.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager—Mr. H. H. Vincent.
Doors open at 7.15, commence 7.15 Carriages, 10.45.
Ninth Week, and established Success of the
Royal Dramatic Company.
THIS EVENING, at a quarter to 8 precisely,
Sardou’s famous Society Comedy Drama,
FRIENDS FRIENDS
FRIENDS FRIENDS
with a
BRILLIANT CAST and GORDON’S SCENERY.
Furniture and appointments from Hamilton ai a
Co. Globe Furniture Warehouse, Park and Castle-
reagh-streets.
Prices of Admission: Diess Circle, 5s.; Stalls,
3s.; Family Circle, 3a.
Tickets lor all parts of the house at Sastway’s
HoteL Box office open daily from 11 till 4.
New opera house.
Lessees, Messrs. E. Majeroniand W. J. Wilson.
Under the Management of Kignold and Allison.
LAST NIGH i’ BUT ONE CONFUSION.
George Augustus Sala on “ Confusion 1
defy the veriest stoic in the way of self-command
to restrain a smile, and I myself plead guilty to
laughing boisterously.”
EVERY EVENING, at 815,
Rignold and Allison’s Selected Comedy Company.
Plan at Huenerbein’s. Treasurer. G. A Coleman.
Saturday Next, the Great London Success, 14 Days.
Our Special Correspondent with the N.
S. Wales Contingent.
Various circumstances have induced usito
form the opinion that, on the arrival of the
Iberia at Aden, our special correspondent,
Mr. Melvin, was there put ashore, pro-
bably in obedience to an order to that
effect cabled to the Commandant by
our Government. Whether that was so
or not, it is certain that Mr. Melvin
managed to make his way to Suakim
in good time for all the movements which
followed the landing of the Contingent. We
have been in receipt of cablegrams ever
since, and although the paltry nature of the
operations has rendered advices almost
devoid of interest, we have issued extraor-
dinaries from time to time. We append Mr.
Melvin’s cablegrams, and hope in an early
issue to publish his letters, and give repro-
ductions of sketches taken on the scene of
operations: —
SPECIAL.
fPROM OUR SPECIAL WAR CORRESPONDENT
WITH THE N.8. WALES CONTINGENT)
Sctakim, 1st April, 1885 (noon).
It has been fully ascertained that the
Arabs under Osman Digna are retiring.
The intended general advance of the troops
has consequently been postponed for the
present, .
Suakim, 1st April, l.oO p.m.
The rank and file of the Australian Con-
tingent were to-day complimented by Gene-
ral Graham for the intelligence they dis-
played while on parade.
There tvill, probably, be one more battle
fought, and then the troops will go into
summer quarters, proceeding, meanwhile,
with the construction of the railway from
Suakim towards Berber.
Suakim, 1st April.
The cavalry, reconnoitering, attacked the
Arabs in the direction of Tamai.
The tents will be struck by the troops in
camp this evening, and General Graham
will commence an advance on Thursday
morning at 2 o’clock.
Among the force to move to the front
General Graham will take the Australian
infantry and also the battery ot New South
Wales Artillery, with four field-pieces.
The General praised the Australians for
being first to strike tents after an order to
that effect had been issued to the force in
camp generally.
Over two miles of railway have already
been completed.
Suakim 3rd April, 4 p.m.
General Sir Gerald Graham, with aoout
9000 bayonets and four guns, having ad-
vanced, as previously announced, encamped
on Thursday in the old zareba ou the Tamai
r °During the night, the Soudanese fired into
the zareba, but were silenced by shells from
the guns. , ,
To-day the British force marched on
Tamai, and drove the enemy out and burned
the huts.
The enemy was not in great force, and it
was evidently their design to draw Sir
Gerald Graham with his troops into the
mountains , ... , ,
The skirmish was not severe, but the whole
of the English troops were brought into
action. . ...
The Australians were left (in camp?) with
the Guards. , ,
Three Australians were slightly wounded.
One was shot through the foot; another
received a scalp wound; and a third was
knocked by a spent bullet.
General Gtaham stated to Colonel
Richardson that the Australians shall have
the place of honour in the rear guard next
time when they will have become more ac-
climatised (I)
Later.
The troops have returned to Suakim, the
casualties of the whole forces amounting to
one private killed, one officer and eight men
wounded. ,, .
Suakim, 5th April, 1.20 p,m.
The troops returned to camp on Saturday.
The Guards, the Australians, and the
Sikhs, are guarding the railway, and pro-
ceed to-night twelve miles in the direction
of Berber to clear any parties of Soudanese
who may be ahead.
They will, probably, be absent about a
week. , ,.
The recent maTches have been very tedious
and trying to the men.
The steadiness of the Australians under
fire, in the recent skirmish, has been much
admired.
Suakim, Gth April, 5.15 p.m.
The Guards, the Australians, and other
troops, to the number of fourteen hundred,
marched in square formation to-day, six
miles along the railway line, skirmishing
with the Soudanese outposts. Towards
evening they formed a zareba, and camped.
The advance will be continued on Wednes-
day.


REVOLUTION IN THE POSTAL SYSTEM.
PRODIGIOUS efforts are being made by the
New South Wales Government to bring the
Postal Department up to the requirements of the
time. Once pledged (to the introduction of the
parcels-post system, which has proved a national
boon in the United Kingdom and the United
States, the Sydney Minister is expediting the work
of making his Department a sate, cheap, and
speedy medium of transit for all descriptions of
portable merchandise. This means that goods
may now be despatched through the Post Office
and delivered as quickly as a letter to any address
in either colony. The significance of the thing is
that it virtually brings the most distant resident
down to the doorstep of the best and cheapest
establishment in the great free-trade metropolis.
The man who has led the way in encouraging this
new and beneficial system of trade, is undoubtedly
Mr. T. M. ALCOCK, Jeweller and Watchmaker, of
the Haymarket, Sydney, Australian Agent for the
World-renowned Waltham Watches. For the past
15 years Mr. T. M. Alcock has been doing business
with people who have never been in Sydney, and
who have never seen or entered his shop.
Thorough, straightgoing, honest treatment of
patrons hundreds of miles away has won him a
permanent hold on the entire inland community
of each colony, and he now does a larger parcels-
post business in Jewellery and watches than any
other three houses of either city. The Waltham
Watch has given Mr. Alcock a further hold on the
inland public. By personal negotiation with the
Waltham proprietors at their works, Massachu-
setts, Mr. Alcock secured concessions as the Wal-
tham agent which placed these famous watches be-
fore the Australian public at manufacturer’s
prices. The parcels-post system completely links
the whole Australian public, as it were, on to the
great Waltham factory. Mr. Alcock forwards
these watches to any address in all Australia, pay-
ing the postage, and taking all the risk of safe de-
livery. By these moans Waltharas have gone
broadcast throughout these colonies. Mr. Alcock
handles every watch before despatching it, and he
alone executes the order. Of upwards of 10,000
purchasers there is not a single customer who has
complained or expressed dissappointment at Mr.
Alcock’s treatment of their favours.
THOUSANDS In ALL GRADES to select from at
MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES.
Mr. ALCOCK gives a Three Years’ Guarantee
with every Waltham Watch, and, in addition to
this, Issues with each watch sold the Company’s
Certificate, as follows:—” Watch. No. , and en-
graved with our Trade Mark, was manufactured
at our works, and is guaranteed by us to be made
of the best materials on the most approved prin-
ciples, and to possess every requisite tor a reliable
Timekeeper.”
For any defect in material, workmanship, or
performance under fair usage, we at all times hold
ourselves responsible.
General Agents, for the American Watch Co.,
ROBBINS and APPLETON.
R. ROBBINS, Treasurer,
T. M. ALCOCK, Agent,
673, George-street, Haymarket, Sydney,
GENT.’S SILVER WALTHAM WATCHES,
In Hunting or Open Face, with Crystal
Glass Sterling Hall-marked Cases.
KEY WINDERS.
No. 1,—Seven jewels, steel balance. A
sound reliable timekeeper .. ..£3 10 0
No. 2.—Seven Jewels, steel balance. Extra
heavy full size casts, specially
. built for bush use 3 10 0
No. 3.—Seven Jewels, good balance. Very
superior finish. Perfect time-
keeper 3 6 0
No. 4.—Full Jewelled, compensation ba-
, lance. Very highly finished; suit-
able for extreme climates 3 15 0
No. 5.—Compensation balance, extra
Jewelled. In separate settings ;
very superior movements 4 4 0
No. 6.—Three-quarter plate hands, to set
at back, good balance, seven jewels 3 5 0
No. 7.—Three-quarter plate, compensa-
tion balance, full Jewelled. Spe-
cially rated 4 0 0
PATENT KEYLESS.
No. 8.—CELEBRATED RIVERSIDE, adjusted
keyless lino movements, three pair extra fine Jewels
in setting, exposed pallets, compensation balance,
in silver case, 7 guineas; in massive gold cases 13
guineas. Note.—Read Swiss Commissioner's speech
re this watch, and it you are in want of a perfect
time-keeper, buy one at manufacturer’s price ot
the agent, T. M. ALCOCK.
No. 9.—CELEBRATED HILLSIDE,seven jewels,
compensation balance. Very highly finished, and
perfect time-keeper, £415s. and £5 6s.
No. 10.—Full-sized extra stout cases, compensa-
tion balance, full Jewelled. This movement is
specially built for hard usage, and is a perfectly
reliable timo-keeper. In two prices, £5 5s. and £5
10a.
No. 11.—Full sized, three pairs of extra fine
Jewels, in settings. Adjusted. This is a very
superior movement. £7 7s.
No. 13,-Named “P. S. BARTLETT,” Waltham,
Mass., four pairs extra fine Jewels, in settings,
compensation balance. This watch is the acme of
perfection. £7 7s.
No. 13.—Ladies’ very superior, full Jewelled, com-
pensation balance. Engraved oases. £4 10a. and
£5 5s.
LADIES’ AND GENT’S GOLD WALTHAMS,
In Hunting or Open Face, with Crystal Glass,
Standard Hall-marked Gold Cases, of various
grades—
£8 8 0 £11 11 0 £17 10 0
990 14 00 2000
10 10 0 15 15 0 up to 75 0 0
A magnificent stock of every grade of Watch
made by the Waltham Company, including a rich
collection of Presentation Watches, in plain and
fancy engraved cases,
Duplicate parts of every Watch made by the
Company kept in stock. Waltham Watches re-
paired with the Company’s Materials on the
shortest notice.
THE ENGLISH PATENT LEVER WATCHES
ALSO COMPETE JN ALL AUSTRALIA.
Recognising the value ot the better class of
English Patent Lover Watches, T. M. Alcock,
while in England, visited the great watch factories
of London, and entering into large contracts,
arranged for the manufacture ot a splendid and
superior class of English Patent Lever Watch,
the BEST and cheapest ever Imported to Aus-
tralia.
No. 1.—Crystal Glass or HuntingCaaell ..£3 10 0
No. 3.—Ditto, extra Jewelled and superior
finish .. .. 4 4 0
No. 3.—Ditto, highest grade, fuil-Jewelled 5 5 0
No. 4.—Ditto ditto, superior adjusted ..000
No. 5,—Rotherham’s celebrated Levers .. 4 10 0
No. 0.—Rotherham’s Compensated Balance 5 5 0
No. 7.—Rotherham’s Chronometer Balance,
highest quality 6 C 0
No. 8.—Rotherham’s Adjusted, compensated
balance, very superior 7 7 0
An unequalled stock ot the above in 18-carat
gold cases, from £13 to £30; in keyless. £30 to £50.
SUPERIOR CHRONOGRAPHS.
T, M. ALCOCK is now in a position to offer to
the public generally the Cheapest and Best
CHRONOGRAPH for racing and timing purposes
ever made.
Illustrated Catalogues Forwarded Free.
All communications to be addressed,
T. M. ALCOCK,
Waltham Watch Agant,
073 Ccorgc-st., Haymarket, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
theatre ROYAL-"Friends” P- 8
PtousE— Confusion >»
academy of Music.—Hiscocks’ P. Minstrels »
Matthews’ Circus—Pitt and Park Streets.... »
Chi A Bill’s Circus—Belmore Park »
I*- W ng only when we went into Chianni s
.. Saturday night that the cause of so few people
being about the streets Hashed upon us. With the
orMDtion of the front seats, the place was stuffed
fi'ke a threepenny bar at lunch time, or the Theatre
Koval on Sunday when Tom Walker is expected to
have something compromising to say about the
Third Person in the Trinity.
♦ * •
With the first bar of the overture we
made our way into the huge tent and settled
Hewn Professor Von der Mehden we see by the
hill is* conductor, leader, and solo-cornet player,
into the overture he had worked some txt-bits
from the ever-melodious “Sonnambula, and
i honne-bouche from “La Perichole.” These he
had scored for his own instrument, and—we for-
give his greed. For, in the hands of nine out of
tpn the cornopean is an instrument of torture—a
brutal, hair-stiffaning instrument, whoso blare
suggests blood-shed and rapine. But in those of
Von der Mehden (nie Murphy, possibly) it is now
soft as a flute, now minatory as a trombone. And
an as you hear well-known and ornate passages
given with a tone, neatness, and finish which, like
good wine, require no “ bush,’’ you feel disposed
to bellow “ Blast the circus—blast the cornet.
* * •
Ten persons came next, with as many
horses. They rode singly, in pairs, threes, fours,
and altogether. The horses were probably Eng-
lish but obeyed orders given in Italian with a
nroinptitude that showed how little demand is
made upon the reasoning faculties in learning a
strange tongue. Miss Victoria Branch led the
“brawls,” and Signor Chiarini followed on a horse
that made a tipsy boundary-rider near us punch a
hole in the flooring with his walking-stick. It was
a splendid brute, and threw out its legs in a man-
ner that kept our neighbour pounding and weep-
ing by turns. m 9 m
Then came the horizontal bar business,
with French, Angelo, and August (the dummy) as
gymnasts. This was one of the best in the pro-
gramme. Until we saw the “dummy” we never
knew the amount of hopeless idiocy the human
face was capable of expressing. The pony
“Bonito” followed, and secured undisguised ad-
miration. This led up to the “ Comic Equestrian
Scene,” in which (Hclas!) a clown appeared. Of
human institutions the circus clown is certainly
the most conservative. He is even retrogressive.
His jokes get hoarier as the years go by. When
we first knew him his anecdotes were of the
Oueen Anne and “Spectator” period. They are
now of the Ptolmaic cycle, with a strong flavour
of a more remote age. In a short time they will
be pre-Adamite, and then, let us hope, popular
•exasperation will burst all bounds, and tne “circus
■clown ” will disappear in the storm he has want-
only provoked. “Throw out the painter” this
iflend converted into “ throw out the paint brush.”
When asked if he had “ never seen a horse s tail
before,” he brutally remarked that he thought
•“ they were always behind," and filled the cup of
bis abominations by changing “apparatus” into
‘“apples an’taters.” Wo have tried to chronicle
ithese things coolly, but there is a point beyond
which endurance is simply a vice. No. \\e ve
invented all sorts of excuses for him, but it s no
use. He laughs at our long suffering—gibes at
our forbearance. The circus clown must go.
• • •
And yet he brings happiness to many.
Children in arms crow when he appears; boys of
five chirrup, and more mature lads of ten when
asked what calling they would prefqr follow,
pitch instinctively on that of a $l<wp. A few
would like to combine it with ridiifg <yn the ele-
phant or feeding the monkeys, but, when told
they would be obliged to confine themselves to
one' department of the business, their minds are
at once made up. On Saturday night we saw lads
grumpily sucking toffee during acts in which the
clowns had no part. But when the merry-andrews
subsequently appeared the toffee was swal-
lowed or expectorated, and enjoyment begun.
And such enjoyment I In an instant the
; lapse of a generation was re-passed at a
i step. Again we were gaping open-mouthed at the
, daring equestriennes sweeping proudly by, shriek-
ing with laughter at the witticisms of the funny-
i men, and at night goading a younger relative to
t madness by our sneers at his 1c ability to clear the
i bolster with us on his back. Yes—even circus
rclowns have their uses.
• * •
TBut of the “Comic Equestrian Scene.”
•The “Three Nations” It was called on the bill.
Mr. Charles Stoodley and a grey horse were the
awtists. The horse made most of the running.
*ttr. Stoodley was on his (the horse’s, of course)
Haack dressed as an English sailor, and, by sugges-
tive -dumb-show, exhibiting the most prominent
incidents in a seaman’s life. He turned the can-
eta®, hauled in slack, made fast the “ painter” (it
was here the terrible clown broke In with his
“ pain-brush ”), and settled down to broach cargo.
Them the artist, while still on horse-back and
hounding along at (at least) two miles an hour,
neeled off his sailor covering.and appeared as an
Irishman in knee-breeches, red waistcoat, dam-
aged hat, <and suspicious pipe. He had a knotted
stick also. Without a knobbed bludgeon, a varie-
gated waistcoat and tflapk pipe a Celt is merely a sell.
Whether—wlththem.—‘he is much more, is a matter
of opinion. However, as an Irishman, Mr. Stoodley
solicited fight, and appeared morose when he
couldn’t get any. He jumped from his perch while
the band played “ Kory O’More,” said, “ The top o’
the mornin’ to ye,” drank from a large black
bottle, again asked to be accommodated with a
whack on the skull, and, being disappointed, sub-
sided. It is nearly time this sort of thing ceased,
whether in circus or theatre. It is pitiable—abject.
Another peel, and Mr. Stoodley was a High-
lander-kilt, philibeg, dirk, tartan, claymore
and shield complete. The shield—the chief
implement of defence—bore marks of having seen
some active service as a tea-tray. It might have
stopped a pebble pitched playfully by the junior
pupil in an infant school, hut it is not pleasant to
think what it would look like if it had to ward off
an egg-cup or a small gmgerheer-bottlo- The
dirk and claymore were in keeping. They might
have been tin and they might have been paste-
board. From their flexibility when cleaving the
air in carrying death to the “ Southern blood-
hounds,” we incline to the latter. The band In-
sinuated :—
“ Pardon now the hold outlaw,
Rob Roy MacGregor, O.
Grant him mercy, gentles a’,
Rob Roy MacGregor, O,”
while MrH Stoodley, with the lethal weapons at
his command, parried, lounged, and, altogether,
carried such havoc among the “ Sassenachs” that
a pronounced gloom settled on the audience, and
an incipient cheer was heard when the grey horse
stumbled in his mad career, and the bloodthirsty
Gael had to seek safety by jumping on the clown.
This was the end of the “ Three Nations,” but the
representation will live long in the memories of
those who witnessed it as an example of the com-
.prehensive grasp of national characteristics pos-
, sessed by travelling showmen.
■ • •
“ L’home (sic) Serpent,” by Garnett, suc-
• ceeded. It was astounding. For years it has been
assumed—on quite insufficient evidence-that the
spine performed a useful function. But Garnett
squelches all this. To him, a hack bone would
fee only an incumbrance. He does things which
make you think that a swan’s neck is as intractable
as a pipe-gtem And with such ease, tool Like
Bourko, he logds an “ inverted life”—not from the
loss of a son, but because a perverted public
opinion compels him to walk on his feet, when—
from his performances—it is clear he was born to
walk on his head. “Retro-Equitation,” by Mr.
Horace Rolland, was a misnomer. Compared with
tho things that had gone before, It should have
been “ Retro-gression.” It was then that our
friend tho boundary-rider put on his hat, expector-
ated an ounce of indifferent tobacco, and asked to
be shown the door, as he’d seen enough of Sydney
and wanted to get back to his station. There was
an equestrienne next, who was dressed in the Hun-
garian national costume, and boldly stood up,
flourishing a real mantle, while the “ Arab” under
her was ploughing fearlessly forward, as if he was
in his native desert, and saw a false mirage in the
distance.
• ♦ ♦
We didn’t wait to see the man go in and
knock the tigers about. But we took the precau-
tion of sneaking out and occupying one end of an
empty candle-box, while he subsidised the other
and told us of his pets. A short, affable, deter-
mined-looking man he was, who thought no more
of walking into the ugly brutes’ cage and chivvy-
ing them than we of dawdling into Deeble s. He
showed us a running sore on his left wrist —the re-
sult of a caress from the black panther. The play-
ful beast, when in a particularly good humour one
morning after breakfast, had made four ghastly
slits in his fore-arm, and instead of letting tho
wound bleed a bit, the keeper staunched them too
quickly. The sore was tho result. It was odd to
sit and talk to this man, who nightly risked his life
with such easy indifference. Tigers, cubbsd in
captivity, he told us, seldom lived over six
months. The beasts before us were full-grown
when caught, and could probably tell of the
whereabouts of many a missing Hindoo or
Cingalese letter-carrier. One blow of tho ter-
rible fore-paw would cave in Mr. M'Elhone’s
skull, let alone the shell carried by a Buddhist
postman. And yet this quiet, unobstrusive at-
tendant went among them night after night,
looked into their fierce eyes, handled their ponder-
ous limbs, and whipped them till the threatening
snarl and the exposed fangs warned him that It
might be as well to give them a spell. Wo would
be sorry to hear of anything happening this per-
son, but if some “leader-writers” we know could
only be induced to leave off contradicting them-
selves in every alternate sentence, and take to
“tiger-taming,” how pleasantly we would get
through our daily journals, especially when wo
came to the heading:— “Terrific occurrence at the
circus last night—a man eaten.’’
• • • «
Hiscocks’patrons are falling away. But
he has no cause to complain. Judging by the
attendances during the season, wo don’t wonder
at his driving down our quiet Woollahra street
with a man in livery in iront, and a footman in
knee-breeches behind. To Christy Minstrelsy,
like other things, there are well-defined limits,
but, within these limits, there is room for a good
deal more originality than the “Colonel” gives
us. The “ French Conductor,” with Horace Bent
as M’Sou, and Sam Keenan as the Gross Cassisto,
keeps away as many as it attracts. Not that it is
not good— bizarre— anything you like; but, In a
comparatively small town, constant change is the
first essential. The “original” sketch, too, of
“ The Lawyer’s Clerk 1 ” Mon Dieu! Tho “Ides
of March,” or “ The Oppositionists of Macquarie-
street,” by a local litterateur (sic) was the piece de
resistance the night we were there. To have the
grandest scene in “ Cmsar ” travestied is bad. To
have it burlesqued badly is heinous. “ HoniSuakim
mal y pense,” is what Bent said, and, so tar as we
know, he is still alive. But men have “done
time” for less. Then there was a “Grand Alle-
gorical Tableau. Britannia accepting tho offer of
troops from New South Wales.” Britannia wasn’t
a bad-looking wench—a little florid, perhaps—with
a trident, unpleasantly suggestive of a three-
pronged pitchfork, but, on tho whole, fairly pass-
able. And the troops ? Well, nothing that we
could say would give a fair idea of the two
bandits who represented the antipodean auxili-
aries, and with bayonets fixed, knelt as if to re-
ceive cavalry. To receive cavalry! Victoria I A
cavalry man with a pen-knife would have de-
stroyed them. Did wo ever tell you of our struggle
with a cavalry picket on the Curragh ? No ? Well,
one day wo were playing pitch-aud-toes in Don-
nelly’s Hollow with some men of Archibald
Forbes’ regiment (we believe Archie was among
them) and a section of tho North Cork militia,
when one of the scouts (we had to put ’em out,
for old Lord , in command, had a Blble-read-
ing wife, and playing .at anything meant fifty
before breakfast in tho morning) bawled, “Scatter 1
’Ere’s a half-troop of the ‘Greys’ r'din’ like
blazes.” [Oh I you can tell us this another time.
We’re about full of your old swaddy’s yarns just
now.—Bn. B.]
* * * m
“ Confusion ” is still running at the Opera
House; but it is time to change.
* * * *
“Friends” continues at the Royal. In a
small town, particularly, how pleasant life could
be made for a discriminating critic, and what
chances would be given him of earning an honest
crust if pieces were only changed (say) twice a
day. With the Gaiety closed, and no change at
the Royal or Opera House, we see nothing for it
but to write leaders for the Rum or “ Brevities ”
for the Noozk. Long we’ve tried to avoid this,
but—luck’s against us.
Henry George.
Within the present generation two books have
appeared, written in the English language and
marking epochs in the subjects of which they
treat. They are the “ Origin of Species,” by
Charles Darwin, and “ Progress and Poverty,” by
Henry George. It was in Philadelphia on the
2nd of September, 1839, that Henry George was
born. His paternal grandfather was an English
sea captain, who settled in America, and became
naturalised. The destruction of his two vessels
by English cruisers in the war of 1813 reduced
him to poverty. His son, Richard Samuel Henry,
but recently dead, was for some years a publisher
of religious literature, and married a Miss Val-
lance, a woman of extraordinary personal attrac-
tions. Her father was of Scotch, her mother of
French extraction. She died a little over two years
ago, having lived to see her son Henry struggle
through a youth and early manhood of toil to a
foremost place among the thinkers of the century.
Henry was self-reliant almost from his babyhood.
So far as early training was concerned,
Henry George could boast of few advant-
ages. At 13 he left the Philadelphia public
school,where he had received the elementary
training common to those institutions, and passed
a year in Dr. Hare’s “ Episcopal Academy.” Then
at 13 we find him with the self-reliance so character-
istic of an American boy anxious to face the
troubles of the world with little in his favour
but a stout heart and an indomitable will.
At 13 he left Dr. Hare’s Academy because, as he
said, “ they teach nothing there that I don’t know,
or think I know, already. I want to go out into
the world.” Dr. Hare often said that Henry was
his brightest scholar. Recognising his self-will
and “long-headedness,” the father let him have
his own way. He remained at home Jor some
time, studying history and devouring books of
travel. At 1(1, he was sent to a Philadelphia print-
ing office to learn the trade of a compositor, but
the works of travel he had read, combined, pro-
bably, with an inherited longing for the sea, filled
him with a desire to wander. We can fancy the
father’s surprise on being asked by the youth to
be allowed to go to India. The stripling’s reason
for such a step was because “ he had read so much
about that unhappy country that nothing would
satisfy him unless he could see the things for him-
self that he had read about.” To investigate the
state of affairs in India was, to use an expressive
vulgarism, “ a pretty large order ” from a lad at
his age. His parents tried to dissuade him, but he
was obdurate, and at last shipped as cabin-boy on
the ship Hindoo, bound for Calcutta. He was ab-
sent three years, and, having seen things for him-
self, came back with no very flattering opinion of
British rule in the Peninsula. Again he returned
to the compositor’s case, and entered the firm of
King and Baird, but his employers came to grief in
the commercial panic of 1857, before Henry had
mastered his craft. Then his old longing for the
sea returned. Seeing a small coasting steamer
coaling alongside one of the piers, he said, “ I’ll
take ship in her.” He did so, and worked for some
time as a deck hand between Philadelphia and
Boston. He then shipped on board the United
States steamship Shubrick, and, after a somewhat
perilous voyage—the vessel was in bad condition
—landed at San Francisco. During the voyage, he
wrote a story which found its way into the t hila-
delphia Saturday Night, and was republished a
short time ago by the New York Truth. It was
the first writing of his that ever got into print. It
was now the end of 1858. A rumour came to San
Francisco of rich gold discoveries at Frazer’s
River, in the north-west of the British American
possessions. George decided to try his luck
at gold-digging. Ills experiences were the
same as those of thousands, both in America
and Australia — hardship, dloappointment, po-
verty. and hunger. Arrived on the field, it
was discovered to be a “ duffer,” and George
and his mates returned to California. He re-
turned to the printing, and In 1861 secured
a post as compositor on the At.ta California.
Anonymously ho wrote political letters to the
journal, and often saw them appear as editorial.
On the assassination of President Lincoln he wrote
an article of nine columns on the murdered Presi-
dent’s life and works. It created a great im-
pression throughout the States, but the proprie-
tors of the paper were ignorant of the writer. He
then transferred his services to the San Francisco
Times, and;wrote, still anonymously, for that pub-
lication. At last enquiries were set on foot, ho
was discovered, and the editor, approaching him
at the case, said, “Young man, you must not fool
away any more of your time ns a compositor. 1
have a place for you in the editorial room.” Three
months afterwards George was the managing
editor of the Times, a post which he held till 1807,
when he left to join the editorial staff of the San
Francisco Herald. In 1801, Mr. George married
Miss Annie C. Fox, by birth an Australian, but of
Irish parents. Young; Georges put in an ap-
pearance with gratifying regularity. The San
Francisco Herald collapsed owing to the fact
that the Associated Press refused it participation
in the telegraphic nows, and John Nugent, the
proprietor, had to pay 1000 dollars for despatches
that cost other papers but 100. George then ad-
dressed himself (1809) to the land question in Cali-
fornia. It is from his studios in this direction that
“ Progress and Poverty ” is due. In his new field
of inquiry he applied the teachings of Smith, Mal-
thus, and Mill, and found the result unsatisfactory.
This put him on the track. In 1871, ho published a
pamphlet, “ Our Land and Land Policy.” " Pro-
gress and Poverty” is the amplification of this
work. In 1873, with four others, ho started a penny
paper, the Kvknino Post. The editorial articles
alone, written by him, ensured its immediate
success among the working men. Even then, at
33 years of age, ho was not aware of his groat
talents. Nor wore his friends. They did not think
that the little sandy-haired man of their acquaint-
ance lay awake at night pondering on, analysing,
thinking out subjects of the first importance to
human well-being. Yet so it was. But ho was
never so pre-occupied with the pregnant thoughts
shaping themselves in his brain as not to give a
helping hand where a wrong had to be righted, and
this regardless of pecuniary loss. The captain and
mates of a ship called the Sunrise were accused of
cruelty. Three sailors had jumped overboard to
escape from them. But the officers had the great
shipping firms on their side, and justice was para-
lysed. The captain was arrested, but the two
mates had escaped—by connivance, it was said.
George offered 800 dollars for their arrest, hired a
distinguished lawyer to prosecute, and spent 1300
dollars in having them all brought to trial. They
were convicted, in spite of the efforts made to se-
cure their acquittal, and sentenced to various
terms of penal servitude. This is given merely as
an instance of the man’s love of justice and hatred
of wrong-doing. Numerous instances of a similar
kind might bo given, but enough has been said to
show the stuff of which the subject of our sketch
is composed. Politicians were not slow to recog-
nise the power of the Evening Post. They pur-
chased the interests of all the proprietors, except
of George and another. Then they would have the
editorials modified; but George would not bo
silenced. The end of it was that Mr. George
and the partner who had remained with
him to the last bought the whole concern
back for considerably less than they had
received for their own shares a short time
previously. An immediate revival took place. In
accordance with his principles, the editor and now
half-proprietor carried into effect one of his pet
schemes—that every person employed on the paper
should have an interest in it. The plan worked
admirably, and we trust the day is not far distant
when similar principles may be extended to all
undertakings in which men combine for the at-
tainment of a common object. In 1875, the Bank
of California suspended payments, the president
committed suicide, and the Evening Post went to
the wall. Mr. George, with a dollar in his
pocket, left the office of the paper his
genius had built up. It was a hard blow,
but his loss was the world s gain. He ob-
tained a minor official position, where he bad
time to devote himself to his magnum opus “ Pro-
gress and Poverty.” The actual writing of the
great book took but a little over a year, but the
materials had been accumulating in his mind from
the time when, as a raw lad, in the humble posi-
tion of cabin-boy, he had voyaged to India, and
observed the abuses of its alien government. For
a year he toiled on before writing finis. And now
to find a publisher. Harpers and Scribners would
not touch it-it was too revolutionary, Mr. D.
Appleton was tried. He was captivated with the
work, but, for all that, would only print
it from stereotype plates. At last, in 1879,
Mr. W. A. Hinton, Mr. George’s former partner,
struck off the first edition of 500 copies which were
immediately disposed of, and “just paid for the
plates.” The Appletons issued the second edition,
and then the author wont to New York to see his
publishers. This edition was bought up as quickly
as the first, and so from then till now edition after
edition has been sold with a rapidity unprecedented
for a book of this character. It has long ago been
translated into the principal European languages,
and has caused as much controversy, as much
upsetting of preconceived notions, as the great
book, the “Origin of Species,” with which we
coupled it at the beginning of this sketch. In 1881,
Mr. George went to Ireland as correspondent of
the Irish World. What he saw there confirmed
the views—it confirmation were needed—set forth
in “Progress and Poverty.” He saw an insolent,
faineant aristocracy, and a people reduced to
abjectness by the operation of iniquitous land
laws. In Scotland he saw the same, and in Eng-
land a state of affairs not very much bettor. The
same cause was at the bottom of all—the private
ownership of the land. Through the three king-
doms he made lecturing tours, expounding his
views, and dwelling on the inevitable misery which
follows, as night follows day, on the possession by
the few of that which should be the common heri-
tage of all. Everywhere he was received by the
landless with applause, and by the landed with
revilings. The capitalist Press of Great Britain
was unmeasured in its vituperation. We ha\o
spoken of George's style. It is elegant, though
popular—though simple, logical. In conver-
sational discussion Mr. Georgo is said to excel.
We can quite believe it. It would be difficult to
conceive a man’s writing as he and speaking
badly. Against humbug and subservience of all
kinds he is always at war. Nothing irritated him
so much as the constant “hat-touching” he ob-
served in the United Kingdom. But, much as we
would wish to dwell on the various phases of this
remarkable man’s character, our space forbids.
At some future lime wo may return to the man
and his works—subjects which possess absorbing
interest not for us alone but for millions to whom
his thoughts have appeared as a new revelation.
The shamrock of Erin, the thistle of Scotland
With the rose of old England shall still be the
toast;
But wo of Australia, when wine cups are flowing,
Make Summerfleld’s trousers our glory and
boast.*
Wo believe the cause of the wonderful
success of our MURRAY and LANMAN’d
FLORIDA WATER may be found in the fact that
the principal aim in its preparation has always
been to give the simple NATURAL PERFUME
OF FLOWERS, without any chemical addition
I whatever, and to avoid, by all means, the great
1 error of making a heavy, sickly, sweet perfume.


PEPPER AND SALT.
The following weird and wonderful ad-
vertisement has been appearing in the Melbourne
daily papers for some weeks past:—
“ a Gentleman possessing a private income of
-ft- over £1000 per annum, ana wishing to re-
side in or near Melbourne, is anxious to obtain
an APPOINTMENT in a position of trust or
confidence ”
Can these things be ? Or Is it all a splendid fable ?
Yet there is the advertisement—and, strangest
thing of all, nobody seems to have answered it.
Surely someone should be able to help this Croesus
of advertisers to get rid of his wealth. If it comes
to that, we ourselves know of a nice little specu-
lation in the way of—anything almost that would
give us the control of some accumulated capital
which ho might do worse than join us in. Ah,
what a Belshazzar burst we should launch out
upon then I What suppers, whore the wit should
sparkle and the whisky flow, and the expense be
hanged, we would give in those days! " hat a
time we should have altogether! You betl But
it isn’t our luck. It never was our luck to be able
to gratify our really luxurious taste for ten
minutes at a time, without being told that we
were ruining our wives and children. What a
magnificent genius we have for spending money,
tool Ail wasted; all wasted. We do not seriously
believe that this capitalist will give us a chance to
show how we could throw wealth around, after
all. He could live in Melbourne if he liked; live
on the exhibition dome if he chose; we would
make no difficulty, if he would only allow us to
worry around and Invest his capital. But he
won’t: we feel it as a presentiment, he won’t. Nor
would we under the circumstances. Not much.
• * •
If all the ladies in this country are not an-
gelic—a proposition which we do not for a moment
entertain—there promises coon to be plenty who
are celestial. A week or two ago a Chinese bride,
imported by a diagonal-eyed storekeeper of the
place, answering to the sweet name of Hlng
Schunck, arrived at the Mongolian camp near
Mount Alexander (Vie.). She was received with
rapture by a deputation of her countrymen and
carried off amidst the frenzied cheering of the
white youth around the railway station. And, it
seemed, she was worth it. Her dress was as gay as
a circus-poster, and her hat was a perfect parterre
of blossoms. So brilliant was her appearance, in
deed, that the local editor, startled out of his Cau-
casian pride for the moment, wound up his
paragraph by saying:—"She may be the fore-
runner of many of her sex, who will do well in
making an exchange of their native country for
Victoria.” But-perhaps he Is a Chinaman him-
self I Anyhow, this threatened invasion of baby-
footed brides will be a cruel blow to our own
Bridgets, so many of whom, in view of the faith-
lessness of policemen, look forward to marrying
exiled mandarins in the vegetable trade. Still
they need not altogether despair. The men of
letters are left.
♦ * *
This looks as if the ‘‘poah little heathen’’
is gradually cutting his eye teeth, and beginning
to “ drop ” to ths shy ways of his better-bleached
brudder, both in this world and the next. A few
days ago, a Northern lawyer, having pulled a
Christianized Kanaka through over a little matter
of stealing grog from a roadside shanty, the nig-
ger, having settled his bill, stood waiting in the
doorway, and upon noticing this, the legal lumi-
nary roared—“ What the blazes are you standing
there for?” “Me want 1m receipt, now,” ex-
plained the other. “ Receipt,” shouted the as-
tounded lawyer; “what in thunder do you know
about a receipt ? Tell me what a receipt means,
and then I’ll give you one.” “ All rl’,” replied the
prudent darky; “S'pose, may be, me die; me go
jonga Heaven; me find 1m gate locked, then me
pullee bell, an’ that pfeller ’postle Peter poke him
head over th’fence an’say, ‘Hello. Jimmy, what
you want here ? ’ Me say, * Wantee get in, Mass’r
Peter, an’ fly about, an’ blonty sing like era mish-
n’rleslonga Moresby.’ Deu Peter say, ‘You pay
dat pfeller lawyer his bill th’ odur day, Jimmy ?
S’pose you did, where you got him receipt ? ’ What
me do then, hey ? Think me goin’t’ turn back an*
hunt all over hell t’ find you. No feah. You gib
it Jimmy that paper now.” And having got his
receipt, Jimmy trotted off as sure of heaven as a
Salvation Army sergeant.
■ « «
Consul Kahlo is a man of observation not
unmingled with a species of quiet satire peculiar
to the educated American. In his report to Con-
gress on the commerce of the United States with
New South Wales, he says, among other things—
“ The Immense amount of English whisky that is
drank (sic /) in this colony is suggestive of a splen-
did opening for the introduction of the same from
America.” This is a feather in our caps anyhow.
We can whip the world both on water and on
whisky. All the eloquence of the Temperance
orators is knocked into the cocked hat of ancient
metaphor by this simple business statement. We
have no interest, except a purely casual and
genial one, in whisky, but we would suggest in a
friendly way to agents for American varieties of
this baleful beverage, that their simplest road to
success is to turn temperance orators themselves.
We have always noticed that the number of drunks
at the Police Court was invariably greatest the
morning after an appalling address on the horrors
of drink. We, ourselves, though theoretically the
most temperate of men, have found that when-
ever we attended a lecture on the evils of drink,
Illustrated with diagrams of hobnailed stomachs
and enlarged livers, we developed a wild desire to
go home with our breath reeking with rum. Of
course we never carried it into effect, but the
mere struggle with the desire has frequently
made us waver in our walk. The fact is that one of
the greatest incentives to drink is the fear of
drink. You have only to show a man clearly that
drunkenness ruins both body and soul, and if you
meet him half an hour afterwards his hiccup will
blow your hat off. Consul Kahlo goes on to say, in
his cheerful way, that “ the amount of beer con-
sumed as compared with the population is very
large,” and recommends the exportation of more
beer from America. All this is very exhilarating
reading, and points clearly to the conclusion that,
as a colony, we are not only in the van of glory,
but in the grog-van also.
• * »
There is always something genuinely
humorous about a fire brigade. How this comes
about is a question beyond our philosophy. Per-
haps it i» something in the hose, and yet we never
saw much humour in water-by itself. This brings
us easily to the Fire Brigade of Prahran—an off-
shoot of Melbourne. There was a fire there the
other night, and a family of five narrowly
escaped being reduced into bone-dust—because of
what, think you ? Because the fire bell machinery
was out of order, and a man had to ascend the
tower to ring the bell. After this, it took the
united efforts of 10 men to wake the captain of the
Windsor Fire Brigade, who had gone to sleep in his
hat. Since then, the Town Council has determined
to engage the services of a cat to climb u p the tower
and ring the beli whenever fires occur in future.
• * ♦
In the city of Jogalong existed a volunteer
corps, which a certain guide-book enumerated
among the curiosities of the place—a remark which
caused the commander to challenge the compiler,
and the blood of every private to rise to 160 - Fahr.
Recently the corps were mustered to the drill
depot, and the commander Invited all who were
desirous of courting death in the Soudan to step
forward. The enthusiasm was boundless, and the
plaudits were prolonged. A solitary private ac-
cepted the shilling and scooped the pool of small
donations thrown in the hat for refreshment.
Clutching the conventional coin, ho vows to append
it to his watch-chain, and wear it in the centre of
the fray. The corps then charge the bar of the
Royal, and attack tho hostile fluid until scarce a
man is left above board with vigour enough in
him to hold a brimming pot of tangle-foot. This
military achievement aroused such widespread
local fervour, that the editor hired the local barber
to write a patriotic poem, six lines of which ran
along as follows, the whole concluding with a re-
ference to the virtues and reliable nature of
Smlther’s Soudan shaving soap :—
Thus encouraged, the whole corps offered their
services and prepared to start for Sydney. Elabo-
rate preparations were made for the departing
demonstration, and the new brewery donated a
huge cask of beer, equal to that special cask
eulogised by the editor the week before. The
local Trafalger man— cetat 101, and believed to be
the Identical individual who tapped the Admiral-
bore aloft the mighty banner. Weeping wives
and sorrowing sweethearts kissed their fond
adieu, when a telegram, handed to the Commander,
was read by him, and stated that the Mahdi was
struck dead by lightning, the rebellion collapsed,
and the despatch of the troops delayed. To a man
the volunteers swore this intelligence was worse
than sudden death, but on the whole they bore
the affliction with Christian resignation. When
the falsity of the message was made known, it was
found that the Contingent bad made sail, and the
Jogalong corps was too late. The Commander
offered a huge reward for the perpetrator of the
joke, but for days the offer was fruitless ; but
last week the local telegraph operator confessed
that the Commander and one or two other mem-
bers of the corps bribed him to deliver the false
telegram at the critical moment. Emphatic affi-
davits were made in denial, but the incident has
wiped out the corps as effectually as the Mahdi
could. The military trappings are laid aside, and
Jogalong has now on unreserved sale a quantity
of second-hand war paint, and a cubic foot of
eulogy whieh the editor (in anticipation of effec-
tive'representation of Jogalong in the Soudan)
had pumped out by the dual consumption of day-
light ale and midnight oil.
• wo
When a man starts to relate a snake-yarn,
experienced reader, look not so much for exact-
ness of detail, as for startling statements, which, if
true, are without precedent, and if wholly imagi-
nary, are at the same time ingeniously stated, and
like Echo leaders, not utterly unreasonable, or at
any rate, would not be so if things were altogether
different to what they are. For these reasons we
consider that the Colonist (Queensland) had
better leave snake-yarns alone, and in future deal
only with the milder kinds of fiction—say, for
instance, speeches in Parliament, and Reuter's
telegrams. The last issue of this paper contains
an anecdote, which opens thus: “The most re-
markable snake story of late years (what a pro-
spect of airy flights through the regions of
romance this holds out to the eager reader) comes
from Kllklvan, and not the least astonishing
feature is, that the truth of the story is solemnly
vouched for.” There the hand of a novice is dis-
eernible; for who is so green as not to know that
tho more wonderful a snake-yarn may be,
the more solemn are the asseverations of its
undiluted truthfulness ? And then, what follows ?
Simply that the reptile found’a basket containing
sixteen eggs, and swallowed them, whole, Pohl
What’s that, any other man relating the occur-
rence would have made the snake swallow the
basket as well, and then go cruising around in
search of the hen that provided the “ovarian
delicacies.” But there is some more of the tale,
“ Crawling half through the handle of the adja-
cent jug, a second dish of eggs was reached, and
the contents duly swallowed also.” Another
glorious chance thrown away! Clearly, the snake
should have s wallowed the dish. “ Then the trouble
arose, the snake possessing two ‘eggy pro-
tuberances,’ one on each side of the encircling
jug-handle, which effectually prevented the
greedy serpent from going eh her ahead, or astern,
without taking the jug with it.” We look in vain
for the climax; we only read of the pickaxe with
which the egg-owner did vengeance. Now, had
the snake turned round, swallowed the jug, and
glided away looking like a boy coming from a
Sunday school picnic; or, had it, by means of the
natural warmth of its Interior, hatched, and gone
home with a clutch of chickens following; or, bad
It even broken the jug, and then started South to
hand in the eggs as a contribution (for future
advertising purposes) to the Patriotic Fund,
we might have been able to retain, on
its behalf, a reasonable amount of respect.
Nov, we view that snake with contempt;
we despise it. And we are sure that it
is so regarded In the North (where, it may be
noticed, the most strategic and powerful
snakes are found), for not once does the Colonist
speak of the reptile as “ his snakesbip.” This
title is the trademark without which no Austra-
lian snake-yarn is genuine. We are sorry to be
obliged to condemn this Kilkivan snake, but it is
our undoubted duty to denounce it ts a rank
failure. Seldom has one of its race had such large
opportunities; and we confidently assert that no
snake since country papers first came into exist-
ence has ever proved itself so utterly destitute of
tact and resource, and so unfitted for its position
in the world. And its ignoble fate is worthy of its
character, for, like many an English thief in olden
times, it was egged on to theft, and came to a sud-
den death after it had been caught and imprisoned
in the jug.
* * *
Conundrum by the Reverend James Munro
(no connection of the aquabibulous Munro who
has gone home) of Melbourne;-*' Why should the
New South Wales Contingent never be in want of
water ?—Because there is a way to Sinkat and an-
other to Trlnkitat.” The reverend jester may be
in want of water himself some day for this. But
he will have to be dead flrst-and his soul gone to
where there is no brewery. And this reminds us
that he is credited with having inserted a curious
clause in his will (he is the possessor of great
wealth in a bank—of clouds)-cutting off his heir
with a jew’s-harp (upon whieh he himself plays to
the sick with fatal effect) unless he complies with
—what request, think you ? But you would never
guess if you tried till your teeth fell out. With
this request, then: That when he (the vener-
able wag) dies, a dozen bottles of his fa-
vourite brand of whisky shall be put into
the coffin, together wilh a corkscrew and a
pewter. If we were bis heir we would see the old
man’s game, and go one better by burying him in
a four-hundred-gallon tank filled with overproof
rum. And we would make an even bet of an
Echo man’s brains against a suet-pudding that the
old man would not rise up sober at the Resurrec-
tion. The first thing he would probably do then
would be to ask Gabriel to quit making that row
and bring him a trumpetful of beer under his
Upend the good old flag, boys, for war is on the
wing;
Your pens and picks and shovels to the devil sling;
Gird on your swords and bayonets, and grease
your muskets true,
And pass the call to glory, from Jogalong to
Jamberoo.
Tho’ the Mahdi is a tough ’un, he’ll find our push
a rough ’un.
And they’ll cause the Arab gore to run as ne’er it
ran before.
N.S.W. CONTINGENT: “SLAM THE DOOR, ’ARHY; SLAM THE DOOR, OR ELSE THIS ’ERE RETREAT ’LL BE A FAILURE. MY ’OSSE3 IS WAITIN’ FOR THE USUAL SIGNAL,
AND WON’T BUDGE ’TILL THEY GIT IT.”
(Note.— It is a well-known fact that a Sydney omnibus horse will never start till he hears the omnibus door bang. Therefore, the guns of our Contingent had to be mounted j
in a manner to suit this idiosyncrasy.


By-the-way, will there bo any beer there ?
"'“fu a Question which has often troubled us j
5hen W e have been lying — [Even then I-Ed. B.]
lion a sick bed —[Though why should a bed be j
k . A be d doesn’t drink, and couldn’t if it would. |
Very wild all this.-En. B.l —and the varieties of
♦he world have begun to fade from our view,
if there is beer there we can picture this reverend
ffhost, after getting his crown of glory, thought-
fully turning it upside down and drinking out of it.
Bat. an appalling question occurs to us. Suppos-
a man dies in drink-as thousands have done
before now-will his soul appear before the judg-
ment seat in a state of sobriety ? The answer,
dreadful as it seems, must be “no,” as it is the
intelligence of a man which gets drunk, and not
body merely. And the intelligence is the soul.
What would a soul do in that state, and under those
circumstances? It would probably offer to fight
the Twelve Apostles with one hand tied behind its
hack We wish, now, we had left the Reverend
James Munro and his conundrum alone. If we
should happen to occupy a coffin In the neighbour-
hood of his, we won’t lend him our pewter to
drink from—no, not even If he has to drink out of
higown skull!
♦ ♦ ♦
Field-Marshal Shoddy is the name Colonel
Sargood now goes by in the Victorian Grand
Army. He was known by the milder title of Soft-
goods (being a large clothing importer) until he
supplied his trusty troops with new uniforms a
little while ago. The former nickname is as un-
generous as it is undeserved. Any man with half
an eye can see that —supposing what the soldiers
say to be true —the supply of inferior clothing was a
scheme conceived in the purest spirit of patriotism
by Colonel Sargood, Suppose (a supposition that
stands upon the giddy verge of impossibility) the
Victorian army was defeated by a host of invading
Russians, whose well-known habit is to strip the
bodies of their slain enemies. What then ? Why,
then, if good clothing had been supplied to the
troops the Russians would have been enriched at
the expense of the colony. Do you catch this
point ? Colonel Sargood saw it, and acted on 1*
like a patriot and—er—an importer. If the Rus-
sians should happen to get possession of those uni-
forms, what would be their gain? It might be
computed In buttons. So you see that, when ex-
plained by a philosopher, the conduct thoughtless
people considered open to censure is discovered to
be strategy of an extremely subtle order. At any
rate, it is only fair to state that Colonel Sargood
had nothing to do with supplying the clothing
[Then where, in thunder, is the point of this para-
graph ?— Ed. B1
w * *
The Salvation Army was stoned in a South
Australian town, the [other day. The Captain
turned round with a meek smile, and told the
erowd that he could stand it: the’Apostles had to
stand it before. We have seen several battalions
of the Salvation Army, and could not help think-
ing that, if cleanliness was next to godliness, we
would rather have seen a little less godliness. If
the Army is to be stoned at all-a thing which we
by no means advocate—then it should be holy
! stoned.
The red herring that attunes the literature
of the Cowra Free-pass Press and the gridiron
that controls the Imperial destinies of the Border
Post are agreed in their estimate of the amazing
genius of a poem contributed by one “Alaster”
to the latter, and apologetically borrowed by the
former. The poem in question has all the bloom
of a Dead Sea hyacinth, and all the beauty of a
Cairo mummy. Its subject is no common-place
one, being a brief embrace of “ England—Aus-
tralia.” The first verse, in testimony of conjoint
affection for both lands, concludes with this re-
markable declaration of love:—
" To both as to one, mistress, dear.
We plight, that have our being here.”
If this double-barrelled plighting to a mistress is
to be accsunted an unholy, unchaste love, then it
is easy to see what “ Alastor ” is hammering his
lignifled skull against, but the rural poetaster
rather strains our mental resources when he jogs
along in this unorthodox metre:—
“ Forbid, for(e)gone, that gorgeous ground,
Who gainsayeth I Our heritage!
We know no man capable of dissevering the preg-
nancy of these lines, unless it be Baron Holier-
mann, of St. Leonards, who observed in debate
last week “ Germany is stronger now than she
was 50 years hence.” To return to our sheep —
id est, poet. After eulogising England’s “ un-
grovelllng head” in metre that would scarcely
stay on a blackfellow’s epigastrium, he announces,
as the sublimity of his intercourse with the muses,
that
“ Mild thoughts enter—hard thoughts go
When menaceth the common foe.”
After this we feel impelled to counsel “ Alastor,”
who dates his effusion from “ Bungowannah,” to
confine his vagrant energies to inditing epitaphs
for niggers’ tombstones. Torture could not
evoke worse poetry from the corpses which adorn
a mortuary.
• * *
When Jimmy Munro, the patron saint of
the water-drinkers, started on the inevitable trip
to “ Yurrup,” there was a certain amount of diffi-
culty about giving the “ shining light ” a proper
send off. A ** banquet ” was out of the question,
and even a “dinner” sounded a little secular, don't
you know. So the “ friends and well-wishers ” of
James hit upon the happy expedient of giving a
“ breakfast ” to their hero, whereat they might
toast him In bumpers of the beverage that is dear
to his heart. It was a huge success—a demonstra-
tion of which any man might feel proud. The
Hon. James Balfour was there, so was Miiams,and
so was the Rev. Dr. M’Eachran. In the cheerful
society of these rollicking blades, Jimmy waxed
quite eloquent about himself and his “success in
life." With a beautiful Pharisaical philosophy,
the guest of the morning mentioned that “there
are men who are unfortunate, but when there is
visible an absolute and persistent want of success,
it must lie largely with the individual.” Quite
right. Of course it’s open to all men to attain
what the Hon. James Munro calls “success in
life,” by following his methods. This is a wicked
world, however, and some individuals are obstin-
ate. For ourselves, we must say that after con-
sidering this question over a glass of rum ’ot, we
don't want to “ get on ” too rapidly. Permit us to
put our views in rhyme:—
AN EPITAPH.
A local preacher died suddenly in the
very topmost fury of a tea-fight In a New Zealand
town, the other week. We send two copies of thi
issue to St. Peter—one for himself, the other for
the preacher—so that there need be no delay in
passing one of them on. We send them by a trart
distributor whom we killed this morning for the
purpose. The preacher, when he gets this, can
paste the little epitaph hereunder on his crown,
and not go wholly unhonoured in heaven. Thus—
He lived his life well;
His death was the quickest
On record—he fell
Where the muffins were thickestl
This style, half-a-crown for all under the rank of
Bishops. Bishops, 5s. and upwards, according to
girth of paunch and sanctii y.
“ Success 1” dear James—what is success ?
Explain it, do old sonny;
Four notion of the world, we guess,
Moans “ getting lots of money.”
So, having reached your little goal,
You pity the civilian
Who neither wants to “save his soul,”
Nor die worth half a million.
But, do you really fancy, James,
That fellows can’t be happy
Unless they have the self-same aims
In life as you, old chappie ?
If all men practised as you preach,
And marched to your dull measure—
Though "sure success in life” they’d reach,
They wouldn’t have much pleasure.
Go on your way—all In the lurch
We’re happy while remaining—
Stick to “ attendance at your church,”
Non-smoking, and abstaining.
Extraordinary Adventures of Our Special War Correspondent-
While watching you we must confess
That some men in Australia
Are prone to think: “ If that’s success,
We’ll glory in cur failure.”


BRIEF MENTION.
A holey city: Newcastle.
One for the freethinkers; Notone of them
Is in fraol.
We hate Bismarck. Why ? Because he is
notan Englishman.
Our Contingent stand a chance of getting
black-balled in Egypt.
A meeting tD establish a branch of the
Patriotic Fund has boon called at—Gladesvillo.
From Hay we learn that “Bishop Barry
made a groat impression here.” It was at lunch.
John Brown got a month for biting a con-
stable—as if the taste wasn’t punishment enough.
A Friendly Island native got two months
at tied fern for loafing. He said he thought ho was
at home.
The most comprehensive of smiles; The
smile of a Parramatta Klver shark. Now, Sam
Keenan, no jealousy!
Some of our city swells put their money
Into stocks. Their ancestors used to shove their
feet in the same things,
A Correspondent asks us the way to tell
atre of calves. How should wo know ? Why
doesn’t he ask his mother ?
“ There’s nothing like leather.” The man
who said so never sampled the steak supplied by a
Woolloomooloo boarding-house.
A Summer-hill man describes larrikinism
as “high spirits looking for a vent.” A heap of
stones and a sledge might meet the case.
A meeting to augment the Patriotic Fund
la to bo held in the Zoological Gardens. The lead-
ing baboon has been delegated to protest.
Sunday school teacher: “ Why is Abraham
sometimes written Ab.ara in the Scriptures?”
Pork butcher’s boy: “ They disliked Ham.”
Alderman Clubb, of Balmain, has been
called upon to prove his statement about the sur-
face drainage. He intends to—with his name.
The Goulburn people are preparing for an
amateur performance of “ Box and Cox.” From
one yard alone 70,000 bricks were turned out last
week.
“ What have you taken your hat off for ? ”
" I always do when a funeral passes,” he answered,
‘That’s not a funeral, you idiot; it's a Parramatta
train.”
It is said that swallows never go near a
bottle. The case is different, however, when the
bottle is rum, and the swallow is that of a Noo/.e
reporter.
The Burnett News has a column headed
“ Seethings.” Trust a Queensland editor to “see
things,” especially in the striped snake and green
dog line.
A country editor prints a long par. con-
cerning “Toadies.” Why can’t he Jet family
matters rest? Are there no snakes in his neigh-
bourhood ?
The torpedo explosion at South Head last
Sunday, didn’t come oil. Humour has it that the
torpedo was fished up by larrikins at night, and
sola by them for old iron.
The Rum says that Titheradge was
‘ wonderfully made up as Dr. Thompson” (in
friends”). Ho had on tweed trousers, a Irock
coat, and a pair of spectacles.
“ Yes,” he hiccuped to the Good Templar,
‘ you bend the knee, but not the elbow. I know
you do that: —hid—thatoomes of tho beastly habit
—hid—of drinking out of tho tap I”
Tho Paris correspondent of a Victorian
paper says that Bismarck “suffers from lead in tho
wing." Better that than, like our own Lord
Derby, suffer from lead in tho head I
Here is an anomaly. The importation of
American bacon into France lias been prohibited
by—President Gn vy. There is nothing in a name,
alter all. William, you may go up one higher.
The other day a dog leant against a Mar-
rick ville lamp-post and knocked it down. All
school children there are now warned to walk in
tho middle of the road. Where can our iittlo ones
be safe ?
Mr. H, Coffee has been appointed Crown
Prosecutor for the next Dubbo Sessions. The
billet should suit him to a tea. Hot coffee for the
criminals, though, unless they have good arounds
of defence.
The Wagga Sunday school bell is the fire-
boll also. It thus performs the double office of
summoning mature citizens to quench one de-
scription of fire, and immature ones to learn how
to dodge another.
A Maori prophetess has arisen. She is a
gloomy fraud. One of her prophecies was that the
Millenium would start last Saturday. It didn’t—
not by a Jugful. The tradesmen called with their
little bills all the same.
There is a lane in Sandhurst locally known
by tho cheerful name of “Murdering Alley.” All
the burglars and brutal assaulters live there.
Curious how they always congregate together!
Just like tho doctors.
“Lovo knows no politics.” We have often
wondered why those gay dogs on the staff of the
Morning Fairfax were such ardent worshippers
at the shrine of Venus, Now we understand.
Fellow feeling, of course.
Bishop: “Doesn’t shy, eh, Mr. Perkins?”
Horsedealer: "Shy? Never I Stop, my lord. I
must be honest with you. I did know him shy
once—but that was at a Salvationist army passing
by I" Bishop buys horse at once.
The boss of an obscure back-blocks’ bi-
weekly boldly remarks tint “love makes fools of
all men.” Quite a mistake. Nature has done the
work for most up-country editors long before
love has had a chance to sail in.
Disastrous effect of free drinks again.
Says the Wide Bay and Burnett News corres-
Sondent:— “I see Mr. J. Grout has succeeded Mr.
iohol in the Post-office Hotel here, and I wish the
youna coup e every success.” The which t
“The Herald doesn’t go so far as to say
that Sir John Robertson is a "fence,” but it says
that "fencing ” was a part of bis system. Whether
Sir John wiil answer through the Press or tho
law we cannot say, but—we await his answer.
Grofrancio Antonio, an Italian, was lined
£3 by Mr. Addison for having “ cruelly beaten a
monkey with a leather strap.” The magistrate
said he was determined to protect from ill-usago
alt classes of the community—oven reporters.
Certain colonial aldermen will be inter-
ested to learn that tho hen of the latest English
novel. “Tho Prettiest Woman In Warsaw,” is one
Arthur Dene, who, in Russia, was thought to be a
Royal Prince because he took a bath every day.
“ Magna cst vcrltas ct prevalent” is a
noble thought; but tho guileless country editor
makes a mistake when he prints it over tho lucra-
tive auctioneer’s advertisement, which crowds
out the usual loader. It seems out of place, some-
how.
Chris eoraplains'that Parkes “accused the
editors of tho daily Sydney Press of lying and re-
lying.” That they lied we know. But what they
re-lied upon, except the off chance of pulling the
Soudan swindle through, is what wo can’t make
out.
In the Riverine Star we read that the
best way to go to sleep is by not thinking at all.
If this be true, how often tho editor of our
luminous contemporary must go to sleep! Wo
don’t mean at night, but when he is writing those
terrific leaders.
“ He seems a very pleasant and practical
man without much eloquence,” is what the Hay
correspondent of the News says of Bishop Barry.
They know whnt eloquence is in Hay— M’Elhone
was there once. But he could never satisfactorily
explain how he got cut of it.
The Clifton (near Wollongong) people
complain that tholr postmaster is overworked.
should pet an assistant. A letter came to
Clifton last week, and It is whispered on (rood
authority that a newspaper was posted in Mel-
bourne a few days ago for that place—by mis-
It is surely unnecessary to say where wo
got this gem from. “Just then the :!rd Regiment
became visible on a distant rise in the Bradley’s
having been as anxiously awaited by
the held olBcers as the Prussians were by Welling-
ton at Waterloo,” Shades of Sapphiral Is Granny
in her dotage ?
“ Echo, sir ? Yes, sir,” said the boy, as he
handed the paper through the tram door, and was
about to take the penny. “ Sixteen pages to-day,
sir, ho added. The man handed the journal back,
and kept the money. “ I don t mind eight,” he
said, “ but roast mo if I can stand sixtoon.” He
then relapsed into gloom.
About 500 of the Marcus Clark memorial
volumes are lying in Cameron and Lang’s cellar,
Melbourne, and as many complain of the non-
receipt of the volumes they are entitled to by
subscription, there must be some hitch some-
where. What is It? Where Is it? Whoso fault
is it? Come, answer, somebody.
“She was a woman.” “Sigma” repeatedly
asserts this in a recent issuoof the Cobar Heuai.d.
There is nothing very surprising in this fact.
What else could flic bo? Not a man, of course
Sigma appears to know something of the
melody of words, and his effusion is a cut above
the usual run of back-block’s verse.
At Norraanton (Q.) an unmarried black-
fellow, who has kept an hotel for two years, has
Just Hied his schedule, and one of the creditors has
transferred the management of the pub. to his
porter, who is also a blackfellow. This little fact
disproves the fallacious idea that the aboriginals
cannot be reduced to modern civilization.
“For ways that are dark.” The Corpora-
tion at Inverell called tenders for some work, and
local Sandys met to consider them.
Honald M Kenzio s was the lowest, and this just
suited the local Sandys; but when Donald turned
out to be a Chinaman, they thought anither half
Scotchman in Australia was too much for them.
It’s at Newington, on the Parramatta
i ii? r * mu asylum for aged women is to be
built. The ground is very low, with a mangrove
swamp just in front of it. The old people have
a by no means happy prospect before them, ft is
doubtful whether any other country in the world
won Id treat so cruelly the members of its Upper
House.
What do you think of this advertisement,
which lately appeared in the Melbourne Allans ? —
Worth having 1 . A Piece of Irish Turf cut last
season. Five shillings per square inch. Apply,
I A'rsr, A antis office.” It is a smart idea to do this
yg 11 ®. there is any of Ireland left to the Irish.
I atSy is not the first Irishman who has sold his
country.
The Northern Standard, believing the
the despatch of 1000 Fenians to help El
Ma “di, pours forth a column of reasons to dis-
suade them from taking such a step. Perhaps
this is why we have heard nothing more of the
It is much more likely, however, that
this one telegram exhausted Reuter’s imagination
on the subject.
Do you know what they say of our spirited
foreign policy in Victoria ? Weil, simply that
Gladesville must be a lonely place since the Con-
tingent left. They also affect to regret that our
troops aid not wait for their own Yarra-Benders,
Only some of them say this, however. The rest
say thatnone of the Yarra Benders are mad enough
to go. These be hard words.
A miscreant sent ua the fol leaving wretched
conundrum Inst week: —“ What is more approda-
™ve k 01 ,. a . .?° le * than a front-row baldhead at
the ballet? For answer, turn over to the next
pa *?’ .. . T e turned over to the next page and
A u Ulld ?ff- 11 that raan ever comes into
this .office, he will go out again through several
windows simultaneously.
The Adelong Miner can only find one
part of Sir John Robertson's Soudan speech that
can be considered worthy of admiration; and that
is the passage wherein the pious knight expresses
his sorrow that Sir Henry Parkes could not take
part in the debate. All the dailies spoke of this as
a magnificent oration, and yet the Miner scorn-
luliy and wearily speaks of wadino through it.
Thus runs an obituary notice in a country
paper: ‘‘Mr. John Smith died hero to-day at an
advanced age. Ho was the owner of a very con-
siderable amount of property, having been a raem-
ber of the police force during his young days.” To
get the full moaning of that notice you must go
down, down, almost as far down as Mr. John
smith. But take care you don’t burn yourself I
A dramatic company is playing “Shout,
or the Devil’s Nobbier,” through the Victorian
K"^ wit^, a11 thG original Melbourne
effects. Does this mean with the Melbourne
effects upon the audience, or are we to understand
that the players exhibit the usual effects of
Devil's nobbier* ?» If the former, we pity the
anyway 6 ’ a^®r —well, wo pity the audience
Under the mild heading of “ Cruel
Hatchet Work.” the Melbourne correspondent of
the Evening News reports (referring to a Chinese
row) that, when Ah Chit hit Ah Tay on the head
with u tomahawk, “Ah Tay seemed at.nayed ”
seated the misery of the people.” In reply to a
w£hoH 6 ? tat °i? that the P 0 °P le of a neighbourhood
wished for a license to be granted, he said:—” Ask
or™,T Iv ? 8 *i nd obildren of the people you talk
about. I refuse the application.”
Scene: The vicinity of Suakim. Drama-
nh£Z S °% D i h Tbe New - South Walg 8 Contingent In
charge of the commissariat. Enter Sir Gerald
Grahain on a horse covered with foam. He ad-
eYcifnmCPnV 0 . n “ 1 p Ri | Cha^ d S 0n ln a tone ot ' suppressed
excitement. Colonel, have your troops kept the
8afe ? Colonel Richardson, saluting,
lng ',y r i t 5 h,s drawn sword to the ranks
WSMJ,!? ot>lefello "»'''
The sons of Scotia are getting very proud
and orty, it; seems. A Melbourne firm, not know-
ing any better, put some rubicund loafers into
kilts, and sent them around with land sale bills
Ihey hadn t been airing their legs for long when"
nmno? d:1?na f nt , Sc °t9hroan ” called at the Herald
§®09 to protest against what he called an insult to
Scotland, in degrading the national costume to
hnrUi^f CalllDW a .® hand-bill distribution.” This is
hardly fair, considering that a lot of Presbyterian
wearing stove pipe haf 8 ?' iSh Datl ° Dal C08tume by
Howto get unlimited creditWhen vou
the^ni C ng U of vnnr h«f gOC i d throe - m inutes’ smell at
°f your hat. \ sure card, too. is to vivo
a short sob, when the pulpit-thumper asks " whnt
are we. O brethren, but poor, bo “ghted wanderers
Sn° ' Awl t’r,. T y ln 11,0
Barry -the other one) doming out and sav ? ‘‘No
z a im&Tb,'Zt l r$ tssxRJSi mmt ln
littl© time e?o bo fn foi»o
but Aocident Ineuranco Company!
ofdlfe^wourd^uaUfv e him b fn he i r hiS Reneral mode
week Hie spy tent Vn hfs" Jenorf.-P f fter a
from lamp-posts, 5; cab accidents V C feM tU H«° nS
stairs. 3; sprained thumb it a |ght !•’ htw™
ditto 1; teeth lost, ditto. 3 Applicant has
heard to say that when insured he should call
every one of these a disabler, and apply for full
compensation. Application refused P y orlu11
This is bad news for the French InTonquin. When
a Chinaman feels “ annoyed” at being hit with an
axe it suggests that the nation is waking up and
placing itself in lino with modern civilisation.
Macdonald-town is preparing for the worst
should Russia occupy another pass. But Its garri-
son will probably be weakened by one desperate
warrior. Ho is an old French soldier, who was the
last to march into Moscow and the first to get out
beat Napoleon on the road to Paris. This des-
perado says ho is not too Infirm to perform
another masterly movement—towards the Blue
Mountains this time —when his old enemies heavo
in sight.
The Adelong Miner, Arous, and Gundagai
Herald (make no mistake, it is all the same
paper, and only about the size of a District Court
summons, in spito of the length of its title) prints
a paragraph of directions for those who want to
get sick. Why go to all this trouble; we can point
out a means of achieving the same end in one
sentence. What is our prescription ? Simply this,
read the Adelong Miner, Argos, and Gundagai
Herald.
A new departure in Victorian military af-
fairs is spoken of since the death of Private
Grasche. It is to 'have a special undertaker at-
tached to each corps, whose duty will be to have
coffins and hearses in attendance whenever they
go out shooting. The knowledge of this fact
should be most reassuring—to tho Russians, If
they ever invade Victoria, the general order will
probably be to “let the Victorian army tight It
out among themselves.”
A newspaper man writes from an office
up the Street:—“What was almost a plot lor a
good ghost story was enacted in the editorial room
of this paper late last night. One of the staff came
in In the .dark, and, to his horror, found himself
confronted by a strange white shape, motionless,
but full of terror in Its ghostly phosphorescence.
Starting back, he hastily struck a match, and then
at once the mystery was solved. It was the clean
towel we had given us.”
It was on Thursday night last when we
saw him roll out of Deeble’s sideways. He can-
noned against us, then drew himself haughtily up
and biccuped, " B’help me, I've not been in a pub.
for 13 months, but the news was too good—couldn’t
stand It—an’ so you shee me ash you do.” “ What
news?” we observed coldly, fie stared, looked
up and down King-street, laughed hysterically,
and then yelled in our ear, “They ain’t a gwlne to
publish tho Echo to-morrow.”
The Recorder of Dublin recently said at a
licensing meeting that he objected to Increasing
the drinking accommodation of tho city because
he had become convinced, while sitting at Crimi-
nal Sessions, that “public-houses were the manu-
factories of garrotters; and their prosperity repre-
prisoner was in the habit of stealing cats, sklnmn
tbe ™> and selling them as Scotch hares for i§ 5?
each. The woman had been carrying on this nVilr
tico for about three months, and large numberw
cats had been eaten by various people on the snS*
position that they were hares. Prisoner was
tencod to three months’ Imprisonment.” We
cover our bald head, and reverently bow
times to the genius of Ann Little. ree
The Wiicannia Times man must have been
born in Tipperary; if not, he deserved to be. Rcfor
ring to a recent rigadoon in the local town council'
during which one alderman threatened to
lt waB enjoyable, And
showed that the chief actors in the scene were in
earnest and performing their civic duties to tho
best of their abilities. We shall go to the nev
meetmg with greater pleasure than we have
hitherto done. ITere Is evidence of a genial
spirit of pugnacity that surely deserves a S
glorious fate than to perish ignobly in a hopelrw
struggle with Wiicannia rum. Oh, and by-the 8
way, we hear that every Wiicannia alderman has
a shutter carried with him to council meetings m
be ready for contingencies. T ils is a hint for our
suburban aldermen. ur
Two boys exchanged greetings on a New
town tram, a few mornings ago, “Oh. Isay- i’ m
going up for the matric., to-day.” “You? Von
am t gom up for no matric,” and there was nr
ocean of scorn in the reply, as the speaker called
. 6 raan y nicknames his companion’s want
of brilliancy had earned. “Ain’t I goln’ for no
matric., and pride of position emphasized each
word of the enquiry; “yes, I am, then.” “Don’t
b leeve yer.” “ Don’t t’leeve me ? ” and here the
wooer of Alma Mater demonstrated the proposi.
tion— look here, then.” And from each pocket
in succession came forth closely-written pages of
the 1st Book of Euclid’s Conundrums, blvv’s
Enigmas, and Novell’s Mysteries. The proof w,
conclusive. And yet it is said that “bull-dogs”
patrol the Examination Hall. 88
As a rule, the country Press does little but
if°?°V he opinions of the metropolitan
dailies, but this extract from the Cumberland
Iimes is refreshing, not only because of its being
an exception to this rule, but also on account of
its vigorous expression:-” The splendour of the
a oh>oved by Sir Henry Parkes over tho
traitors to the Constitution on the
battle held of Argyle is deprived of no ray of its
Jn*f r e by the shrieking rage of tho Sydney Morn!
the truculent ferocity of the Syd-
er the basely mendacious
brutality of the Evening News.” “Truculent
ferocity hardly describes the attitude of the D T
“ut bassiy mendacious brutality of the Evening
New s is so good that we have a strong suspicion
gotten the tact. “ our8clve8 ’ and ha ™ *or-
“T h -?A r ? bbisho P of Canterbury has re-
quested the Archdeacons of Canterbury and Maid-
stone to make known his wish that special inter-
cession should be made at all churches for our
E„ aDd . C r mander8 ’ particularly for General
Gordon. The prayer previously issued may be
used, as well as the Collect ‘In Time of War,’ untU
more definite knowledge may suggest another
*9™ of Intercession.” Which only ihows how the
electric telegraph and other institutions of this
heathen epoch have * busted up ” the praying-
dervish business. The plain inference here is that
the Omniscient Almighty either is Himself wait-
ing for more definite information” before taking
action, or makes a practice of deferring His judg-
ments in Africa until He receives His instructions
from a blasphemous prelate in London.
From an exchange: “ About 3 o’clock this
morning, as wo were going to press, we observed
“, 00n ™ was a i m ? 8t totaJ) y eclipsed.”
Strange fact. The modest orb had, of course
seen some of the articles in type, and-had no
further wish to shine on a benighted world Buf
out.thrft- CarrieS With u ine fi iration - and points
’Twas Joshua bade the whirling suu
Delay his downward flight;
This man commands-at once the moon
Withdraws her beaming light.
Ako that—
The moon looked down, and saw a scribe.
in glowing periods write:
She hid her face, and said, “ Mankind
Now does not need my light.”
A terrible thing is the new dynamite
umbrelta. just patented by O’Donovan liossa’s
friend, the Galway Irishman who calls himself
Mezzeroff. The peculiarity of this umbrella*
(which the Patriot leaves in the rack of a club fre-
quented by Bishops) is that when you open It tho
spring frees a glass tube, which communicate!
w !, tb a i 00 J ,e button ’ which, communicating
with a hj draulic cylinder, detonates, and blows tho
head off the unwary. Even the existence of this
interna! machine conveys the moral lesson that wo
should all be more careful than usual to take our
own and not our neighbour’s umbrella when we
leave the club. The dynamite umbrella is Gpur-
posely made of the best silk, and is really v!r V
tempting. The dynamite corkscrew is used for
destroying waiters suspected of treachery being
cunningly substituted for their own. Of thl
dynamite latch key. and the dynamite shoe-horn
it is too dreadful t® speak; but they offer at le!!t
as substantial dangers as the dynamite walkins-
stick of Professor Mezzeroff. walking-
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“ J.R H.” : The cost of English Rmmitv
DSr every ex Pense, cannot be
tamed, so many sums belmr 8iirren*4Hr,,,=i„ a8Cer "
prlated under misleading 1 leadings in t h y rK,’
Estimates. From “ The New Book of Kings -’ hv
i*. rnson Davidson, barrislor-at-law /
Fleet-street, London),’which we advile ? 0 u to’
procure, we find that the following items
known to be expended ® items are
Civil List .. „
Perpetual pension in lieu of prisago and 85,000
Lancaster ° Q WmeS la Duchy of
AnC1 mates 6 V ° te ° in Service Est'il 803
Net income from Duchy of Lancaster "
Repairs of Palaces and appurtenances oc- 1,000
copied by the Queen ... lr err
of partly occupied "by the
as estimated by Sir Charles 0350
£y lte f‘ csmp tothc m S
Queen’s Plates for Scotland ...” ” “
n ii , t Ireland *** ** I &
Queen’s bounties in Scotland.'.'.'
Queen’s limner Ireland ... po
t. .. historiographar ' !! tIiT
™. •» ii clockmaaer ,. *
Windsor Castle turncock .. ‘ "
Ratcatcher, turncock, and labourers at ~ ot
,, h Buckingham Palace “ „f" at
Albert Memorial attendants r*?*
* XPe e6tlmates r0ral hOU “ holi '-™i
:: s
Princess ,, 40,000
Duke of Edinburgh " 10 000
Princess Christian " •• 25.0C0
Marchioness of Lome v ••• 0000.
Duke of Connaught 000*7
Late Duke of Albany , 25 000
Duchess of Cambridge ... H 35,000
_. v* « Mecklenburgh-Streiltv 0GG0
Duke of Cambridge ‘ z 3080
Princess Mary of Teck "! “ " •• 12,000
In addition to the forevnimr r> • ’" )J0 °
has £55,000 per annSmfrom’ the Dn”^ 0 of Wales
wall, which, by a convenient fl%S, U( £ y * of Corn-
his private property, and asDukenf il treat f d as
has a perpetual pension of &on the
AN ARCADIAN INCIDENT.
THE TREAT AFFORDED TO THE LADIES OP “THE FLOURTSHma rrnv rvr .
DISE,” BY CONSTABLE X. THE COSTUME OP ADAM NOT INAPPROPRIATE THERE, '


, —rtnrflolf Figures-such as these—
totals Now for your second question:
make u ®,exnended on the Government of
The amount e. p wa s Jn roun fi figures,
Great rSwiiahty-seven million pounds). For
£ 87,000,000 (e g i the expenditure on the Govorn-
1'or f he - B f^ e untted States Republic was, in round
merit of pro Ann (forty five millions sterling)*
figures, of the Repuhllc was that year re-
and the debt t (twenty millions ster-
?. U i the receipts having exceeded the ordinary
ling)*tM recoup year by that sum.... H.
expenditures fo t that the fifth- seal is
Pler” : A°he opened. We don’t question it.
«t b0 if evident From tho appearance of your
communication that at least four seals had been
broken and the corks drawn before you wr te..■■ •
"Nonnee”: The Muses have inspired you to at-
tempt a poetic depiction of an amorous
man, who tossed up a coin to decide which of two
equally-loved maidens he should marry, in the
first place there is more rupture than rapture
about your poesy; and in the second tbe narratu e
Is improbable. The lover of r ?hQt
have been a dude, and you ought to know that
dudes have no coin—either.to toss or to satisfy
their tailor’s clamour. Try a more c l^JV e ningr
theme “ Humbug ” (Townsville): You are
doubtless right in supposing that the Royal
Household would prefer to he part of the Royal
Family of German-England than see England a
Republic.... “Vulture”: We have condensed your
items Our space is too valuable to appropriate a
column of it to the vagaries of Politicians on the
stump.. .“Anthony Morgan” (blacksmith, Albury).
The verses you hammered out are like the glowing
metal you beat. They have fire in them but are
rough. Wo have endeavoured to polish a bit,
and publish them. ..“ Mullet Greek; ’’ Have used
some. U ...“ A. Bloodwood” Required . quaBfl^
tluF'Sword’T; 1 1 There’s in*
tion, but tho execution is very faulty.
Too diffuse. Condense. Try shorter things ...
“ Mfiriiva ” • How can It interest our readers to
know that’the temporary hospital has had an
alternate population of bugs and beggars. If you
can personally vouch for this fact, then in which
of the two capacities were you an inmate? If
cliqueism dictated the choice of the cottage, you
should openly confront it—not anonymously ex-
pose it .. “J.P.”: We have sent your poem to the
inflimary to set at test our doubts whether its
lameness is curable “Omega”: You claim, by
the letter accompanying your sample, to be a pro-
ducer of puns. Vou are not, but you are the per-
petrator of pitiable pustules—“ James H.C.”;
we received your contribution on Good Friday;
but that fact alone inadequately conveys our
reasons for crucifying it. Its only merit was pro-
lixity, and the only original idea you convey is
that there is significance in the yawn of a jackass.
Whilst accepting you as an authority, why should
wo parade a fact that is within the persona
knowledge of every reader of the Rum? ...
“G I)*****”: The verses you send, "Why Rouse
the British Lion.” &c.. published, you say, at the
time of the Schleswig-Holstein affair, are not at
nil incur line. “ Why rouse the British Lion, there
is no fight in him,” is a sentiment wo have no
»mpathv with. You are as bad as the Jmgos, and
seem to imagine wo have no patriotism, and would
take pleasure in an effusion which is an Insult to
our natlm, There’s plenty of fight In tho British
Lion, if we may judge by our own feelings. Our
position is that wo are ashamed to see our country
fighting in an unjust cause, and giving tho
lie to the principles which we Britons are
so fond—rather Pecksnlfhshly—of preaching to all
other Powers. Wo regard our country as false to
its mission, and as temporarily disgraced by such
deeds as the strangling of the nascent Egyptian
national'revival, and as the slaughter of the Arabs
of the Soudan—a people, as Mr. Gladstone con-
fessed, “ rightly struggling to be free.” Given a
just cause, and you’d soon see whether it is sense
to sing “ Go, leave the poor old Lion to doze away
and die.” Don't make the mistake of gauging
even colonial patriotism by the present spurious
business “A Lone Wife,” “ Tasmanlte, ’ and
others next week “A.X.”: Will require re-
writing “ T.R.W.”; (Smithfleld); Your lengthy
letter received just as we were going to press,
Glanced over it, and believe you will And some of
SsrrassfflS wih-toSSw ■» ss
bridge and Cockatoo. Can any one oblige, to
decide a wager.
A Mrs. Clarke, just divorced by her hus-
band in England, pleaded that Pho had
thoughtless, but not wicked.” . Wanted, a lady
who, when bowled out in th®. Divorce t not
not plead that she has been “thoughtless but not
wicked.” Errors are often worse than crimes.
From a London journal’s account of the
House of Commons dynamite explosion:—“I saw
Mr. Green. He was covered with dust, his eyes
were protruding from their sockets, and blooi
was trickling down his cheeks from bis eyelids.
His coat was cut to pieces, his trousers were en-
i tirely destroyed, and he had lost his hat.” “And
! he had tost his hat,” O, mott powerful climax I
1 Only an evening party, only a dreamy dance,
Only a man and a maiden, who had just mot by
chance,
i Only a few words spoken, in a quiet place apart,
I But ho! ’twas the Summerfleld trousers that cap-
I tured the maiden’s heart.*
Sydney Harbour Invaded.
rPROM OUR SPECIAL WAR CORRESPONDENT AT THE EASTER EGGCAMPMENT AT SOUTH HEAD.) . .
1. “ Hark! . . ’tis the cannons’ opening roar!" An occasional shell coming in at our sanctum window tells us but too plainly
preaching. 2. And there was mounting (the earthwork, by private citizens) in hot haste! 3. “The foe! They come! , Uh
-in point of fact, towed by her toward the spot where the torpedo is placed, to be blown into 10.000* fragmen ts. 4. The> of tbe b gome , that
i o+rli Kronth Enf mi to the moment of our going to press last night it hadn’t come off. When it does, we shall get out an extra. o. It is tno 0 , y ’
the oUolrio aparatm! by mean* ol which this torpedo was to have been exploded, had been tampered with. 0. Our Correspondent had aa M P 0Be ■<•» »
man with bandy legs-bnt War Correspondents have to take these dreadful tisks for the sake of getting accurate reports of great batlles.


Political Points
-£JL50 received by the Patriotic Fund from
the Railway Department. Only £1850 now re-
quired to make up the promised £5000.
Weekly Dispatch, on Lord Rose-
bery’s admission to the Cabinet, remarks that “ in
spite of his proposed tinkering at reform of the
House of Lords, and other playings at Radicalism,
Radicals must not expect too much from him.
Whatever help, if any, he renders to the Govern-
ment will be in the direction of allying it more
than ever to the landowning and capitalist classes,
not of Inclining it to promote the interests of tho
democracy.”
Let the Daily Tdfthunt tremble, and
tho Morning Muddle moan, for it is a fact that
Lord Carrington is In favour of Land Reform, and
is an active champion of what he calls “compul-
sory purchase.” As this scheme is opposed to the
ultra-Tory views hitherto enunciated by our con-
temporaries, these views must, on his Excellency’s
arrival, be discarded, in accordance with the un-
varying maxims of tuft-hunting policy—the only
policy to which the dailies consistently adhere.
“An Old Salt ” sends some useful sugges-
tions to the News as to defending the Heads by
means of “one gun pelters,” i.e. hulks or small
superannuated steamers, moored In convenient
places, and having each a large gun on board. He
adds, “I, for one, shall have much pleasure in
placing my services and experience at tho disposal
of the Government at any time it may bo inclined
o accept them. 1 " We believe he would. And—of
course, we don’t mean to say he owns any hulks
that ho would be disposed to sell or let out by the
day—we fancy he knows where some might bo
found.
Osman Dignn interviewed by an Arab
merchant:—” I asked Osman what was the Mahdi’s
definite object? Ho answered, smilingly, ‘He
Intends to prevent the Christians from bathing in
the Nile; that is to say, he is bent on restoring the
whole river district, from its sources to its
mouths, to the Mussulmans.’ ‘But,’ I asked
him, | do you think the Padishah will re-
main indifferent to the conquest of Egypt and
the Soudan ?’ ‘ I know not what the Padishah will
do,’he replied, ‘but I can answer for it that,
after the Mahdi has taken Cairo, ho will send en-
voys to Constantinople Inviting the Sultan to form
an alliance with him against the unbelievers.’ ”
A comparison of the French with the
English Squadron on the China station is made by
the Pall Mall Gazette thus:—The English ves-
sels cetually on the station have only four G-inch
breechloading guns among them. Of heavy guns
we have ten 13-ton muzzleloadere, on board the
Audacious, which has a speed of 18hj knots, as
against four 15-ton breechloaders on board the
Bayard, with a speed of 14hj knots, and six 15-ton
guns on board La Galissoniere. Then we have four
13-ton muzzle loaders on board the ancient
Wlvern, which has only a of 10 knots;
while the French have six 15-ton breechloaders on
board the Triompbante, with a speed of 1 2)4 knots,
six 7%-ton guns on board the Atalante, with a
speed of HJ<j knots, and five 794-ton guns on board
the Duguay Trouln, which has a speed of 15><j
knots. We have only compared heavy guns and
speed of large ships. The comparison is not less
striking in the subordinate vessels of the two
squadrons.
A Guards’ officer writes fiom Paris:—“We
are ordered to join Wolseley. This bothers us
tremendously, because we have no idea what we
are going to fight for. We should, to feel any-
thing like enthusiasm, have something like a
definite aim. In the great French war we wanted
to lick ‘Boney,’ who, we were taught, was a
monster, and Nelson got his tars to believe that
they should hate a Frenchman as they hated
the devil. Whom are we to hate or love in
this awful Khartoum business ? Is it the
Soudanese for being rebels ? Rebels against
whom—Tewflk, the most contemptible fellow that
ever lived, and the survival of a tyranny which
was merciless to the Soudanese ? It can’t be to
defend our country by carrying the war abroad,
as we did when Hoche was preparing the Irish and
Napoleon the Boulogne expeditions. No fellow can
make out the Issues which are involved. All is
muddle and haze and uncertainty. We have only
one thing clear In our minds: we wish the Ger-
mans in England, high and highest, to Old Scratch,
and that fellow Bismarck, whom they are al-
ways helping, to the bottomless pit. He and they
are the cause of all the mischief.”
A point in the Dailey war programme,
which appears to have escaped the notice of
Messrs. O’Mara, O'Connor, and the others, who,
on that question, were all in the right, is that in
the event of an Orangeman of the old school be- j
coming Premier or Acting-Premier of the colony,
and a state of affairs arising in Ireland similar to J
that of 1848 or 1798, this man could, without con- i
suiting Parliament, enlist and despatch a contin-
gent from New South Wales to go over and sub- (
jugate the rebels. Every argument applied in
the ease of the Soudan admits of application here, !
with the elements of urgency, necessity, and j
loyalty to the Throne intensified. The precedent
is now laid down, the circumstances referred to
are among those that can arise; and, if they arise,
what then? Is New South Wales prepared for a
fight of races ? She should not be. But if she
does not want this she should have muzzled her
Acting-Premier and hobbled the too nimble
loyalists, whose purses are big in proportion as
their brains are small, by disallowing to any indi-
vidual, however distended by vaunting and
vanity, the power of sending troops out of the
country unless by the authority of Parliament.
From the London Echo : “It is understood
that the Government have accepted the offer of
New South Wales to send a contingent of troops
to take part in the operations in the Soudan. It
is a decision that will be welcomed by most Eng-
lishmen as evidence that Ministers appreciate at
its proper value the desirejof the colonists of New
South Wales to share in the responsibilities of
Empire. Victoria, too, has made a somewhat
similar offer, and we do not see how it can be re-
jected, now that the offer of the neighbouring
colony had been accepted. But whilst ad-
mitting that this action of the Australian
colonies is calculated to impress Continental
statesmen, as well as the people of the
mother country, it is well to remember that
our Australian kinsmen are apt to expect a quid
gro quo. If they send a couple of battalions to the
oudao, they will expect England to help them in
turn in the Pacific; and the only way in which we
can help them there is by proclaiming what must
amount to a now Monroe Doctrine. If we shrink,
as well we may, from doing this, our acceptance of
Australian help now, far from cementing the alli-
ance between the mother country and some of her
dependencies, will be a certain forerunner of early
disagreement, if not of disruption.”
The leader of the Opposition in the New
South Wales Assembly has reached that state of
mental mellowness in which he may be sugared
into jeopardising the attitude of his party. The
whole atmosphere through which the Government
marched its Soudan Contingent was one of rarifled
humbug', but the most pitiful picture in the pro-
cession of indemniflers was that of Sir John, his
own old character of crabbed straightforwardness
and profane sincerity all gone, and the joints of
his knees rattling as he raced the gay young bucks
?f blantant loyalty into the Ministerial lobby. At
the first stage of the proceeding it was known that
“if* Jobn regarded the movement as “ the damned-
est bit of cheek any colonial Minister had ever
been guilty of;” but the Press and the Govern-
mont both became seized of his weakness, and,
without waiting for him to commit himrelf too
far, it was made public that “ Sir John, with
characteristic chivalry,” would give his party the
heel and vote with the Government. His charac-
teristic, his old, his usual chivalry caught him.
The Government dipped a finger in this verbal
treacle, and Sir John caught and sucked it, and
was led along as a calf might be by a laughing
milkmaid—;
The “ damnedst thing ” looks nice, Sir John,
Sometimes, as we must all agree;
But better rat for vice. Sir John,
Than for a bastard chivalry.
At a time when every puling; politician is
stuffed to the thorax with pseudo-loyalty, it is re-
freshing to find that all Australia’s public men
?r G 2,2* im bued with the same spurious chivalry,
fcir Thomas M'llwralth. in his speech at the ban-
quet tendered to him at Townsville, made the fol-
lowing remarks, which show the difference in the
view held by Queensland’s ex-Premlor, and that
r< T^ er ;' ained by our nominee Attorney-General: —
We had a desire for continuous connection with
we gloried in her glory, and, he
might add, that we could feel shame in her shame,
lie would, however, leave the New South Wales
Ministry to settle with the people of that colony
for their unconstitutional act In sending her army
to fight in quarrels which the more we looked into
the less we believed in. He did not believe in our
sending troops to assist England in her troubles
in Egypt. He did not believe in England being in
Egypt at all. What were they there for ? Was it
to try to exterminate the Arabs? He could not
glory in the victories of the English in the Sou-
dan, but must sympathise with the brave men
who were being shot down while fighting In their
own country for what they believed to be right.
A Queens and contingent would not be sent so long
as he could raise his voice against it. We had to
look at the fact that because of the extraordinary
blundering of the British Ministry wo had to fight
a lot of savages, apparently for the purpose of
showing we were still able to fight. If we wanted
to fight, in the name of God let us fight a worthy
foe. England had caved in to everyone else but
Egyptians. He did not think Queensland was at
all likely to send any troops to the Soudan.”
Dr. Moorhouse had a go in on the war
question the other day, while ministering to the
spiritual wants of the weak people of a little
country parish. He slunk around all sides of the
subject in his usual fashion, and having made it
quite clear that Christianity does not permit
bloodshed to satisfy a lust for territory or to
avenge a sentimental injury, he harked back, and,
with a metaphorical hitch of the episcopal panta-
loons, got into step with the biggest-voiced Jlngos
of the day. " We English are a peaceable people,”
he said in the same accents with which he intones
the Litany, "and we don’t want to fight, but if we
are driven with our backs against the wall we cer-
tainly will fight.” It is passing strange with what
audacity we try to fool one anotherl Why, his-
history shows that we are always w.th a knife out.
If a case arises in which we appear not to want to
use it, it will be found that we have been examin-
ing our opponent’s knife and found it longer and
sharper than our own. It is only the ether day
that John Bright pointed out that throughout the
whole of Queen Victoria’s reign—a period said to
be specially blessed with peace—we have been
letting the blood out of one or another of the poor
half-clvilizcd races. And John Bright, a states-
man, but a layman, declares that the lives were
taken in some cases shamelessly, and in most cases
needlessly. Nor is he solitary in bis view. But
when it comes to slaughter, Holy Church has
always licked her lips. In the iVanoo-German
war the men of both nations marched to the
frontier under episcopal benedictions. They then
cut each other’s throats under episcopal benedic-
tions. ’Tis funny—only it is a little sad. Wonder
if all those military bishops will, in the end, go to
hell? If we were made sure they wouldn’t we
would actually laugh. Somebody start and make
us laugh. Dol
A short address delivered by Archbishop
Moran, at Macdonaldtown, on a late occasion,
appears to have made at least one galled jade
wince. Dr. Moran has not much of the temper of
the Incendiary, but if he stand up for the principle
and its consequences which he then laid down —
namely, that In a national upheaval agalnt unjust
laws, it is not those who break but those who
ignore the laws who are criminals—he must be
prepared to be looked upon by all the good people
of great social influence as a mitred Ned Kelly.
It is not anticipated, however, that he will stand
up stoutly for the principle. He was only speaking
m the abstract, and it is no easy tiling to get a
great logician to see in the concrete the exact
principle he is prepared to die for in the abstract.
Great dignitaries die daily In the abstract, but they
move about in the concrete for a considerable
time The little llutter the enunciation of this
principle created was made painfully exciting by
reason of the line of talk the Archbishop pursued
next. He got the Registrar-General's returns, and
from them worked out lists of “ heinous crimes”
perpetrated in Great Britain and in Ireland, and
showed, at all events to his own satisfaction, that
England and Scotland committed more deeds of
black dastardliness within any 12 months than in
proportion to population, were perpetrated in
Treiand. Then he glided into the delicate topic of
illegitimacy. He showed there were per 100 births
four times as many illegitimates in Scotland, and
twice as many in England as in Ireland. Was not
that cruel on the part of the Archbishop ? And
the point of the cruelty lay in its substantial truth.
The Morning Herald begged him to remember
that common charity is an essential of the Chris-
tian life. Wince and whine, O, toothless jadel
You have lied about Ireland till your cup is full,
and new you plead for “common charity 1”
Down, you parson-fed hag!
Joseph Cowen, M.P, for Newcastle, Eng-
land (let the miners of our own Newcastle see to it
that they also are fitly represented henceforth by a
Joseph Cowen. instead of being humbugged by a
Jingo ninny with the courage of his—convictions ?
no, his position as Government whip, and with
brave fidelity to his—principles ? no, his official
salary) doesn t mince matters about the Egyptian
and Soudan wars. “ What,” he asks. “ what have
we done in Egypt ? w e bombarded Alexandria,
and left it to burn. In less than three years we
have equipped three expeditions—two under Lord
Wolseley, and one under General Graham. We
had two abortive conferences-one at Constanti-
nople, and another at London—and measureless
diplomacy. We have despatched three special
missions-a diplomatic one under Admiral Hewitt
to Abyssinia, an administrative one under Lord
Dufferln, and a fiscal one under Lord Northbrook
to Cairo. We allowed Hicks Pasha's army to be
sent to the shambles. Wo could either have
stopped it or strengthened It; we did neither. We
sent General Gordon and Colonel Stewart alone to
bring away the Soudan garrisons, a piece of Quix-
otism worthy of medieval knight-errantry.” And
in reply to the question to what we have gained by
the loss of some of the very bravest of our sons and ,
the expenditure of some twenty millions of our
treasure at a moment when trade is paralysed and
millions of workmen are out of employment, the
answer is giyen:-“ We have struck the heaviest
Mow at British influence in the East that has been
struck for a generation. Wo have made Egypt a
weltering chaos. Wo banished Arabl, but we ha re
relnvlgorated the MahdI. We have deranged
everything, settled nothing, and have hopelessly
compromised the fortunes and the future of every
Egyptian. No body of men, either native or
foreign, has as yet been benefited by our reform-
ing schemes. We have given the world fresh
lessons In massacre, the records of which are not
wanting In the charred remains of desolate cities
and deserted villages, in the scattered skeletons of
gallant Arabs, in the maimed and suffering occu-
pants of many a desert tent, and in a demoralised
executive and despairing people." Just so. And
this is such inspiring work that Dailey and the
pious S.M. Herald insist that if Australia is ever
to show that she has nerve, energy, and principle
now Is her time to chip in, and that assent to this
determination is the test of loyalty I Pshaw I who
would not sooner repudiate such loyalty than
assent to partake in such Infamy ?
Thus a correspondent from Bundabers
(Q.), March 30:— “Dear Bulletin,— You will, no
doubt, be glad to learn that the fearless stand you
have taken upon the ridiculous action of your
Government in the matter of sending 700 of our
brave fellows to do battle with the patriots of the
Soudan, meets with any amount of sympathy in
these parts; in fact, you may fairly take credit for
having done a lot to cure the sickening mental
disease that was fast getting a strong hold upon
the more Jiogoish part of the community. Seve-
ral, perhaps many, of our journals have not been
backward in condemning in no measured terms an
action, which to the eyes of one at a distance,
seems to be the outcome of a desire to gratify the
personal vanity of one man, with its prospective
reward of a royal gimcrack and paltry title. I also
think the leaven of your bold satire will have the
much-prayed-for (by sensible people, i.e.) result of
preventing the other colonies taking up the con-
descending invitation of the Imperial Government
to send some more of our blood and sinew to fer-
tilise the desert and further pollute the air of
Egypt. One at a distance cannot help but
feel amused, and disgusted at the same time,
with the vapoury sentiments of the legisla-
tors who form the joints of your somewhat
lengthy ministerial latteral appendage, as ex-
pressed In defence of the contingent dart.
The remark that it is a small return for all that
England has done for the colonies is really delicious.
I wonder if we should be enjoying the privileges
and liberties we are at present, had we not
clutched our beloved mother by the throat, and
forced them from her I I wonder if we would
have been anything but a Crown colony and a
settlement for the convict scum of her population
at the present moment! One does not wish to ap-
pear disloyal, but it is such sentiments as found
l n t rP ur debate that tends to make a person
so makes one think a little, the same as the
naii°nAnfhv?i?i the f lorloi i? virtues of the royal
paupers by the goody-goodies causes the British
workman to inquire as to wherein the virtues con-
whether many of them really are such ei-
of probity or usefulness as to merit the
large salaries drawn out of his pocket for their
srodiy maintenance. It may be gratifying
* to kno Y tpat one of our legislators-th*
Th l3 i*9 ue , on i la nd. in Point of fa#t, Sir
Thomas M'llwraith, leader of the Onnositlnn
emphatlcany declared at TownsvllleTTe other
day that no contingent would be sent to the
Soudan from Queensland so long: as he could raise
a voice against it; and most fellows around here
reply enthusiastically hoo-bully-rayl to that re-
mark. In view of the turn things have taken f n
m d J?i R u f 8ia ,’ W is not probable our Govern-
WfirS liVm de^? ke t0^ m ° roil thls colony with
Imperial difficulties in Egypt, and it is morallv
\? aid before, that such a decision will
wh'h. the unqualified approval of a large
number of the colonists, even as N.S.W. Is surely
vnn m^r, b ri e r e £ es T skln ned to like effect-Wishing
Goodwin.” k,Iam ’ yours faitbfully ’ FR^KKli.
v as , be , fi . n a profound sensation
bv Mr d 1? M ng ii nd^ by an 9 pe 5 air speech delivered
• i Hyodman, leader or one branch of
onemofnve? 6 Ph°n Cr vi ti P Fed , erati OP. to about 50,000
unemployed who had sent a deputation to tho
mv° rrT?rP7P rn^ e °t Board and had been snubbed.
Mr. Hyndman is known to every student of soolal
reform propositions, as a writer of great force and
determination, and a man of high literary culture
S.c? that-"-If tL Pr ° fe8 ? i0n,g He toKSSdl-*
® n . c A * f «,T e P eo P|6 wanted the Govern-
ment to do anything for them they must follow
fnn c o 0 V r f 88 , whlck tpe Irish had adopted. ‘A life
for a life must be their motto. (Loud cheers )
starvation 6 the slow ProcesVof
this stato°nf w il° ?9F e responsible for
tms state of things knew that it was life for life
they would act differently, and they would Vivo
the people a different answer to that which wi.
given to them that afternoon by the Local Go-
vernment Board. It seemed to be useless for the
people to appeal to the powers that be’ but his
advice to them would be to try once more bv
peaceful means to get their grievances
and, if that failed, he should be the first to organ*
ise a secret society to secure whofo ,
c^im-Vr? n i h n d /u iled to accomplish. (Prolonged
?P ee J$ D &') Od the next occasion they would eo to
JhL Gove^ me ? t with WO,000 men behind them®
they would not go to them as supplicants, but as
(Continued on page l* )
Portrait of a Young Gentleman
who was invited to a Party because
the Children were so fond of him.
“ fond he is children! ” He did amuse them very much I
Never again I!


T
O ALL WOMEN
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WKITTY’S
Borax Soap
er" TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY
IN SOAP I
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with it;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
0T Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
6d. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
0«RieOR*> ? S
|gsgilegoFijF£j
I
e only infallible remedy for
//EFtyblfs JjebiLi jyT
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes Incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustlve derangement of the system; regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 13s., or four quantities is one for
46s.; if by coach, 3s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,1
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from Georg -street South.
AYER’S PILLS.
A large proportion of the diseases which
cause human suffering result from derange,
ment of the stomach, bowels, and liver.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused by their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt, and
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of these
Pills by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation in
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
Those Pills are compounded of vegetable
substances only, and are absolutely free from
calomel or any other injurious ingredient.
A Sufferer from Headache writes!
“Ayer’s Pills are invaluable tome, and
are my constant companion. 1 have been
a severe sufferer from Headache, and your
Pills are the only thing I could look to
for relief. One dose will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. They
are the most effective and the easiest physio
I have ever found. It is a pleasure to me to
speak in their praise, and 1 always do so
when occasion offers.
W. L. Page, of W. L. Page & Bro.’’
Franklin St., Richmond,Va., June 3,1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Pills in number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. We constantly keep them
on hand at our home, and prize them as a
pleasant, safe, and reliable family medicine.
FOR DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable.
J. T. HAYES.”
Mexia, Texas, June 17,1882.
The Rev. Francis B, Harlowe, writing
from Atlanta, Ga., says: “For some years
past I have been subject to constipation,
from which, in spite of the use of medi-
cines of various kinds, I suffered increasing
inconvenience, until some months ago I
began taking Ayer’s Pills. They have
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
have vastly improved my general health.”
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct Irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to the
Whole physical economy.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell,Mass,
Sold by all Druggists.
All experience the wonderful
beneficial effects of
YOUNG,
OLD, AND
MIDDLE-
AGED.
ilitio taint,
by its use.
Sold by all Druggists; §1, six bottles for $5.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
Ears, or any scrofulous or syph-
may be made healthy and strong
ELLIOTT BROS, and S. HOFFNUNQ & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate la Medicine and Surgery, Registered
Physician of Mew South Wales.
Office Hours : 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., 7 to 9 on Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday Evenings.
Ladles’ Waiting Room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen s, No.
11, 53 Castlereagh-street (upstairs.)
Send for Free Treatise on Vitality and Nervous
Debility, Diseases of Women. 1 ..
Illustrated Works on Deformities, Electricity
and its Application. Hernia (ruptures), Varicocele,
See., &c.
Address—Australian Medical and Surgical In-
firmary, Sydney : or B. O. HOLTERMANN, Esq.,
M.P., President, Box 130, G.P.O.
Consultation Free by mail or in person.
Deformities, Specific. Female, and Nervous
Diseases, a Specialty.
Bray <$c, Liclitner,
32 O CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
notice op removal.
BMI MD CUTLER,
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
CO
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR FROM GBORGB-STRBKT.
11HEY have ARRIVED.
. An Immense delivery
YANKEE RUBBER
BABIES.
Goes In the waistcoat poo
ktt; blows out to life size;
is washable, durable, and
unbreakable ; resembles
life, for like the real article
it coos at pleasure, and yet
screams awfully if smacked
Experienced fathers are deceived by these laugh-
ter-producing infants, and no home is really a
happy one without their presence. Price (post
free): largest, Is. 6d.; medium, Is. 3d.
Also, just in, a large assortment of Conjuring
Tricks, catalogues on application.
*
9
THE WIZARD CARDS,
changing from eights
to deuces, from black to
red, and back again at the
pleasure of the per-
former. Post free, with
full instructions, Is. 3d.
I’m a Daddy ; I’m in
Love; T he Mother-in-law;
I’m a Fardor; and Be
fore and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever issued, 5 in each set.
Price, 6d. per set, or 5 sets for 3s.; by post, 3s. 2d.
The Three Donkeys. The newest “ have ” out.
Bend for them, but keep it quiet. Price, Is.; by
post, Is. 2d.
The Sooner Dog— a wonderful little animal;
roars of laughter follow him wherever he goes.
Is. 6d.; by post, 2s. 6d.
Napoleon in Council, very rich, Is. 6d.; by post, 3s.
HORTON and CO., 401 George-street, Sydney.
Box 641, G.P.O.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
IB i nil
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRAS8ES
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&0>) &c.
BLAKE’S IMPROVED
STEAM PUMPS.
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
17 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE ABOV E,
and have in Stock and to arrive—
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING PUMP
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
BEND FOR PRICES AND ALL PARTICULARS
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FREE.
Catalogues, post free, to
g any part of Australia.
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, best, and,Cheapest in
the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments , with fun instructions for wovices,
(ajrrrn \ \ f] fj A
’ jtxt— 1C/ i ty ufjtiA-Lm , I
■■ -s'-
37-
-3v
m
cin
:• - ■ -
K
.3
1
-Os
*
SS*
op; ui pidra pun oiqBijaa isoxu
‘amid jfaa Joj op
IMPORTERS OF SUPPLIES
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, best, and,Cheapest in
the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments , with tun instructions for Novices,
iff trrm
r> a c
ujjtixird
C\
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
Gl
ole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market*
Watch and ClockmaUcr to the Victorian
Government.
T. GAUNT
Watchmaker,,
GOLDSMITH
9
JEWELLER M OPTICIAN,
297 and 299
Street,
BLEND
MARS
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY—Thin Ifl a B T END
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
Dining fulness of Dody, with PiQuancy and dellaiGy
of taste and flayour. CATTELL it CO., Sole
Agents.
■VmTASTB PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
W Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Bullet;?
IHURCHILL’8 SYRUP OF THB HYPO-
i PHOSPHITES.
THESE SYRUPS have so thoroughly obtained
the confidence of the Medical Faculty that they
are now preferred to any other preparations as
Qenernl Tonics.
The Syrup of Hypophosphites of Lime has proved
itself for many years most useful in cases of Con-
sumption and diseases of the Pulmonary Organs.
It is also most beneficial to debilitated constitu-
tions proceeding from any cause whatever, as it
contains two of the most necessary ingredients for
building up the Human Frame, namely, Phospho-
rus and Lime.
Churchill’s Syrup of the Hypophosphlte of Iron
is one of the best preparations of Iron and Phos-
phorus that has been offered to the public. As a
permanent tonic it has been found more service-
able than any other preparation of Iron, and is
especially recommended to those suffering from
the effects of a long residence in a hot climate.
Churchill’s Compound Syrup of the Hypophos-
phites contains Lime, Iron, and Soda, and as a
general Tonic has been found most useful. Deli-
cate children have derived the greatest benefit
from going through a course of this medicine,
which supplies nearly all the elements necessary
to develope in perfection the Human Frame. To
Ladies suffering from General Debility, any of
these Syrups can be taken with most beneficial re-
sults, but as almost every constitution differs, one
may give better results than the other. To be had
from all Chemists, and Wholesale from ELLIOTT
BROS., Pltt-street, Sydney.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found itat
last with the Argosy Braces at G owing Bros.
£
/C
i
W
m
£
A
A/.
'A
ft
m
GOWING BEOS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces X
Argosy Braces, 2s. Gil., 3s , 3s. 6(1., Si 4s. Gd
GGWIICG BROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, &c.
332 and 498 George-street.


F
UBNITUB1 SHOW BOOM
BRADLEY, K EWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HAT6TAND8,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley.
Newton, and Lamb.
ARBLB-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-fe«t
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
171 IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB. O’Connell-atreet.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tfle back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached: PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, aadlAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 30s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 13s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s-
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
o
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB. ,
UCA8IONAL TABLES, elegantly finished In
_' Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &o.
/"'IHlIi'FONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
CrConnell-street.
Enamelled and jewelled mIkrors, tor
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens lor Are grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Q Connell-street.
TVRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
U A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12a 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
HAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIRi
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and Inex-
penslve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80a the pair.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’ Connell-street.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
Self-adjusting hammock chair-
Patented.
ME"
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will
the occupant. It Is simple, yet Ingenious in
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, Instantly, and with but lira*
effort. It fits perfectly every part of he body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet Invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash— strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four Inches In thickness
when tc Jded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
3s. 6d. extra. .
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAM%_
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered m
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb. _
RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FlM’
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oax?
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST RE""
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, nn* 1
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black audbraflS
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lsmg
BEDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BDDING.—All descriptions at lowest rate**
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’CoO'
nell and Spring streets.
W
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 36s. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 30s: Verandah Chair*.
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BEAD
r.KT, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street. _
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very eompleti
Assortment: beat make. Ion eat prlcea.
SOCIAL
A marriage, which caused very consider-
able interest and stir in Armidale, came off on
Monday, March 30. The bridegroom WM Mr.
C. Higinbotham, of Sydney, the bride Miss Alice
Mary Richardson, eldest daughter of the Hon,
John Richardson. ’M.L.C. The Rev-Thomas John-
stone performed the marriaire ceremony in St.
Paul’s Presbyterian Church. w h ‘ ch ™ t fire ?lour
by friends and townspeople. There were four
bridesmaids, namely, Miss C.
the bride; Miss Russell, cousin of rte bride. Miss
Dempster and Miss Sybil Cox. Mn Littlejohn
olliciated as best man. The costumes of both
bride and bridesmaids were exceedingly tasteful
and pretty. The former wore a rich yet simple
dress of ivory corded silk, with deep flounces ot
eidelweiss lace: sprays of orange b ossom, and
loot? veil and wreath. The bridesmaids were
tired in cream Indian muslin, with sashes of old
gold, and trimmings of lace, their hats being
trimmed with sprays ot gold wheat. The bride
was sriven away by her father. At the conclusion
of the marriage ceremony, the of
at the house of the bride s parents, £ n d partook of
ft handsome dejeuner, at which the of bride
nnd bridegroom was drunk amid very hearty con-
gratulations and good wishes for the IVjture we -
fare of the newly-wedded pair. a 3^? P fint/rn| 8
presents were unusually numerous and beautuul,
and testified to the lady’s Popularity in Armidale.
The happy pair left the town by the * o clock
train, A largo party of young pepple Msembled
at the house of the bride s parents in the evening,
and dancing was kept up with great spirit to a
late hour.
On Easter Sunday, Herr Alpen’a new Mass
was sung at St. Patrick’s Church. Herr A1 pen has
nosed a vast amount of pretty, music, hut this
Mms soars bevond preUtnem-it is certainly his
The composer baa bestowed infinite
cue; a cuu,vie. j- i Rtril mentation, and he was cer-
talnIy U most f ortunate in obtaining the services of
SffrtSt. WHO gifted
?n'.tm5SrSSd Sir. gr.nk.llrewe^conJuc»d,
while Herr Alpeu presided at the organ.
soloists were Miss Moon, soprano; Mrs. Banks,
contralto; Mr. Brewer and Mr. Brown, tenors;
Signor Vlttorinl, bass. Amongst the orchestra
were Herr Pechotsch and Mr. Newtown, violins;
Mr. Fisher and Mr. Chaphln, second violins;
Dr. Horn, viola; HerrPateh, ’cello; Mr. Sebastian
Hodge and Mr. Stephenson, clarionettes; Mr.
Toombe, bass; besides an oboe and cornet. Both
choir and orchestra had evidently been well
drilled, for even the composer himself could find
little fault with the rendition.
v • *
At the eleventh hour the Musical Union
gave out that, owing to circumstances, they would
be unable to give Bach's “ Passion ” music at the
University on Good Friday night—which they
didn’t. It was disappointing, but we heard a whis-
per in the city that there would be a sacred concert
given in one of the circuses on that night, and the
thought struck us that likely enough when the
company were aware of the fact that the Univer-
sity concert had fallen through, they would change
their miscellaneous programme and give Bach’s
“Passion ” instead. This was balm, indeed, so we
betook ourselves to the circus tent; but when we
found that all the animals were on the free list, we
hesitated whether we would enter or not, for
these animals, however clever they may be at
jumping, standing on a tub, and allowing a man to
enter their den without eating him, don’t know
how to keep a respectful and appreciative silence
during the rendering of classical music. But we
didn’t hesitate long, for just at this moment one of
the elephants swallowed a turnip the wrong way,
or something, which caused it to cough. That was
quite enough for us. The roar of the cannon on
Sunday morning wasn’t a circumstance to it. So
we gave the sacred concert at the circus best, oven
at the risk of losing Bach’s “ Passion.”
» * •
On Monday night a few dozen people
visited the Art Society’s Exhibition at the Town
Hall. In order that the ear, as well as the eye
should be pleased, a short programme of music
was gone through, under the direction of Mr. C.
Huenerbeln. Miss Glendenning sang two songs,
and Mons. de Willimoff played a couple of violin
solos very nicely, though he was not quite happy
in his accompanist. Miss Fabien was advertised
to appear, so some disappointment was felt
when she failed to do so. There may have
been good reason for her non-appearance,
but it’s a peculiarity with some artists,
that once out of every ihree times they tail to
keep their appointments. It is hardly wise in
them, as in time people will learn to place as little
faith in their announcements as they merit. 1 rom
artists such as Noillson or Sims Reeves, of course
we might expect such 11 side,” and would be quite
content to humour them, but from those who can
bo duplicated a hundred times over, it is not
so easily tolerated.
* » *
Seldom in the district has a more brilliant
gathering been held than that at Blair Athol,
Campbelltown. on Monday evening last, on the
occasion of an evening party given by Mrs. Kidd
The metropolis and suburbs were strongly
represented by visitors: among the fair section
being a petite lady from Park Road, who was quite
chic: Petersham was vigorously represented by a
lady who fixed many of the sterner sex by ner
sallies; while Balmain sent a fair one who made
several conquests. The pride of place was keenly
contested by the local ladies, Hollylea sending two
fair daughters whose grace was noticeable; while
t he brilliancy of a Camden belle tilled her count-
less admirers with most sentimental longings.
From Baily Park came two sisters, whose graceful
dancing and lively conversation made them a
centre of adoration (which they admit they do not
object to) to the chagrin of not a few other fair
ones, one of whom at least made some remarks
that were characterised by as little fairness asshe
herself. How these angels do love one another!
The town was represented by the charming and
handsomely-dressed daughter of a loading business
man. Opinion was divided as to who was the
belle, but the honours seemed evenly apportioned
between a little lady rejoicing in a name much
like that of a piquant sauco-a name that generally
leaves those who hear it for the first H™ 9 .
state of awe-stricken helplessness—and a local lady
annellated Nancy; the third claimant being the
fair first daughter of a well-known politician. The
dresses were pretty, and in instances brilliant,
notably that of the daughter a 7 e ® tera a b t ? r „°^ R h
alderman. One of the most admired was the hos-
tess's-* handsome broche. With a splendid room,
good music, refreshments, a handsome piazza, a ° a
a pretty garden overlooking miles of hill and
valley bathed in glistening moonlight, with delici-
ous promenades helped by the aid of sentimental
surroundings, and with an occasional song, the
party was kept up till the "sma’ wee oors cam
llittin’,” and then came the last lovely waltz, the
parting at the door, and the homeward trips in the
keen morning air.
* * *
Miss Eva Mackay, the daughter of the
California “Bonanza King,” is about 33 years of
age. She is pretty and petite, and has a charming
disposition. Her hair is a soft auburn, with a
slight natural wave, and her eyes dark and bright,
with long eye-lashes; her complexion, a pale,
clear olive. Since 1874, her abode has been in
Paris, where she has taken considerable pains to
train her mind, and to study the arts. Besides
being a good linguist, she is also an accomplished
musician. Her wedding with Prince Colonna is to
be quite a private affair, thus dooming many
people to bitter disappointment. It is quite a love
match, as from the day they met in Rome a year
ago, their hearts went out to each other, and
stopped there. The trousseau of Miss Mackay has
been shown to very few persons; but for beauty
of material, elegance of design, and perfect fitness
and appropriateness to its future wearer,*it has
seldom been approached in the annals of Parisian
toilette. The wedding dress itself is noticeable
for its simplicity, no less than for its richness. It
is in heavy ivory-white satin, embroidered with
pure white silk with bands of orange blossom.
The skirt is made with a draped front and a long
train, the latter bordered with this embroidery,
and the skirt front Is finished with a fringe ot
orange blossom and buds, and is caught up at one
side with a spray of the same flowers, a cluster
of which closes the corsage at the throat. The
corsage Itself is finished down the front with an
embroidered band of orange blossom. A small
diadem wreath will confine the veil of tulle. No
jewels or lace will mar the simple richness of the
toilette. One of the Court dresses is also in white
satin. It is entirely covered with the finest point
a 1’aiguille, the underskirt and train being formed
of ample draperies of this exquisite lace, confined
with white satin ribbons. The corsage has a vest
composed of folds of the same lace. Another
Court dress is in white faille, the skirt front being
embroidered with marguerites in white silk, with
centres of silver beads. The train is bordered v 1 h
a band of the same embroidery. A t/ourc areas
in nale blue faille has the skirt front also em-
broidered In daisies, but In P al « blue chenUle. the
snr si woMom °;ss
SSoSd thTthroS' 0 The *;»« »}•
SS 0 .', ?SSSi^SrptmU'WeV'to^Tro-
duco this blossom Into
firms of the toilettes to be worn at ner
For the civil marriage there has been *£9{? t °®®ont
costume in electric grey Ottoman..with skirt front
and vest in a passementerie of the same nue. eu
riohed with beads. Another very tasteful walking
onatume is In seal-brown Ottoman, with a velvet
and foliage, in seabbrown silk. Ihe aesign is
once artistic.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
nsioTE —Social items, in order to ensure inser-
tion ter the current week, should be to hand no
later than Tuesday.]
“Maud”: Your silence is eloquence itself,
it fnllv confirms what we only suspected a
week or two back. Ah, well I although the
fear that we may never again see your wel-
come handwriting Alls us with misery, yet for
of old times, allow us to wish you
every happiness. You well deserve it...» Car-
men”: Too late; very sorry, and hope you 11
behave better next time.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Second Annual Reunion of the Capulet
Cricket Club, Protestant Hall ..... April
Owl Club’s Garden Party, Botany, to-
day (Thursday)
Is it china, glass, and earthenware, made
up into various article both for use and ornament,
you require ? If so, the best choice is obtainable
at Biay Bros., 103 and 401 George-street.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and pare,
decorators. Ball-rooms taatefully decorated wh*
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effecte sku
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 601 Hunter-street, Sydney.
BEAUTY ON THE BLOCK.
Sweet summer girl. In your wonderfuUhowinGM,
Sha «r,is i ussrcasu p-
Roumf the zephyr winds wantonly play—
Girl who helps nature by art so transcendently,
Beauteous block-maiden, ohl list to our lay.
Dear, your ensemble a model of neatness Is,
—Visible grace in each separate fold;
Dressmakers’ artifice adds to your sweetnesses,
All is perfection spectators behold.
Nothing is masculine, mannish, or b'oomery.
Archness seems o’er you her mantle to tllng,
As you trip by, with a whiff of perfumery,
Dainty, essentially feminine thing.
Piled un is hair of yours into a conical
Sort of hat-haystack—there Is so 1X1 u cVi, stra. q .
Eves of yours fill us with thoughts quite Byronlcal,
Fairly distracting as ever man saw;
Saucily scintlllant under your parasol,
Bright as a star’s ray. and pure as the moon ,
Glances bewitching 1 oh, sadly they harass all
Men who love beauty on fine afternoons.
Yes vou’re a picture: and yet-are you genuine ?
Tell us, how far do your dally thoughts reach ?
Walking the block, are you counting the men you
Maybe!you’re reckoning the Income of each?
E’en though we grant you ve a charm that s insi-
Your style of beauty has features unique,
Outlines that never were dreamt of by Phidias,
Curves, dear, that neither are classic nor utook*
Always you will, as a sight to admire, be
Circled by men (as you now are by awes).
And, it your taste in art couldn t much higher be.
There, dear, your taste much resembles your
heels; . .
Yes, and your tiny foot truly entrancing is,
Flitting in ballrooms, where thick is the press—
Poor girll— the object of half your life dancing is,
All the remainder is chatter and dress.
Pretty block-maiden, we don’t mind admitting it,
We admire beauty as much as we can;
But we want womanly worth, too, befitting it,
• Dressmakers’ dolls are no use to a man.
Words of advice to you, no doubt, a bother are,
Blame would your fine sensibilities shock;
Still, there are higher-yes, darling, you know
HigheVambittonfl than “ doing the Block,”
MISS EVA MACKAY,


BEALE & COMPANY
Sole Importers of and Agents for
THE SWEET *• HAPSBURQ ” PIANO,
THE “ HAYDN ” ORGAN,
THE "HAYDN” HARMONIUM*
T3EAIjE and COMPANY could say a great deal
about the superiority of their Musical In-
struments, but prefer to let their bind friends,
who have purchased and tried them, speak In their
praise, as witness the following few names out of
hundreds from whom flattering and voluntary
testimonials have been received
Sami. George Benson, R.A.M., Professor of the
Royal Academy of Music, London
John Radcliff (the eminent Flautist)
I Madame Pauline Rita (the Prima Donna)
Madame Charbonnet-Kellermann (the Planlste)
Mrs. Kenton (Bishop’s Court, Adelaide)
John Kelehar, Bathurst
J. A. Wlnney, T.S.C., Goulburn
Herbert Cross, Newcastle
Sami. Carter, Blnalong
R. R. Arndell, W. Maitland
Geo. T. Edwards, Wickham
R. L. Cook, Grafton
S. J. Dowell, Muswellbrook
B. Holllngheads, Tamworth
Osborn Nash, Lismore
H. Headley. Albury
Jno. D. Burke, Ironbarks
F. J. Gallagher, Yass
Jas. Holden, Balllna
and hundreds of others from all parts of the
country.
BEALE and COMPANY,
SYDNEY.
Head Office and Warehouses :
371, 373, 375, 377a PITT STREET.
Show Rooms:
386 George-street
633 George-street (Brickfield-hill)
13 Central Markets 151 Oxford-street.
Or from our Travellers In Town or Country.
Osman Digna defeated at Hasheen, re-
treats to Tamai, followed by the troops of General
Draham. Our Australian forces are displayed in
the windows and our four showrooms, and there
you will see General Dinnerset, Captains Tea and
Breakfast Service, Lieutenants Dessert and Toilet-
sets, and host of Privates known by the name of
China, Glass, and Delf. Review ground, Bray
Bros., 403 and 404 George-street.*
The best thing to give your enemy is for-
giveness; to an opponent, tolerance; to a friend,
your heart ; to a father, deference; to your
mother, conduct that will make her proud of you;
to yourself, respect; and to your children the
pretty suits sold by Summerfleld and Company,
which will make them your pride and joy. The
largest stock of Juvenile clothing in Australia, all
Imported direct from their London house, 51 and
,)3 » JLeadenhall-street. Strong school suits at 8s lid
audios 61; superfine tweeds and worsteds. 13s 6d
and 15s. 6d. All sizes in trouser suits, 31s, 25s, and
27s 6d; all wool diagonals, 27s Cd. Summerfleld
and Company, the Great Juvenile Outfitters, 335
and 337 Pltt-street, Sydney.* ’
“ BEACH’S ”
CONSULTATION
ON
ROSEHILL HANDICAP.
SOO sovs.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10s. EACH.
Address—
“BiSACH,”
Care of J. G. Deeble,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney
COMI IGNONICATERING CO., UNITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. / 7
THE oldest and leading Catering Establishment in N.S.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mam*
Municipal Council of Sydcey, the A.J.C., City Club, A c., &e- yor »
The Dining Saloons for Ladies and Gentlemen are the Finest, Cooelest, and loftiest In the oolnn*.
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar-Good Wine List.
GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p m. (after
Theatres. Select your own steak, &o., and see it grilled in the room. This is one of the acnuisiHc
or the city, and a long-felt waut. Inspection Invited. Club rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Ai.
and City Club, upstairs. C. D. TOLLENACHE, General Manager? 0
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We i hail be glad to have thit index pitted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general,]
RACING.
A J.C. (Autumn) April 6, 8,10,11
Rosehill R.C April 18
Mudgee TattersaP’s R.C April23. 21
Western Downs J.C. (Tambo, Q.) AnnuaL.May 13, It
Canterbury Park R.C May 16
Rosehill RC May 23
Wollongong T.C. (Autumn) May 25
Walkcrston (nr. Mackay ,Q.) R.C. Annual... May 25
Blackall R.C June 4, 5
Rosehill R.C June20
Walgett R.C July 8, 9
Rosehill R.C July 18
Canterbury Park R.C August 1
Rosehill RC....- August 8
Sydney Bicycle Club (Annual R M.) August 22
Canterbury Park R.C September 5
Hawkesbury (Spring) September 10 12
A.J.C. (Spring) September 19, 22, 24, 26
Rosehill R.C October 3
Canterbury Park R.C October 17
Canterbury Park R.C „ December 19
Rosehill R.O.. December 28
AQUATICS.
Woolloomooloo Bay Regatta April 18
Intercolonial 8-Oar Race .. April
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The gate for the A. J.O. Autumn meeting
brought £1720. The total receipts were £2881.
Signs of the times. The sailing season
nearly done. The Prince Alfred Yacht Club have
decided not to have any more racing this season.
Mr. John Fenn, of the Naval Brigade, has
carried off the trophy as champion rifle shot for
the year. His aggregate is 481 points-just over
60 points for each 14 shots.
Lees has put up £24 with the editor of the
Melbourne Sportsman to make a match to box
for £100 aside with Farnan. The terms are one to
win, usual glove rules, and to take place privately
in Melbourne.
G. Black who ran first in the Sir Joseph
Banks Handicap, has been disqualified The prizes
are now awarded as follows: J. W. Byrnes, first;
W. Pawley, second; C. Bellette, third; and J.
M'Donagh, fourth.
Young Jack Smith, the winner of the
M'Sully Trophy, and champion rower of Balmain,
has started a boat shed at Reid's shed, Fig Tree
Point; and as he is going in for a lot of new crafts,
should make a good thing of it.
The cyclists are getting all in order for a
great season, and any amount of work is being
cut out. The Suburban will in future parade in
white gauntlets, and the Wanderers have discarded
their caps and adopted helmets.
The Albury Gun Club announce a grand
pigeon-shooting handicap for the 16th and 17th
April, the first prize being £100. The match is
open to all comers. The principal prize on the
second day will be a trophy, value £20,
The match for £200 aside for a go-as-you-
please race for one hour, between O’Brien, of Vic-
toria, and Backhause, of Bega, was decided on
Monday, at Bega. Backhause led for eight miles,
when O’Brien went to the front and was never
collared again.
The Queensland Turf Club have issued a
very good programme for their Autumn meeting
to be held at the Eagle Farm course. The racing
will take place on Saturday and Monday, the 23rd
and 25th May respectively, half a dozen events
being on the card for each day.
The Sydney correspondent of the Thargo-
mindah Herald has found out that Clifford sold
his race with Beach. This is rather rough on both
scullers; but we must excuse this budding Sala,
for you see no man likes to lose half-a-crown right
off, without blackguarding somebody.
Jack Keating is anxious and willing to
meet Donald Dinnie in a wrestling match, three
styles, for £100 aside. When a man tries to get on
a match the Scotchman wants seven or more
styles, and that, of course, closes the affair at once.
Three styles should be enough for any man.
It hardly seems to be possible, still it is a
positive truth, that four years ago Beach had
never even ssen a wager-boat, did not know what
it was like; and yet, with a little over three years’
practice, at an age when most sporting men are
broken down, he has come, a living wonder,
straight to the front.
A wrestling match (Cumberland style),
best out of nine falls, has been arranged between
W.Hudson, champion of N.Z , and J. Thomas, tbe
best 12st. man in Australia. The 11th of April is
the date fixed, the stakes being £50 aside. As both
men are at their best in the style chosen, a grand
exhibition should result.
From a recent compilation of Sandhurst
■cyclists, we find 189 riders, disposed as follows: —
142 club members, and 47 unattached. Of this
number, 133 are amateurs, and 56 are professionals,
according to the V.C.U. definition. The return is
as yet incomplete, and it is anticipated that 200 at
least will be the final total.
At the Elsternwiok Park Races, Mel-
bourne, in the trotting race for ponies under 13
hands, All Fours, in a field of a dozen, won hands
down, ridden Jby Master Leek, only eight years of
age. Helling?, of Woolloomooloo Bay, has a
lad of a similar age who is a crack swimmer, and
can handle a sailing dingy like a top.
We are pleased to see that steps are being
taken to gi\e Messenger a gold watch for his
■care and attention to Beach. A meeting was held
at Double Bay, with the Hon. W. J. Trickett in
the chair, when it was stated that the residents of
Double Bay Intended to make the above gift to
Messenger as a souvenir of the large part he
played in the big aquatic event.
Beach has very sensibly resolved not to
pull for the championship on any otlmr course but
the Parramatta. He is the sort of man to stick to
what he says, so anyone who wants it must travel
for it, before and in the race. Some of our British
friends think that it is only on the Thames that a
championship race counts, but they will have to
find something above a fourth rate man before
the Thames is thought of outside of England.
Professor Miller and Larry Foley, having
been requested by a number of gentlemen to give
an entertainment, are making preparations for
one on a large scale, when sword play, boxing,
heavy dumb bell exercise, clubs, and wrestling
will be demonstrated by a host of good men in
each department. By-the-bye, Larry has a catch-
as-eatch-can man he is willing to back against any-
thing to be got. weight no consequence, anything,
he says, from 6st. up to half a ton.
“ White and Gold” says in the Glasgow
Herald:— “ One thing above all others Mr. John
Hammond desires, and that is that St. Gatien
should meet St Simon. I dined with him at New-
market recently, when he said: ‘ All that I want is
the match; Ido not care about the money If
♦bey want it for £10,000 they shall have it. or if they
do not care to) risk so much money I will run lor
£500, or, for the matter of that, a box of cigars.’ I a
this Mr. Hammond shows himself to be a true
sportsman, and many pretentious noblemen would
do well to imitate him.”
A big crowd assembled at Rand wick for
the A.J.C. Autumn Meeting, and were rewarded
for their trouble by some good racing. Of course
the win of Reginald from Commotion was the
event of the day. The following were the win.
ners for the different events:—Hurdle Race :
Student 1st, Garnet2ad. Autumn Stakes: Regi-
nald 1st, Commotion 2nd. Champagne Stakes :
Uralla 1st, Cardigan 2nd; A.J.C, St. Leger: Silver
King 1st, The Broker 2nd. Doncaster Handicap:
St. Lawrence 1st, Venetia 2nd. Trial Stakes:
Matchlock 1st, Manrico 2nd.
There’s life in the old boy yet. Our vener-
able friend Frank Hewett accepted 20yds. in 300
from Hardie for £25 a side, and the match came
off on Kelly's ground at Botany. Hardy could
Hardie-ly do it though, for the veteran ho ran
came in a winner by 4yds.
Bravo, bravisimo. Well done, Frank Hewitt;
A Hardie race you run, old boy, but still we knew
you'd do it.
So we laid a little fiver on the old horse for the
spin;
And as we’re always right you know, we’ve
pocketted the tin.
An exciting race was sailed on Friday
afternoon between the two well-known canvas
dingeys, Fedora and Estrella, professional crews,
but Fedora was manned by amateurs. The course
was from Blue's Point round Shark Island, round
boat off Blue's Point, round Pinchgut, and back
to Blue’s Point. The boats were despatched at 3
p.m. to an indifferent start, Estrella being to
windward. They sailed a neck-and-neck race to
Clark Island, when the Fedora assumed the lead,
which she kept to the finish, winning easily with
5min. to the good. The Fedora was handled by
Mr. C. M'Conville, and the Estrella by Mr. George
Montgomery,
“Scrooge,” in the Australian Cycling
News, thus advises youthful wheelmen: —“I
would mention to the inexperienced a few things.
Dress lightly, wear your uniform, a singlet next
the skin, a Crimean shirt, a silk handkerchief
round the neck, and a cap that will shield you
from the sun. A spare singlet, two collars, a tie,
and a tooth-brush is all the luggage you require.
Wrap these in a piece of American leather cloth
and attach to the handle bar by three stout india
rubber bands (not string). If you put a couple of
teaspoonsf ul of Fuller's earth inside your knickers
you will not be debarred the privilege of sitting
down to your meals during the tour.”
As usual, we must go from home to get
news. The ’Frisco Call says:—“By his victory
this week over Clifford in Australia Hanlan has
again assumed the championship of the world,
which Beach recently won from him. Beach for-
feited to Clifford, so that the race between the
Australian and the American sculler was for the
championship as well as the stake. Hanlan will
now row Beach, and, judging by the Jeasy way in
which he used up Clifford, who can extend Beach
any time, Australia will not regain the aquatic
championship. It has been three to one in Aus-
tralia on Hanlan against Beach before the race the
other day. The odds will now be doubled.”
W hile we are constantly commenting upon
the dearth of good steeplechase horses, it is evi-
dent that the people at home have good grounds
for raising the same outcry. For the Liverpool
Grand National-which is about the only steeple-
chase that excites any interest in England, nowa-
days—Roquefort and F/igate, the first and second
this year, occupied second and third places last.
Zoedone, too, who won the big event in 1383. had
run third the previous year, and there have been
lots of similar instances during the last decade
This proves conclusively that the number of
horses that can successfully negotiate four-and-a-
half mile of steeplechase country, is small and
select.
That Beach is a man of great self com-
mand, with a wonderful reliance in his own re-
sources is generally believed; quiet and unassum-
ing in his manner, still he values himself at his
full price, not because he is inclined to blow, but
because of his great strength both of body and
will, and he accepts his position quite as a matter
of course, feeling and saying that he is the better
man. As a proof of his belief in himself for the
late champion race, the following will prove the
perfect confidence the man possessed. Where
Beach was camped with his boat waiting for the
start, a band was playing a waltz, and he was
amusing himself by waltzing alone, so buoyant
and certain of victory was he. This is no yarn,
but a positive fact.
No little sensation has been created in
Paris by the exercises and feats of a company of
“ swordsmen” from the Vienna Fencing School,
under the direction of “ Fencemaster ” Hartl,
Professor at the Academy of Vienna. Bight lady-
fencers, two in pink, two in blue, two in white, and
two in red, took part in the affair, their dresses
reaching only to the knees, and the upper part of
their persons protected by thick padding. The
performances of the “ swordswomen ” elicited
enthusiastic applause on the part of the specta-
tors. Some charming music in the middle of the
affair allowed the fair combatants the time for a
necessary rest, after which the combat was re-
sumed, sometimes by two against two, sometimes
by the eight together, the victor being acclaimed
as the queen of the evening.
The boxing match between Chris. Dunn
and George Powell for £50 a side and the light-
weight championship, produced a more disgrace-
ful and cowardly exhibition than that that took
place at the Farnan-Jaokson affair. Only two
rounds were fought, all in favour of Powell, who
knocked Dunn all over the ring, and wound up
each time with a knock-down, the second time
being the signal lor a mob of the lowest type of
larrikins to break in the ring, tear up the stakes,
and indulge in a regular free fight. Another such
affair will probably have the effect of causing the
police to stop all glove encounters: so, for future
events, too muen care cannot be taken in the sell-
ing of tickets, as respectable persons will not care
about going to see a good bit of milling if they
fancy there is any danger of having to take a hand
in it themselves mm mittens.
“Stella” says:—“The recent decease of
Prince Paul Demidoff has revived the recollection
of a celebrated match at icarte between the de-
ceased gambler and the Khalil Bey, another re-
nowned devotee of the fickle goddess who works
such ruin among her adorers. The two adver-
saries agreed to play £2000 a game, and to continue
until one or the other should have lost a million
of francs (£40,000). They commenced play in a pri-
vate room of the Caf6 Anglais, and the Turk began
by winning right off £20,000. Luck then turned
against him, and, after playing all night, the Rus-
sian lound himself, at 9 in the morning, a winner
of £6000. They then agreed to take a little rest,
and, without quitting the caf3, they slept on sofas
until noon, when, after lunch, they resumed their
play. An hour was sacrificed to dinner, and the
game went on again all the second night, and until
half-past II the third day, when Khalil Bey rose
from the table winner of the contested million.”
Farnan having made his appearance in
Sydney, Larry Foley has made a hard at-
tempt to get on a match for some money, but
Farnan’s friends are apparently hanging back to
“ put it all on ” when he meets John L. in America.
However, as no money was to be got, Larry
offered Farnan £50 to nothing, if he would box
him for a bellyful; only one answer could be given
to that, as Farnai has always signified his personal
readiness to make a match, to the affair will
eventuate, as the social papers say of a wedding,
in 12 weeks time. The fact is Larry is blue
mouldy for want of a beating, and made up his
mind to meet Farnan on any terms, after all the
talk there has been. “ If he won’t or can t find the
‘ready,’111 fight him for love, and give him £50
to do it,” said Larry.” He reminds us of the
Irishman who said to a friend: “ Wait a bit,hero
comes Jim Quinlan. Now, if he spakes to me I’ll
thump him for bis impudence, and if he does not
spake I’ll smash him for passing me by.” The
gentle Larry was in a similar sort of a fix, he was
bound to have ago in any case.
Professor Miller is on the war path, and
has challenged Farnan and Hicken as follows:—“ I
hereby deposit £50 with the proprietors of the
Evening News and the Town and Country
Journal to box Farnan and Hicken to a finish for
£250 aside, the match to take place in Auckland,
New Zealand, four months from signing articles
of agreement, which I am now prepared to sign
under the following conditions: I meet Farnan
first, and, after one hour's rest, I meet Hicken,
the winners, Farnan and II token combined, or
myself, to take the whole of the Rate receipts after
expenses are paid. As It is a well-known fact that
1 have been suffering from a sprained wrist, and
have been under the care of Dr. Webb, of Mel-
bourne, I claim to have the privilege of wearing a
strap if I thing it necessary, which will be sub-
mitted for approval on signing articles.— William
Miller.” Farnan’s friends must be very back-
ward in coming forward if they refuse this; in
fact, it seems so hard to get on anything like a
match, that the idea of his being backed to meet
Sullivan can only be looked upon in the light of a
huge joke.
Looking over the recently-issued pro-
gramme of the Dubbo Jockey Club, we notice a
praiseworthy attempt at turf reform is being made
by requesting owners of racehorses to forward
with their entries a list of the late performances
of their tiyers. Now, with all due respect to the
Dubbo committee, we fear this is simply offering
a premium tor dishonest owners to run a bye or
(if necessary, and the prize is worth having) even
half-a-dozen byes before the time for scooping the
big pool arrives. For example, supposing a 200-
sov. prize is put up at Dubbo, the prudent owner
of a crack will knock him out of condition, and
then start him for three or four paltry prizes
about the district, for each of which he will run
a most successful last, and on this running being
made known to a strange Dandicapper, he will
naturally enough vote the horse a duffer, and let
him into a fa- handicap with something like a
“ feather.” We have had some eye-opening ex-
perience of late as to how this “ Ilst-ot-past-per-
lormance ” system has worked in the case of cer-
tain child-like and bland pedestrians, and, acting
on this, we have no hesitation in saying that the
Dubbo Jockey Club might as well try to coax a
weathercock down from its perch with a fistful of
stewed corn as attempt to handicap a horse fairly
on the strength of his owner’s list of past per-
formances. As the poet says, “ Women will
wander and men will stray,” and in like manner
some turf-tricksters may feel tempted to tell a
M'Elhoner whenever they consider the exigencies
of a case demand such a peculiar proceeding.
The sports in aid of St. Vincent’s Hospital,
held on the Agricultural Society’s Ground, was
well patronised on Monday, but in consequence of
either the programme being too long, or the day
too short, only the following were got through
with:—Youths’ race, under 18 years: Coleman 1,
Bollinger 2. Highland Fling, boys and girls under
15: W. M’Kae 1, W. Bettiner 2; Jessie M’Rae 1, M.
O’Neil 2. Throwing the shot: F. Gorman (33ft.) 1,
Hawkins (32ft.) 2. One-mile amateur bicycle races
Rolfe (scratch) 1, Fitz (12 yds) 2; no time taken.
The Union having objected to the construction of
the track, none of its member-amateurs contested
in the races. ‘‘Our Girls’” race, handicap by
weight: B. Lyons 1, Cox 2. Irish jig, adults: Hen-
nessy 1, J. M'Vey 2. .Maiden flat race, 100 yds,
adults: M'Laurin 1, Davis 2. Cutting off cock’s
head: Palmer 1. t’aicliing pig with greasy tail:
M'Mahon. Putting 581b. weight, Irish style: Bon-
son (20ft. Tin.) 1, Hawkins (20ft.) 2. Quarter of an
hour go-as-you-please; Laurence (2££ miles, 15min.)
1, Dunn 3. Highland Fling, adults: K. M'Rae 1,
H. Cameron 2. Two-miles' amateur bicycle race
handicap: Palmer (270 yds.) 1, by one wheel, Rolfe
(scratch) 2; no time taken. Potatoo race: Ander-
dorson 1. Sailors’ Hornpipe, adults: A. M'Rae 1,
M. Meredith 2. Five-miles’ champion bicycle race,
handicap: Fitz (520 yds.) 1, Rolfe (scratch) 2, Phil-
lips (500 yds.) 3; time, 16min. 55iec. Grant, who
also contested, fell, some person carelessly throw-
ing himself into the track and causing the accident.
Cricket match: First innings—Mort and Co.—48;
M'Mahon and Co., 80; second innings—Mort and
Co.—83; M'Mahon and Co., 52.
James Goater, the veteran English jockey,
experienced a little difficulty in obtaining a re-
newal of his license for theScurrent season. The
stewards of the Jockey Club summoned him to
explain the indifferent running of two of his
mounts at the last Newmarket Houghton meet-
ing, as contrasted with the good form shown, only
a fortnight later, by the same two animals when
Charlie Wood was on their backs. Of course,
everything was “ satisfactory explained ” (it
always is in these cases), and Goater got his license.
All the same for that, it has been Goater’s misfor-
tune through his lengthy career in the pigskin to
be connected with a terrible lot of Instances of
“ inexplicable form,” and to have earned for him-
self the romantic-sounding soubriquet of •' Strong-
’arm” among the more suspicious of English
backers The story Is told how, at a certain
meeting, Jlmmey was on the back of a strong
favourite for a certain race. Coming in the
straight for home, the favourite began to show
symptoms of dropping back, when a little knot of
knowing ones at the rails yelled out, “ None of
your tricks, Jimmy I” Whether this solemn ex-
hortation gave new courage to the horse, will
never be known, but anyway his rider seemed
affected by it, and landed the apparently beaten
horse an easy winner. Goater's most unpopular
exhibitions have usually been given on horses
belonging to what is called the “ French division.”
For the late Count Lagrange and Tom Jennings,
the Newmarket trainer, “Jimmy Strongarm,” has
ridden a good many disgraced hot favourites, to
the perfect satisfaction of all parties immediately
conce, ned—except the poor punters.
We are glad to notice the arrival of
Richard Mathews, a young boxer, who hailffrom
America. Mathews, who is very quiet and unas-
suming in his demeanour, has just proved himself
a good man in New Zealand, as the following
clipping from the Dunedin Star will show. The
light was under the usual Queensbery rules, and
we trust to see Mathews soon have a go at some
of our boys:—“ Undoubtedly the most genuine
public glove-flght ever held in Dunedin came off
at the Garrison Hall last evening, between R.
Mathews, an American athlete, who came to
Dunedin with Woodward’s Japanese Troupe, and
J. Pettengeil, a Wellington boxer of some repute.
The stakes were £50 a side, and the men were to
light with ordinary boxing-gloves until one or
other should give in. The proceedings commenced
at 8 o’clock with some boxing between local ama-
teurs, which served to pass away the time till the
hour fixed on for the more serious business of the
evening came round. Mathews and Pettengeil
then stepped into the ring and were received with
a round of applause. The appearance of the men
was scanned with interest, and it was seen that the
American was considerably taller and longer in
the reach than Pettengeil, but both were muscular-
looking men, and neither had much superlluous
flesh on him. After the conditions of the light bad
been read over, the men shook hands and ‘time’
was called. Both shaped cautiously at first, but
Pettengeil was quickest to assume the offensive,
and after sparring a bit for an opening he got in
and landed one or two smart blows on his op-
ponent, who one or twice was nearly falling,
owing to the slippery state of the floor. He, how-
ever, quickly recovered himself, and a capital
give-and-take round was fought out. of which it
is difficult to say who had the best. Pettengeil at
one time had Mathews at a great disadvantage,
for he fought him right up against the wall, and
when there gave him one on the nob that sent
it against the whitewash, and must have made his
ivories rattle. Pettengeil, however, then let
him get away, and before the round was over
Mathews knocked him once clean off his pins, aud
shortly after paid a heavy visit to his victualling
department. The second round was looked tor-
ward to with great interest, for although it had
been plainly seen that Mathews was the harder
hitter of the two, many thought that Pettengeil’s
science might pull him through. A few seconds I
only had, however elapsed, during which the Wei I
lington man caught it once or twice on the e .r. I
when Mathews lauded a tremendous right-hander I
just under Pettengeil’s jaw, which knocked him i
half silly, and he had to make a determined effort
before he could get on his feet again. Once up
and facing his opponent again, the latter dropped
him with a very hot one on his ear, and this settled
the business. Pettengell endeavoured two or
three times to regain his feet, but he was com-
pletely dazed, and amidst cries of * Take him
away I he rolled about the platform in a thor-
oughly helpless condition, and being unable to
come to ‘time,’ the match was awarded to
Mathews. The match was thus concluded in a
round and a half, less than five minutes being con-
sumed in actual fighting. Pettengell soon came
round after being attended to, and bore scarcely
ai W of punishment, the helpless state to
which he had been reduced being due to the
almost stunning effect of the repeated blows he
received on the side of the head. Mathews was
without a mark, and he offered to fight any other
local man right off.”
The story is told that recently there were
four men playing poker, every one of whom had
twopairs before the draw. Each drew a card and
each filled his hand, making four fulls—an ace
toll, ten full, seven full, and four full. The game
was at a comparatively small limit, and no one for
sometime suspected that anyone had a full hand,
the first man bet the limit, the next man raised
him, and he was raised in turn by the third playerf
all of them were raised by the fourth, and so on,
each going a step higher, until they had to stop to
consider matters. Every man was positive that he
held the winning hand, as the cards had run low
for some time before. The chances are that they
would have been betting yet, if the host—who, by
the way, held the winning hand—had not suggested
that they should allow it to go round once more
and then lay down their cards. When the four
players laid down the four full hands, there was a
deep and sepulchral hush. Then the man who
held the four full ra f sed his bead and murmured
with heartfelt gratitude: “Thank heaven that
wasn’t a five-pound game I”


A New Chum’s Opinion of it.
I am an Individual of cosmopolitan proclivities
and world-wide experience.
There are few things I don’t know, and it
pretty certain that any notions I am not up to are
not worth bothering about. I’ve been everywhere
seen everything, and done most things; and when
I say I was born within the subtle influences
the musical utterances of Bow Bells I explain
everything.
Yes; I’ve travelled a bit—been shipwrecked
run over, and telescoped on the railway. r v#
eaten camels’ hump and sand in the African
desert, Iguana steak on the banks of the broad
Amazon; I've been in se.veral canoe rambles
have drank absinthe in Paris and Koumiss in
tary; I've been three parts frozen up Iceland way"
and have lost 10 stone a week in theltorrid regions
of Central America.
I’m awfully cute, a match for any Yankee from
Cape Cod to Texas, and I’m capable of getting to
windward of any German or other class of Jew
in the two hemispheres. It’s a funny thing, but I
always manage to get my money in at 100 to 1, and
generally arrange to edge off for a good book on
the whole meeting.
I’ve shot lions, hunted elephants, and Ashed f t r
cod on the banks of Newfoundland. I’ve been on
a botanical expedition with a distinguished pro-
fessor (nameless for obvious reasons) to the
Himalaya Mountains, and I was cook’s mate in the
last expedition to the North Pole. I know all
about Russian politics, have a plan for the settle
ment of the Egyptian question, which I am pro
pared to part with for a consideration, and it wa*
I who gave Mr. Dailey the tip about the Soudan
Contingent.
I’m not a Freemason, They wouldn’t have me
because I knew too much, and the Grand Master
of I.O;G.F. voted me a delusion and a snare. I’m
a Buffalo and an Oddfellow—in fact, the oddest
fellow from Kamskatka to Cape Horn.
That’s not half my record—not one tittle of my
knowledge—but it may serve to show what sort of
a chap I am, what I’m made of, and my style of
doing business.
And after doing the world all round, after look-
ing at our wonderful globe from every point of
vantage and disadvantage, I fiad myself in Aus-
tralia at last, and calculate upon stopping in thi
cozy little city of Sydney for the remainder of my
innings. I flke the place, and I like the people-
they're a good sort, they do the thing proper, and
the location suits me. They’re sharp-Sydney
folk are-but I flatter myself I can pick up a crust
and provide a roof for my battered cranium in
their midst.
That’s my opinion, and, under all the circum.
stances, I think—and I don’t care who calls me
conceited—my opinion is worth having. I'm look-
ing about for a good Investment or two—a nice
little bit of land on one of the new lines of rail
way at about 5s. a foot, warranted to turn in £5 in
a twelvemonth. I heard of such a thing the other
day, but the auctioneer was too much for me; he
“ worked the oracle,” and stuck to the “ plum ”
himself. ’Cute fellow that auctioneer! He’s going
to dine with me next Sunday, and if I don’t ana-
lyze h,8 Ji dea A on land . prospecting, dub me idiot
Meanwhile, there are lots of ways in which a man
may make a pound or two, but I’m original and
like new notions—rare things they are too. ISd
just at this very time I am engaged upon the
study of something like half-a-dozen or so very
curious documents—oblong pieces of paper, about
79i[a. by 5m. they measure, and they’ve got all
sorts of figures on them, printed figures
and other things; also figures, and thingsf and
names in pencil, and a smudge here and there, and
general!? having the appearance of a peculiar
kind of document altogether. And yet in theao
little sheets of paper, my financial genius has led
me to discover one of the grandest ideas that it
ever fell to the lot of man to disclose to his fellow-
creatures'.
. The 8e precious documents, of which I am sneak-
ing. .together with various commodities, were
obtained by me, or rather by my better half—
which is all the same thing—in exchange for sundry
monies. One I received together with a verv
handsome piece of electro-plate, in exchange for a
couple of sovereigns; another came accompanied
by a cooking-stove, in lieu of a £5-note. which T
P? r t« d with; and a third had for a comp&ton onJ
of the handsomest mantles I ever saw on mv
pretty little wife’s back, and which at the time of
its advent in our family lightened my purse to the
extent of £310a. I’ve got lots of represent-
ing all sorts of goods—laces, ribbons, and other
women’s nonsense. Hats to shield my noble brow
and boots to protect and adorn my shapely feet *
I’ve been a bit of a dealer in my time, and there
is not an article going, from a shark’s tooth to a
diamond ring, that I cannot appraise to a nicety
that would chaim a pawnbroker’s assistant I’ve
had a good look at these goods and they’re tarna-
tion Prime—in fact, I consider that for every £10
“ ou/ by rnc-! should say by my better-half,
but it s all the same thing—I ve got at least £lt
worth of stuff that I am £3 in every £i0 better
than if I bad not been lucky enough to strike
ile in the Haymarket, Sydney. Yes, that’s it-
strike ” lie ” in the Haymarket Sydney, and everyl
one can do the same if they do as I do-that is. do
afl my shopping at Anthony Hordern and Sons.
And don t think, because I talk like this, I’m one
a^Y? rtisiri ? f ?ir’P ws doing a bit of a puff.
Nothing of the sort. What I’m saying is for the
benefit of my fellow-creatures in the way of good
advice. I look upon that £10 and the rest as the best
investment I ever made, and I'll tell you whv Did
you ever hear of the Post-office Savings Bank’
°t course you have, ana most of you have got
your little balances there, j ou call that a good
investment? Yes; I know you do-but this one
of mine is a better. The Post-office fellows keep
your money, and you don’t get anything for it
except a bit of a book when you put your monev
in, and when you take it out they take away the
book and give you a few coppers which they call
interest. But my investment beats that hollow.
You put £10, or whatever you please, into my
n ''5 r l> d ,o’ An ih° n y Hordern and Sons’, hands, you
get £13 or £la worth of stuff at once, which leaves
£3 or more clear profit to invest again or do what
you like with; and, if you’ve all got clear heads
like me, you can soon get your money back to
say nothing of the goods, into the bargain Now
the little bit of paper they give you I call my
scrip-” Haymarket Bonds,” if you like-and I m
prepared to argue about their value and to sav
that they are a kind of warranty (or good luck in
the future. They’re better than ” Unifled Egyp-
tians, for you get principal and interest down.
They beat mining shares, for you are sure
valu ®! there's no uncertainty about
the thing, and the water can’t swamp out
your selection. They take the shine out
of cheap suburban allotments, because thev
are not dependent for their worth on whether
a railway s coming that way. or whether some Big
Gun (official of course) is going to put up a
shanty there, and run a siding up to bis back
garden gate. not liable to “corners ’’and
‘rings,” and the hinders don’t care a snuff for all
the “ Boss Tweeds ” and “ Jay Goulds’’h^Creation
No political convulsions shake their stability - no
bogus telegrams make them go up and down’like
New Guinea bonds or Jiji debentures Thev’re
sale, sound, and true; they are what they seem to
be -, a regular good Investment, with a lumping
profit hanging to the tail of every one of tb?w,-
How to Cure Pimples and Blackheads
To beep the pores open, the oil glands and tubes
active, and thus furnish an outlet for impurities
In the perspiration and blood which cause humili-
ating blotches, blackheads, and minor skin
blemishes; to c eanse, whiten, and beautify the
skin, remove tan, freckles, sunburn, and oily
matter; to keep the hands soft, white, and free
from chaps and roughness, urevent contagious
skin and scalp diseases, and to provide an ex-
quisite skin beautifler and toilet bath and nursery
sanative, redolent with delicious llower odors and
Cuticura healing balsams, use tho Cuticura
Soap, Indorsed by physicians as higuly medicinal
and by the analytical chemists ot the State of
Massachusetts as absolutely pure. Annual sale.
1,000,000 cakes, __ ’
Hop Bitters has restored to sobriety and
health perfect wrecks from intemperance. Pe-
ruse all.
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hookings and
Co., 143, I'itt-atreet.*
Nature has assigned to the kidneys a most
important duty—viz , to strain from the blood its
Impurities, among which are the acrid principles
which produce gout and rheumatism, and the
watery fluid which causes dropsy. That widely
popular and long-established diuretic cordial,
Wolfe's Schnapps, materially promotes the
complete performance of this function, strength-
ens the urinary organs, and assists digestion. Al-
ways ask for Wolfe's Schnapps
All of us make mistakes at one time or
another, and those who assert that they never do*
are too good for this sublunary sphere, and should
be wrapped up in lavender or burned in quicklime.
Mistakes are a part of the problem of existenoe-
they cause inquiry, stimulate ingenuity, bring out
Inventive genius, and set people thinking how to
do better in the future. But they still go on ; c ne
mistake is cured, and another one crops up, the
greater part of “ poor humanity ” being engaged
in the task spoken of in the proverb about “the
pot calling the kettle smutty,” and it will be to j
the end. Lord Derby m de an awful mistake!
when he allowed Bismarck to put his filibustering
fingers on New Guinea ; and Anthony Hordern
and tons made a mistake when they built the
Palace Emporium, Haymarket, inasmuch as they
did not build it half large enough for their tre-
mendous and ever-increasing trade.*
(Continued from page 14 )
men, and they would not be put off with excuses
and evasions. They would say to their rulers,
‘ We are dying 1 of starvation: we demand work,
and, if we do not get It, by God, some of you shall
die/ ” The meeting broke up with renewed cheers
for the “social revolution.” The whole busi-
ness strikes us a very un-English. Hitherto the
Englishman has been content to be “ murdered by
starvation ” In a decent, unrepining fashion. All
right-thinking Englishmen will agree that it is
more respectable to die in a lawful and orderly
manner in a gutter, than to wildly threaten that
unless you are permitted to live you will Involve
others in the destruction that awaits you. The
organs of the well-fed classes are very indignant
with Mr. Hyndman, and there is no doubt at all
that if many Englishmen adopt his novel opinions,
dnd determined not to be starved without making
a light for it, the Habeas Corpus Act will speedily
be suspended in England, a Crimes Act borrowed
from Ireland to apply to Englishmen, and the
Democratic Press suppressed. The right to demand
a trial when Imprisoned, Freedom of Opinion, and
Liberty of the Press are onlv tolerable so long as
they are not abused. That is to say, so
long as no use is made of them that
the ruling clafses need seriously mind. But
when these articles of the popular rights-the
written and unwritten Charters—stand in the way
of crushing people who prate about the right to
exist, and threateu, if slowly murdered, to kill a
few of the most representative murderers—why
the charter must go. In the House of Commons,
Mr. Broderick (Tory), on Feb. 19, gave notice that
he would ask the Home Secretary what steps the
Government Intended to adopt with reference to
the language used by Mr. H. M. Hyndman at a
recent demonstration of the unemployed poor.
The London Figaro, blinking the point as to what
the persons who “ murder the people by the slow
Srooess of starvation,” really deserve, writes that
lr. Hyndman either means murder, or he means
nothing. If the former, the sooner he is confined
In a prison the better. That’s all right. But why
not coniine the wholesale murderers in a prison to
begin with. Then the trouble might cease without
either bloodshed or oppression.
Reynold’s Newspaper speaks out man-
fully,to (he industrial classesof England in exacGy
the ; sime spirit which has inspired of late our
own pen. The situation it describes for the work-
ing men of Eng’and is so precisely the situation
which Mr. Dailey and his abettors are striving to
reproduce here in Australia, that we shall quote
largely for the enlightenment and warning of our
own working classes. It has been obvious enough
that our Jingos are our well-to-do people.
The artisan and labouring classes are opposed to
the expedition to the Soudan almost without ex-
ception. Of the £30,000 or so subscribed to the so-
called Patriotic Fund, a remarkable proportion
has been donated by a dozen very wealthy men.
James Tyson, the Fairfaxes, the Bennetts, Mr
Halliday have together subscribed one-sixth of the
whole amount. About 30 individuals have sub-
scribed a full half of the gross total, and if the
soml-oompelled contribution of the Civil servants
were added to the sums subscribed by persons In a
position to spare a fllty-pound note without incon-
venience, probably not £2000 would have been
subscribed by the remainder of the population of
N. 8. Wales. Now, hear what the chief organ of
the British working man has to say about the
whole business:—“ A few weeks more and some
thousands of workmen will be called out in the
militia to take the place at homo of a depleted
army, leaving their wives and families to get on
as best they can upon the absurd pittance which
is ironically called militiaman’s pay.”—[Mr. Dailey
projects a Militia Bill for next session.— Ed. B.j
“ The money spent on the cursed Egyptian cam-
p ugn, commenced in order to pay plutocratic
British bondholders’ interest for the money the
Khedive spent on his French ballet-girls, would
have restarted trade again in every capital of in-
dustry through the land. But, as usual, there was
no thought of the tax-payer. British business
must stagnate, British blood be split, British gold
be poured out to try to extort from the Egyptian
people a return of the cash which their ruler-
forced by Europe on the land of the Pharoahs—
had expended on the buck-baskets of his innu-
merable harem, and the demands of the alien
pimps, panders, gamesters, and bullies with which
their courts have been commonly credited. What
is the good of telling us that Eastern morality is
one thing and Western another, and that the
harems of the East are as tolerated as the
stews of the West-end ? With that question wo
have nothing to do as a people. But it is
our outlook that we are not dragged into pay-
ing for vice, which is just what has happened.
Once the people of Egypt rose in rebellion against
the Ineffaceable wrongs inflicted upon them. The
workmen of the Nile refused to have their souls
ground out of them in order that Alexandria
should support an opera house, or the breasts of
the newest favourites of lustful rank rise and fall
under a bushel of gems. At the bidding of Bel-
gravia wo wiped Arabl Pasha out—the Cromwell,
be it remembered, of his day. Then the Mahdi
came. For the Soudan he hoped to effect the same
cure which Arab! essayed to work in Egypt—a
mitigation of the horrors under which the or-
dinary Arab, like the fellaheen, lives. Again Bel-
gravia yelled out about its precious shekels, and
at the request of Lombard-street we set to work
to smash the Mahdi, though at present the Mahdi
has come perilously near to doing the same for us.
This is the long and the short of the situation for
the working man. He has been the cat’s-paw of
the politicians. Every moment the taxes grow
heavier. Every moment the probable dangers
which surround us increase. Twice we betrayed
freedom in or near Egypt, and crushed down the
national aspirations of oppressed brethren. The
mills of God grind slowly, but they grind into
little bits. So surely as we have sown the wind,
we shall reap the whirlwind. But who will suffer?
—the rich ? No, they are far too astute. It will
be upon the backs of the poor that the blow will
fall the heaviest. . . . War, as North America
waged it, was noble. It was the act of a race of
moral giants. War, so far as the reasons go which
commenced it in Egypt, is the deed of traitors to
liberty. Political Justice would apprehend every
Egyptian bond-holder, peer or plutocrat, to-mor-
row, drill them for a fortnight, and drive them on,
at the end of a cat-o’-nlne-tails, to make the first
line of attack upon Khartoum. It is they, even
more than the Government, who virtually mur-
dered Gordon, and have made good trade and good
times impossible in England.”
The London Echo regards the war
prayers of the Archbishop of Canterbury and
other prelates with much the same sort of amaze-
ment that (he war prayer of the Primate of Aus-
tralia excited in ourselves. With respect to the
Archbishop’s composition, the Echo remarks:—
“The Archbishop directs us to pray not only for
the soldiers, but for the cause in which they are
fighting! What cause? The deliverance of Gor-
don?-He is dead. The rescue of the garrison of
Khartoum ?—What is left of it has joined the
enemy. The saving of Egypt from the Mahdi?—
He has never invaded it, nor been within hundreds
of miles of it. We remain in the Soudan for no
other purposes but to strike terror and to inflict
vengeance upon those who have defeated and
killed Gordon. Fes; we, the invaders, have the
audacity to cry aloud against the invaded, and to
beseech Him ‘ that sitteth in the throne judging to
right,’ to take our cause into His own hands; in
O'.her words, because we have done wrong we
appeal to the Almighty to become a party to our
wrong-doing.” And continues:—“ We feel some
satisfaction in the evident hesitancy of the war
prayers of the Bishops, which are in strange
contrast with the language of the Mahdi,
who has not the smallest doubt that Hea-
ven is on his side. But the hesitancy
produces somewhat curious results. Take the
Bishop of Rochester’s prayer, for instance. He
begins thus: ‘O, Almighty God, who alone canst
order the unruly wills and affections of men,’ and
then, Instead of asking that the unruly wills of
delirious journalists and war-making statesmen
shall be controlled, he asks the Deity to ‘ give
peace to that distant land where our soldiers are
contending.’ Well; but the reason why the distant
land does not enjoy peace is because we have sent
our soldiers to contend there. Does the Bishop
want peace to be gained by the driving out of the
ovtider? Not at all. What be really waotp is
peace through the complete victory of Lord Wol-
seley and the ‘ smashing of the Mahdi;’ only he is
so much of a Christian that he is ashamed to ask
for what he desires. He goes on to ask that our
soldiers may be influenced ‘to show fortitude in
danger and mercifulness in victory, and that their
heads may be covered in the day of battle.’ Yes;
but what of the people who are defending their
own wretched land ? If our soldiers are not killed
they will kill the Soudanese, and, though the
Bishop shrinks from putting it in plain words,
what he really prays for is the defeat of those
whom we call our enemies. And we are to
ask all this ‘for His sake who is the Prince of
Peace.’ The Bishop of Lichfield’s prayer is still
more curious. He says—‘ Restrain, we beseech
Thee, of Thine infinite mercy, the fiery passions
and dangerous designs of those who are fighting
against us.’ This would be very proper language
in the mouth of an Arab; but Englishmen have
much more reason to pray to be delivered from
the fiery passions and dangerous designs of the
editors of the Standard, Times, and Pall Mall
Gazette.’’ And the;3. M, Herald, Daily Tele
graph, Evening News, Melbourne Argus, &c.,
&e.—Amen. Respecting this same matter, another
London paper comments:—“The Archbishop of
Canterbury is of course, the official ‘ great medi-
cine man ’ of the Established Church, and he must
invent prayers, just as the laureate must Invent
poems, on occasion. The form in which he has
prescribed that all devout Churchmen shall in-
struct Omnipotent Wisdom about its duty in the
present crisis is comparatively harmless because
comparatively meaningless. There is a fine
rhythmic roll about it, and there is customary
insolence of ‘miserable sinners’ in dictating to
Almighty God; ’ but that is about all. It is rather
worse with some of the other episcopal com-
positions. Thus, the Bishop of Rochester bids all
in his diocese command • Almighty God,’ ‘ for His
sake Who is the Prince of Peace, Jesus Christ our
Lord,’to ‘give peace to that distant land where
our soldiers are contending.’ But it is not the
owners aad occupants of ‘that distant land,’
but its invaders, who are to be protected and. by
some sort of miracle, to have ‘ their heads covered
In the day of battle. The owners and occupants,
of course, are to be ‘ smashed ’ under divine
guidance, albeit with ‘mercifulness in victory’
Such of them as Lord Wolseley chooses or is
obliged to spare are to bo submitted to divine
schooling: ‘To the heathen who know not Thy
name, reveal Thyself as God and Father, and, in
the wisdom of Thy redeeming: love, make even
war to work for Thy Heavenly Kmgrdom.’ Bah I
Mr. Bradlaugh is not allowed to take his seat in
the House of Commons because he is called a blas-
phemer, but In the House of Lords there is
allowed and approved a contingent of lawn-decked
charlatans who make a trade of blasphemy, and
who outrage common-sense and every principle'of
honest living: by their foisting: of barbaric maxims
and doctrines unworthy of tho lowest fetishism
into what now passes for Christianity. Let no one
henceforth charge Mr. Bradlaugh and the Free-
thinkers with Atheism. The real Athiests and the
most effective apostles of Atheism are the pre-
lates, priests, and proselytes who pervert and
blaspheme the ideal of Christianity after the
fashion of |the Bishop of Rochester.” [And the
Primate of Australia— Ed. B.l
“Oh, slaughter me, somebody!” roared
Browu the tenor, as ho rushed frantically through
his lodging house. “ What’s up now—what sort of
a row do you call this in a respectable ’ouse ?” de-
mands the landlord, as Brownjran into him on the
landing. “Kill me,” shrieked Brown. “ Are you
mad? 1 ’ asked the landlord, frightened. Then
Brown glared at him and said, “ Tell me this. Did
your ever hear a saw-sharpening factory, or a pig
getting killed, or trams cars thundering under
your window when you were mad with headache,
or put your Unger In the way of a circular saw, or
swallow a cockroach, or sit on glue and have to be
cut off, or get a match head under your thumb
nail, or see your only child in the clutches of a
Nubian lion-did you ever ?” “ No,” said the land-
lord, aghast; “ what is it ?” And Brown sat down
on the bed and placed a wet towel round his head,
and groaned. And then it came out that his sing-
ing-master had told him his voice was like a rusty
horn, and that he really must leave the class or the
class would leave him. “Is that all?” said the
landlord; “sensible man ”
Two shoddy-merchants recently secured
board at a does-and-feed repository in Woolloo-
mooloo, bringing with them a carpet-bag, two
clean shirts in a parcel, and a galvanic battery.
Growing suspicious, next morning the landlord
requested them to retire and browse elsewhere.
“ But,” retorted the elder of the two, “ we are
cloth merchants; see"—opening the bag and dis-
closing some yards of a sample—“see, sir, we can
give security.” “ Security be blowed I” cried the
landlord—“ now just you clear! I’ll take no sack-
cloth for my hashes.” Then they sadly left.
The new Town Hall clock is to have a
large tenor bell to mark the hours. It was sug-
gested that, before the bell was ready, M'Elhone
should be placed In the tower to cry the time. The
suggestion was negatived on its being represented
that he might think himself in Parliament and He.
We were a good deal surpria d sometime
ago to read of the conversion of a Church of Eng-
land clergyman to Buddhism. If he had been a
layman we would not have wondered so much.
Perhaps, however, he wanted to get thin. He had
been a very zealous minister. But it often hap-
pens this way. Your exceeding zealots—Sauls of
orthodoxy—frequently turn round and kick their
old beliefs into oblivion to make way for a Faith
they had reviled all their lives till then. It would
not startle us much to bear at any time that
Zachary Barry had gone over to the Scarlet
Woman. But it would rather surprise us to hear
that the Scarlet Woman had taken up with
Zachary.
An eminent physician (it is curious, but
every paragraph about a physician must begin this
way—we wonder where the physicians are who
are not eminent? Died early, most likely, from
taking their own medicines.) says that he “ has
known many men who, from various causes, bad
become so much affected by nervousness that
when they put out their hands they shook like
aspen leaves on a windy day.” We can bear him
out in this statement. We have soen it ourselves
many a time. We have seen stalwart, bearded
men whose hands have shaken in exactly the
same way. And often they never threw more
than two threes and a five. It is a sad, a solemn
thing to think of. Brothers, let us even go and !
shake in the hat once more.
A young man stoodlooking in the window
of a phrenologist in George-street (say). Presently
he went in. “ What am I best fitted for ? ” he
said, alluding to the advertisement in the window.
The professor held out his hand for the usual fee.
After it was paid, he looked the young man fixedly
in the eye and then took a running inventory of
his bumps. “ What are you doing now ? ” he said
at last. “I am writing humourous articles for
the Town and Counthv,” replied the young man,
drawing himself up proudly. ‘‘Then I think,
young man,” replied the professor with a sad
smile, as he turned aside to brush the dust off
skull, “I think you are best fitted for a corpse.
Good day I"
PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL.
8AYCM!T.” THB NAMB AV ’ THB SINDER 18 IT YE WANT ? SURE THAT’S ME OWN
MONEY-ORDER OFFICIAL: “BUT I CAN’T GIVE YOU THE MONEY tinted vnn
TELL ME WHOM IT’S FROM.’’ MONEY UNLESS YOU
SHE (mrrenderino at descretion): "THERE, READ THE WHOLE LHTTHEH ye PiTRimTH
SPALPEEN, IP THAT’S WHAT YE WANT.” "HOLE LE1THBR, YE CURIOUS


r, — THOMPSOU,
A.J.C. GIGAE, DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON.
91 King-street.
N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
READJTHIS I
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
L®jer. capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 IDs. each,
Warranted for three years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 P/tt-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER ANu JEWELLER
Black Swan Hotel.
QREENWELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
First Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
Hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magnltlclent s.s. lllawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
(/clock.
| AAA DOMESTIC PAPER FASHIONS
JLUUU shown In our Illustrated Catalogue
Price, Threepence ; by Post, Fourpbnob.
C S A F PEL ft CO.,
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern and General Sewing-machine
Aoency,
748 GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and all fittings, &o., kept In
stock.
Visiting Cards
GENT.’S
LADIES’
WHILE YOU WAIT
50, Is. 6d. ; 100, 3s. 6d.
50, 2s. Od.; 100, 3s, Od.
Address, 6d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. 6d.; 350, 6s. 6d.; 500, 10s.; 1000, 15s.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
M. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSI ORAL HAIRDRESSERS,
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
Prom the Strand, London.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 864 and 366 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the late Mr.
Boyd’s children, by his executrix. w
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manager,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOOK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
, 111
Importers of
STEAM ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHTNERT
RAIL M^NING N CR?TSmMr^ C0N J^xT^^S?. , PLANT, AGRICULTURAL
MINING. COACH BUILDBiW
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHE ET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKS
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
a
vr 4)
PORTABLE, FIXED
and SEMI-FIXED EN-
GINES
VERTICAL and HORI-
• ZONTAL BOILERS
|fl PUMPS* aDd ° ther
iLATHES, PLANING,
SHAPING, SCREW-
M N A Vl“N d E 8 DBILU!<G
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, See.
OF" Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office
- 54 YORK STREET.
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
SYDNEY.
- 86 GRACEOHURCH STREET.
Qiticura
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup
Ilona, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly* Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Citticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and BeautilieVn, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. AJso, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of ray disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure gs a child’s. Sene} for pur sixty-four page
popk, ff Upw Cure Skip and B1qc$ pig&gseg.’*’.
Australian Consignees,
B. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the’ Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautlfier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautlfiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever, Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and Nq\v
Zealand. Cuticura, 60 cents per false boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Boa?, 26 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 ceitfpj CtmocRA Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle:
Prepared et the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.
W.
PALING
AND CO. (Limited),
DIRECT ATTENTION TO THEIR UNRIVALLED STOCK
Pianos, Organs , , etc.
Comprising over 800 Instruments, by the BEST MAKERS, English, French, American,
and German, in New and Elegant Designs, and with all the Latest Improvements.
Buyers have tfce opportunity of securing an
EXCELLENT and LASTING INSTRUMENT
AT A
VERY MODERATE PRICE,
Either for Cash or on the
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM!
EVER1 INSTRUMENT GUARANTEED.
CATALOGUED AND PRICES POST FREE.
W. H. PAUNG & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.


W. WALKER and SONS.
LONDON and SYDNEY.
— ASJ
Catalogues
m*Zi^mssntstKMS3* r 2
Catalogues
POST FREE.
W. WALKER
and SONS
are one of the
Largest
Stockholders
and
Manufacturers
|g
High-class
FURNITURE
ENGLAND.
POST FREE.
ALL STOCK
in their
‘SYDNEY
HOUSE
Supplied
DIRECT
from their
Loudon
Manufactory,
and Latest
London Styles
6 UABANTEBD
SYDNEY BRANCH:
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robe Makers.
Trousers from 21s. to 40s.
t&~ N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Co.
W, Sheabsby & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabetb-st,
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are fluff erlng from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
‘ take cheer, for
Hop Bitters will core yon.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘ weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
‘ taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘ and work.
Hop Bitters will Restore yon.
“If you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
* your avery-day duties, or a man of let-
* ters, tolling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghteu yon..
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or disal-
* pation, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, as is often the case,
Hop Bitters will relieve yon.
“ If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
‘ that your system needs cleansing, ton-
* Ing, or stimulating, without inttoxlcat-
‘ing
Hop Bitters is wliat yon need.
“ If you are old, and your blood thin
‘ and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters will give yon new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS is an elegant, heal-
‘ thy, and refreshing flavouring for sick-
* room drinks : Impure water, etc., ren-
‘ dering them harmless, and sweetening
‘ the mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for sick-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
them harmless, sweetening the mouth, and oJwtne-
Ing the stomach.
WeakNervousMeit
Whose debility, exhausted 1
powers, premature decay
and failure to perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
JHEMARSTON BOLUS.
stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Jiervons Debility and
PhysIcalDccayisnnifonnly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., 52 Castlereagh St., Sydney
9
A Bazaar & Art Union
IN connection with the Union Masonic Lodge,
of Berrima, 981 E.C., in aid of the
WIDOW AND ORPHAN FUND,
under the patronage of the District Grand Master,
John Williams, Esq., of the District Grand Lodge,
English Constitution,
£7000 Worth off Works off
Art, Pictures, &c.,
to be disposed of in Shares of £1 each on the Art
Union Principle, and to be drawn for at Moss Vale,
time and place of which will be given in public
Press, and the drawing will be under the super-
vision of th® following gentlemen, who have
kindly offered to act
John Williams, Esq.
I. 8. Ponder, Esq.
Jas. Taylor, Fsq.
W. McCourt, Esq.
1st Prize—Picture, &o., valued at
2nd—
3rd—
4th-
5th—
6th—
7th—
8th—
9th-
10th-
llth—
12th —
13 th —
14th—
From 14 to 24—10 prizes of £20 each.
100 Prizes—Pictures, valued at £3 each.
£2C00
1200
700
500
3T0
300
300
300
200
200
130
100
100
100
Tickets will be forwarded by the Secretary, on
receipt of £1.
J. S. HYAMS,
Hon. Secretary,
Moss Vale.
EAU DE COLOGNE,
4711 4711.
Established 1793.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1873; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, strength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the riite of
Europe.
The largo and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious Imitations with the genuine
number—4711 changed into 7411, 1147, 4117, &c , &c.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pitt-
street, Sydney.
To l)e had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
?nd Storekeepers, in town and country.
invaluable to dyspeptics.
Heath Bank, Sandridge.
Dear Sirfl,—I have during the last few weeks
advised several patients to try your
Tne result has been uniformly favourable. In
dyspeptic oases of long standing they will prove
invaluable.—Yours sincerely,
FRANCIS OHEETHAM, L. etL. Mid., R.C.P., Edin
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS
WATCHES I
•wjfrfly be foolish, and buy a bad watch, which
\\ is dear at any price, and gives no cud of
trouble. If you buy one of
ROTHBBHAM’8 compensation balance
and jewelled watches
from C. GRANT. you will never want another, as
they are, without doubt, the Best Watches in the
market.
Guaranteed for 5 years. Price, only £6 10s.
Sent post free to any part of the country. Special
attention given to country orders.
C. GRANTp Watchmaker,
B84 George Street, Sydney.
Established 1880.
>
npiRY BURQIB’ £3 3s. Suit?, to measure. Trousers
B from 16a. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STRBBT,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for scjfVmeaauring
forwarded to anv nart of the colony
MODINI,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a largo and varied Stock of
FIREARMS.
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of tho fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following FirmsJOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don; THOS, BLAND & SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London: W. POWELL & SON,
Birmingham: CHAS, OSBORNE & CO., London.
G. B. M. Is also AGENT for the eminent hrm of
HUSSY & CO., London.
AU Goods will be Faithfully Guarauteed at
§Og George.st., Sydney,
Where Inspection is invited.
SOLE IMPORTER OP
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 FITT STREET.
SOLF AGENT FOR THE
SMITH OHGAU.
—
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
iiiaiumuimiiiiii
uiimmiimiHiiniiiuHiimiiuui
BARGAINS! BARGAINS!! BARGAINS!!
Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
KOSS-A-LZIE, LLOTD <35 CO.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO, ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
par* Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
Ladies should secure the
CHEAP LACES AND UNDERCLOTHING AT ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.’S SALE.
4s. In the pound taken off your Bill.
Thousands of Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laces.
Remnants of Ribbons. Remnants of Ribbons. Summer Millinery. Summer Millinery.
A MAGNIFICENT STOCK ALL INCLUDED IN THE SALE.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
Umbrellas. Umbrellas. Parasols. Parasols.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.,
NEAR THE GENERAL POST OFFICE.
Carnrick’s Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk
(Composed of about equal proportions of Pure Cod Liver Oil and Condensed Milk digested).
IT affords us much pleasure to announce to the Medical Profession and the Public that we have sue
cceded in combining these nutritive substances Into a permanent, palatable, and easily assimilable
form.
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk has the following advantages over the Plain Oil and the
Emulsions now in use 1st. Plain Cod Liver Oil is unpalatable to most persons, but in combinat on
with condensed ( digested ) milk, as exhibited in this preparation, it will usually be taken by the vountrest
child with a relish. 2nd. Oils are prepared for assimilation principally in the duodenum • com eouentl v
Cod Liver Oil, when taken plain, often offends the stomach, The Oil and Milk in Peptonized Cod T iv/r
Oil and Milk are digested, and it will therefore usually agree with the most delicate stomach Srd
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk contains double the nutritive and flesh- forming principle* found in
the Emulsions of Cod Liver Oil. 4th. It is well known that the Emulsions of Cod Liver Oil usimllv
contain from 60 to 75 per cent, of water. Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk contains 53 per cenf of
best Cod Liver Oil. and in the place of water we use condensed milk, reduced in vacuo in our lahora
tory. 5th. The milk is condensed to the consistency of the Cod Liver Oil, and when combined as in
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk, it forms one of the meet pleasant and nutritious compounds thaf
can be conceived or produced. v 0 tu “ 1 '
This Preparation is acknowledged far superior to any of the Cod Liver Oil Emulsions ever
introduced, it being already digested, it may be retained on the weakest stomach.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with HYPQPHOSPHITBS OF t.tmt? A\rn
SODA. To be obtained of the Principal Chemists and Druggists in the colonies.
The Maltine Manufacturing Co., Lim., 24 aud 25 Hart-st., Bloomubury, London W.C.
Wholesale Agents in the Colonies Elliott Bros., Sydney; E. Prosser & Co.. Svdnev Fpitnn
wade, & Co., Melbourne; Rocke, Tompsitt. & Co., Melbourne; Duerdin & Sainsburv Melbni rne- r n
Fauldiug & Co., Adelaide; A. M. Bickford & Co., Adelaide; Berkley, Taylor, & Co., Brisbane
Bros. & Co.. Brisbane; New Zealand Drug Co., Brisbane. ’ “ risDane . Elliott,
Samples and Full Particulars may be obtained of
W. T. PALMER, 104 King-street, Sydney.
The Melbourne Daily Tbleoeaph, refer-
ring to the present hard times in New Zealand,
says that “ the visitation of Providence has placed
the farmer at his wits ends to livel” If thl 9
means anything, It means that Providence is an
expensive visitor. And this from a religious
journal 1 But we have noticed your religious
journals are always the most free and easy in
dealing with the Deity. Perhaps-as the Court
fools of old before the king—they are privileged
to make asses of themselves before the Almighty.
“I don’t see why they should take ’em
down,” said a visitor from the Upper Hunter,
eyeing the P.O. carvings, reflectively; “look at
M'Elhonel”
The Question.
Who’ll throw the first stone
At M‘Bihone?
8ulet pensivencss at this, we deem,
elgns Imperturbably supreme.
The village of Three is in a simmer of ex-
citement concerning the proper site for a hospi-
tal. No man wishes it “agm his door, like
Cheater’s bridges, but every one holds a deep-
rooted conviction that his land is the most advan-
geous site. The difficulty might be met by erect-
ing the hospital on the Cross Hoads loading to
Wlngham, Cundletown, Tlnonee, and Taree. Then
when the patient’s head aches, the Wlngham
medico can consider the Job in his suzerainty;
when his right arm is broken, or his left arm
splintered, the medical men from Tlnonee and
Cundletown respectively, will be entitled to the
rectification and remuneration. Finally, while
Taree could claim the care of the crural members,
all four might be expected to wrangle away the
patient’s life whenever the affliction centralizes in
the region of the pericardium. ’Tls by concessions
such as these that the revolt in Taroe may be
amicably suppressed.
The number of unexpected patriots
warmed into ephemeral existence by the Soudan
affair is only equalled by the variety of their
fervour. A percentage of this patriotism is will-
ing to make Khartoum the apex of their aspira-
tions; a trifle more halts at Backstalr Passage, but
the great bulk of it bounds its active operations
by Sydney Harbour. At the Walgett Quarter
Sessions Judge Backhouse left it to the jury to say
whether they would accept a holiday on the
memorable 3rd; as the majority of them lived
some miles out of town they decided to stick to
their sagacious smiting of stock-stealers. Only
three clamoured for the holiday, and they were
publicans, to whom the prospect of catering for a
day longer to thirsty jurymen was a temptation
that aroused their patriotism to fever heat. The
Judge assented to the wishes of the majority, and
the Court pursued the even tenor of its proceed-
ings on the day of embarkation When Mr. Dailey
reads this, he will make a mental note of Judge
Backhouse’s defective loyalty, and will probably
book bis claims on the next vacancy in the Chief
Justiceship.


Sulpholine
Lotion,
THE CURE FOR SKIN DISEAiES!
in a few days Eruptions, Pimples, Blotches entirely
fade away. Beautifully fragrant. Perfectly harm-
less Cures old-standing Skin Diseases. Astonish-
ing'’results follow. It removes every kind ol
Eruption, Spot, or Blemish, and renders the skin
clear, smooth, supple, and healthy. Sulpholine
Lotion is sold by most Chemists. Bottles, 3s 9d
each Made only by J. PEPPER and Co., London
PEPPER'S
QUININE & IRON
HE STRKNQTH. 7" ON / C
ENERGY. * ** w
GREAT BODILY STRENGTH !
GREAT NERVE STRENGTH 1
GREAT MENTAL STRENGTH I
GREAT DIGESTIVE STRENGTH follows the use
of PEPPER’S QUININE and IRON TONIC. It
promotes appetite, dispels languor, depression,
&c , Is a remedy for Neuralgia, Chest affections,
aud wasting diseases. Bottles, 33 doses. Sold by
Chemists everywhere. Insist on having Pepper’s
Made solely by J. PEPPER and Co., London.
Special'y suitable for the colonies.
3Loclr3rer’s
SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
THE BEST. THE SAFEST. THE CHEAPEST.
Restores the Colour in a few applications.
Large Bottles, Is. 6d. Made in London.
rH£
CIENCB
or
life
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL ¥0EK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses maybe
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Self Preservation. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. 300 pages, bound in beautiful French cloth,
full gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the ofiicers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should be read by the .voting for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all.— London Lancet.
Addressthe World’s Dispensary Medical As- MPSI
sociation, or Dr. W. R. Parker, No. 6s) Hunter || t A L
Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Theauthormay TIJVOCI C
be consulted on all diseases requiring | ll I UtLI
skill, secrecy, and experience.
astle# SO/I/s
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
S VD N ev:
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
r
MOULTONS
LlVEH COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON’S
FRUIT PILLS. Wo mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and nc
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promota DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
IUE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price li. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILL
Mft
I
m
/ !
TONIC NERVINE
A„ REOtHTEHKD.
SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURB for Ner-
voua and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
■toothache, Nervousness. Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, Loss of Vital Power, &c. By its tonic
ana soothing effects it at one© removes all craving
ior Alcohol, By Its richness in phosphorous and
““‘erpowertu 1 vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
« hole system. Price, 4a. 6d., or 35s. a case.
Bole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHBRS.tM.P.S.
|»knufacturing and consulting Chemists, 104 and
near Hyde Park, Sydney, and
Ciroular - < i u »y* TAKE NO SUBSTI-
COOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX, 1
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 GS-eorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
NO MORE CORNS !
CORNS AND WARTS removed without paia
bv the use of Palmer's Painless, Harmless,
and Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER.
This preparation Is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If applied accord-
ing to the directions, it will effectually remove
them in from six to eig ht days.
PALMER’S
FACUE CURA {SB*
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Local.
This most wonderful Preparation has surpassed
all others In speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
how long or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed in producing the desired re-
sults : and it can be most confidently recomme ded.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general stores: wholesale by Messrs Elliott Bros,
Sydney ; E. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton,
Grimwade, and Co., Melbourne; Kempihorne and
Prosser, Dunedin.
NEUSTADTandCO.,
COMPLETE
HOT7SE
FURNISHERS,
39. 154, 156, A 158 0XF0RD-ST\
HOUSES FURNISHED throughout
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
Either for Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
IflANHOOP RESTORED 1
A Clergyman having tried every known
remedy for the Cure of Nervous Exhaustion,
Premature Decay, &c., has at last discovered a
simple Self-Cure, which for the sake of suffering
humanity, he will send FREE the Prescription
which CURED him. Address, with self-addressed
stamped envelope—
Dr. E. A CLARKE, P O. Box 393, Sydney,
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strenghtens, and beautifies the hair; it eon
tains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ EALYDOR is a most cool-
ing, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands, and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures ; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &o.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OP TYRE pro-
duces immediately a perfect change In rod or grey
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and per-
manent brown or black, which colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 30, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bros. E
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Two'Doors from Compagnoni’s.)
THE undersigned, recognising the want of a
FIRST CLASS TAILORING ESTABLISH-
MENT, have OPENED the premises lately occu-
pied by the Bank of Australasia, at 168 PITT-
8TREET (THE WEST END HOUSE) where they
Intend to carry on a High-class and Fashionable
Trade.
The public may feel assured that we shall be
able to maintain a high standard, when we state
that our Mr. Ward has had some years’ experience
in the best houses in London, Paris, as well as in
first-class Sydney Establishments, namely, Farmer
and Co.’s and David Jones and Co.’s.
Our Mr. Wilson has had fully 30 years’ expe-
rience in the Australian trade, and has just re-
turned from England, where, he visited all the
principal Woollen Mills, including that of Hud-
dersfield, as well as West of England and Scotch
Mills, This will be a sufficient guarantee that the
tastes and requirements of the public will receive
the attention they deserve.
In conclusion, we desire to say that we hope to
obtain a fair share of patronage, in return for
which we guarantee first-class work, all hand-
made, well shrunk, perfect fit, and all in the latest
London and Paris styles.
Soliciting a trial, we remain,'
Very truly yours,
FREDERICK WILSON,
HUGH WARD,
Fashionable Tailors, Robe and Habit Makers.
West End House,
IBS Pitt-street, Sydney.
-£uTor©,la.a,EQ. , s
Fills
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy 1
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
I W 308 GEORGE STREET,
VTA. jfy*
VtLEBRtf&Z
°^9colcW^
.-S7//
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
80LB~AGBNT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGBN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE
on
APPLICATION.
tr MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN'S COFFEE
THE
lb Davis Siting Machine.
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever introduced into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, BAST TO LEARN,
BAST TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine in the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS in Town and Country.
tST" Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE tc
any part of the colony.
B. O. Holtermann & Co.,
Sole Agents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
G. F. PRIDDY & GO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7tb,
their Premises will he CLOSED on Week Bays
at 6 30 p.m.: Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
A. & C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
818 GEORGE STREET,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
EB r The most liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Intited.
-A« & C. Huenerbein,
318 GEORGE STREET.
W. H. CHARD AND GO.
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
LIBERAL ADVANCES made on WOOL n
other PRODUCE shipped to their London
Agents, Messrs. Redfern, Alexander and Co., 3
Great Winchester-street, B.C.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well«
known firm is given to all consignments.
DENTIST.
(Of America)
G UARANTEES
Med Fit ul Meatin.
PRICES MODERATE.
Corner George and Market Streets.
OVER HUNTER’S BOOT PALACE.
■A..A. A
- M. M M. M. .
QUEENSLAND OPALS
AND MOUNTED.
1
CUT
A X A A A
A A, A i.A
A A.jA^
A -A A. A
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
ESTIMATES GIVEN POH PRESENTATION PLATE.
fS
E
8
ft-
.&
%
o
o:-
(9
id
/%
<«»
3
B-
r-
*
r
X*2
CD
K
Ci
#5
s
r
i
Q
>'«
3
T^-%
-3?
&
3
V*
*
It
ft
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
3E3©liaTble
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)


EQUITY OF REDEMPTION.
By Order of the Official Assignee.
All the Official Assignee’s Right, Title, and In-
terest, if any, in the following
INSOLVENT ESTATES
FREDERICK BAUER
J. WYBONAR
A. J. KOSVITZ.
JAMES R, DICKSON & COMPANY have been
favoured with instructions by the Official
Assignee (Alexander Raff, Esq.) to sell by public
auction, at their Mart, Queen-street, on Friday,
30th January, at 11 o’clock.
All the Official Assignee’s Right, Title, and In-
terest, if any, in the Insolvent Estates of
FREDERICK BAUER
J. WYBONAR,
A. J. KOSVITCH.
Terms—Cash.
Being jabbed away in an obscure corner of the
paper, no one seemed to notice the advertisement,
and even if they had struck upon it, very few
would recognise the fact that the estate of J.
Wybonar, so carelessly alluded to, was no other
than the princely property of J. Y. Bonar, now
valued at £100,000. How the names [became so
hopelessly mixed is not explained, and the whole
affair seems to have been messed up in the most
bewildering manner that can be well imagined.
Alexander Raff has ceased for years to be the
official assignee, and young Dickson, the son of the
Colonial Treasurer, and a member of the firm of J.
R. Dickson and Co., applied to Raff for fuller in-
formation, whereupon Raff declared he knew
nothing more than the advertisement contained.
The day of sale arrived, but not one of the credi-
tors in Sonar’s Insolvent estate was aware that that
estate was being sold by auction. The result was
that a rashly speculative sort of cuss named Wil-
liam Flynn being present, remarked that he “didn’t
mind going a ‘quid,’ just to set the ball &-roll|ng,M
and as no one else seemed int erested in the pro-
perty, Mr. Flynn secured £100,000 for 20s. Even
this did not check Mr. Flynn’S wild career, for,
utterly regardless of all consequences, he went as
high as a bid of 45s. for the estate of Kosvitz, and,
by so doing, secured 33 allotments in Brisbane
suburbs, the value of the least costly of the said
allotments being reckoned at £60. Bauer’s estate
was scooped in for 20s. by the Bank of New South
Wales (Mr. Flynn having apparently repented of
his rashness), and as Rumour pays the said Rank
held a lien of £700Q over this estate, the directors
have every reason to be well satisfied with the}r
bargain. All that the people up North are hunger-
ing to know now is whether Mr. William Fiynn
was playing a lone hand, or merely acting for
others; and, if he acted for himself, who or what
put him on the scent of such a good day’s work as
the scooping up of the lands in question. If
chance alone was his guide, William is evidently
one of Fortune’s favourites, and a vacant place
will soon be found for him amongst the collective
wisdom of the polony.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jeremiah vI. 14.
•• They have healed also the hart of the daughter
of my people slightly, saying Peace, peace,
when there Is no peace.’ f
Peace I Peace 1 Yea, the peace ere the cyclones
BWGGP *
The lull of the gathering thunder;
The hush ere the earthquake awakes from sleep
When men cower in fear and wonder,
The calm of the tiger, crouching to leap,
Ere he rends his foe asunder.
What peace ? What have ye to do with peace.
Tho’ the semblance of peace 7® ar t ?.£ lowing to
Ye are sowing—men watch for the sowing
And C thereafter oometh the reaping-
Ye are sowing oppression and poverty. these
Will bring forth a harvest of weeping.
The watchmen that stand on the watch-tower d
See the first faint Hush of the morning, . .. .ii.
And the sound of the blast of their trumpets thrills
Thrsugh the land, with a note ®t warn! g,
But ye heed not the sound, nor the light that mis
The east with a glimmer of dawning.
Tn the redd’ning dawn of the coming day.
Men look In their fellows faces,
And see what they scarce yet dare to say.
But whisper low in their Places;
And the shortening shadows 'iwmdleaway,
As the light follows keen on their traces.
Boon a cry will go round the waking world—
A shout, as tho shout that shatter a
The walls of that city of old. and hurl d
To the dust her parapets batter d—
And the banner of Freedom will flaunt unfurl d,
And Truth from its folds will bo scatter d.
P.L.T.
Obsolete after “Ishmael.”
A RANCOUR OFFENCE.
TO BLADEN, B.A.A.
Bard of the. many words and few Ideas,
Why vex the public with thy vapid lays ‘
Why set thy farthing candle flame ablaze 7
Why twang thy tuneless lyre to asses, brays f
Go, send thy spavined Pegasus to grass.
If pity lurks beneath a front of brass;
Or give the hapless Jade tho knacker s rest,
With thee his lot is damnably unblest.
Insensate setter of discordant rhyme,
To hackneyed bathos or lickspittle slime,
Whose slaughtered subjects find a verbal hearse
Toward the charnel chamber of thy verse—
Whose namby-pamby similes are spread
As Chinese cess stuff on a cabbige bed,
“To force a churlish sojl ” by noxious means.
For sickly laurels as unwholesome greens,
An ear unskilled to fathom rhythmic tense
An eye proportioned to perception dense;
A judgment biassed by pedantic lore,
A private pundit and a public bore.
Such is the hissing critics chorussed dm
That fails to pierce thy elephantine skin.
Go, gaze on vacancy—thy wonted glass—
And see therein a gowned collegiate ass;
And should the semblance vanish with the wind,
’Tis still a picture of thy empty mind.
That in the dirt a prinoelet’s foot had trod
Found food for verses racy of tho clod,
A prince's tracks to glorify a theme.
Go, maunder o’er the bagnio the same,
And see thy hero’s sentiment ablaze,
Admiring Nature in another phase;
Then straightway pen another high-flown lot
About the higher consecrated spot.
Pah! travel where a chance occurs to boo,
Nor drop your slaver on tho kangaroo,
With heaving stomach at your nauseous stuff
Australia yells in anguish—“Hold, enough!”
A Remonstrance.
What means this march of armed men
Adown our peaceful city street ?
Are foreign soldiers on us, then,
Or go they Austral’s foes to meet ?
Has tyrant landed on our shore ?
Does peace not reign o’er all the land,
And commerce grow, as heretofore,
And Freedom’s temple firmly stand ?
-Alas-l they go from this fair land,
Where men, as heaven’s air, are free,
To forgo chains for a gallant band—
Who fight but for their Liberty.
t)hl countrymen, Australians, pause I
What madness has seized on your brains ?
Might is not Right; break not God’s laws;
fie not unjust for false men’s gains.
Return again, thy country cries.
She yet may need each son she bore,
And honoured will be he who dies,
Who fighting dies, on native shore.
VULCAN.
To a Fern Tree.
Type of the graceful, visual delight.
Thou art “ a thing of beauty ” robed in light,
Thy curval outline lends a master grace
To plainer lineaments of Nature’s face.
And in thy rich brown shaft the dreamer sees
A column raised by dryads of the trees,
To show the sum of form-perfeote^.-ripe,
And give to us an everlasting type,
The germal, down clad, tender, involute.
The bright green frondlets half-unfolded shoot,
The plume-Tlke, central tufts Incipient droop,
The full-expanded fronds—a matchless group—
The feathery pendants, weeping round tho stem
Ae if for grief that all must follow them.
The Rape of the Lock.
A thorough “ bush person ” was Bobby Kershaw—
He could handle the Shears and tho axe or the
saw—
•Content with his lot, and looking no higher,
Till he fell in love with the charming Marla,
A maiden who lived in the village where Bob
Often went seeking <and finding) a job.
Now, this maid from the country had been to the
city
To visit a friend, and soon became pretty
Well versed in the ways of the vot’ress of fashion
Who dwelt In the town, and cut a great dash on
'• Ten bob a week and the run of their ‘ Dover ’ ”
<That Is plenty to eat and a little bit over).
&o, ’tis no wonder Maria should learn
To spend all the money she ever did earn,
And follow the fashion along with the rest,
And look like a ladv when ladylike dressed.
Before Miss Marla returned from the town,
Determined on “ doing the thing up quite brown,”
f?he purchased some hair to add to her tresses
(Besides a large number of wonderful dresses);
And then) with some tears and a heart-breaking
sob,
Returned to the country to worry poor Bob.
?hat Bob was delighted to see Miss Maria,
need not tell, nor need you inquire;
He saw that the maiden was stylish and fair,
And exclaimed in a transport, “Just look at her
hair I”
For Bob did not know half the tresses were false,
Any more than he knew how to polka or waltz.
And she did not tell him, you safely can bet,
So Bob would rejoice in his ignorance yet
But for a mishap that happened one day,
Which actually frightened poor Robert away.
Bob and Marla were having a walk,
Spooning a little, doing a talk, . „
w hen Bob like a hero, begged then and there
That Maria would give him a look of her hair.
The lady declared, indeed, that she would not
(She might have added, indeed, that she could not;;
But Bob being desp’rate, acted unfair.
And made a rude grasp at the lady’s back hair.
This neck ruche with plastron is made of white llama lace. A foundation is re-
quired upon which to mount the lace; this is cut of stiff net, and covered with lining
silk, seven inches broad, and hollowed out for the neck at the top, and sloped to two
inches at the waist. A neck-band is attached, and the whole is surrounded with lace
and covered with lace frills. A bow of striped orange velvet ribbon covers the fasten-
ing, and another is placed at the point.
Oh! horror of horrors 1 he scarcely could stand—
The beautiful tresses came off in his hand.
Bob bolted—he thought they would send him to
prison ......
For trying to steal what, indeed, wasn’t his n—
And hid himself in the heart of the forest,
Where he was seen by a wandering tourist,
COMPENSATION.
SCENE: A CERTAIN FANCY-DRESS BALL.
ROMAN WARRIOR IN FOREGROUND: “THAT’S THE HON. FITZ-HEEHAW, JUST
OUT. HOW DO YOU LIKE HIM? I THINK HIS LEGS ARE TOO SHORT.”
DUCHESS OF DEVONSHIRE (colonial): “YES, PERHAPS; BUT JUST SEE HOW LONG 2,
HIS FEET ARE I ”
To whom Bob related the terrible shock
Caused by his ruffianly rape of the lock.
The tourist he laughed till he cried at poor Bob
Bewaillog his fate with many a sob;
Told him to “ dry up ” and not be a spooney,
As tresses as good could be purchased for money.
Bob’s mind was relieved, tho’ he saw in a minute,
That as they say “ he had put his foot in it,”
And as illatters stood, the best he could do,
Was to go away shearing down on the Barcoo.
MORAL,
My story is told, so ladtes beware
Of deceiving the Bobbies by wearing false hair,
For this falsehood alone occasioned the flaw
In the loves of Marla and Bobby Kershaw.
CAROLUS
‘ The Dawning Grey,” by the artist-poet,
Mr. J. H. Dell, from which we quoted “ The Curse
of Glenvleh” when it was Issued to subscribers,
has now been published by Messrs. Slmpkm and
Marshall at 10s. 6d. In explanation of the delay
which has taken place in the publication of this
volume, we may mention that, in consequence of
what they regarded as the revolutionary doctrines
embodied in it, the publishers demanded security
against the loss to which they might have been
subjected in the event of a successful prosecution.
“The experiences I have had in connection with
the publication of this book,” says the author,
“ would fill a volume; perhaps I may put them in
form some future day, as they would open the
eyes of the public, as well as of authors of books,
to some of the tricks of the publishing trade.”
If the following story of outrage does not
make the blood of every free-born Briton who
reads It boil, then Is the decline and fall of the
British Empire begun and zero is at hand. Pay
particular attention to this, please. Some short
time ago two merry-hearted gentlemen of Mun-
tham discovered a fund of amusement in a China-
man called Hong Tip. They tortured him with hot
water and lighted matches. But the fun did not
last long. Hong Tip died. Your inferior races
have no staying power. Well, will you believe it ?
these two gentlemen, because of tneir little exu-
berance of animal spirits, were sentenced to two
months’ imprisonment by the Draconian magig.
trates at Casterton. Think of it! Two months’
imprisonment for a venial escapade like this! If
an energetic protest is not made against such a
barbarous use of the law, it will soon be the duty
of every single-minded citizen to go out with a
stone in each pocket—one to carry the Lord’s will
to a Chinaman, the other to bear a hint of the
other world to a magistrate. What is the use of
belonging to a superior race and being able to say
Givis Romanus sum if one has no privileges. Clearly
none. We will have our privileges, or rampant
anarchy shall paw the air.
Reputation, lago; we have lost our repu-
tation. Time was, when the Flycards, Downy-
birds, and divers other wise men of this land could
set an example to the whole world in the way of
working up a profitable little bit of land specula-
tion, but to-day their comes a tale from Queens-
land which shows that by the side of the alligators
we are but babes In the way of business. Mark
the narrative. In 1807, a party by the name of
James Young Bonar sought the seclusion which
the Insolvency Court grants, and when he was
officially wound up. it was found that his real
estate consisted of 310 acres of some of the best
land about Brisbane, valued then at £4000, and
subject to a mortgage of £900 to Robert Cribb.
Owing to the customary promptitude of Court
matter, this estate was held in hand by Alexander
Roff, as former official assignee, until January last,
when the following advertisement appeared in
the Brisbane CouRiER:—
A POPULAR MINSTREL MADE HAPPY;
OR, FROM JEST TO EARNEST.
“ For seven years,” writes Mr. Horace Bent, of
the Federal Minstrels, “1 have suffered from an
acute neuralgic affection of the right knee and
rheumatic gout, which became so severe during
our season at the * Gaiety ’ in September, ’83, that
was obliged to rellnguish the active duties of rpy
profession and keep my room for a couple of days.
I had tried several strong liniments at various
times, some of which gave me partial relief. In
the course of my lecture and sketches I had fre-
quently mentioned, Jocularly, St. Jacobs Oil; but
it never occurred to me to apply it to my own ail-
ments until a friend who happened to be in my
room whilst I was complaining of intense pain re-
minded me of its claims, and sent out for a bottle
right away. I used a little of it immediately, and
found instant relief, repeating the application
again later on in the evening. From that night I
have never felt either the neuralgic affection of
the knee or the rheumatic gout return, and I
would have sent you this acknowledgment earlier
but I thought it best to thoroughly establish the
permanence of the effect; and have to subscribe
giyself a firm believer in the virtues of St. Jacobs
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.S.W.
price 2s. 6d. per bottle.
Mashers. —The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 653 George-street, Brickfield Hill.*
Mr. DbCoubcy Brownb (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 53 Castle-
reagh-strect, Sydney, «ar Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, E3T- Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
A new discovery.— Hoffman’s Eucalyptol
(tegistered) “Mixtureand Injection.” They will
positively cure all kidney diseases and disorders,
all urinary complaints and discharges, irritation,
scalding, inflammation, gravel, pains in the back,
&c. A case incurable in nine months was actually
cured in eight days with Hoffmann’s Eucalyptol
Injection (" purely vegetable ”). Hoffman’s Eu-
calyptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
nosandalwood.no balsam, or anything injurious
to the most delicate constitution of either sex.
Ask for Hoffman’s, and take no substitute.
Wholesale: E. Prouser and Co.; Elliott Bros. Re-
tail : All principal chemists and storekeepers
Price, 3s. 6d. and 3p iid.*
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 34 Pitt-8t., Sydney, N.S.W,
