

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 91.—New Series.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1885.
Price—6 d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1885.
The Land Movement in Scotland.
AMONG the distinguished visitors -who have
recently landed on the Australian shores,
one of the most noteworthy is Lord Mac-
don AM), of the Isles In view of the events
that are, at the present moment, occurring
in Skye, where his Lordship’s estates are
situated, it might he supposed that he had
considered it advisable for a time to put the
diameter of the globe betwixt him and his
tenantry; but, of course, this is not the case,
however plausible it might appear to be at
a first glance. It has been announced that
bis Lordship’s journey to the Australian
colonies has been recommended by his medi-
cal advisers, purely for the benefit of his
health, it having been found thaf he has not
yet fully recovered from an attack of fever
with which he was sejzed at Nice in the be-
ginning of last year. From this it will be
seen that Lord Macdonald’s absence from
Skye just now has nothing whatever to do
with the disturbances and agitation- that
prevail there. His interests meanwhile, it
is, moreover, to be remarked, are being as
zealously maintained by his factor and the
judicial and police forces that have been
landed on the island as if he were theie in
person to direct their operations. That
Lord Macdonald is to return to his an-
cestral halls when health has been restored
to him, and peace and quietness to his poor
cottars, has been assumed by everybody,
and the assumption is, doubtless, quite cor-
rect. No report has. ever got abroad that
he intends to settle down amongst us, and
transfer his services as a landlord from the
bleak and storm-tossed islets of Skye to the
land where, as Gordon puts it, “insatiable
Summer (frequently) oppresses sere wood-
lands and sad wildernesses, and faint flocks
and herds.” For our part, we are pleased
that his Lordship only |proposes to sojourn
in Australia for a short time, notwithstand-
ing that many of our fellow-countrymen
can always derive a dear delight from the
companionship of a lord of any kind, and
we certainly would never do anything that
would tend ;to deprive them ol this gratifi-
cation.
« * *
It is natural, however, that with Lord
Macdonald amongst us, we should turn our
attention to what is going on in the island
from which he hails, and over a large por-
tion of the inhabitants of which he exercises
the power conferred on him by the law as
landlord. As to the question of how his
ancestors and the other Highland chiefs
acquired their titles to the land they legally
owned and bequeathed, we shall only men-
tion that they obtained them by betraying
the clansmen, whose trustees they were,
taking advantage of their ignorance of the
English language and law; thereby gradu-
ally depriving them of the right they for-
merly had to the soil. The chief was legally
transformed into a landlord, and the land-
lord is now administering his estate with an
exclusive eye to his own interests, and with-
out the slightest reference whatever to the
interests or well-being, or even existence, of
the people who till his land and live upon it.
Of the miserable condition of the crofters of
Skye everybody is aware. Lord Macdonald
himself does not deny the state of abject
poverty in which they are sunk. It is not,
however, probable, we think, that he and
the rest of the landlords will have been pre-
pared to find that the marines who have
been landed to suppress the revolt of the
cottars, should have openly and practically
sympathised with their sufferings. The
news from Skye is surely very significant—
so significant, indeed, that one would sup-
pose it to be impossible to misunderstand it.
Not only are the factors finding that they
cannot obtain more than a mere fraction of
the rents from a small portionof the tenantry,
but the poor rates are being withheld as
well. A few convictions for assaults on the
police and sheriffs’ officers have been ob-
tained, and the culprits have been sentenced
to brief terms of imprisonment. The
islanders have a decided aversion to the
constable and the process-server, but they
have shown quite a respect for the marines,
and the marines have most cordially reci-
procated this good feeling. One day there
was a shooting match between a dozen
marines from H.M.8. Assistance and an
equal number of the Portree Volunteers, in
which the latter were successful. The night
after, the officers of this vessel gave a con-
cert in the Town Hall in aid of the Portree
Soup Kitchen, which proved a great success.
Instead of cursing, the marines, officers and
men, have actually set themselves to bless
and succour the poor people, and are be-
having towards them in a most brotherly
and unsoldierly fashion! This is a nice
state of affairs. No wonder, though, the
disaffection is spreading. In Lewis, the
messengers-at-arms have absolutely refused
to serve writs and interdicts, and have left
the island, it having been intimated that no
further attempts of that kind would be
made in the meantime. On the mainland
the fire is catching, and Caithness and
Sunderland will, to all appearance, shortly
be in a blaze." In these circumstances, efforts
are being made to get the Government to
intervene in an effectual manner to prevent
a serious outbreak. The Scottish Land
Restoration League has addressed a me-
morial to the Lords of the Treasury, advising
them “ to refrain from the use of all physical
force until the truth has been ascertained
by other than the usual functionaries, and to
introduce a Bill during the present session
to stop all evictions until there has been
time for the required thorough legislation
on the relations of the people generally to
the soil and their native land.” Even more
pertinent and decided were the resolutions
passed at a public meeting held in the very
Free Church Assembly Hall, Edinburgh, in
which deep regret was expressed that the
Government had been “induced to send
armed forces to Skye, instead of proceeding
to remedy acknowledged evils by a just re-
form of the oppressive land laws,” and ask-
ing that, pending legislation, a Suspensory
Act should be passed to stop further evic-
tions.
* * ♦
But the action that is being taken by the
Scottish Farmers’ Alliance furnishes a still
stronger evidence of the progress that has
been made in regard to the land question
in the northern portion of the United King-
dom. The General Committee of that
organisation, embracing delegates from
branches in every county in Scotland, met
recently to consider the report of a deputa-
tion sent to Ireland to examine the working
of the Irish Land Act, and to revise the ob-
jects and rules of the Alliance. Among the
resolutions that were adopted by this in-
fluential body, the first calls for the institu-
tion of a Land Court in each county in
Scotland, to regulate the conditions of oc-
cupancy of the soil, and to deal with the
allocation of allotments of land to working
men in town and country—a measure that
obviously would very materially restrict
the power which the landlords at present
exercise. The abolition of the game Laws,
so far as arable land is concerned; the
restriction of the areas of deer forests,
grouse moors, &c.; and the rating of all
heritable property, plantations, shoot-
ings, and fishings included, at its fair
annual value, whether let or unlet, are
among the objects towards the obtaining of
which others of these resolutions are aimed.
In order to give effect to their demands, the
Scottish Farmers’ Alliance desire, further,
to secure a national combination of all con-
cerned, to protect and advance the general
interests of agriculture in Scotland, and to
bring their influence directly to bear on
candidates for the Parliamentary represen-
tation of Scotch constituencies. That the
movement, of which the crofter disturban-
ces in the Western Islands and ’.Counties of
Scotland, and the proceedings of the large
farmers and general public at the meetings
to which we have referred, is assuming for-
midable proportions, and has a very definite
aim before it, can hardly be doubted ; and
it is plain that its success would immediately
and most materially affect the land system
now in operation in the Australian colonies
and other portions of the British Empire}
for radical changes effected there, would in-
evitably reproduce themselves here. It is,
surely, only prudent for us to keep a watch-
ful eye on the progress of doctrines relating
to the land question as radically conceived ;
or, in other words, which propose bo alter
the relations in which owners of the land
stand towards it and the rest of the commu-
nity, even although there is not yet much
evidence that these doctrines have taken
any deep root in Australian soil, unless we
except South Australia, where there is a
Land Nationalisation Society, which, both
from the number of its members, and the
able and devoted character of its action,
promises to exercise a potent influence, not
only in that colony, but throughout Aus*
tralia as well.
• • •
We are not surprised that o’ur contempo-
raries have neglected to keep their readers
informed of the doings in the old country
with regard land. It is quite possible
that they do not fully appreciate the im-
portance of the movement that is on foot,
and its bearing upon us; and it is certain
that they, or most of them, dislike it as far
as they can understand it at all. The Syd-
ney Morning Herald, for example, may
be pardoned if it considers ignorance of the
assault that is being made on the citadel of
land monopoly as bliss, and we may depend
upon it that it will hug this ignorance to it
bosom as long as it possibly can. Whether
the blindness is perverse and voluntary, or
a misfortune for which it is not responsible,
matters little; the sufferers from it will alone
be those who do not use their eyes, or have
not got their use, and those who are blind
enough to be led by the blind into the ditch.
The time has come when the people of every
colony in Australia should direct their atten-
tion to the position in which they stand
towards a land system which they adopted
from the mother country, and which is there
visibly and rapidly tending towards what
seems to be nothing short of a total collapse.
A breach of a serious character has been
made in that system already in Ireland, and
it is becoming evident that the Irish Land
Act can neither be restricted within
the confines of the Emerald Isle, nor
that the of the powers
the] landlord once possessed there, which
THE LATE MR. RETER C. CURTIS,


Thb Rates or Subscription to Thb Bullbtin
arc—Fori one year, 24a.: half-year, 12s. 6d.:
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
Thb Advertising Rates are 6a. per InchS
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
Inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per Inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows :—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive Insertions
16 per cent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
he made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1. postage stamps ef any Australian
Oolonv m«y he sent, if more convenient.
Annual Income exceeds One Wllllom
—‘frgS.
i! Llehtnlng and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9a.
Small Bottle,* , 4a. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. psr Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT
2a. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts,
At lowest possible Prions.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
Is. 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke’s Prize Medal Brand,
In stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW*,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
C. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
SYDNEY.
Was accomplished by It, I# the final result that
will ho obtained. The principles on which is
founded the land agitation that is now being
carried on so vigorously iu Great Britain,
and that Is manifestly spreading and gather-
ing momentum with unprecedented rapi-
dity, mast inevitably carry their advocates
far beyond the Irish Land Act. They, as
our readers well know, demand the aboli-
tion of private property in land, declaring
that the soil nf-a country is the indispensible
and inalienable heritage of all the living
human beings on its surface, being as neces-
sary to their existence and their welfare as
is the air they breathe.
• • »
Of the political and social effects of such a
radical change in the existing land system
as is now being advocated, we need not, at
present, speak in detail; but we may say
that the land system of a country is the
most potent factor in determining the
social organization of that country, and
the social condition in determining its
political state. With the recognition of
the rights of every man, woman, and
child to an equal share in the land of the
country in which they live, a new era in
human history will be inaugurated, and
that reform would obviously bring many
others, that now seem remote, Immediately
in Its train. Manifestly, this is not a small
thing. From whatever point of view one
regards it—whether from a moral or ma-
terial, an individual or a social point of
view—the exclusion of the land on which
and from which all men live, and which is
not a product of human labour and skill,
from the category of private property, is n
project of the greatest conceivable magni-
tude and importance, and one that is fraught
with results of even more concern to man-
kind than was the exclusion of men and
women from the category of properly, or
the abolition of chattel slavery.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Bights of It.
The railway smash has been food and life to the
dailies, and has, of course, been commented on by
the column. The upshot of all the comment is
certainty that soma one is to blame, and hope that
no one is in fault. But this is a rather paradoxioa 1
conclusion, after all. The case may roally be
stated in a few words. Either the Hood on Sunday
week was one which no forethought could antici-
pate, or It was one which, if extraordinary, need not
have been unexpected. Evidence points out that
it was the latter. Those who know Australia, who
are versed in bush lore, know also that almost
everywhere enormous floods come down at rare,
I,ut no leas certain intervals. Why. the Dar-
ling has been 40 mil os wide at [Bourke, and
out on the Paroo, where men have perished
of thirst for yoais back, there is now a sheet
of water. As to tho liability of that spot at
Cootamnndra to sudden and awful floods, there
is no difference of opinion. Railway works
to stand such strong, though sure rushes of water,
should have been expensively constructed. To
satisfy the national desire tor railway extension,
they were constructed pretty cheaply, and were
sufficient for all but abnormal times. But as it
was known that those times must come, clearly
the cheap works should have been supplemented
by a vigorous rule for extra watchfulness and
extra precaution on the first warning of Danger-
Warning was given in plenty, but until the danger
was present nothing was done beyond what might
have been done if a small shower bad been fulling.
And so the smash earae.
Mixed Marriages.
Certain elflrgymen of the Catholic Church in
Sydney have been speaking with authority on the
subject of “mixed marriages.” Summed up,
shortly, the Church discountenances mixed mar-
riages; in fact, abhors them, except where they
have to be “tolerated ”as“ an absolute necessity.”
Now, all men and women know what is meant
when marriage between two parties becomes what
is clerically and euphemistically termed “ an ab-
solute necessity.” Cases of this kind are like that
of which tho Irlsb squire pronounced, “The
sooner they’re married the better.” Of course, it
is not always that both parties, to an affair of this
kind, regard marriage as a necessary sequence.
Indeed, it is seldom tbs ease that such dual con-
cord exists. But the Church is evidently very
different, and the dictum in these matters may have
an effect scarcely calculated on by her clergy. For
we may suppose a man and weman anxious to be
married, but with the obstacle before them that
one Is a Catholic. They have no desire to antici-
pate the wedding day, but since it seems the re-
ligion of one compels such anticipation in order
that they may have a wedding day at all, what, in
human nature, are they moat likely to do ? Why
to make theiis one of those oases of absolute
necessity, which Mother Church is prepared to
tolerate. As Mr. would tay: “ This is the
shop for morals, if you like.”
Food for Babes.
The retiring; President of tho Wosloyan Con-
ference followed the usual practice of retiring
presidents, and delivered au address referring to
the work of tho year and some fore-casts. One of
the .things be congratulates the country upon Is
the excellent provision made in the school read-
ing-books for the Inculcation of what he calls the
essentlsls of religion, as against sectarian teaching.
It appears to that gentleman that to retain in our
schools a series of books drawn up by a set of old
botchers a generation ago. and which, hat ing been
abolished years ago in the adjoining colonies, on
account of their utter unsuitableness, Is a line
thing, Indeed. So It Is—for the firm which finds In
■the Incapacity of our educational rulers, a rare op-
portunity for working off to a lavish Department,
tons of the rubbish which has accumulated on
their hapds, and for w blob there Is no other market,
t'aacyhuj being committed to enormous contracts
for a scries of books that the most illiterate
teacher ia tho service could Improve upon—a
series whore the wanderings of a savage band of
bloodthirsty savages, calling themselves a chosen
people, occupy a large space, whilst the names of
Clarke or Kendall, or of the American Civil War,
or the French Revolution, or the Russo-Turkish
War, and telegraphy, and modernlship-building,
and the rise of the great colonies around, and the
resources of the neighbouring islands, are never
spoken ofl We are congratulated by the rev.
gentleman on hiving the story of the Fail, the
Mosaic account of the creation of the world—
which is now believed by nobody In the sense in
which it was believed by tho man who wrote it
and who, if he wore to come to life now, would
stare himself mad to hear the interpretation
put upon it, which the rev. gentleman himself
privately tries to think true; the story of Sam'
son and his heavy-weight lifting; the voyage of
tho intrepid Jonah, the stowaway; the burning of
Sodom, and the sudden pickling of Lot's wife;
and the massacres of whole populations grown
rich and contented by industry and comparative
purity of life; and the wonderful deeds of the most
bloodthirsty and debauched race of kings that ever
scourged humanity In the name of Jehovah— this
is the sort of stuff, to oram which into our children
as truth, the teacher himself has to play the role
of a hypocrite every day of his life. This, and a
few dogmas, on which every sect holds different
views, according to the Ingenuity of its theological
leaders, who try to make unveriflable guesses
pass for positive knowledge, are the ample
“ provision for tho great cardinal points of
our common Christianity” which we arc called
upon to accept as good for the souls cf
our children. It really upholds the demoraliz-
ing view that things which grown-up and in-
structed people class as fables are wholesome for
obildren. We lean to a different view. The time
of school is short enough to obtain useful know-
ledge, bearing on the surroundings amidst which
the boy will have to live; and to stuff antiquated
fables into his bead (which he will have to unlearn)
Instead of sound principles of morality and known
facts, Is nothing less than gross immorality. Tho
world, and Nature, and the study of soils, and sea,
and sky, and tho Indisputable principles of mo-
rality (fair play, in other words) should at once be
substituted for this barbarous system. A glance
through the reading books will convince anyone
of this, and it ia a disgrace that the morals of our
children should be corrupted merely to enrich a
bookseller, when better books may be had by the
thousand from England, or, bettor still, be written
and published here.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSSED.
A Dublin policeman has suicided on the
morning fixed for his marriage. He knew the
danger of being taken into custsdy —What will
Pastor Allen think of this, out from the report of
an English forgery, case:—“ The Judge said there
might be a difficulty on the Sunday in permitting
the jury to go to different places of worship, and
If they were not all of one religious belief, they
had better not go to any place of worship. The
foreman of the jury said he believed there would
be no difficulty, as they would all rather go for a
drive than go to church. (A laugh).” We don’t
think it a laughing matter at all The anti-vac-
cination movement has attained colossal propor-
tions in England, and the subject Is being made a
tost question at Parliamentary elections Euro-
pean engineers are constructing for the Chinese
Government tortressea on the newest model ail
along the Russian frontier, for a distance of 200
miles. The Mongolian authorities, it is under-
stood, contemplate raiding the Muscovite hen-
roosts....The Skye crofters have taken possession
of several large sheep farms which were stolen
from their common land, and wniob had been
their heritage from time immemorial. In several
oases they have removed the fences erected on the
now farms, and have driven their own sheep aud
cattle to teed on the disputed properties
Most people have read Hugh Conway’s book
“ Called Hack.” Well, In ’Frisco, they synopsis'.'
the play founded on It after this fashion:—" Act I.
My God I He is blind.—Act 11. My God I She la
madl— Act III. My GodI She is sane.—Act IV
My God 1 He is dead.”,,., A Parisian newspaper,
the Satire de L Guest, being sued for libel, M.
Launay, a member ot the staff of the incriminated
journal, cried out to the magis rates; “ You are a
pack of scoundrels I” Launay was immediately
brought to the bar of the Court, and after a brief
Inquiry condemned to two years’ imprisonment.
... The great drawback of wood pavements is the
liability of horses to slip in damp weather. The
difficulty is got over in America hr using “ frost
cogs” (picas of steel with a chlsel-llko end screwed
into the outside of the shoe, which has a worm-
hole tored into it when being forged.) These cogs
cost about 10s. a gross, plus 3s. for a pair of pliers
to screw them in with, and which can be carried in
the pocket of the driver—The Mayor of a French
town has justjdlvided the local theatre lnt» three
parts. So far as the fair sex are concerned, part
one is for married ladies; part two for ladies who
are not married, but who are faithful to their pro
teotors—to the heroines of what the French cad
les faux manage s; and part three is for the ladies
who, to put it politely, are not so sedate as they
might be. How the worthy mayor intends the
ladies to be sorted when they come to the pay-box
we are not informed. Tho staff in front of tho house
will have to consist of gentlemen who know every-
body’s business quite as well as their own. In pro-
vincial towns such person are easy enough to find.
...The Times has at last taken up the question of
new dialling for our watches and clicks. Prom
midnight to 1 will henceforth be 0 so many
minutes, so that half-past midnight will bo 0.30.
For thi* and other reasons it will probably be
nicknamed the noughty hour....Out of six wills
made by wealthy persons in England, wbos • per-
sonality amounted in the aggregate to £1,150,388
lls. 4d, the amount left to charities was nil
The baron of beef which graced the Queen’s side-
board on Christmas Day was out from a prime
Devon steer bred and fed by the Queen at the
Prince Consort's Shaw Farm, Windsor. The joint
weighed upwards of 300 b , and was roasted at the
Cftstjs and forwarded to Osborne.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“Wm. Sinclair ” (Young): You surprise u s 1
You doubt If 40 0C0 French troops could maroh on
Pekin, or, rather, could get out of it, having one©
marched there, and instance Moscow, to illustrate
your argument. But a much fewer number of
Anglo-French soldiers occupied it only 30 years
ago, and got away without any mishap. To com-
pare the Muscovites who defended the passage of
the Borodino with the “ Chlnkies,” who never wait
for a cavalry charge, Is, to us, whimsical in the
extreme. The fact is, W. S., ever since Hortense’s
son sat on a dung-hill ( vide Victor Hugo) outside
Sedan to wait for Bismarck, many, who think like
you, fancy the French nation is played-out and
her soldiers second-rate. As a matter of fact—dis-
cipline, weapons, and leaders being equal—It Is
doubtful if any soldiers in Europe could stand
against the Gauls We can give you our reasons
for thinking so, if you wish....“Sac.”; You are
severe. We shall devote a special article to you
one of these days. In the meantime, we may tell
you in confidence that wo dislike the larrikin.
Our gorge rises at his bestial face, his eccentric
hat, loud ti •, skimpy coat, outri pants, and won-
drous boots. Our dinner would agree with us
better if we heard that he and all his belongings
were buried deop in some lone Pacific depression
never sounded by the plummet of tho Challenger,
So far we are with you. It isn’t regard for his
howls that prompts us to hide away the morn-
ing paper detailing his experiences at the triangles.
But—The subject requires more space! ban we can
afford just now... “J.S.” (Summer Hill); The
verses are knock-kneed in rhyme and rhythm: -
* Then, looking round the room he saw
A mate of his in days of yore.”
Now, you know. “J.S.” to rhyme saw with
yore is too daring a step to ask us to take
all at once. It may look simple enough, but a
deputation of lumpers would soon wait on us to see
what the—well, In fact, wnat we meant — “Wat
Tiler’’: Under const leratlon...“ T.O.”: Received.
....”G.M‘C.”: Inadmissible in its present shape,
but we intend altering the setting wuile preserving
the facts “J. W. Brand”: Very flue. Drop In,
It-you should happeu to come our way—"Silas
Snell”: We’ve not yet published anything of
your’s, Silas. “ Because it’s slip-slop ?” Far
from it. It’s Just because some of tne matter
is so good, and most ot the spelling so ter-
rible. When we see racy, grammatical, well-
rounded sentences, combined with spelling that
John Davies or a one-armed Kanaka would repu-
diate, we get our backs up. Explain... “Miggles”:
Wo are serious this time at any rate, and so you
can depend on what we say. We get van-loads of
poetry, the very opening lines of which prove the
stove to be its proper resting-place. Yours is not
in that class. It is crude and gawky enough in all
sincerity, hut every now and then there’s a hopeful
sparkle. Nil desperandum.. u F. A. C.”: Received...
“F.A. Cain.”: You can probably obtain from any
bookseller a copy of the “Declaration of American
Independence.” If unsuccessful, write to the
American Consul, Sydney....“C. B.”: What you
Say about the bootmakers’ strike may be quite
correct (we believe it Is), but, believe us, it doesn’t
touch the root of the matter—doesn't come near
it. The Melbourne bootmakers’ strike is but
an insignificant symptom of the great struggle
which, in a few years, will make all other struggles
appear mean in comparison. Hundreds of thou-
sands of men say they have a perfect right to eat,
drink, live, and dress well, while doing nothing.
Hundreds of millions say they have no such right
—that if they can’t or won’t work thdy should
starve. This is the case in a filbert—“ Hotels for
Guildford.” We give it up. And, mind you, don’t
run these things into us again. Let’s see, now,
bow the thing stands. There's a township called
Guildford. Good. Loveridge and Ga.’zard wanted
to open “pubs.” there. Better. They would
Invest money, and a lot of people wanted
the “pubs.” started. Loverldge’s application
was refused because the “ population did
not warrant it,” Gazzard's, because the plana
of her house were incorrect. To the latter,
the advice was given to have her plans (she
is a poor, lone widow) altered; but what the
[No strong language in this Journal.— Ed. B.]—
they’re to be changed for when a license won't be
granted at all, is what knocks us. There must be
something behind all this. There are limits to the
vagaries of even a rural J P “Jupiter ”: So far
as we can make out, there appear some fair
stanzas In your “yarn,” but the writing is so de-
plorable that half the words have to be guessed.
The late Mr. Peter Campbell Curti[?].
To a severe illness, which lasted for some weeks,
Mr. P. C. Curtis, chief Clerk in Equity, succumbed,
on the 14th ultimo, at his residence, Pyrmont-
bridge Road, Forest Lodge. Mr. Curtis was a
native cf this city, having been born on the 33od
January, 1836, and was one of several sons of the
late Mr. James Curtis, himself a much-esteemel
identity of Sydney. He was a great devotee to
music, and was a hard-working member of tho
committee that organized the University Musical
Festival—a brilliant success—on the occasion of
the opening of that building. In 1857, Mr. Curtis
reeeived an appointment In the Equity office of
the Supreme Court, where he soon rose to the
position of chief clerk, which he retained till his
death, having, during that time, also, for a season,
fulfilled the duties of acting-commissioner in In-
solvency ; and in his offlclaUduties throughout, he
earned the esteem, not only of the legal profes
sion, but also of all with whom he came in contact.
Every cricketer and athlete will remember the
old Albert cricket ground (now built over). The
fact that Mr. Curtis was, up to its being closed, the
energetic and enthusiastic secretary—using every
endeavour to encourage the growth of cricket and
athletics generally—Is now a matter of record. His
interest In the visits of the English Elevens was
also well-known, and is fondly remembered by all
cricketers and the cricketing community, while on
several occasions, he received substantial recogni-
tion for his services in that direction. The Albert
Cricket Club, too, have good reason to regret the
demise of one who had, as their secretary, long
and ar Juously worked in their behalf. Mr. Curtis
leave* a widow and four children.
Some time ago the plant of the Namoi
Independent was seized at Qunnedah on the
allegation taat the paper was not registered. In
View of this very unusual proceeding, it may be as
well to state a few tacts. In November last, Mr.
J. A. Treacher states that he registered before Mr.
Corbett Lawson, Police Magistrate, as sole proprie-
tor, sureties entered Into recognizances, certain
fees were paid, and the transaction was looked on
as complete. It was found out, however, by an
ex-emp!oyd, who had been discharged, that papers
had not been filed as they should have been at the
Prothonotary s Office. Upon his Information the
plant was seized. The proprietor considers that
having duly registered, it la peculiarly hard lines
that he should suffer because there Is some hitch
in the Government routine of dealing with the
documents.
Do we sleep? Do we dream ? Is this the
enlightened 19th century, or are we living way
back in the old medficval days, ful ly satisfied that
tho earth is as Hat as the proverbial pancake or an
Echo leader, and that the sun, and moun, and
stars are so many Chinese lanterns, as it were,
hung up by a celestial lighting company for our
special use and benefit ? We’re dreadfully mixed,
that’s a fact; and the cause of our trouble is the
perusal of an article headed “The Divining Rod, *
which appears in a mummified rag called the
Adelaide Catholic Monthly. First of all, this
choice piece of drivel tells us that the subject of
the divining rod has been discussed fromalworldly
standpoint by the public Press, but Catholics
should be guided in their judgment solely by the
Monthly. Then follows a choice chunk of that
sapient judgment, which says: “The divining rod
comes under the head of divination, which is a
vioe or sin contrary to the First Commandment of
God. Divination is, according to theologians.
* tho inquiry after bidden things by the aid of tbo
devil.’ To seek, therefore, the knowledge of
hidden things by the aid of the devil, is to attri-
bute to him a prerogative which belongs to God,
and consequently Is to put him so far in the place
of God.” That’s a prime piece of reasoning to put
before any man outside of a lunatic asylum, ia
It not? With the venerable theological Kip
Van Winkle who runs the Monthly the devil
is evidently a keen old Christy Minstrel sort of
party, who hides his cloven hoofs In Wellington
boots, and ties his tail round his waist, and goes
tramping through the land doing a bit of hanky-
panky business whenever he gets a chance, and
raking In souls and besting God at every possible
opportunity After a heap of Bible quotations—
and, by the way, your devil is also a grest adept at
that—the Monthly Mummy grips the question:
“ Is the use of the divining rod lawful ?fair and
square, aud then knocks it clean over the ropes by
declaring, “It is certainly not lawful, but to be
condemned as often as the rod is moved or not
moved at the mere will or intention of him who
holds it in his hand, or when it is not moved in the
presence of another thing not sought, though It is
ot the same nature. For there is no proportion
between a natural thing and the Intention or will
of man. Hence they would sin grievously who
would use the divining rod to find out a thief or to
discover the boundary stone of a farm, &o.” To
our unregenerate mind that reasoning seems as
clear as mud. The more we think of it, the more
we don’t know, and so we hurry along to our
Monthly Confessor's second clause which says:
“ It is not condemned certainly or absolutely when
the divining rod is used to discover water or
metals, it the rod is moved over these things in
every case, whether they are s mght or not sought,
provided a protestation is made against the opera-
tion or influence of the devil, which influence
might be present, and provided every supersti-
tious feeling is excluded.” By the same reasoning
every digger who sinks for gold should first draw
up a written statement protesting avainst any
clandestine aid being given by the devil; and
furthermore, If the said digger should unearth a
half-hundred weight nugget ny the “operation or
influence of the devil,” ho is in duty bound, under
penalty of life in hell, the first five centuries
in irons, to throw the nugget back into his
claim, and then dart off and get a first-class ab-
gdutlon from any Catholic sky-pilot about the
district; after which he must s ly a gross of Pater
Nosters every day and forward a twelve months*
subscription to tho devil-thumpers who run the
Monthly. But the devil ot It is that no one out-
side the Monthly office can tell for certain
whether a nugget, or any ether equally desirable
bonanza, comes from God or from the devil. No
trade mark is ever set upon it, and neither party
advertises in the daily papers. Only the other day
our next-door neighbour died and his widow made
us a present of a feather-legged yellow horse that
he used to ride to town on. In this we Immediately
recognised the hand of Providence, and at once
borrowed a saddle and bridle and prepared to witch
the world with our wond’rous horsemanship. Two
hours later, when the hospital saw-bones had dug
the bula of the mud out of our oars, glued on tho
top of our hoad, and nailed up our hips, wo con-
cluded that the Influence of the devil and all his
boss assistants had been at work on that wretched
widow when she donated her defunct husband's
dodgasted jackass; and so it is with every other
calamity that lands upon us. If the Adelaide
Monthly really wishes to benefit the people, it
ought to put up the signs by which we may know
the finger of Providence from the arrow-tipped
tail of the beggar that runs the hot-house op-
posite.


Woma n Items
Mary Van Vandt, the American singer in
Paris, poses a little as a hoyden, but is thoroughly
well-bthaved, and Is admitted into the best French
society. Her cheek-bones are high; her forehead,
brows, and eyes show intensity of character and
intellect, and her mouth is simply perfect. The
hair is auburn, and has narrowly escaped being
sandy. She abhors the stage, and sings only
because she wants money. Bhe is not luxurious
in tastes or habits, and her dream of happiness is
'* the tranquil life of an American or English
home.”
The looking-glass, one of the choicest
pieces of artillery in woman’s arsenal, was loudly
denounced by Clemens Alexandrians. The old
lather asserts that every woman who looks in the
glass violates a divine commandment, for she
makes an image of herself for idolatrous pur-
poses. But the Egyptain mistakes the matter
widely if b° supposes It is the woman who is the
idolater. Take it at the very worst, woman com-
mits no idolatry herself, she does not worship her
own reflected loveliness—she only gives oppor-
tunity for others to do so; she Is but the occasion
ot Idolatry to others, but does not herself share in
the sin.
This is what happened to a New Zealand
member of Parliament during the late season.
Meeting a youthful New Zealand beauty in the
lobby one night, on her way from the ladies’ gal-
lery, he thus addressed her; “ Madam, may I offer
you this handful of flowers?” holding out a nice
bouquet he carried in his fist. “ I beg to move as
an amendment that you omit all the words after
hand,” said the young lady. “Agreed,” cried the
blushing M.P., and the motion was carried on the
voices. Then this happy brace of politicians re-
solved themselves Into a committee ot two, with
power to add to the number, to consider ways and
means, and to grant supplies.
In the matter of walking-hoots the purists
lead the van. Nothing could be simpler nor more
absolutely unadorned than the foot covering par
excellence ot to-day. No fancy work, embroidery,
stitching, beading, or even irrelevant fancy but-
tons, are visible. The boot is ornamented only in
its quality, which is of kid, the finest and softest.
The toe portion is roomy, yet shapely. The heel,
with not a suggestion of the “ French bend
about it, is yet graceful; and the sole of the foot
is broad enough to allow the girl of the period to
“set down her foot” emphatically without a
wince, or to promenade without having to stop at
every other shop-window, apparently to admire
the display within the glass-bound cases, but in
reality to give a rest to the pinched and rebellious
foot.
The caprices of fashion are manifold, and
the reasons for them past finding out. The last
edict, which, according to a Parisian journal, had
its origin in England, is the banishment of the
time-honoured stocking from the feminine ward-
robe. In future, a lady’s delicate extremities are
to be clad only in double-soled boots. Modesty, of
course, would forbid slippers or the fascinating
Oxford-ties under this regulation, so we will hope
boots with fleecy linings are to be the only wear.
Those who have made the subject a study, pro-
nounce stockings to bo not only useless, but highly
injurious from a sanitary point of view. We live
in an age of reform and revolution, and between
“health congresses,” hygienic regulations, and
other improvements, the garments of our grand-
mothers will soon vanish from sight.
During the first appearance of Henry
Irving as Louis XIV. in Boston, a young lady
found herself seated next to a party of three
intensely typical Boston girls, who observed the
development of the play with that reserved,
serene, and critical aspect for which their class is
noted. The lady was more enthusiastic than they,
and at various points which the actor made was
not chary of applause. At last, when a particu-
larly strong situation had been met with and
mastered, sue exclaimed, s otto voce: “Ah, he Is
indeed great I ” The three young women who sat
beside her immediately put up their eye-glasses
and looked at her in a quiet, but superior way.
and the nearest of the party, in a calm and very
distinct voice, said: "Pardon me, but I have not
yet experienced any thrill.” Afterwards, in relat-
ing this incident, the lady said: “ I had in my dress
at the time a long shawl-pin, and I was awfully
tempted to Jab it into the cold creature's arm to
see if she would feel any ‘ thrill ’ at that,”
The late Jules Noriac thus amusingly spoke
of gloves as indicators:—” The other day I had the
good luck to find myself in a railway carriage op-
posite a charming young woman, with a well-bred,
vivacious manner, who, for a short time, was a
complete enigma to me. Who could she be ? Not
one of the unper ten thousand —her gloves were
too fresh. Women of that class do not wait until
stepping Into the carriage to draw their gloves on.
They finish their toilet before leaving home, so
that, spotless as the gloves are, they have ah eady
creased themselves into outlines of their well-
shaped hands. Not a woman of the middle-class—
the gloves were also too fresh for that. Middle-
class women invariably set aside gloves in which
to travel, gloves neither very old nor very new—
gloves that have been once to church, and once to
pay visits in. Could she be ; but most certainly
no. There was not a trace of anything equivocal
about her; those gloves had never taken a prom-
enade in the Bois, nor a tour around the Lao. I
went on puzzling my poor brains, trying to guess,
and I could not guess.” She must have been
another Daisy Mill er.
Mrs. Leigh Hunt Wallace discusses
women’s dress in the London Queen, and makes
the male sex responsible for feminine follies which
offend alike against the laws of health and the
canons of beauty. Women, she argues, only de-
form and disfigure themsdves because men like to
see them so disfigured. The impression Is wide-
spread, no doubt, but it may well be doubted
whether it has any foundation whatever in fact.
If the male and female population were separately
Soiled on such questions as tight lacing or high-
eeled boots, it is more than probable that the
vote cast by the men against such absurdities
would be heavier than that recorded by the women.
Besides, do women really think only of the opi-
nion of men when they attire themselves ? They
think of what looks nice, no doubt, as they ought
to do, and often, alas I cherish very erroneous
ideas on the subject. But what approves itself to
theii-own judgment they adopt, in the face of all
criticism, whether male or female, and often with
a quite heroic defiance of comfort, of reason, and
of taste. [Womem dress for women, not for men
—that’s our experience.—Ed, B ]
The styles in kid gloves are not remark-
able for any striking departure from the reigning
modes. The lengths remain the same. Certainly
it were impossible to get them longer, unless tbe
shoulders are to be “kidded.” The mousquetaire
still reigns, and has as yet encountered no formid-
able rival. Nothing is more attractive than a
pretty arm, and a woman who is so possessed must
be pardoned if she dresses it in the most faultless
fashion. Now that long flnger-nai's have gone
out of style, the expenditure for gloves will Le
less than when the wedge-Jike nails were cultiva-
ted. For ordinary use eight-button lengths are in
demand, but for evening wear, the number of
buttons is limited by the length of the lady’s arm.
Women make a mistake in buying a tight ». love-
first, because there is little economy, less comfort,
and no beauty in a glove that squeezes tbe hand
and pinches the wrist. Tbe symmetry of tbe arm
and wrist is lost, and, besides, graceful action of
the hand is impossible. The glove that fits so
tightly as to make every button a valley, and the
spaces between undulations of flesh, is a hardship
on the taste of the wearer. Bernhardt gloves are
largely used for travelling, as they keep every par-
ticle of dust from the hands and wrists, and can be
removed at the end of the journey in full confi-
dence that the hands will be in good order, which
cannot be said of any other glove. 8u6de or un-
dressed kid gloves are very popular, and exten-
sively worn by a large class of very fastidious
persons.
There never were handsomer or more
costly opera cloaks manufactured than are now
exhibited in popular first-class bouses. Some of
these garments oost as high as six hundred dollars,
which is a fabulous sum for an outside opera cloak
worn only in the carriage and from thence to the
corridors of the opera house. One of these high
novelties is a long cloak with a Newmarket front
and dolman back, with hollow plaits caught at tbe
back and fastened with an iridescent passementerie
ornament. The cloak is brocaded ottoman, the
ground being of a bluish white tinge, the surface
two-thirds covered with large shaded roses, and
interspersed with fine ferns. Tbe cloak is very
long, reaching nearly to the bottom of the dress,
and is bordered on the bottom with marabout
down shaded to match the brocading on the ma-
terial. The cane-umbrella has been patented. It
is a handsome cane, but touch a spring and a lot of
ribs and sticks come forth, over woich can be
quickly and easily placed a cover which is carried
within the hollow of the stick, and there you have
an umbrella. The Boston Beacon has a story that
a young man in that city offended a young lady by
sending her as a present one of those elegant little
oases containing a nail-polisher, scissors, cosmetics,
and other Implements and materials for making
the hands beautiful. The lady looked upon the
gift as an insinuation that her nails needed clean-
ing, and indignantly returned it. The gentleman
then sent the case to another lady, who kept it,
but sent him in acknowledgement a cake of soap.
Boston is certainly original in its exchange of
courtesies.
Mrs. John Jacob Astor is the best-known
collector of laces in America. When the boxes
containing these wonderful fabrics were opened at
the recent New York loan exhibit there wore ex-
clamations of rapture on every side. Mrs. Astor
is probably the best judge of lace in America. She
knows every stitch la the fabric of every eountry,
and can tell at a glance the date, the point, and the
value of anything in the line of lace. The trades-
man who happens, in his travels in foreign lands,
upon something wonderfully rare and beautiful in
antique lace, may be confident of a purchaser in
Mrs. Astor; but let him beware of attempting to
palm off a reproduction or second-rate bit of old
point on this most critical judge. He will regret
the day he darkened the threshold of this Ameri-
can lady, who is the possessor of jewels and laces
In value exceeding those of many royal dames.
Indeed, In Mrs. Astor’s collection of laces there are
two or three flounces and lengths of lace formerly
the property of sovereigns—among them a beau-
tiful flounce belonging once to Napoleon’s spouse,
Marie Louise, an exquisite and gossamer-like
fabric with the symbolic “ Bee” wrought in Its
meshes along with the Imperial arms of Franca.
Mrs. Hugh Jewett, the wife of the railroad king,
is another lace collector. Her taste runs more to
the old Irish and Italian laces, and she numbers
some exquisite flounces of old Irish point among
her treasures. There is at present in New York
seeking a purchaser a marvellous thing in the way
of point d’Alen9on, an entire dress of exceeding
fineness, which must have cost years of patient
labour. It has wonderfully wrought flowers and
fern-leaves, which form the graceful garlands of
the design. Mrs. Langtry is quite a connoisseur in
.'ace, and wears some rare old flounces on some of
her stage dresses. She was much amused on being
told by a critical observer from a private box that
the garniture on a certain gown should bo cleansed,
as it was so yellow. Every lady knows that the
lovely yellow of old lace is one of its great beau-
ties, and the owner of a lovely creamy flounce
would as soon think of putting it through thn
mangle as of whitening it by one degree.
• • •
The Louisville (Kentucky) girls are sur-
prised at Mary Anderson's success, as at school,
they say, she was neither bright nor pretty, and
was awkward and ill dressed. She has bravely re-
covered from all that now, apparently, and they
may as well admit it—The best Cashmere long
shawls sever cost less than one hundred and thirty
pounds in the Punjab — A Paris fashion Is to have
bonnets perfumed once a fortnight. They are left
at the perfumer’s, who scents the artificial flowers
with which th-y are ornamented by putting into
each a crop of the oil of the blossom it represents.
— Though gloves for gentlemen have come in
again, gentlemen are chary of wearing them. Only
a few year* ago all gentlemen wore gloves to the
theatre. Now very few of them do, and
many not even when in full dress Tho
most beautiful of the European royal women
Is said to be Queen Olga, of Greece. She is tall,
and of perfect shape, with exquisite fe«t and
hands, limpid and large dark eyes, and long curl-
ing lashes, very long dark hair, and a complexion
delicate as a (lower petal. She Is almost as fine an
equestrienne as the Empress of Austria. Her hus-
band adores her... “ I wonder what Mrs. S was
doing this afternoon,” said a gossipy wife to her
husband.” “ I saw her get outof her carriage hur-
riedly, and go to the door of B ank and Blank.
Then she stepped back and spoke to the coachman,
who drove in great haste round the corner, but
returned almost immediately, and Mrs. 8 re-
entered the carriage, and altogether it was a very
curious proceeding. 1 can't imagine what she was
doing.” “Possibly,” suggested the husband, "she
was attending to her own business."
Dickens was great on dawgs. And who is
there that has read “ Copperfleld,” and does not
remember the Important part played by the child-
wife Dora’s little spaniel Jip In the pages of that
wonderfully romantic diary kept by that (esthetic,
soulful girl, Miss Julia Mills ? What a terrible day
that Friday was, tor Instance, when the record ran
—“ Day of incident. Man appears in kitchen, with
blue bag, ‘ for lady’s boots left out to heel.’ Cook
replies, ‘ No such orders.’ Man argues point.
Cook withdraws to Inquire, leaving man alone
with J. On cook’s return, man still argues point,
but ultimately goes. J. missing. D. distracted.
Inlormation sent to police. Man to be identified
by broad nose, and legs like balustrades of bridge.
Towards evening, strange boy calls. Brought into
parlour. Broad nose, but no balustrades. Bays he
wants a pound, and knows a dog. Pound being pro-
duced by D., takes cook to little house, where J.
alone tied up to leg of table. Joy of D., who
dances round J. while he eats his supper. Em-
boldened by this happy change, mention D. C.
upstairs. D. weeps atresh, ones piteously, * Oh,
don’t, don’t, don’t I It is so wicked to think of
anything but poor papa I ’—embraces J. and sobs
herself to sleep. [Must not D. C. confine himself
to the broad pinions of time? J. M.”] Why we
thir k of Dora, D. C„ J. M., and Jlp to-day is simply
because we have tumbled over an ad. la the Mel-
bourne Argus which seems to point to the fact
that the man with the broad nose and leg’s like
balustrades of a bridge is on the warpath against
the tribe of Jip still, lor the ad. in question reads
as follows “ Lost, black-and-tan toy Terrier,
scarlet coat, si a ears, bad cough. Return Dr.
Balls-Headly, 186 Collins street east. £1 reward.”
Blit ears, bad cough, and £1 reward ! Associations
thus awkward, as J. M. would say, open flood-
gates of sorrow in heart, and we wonder to our-
selves if a measley little asthmatical dingo is only
worth 20i., what amount would be paltry enough
to offer for the safe return of a Christian child.
“ How came that coat sleeve with such a
big hole in it?” indignantly asked a mother of her
ten-year-old bov. “Well, ma," he replied, ‘the
fact is I laughed in my sleeve till I busted it.’ But
the mother determined It should never happen
again, purchasing in the future the celebrated
“ wear-resisting" suits of Summerfleld and Co.,
the Groat Juvenile Outfitters, 235 and 237, Pltt-
stroet, Sydney. Largest stock of boys' clothing in
Australia. Knicker Suits, sizes 000 to 6, incur new
Sultan and Greenwich Styles, at 8s. ltd. to 10a. 6d.,
very extra value. Strong Trouser Suits, for young
gentlemen from nine years to 16, at 21s. and 25s.;
special lines in pure wool worsteds at 27s. 6d. and
30s. Eton suits in great variety, from 43s., our
own make.*
THE KOOKABURRA.
A sombre reflection (reflected by one of
the ancients): I’m afraid we’ll have to make up our
minds to discharge our daughters if we expect to
keep our coachman.
. Puok. ’86. 6d. (post 7d.) The Illustrations are in-
imitable. Comic letterpress excellent. Only a few
copies unsold. All booksellers. Alex. M’Klnley
and Co., Sydney.
Henry Irving says that the Americans eat
with more intelligence than any other people on
earth. He probably means when they have the
honour of eating with him.
, and feeble mothers with frail
children will both become strong by the use of
Hop Bitters. Bead.
An eminent physician declares that “the
practice of shaving shortens the span of human
life by several years.” Tne doctor is in error. It
isn t the shaving ; it is the barber.
Our opinion.—For the cure of Rheuma-
tism and kindred affections we are satisfied that
t 2 e^A8^ l ?£ dl , ciae or treatment equal to the use
ef BRISTOL S 8AKSAPARILLA and PILLS.
A Deadwood (Dakota) husband published
fhls notice ;—“ My wife Sarah has shot my ranche.
When I dldn t Doo a thing Too hur an’ I want it
Qistinotiy Understood that any man That takes hur
in an’ keeis for hur On my account will get him-
self pumped so Pull of lead that some tenderfoot
will locate him fur a Mineral olame, A word To
the wise issulflplent an’ orter wbrk on fools.”
Family wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hockinqs and
Co., 143, Htt-street.*
Several school girls were discussing their
future vocations. One of them was going to be an
artist, another a poetes-, &c., &c. “And what are
you going to bo" one of them asked a little girl,
who had not Said anything. “ t’ve made up my
mind that I’ll be a rich widow when 1 grow up,”
was tbe demure reply.
If the home, be It a cottage or manor, has
been designed with the Architect’s boat skill and
executed with faithfulness by the Builder, it will
be incomplete and unattractive until the Delf—as
many call it —Is found In its place—kitchen, dining,
drawing, or bed-room. China, Glass, and Earthen-
ware ia displayed in great variety at Brays, 402 and
404 Georgeslreet.*
“Experience maybe a dear teacher." re-
marked a clergyman, as tbe oontributlon-piato was
returned to him empty, “ but the members of this
particular flock who have experienced religion
have accomplished It at a very trifling cost. 1'he
choir will sing the 79th hymn, omitting the first,
third, and fourth verses, iu order to save unneces-
sary wear on the organ.”
Fashionable Materials.— Some of the
newest woollen importations are Drap Jacobean,
an excellent plain cloth in a good range of colour-
ings; Drap d’Arres, a finer make In best wool;
Foul6 Crolsd and Chevron Cheviot EstamDnc, with
herring-bone weaving. A great variety of these
goods, in prime, chocolate, indigo, and smoke now
being shown bv Summerfleld and Co., Merchant
Tailors, 236 and 237 Pltt-street, Sydney. Eight high-
class cutters. Perfect fit. Suits to measure, £a 3s.
Country residents, write for patterns and self-mea-
surement forms.*
Blinkins had been lecturing for a month,
and the other evening he slipped out and called on
his best girl, without letting his friends know of
it. The next day one of them met him. " Good
morning, Mr. Blinkins,” he said, “ where did
you lecture last night ?” “ Dp town,” replied B.,
innocently. “ Have a pleasant meeting ?’ r “ Yes,
very.” " Did you hold your audience, as usual ?”
“Well—ah—yes—that—is—I—no—of course I didn’t.
I held her on my lap," blurted out Blink, and tho
other man gasped and leaned up against a wall
for fifteen minutes.
Mr. DrOoubot Brownh (late Deputy
Chairman of the Miffing Board of New South
Wales), Author of the Miners’ Handy Book,”
"Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 62 Castie-
reagh-street, Sydney, ear Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, t&T Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Deportments and
Supreme Court.*
Usually, people who are compelled to
listen to a brass band that insists on playing in
front of their bouse are so bored by the discords
that they give the men a quarter to stop, while the
band goes off thinking that the people are pleased
with their music. One of these wandering head-
ache-producers recently bad the tables turned
upon them. They hal strolled out opposite
a large building on the Newtown-road, and,
after blowing away for three hours with-
out receiving a coin, they discovered, to
their disgust, that they had been serenading the
deaf and dumb Asylum. This was more than
they had bargained for, and without a word thoy
formed in line and kicked each other down to tho
Glebe.
The Fatal Fatuity op Coukttbbpkits —
It would almost seem as if there was a spoil of fas-
cination in fraud, as if in the very conception and
execution of a vicious deed there was some smack
of a charm, for surely the imitator must know that
his imposition will sooner or later be detected, and
yet there are parties still striving to reproduce
Wolfe's Schnapps. Be sure you obtain Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
It broke him up.—“ Will those colours
run ? ” asked a customer of a purple-and-flne linen
trimmed clerk, in a gents’furnishing warehouse,
King-street, as be picked up a pretty pair of
rainbow socks. “ No. sir; they are warranted,” re-
plied the shopman, with an affidavit-like emphasis.
” Are you sure ? ” “ Of course, sir. They are
guaranteed fast colours.” “Oh, they are, arc
they ? Well, how the dickens can they bo fast, if
they won’t run?” The shopman pulled a show-case
off the counter, trying to keep from falling.
A terrible epidemic, which for some time
past has shown warning symptoms, has at
length broken out with frightful virulence. Its
incidence and|character have caused it to be traced,
by those who know “a hawk from a handsaw,” to
a kind of “ municipal malaria,” and in its worst
stages, it is akin to what is known as emotional
madness, or the intermediate phases of hydro-
phobia. It will, no doubt, come to a head during
the next few days, and after the stricken-down
suburban aldermen and the kicked-out rustic
mayors have been relegated to private life—quite
expedient in some cases—and when there has
been a lively social thunderstorm or two, the air
will no doubt clear and the disease die out. What
with the pressure and excitement caused by these
matters, we have had no time this week to
obtain full particulars of some very interesting
news in connection with our old friends Anthony
Hordern and Sons, of the Palace Emporium, Hay-
market.*
“ Gentlemen, I can’t lie about the horse;
he is blind la one eye,” said the auctioneer. Tho
horse was soon knocked down to a spectator, who
had been greatly struck by the auctioneer’s
honesty. After paying for the horse, he said :
“ You were honest enough to tell me that this
animal was blind in one eye; la there any other
defect?” “ Yes, sir,there is; he is also blind in
the other eye,” was the prompt reply.
These old people whose blood has become
thin and steps feeble are praising Hop Bitters for
tbe good they have done them. See.
The day was young. Two men, each car-
rying a lot of tools, came slowly up to the corner
of—street,and there paused. A Ne w to wn tram bad
just passed the corner, and was fully 20 feet away.
“ There’s our tram,” remarked one calmly, " No
matter,” replied his companion, “ we’d have to
hurry to catch it. There'll be another In an hour,”
and they seated themselves la a door-way, and
lighted their pipes. They were plumbers.
No. 1. HA 1 HA I HA ! A CHAIN WITHOUT A DOG.
NO. 2. OH I OHI OH! A DOG WITHOUT A CHAIN.


Personal Items
Mrs. Oliphant’s new work is entitled “ A
House Divided against Itself.” It hns been sug-
gested that the Sydney edition should bo inscribed
to the Hon. Qeorgo Thornton, Protector ot the
Aborigines Few will see this. A pair of whiskers
at Giblln’s might, though.
We have read General Wolseley’s address
to his army, and are much edilied, even tho.ugh
we have not forgotten Napoleon’s proclamation to
his soldiers before the Pyramids. The name of
God,” who is said to be in league with those who
are going to “ smash the Mahdl,” is dragged twice
into the pronuncmmento—the style oi which is
commonplace enough for an address by one of our
holy political humbugs to the electors of Woolloo-
mooloo.
General Booth recently referred to what
he called the scandalous stories respecting the
moneys of the “ Salvation Army." He said his
family consisted of eight members, who worked
twelve h>urs a day and seven days a week, HU
eldest son was the only one of the eight who r -
ceived any salary from the Army, and what he got
was not so much as some of the ordinary majors
We wonder how the Booth family continue to
live ? Probably on manna.
Some "pious” liar started a report recently
that Bob lugersoll's son had died crazy in a lunatic
asylum, and that his insanity was broduced by
reading trasbv novels. To which Col. Ingersoll
replied;—”!. The Colonel's son was not addicted to
ncvel-readlug of any kind. His mind, of course,
was not weakened thereby, and he did not become
insane. 3. He was not removed to an asylum. 4.
He did not die. 5. No funeral oration was ever
delivered over bis body, 0. The Colonel has not,
and never bad, a son.”
The UAibv News correspondent says that
" the Mahdi, accepting General Gordon's challenge,
fried to make bis followers walk across the Nile,
persuading them that the river would dry up.
About 3000 of bis men are said to have been lust in
the attempt.” This is, no doubt, a first-class iie.
The cranky Mahdl, having had his turn, the
equally cranky Gordon had now better demon
strate the superiority of hie faith, by kneeling down
and praying that the Mahommedans may be
turned Into Jam tarts.
BATHER!
At the banquet Alfred made the novel
remark, “That the pen was mightier than the
sword; but, if at any time he bad to laydown the
pen and take up the sword to tight for bis country
—a country he felt proud of,” &o.
Go to, now, Alfred! With your pen—
Now you may take our word,
You’d kill a deuced sight more men
Than you would with the sword.
A new edition, we see, of Lord Byron’s
works is to be published by Murray, edited by
Buxton Forman. What surprises Lewis Scott is that
no edition deluxe of hisBpenoer-ean dramas has ap-
peared. By the way, Lewis proposes to offer him- elf
for re-election for Leichhardt. We remember well
the occasion of his last triumphal return ;
how be was serenaded by the Petersham big
drum, and driven home amidst the acclamations
ot the populace In the local ice-cream oart. The
populace then endeavoured to slog a song of wel-
come outside the gate of Lewis's back yard, and
subsequently received “five or till the rising.”
When the late Lord Derby first formed a
Ministry (a duty which Heaven forbid should
ever devolve upon his heir) he picked such a team
of untried political colts that It was quite the
fashion in select circles to feign ignorance of their
very existence. Lady Clanrloarde, for instance,
Innocently asked of the new Premier whether he
was "quite sure Sir John Paklngton was a real
man.” “ Well, I think so,” said Derby; “ he has
been married three times.” That, we fancy, is
about on all-fours with Artemus Ward’s reply to
the indignant female, who Inquired: "Air you a
man ?” " For ail pertlklers on that point, apply to
Mrs. A. Ward,” said our old friend.
Brignoll, the celebrated tenor, was fond of
exhibiting a pair of sleeve-buttons with the letter
" B.” in blazing diamonds, a gift from Nilsson, and
a scarf-pin of jbearls of different colours, a present
from Patti. Ho was very superstitious, having a
horror of the number thirteen. To such an extent
did he carry out his hatred of this number that he
would not commence a Journey, sign a contract, or
take the prime step in any business on the J3th of
the month. Friday he regarded with great suspi-
cion, nor would he make his first appearance on
that day in any place. He also made a point of
running against any hunchback he happened to
meet, and rubbing his hump for good luck.
The rumor is being repeated that Miss Eva
Mackay Is engaged to be married to Prince Ferdi-
nando Colonna, who will become, on the death of
bis uncle, the bead of the family, he being the only
male representative of that branch of the Colonna
line In the present generation. Prince Colonna is
a handsome and] high-bred nobleman. Ho was
presented to Miss Maokay on the occasion of her
visit to the villa of her aunt, the Countess Telfena,
last winter. The date of the marriage has not yer
been fixed, but it will probably not take place till
after Easter. Prinee Colonna recenty paid a visit
to Paris, bis military duties forbidding him to in-
dulge In a prolonged absence from his native land.
George Manville Fenn has brought out a
book which, though it relates to New Guinea, he
has had the Impudence to name "Bunylp Land.”
This latest production of Mr. Fenn’s purports to
describe the adventures of one Carstairs-not the
Melbourne “bruiser” of glorious memory—who
left N.8.W. for the “Dark Island ” on a botanizing
expedition. The book has been received with
much enthusiasm by the London critics, and, as
George Manville Fenn has never, in the course of
his arduous life, visited either Australia or New
Guinea, his present volume is, of course, emin-
ently calculated to increase the stock of delusions
entertained by our Cockney friends concerning
both places.
During the hearing of the now celebrated
London libel ease Adams v. Coleridge, the plain-
tiff, by desire of Mr. Beulh, consented tn leave
unread portion of a letter submitted in evidence.
The document was, however, subsequently
banded to the jury on their special request, and it
has now transpired, writes our correspondent,
that the supposed passage, ooncernlug which
much curiosity has been felt, contained some
"spicy” revelations as to the domestic affairs of a
certain eminent English Judicial personage. It is
not that he has, alter the fashion of more than
one colonial Judge, married his nurse or gar-
nished with orange-blossoms the alabaster brow of
his cook— au contraire, his social delinquency con-
sists in his having failed to adorn with the flowers
of the tree that grows at Parramatta the tresses of
a sweet young creature whom he—festive old
buffer!—has taken under his " protection.”
When it was known that Tennyson’s new
poem was to be callod “ Becket,” all the Bum
people thought it had been written to celebrate
nia release. By the way, the hostess of the P.
O. r.afi, worked hard, and spent hundreds of
pounds working for Bechet’s ireedom, but with-
out avail; Judge Windeyer s minute to the Exe-
cutive always proving a crusher. The P. O.
was pulled down not long ago. and the hostess now
keeps a ham and sausage shop in Oxford-streot.
»he says, pathetically, that there was no poetry in
keepings pub. Her’s was too near a newspaper
office. The lady states further, however, that she
has a good connexion amongst newspaper men
Btill; and to see her literary customers “ wolfing ”
the saveloys (half-price) and pocketing tho fur re-
minds her of oil times. She sold a Rum man a
marrow-bone the other dav for fourpenoe. He
said, gloemliy, that, until the rain was over, he
must live somewhere.
' There was a duel recently in Paris
between M. Lebey, of the “ Agence Havas,” and
M. Amodde Saiesy, of tho Mot D’Ordre. The fol-
lowing were the seconds in the bloody combat:—
For M. Lebey: II. Houssaye, L. L Poguon; for
M. A. Saissy : Valentin Simoud, E. Lepelletier.
The combatants fought with swords—four desper-
ate rounds, and in the end M. Saissy received a
Krick in the wrist. Tho seconds here declared
onour duly satisfied, but M. Lebey, thirsty
for gore and other trifles, wished the combat to
continue. He was overruled, however, and we
learn that now M. Saissy is going about the Boule-
vards with a poetic expression and his arm in a
sling, while Leoey, having borrowed a grindstone,
spends all his spare time putting an edge on his
sword, and preparing for the approaching meet-
ing, wnich has been agreed on between the parties.
Duelling in France Is a terrible thing. It is safer,
however, than fighting a monkey with a meat
skewer.
Emile Zola, the naturalistic French novel-
ist, bad even harder times in his youth than
Dickens had. He is 44, of Italian parentage, and
was a poor scholar. He sought employment two
years m Paris before obtaining a regular engage-
ment as clerk to a publisher. During that era he
wrote many verses, but all editors rejected them.
Life was very hard, the pawnshop his frequent re-
sort. for one winter he nad scarcely anything but
bread, and lay several days in his lonely garret bed
for want of clothes decent enough to venture in
the street. All the bitter experiences ot his two
years' misery, sin, and degradation in the slums of
Paris have been reproduced in his books. The in-
decency and filthiness have been seared into his
brain and being by suffering. Thev darken his
views ot morality, have defiled his religion, and
have made him a hitter and merciless cynic when
writing of his fellow men. His novels debase.
They show a keen mind, but its every vein is
strained and contorted by the warping misery tho
world inflicted on his youth. Zola Is now rich.
This occurred at the laying of the founda-
tion-stone of Her Majesty’s Theatre. Mark:—
“ Mr. O'Connor . . . said that the brightest of
men who reached that altitude of intellect, ex-
panse of learning, and breadth of generosity that
ennobled humanity, had belonged to dramatists
and actors from the days of A3-chylus, who adorned
and shed a lustre upon Athens,’ «&o. Now, on the
Sunday night prior to this oration, was heard in
P—u-s —tthe following dialogue:—Distinguished
Legislator, from balcony above to departing
brother in tho street: “ Whisht, Pat; shtop a min-
nit.” D.B.: " Well.” D.L.: ” Is Aychylus dead ?”
D.B.: “Of coursel” D.L.: “ Where was she
buried, Pat? I'd like to see the certiAket. Just
call on Kirby, and perhaps .” D.B.: “Why.
Aeschylus has been dead over a thousand years .”
D.L. (chuckling): “ Has she ? Be jabers, I'm glad
tohearitl She can't be wrlten to the Herald
correcting my Greek quotations, Pat, cushlal
How old was she when she died ?" D.B.: “ It was
a man?” D.L.Wo on! Whisht now I Qethome
quick, Patsey: for here she comes, and she thinks
1 de it all myself.”
Lord Colin Campbell, who is sueing her
ladyship for divorce, has made out his list of
“ friends,” writes our London correspondent. The
roll was in the Arst place headed by the name of
one of the most illustrious personages in the realm,
the bare mention of whom would suffice to take
away the breath of those who adore royalty and
attribute a heavenly innocence to all relatives of
the Defender of the Faith. Tremendous pressure,
brought to bear from half-a-dozen quarters, has
resulted, it is said, in the name of the Illustrious
One (whoso amours have for years been talked of
in all quarters, from John O'Groat s to Cape Otway
and from wreenland to Terra del Fuego), being
withdrawn from the catalogue. Next in order
follows a titled individual, who has been divorced;
then the husband of a rather well-known wielder
of brush and palette; the rear is brought up by a
manly individual of Are-brigade notoriety, who,
according to Lord Colin, has neglected to turn the
hose on to the Aerce Aame which raged within his
bosom. It is only fair to say that Lady Colin, who
has entered a cross-action, declares that it’s “ all
a lie,” and avers that, thouarb she has been very
friendly from time to time, her relations with them
have been of the most virtuous and irreproach-
able character.
Next time our divine dodderils tackle the
revision of the Bible, we intend to suggest that a
certain verse In the Gospel of St. John should
read: “Then they all cried out again, saying, Not
this man, but Barabbas, Now Barabbas was a
champion rower.” Why we think of this to-day,
is simply because Mr. John Teemer has just al-
lowed the domesticated feline animal to escape
from Its paper envelope by declaring that “ of the
nine races which he rowed under the Morris Saul-
son management, but one, the second race against
Wallace Rosa at the Point <pf Pines, Mass., was
rowed for stake money. Of the others, seven
were only for gate money, and the stakes were
merely posted to gull the public.” Dear, dear!
And It is only the other day wo heard that a cer-
tain race run on our own lovely harbour was :
but, on second thoughts, wo won’t tell that yarn
till the weather cools a little. Suffice to say that
John Teemer deserves the thanks of the whole
world for his manly exposure of these shady
games; and we see no just cause or Impediment
why he should not be at once presented with a
handsome testimonial—or the contents of a double-
barrelled shot-gun.
“Thank God, we’ve got a squatters’ Par-
liament at last!” is what Andrew Tennant said of
the present S. A. House of Assembly. Andrew
didn’t know much beyond wool, but he knew
enough to be right that time. Parliament has
worked for the squatters throughout—given them
the famous leases of 1888. and every concession
worth having. And the squatters deserved all they
got, for they put their own men into Parliament
wherever possible, in She first place, and secured
the votes of raw, conceited young members after-
wards. Hence Tennant’s remark. And the beauty
of the joke is, that the squatters elected to make
use of rather than formaMinistry. George Hawker
is their leader, and declares he would never sit In
a Ministry ot which Playford was a member. So
George lets “ Honest ” Tom do necessary unplea-
sant work; inaugurate the new Taxation scheme,
and assist R. C. Patterson. When all this work is
done—and not till then—the squatters propose to
enjoy a long lease of the fruits of office. By the
bye, among other aosurd failures, the present 8, A.
Cabinet have omitted to provide their Commis-
sioner of Taxes with Parliamentary sanction of
any workable set of regulations for collection of
the Income Tax: payment of which can, in conse-
quence, be easily evaded.
Murdoch, the married man, wa« anything
but a success, so far «s regards the first innings, at
all events, during the big match—Australia against
England—at Adelaide. When batting he was
clearly out of all form; did not see the ball half
the time; was nearly bowled three or four times
during the few overs he happened to stay at the
wickets, and eventually spooned up the easiest of
easy long hops on the leg-side, seeming entirely
fitted by circumstances only when tramping back
to the pavilion In the field it was the same.
Paddy Watson’s thousands [The “thousands” he’ll
get from “ Paddy ” won’t keep him in tooth-picks.
—Ed. B.l have evidently shaken Murdoch’s nerves,
for he ipulled catches on every possible occasion,
and apparently took it as a personal affront when-
ever the ball did not amble straight into his bands,
neither too high nor too low, nor more than half
an inch one side or t’other. On the other band,
Percy M'Donnell’s batting was superb and never
likely to be approached by any English profes-
sional. “Our boys,” doubtles, had the worst of
bad luck, for which the winning of the toss nowise
compensated. With Midwinter seriously ill; Gillen
a feeble convalescent; Spofforth awav; and Ban-
nerman’s split Anger, it was hardly to be expected
that the Australian eleven could anyhow win the
match.
Paul de Oassagnac has written a letter,
saying that as the French law did not give Madame
Hagues the protection to which she had a right,
she “did her duty in killing the man who sought
to dishonour her.” He adds: —“ Some people con-
tend that she ought not to have killed him, since
the law bad already vindicated her. No doubt,
two years’ imprisonment is something, but is it
sufficient atonement for the honour of your mo-
ther, or your wife, or your daughter? Let those
who read answerthat question. It is just as though
you wore to tell me that ;the few francs lino or-
dered by a tribunal are adequate punishment for
a man who calls you a coward or who spits in your
face. I do not want to attack our laws and their
powerlessness to prot c ct all that is most sacred and
delicate in a man’s honor, nor will J lay down that it
is a good thing for individuals to take the law Into
their own hands, as they may be tempted to go too
far. But In the present case there can be no hesi-
tation, and there is not a doubt but that this young
woman acted quite right. Traducers of wedded
honour needed a lesson, and it is right that that
lesson should have been given. la England and
other countries people are protected by the state
of public morality. In France, to be able to live
unmolested and bold his head up, a man must be
prepared to kill.’’
The new Mayor of Dunedin, Mr. Arthur
Secular, is a Blue Ribbon free-booter, and on the
occasion of his assumption of the Mayoral office,
be gave the councillors a regular Blue Ribbon
Gospel guzzle, the fluids consisting of an assort-
ment of delectable pops such as lemonade, ginger-
beer, and other costly concoctions of a similar
kind. Only two of the councillors, however, re-
mained to partake of this giddy entertainment.—
The others fled
When they twigged the spread,
With their noses skyward slewed;
There were seven or eight
Went for whisky straight,
And lord! how they grunted and phewed!
“ No man is a prophet in his own country,”
is a saying that will stand a lot of shaking up be-
fore the bottom falls out of it entirely. To-day,
Bismarck seems to wag the world, but there's »
quiet, stolid littld body of men in his own land
that shuts down on him without the slightest cere-
mony whenever the occasion so demands. Quito
recently, for example, the man of blood and iron,
and lager beer, applied to the Reichstag for a sum
of one thousand pounds a year, which, he declared,
was absolutely necessary tor the support of an ex-
tra official at the Foreign Office to look after colo-
nial affairs, which, It appears, are getting unduly
mixed, through the spread of the colonization
fever In the Vaterland. Had Bizzy been en-
deavouring to run the billet into the hands of
a poor relation, he could not have worked
harder to secure the job than he did, for, seeing
the case look sick, he rose up on his heels in tho
Heichstag Chamber and thundered out: “If this
House refuses to grant me the means of remune-
rating a representative, 1 must decline all respon-
sibility for the further conduct of German foreign
policy. When I assure you to-day, on my oath of
office, that the post is necessary, and you say no,
then you declare me either ignorant or incap-
able.” The Reichstag, nothing daunted, however,
threw out the Chancellor’s little Bill by 141 votes to
119; but witu a courteous consideration tor the old
man’s feelings, they declined to specify whether
they thought he was a brainless ass, or simply a
harmless sort of idiot. And, as Bizzy didn’t press
them very hard for the information, the matter
dropped, and Herr von Hoofempoofemduschlutz-
erbugg went on with the third reading of his
little Bill for the prevention of hydrophobia in the
average German sausage.
One of the most horrible tragedies of the
century has just occurred in the wilds of Fuller-
ton. Nebraska. A small English colony, consisting
of Mr. H. A. Q. Baird, Mr. Hugh Mail 1 , Mr. and
Mrs. Henry Perceval and their one-year-old child,
and finally of a man named George Furnival, lived
together, or in close proximity to each other, at or
near Fullerton. On 28th Sept., Furnival, who was
a man of most violent temper, and who had, on
several occasions, fallen out with Mrs. Perceval,
abused Malr for not having cooked his supper.
Indignant at the language employed by Furnival,
Mair refused to cook supper for his friend and
himself, and went off supperless to bed. Scarcely
had he gone to sleep, before Furnival burst into
the room with a loaded gun In his hand and blew
out his comrade’s brains. Every evening Baird
was in the habit of leaving Perceval’s house in
order to bathe in the creek near Furnival apd
Mair’s dwelling. It was his custom to call upon
Mair to have a chat with him after bathing. On
the Sunday night when Mair was murdered Baird
went to visit him as usual, and Furnival, in order
to prevent his crime from being discovered, shot
Baird down, on the principle that “ dead men tell
no tales,” and threw his body into the creek. Be-
ing aware that Baird would soon be missed by the
Percevals, and having already committed two
murders, Furnival determined to make a clean
job of it, and also to put Mr. and Mrs. Terceval out
of the way. With this object in view, the wretch
awaited Perceval’s return from Fullerton on the
Monday evening, and shot him dead. He then
turned towards the house of the murdered man,
where he killed Mrs. Perceval and the baby in her
arms; having done which he coolly robbed the
place, departed by train, and has not since been
heard of.
This portion of Alfred’s valedictory-
speech (que void) has proved too much glory for
Frank:—Alt. loq. : “ He was leaving behind him
a hardworking brother, a thoroughly good citi-
zen, and a conscientious journalist.” (Loud ap-
plause.) We understand that on the morning
after his brother’s departure Frank called his staff
together, and, having reproved one or two of them
for appearing before him without socks, delivered
himself of the following harangue:—“ Having
considered things, I am absolved to disestablish in
this orfls an entirely new regiment. Leadin’ arti-
kels on burnin’ tooth-nicks will be written be me:
the machinery having been greased, which is a
primitive conclusion; likewise the grinding of tho
ink which our poetic renewer is bound by contact
to attend. Garden Honey, owing to the lively
state of the fruit trade, having declined to attend
my brother Alfred as travelling wallet, is re-estab-
lished in his billet of art cricket of the News and
Jernel. Acting on the desire of my brother
which has now departed the Sunny South, I hereby
raise halt-a-crown a week the wages of the Paris
correspondent, which has lately had three twins at
Dubbo. Tols leader(handing an M.S.to Mr. Hogue)
must be put in print Immediate.” With some
difficulty we have been enabled, through bribing
some of the personnel of theistaff (with saveloys),
to obtain a copy of tho first par. of Frank’s first
leader. Here it is:—
“ Murder.
“ The deth neli caused by tho wisling jug-
gernort is again to the fore. Several peaces of
a man cut in two testifies to the rite of the
speady abolition of a neusance which has long
been providential in the Kolony,”
Over the above were the following instructions to
the printer:—
“ Put this in leded burgoo.”
Possibly, dear readers, you fancy that
“ Bill ” Robinson, or the South Australian Parlia-
ment, or the S.A. Cabinet rules South Australia.
Not at all. beloved brethren; not at all. Which his
name is R. C. Patterson, otherwise known as the
Deputy Engineer-ln-Chief, and sometimes as Me-
phlstopheles. A person named Thow thought that
Patterson and his satellites, Mais and Pendleton,
were mismanaging the Railway Department, and
claimed and obtained a separate and ostensibly in-
dependent position as Locomotive Engineer. But
when the Ministry was changed and Tom Playford
became Commissioner of Public Works, Patterson
told Tom that it would never do to retain Thow in
the service, because Thow knew his business,
saved hundreds of thousands, prevented jobbery,
and would not stand bullying. So, then, Tom sus-
pended Thow, because Thow had called Patterson
a liar or thereabout, but was afterwards forced by
Parliament into allowing Thow the privileges of
the Civil Service Act, That meant, of course, an
independent Board of Enquiry. Conspicuous
among those who opposed even this modicum of
apparent justice was a local M.P. named J. H.
Symon. This Symon is a clever and industrious
barrister, a clever and industrious bully, and a
clever and slippery politician. It is believed,
is stated, and has not been denied, that when dur-
ing the debate, Symon advocated official tyranny,
he held a retainer from the Government as prose-
cutor before the so-alleged impartial Board. The
attitude of the Minister as regards this Thow en-
quiry is supposedly an Impartial one. Thow was
suspended on charges being laid formally against
him by Patterson. But anything approaching
impartiality would not suit. Therefore Tom
f iayford was commanded to retain Symon to
prosecute Thow as though Thow were a criminal.
Patterson is a Wesleyan, Colton (Chief Secretary)
is a Wesleyan, Playford has grown and made
money out of onions for twenty-seven years.
That is the position. Only the Star Chamber re-
vived. Now, the colonists call Playford “ Honest ”
Tom by way of sarcasm. .
HOW CAN A MAN LIVE ON £2 A WEEK.
WHY, EAT AT A SIXPENNY HASH HOUSE, | AND PICK HIS TEETH AT GUNSLER’S.
THE VERY CROWD!!!
Dan O’Connor, chairman of the Board of
Directors of Her Majesty’s Theatre, states that
“ many of the gentlemen interested in the scheme
were inAuenoed by a purely philanthropic spirit.”
Oh, h , but there! we will not use
A phrase that might be “tropical: ”
That theatre-board’s tho very “ push ”
To turn out philanthropical!
We know that gentle virtue in
The Shepherd breast abounds;
And he’d a play-house build, you know,
On purely moral grounds.
Oh, we can Agure on that Board
Ingenuous human things—
John preaching to the “ stars,” and Dan
Tracts reading in the wings.
We’ve tried this soit of thing ourselves,
And we don't wish to scoff,
But coruphet- converting is
A thing which don’t come off.
MARTYRS.
“ At the Water Police Court to-day, James
Fulford, ex-M.L.A., and Walter Buckingham were
charged, upon the information of Leopold War-
senchaure, of Bourke-streot, with wilfully con-
spiring to cheat and defraud the informant of
large sums of money. The case was remanded till
Tuesday next, when no prosecutor appeared.”
Quite right—altho’ the case looked black—
If you both grabb’d the loot,
For him who got on the wrong tack,
To never proseeute!
It serves a man tho’, right, we guess,
A bad turn just to cop,
When he won’t play a game for less
Than twenty pounds a “ pop.”
A libel's somewhere; “ Truthful James”
( w e’ve known him well and long),
Would never, in the wildest games,
Do anything that’s wrong.
We ktiow in ev’rything he’s straight;
He is an honest elf;
We this emphatically' state—
He told us no himself.


CHARLES SANDY8 PACKER,
ROYAL Academician,
The Most Accomplished Musician
Australia has Known,
THE FRIEND
of
MENDEL8SHON, THALBKRG,
and
KARL MARIA VON WEBER,
Accompanist to such singers as
MARIO, ORI8I, and LABLACHE,
wrote
“I am extremely pleased with the sweetness,
fullness, and power of the
HAPS BURG PIANOS.
The Tone end Finish are ALL that could be desired.
The proper balance of Bass with Tieble is strictly
adhered to.
I CONSIDER THEM UNSURPASSED."
SAMUEL GEORGE BSNSON, R.A.M.
Professor of the Royal Academy of Music,
London,
writes
“ I have great pleasure in testifying to the Ex-
celleice, Power, utd Durability of your
HAPSBURG PIANOS.
The UPRIGHT GRAND I purchased from you is
A REALLY SPLENDID INSTRUMENT.
Their construction throughout Is
A MARVEL of STRENGTH and SIMPLICITY.
1 prefer them to those of any Matter I have met
with.”
JOHN RADCL1FF.
the Eminent Flautist,
writes
“The Hapburg is, I consider, an unrivalled in-
strumi nt. 1 arn glad to hear that its sale « needs
that of any other uiak»\ and that your efforts to
place a really good piano in the homes of the Aus-
tralian people are receiving due appreciation,”
MADAME PAULINE RITA,
the charming singer, writes
"Tho HAPSBURG PIANO
is iinsurpassf d as the
VOCALIST’S PIANO,
I have been particularly pleased with the beautiful
quality of its treble—ii blonds with and sustains
the voice in its highest efforts.”
Governor
SIR WM. ROBINSON,
a highly accomplished musician,
gave the strongest testimony, duly reported in the
Adelaide papers at greater length than can be here
given.
Governor
FIR ARTHUR PALMER,
of Queensland,
purchased a Hapsburg on account of its
SPECIAL SWEETNESS.
MADAME CHARBONNET KELLERMANN,
the
FINEST PI A NIST E
In
AUSTRALIA,
writes
“ Ayant soumla les Pianos * Hapsburg,’ aux plus
strlctes epreuves, .je declare avoir ete aussl charmee
que surprise de la douceur exqulse de leur toucher,
unlo a une ampleur et une sonorite remarquables,
Je les re commando en toute sincerite.”
The wife of the
BISHOP OF ADELAIDE
writes
“ I have been much pleased with the quality and
sweetness of the Hapsburg. I shall have much
pleasure In recommending Pianos of the same
make.”
HAPSBURG PIANOS,
HAYDN ORGANS,
So'e Importers:
BEALE and COMPANY,
3S6 GEORGE STREET,
And throughout the colony.
Some of the sleek parsons and sympathetic
lady parishioners who take such an affectionate
interest in the souls of the poor—at fancy bazaars
and charitable picnics— might well pluck a lear
out of the practical volume of a Mrs. Whyte, a
lady (a lady, mind you, though she’s only the wire
of a farm servant) residing in the unfashionable
fishing locality of Aberdeen, in Fifesbire A cor-
respondent of the London Times relates how Mrs.
Whyte, “ during the height of the gale on the «8*h
October, between the blinding showers of ram and
sleet, saw the steamship, William Hope, in im-
minent danger of coming on shore in Aberdeen
Bay. Proceeding from her cottage, she noted the
spot where the vessel would come on shore, and
was ready to receive the rope thrown to her by
one of the crew. In doing so, she exposed herselt
to no little danger in securing the end of the rope
by passing it round her body, and planting her
feet firmly on the beach, while the waves were
washing round her, so that the crew were able to
land. During all this time she was quite unaided.
After getting the crew on shore she attended to
their wants and comforts.” Let us haste to im-
prove the occasion, as is our wont.—
a boy, I would have stuck to the sport I love
through thick an’ thin, but in order to try and
purify it, an’ weed out the villainy from it, I think
th‘ best thing I can do is to set my face against the
whole business as it’s carried on at present.’ Poor
old Jiml He wasn’t much at the “ ologles,” and
he couldn’t tell a Greek root from a variola papilla,
but he had a level head, and whenever a shady
game cropped up Jim was the first man to stamp
his foot on the job and squelch it.
A new and real poet has appeared in T. S.
Cleary, the editor of a Drogheda newspaper. This
charming trifle is taken from his delightful little
volume, “Twitterings by T wilight,” which contains
a dozen pieces of equal merit;—
Mrs. Weldon, the famous English litigant,
has a French friend named Madame Menier, who
>rave evidence on her behalf in the recent trial,
Weldon v. Riviere. Here is a bit from the cross-
examination of Madame:—“Mr. Matthew, 9 r ,2? 9 "
examining Madame Menier: ‘ What are you ? The
witness: ‘A lady.’ (Laughter.) ‘What Is your
business?’ * I have a private income ’ You used
to live with Mrs. Weldon?’ ‘Yes; I do not live
with her now, because she has no home, but we
are good friends just the same ’ ‘ Where do you
live, Madame?’ ‘I live at Brixton, but (to the
Judge) has this, my lord, anything to do with the
trial ?’ (Laughter.) Mr. Matthew: If it is pain-
ful to you to tell us where you live, I will not
press you.’ The witness: ‘No, no, no. I live at
Brixton.’ (Laughter.) ‘It is about four years, I
think, since you were an inmate of Mrs. Weldon s
house ?’ ‘ What do you mean ?’ (Laughter.) The
Judge: ‘Since you lived with her.’ ‘Yes. Mr.
Matthew: 4 1 hear it said that you bit, or tried to
bite, a gentleman in the arm ?’ (Laughter.) Per-
haps I did.’ (Laughter) ‘Of course, when a
gentleman puts his hand on you you have a right
to. (Much laughter.) When a gentleman takes
vour arm, you bite him, do you ?’ (Laughter.)
‘ I would be quite right. If II did.’ (Laughter.)
The Judge: ‘Who was the gentleman whose arm
you bit?’ ‘Mr. Sidney.’ (Laughter.) Mr. Matthew:
• Had Mrs. Weldon already knocked off Mr. Sid-
ney’s hat?' The witness; ‘I do not quite under-
stand. Let me tell you the story. (Laughter )
When Mr. Sidney took me by the arms Mr.
Matthew: ‘No, no.’ The witness: ‘Yes, yes. I
know better than you. for I was there. (Laugh-
ter.) Let me tell you the story.’ (Laughter.) Mr.
Matthew: ‘No, no. First answer. Did you begin
the attack upon Mr. Sidney by trying to bite him ?
(Laughter.) ‘ He was holding my hands behind
my back, and, of course, I tried to get them away.
(Laughter.) Mr. Matthew then questioned Madame
Menier as to some printed slips of paper which
were said to have been thrown from a box in the
theatre. The witness said the composition of one
about which she was particularly interrogated
was not Mrs. Weldon's, but her own. Mr. Mat-
thew; ‘ Now, Madame Menier, do you really mean
to say that this handbill is your own composition?’
Witness: * Yes; why not? I am clever enough to
do it.’ (Laughter.) Mr. Matthew: ‘No, no.’ Wit-
ness: ‘1 am surprised that a gentleman should say
no, no, when a Jady says yes.’ (Much laughter.)
Don’t believe what you read in the other
papers, because this is the only true and authentic
report of Alfred’s reply to the toast of his health
at the banquet:—‘Mr. Gentlemen and Chairmans
(hear, hear!), I mean—my brother Frank, he will
insist—oh, yes! -Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen,the
toast of my health having been drunk so em-
phatically, i think It my duty to enter upon a kind
i f ratiocination—be quiet, Chris.—of the past.
(Loud applause.) Not many years ago. poetry was
in its infancy. See, now, what I’ve brought it up
to! Liberality, Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen, is
the sole of progression. Milton, who is dead (hear,
hear!), only got £40 for ‘Paradise Lost,’ whereas,
if he’d have come to me, I’d have made it guineas,
and put him on the free list for the wax-works.
(Vociferous cheerio*?.) Let a man come to me
with some lines in rhyme that I think will take
well, and half-a-crown and a shakedown in the
folding-room will never be denied him. (Hear,
hear!) I like poetry myself; but it was years
before I learned to make it. One day it came upon
me sudden, and I ran down and told Prank, which
was greasing the machine in a bell-topper. I will
now perceive to disclaim to you some verses I
have decomposed expressly for this occasion. (Ap
plause.) They are called—
After a few remarks, in which he dealt delicately
and trenchantly with the tine arts, Alfred sat down
amidst a perfect whirlwind of applause.
Way back in that dim shadowy time which
is commonly known as the “good old days,” one
of the staunchest supporters of the Sydney turf
was poor old Jim Pye of Parramatta, who has just
“weighed out” for the great Consolation Handi-
cap. of which we are all acceptors. For many
years, the old ’un not only put up his cash to swell
the racing funds of the colony, but he kept a
string of flyers himself as well, and was no mean
judge of aprancer, either. Of late years, however,
he turned the game up cpmpletely; in fact, he
stoutly opposed the sport in his own native dis-
trict, not because he loved the turf less, but be-
cause he loved straight going more. Being asked
one day why he was so rough on the old amuse-
ment, Jim promptly replied, “Look ’ere, my
friend. When I raced bosses there was no thievin’
among the owners an’ jockeys then. A 11 was fair
an’ square, but every meetin’ now-a-days brings
out villainy in every shape an’ form, i’he bulk
of th’ owners now are low gamblers—Jews, who
run horses in other names, and the jockeys, with a
fe* honourable exceptions, are from the gutters
of the big towns, an’ the greatest lot o’ rascals un-
hung. If th’ Jockey Clubs had made any attempt
to bring back the turf to what it was when I was
Well, every life must have Its lot, there's weal for
every woe.
Directly the rumour became current that
Joe Thompson had been injured by the railway
accident, the seraphs aloft commenced hollowing
his couch out of a single pearl. [Now it has been
discovered that the accident was only instrumental
in wrenching a few hairs from Joe’s moustache,
the angels are disgusted. St. Peter, who had spent
all the morning with a piece of bath-brick and an
oil rag, has given orders that the Leviathan when
he arrives eventually shall—
“ , . . At the gate
Of heaven stand disconsolate.”
Joe, who at this moment is playing “Nap.” with
his eye in a sling, says fiercely, “ If I want to cop
Paradise, I hold toe ‘ sugar.’ If the angels don’t like
it, there's balloons, ain't there ?" On considera-
tion, we have come to the conclusion that, in this
regard, Joe “ takes a lot of licking.”
Lady Westbury, wife of an ex (and late)
Lord Chancellor, was lately robbed of the “ knee-
apron” of her carriage, the treated the perpe-
trators of this outrage to a “ stretch ” in Millbank.
Lady Westbury was the daughter of a poor ourate
in Devonshire,’ who married Lord W. (when in the
“horrors”) on spec. He was, then, the Hon.
Frederick Thesiger, and rendered himself histori-
cal (which is more than notorious), by borrowing
half-crowns even from the ushers or his father’s
court. To such a pitch of degradation did this
noble scion of the aristocracy come to, that
shunned by every one in his own “set" (a large
section of which were richer, though possibly
bigger rogues than himself), he was reduced to
wandering about from pot-house to pot-house,
and, “suspending,” on his father’s account, in-
numerable pots of “old and mild.” Hi* Lord-
ship was, prior to his honourable son’s final levant
to Geneva, rather surprised to receive (amongst
others) the following account:—
“ Dr. to Thos. Smith, Blue Lion and Star, Upper-
street. Wap ping.
Lord Westbury, Lord High Chancellor of England.
£ s- d.
1 pot old and mild 003
Screw of Shag ..002
Oallon of porter 008
Cash lent (for train) 0 0 6
Bread and cheese and pot of bitter beer ..007
Cash lent to redeem the mace in order to
open Parliament 0 7 6
Three bottles Bass’s ale to celebrate the
opening .. .. .. .. •• ..030
Cash lent for cab to attend Privy Council 0 3d
Salary order, payable on the Premier, W,
E. Gladstone, Esq., M.P. (dishonoured) 0 la 0
Two pairs of socks in order to attend Her
Majesty at Windsor •> 0 0 8
Pit of stout and mild 0 0 6
Bed, having by accident been locked out
of the House of Lords 0 0 9
Saveloy, sausage-roll, and pint of porter.. 0 0 5
Cash lent to attend Privy Count’ll appeals Old
Bed on missing train to country seat in
Rutlandshire .. 0 0 9
Money paid to secure verdict on behalf of
Smithson, in Smithson v. Jenkins,
afterwards given against him .. .. 0 10 6
Money lent to redeem your shoe-buckles
on the opening of the Term .... 0 7 d
Fine paid in the police court, Tbames-
street 0 5 0
Refreshments at the Black Dog ... ..Old
Purchasing pair black silk stockings for
Court ball 076
Redeeming same for Royal funeral.. ..011
Total 8 7 8
“ N.B.—The whole or a portion of this will ob-
lige. Remember how good we was to you
when you wanted to jump out of the window
after tne barkin’ alligator.”
It Is needless to state that the Lord High Chan-
cellor repudiated this claim with indignation. He
afterwards, when 70, married a girl of 16. The
usual result occured under these extraordinary
circumstances—twins. His Lordship was buried
with great ceremony, but the solemnity of the
proceedings were somewhat marred by some
sounds-a combination between a chuckle and a
hiccup—which proceeded from the first mourning
coach, and by the persistent demands of the chief
mourner, on arriving at the cemetery fora “ little-
drophofsomethshtodrink.”
♦ + *
Before Mr. O’Ryan was made Crown Prose-
cutor, he used to wearily go the Western Circuit.
As he hardlv ever got a brief then, a friend said
one day, “ What the deuce do you hump that blue
bag about for?” “Hang it,” replied O’Ryap.
testily, “Imust live somewhere.”....TheTumut
Progress Committee complain that they cannot
get any replies from their member, Mr. O'Mara.
This makes the Progress Committee indignant.
The Presloent remarked, excitedly, “ It's all very
well for some to say he's busy on Circuit. I know
better. When last I saw him at Tass, all he had in
his bag was a bill for a masher hat, half-a-pound
of spiced beef, and a sausage-roll.”
* * *
Miss Anna Katherine Green, the author of
“ The Leavenworth Casa,” was married, on No-
vember 25ih, to Mr. Charles Rohlfs ...Mr. Hugh
Conway is so popular an author in England that
60 000 copies of his latest story, “ Dark Days,” have
been ordered there. As for “ Called Baok,” it has
been translated into French, German, Italian,
Norse, Swedish, Dutch, Roumanian, and Welsh...,
Miss M. E. Braddon, one of the most prolific of
story-writers, in private life is Mrs. Maxwell, and
owns up to having reached the mature age of 56,
— Martin Farquhar Tupper is living in extreme
poverty in Loudon. Old in years, declining in
health, the author of “ Proverbial Philosophy ”
lives deprived of the luxuries, and not a few of the
necessaries of life... “Kyrle " or Curly Uellew.the
now well-known English actor, who, when a re*
porter in Melbourne, was known as Harold
Dominick, is about to enter upon the
management of the London Olympic Theatre. A
“dame,” It la understood, finds the money — The
Marchioness of Lome (Princess Louise) smokes
cigarettes. The Princess of Wales, It is alleged,
also atfeots the weed in a mild form.
Puck, '85, 6d. (post 7d.) Like London “Punch
Almanac,” its English prototype, this popular
work is a universal favourite. AH booksellers,
Alex. M Klnley and Co., Sydney.
A PURE WHYTE.
Ye parsocs pale.
Digest this tale— ,
Find here your text and preach
How Mrs. White,
One wintry night.
Went down upon the beach—
Took a rop'-'
From the William Hope,
And sticking her feet in the sand.
Saw the crew
Their trouble “ through,”
And brought them all to land.
Ye parsons pale.
Digest this tale.
And tell your hearers fair
How such a deed.
For men in need,
Does far more good than prayer.
Beside such acts,
A million tracts,
Weigh lightly, on the whole;
First save a life
Like this brave wife—
Then let them save a soul.
AU RIVER TO NEW SOUTH WALES.
‘ Agew, fair land where I was born!
This partin’ does the por heart soften!
Agew, nice streets, where I have played
With brother Frank at tip-cat often!
* Agew, ye paddocks, where we played
The frame of cricket (with no mat on);
Me and Chris, and * rank—’twas grand—
A big stone, and a thick pine batten.
‘ At leaving I feel very sad,
In fact, one hardly could feel sadder —
Oh. those gay times, when Hogue and me
Played football with a bullock’s bladder.
Agew, agew, my native land,
I love thee with a love eternal;
The Evenin’ Nooze is 46,
And 35’s our splendid Jernlb.
You’ll miss me, that, of course, I know;
Or why this gastronomic flare up ?
Six months, or so, will see me back,
So try (’tis hard, I know) to bear up.’ ”
(Enthusiastic cheering.)
THE SLEDGE AND THE PEN.
The breezy dawn has scarcely called the skylark
from its nest, A
The [thrush caged in the village street is ruffling
from his rest,
When Ironsides, my neighbour, opens wide his
smithy door, > ,, .
And, eager for his labour, sets his furnace in a
roar;
For he's a child of Nature, and he burns no mid-
night oil:
The sun he knows was hung in Heaven to light
men to their toll.
Clang, cling, falls his sledge.
Creak his bellows go;
Clang, cling, falls his sledge,
Bright his irons glow.
Hoi ho! there’s health in heavy toil; there’s bread
in every blow.
In early morn, throughout the day, until the sun’s
decline,
I hear the anvil ring its tune, 1 see his furnace
shine;
No sullen toiler is he, when his midday meal is
o’er.
His wife brings forth his little boy and sits outside
the door.
And tunes a lilting lullaby to the anvil's ple.isant
din.
The song that soothes her baby nerves the steady
arm within.
Clang, cling, falls the sledge,
Sweet her voice and low;
THE SCISSORS IS MIGHTIER THAN THE SWORD.
“SHOULD IT EVER HE MY LOT TO LAY ASIDE THE PEN AND TAKE UP THE
SWORD, 1 KNOW OF NO BODY OF MEN I WOULD SOONER LEAD ON TO GLORY THAN
THOSE I SEE HEBE TO-NIGHT.” (Oh! and'applause.)
In the picture above is seen (on the right) the only "pen” of which the gentle Alf. knows anything.
Clang 1 , cling, falls the sledge,
Creak the bellows go.
Till baby drops a slumbering to the sound of voice
and blow. ,
Thrice happy are you, neighbour mine, with all
your toilsome ways, , ..
Your nights of well-won slumber and your bright,
bread-winning days;
Your busy arm, your easy mind, your happy lack
of lore
Are nobler boast than heritage of land or golden
store;
Ah, could you know that I who watch you work
with heavy eye,
Who list the music of your voiee and see your red
sparks fly,
Oft wonder if amidst your toil it enters in your
That all your iron sledge’s load is lighter than a
pen. , .
Clang, cling, swing your sledge,
In your furnace glow;
Clang, cling, swing your sledge,
Busy to and fro. »
How happy would my days be were my lot to
labour so!
The sweat upon your manly brow is a covenant
with God,
You ache your heart for no man’s bread, your
brain at no man’s nod.
And only Mother Nature holds the sovereign con-
trol ‘
O'er the fine feelings of your heart and passions of
your soul.
You cannot know what ’tls to be the property of
all,
To own no self, to know no rest, obey each heed-
loss call *
To smile in grief, to weep in joy, a thought-
machine ’mong men.
To have for staff on life’s rough road naught but
the fagging pen.
Clang, cling, swings your sledge.
Creak your bellows go;
Clang, cling, rings your sledge.
Bright the iron’s glow.


Lessee and Manager
OF MUSIC.
Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
HI8COCK8’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
The first part with beautiful ballad, wit, & humour.
Finale-" OUR OLD KENTUCKY HOME,"
by the entire Company.
The whole concluding with the successful
GRAND PANTOMIME in BLACK.
Saturday Evening, Entire Change of Programme.
Admission, 4s.. 3s., 2s., and Is.
T
H E
A U 8 T R
WAXWORKS
A L I A N
Opposite the Cathedral,
Just added, a Portrait Model of
ARTHUR ORTON,
The Tlchborne Claimant,
Open daily from 10 a.m. till 10 p.m.
Admission, One Shilling; Children, half-price.
MADAME CHAR BONNET KBLLERM ANN’S
CONSERVATOIRE DE MU8IQUB,
149 Phillip Stbeet.
MADAME KELLERMANN, having secured a
commodious residence in a healthy position
two minutes from Domain, is willing to receive
pupils from the country or neighbouring colonies
as Boarders Exceptional references given and
expected. Apply 149 Phillip-street.
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL, GOULBURN.
THIS handsome Bijou Theatr?, completely re-
modelled, is fitted with every convenience,
and has one of the best stages in the colony (50 x
30), is now open for engagement on very moderate
terms. Seats comfortably in dress circle, 250; pit
and stalls, 500. The population of the city is nearly
9000, and the Hall, which is now the most popular
place of amusement, is situated in the moat cen-
tral position of the main street. Mr. Charles
Turner, of the Montague-Turner Opera Company,
says“ The Hall I consider second to none In Now
South Wales. The acoustics are good; the stage
and dressing-room accommodation is superior to
any Hall in the colony. Applications addressed to
M. E. PULLEN, Secretary, will receive prompt
attention.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
EfRBT OPEN DATE, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY
31th, 1885. Terms on application to
J. B. HICKIE,
Lessee.
N.B. Only responsible managers treated with.
Academy of music
(Late Albert Hall).
Adelaide] Street, Brisbane,
The coolest and most comfortable Hall in Aus-
tralia. Seating capacity, 1300 ; stage: depth, 48ft.;
width, 58ft.; height of grooves, 16ft.: proscenium,
26 by 30; dressing accommodation unlimited. Rent
or shares. For open dates, apply to DUVAL and
SMITH, Lessees, Tattersall's Hotel, Brisbane.
CHURCHILL'S SYRUP OF THE HYPO-
PHOSPHITES.
THESE SYRUPS have so thoroughly obtained
the confidence of the Medical Faculty that they
are now preferred to any other preparations as
Genernl Tonics
T £e Syrup ot Hy pophosphltes of Lime has proved
itself for many years most useful in cases of Con-
sumption and diseases of the Pulmonary Organr.
It is also most beneficial to debilitated constitu-
tions proceeding from any cause whatever, as it
contains two of the most necessary ingrediei ts for
building up the Human Frame, namely, Phospho-
rus and Lime.
Churchill’s Syrup of the Hypophosphite of Iron
is one of the best preparations of Iron and Phos-
phorus that has been offered to the public. As a
permanent tonic it has been found more service-
able than any other preparation of Iron, and is
especially recommended to those suffering from
the effects of a long residence in a hot climate.
Churchill's Compound Syrup of the Hypophos-
phites contains Lime, Iron, and Soda, and as a
general Tonic has been found most useful. Deli-
cate children have derived the greatest benefit
from going through a course ot this medicine,
which supplies nearly all the elements necessary
to develops In perfection the Human Frame. 'Jo
Ladles suffering from General Debility, any of
these Syrups can be taken with most.beneflcial re-
suite, but as almost every constitution differs, one
may give better results than the other. To be had
if o m all C h ® m is ts. and Wholesale from ELLIOTT
BROS., Pitt-street, Sydney.
ASTE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Emi ty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Bulletin
W
Office.
Professional Directory*
108
. 18COCK8' FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
L olalty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
1, apply F. K. Hlsoooka..
HORACE BENT, with Hlsoooka’Federal
Minstrel*, at the Academy of Music,
W.
Sydney —
mo AMATEUR THEATRICALS.— Scenery Sup-
1 plied or Lent. O. Pkiuuman, Scene Painter,
No. 7, back oiLAoademy of Music, Castlereagh-st.
Y A L .
rfi heatrb ro
I Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musobovb.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stare Manager—B. N. Jones.
LAST NIGHT BUT ONE of
THE ONLY PANTOMIME IN SYDNEY
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD.
THIS and TO-MORROW EVENING, at 7.45.
TUE GRAND COMIC CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
entitled
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD,
HARLEQUIN BOY BLUE.
The Good Fairy and the Naughty Wolf.
Saturday, reappearance of the Royal Dramatic
Company.
PRICES: Dress Circle, fls.; Stalls, 4s.; Family
for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4 at Theatre.
N
BW OPERA HOUSE
Lessees & Managers ... B.Majeronl & W. J. Wilson.
Treasurer and Secretary ... Mr. Joe Brown.
Stage Manager Mr. George Leopold.
MAJBRONI and WILSON’S
COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
LAST NIGHT
LAST NIGHT
of
Leoocq's Famous Opera
LA FILLS OB MADAMS ANGOT
LA FILLB DK MADAME ANGOT
LA FfLLK DE MADAME ANGOT
LA FILLE DE MADAME ANGOT.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 7.
Grand Production of Offenbachs
LA BELLE HELENE.
Box plan now open at A. and C. Huenerbeln’s
Muslo Warehouse, 318, George-street.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, 3rd February, 1886.
Tenders for public works and sup.
PLIES.— TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of thn Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not hind Itself to aooept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
durrumburrah to Blayney, 3rd
Section _
Lavatories, &c*. Parliamentary
Buildings _ .
Bridge over Culgo Creek, road
Condobolin to Cudgollloo
Hand Punt at Book’s Ferry,
M’Donald River
Erection of Refreshment Booms
at Nyngan
instruction of Timber Wharf,
at Stockton
instruction of Public Wharf
at Putney , „
Manufacture and Supply of
160.000 Tons of Steel Ralls.
Erection of Police Buildings,
Hillston
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Adclong
Erection of signal Box, Wallera-
wang Station, Great Western
Railway
Tuesday,
10th February,
at 11 o'clock
Additions to Court and Watch
House, Mittagong
Erection of a Building for the
Schools of Medicine and
Science, University
Erection of Timber Wharf, Cob-
bler’s Beach, Middle Harbour
Additions Courthouse, Camden
Additions Police Barracks, Nar-
rabrl
Erection of Timber Bridge over
Railway at Nanima, Great
Western Railway
Erection of Stone Arch Culvert
on Thrupp’s Point Road,
Neutral Bay
Tuesday,
17th February,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Passenger Station
at Summer Hill, Great South-
ern Railway
Supply and Erection of a 10-ton
Steam Crane Wharf, Woolloo-
mooloo Bay
Laying Pipes, Goulbum Water
Supply
Erection Timber Wharf, Cowper
Clarence River
Erection Timber Wharf, Tarra-
happini, Maoleay River
Erection of Wharf at Bourke
Erection Caretaker's Residence.
Campbelltown, Sydney Water
Supply
Turret Clock and Bells, Tower,
General Post Office
Wrought and Cast Iron for
Superstructure of PlateGirder
Bridge, Throsby Creek, Wara-
tah, Great Northern Railway
Braidwood Gaol Repairs
Kepairs,old Lands Office, Sydney
Bridge over Breakfast Creek,
Road, Rylstone to Bylong
Manufacture In this colony—3
Locomotive Boilers
Tuesday,
84th February,
at 11 o'clock.
SMITH ft HANNELL,
THE SHIKT MANUFACTURERS OF
AUSTRALASIA,
h
1
298 George Street, Sydney.
Every description of Shrts made to measure
A perfect fit guaranteed.
I
i
i
for Infants and Children.
Castorla cores Colic, Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation,
Gives healthy sloop and promotes digestion,
■Without injurious medication.
“Castorla is so well adapted to children that
I recommend it as superior to any prescription
known to mo.” II. A. Archer, M. D., ,
111 Oxford Street, Hew York. \
Elliott Bros., Sydney, Agents.
VICTORIA” OFNER BITTER-WATER,
The Best and Strongest Natural Aperient.
A Natural Fluid Magnesia, as a safe, ordinary, and gentle aperient in Inflammation
and Congestion, in Rheumatic and Gouty Disorders, against undue tendency to Fat,
against Hasmorrhoids, in Bilious Attacks and Disorders of the Liver.
Nature’s Aperient Remedy during Pregnancy, and in many Female Diseases; for
Habitual Constipation, in Organic Diseases resulting from fatty degeneration, to remove
the consequences resulting from excess in diet, &o.
pr one wlnegiassful will usually relieve the most distressing headache.
ONE BOTTLE OF “VICTORIA” 18 EQUAL IN ITS EFFECTS TO TWO OF OTHER B1TTBR-
UNii yj* WATERS, HENCE IT IS MUCH CHEAPER.
In of Indigestion, Stomach and Liver Affections, Constipation, and other Derangements of the
System, as a Family Medicine this has no equal.
Sold in Bottles at Is. 6d. and 2s,,
And may be obtained of any Chemist or Patent Medicine Vendor in the United Kingdom.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
R.BURGIS
TAILOR. .
|RY BUBGI8’ £8 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from 16s. 6d., Ail garments band-made, and
T
tnoi
a good, g
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for se iVmeasuring
„ioroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-8TKEKT,
“ ...
forwarded to any part of the colony
n
S3
<0
$
*A-
‘h
%
BMifi
<*
Bg
%
%
o
/*!
<>
<2
&.
Qy
4)
e.
a
%
<r
I
3 *l
MAN
URY.BUXTON'&C
£0
URN
M0NZER
ENGLISH ALES
Burfon-on-Trenl'
<f(M
SSEURS
OE
Bord
it
><
e 1 '
lit
*
<*
*
**s
&
it
r
?
m
IM
OlA)"'
A Bo
OHNt
Messrs. ALLT S CD’S Wine ail Spirit Ste and Agencies
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
.London Agents; Messrs. Arthur Allt & Co.> Wormwood Chambers, Wormwood-street, E.C.


? - — .
‘*f:
fit.
MB f
---
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
/ i’'HT8 triumph of musical invention la ackuow-
I lodged ©u all bands to be tbu
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It Is a wonderful little instrument, which, while
it weighs lees than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its musio with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 23 reeds, plays in throe keys, and all the
parts of most difficult musio.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the Inventor, the world
was first Indebted for the Organette; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
Aft. r years of persistent effort and Intelligent
study, ho has been enabled at last to | l <ce before
the world this complete little tilumpb o\er alt
the difficulties of cott and crudeness
It requires no skill to extract from it any sort of
musio that may be required, the list of thi;ee
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas. Wal'zes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &c , &o„ &o. A chi d can
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy.
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are sen t with each
instrument, and aro so plain that “ he who runs
may read." It is best adapted to 'he kind of musio
which suits an organ best, la which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power iu
executing very lively pieces. It Is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card-holder fer convenience
Inslnging. It will b* found invaluab e for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools. Family Cm les, and
for Danoiog. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one ; and every bou*etaold which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autopbone. It will afford, greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument In the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
OF
474 GE0R8E STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
oome t j us from remote stations In tbo far North,
from distant mining camrs, from many a lonely
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities-from
everywhere, In fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can effer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corre-
spondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
havo written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with It, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It Is conceded by all educators and moralists
that music is the great refining influence, and
especially with children Its effect for good is
boundless. The love for music which music In
the family engenders, Is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all tbo
treatises and leolurcs of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, i nd parents, and in conjunction with
these, Is the oil or balm which renders an other
wise hard t-sk an easy one.
The price of the Autophone la 30a.,
and where good music can be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without It. With each Autopbo e for 80s. wo
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which tho customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list prioe, and we make it our
business to see that All orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogues of tunes at any time,
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents for Australia:
ORIENTAL COLD COMPANY,
474 George-street, Sydney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
theatre Royal- “Little Red RldingHood ..£•
Opera House— “ La Fllle de Madame Angot lb.
Gaiety Theatuk— “ Boccaccio
Academy oe Music. —Hiscocks F. Minstrels lb.
Time was— not so long since either—when
the cultivated persons who swell the rank and file
of “dramatic critics" could earn an honest living 1
In Sydney without resorting to their original call-
ings of hodmen, lumpers, knock-about men, and
general pot-wollopers. It was when the theatres
were all going, and changes taking place once or
twice a week at each. Mais ils ont changi , &c., and
unless the unhappy “cricket” attends semi-reli-
gious muffin-struggles, or patronizes suburban
amateurs to hear the Mosman’s Bay boys wrestle
with “ Box and Cox,” or the band of the Pyrmont
Slashers assault Huencrbeln’s “Leura Waltzes,
he runs a chance of scraping an acquaintance with
that most undesirable of companions—an empty
stomach ; for at the theatres the pieces remain
unchanged. At the Opera House and the Gaiety
“Madame Angot” and “Boccaccio enable the
proprietors to swim in champagne and charter
steam launches for trips up Middle Harbour.
Hisoocks and his people are getting so disgustingly
rich at the Academy that their haughtlnesi is be-
coming aggressive. The‘‘Colonel drinks nothing
but “ Piper ” (sec) now, the corner bandits Cha-
teau Lafltte,” and the interlocutor ’ Moselle.
Nick Feulllade is the only one that still sticks to
“ wollop,” but even he has been warned against
frequenting threepenny bars. The Royal people
are the sole exceptions to the general merry-mak-
ing. On them has settled Plutonian gloom, which
even free counter-lunches cannot quite dispel.
The “gorgeous” pantomime with all its accessor-
ies of songs, dances, locals, lights, love, Lenton and
legs has been —it must come out—a mammoth
“frost.” Even “Lance’s” mastery of metre and
felicitous command of language failed to make it
draw. From its birth the death-mark was on its
little forehead, and when it is cosily tucked in its
wee coffin the tears for its troubled life and pre-
mature decline will be quickly dried.
* * * *
Eight artists— three of them ladies-form-
ing the “ Anglo-Australian Combination,” pre-
sented themselves to a thin house at the New
Masonic” on Saturday night. Two only—the
corner men—of the rt Combination had blackened
faces. Johnny Cowan was one, and the favourite.
The way in which he kept the ball going by jokes
of an antiquity coeval with that, of the cave bear
and pre-hlstorio man, spoke well for the trustful-
ness of human nature. Away back in the dim
past, when Charley Wright was running the Colos-
seum in Bourke-street, Melbourne, and the Count
de la Chappelle (no less) “bossing” the VarieWs
a little higher up in the same street, Johnny was
“knocking ” the “ Cabbage Garden ” vaurtem with
the “ topicalities ” he served out to us on Saturday
night last, it was at the Variety the can-can was
produced for the first and last time in Melbourne.
Supreme Court Judges, members of Parliament,
and dissenting clergymen struggled for seats in
the body of the hall, brought binoculars as big as
gig-lamps, smiled with smug complacency at the
suggestively erotic antics of the lithe “ ladles on
the stage, returned home to toll their wives of the
terrible things a stern sense of duty compelled
them to witness, wrote long letters to the Argus
on the necessity for stamping out such ■ un-
English" abominations, and on the following night
again wrestled with the ungodly for seats at the
theatre, determined—of course, through the same
rigid sense of duty—not to miss Madame Therese
(we think that was her name) when she tucked her
“cutty sark ” close and made a vicious kick at the
ceiling.
* * •
Johnny’s greatest artistic triumphs in
those days were accomplished by the slenderest
means—means that, in the hands of a less versatile
artist, would spell “ failure.” A bucket of wet
flour and a white-wash brush were all he required
for the tour de force that sent young Melbourne
into fits. When Braham (we think) and the inter-
locutor were securely tied with a hawser, Mr.
Cowan would interview them, and, after some
stinging personalities, would set to work. The
metamorptiosis took some time, while it was
proceeding the hilarity of the audience rose to a
high pitch, as each cruel sarcasm was punctuated
by a (fab of flour. How Braham and his mate ever
recovered their complexions, prized the farina out
of their ears, or suffered Johnny to go to bed
without shifting his lower maxilla, or twisting his
spinal column, has always appeared to us as mys-
terious as why Henniker Heaton suffers a paper
on “ England and her Colonies ” to be read at the
Royal Colonial Institute without chipping in and
setting matters straight, or why Tom Carlyle sat
out an interview (wonder If he did) with Davy
Buchanan without presenting him with the con-
tents of a shot-gun. On Saturday night, the ab-
sence of the white-wash bucket and brush was a
serious drawback to Johnny’s effectiveness, but he
struggled through manfully. The last time we
were in the New Masonic, poor Signora Fabriswas
leading a forlorn hope o' cripples to the assault of
“ Don Checco.” before a house of three “ critics,
a laundress, and a policeman. Oh, and we were
nearly forgettiog|tbat, on Saturday, the “Anglo-
Australian” had an original piece of humour,
called “Graduating,” in which scintillations like
this took place: -
Interlocutor teaching his class (M. M. Cowan and
Horton) the alphabet: “ What does your father
teed his horse on ? ”
Johnny: “ He hasn’t a horse, it s a mule.
I. (anxious to get out B) : “ What files about in
your warden ? **
J, “A billy-goat. No, a wasp. No, a bumble-
b I?*: “ Say hee without the bumble, and you’ve got
it?”
J,: “Bee without the bundle.”
I.: “Now for the next letter. What do I do
when I look at you 7 ”
M. 11.: “ Please, sir, you squint.”
This last pieasantry was too much for the
house’s gravity. The young laughed, the middle-
aged gloomily regarded the celling, the elderly-
we were amongst them—put on their hats and filed
stolidly towards the door.
• * ♦
Rainford was the interlocutor. His songs
were veritable oases in a rather parched land.
Some say he has fallen away of late, but to us his
voice seemed as lusty and sonorous as ever. And
Mr. Harrison warbled In a really pleasant way.
His voice appeared to be a tenor—of no great
power, but of unexpected sweetness. But one of
the ladies—Miss Ahearn—chirruped alone. The
others merely joined in choruses —attacking a note
here and there. These concerts are given every
Saturday night. They are on the model of the
“ People’s Concerts,” in Melbourne, which have
been so successful.
« * * *
Go and see her—just take our advice—
your time will not be wasted; you can tell your
wife a “ sick friend " kept you late in town that
night. Tell us how you like her voice and vim (of
course, we mean G. Piaisted). And how “ sultry ”
she could make it if her ” old man ” came home—
the worse for liquor.
♦ * »
“ Every Irishman,” said old Palmerston,
“ is a born soldier.” Except those who are born
“bobbies,” he might have added, if he bad the
same regard for truth that we have. It is little
less than phenomenal how instinctively Pat takes
to the “fooroe” Even as an infant, the games
that fascinate young England and (Scotland are
slow and meaningless in his eyes, compared with
“playing at policemen,” apprehending five-year-
old Home Rulers and “potheen” makers, “run-
ning in ” toddling dynamiters, and damaging
infantile rebels who won’t come along “fair an’
aisy.” Some day, we intend to give an exhaustive
analysis of this well-marked Celtic characteristic.
At present. It is apropos of nothing, except that
we want to work in in some way, that to the mind
of everyone who sees Grade Piaisted in Clalrette,
the same thought presents itself—“she is a born i
actress. ” Mind you, we are offering no opinion
now as to whether she is a good actress or a bad— I
whether she Is vulgar, extravagant, tiresome, or
refined, natural and captivating. She is a born
actress. And it Just occurs to us that Miss
HJaisted’s benefit is billed for Friday (6th), when
44 Madame Angot ” will bo given for the last time.
We would like to make her a sporting offer (on
spec.) for her share of the plunder, but are afraid
she wouldn’t open her mouth sufficiently wide.
Still, if she wants to mortgage her interest, she
knows where to apply.
* * * *
The Minstrels, with the same bunch of
prairie wild flowers stuck in a vase, and placed
upon a table just in front of Mr. Ball, are still at it
at the Academy of Music. But there is one thing
In this entertainment-just one thing, mind you—
which we don’t think a bit funny: in fact, we fail
to see the point entirely. It is when Sim Keenan
takes seven (or twenty-seven, we forget which
exactly) eggs out of bis mouth, and seems to ex-
pect us to laugh. Bah I who couldn’t do that,
under the circumstances ? Come now, Sam; show
us something funnier than that.
• * •
It’s a {rood deal harder to say what isn’t
tip-top of its kind at this show, than what Is; and
as we don’t feel like hard work to-day, we 11 take
it easy. “ Good Company” is about the best thing
we have ever heard Mr. Amery sing. We didn t
quite approve of him singing “Let mo dream
again,” as it’s a woman's song. It was all very
well last year, but it isn’t leap year now: and they
no longer “ whisper words of sweet intent, they
leave all that to us, now, old fellow. We have a
decided objection to hearing the dear creatures
scandalised, so we are happy now that " Good
Company” has been substituted. It does our hearts
good to be able to say with truth that most times the
audiences have a decided fashionable flavour. The
ladies are beginning to remove their bonnets—it
may be for the sake of coolness, or it may be to
save the wear and tear-and there is even one or
two swallow-tails to be seen occasionally—fact I
Our sense of justice (always strong) won’t let us
close these here few remark!, without saying a few
words about the small (certainly) but effective
(very) orchestra. The flute man. we believe, once
belonged to the Austrian band, and can obligato as
well as any man we know outside a Radcliff; and
the violin, being in the hands of Mons. La r null-
lade, is particularly well looked after also. The
“pig grunt” accompaniment to Sam Keenans
“ Farm Yard ” song was such a splendid imitation
that we could actually distinguish the pertume of
our aunt’s pig-stye up Rooty Hill way. Remenyi,
with all his fuss, isn’t a patch on Femllade for
“ pig grunts” and Scotch reels. The cornetist can
play a pianissimo echo very prettily, and the
double bass doesn't disgrace the rest. Bent and
Keenan’s “ Far away” duet is still being encored
to death; but if we say any more sugary things
this time, Hisoocks will get so conceited that he
will be sticking his picture up again on top of the
big drum, and we shouldn’t like that, because, it
distracts us when we want to attend to the fun.
When we go to the Minstrels we go for the sake of
a good laugh, and not to gaze on works of art.
The two things don’t mix well.
♦ ♦ * *
Mr. John Radcliff and Madame Pauline
Rita have fixed upon Monday, the 16tb, for giving
their grand ballad concert. The concert 19 for
madame’s benefit, and as it will probably be the
last chance for a long time that Sydneyites will
have of hearing this talented couple, all we can
say is—you’d better roll up, ladles and gentlemen.
The two special features will be a song written ex-
pressly for Mr. and Madame Radcliff, by Mona.
Leon Caron, called “ The Child and the Skylark,
and Doppler’s grand duet for two flutes, which will
be played by Mr. Radcliff and a lady amateur. Mr.
and Mrs. Harry Woods have promised their ser-
vices, so, altogether, the performance should prove
a very attractive one.
* * * *
“ Manola ” is promised at the Gaiety on
Saturday next (Tthi. The run of “ Boccaccio ” has
been long and lucrative. On Monday night, Ivanova
?ave place to Miss Deakin, and—let us be original
or once—the latter’s performance elicited the
greatest applause.
* * * *
We have vraded through (thank God, ’tis
donel) thespeeohes made by loyal young Victorians
—how they pquelohed poor Bismarck! how their
fury burned! But for satire keen, for mock ry
grim and grisly, my dear boy, all was stupidity
alongside that “ announcement ’ by the * K<>yal
“ People who can find no seats tomlght will have
their 'greed’ returned.”
• •
Of course, no such annouocoment was
made. Its gruesomeness would have been too
colossal. Wonder if the unprecedented success
(hundreds turned away from the doors) <_f this
Pantomime will teach the "triumvirate anything?
* ♦ * •
Moralising the other day over the success
of the Pantomime at the Melbourne Royal, we for-
got to mention that it was attained in the teeth of a
kindred production at the Opera House. Yet such
is the melancholy fact. We say melancholy advi-
sedly. For we defy any man, cursed with a me-
mory, to sit out one of these spondid, inimitable,
spectacular monstrooitles without getting pensive.
It isn’t that the ever-present solemnity of the
scene oppresses him, so much as the remembrance
of happy, golden, youthful days, when this self-
same fooling, and these selfsame wheezes, had po*
tent power to please.
Oh I for the happy, happy times,
The long departed years,
When the ghastly rhymes of pantomimes
Were music to our ears;
When every word the princes spoke
vv as graven on our heart,
And every joke our mirth awoke—
Why did those days depart?
Oh I for the hour when we could smile
At these funereal throngs,
Who stir our bile with antics vile,^
And slaughter us with “songs;’
When a fairy s glance we found, perchance,
As keen as Cupid’s dart,
If she looked askance in the mazy dance—
Why did those days depart?
• • •
Yes, ’tis the old-time recollections crowd-
ing upon a fellow which provoke from his breast
the oft reiterated sigh, and make him seek liquid
consolation between tha acts. For Pantomimes
have acts, now-a-days, we And. During the bliss-
ful period of which we hare been singing, no such
interludes were allowed. The curtain was raised
upon the Caves of Eternal Despair and the Gnome
King, and descended upon the Realms of Everlast-
ing Joy to the strains of “ God Save the Queen.
But we don’t quarrel with the present lashton.
We regard the end of a Pantomime “act* as a
direct dispensation from on high, providing, as it
does, an opportunity for a soothing drink or a
decent departure for home. We would recom-
mend the latter, or both combined. Meanwhile,
we are digressing from the subject on hand
♦ * ♦
The Pant, at the Opera House is founded
upon the grand old —beastly old —nautical legend
of “Sinbaa the Sailor.’ Two brains have been
busy with it. After being “ written and localised by
Harry W. Emmett,” “Slnbad" has been “designed
and produced by A. L Isaacson.” We wish he
hadn’t. Better fa*be nad died in embryo. Sum-
ming up the performance of “Sinead,” in two
words, it is what our American cousins term
“too thin.” Unhappily, too, many of the lady
performers labour under the same disadvantage,
especially about the nether limbs, and this is a
circumstance particularly noteworthy, when the
present low market quotations lor wadding are
taken into consideration.
• • •
Miss Blanche Lewis, in the title role- we
believe that’s the correct expression-is graceful,
but not rollick!og. There was a lack of “ devil ”
about, Slnbad we were sorry to find. We always
like to think that tha bold tar has a wife in every
port, and cm knock down the mate with a mar-
ling-spike when the humour seizes him. Slnbad
seemed hardly up to this, though, and, as a speci-
men of the British seaman, disappointed us some-
what. Amy Horton, on the other hand, was a
leetle bit too saucy when she let go, and there was
a “ rortyness” about her walk round which set us
thinking of the treasured post, and the dashing
serio-comlos of the London music-halls. However,
Amy was very delicious, take her altogether (there
isn't much of her, then), and when sllb came on as
a dear little school girl, and warbled “ I won’t play
with you any more," we felt it would be nice to be
her teacher. Of the male performers wo were
not particularly enamoured They meant well,
they tried not to be depressing; but, oh! they were.
The chief offenders were a couple of drunken
sailors, who gave the dreariest simulation of in-
toxication that it has ever been our* fate to gaze
upon. Incidentally, wo would warn these gentle-
men. In the good old days, when audiences
formed opinions and expressed them, men have
died for smaller offences than theirs. Brickbats,
hurled by angry gods, have terminated brighter
careers.
si • •
The author and localiser of this great work
appeared as Matilda—an ancient Gusher.
Harry Emmett was Mistress Matilda—
’Twas thus, we discovered, they billed her;
Said she, “ You must long
For a Topical Bong.”
She sang—and wo wlsn we had killed her.
This is an unchristian sentiment, but it comes
straight from i he heart, as such sentiments gener-
ally do. To tell the truth, though, Henry has not
fitted himself with the best of parts in this Panto-
mime, and we fancy he might do lar better in
something of 8hake*peare s. We'd like to see him
play one of the dead warriors on Bosworth field,
for instance. Want of time prevents us from say-
ing any more about the artists, except to remark
that some of them have their redeeming points.
This is where they differ from the Pantomime,
per 86.
The Bard and the Sweeper.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The bard standeth In Oeorge-street and cx-
horteth a number of Mayor PJayfatr's brigade of
S street-sweepers : —
Of thy work, O beardless Sweeper, make a sacred,
1 holy thing;
Breathe a breath of love about it, and a conscience
to it bring;
Lowly it may look In some but to those who
see afar,
There is no work low where conscience, love, and
sacred duty are.
The bard entereth Into the heart of Mr.
Sweeper:—
Still, la moments when thou’rt weary, It may hap-
pen thou wilt see
Some white-cuffed, lace-collared darling looking
grandly upon thee,
And wilt think how happy hols with no pan to
carry round,
And no need to keep bis nose upon the muddy,
sloppy ground.
The bard exhorteth again, this time more
passionately
Beardless Sweeper, when this thought comes, I
exhort thee counsel take
From the words I break unto thee, for thy boy-
hood sgrimy sake;
Be not angry, be not saddened, grip thy duty with
bold zest —
Plant true principles, and grow them in thy soft
and tortile breast.
Thou art but beginning. Courage 1 Many men
like thee began
Who are now the noble leaders in society's great
van;
Many men whoso boyhood dark was, grimy, pitiful,
and 8«d-
Full of all the woes of want, but sullied not with
actions bad.
Keep tby boyhood pure, then, Sweeper ! Do not
touch tbu ugly pipe;
Do not touch the base tobacco ; do not grumble,
swear, or swipe;
Ply tby besom, ply thy shovel, keep thine eyes
upon the ground.
And be supple in thy motions while the pan thou
cadgost round.
The bard foreshadoweth three futures, and un-
dertaken that the obedient Sweeper shall attain
to one of them. First future—
Thus, mayhap, the time will oome when sitting in
thy carriage, thou
Upon other boys nny look down, as on thee do
others now;
Thou may'st come as may’r or alderman, to see
the sweeping dune,
As t he mtty'r and aldermen oome now to scan thee
in the sun.
If this turn out, thou oanst make up for the
strictness of thy youth;
Swipe and swear, aud gamble gaily; smoke and
cnew, and laugh at truth;
Do all things that seemed of old, nice, but which,
if indulged in then.
Had deprived thee of thy pan, aad sent thee out-
cast among men.
Another future—
Or, mayhap, before these years oome, thou may’st
have to droop and die;
If this turn out, what I tell thee will exalt thee
pretty high;
They will btar tby bones to shelter, and upon thy
utile stone
Best of bards will write sweet verses, and will say,
•* Our cweepjr’s tl jwn
Upamongthe white-robed angels, and is tootling
Tootling, tootling on lor ever, since he boro his
GBrtu y csrOB
With sucu resignation holy; neither smoked nor
chewed, and when
Angry passions rose, suppressed them ; held bis
forelock to all men 1 ’
The other future—
There is a third bliss still, 0 Sweeper (knd I'm
thinking this comes near
What we lind in our experience takes place round
about us here),
Thou may’st not ha wanted early to start tootling
lathe sky,
Thou may st not, with all thy hoardings, like to
hold thy beKl up high.
Get thee gold, then, thou hast hoarded : with it,
marry—have a son;
Shoe him with the shining metal, start him off, and
see him run;
This, the tnird bliss is, I reckon, worth thy holy
while to scan.
To repay thee lor tby sorrows while possessor of
the pan.
The bard hero spreadeth out his arms and ap-
pealeth feelingly—
Anyway, O beardless Sweeper, make thy work a
sacred thing;
Breathe a breath of love about It, and,a oonsclense
to it bring;
Lowly it may look in some eyes, but to those who
see afar
There is no worK low conscience, love, and
saored duty a^e!
The hard here calneth down, and goeth into
Roberts’s new bar, while the Sweeper, greatly for-
titled, proceedeth with his pan.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Xf Australia is a splendid country for the
working man, It’s an equally felicitous region for
the energetic boy. A lot of able-bodied Mel-
bourne urchins have been taken on as street-
sweepers at a weekly wage of fifteen shillings—not
half bad remuneration, judged from the standard
of “home Two-and-six per day, though,
was hardly good enough for these youths, and
they “struck.” With their brooms upon their
Jlttle shoulders, and a set look of determination
upon their little faces, the rebellious sweepers
waited upon the in a body, and demanded a
rise of five shillings per week. They got it with-
out a murmur. Realizing the impossibility of get-
ting any other boys to undertake such arduous
duties at such paltry screws, the Mayor graciously
permitted his young friends to “ take a rise ” out
of him. Happy land I Happy lads 1 Thousands of
fathers of families in the old country—eating, not
the bread, but the ofla), of idleness-are ready to
work their fingers to the bone for the sight of a
sovereign every seventh day. And these diminu-
tive sweepers, who never put iu more than three
sweeps a minute, even during their most frenzied
spurts, are in the proud position of being able to
state that their work “ can’t be done for less.”
Well, good luck to ’em.—
How can a little Melbourne brat—
No matter how obscure his station—
Be otherwise than plump and fat,
With such a splendid Corporation 7
* * *
When (thumb-screws wouldn’t get
his name out of us) returned from his last trip to
tbe Continong, he was asked one evening whether
he had seen any of the Italian madonnas. “ Oh.
yes,” he said; “met them often. In fact, one
night, in Naples, J was going home with two of
them, when we were attacked by a couple of fol-
lows, and, by Jove I I tell you, it was a very close
thing. By the way, one of them will be in Sydney
soon, and is going to stay with me for a short time."
The hostess was careful to keep him going with
refreshments for the remainder of the evening.
♦ ♦ ♦
A politician, or, rather, an M.L.A.—for
you know the terms are not by any means syno.
nymous—notable neither for suavity of manner
nor refined loveliness of personal appearance, was
artistically hoisted with his own dynamite on the
Association lawn recently. He was talking to a
few friends (it may be supposed that they were
friends; there is honour among thieves, so it is
possible that there may be also friendship even
among politicians), when a lady, seeing only his
side-face, left her party for a moment, and offer-
ing her hand, inquired after the state of his health
in the fervent and sympathetic mode which is de-
manded by the fashion of to-day. The Sydney
Cato saw that there was an unintentional mistake,
but, refusing the waiting hand, met the question
by roughly asking, “ Who are you ? I don’t know
you,” Her manner had the dignity of the last of
the Ccesars, but her words the sarcasm of a de Stiiel
as she replied, “ I beg your pardon. I mistook you
for a gentleman, a friend of mine; but I must cer-
tainly apologise to that gentleman for the insult I
unwittingly passed upon him." And, having de-
liverel her broadside, she sailed away, leaving the
discomfited orator wondering whether the apology
could not be construed as a contempt of Parlia-
ment, Inasmuch as it certainly implied contempt
for one of its most prominent members,
♦ ♦ ♦
At Thargomindah, recently, there was a
prize fight for £10. When the thing was in full
swing, the senior-constable rushed the ring and
called upon every one to surrender. The public,
however, considering this interruption ill-timed,
bombarded tbe peeler with boulders, upon which
he went for the rest of the force. On the rest of
the force appearing (not without trepidation) on
the scene, he requested the crowd to “ dlsburrse in
the Quane’s neem.” Bricks being the only re*
sponse to this enquiry, the force retreated until
the fight was over; but . . . “Subsequently,
when most of the larrikins were drunk, the con-
stabulary arrested six of them.” There is a kind
of daring intrepidity about this which must, for
the police of Thargomindah, insure, if not admira-
tion, at least respect.
* * •
A County Court Judge recently fell down
dead at a concert in Newcastle (Eng.) In connec-
tion with a local incident, this helps to evolve a
singular circumstance. A well-seasoned Queens-
land bushman recently visited a Sunday afternoon
concert at Botany. When he got in, a young lady
was singing “ Pretty blue eyes.” He heard it
through, then, rising to his feet: “ Do It again; I
can stand it.” She did it again, and he was taken
by special tram to the mortuary.
THE HARMY’S GLADIATOR.
A “ prizefighter ” stood up before the
Harm y the other night, and said—“1 think lean
say with confidence I was the biggest sinner on the
platform before I got saved, lor I was a champion
prize-fighter. I was never beaten but once in my
life, and that was when the Jove of God broke me
down altogether. About 24 years ago I stood and
His Turn!
JOHNNY BULL: “I SAY, SAM, WON’T YOU STOP THOSE DYNAMITE BLACKGUARDS?”
BROTHER SAM: “WALL, JOHNNY, I RECKON I WILL; AND LOOK HERE, NOW, IT’S MORE THAN YOU DID WHEN THE ALABAMA PIRATES WERE SMASHING AT ME.”


fought a man for two hours and a half, and with
the blood streaming down his face they carried
him away on a stretcher.”
“ At the Tamworth Quarter Sessions last
week, Tommy, an aboriginal, was sentenced to 10
years’ imprisonment for horse stealing.” “Do
you understand the almost unprecedented gravity
of your sorrowful position? ” enquired the Judge,
before sentencing the prisoner. “ Under the code
of jurisprudence laid down by the Amended
Criminal Law Consolidation Act (71st section of
l he 69th) it will be impossible for me, in the cod-
scientious discharge of my Judicial duties, to do
otherwise than pass upon you a sentence which
cannot otherwise be characterised than as a meed of
exemplary punishment. Prisoner, have you any-
thing to say? ” The dusky desperado, who had
fallen asleep three times during the delivery of
this majestic address, suddenly woke up when the
Judge had finished, and, in a dazed tone ejacu-
lated—“ You got em ’baoca ? ”
BOSH!
At a feast In honour of his employer, Mr.
James Hogue, editor of the Evening News, said:
“The Press was what the people made It.” When a
newspaper editor says words like these in public,
he himself destroys his own and bis paper’s anony-
mity. In addition, he talks “ bosh.” Let us look
at next day’s Evening News, and see how “ the
people made It.” We presume “the people” are
Its readers In New South Wales. The paper of
January 29th has amongst Its leading features the
following articles:— 1 “ An Hlused Woman,” “Seri-
ons Charge against a Husband,” “A Wretched
Story of Married Life,” “ Acquittal of the Dean of
Hereford (on a disgusting charge),” “ Shocking
Depravity in Adelaide,” “ A London Scandal,”
“ Aristocratic Divorce Suit,” “ A Shocking Story,’>
“ Brutal Assault by a Father.” Now, not one of
these articles had its subject furnished by New
South Wales. With one exception, they were
all written out with a scissors from English papers*
and described English occurrences. So that Mr’
Hogue talked bosh if he meant that the people of
New South Wales made his paper by furnishing
him with material to fill It with. And if he meant
that they made it in the sense that he consulted
their tastes in editing it, then it is plain that his
idea of satisfying those tastes is to write as little
as possible, and borrow stories of wife and child
beating from England. Perhaps, however, he
only borrows when there is dearth of such material
at home.
• • ♦
The Independent de la Nouvelle Cale-
donie states that a clerk was walking in the
Rue de 1’Alma, when he was seized by a police-
man, and, after having been severely beaten
with the flat of a sword, was taken to the lock-up,
charged with being an ivadi. In the morning
his innocence was established, and he was informed
that he would be discharged on duly apologislng-
He duly apologised, and went home to anoint his
sabre wounds with “nine oils;” remarking:
“ Well, this is rather a cruel country; but, thank
heaven, if a man gets up a tree here to ‘ snavel’ a
pear, they don’t bombard him with grape and
canister.” This par., by the way, is inscribed to
ex-Judge Josephson, one of whose decisions Is now
historical. He said in the District Court one day:
“ Plaintiff, you are non-suited, because your
demeanour towards this Court has been so offen-
sive.” And yet all the plaintiff said was: “You
old owl; if I knew on what tree you hooted
at night I’d be there with a musket If it was 50
mile.”
♦ * ♦
We notice the appearance of the Vege-
table Cheek Times. It is a splendid Journal. A
leader by an eminent writer is promised shortly;
and it is emphatically stated (presumedly with the
sanction editorial) that the bad and worthless are
never imitated. We also notice a contribution of
a poetic nature headed, “A Boon to all ;” and
seeming to relate to horse aperient. Perhaps the
most prominent contribution to the paper is two
“sticks,” the principal argument of which appears
to be: “ When you ask for it, see that you get it.”
One splendid ad., however, that coruscates in the
paper, and sheds over it a glamour that borders
(if not exceeds) the sublime, is as follows:—
“ T/UEN my brother JIM sees this let him
rr come to emmaveel.—Joseph.”
A nugget accompanied this announcement, which
was prefixed by—“put this bin till Cootamun-
drad.”
• • •
“ ‘Letters from Hell,’ sir?” said a spruce
assistant in a book-shop, producing Mrs. Ollphant’s
last book. The customer was a weak-eyed, middle-
aged man, clad in a cheap, light suit, and exhibit-
ing extreme feebleness of countenance. “No,
thank you,” replied the customer; “I know
what’s in ’em. They’re all from Judas, and he
always wants to borrow money. He explains that,
after 1900 years, he has nearly got to the end of his
30 pieces of aluminium,” “ Who are you ? May I
ask ?” enquired the assistant. “ I am the devil,’*
replied the customer, “ Oh, go on!” cried the
assistant. “ Where is your forked tail, and
where is your cloven foot ?” “ This is allegory of
a played-out kind,” cried his santanio majesty;
“but if you will come to the pub., over the way, I
will prove to you my identity.” The assistant con-
senting, the pair adjourned to a private room,
when the devil said: “Will magic convince you ?”
The book-shop man said, “Yes”—and Satan then
produced throe cards. “ Find the ace,” ho cried,
manipulating them. “ There it is,” said the assist-
ant, pointing to the middle card; and so it was.
“Well;” said the devil, “I’m a little bit out of
practice ; but there,” producing a match-box,
“ you see how I shut this, and how I open it. Now
you do it." The assistant opened It and shut it. On
this the devil looked very discomfited, and
after a pause, inquired : “ Do you want to
sell your soul ? ” “ Certainly,” replied the
young man, who belonged to the Y.M.C.A.. “what
do you offer for it ?” “ Five pounds and the Ring
of Invisibility,” said the devil, producing a circlet
of Oriental gold which coruscated in the sun-
light. “Done with you!” cried the Y.M.C.A. re-
presentative; and he took the £ 5-note and the
Ring of Invisibility, returning to his shop, after
lending the devil some small change, as It was
after banking hours. . . . There is now weep-
inv, wailing, and gnashing of teeth in the holy
young man’s household. The £5-note was a bogus
one, and the devil, he subsequently discovered,
was only employed to lure holy young men into
the meshes of a caravanserai.
* * *
Now that the Wilcannia Times has
“ dropped ” to the designs of Prince Bismarck,
public opinion in that Empire, we learn, is in
favour of some “ modification ” with ijjegard to
Germany's policy with respect to New Guinea. It
takes an influential Journal, mind you, to cause a
change in the annexing power of a big nation.
We know you, Gladiator! when
You shuddered at the fists of men.
And wouldn’t tackle, prithee, note.
An undergrown suburban goat!
Why, boys have hit you on the nob.
And challenged you out for a bob.
You could’nt, pugilistic lolitl
Serve oaf6a as a“chuoker out; ”
For, when you tried It on (’tie so),
Why, out you were the first to go!
And if you roused a bushman’s bile!
You’d cringe to him, or run a mile.
Pushed for a feed, why, In you’d walk.
Where chained is every knife and fork;
And, ever being without “stuff.”
Would get a dinner “ on the bluff; ”i
But first, though, you’d look well about
To see the landlord bad gone out!
Away with all this blow and skite! 1
A Use For Our White Elephant.
You never could a pigmy fight 1
The smallest “snob ” in Ultimo
Of you could make a holy show!
If, like a cat, you had nine lives, <
Not once would you put up your “fives.”
You’ve drawn no claret men among,
’Less it was from some barrel’s bung,
When you, with cunning stealthily
Had sneaked the sleeping landlord's key!
Bah! goto! pugilstlcstar,
You’re just fit for that “ push,” you are;
They’ll feed you if you’ll only kneel—
Tour “ dukes ” would never earn a meal.


But when it is seen by his paper that Walterus is
not only a J.P , Coroner for the district, a book-
seller and stationer (“ Christmas cards half-price
for cash ”), but an auctioneer, stock and station
agent, mining registrar, and general commission
agent, editor, printer (“ hand-bills done at Sydney
prices "), and “ own oorragpondent” besides. It will
not be a source of much wonder in the universe
that this social blast has paralysed (temporarily,
perhaps) even the cast-steel brain of the German
Chancellor. _ .
• ♦ *
The Shroud must be going ahead. Two
more men condemned to death In New Caledonia
for assaulting a superior officer. The following
message, we understand, reached, on Monday, tho
editor of the Shroud by the Caledonlen:—
“ Ci git un malheureux—son doom
Is paree qu'U a son sergeant frappi ;
Sa vie dans le most silent tomb,
Nc pourrait, voyez vous, etre happy 1
They say— (je pourrais avoir tort)
Your journal reconciles un mort,”
v * ♦
Frank is going, he says, to “ carry on those
two great Journals, not solely with the view of
furthering the proprietary’s own Interests, but In
the Interests of the public at large. . . .”—
If there is one thing in this world that we
love more than literary fame, It is an ECHO leader.
Though a lucus a non, for It starts from nothing
and leads nowhere, its style is always soothing to
us, though seldom comprehensible. The Echo
man fairly revels in wood paving-in fact, has
written so much on the subject, that he seems to
have got the wood thoroughly Into his head, and
speaks in such an authoritative tone about as-
phalt and tar that we have often longed to present
him with a feather-fringed suit of the latter. But
it is upon less philosophic themes that he shows
his paces best. The railway accident, tor Instance,
caused his intellectual light to beam forth with a
brilliancy second only to that of a Paddy's Market
10-oarat diamond. He says: “ The first shock of the
Cootamundra railway accident having passed ”
Here wo must admit that he shows himself a bit of
a glutton for gore. To us It would seem that one
shook was quite enough for any decently managed
railway accident; but be Is evidently waiting for
half-a-dozen more shocks, us, you notice, he is
careful to speak of this as the “ first.” Then, after
suggesting several conundrums remotely referring
to the subject, he ladles out a big chunk of his
native genius by asserting that “ the uncertainty
as to the number of people actually on board the
train is painful as vexatious in tho present, leadtmr
to suspicion of more deaths than have so far been
discovered.” No fencing the question, you see,
with him. He casts his 80-candle-power eye in the
direction of the subject, and comprehending the
situation at a single glance, lets us know exactly
“ what is the matter with Sarah.” He sees the fly
in the amber, and not content with achieving that
triumph, envelops himself In a perfect halo oC
glory by showing how to get the insect out. Mauy
writers would have been satisfied with stating the
fact; be goes further, and shows how simply this
“dabbloduh” (this is a Hebrew word used by our
banker) state of things may be altered. Thus:—
“ Surely it would be easy for tho guard of every
train to keep a register of the number on board.
The station master might supply him with a list at
the commencement of the journey, which a mo-
ment’s work at each station would keep correct
till'the terminus was reached,” There It Is lu all
Its simplicity 1 Some irreverent scoffers may say
this would be like gouging out a man’s digestive
organs to cur® him of dyspepsia, or using a ten
horse-power circular saw to cut a child’s hair. We,
on the other hand, go further even than our scribe,
and say that every passenger, even if only going
from Redfern to Eveleigh-for, If necessary in tho
country, these precautions would be doubly so In
the suburbs-should have bis name registered, h's
photograph t»ken, his head measured, and a lock
of hair cut off as a sample. You ask, why these
latter precautions? Simply to avoid mistakes and
Impositions. A head was found at Cootamundra,
no one claimed it, but yet very likely half a dozen
will come forward, swear it was the property of a
not lost but gone under relative, and sue a bleed-
ing country for damages; and the Government
may have to pay a verdict and costs for that
head half a dozen times over, simply because they
have neither a photo, measure, or look of hair, by
which to Identify It. Does anyone say that such a
register would cause unlimited delay at each sta-
tion? The Echo man says It would be “easy,” and
only entail a “ moment’s work;” and on bis dictum
we will bet our bottom dollar, ithough every one
of our seven senses bear emphatic testimony to
to the contrary.
BRIEF MENTION.
Colonial Grab—Cricket.
It is stated that Mr. Spofforth’s sprained
ankle is merely a question of gait.
Why is an aged Christian, in his dying
moments, like Adam in tho Garden of Eden ?—
Because be doats on the Eve of Paradise.
The bill against the Very Reverend the
Dean of Hereford was ignored by the Grand J ury
in London. “ Now if it nad been a pore man
Wagga’s going to have a Liedertafel. All
right, wagga, only don't, for mercy’s sake, get too
proud of yourselves, else you’ll stop progressing,
like some other society we know, not far away.
Talking of the Evening News in his
oration at the Exchange, he said: “ There was no
evening paper equal to it.” No more there Is; for
the amount of yesterday morning’s intelligence It
contains.
A boy. last Friday, got 24 hours in the
lock-up for stealing a copy of the Sydney Morn-
ing Herald. The general Impression in the city
Is that the youth should have been detained dur-
ing his Excellency’s pleasure.
CON8ULATORY,
If we believe but half we’re told.
Why Washington Is glvln*
To Sydney what’s worth more than gold—
The very “ straigbtest Griffin.”
It is stated that Aliok Bannermanis about
to return to Europe to settle down. A cigar-shop
in Wapping Is spoken of; and we understand that
the Orleans Club, in view of Alexander’s visit, has,
for fear of accidents, unanimously voted him a
putty knife.
In Mackay (Q.) a kanaka gets—for the first
three years, 3s. 9d. a week, and works 12 hours
a day. It Is generally understood amongst plant-
ers that when he has a bullet or two In him, the
consequence of recruiting, his market value is
diminished pro rata.
In consequence of the near departure of
Mr. Alfred B , it is requested that all com-
mun'catioDS respecting the trip be addressed to
the undersigned.— Garden Honey. [We regret
that this advertisement arrived too late for Inser-
tion In our last issue.— Ed. B.l
The F. and P. Gazette says“It is pretty
well known that we are unencumbered, but
through no fault of ours, we are sure,” etc. Well,
never mind, old boy; don’t despair. They say, to
eat a green apple every morning is a good thing.
Try it. Also oysters. And porter.
INCAPABLE OF IT.
To Spoff.
Your ankle, wicked people pitch,
Has stood you in good need;
As much to say (their playful way)
You’re bankleing after greed.
The other Sunday, at the Protestant Hall,
a party went up for salvation, and handed to the
Captain his pipe. Then, as the Cap. was about to
announce another conversion, the pipe-man said—
“You needn't trouble, boss. The missus soared
last Thursday, and since I got the funeral money,
I only smoke cigars.”
It is in contemplation by the free and in-
dependent electors of the Hawkesbury, to present
Mr. H. M'Quade, M.P. for the d strict, with a
souvenir. It has not yet been decided what form
the presentation will take. A third of Harry’s
constituents, it seems, are for an eye-glass, and
two-thirds for a brain.
From the War Cry “ In the Gutter. —In
the Saturday night’s Free-and-Basy, one brother
said that one night he got so drunk that befell
into a gutter, and it commenced raining, and as
the rain-water got into his mouth he cried out,
‘Oh, landlord, you are changing the drink!’ ” He
had never tasted water before. He thought it was
kerosene.
From Herberton we glean the following:
—“ A man named Joseph M'Cowry committed
suicide by hamring himself. It is supposed he was
insane at the time.’’—
We wish an error to correct
That in this par.’s set down,
M'Cowry was, we recollect,
The sole sane man in town.
The Auckland Observer has a par. about
Fred. Archer and bis “ one-vear-old bride.” They
marry at 11 in Siam, and seem to get on all right.
Perhaps this was what was running In the brain
of the Observer editor. The anniversary festivi-
ties, however, could have had nothing to do with
it, because otherwise, you see, he would have
doubled that one and made it 11.
It is not generally known that Fred.
Archer is very religious. W hen entertained by an
American reporter lately, and asked : “ What
mount do you now aspire to most!” he tapped his
New Testament, and replied, solemnly: “Sinai.”
Ills, therefore, probable that before visiting Aus-
tralia, Frederick *111 take a trip to tho Holy Land,
and drink up the remainder of the Sea of Galilee.
The Armldalo Chronicle thinks It a joke
to call the midday paper which Frank is so bril-
liantly editing, “the Evening Snooze.” This Is
the same talented creature who has bestowed some
equally witty appellations upon this Journal. The
conclusion is now reluctantly forced upon us that
the editor of the Chronicle must, in a moment of
temporary impecunlosity, have bartered hla mind
for a jam-tin.
“ If,” says General Gordon to his anta-
gonist, “ you are the real Mahdl, dry up the Nile
and come over, and I'll surrender.” How would
this argument do in Australia?—“ If you, the
ecclesiastical tom-tom beaters who believe in
praying for rain, bring about a deluge at an hour s
notice in drought time, we, the noble public, who
now regard you in our hearts as humbugs and im-
posters, will surrender.”
We thought so. Speaking about all things
in general and nothing at all la particular, a few
nights ago the reverend chairman of a suburban
lecture observed that the devil was p-rsonlfled at
tho Randwlok racecourse every day a race meet-
ing was held upon It. From which we infer that
the reverend ventleman had put his modest little
“ all” on Wing for the Anniversary Handicap, and
got badly left in consequence.
At Vegetable Creek, recently, a 8.M.H.
reporter was taken by a posse of miners to be the
funny man of a travelling troupe. Though tem-
porarily embarrassed, he was enabled almost Im-
mediately to undeceive them by producing a slip
of his copy. The miners then shook him sadly by
the hand, and assured him that when they felt like
dying, they would give him an order. The arrival
of the Ministers closed the conference.
Says the Nerandera Argus Contrary
to all expectations the man Hryan Murphy, who
was lost in tho Book Paddock on Buokingbong
Station 'ast week while suffering from delirium
tremens, turned up safely after a couple of days’
wandering in the bush.” Isn’t this enough to
tempt a man to be either a fool or a drunkard, or
both ? Providence worries so much looking after
the like that there is no time left to see to us.
A Dunedin young lady visited a news-
paper office, where she left a parcel containing a
pair of slippers. Early next morning two of the
“ devils ” employed in that office were seen on the
bay, each with a boat of his own, in which they
were trying to beat Hanlan’s best time for a mile.
Their progress, however, was rather slow. The
young lady’s slippers made good punts, but they
were not built exactly on the lines of our best rac-
ing craft.
The Redfern Council have risen to the oc-
casion. When they go Into committee the re-
porters are expected to retire, and are exasperated
accordingly; but the councillors know the arduous
nature of their duties in committee, and when the
messenger comes In with the beer-jug with an
allowance for seven, that Is the limit of their
means. If the two reporters stayed, every aider-
man would have to oupply himself with a corked
bottle in his coat pocket.
Another coruscation from the Penny
Booth “ ‘ Instead of my name being written on
the slate behind the door at the ‘ Black Lion, with
a long list of money owinsr,’ says a brother, * I am
now never without a shilling; and find the best
drink is to be got at the Fountain.’ ” That's the
only tap you can clutch on to, old boy, at present;
but another throe months, or less, will sen you
through it. We own there Is a temptation hang-
ing to unchained milk-jugs, though now you are
converted—but then, so was Happy Jack.
Angelina was gazing on the whirling
waltzes, when Edwin came up and hinted at the
joy he would feel if she would only bestow upon
him the pleasure of a dance. “ I would,” she
replied, "with pleasure (which was a story), but
that I cannot do tho new step.” “ Oh, that's no
consequence whatever,” he said; “ there is reallv
no difference between the new step and the old.”
And she cruelly said, “ No, I know there not, to
you.” Then it was that he remembered that he
wanted to go at once and speak to his sister.
The other day a father and his pretty
daughter were driving in a fiacre about 4 p.m In
the Boar de Bolong at Paree. The pa got out to
speak to a friend, and, shortly afterwards, his
daughter followed him. Just then a well-dressed
gentleman stepped out of a coupi and pair, and
catching hold of the daughter tossed her into his
vehicle and drove rapidly away. The shrieks of
the young lady do not appear to have been heeded
(it she uttered any), and the father, It seems, never
missed her until he got home, and wanted some-
one to take off his boots. Not a bad ad., is it, for a
young girl who is about to appear in hardly any-
thing on the opera-boutf e stage ?
Two pressmen met in Sydney lately. They
had not seen one another for some time pre-
viously, and in the interim No.l had been rising as
steadily as No. 3 had been falling in bis profession.
Said No. 1; “ I am very sorry to find, old man, that
you have come ao low as to write advertisements
for a Sydney tailor.” “ Ahl” said No. 2. mourn-
fully, “that’s not half of it; I have come much
lower than that.” “ Impossible.” “ A fact.”
“ Haw can you make that out—what have you
been doing ?” “Promise, then, that you will never
breathe a word of It to a living soul,” said No. a,
as he edged up closer, aud glanced round to see that
no one was near. “ I promise.” And then, blush-
ing with the recollection of bygone degradation,
and in a voice tottering beneath Its load of shame.
No. 2 confessed: “ I once wrote some Brevities for
the Even Snooze.”
Puck, ’85, 6d. (post 7d.) The Illustrations are in-
imitable. Comic letterpress excellent. Only a few
copies unsold. All booksellers. Alex. M’Klnley
*nd Co., Sydney.
Uur Anniversary festivities are past and
prone, and so Is the Citizens’ Ball to Commodore
Eraklne and his officers. Now there Is plenty of
leisure to visit the upstairs and other show-rooms
of Bray Bros., 409 and 404 George-street. New
Doprs, Goats, Deer, and Dinner Sets Just received.*
That’s right, sweet Prank, whom we all love.
Please give this epoch dull, a shove.
We know (by whom you are so prized)
This land is not half civilized!
In fervid prose and splendid song
Oh, seed those sun-gilt shores along t
The lightness of your hand we’ve seen
When kerosening the machine;
And marked we often your touch bold.
When Thursday you did Jernels fold.
You at the helm, no more we fear
To of “ his snakeship ” dally hoar.
To read a grim and ghastly vision
Of “ her elaborate rendition; ”
Or bow “ his part ” It did befall
“ A pleasing feeling gave to all.”
You’ve seen—and so can change each topic—
The Alps with tints kaleidoscopic;
You’ve gazed on what is Nature’s staggerer—
The roaring falls of grim Niagara!
You’ve been—if we must break the seal
Of confidence—at gay Mabille I
So now we’ll look for, In the News,
A taste of your “ extended views.”
Don’t let your scribes of picnics say
They spent a most “ delightful day,”
And that “ the worthy host "—don’t smile—
The feed served “ In most lavish style.”
Don’t of a ship write (if you edit)
Its trim—look “ did the captain credit.”
And don’t, we pray, have ever moaned,
The “ tables ’neath the viands groaned.”
And ne’er—or you’ll our feeling doubt—
Put “no policeman was about; ”
Nor write a par. which really harsh is
That they “ were greasing their moustaches.”
And “It reflected,” must be spurned,
“ Great credit (bosh!) to all concerned.”
Let not with this the News be clouded:—
“The steamers were not overcrowded; ”
And, prithee, not a vague hint trace
Of that “ respected bonifaoo.”
On these lines, Frank, now dally toll,
And mingle them with verse and oil;
But as you love us, don’t you go
And wound the “coruscating snow.”
Nor tell a lot of thumping lies
Of “ Bobby who’s above the skies!"
Nor write of one whom whisky hurled
Below, was “too good for this world."
Resist now like a real good lad
The weird temptation of an “ ad.”
DIPLOMATIC.
YOUNG WIGGINS: “SEE HERE, POP, I BE TOO LITTLE TO LICK YOU, AND
YOU BE TOO BIO TO LICK MB. LET’S CALL IT A DRAW !”
HE MUST EAT.
You go into a pub. “dead broke,”
Ahd p'rhaps tho man will trust you;
Sit down a “ broker ” In a church
And out they’ll quickly thrust you I
Toe publican must take his chance;
The church some one must pay,
You know the parson’s got to get
His “ little eight ” a day.
Ye Muses who inspired
The bards of bygone
days,
And taught Maleonlan
Homer
To chant his hero’s
praise,
Attune tho magic lyre.
To lofty tone again,
That I may sing fef noble
deeds.
In a right noble
strain.
And ye who write of
orloket,
Be sure that ye regale,
Your readers with the
record,
Of cricket at Moss Vale:
And when ye talk of
Laurence,
Of Shaw, and Lllly-
. white,
Be sure to yield to Rot-
ton,
The palm which is his
right.
Dark is the sky as Ull-
yett
And Barnes, with bats
in band.
Before tho pride of Ber-
rima,
Undaunted take their
stand;
And all the district waits
to sec
What these great guns
will do.
When Captain Southey
meets them, with
His chosen Twenty-
two.
But darker than the rain
clouds.
Upon the captain’s
face.
The shades of gloom
grow deeper,
As grows the score
apace.
And though the featllest
bowlers
Are tried and tried
again,
Their art, erstwhile suc-
cessful,
Is now employed In
vain.
But on host Cullen’s vis-
age
Are seen the signs of
glee;
For he chuckles, “ Ere
’tls over,
How dry they all will
be.
Each fieldsman, like a
poisoned hound.
With burning thirst
will rage,
And ’twill take floods of
shandygaff
Such craving to as-
suage.”
And thus the long day
passes;
The stumps at last are
drawn.
And Moss vale's cham-
pions now may rest
Until the coming
morn.
And as the welcome
beakers
Of tangle downward
flow.
Each local warrior
darkly taints
At what next day will
show.
Again the rival players
meet,
And spite of Southey’s
skill.
The scorers’ pencils
rarely yet
Are for one moment
still.
Until, when Sootton is
Off Throsby’s bowling
caught,
The scoring-board a to-
tal shows
Of 10 for four-three-
nougbt.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Lay of a Cricket Match (!)
Then one by one the
locals
To batting fame as-
pire,
Take block, achieve the
dreaded egg.
And gracefully retire.
For with such art the
leather
By Peel to twist 18
made,
That ev’ry over serves
to place
A bitsmaa (?) In the
shade.
But now no one is left
to fill
The lately vacant
crons? *
The total score, fourteen,
is not
Two-thirds of one o-
piece!
And truly Berrima may
boast—
That a more paltry
score
Was never made by
Twenty-two
In New South Wales
before.
But, hark! the cry is
“ Lewry I ”
And lo! the field ex-
tend.
For now the Chlefest
batsman comes
The wicket to defend.
Ho 1 Lewry. all your
nicest skill
Of cut and drive dis-
play—
For all the eyes of all
the world
Are bent on you to-
day.
The first ball hits his
bat, and then
Goes bounding off to
leg:
He and his partner run,
and thus
Is broke his second
egg.
“Plav steady!” shriek
1200 men.
When the great feat
is done.
For sure it looks like
reckless play
To make a sing e run.
Again Peel bowls, the
erring ball
The waiting willow
tips.
And lightly kissing,
bounds away
A three-er in the slips I
List to the thunders of
applause!
The yelling of the
throng
Is echoed back from
Bundanoon,
And heard at Mitta-
gong.
Then, as each run was
added.
More loud the cheer-
ing rose,
Till it was nobly taken
up
By Lewry s generous
foes.
And when the game was
ended
They bore him should-
er height.
And some men say the
westering sun
Shone with a Lcwry'd
light.
P.8 —This Is the Muse’s
private opinion of the
matter:—
Ye men of beauteous
Berrima,
Take my advice, and
stay
At home In future ;
don’t attempt
This game again to
play.
No; let your wives and
sweethearts try
Peel's breaks, or Atte-
well’s shoots;
Or, If they wont, just
“ ready up ”
A team of bandicoots.
Magnolias.
Against the yellow glow of day,
Beside the dusky river way,
I ste the branching stem
Of the dark tree—whose leaves of green
Lie back, that fully may be seen.
The ivory blooms that burden them.
What place hold they amongst the dowers ?
Do they, as virgins, light the bowers ?
Or, do they boldly claim
The rights the haughty red rose owns?
Or, do they reign on other thrones
From those I name ?
Ah! not as chaste md haughty rose.
Not with white lily’s sweet repose,
Swing the magnolias high;
For passion has on them a hold,
And their cream leaves which loosely fold,
Answer the south wind’s sigh!
And they are seldom all at peace.
But filled at times by strange caprice.
They bend like sailing ships.
Now high—now low—now here—now past
Yet they are contrite—for, at last,
They stoop to kiss your lips.
Their perfume is so sweet—so strong—
It stays upon your mouth so long—
And stirs w Id fan es;
It dazes all who, night or day,
Traverse the dusky river way
Beneath the branches!
There Is enchantment in this scent.
And when the cream white heads are bent
As in devotion,
Who could go on, and leave behind
Those blossoms swaying on the wind
In perfumed motion?
* •
Magnolias 1 to the luxury,
Of scent that here abides in thee—
Some may say nay!—
I feast my eyes upon thy growth,
I touch thy blossoms with my mouth.
And go my way.
INA M. W.


" THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession.]
We are sorry that Captain Barry didn’t make a
“ ri«e ” at his lecture at the old Masonic on Tues-
dayi when he told the people all about New South
Wales in 21 b.c. The gallant Captain was well re-
ceived by his surviving relations, and the solidity
of his so'e formed a feature of favourable com-
ment. We could have wished, however, that the
hall-keeper’s umbrella had not been brought into
such unblushing prominence; though we heartily
congratulate the Captain upon the presentation
(whisky and tonic) which his friends combined to
endow him with prior to his departure to conquer
fresh universes. The Captain is a grand fellow:—
a splendid specimen of everything that pertains to
Sorgeous humanity-except a splendid—[Cut out.
In. B,] Now, Job, [The remainder of this item,
for reasons which wo do not feel called upon to
disclose, is editorially struck out.— Ed. B.]—
Hanby of the Newcastle Fletcher, sneaking of
Dampier, who was recently playing there, in
“ The Black Flag,” states that the audience “ wept
copiously” at the performance. We wept, too,
when we saw it; but we won’t say “copiously,”
for Alfred has a stalwart agent this trip. By this
time Dampier and the “ fairy ” contingent ought
to be somewhere about Armidale. Talking of
Armidale, it possesses, perhaps, the finest hall in
the colonies. The rent is £5 a pop; yet once we
saw a company open there to 36 “ bob. The next
morning the manager (we forget who he was) left
hurriedly to watch the expiring couch of a
cherished relation. The company, after having
exhausted Itself in curses, then formed into a
commonwealth, and had another “ flutter,” open-
ing this time to £16s. It was a sad performance;
one of the corner men being in a state of paralysis,
and “ dlspepsia,” in a violent form, being apparent
in the pianist. We remember, too, the savage
address of the interlocutor to the audience. He
said—“Lady and boy (all the rest had left), many
thanks for the patronage this, one of the richest
cities in the colonies, has lavished on us. Should
you feel disposed to interview us at any time with
a view to further enrich us, the male members of
this company can easily be found. Their address
is the kerbstone In front of their hotels. The
address of their luggage is-Inside. It may be a
source of gratification for you to learn that, as it is
snowing, we have been successful in securing for
the ladies that portion of a hay-shed not
required by the owner’s poultry. Once more
lady and boy, we ” Here he retired
under a shower of pea-nuts You've heard, of
course, that Mary Anderson has had seventeen
offers from younger sons of peers, and openly
flouts the Duke of Portland. We’ve got an idea,
though, that His Grace is of the same moral shade
as Gilbert’s Duke Bailey and Duke Humphy.
You remember what they said to the periwinkle
girl—
“ We do not offer marriage rite,
do please dismiss the notion.”
Upon which the fisher girl, who (like Babotte) had
probably no “ professional bouquet,” says:—
“ Indeed, sirs, then that alters quite
The state of my emotion.”
....This little bit of ingenious “padding” (to
much a column for this) at once brings us to the
alarming fact that at South Creek there is an ama-
teur troupe that calls itself “ The w hite-Kyed
Mohawk Minstrels.” They played at the Protes-
tant Hall, there, the other night, and from what
the Penrith paper says, it is probable that did they
show anywhere else than in their own salubrious
suburb, “ White-Eyed Mohawks ” would soon come
to be a misnomer. Bead this:—“ Mr. H. Franklin
next sang ‘ Poor Little Joe,’ but as he started in a
key about two notes too high for him, this was really
gainful to listen to. Master Herford sang ‘ Empty
radle ’ in a very effective manner, but whether
the feeling introduced into the song was through
nervousness or not, we could not tell.” We trust,
however, the singing of the vocalist was superior
to the writing of the critic.... Lord Tennyson's new
play, “ Becket,” is a great lark. Like Byron’s
“ Manfred ” and the “Doge,” it was written “for
the closet” (see Moore’s “Life of Byron ”); a
quaint phrase as talk goes now-a-days The fol-
lowing, we are told (but don’t endorse it), is portion
of the scene between Queen Eleanor and Fair
Rosamond in the Bower:—
Queen.
“ SInco death’s thy lot, thou must now swiftly
choose
Betwixt this daggular and this droad bowl.”
Fair Rosamond.
“ Oh, lady! what is in that bowl, that I
May choose the quickest and most painless death;
Tell me, sweet, injured queen 1”
Queen.
“ We will. Now, list!
There is a smiling bay [ Here F. B. seats herself.']
whose name I’ve sworn
Ne'er to reveal. From one small hostel there.
For gold, I bought this draught.”
Fair Rosamond.
Rising, and smelling the bowl.)
“ Colonial beer!
Oh, let me drink it to the very dregs—
Its action’s speedy.”
(Brinks it all, and gets locked up.)
[We have a dim idea that the valued contributor
who has penned the foregoing has been Imposed
upon. We are surprised at this, too, since it has
been long reported that nothing has ever suc-
ceeded in getting the better of him but rum.— Ed.
B.] After Tennyson, as a happy sequence,
comes Harry Lynch, who has pervaded Mary-
borough, and the local paper gives the troupe a
fine send-off. The M. P. Mail says:—“In
addition to the evergreen attraction of bell-
ringing this family have with them some excellent
vocalists. It is almost needless for us to remind
«that this entertainment is an honest on*,
t, west, north, and south, the reputation of
the Lynch Family is firmly established.” Hear 1
hear!—This reminds us that Arthur Rodney
is back again, and playing with Dampler up'
North. By tne way, talking of Alfred, the
Tam worth Hooke says:—” . . . His perform-
ance [in the ‘ Royal Pardon’] last evening fully
established his claim to the unlimited snoon-
mims (sic) so lavishly bestowed on him.” From
this we infer that Dampier. in the exercise of a
wise discretion, “ parted” for his “ dodgers" in
advance ... Madame Bibly seems to have knocked
the miners at Wallsend, and if she could put up
for Northumberland at the next election, little
Lnscombe would stand a sorry chance of being
again in a position to torture the Parliamentary
caterer. The ‘‘Magnetic Lady” Is with Madame
S.; so we suppose Ikey Solomon (where Is he,
by the way?) must have sold her to Madame
for several millions There is no truth,
we are informed, in the rumour that Mr.
Kirby has secured the exclusive services of Lance
Lenten. Hem I... And we learn by the Straits
Times that Fanny Bllsler is dead. So is Julias
Caesar I This reminds us that when A (no one
can guess whom this is meant for, except C s,
who possesses an intelligence beyond his years)
was told that Eissler’s pas seul had become a thing
of the past, he wondered what was in it, and why
she had not made enquiries concerning it at the
transit commissioner’s office “ Little Nell,” who
used to play blood-curdling melodies on straw
and timber, etc., at the old Vic., has broken
out in Paris under the name of Mademoiselle
Douvrey. She threatens Australia with a visit.
Helasl —And listen, Mrs. Alphabetical Lewis,
was thus spoken of in a Press notice, in Auckland,
where she played the title role in “Jane Shore
“The unfortunate and erring Mrs. Lewis sus-
tained the part of Jane Shore with great ability.”
And this is what Harriet Jay has been tickling
the editor of the N. Y. S. and Dramatic Times
with:—“Your correspondent was mistaken ia
stating that my object in coming to New York
with my brother-in-law, Mr. Robert Buchanan,
was to become leading lady of a New York
theatre. I came to America for two reasons apart
from the dpsire to visit the country. Firsts To
see the publishers of my novels, Messrs. Harpers,
in reference to literary business. Second : To
produce, if possible, Mr. Buchanan’s poetical play,
the * Nine Days Queen,’ with myself in the title
role,” Curiously enough to state, Mr. Robert
Buchanan has the same fervid admiration for his
clever sister-in-law, as Dickens had for Geo-
fina, who wasn’t clever at all Louise
omeroy has got a new play called “The Out-
cast.” She likewise contemplates mais assez!
We see (we don’t say with surprise—we’re
too discreet), that Arthur Elliot is still in the cast! 11
At latest dates. Mary Anderson had produced
“Cymbeline” in London; and the Marian Willis
company are hourly expected. We mean in
Sydney: that is, if they don’t do a return visit to
Armldale, if only for the sake of calling on the
urbane editor of the Chronicle. Little Marian
is one of the best “leading ladies” in Australia,
but she must star, and Keogh will act ... “ Fun on
the Bristol ” seems to have been doing fairly in
Dunedin; and Ristorl (not Ristori) has been giving
them a touch of Elizabeth in New York. The old
girl didn’t draw—the Americans evidently being
of the opinion that she is closely verging upon the
mature. Her name is the Marquise del Grille, and
when here Madame was very “ much chop ” in-
deed.
He was an old salt of some 60 years, nearly
40 of which were spent In coasting, and as be came
to anchor In a certain Lake Macquarie hotel, the
landlord—a new arrival from Sydney— passed over
abracing tot, and enquired, “Well, Cap'n, what
d’ye think of our lovely harbour?” “Yer har-
bour’s right enough, ole man," replied the skipper;
“butit’s yerd—d Improvements that’s messin’
it up completely. Now, fur instance, what the
blazes d’ye want runnin’ out that northern break-
water for ? Why it’s nothin’ more’n less than a
derned ole sand-trap, same as y’ hev at Newcastle,
an’ Richmond, an’ th’ Clarence. It's the southern
breakwater thet should go out. an’ then you’d hev
a harbour that all the navee of England could ride
in. What ye want most of all, though, is a few
good, first-class funerals in yer big Sydney blun-
dering Departments, an’ er yer don’t get them
soon, dowse my top-lights, if vou won’t hev sand
enough stored up to make millyunaires ov every
grocer in Australia. Every one of yer northern
bar-harbours has cost the country just about two-
thirds more’n they should, an* ez long as they
works them ther way they is, you’ll be tinkering
at ’em till th’ Day ov Judgement ” And then the
old un’ “spliced the main,” while the landlord
took sometmug out of a keg, and remarked he
beard “ somethin’ similar down in Sydney.”
SHATTERED.
Text.—“Wanted, 70 shapely and hand-
some young ladles for the Christmas Pantomime.
Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
He was a military man,
Whose whiskers bore, of age, the rime—
Who seemed beneath a mystic ban, ,
For haunted he the Pantomime!
Fixed was his eye; he never laughed
At one of Lenton’s grisly Jokes.
Immovable was he, though chaffed
Relentlessly by martial folks.
He did not— could not—one night miss,
Feared wind nor rain, despite his age;
To him it seemed ecstatic bliss
To yearningly look on the stage.
One night he seized the prompter bold,
And cried, “ Oh, introduce me, please,
To that fay (here is wealth untold)
Who has the dimples in her knees.”
The prompter took the wealth galore,
A flask of Krug the pair did sup.
“ To-morrow, come to the stage-door,
And I will fix the matter up.”
“ I wish you,” the old man did cry.
“ My views on this to understand—
No ‘guilty splendour ’ offer I,
But honour, sir—my heart and hand.”
“ All right, old boy; if that’s your game.
I’ll careful be not to forget;
You’re right, with Liz—she has a name
For taking all that she can get.”
It’s raining hard, and with a fall
That’s “swishing” down the tempest washes—
“That’s she, who’s pinned in a red shawl,
And wears the number 12 galoshes 1 ”
“ What, that! 11 ” cried he in, tones that freeze,
And darling an indignant look;
“ She, my fay, with the dimpled knees—
Why, that girl used to be my cook.”
“Come, grieve not! ” cried that prompter tight;
“ My tip would have been not to mind her;
Since you must know it, ev’ry night
She leaves her dimpled knees behind her.
AN INSULT THAT COULD BE WASHED OUT ONLY BY—GRAVY.
OLD LADY ( peremptorily): “'AM AND HEQG8, YOUNG MAN. AND LOOK SHARP
ABOUT IT.”
(Consternation of the gallant Jones, ex-Capiain 142nd. Foot, who, in his capacity of journalist, is
taking down the names of the passengers per express, at Alhury, for transmission to the Metro-
politan papers.)
JONAH.
(THE WHALE'S VERSION.)
Professor Nordenskioldt, whose ambition
for many years has been to hang his hat on the
North Pole, and who, if he succeeds, will be down
here trying to hang bis bluchers on the South Pole,
met with an adventure which has thrown a new
light on a most interesting problem, and as his
account is verified by his companions, and the
chief seats of learning in Europe have showered
honours and degrees on him for his discovery, we
may safely take down the more interesting facts
of the case, and leave our readers to ponder over
the heroic resolution which induces men to throw
over the comforts of home and seek the star
Knowledge, thongh it’s steely rays shiver tbrough
the rigours of an Arctic sky, only to light up a
“ thrilling region of thick-ribbed ice.” (That’ll tell
you.)
♦ * *
The ship was blocked in within 20 miles of
the Pole, which, in clear weather, was distinctly to
be seen, and which, ever and anon, was lighted up
with the rainbow flashes of the Aurora. The
nights were long—six months—and the Professor
and his companions bad exhausted every known
deviee of killing the time, from pitch and toss
down to threatening the British, and making
German sausage of walrus flesh. And there was
the galling spectacle of the Pole within sight, and
the posters for the next Hamburg lottery, which
were to adorn It and draw the coin from the
Bsquimo softens, rotting in the hold. It was no
use. To leave the ship at a time when the ice was
liable to break up at any moment was to court
death and the jaws of the polar bear. In this resort
the usual thing befel the idle. The Professor re-
solved to beguile the tedium by Intriguing with
lovely woman, and with that view lighted up his
bear’s-greaso dip and sallied forth with the love-
light in bis eye and a meerschaum In his mouth to
the hut of an Bsquimo who bad once saved his
life, and whose wife he fondly hoped might
listen to the warm words of love as they thawed
through his beard into her frost-bitten ear. Ap-
E reaching the hut, he cheerfully bailed the hus-
and who crawled out on his hands and knees,
followed by bis lady, whose graceful carriage was
striking, all things considered. “ Ha, .my deli-
vererl” exclaimed the false Professor, going down
on his knees (he’s six feet three) and bugging four
feet of Esqulmo in continental style. Then: “ And
your good lady,” turning down to her with a dis-
tinguished bend and inextinguishable affection
beaming through his spectacles. They crawl in
one after another, the festive blubber simmers on
the pebble in the midst, the smoko of the Pro-
fessor’s pipe curls up through the dome (four feet
from the floor) and wafts upwards towards the
pole star; the picaninny with a piece of blubber
in his mouth and tobacco smoke in his nose,
coughs himself disconsolately to sleep in bis fur-
skin double poster hanging to a nail in the wall,
the master of the bouse is blind druna on a bear-
skin in the corner, and the Professor, buttoning
up the rum flask and filling his pockets with salt
seal and fhb, whispers “Let us flee’’—crawls out
first, and they two, the ingrate and the perjured
one, stand outside ’neath the—’neath the
* ♦ *
The six months’ nis;ht is over. The sun has
just lifted his head above the horizon. The men
and officers aboard the deserted ship are asking
one another “ Will he come ?”
* * •
“At last,” he said, clasping the false but
fair one to his side, “at last.” They had the ap-
pearance of fatigue. There was the glow of
achievement on his face—on hers unutterable love
and confidence, with a slight trace of blubber on
her cheek. Before him was the North Pole. Far
away, rivals and friends, superstition and creditors.
2000 yards South was cut in large figures on the
Pole. “ But which way,” muttered the Professor,
“ Where the deuce is your first meridian ? Every
place is South from here;” and he pondered. “I
have it, beloved,” said she, drawing from her
bosom a walrus tooth, and muttering a few magic
words; “follow me.”
« * *
Brushing away some loose snow from the
mouth of a rooky cave, she bade the t Professor
strike a Tandstickor. and look in. Far! down the
, interior he peroeWod a gigantic whale lying at full
length in front of a shop, about a mile in length,
with three balls outside, and brilliantly illuminated.
In the whale’s mouth was a pipe, the stem o» which
was made of a fir-tree, and the bowl of the hull of
a whaler. On his head a smoking cap composed of
sails and bears’ skins, gjjd from his spout wear up
i a cloud like the clouds above Etna. Cf me in ”
says the whale, “ vat blzhness can I do for you ? ’
“ 1 have oome, began the Professor, “ on an ex-
pedition to the North Pole, with the view 10
securing advertising spaces for the Hamburg
lottery, and for some Australian land sales." “Too
late," says the whale, “ you're like Jonah," and he
laughed till the rocks overhead began to thunder
down. "You know about Jonah,” enquired the
Professor, pulling out a pencil and note-book.
“ Know him,” says the whale; “ listen
• « •
“It’s thousands of years ago now. Me and
another took a stroll down through what you call
the Baltic and the Mediterranean, and we got down
oil the Levantine Coast. We’d had a good time.
The sardines were everywhere in mouthluls, and
we took It easy. One day I turned over ou my
side for a nap, and was thinking it was a dashed
sight warmer there than up North, when what
should I see but a two-master tossed about up
above awfully. There were about half-a-dozen
Jews on board, and they knew no more about
handling the craft than a walrus knows about
shrimp-catching. At last 1 beard one of them say:
‘ it’s that infernal Jonah. I caught him myself
with three aces in bis hand, and we've pawned
with him every rag to our back. Let's chuck him
over.’ While I was gaping at this murderous pro-
Eosal they collared him. He grabbed the tinee
alls you see above, andsaylng* The Lord’s will be
done; but by thunder, I’ll do business In Nlnevab;'
ho was fired right Into my mouth. Ho worked
his way back to my throat, I tried to cough him
out, but ’twas no go. He hung on somewhere
and at last 1 said ‘ What do you propose ? You
can’t get in there.’ * To the chosen people,’ he
said—’ all things are possible;’ and, whipping out a
knife, out the hole big enough, and in two twos I
could hear him strolling around inside, singing
S Balms, taking an Inventory of the goods, and
anging up bis sign to start business.
♦ * •
“ On the third day I was lopsided. Do what
I would, I found myself canting over to the left,
so sent down a star-fish to reconnoitre. He re-
ported that every fish that came past Mr. Jonah’s
door was waylaid, and, before be could have a bite
for himself, was compelled to bring a junk of my
lungs, or liver, or intestines into the shop and
pledge it. ‘In short,’ says the'star-fish, ‘you’re
cleaned out.’ [“That,” says M. Littrd, editor and
compiler of the authorised dictionary of L’Acade-
mle Fraucaise, commenting on the Professor’s re-
port to the Scientific Congress of Berlin, “is the
origin of a phrase unintelligible to the English
Johnson and the American Webster, but sweet
and clean vernacular to the intellect of the uncul-
tured Australian.”—Ed.] I sent the star-fish down
again to arrange terms. He reported that Jonah
was getting sallow and unhealthy, and wanted
change of air; but that he swore by Kimraon and
Baal, and every god but his own, that he would
not stir unless 1 would accept this proposal: He
would restore every vestige of my intestines,
hand back every vestige of the pledges, if I would
consent to turn up and pretend to be dead just op-
posite the coast ot Jaffa, where he had beard there
was an annual fair on. That 1 was to permit him
to walk out of ray mouth and address the crowd
on the beach. What could I do ? Lungs
gone, liver gone, circulation of the blcod flagging.
1 closed with him. Every organ was replaced; the
beach was thronged with Indian, Persian, and
Irish merchants. He stepped ashore. I saw the
gold pouring into bis hat. I kept my word, and
when evening fell bo came off in a boat, and mak-
ing me a present of the three balls, said ‘Never
shall It be said that a prophet showed ingratitude.
Take these, thou reliable craft. Get thee to the
Poles, and open fhop. For myself, I start for
NInevah. The spirit of propheiy Is upon me; nor
will it leave until the vision of three balls and the
power to lend shall make of my seed a race which
shall be called Rothschild.’ *’
♦ ♦ *
“So IseC up here,” said the whale in con-
clusion, as he ordered a shark to strip the Professor
and fire him out, “and am doing pretty well. If
you want to paste up posters on that Pole, I'll do
It as reasonable as any whale in the trade.”
* * *
“Welcome, Professor,” shouted the officers
and crew, as he clambered shivering up over the
companion ladder. “ Welcome. Have you seen
the Pole?” “I have,” he said, with chattering
teeth. “ And what was on it ? ” asked his private
secretary, and the newspaper correspondents
aboard. “Dake me to Vaterland,” be said, “no.
ding but dree balls.”
That Story about “288.”— Two persons
meet in a dark alley, and one says, “Say,
did you hear that story to-day about 288 ?'*
“ No,” answered the other excitedly, “ wnat
is it?” “ Oh, it’s too gross, too gross en-
tirely,” replied his companion, in a mournful
voice. "Tell away,” resumed the “and I’ll
try to stand it. If I must hear such dreadful
things, I must.” “ Well,” exclaimed his t riend,
“ 141 is one gross, and 288 is two gross, isn't it?
An Italian had a dispute with a Greek,
and the case oame before a Sydney Court. Now,
take a firm grip, as you road along. The Greek
knew no English, but could speak Italian. The
only available interpreter was a typical French-
man who spoke Italian. On the bench sat a magi-
strate who gives himself out for a good French
scholar, and when ho saw he had a French inter-
preter, he looked as learned as the Town Hall
clock when the hands are off. “Ask the plaintiff
whether I am right in assuming that ho claims 12
days wages and overtime, or wages only,” began
the 8.M. The interpreter addressed one or two
words to the man, and said, “ Wages only, your
Worship.” “But,” said the 8.M., sternly, “you
have not put half the question as I stated it. You
did not speak above six words.” “ Excuse me.
your Worship,” said the interpreter, “ but I asked
exactly the question you put.” “Don’t tell me,
sir,” thundered the 8.M ; “I understand French
too well for that.” And the Court was glum,
until the titter spread round. The Interpreter had
spoken Italian!
What are we doing for our “ black brud-
der?" is a conundrum that will soon besupplanted
by the far more pertinent query. What in thunder
is our black brudder doing for us ? And not only
are wo getting abnormally interested in the nigger,
but our yaller brudder, the slant-eyed Mongolian,
Is thrusting himself uoduly upon us also. At the
Circuit Court recently held in Palmerston (Q),
the largest criminal calendar ever known in tne
North was dealt with, and yet not a single white
malefactor appeared upon the programme. Five
darkies and one moon-faced heathen were sen-
tenced to death for thinning the population with
axes, spears, and waddies, and eight other “ yel-
lows and blacks” were boosted up to various terms
of Imprisonment for assault and unlawful wound-
ing. Of course, the missionaries put this undesir-
able state of affairs down to too much snaik-juice,
but the traders just hs confidently assert that it’s
due to too much Bible; particularly to those
chapters which tell how the old Jsraelitish bush-
whackers used to poll-axe women and babes, and
gouge out the eyes of their helpless captive
enemies.
Tbs London Echo, in reviewing “The
Dawning Grey.” by Mr. J. H. Deli, from which we
recently quoted a very powerful poem, entitled
“The Curse of Genveih,” says:—“ As tbis volume
is at present published by subscription only, we
are unable to indicate where It may be obtained,
but we should strongly advise the author not only
to publish his poems to the world, but, in due time,
to give the people a cheap edition. Mr. Dell Illus-
trates bis own work, and, much as we admire bis
verses, we admire his drawings still more. Some
of the landscapes are simply exquisite. Mr. Dell
is a true poet; but he is too much in earnest.
Throughout his book we find thoughts that
breathe, and words that burn, but the enthusiasm
of humanity so possesses him that he is too care-
less of artistic form. . . . Some of Mr. Dell’s
shorter poems on recent events we should like to
seo republished in a cheap form, and scattered
broadcast throughout the country. At the same
time, in his unsparing condemnation of Mr. Glad-
stone, we do not think that he has sufficiently
taken into account the difficulties of the Prime
Minister's position.”


«• BEACH’S 99
INT£RNATI0NAL__C0N8ULTATI0NS.
SYDNEY CUP and NEWMARKET
HANDICAP
NOW OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10s. EACH.
First horse £250
Second do 100
Third do 60
Starters, not 1, 3, 3 50
Non-starters 50
£500
Address—
“ BEACH,”
Care of J. G. Beetle,
Hotel, King-street, Sydney
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We ihali be glad to have thie index patted up by
eeeretariM of racing dubs and manageri of
eporting event* in general.]
RACING.
Burrowa J.O ..February B, a.
Oootamundra T.C February 11,12
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 11,13,18.
Tasmanian T.C February 18,19.
Murrumburrah T.C. (Annual) February 18,19.
Glen Innes February 18, )9,
Moree February 25, 26.
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb. 28, March 5. 7.
Tumut March 25. 26,
Hawkesbury R.C March 26, 28.
AQUATICS.
Hanlan v. Clifford February 7.
Aquatic Show February 14.
Snail’s Bay Regatta February 14.
Clifford v. Beach February 28.
Woolloomooloo Regatta March.
Rowe v. Kennedy, Nepean March 14.
Beach v. Hanlan March 28.
Hanlan v. Clifford (If Clifford beat Beach)... .April 18.
Intercolonial 8-Oar Race April
CRICKET.
Victoria v. New South Wales University.
Association Ground, Sydney Feb. 6, 7, fi.
Victoria v. New South Wales, Association
Ground, Sydney Feb. 14,16,17.
Shaw’s Team v. 15 of Cumberland,
Parramatta., March 13,14.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The Snails Bay people should put a pair-
oar race on their programme.
More “pot-hunting.” Messrs. Kennedy
and Simpson going for the junior double sculls at
Snails’ Bay.
the English amateur walker, who
holds the record from 31 to 130 miles, has failed to
beat the 50 and 100 miles record.
At the Wallsend and Plattsburg Regatta
W. Jordon won the all-comers handicap in water-
man’s skiffs, carrying a steadier of 701bs.
At the Adelong Crossing races, the “ sport-
ing butcher ” swept the board with four wins out
of a possible five. Sunbeam won the Maiden Plate,
Handicap, and Forced Handicap, and Truelove
won the Cup.
The Rowing Association should rule that
any man who has pulled in an intercolonial eight-
oar race should rank as a senior at regattas. If
not a senior be has bo right to be amongst the
picked eight of the colony.
The gentlemen in power in connection with
the recently formed Sydney Gymnasium are high-
toned—but canny. We were pleased to hear that
their effort to obtain the services of a well-known
amateur as boxing instructor for “ nix”—the exact
amount Joe Thompson said he found in hi* pockets
after the accident—and oust the professional, did
not “ wash.”
The Nooze says Mr. John Frazer, of the
Balmain Rowing Club, can defeat any skiff sculler
in the harbour, bar Mr. Brett, and he is not sure
about the M.R.C. man either. In our opinion,
Frazer would have a good show of finishing be-
hind Brett, Kennedy, Seale, Connolly, and Tiley,
provided the latter pair have gained a little in
watermanship since their last appearance in
public.
Says London Bell's Life, of Mr. W. A.
Long’s filly“Dame Agnes, with others of Charles
Archer’s team, has arrived at Newmarket from
Alfrlston, and is now located in the Ellesmere
House stables. At present, her exercise has been
confined to the home paddock, but our New-
market correspondent informs us that the filly has
come on well since her last appearance in public,
and is likely to make a capital three-year-old.
Dame Agnes is engaged in the Derby, Oaks, and
St. Leger, but not in either the One Thousand or
Two Thousand.
The well-known English swimmers, J. Fin-
ney and J. J. Collier, recently mat, to swim a mile
for £100. Both started very fast, and for the first
two laps there was little to choose between the
pair. Finney then commenced to slowly forge
ahead, and gradually leaving bis man behind, at
the end of t£e quarter mile was llsec. in front
of his opponent. Directly afterwards, to the sur-
prise of everyone present Collier retired, and
after Finney had oomplete/f 18 lengths he was told
that he might stop. Collier subsequently stated
that he attributed his collapse to the fact of his
having become sick owing to swallowing a quan-
tity of salt water.
We have it on good authority that the
President of the Cyelists' Union is about to resign,
and we think it would be a good opportunity to
break up the present body, which has been on the
struggling suit for a long time past, and start on
an entirely new constitution. There cannot be a
doubt the Sydney Bicycle Club leads all cycling
matters In New South Wales, and that a governing
body without its support is crippled beyond
remedy gees without saying. The grand aim of
the Sydney Cyclists should be to have a ground of
their own, and, in this connection, it is to be hoped
they will shako hands all round, and start the sea-
son of 1885 with a “ Union ” in something more
than name.
The boxing match between Lees and
Atkinson came off in a ring pitched in a paddock,
about ten miles from Melbourne. The Melbourne
Sportsman says Lees stands 6ft. In height, and
weighed list. lOlbs, and Atkinson 5ft. lOin. with a
weight of some 13st.; but when we saw Lees in
Sydney we did not think he sported either as
much height or weight as stated. Nothing re-
markable occurred till the eleventh round, when
Lees, with his right, cross-countered his opponent
on the jaw, and knocked him out of time. Only a
sprinkling of sports witnessed the fun, which was
for a £35 “purse,” and the affair’passedoff without
a hitch. Lees cannot use his right, and we fancy
the knock-out must have been a chance hit.
Some time since, we prophesied as to the
result of the action of the governing body of the
Association Cricket Ground In lavishing: thousands
of pounds upon unnecessary buildings for their
own convenience and that of their friends, and
the recent match against the; Englishmen has. In a
groat measure, borne out our remarks. The array
of empty benches, coupled with the miserable dis-
Elay of cricket exhibited during the contest, must
ave been gall to all true lovers of the game. Had
one-flfth of the money squandered on the Associa-
tion Ground been spent in improving the Domain
and other cricket grounds, the odds are we would
not be to-day at the mercy of the dollar-collecting
fourth Australian Eleven to provide a decent team
of players. We must be a quarrelsome lot in
Sydney. The rowing men, cricketers, and cyclists
cannot agree amongst themselves, and it goes
without saying amateur sport suffers in conse-
quence.
The committee of the Snails’ Bay Regatta
have thought lit to go in for a little novelty in the
way of a race for boats manned by three ladles
and three of the sterner material. The idea may
be a good one, but they have certainly made a
mistake in picking upon the 23-footers and under
for the experiment—a class that will include the
22-foot cracks, Rosetta, ASolus, and St. Crispin, a
trio, without a doubt, worthy of a race to them-
selves. Lovers of open-boat racing were robbed
of a good contest by the ridiculous handicapping
of the National Regatta people, and now the
Snails’ Bayites are about to throw a further dam-
per on the 22-foot clippers with their “mixed”
race. We have seen some big breezes at Snails’
Bay regattas in years gone by, and given we have
one on February 14th, we must, even at the risk of
being considered ungallant by our fair readers,
enter our protest against the gentler sex forming
part of the crew of an open racing boat, even
though only fore and aft sails are used.
The prospects of Sydney having a show of
winning the coming Intercolonial Eight-oar race
do not at present look very cheering. There is
dissention in the camp. So-and-so won’t row
behind Sc-and-so, and if So-and-e# is not allowed to
row So-and-so will also stand out. This sort of
thing should be nipped in the bud. How the stroke
has hitherto been fixed on we are not aware, but
as one of the selection committee is an aspirant
for the post it cannot very well be left to that
body, and we think the fairest way would be to let
the crew select their own stroke, by ballot if neces-
sary. Perhaps the best crew in the harbour could
be formed by fixing the men up as follows:—
Johnson, Martin, Seale, Kennedy, Brodie, Gaden,
Bros No. 7, and Brett, stroke. Should any of the
eight object to row after the crew had been Anally
Axed up, then let the Association take a hint from
the Melbourne cricketing authorities, and dis-
qualify the growler or growlers from being picked
in an eight again. To win an Intercolonial Eight,
the Welshmen will have to pull together in more
senses than one.
In response to an invitation sent out by
Mr. J. B. Welllngs, honorary secretary of the
Sydney Tricycle Club, nearly thirty tricyclists ran
out to Botany on Saturday, Aghtlng hard with
dust and a head wind all the way All kinds of
machines were represented—three large sociables,
a tandem, front-steerers and rear-steerers, of all
sizes, down to the little racing Humber, which
Bennett bestrode. Mr. Mulholland (captain) and
Mr. J. Prior (vice-captain) marshalled the com-
pany, who started from the Town Hall about 5
o’clock, and the procession attracted consider-
able attention as it passed up George-street.
Several bicyclists accompanied, and the little
safety Kangaroo machine was an object of
curiosity. Arrived at the Sir Joseph Banks,
a good wash and stroll round Atted all for
tea, after which followed toasts. Mr. W. B.
George, treasurer of the Sydney B. Club (a cycling
rider for 40 years), 'was chairman, and gave “The
Queen.” Mr. James Martin, president of N.S.W.
Cyclists’ Union, gave “ Sport,” coupled with the
name of the Sydney Tricycle Club. The prospects of
the coming season were bright as anyone could
wish; the sport of cycling was itself one of the
best and healthiest in the world; hitherto its fair
name was above even the breath of suspicion, and
he Itrusted all would use’their bestlnAuenoo to
“ keep cycling clean.” Mr. James Copland pro-
posed “The Ladies,” and Mr. Q. M. Moore, secretary
to the Union, replied. Mr. R. Shute, captain
Suburban Club, proposed “.The Press,” regretting
that cycling events were so inadequately noticed
by the dally papers. Captain Mulholland toasted
the Visitors—amongst whom were several ladies—
and after a medal for attendance had been pre-
sented to the same gentleman, and a vote of
thanks given to the 8.T.C. for their hospitality,
lamps were lighted, and the cavalcade wheeled
home to Sydney.
Edwards had to play second fiddle to
Harry Vaughan in the “ forty-eight hours’ heel
and toe” recently brought off at the City Hall.
Lawrence (Mass.) There were throe en tries—600
doi. each—the third man being John Meagher, a
local celebrity, who, on the strength of private
trials, was served up a good favourite. The powers
of the Yank, apparently, were something like his
name— meagre— for he had to knock off after com-
pleting 147 miles, leaving Vaughan and Edwards
to fight out the issue between them. The latter,
finally, was beaten by 11 miles, the winner finish-
ing with 181 to hi® credit, but none too fresh.
From the aspect of the men, after the trouble was
over, good judges were unanimous in declaring
that it would be odds on the Australian for a six-
days’ ramble. This is more than probable, because
Vaughan has never proved himself a sticker,
and has thrown up the sponge, if we re-
member rightly, upon each occasion that he
has gone in for a whole week of it. Per-
haps he don’t want to die too soon. As a
walker, though, in the proper sense of the word,
Vaughan leaves nothing to be desired. A tall,
slim, shapely fellow; ho glides over the ground
with all the grace of the ghost in Hamlet, and it’s
a treat to see him. While on the subject of pe-
destrianlsm, we may record the fact that Powell,
the most successful among the “ wobblers,” a year
or two back, has been worsted by George Little-
wood, in a six-days go-as-you-plese, atthe London
Aquarium. Recent performances show that thq
sturdy little Cambridgeshire man has seen his best
day. He made a big pile in the States, and the best
thing he can do now. is to retire into peace and
plenty—or a pub. Speaking of that reminds us
that Edwards has announced his intention of “ re-
tiring from the walking world, and joining the
commercial busineM." There’s a beautiful vague-
ness about the last term, but we wish him success,
anyway. At present he appears to be studying
commercial questions in London.
It is matter of current belief in America
that no Englishman of middle or lower rank has
ever yet been able to manage his aspirates. Also,
it is generally understood that the word “ bloody ”
bears about the same proportion to any other
word, in an average Englishman’s vocabulary, as
honest John Falstatf’s sack did to the bread. Sulli-
van, the champion fighting-man, and other roughs
and rowdies, being American born, speak, accord-
ing to the newspapers, with perfect correctness,
but Mitchell, Greenfield, and all others convicted
of the crime of being English, have hideous vocal
peculiarities, the lika of which are impossible out-
side the keu of a New York reporter. On the
morning after the bout with Sullivan, Greenfield,
was late in arriving at the place of hearing, and
this is hew he explains his delay:—“Hi weent to
the wroong Coort. First hi weent to the Coort as
hi weent to yesterday, hand hit was the wroong
one. Hand then hi weent to the Coort $s hi weent
to hafore that, hand hit was the wroong one.
hand then hi weent to the first one. Hit’s a deal
o’ bother. Hi’ve been ’ere two weeks, hand hi’ve
spent three days in the Coorts.” This is from the
New York Herald, in the same column of which
Sullivan had just before been speaking- in
the most refined and polished penny-a-line manner.
The New York Truth follows suit presently.
Sullivan having said something about Greenfield
padding himself, an Interviewer sought out the
latter, who is made to say, “Well, it’s a bloomin’
bloody houtrage, yer know. The honly thing Hy
pads his me ’ands.” There is no sqeamishness in
any of the high-class New York papers about re-
peating this objectionable word “ bloody,” which
teems ever the signal that a blarsted Britisher is
talking, and which never gets the b—y dash
accorded it on this side by sensitive editors and
printers. When asked by the N.Y. Truth man
why he thought the story about his padding was
circulated, Greenfield replied, “Ow can Hytell?
to hlnjure me, I suppose, blast ’em. Hy comes
hover to ’ave a square set-to hand now has hit his
off they says has ’ow Hy pad. Hit’s ha beastly lie.”
The soullers had a grand morning for a
spin last Sunday, the light north-easter that was
blowing down below being scarcely perceptible on
the river. Hanlan was out with ’Lias, and did a
spin In the new boat by Donnelly and Sullivan
but she seemed altogether too big for a compara-
tively light man, being only a pound or so lighter
than the craft turned out by the same builders for
Clifford. The same firm have built another boat
for Hanlan, on the same lines, so far as bottom is
concerned, but much shallower. However, should
both fail to suit the Canadian, it is not altogether
off the cards that Layoock’s old veteran, The
Joker, may come into requisition. She is a grand
old boat, and probably the most perfect model in
the colony. Hanlan did a couple of hundred
yards’ spin for the edification of his Fides Acha-
tes, Mr. T. M, Alcock, the well - known Hay-
market jeweller, and a few friends. Striking some
38 strokes to the minute, he appeared to get
good pace out of the boat, but, to our fancy, he
appeared to try to do too much, and “ screwed” a
good deal in consequence, although we have
noticed he always “ screws” more or less when
fully extended. Laycock accompanied him in his
row, and, albeit he was rowing in an old and, we
might say, waterlogged boat, he showed pace that
led us to the conclusion there is plenty of “go ” in
the old horse yet. Clifford came down the river
by himself, and whether he was foxing or not
we cannot say, but certain it la his show was
dissappointing after Hanlan’s compact and dashing
style. Though possessed of immense reach, he
appears to overreach himself, and it is scarcely
necessary to inform our aquatic readers that when
a man gets out beyond a certain limit—spread-
eagled, as it were—be is not in a position to use his
strength to advantage at the first and vital part of
the stroke. Clifford’s boat appeared to settle down
in the middle, and cock up at the ends, but he
should have no difficulty in boating himself, as he
is possessed of boats enough to start a rowing club
on his own account. Beach looked in grand fettle,
sculling down the river with Charley Messenger,
and to our liking, never sculled to better advan-
tage. In great contrast to Clifford, he looked
compact, and with a good, though not overreach,
fairly lifted the boat every stroke; but he does
not appear to have the knack of keeping his boat
going as well as the Canadian, with his dashing and
lively style. Clifford may have done something
wonderful in private for his party, but if any
criterion may be taken from his rows in public, we
expect to see a procession of two on the Parra-
matta River on Saturday next, with Hanlan lead-
ing.
Puck, ’85, 6d. (post 7d.) You will miss a treat if
you do not procure a copy of this popular Illus-
trated work I All booksellers. Alex. M’Kinley
and Co., Sydney.
The “ bookies ” were bavin# a quiet “ Nap.”
When the rails beca me somewhat unstable.
And the “sleeper ” came cropper some 20 feet
And scattered the “ loot ” from the table.
Four centuries down, went flying about,
When the train rushed into the gap,
And Joe, with a satisfied smirk on his mug
Had Just played the first card for a “ Nap.”
There was trouble about, and Joe was hauled out,
With ribs smashed and thoroughly soared;
But “ Yld ” blood showed out, as he cried with a
shout—
“ A bit later I wouldn’t have oared,
May I never eat anything Kosher again,
May I never with Bill Freeman quarrel,
May a moas-a-meshinnah come o'er me now
If I wouldn’t got through for a ‘ moral.’ ”
MASHER: “AH-H. PERMIT MB TO ESCORT YOU. LADIES V”
LADIES: “CERTAINLY; WE’RE JUST GOING TO GET SOME ICE CREAMS.’
THAT SETTLED IT.


NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
I
TAILOBS,
Late of 418 George-street,
TO
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR FROM GEORGE-STREET.
N
*
I
THEY have ARRIVED.
An Immense delivery
of
YANKEE RUBBER
BABIES.
Goes In the waistcoat poc
kit; blows out to life size;
is washable, durable, and
unbreakable ; resembles
life, for like the real article
it coos at pleasure, and yet
screams awfully if smacked
Experienced fathers are deceived by these laugh-
ter-producing infants, and no home is really a
happy one without their presence. Price (post
free): largest, Is. 6d.; medium, Is. 3d.
Also, just in, a large assortment of Conjuring
Tricks, catalogues on application.
THE WIZARD CARDS,
changing from eights
to deuces, from black to
red, and baek again at the
pleasure of the per-
former. Post free, with
full instructions, Is. 2d.
I’m a Daddy ; I’m in
Love; The Mother-in-law;
I’m a Farder; and Be
fore and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever Issued, 9 in each set.
Price, 6d. per set, or 5 sets for 2s.; by post, 2s. 2d.
The Three Donkeys. The newest “ have ” out.
Send for them, but keep It quiet. Price, Is.; by
post, Is. 2d.
The Sooner Dog—a wonderful little animal;
roars of laughter follow him wherever he goes.
Is. fid.; by post, 2s. fid.
Napoleon in Council, very rich, Is. fid.; by post, 3s.
-V
HORTON and CO.,
Box 841, O.P.O.
401 George-street, Sydney.
OR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate in Medicine and Surgery, Registered
Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours : 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., 7 to 9 on Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday Evenings.
Ladles’ Waiting Room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
11, 52 Castlercagh-street (upstairs.)
Send for Free Treatise on Vitality and Nervous
Debility, Diseases of Women.
Illustrated Works on Deformities, Electricity
and its Application. Hernia (ruptures), Varicocele,
&c., &c.
Address—Australian Medical and Surgical In-
firmary, Sydney ; or B. O. HOLTERMANN. Esq.,
M.P., President, Box 120, G.P.O.
Consultation Free by mail or in person.
Deformities, Specific. Female, and Nervous
Diseases, a Specialty.
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of William-street, Hyde Park.
High-class Furniture
At Very Lowest Prices, compatible with the finest
workmanship and finish, for entrance halls,
dining-rooms, drawing-rooms, bedrooms,
and libraries.
CARPETS IN NEWEST DESIGNS AND
FINEST QUALITY.
WILTON CARPETS, BRUSSELS CARPETS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With Hearthrugs to match.
CORLICINE AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL AND
BLACK AND BRASS,
In all sizes and various designs*
Foster's Bugle Brand.
COMPAGNONI CATERING GO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. * *
T" E Mt.?cl a .? d c^S'of c M.%”?5Voiu N b 8 :«- 4? tore ' s t0 Hto WorMp the “*'■
%&r GRILL, ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 n m (after the
oi h thecl^v b and f?i? "W* ’ aD « 8ee . lt L n th « ™orn. Thi s one of tL acquisitions
and rltv 1 ri’nh l™ Z fl 1 U In spection Invited Cmb rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Club
ana uty Uuh. upstairs. E; D. TOLLEMACHE, General Man
mm
v-'
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
Australian mutual fire society.
—
_ Established 1872.
«« with power to increase to £l,000.f00
BONUSES—20 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
•pejfAnj aj« optun
oas oq SnfqsfM umnappaea Xay -a N
©S
‘1TYH nyj
onv
‘laauis 39U039 OZG
TlMVOX T
looovaox HSiYtmi ann<t
8p«cn 1830 9qj 9.IB svuivdcmj
anv
' sooovaox Nvoraawy xsaun.i
oqq mojj opmn _,
9y»9JBH[3 ?!9(I oqq 9JB <\U31 NVld 010
SENT FREE, by POST ONLY, In an Envelope.
SOCIAL ’SCIENCE,
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders which
cause Impediments t© Marriage, and all
Chronic Diseases; also. How to choose a partner
for life, so as to live happy and produce healthy
children ; and how to regain and preserve your
health, &o., &c.
Address: R. T. SELBT, Medical Herbalist,
Devonshire-street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALB
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE*
GLASS, CHINA,
▲STB
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general ,
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and OO.'S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgn Pale Ale.
ESTABLISHED I860.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
ii mi
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRAS8E8,
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX,
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&c., &c.
BLEND
I KAO
mark
» . Bill
Agents.
*** Head Offices.
First Fire Society established in the colony on
the Mutual principle, (riving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
,F,° li^:£older8 are P erf ectly free by law from
an liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlemert for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
The BEST ALE and STOUT In the Market
BOLD B7 ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINKi
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
JgBssaRdoi
MiGIRffS'
KSSEKPKo. UFK
I
-=^
e only infallible remedy for
//ERyoifsJjEBilijyT
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes Incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustlve derangement of the system: regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
v v w a v tuv 'I tv w i. uu v 1m LX UI tlii i X Ctlliv|
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tor
tlons. In oases at 12a., or four quantities is one for
<6s.; If by coach, 2s. ttd. extra. Agents for Sydney,*
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
Btreet. Ons Door from Georg j-street South.
T
ALL WOMEN
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
1&~ TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, In either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY
IN SOAP 1
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with It ;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
Od. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
VENET1A WALTZ:
Tht Air to bt wsU narkmt. OiitourK LowTiniir,
pp&auitabiU.
Pod
Pci
Pea
BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &c.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &c.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues will be ready In a few days and
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes. Menu
Cards.
All orders executed In best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels.
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
solicited to all the leading maga-
Call and see the two most Important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograpn
ta , k . e 8°tf 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies,
bend and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
W. E. DRAPE & CO..
MINING BROKERS AND AGENTS,
Mining Exchange,
FITZROY STREET, ROCKHAMPTON.
Commissions entrusted to our care executed with
Judgment and despatch. Latest Mining Intelli-
gence from the surrounding fields.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Offices—PITT and KING STREETS.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—ALTERATION OP Ab
HANGBMENT8 at the
LAVENDER BAY
Swimming Baths
(the enly pure sea-water baths near Sydney.)
Open every day for Ladies and Gentlemen froi
6 a.m. till dark.
Admission. 3d.; Children, accompanied by ad
2d.; 100 tickets, 21s.; Monthly Tickets, 5s.;
nual Tickets, from 1st September, 21s.
_l»“ SWIMMING TAUGHT by Mr. Frederick
Cavill, the world-renowned swimmer, who swar
from Prance to England In 12 hours, 20th August
1877. Six Lessons, 21s. The North Shore Pen-
Steamers leave the Circular Quay for the Bath
every quarter-of-an-hour.
adulti
Ad
HOhESTY IS THE BEST POLICY
oswri
rne
DHN
nOJj
It Is of the utmost Importance that contents of
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will And a difference
of lO percent. In favour of LORNE HIGH-
LAIS Jj WnloKYi
VIROOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
J. MASSEY, Jun.,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found It a
last with the Argosy Braces at G owing Bros.
//
&
GrOWING- BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. Od., 3s., 3s. Gd.,& 4s. Gd
GOWING BROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, &o.
332 and 498 George-street.


BNITUK1 SHOW BOOM
JP OBNITO SI 8
H
BRADLEY and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HAT8TAND8,
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion : well worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, Ac.
VERY ELEGANT, just received, Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms. Ac.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON.
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-pound bedroom suiTEs.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and twe chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB. O’OonneU-street.
BDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble ton
and tne back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached: PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD. and § CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
Xi —
B
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
CHEAP PURNITURB.-Plne Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 13s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s-
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
5
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
iil strong, and durable, Trichord full
ampass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs In Blaek and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, Ac.
STIHIPFONNIBR WHATNOTS, effective designs,
V_y Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
CrConnell-street.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens lor fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
D Connell-street.
RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES,
ees, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
u
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and Inex-
penslve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80a the pair.
X71ULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM—SIDE-
r BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-atreet.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
IBLVADJUSTING HAMMOCK CIAIfi-
Patented.
r7*
'■'J
Mm
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
Bitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet Ingenious in Its
construction; works automatically. The above
enious in Its
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can bo obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It Is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort la desired.
The frames arc of the best Eastern ash—strong.
when
and LAMB (only). Packing In canvas, if required,
2s. 6d. extra. __
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
B
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
T71RAMEW0RK for DINING-ROOM FURlNl-
JC TURE, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
_ U UI1U i«oDclVD» III UttAf
Walnut, and’ Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
EDSTBAD8, nickel-plated and black andbrass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
EDSTBAD8, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BDDING.—All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB. O’Con-
nell and Spring streets.
W
a:
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 28s. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chain.
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment; best make, lowest prices.
SOCIAL
The Londoners' Club, which is yet scar-
cely a year old, and has had rooms for some time
In Elizaboth-street, has now removed hi to splen-
did new premises at lo Charlotte Place, Cnurch
Hill. New rules have oeen lately passed, the sub-
scription Increased, and the Club altogether placed
on a higher basis. The rooms have been most
comfortably furnished by a company, formed by
the members themselves taking up shares, and it
Is Intended to have them rendered In all ways
worthy of such a large and important club. Dr.
Bslgrave is re-elected President, and it may be
stated that under the new rules, the advantages
of the Club are not restricted to Londoners alone,
but other eligible Englishmen may become mem-
bers.
♦ ♦ *
One of the grandest pictures in the world
has lately been completed by Mr. Chevalier to the
order of Sir William Clarke. It is the product of
over two year’s constant work, and created im-
mense excitement in tbo artistic circles of London.
It is the Renunciation of Buddha, and in both
conception and painting is sublimely beautiful.
In the dim Jl«ht of the morning* dawn, in a noble
room, where the effulgent rays from the golden
awinwing lamps begin to pal':, stands Pilaco
Gautama-beautiful as a doml-god. All night long
he has fought with his soul, and he has conquered.
His countless wealth, his kingship and power,
his luxuries and his hosts of courtly friends, his
beautiful bride-wife aud only child—all have been
weighed, and all have been renounced for duty.
Not because he had exhausted the pleasures of the
world, but, in the prime of his manhood and the
midst of life’s dearest enjoyments, he gives all up
to enter on the most exalted career of self-abne-
gation and divinely charitable ministration In the
history of humankind. His resolve Is made, and
in that rich room replete with Oriental mag-
nificence, the Prince Gautama stands for the last
time, taking leave of his sleeping wife, ere he
passes out from his palace gates, an empty-handed
wanderer on earth. Such was the founder of
Buddhism more than 2000 years ago, a religion with
now four hundred millions of adherents. Such is
the picture Chevalier has painted for our colonial
baronet, Sir William Clarke. It is curious that
such a pioture of the renouncement of riches
should be painted for the richest man south of the
1Ine ‘
A splendid collection of native articles
from New Guinea was on view in Pitt-street,
last week The things wore most curious and
valuable, including articles of domestic usv, war
weapons, musical instruments, stone tomahawks,
birds’ plumage, etc., ana were shown by the
collector, Mr. T. F. Bevan, who most oblig-
ingly furnished Information. The jagged spears
—which gc into you so easily, but won’t come out
Again—were especially interesting, and made us
feel creepy. Among other articles was what
looked like a New Guinea orlnolette. It was a
narrow piece of fabric with a fringe of feathers,
which, we were Informed, the native Indy puts
round her waist when she goes out. Always
thirsting for knowledge, we asked tho exhibitor,
“ Does she put it over her dress, or underneath?
“That is her dress,” he replied. We blushed, and
came away. # *
Why the weather was so. Young Spoons,
not having seen his best girl for nearly a week,
seems to have been affected by the recent
bumptious weather considerably, for he wrote
this, and asked us if we’d put it In. Well, years ago,
we used to get that way sometimes ourselves, so
In it goes.
Tricvdine bids fair to become popular
•with ladies in Sydney. Under shelter of the
vatrue and friendly moonlight, many a time a
glimpse is seen of some fair one courageously
practising the art of pedalling, generally not un-
accompanied by a protector of the more muscular
sex?on a sociable. It’s livelier work than pedal-
ling the muoh-punished piano, and its a great
deal healthier, too. And if anyone runs away
with the idea that it’s manmh, he or she is com-
pletely wrong. Ten years ago it may have been,
with the heavy machines then made. But the ex-
quisite delicacy with which the most modern tri-
cycles are built, renders them so light, so graceful,
and so easy to propel, as quite to demolish the
idea that any unwomanly exertion is required to
ride them along. Naturally, the first time of
wetting on. it is not exactly like shelling peas.
Everything requires some little practice, and
there's art to be learned in tricycling, and
more than one lesson required to make
it thoroughly easy for a lady. But at home,
now the beautiful, cobwebby machines, ss
daintily put together as a watch, and yet as strong
os the finest metal can make them, are so favoured
that In all parts of both town and country ladies
ride them regularly, from the Princess of Wales to
the curate’s wife, who pedals on her Imperial or
Cheylesmore to the village Dorcas meeting. In
numberless cases, parents have purchased them
for schoolgirls to use daily along the country
roads If any one doubted the growing popularity
of the tricycle in Sydney, last Saturday would
have been convincing. Notwithstanding the morn-
ing had been terribly warm, nearly thirty tricycles
were gathered at the Town Hall by 5 o clock,
when, after being photographed, the whole parly,
at the invitation of the Sydney Tricycle Club, rode
out to tea at Botany. And among them were two
ladles. It is a good ride; Brickfield Hill was stiff,
and a strong head wind blew in from the Bay the
whole time; yet the ladies kept in the front rank,
and arrived before a good many of the single
trike young men. Bach fair rider, it may be
said had a first class travelling companion, the
gentlemen being two of the most experienced and
best riders in the colony. The presence of other
ladies and guests at tea rendered the meal a very
merry one; and if there’s one excerclse that gives
a human being a phenomenal appetite-it is cylmg.
Tha d st of honour at table was taken by “ the
father of cycling ” in N.S.W., Mr. W. R. George,
on either hand being Mr. James Pain and Captain
Mulholland. Speeches were informal, and it is un-
necessary to repeat them; even all the insidiously
pretty compliments that Mr. James Copland
paid the ladies must pass, so as to let a
few words of weight from the Rev. George Martin
amiear. His testimony is remarkable. He took
to tricycling when suffering from norvojs exhaus-
tion caused by severe work. In one week his
headaches went, and never came back. As an ex-
ercise. he found cycling not only beneficial and
exhilarating, but with it was the additional advan-
tage of utility. He desired to emphasise that: his
triovcle was not a toy, but an actual steed that
carried him about his work. After tea, lamps
were lighted, and the procession travelled back to
town, where all separated their various ways.
The Sydney Tricycle Club inteud to have other
social gatherings of the same kind, and next time,
probably, other members will persuade some more
ladies how agreeable it la, and ride out with, at least,
the legal number men are allowed to have—one
each.
• • *
This shows how contagious a good exam-
ple Is. Only last week wo told how one of the
Bernasoonl belies was married, and now, with
mingled delight and interest, we record that Miss
Josephine Bernasoonl has met with a similar ex-
3uisuo fate. The ladles are cousins. On the 31st
anuary, the Church of England at Wellington
was tastily adorned for the ceremony, which was
performed bv that eminently poetical pillar of the
Church, the Rev. Sydney G. Fielding, in the pre-
sence of a bright-eyed gathering of the fair bride’s
friends. But it should also be mentioned that out
of respect for the bridegroom, Mr. 8. R. Adshead,
an army of commercial travellers—of which noble
army he is one—gathered to comfort him In his
hour of ordeal. A full choral service was given,
and the bride, who wore a pretty cream silk dress,
trimmed with lace, a long train, and a wealth of
orange-blossoms, was cheered by the company of
four charming bridesmaids. Misses Bernasoonl
(sister) and Hosio wore pale pink broche dresses
and wreath, and Misses P, Forward and Hughes
were embellished with cream nun’s veiling and
likewise wreaths-theS whole quartette looking
happy and hopeful, as girls ought to do on achiev-
ing another step nearer their heart's desire.
Among the guests, a younger sister and Miss A.
Thompson, both in cream India muslin, were
daintily nice. Breakfast was provided by Moss, of
the Royal, in the Oddfellows’ Hall, when toasts
went sparkling round, and where, later on, a plea-
sant dance was kept up. The happy pair came on
to Sydney, and will reside at Summer Hill.
« • «
On Saturday, the 24th January, Commo-
dore Erskine gave a garden party at his residence,
Carthona. Darling Point. The day was most un-
favourable-close and showery, and very little
out-door amusement could be indulged in. The
Commodore, ever thoughtful for the ladies, had a
room specially set apart for dancing, and from
time to time young couples would be seen enjoy-
ing themselves to their heart’s content, and en-
dangering the peace of mind of the new officers.
One young lady particularly, whose full “ house-
maid ’’ skirts showed a bewllderingly pretty little
ankle, and whose eyes kept time to her feet
seemed—all unconsciously, too, which added to the
charm—to be doing wholesale execution. If visi-
tors to the ball on Friday had cause to complain of
lack of sufficient refreshments, those who were
guests at Carthona on Saturday had no such griev-
ance, for in almost every room tables were in-
vitingly spread, and champagne flowed freer than
city water. The dresses of the ladies were,
for the most part, handsome, one lady being
in white satin, another In pale blue, and yet
another in a magnificent costume of striped
orange and myrtle satin. A tall, graceful
figure looked well in grey and crimson, with small
crimson bonnet and veil. Two very young girls—
the Misses Constable, of Balmain—attracted a
great deal of attention, not merely from the fact
of their near connection to the host, but from
their charming appearance and perfect costume.
It was past 6 o’clock before all the “good-byes”
were spoken, and the last carriage rolled away to
the strains of “ Homeward Bound,” played by the
band of the Nelson, which had enlivened
the whole of the afternoon by Its charming
selections. On Wednesday, the 38th January,
the Commodore bade farewell to New South Wales,
and proceeded to Hobart. Rumour has it that the
visit to Hobart Is of a very interesting character,
and that the gallant Commodore will there become
a benedick. Another report is that he is to pay
but a flying visit to Tasmania and return to
Sydney before his final departure for England.
We are in a position to contradict both these re-
ports. Commodore Erskine will not return to
N.8.W., hut will remain In Tasmania until it Is
time to Join the steamer in Melbourne, which is to
sail ;about the 12th instant. Miss Constable will
leave for England at the same time, under the
special charge of a lady selected by the B shop,
and she will be married by her father, who is rector
of Frome, upon her arrival at home. The married
pair will then proceed to Scotland, where the
Commodore's estates are, and where the bride’s
relations, on her father's side, have lived for
centuries.
• • •
It seems that it is the Metropolitan and not
the Sydney Liedertafel which is in danger of
*• busting up.” Queer, how we should get so mixed
about them, but perhaps our informant was him-
self “ mixed” when he confided to us that there
was terrible discord amongst the latter. We now
hear that Herr Alpin resigned his position of
conductor of the Metropolitan last Monday night.
Pity, for they were getting along quite nicely.
Who will say, after this, that it Is only In a mixed
society of ladles and gentlemen that they have
rows?
• • •
An impressive wedding at Tamworth on
Wednesday week. In St. John's Church, was that
of Mr. Robert Mitchell, manager of the Bank of
New South Wales, Glen lanes, to Miss Florence
May, eldest daughter of Mr. B. Q. Lewis, J.P.,
merchant, of Tamworth. The bride was adorned
with a dress of cream cashmerette trimmed with
broche and lace, and looked very pretty walking
up the aisle—as the local editor describes it,
" bathed In the sacred blushes of maiden modesty.
Six bridesmaids wore white grass-cloth toilets,
trimmed with lace, and cardinal and blue ribbons,
respectively, with hats to correspond. Music
accompanied the ceremony, and breakfast was
held at Mr. Lewis’s residence, after which the
honeymoon commenced. As no less than live of
the bride’s maids were her sisters, It’s evident
there’s a large field still open for matrimonial
speculation In one of the leading families of Tam-
worth.
• ■ •
And now the artists—the men who try
with pen, pencil, or brush, to cover paper and can-
vas with the ( hdast ) evanescent forms dally at-
tracting their notice In this droll world of ours—
have broken out. They gave a "smoke” night
last week, as if to show that a keen appreciation of
Nature’s Protean aspects was not Incompatible
with a penchant for clay pipes and strong tobacco
—might, indeed, be found hyphened to an Idolatry
for tripe or a love for threepenny “ wollop.” Nor
was the fun confined to the budding Raphaels and
Da VJnols amongst us. Artists in other walks—
who could more successfully manipulate a plle-
driver than a palette—were there in battalions.
The “ jaynil ” one was there, and, with a good deal
of originality, described It as the proudest moment
in bis life. As the enjoyment became general and
noisy, Dan might be seen In a corner struggling with
a long clay pipe and punctuating his remarks with
reminiscences which should have been told on the
foc’s’le of the Nelson when the blue-jackets were
at prayers and only the marines listening. Dan
said ’twas the first nlpe he over smoked in bis life.
God forgive you, Dan, aviek machree. Nothing
but a tramp to Rome with boulders in your
brogues will ever get you absolution for that re-
mark. And Tom Slattery was there. Hurrah.
And there, also, was a solemn, saturnine, slx-foot-
slx artist, who is said to live in a cave at Watson a
Bay. This stranger we embrace. But for him the
most sonorous verse in that wonderful “ Psalm of
Life” would be still a mystery.
* * * *
Archbishop Moran delivered the prizes to
scholars at St. Mary’s school, on Thursday, before
a large audience of ladies and gentlemen. His
Grace pitied those who received no other training
than that Imparted in Secularist schools....A pic-
nic near Warrnambool (V.) had a curious ending.
Pushing through dense undergrowth and vegeta-
tion, the party had begun to settle down In a
lovely dell, filled with splendid tree-ferns, water-
falls, flowers, and other beauties ef Nature, when
one lady gave a wild shriek, and hastily grabbing
her clothes, caracoled out of sight. Some com-
panions had scarcely started after her to see what
was the matter, when the shrieking became
general, and lladles on all bands were clutching at
their skirts, in frantic efforts to gat at some In-
visible source of annoyance. Those who had hus-
bands called on them for assistance; those who
had not, dared not ask the help of gentlemen
(For continuation of SOULAL. Me next pageJ
I really can't think why the weather, for days,
Was so hopelessly dark;
To me It was duller In several wa ys
Than to Noah In the ark.
It was dreary and dusk, with a boisterous storm
Nearly every night, . . . .
Though the season Is Summer, and ought to be
warm.
And delectably bright.
Every day it was dull, and in Heaven so blue—
Where the stars ought to Hash-
All was sadness and gloom—till I thought upon
you,
My own little Mash.
So that is the reason the weather was eo-
No fault in the skies;
It was simply because, little sweetheart, you
know,
1 missed your bright eyes I
The Art Society held Its first Conversazione at the Royal Arcade on Thursday
evening of last week. There were about half a hundred present of artists and their
guests. The entertainment consisted of conversation, cheese, beer, biscuits, bon mots,
songs, sketches, and smoke. A contingent of the Liedertafel enlivened the occasion
with some of their sprightliest glees. Mr. Charles Huenerbeln presided at the piano,
made a speech, and sang a comic song in the Chinese language, in which all present
joined. Other comic songs and recitations in various languages added to the good
humour of the evening. Mr. Dan O’Connor gave a recitation about a charge of six
hundred, and from the way in which the “janiel one” warmed to the subject, it was
apparent that he considered the “charge” a rather excessive one. The momentary
gloom oast over the assemblage by this last performance was quickly dispelled by a
comic song with which Mr. Slattery, M.L.A., “obliged,” entitled “The heart bowed
down.” After this, everyone took some more biscuit and cheese, refilled his pipe, and
the evening ended in smoke and mutual congratulations upon the success of this
first “ smoke night,” and the artists have determined to make it a regular monthly
feature of their Society.


&
N
N
WKST’8 Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
In Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &c. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castlereagh-street, near Bathurst-street. P.8.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior In ventilation,
soring floor, &o. No decorations required.
Royal Hotel,
Bungendore.
FIRST CLASS ACCOMMODATION - .
J. McMAHON, Proprietor.
Jt m
IPlans.
both nut.
a
»/
c
LAST WEEK FOR <5 LOTS.
as am.r thU ilS r !„ 0 .'f l ,^”i t ', 1 . r ' i " 5 ' Ne3 ' t 1 wm ]>’ In timn to (ooure tbe last of the f5 lott;
as alter the 10th instant the remainder (if any) will be
£7 PER LOT,
must^oVe^Lo^f^SS. 1116 NEW ,NDUSTItIES *re about starting wbioh
mnntha U BiS«f r w^, a * we advertised as to the advance in the value of this land twelve
doubled™*** **“ eXOeeded - SJf^T&S'SS
Send for plan before too late.
BO-3T3D <35 SING-,
Auctioneers,
96 Pitt Street.
ox THE
IB ric field
ODE STAY EDO CHUT IEPAKTMEST,
/(?
CO
o
<_-v
o'
I
ss
Gr)
uO
%
&
v
r if5
8
'SN
sent to any Railway Station
Free of Charge.
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and. Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPERM BUSKS),.
2s, lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., 6s. Od., Cs. 6d., 7s. 6d., 8s. fid,, «», Od., 10a. Gd., 13s6d
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS, 668, Brickfield Hill.
N.B.—Orders from the Country will receive
Immediate and careful attention.
IN THE PRESS, and to be published shortly, the
HISTORY OF THE YEAR 1884.
A complete record day by day of every event of
interest to the colony, in town or country. Com-
piled with areat care, and Intended to fill, as a
work of reference, a long-felt want.
Send 5s. 6d. stamps to
JOHN WOODS AND CO. (Limited).
Bridge-street, Sydney.
(Social, continued from page 16.)
u Oder the delicate circumstance*. The wet unde
growth swarmed with leeches, who had climbed
up the unfortunate picnickers, and commenced
banquet on them; ladies being, for reasons wblo
will perhaps be obvious, the first attacked,
the/rushed from the haunted dell, one fair suf
ferer after another would hastily drop out from
the ranks, and, behind some friendly tree, searc
lor an offending leech. When the tent wa
reached, there was the quickest disrobing o
record. But the picnic was spoiled that day ..
Two daughters of the Hon. G. R. Dibbs. Colonla
Treasurer, are shortly to be married On Thurs-
day night last, a social reunion was held by mem
bers of the N.S.W. Art Society, in their rooms,
th« Royal Arcade. Specimens of artists’ wor
were shown, songs given and recitations, an
music and smoke mingled in the air. In future
ladies may be present —A child recently died i
Paris through having her ears unskilfully pierce
by a jeweller, who had sold her earrings. Th
piercing injured the cartilage a »d caused inflam
mation. Tne jewelier was fined, and also cast i
damages, to be paid to the parents.... Th
Minister for Works is having a fine mansion
built up the river, at Ryde. At present Mr
Wright lives in a pre-historlc kind of hous
in Pitt-street, Redfern. It is a very modes
houee, made of the same material as tram
way officials’ heads — wood Commodore Brs
kine left Sydney for Hobart last week Mr
Adams, who gained the £3000 verdict for libe
from the son of England’s Lord Chief Justice
which verdict was immediately reversed by the
Judge, has married the lady whose father put be
onboard wages, Miss Milllcent Coleridge. ..Ata
late ball, the committee were stunid enough tc
rope off a special space for Prince Ed ware
of Wales to dance in, and only a selec
few were allowed to go near him. Some
?eople left the ball in consequence
dnnean Society object to ladies being present a
meetings, but will allow them to become associate
members with all other privileges, for a guinea
year....New School of Arts ewon to be opened a
Morpeth, with a bazaar—A fany dress ball was
held to celebrate Anniversary night in Merriwa
School of Arts. ..Early Closing Association at
Wagga, though baulked by rain from picnicking,
hired a hall,"and carried on games by dav anc
dancing alt night on the 36th January....Quong
Tart has been starring as a singer down at Wol-
longong, in a hospital concert A ball was given
by the limited public of Norfolk Island last month,
in honour of the visit of the Government steamer,
Thetis, with Mr. Wilkinson, visiting magistrate,
and others on board.,,,When Miss Carrie Astor
was married to Mr, Orme Wilson, in the art gallery
of her father’s mansion, she had the most beauti-
ful girls of New York for her bridesmaids, and the
presents were so numerous that it is reckoned at
least a thousand people sent her something worth
a rich girl having —Balmain people, and lovers
of water sport generally, are looking forward to a
nice afternoon on Saturday, the Uth Feb., when
Snail’s Bay regatta takes place. W. R. Ainsworth’s
name la quite a guarantee that It will be ener-
getically managed, and the four-masted vessel
Kontraere has been kindly lent by Captain Tickle,
for a flagship, on which ladles will receive all at-
tention— Messrs Needs resume their classes at
Nlthsdale on Monday evening next.. .Next Fri-
day, 6th February, a complimentary return dance
will bo given in West’s rooms to the six young
ladles who so prettily played hostess themselves
lately. Their “ hop ” in the Foresters’ Hall was so
enjoyable, that the gentlemen thought they could
do no less than make a graceful recognition of it.
Dancing at 8.30. .. Last Tuesday, the Birmingham
and Midland Club held a concert and dance in their
rooms* Pitt-street. A note thereof next week. ..
The son of a great Scotch publishing firm is
to marry the daughter of a late auctioneer, who
was, take him for all three, the wittiest, worthiest,
and handsomestfman in Melbourne—in other!words.
Miss Gemrqell is the lady.... A distinguished party,
including Mr. J. A. Froude, Hons. Way and Gil-
lies, and Lord Rlphinstone. went out a few days
ago to inspect Sir Samuel Wilson’s grand property
and residence of Broildoun, near Ballarat. Sir Sam
Save nearly a quarter of a million for the place
liss Eva Carmichael, of Loch Ard fame, was re-
cently married to a Mr. Townehend.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
‘ D. 0- F. ? Received too late for last week
and item too stale for this. Jt was postmarker
five days later than written “Qnyx ’’; Not
published, because you didn’t send your name.
Account) must be sent to us frankly and fairly;
unsigned squibs are not looked at twice.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Mr. Hyndes’s Complimentary Concert
(new Masonic Hall) February 5.
Comp. Party to Ladies (West's Booms) February 6.
Oxford Private Social Club Concert
(Protestant Hall) February 18.
Snail's Bay Regatta February 14.
Drapers’ Association Picnic (Cabarita) February 26.
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Bear Beia/e,— Yes, you are quite right.
Betrayal is the answer to the celebrated Gladstone
puzzle. But, confess now. dear, did you not use
a dictionary to assist you in the solution 2 J be-
lieve you did, which spoils it altogether, and-
exouse me for saying so—but I give you no credit
if you had recourse to such a help. These puzzles
are quite a fashionable pastime now at home, so,
as I know you like to be with the fashions, I will
send you some more to solve; but, mind you,
there must bo no dictionary used in future. Any
amount of puzzles come to my mind, only I can't
find the answers. Now, It was a puzzle to me to
know Iwhy, on last Monday week (Anniversary
Day, you know), when we were homeward bound,
and went to the tram terminus to take our seats,
we were told we must walk on to Bent-street, as
we were not allowed to enter a tram at the accus-
tomed place. I suppose the authorities had a good
reason for making such an arrangement, but,
rack our brains as we would, wc could not
think what it could possibly be. It made
me quite sorry to see all the poor holiday makers
spoiling their gala dresses in the rain; for you
may remember it came down in torrents Just as
they were all returning home, and of course there
Isn’t any shelter anywhere near Bent-street. It
was a wretched finish to the holiday, for tired
mothers, with half-a-dozen little children cling-
ing to their skirts and a baby in their arms, looked
as If they had paid dearly for their outing. And
can you understand the feeling, dear, which
prompts our gallant Englishmen to be ashamed of
carrying their little children in the streets? I won-
der if they think it takes anything off their man-
hood, to relieve their poor wives a bit that way.
For my part, I think nothing looks so contempti-
ble as to see a big strong man allow his weak and
perhaps delicate wife to struggle under a weight
which to him|wouldfbe a mere nothing; and, after
all. for what? Just because he fancies helooks ridi-
culous —and they would rather be unmanly than
look ridiculous, I do believe. Ohl dear, I saw such i
a lot of the bad side of human nature that day, as
we waited in the pouring rain for our tram, which,
as a matter of course, was behind time because it
was raining, and wo had no shelter, and there was
not a vestige of a cab to be seen anywhere. I saw
10 much that I was miserable for a week after.
Ther© wore some dudes with umbrellas, who not
only did not offer them to the poor women who
had not bad tne forethought to bring theirs
with them, but allowed the drippings to drench
whoever was unfortunate enough to be nearest to
them, whilst, with a very little management,
they could have prevented It; and then, when the
tram did draw up, I quite coincided with Max
O Heirs opinion that the Englishman is not gal-
lant as a rule. Now, don’t think I have read Max
0 Roll's book, “John Bull’s Womankind,” fori I
haven’t; but I have heard papa and Ned talking
about It, and I gather that this clever writer has
rather a contempt for both English men and
women. 1 cannot get them to Jet me have the
book, from which I infer that it is rather naughty
or something; but it must be very nice, for they
talk of it so much, and seem altogether quite
amused with it. I am quite determined to get
hold of the book at any cost, for I think it quite
right that we should know all that has been written
about us—whether it’s good or bad. Don’t you ?
I have just this moment been acting the part of
peace-maker. It appears our new housemaid, who
docsnt yet understand our ways, has been—oh!
horrorJ—“tidying ” Ned’s study. Consequently,
all his papers are topsy-turvy, and he was in a
towering rage, and wanted to send the poor girl
away at once. Men are so unreasonable at such
times, aren’t they ? It is all the same to them (till
they cool down) whether the wrong was meditated
or not—they mugt have revenge. “ But Ned, dear,”
1 *®ld, ’it might have been much worse.”
Worse ? How could that be ? ” “ Weil, don’t vou
remember what happened to Millais once ? ” “No;
what was it ? ’’ “ Well, Just when he was putting
the finishing touches to his first portrait he had
occasion to leave bis studio, and, as he was expect-
ing visitors to view his work that day. the maid
took the opportunity to slip in and fix things up.
She knew her master set great store by this por-
trait, and, as she had a kind, sympathetic heart,
she wanted it to look its very best upon this occa-
sion. So she took her duster, and gently rubbed
it up and down, and up and down, and, as the
Saint was still wet, just Imagine to yourself poor
lillais horror, who came in just in time to be too
late to save his beautiful picture.” My anecdote
quite pacified my hot-tompered brother, for I ob-
serve. dear, that nothing soothes us so much in
times of trouble as to hear that other people have
had to suffer more than ourselves.
You ask me why I did not go to the Musical
Union concert last Saturday week. Well, in the
first place, it was given in the afternoon, and to
sit out a concert on a Saturday afternoon, of all
hours in the week, is quite too much to expect of
us. In the second place, it turned out to be a
miserably wet afternoon, which meant that our
hair would come out of friz; and what girl in
Sydney has the courage to go to a fashionable
concert at the University, with the danger of the
students being around, with her hair damp end
straight, straggling ungracefully over her fore-
head? I tell you, dear, we dared not run
the chance of looking so ridiculous, so we
stayed at home Instead, and had kettle-drum
nf' k£2 68 r p '* Edl f h *£ old U8 about a friend
of hers—I forget the name, but It doesn’t
matter — who had just received her wed-
ding trousseau from Paris, and upon the zinc-lined
case being opened, It was found that, through Im-
perfectsoldering of the zinc, the salt water had
penetrated and saturated all the beautiful dresses.
ui that distressing? She said one dress
which had cost over a hundred guineas, was so
completely rotton that It fell to pieces list at a
touch. In fact, from what she says, the whole
r . ul P ed ’ l f were ray trousseau,
I think I should take an action against the man
you"? 04861 I I should be annoyed,
Mr. Harry Hyndes is going to give his debut
at the New Masonic Hall,
a ?* d *5 18 by Invitation, it will no doubt be well
attended. I remember quite well hearing the
gentleman perform before he went home to study,
and we all thought him a brilliant performer
% re not a llttle anxious
tohear him now that be has matured his talent
with practice and study. I hear that he is a com-
poser also, gome of bis invitation cards are verv
gorgeous Indeed. The one sent to Government
P? 1 * 8 ® w »s of blue velvet, with white satin tablets
Inlaid, on which were the letterings in divers
colours. Isn’t that nice ? The ordinary ones—for
commonplace people like us, you know—are simply
white, with gin; lettering. It will be refreshing
to see the new Masonic Hall well filled, for there is
SriJ be that the prejudice against the
Hall has not yet been overcome; and yet there is
oo comparison between the merits of it and the
old Masonic. It is larger, more cheerful, and, best
thing’ Cteaner ’ but P re J udi °o over-rules every-
The first string quartette composed by a ladv.
has just been published in London. It is said to
iL oredl tf *1® but we are won-
dering here whether the tact of the composer
EUloott, the Bishop af Gloucester’s
daughter, lends any merit to the work or not I
heard some one remark, the other day, that it was
!L^ n8 isL thin i? th J at 80 t ew women composed
mus „ N ow, ?* ow do we hnow that such is the
case ? Certainly, very few publish their composi-
tions, simply because it is so expensive; but I
firmly believe that there is not a little good music
written by women that never sees the light, I
Jt2W B 'J ad .y in fcydoey who has written
some verj fair dance music, some of which she has
Published 1 but, by doing so, she found herself so
mueh out of pocket, that she has decided to. lay
aside her talent, as It is too expensive a luxury to
Indulge in. I have often wondered how it Is that
that really charming song, “ The Dell of Dreams,”
has not become more popular here. The music is
by Mr. Delaney and the words by Mr. Daley, and I
don t hesitate to say that had Gounod's name been
given as the composer, the song would have be-
come one of ou,r prime favourites. And It Is
wonderful how warmly we welcome really in-
ferior stuff, if it is from the pen of a popular
composer—we think it must be good, and make
much of It accordingly. Pity we don’t trust more
to our judgment, rather than to. a name.
Get one of these comfortable, flexible, fit-any-
body Jerseys, dear, at once. They are In great
favour in Paris, and I can foresee there will be a
run on them here, and soon you will be unable to
procure one. The principal establishments here
have them, but they differ from the plain jerseys
which were worn three or four years ago, in that
they are handsomely trimmed with braiding.
Madame Rad cliff wears a beautiful crimson one
trimmed with gold braid, Hussar fashion, in com-
bination with a navy-blue skirt. They (the jerseys)
are very becoming when the figure is good, and
although rather expensive, they are very service-
able. I am just going to Peapes and Shaw’s to
secure one, before it is too late. So good-bye, dear,
Ever yours,
MAB.
Puck, 83, 6d.'(po8t 7d.); 34 pages Illustrations and
oonuc letterpress. A genuine success. Only a lew
copies unsold. All booksellers and Alex. M‘Klnlcy
and Oo„ Sydney.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
nag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 60t Hunter-street, Sydney *


N OCTOGENARIAN'S GRATITUDE.
A FACT.
George-street, Sydney, September 1, 1884.
Messrs. Myers and Solomon.
Gentlemen,—It gives me considerable pleasure
to tender you my best thanks for your kind re-
commendation of St. Jacobs Oil. Acting upon
your advice, I tried it, and am happy to say the
very first application brought me instant relief;
and, by following it up for a couple of days, I felt
completely cured. Before using St. Jacobs Oil I
suffered severely—more especially from swollen
knees—and had tried many other remedies without
the least effect. However, I have to thank it for
making me myself again, and shall be careful to
recommend it.
I may mention that I shall be 80 years of age in
October, and believe that through its use I shall be
able to spend a pleasant birthday.
Yours laithfully,
JOSEPH HENRY.
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.8.W.;
price, 2s. 6d. per bottle.
Political Pionts
The South Australian Navy (one gunboat)
has been found most useful already—tor Minis-
terial picnics. M
The Adelaide aldermen can be neatly de-
scriptive. One described another’s voice as a
tin-kettle voice.”
A South Australian politician has nega-
tively described a working man. He said, N°
man who employs other men can be called a work-
ing man.”
• 'A little comfort for Mr. Dailey. The West
Australian attributes the attitude of the New
Bouth Wales Ministry on the annexation queston
to a spirit of miserable provincial jealousy.
This is a nice way to write-about a Cabinet
Minister. The Ballarat Star says that Mr. Gillies,
who in the absence of his colleagues, haato com-
bine the supervision of half-a-dozen departments,
does so by “giving the gins a treat in Oolllns-
street.”
Have we an Inspector of Torpedoes in
New South Wales. If we have, let us hope that
the appointment was not made on the same ground
hs that of the New Zealand chap. He got his billet
“ because torpedoes are a great source of danger
to those who use them.”
Besides the Imperial veto on the New
Zealand annexation of Samoa, aimther matter
interfered. One fourth of the Expeditionary
Force was down with sickness. An armed consta-
bulary man In the Hinemoa got'inflammationof
'the bowels. And it is little incidents like these
that influence groat events and make up history.
The Victorian Minister for Defence has
received a complete set of the things for playing
Krugspiel,” or “The Game of War.” with
Several members of the Assembly are going to
urotest against this extravagance when the ses-
sion opens. They say that a euchre pack or a dice
box tew much as any Minister wants for amuse-
It is all very well to laugh at Mr. Ninian
Melville and his Protectionist theories; but he
can olead a very important movement in England
te his favour. The undertakers and coffin makers
there ate being ruined by Free Trade in the shape of
oK imported coffins from Norway and Sweden.
So there can be no harm in preventing such a blow
at native industry here.
The Brewarrina Express and Norman s
NuiSA-NCK is a dear, delightful little paper, but it
should not be so hard on the Gladstone Ministry.
It has a whole leader on their effeteness, a D< i
on the wickedness of the party who supportthem
n the British Parliament. But, after all, it will be
triad news to the Marquis of Salisbury and Pug
Churchill that at least Brewarrina is Conservative
and aristocratic.
“ They did not intend to revive the Peace
Preservation Act, as they did not object to natives
nasslng up and down and holding meetings, pro-
vided they kept within the bounds of the law.
This is not a quotation from an English Govern,
ment official ruling Ireland. Oh dear, no I it s
onlv what Mr. Ballance, the New Zealand Native
Minister, said to the West Coast Maorles a fort-
night ago.
Sir Julius Vogel, the New Zealand Trea-
surer. has now gotnis old enemy, the gout, as such
a permanent lodger that be Is unable to leave his
official residence under Tlnakorl Hill, Wellington,
where deputations, brother Ministers, and even
the Governor himself have to wait on hlm. Near
the close of the last session of Pari ament, Sir
Julius, speaking with evident sincerity, said he
doubted whether he could live another year.
The New Zealand Premier, Mr. Stout,
attended a meeting of the Trades and Labour Con-
gress in Dunedin, and made a speech in complete
sympathy with Trades Unions. Further, he raid
that no state can be considered well-governed in
which a large portion of the popuUtion are badly
clad, badly housed, and badly fed lu Australia
and New Zealand the bare chance of such an evil
in the future must be prevented in the present.
It may be no harm to remind people that
Mr. Dailey has good Liberal traditions, even though
he does not wish to fight Germany. In May, 1861,
a meeting of the Executive Council decided, and
the Governor ratified the decision, that twenty
new members should be added Legislative
Council This was because, owiufr to toe Council s
senseless obstinacy on the Land Bill. It was neces-
sary to swamp it. The first of the new members
was to be William Bede Dailey.
Sir Archibald Miohie has the same In-filt
as Lord Melbourne’s friend, who was always too
damned cook sure of a thing.” . At oa at
the Melbourne Town Hall, Sir Archibald said that
if he nad been Agent-General, German annexation
in the Pacific would never have taken place.
There was a man on the Thames gold-field who
attributed the downfall of Napoleon J 1 *,** 0 'S
tention to a warning book written by him. But
that man was put in a raad-houso.
Fancy a country without politics. That’s
what West Australia Is now. The Legislative
elections are over, but the members have not been
sworn In and will not be tor some time, so there
are no politics to discuss, no Council to talk about
-in fact, as the little boy said, “ no nothing. This
is a pity. But there’s no disease without a remedy.
Why don’t they invito Tom Slattery and Richard-
fl0“and the O’Sullivan over? They would find
politics, or make them, to talk or.
The foreign correspondents of the Morn-
ing Hebai.p are always settling things for the
world at large in a comfortable manner that is
Immediately upset by events. Thus in his last
letter from Hongkong’, dated December 23rd, the
correspondent suggests to China the uselessness
of continuing her struggle with France. It is a
pity that the Chinese did not hear this in time, and
then they would not have had the bad taste to re-
pulse the French at Formosa a week ago.
The absentee landholders in the United
States are threatened, not with heavy and excep-
tional taxation, but with absolute extinction. A
telegram from Philadelphia, which appeared in the
London Times states that “ the House Committee
on Public Lands has unanimously decided to
report a Bill providing that no alien foreigners
shall acquire a title to. or own, lands within the
United States. Foreign born persons who have
legally declared their intention to become citizens
of the United States, may, however, acquire
homesteads.”
In anticipation of the passing of the new
Franchise and Redistribution Bills, the constituen-
cies of Great Britain and Ireland have already
begun to search for and canvass the merits of can-
didates for their representation in Parliament.
Among the evidences of the awakening and
sprc-ad of the democratic opinion in Scotland, not
the least striking is the movement that has been
started in Glasgow, to invite Mr. J. Morrison
Davidson, barrister-at-law, author of The Book
of Kings,” to which we recently directed the
attention of the readers of The Bulletin,” to con-
test one of the electoral districts into which that
city is to be divided.
All Australian Governments profess to be
Liberal. They have to do so. Therefore, when
the Maryborough correspondent of a Brisbane
paper says that at a late election they proved true
to the Llbeial colours, there may be some enquiry
as to which are the Liberal colours. But no one
will dispute about his words when he writes;
“ Thank God we have the Germans and the Danes
on the Liberal side. Whilst Englishmen, Irishmen,
and Scotchmen lose their heads and get split up
Into opposing factions, they continue steady and
united and are ever found to give their support to
the cause of liberty and progress.” And it’s no
wonder. There’s deuced little liberty in Germany?
so “the people” there are lovers of it.
During last quarter 43 marriages were
celebrated in Maryborough, Queensland, being the
largest number ever registered In three months
In that town. And the Maryborough Chronicle
says this may bo regarded as one of the most hope-
ful signs of the times, and a feather in the cap of
the Liberal Ministry. We have given a lot of
thought to this, and yet we don t see It. its a
delicate question, however you look at it, ana
more suited for the columns of a purely philo-
sophloal Journal, like the Protestant Standard,
than for ours, perhaps. Does it ™ ean .th a t. conse-
quent upon the reign of the Moll wraith Ministry,
the Maryborough people were in the habit of dis-
pensing with the marriage ceremony? Or does it
mean but further speculation only takes us
deeper into political morals. We leave the ques-
tion to Dean Cowper.
We should look at home before we make
such a fuss about rescuing the New Guinea natives
from cannibalism. Our great Richard the Lion
Heart was a cannibal. The last number of the
“Revue de DeuxMondes” tells us what lots of
otherwise pleasant people were and are cannibals,
and also gives the story about Richard, in the East,
being sick to death, and longing for a pig s head.
But pig. being an abomination, could not be got in
the land, so the cooks dressed up a Saracen s head,
and Richard made as good a meal off it as a mem-
ber of Parliament or a Press reporter at a free
feed. Then Richard took such a liking to this
kind of pig’s head that, as the old Chronicler said—
“ King Richard shall warrant
There is no flesh so nourrlssant
Unto an Englishman—
Partridge, plover, heron, ne swan,
Cow ne ox, sheep ne swine—
As the head of Saraslne.”
We hope this is not libel. We have read it
forwards, backwards, and upside-down, and can-
not see any libel in it; but the devil and the
lawyers only know that there may be some, de-
spite all our carefulness. However, libel or no
li bel, we are going to risk It, and give the news, for
it is, politically, moat Important. Here it is. Sir
1 Henry Parkea, It la said, la the editor of the Parra-
! matta Fuller’s Cloth. This Is on good authority,
I but. should it be wrong, we hope both parties won t
be annoyed. The wrath of one will be quite suffl-
dent for the moment. And should we be right,
will there not be joy In heaven (we mean Parra-
matta) amongst the good men who edit the other
paper table napkins. Fancy Fergy now being able
to write “The Ex-Premier who now bosses our
worthless contemporary;’’ or, “The played-out
politician who edits our miserable opponent.
Why, as Fergy would say himself, “ Tell ye, mon.
it’s just fine. As for little Fitz on the Donoohub
Nobbs, he won’t know himself when he reflects
that locally, at least, he is the equal of Sir Henry.
Puck, ’85, (post 7d.) You will miss a treat if
you do not procure a copy of this popular Illus-
trated work I All booksellers. Alex. M'Klaley
and Co., Sydney.
Among the list of successful jockeys at
home, we find the name of John Osborne, with m
wins to his credit for last season. Not a bad record
this for a man on the shady side of 60- Jooka, on
this side, might well take a leaf out of his book,
and remember that-" ’Tis not the miles we travel,
but the pace that kills.”
Backers of Hales’s mounts will derive
a not altogether unselfish satisfaction from the
news that their wily champion has got the better
of a nasty bout of Illness, and will soon be gladden-
ing their eyes once more—
And creeping up against the rails
Will one familiar form be found;
For, often as our Thomas alls,
The doctors always bring him round.
And while we’re speaking of the heroes of the
pig-skin, we may mention that thenewspapor men
have been interviewing Fred Archer on his arrival
in New York. One scribe got quite gushing in his
description of Archer’s personal attractions, and
mentioned that “ his lips do not close sufficiently
to wholly shut from view his handsome teeth.
This is immense. The renowned Freddy rejoices
in what is generally known as a buck mouth, and
his teeth are about as big as those of the horses he
rides. Girls generaly kiss him on the back of the
head for choice.
The “ Commercials ” of Brisbane cele-
brated their anniversary dinner in the Bananaland
capital a few weeks ago, the big gun of the occasion
being Sir Thomas MTlwraith. Some one earned
the news to Thady O’Kane, who, with his usual
promptness, uncorked a bottle, dipped his pen in
gall, and wrote anent the bagmen s banquet:—
“ sir Thomas MTlwraith was the boss drummer
present. He could ‘runrings’ round the other
Bagmen present, and show them dodges they never
dreamt of. In every branch of trade he Is an ex-
pert. He could boast of his large purchases of
Polynesian blacks and New Guinea-fouls. He is
well up in steel rails, and his house did a good
thing in them once. On wool, ships, mortgages,
loans, Interest, and general cutenesa he 1s an ora-
cle—no wonder the assembled bagmen bowed
down and worshipped this living embodiment o.f
the Golden Calf. ,r This was InJudlolousof Thady,
because there are slight signs of the M liwralthian
party getting back to office, and, in case they do
Thady will find some difficulty in turning his coat
so as to show the proper sort of tartan.
A funny exhibition every year, in Paris,
is that ot tne “ Incoherent Artists.” It is a sort of
scape-valve for the eccentricities of genius. The
best artists send contributions, and were tney
judged by these pictures, they would all be re-
garded as very mad painters. Unbridled scope is
given to wierdest fancy, and the wildest atrocities
of colour are intentionally produced. One picture
is called “ La Famille de Lesseps.” representing a
train of children in graduating sizes, extending as
far as the eye can see, but all showing the backs of
their heads. It is peculiarly significant to Paris,
who knows how very often the great Frenchman
has made himself a delighted father. Another
frame represents a great whirl of flaming red hair
across the canvas—nothing else. In a third is the
atmosphere filled with flying nuts leaving the bas-
ket of a juvenile nut-seller without any apparent
cause, and flying across the street, to his infinite
amazement. On another canvas is a beautiful
young girl standing in a church porch counting
her beads, with her skirts all up above her knees,
and further revealing—don’t blush— one cork lea.
Under is the motto, “ Faith in God alone sustains.
The artists are all called “ Perpetrators.
“ German Syrup.”—No other medicine in
the world has ever given such a test of its cura-
tive qualities as Boschee’s German Syrup. In
three years two million four hundred thousand
small bottles of this medicine were distributed
free of charge by Druggists In the United States of
America to those afflicted with Consumption,
Asthma, Croup, severe Coughs, Pneumonia, and
other diseases of the throat and lungs, giving the
afflicted undeniable proof that German Syrup will
cure them. The result has been that Druggists in
every town and village in civilized countries are
recommending it to their customers. Go to your
Druggist and ask what they know about it. Sample
Bottles ad. Regular size, 8s. 6d* Three doses wid
relieve any case.
The New Neighbour in Waterloo.
Once glance at each other is enough to con-
vince Mrs. Murphy and Mrs. Muldoon that
they never can be friendly.
The fortunes of war seem to favour big Mrs.
Muldoon.
In fact they commence an aggressive cam-
paign.
But thefence breaking down equalizes the
skirmish, j
And an irrepressible conflict is begun,
Giving the two husbands a chance to drink
to each other’s good luck.


T-A-CIKZ THOMPSONT,
A.J.C. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON,
91 King-street,
W N.B.-I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
READ THIS I
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 IOh. each,
Warranted for three years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 PHt-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER ANu JEWELLER
Black Swan Hotel,
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magnificient s.s. lllawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o'clock.
1 nnA DOMESTIC PAPER FASHIONS
shown in our Illustrated Catalogue
Price, Threepence ; by Post, Fourpencb.
CHAP PEL & CO.,
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern and General Sewing-machine
Agency,
746 GEORGE ST., HAY MARKET, SYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and all fittings, &c., kept in
stock.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GENT.’S BO, Is. 6d.; 100, 2s. 8d,
LADIES’ ... ... .. 50, 28. fld. ; 100, 39. 04.
Address, 6d, extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 38. 6d.; 260. 6s. 6d.; 500, 10s.; 1000. IBs.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
in mi co.,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
M. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-atreot.)
From the Strand, London.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 354 and 356 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on I or the benefit of the late Mr.
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manager.
, and CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. K. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
II. HARDWARE, ail MED HIE,
Importers of
STEAM ENGINE 3 , ENGINEERS' TOOLS and REQUISITES. WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS.
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBCILDBRV
MATERIALS. SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &o.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS. PAINTS, aud
BRUSHWARE
FENCING WIRE,
WOOLPACK8
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
PORTABLE, FIXED
and SEMI-FIXED EN-
GINES
VERTICAL and HORI-
ZONTAL BOILERS
TEAM and
PUMPS
other
LATHES. PLANING,
SHAPING, SCREW.
ING - and DRILLING
r MACHINES
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
f FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
&c.
“ Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Ogice
- 54 YORK STREET.
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR,
SYDNEY.
. 85 GKACECBTJRCg STREET,
BARGAINS! BARGAINS!! BARGAINS!!
Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
& co.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO, ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
Last Week of Sale. ‘Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
Ladies should secure the
CHEAP LACES AND UNDERCLOTHING AT ROSSALIE, LLOYD Sc CO.’S SALE.
4s. in the iiound taken oft' your Bill.
Thousands of Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laces,
Remnants of Ribbons. Remnants of Ribbons. Summer Millinery. Summer Millinery.
A MAGNIFICENT STOCK ALL INCLUDED IN THE SALE.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD &. CO.
Umbrellas. Umbrellas. Parasols. Parasols.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.,
NEAR THE GENERAL POST OFFICE.
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robe Makers.
Trousers from 31s. to 4©s.
jgr- N.B.-Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Co.
W. Shearsby & Co., Albert House, Temple Court,. Elizabeth-st.
W. H. ARIELL & CO.’S Agencies,
KENT STREET (near King-street', SYDNEY.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S Celebrated Biscuits, Cakes, Treac’le, and Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MILLS Prize Victorian Oatmeal, Flour, and Pearl Barley
DILLON. BURROWS & CO.’S Prize Assorted Confectionery and Bonbons.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, in }{, X- and 11b. tins.
SWALLOW & IIERIIAM’8 Queensland Refined Sugars.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN hold Medal Condensed Milk, the best in the market.
R. WH1TLCNGHAM & CO.’S London Provisions and Qiflieral Merchandise,
107 Pitt-stree^;,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER
LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LiADTES AND GENTLEMEN.
BOTTEB33,
■« SnMStfp°l b re a v P e P n°SS d e S8&SH5& USSUSHET
THOMAS HUG GINS, Proprietor.
Holiday Presents.
w.
PALING
All
AND CO. (Limited),
COTTAGE,
UPRIGHT GRAND
SEMI-GRAND,
CONCERT GRAND
PIANOS,
by the
MOST RENOWNED
MAKERS
in the
WORLD.
HAVE JUST RECEIVED A MAGNIFICENT SHIPMENT OF
AMERICAN
ORGANS,
b
BELL and CO.,
PALACE CO.,
STORY and CO.,
at
PRICES to SUIT ALL
CUSTOMERS.
These instruments have been SPECIALLY SELECTED by Mr. W. H. PALING, who is NOW
inese ms in EUROPE, and may justly be considered
SEB ill MOST HI
of Musical Instruments ever introduced to Australia.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms.
Mr. PALING has also FORWARDED a COMPLETE ASSORTMENT of
Z3 O HsZ E S,
FROM TWO TO SIXTEEN AIRS.
These Goods will be Sold at Unheard-of Prices.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


aV
tWUm
* * 2 I
Jus> opened by
'w,. LANG.B1
cfl'Oj)
NNAIA
54- & 5(® Wi LuiAM
PLENDID REFRESHMENT FOr\j'LADIES&GENTESwifffl
Tfje Pasfry-. Tea. Cream .Refreshments
are -unequalled.- --
The Cafe & Refreshment Rcw?$>op£n daily from SAM fa II 30P.M
_ <2 On Su11 P.M.
Orders Punctual,lV^cliv"ep 1 ed to'^amof Town to II P.M
Specially Established for Private Order Trade
►
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
Y&U
9?
#
AT
UE
K
CVl
TRIX
'I
s»
agents for
WEAKER
PLATES
'ITA iW
A
* W H
READ IT ALS..
It may Save year Life.
hop hitters
AM
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake, and Band e Ion.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
4 and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
• ‘ and life and health restoring agent on
‘ earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Age
and Inflrm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladles, and all those
'whose sedentary employments cause
‘Irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
* Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are Invaluable, being
* highly curative,' tonic, and stimulating,
‘ without intoxicating. ’
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment Is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
•once. It may sate your life. Hun-
* dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
* friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘ use Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
•purest and boat Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be 1
‘without It.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING
M ehourne, Australa, Rochester, N. Y.,11. 8.
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
WeakWcrvniisMgB
new nna direct method* and absolute thor-
oughness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Cowulling Physician Of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., BSCastlereigh St., Sydney
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay
and failure to perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood ia
THE MARSTON BOLUS.
_ Neither stomach drugging na»>
- .instruments. This treatment of!
> Jiervou* Debility and!
. . , T* JPhyslcal Decay isunuormly/
successful because based on perfect diagnosis.
%
Christmas Presents and New
Year's Gifts!
J - US T RECEIVED, a Large Assortment of
Gold & Silver Jewellery,
“SUITABLE FOR PRESENTS,
Ladies’ Gold Drees Rings, from 10s.
Ladlea' Silver Watches, from £2 10s,
Gent.’s Silver Watches, from £8 10s.
And other articles too numerous to r aentlon.
C . ORAN T ,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWI 1LLER.
K84 George Street, Sydney.
Country Orders promptly atte nted to.
SOLE IMPORTER OP
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
SOLE AGENT FOR THE
SMITH ORGAN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
'•
m
ASTLE<S
■MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYD N EV
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH !
Al HONEST REMEDY. Prescribed by the BEST PHYSICIANS.
THEY WILL POSITIVELY
Nervous Headache in 6 minutes!!
Bilious Headache in 5 minutes!!
Neuralgia in 5 Minutes!!
Falling Hair and Baldness!!
Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp 1
Promptly Arrest Premature Grayness. Make the Hair grow long
and Glossy. Immediately Soothe the Weary Brain.
Mo. 1 Hair Brush
Mo. 2 Hair Brush
Mo, 3 Hair Brush
Mo. 4 Hair Brush
Mo. 6 Hair Brush
6s. Od.
7s. 3d.
9s. 6d.
11s. 6d.
13s. 6d.
Crewkerne, Nov. 12,1880.
Sir, —My patients have given
me a very satisfactory account
of Dr. Scott's Electric Hair Brush
One lady assures me that she gets no
neuralgia in her face if she uses it, and
others state that by a few minutes’ brush-
ing with the Electric Brush, a nervous headac lie,
or one arising from overwork or debility, is q uickly
removed. The invention is, I think, very va juable.
I am. your obedient servant, G . F Wr4M> M.D., M.R. 0.8. E.
From Dr. Lejcprikrr, D.C.L.. <bc.,St. John’s College, Oxfor d.
Their Royal Highnesses the PRINCE and PRINCESS of "WADES, PRINCE
BISMARCK, and the KING of HOLLAND each use a pair of Dr. Scott’s
Electric Hair Brushes, and a long list of Distinguished Patrons could be pub-
lished, and their Testimony added, did space permit.
The Brush Handle is made of a new odorless composition, resembling ebony; a combination
of substances producing a permanent electro-magnetic Current, which acts
immediately upon the Hair Glands and Follicles. This power can always be
tested by a silver compass, which accompanies each Brush.
PURE BRISTLES—NOT WIRES. Wire Brushes injure the Scalp,
and cause baldness and irritation.
The Right Honourable WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE, M.P.,
has written upon the merits of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair
Brushes, and has added them to his Toilet.
Lady A. CHURCHILL—daughter of the Duke of
Marlborough (hero of Blenheim), and sister of
Lord Bandclph Chuichiil, of Parlia-
mentary celebrity—uses them regularly
and thinks them unequalled for
the hair.
A Hi xndsome
Unbreaktb le BRUSH,
Elegantly Carvt id & Mounted.
Dec. 28, 1881.
Gentlemen,—-I have known and appreciated the great advantages of your Electric Hair Brush for fome time, and, as I find the benefits increasing,
I feel it my duty, as well as my pleasure, t o earnestly recommend it. No one who has not tried it can possibly imagine how material its comfort is,
Your Flesh Brush is only one more proof of the enormous fut4irc open to the scientific development of useful and beneficial domestic appliances
Brushes are indeed a wonder, and well wo,ah the money. Yours faithful)y<( c Lbmpr1 BRB> D . c . L-> &c
These Brushes oan ha obtained of allChemistffnad Fancy Storokceperajor will he forwarded
direct to any part of N.8.W. or Queensland upo'a receipt of prices named, with Is. added. Re-
mittances can be made In Cheques, Drafts, P.O., Orders, Stamps, or Currency. Cheques can be
crossed Union Bank of Australia, tee that the inane of Dr. Bcqtt isoutJioBoi,wiUiout which
none are genuine.
The
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
44 A MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY,
43T Send for Circular of
Dr. Scott’s Electric Flesh
Brushes, Corsets, is Belts
for Ladies’ and Gen-
tlemen’s use.
P.O. BOX 221
'I
A few days after the New Year the book-
sellers of Wellington, N.Z., were reduced to a con-
dition of helpless Idiocy, owing to the Incessant
demand made on them for the Christmas number
of the Sydney Bulletin, which they were unable
to supply. On January the third, His Excellency
'Governor Jervols called round in his carriage on
'every bodkseller In the city, but was unable to se-
'cure a single copy. Shortly afterwards, on the
same day, Sir Julius Vogel made the round of the
«hops in <b is easy one-horse-power chariot, and
was equally disappointed. And subsequently, a
wild man from the forests of Walrarapa, who has
not been in Wellington for twenty years, burst in
on a respectable lirm on Lambton Quay, and de-
manded.ln the name of all the gods, why the Christ-
mas Bulletin had not been sent. When he was
told that there was nota single copy in Wellington,
he went straight to the Union Company's office
and took a passage by the tlrst steamer to Sydney
to get his paper, and lodge his grievance at head-
quarters.
Phew! What a tail Ihe Kiwi birds are
beginning to cultivate down about the Hokitiaa
district. Looking over the hatched, matched, and
dispatched columns of a Maoriland exchange, we
get the following little daisy of a notice amongst
the happy.mlddle section .—“Jones—Baldwin — On
the 4th instant, at the residence of the bride’s
parents, by the Rev. Mr. Douglas, Paul Jones, of
Grevmduth, to Amy Ema Rachel, third daughter
of William Baldwin, Government Officer, Kanlerl.”
“ Government Officer ” Is “ good, very good,
very excellent good;—and yet Is not.” For
when It is tacked on to a Baldwin, why should It
be withheld from a mau with such a name as Paul
Jones? Both men bold precisely similar situations,
and both men—tell it not in Gath, and paste it not
up on the rooks at Bondi—both are full private
constables! “Honour thy father” is a mighty
good precept in its way, at times, but when it
comes to a matter of honouring one’s father-ln-iaw
with the title of Goverment Officer, as Haul has
done, the compliment borders on the skirts of sar-
casm. Next thing we’ll hear will be that the “ man
in possession ” claims to be a Deputy Judge iu
Waiting.
In a Sheffield ohapel, a member of con-
gregation, named Kent, “ who disbelieves in the
immortality of the sjul," after the singing of the
hymn, “Around the throne of God thousands of
children stand," exclaimed, “ This is a hateful lie:
there are not thousands of children in Heaven
pinging * Glory, glory, glory.’ ” ** The preacher,”
we read, ” hurriedly left the pulpit, and, seizing
Kent by the shoulder, forced him Into a seat. A
deacon afterwards expelled him from the build-
ing.’’ The popular idea of Heaven is intensely
vulgar and commonplace. We are inclined to re-
spect Mr. Kent. We shall be very sorry indeed if,
after slaving all these years amid the distractions
ef a newspaper office, we suddenly find ourselves
** resting in peace” in a place where the root is
tops% and the tiles are jjasper—where there Is a per-
petual procession of bad bands and big drummers;
where people with sashes and rosettes are always
setting out for harbour picnics; here Moody and
Rankey’a” ’ims” are shrieked all day in the ghostly
treble of millions of defunct public school “ kids,”
and where the manes of “converted” murderers,
who “ died ’appy,” appear before us wearing
sinister smiles and M collars of glory” (to hide the
aope-mark), and playing golden barrel-organs
(with, silver wheels, “jewelled in three holes,”)
workedt by handles of the most expensive lapls-
laguli. Good man, Kent!: We shake bands witn
you across the sea.
Useful Tonic for Digestive Organs.
93 COLLINS-STRERT EAST, Melbourne.
Opntlernen,—I have carefully examined the
samples of Bavarian Hep Bitter* which you
aont to me. They contain some useful tonics and
stimulants for the digestive organs, and appear to
he quite free from any deleterious ingredients,
Possessing these qualifications, and being palat-
able, with a fine aroma,.their use will doubtless be-
come universal. I have already recommended
them to several of say patients. Wishing you the
anocess you deserve,—I remain, yourg truly.
GEO. LE FEVRE, M.D.


T A L I A N
EMPORIUM
FANCY CHINA WARE,
comprising
TEA SETS, DESSERT SETS, VASES, ORNA-
MENTS, &o.
FANCY GOODS IN GREAT VARIETY.
Silk Fans, Ladies’ Belts, sunshades, Dolls, &o.
The Latest Novelties always on hand.
Best quality with reasonable prices.
B. JIARMONT, 4TO Georgc-strcet.
NO MORE CORNS I
CORNS AND WAnQS removed without palJ
bv the use of Palmer's Painless, Harmless,
and Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER.
This P’ eparatlon is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If appl ed accord-
ing to the directions, it will effectually remove
them in from six to eL ht days.
PALMER’S
Ml FACI/E CUBA
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Local.
This most wonderful Preparation has surpassed
all others in speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
how long or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed in producing the desired re-
sults ; and it can be most confidently reoomme ded.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general stores: wholesale by Messrs Elliott Bros.,
Sydney ; E. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton,
urlmwade. and Co., Melbourne; Kempthorne and
Prosser, Dunedin.
NEUSTADT and
COMPLETE
FURNISHERS,
39.154, 156, & 158 OXFORD-ST]
SYDNEY.
HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
Either, for Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers
flflAWHOOD RESTORED!
A Clergyman having tried every known
remedy lor the Cure of Nervous Exhaustion,
Premature Decay, &c., has at last discovered a
simple Self-Curb, which for the sake of suffering
humanity, be will send FREE the Prescription
which CURED him. Address, with self-addressed
stamped envelope—
Dr. E. A CLARKE, P'O. Box 293, Sydney.
ROWLANDS ODONTO is the best, pur-
est, and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such Row-
lands’ Odonto has always proved itself to bo.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA is a beautifully
pui-e, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and has
lately been much improved. Each box has inside
the lid a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwood,
Ph.D., F.C.8., &c. Sold in three tins : white, rose,
and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ ar-
ticles, ot 30, Hatton Garden, Loudon, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations
Wholesale and Retail Agents, Elliott Bros., B.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
HIGH - CLASS TAILORING.
WEST|END HOUSE,
168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Compagnoni’e.)
THE undersigned, r* cgnlsing the want of a
FIRST CLASS TAILORING ESTABLISH-
MENT, have OPENED the premises lately occu-
pied by the Bank of Australasia, at 168 PITT-
8THEET (THE WEST END HOUSE) where they
intend to carry on a High-class and Fashionable
Trade.
The public may feel assured that we shall be
able to maintain a high standard, when we state
that our Mr. Ward has had some years’ experience
in the best houses in Lo don, Paris, as well as in
first-class Sydney Fsfablishments, namely. Farmer
and Co’s and David Jones and Co.’s.
Our Mr. Wilson has had fully 20 years’ expe-
rience in the Australian trade, and has just re-
turned from England, where be visited ail the
principal Woollen Mills, including that of Hud-
dersfield, as as West ot England and Scotch
Mills. This will be a sufficient guarantee that the
tastes and requirements of the public will receive
the attention they deserve.
In conclusion, wo desire to say that we hope to
obtain a fair share of patronage, in return for
which we guarantee first-class work, all hand-
made, well shrunk, perfect fit, and all in tte latest
London and Paris styles.
Soliciting a trial, we remain,'
Very truly yours,
FREDERICK WILSON,
HUGH WARD.
Fashionable Tailors, Robe and Habit Makers.
West End House,
168 Pitt-strect. Sydney.
THB
IGNO
H
FAMOUS
N
EVER previously did any piano win such a hold
on the nubile as the Mignon has done since
Its introduction. Our competitors have no doubt
done their level best to rival us—blazoning forth
their bald imitations with a tremendous nourish
of trumpets. What result have they to show,
excepting to point to the gradual death of all their
offspring? The reason is soon found. Inferior
Instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted on the
public. But the right-thinking public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales of the HRignon Piano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found its way into every town almost of all
the colonies—in Victoria and New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north of Queens-
land ; in New Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE MIGNON
can be found, and its name is really a household
word.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for its size defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, because the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be had'on very easy TIME PAYMENT,
THB MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for first-class work and
richness of tone,
tW Illustrated Catalogue, with full description
of THE MIGNON and all other good instruments,
on application.
NICHOLSdiT AND CO.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
.'i- UHALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC i E,
RAINS, BRUISES, IURNS. SCALD 1, &c and
taken Internally cures DIARRH(EA, U YSEe; Y,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other *utfarnb aches
and pains.
Price, 2/- Sold Everywhere.
Q. E. MOULTON, sole prop; i. tor,
IELBOUENE - ZONE Y.
PAINT
.
BWaiSTURB •
A SAFE, CERTAIN. & SPEEDY CURB tor Ner-
vous and Genersu Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia.,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigas Jon, Loss ol
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, Loss of Vital Power, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effects it at once rem >ves all craving
for Alcohol. By its richness in p losnhorous ana
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL 8
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 0d., or 25s. a case.
Sole Proprietors, MARSHALL BRO PHKKS, M.t'.d.
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists. 104 ana
100 Market-street, near Hyde Park, **dney, and
6 Pltt-street, Circular-quay. TAKE NO SU 38T1-
TUTB.
-^.Tora,la.a,a^a.’s
Fills
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Hemedy !
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
Eerience. They overcome the worst form of
liseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
Immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
ffT 808 GEORGE STREET.
IV HOLES ALB
GKOCKK
and
WINK and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
BOLBAGKNT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
HAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERA!.
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
Vtr MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE,
0^9cottWi^
m
THE
lilt.
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever introduced into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, EASY TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine in the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS in Town and Country.
3?“ Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE tc
any part of the colony.
B. O. Holfermann & Co.,
Sole Agents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J. TURNER ROBINSON * CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-sfreet,
Established 1884,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS,
0T Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
A. & C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
SIS GEORGE STREET,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
JS 1 ” The most liberal bouse for Plano* and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invitbd.
JL. & C. Huenerbein,
318 GEORGE STREET.
W. H. CHARD AND GO.
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLAGE,
SYDNEY.
LIBERAL ADVANCES made on WOOL »f
other PRODUCE shipped to their London
Agents, Messrs. Redfern, Alexander and Co., 3
Great Winchester-street, B.C.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well-
known firm is given to all consignments.
DENTIST.
(Of America)
G UARANTEES
Perfect Fit aii Mastication.
S3T" PRICES MODERATE.
Corner George and Market Streets,
OVER HUNTER’S BOOT PALACH.
v'V' • '>'vV^VY^WVVv‘
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
" ' '■.W'*vvvv^.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
E
E
gS
m
=-u
(<u
ft"
&«>
<. ■
a-
co u
O
<A
P- 5
'U
W u)
•f-
*»■
3
3
E:«
■£
CO
o o>
At
u>
a.«
0£
r
«*>
~zr
$
cn
c>
o
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED
A. ±
Original
Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
□TDa-e ZRejLxa/ble 33-o.grg-les 1
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY.
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 2 4t Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)


VANITY FAIR.
Two English country ladies—mother and
daughter—have been convicted of cock fighting.
After this let no one say that women are not as fit
to exercise the franchise as men Flirting is
“attention without Intention.”.... A curate was
bolding a chatty conversation upon religious mat-
ters with an aged female parishioner. Amongst
other things, he asked her: "And what do you
think of St. Paul’s doctrine of ‘ total depravity ?
“ Oh, sir,” replied the old lady devoutly, " I think
it is a beautiful doctrine, if people would only act
up to It.” J. and H. Maxwell have published a
new novel, In three volumes, by Miss Alice O’Con-
nell, granddaughter of the famous Irish liberator.
It is entitled “Loyal. Brave, and True." . .The
latest addition to American journalism is Baby-
hood, a paper devoted to the interests of the nur-
sery. Feeding bottles and Infants’ food offer
scope for the Imaginative writer, and prize babes,
twins, or a lusus natural should open up prospects
for the enterprising interviewers. If the paper
could be edited by asuokling it would be unique ...
An old maid la Nashville keeps a parrot which
swears, and a monkey which chews tobacco. She
says, between the two, she doesn’t miss a husband
much. ...A young law student, who objects to my
calling the members of bis profession a band of
rascals,” reminds me. says Bierce in the Wasp,
that Its rules and traditions are “grounded in ne-
cessity, tested by the probation of experience, ap-
proved by wisdom, and sanctioned by honour.”
They permit a man to lie for money -1 don’t know
that I have any further answer to make... Sa>s
the Bombay Gazette:-” At a large Masonic ban-
quet at Murrec, Cord Oarmoyle returned thanks
for the ladles In the course of bis speech, his
lordship statedjtbat it was a subject which ‘tilled
him with remorse.’” ...At Deroy Police Court,
Margaret Smedley, 83 years of age, was charged
with drunkenness. Addressing the Bench, the
prisoner quoted, “These tattered robes my
poverty bespeak. These hoary locks my lengthened
years proclaim.” On being discharged on account
of her years, prisoner addressed the presiding ma-
gistrate as “my love, ’ and hoped it would be the last
time she should have the honour of seeing him —
A German philosopher has found out that Martin
Luther threw his inkstand at the devil, because he
was bothering him tor editorial copy — The well-
behaved barber speaks when ho is spoken to,
agrees with you in politics and religion, has ar-
rived at the same conclusion in regard to the
weather, tells you that he sees a change for the
better in your blood, is quite sure there are not as
many gray hairs in your head as when he last
combed it, and knows tor a fact that there will be
far lees next time it you have your hair trimmed
and shampooed The cane which President Lin-
coln carried on the night of his assassination is now
the property of Colonel W. H. Harris, of Cleve-
land, who was with the President on that fateful
night. The cane has a bent top, a dog’s head
of ivory, and a narrow gold band, on which
is engraved “Abraham Lincoln, 1863 ”... A bar-
ber says that when a lady’s hair begins to
fall out, as after fever, it la much bettor to singe
it off than cut it. That is all very well;
but what is to bo done when a man’s hair begins
to come out after he gets married?—Mrs.
Langtry is to open her season in London with
“ The School for Scandal; ” but there is no truth
In the report that the scenes will be alternately
the interior of a Pullman car and the second
floor of an American hotel — In Belgium,
Wilhelm von Wazenberg has committed an
unprecedented murder, by strangling with
her own hair, in the presence of two
little children, a young woman of Laeken —
In addition to a "stage laughing” class at the
Lyceum, there is now organised a "sighing” class.
A curious action—an embrace The spinal
column relaxes generally, the medulla oblongata
especially, four arms reach forward, four elbows
bend, five fingers make a semicircle, and the
thing is done! And all prerequisites
brought Into use by a simultaneous thought
thus : An interrogation ; ■“ Will you ? ” An
exclamation: “Fes. be quick about it!’ Thus
the act is punctuated and emphasized
A man advertises for “ a plain girl to cook.” He
probably was afraid he would be hanged if he
cooked a pretty girl A clever and pious clergy-
man has made the important discovery that t ain
and Abel were the first pair of undressed kids ever
seen Tt isn’t always pleasant to have a woman’s
arm around you. In Dublin women have taken to
garotting Females’idea of the value of money
and things. Said a husband: “ Annie, young Jones
has fallen heir to nearly a million, in real estate.”
“ Does that mean gold and silver, Charlie ? ’ “ No,
dear: it’s land, you know. Now, what would you
do, If you had that?" And as the young wife
drooped her pretty head on his buzzuin, she twit-
tered; “I’d mortgage the property, Charlie, and
buy a new bonnet." ...
The changing of fashions will never be ended.
The bunchy girl one day, the next d«y is fiat;
But, of all the now styles of to-day, the most
splendid
Is the conical, three-story, Battenburg hat.
Instead of having an annual ball for the Chelsea
Hospital, this rear, the plan is being tried of hav-
ing a series of six Cinderella nances. People go
more readily, because the Cinderellas arc uot so
ceremonious as a ball, require less dressing, and
thetickels are ch'-aper. They last exactly four
hours, from 8 till 13, include light refreshments,
and cost 53 shillings for the series of six — White
satin wedding dresses are now made with orange-
blossoms embroidered on them in silk crewelling.
A great many new husbands decide to honey-
moon at some seaside place. The reason is sur-
mised to be, that listening to what the wild waves
are saying saves them having to talk to their
young wives In the boiling of milk to make
ice-cream, a lacteal acid is set free, which, uniting
with an oxide of something, again solidifies in
the congelation into a bisulphide of stumakake,
which is often fatally painful. Show this to your
beet girl; it may reduce expenses,... A policeman
is never so dangerous as when he catches a China-
man. Because, then, he Is the Asiatic collarer—
Shot silk suits the girl who is fond of balls and
uses powder ... A Sydney young man lately lost
his wire fencing-mask. J ust about the same time,
all the other girls were envying the fashionable
shape of his sister’s new improver ...The Queen
has a par. headed “Danger in Stockings,” and
points out that many of the pretty striped ones
contain a coloured dye that produces pyoemia.
Perhaps so; but many fellows could stand the pyoe-
roia, If they escaped some of the other dangers —
The Mayor of a French town has divided the
ladies' seats in the theatre into three parts. First,
for married; second, for single; and the third for
ladies who are—ahem! not quite so sedate as they
might be. All he wants now Is somebody to sort
the ladies A widow who wants another hus-
band, has to reassume all the modesty of girlhood,
though everyone knows she has not its innocence.
The bicentenary of the invention of the thim-
ble was lately celebrated in Amsterdam .A bevy
of girls were looking at the bridal dresses, and all
agreed they were exquisite, lovely, and so on,
“ Fou ought to be happy, Clara,” said one friend.
“ 1 suppose I ought; but—oh! I could go and cry!”
she burst out; "Pa wont bring The Bulletin
reporter to look at them!” — The spiciest ball-
room costume on record was that worn by a fash-
ionable Paris belle. She was dressed as an Indian
Princess, and had dyed her skin brown. The dress
was extremely scanty, one shoulder bare and very
little on the other, under which the stuff was cut
away in a narrow strip to show the skin. But the
drapery behind was quite transparent, which she
seemed to have forgotten, for she had not dyed
the skin on that particular part of her person. The
effect was very interesting.
Mashers.—The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter. 653 George-street. Brickfield Hill.*
Think and Act.—After many trials,
Messrs. Dalm and Ocrtel succeeded in preparing a
most delicious Lemonade from Australian lemons.
They discarded imported, unwholesome Oil of
Lemons. Give it a trial. Stated-water works, 403
Pitt-street*
Thus trumps in threatening tones the
Clarence-street Distress alarmist:—“ Once again
we feel it our duty to warn the citizens against
the reckless and indiscriminate use of water at
the present threatening season.” Very sound
advice, too. It was the “ reckless and indiscrimi-
nate use of water ” that wiped out the bold
dragoons of Pharoah, and, were it not for the
same deadly fluid, the gentle Ophelia might have
been Mrs. Hamlet, and stocked the Civil Service
with her regal offspring. But it is a consolation to
know that when the Distress dies, it will not be
from an overplus of water. The empty ginger-
ale bottles in the Clarence-street cellar amply
speak for the truth of this.
That the interprising burglar is maturing
his nefarious little plaus is mighty evident from
the following tender epistle, which was rudely
snatched from the loving “ buzzum” of a Ste-
phens-street (Melbourne) lady, who is favourably
known to her familiars as One-eyed liz. the Bil-
ker. A little affair, in which Liz,, a sailor s head,
and an empty jug were Intimately Interested, led
to the subsequent rape of the billet-doux, which
joggles along as follows:—“ deer Liz—Things hev
bln very crook over hero As yet, but therus a re-
geler biossimin’ season about tu set in now. The
push hev givin’ the cops too damd good Bashins
alreddy, the fust case is over And as the beaks
only give the talent a six months stretch, the cops
hev got the needle an i beer they hev agreed to
cock a deaf ’un to any compiantes agin us for the
fucher. Peter Johnsin hed a rear thrown in farst
week. Only cum out ov jale oniChewsdy and
pinched a ‘ bug ’ lor a tenner the same nite.
an here’s the lark, iiz-while he was runnin the
rule over the stiff un, one of the D’s was toutin’
fur him in frunt of long mags crib, deer Liz—1
wasn’t in the bondi mess as i never goes out on hol-
lerdays now, but does a little bizuess skirmishln’
round about the subbubs. Or! the crushers ar
ordered off tu the picnic spots which makes the
cribs at home all the easier to fake. Con Davis
has got his old complante agin, an’, bein’ a broker,
he got himself lumbered for a quarter, just to get
cured, an hev sum of the tangle soaked out of him
at the b governments expens. Possum an me
hev a good thing reddied up fur Annerversery
Day, but We may puli it orf on nex Sundy nite
early, as th’ bloos are jenereliy busy onthepublik
house toutin’ rakettheu. We are all well, Butsandy
walker. He’s dead, an’ mother Jacksun’s son is
jugged fur bluey hunting’, rite sune to yoors
truely Jim.”
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited). 34 Piu-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
- WALKING COSTUMES.
Fig. 1. Costume of broehe woollen. Skirt with t wo box-pleating*. Blouse tunic much puffed at the back. Broche oasaque with pointed velvet waist-
coat. Pleated surah drapery and bows at the neck. Velvet paremeuts trimmed with steel buttons. —Figs. 2 and;}. Mantle of lace and chenille. The shape is
cut in black silk ; the corsage part is covered with chenille pendants, and a chenille network covers the sleeves. Paniers and drapery of black lace. Collarette
of lace. Skirt and tunic of pain brule faille —Fig. 4. Plain skirt of velveteen. Polonaise of chequered silk lined with velveteen. Velvet belt, bows and
collar. The drapery is pleated at the touruure so as to show the lining at the edge. Pleated plastron of chequered silk.
