

THE BULLETIN
VoL 2.—No. 95 —New Series.
SATURDAY, MARCH 7, 1885.
Price—6d,
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, MARCH 7, 1886.
Who are the Patriots?
The advocates of Mr. Dalley’s martial
coup have enjoyed a very distinct advantage
over their epponents by their audacious
assumption that to be excited by a warlike
fervour is patriotic, whereas a deliberative
and judicial (no reference here to Sir James
Martin) attitude is unpatriotic, if not ac-
tually treasonable. All the glitter and glory
all the sounding mottos and fine phrases,
have been seized upon by the Jingo parti-
sans. They have appropriated such terms
as patiiotism, national honour, prestige,
valour, and glory, to themselves, and hive
taunted the dissentients from their craze
with being meanly and pitifully deficient in
these splendid attributes and emotions. Yet
the assumption will, in reality, not bear a
moment’s investigation, and we propose
presently to apply to it such an analysis. In
the first place, however, we may refer to
sundry practical issues. It has been obvious,
despite the magnificent picnic on Tuesday*
and its peans of cheers, that there has been,
after the first burst of acclamation which
greeted Mr. Dalley’s coup d'etat, a very de-
cided reaction of feeling. Or at least, If not
a reaction on the part of persons already
committed, such as the proprietors of the
daily journals and the impetuous donors of
money and goods, a disposition on the part
of persons who had been dumbfounded to
recover their voices and express their re-
pugnance to the business in its various
phases. We shall not pretend to decide on
which side the majority actually is. Indivi-
dual experiences are worth little; and
although our own agree with those of Hr
Henry Parkes, that of the persons we have
conversed with, lour out of five have pro-
fessed to regard the affair with aversion and
regret, this is not sufficient. Others may
have remarked the contrary. It is sufficient
that it cannot be disputed that if not
a majority, a considerable minority of
the people of N. S Wales view the dispatch
of our contingent to the Soudan with repug-
nance. The constitutional question raised
by Sir Henry Parkes was obvious from the
first. Whatever may be the technical rights
of the case, it would unquestionably sur-
prise and alarm the public were they to
learn that it is within the constitutional
power of any Minister or of a Cabinet, and
especially of a Minister who sits in an irre-
sponsible chamber and is not an elected re-
presentative of the people, to commit the
colony to a foreign war, to dispatch on an
aggressive enterprise the troops raised and
maintained for defensive purposes, and to
involve the tax-payers in the expenses inci-
dent to such proceedings.
• * *
We believe we shall not exceed reasonable
presumption when we declare that if it be
shown that in so acting, Mr. Dallby, or the
Cabinet as a whole, has not outrageously
exceeded constitutional powers, the entire
population of the colony will unite in de-
manding that their representatives in Par-
liament shall subord in ate every other species
ef business, and every other consideration
whatever, to procuring such an alteration
of the constitution as shall deprive all future
Ministers and Cabinets of prerogatives so
dangerous and extravagant. The incident
has been, so far as our information extends,
entirely without precedent. The power of
declaring war or making peace still remains
In Great Britain a prerogative of the Sove-
reign, but as the potency of military opera-
tions is entirely dependent upon means of de-
fraying the cost, the prerogative has been,
since Charles I. lost his head, and his son ac-
cepted subsidies from the French king, more
nominal than real. The Sovereign of Great
Britain would not to-day dream of declaring
war without first having secured the con-
currence of the House of Commons. But
supposing Great Britain to have declared war
with another nation, the constitutional
propriety of despatching, at the expense of
a colony, any part of its defence foroe, or
any corps of volunteers, remains to be de-
cided. And the case is, in the present in-
stance, complicated by the fact that Great
Britain has not declared war with the nation
or tribes she is engaged in fighting. No war
at all has been declared. The Soudanese
Arabs are not even rebels against the
Queen’s authority. It is only by a brutal
perversion of terms that they can be called
rebels at all, since they constitute a distinct
race, in a geographically and politically dis-
tinct country, and are in arms to resist or
throw off the yoke of a foreign invader of
alien nationality. If rebels at all —and not,
as we assert they are, distinctly patriots—
they are rebels against the Khedive of
Egypt, not against the Queen of England.
The right of the Minister or Cabinet of an
Australian colony to despatch troops, or
apply the colonists’ revenues to support the
expenses of an expedition against ihese
combatants, is, if it exist at all, extraordi-
narily recondite and obscure.
But all these considerations are trifling
and puerile when compared with the uni-
versal principles trenched upon by the as-
sumption that patriotism and a jealousy of
the national honour are monopolized by the
party which clamours its approval of Mr.
Dalley’b action. We insist, on the other
hand, that questions of honour are governed
by the essential righteousness of a proceed-
ing, and that a loftier—aye, and a wiser—
patriotism may be evinced by a determined
denunciation of even a national war than
by a mere bull-like agitation of the brain
whenever the red flag of war is waved be-
fore the eyes. Since the evidences of a di
vided opinion have multiplied, the daily
papers of Sydney have abated their super-
cilious and arrogant tone with reference to
all dissentients from the Jingo programme.
They have recently condescended to become
argumentative and even somewhat apolo-
getic. There is a twang of the whine in
their later appeals to the public to kindly
bear in mind that however deeply they
may object to the dispatch of New South
Wales colonists to fight against the Sou-
danese, the colony hits been so deeply com-
promised, that nothing remains possible
except to make the best of the situation,
and carryout handsomely that ..which has
been, wilhout their consent having been
asked for, commenced. The honour of the
colony has been engaged, the public ia
begged to observe. To recede now would
be to court disgrace. These arguments are
advanced with an air of being unanswer-
able and conclusive. But it is just with
these that we join Issue. Thus
* • *
Patriotism is love of country. Honour is
a superiority to aught that is mean or
shameful. The patriot is the man who best
loves his country’s honour. The colonist
who, at this crisis, favours the despatch of
colonial troops to the Soudan, best loves his
country’s honour and is the bast patriot.
These are the propositions wo are asked to
acquiesce in. Before doing so, a definition
of terms may reasonably be required. What,
for example, is national honour, and how is
it concerned In continuing the bloodshed in
the Soudan ? We must adhere to the original
proposition, that honour is a superiority to
aught that is mean and shameful. It would
be mean and shameful that England should
submit to retire from the Soudan without
avenging the death of Gobdon. That was
for her a slap in the face. To retire now
would be to Invite the scorn of mankind
and the jeers of the nations. It would be
unworthy of the national dignity and a sur-
render of the national pilde. England
would sink in the scale of nations. Every
Government would be emboldened to
affront and flout her'. Her prestige would
be destroyed.
• • •
This style of argument runs along very
smoothly and easily. Not even the most
determined Jingo will, wo venture to bet
lieve, care to.contradict these views. In
fact, we count upon the hearty endorsement
of every one of our Jingos. Because—these
are the views which we repudiate and de-
nounce. These are the arguments of, and
breath the of, the duellist.
Wo beg particularly to draw tho attention
of the Primate of Australia and all other
Christian ministers, now or recently en-
gaged in praying in the Jingo interest, to
the circumstance that these views are In
diametric antagonism to the principles of
Christianity. We need not linger to demon-
strate this antagonism. It has been done
most copiously by all clerical and moral
authorities in the literature which has re-
ference to the extinction in Great Britain of
the custom of duelling, a custom which still
lingers among the less moml and righteous
and Gon-fearing peoples of the continent o
Europe. Unless we are to believe that the
spirit and arguments which have been dis-
carded as morally cowardly and radically
dishonourable, when appMod to the quarrels
of individuals, are inspiring and commend-
able when applied tb|the quarrels of nations
or peoples, the whole position of those ordin-
arily demure and officially pious persons
who are egging on the Jingos of Australia
to encourage and abet the mother coun-
try to persist in a war of revenge,
stands condemned by their own ethics.
If it be moral cowardice In a man to
seek blood-guiltiness, lest his courage bo
called in question) and if it be deeper dis-
honour in a man to persevere in a wrongfu
quarrel than to frankly confess himself
awakened by the growing seriousness of the
crimes in which a first mistake or a first,
fault threatens to involve him, then w®
affirm that to pursue the same course equally/
involves a nation in dishonour, and convicts
it of moral cowardice.
» * •
A proud and yet noble-minded man be-
comes involved in a casual contention with
a stranger, and, in the heat of dispute, af-
fronts or strikes him. The stranger, al-
though physically inferior in vigour and
stamina, defends himself, and gets home a
stinging blow. The duellist of the last gen-
eration retires for a friend and a case of
pistols. Being a magnanimous man, he
COLONEL RICHARDSON,
Commandant of the N S. Wales Expedition to the Soudan.


Thb Rates or Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For) one year, 24s.; half-year, 13a. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
Thb Advertising Rates are 5s. per Inch!
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods- as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.; For 26 consecutive insertions
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or Intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafter, ahd P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
confesses privately that he was the aggres-
sor, and indeed that his offensive conduct
invited and deserved the blow he received*
Nevertheless he would argue—I must shoot
that fellow, my honour demands it. Other-
wise, I shall be branded as a coward, and
every whipper-snapper will be trying to
pull my nose. And he Would tight accord-
ingly. But the English gentleman of
to-day would reason differently. . He
would say, I have been in the wrong. I
affronted and assaulted that person —who,
indeed, seemed anxious to keep out of ray
way when he saw how excited I was. The
fault is mine. I should be a brute and a
scoundrel if I added to the wrongs 1 have
already inflicted, and a coward if I persisted
in a rascally course bedause I feared to con-
front the consequences of retracting. Are
we to believe, and to be content, that the
British nation, and the people of New South
Wales, are collectively inferior, aud hold
and practice an inferior morality, to
what they are and practice individually?
Are the punctilious of the duello detestable
and abhorred in the Sight of don and man
when applied to Individuals, yet respectab’e
and commendable and patriotic! when ap-
plied to the national affairs ? Would Dr.
Barbt go through his incantations on be-
half of Colonel Richardson were that
warrior about to take passage to proceed to
Africa to fight a duel with a man who had
hit his brother in the eye in consequence of
that brother having, without provocation,
slapped his face? Obviously, Dr. Barry
Would do nothing of the sort. Yet the Right
Reverend gentleman has not hesitated to
give to the troops led by Colonel Richard-
son to the Soudan, on an enterprise dis-
tinctly analogous, a solemn theological send-
off, and has dared to petition the Almighty
to bless in the many that which he would
expect God to punish in a single individual.
We claim that the true patriots are those
Who address to their beloved country the
language which the poet made the high-
minded lover address to his sweetheart—
“ I could not love thee, dear, so well
Loved I not honour more.”
■the true patriots are those who. in lieu of
Shouting approval of their mother country
When plunging more and more deeply in a
War di creditable to her character, and
really dangerous in a material sense, in view
of the menacing attitude of really powerful
adversaries, lifts up the voice of affectionate
remonstrance and of anxious warning. Our
Jingos are desirous that Great Britain
should exert her strength and entangle the
bower of her forces in the heart of Africa.
They cannot be more eager to encourage
her to this undertaking than must be
any European nation which is waiting and
watching for an opportunity to stiike her a
vital blow in some other direction. The
loudest tongue does not necessarily pertain
to the wisest head. The true patriot is not
he who is anxious to lend a hand in anything
his country undertakes, be it right or wrong.
Of that class were the “patriots” who sup-
ported Lord North when he undertook to
support oppression with violence against
the British colonists in America. The true
patriots were those ton turned individuals,
who denounced alike the occasion of the
struggle and the resort to arms. Time has
proved in that instance which loved their
country most truly and most wisely. And
to time may be entrusted the charge of
proving also who best and most wisely loved
alike the mother country and Australia—
those who favoured or those who deplored
the co-operation by sympathy, and by active
participation, of England’s children in her
war of revenge upon the Arabs of the
Soudan.
It is yet a sort of stigma on a man that he
should hold “Socialistic” opinions. The
fashion of speech yet runs that a man is
“suspected” or “accused” of such politi-
cal views, not “credited with” them or
“distinguished” by his adoption of them.
Hence it is an absolutely sensational inci-
dent when a member of Mr, Gladstone’s
Cabinet, ono of Her Majesty’s Ministers, and
actually that Minister who is generally re-
garded as the future Liberal Premier of
Great Britain, is reported to have “enun-
ciated Socialistic doctrines,” in a great pub_
lie speech—a speech, too, which, we are told
by an unmistakably hostile criti.’, has “in-
calculably strengthened his position with
the bulk of the Liberal party.” Yet, up to
the present time, all that the public of New
South Wales—who rely upon their “lead-
ing ” organ for information and guidance -
know about this speech is contained in the
deprecatory remarks by a Tory—own cor.
respondent of that journal. We append the
entire paragraph
“The salient points of Mr. Chamberlain’s
speech at Birmingham will have betn telegraphed
out to your colony before this letter reaches you*
The right hon. gentleman's language with regard
to our colonies, and his emphatic assurance that
the might of the Empire will ever be invoked for
their aid when their true interests are in peril, will
doubtless cause as much satisfaction at the anti-
podes as they have done here. Although a good
deal of criticism has been evoked by the Socialistic
doctrines enunciated—but after a very nebulous
fashion—by the President of the Board of Trade,
and also his unsatisfactory allusions to the Govern-
ment programme In Egypt, yet, when all is said
and done, tho Birmingham speech of the right
hon. gentleman has Incalculably strengthened his
position with the bulk of the Liberal party. A
good deal of * Little Eglandism ’ may be pardoned
to politicians of the old school who have done
yeoman's service in the cause of Liberalism, but
no rising statesman has any chance now-a-days
unless he is sound on the subject of the colonies.”
Since the 19th February, the date of the
publication of that letter* the leading
journal has maintained a dead silence re-
specting this phenomenal and most signifi-
cant occurrance—a Socialistic speech by a
probable future Premier of Great Britain.
In fact the affair must be regarded as in-
convenient. If permitted to attract people’s
attention, it is so apt to set them thinking—
‘‘ to disturb their minds ” is the euphuism
generally employed by the Herald.
There are hosts of well-meaning people
who regard fresh opinions very much
as they regard new fashions, or as they
would, on a desert island, contemplate
fruits with the properties of which they are
unacquainted. The new opinions are dan-
gerous and unwarranted, while only the
lower classes and sundry plaguey creatures
—philosphers and political-economists—
express them, just as the strange fruits are
while only monkeys and swino eat them.
But when a Cabinet the
opinions, or one of the ship’s officers
munches the fruits, them timid souls be-
gin to test matters for themselves. In short
were it made prominent that the Right IIon|
Joseph Chamberlain had enunciated
Socialistic doctrines, numbers of people,
hitherto quite satisfied that Socialism is
wrong and disreputable, would begin to
doubt whether it might not be as well to
look into the reasonings for themselves.
What a Cabinet Minister viewed with
approval could not be, after all, either dis-
reputable or ridiculous.
* * *
Since the leading daily has withheld from
its readers any information about what
Chamberlain actually did say, and has re-
frained from all comment upon a speech in
so remarkable a vein, albeit its columns
have since contained extracts, extend;
ing to many columns, on the subjects
of “Jack on a Camel,” “The old
Masters at the Royal Academy,” and “Age
and its Consequences,” we address ourselves
to repair the omission, even at the serious
risk of “disturbing people’s minds.” The
portion of Mr. Chamberlain's speech with
which we are concerned at present, opened
thus;—
“ What Is to be the nature of the domestic legis-
lation of the future ? I cannot help thinking that
It will be more directed to what are called social
subjects than has hitherto been the case—how to
promote the greater happiness of the masses of
the people—how to increase their enjoyment of
life. That is the problem of the future, and just
ss there are politicians who would occupy all the
world and leave nothing for the ambition ot any-
body else, so we have their counterpart at home
in the men who, having already annexed every-
thing that is worth having, expect everybody else
to be content with the crumbs that fall from their
table. There is a doctrine in many men’s mouths,
and in a few men's practice, that property has ob-
ligations as well as rights. I think in the future
we shall hear a great deal about the obligations of
property, and we shall not hear quite so much
about its rights. What are the rights of property?
Is it a right of property which permits a foreign
speculator to come to this country and lay waste
200 miles of territory in Scotland for the gratifica-
tion of his love for sport, and to chase from the
lands which their fathers tilled long before this in-
truder was ever heard of, the wretched peasants,
who wore convicted of the crime of keeping a pet
lamb within the sacred precincts of a deer-forest?
Are the game laws a right of property? Is it
just aqd expedient that the amusements of the
rich, carried even to barbarous excess, should bo
protected by an anomalous and Draconian code of
law, and that the community should be called
upon to maintain in gaol men who are made
criminals by this legislation, although they have
committed no moral offence ? Is it a right of pro-
perty that sailors should bo sent to sea to pursue
their dangerous calling without any sulllcient re-
gard to their security ? fils it tolerable that, in
pursuit of a naoessary livelihood to themselves
and their families, they should embark in ships
whose safe return depends wholly on the continu-
ance of favourable weather, and upon the absence
of any of the ordinary accidents of the sea ? Is it
right that they should do this while the owners of
these ships and the employers of these men sleep
comfortably in their beds, with a certainty that,
whatever happens, they will be no losers, they will
probably be gainers, while disasters cause so much
misery to the seamen and to their families ? Lastly,
gentlemen, is it an essential condition of private
ownership in land that the agricultural labourers,
in this country alone of civilised countries, should
be entirely divorced from the soil they till, that
they should be driven into towns to compete with
you for work, and to lower the rate of wages; and
that, alike in town and county, the labouring
population should be huddled into dwellings unfit
for man or beast, where the conditions of common
decency are impossible, and where they lead
directly to disease, intemperance, and crime?
These are questions which, I hope, you will ask at
the next election, and to which you will demand
an answer.”
* * *
This, then, is Socialistic! Seekers after
truth must surely thank those sensitive and
sagacious persons, such as the London cor-
respondent of the'S.M. Herald, who offer
these as illustrative of Socialistic ideas. It
is, then, Socialistic to study how to promote
the greater happiness of the masses
of the people I It is Socialistic to lay
greater stress upon the obligations than
upon the rights of property, instead of doing
the contrary, as customary heretofore! It is
Socialistic to refer in terms of denunciation
to tbe efforts of the Yankee millionaire,
Winans, to expel from the land of his
fathers a crofter who committed the iniquity
of keeping one pet lamb! We have read
something in the Bible from which men
preach and the tenets of which they pervert
to suit “the existing constitution of society,”
about “ one ewe lamb.” It is Socialistic to
denounce the ferocious game laws of Great
Britain! It is Socialistic to plead for the
lives of common sailors! It is Socialistic to
question the virtues of private ownership
in land I Blessings upon the thick heads
and dull wits of the S. M. Herald’s London
correspondent and those political brethren
of his ts ho in?ist upon every one under-
standing that this is Socialism, and Socialism
is this. For it is true. All these opinions
are distinctly—not “nebulously’’—Social-
istic. It is the aim of Socialism to promote
the greater happiness of the masses. It
is a maxim of Socialism that property has
duties too little regarded, and rights too
greatly exaggerated. The President of the
Board of Trade was not “ nebulous ” at all.
That was the weak device of the Conserva-
tive writer to delude himself and his readers,
and soften the severity of the shock. It
would have been altogether too ‘ too,” to
Lave to admit that definite, concrete, fully-
developed Socialism had been endorsed by
the most powerful among Mr. Gladstone’s
colleagues.
♦ m •
There is no room for doubt. Mr. Cham-
berlain did not stop with the foregoing re-
marks. He continued, a moment later,
thus:—
“ Property cannot pay Its debt to labour by tax-
ing its means of subsistence. You must look for
the cure in legislation, laying the heaviest burdens
on the shoulders best able to bear them—legisla-
tion which will, in some degree at any rate, re-
place the labourer on the soil and find employment
for him without forcing him into competition with
the artisans of the towns; in legislation which will
give a free education to every child in the land,
and which will thus enable everyone, even the
poorest, to make the best use of the faculties with
which he may be gifted. Gentlemen, I congratu-
late you on the fair prospect which is openiog up
to the class to which you belong. In the era which
is now commencing we shall see many experiments
intended to lessen the evils which poverty brings
in its train, to increase the rewards of labour, to
bring hope to the miserable, to give courage to
the weak, and in this way to advance the aim and
end of all our Liberal policy—tho greatest happi-
ness of the greatest number.”
To lay “ the heaviest burdens on the shoul-
ders best able to bear them”—why, this is
tantamount to a progressive property tax!
To “replace the labourer on the soil!” This
is rank Henry Georgeism ! To enable every
one “to make the best use of the faculties
with which he is gifted I” This is equivalent
to saying that there shall be no class so
ground down that intellectual effort cannot
be expected from it! To “ increase the re-
wards of labour.” This would involve di-
minishing the profits of capital. Rank So-
cialism! every item.
* * *
Let us lift up the voices of lamentation.
Alas, dear old England, is this then thy
doom ? Is it thus that thy glories are to
depart ? Is the guidance of thy affairs to
descend into sacreligious hands? Is the
grand old land of our fathers, with its grand
old system, to be changed and woefully
modernised? Is it in the near future to be
no more a land where many weep that a
few shall laugh—where millions grovel
in ignorance, penury, filth, and vice,
that thousands may revel in affluence,
knowledge, and luxury ? Shall it no
longer exhibit the graceful forms which
embellish its stately houses, supported
by the ungainly and toil-worn figures
which swam its beastly rookeries? Shall
it be that there is fated to descend
upon thee the terrible doom of being
peopled by generations all existing in de-
cent comfort, yet none so splendid as to
find even vice a refuge from lassitude ? Is
it written that in the disgraceful hereafter
preparing for thee by audacious screw-
makers and other cursed levelling politi-
cians, England shall belong to the English,
and not be to let to any alien who has
money in his purse ? Does the bitter doom
impend of thy bounteous breast sustaining
a race, all of whom shall have enough to
eat, and minds at ease, and no one greater
than another, save in the degree that Provi-
dence has endowed him with wealth of
mind. And that wealth employed only—as
God’s real gifts must be—for the good of
all? It is a sad, sad vision, and all worthy
Conservatives will join in petitioning the
throne of Grace that it may never come to
pass.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Ignorant Gabble.”
The Hum speaks“ The day when citizen-soldiers
might safely be sneered at as incapable, has passed
away. The American Civil War, sad as were its
incidents in many respects, proved, at least, what
could be endured and what achieved by troops of
this description Given capable general-
ship. and militia forces, fighting for the safety of
their hearths and homes, will accomplish more
than could mercenary troops of any description.”
What we want is to see the 'persons who write
these things-to measure their heads. As a simple
matter of fact, the American Civil War proved
nothing of the kind. But it proved a number of
things—among others, that undisciplined troops,
whether they are “citizen” or “mercenary,”
will run away when they get a fair show,
and that disciplined men will fight. And it
showed, besides, that if the North had had fifty
thousand trained men when the row started, it
wouldn’t have taken them four years nor four
months to get to Richmond; while if the South
had had the same number of soldiers—not “citi-
zen soldiers,” mind you, nor “militiathere
would now be two American Republics instead of
one. The Northern soldiers, who performed what
the paper in question calls the Promenade de
Triomphe at Washington, in 1865, were an entirely
different lot from those who opened the ball some
years before. They were seasoned men—seasoned
by campaigns as tough as those which changed
Wellington’s gaol-birds into troops with which he
could “go anywhere and do anything.” Undiscip-
lined troops, whether fighting for their “hearths
and homes” or not, would be scattered like
chaff before properly organised forces. Dur-
ing the earlier period of the revolutonary
war in America, the States militia nearly
always “struck for home” when the head of
a British column appeared In the distance. A
generation afterwards, all the citizen soldiers in the
United States did not prevent a few thousand Eng-
lish “ mercenaries” from marching on Washington,
and (this to the British commander’s shamelblo wing
up the Capitol. The Spanish patriots went down
like nine-pins before Napoleon’s dragoons just
as the French tireurs of sixty year’s later scattered
when they saw a Uhlan uniform. Gariualdi’s
plucky, but loosely-organised red-shirts got on
very well so long as there was nothing in their
road but King Bomba’s lazarouis. But it was
sauve qui pent (small blame to him) when the
highly-disciplined French blocked the way. But
why go on ? We see the great military nations of
the world devoting years to training each male
subject to arms, to the Rum all this
training Is so much time wasted. What is the
use of devoting three or four years to teaching
men how to fight, if a number of “ Johnny Raws ”
could beat them? A great chance the English
militia and volunteers—“fighting for their hearths
and homes ’’—would have of stopping the march
of a hundred-thousand Frenchmen or Germans
on London I Just the same show that the Prussians
after Jena, had of keeping Bonaparte out of Ber-
lin, or the French, after Sedan, of preventing the
German return visit. It is time this hoary false-
hood about “ militia forces ” and “mercenaries’*
should be turned inside out. The nation that
really believes it will be rudely awakened some
fine morning to discover what a fool’s paradise it
has been inhabiting.
Prelatical Pragmatical Pretensions.
On Sunday last the reverends and right reverends
and all the host of absorbent theologians who
follow the profession of the pulpit approached the
Almighty on an errand so solemn and yet so
ludicrous as might well tempt the angels to laugh
in celestial chorus at man’s simplicity and clerics
effrontery. The request which the pastors of the
various Christian Churches in this community
besought the Lord of Hosts to comply with, com-
prehended no less a hope than that He would in
the event of a pitched battle between the colonial
contingent and the Soudanese, preserve the
“cornstalks” from all injury, and wipe the
enemy out of existence. Though not in so many
words, yet this was the sum and substance of the
extraordinary prayer wafted to Heaven with the
solemn unctiousness with which such unreasonable
memorials are sent on their orthodox errand.
Now, in asking Jehovah to make the Australian
rifles carry true and the Arab arms to miss their
mark, the clerics illogically and disingenuously
ignored (as only clerics can) the circumstances
which follow—that Providence is as responsible
for the existence of “ Sir Edward Strickland's
Saracens ” as He is for the Australian race—that
the former are equally His creatures as the latter-
that the Messiah’s love for the human race was so
universal as to include both Jews and Gentiles;
and that they (the clerics aforesaid) have nothing
to show in proof that the Great Architect of the
Universe is not as proud of His Egyptian subjects
and as Jealous of their lives and prosperity as of
any other section of His people. It may not be
amiss, however, to point out to the licensed in-
truders upon God’s goodness that the Egyptian-
born in spiritual darkness, bruised by human op-
pression, and belaboured by official extortion and
usurious tyranny—is a more Goo-ennobled item
of humanity in his martyr-like aspirations after
freedom and his unselfish struggles to wrench hi*
country from misrule than are the colonial mili-
tary swaggerers who have left these shores
amidst hysterical huzzas and fever-bred fanatic-
ism to strike, in the interest of Might,
a blow against Right. And yet. under the
shallow subterfuge of Christian patriotism, these
mitred magpies pollute the panoply of piety by
mploring Providence, In stereotyped phraseology
and cloister-concocted rhetoric, to make climatic
changes and reverse Nature’s laws so as to convert
a military campaign into a picnic, and miracu-
lously transform a battle into a one-sided
slaughter. Natheless, they may rely upon it, that
all other things being equal, “ Providence will
favour the biggest battalions,” which was the
Napoleonic axiomatic estimate of bigotry and the
battle-field. As well ask the aid of a Celestial
contingent of angelic warriors to wage war on
the side of Britain, and the bond-holders, as to
petition |Qod, in .His mercy, to maim and
massacre thousands of His Soudan subjects for the
glory and gratification of the Australian troops.
I Such absurd pretensions on the part of the clergy


D
N
N
G
PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
In Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddlngo, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, 861
Castlereagh-street, near Bathurst-stroet. P.8.—
The hall-room Is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and Is superior in ventilation,
soring floor, &o. No decorations required.
Annual Income exceeds One Aflillom
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRAT CHAMPA B,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, , 4s. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
A /8TRALIAN PORJT WINE,
Is. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT
8s. per Bottle.'
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts,
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
Ip. 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke s Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISK*. ;T
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts,
■
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets
t
SYDNEY.
threaten to unchristianise Christianity by forging
shackles on reason, rivetting chains on common
sense, and belittling its Founder by impiously
associating His actions with unreason and impos-
ture. If iho clergy can win battles by their
prayers without taking the numerical strength,
military tactics, climatic surroundings, and effec-
tive arrangements of the rival forces into con-
sideration, and if they can stay the pulsations of
freedom by their chatter, what need of standing
armies at all? If prayers can influence the
Creator to give one race all the gain and glory,
and to afflict the other with disaster and destruc-
tion, why not abolish all military organisations,
and retain only a standing army of approved prag-
matical prelates, who might enter into a spiritual
bond either to imolate the Irish, torment the
Turks, finish the French, jeopardise the Germans,
mangle the Mongolians, massacre the Muscovites,
slaughter the Soudanese, or enaulph Egypt at 24
hours’ notice. Then would Bibles displace bayo-
nets, and clerical anathemas take the scientific
stand of military armaments, "which is what it
, 8 now pretended they do.
Masonry and Massacre.
It is fairly chargeable against the donors of most
of the miscellaneous consignments contributed to
the military troops that the moving spirit is a de-
sire to advertise, at one and the same time, the
patriotism of the proprietors, and the virtue of
their vertu. But what shall be said in elucidation of
the impulse controlling the lavish contributions to
the same cause by the Masonic organisations ? So
much of the mysteries of Masonry as is permitted
to be revealed to the uninitiated, clothes it In the
beneficent garb of a Universal Brotherhood, ignor-
ing all diversities of creed, race, colour, and con-
stitution, and conducting its operations exclu-
sively on a basis of charity and chastity of manners
and moras. These are the theories it wisely
formulates, and hence its claim to universality re-
poses upon two well-defined and well-acknow-
ledged canons of its craft—first, that neither poli-
tics nor sectarianism shall pass under the purview
of its lodge-rooms, and secondly, that Masonry
being universal, one Free and Accepted Mason is
as good as another in the eye and estimation of
the fraternity, whether his lodge-room be in Lon-
don or Leipzig, Calcutta or Canton, Teheran or
Timbuctoo. If this be so, how can the preceptors
of the craft hope to escape the well-merited
calumny of having initiated a new departure in
the objects of the Order, and of having advertised
an unprecedented subordination of their univer-
sality to the ambitious pretensions of the colonial
Jingoes ? They cannot, if they are (as they should
be) exemplary students of the history and pro-
gress of the craft, be in ignorance of the fact that
Egypt is one of tho oldest haunts of Masonry, and
that the Soudanese tribes contain a greater per-
centage of well-approved Masons than, perhaps
this colony does. How then do these men, if they
examine the motive power of their liberality, and
make due allowance for their reasoning and re-
flective faculties being swept down the terrible
tide of watery sentimentality, defend their action
in inciting Masons to slaughter Masons, in super-
seding charity by carnage, and in encouraging and
Indirectly aiding the unprovoked butchery of a
race of fellow-Masons, whose forefathers were all
well-versed in the legendary traditions of the
craft long before Masonry had pushed its glorious
way among modern nations? It is no answer to this
accusation ®f Illegal and untnasonic appropriation
of charitable funds, to explain that their disburse-
ment is intended only to palliate the miseries of
the widows and orphans of such members of the
Order as may die during the campaign. That is a
praiseworthy task that, according to the unwritten
ethics of the craft’s charity, might well have been
reserved till the hour when the widows and or-
phans are existing facts. To anticipate their ex'
Istence and prospectively surrender the relief funds
to a foreign body is to advertise with unmasonic
parade the fact that Masonic charity will be pro-
minently and publicly meted out to the relief of
the survivors of those who sup sorrow in a bloody
enterprise. Prevention is always better than cure,
and if the fraternity did not thus publicly ignore
one of its first principles-the obliteration of na-
tional politics from the calculations of its craft—it
would not be open to the inimical taunt of con-
niving at the manufacture of widows and orphans.
Open discouragement of unprovoked international
hostility would be more In accordance with the
time-honoured universality of the Order than this
ostentatious advance announcement of approval
and aid. As it is, the naked sword is put into the
novitiate’s hand, and with it an indirect, lodge
stamped approval to stain it with the blood of hig
brethren or himself perish at their hands in the
attempt.
The War Epidemic.
Ir public opinion, in its obtrusive and clamorous
aspect, could be accepted as an infallible index of
Right, then the action of the Government in
plunging this colony Into all the incipient horrors
of war would be able to defy censorious criticism.
With the daily Press unanimous in applause, and
no less mighty authorities than the Chief Justice,
and the Speaker of the Assembly, concurring in
approval, the added acquiescence of thousands of
colonists shows an inordinate surface of public
endorsement. In spite of this protective phalanx
to what we deemed at the first an ill-considered
and reckless step, there are not wanting signs and
omens that there is a strong undercurrent of dis-
approval, which will aid in making the re-action
more strongly marked when the populace re-
covers from its sentimental surprise, and pro-
ceeds to investigate this first belligerent prece-
dent by the light of stern reason and saddened
common-sense. The conviction of Sir Henry
that he is alone in breasting a strong cur-
rent, is a delusion. The monster meeting in the
metropolis was marked by the disapproval of a
strong and solid minority, and its exultant
was marred by an assault on two harmless indivi-
duals, who ventured to assert their right to place
a contrary proposition before the meeting. Those
who vied with each other in clamorous manifesta-
tion of British valour showed also that they were
dead to the assertion of an equally valuable
British characteristic—that love of fair play which
impels men and communities to hear both sides
and permit ample freedom of discussion. Since
then, a meeting at Camperdownattracted a couple
of aldermen, a clergyman, a bellman, and seven
8 mall boys, and wag perforce abandoned by its pro-
moter in disgust. At Balmain, the epidemic re-
ceived a severe check. By a majority of 15, the
action of the Government was condemned, and
express sympathy (treasonable sympathy. Mayor
Playfair would rule) shown with the Egyptian
host. Balmain must, therefore, accept the debit
or credit of being the first to cause the flowing tide
to ebb. Six months later, and the colony will pro-
bably ratify the verdict, and exclaim, “ Bravo,
Balmain.” A similar result followed the at-
tempt to run a Jingo meeting at St. Leonards.
At present our warrior-heroes, spuriously
spawned amid the mock invocation of a “ new
national life,” are leaving wives and fami-
lies behind them; and when the inevitable inci-
dents of war convert latter into widows and
orphans, mourning the foolhardiness of their
bread-winner, the luscious fruits of Jingoism will
turn to ashes in the mouths of the mimetic popu-
lation. Mr. Dalley’s trump card, so far from
being (as he claims) “ the right action at the right
time,” is no more than a superbly reckless,
supremely diplomatic move on the constitutional
chess board. Will it capture a knight ?
The Boarding-house of the Defunct.
The residents of the Petersham municipality re_
joice in the possession of a burning question,
alongside which the problem of the war has to
them all the effeteness of an ephemera. The bone
of contention between these suburban Montagues
and Capdlets is a no less solemn subject than the
local graveyards. The theory that undertakers
and corpses alone possess a lively interest in what-
ever appertains to a cemetery is disproved by the
blood-heat of excitement into which the contro-
versy has aroused the community and the Council.
It appears that the Municipal authorities praoti-
cally veto Interment within the boundaries of the
borough by forbidding, under exemplary penal-
ties, the disposition of dead bodies within 100 yards
of any place of abode or haunt of business. This
bye-law has the effect also of closing the present
cemetery wherein hundreds lie buried, and scores
more have made arrangements to lie alongside
when the hour of dissolution effaces them from
the municipal electoral roll. Hence the protesta-
tions of those whose vested interest in sundry
pretty plots within the circumference of God’s
acre has aroused them to action. The Council have
held a special meeting to consider these protests,
and both sides being equal in their voting strength,
the matter has been deferred for a call of the
whole Council. In this practical age it is amusing
to read the superfine sentimentality with which
the perpetuation of this suburban boneyard is ad-
vocated. The framers of the bye-law show that
the cemetery is already over-populated, that it is
hygienically objectionable, and that special pro-
vision is made at Haslem’s Creek for the hiatus
between Death and the Judgment bugle. Against
this it is argued that it is unfair to cozen the
landed proprietors out of the posthumous enjoy-
ment of the sacred nooks they have made their
own, and that it is a domestic disaster to prevent
the post-mortem communion of bones that in life
mingled with all the freedom of native consan-
guinity or marital affinity. But, seriously, is if
any comfort to a hen-pecked husband to forecast
the pleasure which will accrue from the propin-
quity of his glistening skull to the bony fore-arm
of the “ better half ” that erstwhile often polished
it with the terminal timber of a broom ? Or, is it
a consolation to a deserted wife to think that in
one common grave there will be no necessity for
warrants or maintenance orders to keep her and
her husband side by side 7 Does the scapegrace
nephew imbibe a draught of solemn joy at the
probabilities of his bones mingling [some day with
the wealthy curmudgeon of an uncle who has
lived too long ? But why multiply practical re-
buffs to theoretical sentimentality ? Our advice to
the Petersham aldermen is either to aid Mr. Bu-
chanan’s cremation movement, or else to “let
the dead bury the dead."
We have had school-mates obtain their commis-
sions, strut in uniform on a farewell visit to their
play-fellows, and go off to help suppress the
Indian Mutiny. We have seen the Guards march
through London, on their way to embark for the
Crimea, and we have witnessed the 73nd High-
landers march through Edinburgh to the Castle,
on their return after the fall of Sebastopol. These
were partings and pageants never to be forgotten.
The multitudes hoarse with cheering ; the roar
of voices only lulling for a moment to gain breath
or fresh cheers, waving handkerchiefs and
shrill hurrahs of women ; the agitation and emo-
tion are beyond simulation. Wo have now seen
the New South Wales Contingent depart to fight
the Soudanese, and the contrast has been chilling.
If the hearts of the multitude were with them,
then in this fervent clime of Australia a people
strangely cold and undemonstrative has grown
up. The multitude seemed to havs no voice.
There were cheers, Indeed, but no such rend-
ing 'of the welkin as such a crowd could
effect, had a fourth of them brought their throats
into use. It was a grand picnic. But it was a re-
markably significant demonstration—coldly sig-
nificant.
In Canterbury (Eng.) two ladies bought a
riding whip and gave an intendiug Conservative
candidate a severe thrashing. No; It cannot be.
And, besides, it is protection, not castigation,
Henniker has always received from the ladies.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“H.E.” (Petersham): Thanks. Why not
take pains and try something original? This is
too rough for us, as the watch-works said to the
horse-shoe rasp.... “Rustlcus”: “Well donel”....
“Ethel and Courtney” (Petersham): Yours ar-
rived after pap sr had gone to press last week—
“W. Trablow Will look up the article, but it's
unlikely that we will reprint It. Our space is
valuable, and we prefer to give original matter.
.. “ Justice ”: Your letter was received too late for
insertion last week. Like you, we believe Mr. Dailey
will be made to see the terrible blunder he has
committed. We do not, however, think that he
was prompted by paltry ambition for titular dis-
tinction. We ascribe his precipitancy to mere hot-
headedness “Tasmanite”: Received too late
for this issue. Look out next week.... “Wan-
derer”: We have your verses on the departure of
the Australian troops. We ilke this verse best. It
is poetry of a class infinitely superior—to the other
verses :—
“ And to those whom have gave of their wealth,
May the thanks of all be given,
For actions such as them
Cause the chains of affection to be riven.”
You inform us that “Wanderer” Is your “nom
de plum.” What do you need with a nom de plum.
A “ nom de pumpkin ’ ’ would be more In your line,
“Wanderer.”—“Noibla” : You think the same
of our paper as we thought of your sketches, eh ?
You are evidently/a school-boy, “Noibla,” and at
an Inferior school. At English public schools- a
boy who employed a tu quoque as a retort, is oolted
by his companions as a corrective lor dulness
“ Dyspeptic” : We get reams of poetry like
yours. It’s owing to It that we use up an office
boy a week. He comes to ns cheery, light-hearted,
and rosy on Monday morning, but the work of
carrying poetry—aggravated by sitting on the
■ stairs to read some of it-down to the cellar soon
tells on him, and by Thursday ho is restless and'
moody. By Saturday his life is blighted, and we
Bee no more of him ;—
“ Ahl what is life but happiness,
Not cursed, as some will say,
But meant to beat in every breast,
With a longing there to stay.”
This is ‘what you shy at us. Whisper—go back to
tne lap-board, and give poetry a rest ” P. K. N.
Crozier : An advertisement. Terms for this class
<* matter, £1 per inch — “Lismore”: Will have
attention..., T.R,” (Burwood); We have already
more anti-war verses than we know what to do
witn. As your sentiments are our own, we, of
course, consider that they do you honour. Thanks.
(Wyong): Your lines on the death of
General Gordon to hand. Although Gordon is
beyond the reach of further suffering, we can’t
publish your verses. They might kill some of our
subscribers. The sentiment is all right, but the
e ?Rr® 8slon ~ well < your friends what they think
of this:—
“ Away in the gloom of the ‘ Soudln ’ wood
That girds the Banks of the ancient River Nile,
Th’re lies in death a noble warier good.
One of Scotia’s ‘ hardy Sons of toll.’ ”
By the way, you incorrectly quote: “Keep a
stout heart to a stye brae.” It should be “ a stae
brae.” Anglice. “astay hill,” meaning a stiff ac-
cent, or one which makes the climber stay, or
linger....“W.M.” (Burrowa): Much obliged
Zlncali ’ : If you have nothing funnier than this
to tell us, keep your future fun to yourself, and
chuckle over It in secret and alone “Oomoo
As far as we can understand, your argument is
that when one has neither wit nor wisdom to im-
part he should remain sepulchrally silent. There
is a specious show of common seme about this
view of the matter which would be apt to Impose
upon intellects not so Analytic as our own. For
observe—where would oho-half our current litera-
ture, two-thirds of our journalism, and almost all
our oratory be, if this archaic prejudice
had any weight with' poets, press-writers, or
members of Parliament in these days? We
have no hesitation in saying that they would
still repose in the tranquil bosom of Oblivion.
.....“ W, A.” (Albury) : Fair to middling
“ Norman French”: Full up this week. Will con-
sider for next....* 1 J.P.” (Brunswick River): We
will endeavour to elucidate the subject at an early
date. ..“W m L—e” (Gregory Downs): We
can’t see what you have to complain of. If you
will drink, as your bill discloses, a pound’s worth
of rum in one day, you must expect there to be an
occasional hitch in the tenor of your affairs. All
the advice we can give you is to drink, if possible,
less than £l’s worth of rum in the dav; but, on no
account to drink more “Saltator ”: Your last
was about highland fling at Engowra. Your pre-
sent contribution relates, we observe, to the Ana-
logy (if any) between Reason and Intuitive Per-
ception. As you appear to cultivate versatility,
we should be glad next to have your views on
Moral Intuitions of Periwinkles.
IN MARCHING ORDER.
THE THOUGHTFUL AND GENEROUS FORESIGHT OF PATRIOTIC SYMPATHIZERS
(WITH GOODS TO ADVERTISE), HAS ENSURED THE COMFORT OP THE MEN OF THE
, N. S. WALES CONTINGENT WHEN IN THE TRACKLESS DESERT.


Personal Items
■the Hev. Stephen Gladstone (son of the
British Premier) Rector of Hawarden, Is to marry
a Liverpool heiress Id the Spring:. Stephen has no
chance of being stoned to death, but he martyrs
hitnsalf in the cause of the poor, unprotected Al-
mighty for a mean screw of £3000 per anuum.
Re the Princes’ forthcoming diary, it is
said the portion written by Prince Albert Victor
lain a severely serious strain, while that part con-
tributed by Prince George Is of an exceedingly
humorous nature. What further proof of the
Rev. Mr. Dalton’s versatility could be required
than this.
Mrs. Weldon is suing Messrs. Routledge
and Sons on a claim of £1000. It seems that Messrs.
Routledge have published a book in which Mrs.
Weldon is spoken of as the “irrepressible
Georgina,’’ and this is the ground upon which
damages to the amount named are claimed. Of
eoarss the ease will be laughed out of court. To
■neeeed, Mrs. Weldon should arrange to have the
trial in King-street, Sydney.
A duoal singlet:—Lord Guernsey. This
quip Is born of the following excerpt:—” We hear
that the Duke of Marlborough and his divorced
wife are about to re-marry. It is to be hoped, if
Se rumour be true, that they will be happy ever
forwards.’’ Our little Jingle :—
Go It I Of farce ’tis on the brink I
This duoal rot's amazing quite!
These titled Insects seem to think
Two social blacks Will make a white.
Lord Garmoyle’s friend. Miss Fortesoue,
has, says a London correspondent, confirmed the
estimate formed of her character by all that was
made known In court In the breach of promise
ease. She might have retired from the stage on
the 410.000 awarded her by the jury, but she pre-
ferred to earn her living as before. Of her fortune
the settled £0000 upon her mother, and went back
o the stage. After her provincial tour she will
retarn to London, acting there during the season.
In September she sails for the U.S., intending to
remain there, playing in all the principal cities
over a term of six or eight months.
Robert Burns to the Royal Princesses of
England:—
** Ta lustly, bonny lasses a’,
Ye Royal lassies dainty,
Heav'n make ye gude as well as braw.
And gle you lads a plenty.
But sneer na British boys awa
For Kings are undo’ scant aye,
And German gentles are but sma’,
They’re better Just than want aye,
On ony day.”
Mrs. Charles RohlfS’(ucc Anna Katherine
Green), whose recent marriage In Brooklyn at-
tracted such a large concourse of literary celebri-
ties, is, perhaps, best known as the author of
“The Leavenworth Case.” although her other
works, “The Sword of Damocles, “A Strange
Disappearance,” have all had a large sale, and won
universal admiration. Her talent is of a peculiar
and uncommon kind. Marvellous in the construc-
tion of her plots, she has gained a reputation of
equalling Wilkie Collins in that department of
Action. Mrs, Green-ltohlfs was educated at Ripley
College, at Poultney, Vermoht, receiving at her
graduation in I860 the degree of A.B.
Miss Ellen Terry, the great English act-
ress, usee all her spare moments in eating lemons
to reduce her Mesh. Wonder if that is what Irving
used to reduce his flesh 7 If so, be succeeded ad-
mirably, and when he orders a now pair of tights,
they will have to be woven over a broomstick. It
would be terrible if the habit of sucking lemons
should grow on the fair Ellen, like chewing gum
did upon Mary Anderson. Mary had the advantage
of Ellen—she could stow her gum away in her
eheek, or hide it in little out-of-the-way places
where the supes and scene-shifters could not And
It: but not so with Ellen. When she is suddenly
called to go on the stage, she has to lay her lemon
down, and unless she places a guard over it, every
sups in the theatre takes his turn at sucking it.
Capting Bedlngfleld, who ran away from
Dunedin to Melbourne with a hallelujah lass sur-
named the “ Little Wonder ” (who has since con-
tributed her quota to the census), has turned up
by last reports at Ban Jose, California, where he
started a prayer meeting on the verandah of a
whisky saloon. The saloon keeper tried to dis-
lodge him by emptying the contents of his bed-
room fixings on his head, but the Captain prayed
on without taking any notice, and the man of sin
then seized an empty herring barrel and threw it
over his head. This settled the prayerist, and the
Army carried him away and made preparations for
ms funeral. He recovered, however, and wrote by
last mall to his wife relating how narrowly he had
eseaped martyrdom. Hearing such glowing ac-
counts of his success, the Dunedin Harmy promptly
Started a subscription to enable his wife and family
to follow him to California.
It is said that George Augustus Sala, now
on his way to Australia, expects to make more
money in one year by lectures than ho would have
made in five by writing. The foundation of Ed-
mund Yates’ fortune was laid in a lecture tour in
America. He writes in his “Recollections ” with
respect to it:—“I went a stranger-I returned
leaving troops of friends. I went with a lean
purse and vague prospects. I returned with £1500
and an appointment worth £1300 a year. During
the whole of my visit I never had an unpleasant
word from anyone. I made no enemies, and even
•candid ’ friends were good enough to spare me.”
And he adds that the New York Lecture Bureau,
when he was leaving, offered to guarantee him
£2400 for a three months” series of lectures if he
would return for the next season. Mr. Dolby re-
minds us that Dickens made £45,000 by his read-
ings. Thackeray did well by his; Artemus Ward
and Albert Smith by theirs, and even Mr. Matthew
Arnold by bis.
From the London Daily Chronicle:—
“Two curates of the Church of England, doing duty
in neighbouring villages in East Kent, have loft
their charges under extraordinary circumstances.
One of them was found in a state bordering upon
delirium tremens, owing to his excessive libations
of raw spirits. The squire of the village, discover-
ing how matters were, sent for a doctor and a
policeman. The former prescribed for him, and
the constable watched and tended him all night,
and his frequent administering of copious draughts
of hot tea were successful in bringing his patient
round by the morning. The clergyman then gave
Way to transports of grief and despair, but the
squire drove him to the railway station and saw
him off by train there and then. In the other case,
the curate was found madly careering round a
plantation, under t he delusion that he was hunting
two black pigs. This clergyman has also left the
tillage very suddenly.” The good, the excellent
eurates. Two black pigs take a deal of beating.*
The Rev. George T. Walters, of the Mel-
bourne Unitarian Church, is a man of real grit,
who will make bis mark here, though his liberal
leanings—his admiration of “ his friend,” Henry
George—and his openly-expressed contempt for
the rampant Jingoism which is all the go just now,
are not likely to make him a favourite with our
“wealthy lower orders.” However, as an eloquent
and fearless thinker and speaker he has no superior
here. He has been scarcely a year in Melbourne,
but he has succeeded in taxing the sitting capacity
of the church; on Sunday evenings especially, the
place is packed—chiefly bytyoung meu of the arti-
san class. He is a bit of a humourist, too. Speak-
Sg lately with reference to the Sunday Observance
ueatlon, he said“ If asked to express my sin-
ew and solemn convictions regarding Sunday
recreations,! should say that had one been to the
Unitarian Church In the morning with the full in-
tention of going there again at evening, there could
be no harm in a game of chess, draughts, lawn
tennis, or even billiards in the afternoon.” This, of
Course, was from the pulpit during the usual dis-
course, which generally contains several sly little
hits of the same character, all delivered In the
most solemn manner, without the ghost of a smile.
At the trial of Madame Clovis Hugues,
the jurors were a mixture of small and large
tradesmen, burgeois living on their incomes, and
an artist whose business it is to work for builders
of funeral monuments. They were on the level
of an English special jury, with perhaps greater
mental acuteness. Rochefort’s frizzly grey head
ITT® 5 P rom in§nt object on the bench set apart for
the Press. M. Anatole de la Forge, the deputy and
hero of St. Quentin, was a “witness.” Ho had no
testimony to give which related to the Morin
affair; but, what was very important for the ac-
cused, was able to declare that he knew her
ten years, held her in veneration—a state of
teeilng which her homicidal act increased
—was glad she supressed the wretch who calumni-
ated her, and could say that his colleagues of the
Chamber, of all shades of political opinion, shared
his sentiments. Do not Imagine M. de la Forge a
7 * fe ,b°w, who, by flattering the mob, has got
into Parliament. He is one of the rare men who
inherit the traditions of the ancient aristocracy
which placed honour above life, and made it
dominate the instinct of self-preservation. Ills
grandfather was guillotined in 1791, and his father
i was an dmigni. M. de la Forge defended St. Quen-
tin against the Prussians in 1870. He is a grey-
bearded and blue-eyed man of calm physiognomy,
erect carriage, and unostentatious bearing. His
private fortune enables him to vote according to
his conscience and his generous instincts, both of
which have impelled him to break, so far as poli-
tics go, with kith and kin, and espouse the Radical
cause.
Inscription on a tomb at Bury St. Ed-
munds, England
• Reader,
Pause at this Humble stone,
it Records
The fall of Unguarded Youth
By the allurements of Vice
and the treacherous snares of
Seduction.
Lloyd,
on the 33rd April, 1800,
in the 23nd Year of her Age,
Suffered a just but ignominous
Death
for admitting her abandoned seducer
into the Dwelling House of
her Mistress
on the Night of 3rd Oct.,
1799,
and becoming the Instrument
in his Hands of the Crimes
of Robbery and House burning.
These were her last Words:
May my Example be a
Warning to Thousands.
Reader, go thou and do likewise.
The next stone to the above is in memory of
Henry Cockton, author of that book of our boy-
hood days, “ Valentine Vox, the Ventriloquist;”
and, further on, one comes across a startler. It is
to the memory of Elizabeth Woolner, midwife,
who died Oct. 1st. 1838. She brought into the
world 2103 children.”
Writesja correspondent: A recent Sunday-
evening I attended a lecture given by the ex-Rev.
John Osborne, at the new Masonic Hall, and I was
pleased to find this model “Christian” advertising
•The Bulletin as welljas abuse of the strongest
nature would naturally do. He assured his audi-
ence that The Bulletin was a “ pestilential rag,”
that it was “conducted by Freethinkers,” and went
so far as to establish a comparison between The
Bulletin writers and Saint Paul I) Mr. Os-
borne, in the course of the evening, railed furi-
ously at the Freethought Sunday evening
lecturer for charging for admission to their
lectures, and almost in the same breath, said
that, as the “Christian Platform” was in debt,
he would circulate some promissory notes next
Sunday evening, which ;he hoped would be well
plied, and he also took occasion to mention that
the p late would circulate as usual on that and on
au other occasions of his preaching. I don’t know
whether you ever heard this Mr. John Osborne,
the ex-reverend, but I look upon him as the
greatest curiosity in Sydney. He calls himself a
Christian, although he denies the existence of
a hell and a personal devil (the great com-
fort of all true Christians), and openly laughs
at the orthodox heaven. He reminds me of a
prow I once knew, who stuck a foreign feather in
his tall and called himself a peacock. And, as The
Bulletin is undoubtedly the only terror to hum-
bugs that the colony possesses, I think a little at-
tention from you would do the ex-reverend some
good.—[Poohl Mr. Osborne amuses us. He and
Mr. Charles Bright share the leader-writing of
the Daily Telegraph, yet he says The Bul-
letin is conducted by Freethinkers.— Ed. B’]
The incomparable Luey Scott, whose jokes
have done more to people Gladosvllle than grog
and poverty allied, has at length attained the
exalted dignity of defendant in an assault case.
And this is how it happened. Mr. Scott has the
misfortune to be an alderman at Leichhardt, and
as he is always on very good terms with himself,
he is consequently on inordinately bad terms with
his brother aldermen, who so far reciprocate that
there is often more din and confusion at a Leich-
hardt Council meeting than at one of Mr. Scott’s
own inimitable pantomimes. Meeting a bank-
teller, who had recently been elected alderman,
Mr. Scott attempted to delegate to him the custody
of a proposition he had given notice of. The bank-
teller, who evidently deems a jester to bo no better
than a fool, disdained the patronage of his brother
alderman, and informed him that he wanted no
words with him. The repulsed one thereupon
attempted to annihilate his opponent with such
I epithets as “unworthy cad,” and other choice
expressions not to be met with outside Mr. Scott’s
little plays. The injured masher thereupon cited
his opponent to appear before the Central, where
an unfeeling magistrate Inflicted a fine of one
pound, which the defendant had otherwise in-
tended to subscribe to the slaughter of the
Soudanese. The affronted Luey handed over the
sovereign with a sigh, shook his elaborate locks
disdainfully in the face of the Bench, and gloomily
retired, without so much as perpetrating a single
upon the whole proceedings. Great Scott I
What is the country coming to, when it costs a
pound to Institute a comparison between a bank-
teller and a cad ? Surely nothing less than a fiver
and costs could atone for the luxury of calling a
Judge a fool, or a member of Parliament an ass"
“ Madame Clovis Hugues,” says a Pall
Mall Gazette writer, who saw her at the trial
is a woman of singularly fine presence. Face
and figure are majestic. Her complexion is of
waxen pallor. A great doctor said to me, ‘ She is
not mistress of her nerves, because she must have
hypencmla of the nervous centres. Beware of a
pale woman whose general health is good.* Her
dress was in perfect taste, of black brocade, with
a black stamped velvet mantle, black bonnet and
feathers, and white veil spotted with (black. The
eyes, which looked blacker than anything else, had
a fatigued expression which gave them softness.
At first, the sight of the staring 1 house ’ appeared
to daunt her, or rather give her a shock. There
was moral energy and physical weanness expressed
in her carriage and walk. Two gendarmes sup-
ported her. Two currents ran through the
auditory. JGentlemen of high life, and throne and
altar journalists wore hostile. Radical journalists
and all the ladies were brimful of sympathy Her
father shook the tips of her fingers: and whis-
pered something into her ear. Gatineau (her
course!) had decided to give her no cue. He
thought she should be inspired by her own tact
and be frank all through. And from his point of
view most admirably inspired she was. Her
pluck never flagged, she stuck to the line she had
taken up at the beginning, got round the jurv bv
bringing into relief her character of spouse and
mother, and her desire to preserve maternal
authority over two daughters by keeping her fair
fame unsullied. One of her girls would Re grown
up before old age had come upon her. Was It In
human nature to support the Idea that If she
attempted to be her monitress the calumnies of
which she was the object might be thrown in her
face ? No device of the President could get her
to depart from this. It was clear that the jurors,
when he attempted to dislodge her from her posi-
tion, thought him a scurvy fellow. At four
o clock in the morning she was in her husband’s
arms at the Conciergerle. Five hours later her
house nas filled with llowers, which sympathising
persons had ordered in the event of an acquittal.
| rench ways are not as English ways, you will see
from the above.”
M. Soudry has been sent to an English
ffol for a term on a charge of swindling. We
f“ ou ffnt he would come to no good, after that
p.rosj affair where an exasperated husband nearly
killed the false partner of his bosom and left M.
soudry with as nice a bit of powder smoke tatoo-
ing on his nose and cheeks as one could wish to
®ee. The name recalls a little thing or two about
that distinguished man. We were at that time in
the Melbourne Exhibition Building, either as
commissioner, or treasurer, or ticket-taker, we
forget which, and it was our distinguished privi-
ledge to converse with that gentleman in the
Bungaree version of his native tongue. From
him we gathered that “ cette affaire ” made him
Irresistible ;to the fair sex. Up to that time he
said he was in despair that only nine women in
ten yielded to his blandishment, but now the path
of absolute conquest was his. “Maia oui,” he
® ai d, * you shall look down this prominade and
behold mo.” Twirling his moustache, he went
tor th to conquer. We watched him, and sure
as fate, he could not go ten paces without pausing
and chatting gaily with ladies against whom no
word could be said. We have seen well-known
merchants’ wives and daughters cluster round him,
and, heedless of the passing throng, gaze upon
him, and take in his ogles and his sniggers by the
bushel. So much for la gloire. But then came
another day. We were just of that age when
tales of a rou<5 possess some fascination (65), and
an intimacy naturally sprang up. One day Mussoo
was leading a magnificent horse through the
grounds, and, having to leave him for a moment,
ung the reins over an iron fence, and politely re-
quested us to do him the distinguished favour of
’ keeping an eye” on the steed which he intended
purchasing for £40. “ That’s the horse-I’ll swear
to him, said an eld gentleman to a policeman, and
they unhooked him; the horse was led away, and
the policeman darted off to head-quarters. We
have never seen nor thought of Mussoo since, but
his present habitat suggests that he was getting
his hand in before he left these shores, and if he
had remained would probably, by this time, be in
a position to ship horses to the Soudan without
them V ° rry and expen8e °* breeding or buying
Miss Fanny Atkinson, who, a short time
ago, left Brisbane for London, in order to pursue
her musical studies, seems to be made of the right
kind of stuff. Here’s what “Amazon,” of the
lathes Pictorial, in speaking of a choral con-
cert in Dublin, says of her:—“Two young ladies,
whose names were not on the programme, con-
successfully to the entertainment—one
ol them, whose modest grace of manner and tune-
ful vocalism pleased me greatly, managed to keep
her identity so well concealed, that I failed alto-
gether in discovering it; the other, whose astonish-
ing brilliancy of execution and quiet self-posses-
8*pn proclaimed her at once to be something out
of; the {common, sang * Una voce ’ as it has rarely
been hoard even on the opeiatlc stage, displaying
a magnificent range of voice, and such execution
ot rapid passages as can only be acquired by hard
and diligent study. I contrived to discover that
this unknown star—a very beautiful and bright
one, by the way-was a young Australian. Miss
hanny Atkinson, a cousin of the conductor's, and
a Pupil for the voice of the London Academy of
Music. If it is her intention to make the art a pro-
fession, her success is already assured. She sang
Braga s serenade with rare finish, the accompani-
ment being by Herr Rudersdorf, violoncello; Mr. J.
ORorke, organ; and Dr. O'Donoghue, piano.”
Miss Fanny’s father is just the kind of man who
deserves some sort of compensation in his chil-
dren, being one of those conscientious, hard-work-
Ing musicians, who never amass so much wealth
as those with more bounce and less merit. As far
back as we can remember he has been one of the
Brisbane stock musicians. Mrs. Atkinson is, or
was, a vocalist of no mean order, and In years gone
by, almost before Fanny had cut her eyeteeth, the
Atkinson concerts were a! feature in the sparse
list of Brisbane amusements. Brisbane seems to
have rather a mania for sending girls (by subscrip-
tion or benefit concerts) home to the Academy to
bo vocally trained. It doesn’t seem to signify to
them whether there’s any voice to justify such
measures or not, they seem to think the Academy
will provide the article. As socn as ever a girl
sings a song decently at a concert, home she must
go, and everybody gives his mite to forward the
end. And when she comes back a failure they are
ah surprised. However, at last they have some-
thing to be proud of in Miss Fanny Atkinson,
whose career we shall watch with the deepest
interest.
• • .
It is a curious circumstance that Sir Philip
Rose, the eldest son of the friend and executor of
the author of “Lothalr” should have just gone
over ts Romo with his wife and five children....It
is said that if Lord Calthorpe lives only a few more
years he will be worth £700,000 per annum. He has
a lot of property in Birmingham. Never did a
day s work in his life Oliver Cromwell’s alleged
Royal descent from the Stuarts—moralised over
by Carlyle and others—will be denounced as a
fabrication by Mr. Walter Pye in the forthcoming
Issue of the Genealogist .. Bismarck s now 71
y® a J8 °f a lf e * His ministerial income is about
±67o0, and his private fortune does not exceed in
value half a million of thalers (about £75,000), so
that his entire income is under £8000.
HARD FACTS.
Glebe, Sydney, June 36, 1884.
Messrs. Elliott Bros. —Dear Sirs, —I am pleased to
Inform you that the Hamburg Tea has afforded me
substantial and, I trust, permanent relief. I suffered
for years from a weak digestion, and was subject
at intervals to severe attacks of biliousness and
dyspepsia. Since leaving the “ old country ” these
have increased in frequency, and although I have
tried many other preparations, none have suc-
ceeded in yielding me relief. Noticing a case simi-
lar to my own, in which Hamburg Tea affected a
GUrre8 °lved to give it a trial, and am happy to
say the results were most satisfactory. B eadache
—a troublesome symptom in this class of malady—
at once disappeared, and by steady persistence in
Its use I experienced a gradual return of health
and vigour, and I have every reason to believe my-
self completely cured.
If this testimony is of any service to you, use it
in any way you please. ’
Faithfully yours, _
A. THOMAS.
[!f every Individual and every family would be-
stow a tithe of the care requisite in any ordinary
attack of acute disease, in striving to prevent
ana ward off its attacks t thero would rarely be any
use for calling in the aid of the physicians. In all
ordinary derangements of the stomach, bowels,
n v °r. or kidneys, you need only a few doses of
Emil Frese s Hamburg Tea ]
Parents do not use vile drugs or nostrums
and road amiiie8 ’ bUt US6 PUre H ° P Bitters< 8ee
? h £ l P? ati8m * —® 1 ° r the cure of this pain-
fM 1 a ®J c *'* 0n * n a }t its various types and forms,
there has never, to our knowledge, been any
and sure as BRISTOL’S
SARSAPARILLA, Old people of 70 to 80 years of
age, who have been confined to their beds for
years with their joints swelled to twice or three
times their natural size, limbs drawn up and
distorted, and suffering a continual agony, have
been entirely cured, and restored to the use of all
their limbs permanently.
Political Pionts
Targett. Vi ° eable member on the War debate •
s4?ss; ! «S5
«rok" U^ th Tso& n b ® tor !»« bold
applaud the irony oTfate? J ° b Davles lau Fh and
contemporary,°condemna a morn ing
tlon, J ustides Parkes’slesistan ® oudanese expedf.
cheaterlike characteri8tlca t nf C ?>.o Ddup^.rald8 the
Bell their vote, tor
ssaas«aaA^^M-*
lin.» Bismarck will? no doiTht m l“ k * e , d at B «r.
because he isn’t liked at P& h r r « r^ 8isrn *
ssfsa? offloe ’ be ““» e ■» Wo js&ssz
ti “ rt?tor°l b ““rfe¥k SuMr be , 0t ,“ s “Uperla.
from risking- his life ?n the at Narra brl
story is told by Mr. B. himself*» P hi ? war * Th «
cretion of the Executive +1 l a n T 1Dg 14 ln the dis-
mlgbt be called finance t 04 what
ous army, for the purnose rff danextrane -
OTr1? l8 °h f ,SS e h ,i« ‘0 P be
follows:—Mr. Baird ’ h o! 9 abinet 88
Foreign Affairs; Mr. MarmfnJ State and of
Treasury: Mr. Lamar Secretary of the
Mr. Q«M Atto™ySS^ 0 . f 4h ° Interior ;
Postmaster-General. y nera l. and Mr. Vlllaz,
a to^ n W .eM.mo 0 D r ' that
now is to tell us what narfnf«JL at he , should do
out Lapland-a foreign 8ottLm«T^ 0rld ~ 1 i e J avln F
clash with a British one. 8ettlemenfc would not
oaf banquet was bSu2ht d ab5 a f reeent POliti-
maklng financial arrangeraente^oJ u he reci Plent
lug the donors to recoun r lt-guarantee-
tlme or money. This any 1088 of
achieve popularity and 8 I 4 P oll tlolans
acquisitions—much ° f two
teSlneftoraff^orK; 081 P, art X baa de-
at next general Tif for Parliament
places the Radicals can ‘eWt 8 £ < i reB ai ? d 8Gore s of
&v»fete sab
the oSlfttS .ff“?o 0 Ahe F s “??S. e , S 5, lng Wa ’
opinion, U we womier^when'jffr * KeU v’ 6 bee T° b “ c °
was carried by a large rn n inS* ? am endment
iD T’h W e e s h M hi n iaibe *®aSSS5AR£ffia^S2:
laffvour 5f‘t?e E ?oloni fl ? Pea rf 8 ° f the feelin S
almost univor8ai e °thrmio-h 1 m,f ar^i, exp f dltion 88
dominions, and dub8 b SlrWn b rv U8tralian
sistance to the movement ns «n „*? ry ?*f ke > re-
BJ?* !
mSi8Ld f ase P e F orka-rftM e S Dine a drover9 (Jp ‘
master’s sheep, to the* rifne + 8outh ’ w i th his
when ordered by the £ ten P° und8 . and
selector, he levanted beforn hi. 1 k recompense the
tels could be seized bod / or his chat-
Here is a splendid channe^^af 1 S f d. tho ver, Hot.
plement his donation to tho Patrick to sup-
poor selector what is by payin * the
or rix m g t e h7;. M i L *f •’ has been fined 5s,
ary avocation on the C 8undav° U w Wln? hi8 ordin-
oows to water when as&i?? wa8 driving
crossed his path, W and haifio^ b hi™ lan P° B oeman
Sunday Observance Aef Vi . hIm . up under the
a pit on the Sabblth ri« J f h a man > 888 tails into
Act operates, let the 4ar as that
Monday. Mr. B will of *} Is chance till
bill next session t^legalise°hi^i e nnn«ffi in a li4tl e
Sawbath. mganse bull-punching on the
sa™£SsH <SS.s?s?s
ggfe*? “J W Wb SMSS%
srs-. 2 r,5rhv p ?i ,tlc * a?e
aB&pntaS
Ssg-siaSS-:
front of the Roval Fv7.hQ^!^ 01 J th ® large area in
quenco of the refusal London, in const-*
tie use of the Hail L for fer to grant
siBSWgp
men delegates from London associations. 1Dg
nl“ a fo y .TrhSel?e 8 P tK“ Q ™ao.. a wh begl ' 1 '
not Parliament convened as Ion as IhT BriH« ft H
M0Em^0‘
5f^‘iSs,7?Ma5'l
certainly looks as if. when PobHoSj 4 011, 14
wms 2sss3*^a?!a
grimly added that it wm mhtt™Sf nce ’ an 4
their steadfastness that ?h? In consequence of
adoted the rlSesllve ba 2
when the old french cries waSSSSSSa 4


B
BALE and COMPANY,
SOLE AGENTS
In
NEW SOUTH WALES
and
QUEENSLAND
for the
SWEET HAPSBURG PIANOS.
HAYDN ORGANS and HARMONIUMS,
and the
WONDERFUL
WERTHEIM SEWING MACHINES.
Liberal Terms of Time Payment.
SHOW ROOMS.
Sydney :
386 GEORGE STREET,
618 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
and
151 OXFORD STREET,
or from our Travellers In town and country.
Head Offices and Warehouses :
371, 373, 375, 377A PITT STREET.
The most liberal terms to travellers In town
and country.
Commission only, or salary and commission.
• .. fueling prompting them had died out, the
rfdana and Lorraines would no longer have to
that they were on a different footing
from the rest of the peoples under the German
vfr Dallev’s speech at the Orange banquet
» keen disappointment In political circles,
was a the eloquent platitudes about water oonser-
wh Hon lUdldauty for the argumentative defence
military manoeuvre, which was so generally
as likely to be the chef d’ceuvre of the
aDti0 ,Pflt fc oratory. His contemptuous criticism of
afr°ftenry Parkes as a suicided statesman who had
richt to come from his grave to frighten the
“nnnlace may or may not be regarded as a clover
p? £n of satire: but It was bad taste, and as un-
E,«rihv ofMr. Dailey’s chivalrous nature as it was
J? enuity response to the weighty array of argu-
■“ with which the retired knight assailed the
Kutyand propriety of the military expedition.
The whole of the steaming cataract of
military enthusiasm has not confined itself to the
«irr?or8 of these shores. Squirts from the main-
land have been splashed about, and the land of
the Maori poses with a great red daub on a Proml-
* ont oart of it. The N.Z. Hbrald says that the
Satlvss would make excellent volunteers for the
Kan. and guarantees that “not a few or the
Arawss and also of the Walkatos, from whom ths
Src Minister finds difficulty in obtaining kinds
?nr settlement, would promptly answer to the call
for service." What stronger proof of a deep-
MBtSnent of loyalty to the Empire does any man
want? An empire resting on pure patriotism like
can afford to treat with contempt the counsel
of any number of Cassandras.
On a recent visit to Morpeth of a member
of the Assembly, an ambitious alderman, having
been elected chairman of the Reception Commlt-
ostentatiously offered him the freedom of the
r?tv In answer to the badinage of his townsmen
he wrote to the papers explaining that in order
to Jive practical effect to this sentimental free-
dom. he paid the legislator’s toll to and fro the
f-rrv and spent two shillings In grapes for the en-
tertainment of the residue of the Reception Com-
mittee Evidently so pretentious an alderman
docs not incline to keep his light hidden under a
bushel. If he gave a blind beggar a farthing on
Queen’s Blrthnight. he would ask the recipient to
cable his loyal generosity koine to Her Majesty.
In Morpeth, they now call paying the punt r ‘ ma-
oraylng.”
Germany has quite out-manoeuvred Eng-
land in their relations with the Sultan of Zanzibar.
No doubt Jby order of Bismarck, a £600 merry-go-
round driven by a donkey engine has been sent
for the amusement of the Sultan s numerous
wives “ The merry-go-round has long been one
of the most popular domestic Institutions of the
Sultan, but an old one, which presumably was
English) as It dated from the time when English
ascendency prevailed, was worked by hand and
resembled the ordinary * roundabout ’ seen at our
country fairs, th« ladies of the harem being seated
upon the horses or in the oars. The new merry-
go-round is a much more elaborate affair and may
be accepted as an illustration of the way in which
the Germans have succeeded in ousting us from
the African market.”
“Sydney, Jan, 13.—Mr. Dailey, who acts
in the absence of the Premier, has decided to offer
some apology to Lord Derby for the violent lam
guago with wjiidh he has been attacked, the New
South Wales Government regarding his explana-
tions as satisfactory.” This telegram Is from the
British Australasian -a little “financial” and
company-mongerlng rag which flourishes in Lon-
don under the patronage of the Agent-General and
the Colonial Institute, and is made up chiefly of
contributions of the right sort ” from the S.M.
Herald, Argus, and 8 A. Register offices. Will
some “ membah *' kindly ask whether the British
Australasian is not subsidised by the Govern-
ment of N.S. Wales? “An apology to Lord
Derby 1” “ It Is plain,” writes an Australian from
London, “that Mr. Dailey will now have to be
made a peer, at the very least.”
Mr. Robert Hoddle Doddle Whit®, the
§ay, generous, and genial member for Stroud, has
een the victim of a banquet at the hands of his
Raymond Terrace constituents. In spite of the
temptation to a man of his parts to be a talker,
Mr. White is a statesman who thinks more than
he talks, and who more often votes without doing
either. Henee the oratorical part of the enter-
tainment was provided by the Minister for Mines,
who has of late been graduating as an advanced
Student of loquacity. The guest confined himself
to explaining the 111 effects upon his health of each
succeeding week in Parliament, and the mental
tension which his active or passive political labours
superinduce. This reminds us that those who can
afford it should provide for a Parliamentary cam-
paign by arranging for a constant supply of
feather-pillows, tooth-picks, crutches and cork-
screws. The lot can be conveniently carried in a
small valise, and each item, to a wearied legislator,
Is simply invaluable.
Substitute Australia for India in the fol-
lowing passage, extracted from the speech of the
then Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs on the
debate in 1878 concerning the Abyssinian war
“ It is not any present danger, I fear, as resulting
from the present step, but having regard to the
future. I do not like India to be looked upon as
an English barrack in the Oriental seas, from
which we may draw any number of troops with-
out paying for them. . . . And it is bad, very
bad for India, because If there were a weak, a
timid, or too facile a Governor-General in that
country, at the time of any similar operation, you
might have India seriously denuded of troops in,
order to suit the Imperial interest. ... If this
garrison which we keep in India is necessary for
maintaining that country in security and peace, it
ought not to be seriously diminished. If on the
other hand the garrison is too large, and the Indian
troops can be spared for many months at a time,
then the natives of India should not be taxed to
maintain a force of unnecessary strength.”
The D.T. mentions, as one of the benefits
that Justifies annexation of pagan territory, that,
by the Inroads of civilization, barbarism, and
people sunk in confirmed Indolence and ignorance,
are driven back. Why shouldn’t they remain in
Indolence and ignorance? They are certainly
better off In that condition than are the struggling
millions of so-called Christian countries. Their
wants are few, they do no harm to ahyone but
themselves, and it is certain that the exchange of
a life of ease and Ignorance for one of toll, and
with a smattering of book lore which they never
half grasp, and the adoption of restraints suitable
to other climates thrown in, Is no way of increas-
ing the sum total of human happiness. Which is
better ofl-the labourer who toils hard six days a
week for enough to live and to clothe himself and
children, and who is a pauper as soon as he is un-
fitted for life, or the savage who needs no clothes,
who walks leisurely to a stream and hauls out his
fresh fish, or eats his banana and cocoanut and
dreams away his life without care of clothes, or
fuel, or rent, or a future hell ? We know which
we d rather be.
At the Orange banquet to the Ministry,
originality of either sentiment or expression
would seem to have been a thing tabooed, for the
speeches all round were dreadfully common-place,
u we except the Mayor’s, who was Demosthenic in
ms admiration of the present Government, and
”“0. being a lawyer, has doubtless a sly eye on a
portfolio himself some day. One of the district
members made the startling announcement that
ae would only sit for Orange so long as the
majority of the electors voted him into the posl-
ar A Patri °ta of this description of determination
”®p7n° means rare, but what we pine to see is a
Politician determined to sit for an electorate after
ms rejection. Neither Dalton nor Clarke evoked
electricity by their speeches. The former said
was to be congratulated on being made
toe head quarters of the land district. William
wT u *, t ' larl£ e received much applause for the
manner in which he demonstrated that as
was wr ong in buying jimoracks without
parliamentary authority, therefore Dailey was
, m embroiling the nation in war without the
concurrence of the people’s representatives.
.Apropos of the circulars by which the time-
heads of the public departments insinuate
ontnoutions from tneir 'understrappers towards
the Patriotic Fund, it Is said a black list Is kept of
all who refuse to subscribe. Whether this is so or
not, such an impression prevails among the sub-
ordinates, many of whom stint their baker and
butcher, and procrastinate with tradesmen gener-
ally, rather than risk getting in the black books
with their superior officers. One of the Inspectors
on the Southern line is reported to have directed
the attention of one of the station-masters under
him to the fact that he and another were the only
two on the Southern line who had refused to sub-
scribe, and that he was acting very injudiciously
in so refusing. The S.M. pondered the matter
over, and struck by the significance of the warn-
ing conveyed in the word “injudicious,” at once
contributed a week’s wages, which, he admitted
to a fellow-employd, he could ill-afford to spare.
This is a provable fact, and shows how ill Mr.
Dailey can afford to dismiss Parkes’s exposure of
the circular as “ not worthy of notice.” W. B. D.,
this military variola is turning your brain and
ruining your chivalry.
As most of the leading newspapers in
Scotland have said that Mr. George's second cam-
paign in that country was a failure, and the lead-
ing papers in Australia have repeated that state-
ment, it may interest our readers to know what
he thinks with regard to it himself. “The first
campaign,” he remarked, “ had been described as
a failure by the same papers, and the second has
been Just such a failure, only very much worse. I
am satisfied, the Scottish Land Restorationlsts are
satisfied, and if the Journalists, who are trying to
Boycott the discussion of the land question, are
satisfied, there is ‘the declared’ satisfaction all
round. Let him laugh who winsl My trip this
time has been much more telling than the last. I
did not go into the Highlands, except to Skye.
They can be safely left to the lairds, the fac-
tors, and my efficient co-worker. Mr. Wlnans.
But I have!been speaking night after night in the
Lowland districts, where the political strength is.
And wherever I have been I have left discussion
behind me. All political and social powers com-
bined cannot keep the movement down in Scot-
land. It comes info practical politics at the next
election, and will stay there until finally settled in
the only way it can be settled—the full acknow-
ledgment of equal rights, the restoration of the
land to the people.”
The Italian papers are bemoaning the
“ depletion ” of the working classes of that coun-
try. One prefect, it is said, issued 0000 passports
to America in the course of the year. Fearful
state of things, this, and shows the essential pig-
headedness and want of patriotism of the Euro-
pean peasantry. What, leave a country swarming
with holy priests and holler beggars; the land of
the Popeand nutritious maooaronl—the land which
held the Ooesars, the monuments of whose glories
draws tens of thousands of retired soap-boilers to
stare at them, and hundreds of artists annually to
sketch your artistic rags as you crouch around
the marble entrances of vast cathedrals I Aland
where a man may save up £30 by delving on his
one-acre plot till he is Just old enough to hand over
£19 of it for masses for his soul! To leave a land
where you can be drilled and sent out to fight for
your acre and holy Humbert, and to go and bury
yourselves in the sordid occupation of crops and
herds, homesteads, and endless acres and dol-
lars? This is a “depletion,” if you like-the sort
of depletion that military hacks and great land-
lords and cardinal* deplore ; but a depletion,
nevertheless, that will go on more and more as
education spreads, and the letters of the fore-
runners expose the hollow hypocrisy of the Euro-
pean rulers, and the utter absence of any benefit
to them from dying for fatherland.
An English paper thus satirises the Foreign
Office:—“It is rumoured that the German llag was
this afternoon hoisted over the Tower of London,
after some previous correspondence with her
Majesty’s Government. It is said that a communi-
cation was first made to Lord Granville, stating
that Germany had an ancient claim, dating from
a settlement of Angles and Saxons, to regard this
country as her colony, and a more recent claim
based on tho German origin of the reigning Royal
family, and on the existence of a large German
colony in the City and in the Charing-cross Hotel.
Lord Granville seems to have referred the com-
munication, as raising a purely colonial question,
to Lord Derby, and the latter is reported to have
written in reply a despatch characterised by his
usual fairness and moderation, to the effect that
her Majesty’s Government had for some time past
been aware of the ancient claims alluded to; that
he had always regarded with favour the expansion
of Germany; and that if Germany would under-
take to protect British subjects in their trade and
commerce, and allow them equal rights with
Germans, he could see no objection to the pro-
posed annexation. Unless, however, some satis-
factory assurance could be given on the latter
point, ner Majesty’s Government would feel com-
pelled to regard the contemplated proceeding of
Germany as an unfriendly act. This rumour is
officially denied, a circumstance which necessarily
compels us to regard it with more apprehension
than we should otherwise feel.”
Regarding the orofters, Mr. George says
they will not be satisfied with Anything short of
the complete restitution of their natural rights in
the land. “They have got a firm grasp of the
truth that God made the land, not for the land-
lords alone, but for all the people. They have the
Bible at their tongues’ ends, and the power of the
ministers, who have long been preaching a slavish
submission in tho name of Christianity, is rapidly
passing. It is the trust-in-God-and-keep-your-
powder-dry spirit that is wakening in the North.”
Further on in this Interview, Mr. George referred
to a statement that had been made, that the
crofters and the agricultural labourers could not
understand the doctrines In regard to the land
which he promulgates, “I know from experience,”
he declared, “that this is the very reverse of
true. They are as logical as children, and are not
perplexed by considerations of what would hap-
pen to this or that if Justice be done. * God
made the land for one man as much as for another.’
No rustics are so stupid as not to understand
that, and to carry it to its logical con-
clusion. When they are heft to themselves
and their betters, they may continue in
the old ruts a while longer; but when they are
appealed to in the name of their natural rights,
1 believe that even the English labourer, of
whose sluggishness I have heard so much, may
be roused, as he has not been roused since the
times of John Ball and Wat Tyler, It seems to
me that the great English revolution, which
means a social revolution throughout the civi-
lised world, is already begun.”
We thought so! The scurrilous aspersions
of the Macleay Herald (we fancy we can see poor
old Dease struggling to burst open his coffln-lld)
uoon that truly courteous and beautiful member
have been met by a dignified and scathing par. in
the Manning River Times. Here it is:—“Our in-
defatigable [till member, Mr. R. B. Smith, is
determined not to let our local wants be neglected
by the Government. He lately interviewed the
Minister for Works respecting the alleged delay
in calling for tenders for public works voted by
Parliament for the Macleay, Bellinger, and Nam-
buccra Rivers. He has obtained the Minister’s
promise to re-consider his refusal to grant a punt
[III] for Commandant’s Hill and West Kempsey,
and has likewise strongly protested against the
recent oppressive cedar regulations, and obtained
a promise that his representations should receive
attention.”
The Social Democratic Federation of Eng-
land, which has for its president and supreme
director, If not dictator, Mr. H. Hyndman, a pupil
of the late Karl Marx, acquired a prominence and
standing that It never had before by the acquisi-
tion to its ranks, a few years ago, of Mr. William
Morris, the gifted author of “Tho Earthly Para-
dise,” and the composer of the exqulsitley har-
monious and highly popular wall-papers that bear
his name. For some time past this organization
has exercised considerable Influence in (London
and In the large towns throughout tho United
Kingdom, and, in spite of the sweeping character
of its programme and the uncompromising spirit
that animates its policy, lit has occasionally done
good service to the cause of progress. It Is not
without regret, therefore, that we learn that
there has been a serious dispute among the
members of its Council, the majority of whom,
headed by Mr. Morris, have resigned office, giving
as their reason ‘‘the tyrannical conduct of the
minority.” As the minority comprises Mr. Hynd-
man, who was promoter, and has all along been
the chief maintainor, of the Federation, we can
understand how the majority could not give effect
to their votes, and found it necessary to retire. It
has been most unfortunate that this body has
treated every practical reform that has been ad-
vocated, even the abolition of property In land,
and the abolition of the House of Lords, as mere
partial measures or Whig remedies, and In this
way, of course, have frightened away many per-
sons who otherwise would have supported them
heartily. The secoders from the Federation, how-
ever, under the leadership of Mr. Morris, are to
form another society, which will rapidly attain
more formidable dimensions; and os Mr. Hyndman
is sure to carry on bis organisation, nothing but
good to the cause of social reform is likely to re-
sult from the split that has taken place.
“ How do you regard Mr. Chamberlain’s
speech ? Do you agree with the Times that ‘ It
was apparently something of the same kind as
land nationalisation that he advocated with judi-
cious vagueness’?” These questions were ad-
dressed to Mr. Henry George by a representative
of the Pali, Mall Gazette, who waited upon him
in Glasgow when he was bringing to a close his
second lecturing campaign In Great Britain, a few
days before he returned to his native land. The
answer they evoked was as follows: “ It seems to
me about as clear a declaration of true principles
with regard to the land as a Liberal politician and
Cabinet Minister could just now be expected to
make, and will, I should say, much strengthen Mr.
Chamberlain’s position with the new forces which
are soon to revolutionize English politics. Trans-
lated into plain English, I take It to be that the
land belongs of natural right to the whole people,
but that, as it would be impossible to equally
divide the land, It should be left, in form,
to private owners while the people take the
rent. When Mr. Chamberlain says that in the
origin of things, men were born with certain
natural rights, he of course Implies that they are
born to-day with the same rights. When he says
that these rights have passed away, he of course
does not mean that they have ceased to exist, but
that they have been ignored. The speech is, to
me, evidence of Mr. Chamberlain’s political
sagacity. He has stepped forward! at the right
time. Mr. Chamberlain seems everywhere re-
garded as the man who is to lead the great Demo-
cratic party which is to spring Into the political
arena as soon as Mr. Gladstone retires, and his
strength seems to have been the belief that he
was far more Radical than he had yet seemed,
and was only waiting his opportunity. To delay
moving forward now that the suffrage has been
extended, and redistribution is well nigh settled,
would be to lose that confidence which is a politi-
cal leader’s greatest strength."
* * *
“Prance,” said Bismarck, in his reeent
great speech to the German Reichstag, “ 1« per-
haps less strong at sea than England.” — An Eng-
lishman resident in tho Transvaal writes: I very
much fear that Sir Charles Warren will get into a
trap. The freebooters in Goshen will most cer-
tainly be supported by the Boers of the Trans-
vaal. ’
A chip from the last report of the Mel-
bourne Unitarian Church:—“The signs of the
times unmistakably indicate the dawn of that day
which shall dispel the long night of ignorance and
fear, the day when the partial and avenging Deity
of the Creeds shall give place to the Infinite and
Loving Father, into whose hands humanity may
calmly and reverentially submit its eternal desti-
nies. And there Is no reason to foreshadow any
lessening of moral restraint as a consequence of
the elimination of the element of dread from the
rising faith. We are assured that perfect love
casteth out fear,’ but It may co-exist with perfect
confidence and trust; and we may safely predict
that when the long-abiding tenants, Doubt and
Terror, depart, leaving vacancies in the human
soul, Love and Reverence will be awaiting to
enter and beautify the abode.”
One of the Christmas publications in Lon-
was “ The Australian Birthday Book.” Like others,
it contains several selected verses or quotations
set against every day in the year, and the feature
of the volume is that every selection is from an
Australian poet. Some thirty writers are levied
upon, from Adam Lindsay Gordon and Brunton
Stephens, down to mere obscurities, whose verse
is admitted just because It Is of the soil. As the
authoress (a lady in Gloucester) says: “Australia
has its own features of sea and land, its distinct
aspects of dale and hill, of plain and river, and its
inhabitants have thoughts and feeling, manners
and customs of their own. Hence arises in time a
distinct literature, the beginnings of which may be
already traced in the writings of a slender series
of distinctly Australian poets.” A little seed of
this kind scattered among thousands of English
homes will be wonderfully fertile in spreading a
true and Intelligent Interest in Australian poetry.
Three enterprising specimens of the com-
ing people, named Lousie Wilson, Lucy Styles, and
Henry Styles, aged respectively, thirteen, twelve,
and seven, appeared before the Wllllamstown
“binoh,” charged with felonoously breaking into,
and robbing the house of one R. Tope. Those most
valiant and efficient protectors of the peace, and
pies (especially pies), Constables Delap and Ben-
nett, who made the clever arrest, testified that the
crib had been cracked in a masterly manner, and a
bedroom ransacked, the burglar’s getting right
away with the loot, which consisted of throe
Eounds and a wooden doll. Louise Wilson (a
rawny ruffian In a merino frock and a frizette),
bossed the venture, and enticed her lawless pals
into assisting her, with promises of black taffy,
and a live bull-frog which she had In a Jam tin.
The case was remanded for one week, in order to
give the police time to prove that the culprits are
New Caledonian escapees. We cannot too highly
commend the pluck of the arresting constables,
who, after a severe struggle, succeeded in taking
the audacious criminals from the arms of their
mothers.
We clip, with a chuckle, this ad, from the
S.M.H.: —“To Newspaper Proprietors.—A Press
correspondent from the other side of the ocean
being here now located, desires so contribute to a
good journal; he guarantees his style has never
been excelled in this dominion [ 11], and no remu-
neration required unless that statement be
acknowledged by his entertainer (sic). Australia
Felix, Camperdown Post-office.” After reading
this, we are of opinion that “Australia Felix will
not bo long out of collar. He will be at work soon,
if not with the pen, at least with the pick. He
doesn’t say, though, what that style which ‘ has
never been excelled In this dominion” is. Is it
“over the ocean” humour, now, about how Old
Man Cicero polka’d in ? or how the bad boy said to
the grocery man that pa was mad this morning,
and was capering around with a club ? or how that
Brooklyn beast bawled “it only wants a bundle
of firewood and a tin whistle to make you
an organ ? ” or is it what the Detroit man
with the yaller dawg said to the bar-keep? -
because, if it is, you have only got to step
round here as soon as you have broken your
“ yard.” Perhaps it Isn’t, though. Is It this ?
“ Polockoles in his ‘ Borutohades 1 sets forth that
rats in their primeval state ?”—or this—“ As I
started on my weary pilgrimage to Pyrmont, the
lambent moon exhaled her golden bars over the
peaks and gobbles—.” If so, throw down your
hammer and hie to us with your utmost speed. If
you can sing to ttosabusta—
My heart Is thine.
And thine Is mine,
just step into the tram, hammer and all, and we
will secure you at a handsome figure. We are too
enterprising on this paper to allow real talent to
go a-begging. But, we suppose, you’ll have beeh
gobbled up by some hungry journal long ere you
read this.
There are men who are always up to
their ears in luck. For months some deserters
from the Permanent Artillery have been wander-
ing about the country. A certain delicacy pre-
vented their visiting Sydney, combined probably
with a suspicion that they would be received with
open arms and six months' shot drill. So things
went on. till one morning the news came that some
tribes of niggers were teasing the Old Lion. Then
spake New South Wales, and the nations stood
shudderlngly by as the dogs of war—shopmen from
fierce Balmain, tailors from distant Waverley, and
cabmen from bloodthirsty Paddington—were
shipped. Here was the deserters’ chance. From
every station and rabbit-murdering party in the
land came telegrams saying that if the court-
martial and skilly were waived, they’d wade to
the armpits in Arab gore. All were ferglven, and
are now well on their way to the Soudan. This
piece of luck reminds us of the time when we had
a dispute with the monarch of Abyssinia over
some missionaries of ours he put in cages and fed
on shavings. We were one of those sent to argue
—with breach-loaders and rifled ordnance—with
the King. No one in the crowd knew a word in
the Abyssinian tongue, but one morning the out-
lying pickets brought id a ragged, oarroty-headed
old man who bad answered “a fren’” just in time
to save himself from being potted by the challeng-
ing sentry. Ho was a Scotchman who’d been
wrecked there thirty years before. This was his
opportunity—like the Soudan campaign to the
artillery runaways. He knew the language, was
supplied with bags of gold by the General, and
sent up the country to buy camels. If we’d waited
for those camels we’d be in Abyssinia still. Lost
we heard of him was that he was doing a roaring
trade in hymn-books and slaves away in the
Soudan. His chance came, and—having received
a religious training in Auld Reekie—he knew
bettor than let It slip.
There have been several ways of making
money in New Zealand, besides sod-fencing and sly
grog-selling, but perhaps the best little haul ever
made in the good old days, or since, was that by
which a man who kept a small seed shop in Dune-
din rose to affluence and a J.P.-shlp, as you might
say, at one-fell swoop. It was during the early
days of the gold-fields, when the Provincial
Government had plenty of money in its treasury,
and the main roads from the infant city wore being
exoavated out of the hill-sides in the direction of
the gold-fields. In many places the roads ran for
miles along the edge of deep gullies and steep
mountain sides, and some great genius who then
guided the helm of State, suggested that the dan-
gerous sides of the road should be sown with gorse
seed, which would soon, It was thought, grow Into
a thick hedge, and act as a barrier between the
traveller and destruction, should his horse either
shy or run away. This was a famous chance for
the small seed merchant, who palled the official
wires to such purpose that he secured the con-
tract for supplying three thousand pounds
weight of a new and particularly famous
brand of gorse seed at the price of ten
shillings per pound. He aooordlngly, in a
very short time, fulfilled the order, got hla
little cheque for £1500, and therewith purchased
3000 acres of superior land, which ho put In hla
wife’s name. That land is now worth about £W
per acre—that Is to say. roughly speaking, £00,00u.
And the gorse seed ? Well, you see, that was sown
all right, and came up along the main road for
many miles—what do young think? Turnips;
white globe, aberdeen yellow, green top swedes
and all the other varieties, but not a “ demnltlon”
solitary prickle of gorse appeared anywhere. 1N0-
thing, in fact, but turnips, turnips, turnips, tur-
nips for miles and miles. The seed merchant took
a trip homo, of course, when he saw the first
“ noep” put in an appearance. There was a row,
of course, and threats of prosecution, but nothing
was done, and ho Is now a “leading citizen, a
shining light, and in a fair way to earn—as he de-
serves—a C.M.G.-shlp.”
A new discovery.—Hoffman’s Euealyptol
(icgistered) " Mixture and Injection.” They will
positively cure all kidney diseases and disorders,
all urinary complaints and discharges, irritation*
scalding, inflammation, gravel, pains in the back.
&o. A case incurable in nine months was actually
cured in eight days with Hoffmann’s BuoalypteJ
Injection (” purely vegetable ”). Hoffman's Ihit
caiyptol Mixture or Injection contain no mlaaw
no sandalwood, no balsam, or anything InjnrMtffl
t® the most delicate constitution or either sfty.
Ask for Hoffman’s, and tat* no substitute.
Wholesale: E. Prouser and Co.; Elliott Bros. Re-
tail : All principal chemists and storekeepers
Price, 33. 6d. and 3e. 6d.*
No wonder. Smith! that carping journal
Did rise thy pretty little dander.
But now the foot of Truth Eternal
Is on the neck of Sergeant Slander 1
Those rumours gave us grief and pain, sir,
Eann’d in us Rage’s dying ember;
But now you stand forth once again, sir,
A splendid punt and tender member 1
How do you do it ? VTell us, Cupid ?
Is it those radiant locks that curl so ?
Or that sweet smile—we are so stupid—
That last week paralysed our girl so ?
We cannot tell; but when a thing, sir,
Is lovely folks are sure to pet it;
Whate'er you want the fairies bring, sir.
Or anyhow you’re sure to get it.


T
H E
A U 8 T R
WAXWORKS
ALIA
Opposite the Cathedral,
Just added,
SIR HERCULES ROBINSON.
Open dally from 10 a.m. till 10 p.m.
Admission, One Shilling; Children, half-price.
U 8 I C
Academy of m
(Late Albert Hall).
Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
The coolest and most comfortable Hall in Aus-
tralia. Seating capacity, 1300 ; stage: depth, 46ft.;
width, 58ft; height of grooves, 16ft.; proscenium,
26 by 30; dressing accommodation unlimited. Rent
or shares. For open dates, apply to DUVAL and
SMITH, Lessees, Tattersall’s Hotel, Brisbane.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
IN THE PRESS, and to be published shortly, tho
HISTORY’ OF THE YEAR 1884. u
A complete record day by day of every event of
interest to the colony, in town or country. Com-
piled with great care, and intended to 111), as a
work of reference, a long-felt want.
Send 5s. Gd. stamps to
JOHN WOODS AND CO. (Limited).
Bridge-street, Sydney.
OF MUSIC
— Mr. F. E. HlSCOCKS.
C A D E M Y
Lessee and Manager
HlSCOCKS* FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION.
Great and Enthusiastic Success of the Patriotic
Song. “For the OH Land’s Sake;" The Dis-
gusted Lovers “ The Coming Man. Conclud-
ing with the Screaming Farce.
CALL Ai o» _ Q f
Admission, 4s., 8s., 2s., and Is. Box Plan at
Paling’s. Carriages at 10.15.
A Bazaar & Art Union
IN connection with the Union Masonic Lodge,
of Berrima, 981 E.C., in aid of the
WIDOW AND ORPHAN FOND,
under the patronage of the District Grand Master,
John Williams. Esq., of the District Grand Lodge,
English Constitution,
£7000 Worth off Works of
Art, Pictures, &c.,
to be disposed of in Shares of £1 each on the Art
Union Principle, and to be drawn for at Moss Vale,
time and place of which will be given in public
Press, and the drawing will be under the super-
vision of the following gentlemen, who have
kindly offered to act :—
John Williams, Esq.
I. S. Ponder, Esq.
Jas. Taylor, Esq.
W. McCourt, Esq.
1st Prize—Picture, &o., valued at
2nd—
3rd—
4th—
6th-
6th—
7th—
8th—
9th—
10th-
llth—
12th—
13th—
From 14 to 24—io prizes of £20 each.
100 Prizes—Pictures, valued at £3 each.
Tickets will be forwarded by the Secretary, on
receipt of £1,
J. S. HVAMS.
Hon. Secretary,
Moss Vale.
£2C00
1200
700
500
370
300
300
300
200
200
130
K0
100
100
11RY BURGIS’ £3 3e. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house tor
i good, genuine suit ot clothes. 170 PIT 1-bi KEKi.,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for 8f "►-measuring
forwarded to anv part ot the colour
Department of Public Works.
Sydney. 24th February, 1885.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
owing Public Works and Supplies. For full partl-
mlars see Government Gazette, a file of which
s kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
ire opened, and the name of the successful
ienderer will be announced, if possible, before the
luties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
esa the terms of the notice are strictly complied
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender-
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office
Wharf, Pittwater, Broken Bay
Erection of Wharf, Trial Bay
Erection of Engine House, &c ,
Pumping Station Walka, near
West Maitland
Manufacture and Supply of
150.000 Tons of Steel Kalla
Erection of Police Buildings,
Kempsey
Painting hailway Station, Par-
ramatta
Erection of Carpenters’ Shop at
Goulburn, G. S. Railway
Erection of Driver’s Quarters,
at Wellington
Erection ef Offices for Running
Fcreman. Eveleigh
Bridge over Throsby’s Creek,
road Wickham to Bullock
Island
Bridge over Snowy River, at
Buckley’s Crossing
Tuesday,
10th March,
at 11 o’clock.
Fencing, Stabling, &o., Post
Office, Hay
Erection of Courthouse and
Lock-up, Milparlnka
Erection of Lock-up, Granville
Repairs to Wharfs and Bridges
in Sydney
Roofing of Police Buildings,
Goulburn
Ironwork for two Tanks, at
Bathurst
Construction of Storm Water
Sewer acrossWentworth Park,
Contract No. 15.
Tuesday,
17th March,
at II o’clock.
Erection of Station Build-
ings, &c,, Duneee, G. N.
Railway
Erection of Court-house and
Look-up, at Cobar
Erection of Police Quarters, I
Adelong
Erection of Station Buildings,
&c., Deepwater, G. N. Rail-
way
Erection of Police Officers’ Qua*-
ters, Forbes
Tuesday,
24th March,!
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Lock-up, Balranald
Supply of Spigot and Faucet
Cast Iron Pipes
Tuesday,
31st March,
at 11 o’clock
F. A. WRIGHT.
Professional Directory.
TsrnfKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS find Spe-
IM. W Union. Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
i,g, apply F. E- Hlacocks..
W.
Sydney
HORACE BENT, with Hlscocka’ Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
TO AMATEUR THEATRICALS,—Scenery Sup-
rUipd or Lent, G. PebbIman, Scene Painter,
......iJback of Academy of Music, Castlereagh-at,
Theatre r o t a l .
Doors open at 7 30. commence at 8. Cari ’ ia « e8 ’ 10
Fourth Week, and unabated 8uc c «s of the Royal
Dramatic Company in the two New Pieces .
An Elegant Comedy In one act, entitled—
WRITTEN IN SAND I WRITTEN IN SAND
and the Screaming Farcical Comedy, in 3 acts,
NITA’S FIRST 1 NITA’S FIRST I
The Bameprogramme every even-
tbat^the 1 prices of
fdmis!fo“ which have been so popular in the
Thnatre Roval. viz., Di©88 Circle, 5s., Stalls, o3.,
«n<? Family Circle, 3s., have been reverted to.
tor aU parts of the house at Eaatway’s
Hoteh Box offlce P open from 11 till 4. No free list.
w w OPERA HOUSE.
Iw Lessees Messrs. E. Majeronl and W.J. Wilson.
Undefthe Management of Rignold and Allison.
Stage Manager, J. F. Cathoart.
Gigantic Success. Legitimate Triumph.
Derrick’s Great Eccentric Comedv,
CONFUSION I CONFUSION J
EVERY EVENING, at 8 15,
Rignold and Allison’s Selected Co “®4 y qOomi^oy-
Furniture by Anthony Hordern and Sons, Hay*
market Plan Huenerbein's 318 Qeorge-st. Day
“ckets at Roberts’. Treasurer. G. A Coleman.
aTETY theatre.
Gr Lejee Mr. Wybert Reeve.
Under the Management of A. T. and J. F. Dunning.
THIS EVENING.
Grand reproduction in Sydney, on a s ° al ° of JJU?’
naralleled splendour, of the great London, Mel-
bourne, Sydney, and New Zealand success, the
OPERA COMIQUE,
in three acts, entitled
MANTREAUX NOIR3 (Black Cloaks).
GRAND OAST OF CHARACTERS
GRAND CAST OF CHARACTERS
GRAND CAST OF CHARACTERS
by the Premier London Comic Opera Company,
Admission :-Orchestra Chairs, 5s.; Stabs, 3s.;
Family Circle, 2s. Box Office, Nicholson’s, George-
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL, GOULBURN.
PHIS handsome Bijou Theatri, completely re-
modelled, is fitted with every convenience,
nd has one of the best stages in the colony (50 x
1), is now open for engagement on very moderate
Brins Seats comfortably in dress circle, J5D, pit
nd stalls, 500. The population of the city is nearly
100, and the Hall, which is now the most popular
lace of amusement, is situated in the most cen-
ral position of the main street. Mr. Charles
’urnor, of the Montague-Turner Opera Comrauy,
iVS . “ Tho Hall I consider second to none in N<»w
outh Wales. The acoustics are good; the stage
nd dressing-room accommodation is superior to
nu Hall in the colony. Applications addressed to
f. B. PULLEN, Secretary, will receive prompt
ttention.
■TT ICTORIA RACING CLUB.
* CHAMPION MEETING, 1885.
FiikMiNOXON Course.
SATURDAY, 28th FEBRUARY,
NEWMARKET HANDICAP.
THURSDAY, 5th MARCH,
AUSTRALIAN GUP.
SATURDAY, 7th MARCH,
THE CHAMPION STAKES.
Trains at Holiday Excursion Fares. Tickets
ivailable from the evening of Friday, 37th leh-
•uary, to Monday, 9th March. w
H. BYRON MOORE, Sec. V.R.C.
c.
MODIHI,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
nanufactured by the most celebrated English
pflk6rs«
G B M. further desires to apprise his customers
M t'ho fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
ho following Firms .’-JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
lon- THOS. BLAND & SON., London; JOSEPH
&G & SON. London; W. POWELL & SON,
Birmingham; CHAS. OSBORNE & CO., London.
G B M. is also AGENT for the eminent firm of
BU8SY & CO., London,
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 George.st., Sydney,
Where Inspection is invited.
E
A U
4711
D E
COLOGNE,
4711.
Established 1793.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1873; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873
ThisEau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, strength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all ot her com-
Pe it t ha8 become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the elite of
and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, Is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious Imitations with the genuine
number—4711 changed into 7411. 1147, 4117; &c., &o.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothlo blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pitt-
stroet, Sydney.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
and storekeepers, in town and country.
BOURSE,
la the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel In the Western district. The Table and Liquors
cannot be surpassed, even in the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. First-class Stabling.
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor.
BARGAINS! BARGAINS !! BARGAINS!!
Last “Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
I30SS.A-UB7u-<0"2"D <Sz CO.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO, ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
U3T- Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
Ladies should secure the
CHEAP LACES AND UNDERCLOTHING AT ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.’S SALE.
4s. ill the pound taken off' your Bill.
Thousands of Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laces.
Remnants of Ribbons. Remnants of Ribbons. Summer Millinery. Summer Millinery.
A AfAGNlFICBNT STOCK ALL INCLUDED IN THE SALE.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
Umbrellas. Umbrellas. Parasols. Parasols.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.,
NEAR THE GENERAL POST OFFICE
For the Trade.
For Amateurs.
Photographic Supplies |
Bray & Lichtner, 32 O'Connell-st., Sydney.
Nop
Shipments or Cameras, Boss's ana Maple Lanterns*}
Mounts. Chemicals. Large assortment ofiCUWFrames, in all sixes.
BAKER'S and ENGLISH! makers/DRY PLATES.
V
Amateurs
Supplied
with
COMPLETE
OUTFITS
from £3.
Catalogues
gouta.
Country -
orders
pr'jpjotly
executed.
I
m
I
a
k
for Infants and Children.
Castorla cures Colic, Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation,
Gives healthy sloop and promotes digestion,
Without injurious medication.
Elliott Bros., Sydney, Agents
“Castor! a is so well adapted to children that
I recommend it as superior to any prescription
known to me.” , H. A. Archer, M. D., j
Hi Oxford Street, New York.
“VICTORIA” OFNER BITTER-WATER,
The Best and Strongest Natural Aperient.
A Natural Fluid Magnesia, as a safe, ordinary, and gentle aperient in Inflammation
and Congestion, in Rheumatic and Gouty Disorders, against undue tendency to Fat,
against Htemorrhoids, in Bilious Attacks and Disorders of the Liver.
Nature’s Aperient Remedy during Pregnancy, and in many Female Diseases; for
Habitual Constipation, in Organic Diseases resulting from fatty degeneration, to remove
the consequences resulting from excess in diet, &c.
One wineglassful will usually relieve the most distressing headache.
n\ri7 DOTTLE OF “VICTORIA” IS EQUAL IN ITS EFFECTS TO TWO OF OTHER BITTER-
ONE SOULE Or vlo^ ATJlKSli IT IS MUCH CHEAPER.
tn nf Indigestion, Stomach and Liver Affections, Constipation, and other Derangements of the
In ca*GS oi J naigcsuuu, sj gygtem) fl8 a Family Med i C ine this has no equal.
Sold in Bottles at Is. 6d. and 2s.,
v nd may be obtained of any Chemist or Patent Medicine Vendor in the United Kingdom.


Oriental Gold
Is the latest discovery of Science and the grandest
achievement of the alchemist’s art. It looks like
gold. it ia as heavy as gold, and it is more enduring.
None but an expert can detect the difference, and
then only by the severesftests. Ornaments made
from this new composition are equal in design end
general appearance to .those made of the finest
18-carat gold, and yet we sell them at but a tithe
of the Cost of the genuine goods.
Remember that we do not pretend that Oriental
Gold is anything but a composition of puremotais;
but we do affirm that it is so perfect an imitation
of the sterling gold as to almost defy detection.
Jewellery made of it may be worn anywhere, end
the closest inspection will only strengthen the con-
viction that it is real gold. So perfect is it, and so
large has our trade become, that jewellers through-
out the colonies are complaining of the dullness in
trade, and are constantly writing to us to secure
our goodj for their own customers. But as we are
Sole Agents for these colonies, wo prefer to deal
directly with the public. All of our Oriental Gold
Jewellery is made to our order, and is stamped
with our trade mark. You can order anything
from a Scarf Pin to a Watch and Chain, and it will
be sent Post Free, and at our risk, on receipt of
price.
PRICE LIST.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double slides and tassels. 15s., 20s., and 26s. each.
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 5s., 6s.. 7s. 6d., 8s.,
8s. 6d., 9s, and 10s a pair.
Ladies’ choice Necklets, from 13s. 6d. to 30s.
Ladies’ very handsome Necklets, set in splendid
Alaska Diamonds, £2 10a. to £5 5s.
Ladies’ elegant Bungles, 7s. to 15s. a pair.
Ladies’ handsome Cloak Clasps, 15s. to 30s.
Ladies’ very best American Rolled Gold Chate-
laines, 30s- each.
Ladies’ choice Lockets and Necklets, 17s. 6d„ 20a-,
23s. 8d., 35s., 27s. 6d., 30s., 35s., and 40s.
Handsome Gera Rings, 7s. 6d., 8s. 6d., 10s., 15s , 20s.,
and 30s, each.
Elegant Keepers, Wedding Rings, and Fancy
Rings, from 3s 6d. to 8s. 6d. each.
Solid Gold Wedding and Keeper Rings, 10s. each.
Solid Qold Wedding and Keeper Rings, 18 carat,
hall marked, 31s, each;
Lsdies' handsome Oriental Gold Lockets, from
8s 6d. to 35s. each.
Elegant Crosses, in Oriental Gold, from 10s to 20s.
Lidies’ Bangles, in Sterling Silver, warranted,
from Of 6i to I0i.
Ladies’ Handsome Brac-lels, in Sterling Silver,
ha l marked, 17- 61 to 40s. each.
Brooches, in sterling Silver, from 7s. 0J. to 30s.
Brooch and Earrings, ia Sterling Sliver, from 10j
to 40s.
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 33. 6d. each.
Ladies’ Lockets, in Sterling Silver, hall marked,
from 15s. to 35s. each.
Ladies’ Alberts, ia Sterling Silver, from 10s .to 40s.
each.
Qent.’s Oriental Qolcl Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert. £3 2 0
Same as above, except that this watch ia
patent keyless . . .. .. .. ..£3 5 0
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, In hunting
or open “ faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides aud tassellS .. .. .. £2 15 0
Same as above, exceplt that this watch is
patent keyless ... £3 0 0
These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasseSi with Oriental
Gold Albert £4 6 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balance,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 5 0
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers .. £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance £6 6 0
The celebrated Walt bam Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £3 3 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert. £4 15 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph,
with Oriental Gold Albert . .. .. £6 5 0
Ditto, extra Jewelled, of the highest
grade .. .. .. .. .. .. £6 6 6
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £10 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £10.
Gent's Oriental Gold Alaska DiamondRlngs, 6s. 6d. t
7s. 6d., 8s. Cd., and 10«. each.
Gent’s’ Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond and Ruby
Rings, 7s. 6d. and 8s. 6d., each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, plain half, round
buckle, flat broad buokl-, engraved, good luck
rings, &o., &o., from 5s. to 8s. 6d. each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and i ink Suites, 7a., ts. 6d„ 8s, 8s. 6d„ 9s., 10s.,
and 13s. 6d. per set. „ ,
Same as above, oniy half sets, 3s., 4s , and 5s. per
set.
Very latest American Patent Spring Solitaire
Suites, 10s. per set, _ „
Gent’s elegant Seals, real stones, 7fl. 6d„ 8s., 9a.,
10s., and 13s. 6d. each,
Gent's elegant Compasses, latest designs, 8s., 10s ,
and 13s. 6d. each. . - „
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, handsome patterns,
6s. 6d. and 10a. each; „ „ , „ „
Gent’s very latest American Rolled Gold Alberts,
made specially to our order, 17s. 6d., 20s., 25s.,
and 30a. each.
Gents’ handsome Scarf Pins, from 2s. 6d. to 13s. 6d.
Gents’ Scarf Rings, 8s. each. „ „ A
Very best American Pencil Cases, from 5s. to
Gents’ Hair Guards, 15 carat Gold Mounts, 30s. each
Gents’ Sterling Silver Alberts, from 13s. 6d. to 30s.
each.
Gents’ Match Boxes, 8a. 6d. each.
Gents' Sovereign Purses, 7s.6d. each.
Ladies’ handsome Brooch and Earring Suites, from
8s. 6d. to 35s. per set. , , . „
Richiy-chased and engraved Bracelets, from 13s.
6d. to 40a. ' ' „„
Elegant Brooches, from 5s.-to 30a. each.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 7s. 0d.,
8s. 6J. and 10l each.
SPECIALLY OBSERVE.
Should you be dissatisfied with your Investment
ifter inspecting the articles, re-pack them at once
md send them back to us. If this Is done within
wo days—or where mails are few, by the first post
ifter receipt, and the articles are not injured -we
(rill return the money, deducting only the trifle
axpended on postage. You can keep any one
article aud return the rest, and we will relund the
money for the arliclesjiot retained. Fair dealing
is our motto, and we bind ourselves to give satis-
faction Examine our catalogue, and send in your
order for what you may.require.
Remember the Address :
474 George Street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS,
Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
tb *atb« KOTAL-‘‘Nitas First” p. 8
OPERA House-” Confusion ”....... „
r 1TKTyTheatre— “ Manteaux Noira .... „
academy of Music.—Hisoocks F. Minstrels „
T f u unlucky for “Confusion” that it
.Jm'd start when “Nita’s Firstis (we expect)
8 «nTiu(r to a close. Ever since that Yankee fiend
f°®for«et his name, If we ever knew it) wrote
W|JL n >s Babies,” the Press and the stage—those
levers that [Mein Qott 1-Ed. B.]-
we swamped us with swaddling-clothes litera-
Babies are well enough in their way, but
Jhev put on such airs, require so much deference,
ond behave (crede experto ) so shamefully, that you
instantly find yourself speculating on what a
Peasant thing life would be without them-and
E fw 8 much more pleasant still if most of those
“ho came to maturity had only been beloved of
♦he gods and died young. Between “Nita’s Iirst
and “ Confusion ” there Is much in common,
oiihough they are by no means identical. Both
arptrhles over which you howl with laughter, and
fhpn go moodily home wondering what you ve
been laughing at.
The story (such as it is) of the piece is soon
fnid James (Mr. Cathcart) and Maria (Mrs. Marcus
riarke are a married couple. This fact they are
obliged to conceal, as they are employed in the re-
sponsible positions of butler and housemaid in a
£on£pel family, where the idea of married ser-
vants is not tolerated. And there is another
rpaBon for concealing the tender relationship be-
tyeen them— they have a baby. How or where
rhpv got it is not ex plained—probably the doctor
brought it in his hat some day when they were
{mth from home. Doctors are constantly doing
rhis sort of thing, and always leaving their pre-
- ,nts with people who have as much as they can
to support their selves. At any rate, in order
to obtain places in the same family, James and
\fftriaare obliged to appear single, to leave the
kid in London, and to live an artificial life—sup-
nrefsing those little connubial attentions and
lamiliaiitles which, under happier circumstances,
and when unemphasised with a clothis’ prop,
would do them so much credit. And the situation
has its advantages as well. The trouble of obtain-
ing a thing nearly always adds to its value when
speured. so that — [Oh, we can imagine all that.
Try back. —Ed. B.]
• • •
It is by a Mr. Mumpleford (Mr. Phil. Day)
this couple is employed. Ue has been married but
a couple of months, and already smokes in the
drawing-room, yawns at his wife’s gush, and
shows in many ways, that marriage has not im-
n-oved him or else he must have been a “ terror ”
b-foreit. His maiden aunt, Lucretla Trickleby
(vliss Novaro), lives with him. So does his wife’s
u icle, Christopher Buzzard (Mr. Whyte), arespect-
a lie old bachelor. The way Lucretia “goes” for
Buzzard is a caution, and ne, not being made of
cist-iron, succumbs to her elderly fascinations.
He promises bis niece, Mrs. Mumpleford (Miss
Bronton), a pet dog. She loves dogs—her.husband
hites thorn. When a woman is determined to have
a thing and her husband decides she shan't we
know who wins. The dog is sent from London in
a basket. At the tame time the baby is smuggled
i ito the house by its doting parent?, and from that
out the fun is fast and furious. In a note to her
h isband, Mrs. M. begs her spouse tp open a cer-
tain cabinet (where the dog was concealed), and he
would see something “entirely her own,” for
whose presence she begged his forgiveness. He
went—of course to the wrong place-and found
the baby, which Maria had stowed there for safety.
Many husbands, under similar circumstances,
would have borrowed an axe, and been the only
one alive on the premises ton minutes afterwards.
He docs not. He snufllts a good deal; howls about
his feelings, and—goes away to upbraid his wife
aud dress for dinner.
♦ * *
It is the flunkey’s turn now. He also goes
1 1 the wrotg cibinet and finds as mangy a looking
cur as tverdodeed brick-bats in Wolloomooloo.
He salutes the brute with a kick, followed by a
yell of ingeniously-contrived profanity, and re-
quests to know “ Who's a been tampering with
my hoflspring ? ’ The outraged feelings of this
unhappy parent were received with the greatest
levity by a packed house. And, when he severely
said to Maris, “I thought I had a equal interest
in our hoffspring as you,” he was met with insult-
ing remarks from the audience. Ever since the
world began men have imagined the same thing,
but the women (bless them!) know better, and
keep the knowledge to thenuelves. When the
btby was first introduced, we thought it a real
one and felt for the poor weo thing, but, when it
had been sat upon a few times and chucked in the
coal scuttle without a feeding-bottle, we leant to
tis opinions of those around us that the quantities
of bran, tawdust, and old rags it was engaged in
diresting had something to do with its good be-
hiviour under rather trying circumstances.
♦ » *
But the adventures of Mumpleford and
h a wife, James, Maria, the baby, and the pug by
no means exhaust the rather boisterous drollery
of “Confusion ” Buzzard and Lucretia contribute
largely to the general muddle. It is just here that
whaiever similarity exists between the piece and
“ Nita's First” is most apparent. Buzzard might
hrve preserved his irreproachable character (he
looks as if a good “ spree,” let alone vice of a more
dangerous nature would kill him), but for a
telegram he dropped and the gentle Lucretia
pounced upon. It referreu to the.blood-hound on
which Mrs. Mumpleford had set her heart. But
nothing so soon arouses virtuous suspicions in the
female breast as an ambiguous letter or telegram
which they have no right to read. This innocent
document stirred up all the moral bile in the
spinster’s nature. In the easy-going old gentle-
man of an hour ago she now discovers a monster
of depravity—a hoary-headed, heartless, villain
whose previous life had been one long crime
— who unblushlngly tried to secure her vir-
gin, if mature affections while introducing
into the house the fruit of his unhallowed
amours. She would put her foot down, and did.
When it was firmly planted, it covered some space,
and suggested to; any flies who liked the floorithat
they would be safer on the walls or on the ceiling.
Anyway, that it would be as well to shift till things
got a bit settled. Then she told Buzzard what she
thought of him. She didn’t think much, and what
she did wasn’t in his favour. Had they been mar-
ried at the time he would have been quite bald—
probably lame—before the interview was over.
They were not, and so he escaped unharmed, but
with a keener insight into elderly female nature
than he ever possessed before. When the torrent
of her abuse was at its best, Niagara was an insig-
nificant drifeblet to it. It was a tidal wave of chilly
vituperation.
» v •
Long before the curtain rose, the seats
were filled and the people flowing over into the
space usually sacred to the music. Once or twice
during the night—in double forte passages for the
trombone—people beside us leant forward, and,
after listening attentively, said, “We knew they
would never deprive us of the orchestra—we’re
sure we heard a sound of instruments somewhere.”
They had not taken the orchestra off, they had
merely put them in a cellar some blocks away.
• • •
What do we think of “Confusion?” We
think it’s the maddest absurdity we’re seen for
many a day erected on a framework of the flimsi-
est. Some of the situations are bewiideringly
comical, but it Is the comicality of the screaming
farce or the Christy Minstrel family. All the value
it possesses is derived from itsscreamingly-farcical
situations.” You might listen to it in vain for
felicity of dialogue, smartness of repartee, keen-
ness of perception, or any of the things that
So to make up a piece that will live,
een for the first time, it Is Irresistably
especially if you’ve not seen “Nita’s
fjirst.” But no one except a Cabinet Minister
could sit out the second representation, and
nothing short of a rag doll or a tailor’s dummy
could stand the third. It has run for over five
hundred nights In London and more than ten
weeks in Melbourne. London is a big place, and
Melbourne not a very small one. It will probably
run for a proportionate time in Sydney, and pay
well. The circulation of the Saturday Review
is 30,000, and of the Police News 300,000. (This is
apropos of nothin*.) What we are dying to see is
the citizen who went to witness it twice—and paid
the second time. For him we keep open a billot
in The Bulletin office that will last for a year at
least-reading the dirges that reached us on *' Gor-
don’s death ” and the “ New South Wales in the
van ” that bombarded us when Dailey’s offer (to
his Intense delight—booh I) was accepted. If they
won’t turn his head, it’s because its already awry.
• • ♦
We’ve said little about the players. This
is not fair and we hasten to correct it. In the
hands of amateurs or bunglers, the felicitous title
of Mr. Derrick’s “farcical comedy” would be at
once obvious. The people who “bring down the
house” with “Box and Cox” in country towns
“ for the benefit of the local charities,” had better
fight shy of it, unless they want to drive the
audience to drink. They might get a baby (out-
lying places are famous for lying-in), and, per-
haps, a dog to carry the thing through, but these
are about all. Miss Solange ( Hdas!) Navaro was-
well, she was Miss Navaro, and that means a good
deal. With a fine presence, a fine voice, and a fine
perception of the boundary lines beyond which
she must not step, how extravagant soever her
part may be, hers was what the penny papers, with
telling originality, call an “even performance.
If any other actress thinks she can squeeze more
fun out of the part she is welcome to try. and we
shall be there to see fair play. Of Miss Bronton
little need be said. She hadn’t much to do, and
she did it creditably. Mrs. Marcus Clarke
Ehcul How the years glide by and are lost to us
—those petits soupers at Balliere’s and Madame B.
(now Mrs. Captain Mandeville) and Marcus—the
writer of the only Australian tale-the only one,
of course, that will live (there are plenty of
others)—and. and [When you’ve finished this
little piece of tomfoolery perhaps you will go on.
—Ed. B ] - Well, Mrs. Marcus Clarke was Maria.
Whatever had to bo done-it wasn’t vtry much—
was done well. And Miss Fanny Montague’s Violet
was a commendable representation of a small part.
Of the male performers we shall speak anon.
# * • •
Radcliff and Rita’s concert was pulled off
at the Old Masonic on I hursday. There was a good
house and a fashionable. A division of the Metro-
politan Lledertafel was there and opened the ball
with a coupe of choruses-the “Praise ot Song,
and the "Two Boses.” There was nothing parti-
cular about either that would induce you to keep
your seat while there was a dog-fight going on
outside. One of them (possibly a "kg’) smiled
comprehensively round before he broke forth in
song. We heard him later on, and regretted that
smile had not been his last.
• • *
Miss Beaumont lias a contralto voice, with
some genuine notes, and some “ Orientals.” Tnen
there was one of Chopin’s “Scherzos.” Wo don’t
know what a "Scherzo” 1?, but, if it’s anything
like what we heard that night, we wonder
Chopin’s suffering neighbours didn’t get up
in th-J middle of the night when he was half
through his first and scrape him to death with
cockle shells. Two fat ladies and a dissenting-
looking clergyman roiled off their seats when the
music ended. Young players should take a warn-
ing from this, and not pull a “Scherzo” up too
quickly, if they don’t want to disarrange the
digestions of inoffensive people who certainly
never did them any harm. Yet the execution was
good. As good as that of Charles I.
• • •
p Then Mr. Farmer, in a baritone voice of fine
quality and ample range, invited us to “stand
beside our guns ’ and put up with no nonsenso
from anyone. We shall take his advice, and for
the future he can depend upon our keeping be ide
or well to the rear of all guns, but never in front—
especially if an Arab or a tipsy Irishman should
have a grip ot the stock. Then came Radcliff with
“ Maria Stuart ”— a number of Scotch airs to which
Pratten (another great flautist) had strung the most
elaborate variations. We had “tongueipg in
triplets and quadruplicates, stirred up with inter-
vals of two octaves, and all rendered with a mar-
vellous precision and finish. The volume and
quality of the sound he gets out of the flute are
simply bewildering. And so on till Madame Rita
appeared with son marl to trill the “ Child and the
Skylark,” written specially for her by Leon Caron.
Next to being a skylark like Radcliff, we would
like to be a child like Madame. Possibly the kid
was having a lark—any way, this melodious struggle
brought the first part of the programme to a
clamourous (for more) end.
* * *
We forgot. Mr. Rodd sang the “ Death of
Nelson”—for the war season. "Did you know
Nelson ?” we once asked a sailor like-looking,
wooden-legged pirate near Chelsea. Ever since
the gorgeous lies that old rascal ran into us in
answer to the fatal question, we avoid all wooden-
legged persons we observe near the sea. Lo,
here the gentle lark, ’ by Madame Rita, with flute
obligato, by Radcliff, was undoubtedly the
gem of the evening. And there was a flute
duet in which a lady amateur (who hid behind
her music-stand), and the Maestro performed.
It was given and received well, and the lady
had to appear again and bow her acknowledge-
ments. Hallewell sang “Simon the Cellarer ” in a
manner approximating more closely to his old
form than anything we’ve heard from him lately.
As an encore, he gave the always-welcome 1 Vil-
lage Blacksmith,” and retired to the ante-room to
test a new brand of bottled.
• * m »
“Les Manteaux Noirs” at the Gaiety, on
Saturday. Wo were at a “ wake ” in Balmain that
night, and it took Sunday and most of Monday to
assauge our grief. Monday night saw us one of a
poor house at the Gaiety. The music of Lea
Manteaux Noirs” has been often heard in Sydney.
There are a number of pretty, rippling airs dis-
tributed among the principal parts. It was the
Queen of Spain (Miss Leaf) “mashed” us. Her
dress would have made the Queen of Sheba green
with envy. It attracted the attention of even a
nail in the floor, and it took all Knight Aston’s
finesse to extricate it from the terrible embraces of
that amorous spike. Mr. Applely, as the miller
Dromez, kept the house in good humour; while,
as the King Consort, Mr. Vernon did not suffer in
comparison with Deane Brand, the monarch of a
former occasion. This is a mere resumi of our
impressions. The long and desperately funny
column we had written was left out to make room
for the Bishop of Sydney’s sermon. But we shall
work some of it in next week or join the first
draft for the Soudan.
♦ * * *
The Royal remains unchanged, but some-
thing must be done before long to relieve us from
the plague of babies. But there’s this to be said
of playing pieces so long in a comparatively sma.ll
city—when you do go to the theatre you can lie
down.
• * * *
“ Pinafore” wound up the “ Opera Buf-
fers” on Friday night at the Opera House. Be-
tween the vocal and the instrumental divisions a
dispute arose at the start, and they kept it up off
and on till the finish. Sometimes the orchestral
crush would get a bar or so ahead, and think
they were going to win hands down, till the
singers, towards the end of the race would
run round a post and win by a quaver. So long as
the “tars” stood still and conducted themselves
like ordinary men, there wasn’t much to grumble
at. But when they began to roll up their eyes,
hitch up their trousers, speak about their “ sky-
lights” and top-hampers” and, alas I dance the
“ sailors’ hornpipe,” then, indeed, no Soudan
battle-field, when the jackals and obscene birds of
prey had had a month’s blow-out, was so terribly
blood-curdling. Dick Dead-Eye then looked like
a note of Interrogation turned the wrong way.
The gloom was deepened when, on the approach
of Sir Joseph Porter, three marine warriors with
three distinct “steps” helped one another to the
front and presented arms (one after the other)
wlih a breech-loader, a btown-bess, and a match-
lock. This finished us. Oh, and why didn’t some-
body transpose Dead-Eye’s music a-third. Why
punish him and us by getting him to warble in the
original keys ?
A letter for Mr. 8t. Leon (St. Leon’s Circus) lying
for him at this office.
“THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession.]
At some concerts recen tly given in Hobart,
at which Miss Christian and Mr. Armes Beaumont
(the latter artist not having been beard there for
13 years), money was refused at the doors—an un-
precedented event in the. at present, very tight
little island.... MiasJBmily Christian, a new pianlste,
sister of the well-known vocalist, and who has re-
cently arrived from Stuttgart, of the Conscrva-
torlum of which city she is a distinguished pupil,
made a most successful debut in Hobart at some
concerts given there in the Town Hall dur-
ing the race week, by Mr, R. 8. Smythe
G.A.S. is evidently poking fun at us. Fancy his
going to Brussels and “spouting” his lectures on
the battle of Waterloo! This reminds us that no
one ever hears anything of Mrs. Sala. It’s always
the way with distinguished literary men, some-
how. Jvo one ever hears anything of our good
lady. We, however, hear plenty of her. Curi-
ously enough, distinguished literary men nearly
always marry beneath them. There is a story
extant that a splendid modern poet, having writ-
ten what he considered his masterpiece, called the
missus into the study and read it to her.
“It’s pretty rhymes, dear,” she said, when he
had finished; “but why don’t you write
out some of those receipts for cookun?”
Harry Paulton, who is, perhaps, the only
actor on the London stage who has not yot “con-
templated a visit to Australia)” has produced a
piece at the London Avenue with the absurd
title, “Lilies; or. Hearts and Actresses.” And
the German Reeds at the St. George’s Hall have
knocked the town with a grotesque duet called
“When Vou were Six and I was Three." \nd,
talking of these kinds of ditties, fortunes have
been made out of a single song. We remember
when a doleful ditty was all the rage (it is long
since), the chorus of which ran:—
“ I had a dream last night that I
Was down at Farmer Fenn’s
Picking up the new-laid eggs from the cow,
And milking the cocks and hens.”
“ What have you been doing for the last five
years?” enquired a new-arrival by the American
mail of a minstrel. “ Mashing dames,” was the
grave reply....“Mr. Hoskins has published, in
pamphlet form, his valedictory speech delivered
on the occasion of his benefit performance when
relinguishing his connection with the stags.”—
Lbadek.
Go to, old boy! “ What sort” is here?
You know it is a fact,
You’d have to order round your bier
If never more you act.
Now, don’t retire—don’t. Billy, please,
But list to our persuasions;
We’ve parted for your farewell B.’s
On seventeen occasions!
Each time we’ve wept of tears a cup.
The stage once more now strike it!
Come! “ Let the fav’rite wake ’em up,”
WeM weep again—and like it.
...Mrs. Williamson is in expectation of a summons -
don’t jump; it’s all right—to meet Mr. W. in ’Frisco
and play a short season of “Struck Oil.” The
muftled drum, please, and a little chilly music:—
Faix! Qoin’ from us is it, darlin’?
(No Moore shall wo bask in your shmoile ?)
Far over the dape shimmerin’ ocean.
Say, phwat will we do all the whoile ?
Ye’ll lave us in sorrow, I’m thinkln’,
Remember, aroon, in the West
That out in far southern Australy
Beat true hearts “ You give that a rest!”
It will be noticed that we were interrupted. No
more; she is still vengeful, and a stony glare is in
her eye. You know what it is yourself, don’t you ?
...Nellie Stewart has got so musical now that, they
say, she will only eat soup with a tuning-fork...
A London paper says—this is our funnyway of
putting it—that lima di Murska, the five times
married, is seeking a divorce from John Hill, R S.,
R.A.M. John is also to be made co-respondent In
another case—so, you see, he’s having a high old
time When Hill sold off his furniture here,
there were two double bedsteads in the list, and
he was a single man. We don’t know why we tell
you this, probably for fun. That's the sort of
California salmon we are....Everybody who has
read that moral and instructive book of Zola’s,
“Nana,” will be glad to hear that the author and
a fellow named Busnaoh have dramatised it, and
that Mr. E. Gerson has secured the rights lor
Great Britain and America. Now, then, our en-
terprising impressari, here’s your chance.
Mashers.— The best and lightest are made hy
Offord, Hatter, 652 George-street, Brickfield Hill.*
Soldiers away in Egypt will be, at meal
times, particularly reminded of old Sydney when
the absence of the beautiful washstand set and
dinner service, got at Bray Bros., 402 and 401
George-street, is noticed. They have some beau-
tiful things in their up-stairs showroom.*
The boy stood on the burning deck, whence all
but he had lied,
The flames that lit tho battlewreck shone round
him on the dead ;
Yet beautiful and bright he stood, as born to rule
the storm,
For one of Summerfleld’s new suits adorned his
boyish form.*
Mb. DbCoubot Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New, South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,’’
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guido,’’ and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52 Castle-
reagh-streot, Sydney, «sr Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, CST" Land Titles, Mr. Browne a
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supremo Court.*
TOO BAD!
Small twinkling 1 eyea, a forehead low,
Noae red with sunset glory,
He stood one of a seedy row—
A super with a story.
“ Yes, that was me, the last of three
That came on with a banner—
(' Colonial’s ’ good enough for me—
Not there I they charge a tanner.)
“ To you I could a tale unfold—
A tale that would alarm ye:—
I’ve been, sir, if you must be told,
A captain in the army.
“ How I must hate, sir, of all men
Need not, of course, be told yer,
To go on with a banner when
I’ve been a real soldier.
“ Think, sir, to me the horrid pain,
Who’ve blood shed for my nation,
To be compelled of nights to drain
But goblets of vexation I
“ I, who once in a battle, sir,
A cannon took and spiked it,
To be told by the manager
To look as if I liked it!
“ What agony—ah, that’s my name I—
I now will have to scoot, sir;
I’m proud—but I am not to blame
For fingering the loot, sir.”
[Exit.]


PEPPER AND SALT.
Tho fallowing reaohed'us too late for pub-
lication In last week’s issue, but it might be possi-
ble to charter a mud-punt to overtake the Iberia,
so we give the valuable suggestions the publicity
they merit:-“To the Editor of The Bulletin.
Sir,— Having watched with the deepest interest
the preparations for the despatch of troops to the
Soudan, I should like to remind our patriotic
colonists, through the medium of your valued
paper, that tho following articles, if contributed,
would add much to the comfort of our warriors:—
A few oases Rlmmel's perfumery, Japanese fans,
curling irons, cosmetlques, and night-caps for the
officers, patent-leather shoes for parade, few oases
of the beet French" confectionery, table napkins
and finger-glasses, dessert knives and forks, eye-
glasses and kid gloves, woollen mufflers, picnic
baskets fitted complete, 50 oases best dry cham-
pagne. I think an effort should be made so that
our men may appear in the field as well equipped
as the Imperial troops. I have been out of work
for tho last six weeks, tut, nevertheless, am will-
ing to subscribe a day’s pay to so laudable an
object.—Yours truly, Patriot.”
Heaven knowa we
have no wish to hurry
Alfred back to his native
shores, or to cast the
smallest cloud over the
fcathetlo enjoyments of
the noble Intellect who
for seven long years
spared neither sc'rsors
nor paste In promoting
the welfare of bis fellow
men through the columns
of the only Jhrnil, but,
nevertheless, something
really must be done to
sober up the staff and
save the spotless reputa-
tion of the papers. Of
course, we are not so un-
reasonable or Inexperi-
enced as to expect the
mighty geniuses who run
the rags during the ab-
sence of their great chief
to know anything abort
the mysteries of the En-
glish grammar, or to have
even the slightest ac-
quaintance with the rudi-
ments of literature; but,
hang It all, some of them
should at least know from
past experience how to
drive a horse and cart.
And yet here’s the style
of thing we get In Mon-
day’s issue:—“A man
named Saul Duoring was
driving his cart near the
corner of George and
Campbell Streets, on Sa-
turday, when the horse
canted against him and
knocked him down. The
wheel of the vehicle,
which was loaded with
bricks, went over both
legs.” ** Duerlng ” the
whole of our chequered
career we have never met
anything to equal that;
and we are remarkably
early risers, too. First of
all, we read that the un-
fortunate Saul was driv-
ing in his cart, when the
horse canted against him
and “ spilled” him on the
pathway. Now, In orde
to do this, that horse
must have either ran
along his own spine and
then rapped Saul over
the head with bis heels,
or else he tunnelled up
underneath the floor of
the cart and lifted his
astonished driver over
the starboard side with
an adroit and sudden up-
heaval of his hindquar-
ters. If the horse was
eccentric, the cart Itself
was quite In keeping with
him, for It appears, from
the wording of the par.,
that one of the wheels
was loaded with bricks,
and It was this particular
wheel that waltzed Over
both legs of the prostrate
Saul.
A special meating of the Kiatna councillors
was recently called to consider the condition of
the town clock. The Mayor having, with a some-
what uneasy countenance, taken the chair, Aider-
man Fluffum arose and said that he quite conceded
the subject upon which this extraordinary meet-
ing of the Council had been convened was, no
doubt, a very painful one. (Hear, hear, and No!)
The alderman who cried “ No ” was entitled to his
opinion; but he (Mr. Fluffum) considered the
views of that gentleman as of about the same
value as that of a bottle of pickled onions sold to
him by the speaker last week, and all of which, the
paper being taken off the bottle, were found to
have beards on them. (Laughter; and ‘I’ll pickle
you when I get you outside,” from Alderman
Bosby.) Alderman Fluffum continued-As he had
a retrospect to make—[Aid. Blngy: "What’s
that?”] It was nothing in the skin and tal-
ler line ; that was all that need concern his
worthy friend. (Hear, hear, and disorder.)
It would be remembered some years ago, at
the time that he had the honour te occupy
the municipal chair, be trusted, with credit to
(himselfand [An aldermam “You done pretty
well out of It,”] While denying any such thing,
he, Alderman Fluffum had only to state that the
only thing that had kept Aldirman Goskln from
enjoying a similar honour, was his unfortunate in-
ability to write his own name. (Uproar.) After
three years’ diligent attendance at the night
school, however, he (Alderman Fluffum) was in a
position to state that considerable improvement
was already visible in the formation of Alderman
Gaskin’s cross, since now it looked less like a
comet and more like a crutch than it formerly did.
(Laughter, uproar, and cries of “Question.”)
Years ago, then, the townspeople of Kiama
grow clamorous on the subject of having a town
clock. A Council being divided on the subject, a
riot would have occurred in the town, if, by a
happy inspiration, the constabulary had not asked
the excited citizens In to drink at the moment
their indignation appeared to border or frenzy.
[“Time.”] He would not keep the Council many
minutes more; he would not cloak its degradation
longer than he could help. The necessity of hav-
ing a town clock becoming apparent, a tender was
made by a young German watchmaker then in
Kiama, who assured the Council that he could
make a clock as big round as a circus. His tender
was, through certain machinations in the Council
—L“OhI” and uproar]—accepted, and he then pro-
ceeded to construct his clock locked up in the
sample-room of the Royal Hotel, and, in due
course, it was fitted up, and its appearance
gave general satisfaction. The German stayed in
town a few days after his contract was completed,
during which period the clock appeared to give
capital time. On the payment of his money, ho was
regaled with a gooseberry lunch—Alderman Gos-
kln in the chair—[“ No,” “ Yes, you was I” “Chair,”
and uproar]—and all seemed to go well. Sad de-
lusion I No sooner had that German gone than, at
noon, the clock showed half-past 8, and struck 311
It was then discovered that the German having
been short of material, the horologe (oh I) required
to be wound up every 20 minutes, and while the
false-hearted Teuton was here he employed two
boys, turn and turn about, to keep the thing going.
Anticipating a riot, should this be discovered by
the infuriated citizens, whose watches were
by this time all at sixes and sevens, it was
mo?ed by Alderman Qoskin and seconded
by Alderman M'Whlnd that persons be em-
ployed in a similar capacity by the Council, in
order to keep the people sweet. (“ No,” "Yes," “It’s
a lie,” and uproar.) A man was however, em-
ployed—was he or was he not?—he appealed to
his brother aldermen. (Dead silence.) A man
was employed, for here is bis confidential applica-
tion, “ Karma ise the boy to keep yer klok I
acoin. Awake day and night, I am—I’m a lom- {
nambular.” The appointment of this man has I
necessitated the present meeting, for it is well ;
known that the clock always stops at 7 p.:o. till 8
next morning, and during half the night the works
—(laughter)—is drinking at the Cricketers’ Arms.
To save themselves from the obloquy which
would devolve on the Council if the clock
stopped altogether, several aldermen, includ.
ing myself, have bailed the motive power
of our clock out early in the morning and
paid his fine later in the day. He moved that
the motive-power of the Kiama town clock be
severely reprimanded. Alderman Goskin here
rose, and said his mark was when he was ruled
out of order by the Mayor. Tho motive-power
here presented Itself, led in by the town clerk. It
had a very red nose and a shade over its eye. It
pleaded, “toastinsoJjushofouiglorusarmlsh.” Un-
der the circumstances, the explanation was con-
sidered satisfactory, and the motive-power was
dismissed with whispered instructions to get up
his ladder as quickly as possible.! [The proceedings
then terminated.
* * *
“ Combining business with pleasure,” was
evidently the motto of a Northern member of the
Fourth Estate, who recently lod tho daughter of
his landlady to the local registrar’s desk, for the
purpose of enabling him to come out as a double
issue, as it were, for tho future. All things being
ready for the execution, the officiating party ob-
served :—“Now, sir—please repeat these words
after me: ‘I, A— B—, do solemnly declare.’ ”
Bridegroom: “ T, A B—, do solemnly declare’
—but pardon me, did I see you cutting an adver-
tisement out of a newspaper as I came in ? ”
Registrar: 11 Yes; I sometimes have the advertis-
ing of births, deaths, and marriages entrusted to
me, and I generally keep a record. Let us now*
if you please, proceed with the marriage. * That I
know of no lawful impediment.’ ” Bridegroom:
‘“That I know of no awful impediment’—and may
I take the liberty of offering you my card. I am
the editor of the Water-stranger’s Gazette,
and as an advertising medium my little
journal is second to none in the whole of
the Southern Archipelago. It has the largest
circulation this side of the equator, the terms are
reasonable in the extreme, and in cases of neces-
sity, all kinds of produce, except tombstones, will
be received in lieu of cash.” Registrar: “Really,
sir, this is most irregular and improper. I must
beg of you to attend to the remainder of the ser-
vice. ‘Why I, A— B should not enter into
matrimony with thee, O D—.’ ” Bridegroom:
“ ‘ Why I, A B —, should not enter into matri-
mony with thee, C D—,’ and permit me al*o to
draw your attention to the fact that the Watir-
stranqer’s’s Gazette is essentially the people s
journal. It is delivered alike on the threshold of
the lordly squatter’s mansion, and the humble
shepherd's lowly door, it is Why, confound
it, Eliza Jane, if the fellow isn’t stone dead.” Such
was the sad fact. He had been a sub ciiber to the
Newsletter In his early youth, and the sound cf
the old familiar “pitch” brought such a flood of
joy to his soul that it washed it clean on to the
shores of the Great Hereafter.
* * •
It was the old, old story. That grasping
avarice which insists upon a regular settlemen t of
accounts, had urged the horny-hearted landlady
to the very door of the slashing “ Brevity " Con-
cocter's sanctum; and she refused to be comforted
with anything less tangible than solid cash Itself
“I haven’t got it on me, now,” shouted the literary
luminary, through the key-hole, “ When did you
over have anything on you, except your coat and
trousers?" shrieked his fair tormentor back
“Didn’t the ‘back parlour’ lend you his shirt to"
go to the last meeting of the Manlacville Borough
Council, and didn’t I see you cuttln’ paper collars
out of bits o’ pasteboard “ Woman,” screamed
the tortured genius, “ hare patience, and I will
pay you, even to the last farthing. I will, by all
that's holy.” “Swear by your socks,” shouted the
enraged dame, as she raised t he seige, “ the m's the
holiest things about you.” But her sarcasm wag
simply wasted, for he hadn't owned a sock since
he gave up his yardman’s billet at the steam
laundry.
* * *
Mr. Angna Mackay
thinks that at the time
of the Romans the Scotch
were far advanced la
civilisation, as “ they
fought with broad
swords and pikes made
of iron, and several of
the septs or clans were
ruled by women.” But
the being ruled by
women is net always a
sure test of a high civili-
sation. If It were, the
people of New South
Wales would be the most
cultured on earth. Wo
give in, of course, that
lighting with a long
stick with a piece of iron
on top was a sign of ad-
vancement. If the bear-
ers of those deadly
weapons couldn’t write
in the Roman character,
they could, at all events,
make their mark in their
own. Mr. Mackay does
not believe that the
Scotch are decended from
the 10 lost tribes. This
la not to be wondered
at, for Scotland is about
the last country in the
world where a Jew
would prosper. He'd
starve. Having disposed
of the Jewish claims, Mr.
Mackay is at a loss to ac-
count for the odd obtsln-
acy (hat induced men to
settle North of the
Tweed, and at last is
forced to tell his audience
that these singular
people owed their origin
to no one in particular,
but ‘‘just sprang into
life in their own coun-
try.” Made from por-
ridge, perhaps. Then
the lecturer described
Roslyn Abbey with its
“ splendid workmanship
and grand architec-
ture,” where “ one of
the groups of figures
represented the heavenly
host, several of whom
were playing the bag-
pipes.” We never knew
before why there was a
rebellion in heaven. Luci-
fer could stand a good
deal, but—not the bag-
pipes. When it came
to that he took down
his little hatchet. And
there was shown a
“picture of the lovely
cottage where Scotland’s
poet was born.” But
it wasn’ ttold how the
author of the “ Twa
dogs” got a billet as
(Powers Eternal!) a gau-
ger I We, ourselves, be-
lieve the Scotch to have
been descended from the
Irish, whom they still
look up to with a singu-
lar Intensity of affection.
We [Oh, this thing is
getting tedious— try some
other line.—Ed. B.J
The first—in fact, the only—Napoleon used
to say that the road to fortune is through printer’s
ink, and although the word* have been basely sup-
pressed by Tacitus and Livy, still It is a well-
known fact, that on the eve of his assaaslnatlon,
JuJlu* Caesar declared that he found more benefit
from an Inch ad. In a local rag tbaa from all the
adulation that Is offered at the shrine of Imperial
power. And this reminds us (hat the sober-sided
oldjP all Mall Gazette, b.ing recently had by a
soap-maker’s par., bitterly complained as follows:
In the Toils.
ENGLISH JINGO TO AUSTRALIAN JINGO,
( LOQ ):
Fair land of the Emu and fleotJKangaroo,
Old England is proud of her offspring In you;
You send of your foldiers the bravest and best—
Send forth your bravo sons from their calm peace-
ful nest
To battle for Freedom in sultry Soudan;
To prove to the Mahdi he's only a mao;
To show the proud Arabs that they have no right]
To stand up like TTs and for,Liberty fight;
To show the whole world that whate’er We may d o
Assistance may safely be looked for from you;
To prove (what some doubted) that Might still is
Right.
Come on! To the front! Lot us see how you
fight.


_» What ingenious people these advertisers are.
We read quite Innocently the other day in an
American print, that one ofjthe most amusing, as
well as easily-arranged entertainments for the holi-
days, is a * Bubble Party.’ Twenty or more ladies
and gentlemen, enough clay pipes so that each will
have one, three or four bowls of soap suds, and
say) half-a-dozen trifles for prizes, are all that is
required* the prizes to be awarded to those who
blow the largest bubbles; one of the party to act
as referee. This was Illustrated by a pretty
1>loture of a* bubble party * In full swing. Then
we cama upon the snake which lurked Insidiously
In the grass. ‘ The suds should be made of Blank’s
soap, as it gives a clean, white, and abundant
lather, with an entire freedom from oil or grease?
and as the materials of which it is made are so
clean and pure, it is not at all offensive to the
smell or taste like ordinary soap.’ ” We oau do a
little in this line ourselves ; the very latest idea
,being a telegram beaded, “Address to the
Troops,” published in the Melbourne papers, call-
ing upon our Soudan soldiers to fight for their
God and the Right, and see that their knapsacks
are fitted up with a good supply of St. Somebody’s
Patent Bug Wash. Had some men we know lived
1850 years ago, they would have offered a bonus
for permission to advertise their nostrums on the
top of the Cross of Calvary.
♦ ♦ *
Here’s a par. that ought to raise the
Mahdi’s drooping soul and give great pleasure to
all his blacking-bottle followers. Fired with mar-
tial zeal and a few quarts of “ tangle,” a number of
young men residing in the Warnambool district
made up their minds to enlist and emphatically
put an end to all further trouble in the Soudan.
Accordingly they met together armed with guns,
swords, and waddles, and clad in flaming red shirts,
moleskin breeches, and the picturesque cabbage-
tree head-dress of their native land. Headed by
an old volunteer, who had seen active service
under Major Smith at Carlton, the fire-eaters
marched along the main road, followed by an ama-
teur musician who played “ Rule Britannia ” on a
cornet. Calling a halt near a paddock fence, the
leader was about to address his brave comrades in
soul-stirring terms, and each warrior’s breast was
bulging out with patriotic ardour as big as a young
balloon, when suddenly a wild shriek of “ Matty
Bartlett’s bull has broken loose” arose, and the
next instant every mother's son of the Warnam-
bool Wolseleys was tearing down the road as if he
had just been kicked in the rear by the newly-shod
hoof of old Nick himself. Matty’s bull had really
i slipped bis cable, and the retreat of the historical
Ten Thousand wasn’t a circumstance by the side
of that of the heroes of Warnambool. Shortly after
this, two guns and a cornet, which looked as if It
had recently been engaged In a Gneco-Roman tur-
tle with a loaded tramcar, were found lying In %
swamp, while the [pugnacious bull was dancing
wildly about on the bank trying to shake his horns
clear of a pair of moleskin pacts and a choice
Embarkation of the Patriotic Troops to Defend Their Native Land.
[BY OUR SPECIAL ARTIST AT KHARTOUM.!


assortment of flannel shirts. The potato-prodders
are now convinced that the less they have to do
with war the more there will bo left of them
for other purposes, and, therefore, so far as they
are concerned, the Mahdl’s safety is perfectly
secure at present.
m m ■
At the Druid’s picnic, Barry Fox volun-
teered a song—“ Little Sister’s Pizen’d Mother,”
and when in the most pathetic part, a distracted
lady, with a baby under each arm, burst Into the
picnic and entreated to be told where the mad bull
was. The harmony then took the form of quoits.
» ♦ ♦
The following are the tracts which the
Gospel for the Propagation of the Gospel in for-
eign parts are sending with the troops:—“Tobe
read in barracks,” “ To be read in the tented
field,” “To be read on the bugle sounding ‘To
Horse,’” “To be read while defending the deadly
breach,” “ To be read in the furious charge,” “ To
be read when desperately wounded,” “ To bo read
when dead.” N.B.—In the sale of these tracts a
large discount will be allowed to truly Christian
persons. 835” An order for 20,000,000 dozen copies
of that truly eloquent work “ The Moral Drummer
Boy,” couched in satirical terms, and dated from
24 Pitt-street, cannot be noticed.
He was a dapper lieutenant, whose promi-
nent features were, first, a nasal organ bearing a
dim resemblance to a rainbow, both in form and
colour; and, secondly, an eye that meandered as
maliciously as a Dead Sea sohnapper. From the
presidency of pins and patent garters he had been
suddenly transported (as was his grandfather be-
fore him) to the command of a slouching section
of tho Soudan contingent. But there was anger
on his brow. His nose curvetted tragically, and
the eye, like a mildewed mollusc, was dimmed
with darkness and grieved with gloom. “ Let the
dogs disparage the bravery of our noble volun-
teers,” he audibly muttered, “I’ll convince my-
self.” Seizing a rusty musket that might be relied
on to kick further than it would kill, he placed a
charge of powder in its bowels, and halted in front
of a brawny disciple of Mars, who had voluntarily
abandoned his stall of pie-melons at Paddy’s Mar-
ket and agreed to enlist for glory and five “ bob ”
a day, leaving his wife and four small pledges of
her affection to manage the ple-melouchoiy cru-
sade against poverty as best they might. “Can
you stand. Are?” enquired itho lieutenant. “As
THE MYSTERY OF CHRIS.
You must have heard it; for some thought
The times were out of joint—
And there’s been sulphur-smoke.to pay
Around by Darling Point I
All of a sudden to the swells
There came most dire confusion,
For Chrls.’s policy, ’twas said,
Was one of “ wrapt seclusion.”
No crumpet in the darkling eve
Would tempt the lad abroad;
Nor came he when told in pink notes
That jam was on tho board I
“ Walk in to learn choice Harrebick ;
Tho Khartoum lingo cop.
As spoken by the Mahdl, gents.,
At half-a-crown a pop.”
Treasurer D. is a dreffle smart man;
He’s been on all sides that give places pelf,
But consistency still wuz a part of his plan—
He’s been true to one party—an’ thet is himself;
80 W. B.
Dailey, he
Sez he shall stick to Treasurer D.
Treasurer D., he goes in fer the war;
He don’t vally principle more ’n old cud;
Wut did God makes us raytional oreetures fer
But glory an’ gunpowder, plunder an’ blood ?
So W. B.
Dailey, he
Sez he’ll procure him a G.M.G.
We were gitten on nicely up here toTour villiage,
With good old idees o’ wut’s right an’ wut aint,
We kind o’ thought Christ went agin war an’
pillage,
An’thet eppyletts worn’t the best mark of a
saint;
Parson Brown sez he never heard tell in his life
That th’ apostles rigged out in their swaller-tail
coats.
An’ marched round in front of a drum an’ a fife
To git some on ’em honours and seme on ’em
votes;
But W. B.
Dailey, he
Sez they did’nt know everythin’ down in
Judee.
Wall, it’s a mercy we’ve gut folks to tell us
The rights an’ the’wrongs o' these matters, I vow,
God sends country lawyers an’ other wise fellers
To drive the world’s team when it gits in a
slough;
Fer W. B.
Dailey, he
Sez the world ’ll go right if he hollers out Gee I
“ BUjtow” (altered for the occasion .)
* * *
As It Is.
N.S. WALES (to John Dtill): “PRINCIPLE BE DASHED, DADDY. HIT HIM AGAIN! I’LL HELP YOU!”
Now Chris., sirs, he was popular,
So pretty lips did pout;
He was so useful at a “ tea”
To “ put the stuff ’ about.
At length some bloods of Darling Point,
Quite driven to despair.
An oath swore that they, on that night,
Would track him to his lairl
They waited near his mansion gate,
And marked with much surprise
Chris, muffled; and drawn was there a
Sombrero o’er his eyes 1
They followed quickly in his trail
(He was a speedy walker).
When, lo I he stopped before a small
House labelled “ Pasha Walker.”
Ho entered quick, and, lol outside
||A throaty miscreant holloas,
While waving of a naptha torch
11“ Substantially as follows
WHAT MR. DALLEY THINKS.
Sir Henry P. is a knowing old man,
Who tried many dodges our votes to inveigle;
He goes right agin this war in the Soudan,
An’ sez the despatch of our troops is Illegal;
But W. B.,
Dally ,he
Sez he don’t care a cuss fer Sir Henry P.
My I Aint it terrible ? Wut shall we du ?
We can’t believe both, o’ course—that’s flat;
Guess we shall hev to come round (don’t you ?)
An’ go in fer thunder an’ guns, an’ all that;
Fer W. B.
Dailey he,
Sez he’s nothing but bunkum, is Henry P.
But W. B.
Dailey, he
Sez this kind 0’ thing’s an exploded idee.
The side of our country must allers be took,
An’ Gineral Gordon, you know, he is our
country.
An’ the angel that writes all our sins in a book
Puts the debit to him an’ to us the per contry ;
An’ W. B.
Dailey, he
Sez this is his view o’ the thing to a T.
Parson Brown, he calls all these argiments lies.
Sez they’re nothin’ on airth but jest fee, faw,
fum;
An’ thet all this big talk of our destinies
Is half on it Ignorance an’ t’other half rum;
But W. B.
Dailey, he
Sez it aint no such thing, an’, of course, so
must we.


well as I can Paddy Bush’s beer,” was the re,
joinder. “I'll try you,” said the officer, and, suit-
ing the action to the word, he fired the powder-
charged musket obliquely across the piivate’s
breast, singeing his coat, but failing to make the
phlegmatic hero budge an inch. “ Good, my com-
rade,” said the exulting officer; “I see you can
atand lire like a Briton, I tired a little too close,
fnd spoilt your coat, but I’ll order you a new one;
and is there anything else I can do for you in a
fmall way ?” “ Yes, if you’re bent on repairing all
the damage done, get me a new pair of breeches,
and they might as well bo waterproof.
What! You going to the Soudan, Flymy
Billy; how’s that?” “Well, the fact is,” he re-
plied, “ there’s nothin’ to be made‘on the never’
now; there’s too many on the bloomin’ game. If
you cop a mug. out of the Metropolitan, and are
just a getting’ him away right, ’bout six or seven
in the same line wants to stand in; and that puts
the mug liy and chokes him off the push. What
with dog’s luck with the ‘ Peter,’ and domestic
difficulties, associated with flying bricks, I resolved
to come. But,” he added, a wild gleam of •joy illu-
menlng his orbs, “ I scored one point. I had the
satisfaction of breaking-up all the crockery in the
’ouse at the affectin’hinterview with the family
when I said—Agew.” “ We suppose,” we said,
“ that you will endeavourto distinguish yourself on
the battle-field ; to carve a name on the altar
of ’glory!” “ Oh, when we gets to Sukkim, as
they calls it, and the canteen’s in full swim, I
think I’ll cop a pound or two. Got all my tools
with me, my cards, and matches, and there’s a
man in another regiment all ‘ readied up ’ for the
confidence trick. If it’s only our luck to be tuk
prisoners by the Mahdi, our fortunes is made.
He’d never tumble to the match-box, bless you I
As for Osman Digger, if the flash fivers and the
pitch about the legacy don’t fetch him, never call
me Flymy any more.” “ But don’t you wish to earn
glory on the tented field ? ’ “ Oh, we can only put
up three-card monte and the themb'e in tents,
and what with the friendly Harabs stakem
with coin what a bloke’s not up to there’s
not much in it.” “But why,” we asked, “go all
the way there when there must still be a field here
for you?” “Weil, what with two summonses
for ’sault; a warrant out for me on the vag.;
and two ’filiation orders overdoo, it’s about time
I got. Hal There you are I Fall in. Another in-
sult.” And with a very discontented countenance
he hastened to join the ranks; cleverly picking
the pouch of a comrade as he went along. We
have no doubt that this man, even now more than
half a hero, by reason of his spontaneous response
to the call of arms, will be heard of again, when
battling shoulder to shoulder in the thirsty desert,
under the scorching rays of the Arabian sun,
against the unpleasant, not to say assertive, Arab,
Not Dailey; but.something like It.
We’re getting just a bit his
Washup the Mayor. Look at this: “The Mayor
of Sydney has given instructions to the City
Inspector to summon all persons . . • shaking
mats.”
• * •
“T. A. Trollope, following the example of
of bis brother Anthony, goes to h;s writing regu-
larly every morning and does a stated task. So
does Wilkie Collins; so did Bulwer and Dickens,
differing from Thackeray, who wrote when he felt
like it.” Frank does his work in the full thunder
of the “ Victory,” with his left hand !• ehind his
neck, and his ear within four inches of the paper
and his tongue, at times, twisted rounded his pen-
handle. Then when he has written—“8 Kases of
Sope has been forwarded to this office for the use
of the Contingent,” he lays back in his chair and
chuckles. Then he calls down the pipe—* Davies,
I’ve just made another one. Ain.t it easy?
After which, he sends it up endorsed— 111 read
the prooves of this one myself.” No wonder,
Alfred, in his undying valedictory speech called
his brother “ a conscientious Journalist! ”
Till In a hideous, dusty blurr
Was hid the beauties of the “ Point."
Not shake our mats outside!—oh. there!
Why this is simply madness stark!
What we say is: “ Confound the Mayor,
And ‘blow’ the mouldy old Town Clerk,”
As It Should Be.
N.S. WALES (to John Bull): “FATHER, REFLECT. THIS QUARREL IS UNWORTHY OF YOU, AND BELlEs THE PRINCIPLE FOU
Oh, Tom, we must now tell you true
This silly dictum we deride;
We used to live next door to you,
And you shook all your mats outside.
They banged the mats we tell you, sir
(The slaves for this you did appoint),


AN OOrOQENARTAN’8 GRATITUDE.
A FACT.
George-street, Sydney, September 1, 1884.
Messrs. Myers and Solomon.
Gentlemen,—It gives me considerable pleasure
to tender you my best thanks for your kind re-
commendation of St. Jacobs Oil. Acting upon
your advice, I tried It, and am happy to say the
very first application brought me Instant relief;
and, by following It up for a couple of days, I felt
completely cured. Before using St. Jacobs Oil I
Buffered severely—more especially from swollen
knees—and had tried many other remedies without
the least effect. However, I have to thank it for
making me myself again, and shall be careful to
recommend it.
I may mention that I shall be 80 years of age In
October, and believe that through its use I shall be
able to spend a pleasant birthday.
Yours lalthfully,
JOSEPH HENRY.
Sold by all chemists and druggists In N.8.W.;
price, 2s. 6d. per bottle.
Mr. John A. Wilkinson has much pleasure
In informing his friends, and the public generally,
that on Thursday, the 26th Inst., he will have on
tap a cask of “ Must ” (wine In a state of fermenta-
tion), which will be procurable until the end of the
present season.
Monsieur John a Wilkinson a 1’honneur d’ in-
former le public de Sydney et des environs qu a
partlr de jeudl proohain 26 Fevrler et j'usqu a la
fin de la saison 11 aura en perce a son Bodega les
vins de la nouvelle saisons (vlns doux).
Meinen Gonnern and abnehmern zur nachrlcht
das wahrcnd der dlesjahrfzen saison In meiner
Bodega frisoher weln most verzapft wlrd.
I Signori Italian!, resedenti In New South
Wales, soninvitati di vlsitare la Cantina del Signor
Giovanni Wilkinson, onde assagiare 11 nuovo vino
(nel mosto), durante la stagione della vendemmla
comlnciando 1126 instant®. Mort’s Passage, George
Street.
JOHN A. WILKINSON,
Coolalta Wine Cellars,
3541 George Street.
“ BEACH’S ”
INTERNATIONAL CONSULTATIONS.
FRANK SMITH’S
GREAT SHEFFIELD HANDICAP,
NOW OPEN.
WOO SUBSCRIBERS, 10s. BACH,
First Prize £200 I Third Prize
Second Prize .. 100 | Fourth Prize
Starters, not 1,3,8 .. .. £100.
Address—
“BEACH,*
Care of J. G. Deeble,
- Hotel, King-street, Sydney
m
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We ihall be Olad to have thU index petted up hv
tecretartee of racing clubs and managert of
tporiAng event* in general.]
RACING.
Yaga R.C March 5, 6
Canterbury Park R,0 March 7
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Peb.28, March 5, 7
Goodooga J.C March 11,13
Orange J.C March 11,13
Goulburn Turf Club March 13,13
Barmedman R.C March 17
Liverpool J.C . March 17
Bombala J.C March 17.18
Glen Innes J.C .March 17,18
Gundagal J.C March 17,19
Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.) J.C March 17,19
Canowlndra J.C • ■ March £0
Wellington J.C March 34, 3o
Oowra J.C March 35,36
Turaut »• March 35, 36
Hawkesbury R.C. (Autumn) March 36, 38
Yarraman........ April 6
A. J.C. (Autumn) April 6, 8,10,11
Rosehlll R.C ■ ■ April 18
Mudgee Tattersall’s R.C April 33, 34
Canterbury Park R.C May 16
Rosehlll R.C May 33
Wollongong T.C. (Autumn) May 35
Walkers ton (nr. Mackay, Q.) R.C. Annual... May 35
Rosehlll R.C June 30
Rosehlll R.C ..July 18
Canterbury Park R.O August 1
Rosehlll BO..: * August 8
Canterbury Park R.C — September 5
Hawkesbury (Spring) September 10 13
A.J.C. (Spring) September 19, 33, 34, 36
Rosehlll R.C .October 3
Canterbury Park R.C October 17
Canterbury Park R.C * December 19
Rosehlll R.O.. December 38
AQUATICS.
Woolloomooloo Regatta March.
Rowe v. Kennedy, Nepean March 14
Balmain R.C. Regatta March 31
Beach v. Hanlan March 38
Intercolonial 8-Oar Race April
ATHLETICS.
Narandera Sheffield Handicap March 14
Sir Joseph Banks Sheffield Handicap. Botany
March 14,18,31. and 33
Athletic Sports, Brushgrove March 17
Oddfellows’ 100-Guineas Handicap, Show,
Grounds, Wollongong April 6
CRICKET.
Shaw’s Team v. 15 of Cumberland,
Parramatta March 13,14.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MUMS.
Mr. M. Keating, one of our crack rifle
shots, is amongst the noble six hundred so Soudan-
ly seized with the " scarlet fever.” (Booh I—En.B.)
At latest Dr. H. L. Cortis, the ex-amateur
champion bicyclist, of England, was in New Zea-
land on the look out for a spot to settle down and
resume the practice of his profession.
Would not a flutter between the trainers
of the two big-gun scullers be a good idea. We
do not suppose ’Lias would be above giving a
shade of a handicap, or Charley of accepting it.
The 24-footers, Carlotta, Ailoen, and Lot-
tie, started for Mr. Dietrich’s trophy on Saturday
last. The Carlotta was the only boat that finished,
the Lottie and Aileen going in for a luffing match
on their own account.
The D.T. interviewer pounced on Hanlan
Immediately after the procession between Beach
and Clifford on Saturday, and in reply to a question
as to w bat he thought of it, the Canadian replied
‘‘It was a good race.” We should have thought
this was too much “ borak ” for even a Rum man,
but it was duly chronicled in Monday’s paper.
The ways of betting men are inscrutable.
Beach gives Hanlan a thorough drubbing, defeats
Clifford in a much easier manner than the
Canadian: and the betting Is now two to one
against the champion. And this in his own, his
native land. Will some kindly sport call round
and explain to us how these affairs are adjusted.
At the settling over the Reedy Flat races,
three cheers were given for Adelong, and a simi-
lar number of groans for Tumut. Tumut horses
won four out of the five races on the card, so,
judging by the groans, the Tumutians must have
touched the locals to a good figure. However, let
those laugh who win say the Tumut sports.
Englishjookeys riding for a foreign owner
sometimes gain a very novel experience. When
W. Greaves rode Stronzlan, for Count Nicholas
Bsterhazy, in the Vienna Derby, the Count, Just
before starting, hung round his neck a picture of
the “ Virgin and Child.” The charm did not work,
the horse being left at the post, and finally finish-
ing second.
Tuesday’s Rum has discovered that Clif-
ford “ rows better in company.” Well, he made,
it is said, the most wonderful trial in the world all
by himself, and when he got in company with Han-
lan, he crumpled up. They say the fault with
Clifford is he has no heart. But the old lady who
is frying sausages at Dapto can, no doubt, tell a
different tale.
“ J. H.” asks us for English professional,
Flowers’ batting average for last season. Flowers
went to the wickets 37 times, made 805 runs, and
played two not-out Innings; average, 28 runs.
Flowers ranked tenth on the professional list,
Soetton standing top of the list with 34,13, followed
in order by Ulyett, Shrewsbury, Barnes, Hall,
Gunn, Painter. Bates, and Tester. Flowers*
largest Innings was 123.
The recent match, at Riverview, between
St. Ignatius College C.C. and Newington C.C., was
looked upon as Tittle short of a match for the
schools’ championship. The Saints went to the
wickets first, and when time was called at 5 p.m.,
had only parted with five wickets for the large
score of 360 runs. P. Clifford remained at the
wickets nearly the whole time and put together no
loss than 313 runs-a truly phenomenal perform-
ance in a school match. Clifford recently played a
not-out innings of 133 against the Sydney Grammar
School, and is picked to play with the Juniors
against the Englishmen.
r Richard K. Fox, of New York, has been
looked up to by sports as one of the most liberal
sporting men in the United States, and his dia-
mond champion belt for heavy-weight pugilists
has been regarded as the most dazzling in exis-
tence. Recently Harry Maynard concluded to
outdo Fox, and while his manager, Dave Seymour,
was in New York, Maynard had him select a de-
sign for a champion heavy-weight belt. It must
be won three times to entitle a holder to owner-
ship, and the holder is open to challenge all over
the United States. The design is elaborate, and
the belt will contain 160 diamonds. Now then
“Professor” Miller. Here’s something worth
travelling to the States for.
At Normantnn, England, an arranged fight
recently took place between a miner and a donkey
belonging to a local Innkeeper. The fight, it is
said, was the outcome of a public-house dispute,
and was arranged on “ scientific principles.” Four
men were required to bring the redoubtable don-
key to the battle ground. The man, having
stripped off his coat, waistcoat, and shirt, pitched
into nis asinine opponent, who received without
retaliation the first onslaught. Then, getting his
blood up, the donkey began kicking and biting,
and after a hard fight of an hour and a-hall, tfce
man was compelled to give in, and the victorious
“moke” was trotted back to his stable. An
English paper hopes that Inquiries will be made
by the Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals. We hope so, too. The Society should prose-
cute the donkey.
Whatever may be said of the occasional
cricketing abilities of English amateur players as
compared with their professional brethren, there
can he little doubt about their rival merits on a
pinch. All unprejudiced spectators of the sen-
sational match at London Oval in ’82 were dis-
gusted with the lack of nerve shown by several
of the “gentlemen,” and their miserable collapse
on many occasions last year confirmed the
“ home ” impression that the amateur heart is not
always in the right place when wanted. It isn’t
too much to say that it would be impossible to
pick a team of “crack” English amateurs who
could be relied upon to make such a plucky show
at the finish as did Shaw’s eleven last week. W.
G. Grace certainly can nearly always make runs
when he’s fairly “in the pit,” but then W. Q. G. is
a very amphibious cricketer.
The great Boooaooio-'wefms-time trot, has
gone bung, and all the hlfalution talk which was
raised about it, is now in the deep pewters of
eolonlal “woliop ” burled; the brewer having de-
cided to forfeit £20 to the local charities. Quite a
good suggestion, however, comes from Quirindl,
to the effect that the masher of malt should be
requested to hand over the twenty notes to the
Quirindi Race Club. An extra race could then be
got up for all horses carrying not less than 15st.,
the prize to be called the Tanglefoot Cup, and the
distance, run four miles; each rider being com-
pelled to pull up and drink a long sleever every
time he passes the judge’s box. Another sugges-
tion, which we are sure would take well, Is, that
the winner of the trophy should shout for the
whole course, when the event is over. Should
this be acted on, we are dead sure our metropoli-
tan dallies will be largelyjropreaonted.
“ Stand back; fwhat are yese all orowden
the tottlelaaytur fur?” roared a stalwart ralmber
av the foorce at the Hutt racecourse near Welling-
ton (N.Z.). to an excited mob of speculators who
were anxious to draw their divs. and get away
with a train Just starting. “Stand back,” con-
tinued the guardian of law and order, “ and let me
get foments the machine, and I’ll kape the paloe.”
The crowd stood back while the Robert pushed his
way up to the office, and presented a ticket on
Ugly Buck. Having received his money, he
stalked majestically away, remarking as he went
Now, thin, yese can all go forrlt at wanst; there’s
pllnty av room, and I’m Just in tolme to kltoh the
tbraln. Bogorra, so I am, but not wan minute too
soon.” And off he stalked, leaving behind him a
struggling mass of humanity all trying to got paid
first, and each one trying to outstrip his neighbour
In hurling adjectives and other things after the
departing bobby.I
The Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron had a
spanking south-easter for their handicap race on
Saturday last, for Vice-Commodore Wilson’s prize,
the contesting yachts being the Sirocco (scratch),
Sao (10 minutes), and lone (28 minutes). The Sir-
occo got all the worst of the start, and It was well
on to Bradley's before she got on an equality with
the Sao, which had a good lead of the lone. The
big boat made the most, however, of the run down
to Manly, and by the time she housed her topmast
and made all snug for the thrash up, had full 3
minutes to the good of the Sao, which she in-
creased to some 8 minutes by fthej'.time Shark
Island was rounded, the Dr. in turn having 8
minutes the best of the lone. From thence round
Fort Denison and back to Shark Island, the yaehts
widened still further out. the Sao ultimately fin-
ishing within 39 seconds of her time allowance be-
hind the Sirocco, thus securing Mr. Milson’s prize;
and the lone, with 10 seconds only to the good,
secured a second prize of £5 given by the Club.
So far as last Saturday was concerned,
there was nothing to growl at in the carrying out
of the new Marine Board regulations. There was
room, and to spare, In the Inflexible, and had a
few feet been planked off for the umpire and the
Press, the arrangement would have left nothing to
wish for. The course was kept clear throughout,
and for the first time In our experience on the
Parramatta, from first to last, the scullers wore in
no danger of losing their lives. As for our scull-
ing races dying out by reason of the knocking off
of a steamer, is simply bo t, and if the expenses
and stakes in these races have assumed such huge
proportions that a steamer loaded with hundreds
of spectators at £1 a head cannot pay expenses of
both men, the sooner they come down the better,
as they must prove prohibitive to any but a
scuiler able to obtain bankers, who, with very
few exceptions, win or lose, in a matter of biz.
make a big thing out of the game. At first sight,
the new regulations appeared a mistake, but after
viewing the race on Saturday last, we are Inclined
to thing Mr. DIbbs has done the correct thing.
Heavy rains welljinto Saturday morning
precluded fast times being made at the first day of
the V.R.C. Autumn meeting, and made affairs look
queer for the gate; but a good attendance put In
an appearance In the afternoon. Hales was the
recipient of a hearty hooting from the rabble over
the defeat of Monte Christo for the Ascot Vale
Stakes-rather a new experience, by the way, for
the popular Tommy. Commotion defeated Malua
rather comfortably for the Essenden Stakes. For
the Ascot Vale Stakes, hslf-way up the straight,
the race looked all over but shouting for Monte
Christo, but Uralla came with a rush and de-
feated the favourite by half a length; Monte
appearing unable to fight It out. Silver King
made an easy appropriation of the St. Leger
from David; the Newmarket Handicap fell to
Coronet, who came away from the field at the
half | distance, and won by three-quarters of a
length from Middlemarch, Sheet Anchor half a
length away third. Juanna made an easy win of
the Hopeful Stakes from Glrolle; and Grace Dar-
ling finished the day’s sport by winning the
Brunswick Handicap.
“Professor” Miller appears to be still
hankering after a trial with Sullivan. From the
Melbourne Sportsman we clip the following letter
forwarded by Miller to the N. Y. Clipper;—“ Sir,
—As I have received a number of letters from
friends in America who are anxious that I should
meet John L. Sullivan in a glove contest, and my
friends in Australia also wish the contest to take
place, I now make another endeavour to settle
preliminaries for this match. I am prepared to
meet Sullivan four months from the time of sign-
ing articles of agreement. The match to take
place In some building, to be mutually agreed
upon, In San Francisco. Sullivan to allow me
$500 for expenses; this amount to be deposited
with the Clipper, and to be handed me after the
termination of match. The winner to take 75 per
cent, and the loser 25 per cent, of the receipts,
after expenses are paid. The match to be one to
win, and if interfered with to bo contested out
privately within 72 hours. Upon receiving Clip-
per announcing that the money is deposited, 1
will Immediately leave for San Francisco. Sulli-
van can send articles of agreement to any of the
newspapers in Saa Francisco, and I will sign them
immediately on my arrival. Sullivan offered me
$1000 expenses fora match to take place in New
York. 1 took ray passage, thinking the money
would be deposited, but it was not. My departure
was prevented through my leg being broken while
wrestling Donald Dinnle. I hope Sullivan will
lose no time in at once depositing the money.—
Yours, &c., William Miller.” Miller evidently
means biz., but we have an idea Sullivan will
neither accept the place of meeting or the terms.
Sullivan must bo the Hanlan of the pugilistic
world. He is stated by good authorities to be the
equal of Mace, when at his best, In quickness,
though not such a taking set-to. Jem Mace’s
right shoots out straight as an arrow from the
shoulder, whereas Sullivan’s is a swinging hit
peculiarly his own, delivered with lightning ra-
pidity and “ timed ” to a nicety, Sullivan is not
to be denied, and all through his wonderful career
he has never been known to retreat a step when
in the ring.
If anyone imagines that the Souslan mo-
nopolises all the bloody war business of the pre-
sent day he fills his head with a mighty great
mistake indeed. Only a few days ago, a battle
was fought way up at Cairns, by the side of which
even Waterloo itself tones down to the level of a
Wesleyan Sunday School reunion. From informa-
tion received, It appears that a well-known auc-
tioneer and an Arohimedian lever-wielder were
seated in a certain hotel discussing the Egyptian
question and the proper season to set the eggs of
the long-eared Brahmapootra bens, etc, when
their arguments got unduly mixed, and the pug-
nacious pair at last began to pelt each other with
tumblers and opprohious -language. Goaded to
madness, the local George Robins at last called the
editor a contemptible sanguinary alderman; upon
which the latter, swearing a fearful oath that no
man ever called him that before and lived to tell
the tale, made a round-arm wipe at the enemy’s
head and knocked a parlour-screen half way across
the road. War being then fairly declared, the pair
did a war-dance round the room, and gave an
exhibition of science that was worth walking from
here to Cairns with buck shot in one’s boots to
witness. The auctioneer wasted most of his
valuable time In explaining to his adversary and
the surrounding spectators that nothing but the
keenest sense of his own magnanimity and the ex-
orbitant charges made for funerals prevented him
from mashing the ink-slinger up into stuffing for
sausage-rolls. Getting weary or this part of the
Bramme, some of the bystanders grabbed the
?erents by the nape of their necks, and rub-
bing their noses together after the fashion of the
buli-purp fighting fraternity, set them slogging
away in real earnest. Watching his opportunity,
the literary slugger caught his adversary a tre-
mendous blow on the knuckles with bis own nose,
and following up his opportunity he twisted his
own hair round bis opponent’s fist and dealt him
half-a-dozen stinging blows on the left mauley
with the tenderest part of his own stomach.
Finally, both men wont to grass in the fire-place,
the editor demanding 30 minutes’ time to allow
him to search for some of his lost brains, the auc-
tioneer bitterly declaring that the man of letters
never had any brains to lose. Just as the second
round began, the police sergeant straggled in, and
no angel from heaven conld nave been more gladly
welcomed by the bloodthirsty belligerents, who
unanimously declared that it would be a gross
Insult to the sacred majesty of the law to continue
the deadly combat in the presence of their muofa-
respeoted guardian of the peace. The landlord
then mopped up all traces of the bloody fray with
a pen-wiper, the combatants filed down to the
chemist’s for arnica, and so ended one of the most
sanguinary battles ever fought on this side of the
equinoctial line.
Never before, perhaps, la the annals of
colonial rowing did a match for the championship
pass otf in which such a dearth of Interest was
shown as that between William Beach and Thomas
Clifford over the championship course on Saturday
last. At the last moment Mr. P. J. Clarke resigned
the position of umpire, on account, wo presume,
of the regulation of the Marine Board, whereby
only one steamer was allowed to follow the race,
and, after a hunt round town, Mr. J. H. Myers, of
the Sydney Rowing Club, accepted the office.
Luckily for Mr. Myers the race passed off without
a bitch, but we must say we commend that gentle-
man’s pluck in standing umpire on a steamer
where he had to elbow his way with the crowd in
order to obtain a sight of the men. The repre-
sentatives of the scullers may have considered
themselves treated harshly by the Marine Board
in debarring their steamers after the boats had
been hired for the day; but it did not follow they
were to in turn vent their wrath upon the long-
suffering public by charging an extra half-sove-
reign a nead. In Saturday morning’s papers an
advertisement appeared, stating that the Inflexi-
ble would follow the race in Beach’s interest-
tickets, ten ahUlingt each. Upon our tendering our
little half-sov., however, we found tickets had
risen to a sov., and it was either a case of pay the
extortion or miss seeing the race. The Inflexible
came in bows on to the Quay, and a plank was run
out and jury-rigged inboard for the passengers to
embark. We were never more serious In our
lives when we state there was as much danger
in that plank than in any three steamers
we have seen at any boat race on the
Parramatta for the past 10 years. Our long stay
at the Quay was rather enlivened by a couple of
rounds between two amateur pugs, on the wharf,
who stood a good show of being run in, but
luckily for them the three water policemen on
the spotlwere too busily engaged keeping the
precarious plank in place, and their mlU continued
till an old gentleman stepped in, and at the risk
of a chance shot, separated them. When the new
bridge at Charity Point is completed, the steamer
will, willy nllly, be compelled to start in front
of the men, but until then, they should certainly
start behind the boats. On Saturday, the In-
flexible was moored alongside a punt, in a splendid
position for a start, but to the surprise of all on
board, the skipper thought fit to oast off and run
his steamer half way to Uhr’s Point, when it was
more by good luck than anything else a Second
Tomki affair did not eventuate. At the post
Clifford appeared much finer than when be pulled
Hanlan, and Beach looked to us as if a little more
work would not have hurt him. but as the day
turned out, it was rather in his favour than
against him. A stiff south-easter showed the
white horses at the mile-point, but the tide run-
ning up strong with the wind did not cut the
wafer np to the extent that an ebb tide would
have done, and considering the force of the
breeze blowing, the water was remarkably smooth,
approaching the mile-point being, perhaps, the
worst bit of water encountered. Beach, on the
inside or southern position, appeared eager for
the start, and the fiddling was becoming rather
irksome to the spectators, when the men struck
the water together, and at 4.30, what proved to be
an uneventful struggle commenced. From the
Inflexible, Clifford seemed to get the best of the
start, but it was momentary, as Beach rowing 36
to his opponents 34, gained a clear length's lead in
about the shortest distance we had ever seen the
feat performed. At Uhr’s Point, passed by Beach
in 2mln. 35sec., with a couple of lengths lead, the
pair were each rowing 33, and even at this early
portion of the game it was seen Clifford was not in
it. Half way between Uhr's and the Beacon, ”
when the rough water was negotiated, Clifford ap- 1
peared In difficulty for a couple of strokes, but
Eulling himself together, he had a look round at
Is opponent—a habit, by the way, of which he
is rather too fond—and quickened up, for the first
time '.rowing a greater number of strokes to the
minute than the Champion. Beach, however,
without quickening, held his own, and when
Clifford’s spurt died out, he drew out a further
lead without apparent effort. Approaching the
Beacon, Clifford sagged away to leeward out of
his course, while Beach kept well to windward,
and passed the mile point with several lengths to
the good, and in much the best position, in 7min.
45sec. Clifford stuck manfully to bis work, but
his case was hopeless, as Beach, with a three or
four lengths’ lead, rowed in front of him with the
greatest {insouciance over the remainder of the
course, finishing in 25min. 55ieo.—not at all bad
time considering the adverse wind and tide. Beach
passed Putney in 13min. 7sec., Breakfast Point in
13min. 55seo., Hen and Chicks 18mln. 63seo., Gladcs-
ville in 30min. 30sec. One-man-wharf in 23min.
2seo., and the whole course in 35min. 55sec. Beach
rowed a great waterman in the joggle, and we cer-
tainly think he has improved vastly. With a clean,
though not overreach he lifts his boat in rare
style, but he has not the clever finish Hanlan
is possessed of, and it is to this finish we
attribute the fact that Hanlan’s craft goes
alongjmore smoothly, and shows less diminution
of speed between the strokes than that of any
other sculler we have seen performing. As for
Clifford, whatever show he had was ruined by the
rough day; but even in the calm water before
Uhr’s Point was reached, Beach went clean away
from him, and we do not think he was the man he
was on February 7th, when he met the Canadian,
Wo were on tnat day surprised at the dash he
showed well on to the mile point; but on Saturday
he was sluggish and dead to the world from the
first stroke to the last. And now the wonderful
part comes in. What, in the name of fortune,
could Clifford have done for his admirers to per-
suade them into four £500 matches straight away ?
It could certainly never have been his style. We
feel pretty sure Clifford has not been heard the
last of, or that his plucky—we might say reckless
—backers will drop him without another show, at|
all events, judging from the manner in which at
least one of them stuck to Ned Trickett to the
bitter end. What Clifford requires is a first-class
man on the water with him, to try and knock out
some of the faults which he has acquired. Clifford
reminds us very much when rowing of Charlie
Reynolds. When out on the boat ready for the
stroke he Is too loose and spread out, loses part of
the commencement of the stroke, and when he
does take the water, he sits down on his slide, and
drives his boat along by leg power only, thereby
burying his boat, Instead of lifting her In the
manner dono by Hanlan and Beach. Last week
we were told Clifford had gone completely “ off,’*
and the show he made bore out the rumour.
Mr. Walker’s lecture on Sunday evening,
at the Theatre Royal, was listened to by one of the
most densely-packed audiences we ever knew the
building to contain. The subject chosen was
“Mahomet,” and as the immediate interest and
proceedings of our little army are likely to be
affected by the actions of the followers of
Mahomet, it may be readily understood that the
discourse was attentively listened to. The band,
led by Mr. Allpress, gave some selections; and
Miss Horan sang, In a nice manner, a couple of
songs. Mr. Cole’s recital of the “Jewish Maiden ”
was also well done.
“ Empress of India ” is good, but it now
appears that the Czar of all the Russias intends to
go one better still, by assuming the title of Em-
geror of Central Asia. The British Lion, having
is paws pretty full with Egyptian affairs just now,
the Great Bear seizes the opportunity of making,
with measured step and muffled tread, another
advance towards India. All Russia wants now is
that for the future-[query; present]—the Paro-
pamisus Mountain*, running Just northward of
Herat and Cabul, shall form the frontier between
the territory under her own control and that
which is ruled by Britain. Providing this parti-
cularly modest little request is granted, she will
ask nothing more—for the present. Now, or never,
England must put her foot (Irmly down on Bruin’s
paws, or else it will be the old Arabian story of the
miller and the oamel once again. This story re-
lates that a certain miller was once startled by
seeing the snout of a camel thrust In through a
window of the room where he was sleeping. “It
is very cold outside, your Highness,” said the
oamel: “ but I only want to get my nose in.” “ All
right, replied the miller; “ but let It be your nose
only.” Presently the oamel opened up again, and
craved permission to intrude nls neck, as the cold
was more severe than ever. This being granted,
he soon contrived to wriggle the whole of
his body through, and then the miller rising
up, indignantly pointed out that he was greatly
inconvenienced, and that the room was only
built to hold one. To which the now insolent
oamel replied, “If you feel crowded here, my
friend, there’s a heap of room outside. I’m here
to stay Just as long as It suits my own conveni-
ence. Herat is the key to Central Asia on the
one hand, and to Afghanistan, and to India on the
other, for, as the natives say, “ God chose Herat
as a resting-place both for those who are hasten-
ing forward to the tolls of burning India, and for
those who are passing on to the torments of rude
Turkistan.” There are some who even go as far
as to think that Cossack hordes may yet be able to
scour Europe, and boast, as the Huns of Attila
did, that the grass never grew where their horses
had trodden. This, however, is nothing new, for
nearly 20 years ago the celebrated Oriental
traveller. Professor Vamberg, wrote—“ Though
to many it may appear visionary, it is in no wise
impossible that some hundreds of thousands of
the wildest horsemen in Asia may follow the sum-
mon* of such a Power (as Russia) into the very
heart of Europe," Such a horde would require no
commlssiariat. It could maintain Itself by requi-
sition on the people it Invaded. And what a mag-
nificent loot It would obtain ; and what opportu-
nities It would enjoy of carrying off to its Asiatic
harems the female youth and beauty of the West.
These be parlous times indeed, and we have an
idea that we will postpone our trip to the “ Contl-
nong ” until the weather clears a trifle.


NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
HIS M CUTLEH.
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR FROM GEORGE-STREET.
/: #FICIAITeeth
-J&t-n
° DentistS °
fOfc-6 MARKETS? ffYDN EY
THEY have ARRIVED.
An immense delivery
of
YANKEE RUBBER
BABIES.
Goes in the waistcoat poo
ket; blows out to life size:
is washable, durab’e, and
unbreakable ; resembles
life, for like the real article
it coos at pleasure, and yet
screams awfully if smacked
Experienced fathers are deceived by these laugh-
ter-producing Infants, and no home is really a
happy one without their presence. Price (post
free): largest, Is. fid.; medium, Is. 3d.
Also, just in, a large assortment of Oonjurlng
Tricks. Catalogues on application.
*
THE WIZARD CARDS,
changing from eights
to deuces, from black to
red, and back again at the
pleasure of the per-
former. Post free, with
full instructions, Is. 2d,
I’m a Daddy ; I’m In
Love; The Mother-in-law;
I’m a Farder; and Be
fore and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever issued, g in each set.
Price, fid. per set, or 6 sets for 2s.; by post, 2s. 2d.
The Three Donkeys. The newest ** have ” out.
Bend for them, but keep It quiet. Price, Is.; by
post, Is. 2d.
The Sooner Dog—a wonderful little animal;
roars of laughter follow him wherever he goes.
Is. fid.; by post, 2s. fid.
Napoleon In Council, very rich, la. fid.;by post, 8s.
HORTON and CO., 401 George-street, Sydney.
Box 841, Q.P.O.
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate In Medicine and Surgery, Registered
Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours : 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., 7 to 9 on Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday Evenings. ' •/ •
Ladies’ Waiting Room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
11, 52 Castlercagh-street (upstairs.)
Send for Free Treatise on Vitality and Nervous
Debility, Diseases of Women.
Illustrated Works on Deformities, Electricity
and its Application. Hernia (ruptures), Varicocele,
&o., &c.
Address—Australian Medical and Surgical In-
firmary, Sydney ; or B. 0. HOLTERMANN, Esq.,
M.P., President, Box 120, G.P.O.
Consultation Free by mall or in person.
Deformities, Specific. Female, and Nervous
Diseases, a Specialty.
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of William-street, Hyde Park.
High-class Furniture
At Very Lowest Prices, compatible with the finest
workmanship and finish, for entrance halls,
dining-rooms, drawing-rooms, bedrooms,
and libraries.
CARPETS IN NEWEST DESIGNS AND
FINEST QUALITY.
WILTON CARPETS, BRUSSELS CARPETS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With Hearthrugs to match.
1ST CORUCINE AWD LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL AND
BLACK AND BRASS,
la all sizes and various designs*
Foster ’s Bugle Brand.
COMPAGNONi CATERING GO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. * *
T IIE MmfiH Estebiishment In N.8.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor.
/T^J^ lclp o, unc i lo tSydcey, the A.J.C., City Club, Ac., &o.
e 1 in mg Saloons for Ladles and are the Finest, Coollest, and loftleet In the colony.
P33” rmTT T?nnM ™ CLASS M * E^,. DAl Private Bar-Good Wine List.
ukiliIj KUUivi now open. A Grill can be had at any time from Ram to 11 n m rafter the
Theatres. Select your own steak, 4c , and seo it grilled in the room Thii la one of tHe acquisitions
and ctt y 1 Qu b” u ns t a*i m 1 * wa ’ Inspection Invited Cmb ro'omT of the Princt Alfred Y®C?“
and City Club, upstairs. D. TOLLEMACHE, General Manager.
Z<4
i
V
✓re
s
mr
zT
iM
M
L-
sa
«aS
rm
_F
&
ME
*V
fs
>v
m
I
.i-.
afi
t-i-
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
mutual fire society.
Established 1873.
Capital—£100,000 with power to increase to £1,000,000
BON USES—20 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
CHURCHILL’S SYRUP OP THE HYPO-
PHOSPHITES.
THESE SYRUPS have so thoroughly obtained
the confidence of the Medical Faculty that they
are now preferred to any other preparations as
Genernl Tonics.
.. The Syrup ot Hypophosphites of Lime has proved
itself for many years most useful in cases of Con-
sumption and diseases of the Pulmonary Organs.
It is also most beneficial to debilitated constitu-
tions proceeding from any cause whatever, as it
contains two of the most necessary ingredients for
building up the Human Frame, namely, Phospho-
rus and Lime.
Churchill’s Syrup of the Hypophosphite of Iron
Is one of the best preparations ot Iron and Phos-
phorus that has been offered to the public. As a
permanent tonic it has been found more service-
able than any other preparation of Iron, and la
especially recommended to those suffering from
the effects of a long residence in a hot climate.
Churchill’s Compound Syrup of the Hypophos-
phites contains Lime, Iron, and Soda, and as a
general Tonic has been found most useful. Deli-
cate children have derived the greatest benefit
from going through a course of this medicine,
which supplies nearly all the elements necessary
to develope in perfection the Human Frame. To
Ladles suffering from General Debility, any of
these fiyrups can be taken with most beneficial re-
sults, but as almost every constitution differs, one
may give better results than the other. To be had
all -P hemi8t8 t and Wholesale from ELLIOTT
BROS., Pltt-street, Sydney.
SENT FREE, by POST ONLY, in an Envelop®.
SOCIAL ~SOICNCE,
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders which
cause Impediments te Marriage, and all
Chronic Diseases; also. Hew to choose a partner
for life, so as te live happy and produce healthy
children ; and how te regain and preserve your
health, &c, &c.
Address i R. T. SELBY, Medical Herbalist,
Devonshire-street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
EXHIBIT
14 and 16 Spring 1 Street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA.
ANB
earthenware,
WINES, BEERS, AKD SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T GA YEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A.MELV IN and SONS’
Edlnbuigfl Pale Ate.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
J. LAWIEH,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
irara of ik
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING- MATTRASSES,
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX,
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&o., &c.
COLL/f
BLEND
JMAR&
Cicis
a.™!: ’’MSSf’r co", u l
J*APER Hoop Iron, and Empty
umue a808 ® a e * Apply Publisher, BOLLKTTy
Head Offices.
First Fire Society established in the colony on
the Mutual principle, (riving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from
all liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
The BEST ALB and STOUT In the Market
BOLD BT ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINS}
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
R
meestfs
KSSOrCIGo
LIFE
(e only intauibfe remedy for
//ERyoi/s JjebiLijyT
THIS invaluable and aclmowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
»slts, which causes Incapacity and degeneracy
and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustlve derangement of the system: regenerating
all the Important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 12b., or four quantities is one for
46s.; If by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,!
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and 00., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from George-street South.
UMBRELLAS
*i"60VERI&
CITUDT ECONOMY
and
HaveyourtTmbrellaFramef
I re-covered, and your
Parasols re-llned and made
i equal to New, at
! J. SULLIVAN’S
641 George Street,
i Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
turn**- Repairs neatly exe-
cuted
VENETlA WALT21
Aif to be w$U nu&kaL. OaroliTg towTinAJf.
p/3 eaiitabtlA
M
hd
has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC In the city
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Chnroh Music, Anthems, Psalters. Services, &o.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, In variety.
New catalogues will be ready In a few days and
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most Important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograpn
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berfygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Hoad Offices—PITT and KINO STREETS.
Watch and Clorkmakcr to the Victorian
Government.
T. GAUNT
Watchmaker,,
GOLDSMITH,
JEWELLER AID OPTICIAN,
297 and 299
George Street,
S"STID^TE1"2".
J. MASSEY, Jim.,
PIANOS AID ORfiAIS,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found it at
last with the Argosy Braces at Sowing Bros.
m
m
:< ■
z
GOWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. fid., as., 3a. fid., & 4a. fid
GOWING BROS.,
MEN’S MERGERS, HATTERS. OUTFITTERS, &o.
332 and 408 Gcorge-atreet.
208 George Street, Sydney.
Every description of Shirts made to measure
• A perfect fit guaranteed.
h
y
i
THE
SMITH & NANNELL,
SHIRT MANUFACTURERS OF
AUSTRALASIA,
CJUFFBRBR8 Afflicted with Nervous Debility
O Lost Vitality, Ac., be your own Physician.
The FRENCH HOSPITAL REMEDY will soon re-
store you to health and manly vigour. Prescription
free. Send your address on a stamped envelope to
C. C. W., Box 766, G.P.O., Sydney.


piUBNITURl SHOW ROOM
■*" BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HAT6TANDB,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
H
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES.
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion : well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
ARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for olubs, restaurants
smoking rooms. &o.
ED ROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feei
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms, drtat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB. Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
EDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 3 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, from!0s.6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
strong, and durable, Trichord full
„ompass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &o.
/"'IHlflPONNlBR WHATNOTS, effective designs.
Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
CrConnell-strect. '
E' NAMELLED and JEWELLED MittRORS, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-street.
T\rAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
U A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
HAIR BBDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
OILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Counell-stroet.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
_ 1 screw, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet.
1 ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAII*-
k Patented.
D
at
"I\w
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
Bitting to reclining and vice versa, at tho will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of tho numerous positions
that can b© obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly ©very part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames arc of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds cqm-
pleto, and occupying only tour inches in thickness
when ft Jded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
3s. 6d. extra. ,
B
AGATELLB BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FlfH&I-
TURB, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
B
B
EDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rate?.
BRADLEY. NKWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell and Spring streets.
w
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 2Ss. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-atreet.
ENT WOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment; best make, lowest prices.
SOCIAL
The attraction on Saturday afternoon was,
of course, the parade of the Soudan troops, the
crowd was Immense; that at the boat race was at
a circumstance to It; In fact, the latter event was
but poorly attended. It s no use at all (retting up
o oposltion shows just w hen our hearts an d the g ria
uearts are witn tne troops, and we ate insensible
t) everything else. Were ever men so petted,
p impored, and idolised ? Lucky men1 Would we
were they I It’s almost well to go and fight men
against whom we bear no grudge, ih order to
attain such popularity. But .i 0 ,?
Saturday looked as if they meant business, and it
wouldn’t surprise us in the least to find vnd
made of good grit. However, that s to be proved
by future events. Not a few P®arly
washed the rouge and pearl cream the cheeks
of Interested damsels that dismal afternoon as
they gazed lovingly, admiringly, but proudly on
their particular choice—and some of the artless
creatures even went so far as to put aside con-
ventionality and join in the cheering ; but this
was one of those rare events when such de-
monstrative admiration could be condoned.
But it was a good lusty cheer, and it it didn t
make the learts of the troops swell with
pride and gratification, all we’ve got to say is,
then, that they couldn’t have any hearts to swell.
As soon as ever we had dismissed‘ our men, the
clouds helped the girls’ eyes to water the streets
all the way home—and further.
• ♦ ♦
A stranger visiting our city on Thursday
last, would have been surprised at the desertion of
our principal retail thoroughfares, and naturally
would have thought that the departure of our
gallant N.8.W. contingent had taken place pre-
viously to the well-advertised day. But no, in-
stead of the Soudanese army going to fight on the
"sheets” of sand, the Drapers’ Association army
repaired to Cabarila to fight their athletic battles
on the field of the "cloth ” of gold, and it is now
a matter of history (Draper’s) how young Linsey
and Wodlsey, ol|Hordern's “ slops,” beat Jones and
Robinson, of Farmer’s “shirts” in the pair oar
race, and a team from Sheapesand Paw s fancy
defeated the “ Manchester’ ” of J. Dones and Co ,
at cricket; and the magnificent way in which Mr.
Stretcher of Cater’s "gloves” ran over his oppo-
nents in the "yard-stick” handicap, gained the
approval of the fair sex, and Miss Gusset of the
" Dressmaking,” was heard to say to Miss Honiton
of the “laces” that he (Stretcher) was an up-
start, and wished to be a shop-walker; but
then Miss Gusset was always “ biasicd.
It need hardly be said that Thursday’s turn-out
was a brilliant one, and fully 4000 people must have
Journeyed up the Parramatta River to the picnic
grounds. Cabarlta is, as yet, in a very primitive
state, and consequently the inconveniences ex-
perienced were more than a few. There were not
sufficient shade trees to afford shelter from a hot
sun, and liquid refreshment, unless one brought it
himself, was unobtainable; but there were plenty
of dry buns and sandwiches to be bad, which were,
to say the least, if net nutritious, filling. Dancing,
notwithstanding the heat and other drawbacks
[Pull-backs is the proper word.—Ed. Bj was
vigorously carried on, and the various Summer
toilets of bright sateens, flowered prints, &c., gave
the dancing pavilion the appearance of a huge,
ever-changing kaleidoscope. A portion of the
pavilion was screened off for banqueting purposes,
and about one hundred sat down to the lunch pro-
vided by Mr. Correy. Mr. Mason, the President
of the Drapers’ Association, occupied the chair,
having on his right the irrepressible flowery Dan,
the member for Picnic Point. Mr. Caddy, the hon.
secretary, filled the vice-chair. Various letters of
apology were received from invited guests, and
the chairman announced " that it was with great
pleasure he had Just received a letter from Mr.
Dlbbs, regretting his inability to be present.
However, the usual destruction of fowl, ham,
tarts, &o., took place, and the appropriate toasts
W ere: very wisely curtailed, as the acoustic pro-
pertles of the banquet hall were very bad indeed,
it being almost impossible to hear a word at a dis-
tance of a few yards from the speaker. Dan 1, of
course, aired his rhetoric. The absence of the
principals of some of our largest houses was’much
commented upon, and it would have been a good
example to sink all social differences and to mix
with their employdj at least once a year. Mr.
Caddy, the hon. sec., deserves a word of credit for
bis untiring energy, and the committee worked
with a will to create the third Drapers’ Association
picnic what It really was—a great success. And
now a little suggestion: As almost every trade
has its own picnic during the season, would it not
be a good Idea to have them all on the same day.
In fact, a trades picnic; each trade can select their
own ground, have their own steamers, &c., but
let them;all unite as to the day, and a deal of.lncon-
venience would be avoided.
• * •
Last Thursday three of the Soudanese
volunteers were r ‘sent off” with a little cham-
pagne dinner at Baumann’s cat4, The guests were
Senior Sergeant W. C. Shipway, Privates John
Campbell and Ben, Rhodes, of Captain Mulhol-
land’s No. 4 Company. They are all Australian
natives, young fellows in the prime of health and
spirit, and Mr. Shipway has been known for
several years past as the crack amateur walker of
the col ny and a "dab” at athletics generally.
Tne dinner was given by a number of gentlemen
wno had on many occasions been the sailing com-
panions of the three guests in harbour contests,
holiday camps, and other excursions, and Mr. John
Young occupied the chair, faced at the other end
of the table by Mr. P. Pedley. After a capital
dinner, the " Queen ” was proposed by the chair-
man and “ The Land we live in ” by Mr. R. Brind-
ley, Mr. M'Qarvey taking charge of the piano and
furnishing musical accompaniments. Mr, Pedley
gave the toast of ‘ Our Guests,” of whom he
spoke in the highest terms, feeling sure that
when the time came each one of them would
show he was true Australian grit. They all re-
plied, with the brevity and modesty which on
such occasions “ so becomes a man.” After the
“Army” had been dealt with by Messrs. J. Gilti-
nan and M'Garvey, an extra toast was inserted by
Mr. J. Campbell, who, lest auld acquaintance be
forgot, specially proposed the health of Messrs.
Young, Yule, and Pedley, their oldest boating
companions on the harbour, and in the replies it
seemed to be decided by acclaim that the new
boat now building by the last named should be
called The Soudan, and Sergeant Shipway struck
up " Sailing,” which was immediately joined in by
the whole company. The toasts of “ The Ladies,”
by Messrs. C. J. Yule and J. Warren, and of “ The
Press,” by Mr. J. Butler, closed the list, though
speeches and songs were kept up for some time
longer, and altogether the evening was one of
which the three young volunteers will often
think. The memory of it will be one bright green
oasis amid the sands of the deserts of Soudan.
♦ » *
On Friday, theSOfeh of February, Dr. and
Mrs. Bell, of Murrurucdi, gave a splendid fancy-
dress ball at Brodle House, to celebrate the first
anniversary of their wedding day. A large num-
ber of guests assembled to trip it merrily till
dawn. As most of them wore fancy costumes, the
scene was one to be long remembered. Among
those in plain dress we noticed Mr. Loder, from
Colly Creek; Mrs. Reynolds, Mrs. Finch, and Mrs.
Reynard, from Tamworth—the latter in her splen-
did bridal dress of cream satin and rich lace. Dr.
Bell’s disguise was complete. When a hoary-
bearded astrologer of patrlarchial appearance,
whose black gown was studded with glittering
discs, crescents, and stars, made his appearance
but few recognised the genial host. The hostess,
in French Republican dress, had chosen a strik-
ingly effective and becoming costume. On her
bead rested the red cap of Liberty, and her blood-
red robe, scarf, and banner were emblazoned with
"Libortel EgallWl Fraternity 1” In silver letters.
Her sister, Miss Henydon, in flowing classic robe,
with silver shield, trident, and helmet, was a mag-
nificent “ Britannia.” Mr. Herbert Henydon, or
Bloomfield (“ Lallah Rookh ”) wore a rich East-
ern dress of silk and satin, with spangles,
bangles, and a pair of peacocks’ feathers. There
was a very correct representation of a Roman Fea-
sant (Miss Brodle) and a sweet-faced little Milk-
maid (Miss Edith Evans), Miss Wright, of Bick-
ham, with powdered hair and an old English drees,
looked very striking, and so did Mies Anme Tay-
lor, of Glenaloon, as Nancy Lee. Her sister was
a Scotch girl. Miss Martyn looked well as an
Ambulance Nurse. We noticed, too, a Spanish
Lady, the Queen of Hearts, a Housemaid, Christ-
mas Cards, and a harmony in black and white
called Music (Miss Korif); silver bells made music
wherever she moved, and lines, spaces, and the
notes of a popular waltz were traced In black upon
her white skirt—a very charming costume. Mr. J.
W. Brodie, as Robert Emmett, wore the dress of
the evening, and displayed magnificent under-
standings, and so did Mr. Harold Wright, who was
a very correct Turk. Mr. Dowling wore kingly
robes, but the name of his Majesty we know not.
Mr. G. King, of Goonoo Goonoo, was a handsome
Cricketer, and Mr. Crome looked well 'as Captain
Corcoran. Mr. Hewitt wore the smock frock of an
English labourer: Mr. Ered. Meymott was an Ita-
lian Peasant, and Mr. H. Cox a Sailor. Master
Longa Cricketer; Master Selwyn Wallace was in
Volunteer uniform; and Mr. Bernard Haydon was
a splendid Garibaldi. On the following evening
all met again, and dancing was kept up till mid-
night,
• • ♦
An interesting cricket match will be
played at A shfield to-day (Thursday) between the
AU-England 11 and 18 N.8.W. Junior Association.
The play will take place at the new recreation
ground, Frederick-street, which, by the way, has
lately, at considerable expenditure, been made as
enticing a spot as money and thought can make it.
Cricket, cycling, billiards, lawn tennis, bowling,
skittles, and quoits are amongst the amusements
the company are providing for anlexacting public.
Asbileld, being one of our most charming suburbs,
is well worthy of such a recreation ground as it
now possesses.
* .* *
Singleton Musical Society have been dis-
tinguishing themselves. They gave their first
concert on the 13th ult. to a crowded hall. Stage
prettily decorated with flowers and blooming lady
members. Mrs. J. Willis distinguished herself
vocally, and looked very nice in pink broche and
lace, with pearl ornaments. Miss York won all
hearts by the pretty nervous grace in which she
came on to sing her song ‘‘The Reign of the
Roses,” and her second effort “ Dntil We Meet
Again,” was the gem of the evening, and was
rewarded by floral gifts. Her dress was a tasteful
composition of cream Indian muslin and lace, with
old gold ribbon trimming, out low, and elbow
sleeves, with long old gold silk gloves to meet
Miss Sheean, in her song “ Unbidden,” came in for
a good share of applause, and looked pretty In
white and blue. Dr. Read was to the tore in the
vocal line, and sang the “Roll Call” in his own
happy style. Mr, Conolly, pres’dent of the Society,
sang “The Tar’s Farewell.” The conductor and
Miss Upjohn played a pianoforte and organ duet,
which was a feature. The Singletonians Intend
their next concert to come off some time in May.
* * * *
Successful bazaar at Murrumburrah dur-
ing the last week. Splendid show of art, needle-
work, &c., and pretty girls —Kempsey Agricul-
tural Show opened last Thursday by the President,
Mr. P. C. Hill, J.P. Great success.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENCE.
“ Lothie Picnic ”: Too stale for insertion.... F.
M.”: Too late for last week’s issue. You will
find the matter, condensed, in social page of
this week. 8Ueh matter always welcome—but
send in earlier “A.O.B.”: Your otherwise
welcome social item re wedding, savors too
much of “thing of the past” to ensure in-
sertion. Accounts of recent events always
welcome. >
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Mens, de Willimofl's Benefit Concert (to-
night) Feb. 5.
All-England Eleven and Eighteen Junior
Association, Ashfleld Recreation
Ground Feb. 5.
Mr. Harry Hydnes’ Complimentary Con-
cert (new Masonic Hall) March 10.
Grocers’ Annual Picnic (Cabarita) March 10.
Booksellers’ Annual Picnic (Botany) March 13.
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dearest Belle,—You remember Fanny Fussel ?
Well, she actually volunteered to go to the Soudan
In the capacity of nurse I And she was quite
dejected when her offer was refused. She said she
thought it would be such an excellent opportunity
of seeing a little life. I reminded her that it
might also be an opportunity of seeing a great
deal of death, at which she made a wry face, and
owned she had never thought of it in that light.
The fact of the matter is, she made the same mis-
take that most of this enthusiastic ?00 have made,
in contemplating only the pleasant part of the job,
and in being oblivious to the fact that, when men
go to war, they not unfrequently get hurt, and
sometimes even killed. I don’t know how it is,
but I have a feeling that most of these volunteers
think they f re only going to play at going to war.
I may be wrong, of course, but that's my impres-
sion. I heard of one man, however, who was
going simply to get away from domestic unhappi-
ness. Can you conceive, dear, how one weak
woman can make home so miserable for a man
that he will even go to war in order to better him-
self ? But, much as it pains me to speak against
my own sex, I fear—I very much fear—that not a
few of these volunteers have the same rea-
sons for turning patriotic. Sad, isn’t it? I
know quite well, by my own observations, that
husbands are very tiresome and exasperating at
times, but instead of nagging at them for petty
offences, I am sure it would be better to bottle up
all the small worries and give it to them in one big
dose. If you notice, no man can stand a gnawing
toothache, but he seldoms shirks having the offend-
ing molar drawn. To show what trifles go to
make up these home troubles, I know a young
married couple who are hardly on speaking terms,
and for what, do you think ? Simply because he
bought her a box of gloves, No. 6's, when she only
takes 5MI She says she never was so insulted in
her life. If I were a man, I would go to a Soudan
every week of my life rather than spend my days
with such an unreasonable piece of humanity
Wouldn't you, dear ?
How thoughtful men are for each other 1 Some
of the theatre managers at home have decided to
1 employ none but pretty female ushers in their
theatres, and they have a neat uniform of black
1 dresses, white muslin aprons and caps. Of course
that’s all very nice for the men, but it strikes me
wo shall be the losers by it, as, no doubt, it will^be
Just as it is in the restaurants here—as sure as the
men require attention, the girls Rive it, whilst we
have to be content to wait. This is how it will be, see,
and we shall have to becloak and behood ourselves
as best we can. Not but that I am right glad to
think that the light employment of usher is to oe
given to girls nitoad of to strong men; but what
I And fault witu is the motive. I am certain it is
not simply to give a fresh and easy line of earning
a living to the girls, but purely and solely to please
the men. Now, why cannot a little concern be
shown for our comfort ? For Instance, on these
hot Summer nights it is rather trying to sit for
three hours or more perhaps parched with thirst.
If I had anything to do with the theatres, dear, 1
would have a niee little refreshment-room
attached to the circle, where ladies could get an
ice or a cool drinb in the waits like the men do.
If they cannot endure to be deprived of the com-
forts of the inner man for one hour, why should
they suppose we can for three or perhaps four /
Of course we have more endurance than they, stiu
lor all that, it would make life much pleasanter it
they would show just a little consideration for us
that way. And it would be better for them, too,
for I am sure we should attend the theatres
oftener, did wo feel assured that in case of our
being attacked with thirst it would be possible to
procure something more palatable than tepid
water with which to allay it. Even a block of ice
kept in the cloak-room would bo better than
nothing at all. Perhaps by the time you ®Bd-l,
dear, are too old to care for theatres, and such
like frivolities, something of the sort will be
fixed up for us, ho knows ?
The world must be in a sad state of demoralisa-
tion, when the man has to be treated as though he
were a rogue. It makes me quite wretched to
think of it. The idea of a man deliberately set-
ting his brains to work in order to invent a contri-
vance which will be the means of causing a theft
to be detected, is to me extremely revolting. But,
for all that it must be necessary, or it wouldn t be
done. I have just heard of anew machine which
has been invented to catch tram or bus conduc-
tors. It is an automatic camera, which is fixed in-
side the tram-car, and Is so arranged that each
time the tram stops and starts, a negative is taken
which shows the number of passengers at the
time. It may be that it is too intricate forme to
understand, but really I don’t see how it Is to
answer. For instance, now, if two passengers
alighted, and two fresh ones took their places, how
are they to know from the negative that they are
not the same people who were sitting there before.
Certainly if they attempt to examine all the fea-
tures, that may be some guide; but at the time
of being taken, they might be looking the other
way, and how then ? As for the clothes being a
clue, why men drees so monotonously that when
vou have seen one you have seen a hundred. Ot
course with women they won’t have the same
difficulty, the variety, in the shape of hats alone,
would help things immensely; but the per cent-
age of women who travel by tram, as compared to
that of men, is so small that they are hardly worth
considering. No, I really can’t see how this
new invention is going to succeed. My sympa-
thies are all with the poor tram conductor,
who, it appears to me, does not merit halt
the abuse which is so lavishly bestowed upon
him. I am sure, as a rule, he is as civil and atten-
tive as a man can well be, unless indeed, as is not
unfrequently the case, he is spoken to by a pas-
senger as if he were a dog. Then, truly, he has
been known te resent it, and what man with any
self-respect wouldn’t? On the whole, I think a
tram conductor's life is anything but an enviable
one. When he objects to people forcing their way
into an over-crowded car he is bullied, and
when he allows them to have their own way others
threaten to report him, so what is he to do ? We
are hard to please, and that’s a fact.
lam awfully sorry I could not go to Madame
Rita’s concert last Thursday night, but I had one
of my nervous headaches, and knew, under the
circumstances, I should nut enjoy myself a bit.
But the Drummonds drove round on their way
home, and took supper with us, and told me that
it was quite a brilliant concert. My head was still
too bad to listen to any details about the music,
but one of my little cousins insisted upon my ba-
toning to her description of Madame s lovely dress,
and here it is, in her own words:-”The very
loveliest rose-c loured satin, with a long, long
train, square-cut bodice and elbow sleeves
deep black lace Bounces covered the lower
part of the skirt, and masses of shining
bugled lace trimmed the upper part. The
bodice was also covered with a handsome
beaded net-work, which gave a beautiful soft
tone to the rich bright satin. The satin itself,
Mab. was of that thick, rich texture, so vastly
different from the flimsy, shoddy-looking stuff, so
often seen now-a-days, and which has gone a long
way towards disgusting us altogether with that
material. Satin, when good, is lovely, but when
inferior is atrocious, don’t you think so ? But my
poor head refused to think of anything—even
dress-so I had to beg my little gossip to desist any
further descriptions for that night, but to eat her
supper instead.
Mr. Huenerbein intended to have given a con-
cert on a very brilliant scale last Saturday, at the
Exhibition building, in honour of our troops, but
upon mature consideration ha deemed it would be
unwise, as the boat-race and review would mono-
polise everybody’s attention, as a matter of course,
leaving nobody to patronize the concert. So you
see dear, he showed his accustomed wisdom in
forgoing the concert. Of course martial mqsio
and patriotic songs are quite the order of the day,
now, and everything is called the Soudan, i
heard of a woman yesterday who intends to have
her child christened by that name. Being a boy,
his every-day name is to be Dan, and she says it it
had been a girl it would have been Sou. Poof
baby! What a shame to saddle it with a name,
which, for aught she knows, may some day be any-
thing bur a cheerful reminder of this eventful
week. What a pity it is people so often allow sen-
timent to run away with common sensei
Mons. de Willlmoff's benefit is announced to
come off to-morrow (Thursday) night, when I
truly hope he will have a bumper house. I hear
that a lady, well known among musical circles as a
finished pianist, is to take a prominent part, and I
(Continued on next pnpe.)


ON THE
H3ricls::S.eld. Hill.
005 STAY AND CORSIT 15555111511,
/(?
C D
o.
M
o'O
uO
:S
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Free oe Charge.
Nursing .. id Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPERM BUSKS),
2s. lid., S3. 3d,, 3s. 9d., 4s. Qd., 4s. lid., 5s. 6d., Gs. 6d., 7s. 6d., 8s. 6d., 9s. Cd., 10a. 6d., 12s 6d
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS, 668, Brickfield HdL
N.B.—Orders from the Country will receive Immediate and careful attention.
(Continued from page 16.)
hAlieve though I am not quite certain, that it will
be her first appearance as a public performer.
Ked bought me such a pretty waltz from
Nicholson’s yesterday called “ Bid me good-bye.’
if is taken from Foster's popular song, and the
nicture on the front page is extremely graceful
nnd nretty. It is bound to become popular—the
title alone will ensure that just at present. No-
ttiimr very new this week iu the way of dresses or
hats but there is a jacket called the “Military.”
which is neat and becoming. It is made of cloth,
nnd frogged with braid, d la miUtarie , fits tights to
the figure, and is made rather short. The tailor-
made article is considered the best, though I con-
gas I can detect but little difference from those
made at the dressmaker’s. It is all prejudice, I’m
sure. With kind love,
Yours, as ever,
MAB.
BRIEF MENTION
Certain cure for dispepsia: Keep “off it.”
Patriotism or pSoudo-patriotism—which
is it?
Bishop Barry evidently thinks God is an
Englishman.
We think, on the whole, the pen will suit
Alfred better than the sword. We moan the sheep-
pen.
Latest Telegram:—Rosebery to Dailey:
“ Baronetcy for you.” Dailey to Rosebery: “ Well
done.”
The TwaddlegrAph says: “ Mr. Smith has
a pure tenor voice, of universal power.” Fer-
guson!
The Nooze advertises for a goat. Strange
how some journals keep constantly changing their
editorial staff 1
It would read funnily, wouldn’t it?—1st
Innings, English Professionals; 1st innings, Aus-
tralian Amateurs, etc.
The News describes a nude man, who was
shocking public morals by bathing at Bondi, as “ a
well-dressed blackguard.”
Mr. D. O’Connor is profoundly reticent on
the war question. There must be something in it.
When he speaks there never is.
“ So our friend Q oldly’s gone mad, has he ?”
enquired one citizen of another. “He u«ed to set
his watch by the Town Hall clock,” was the calm
reply.
Dr. Lendenfelt has ascended the highest
point of Mount Kosciusko, and lovers of science
will rejoice to learn the result of his perilous tour.
He came down again.
The Maitland Town Band gave a moon-
light concert on the 24th. The concert, taken as a
whole, was fully equal to a moonlight concert by
the Maitland Town Band.
The Melbourne railway booking clerks
have been detected swindling, in conjunction with
the guards. As if they, too, wern’t to have their
little terraces of houses, paw things I
What is to be found between the lines of
the railway authorities’ circular to their employes
to contribute to the Soudan expenditure ? Why,
“no compulsion—but you must,” of course.
By a fire in Gawler, the office of the
Gawler Bunyip was destroyed. So says a tele-
gram to the Evening Alfred, and from it wo
infer that the mayor of the town is houseless, pro
tern.
A Dublin reporter has eloped with a pub-
lican’s Wife. In this city, the publicans consider
their wives pretty safe from the reporters. All
their trouble is about their glasses and
balls.
The Lyre says : “Fancy Queen Victoria on
horseback 1” The Queen, it is known, apparently
to everyone but Frank, was a splendid horse-
woman. Can’t ridel Why look how well she
reigns.
“Here’s a fine thing,” grumbled Kirby,
who was seeing the contingent off; “ ruining my
business just as the rum waslbeginning to ferment
and the ale to turn green on the liver. Pretty
doings!”
Who says now that the Governor has a
selfish dislike to be bothered. All the way with
the procession ho was constantly taking off his hat
and bowing, without the least necessity. Nobody
was cheering him.
The look of Wednesday’s News gave one
almost to Imagine that the first consignment of
Alfred’s ink had arrived; but, on enquiry, we
found that it was not the first of the ink, but the
last of the blacking.
At Plattsburg, the local Salvationists
are fined or imprisoned if they obstruct the
thoroughfares or impede the traffic. This Is
simply dreadful. Elsewhere the traffic Is fined
for Impeding the Army.
On hoard.—1st Warrior: “What’s that
whistle for?” 2nd. W.: “Oh, we’re agoin’ now.”
1st. W. (rushingaft, excitedly): “Hi, Mister; stop
this bloomin’ boat a bit! I’ve left my ’bacca
pouch at home on the dresser.”
WHICH?
Cry one crowd, as around him they rally,
With ardour that yet has not calmed;
“ Hail! all hail to Sir William Bede Dailey I”
Cry another “ Sir William Bede amned! ’
A fund to provide “comforts” for our
Soudan troops has been started, and Lady Loftus
Is to the fore with five pounds. No wonder our
Governors go home poor when they permit their
families to ruin them hy such reckless prodigality.
In the country. Storekeeper to Mayor:
“I’ve got some stuff for the soldiers, and I don’t
know where to send it.” Mayor: “What 1s it?”
Storekeeper: “Soap.” Mayor: “ Then send it to
the Evening News office. It will be quite safe
there.”
People say that Gordon’s religion was an
elastic one. We don’t know anything about that.
But we are aware that when ho took his sieita he
always went to sleep with a tract under one arm.
What he had under the other arm (if anything) Is
no business of ours.
“When I said I was going to the Soudan,
my wife fell Into a dead faint that lasted two
hours.” “What a dreadful thingl” cried the
friend. “I suppose you expressed your extreme
tegret.” “Gc on I” retorted the other; “I’ve been
saying it ever since 1”
Now that the “ Vag.” has been selected as
the Argus “special,” we expect to hear dally the
exact date at which he rocked the Mahdi in his
cradle. The “Vag.” looks so well tbat a four-
year-old child could stand on his cheek. There’s a
lot in this, If you reflect.
“Going to the big cricket banquet ?” asked
a cricketer of an ordinary citizen. “ No,” replied
the other; “I have never gone to cricket feeds
since I read In the newspapers that ‘ the harmony
of the evening was much enhanced by the vocal
efforts of Mr. Bonnor.’ ”
Speaking of a clique in the Hospital Com-
mittee on the Macleay, the local Herald says, and
we shudder as we write It—“ They unconsciously
utter the phllllplcs with anything: but Demosthenic
eloquence, and anathematise in the vernacular
without rhyme or reason.”
Aid. Smeaton said that if Aid. T. K. Smith
were only to blow his nose there would ho
two columns about it reported In the Nepean
Times, We have read that paper repeatedly, and
cannot recall an Item in It that, for real interest,
could approach such a subject.
On Tuesday, at Manly, a woman named
Selina Beard attempted to cut her throat. The
police locked her up; but at her k trlal forattempled
suicide, Mr. Levien proposes to plead that Beard-
shaving is a legal exercise, the accidental conse-
quences of which are not penal.
Twelve oysters recently taken from the
shell at Baltimore, Md., weighed over live pounds,
and completely filled a quart measure. Such
bivalves can only have been sent by Heaven for
the express use of some of the numerous clerical
gentlemen with nine-inch mouths.
David Henry, the Melbourne Shylock, re-
cently charged a man £100 for a £20 loan on some
property in England. The property in England,
however, turned out to be a castle in Spain, and
great sympathy was felt for David by—the perth-
orminent membarth of the thinagogsh.
The enthusiasm re the departure of the
troops has certainly been extraordinary. It has
even extended to our French colonists. “ It gives,”
said a gallant Gaul, ‘‘very much plaisir to pro-
pose bon voyage to the Australian Army. Wo will
drink this,” he continued, “in bumpers—and v.o
boot-heels.”
“Wanted a clerk (lady, not young) for the
Girls’ Friendly Society. Duties light; salary
small.”— Herald advertisement. There was but
one applicant If the dutiei were light, she was
not. We saw her carried in on a stretcher, and, if
age could be guessed at by wrinkles, she must have
remembered George Washington.
We learn from the Echo that Commander
Neitenstein, of the Vernon, has expressed a wish
to go to the Soudan and have a fling at the enemy.
Very commendable, indeed, old boy; but what's
the use of travelling all that way to throw your
list slipper at the False Prophet, and mayhap bom-
bard Berber with cough lozenges ?
“ About seven o’clock this morning, with-
out'any warning, a gust of wind swept over the
city.” Herald telegram from Adelaide. That’s
the worst of wind—it never gives warning. But
this sort of tiling must be put down with a firm
hand, or we shall soon have earthquakes dropping
in upon us without an advance agent.
The Barmedman con espondent of the
Down and Gumtrke occasionally brings out
metaphors of distinct originality. Speaking of an
amateur nigger show, last week, he says, “Some
of the local hits were very good. Some of the
hair rubbed against the grain, and chafed corns
have’not yet recovered the lost tone.”
The Rev. Dr. GOekie, in preaching last
Sunday, gave utterance to a profound and delight-
fully unconscious truth. “ New South Wales and
Australasia,” said he, “ owed a mighty debt to Mr.
Dailey.” That's a solidjfact, and (this we heard a
profane person observe on reading the Doctor’s
sermon), “ By Jingo, ’twill be bigger yet.”
Daniel Jenkins writes to the Rum “ But
time will show, if our boys get a chance, that they
are the descendants of the Norse Kings, and that
their enthusiasm is a determination that Britons
never shall bo slaves.” We’re open to give long
odds that “ Davy ” is not en route to Egypt to show
that his ancestors were in the “ king ” line.
“ W hy do you laugh ? ” asked Osman Digna
of the Mahd), when he was grinning on receipt
of the cable announcing the departure of the Aus-
tralian contingent. “ Why, don’t it say they’re
gaing to bring plenty of beef ? ” said the false pro-
phet. “ Allah, KapoozU tandsticko dimboola,"
cried Osman; and they both laughed heartily.
Under the head of “A shocking dis-
covery” the Evening News tells of a visit made
by the police to a notorious Melbourne bagnio.
The “shocking discovery” consisted in men and
women being found in the same bed-room. It is
seldom in large towns that such terrible depravity
is to be found. Thank God we have nothing like
It in Sydney.
A Herald telegram reports that rabbits
have been seen near Albury. They are supposed
to have crossed over the bridge from Victoria, and
to be on their way to take up land under the new
Act. Oddly enough, they were accompanied by a
number of variegated snakes. It was a local
editor first noticed tho strange procession through
the bars of the lock-up.
Mr. Dailey, in his speech at Orange, said
that Parkes’ denunciatory voice came from the
sepulchre. Perhaps It does. But it must be re-
membered that his remonstrances respecting the
departure of the soldiers are of a grave tendency.
It is probable our warriors will appreciate Sir
Henry’s logic, when they are comfortably en-
sconsed in their little tombs.
Samuel Tillman, landlord of the Carlisle
Castle Hotel, Newtown, has been fined for assault-
ing a man whom he accused of dogging his
licensed house from daylight till dark ever since
the last aldermanio election. In answer to the
enquiry, what was suspected to be the pimp’s pur-
pose, one witness Informed the Stipendiary, “he
was watching the till, man.”
He was seated on the lawn of a fine villa,
in a convenient suburb, and, lolling back on his
garden-chair, he said to his guest: “ Yes, sorr; it’s
all me own, sorr; and yet foive years agone I was
but a poor pollisman ? ” “ And what are you
now ? ’ inquired the friend, running his eye over
the beautiful property. “What am 1 now ?” Indig-
nantly: “ I’m a pore pollisman still, sorr I ”
When the markers at the Melbourne Par-
liamentary shooting match learned that Walter
Coonan had really departed, they offered up a
prayer of thanksgiving, and it was a touching
thing to see their wives fall upon their breasts and
cry: “Saved to me once more. Oh, joy unutter-
able I ” If Walter will forward 4d., for rolling and
glazing, we will forward t him the portrait of the
author of this.
It would be well if the conductors of re-
ligious papers kept a sharper eye upon their
advertisement columns. In the Christian
Journal, for example, appears the following:—
“Mr. (honoured during the past year in
winning over 3000 souls to Christ), who commenced
a 13 days’ mission at on Sunday, January
4, is open for engagements.” The thing is really
too repulsive for comment.
The members of the police force [in Mel-
bourne are not at all brothers. The current be-
lief that, under the hew system, recruits are
selected from a more intelligent class than for-
merly, is not accepted by the older members of
the force. The reason is that the canon favoured
by the antique Robert is that which confines proof
of intelligence to ability to smell a cook, and loco-
motive power to hunt her home.
“ This is the second jug you have smashed,”
we remarked severely to the young man who
delivers our milk. “ Hurrah, I’m agoin’ to smash
more’n before I’ve finished—I’m agoin’ to smash
the Mahdi,” he yelled, as he climbed into his cart.
“ I’m a wolunteer for the Soudan,” he added, with
a howl, as he hit his horse over the head with the
whip and drive off. When even milkmen begin to
be excited it is time for the Mahdi to tremble.
From the S. M. Herald’s summary for
England:—“Another soldier, who had served 17
years in the Cameronians, offered his services. He
remarked, ‘I am 54 years of age, but there’s lots
of fight in me yet, and I want to strike one more
blow for the old country, God bless it.’ ” Now,
read that inverted. “I want to strike a blow
against the Soudanese, God damn theml” We
commend this reading to the attention of Bishop
Barry.
She hung on his breast in the cockpit of
the Iberia. “And are you really going to fight ?”
she asked, lovingly. “ it looks like it, Annabella,”
he replied, gloomily. “ What I Stand undaunted
’midst the fire of whistling bullets? Never 1”
“Oh, that’s down in th« bill, too,” he growled. At
that moment the last boll rang, and, as she went
tripping down the gangway steps, she clapped her
hand to her pocket, and murmured in the most
comfortable tones you could think of “ His little
policy.”
Speaking of the offer of some Wagga man
to subscribe £100 to the Patriotic J?uud, the
Riverine Evening Twinkle says that by this
offer, and the offer of volunteers, “ we (the dis-
trict) have been advertised and brought into pro-
mise.” Yes, Wagga is advertised; the terror of
the Wagga arms will be felt to the core of Africa,
and soon, very soon, the exploits of her sons in
that torrid clime will fill the columns that now
glitter with the measurement of the last champion
pumpkin. Vive la Wagga,
“ The loyal subjects of the Queen will re-
gret to hear that Her Majesty is suffering from a
severe cold, which confines her to her room.”—
Melbourne D.T —
When Britain mourns, then ’cross the seas
Her sons do ditto do;
They hear, in fancy, every sneeze,
They hark to each " tishool”
And up to Heaven all Austral sends a
Sweet prayer about that influenza.
[We decline to print the other 15 verses.—Ed. B.]
“If the pitiful absurdity of this attempt
to play off his bastard humanitarian principles
against a great national movement,” etc., is the
way the News goes for a correspondent named
Jones, who, in the same letter, got mixing up
condemnation of the Soudan war with the neces-
sity for Sunday excursion trains. The editor has
not since left the office, A wild-looking, unshaven
man with an adze (for which he appears to have no
possible use) over his shoulder keeps eyeing the
Market-street entrance from the opposite side of
the road.
A grand body of men are the Melbourne
police. With thankfulness we notice that the
peelers of that city have (aken the Bible into
their safe custody, and constituted themselves
guardians of the Church. Only the other day
Constable Jackson charged one of Joe Byrnes’
satellites with obstructing the thoroughfare The
ruffian, stated God-tearer Jackson, had been “ in-
stilling infidelity into the young men who congre-
gate about him.” Gladly chronicling iho fact
that Joe Byrnes' adherent was fined ten shillings,
we will quote from the Wah Cry: “ God bless the
police I”
When Frank heard about the “photo-
graphic oyster,” spoken about in Tuesday’s Echo,
ne said to Davies that he would like to get him
apprenticed to the picture department of the
Jernel, “ It wouldn’t cost much to keep him in
pocket-money,” mused Frank; “and then he
couldn’t very well run away from his indentures.”
[We understand, by the way, that the engraving
turtle mentioned in a recent issue has not turned
out a success, Two boys have to be laid on to
catch files for him all day; and his perpetual sing-
ing is said to prove a source of annoyance to the
“ readers.”— Ed. B.]
Said to us by a famous flute-player (whose
obligato in " Lucia ” has often made staid, claw-
hammer-coated London audiences welt their
hands and seats):—“I’ve heard that theJNew South
Wales troops are to be brigaded with the guards
on their arrival in Soudan.” For once we were
fairly “ got at.” The stolid simplicity of the man
got at us. But on our way home, when perched
upon a tram-car, we had a show of chewing over
his assertion, we—why, proceed ? It was well for
him, and for the flute, that he wasn’t handy. The
flute would have lost a sound player, and he—he
would be in a “ piner.”
FURTHER DONATION.
Literature for the Dead.
One day last week the Acting-Colonial
Secretary received the following:—“ The proprie-
tors of the Shhoud beg to inform the Hon. W. B.
Dailey that they have made arrangements for for-
warding 500 copies of the Shroud weekly to the
Soudan for the use of all well-behaved corpse?.
A little light and intellectual reading the proprie-
tors of the Shroud consider would save any
amount of trouble in a graveyard,” [Offer under
consideration.—W. B. D ]
When the O’Leary was proposing the
toast of the Press, at the Burrowa banquet to the
Hon. Thomas Slattery, Solicitor-Gen no, M.P.,
he said, that if it was intended to refer to the
local; Press, he would not have undertaken the
task. The Cootamundra Herald cannot stand
this insult to independent journalism, and calls it
childish temper. LettheCoota. man be comforted.
To be appreciated by the O’L. would be some-
thing: not to brag about. And this reminds us of
a similar unconscious tribute. When the toast of
the Press was proposed some time ago, there were
voices of “ But not The Bullytebn.” The News,
Herald, and D.T. were, however, mentioned by
name. It was at an undertaker’s dinner 1
A bad Qoodooga boy who wouldn’t go to
Sunday School, recently, on the Sabbath, blew his
hand off while firing: a 10s. 6d.-gun at a Tasmanian
jam tin. The hand flew over the fence of the good
little boy who always went to Sunday School, and
hit him in the eye. Then the good little boy who
always went to Sunday School came out and rated
the bad boy soundly for this irreverence. The bad
boy was later taken to the hospital, and next
morning when the good boy who A.W.T.S.8. went
out to bathe in the rays of the morning sun, he
was bitten by a snake. He, too, was taken to the
hospital, and it is 6 to 4 he goes to glory while the
B.B.W.N.W, to S.S. is getting on splendidly. The
devil and Dailey seems to be having a deuce of an
innings lately 1
In the Herald is a long paragraph telling
of Dr. Taylor and his scientific attainments—how,
“ in order to understand the names of plants,” he
studied Greek while he was working ten hours a
day “ with his hands.” The man who studied the
tongue of Plato, in order “to understand the names
of plants,” is just ’he one old Badham would have
embraced. (Yahl) It was only at the end of the
“par.” that we remarked that Dr. Taylor was
about being trotted round on a lecturing tour by
little Smyth. Hang that little chap. He s
always getting at us with an astronomer to tell us
that the earth is a globe whipped into coagulation
with whirlwinds and cooked by electricity, or
with a war correspondent, who tells us that Sara
Bernhardt was drunk, and that the British soldier,
without a cat-o’-nlno-tails behind him is a poor
creature.
All your own fault if yoremau in siok or
out of health, when you can get Hop Bitters.
Read.
“ I go straight to the ‘ Hold,’ ” ho said,
“ But not as a recruit;
I’m gelng straight to Summer-field,
To buy another suit*”*
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 60t Hunfter-stroet, Sydney.*
Transported from the unrest of what is
called single-blessedness into the haven of con-
nubial bliss, we are Invariably led to such a place
as Bray's Crockery Warehouse, for the drawing,
dining, bedroom, Sco. Want their goods to make
homo well furnished.*
fc“JFrom Eve’s first fi» leaf to brocade all
dress was made for fancy, and —” Yes, Mother
Eve in the year 1 was just the same as “ her lady-
ship” in the year 1885, and doubtless contemplated
her scanty evergreen toilet with as much satisfac-
tion as a lady of fashion now surveys her lace
pelerine and ner French millinery. And these
things are good; to dress after the fashion is good,
tor it is a cause of employment for hundreds. The
ever-changing fashions are good, for by the work
they bring comes the bread of thousands and the
comforts of many an one; whereas, if tig leaves
had always remained the rage, milliners and dress-
makers would have been at a discount, and milli-
nery a drug on the market. Yes, follow the
fashions by all means, think of Eve and her then
fashionable flg leaves, and remember that you are
In a sense only following her good example when
you go to Anthony Hordern and Sons’ Palace Em-
porium, Haymarket, to see the new Autumn
fashions.*
A misty-eyed maiden stood watching her beau,
A stalwart young Soudan recruit,
And she moaned, “What a beautiful corpse he
will make,
In his Sunday-best Summerfleld suit.”*


Scall Head.
A Solid Scab and Dry Scales.-F. J. Truesdell,
druggist, Conneaut, O., reports a case as follows.
The patient's head was almost a solid scab, and the
dry scales constantly falling off his head, making
his shoulders white in a few hours. He suffered
all the torments imaginable with his head-burn-
i n(f and itching and a terrible headache all the
time. Took three bottles of Resolvent used two
boxes Cuticdra, and some Ccticuba Soap, and
was cured. Head is as entirely free from scabs as
it was the day he was born. No more itching and
burning, and no more headache. It seems almost
Incredulous that anything could cure so bad a case
so quickly. The patient says you do not claim
hall enough for Cutiouba.
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
duality, may be purchased from Hookings and
Co., 143. Pitt-Street.*
A BANQUET.
THAT should bust,
said a sepulchral voice
at our Dismal Mans
elbow, as ho stood
upon the roof of the
e.s. Newcastle, on
Monday night of last
week, watching the
embarkation of a box
of red-herrings mark-
ed “Hon. R. H. D.
White, M.P., Ray-
mond Terrace, Hun-
ter River, N.S.W.
(Our Dismal Man had
a contemporaneous
human interest in
those herrings, for
bis destination and
theirs were the sime
as a banquet was to
be given next day to
iof T B b .r."7-M
fr° d adylb“? should ’ hippen to th.hh her-
“No, no," said the sepulchral voice.
" I g moan that up there," pointing to some rather
Inky-looklng clouds In the Nor t a ' w^ st ' ward *
sayflf that should bust, wo shall have a rough
SUffiSfcl”
Man Reeling that, as representative of The BunnE-
txn,’ something brilliant would ? ’'
pooled of him. “ Are you going ft the Soudi inf
retorted the sepulchral party. O ur .vH^5™_ Man
smiled at the wit, but never forgave the irony.
* * * .
Half an hour later the staunch vessel, with
Its “ gorgeous appointments, olive-coloured velvet
uphofstery. encaustic tiles, bevelled mirrors
moHn tubes. &c., had passed the Heads, ana was
ploughing (we believe that Is the standard phrase)
tho vasty deep, which is no respecter of olive-
pfdoured upholstery, encaustic tiles, and all the
rest of it, any more than It Is of Crown Ministers,
M's P., pressmen, dismal men, or any other kind
of'men (Our Dismal Man stood upon the deck (it
ts deck", then, not roof) and tried to recall a half-
mfilodv of the soa. Rocked, he bGgftn,
" Booked in the Cradle of the-of the ’- State-room
No 37 6*19—upper berth—quick! Where Is it. . •
Gorgeous appointments. Indeed What kind of
basins have they, for instance ? ‘‘ Rocked in the
*h e basins are painted old gold colour. Even
Oscar Wilde would enjoy mal-de-mer t\ mid such
surroundings. Had .pmelhing busted ? and were
they having a rough time of it ? Perhaps so.
* * ♦
Our Dismal Man was restored to conscious-
ness by someone shouting, apparently in through
the state-room window, "Take in your slack I
“ I haven’t any slack, and didn’t order any. Must
belong to the people who live next door. Try
them ’’ replied our Dismal Man. Let go that
line ’ Let go!” roared the ruffian. I haven t
got hold of your blooming line, rejoined.our
dismal Man, beginning to get out °t. pa lJ f e
•i Heave away, there. Heave away 1 Qur Dismal
Man tried to, but nothin •• carae ofit. Take an-
ther turn I Dash, dash, the dashedty dashed dash
to dash, take another turn I Look out now 1 This
wm OurDIamJ Man to-
friend, I’ve been aheavtng away a11 Pit'll ntond
been ataklng no end of ‘turns, and I do® tIntend
tn do any more heaving if I can help It, or take
Any more turns for any living man; and if you
don’t stop that precious row, I shall call the
police! ” P Thls elicited no other Mply but
B Tinnk out. now I Look outII Look outlll
Our Dismal Man did look out, and It all at once
dawned upon him that he was on hoard a
that the ship was being slowly hauled up along-
side a dock In short, the ship had arrlved at New-
nnfttle where the banqueters were to disembark
ond take another boat up the Hunter. The lower
berth of No. 37,649 was occupied by a you 2F
rister, also one of the banqueting w a
a rising young barrister, for our Dismal Man
a ho was drawing on his trousers. It
was at this point that our Dismal Hec out his
note-book. Upon which wo must rely solely for
the events that follow.
* * * *
Somebody suggested breakfast at hotel.
Don’t know about breakfast; feel queer. • •
Tt over* was able to do it. and it s going to stay»
loo becausl I feel like smoking. Forgot to bring
my pipe. Ask the Minister for—to loan me his
Qavo hn hasn’t any pipe ; don t smoke* and
wouldn’t loan his pipe if he tad one. Either one
nf those excuses would have satisfied Dj0« Still, I
like to see a public man define bis position clearly
on all important subjects. 10 o clock. We go on
board theboat that is to take us up the Hunter
River. I can’t find out the name of this boat. It
in nainted on the stern, I believe, but I can t see it
without running the risk of
Ask the sklooer. Says he can t read. And oesiaes,
r ain’t none of his business. His business is to
skip only, it would appear. After all, what doesit
steamboat by any other name would
smeL?as ? three Crown Ministers on
board, but'ao far there has been no disturbance.
River rather pretty, but tortuous. Here Is a chart
of it. The banks are fringed with smiling corn-
fields and grinning cabbage gardens. * What
ruined castle is yon ?” I ask the chief engineer,
who is greasing the machinery with a ham rind.
“That hain't no cas’le ; that’s a bollin-down
works.” “ O, that accounts for the peculiar
odour?” “No, there ain’t no odour, and there
ain’t no bilin’-down goin’ on there now; hasn t
been for years 1” Thus with conversation did we
beguile the tedium of the journey, which would
otherwise have seemed much longer.
» * ♦
But what strains are these that oome
floating upon the noon-day zephyrs from afar?
“OhI them ain’t strains;’, that’s the Raymond
Terrace Brass Bandas has volunteered their ser-
vices to the reception committee,” said the Cap-
tain. As the boat neared the landing, we found
that it was too true. There stood the brass band
upon the pier with their dread instruments trained
upon the vessel, and discharging volleys of “ See
the Conquering Hero comes r with terrible effect.
In spite of which, however, the party managed to
effect a landing, and, hotly pursued by the hand,
made their way to the hotel, where the Ministerial
party were stood up against a wall while an
address of welcome was read at them by the
Mayor, in which allusion was made to two national
events which had recently shaken the world to its
centre. First, the dispatch of the N.S.w. troops
to the Soudan; and, secondly, the establishment
of a new steam punt for ferry service at Raymond
Terrace 1 Mr. Abbott replied In a brief address.
He acknowledged that the Soudan was a great
success, and also declared himself In favour ol
steam punts generally, and more particularly of
that special description of punt which they that
day saw majestically floating, swan-llke, upon the
pellucid bosom of the mighty Hunter—(applause)
—defying wind and wave, and—and—a—In fact,
answered the purpose very well. (Here the
Minister continued to stand up amid loud and pro-
longed applause.)
* *
The excited populace then dispersed to
await the hour of feasting. The guest of the day
was taken for a little drive about town in a vehicle
with no springs to speak of, that he might be
given, In a delicate way, some idea of how badly
the streets stood in need of an appropriation:—
1p.m.: The freedom of the city conferred
upon me, and I was allowed to go where I liked
(at mv own expense) unmolested by the police.
1.30: Fell In with the Oldest Inhabitant, who took
me for a stroll through the park, from
point of which was shown an exteMlvejlew by
my companion, who borrowed my umbrella to as-
sist in pointing it out. This park 1® quite n w.
“ Not more than 100 years old, said the Oldest in
habitant. Whoever ma de the park 8 £py ed *
deal of originality in its arrangement, for instead
of following old traditions by p’anting trees he
cut them down. Doubtless, they obstructed the
view. I then troubled the Oldest Inhabitant for
my umbrella, and bade him good-day. On my
way back to the village I casually noted the pre-
parations that are being made for the banquet,
which was to take place at 3 o’clock.
* * *
At hotel, 2.30 p.m. Parliamentary and
Ministerial party dressing for dinner. And, by-
the-bye, better reverse njy cuffs and turn my c fi-
lar, . . . The hour has come. We walk round
the corner to the School of Arts—a long, one-
storey building—and, with enthusiastic populace,
file in. The brass band are already there, and are
blowing away on the platform. Enthusiastic popu-
lace. to the number of about 80, seat themselves at
tables, and are soon banqueting away like any-
thing to the lascivious sound ngs of braes horns.
For further particulars of this stage of the pro
oeedings, see illustration. It being impossible,
within the limits of a one-column “ cut,” to show
the entire interior of the building with 80 people
banqueting away like 1 o’clock, besides as many
more outside looking In at the windows, much u
necessarily left to the imagination.
• 9 ♦
The Mayor, who was in the chair, rapped
upon the table with an empty bottle, and called
upon a distinguished citizen for a toast. D. C. rose,
and, In fl voice tremulous with emotion, said that
Raymond Terrace was in favour of the Soudan, and
It therefore gave him (the speaker) much toast In
proposing the pleasure-!Cheers)—that Is to say.
much pleasure In proposing the toast-(Renewed-
cheering)—of "The Ministry. Mr. Abbott, In re-
sponse, said: It gave him much pleasure on behalf
of his coal-labourers, to assure the citizens of Kay-
mond Terrace that but for the absence of their
acting chief—(Applause)—who was at that mo-
ment busily engaged in dispatching troops for the
Soudan—(Applause)—It would have given him
(meaning Mr. Dailey) great pleasure to be at that
table to day. (Loud and continued cheers.) Mr.
Trickett being called for, said : That personally,
although he was not going to the Soudan—(Ap-
plause)—himself, that he was in favour of it, that
he had been from the first—(Loud applause)—and
should be as long as there was any Soudan left.
The speaker sat down amid an enthusiastic cheer-
ing. Mr. Norton being called for, said : That If
there had been anything wanting to cement the
cordial relations that heretofore existed between
the mother country and Raymond Terrace, this
sendlngjof troops to the Soudan—(Wild cheering)—
had done the business. It would be the making of
Raymond Terrace, and they might rarely go on
and build another steam punt. (A voice We
will,” and applause.) He then alluded In feeling
terms to their (meaning the people of Raymond
Terrace) member of Parliament, whom he (Mr.
Norton) saw at that table. (Cheers.) He (Mr*
Norton) would say that he (Mr. White) was a
good, harmless soul, and gave very little trouble
in the House-(Applause)—and had placed no ob-
structions in tne way of the dispatching of the
troops—(Applause)—to the Soudan. (Cheers.) The
band played “We don’t want to fight, and when
the chairman succeeded In silencing them,
the toast of “ The Guest of the Day’’ was proposed.
Mr. White, In reply, said: Yes. He not only en-
dorsed everything that had been done about this
Soudan business—(wild shouts of approbation)—
from raising the troops to fitting out each man
with every convenience, from a cork-screw to a
perambulator, but that he should (in case they
sent him back to Parliament) raise aYegiment,
made up of members of both Houses, for active
service in the Soudan. (Then the enthusiasm had
no bound. Several men shouted: Wc vXUsond
you baefe. No fear!)
♦ • * ♦
“Our Visitors” was next given. Re-
sponded to Boudanioallv. The toast of ‘ The Ladies
was received with musical honours, the band play-
in g;“ My grandmother’s wig is at the barber a.
Responded to by a reporter of the TsIjEGRAI’H,
who said: “That although no ladles were ad-
mitted to the Soudan”—(Applause and cries of
“ What a pity)—" they (the ladles) could furnish
men.” (Blushes, and cries of “ Tee-hee. ) He
(the speaker) meant that they (the ladles) would
send their lovers—their husbands—their fathers—
their sons—their neighbours. As for him (the
speaker) he could not very well go just at pro-
sent, but that he might later on. (Applause.) Be-
sides, some one would have to remain at home in
fact, to respond to the toast of “ ThOiLadies.
* ♦ *
Our Dismal Man, being called for, said his
heart swelled with pride within him as he looked
round upon that vast assembly, composed, he
might say, of the beauty, the wealth, and the bone
and sinew of our young and flourishing colony.
(Applause.) And mere words could not express
the satisfaction which he (our Dismal Man) felt at
being present at that Soudan. (Frantic cheering.)
If there was yet a vacancy among the troops who
were to embark next Tuesday for the banquet—
(Applause)—he (the speaker) was ready to take his
life in his hands, and his barrel of rum on his
shoulder and go. (The speaker sat down amid
sobs and groans and applause, also vociferous
cheering—or whatever else the printer may hap-
pen to have in his case.) There were other toasts
and speeches, but, as there was no further allusion
to the Soudan, they may be considered irrelevant
and not worth reporting. *
• • •
The banquet was then brought to a close,
and our correspondent made his way to the tele-
graph office to send the above report to this office,
and made his appearance here a day later, rather
the worse for wear.
“Crushed again” (Gilbert and Sullivan’s
“ Patience”) should be the condition of those who
vainly attempt to rise into public notice by
repeated oonterfelts of the genuine article known
ae Worn's Schnapps. The vile compounds atp
dangerous deceplons, because they ‘‘wear thte
livery” of that Inimitable Invigorant and effective
tonic which stands to-day without a rival and
without a compeer. Be sure you obtain Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Song of the Eeven Hundred.
P.
Yes or No?
Wilt thou be mine ? 0, pause that holds my fate,
Investing 1 silence with Impervious gloom,
In thy brief void what wild thoughts palpitate
Until bold Love shall know Its life-long doom—
Expanding rapture panting to be free—
Its fearless pinions of heaven’s scope deprived
Desponding hope the heart’s worst misery,
A secret torture by fierce hate contrived.
Liketbe blanched floweret that foregoes Its bloom
In showerless seasons, but still fronts the sky
In mute appeal for freshening dew or rain,
To thy half-shadowed face 1 turn In pain
For quick relief from true love’s agony—
O, swiftly speak and break doubt’s galling chain.
F. D.
Starimore.
Off the Track.
“ —been here three months by myself
Making some drafting yards;
Well, while you tell me all the news,
We’ll have a game of cards I
“ So, old Mother Pint-Pot’s married 111
To the billiard-marker Thiel ?
I said he wouldn’t come to good—
Young loater—Cut for deal.
“ Joined the Salvation Army,
’Mong the hallelulia maids;
He'd better stuck to navvying
Why, yes, I make it Spades.
“ So old Ben’s have left him—
Just like the wilful cubs;
Hard lines, I think, for poor old Ben,
I reckon he's found Clubs!
“ You say Alf.’s been left a pile.
Rose Briar he means to wed;
I think she loves him for his cash
Diamonds, I think, you said.
“ Do you know a lass named May Lee
Down about them parts—
A girl that any man could like
You turn it down ?— well, hearts.
“ What's that you say ? She’s married I
The little girl I love I , 6
And you are Mary’s husband I—
I'm euchred straight, by Jove I
FRED, NELSON.
Foxton (N.Z.), December 9,1884.
Avarice.
(Addressed to the wealthy opponents of Henry
George.)
When Avarice whispers in the ear
And glides into the heart,
Then Conscience knows her death is near,
And she must hence depart.
On Reason next he lays his hands
In his Imperious way.
And teaches her that his commands
Henceforth she must obey.
Then deeds, ’bout which I’d dread to sing,
For love of gold are done,
And man becomes the vilest thing
That lives beneath the sun.
M. M. E.
A "Gloire de Dijon.”
I'll give it to fair Althra, with my hands.
This yellow Gloire de Dijon—from the lands
Which blaze like jasper with the golden glows
Of trees which bear the Gloire de Dijon rose.
My love will place It ’midst the filmy lace
Which wreathes and flutters round her neck and
face, <
Adding more charms to one who has a legion—
There, 'neath her chiu, she’ll place this Gloire de
Dijon.
Then, on her throat, go whitely smooth, and
rounded,
Press all your petals, rose 1 ncr be confounded;
Cling with your leaves, in perfumed, sweet adhe-
sion,
Kiss remove's throat—oh I favoured Gloire de
Kiss her cool throat for me—her would-be lover—
Then will I kiss you, hundred times and over:
Then will i claim you—have I not a reason ?
Have you not touched her, envied Gloire de
Dijon?
To A2thra, then, I hie me on my way,
To linger by her if she bid me stay;
To taste, with her, the sweets of this Spring sea-
son—
To place within her hands this Gloire de Dijon.
And, while she holds it, I will strive to find
Whether she will be merciless or kind;
I, pleading hard (alas! my tongue uncouth I)
Will strive to tell dear Althra of my truth.”
A Gloire de Dijon scattered on the lawn—
A burning heart, by hopeless passion torn;
Pain and despair I his very soul’s depths move -»
Still heart break e’en is better than no lovel
A.M.W.
We are coming, Billy Dailey,
We are coming all along.
But don’t you think your’e coming It
Yourself a leetle strong ?
We are coming, Billy Dailey,
Seven hundred, hale and strong,
You’ve called on us to rally.
We’ll do it, right or wrong.
We are going, Billy Dailey,
To the Soudan, with a song;
From street and slum and alley
We are marching, marching on.
We are going, Billy Dailey,
Of a sudden all along;
Sam says good-bye to Sally.
Sally hopes It won’t be long.;
Now, the bugles sound revellld,
And I dreamt—(it may be wrong)—
Ob, “ Rise up, Sir William Dailey,
The Bar you are among 1
Wo are going, Billy Dailey,
We are going, not for long;
Just admit you “ bluffed ” a bit,
On cards not over- strong.
We are going, Billy Dailey,
And the people answering shout,-
With no thought of taking tally
What the deuce It’s all about.


JACK THOMPSOU,
Jgjr
A.J.C. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRE88ING 8ADQOJL
91 Sing-street.
N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
READ THIS I
A Single Watch at manufac-
turing Price.
Sliver Hunting Patent English
Lover, capped and jewelled,
with the latest Improvements,
£3 10a. each,
Warranted for three years,
CAN BB BOUGHT AT
269 Pitt-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
Black Swan Hotel,
QREENWELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
T77IB8T Class Accommodation for Private Faml-
JD lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magHitlcient s.s. Illawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday sight, at 11
o'clock.
t AAA DOMESTIC PAPER FASHIONS
I \ shown in our Illustrated Catalogue'
Price, Threepence ; by Post, Fourpbnoe.
CHAP PEL & CO.,
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern and General Sewing-machine
Agency,
716 GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and all fittings, &o., kept in
stock.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GENT’S 50, Is. 6d.; 100, 2s, 6d.
LADIES’ 50, 2s. Od.; 100, 3& Od.
Address, 0d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. Od.; 250, 6s. 6d.; 800, 10s.; 1000, 18s.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
M. A. BROWN & DO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
From the Strand. London.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art Is
over Paling’s, 854 and 356 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is informed that this Studio Is carried on for the benefit of the late Mh
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney*
ALFRED WILLIAMS, MANAGER.
imiiM mi a
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
moi, mm, ui mom? imm
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PL \ NT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS,
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACH BUILDERS’
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS' SUPPLIES, &c.
BAR, PLATE. SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSHWARE
FENCING WIRE,
WOOLPACK8
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
!5S£
MLR
PORTABLE, FUflft
and 8EMI-FIXED BN*
GINK3
VERTICAL and JffRL
ZONTAL BOl
and
TEAM
gg'i' PUMPS
•thei
LATHES. PLANING
SHAPING, SCREW
’BTBAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASl
FOUNDRY
[iPATRNT ROLLEI
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, Ac.
131“ Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO
•5
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office -
- 54 YORK STREET.
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR,
SYDNEY.
. 86 ORAOBCHUROH STREET.
Giticura
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Bores, and every species of Itching,
tjculv. Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Ij)bb of Hair, from Infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Puriher,
Internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soar, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiliers, externally.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new BloodPuri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and oconomlcolly.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
Cuticura, tho Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores tho Hair, and beautifies tho Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beantifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, la
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hn-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about tho Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; nave had the best phy-
sicians ; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases."
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South. Wales.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiflora free from mercury,
arsenic, lead,' zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
Sure by tho Analytical Chemists of the State of
[assaenusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 60 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 26 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared bt the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
luncheon and refreshment rooms for ladies and gentlemen.
Holiday Presents.
W. H. PALING
AND CO. (Limited),
' HAVE just received a magnificent shipment of
COTTAGE,
UPRIGHT GRAND
SEMI-GRAND,
CONCERT GRAND
PIANOS,
by the
MOST RENOWNED
MAKERS
In the
WORLD.
AMERICAN
ORGANS,
b
BELL and CO.,
PALACE CO.,
STORY and CO.,
at
PRICES to SUIT ALL
CUSTOMERS.
These instruments have been SPECIALLY SELECTED by Mr. W. H. PALING, who la NOW
x IN EUROPE, and may Justly be considered
HE BBUDEST10 MOST EECEEECEE SHEET
of Musical Instruments ever introduced to Australia.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms.
Mr. PALING has also FORWARDED a COMPLETE ASSORTMENT of
MUSICAL BOSSES,
FROM TWO TO SIXTEEN AIRS.
These Goods will be Sold at Unheard-of Prices.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
m GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


W. WALKER and SONS,
—■ g.’
LONDON 1 and SYDNEY.
Catalogues
POST FREE.
Catalogues
POST FREE.
W. WALKER
and SONS
ALL STOCK
la their
m
'SYDNEY
are one of the
Largest
HOUSE
Stockholder*
Supplied
and
DIRECT
Manufacturers
from their
London
High'Olass
Manufactory,
FURNITURE
and Latest
London Stylet
ITP5
TO
ENGLAND.
G UARANTEKD
SYDNEY BRANCH :
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
W. SHEARSBY & CO-,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robe Makers.|||*
Trousers from 21s. to 40$.
0T N.B.— Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Co.
W. Shearsby & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabetb-st.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ABE SICK.
If you are si ok, HOP BITTERS 'will
•urely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else falls.
if you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
sutferlng from any other of the numer-
ous diseases of the stomach or bowels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy In all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries—malarial, epidemic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
K you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they’ cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver
Nerves, Kidneys, &o., and
4500
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything Impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bc#£sa of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle. v
Will you let them suffer r
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doo
tors’ bills to pay.
WeakNervousMen
V Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay
.W and failure to perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
and vigorous manhood in
THEMARSTpN BQLU8.
Neither stomach drugging nor
ft
rugging nor
_ jreatme:
Debility
hyslcnl Becayia uniformly
treatment of
ana
lervons.
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new ond direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician Of
MARSTON REMEDY CO.. 63Cutl«e»gh Si.Sydnty
Christmas Presents and New
Year’s Gifts 1
J" U8T RECEIVED, a Large Assortment of
Gold & Silver Jewellery,
SUITABLE FOR PRESENTS.
Ladles' Gold Dress Rings, from 10s.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, from £210s.
Gent.’s Silver Watches, from £3 10s.
And other articles too numerous to mention.
c . cTba n t ,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER.
184 George Street, Sydney.
0T Country Orders promptly attented to.
ANALYTICAL BEPORT.
Melbourne.
My examination of a sample of
Bavarian Hap Bitters has elicited
the following among other particulars: It Is a
clear, pale fluid of low density (90731) containing
STB per eenfc. of extract, which fa all vegetable, the
ash being nominal, less than many potable waters.
.... They have a pleasant light hop flavour,
modified by presence of other herbal bitters. I
have not been able to find any noxious Ingredient
or Injurious contamination. ... I think they
may fully be expected to answer the purpose for
wmeh they are designed.
8TDNBY GIBBONS, F.C.8., Analyst.
cm
on
life
~4
|0W THYSELF
Treat MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
ExfiiiilStod Vitality, \ervons and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
1)0
or Se
Iserles resulting from indiscretion or excesses maybe
’“"Mod and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-
.nd rend the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
Medioal Association, entitled tho Science of Life
Preserration. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is snob as probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. 300pages, bound in beautiful French cloth,
full gilt, guaranteed td be a finer work in every sense than
any other sold In the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will bo refunded In every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
meda[ awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, k> the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should bo read by the young for
instruction and by thd afflicted for relief. It will benefit
Sbndon Lancet.
ress the World’s Dispensary Medical As-
o«, of Dr. W. R. Parker, No. 69 Hunter
Street,Sydney,N.S.W. Theauthormay *
be Iconsultod on all diseases requiring
skill, secrecy, and experience.
WilUFACTUBING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
YD N EM
IMPfIRTFRS OF ALL THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
r
SOLE IMPORTER OP
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
SOLE AGENT FOB THE
SMITH OHGr.A.!T. ’
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
iiiiiiiHiiiiiimiiiiiiiiinimiiiiiiiiiiwiiiiuinini
DR. SCOTTS ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH I
A HONEST REMEDY. Prescribed by the BEST PHYSICIANS.
THEY WILL POSITIVELY
CURE
Nervous Headache in b minutes !!
Bilious Headache in 5 minutes!!
Neuralgia in 5 Minutes! I
Hailing Hair and Baldness!!
Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp I
Promptly Arrest Premature Grayness. Hake the Hair grow long
And Glossy. Immediately Soothe the Weary Brain.
Crawkerne, Nov. 12, 1880
Sir, —My patients have given
me a very satisfactory account
of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair Crush. #
One lady assures me that she gets no
neuralgia in her face if sho uses it, and
others state that by x few minutes’ brush-
ing with the Electric Brush, a nervous headache,
dr one arising from overwork or debility, is quickly
removed. The invention is, I think, very valuable. : f / //y» 1UI i!W IWIIIIIIIBIlinWlllUJ-"' -rr , , ,
I am, y®ur obedient servant, a p whtk mu mb rur ' v 1 ! HI 'M unbreakable —
G.F. Wills, M D„ M.R. C.8.E. uimmv*** Elegantly Carved & Mounted.
Prom Dr. Le*pririi& DC L.. *c„ St. John’s College, Oxford Dec “>8 1881
Gentlemen,—I have known and appreciated the great advantages of your Electric Hair Rmoh •
I fed it my duty, as well as my pleasure, to earnestly recommend it No o-owhVhJ nnf t „ 6 tim ?/, an . d * a ® 1 n " d the benefits increasing,
Ssjrd! Sdii "■*" toi
Youre faithfully, 0. Lumpruieb, D.C.L., &c.
Hi 8 h “esses the If BINGE and PEINCES8 of WALES, PRINCE
°5 d t £ e of HOLLAND each use a pair of Dr. Scott’s
Electric Hair Brushes, and a long list of Distinguished Patrons could be pub-
k lashed, and their Testimony added, did space permit.
Handle >? made of a new odorless composition, resembling ebony; a combination
lubstances producing a permanent electro-magnetic Current, which acts
u P° n Hair Glands and Follicles. This power can always be
<€8ted by a silver compass, which accompanies each Brush. "
PURE BRISTLES—NOT WIRES. Wire Brushes injure the Soalp.
and cause baldness and irritation.
The Right Honourable WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE, M P
has written upon the merits of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair
Brushes, and has added them to his Toilet.
Lady A. CHURCHILL—daughter of the Duke of
Marlborough (hero of Blenheim), and sister of
Lord Randolph Chuichill, of Parlia-
try celebrity—uses them regularly
and thinks them unequalled for
the hair.
tW Send for Circular of
Dr. Scott's Electric Flesh
Brushes , Corsets, d: Belt*
for Ladies? and Gen-
tlemen’s use.
These Brushes can he obtained of ell Chemist! end. Fancy 8torckoopera.‘or will be forwarded
aolreet to any part of N.8.W. or Queensland upon recplpt of prices named, with Is. added. Re-
mittance* can be made in Cheques, Drafts,' P.O. Ordera Jgtamps, or Currency, Cheques can be
enifsad Union Bank of Australia, tee that the name of Dr. Scott is on thoBot,without which
none a.r® genuine.
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
64 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
I—MfC wiii*•-! AaeE ’
P.O. BOX 22!
)\
9 i*
A correspondent writes in strong approval
of a recent article In The Bulletin on “ Mixed
Mkrrlages,” and says that by the educated and intel-
fkjtnt members of the Roman Catholic Church it
IS considered Just and well-deserved. The same
sorlbe also tells a woeful tale of oppression at-
trixvpfcod by a “man of God" In our city. It
iCppears In one of the suburbs resides a large
family, In reduced circumstances. Before fortune
fiMwned upon them, no hands were more ready In
gets of kindness, no purse more open to charitable
causes than theirs. But life is full of reverses,
and when recently another little olive-branch was
added to the already numerous family, the
mother’s heart sank a bit when sbe wiote on top
of the pincushion with minute pins, ' Welcome
little stranger "—she felt a trifle deceitful, you
know. But, however, the “little stranger" was
here, and had to be baptised. In due course of
time the Infant was taken to the font, clothed os
simply and poorly as a babe can well bo, and, after
receiving the sprinkling of holy water and the
Sigh Of the cross upon its forehead, the priest,
(who is a very r’oh man) demanded, in loud tones,
a fee of five shillings. The child's god-mother,
who wad well aware that payment for sacramental
grace could not ba demanded, pleaded the poverty
of the pafeots, aod observed that the money was
required for the necessaries of this life. Now this
worthy priest could not possibly avoid seeing that
nororty prevailed, so, to say the least of it the
demand was cruel. And the man calls himself
God’s servant! Surelvhe mistakes his vocation.
If our memory serves us aright, we are told to
h gire all we have to the poor.” But, likely, he has
read it backwards, as he not only gives nothing,
but takes whatever he can from them. If we
were suoh a man’s master, we should give him a
week’s notice to quit. But God is mighty patient
and forbearing.


Royal Hotel,
Bungendore,
FIRST CLASS ACCOMMODATION.
J. McMAHON, Proprietor.
NO MORE CORNS 1
CORNS AND WAWTS removed without pain
bv the use of Palmer's Painless, Harmless,
and Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER.
This preparation is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If applied accord-
ing to the directions, it will effectually rfemove
them in from six to ei£ht days.
PALMER’S
Effif FACUE CURA jSS£
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Local.
This most wonderful Preparation has surpassed
all others in speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
how long or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed In producing the desired re-
sults: and it can be most confidently recommended.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general stores: wholesale by Messrs Elliott Bros.,
Sydney ; E. Prosser and Co„ Sydney ; Felton,
Drlmwade. and Co., Melbourne; Kempthorne and
Prosser, Dunedin.
NEUSTADT and CO.,
COMPLETE
HOTJSE
FURNISHERS,
39, 154, 156, & 158 OXFORD-ST]
SYDNEY.
HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH BFBRY REQUISITE,
Either for Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers
IflANHOOD RESTORED !
A Clergyman having tried every known
remedy for the Cure of Nervous Exhaustion,
Premature Decay, &c., has at last discovered a
simple Self-Cure, which for the sake of suffering
humanity, bo will send FREE the Prescription
which CURED him. Address, with seif-addressed
stamped envelope—
Dr. E. A CLARKE, P O. Box 293, Sydney.
ROWLANDS ODONTO is the best, pur-
est, and most fragrant preparation for the teeth
Health depends in a great measure upon tin
soundness of the teeth and their freedom fron
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and whltt
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such Row-
lands’ Odonto has always proved Itself to bo.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA is a beautifully
I >ure, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and has
ately been much improved. Each box has inside
the lid a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwood,
Ph.D., F.C.8., &c. Sold in three tins : white, rose,
and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ ar
tides, ot 30, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations
Wholesale and Retail Agents, Elliott Bros., E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Compagnoni’s.)
THE undersigned, recognising the want of a
FIRST CLASS TAILORING ESTABLISH-
MENT, have OPENED the premises lately occu-
pied by the Bank of Australasia, at 168 PITT-
STREET (THE WEST END HOUSE) where they
intend to carry on a High-class and Fashionable
Trade.
The public may feel assured that we shall be
able to maintain a high standard, when we state
that our Mr. Ward has had some years’ experience
In the best houses in London, Paris, as well as In
first-class Sydney Establishments, namely, Farmer
and Co.’s and David Jones and Co.’s.
Our Mr. Wilson has bad fully 30 years’ expe-
rience in the Australian trade, and has just re-
turned from England, where he visited all the
principal Woollen Mills, including that of Hud-
dersfield, as w*«U as West of England and Scotch
Mills. This will be a sufficient guarantee that the
tastes and requirements of the public will receive
the attention they deserve.
In conclusion, we desire to say that we hope to
obtain a fair share of patronage, in return for
which we guarantee first-class work, all hand-
made, well shrunk, perfect fit, and all in the latest
London and Paris styles.
Soliciting a trial, we remain,'
Very truly yours,
FREDERICK WILSON,
HUGH WARD.
Fashionable Tailors, Robe and Habit Makers.
, West End House,
168 Pitt-streot, Sydney.
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy I
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; thev can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
80S GEORGE STREET.
‘cm y&jp ■ r '>*
'’CCLEBR^'
fcScoitpnr
WHOLESALE
GROCES
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE~AGBNT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
8GHNAPF8.
LITHUANIAN
MAGBN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL,
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
' MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
THE
In Davis Swing lUit.
The SIMPLEST. CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever introduced into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, EASY TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine in the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS In Town and Country.
par Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE to
any part of the colony.
B. O. Holtermann & Co.,
Sole Agents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J. TURNER ROBINSON * CO.'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT >
MARKET CLOTH TTATTL,
478 Georga-straat,
Established 1801.
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
|SW Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS «q
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
A. & C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse ,
SIS GEORGE STREET,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
|3F” The most liberal house for Pianos and Organa,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
A. & C. Huenerbeia,
818 GEORGE STREET.
W. H. CHARD AND CO.
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Liberal advances made on wool •*
other PRODUCE shipped to their LondOp
Agents, Messrs. Redfern, Alexander and Co., I
Great Winchester-street, E.C.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well*
known firm is given to all consignments.
DENTIST.
(Of America)
GUARANTEES
Met Fil ul Mastication.
vr PRICES MODERATE.
Corner George and Market Streets,
OVER HUNTER’S BOOT PALACE.
THB
IGNO
SPiario.
m
ill Ml CL’S
TAMOXJS
N
EVER previously did any piano win such a hold
on the public as the Mlgnon has done since
its introduction. Our competitors have no doubt
done their level best to rival us— blazoning forth
their bald Imitations with a tremendous flourish
of trumpets. What result have they to show,
excepting’ to point to the gradual death of all their
offspring? The reason is soon found. Inferior
Instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted ®n the
public. But the right-thinking public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales of the lUgnon Plano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found its way Into every town almost of all
the colonies—in Victoria and New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north of Queens-
land ; in New Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE MIGNON
can be found, and its name is really a household
word.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for its size defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
guaranteed to withstand any climate in A ustralla.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, because the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be hadron very easy TIME PAYMENT,
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels ail similar pianos for first-class work and
richness of tone.
BF Illustrated Catalogue, with full description
of THB MIGNON and all other good instruments,
on application.
NICHOLSON - AND CO.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The beet known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC i.E,
Rains, bruises, iurns. scaldi, &o- and
Aken Internally cures DIARRHfEA, IVYSE<'; J . .JK Y,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other lUtfarn'- aches
tnd pains.
Price, 2/- Sold EveryvrSierc.
S. E. MOULTON, sole prop :3R.
MELBOURNE -A.ND . DN EY,
PAINT
iniiis
TONIC NERVINE
I , „ miMSBin. „
I A SAFE, CERTAIN. & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
I toothache. Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints. Loss of Vital Power, &o. By its tonic
and soothing effects It at once removes all craving
lor Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
'th®r powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
o . 3 b °l® system. Price, 4s. 6d., or 35s. a case-
»<>leProprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS, M.P.S.
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists, 104 and
near Hyde Park, and
TAKE NO SUB8TT-
Original
esigns for Trophies
and Medals.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
HR
(S
8
f
S
a
fe
<x-
<5
ss
(/>
2:
g
*
3
a?
O
n
§
2
•a
o
o
5
<
or,
tn
r
s
3,
If
3
2
1
co
v»
%
KtN!
Q
s
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLEC
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY.
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLE# ONLY KEPT IN STOCS^^'
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)


CAROLS OF COCKAIGNE.
(BY OUR OWN AGHNT-GHNHERAL.)
London, January 9-
Jfr. Gladstone resembles certain great men
bf iydney In one respect, i.e., In his boundless
aDpetits tor “Marmalade.” To the more oyniual
Soulof Disraeli, Indiscriminate applause was ab-
horrent. When the eminent Hebrew returned
from Berlin, and drove down Whitehall, amid the
sheering of a hundred thousand spectators, he
leant back, utterly wearied, and covered his face
with his pocket-handkerchief. To Mr. Gladstone,
the occasion would have been a triumph. To
Disraeli, who was Incapable of affecting to care
fan the opinions regarding himself entertained
br Messrs. Baggings and Muggins, it was an
ordeah Like John Davies, Mr. Gladstone has
‘‘popular instincts” and “the feelUwi of a
father ” Like John Davies, Mr. Gladstone can
bow to ten thousand people, and make every man-
Taok in the crowd believe that each and every
how Is addressed to him alone. Like John Davies,
Mr Gladstone seises every possible and Impossible
occasion as an opportunity for an ‘ ad. It Is,
therefore, plain that John Davies only lacks
shirt-collar.; sensitiveness, and genius, to be the
etmaUf not the superior, of the patriarchal old
wood-backer, who guides the destinies of Great
Britain. # m ,
Vhr is Mrs. Gladstone less “ In touch ” with
the populace than her “ Grand Old Man.” Like
TVnfth Claypole, the Premier’s Indefatigable spouse
Jurho has just completed her 73rd birthday) devotes
waelf to “the kinchin lay’’—the kids and the
women. She Is divinely proficient In the art of
‘‘mumming.” One Buxton Morrlsb. a
Shunter!' whose name has a lino Semitic fla-
lour thc otW day noticed that when, at a board-
school Kindergarten lesson,,some children were
asked “ Who out down the trees for the carpen-
ter?” they shouted la chorus, ‘‘Mr. Gladstone!”
and, further, that when questioned as to “ what
else Mr. Gladstone did,” some of the youngest re-
plied that “he helped the Queen to make the
laws." He(Morrlsh) “ thought such spontaneous
answers from little children remarkable, and
wrote to Mr. Gladstone telling him of the Inci-
dent.” As the Premier bad Bismarck in hand Just
then, he turned over the letter to Mrs. G., who
wrote to the pedagogic groveller:—“10 Downlog-
street, Whitehall. Sir,—I thank you heartily for
your Interesting letter, for deeply interesting, In-
deed, It Is. I shall treasure it greatly, and leave It
to my children. I think It very kind of you to
have taken the trouble of writing so fully. The
letter was read to Mr. Gladstone, who was greatly
touched. I thank God for the many helps wo
hare of deep sympathy, and especially for the
prayers, so precious; and, indeed, the quantity of
serious work would be heavy indeed with-
out this help and encouragement.—I remain
■yours truly (signed), Catherine Gladstone”
. . . This charming epistle should be carefully
preserved by every Australian girl who aspires to
the hand of a “ mimber.” In Catherine’s fascinat-
ing little acknowledgment of the “ deeply interest-
ing " character of Morrlsh’s letter we see displayed
the wiles of the poor but artful country editor,
who, iln returning the;iibellous manuscript of the
hairy-toothed local J.P., professes to be absolutely
heart-broken that he cannot Insert It. In her
enthusiastic promise to “treasure greatly and
leave to her children ” the Morrishlan scrawl, we
have the whole mental essence of the testimonlal-
laed bank manager, who sobbingly leaves Croajin-
<golong for Murrumburrah with the electro ttsh-
ialioe and the silver coffee-pot. Nor are there
t ®>sent traces of that deep emotion felt by the an-
ient Billy Hoskins, as, on the occasion of his,
hundredth farewell benefit at Tuapeka (N.Z.), he
teartully declares that he will return and “leave
hlB bones" (already promised to 700 other town-
ships) at the beautiful cemetery of bis beloved
Tuapeka aforesaid. In the pious little mention of
* tt>? prayers, bo precious." we see combined the
very best efforts of the revered Pastor Allen, and
of the “unspeakable” Oscar Wilde, before his
young Irish wife knocked the nonsense out of
him. We don't think much of William B. Glad-
stone after all. We oould easily have been Prime
Minister of England had we been hitched to such a
girl as Otherlne.
♦ * •
Only once before in history has an eldest
son of the Prince of ;Wales attained his majority
while his father was still only Heir-Apparent.
Prince Albert Victor, the somewhat sheepish
young gentleman who, during his visit to Austra-
lia. was, It is (no doubt truthfully) alleged, only
prevented by tutorial force from marrying Into
an old (and aristocratic) family at one of the
“Points, is now over 21 rears of age. The ‘re-
spectable ” and “ right-minded” papers absolutely
gush over the adolescent scion of royalty, and the
Daily News tells us that “ Prince Edward has
the reputation of geniality, good nature, and
thorough kindness of heart, coupled with the best
intentions.” “Sir,” said Dr. Johnson to some
flabby-souled person, “Sir, Hell Is paved with
good intentions.” The world is full of estimable
fools, “gonial” fools, “good-natured” fools,
“kind-hearted” fools, "well-intentioned” fools.
Prince Edward, when at Cambridge, was regarded
as a very slow young man, but. as ho was a roval
young man, nobody was so disloyal as to call him
a dunce. Still, as at school Sir Walter Scott was a
dull boy, Gibbon a stupid, and Goldsmith a dolt,
Prince Edward may yet turn out to be an im-
provement in every way upon William S mke-
speare, Julius Ciesar—and even Douglas W. B.
Bladen.
* * v
You will observe that Albert Victor’s
name has been changed by the public to “Edward.”
Despite the strong opinion entertained on the sub-
ject by Queen Victoria, It Is tolerably certain that
the English people will Insist on the present Prince
of Walss ascending the throne as “ Edward the
Seventh.” instead of under the sauei*-krautlsh
appellation of “Albert,” inherited from his saintly
father, Albert the “Good ’’—who, by the way, was
well paid to be good. For the national determina-
tion In this regard there are two verv excellent
reasons. One is the growing dislike in England to
Germany and German ascendancy; the other Is
that the Prince could not possibly be called
“ Albert the Bad ” In public, by those who would
distinguish him from his Immortal sire. It would
never do to have two Alberts “the Good,” It would
not do to have Albert “ the Bad,” and as compari-
sons are odious, the bald-headed “inventor" of
Mrs. Langtry could not possibly be called “ Albert
the Better,” or “Albert the Worse.” So, should
Albert Edward ascend the throne he will be known
to history as “Edward the VIL,” and the Idol of
Potts’ Point will in his turn carry on the royal
business under the name and style of Henry—we
mean “ Edward the VIII.” However, as a Radical
paper cynically observes, there will be plenty of
time to argue the question of nomenclature when
the nation has Anally decided that It has need of
the young gentleman’s services. “ First catch
your hare.”
• * •
Prince Henry, of Battenberg-Schwillen-
BaDfengermansausagesobwedischturnipstein, has
not yet caught his hare. Though he and the
Princess Beatrice are to start baking dampers to-
gether in April—some people say July-the inter-
esting young couple have as yet no money to buy
their flour and prospeotlng-dlsh. Like many of
his order, the “prince” Is a pauper. In the
“ Memoirs of Karoline Bauer,” we read that the
Princess Victoria (mother of the present British
Queen), who was a daughter of the “ Hereditary
Prince Franz.” had, like her sisters, “ only one
Sunday dress. ’ We arc also told—Thackeray told
us this before—that the Princesses ef the House
of Koburg (which “ reigned over six peasants and
two army surgeons ”) were “ carefully brought
up In various creeds, so that they might be
adapted to the religious tastes of royal suitors of
all persuasions.” it is true that, despite this
delightful pious pliability, the young ladles
occasionally “struck a duffer,” for when the
Princess Antoinette (aunt of our beloved Queen)
married Prince Alexander of Wurtemburg, she,
“ on awakening the morning after the wedding,
was horror-stricken to see her gluttonous husband
beside her gnawing a big ham-bone with brutish
ferocity—a sight which the unfortunate princess
could never forget.” But this can hardly be won-
dered at, for probably the poor girl was envious
and hungry, and hadn’t seen a ham-bone, to say
nothing of a ham, for Heaven knows how long.
The Koburgs were then terribly hard up. One
Stookmar, an oflicial of theirs, used, with posi-
tive terror, to see the Court messenger approach-
ing his beautiful sdug-house la the market-place,
or his summer residence in the ‘Stookenberg,
carrying something wrapped up under his arm. He
knew that the duke or duchess, or the princes and
- princesses, were once more in great fitr,ilts,and on
the point of borrowing from him ‘ on pledge, ’
* * *
This new Teutonic parasite on the British
oak is to get £0000 a year. The vote will be
opposed by the Radicals. The John Bright Club
have facetiously prepared an address to the Queen
urging her, "In consideration of the present
alarming condition of the national industries, not
to sanction or accept of any additional Parliamen-
tary grant or pension out of the national taxation
on behalf of H.R.H. Princess Beatrice, whose
future welfare and happiness, as well as that of
your Majesty, we desire to assist in promoting as
your loyal subjects.” Which, being interpreted,
of course, means that it will be better for the
health of the Teutonocracy If they refrain in
future from dipping their hands so deeply into the
Treasury. But the Radicals, who moan to send in
a host of other addresses of a similar character,
have a more subtle plan on foot. In scores of con-
stituencies they can return exactly whom they
please, and, with a view to resisting further
German inroads on the public purse, and, gene-
rally, to clipping the teeth of royalty, they Intend
running at next general election 70 or 80 candi-
dates of the uncompromising “working man”
order—men whose noses will be kept to the grind-
stone by pressure from without. As soon as the
provisions of the Franchise Bill shall have taken
effect, the “Caucus” will, beyond question, be
able to send Into the Commons a couple of hun-
dred members pledged to vote for the thin end of
the Republican wedge.
• ♦ •
“Sir Samuel Wilson has been accepted by
the Conservatives as their candidate for the north-
ern division of Buckinghamshire.” When a former
occupant of Hughenden Manor, one B. Disraeli,
first offered himself to the free and Independent
Bucks electors, he was asked, “ What he stood
on ?” and at once replied, “On my head ’’—meaning,
of course, his intellect. There can be no mistake
as to what Sir Salmon Wilson stands on. He must
get right on top of his big money-bags, or you’ll
not be able to sec him. How comes the knight ot
the flame-coloured whiskers to bo the elect of the
Bucks Conservatives? He is by no means lavish
of largesse, as was the “tine old Tory gentleman ”
in the “fine old Tory song;” nor is he personally
beloved by any of the wire-pullers of the party.
The fact is that Lady Wilson, who is the uetter
horse of the pair, is the “ power behind the
throne.” She Is admitted to be a great social suc-
cess, for, unlike many Antipodean millionaires of
the butter form and manner, she is a handsome,
accomplished woman, who might be a countess or
a duchess, and is quite the conventional type of
the “ lady ot high degree.” There is in London a
Women's Emigration Society of a highly “ genteel”
kind, concerning itself chiefly with billetless gover-
nesses and the “ distressed gentlewoman ” genus.
Like almost every philanthropic association In this
lord-loving land, It Is bossed by “ the quality
the bossosses In this case being the Viscountess
Btrangford and the Lady Jane Taylor, a sister of
the Duchess of Wellington. As the Society ex-
ports many ot its proteges to the land of the kan-
garoo, and as funds were low the other day, it
occurred to a financial genius on the committee
that a raid should be made on the Australian
plutocrats of the West End. Lady Strangforu
knowing the political aspirations of Sir Salmon
thought that if she could only Induce her friend
the wife of the Conservative leader to accompany
her to the town mansion of the colonial knight-
“ even he ” might give “ three figures.” Bo, accord
ingly one fine morning that diplomatic grande dams
the Marchioness of Salisbury, presented herselK
in company with the perky little Visoouness In
the drawing-room at No. 9 Grosvenor Square The
buntv knight was completely overcome by the
haughty Marchioness, who, for once, unbent her
self-in the divine cause of charity. Ere she could
end her melting tale, Sir Salmon had rushed for
the bell and summoned Jeames to “fetch his
cheque-book.” The upshot was that the two great
ladies marched off under the heavy burden of
Sam’s cheque—/or a fiver. Samuel is wise In his
generation. Ho is “ no mug,” and saw right
through the noble mendicants. Had he written
three figures, he would have been taken for a
“more colonial money-bags,” who gave to the
titled delegates of fashionable pauperism in the
same ostentatious way as the old-fashioned Yank
used to throw his dollars at the Langham hotel
waiter. To be thought rich in England, you must
be known to be mean.
♦ * ♦
A big subscription has been opened in
London for the relief of the sufferers by the earth-
quake at Alhama, in Granada, the romantic
Spanish town with whose name we have been
familiarised by Lord Byron in the refrain (“ Woo
Is me, Alhama I”) to “ Muy Doloroso.” Londoners
especially those of them who live in the cobweb
houses of the brand new suburbs, should deeply
sympathise with such a cause. There are here
countless thousands of pretentious-looking dwell-
ings expressly constructed so as to last only for
the term of the ground-lease—houses the safety
of whose inmates depends solely upon the man
upstairs not sneezing while the fellow downstairs
oiughs.
Some years ago, the Countess of Desart
was divorced by her husband owing to her pen-
chant for one “Charlie” Sugden, an actor, whom
she subsequently married, and who has Just been
sued for £12 by a dentist who had mended her
teeth. Sugden repudiated liability on the ground
that “ teeth were not necessaries," and the Judge,
in giving a verdict for defendant, remarked that
“ large numbers of people had to live who had
very bad sets of teeth, and false ones were not
necessaries to them.” Anyone who has ever seen
a N.S.W. Judge at dinner will concur In the
opinion that so absurd a ruling would not for a
moment be countenanced in the mother colony of
the Australtas. This method of justif ying a man
in his refusal to pay for his wife's teeth would he
equally good as against her wooden leg.
» > *
The Australian Eleven will be delighted to
learn that one Henry Pottinger Stephens, editor
of the Topical Times and librettist of “Billee
Taylor,” asserts in large print that “they have
been conducting themselves In Australia since
their return in a perfectly characteristic manner—
that is to say, like a set of unmitigated cads. Their
behaviour in England was anything but that of
gentlemen. As for their devotion to the noble
game of cricket, it was measured by the amount
of money they got out of it. They went for the
gate-money. That was their game. To those who
were behind the scenes during the tour of the.
Australians In this country, and who therefore
knew how ferociously the Antipodean Shylooks
fought for their pound of flesh, the note which I
have quoted will come quite as a matter ef course.
It behoves M.C.C., and committees of counties
that can afford to despise ‘gate-money,’ to watch
the progress of the conflict at the other end of the
globe. After next season Murdoch and his mefty
men will want to revisit us.” Very likely. With
spiked boots. “Antipodean Shylock,” as a syno-
nym for Australian “ gentleman amateur ” is good.
Printed and Published by Thb Bulletin jni» <•
paper Co. (Limited), Si Pltt-st., Sydney, N.S.W,
Our illustration shows two remarkably pretty ball dresses. The one to the right is of pale sea-green satin and embroidered tulle.
The tulle is arranged in long draperies, which are edged with crimped silk fringe, over a satin skirt, and tne low round satin corsage
is partly veiled by a diagonal drapery of tulle. The neck of the corsage and the skirt are ornamented with satin scarfs that are tied
with knots of ribbon, and with clusters of water-lilies. The other dress is of rose taffela with white Escurial lace. The lace forms a
deep border at the lower edge of the skirt, below which two box-pleated frills project, and is gathered in a wide flounce around the
waist which is festooned by narrow bands of ribbon. The low corsage has a bertha and puffed sleeves of tulle, and the narrow ribbon
bands pass over the shoulders and form points on the front and back.
