

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.—No. 119—New Series.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 22, 1885.
Prio#—6d.
The Bulletin
SATURDAY, AUGUST 22, 1835.
The Eighth Champion.
Up to Wednesday, the 13th August, 1885, we
thought Sir James Martin, the Chief Justice
of New South Wales, a sound lawyer
specially skilled in dealing with conflicting
evidence. So far as the elucidation of
British and colonial law—to the unravelling
of whose tangled threads he has devoted far
more than ordinary abilities—is concerned,
our opinion of Sir James’ acumen has under-
gone no change. Butin an evil hour for him
self and his reputation he threw his gaunt!
into the very centre of the “ Christian contr
versy” arena, and followed it with wh
might be called bumptious alacrity. It w
on the night preceding the date we hav
mentioned that he presided at a lectu
given at the Sydney Protestant Ha
by the Rev. Dr. Kinross. The discour
was on the evidences of Christianity, an
paradoxical as it may appear, Sir Jame
Martin’s introductory address went
show not so much that those evidences wer
incontrovertible as that they were unneces
sary. If faith, not reason, Is to be our guid
in the most momentous of all questions, ho
absurd to multiply testimony which musi)
be tested by reason, not faith ? Suppose, fo
instance, a Christian missionary endeavou
ing to convert a Mohammedan. The latte
would tell of Mahomet, his life, and h
miracles. Should the missionary observe
“But these statements are demonstrabl
untrue—are contrary to universal experi
ence. Your reason can show how un worth
they are of credence,” what would the fo -
lower of Mahomet answer ? The Chief Jus
tice puts the reply in his mouth: “ True, you
unassisted or perverted reason cannot gras
them, but it is precisely on that account yo
should believe them. It is faith, not argu
' ment, that should guide us in these sublim
matters. How can a poor worm, with cir
cumscribed intelligence like yours, presum
to say that the Prophet never went through
seven heavens and never saw an ange
whose eyes were so wide apart that it woulc
take a camel three days to cover the dis
tance between them ? I believe it, and, i
you say it is impossible, it but makes my be
lief the stronger. You have never been
heaven, and, therefore, your opinion on th
matter is worthless.” What answer would
tho missionary give to this ? Sir James ha
deprived him of any.
♦ * ♦
In modern Europe no man knew so much
concerning the evidences of Christianity as
Gibbon. He disbelieved them. Our Chief
Justice would probably say to him: “You
should not reason on these matters, you
cannot grasp them.” And should the author
of the “ Decline and Fall” vouchsafe a reply
it would possibly be to ask, “ Why, then, col-
lect the evidence at all ?” It is remarkable
that the Chairman failed to see the pit in
which he placed himself by the line of ar-
ment he espoused. While protesting
against the application of reason, he
brings forward reasons to prove Christ’s
Divinity and the doctrine of the Tri-
nity. While protesting against argu-
gumeut he argues. Some of his statements
are so unique in their ingenuousness as to
render it doubtful how they should be
received—witn laughter or tears. He has
little difficulty in believing in the Trinity
the Incarnation, or the Resurrection. He
Would have Jess it the number of Persons
had been four or six. And why is his faitn
& o robust ? Let him speak for himself :—
We know from the concurring testimony of
tbc many contemporaries of Jesus that all these
things, having been verified as they have told us,
by miracles, which they themselves witnessed,
were believed by their contemporaries!”
We wonder how James, Bishop of Mel-
bourne, will feel when he reads this contri-
bution to controversial theology—this clear-
ing up of obscure points. 1
“In the year 325,” Sir Jambs goes on, “the first
CEoumenlcal Council met at Nicoea. ... On
that occasion the doctrine of the Trinity, as now
understood, was, by an overwhelming majority,
established. Those who are of opinion that this
doctrine is opposed to reason, may be reminded
how many other things are equally beyond the
scope of their intelligence. Who of us can grasp
the idea of a world formed out of nothing ? ”
Who, indeed! Certainly no one who has
the most elementary knowledge of chemis-
try. Theologians agree in saying that even
the Creator could not do things intrinsically
impossible—could not, for instance, put a
chord in a circle greater than
nor make too parallel lines meet. But Sir
James thinks He could. To the class of
things intrinsically impossible belongs
the making of something out of nothing,
or the resolution of something into
nothing. Either is just as absurd as
the endeavour to construct a square
with five right angles or five sides. But the
Chief Justice thinks that, with a little trou-
ble, both might be managed. Men who
spend their lives in the laboratory smile at
the idea of creation. To the physicist the
eternity of matter is as much an axiom as
the statement that the whole is greater than
a part is to the mathematician. But Sir
J ames Martin is of a different opinion. How
pleasant the world might be to-day if all
possessed this simple faith 1
At the Council of Nice, a.d. 325, we are
told that “the doctrine of the Trinity as
now understood was, by an overwhelming
majority, established.” It is only fair that
the public should know a little of this coun-
cil. We shall tell them. It consisted of 318
Bishops, the greater part of whom could not
read. They wrangled for weeks, and then
put it to the vote what books should be Con-
sidered the Word of Gon. From about fifty
gospels they chose the four which have come
down to us as canonical. Men who certainly
knew as much as Sir Jambs Martin about
the composition and proceedings of the
Council of Nice do not share his admiration
for it. Lecount, for instance, says .—
“ Did each of the 318 Bishops have a copy of each
of the fifty gospels? . . . Or had they to wait
for each other and read by turns? These ques-
tlons are best solved by Sa linus, one of their
number, who says, excepting two, they were
‘illiterate, simple creatures.’ ... If they de-
cided, as assemblies usually do, it was done by
vote; if, as Pappus says, the whole of the books
were put under the table, and the right ones
jumped on the table, It was a piece of roguery. At
any rate, they ought to have transmitted all the
books down to posterity, that each man
judge for himself. Now, it the 316 illiterate,
simple Bishops had noted these [Peter’s] in the
room of Paul’s works, whereabouts might we not
have been now, instead of where we are ? ”
But, according to our Chief Justice, the
Great Architect of the Universe, one word
from whom would have settled the dispute
for ever, allowed the question as to whether
He was composed of one, two, or three
Divine Persons, to be put to the vote of 318
ignorant men 1500 years ago. Nay, more;
allowed the happiness or misery of His
creatures in two worlds to depend on their
belief or rejection of the views entertained
by a majority of the 318 “ simple and illiter-
ate” ones!
* * *
The most prominent feature in this singu-
lar address is the pains taken to show that
belief should become sincere in proportion
as the thing to be believed becomes incom-
prehensible. When the latter is demon-
strably absurd, it is then that belief should
be soundest. If you can prove that matter
could not have come out of nothing, the
greater the reason to believe that it could.
If, instead of carrying a resolution that the
Deity consisted of three persons, the Nicene
Bishops had voted that the earth was flat of
that the sun and stars moved round it, it
would be impious to question their decision*
True, it might be shown that they were
wrong, and entirely ignorant on the subject
The greater reason for agreeing with them,'
It would be illogical to challenge theif
opinions on the Cosmos of which they at
least knew something, while unhesitatingly
accepting their opinions of the Deity, of
whom they certainly knew nothing. But it
is on the subject of “miracles” that Sir
James Martin is at his very best. It is here
he is simply delightful. His belief in mystery
is founded on the miracles witnessed in
Palestine 2000 years ago. Had he been born
in Turkey, he would have believed in the
divinity of Mahomet, at whose bidding “ the
moon left its place in the heavens, came
down and did obeisance to him.” The testl t
mony for this erratic conduct on the part of
the moon is precisely similar to that con-
nected with the raising of Lazarus. Men
witnessed it and were prepared to die fof
their belief in its truth. If it be said that
the whole world would have witnessed the
moon’s arrival or departure, and every
writer of the time would have mentioned it,
this but confirms the fact. Thousands of
Roman officials and soldiers were in Judea
when mid-day darkness covered the earth
at the Crucifixion, In India, China, Italy,
Greece, and Egypt were men recording the
occurrence of natural phenomena, but not
one mentions the darkness. How these
stupendous occurrences could happen daily,
never attract notice, and fail in winning
converts, we shall leave Sir James Martin
to explain. We would recommend to him a
careful study of Hume’s famous essay on
this important subject.
* ♦ *
The speaker told of a Roman Qoverndi*
who, “not more than 80 years after the Cru-
cifixion,” wrote a letter saying, among other
things, that “ many years before that time
Christians had become numerous, and be-
lieved in the divinity of Christ.” We quite
believe this. But it is the most singular de-
fence of Christianity we remember to have
met. Why, in our own day thousands be-
lieved that—even while he was still alive—
the horse-thief, Joe Smith, held communis
cation with God. Hundreds of thousands
believe it still. Voluminous and incontro-
vertible evidence is at hand to show that
Mormonism is a stupid and not over-clean
superstition. But thousands of sincere men
and women would seal their faith in it with
their blooo. If you attempt to reason with
them, they would justly say, with the Chief
Justice: “ We would remind you how many
other things are equally beyond the scope of
mere human intelligence. Who can grasp
the idea of a world formed out of nothing?’
We are told that “under Christianity art
and science have advanced; freedom and
equality have been established.” This will
be news to the Tyndalls and Drapers of
society. Up to this we have heard no
retractation of the “ Belfast Address.” But
even Sir James will admit that the manner
in which science was fostered from the
fourth to the seventeenth century was not
HIS HONOR MR. JUSTICE FAUCETT.


A NEW BOOK.
MAGIC
MIRTH
250 Tricks and Delusions
WITH
CARDS, DICE, and CONJURING APPARATUS,
and also containing over 100 tricks and deceptions
with cards, Illustrated with blocks and diagrams
fully explained, simplified, and adapted for home
amusement and social entertainments, forming
the most complete collection of Its kind ever
offered to the Australian public. Mailed free tn
any address ONE SHILLING. 10
THE WIZARD’S CHANGEABLE CARDS.
These cards change from Red to Black, from
eights to deuces and back again at the pleasure of
the performer, and elicit exclamations of wonder
and surprise from all who witness them. Post
free, with full Instructions, Is. 2d. 81
COMIC CARICATURES.
“rmaFadder,” “I’m in love,” “I’m a Daddv ”
Before and After Marriage.” “ The Mother-In-
Law. Five separate sets, each set consisting of
five character sketchings that have convulsed with
laughter every gathering at which they have
appeared. Price, post free, Is. 2d.
WONDERFUL JAPANESE DRAWER BOX.
The performer sends round a pretty little box to
the company, which they fill with rings, coins, etc
Directly the performer takes It in his hand the'
articles instantly vanish and the drawer is shown
empty. Price 2s., post free. u
GIVEN AWAY I
Cut this advertisement out and post it to us. en-
closing 5s. in stamps, or a P.O. order for 5s„ and
we will send you by return of post the above-men-
tioned goods. together with either of the follow-
ing articles
A LADY’S HANDSOME BROOCH or EARRINGS
GENT’S SCARF PIN or SET OF SCREW STUDS
of the finest American Roll-plate Gold, guaranteed
to stand the acid test, and to wear for 10 years
alone worth double the money, for which we ’
MAKE NO CHARGE.
N.8.W. stamps taken at par, other colonies add
Id. to each Is.
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT,
BOX 641 G.P.O. 401 GEORGE-ST.. SYDNEY.
J, TURNER ROR/NSON A CO.S’
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH TTAT.r.,
478 George-street,
_. „ . Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTTMHR.8.
Fashionable and First-class OAKmRvs f 0
order, well made, well shrunk, and a peraeffb fit
guaranteed.
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, , 4s. 8d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
A „ 8TRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. Od. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT POET
Ss. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
la. 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke a Prize Medal Brand,
In stone bottles and square bottles,
LABQEST SIZE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
» TDWET.
Thb Rates of Rtjbsobiption to The Bulutih
are—For one year, 24a.; half-year, 13a. 6d.
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
Th* Advertising Rates are 5s. per inch!
special positions In the paper 7s, 8d. per
Inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive Inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive Insertions!
15 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or Intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under Ml, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Colonel Wells, late of the Contingent, is
we regret to hear, very 111 Indeed.
On Saturday Lord Augustus Loftus “de-
clared Colonel Richardson a Major-General.” Fifty
such declarations wouldn’t make the gallant
Colonel Richardson a General. This wants a lot of
thinking over.
As an antidote to the consequence of late
hours Wolfe’s Schnapps stands preeminent,
For Pies, Puddings, Custards, Blancmanges, &c.,
use Kmgsford’s Oswego Cornflour.
If in need of a stimulant take Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
The sale per day now exceeds 60.000lbs of Kin?s-
ford’s Oswego Cornflour.
OSMOUB’S
SWISS CIGARS
Have been recognised as the BEST for half a
century.
Annual income ixenli one Jilliiaa.
-j*0®5s.
tlP
Llghtnlng and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
always a pleasant one—for the professors.
But for the rise of the Saracens, it is doubt-
ful whether modern science would be the
same lusty infant we see it to-day. To be
told that the system under which ignorant
men destroyed one civilisation, put to death
with shocking inhumanity the gifted men
who were groping for guidance in mediaeval
darkness, and crushed with cruel ruthless-
ness the aspirations of mankind for “more
light,” was the true friend and patron of
knowledge is—news, indeed. Now that the
divine spark of freedom of thought—the
heaven-given Are which no barbarity can
entirely quench, which will die [only when
mankind passes away—has become a blaze
and promises to throw light into many dark
passages of human belief and superstition,
those who would put it out if they could
come forward to whine about its “ amazing
and presumptuous intolerance.” If the
charge of presumption lies it is against those
invertebrate teachers who, too timid to
think themselves, would insolently deprive
their fellow-man of his dearest heritage, un-
trammelled thought.
♦ * ♦
To do justice to the Chief Justice would re-
quire a volume. His every sentence is either
a dogmatic assertion or a fact grotesquely
presented. And he ventures on dangerous
ground, too. He asks where infidels of
“pure morals” and unshaken probity are
to be found who would do certain things*
We could name several. We could go fur-
ther, and confidently state there are “ cer-
tain things ” they would not do, even when
young and vigorous. If our Chief Justice
had his way, some of the leaders of thought
tvould be debarred from giving evidence in
a court, while the testimony of the vilest
would be accepted. Bruno’s would have
been rejected, while that of Bill Sykes
would have been received. From the mur-
der of Hypatia to the Spanish Inquisition
and the Irish penal laws have not the
brightest and the best of the children of
men gone down before the barbarous in-
tolerance of those who would shackle
thought? Think of the misery that followed
in the wake of the Crusades, the massacre of
the' Albigenses, the banishment of the
Moriscos, the persecutions of the Jews, the
■Wholesale destruction of Mexicans and
Peruvians, the Thirty Years’ War, and the
Hragonnades, and, in the face of all these,
to be told that, under Christianity, “ free-
dom and equality have been established,
science advanced, the brotherhood of man
passed from a dream into a reality, and the
happiness of man promoted!” The “bro-
therhood of man,” with-drums beating and
bayonets flashing from Moscow to Madrid !
No, Chief Justice; you are too late in the
day. The mysteries of life and death, of the
past, the present, and the future, are just as
great as before you brought your mind to
bear upon them. You, with your little
spade, would put a dam across the great
river of Free Thought. Your predecessors
could not stop it when it was a tiny brook-
let. Now that it has entered the “rapids”
your safest policy is “ hands off.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Severe Sentence.
!To Sin Alexander StuaHt, among others, the
Paul Maul Gazette people sent a note, asking
for his ideas on Imperial Federation, It may be
safely affirmed that they will never seek his
opinion again on that or any other subject. For—
in affirming that Australia was not Influenced by
selfish motives in desiring the annexation of New
Guinea—this is what he fires into them; —
“ On the contrary, It was with a recognition,
derived from local experience and observation of
the strategic importance of the command of
Torres Straits, and with the knowledge that these
waters were navigated by large and valuable fleets
of English, as well as colonial ships and steamers
and which it should be England’s aim to keep free
froifa the risk of hostile occupation, that Austra-
lasia saw that the step was necessary for the
honour of England herself and for the protection
of English, as well of colonial interests. ’
We may be sure, as we said, that when the Pall
Mall “ crowd ” got this they decided never to
apply to another Australian Premier for informa-
tion. That “ and which ” following “ steamers ” is
more than talent—it is inspiration. We know Sir
Thomas MTlwraith, and have a clear remem-
brance of the circumstances under which he seized
New Guinea. It always appeared to us that his
annexation of Papua was quite equal to anything
of which Btchelieu or Bismarck could boast.
Sir Thomas, it will be remembered, was Premier
of Queensland, a general election was at hand, and
—something had to be done. But it is the man’s
modesty that always seemed so odd to us. Con-
sidering the rich tropical islands — Sumatra,
Borneo, Java, &c.— in the neighbourhood of
New Guinea, the fact of his not annex-
ing them also shows how the spirit of fair-
play guides all his actions. True, they belong to
Other people, but to a man with a more elastic
moral code than Sir Thomas’, such a consideration
would have little weight. The organised forces
of Queensland at the time were quite equal to
sending a couple of policemen and an interpreter
to each of the Dutch possessions. But the Premier
held back. New Guinea would satisfy him. Such
self-abnegation 1s as pleasant as It is rare. Nor-
according to Sir Alexander Stuart — was it
a “ mere question of land aggrandisement ”
that actuated Queensland’s First Minister. Far
from it. He put away from him all thought
of the approaching election, all sympathy
with the sugar-planters in their desire to open up
fresh Helds for “black-birding.” It was “the
honour of England her?elf, and the protection of
English interests ” that swayed him in his desire
to keep strange flags out of Torres Straits. It is a
creditable fact that, whenever Scotch colonial
Premiers want to secure land that does not belong
to them, it is not for themselves, but for the
“honour of England” they require It. And yet
there are English statesmen and writers who p o-
fess, for sinister purposes of their own, to doubt
this. With Mr. Service offering gun-boats for
clearing the Red Sea littoral, Sir Thomas M‘Il-
wbaith gobbling Pacific islands, and Sir Alex-
ander Stuart writing “pigeon” English, the
British public may rest assured that its honour and
interests are safe in Australian hands.
A Mud Model.
The 3. M. Herald says that Signor Simonetti has
made a model cf “Industry” in mud, that “it is
ono of his very best works, and is especially
remarkable for the elegance with which the
drapery is represented.” This is good news, It is
bad enough to have to look at nude marble figures.
A nude clay one would be seriously subversive of
public decorum, while a nude mud group would
probably cause a riot. Until we have seen this work
of art, it would be unfair to give an opinion on the
“elegance with which the drapery is represented.”
The classic stylo of closely-fitting garments has its
advantages, but that is no reason why modern
discoveries in outline should be entirely ignored.
Could not a compromise be effected ? Would
it not be possible for the classic and the modern
schools to make concessions—to give and take ?
For instance, we 'submit that if the drapery, in-
stead of hugging the figure too closely, were
allowed to fall gracefully over a papier macM
“ improver,” while a slight paste-board crlnolette
afforded freedom of play for the lower limbs, the
public would not be slow to appreciateithe change.
And If the artist could see his way to superim-
posing a bonnet or hat of some plastic material-
such as putty or dough, say—we believe the.Inno-
vation would attract attention. The Signor’s
“ Industry” is described as “ with downcast eyes
observant of the crochet-work with which the
hands are engaged.” It is always a thankless
office to suggest improvements in works of
art. Artists are proverbially irritable. They
see so far into the eternal fitness of things
that they naturally resent suggestions from
the untrained public. Still, at the risk of be-
ing thought meddling, we would hint that a
long experience of females who have brought
crochet-work to its present perfection convinces
us that “Industry” might bo better typified by
occupation of a different description. If, for in-
stance, the model could be represented sewing on
a shirt-button, or washing a clay or wooden baby,
those useful pursuits might become fashionable-
resulting in a marked decrease in conjugal mis-
understanding and secret profanity. The Signor,
wo are further told, is about to erect a kiln “Id
which he means to burn terra-cotta studies.”
Why confine the burning to terra-cotta ? Surely
the New South Wales Art Gallery could supply
works which would be benefited by the process ?
And, if not, then, sooner than let the kiln-fire be
drawn, we would feed them on Sydney art-critics.
It is the only use we see for them now.
A Pleasant Prospect.
For their services In the Soudan the British
forces, including the New South Wales Contin-
gent, have been thanked by the British Parlia-
ment. “ Our own correspondent,” that singularly
wide-awake chef who knows the precise amount
of seasoning required to make natriotic hash
agreeable to Australian stomachs, telegraphs:-
“Lord Salisbury eulogised the gallantry dis-
played by the colonial troops in volunteering to
come forward to the assistance of Britain, and
also praLed the ir discipline, zeal, and good conduct
.... The Duke of Cambridge (Commander-ln-
Chlef) expressed the hope that there would be
an exhibition of renewed vigour if, in the future,
help from tho Australian colonies was found to be
necessary.” And we may be sure it will be found
to be necessary. This is a pleasant prospect
truly for Australians. And the little epicene
Echo purrs with pleasure at it. From his contri-
butions to the Saturday Review, we always pul
Lord Salisbury in the front rank of satirists. But
his tribute to the “ discipline ” of our troops
showed that we rather under-rated his powers ol
irony. “High discipline” applied to men who
could scarcely form fours or present arms to 8
ileld-ollicer shows that in the story-telling branch
of the Imperial Administration there has been no
falling away owing to the change of Go-
vernment. “ And the Duke of Cambridge, chief
authority on the matter, and proper expo-
nent of the military sentiment of the Em-
pire,” &c. The Echo says this. We know
George of Cambridge—served under him. He
in one of our Sovereign’s numerous cousins, and
commands her armies. He commanded the
Guards in the Crimea, and was such a formidable
tactician that the Home authorities peremptorily
recalled him on the absurd plea that they wanted
to take Sebastopol. He might be able to get a sec-
tion of fours out of Hyde Park, but to get a whole
company out would puzzle him, except by the
simple plan of dismissing them, and ordering them
to fall in on the other side of the railings. He is
Commander-in-Chlef just because of Welling-
ton’s advice to Her Majesty: “Madam, keep the
post in your family.” But no Cabinet would dare
to send him on service, even in command of a
fatigue party. So the Echo goes on:—“We
may accept compliments and thanks of this sort
with an honest pride, and shall do well to endea-
vour to realise the glorious responsibilities which
such acceptance Implies. The first‘well done,’it
will be remembered, came from Lord Rosebery.
. . . This latest is from the representative peers
of the Empire. . . And with ‘ well done,’ there
is distinctly felt the wish or the command ‘do
better.’ We must do better. . . The hand put
to the plough can never be taken back, and the
new furrow must be driven straight and true
down all future time.’’ There. New South Wales
must lose her most vigorous males, check her
prosperity, mortgage her property, and expose
her towns to sack and pillage in quarrels
concerning the making or settling of which
she would have no more voice than Lap-
land. The obese German George of Cambridge
expects it and tho Echo sajs it must be. A
two months’ campaign, durieg which the only
casualty was from a spent ball, cost some hue-
dreds of thousands of pounds. With 7000, instead of
700 men in the field against highly-organised troops,
the time in which our national debt would be
doubled or trebled can be easily reckoned. And
what could we show for our lost blood and trea-
sure ? Lord Rosebery’s “ well-done ” and the
Echo’s “ do better.” Day by day the position and
aspirations of Australian “ Jingoes”—particularly
those of New South Wales —are becoming peril-
ously like those of the American ultra-loyalists
of pre-revolutionary days—men who preferred a
land beyond the seas to the country in which they
and their children were born. Let them look to it
that their reward be not also the same, that they
do not fill dishonoured graves in strange lands
while their names are received with curses in
their own. The day will be a happy one which
sees a iaw passed that every speaker or writer who
advocates offensive warfare outside Australia
should be placed in the forlorn hope. From that
day peace will reign undisturbed.
The Review.
There was a review In Moore Park, Sydney, on
Saturday. The Echo says that It “ bore large and
noble evidence of two great facts. First, the
willingness of the stalwart amongst the people to
prepare for war; and secondly, the delight of the
whole multitude in any preparations for war.’’
We, also, attended the show. “ What do we know
of reviews,” did you say ? Considering that we
attended several in the Champ-de-Mars when we
forget how many millions of red-breeched Gaul
streamed past, allonging and marchonging, to
turn the Austrians — bag and baggage — out
of Italy ; that subsequently we, with pecu
liar ferocity, belaboured a big drum at Alder
shot as wo marched by the saluting point
and knew that H.M.’s eyes were fixed on u
with undisguised admiration; and that, later still
on the Curragh, while leading a Scotch regimen ;
before the Lord Lieutentant, we fatally injured
bag-pipes by endeavouring to play “ Rory O’More’
on it, while the other pipers were wrestling with the
variations to “Scots, wha hae we should know
something of reviews. Of the observations made
by the Echo we shall speak further on. Two facts
of even greater importance struck us. One was
that we never observed a body of men who
seemed less disposed to quarrel, if they could
come to honourable terms with an enemy
the other that, even if they were anxious
to fight, they didn’t know how. We remember
seeing a corporal in the Guards endeavouring to
drill a company of Bashl-Bazouks. The company
was In single rank, and the right-hand Mahomme-
dan was a peculiarly awkward and evil-looking
cut-throat. The non-commissioned officer — a
stolid-looking Yorkshireman — at last lost all
patience, and, approaching the Saracen, gave him
in the language of the P.R. a lift under the ear!
The whole rank fell. We have no desire to insti-
tute a comparison between those warriors and
ours. We have every reason to suppose that our
lads would be just as efficient as any in the world
if they were highly disciplined. But, judging
by the loose marching and cumbrous movements
of Saturday, we trembled to think of the result if
they were exposed to a searching artillery fire or
a determined cavalry charge. In the crowd which
attended, the Echo discovers “the delight of the
whole multitude in any preparations for war.”
This is the hardest thing we remember to have
heard against Christianity. To be told that, after
eighteen centuries’ trial of the Gospel of Peace,
the people who pride themselves on their accept-
ance of that gospel take a delight in preparing for
war, is disheartening. Do they take such pleasure
in preparing to kill and be killed ? Not at all. It
is a calumny alike on human nature and on
religion to say so. “The desire to fight,” the
wee sheet goes on, “ is as strong as ever in the
strong blood of the race that is developing in the
colony.” We do not believe it. We do not be-
lieve the people of New South Wales have the
least desire to light if they are only left alone,
French peasants had not the slightest wish to cut
the throats of their German neighbours in 1870,
but Press, priests, pimps, and prostitutes pre-
vailed, and from every cottage on both sides of
the Rhine came the voice of Rachael weeping
for her children. Let the people of New South
Wales look to it that the bastard patriotism of
bellicose blusterers does not force them to occupy
positions from which retreat with honour is im-
possible.


On the first N.S.W. Lands Office day,
under the new Act, only 130 acres were taken up
at Wollombl. A nice constituency this for the
Minister for Lands to contest I
Be warned in time and take Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
To make a good Custard you should use Kings-
foad s Oswego Cornflour.
. 5?. of emergency you should keep a
bottle of Wolfe s Schnapps on the premises.
Klngsfords Oswego Cornflour made of American
Indian Corn, pure and unadulterated.
HARMY HUMOUR.
We have always respected the Salvation
Harmy. Our admiration for Marshal Booth has
never waned. Our regard for Major Barker is
ever on the Increase. Major Howard has no in-
considerable share in our esteem, nor do we over-
look the merits of that distinguished soldier of
salvation, Captain Canty. But the terrible warrior
who plays the big trumpet has a special fascination
for us. The other members of the band may
occasi mally diverge into airs suggestive of pi-ace
and merOy and a possible good time for the human
race hereafter, but not so he. There is no such
weakness about him. He keeps his eye fixed on the
Devil, and defies him and all his works with an un-
divided mind He gives him no time to recover;
he never lets up on him. His trumpet seems alive
with rancour. He shakes the gates of Sheol with
every thunderous blast of it. He tears out his
tunes till the air around him, as he passes
through it, seems to quiver with hate. He is a
terrific trumpeter before the Lord. Let him rip.
The hallelujah lasses have a certain attraction for
us, but not much. There is, however, nothing
about the Harmy which we so much envy as its
humour. The War Cry absolutely reeks with
humour. There is not a dull line in it except,
Perhaps, that which intimates its price. Where
all this flow of humour comes from has long been
amatter of much wondering to us. Where do
they get it? It is possible that inspiration comes
in the form of the comic now-adays? Does the
spirit of holiness now descend upon the elect in
the shape of a laughing jackass? It would seem
so. Look at the following extracts which we have
clipped at random from one issue of the humor-
ously-holy journal:—
“SHE POKED HIM IN THE RIBS.
"Praise Godl Our holiness meeting on Sunday
morning was a grand time, most of the soldiers
fPcaking well on the subject. One brother said
that his soul was so full of the glory that he could
not keep quiet while he was in bed, so he had to
break forth in ‘ songs in the night,’ and he did it
}“ fuch a manner that his wife had to ‘ poke him
in the ribs ’ to get him quiet.”
« r not this the very perfection of burlesque?
There is enough of the truly ludicrous In It to
furnish material for columns of comment. Pic-
ture a soul full of glory being poked in the ribs I
The wife of that glorious brother must have also
oeen “ full of the glory,” though iu a different
1 ashlon. As it is not stated in the paragraph per-
haps it will not be unfair to ask what special’ sort
of glory this brother was full of. We have our-
selves seen men and brethren so brimming over
with what they honestly believed to be glory that
it took three other men and brethren to hold them
down on their beds. We pass on to the next para-
lyser:— *
“ One of our War Cry lasses entered a coffee-
house a short time ago, offering her Cry for sale
and was answered rudely by a customer. ‘ Scop *•
said the proprietor; ‘don’t say a word against the
War CRy—that paper changed my life. I used to
keep a public-house; but one day a Cry fell into
my hands, and from it I learnt I was doing wrong
So I sold out and took these temperance rooms.’
Hallelujah I”
Comment would spoil this. As a joke, it is
complete and perfect. He must be a droll
fellow, that coffee-house-keeper. What a cor-
ner-man he would have made! Another selec-
tion-short but full of glee:—“A woman had been
saved at Colombo at the advanced age of 110.”
The Evil One was euchred in this case with a ven-
geance. One almost pities him to think how very
low down on him the Harmy played it here. Think
of him shepherding the soul of that old woman for
two ordinary life-times, only to be bluffed like
this at the last I It takes a good deal to discourage
him, but there must be a limit even to his endur-
ance, and we should think that this would go be-
yond it. If she relapsed from the ways of grace
again we do not believe he would take her in. He
must be a much meaner flend than we give him
credit for being if he would. If the old bones of
that ancient dame do not shake with laughter
when she thinks of how she rioted in delightful
iniquities for a century and a decade, and then
bilked” the old serpent that sot them up
for her all that time her soul will be a very dull
addition to the dull company in Heaven. This
also la good:—
“Happy Bill, our hallelujah torpedo, being un-
able to go to work on account of wet weather,
came to our captain's house for a bundle of War
S 8 ahT” WeDt ° Ut and a « the DeviU Haf-
S , ef P \Kb m uU" m a? ln rZa?i. ‘SSJ ‘“S?
torpedoes are the most destrucUve* weapons
for use in the wars of this world Vet P in
vented by science, then halleluiah torpedoes
shall be made to do destruction In the war
nf t tho >e 3?nEf 0n ’ffl ? a P p y Bl11 seems to be one
of the most efficient weapons of this descrip-
*be arsenal of the Harmy. But it partakes
th ® of a paradox to say that—being a
TnT pe nr ) . c )u d n 9® W0| *k in wet weather.
Tbe Cry . needs a little more editing in the
scientific department. The mention of Happy Bill
and his particular classification m the Harmy list,
reminds us that young’ Spurgeon—who, naturally
enough, objects to salvation being procured at
Hlefy Shop but his own—wrote the
other day to his pious father’s periodical to say
a be a8 disgusted to find at Launceston that
the Salvation Corps boasted of having a great
attraction in the person of a ‘Hallelujah Kan-
garoo,’ which kangaroo was a man, and by most
remarkable leaps and bounds followed the proces-
sion, and performed on the platforms.” You can
read between the lines here that young Spur-
geon is green with envy of the Harmy.
You can see that he would rather the Devil
should continue to go about like a roaring
lion devouring everything before him than that
any other than young Spurgeon and old Spurgeon
should have the monopoly of hunting him down.
Another gem:—
“ A testimony from a Yorkshire sick-room:—
* When you stopped, played, prayed, sang, and
spoke at our door it was like a new world.’ ”
This needs but a line of explanation. The sick-
testiflers in Yorkshire thought that they were
already dead—and damned. There are piles more
of funnier paragraphs than these in the issue
from which we have quoted—and, Indeed, in any
issue of this unspeakably jocular journal. The
writers can t help themselves. Perhaps it is some-
thing in the uniform; perhaps in the trumpets, or,
peradventure, in the big drum. The fact remains
that there is no such humour to be found outside
the Harmy. And now—R8 the writers of the WAR
irrelevant in what We are now going to say. It is
the natural outcome of the vision of that night.
But, for all that, we suggest it with bated breath—
strike the ev I at its root! There is no doubt, even
among the members of the Harmy who saw him,
as to who that stranger was. He was Has Major-
General Ballington Booth enough love for his fellow-
sinners to go down to Sheol for them and make an
effort to convert the Devil t It he has not, then he
gets no more support from this paper.
Cry seem to be fond of reporting conversations
they hear having reference to the Harmy—we will
wind up with a verbatim report of a dialogue we
1 j 8uburb tbe other night, just as the
Captain’s address was concluded;—
you ? h a cynlcaI cast in hls eye^: Are
S£f? A1N: I am, brother; the Lord has
(abruptly): Are you saved ?
I[ L ” d
Having said this, the stranger suddenlv disnn
peared in the crowd. Those who had taken™
notice of him averred that he had oblique
brows and a long moustache pointed upwarcPat
theeods. We cannot say that we saw mm ve?y
distinctly, but what we did see of him did nru
reassure us. We also noticed that th “e was an
wh«n?h e A C|U 2 V ? r ln , the notea of the bi * trumpet
when the band struck up afterwards. The crowd
M3 ,t re . ari i y - a ? d th0 Harmy marched p7n-
slvely back to the barracks. There is nothing
Anything to Please the Children.
GRANNY LOFTUS (to small hoy Richardson): ‘‘THERE, NOW, SONNY, YOU HAVE BEEN A GOOD BOY; HERE’S A LUMP OF SUGAR FOR YOU. IF YOU COULD HAVE
MANAGED TO KILL A FEW WRETCHED ARABS IN THE SOUDAN, I’D HAVE MADE YOU A FIELD-MARSHAL.”


BEALE & COMPANY.
BEALE & COMPANY
Beale & Company.
BEALE & COMPANY.
SOLE IMPORTERS OF THE
Sweet Hapsburg Piano,
and the
Haydn Organ and Harmonium.
BEALE & COMPANY,
Sole Importers of the Best and Strongest
SEWING MACHINE
ever landed in the Colonies. Guaranteed to sew
from the Finest Muslin to the Heaviest Canvas.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
Sydney Show Rooms,
612 and 386 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
1S1 OXFORD STREET.
TRAVELLERS AND BRANCHES THROUGH*
OUT THE COLONY.
LIBERAL TERMS OF TIME-PAYMENT.
Catalogues Free on Application.
The most delicious of all preparations for Pud-
dings, Custards, Ac., is Kingsford’s Oswego Corn-
flour.
Wolfe's Schnapps is a donor and preserva-
tive of health.
J. W. Bowen, proprietor of the M’Arhur
(Ohio) Enquirer, says:— “Ayer’s HAiRViooRiss
most excellent preparation for the hair. I speak
of it from iHy cMn experience. Its use promotes
the growth of new hair, and makes it glossy and
soft. The Vigour is also a sure cure for dan-
druff. Not within my knowledge has the pre-
paration ever failed to give entire satisfaction.”
It is a little trouble to examine th(
pamplet wrapped around each bottle of the true
MURRAY & LANMANS FLORIDA WATEK.sc
as to And the words, “ LANMAN A KEMP, NEW
YORK," which are water-marked or stamped in
pale letters on every page, but it is better to take
this small amount of bother rather than to be
imposed upon by a worthless counterfeit. Bverj
leaf of the pamphlet around the genuine has these
words in it, which, though pale and faint, can be
easily seen when held up to the light, and nc
Florida Water is genuine that does not have this
test mark.
Ihe Renner Manufacturing Co., of Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania, U.8.A., make an extraordin-
ary offer to agents, and those wanting employ-
ment, to sell their Renner Combined Alarm and
Door Bell, in the different colonies and counties in
Australia. It is endorsed by over 2000 publishers
in the United States and Canada, and ny the 100.000
who are now using them on their doors. It has
never been sold by the trade, but by agents alone.
It will pay 100 per cent, profit, and sells from $4-00
to $6.00 each. Agents in the United States have
taken as high as 22 orders in a single day. It sells
readily on its merits. General agents who can
handle a number of counties, or one of the colo-
nies, can secure those they want by being the first
to comply with our terms. Large illustrated
circulars, containing terms and price-list, will be
sent free. Address: Renner Manufacturing
Co., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, U.S.A. *
Every grocer keeps Kingsford’s Oswego Corn-
flour done up in and llb.-packets.
Something upon which we can rely—
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Personal Items
The Sydney Light Horse are to be “con-
verted into Lancers ” for the very excellent reason
that the Lancer uniform is—aw I—pwetty, dontye-
know.
Sir Julius Vogel, the Treasurer of New
Zealand, is one of the greatest statesmen of his
day. He has to be taken up to bed on a hydraulic
lift. Gout and good living.
Again. Mr. George Augustus Salasays that
all the time he was in Melbourne he never saw
one beggar. Hardly. Colonel Smith, of Ballarat,
says that they have everyone been drafted into
the Civil Service.
So Lieutenant Alwyn Greville has gained
the appointment of Equerry to Prince Albert
Victor of Wales. Put not your trust in princes.
Can Albert Victor so soon have forgotten the cab,
the umbrella, and—R. Burdett Smith ?
We read the other day in all the Sydney
and Melbourne papers a paragraph saying that “ he
was much respected, and left a wife and two chil-
dren.” It should have read: “ He was much re-
spected, and left two wives and three children,”
The London correspondent of the Mel-
bourne Age telegraphs as follows:—” Mr. John
Buskin, the well-known art critic, is now in a
very critical state.” Is this a joke? Ifso.lt is a
very ghastly one. If not, the Age correspondent
must have a very poverty-stricken vocabulary.
The portrait of Mr. Simon Fraser, accom-
panied by the original, has come out from London
to Melbourne. It is, perhaps, needless to say that
there is more interest manifested in the former
than in the latter. One was dashed off by Millais;
the other somewhat laboriously put together by
the Creator. The picture is modestly entitled “ A
Victorian Statesman.” A deep fellow, Millais I
Mr. G. B, Kerferd, Attorney-General of
Victoria, was asked to make a permanent appoint-
ment of a Judge to the Supreme Court, but he
refused, and has appointed Judge Cope tempor-
arily. The object of this is to enable Mr. Kerferd
to raise himself to the position when the present
Parliament expires soon. It is needless to say
that the hon. gentleman has never been over-
loaded with briefs.
People in London who know say that
since nls return home Mr. James Anthony
Froude has been full of the glory of the colonies.
This reminds us that when he first announced his
Intention of coming out to see us the Bega
Gazette man announced his intention of exposing
him as an essayist and utterly smashing him up as
a historian. How is it he has escaped ? Perhaps it
was the pig-killing season, and the Bega philoso-
pher was otherwise employed. But it was a near
share for James Anthony.
The trustees of the Victorian National
Gallery were foolish enough to give £1500 for the
picture “ Quatre Bras,” by Mrs. Butler-Thompson,
the painter of “The Boll Call.” Only the other
day in London Mrs. Butler’s “Remnants of the
Army” (Dr. Brydon reaching JeilaUbad) was
auctioned at Christie’s for £550. You can’t buy a
De Neuville for less than £3000; and now that the
great French battle-painter is dead his picture
“ Borke’s Drift ” in the N.S.W. Gallery is probably
worth at least a thousand more than was given
lor It.
The Hon. “Dr.” L. L. Smith, of Victoria,
has finally retired from the field of polities. When
L. L. was made a member of the O’Loghlen
Cabinet without a portfolio a cynic declared that
the plucky and enterprising little man bad attained
the pinnacle of his ambition by being placed in a
position which would enable him to write "Hon.”
on his pill boxes, and on the outside of the “parcels
of medicine, packed in a manner to avoid observa-
tion.” "Don’t you feel well?” “Young man,
look into thy heart and write.” What a queer
world this is 1
So the great Dion Boucicault is about to
take unto himself another wife, and will make his
first bow to a Sydney audience as author, actor,
and bridegroom. In W. 8. Gilbert’s play, “ Dan’l
Druce” (W. 8. G. used to write plays before his
Pinafore days), one of the characters describes
himself as "A pleasant old gentleman, not too old,
neither, but old enough to marry”—which re-
minds us that Boucy is old enough to marry, and
—in short—that he has our blessing. Miss
Thorndyke, who becomes Mrs. Dion B. on the 37th,
is a tall, pale, golden-haired dream of beauty. See
her in " The Jilt,” and die.
Renan has a most delicate and refined
temperament, but is cursed with a coarse and
heavy material envelope for his rare spirit. Short,
obese, shapeless, his body is surmounted by a
large head, to which the hair clings, fat and
greasy; his nose is Gargantuan; he looks like a
sensual old monk, addicted to every gratification
of the palate. His hands are fat and ungainly,
and be crosses them over his stomach in the usual
priestly style. But he has a pleasing manner and
a delightful smile. Whenever Benan visits a
town the priests ring the bells, as of old they used
to do to drive out the Devil.
The Maxim gun, the latest murder inven-
tion, an American one, fires 000 shots a minute.
In a quarter of an hour 9000 balls can be sent off to
take 9000 lives 1 That would clear out this old world
in a very short time if the men in charge fired
straight and the people stood In the right place.
The feature is that the recoil energy, instead of
being worked in kicking the gun over, is used to
eject the cartridge, cock the gun, place the next
cartridge and;fire it. That’s economy of force,
If you like. The weapon only weighs 65 pounds.
The American Maxim gun and the Australian
Brennan torpedo ought to settle matters.
One of our Melbourne contributors—a man
whom Ananias will be proud to meet—a man for
whom, when he goes home, all Hades will rise up
and hurrah—informs us that Colonel Smith, of
Ballarat, has offered, in case of war, to organise a
Foot Begiment and contribute the material for a
company in his own person. We print this with
misgivings. It is worth—say 9d.—it It be true. It
is worth—the life of our contributor—it it be false.
The reason why we hesitate will be obvious to all
who know the man. We shall lose 3d. on the
transaction If the information is false. And any
journalist will tell you what 3d. means In these
days.
What does this par. from the Bega Ga-
zette mean ?—“ From what we regard as reliable
authority the statement comes that Judge M’Fcr-
land s last visit to Bega was probably his last judi-
cial visit to this district. We do not think that the
majority of people will be sorry to hear that his
Honor uas been promoted to a more important
district. At the same time, we are bound to state
that his wish to change districts was communi-
cated to the authorities weeks previously to the ap-
pearance in a Bega paper oi a notorious bull-
headed vanity-prompted libel.” Why is the editor
so harsh in his surmises? Has he been reading the
“ Mutiny of the Bounty ?”
The Queen, we rejoice to learn, has be-
come “reconciled ” to tne Grand Duke of Hesse.
This blessed reconciliation has been brought about
since Hesse finally shook himself free from the
morganatic fetters of Madame de Kalomine, and
decided to replace her with a third spouse.
Number three, apparently, is approved of by the
Grand Duke’s ex-mother-in-law, and ought, lor
the matter of that, to be perfectly acceptable to
tne ratepayers of Hesse Darmstadt. As Princess
Hilda ol Halnault-Dessau (the lady in question) is
more than forty, she can't reasonably bo expected
to bestow very many little princes and princesses
upon a long-suffering world.
There is something a little sickening about
the fulsome praise larded on to every doing and
saying of the late General Gordon by some of the
newspapers. B.eviewlng the Khartoum diary, the
Melbourne Argus says:-“The following is
another of many sarcastic passages wrung from
him: * Man is essentially a treacherous animal, and
although the Psalmist said, in his haste, all men
are liars, I think he might have said the same at
his leisure.’” Great Scott I Fancy referring to
that antiquated wheeze as an original “ sarcastic
passage I” If Gordon’s diary contains many more
funny ones like that, we should be inclined to
think they were “wrung” from some old “Joe
Miller ” to enliven the tedium of Khartoum.
The Prince of Wales in his moments of
leisure devotes himself to the banjo which he
bought with the idea of entertaining his bosom
friends sometimes after a bachelor supper; but
he is scarcely so sanguine as he was at first of
becoming a dangerous rival of the burnt-cork
gentlemen who dance double-shuffles in elongated
boots at the music-halls. Like his dear father,
Albert Edward is devotedly attached to the
divine art, so if you are at a loss how to entertain
the Heir Apparent, you cannot go wrong if you
give him some good music; for Instance, “ Walt
till the clouds roll by,” on the Jew’s-harp. The
Duke of Edinburgh believes that he, too, has
musical talent. His instrument is the violin,
which he plays at concerts whenever the neces-
sary quid pro quo is forthcoming.
Now that Archbishop Moran has been
made a Cardinal, there are five British dignitaries
of the Church of this rank. They are Cardinals
Manning, Newman, Howard, M'Clusky, and Moran.
Cardinal Moran we know—and so do his priests.
Cardinal M'Clusky is Archbishop of New York.
Cardinals Manning and Newman live in England,
and Cardinal Howard in Home. The latter, by the
way, was once a dashing guardsman and something
of a lady-killer in his salad days. So there are
three English Cardinals to two Irish. The number
will be equalised when, as is probable, the new
Archbishop of Dublin has a scarlet hat sent to
him. The Scotch prelates should have a turn
next. We presume the soul of John Knox is in
heaven. If so, when he sees a Scotchman wearing
this scarlet symbol of the Woman of Babylon, he
will smash his crown to pieces on the golden pave-
ment for an everlasting certainty.
The Dublin “loyalists” are wroth, and
their devotion to the English throne has fallen
from blood-heat, during the Prince of Wales visit,
to zero at the present time. It appears that there
haven’t been enough honours thrown about over
that visit. Every alderman who could find pluck
enough to wave his hat, displayed his "loyalty”
in the confident expectation of getting an earldom
when the fun was over. The Mayor of Belfast,
for instance, is much aggrieved because his obse-
quious attentions during the Boyal visit haven’t
been rewarded with a baronetcy. “ The feeling of
indignation is so great,” says a London paper,
“ that, at a recent dinner party, on the host pro-
posing the health of the Prince of Wales, two-
thirds of the guests remained seated. The remark
has been made that there is no encouragement for
loyalty.” Humph I they do say that “ Plain Bill ”
has been heard to murmur a remark like that—in
his sleep.
Mr, Thomas Burn, of Melbourne, has “the
luck of it.” He was living with his aged mother
in a very humble way when the luck came to him.
This was the way of It: A rich man died in Scot-
land recently, leaving no relatives. Among his
papers was found the copy of a deed “ which was
executed by him in Melbourne 24 years ago,
whereby he sold all his expectations under bis
father’s will to Thomas Burn for £400,” The
Thomas Burn of the garret and the Thomas Burn
of the deed were discovered to be identical. It
seems that he had forgotten all about the affair,
and even when reminded of it took a long while
to think before he could recall the circumstance.
The amount coming to him is £3000. He has not
received it yet, but, nevertheless, he finds friends
everywhere. We experience a similar thing, on a
smaller scale, every Saturday. But fancy a man
taking time to think over the particulars of a
legacy like thatl It is enough to make one weep
saltpetre.
We said in our last issue that Sir Samuel
Wilson traces his pedigree back to another Wilson
who was something or other at Carrickfergus—
probably a bum-bailiff—a couple of centuries ago.
But that, it appears, is only a step or two down
his ancestral avenue. The heralds have hunted
bis pedigree up through half a score of kings
and a whole procession of earls and knights and
thanes till they ran it to the earth in Egbert, the
first King of England. We daresay, if he had so
wished it, and had gone on two hundreds better
on his first offer, they would have as clearly shown
that he was descended in a direct line from
Alexander the Great. He must have " parted ”
pretty freely for all this gilding. No wonder they
call him a king of sheep. Is’nt it Oliver Wendell
Holmes who says that “a man who boasts of his
ancestors is like a potato-plant-ali that is good
of him is underground ?” Poor old fellow, after all
this mighty past the youngsters of a generation or
two hence may be making mud-pies out of his fine
clay.
It may not be generally known that M.
Kowalski, the great pianist, was a friend of the
late Victor Hugo and of Louis Blanc. Well, that
is so. Further, it was he who, in conjunction
with this illustrious pair, secured the proclamation
of the 14th J uly as the national feast, in place of
the fete Napoleon of the 15th Aug ust. The change
was received with raptures by the whole French
nation. It will be seen, therefore, that M. Kowal-
ski is more than a mere musician. We do not use
the term “ mere musician ’’ slightingly, but simply
in view of the fact that great musicians, as a rule,
have been too much wrapped up in their art to
pay much attention to the affairs of the outside
world. M. Kowalski has also a very pretty style
in writing French boudoir-verses, aud is conver-
sant with all the intricacies of rondeaux, triolets,
vilanelles, and the rest of the charming but diffi-
cult metrical forms revived by Bauvllle, Gautier,
and other writers of the Just-past generation. So,
you perceive, he is not only “alsy wldthepianny,”
but "handy wid the pen.”
Home evil-disposed person has been “stuff-
ing” theNarrabrl Birnie. That reliable journal
asserts that: “The long-lost Sir Boger Tichborne
is at present on a station not a hundred miles from
this office, In this district. He is kept a close
prisoner by the proprietor of the station on the
pretence, it is alleged, that he is a dangerous luna-
tic, and is, or has been, chained to the ground to
destroy his chance of escape. More particulars
in a future issue.” All this is satisfactory. If there
was one thing more than another for which we
hankered, it was the discovery of another Sir
Boger. The heart-rending verbosity of those en-
thusiasts who championed the cause of the
Claimant has made us yearn for the appearance of
another man, who should cause tongues to wag
unceasingly as of yore. Then, too, the element of
romance about this story (composed to be told to
the local marines) makes it so intense that we will
wait with feverishly rolling eye for that future
issue and further particulars of this Sir Boger
who is “chained to the ground to destroy his
chances of escape.”
The Reverend Charles Strong is once more
a power in Presbyterian Melbourne. But the
Presbytery-Scotchmen stark »nd dour are the
members thereof—is still too strong tor him. The
majority of his congregation are with him, and
would form a new aud independent congregation
any day he chose to say the word—but for one
thing. And that is a thing characteristic of the
Scotch nature-canniness, to wit. If they were to
form a new congregation, they would have to
build a new church, and the flue Scots Church in
which they worship at present would fail into the
clutches of the Presbytery. Whether the gain to
the latter, or the loss to themselves is the major
motive which gives them pause is a problem lor
ethnological psychologists to solve. We will tame
another puff at the cherry wood after this John-
sonian crusher. By the way, we have often thought
that it the old giant lived in these days and took
to paragraphing, he might have paved Grub-street
with gold on the strength of his thundering sen-
tences. But. no—if it could have been done,
Alfred’s reporters would have been wallowing
in wealth long ago.
The Honorable R. Richardson, of Fish
Creek fame, is “ Honorable ” no more. That is
to say he is no more so entitled. In a frenzy of
fine anger at the charges levelled against him, this
pious old gentleman sent in his resignation of his
appointment as a Victorian Executive Council-
lor. No slur of suspicion should be cast upon Ms
honour with Impunity. Not much I The country
might go to rack and ruin for all this Victorian
Camillus cared thereafter. His resignation was
promptly accepted by the Governor-in-Council.
Whether he was prepared for this sudden accept-
ance of his offer or not, we will not venture to say,
but if he was, then is he different irom all other
politicians we have ever met, heard of, or read of.
However, the fact remains that his seat knows him
no more. Consequently, the sounds of wailiog is
heard in the tents of the Reohabites, and the noise
of gnashing of teeth in the tabernacles of the
godly. Mr. Richardson can now give his whole
attention to preaching, and we would suggest that
he should select as a permanent text “ the contra-
diction of sinners.”
Burne Jones, the painter, has been elected
an A. BA. Jones is a genius of the transcendental
ticket, and high priest of the “ greenery-yallery,
Grosvenor Gallery” school of art. His women
(we refer to the figures on his canvas) are exceed-
ingly long, and slim, and sallow, their drapery
clings close to the legs, and their heads usually
incline to one side. Still Jones (terribly unresthetic
name, that) is far and away in front of Whistler in
the same line, and the Boyal Academy, by electing
him an Associate, show themselves to be either
converts to the new faith In painting, or else (as is
more likely) they are seeking to reform a man of
misdirected talent—to pluck a Jones from the
burning, in fact. Speaking of Whistler, by the
way, how his lofty soul would revolt from the
thought that his name is only mentioned in this
part of the world in connection with wrestling
matches 1 When Clarence of that ilk was pitching
Thomas about in their recent encounter in Mel-
bourne, a Hebrew was heard to express his con-
tempt for " the people in England who said
Whistler wasn’t a great artist.” “ He’s good
enough to carry my bit,” said Ikey.
A certain reverend gentleman of Auck-
land, N.Z., has hit upon rather a good idea in
journals. It will, perhaps, be remembered by
some of our readers that this anointed scribe was
at one time the proprietor of a prurient little
paper—lull of sly interrogatories as to “ Why Sal
was carrying on with Maria’s bloke the other
night,” and delicate allusions to the fact that
“ Cock-eye Jim has grown quite a toff; too proud
to speak to anybody since he got his new togs
which was called the Observer. Well, now he
has started a paper which he calls the Evening
Bell. The runners thereof each have a bell,
which they ring instead of calling out the name of
the journal. Perhaps this idea was suggested to
the reverend promoter by a mediaeval custom.
In times of plague a crier with a cart used to go
about the streets ringing a bell, and crying “ Bring
out your dead 1 ’ In this instance, of course, the
converse will be the case. The ringing of the bell
will mean "Bring in your dead.” By-the-way,
this suggests to us that the Sydney Protestant
Standard people might take a hint from their
reverend contemporary, and on their days of pub-
lishing employ a man to ring the flre-bell.
Mr. Thomas Bent, of Brighton, is the
Thundering Jove of the Victorian Assembly.
When he rises to remark anything, the Speaker
cowers. Some short time ago he Informed an
awe-stricken House that he had been to Sydney to
welcome the Contingent home from the Soudan in
his capacity as Mayor of Brighton and President
of the Shire of Maribyrnong. And we never even
knew it! Oblivion seizes us, after this 1 But why
did he not come forth on that miry but memor-
able day and say sometning? Where was his
tremendous eloquence then ? “ Soldiers, the Mayor
of Brighton and President of the Shire of Maribyr-
nong salutes youl” There would have been a
sentence for our scarred and war-worn veterans
to take home with them and think over and drink
over and spit at the stars over, and finally die over
in a delirium tremens of triumph! How did Mr.
Bent miss it ? Surely it could not have been for
want of an umbrella I His reputation over here
ought to have run to the loan of that, or what is
eloquence worth ? And this reminds us that
certain ill-natured persons say that he came to
Sydney as a representative of the Cabbage Garden.
He may understand what this means—we don’t.
Hardly. If we have any failing it is an almost
fatuous regard for the feelings of members of
Parliament.
The Prince of Wales would like to come to
Australia, but “ objects to the colonies incurring
any large expenditure in connection with the
visit.” For this consideration on part of H.R.M.,
much thanks. Let the Prince, however, cease to
have cause for alarm, and when Lord Carrington
is quite settled down at the Fowl House, hop
along. John Lucas’ buggy shall be on the wharf
to meet him, and he shall be received by a deputa-
tion of influential citizens, in the persons of
George Perry and E. W. O’Sullivan. On
his landing, the Pyrmont Band will commence
to bray "The Dead March in Saul” (which
is thej only tune it can play right through),
and then, on H.R.H. being hoisted up into the
conveyance, Lord Carrington shall, after the steed
has been banged with a shovel and hit with a boot,
drive—(he is famous tor driving)—drive H.B.H.
off in triumph to the Gubernatorial Residence.
He can have all that. In connection with the tele-
gram, people who are not so effusively—we might
even say oeslaveringly—loyal, as we are, mignt
say that this wondrous consideration on the part
ot the Prince comes none too soon, since a fort-
night of his august presence at Packington Hall
sufficed to completely “ burst up” the Earl of
Aylesford. We shall wait till we get that pro-
mised rise of five and “ lunch money” before we
invite Albert Edward to stay round at our little
terrace.
We always had a sneaking admiration for
“James Melbourne’s” abilities in the Humbug
line of business. Without humbug in these days
of sentiment and mock shirt-fronts we know that
a clergyman is nowhere. If he belongs to the flre-
and-brimstone party, who luxuriate on visions of
their enemies first appearance on the Great Grid-
iron, he certainly may get along on that reputa-
tion alone; but if he has a light heart beating
under his cassock and a tendency to ask a man
what he’ll have to drink rather than to tell him he
has taken a through ticket for Tophet it takes a
good deal of humbug to keep him abreast of
his foes. The plans that our old friend James
resorts to show that the Archbishop of Canter-
bury, when he selected a successor to the ancient
and lean Charles, chose a man of considerable
resource. Here is the last little wile:—"The
medical advisers of the Bishop of Melbourne have
decided that he needs immediate rest, and that his
preaching engagements, at least for Sunday, must
be abandoned. Having in view the enforced re-
laxation on Sunday, however, the Bishop and Mrs.
Moorhouse will be able to carry out their original
intention of being present at the Herz Testimonial
Concert on Saturday evening.” In any other line
of business, James the Robust would have been a
success, had fate not thrust the crook into his
hand. With such a facility for putting things on
tne slant, ho might have gone into the soft-goods,
and scooped the pool.
A born humourist was, we read, lost to
the world when «r Thomas Galvin, the genial
hght-hearted " finisher ’’ oi the noted Klimainham
(Dublin) Gaol, went under, fuil ot years, "rheu-
matiz,” and honours In his old age he was fre-
quently visited by morbid pilgrims who felt a
longing to see the rope with winch he had turned
off some of their own near relations. A favourite
little bit of pleasantry with Thomas on these
occasions was to slip the rope over a visitor’s neck
and then give it a sudden chuck that caused his
eyeballs to stand out on his cheeiss like coooanuts.
Tom loved his art for his art’s sake, and whenever
a reprieve would come to some wretch whose
hanging was looked upon as a settled thing, Tom
used to fairly lie down and howl at what he called
" tne onfeeun’ villyins that wud take th’ very
bread out av th’ mouth av a poor owld man loike
me.” Nothing caused Tom to buck more, however,
than any little delay caused by a sudden burst of
religious fervour on the part of the gentleman
doomed to undergo the operation. One wretched
culprit, when about to be shunted along to glory,
exhibited the greatest terror, and strung out his
devotions to a most unseemly length In order that
he might enjoy as much of the "fleeting show”
he was about to leave as possible. Tom stood it
very well for a time, but at last, losing all patience
he poked his head into the cell door and shouted’
out, ‘ Musha, long loife t’ ye, Misthur O’Brien, but
wud ye plaze to hurry along wid yer prayers?
The jintilmin are gettln’ tired waitin’ undernaith
yer purty little shwing beyant there.” Tom’s
death was very likely hastened by the grief he felt
on seeing the distaste which the N.S.W. Executive
showed for capital punishment.
To show how great has been the mortality
among the Generals of the German Army, it mav
be mentioned that at the end of 1873 there wern
twelve Field-Marshals—Prince Charles of Prussia
Count Von Wrangel, Prince Frederick Charles’
General Herwarth Von Bittenfeld, General Von
Steinmetz, Count Von Moltke, Prince Frederick
of the Netherlands, Count Von Boon, the Grand
Duke of Mecklenburg, Prince Augustus of Wur
temburg, Baron Yon Manteuffel, and the Prince
Imperial of Germany. Of these twelve Marshals,
Counts Von Wrange! and Steinmetz died in 1877,
Count Von Boon in 1870, Prince Frederick of the
Netherlands in 1881, Prince Charles of Prussia and
the Grand Duke of Mecklenburg in 1883, General
Herwarth Von Bittenfeld in 1884, and Prince
Augustus of Wurtemberg, Prince Frederick
Charles, and Baron Von Manteuffel this year;
leaving only Count Von Moltke and the Prince
Imperial alive.
PRINCE FREDERICK CHARLES.


Sydney Bottling Co-
Ale & Porter Bottlers,
late
Macquarie place.
PHILLIPS & COMPANY,
418 George Street,
Sydney.
Ale: Quarts, 7/-; pints, 4/6
Porter: Quarts,7/; pints. 4/6
Trade Liberally dealt with.
TERMS-CASH.
PE APES & SHAW S
sms SHOW!
PBAPB3 and SHAW’S SPRING MILLINERY.
PEA PE S and SHAW’S SPRING COSTUMES.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING DRESS
EABRICS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING FABRIC
GLOVES.
PEAPES and SHAW'S SPRING SHIPMENT
KID GLOVES,
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING HOSIERY,
from J. and R. MOBLEY'S.
PEAPES and SHAW'S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
LACE GOODS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
EMBROIDERY.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
i P ARASOLS.
SPECIAL NOTICEI
All the above goods are ]
Now Open for Inspection.
Large Shipments
for other Departments are
CLOSE AT HAND,
and a constant flow of
NOVELTIES
will be opened up
DURING THE SEASON. 1
PEAPKS & SHAW,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS,
321, 326, 328 George Street.
8 S0\$
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYD N E.Y
-IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
SHAPES.
DR. BOYD,
53 CASTLBREAGH-STRBET, SYDNEY
(Upstairs), r~
GRADUATB IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p m. Monday, Wednesday;
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and Eemale Diseases
Specialty.
Box 130 6 P.0.
AND C. HUENERBBIN,
318 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
TEETH
(COMPLETE SET),
£5
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
DENTIST,
MARKET STREET,
One door from Qeorge-strcet.
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£5 mm MIES!
PACKED in CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
Carriage paid by mall all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
*5 WINTER BALE.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 Large Marcella Quilt
10 yards good Sheeting
30 yards Strong Calico
13 Strong Cotton Tick
20 Wincey Dress Tweed
10 good Welsh Flannel
.0 yds. Strapping Tweed
All the above are good
wearing articles.
MEN’S CLOTHING
BALE.
1 Suit Tweed — Coat,
Trousers, and Vest
2 Crimean Shirts, large
3 Best Cotton Shirts,
large size
1 Best Felt Hat, any size
6 pairs Strong Cotton
Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or Pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &c.
£S FREE SELECTORS’
BALE.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 White or Colored Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 White or Unbleached
Calico
6 White or Bed Flannel
13 yards Dress Material
12 yds. Cotton Shirtings
4 pair Good Stockings
1 pair Strong Stays
1 dark Petticoat
6 Strong Uambroon
6 Brown Holland
4 Large White Towels
. 3 yards Good Trousers
Tweed, Buttons,
Threads, &c.
*5 LADY’S BALE.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
0 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
3 Ladles’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Kobe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of JE5.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials - Silks, Velvets, &o.—with
prices, and full instruction for self-measurement,
if applied to.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 13
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
TO Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams,
and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. “Beta,” Bulletin Office.
What protects us against disease? Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour has no equal in
the world.
Art Union of Moss Yale, in aid of Widow
and Orpan Fund of Berrima Masonic Lodge.
Tickets, 30s. Will shortly be drawn. Apply at
once for tickets. J. S. Hyams, Sec., Moss Yale ♦
The home factories have artists continually
visiting places likely to produce artistic novelties
—not to imitate, but to get inspiration. Bray’s,
of 403 and 40f George-street, having direct com-
munication with makers,;are enabled to offer the
public the latest styles—as well as the largest
choice—in every article in china and glass,
whether for use or ornament.*
The boy stood on the burning deck,
Whence all but he had fled;
And rolled his trousers carefully
Around his youthful head.
Then straight he leaped into the sea,
Nor feared the raging storm;
And well the Summerfleld Cork tweed,
Upheld his boyish form.*
Drink Wolfe's Schnapps and enjoy good
health.
For light pastry, cakes, &o., just try Kingsford’s
Oswego Cornflour.
BEST IN
THEWORLD
I
OFFICE - 31 LOMBARD ST. LONDON.
SSIS
I
f >
Kaiisi
S-
!llllli ls 3> 1
»«
EE
i
LOWEST
IN PRICE
SCOTIAN ’“•HORIZONTAL ENGINES,
‘ALBION” L.0NCSTR0KE HORIZONTAL ENGINES;.. *
‘CLIMAX” \/ERTIGAL ENGINES 5 BOILERS.. 1
'“CLIMAX” PORTABLE-HOISTING ENGINES.' ’
‘BRITON”-HORIZONTAL SOMPOUND LAUNCH ENGINES.
INVERTED COMPOUND MARINE ENGINES.
, • PORTABLE STEAM CRANES.
Vertical.cornish,s marine boilers.
iiimw*
ft
0
LARGE ST0CKS:F0R FULL PARTICULARS AND PRICES APPLY TO
D.& W.ROBERTSON.SYDNEY,SOLE AGENTS*o«NEW SOUTH WALES.
J.W.SUTTON &C0. BRISBANE.SOLE AGENTS -«»QU EENSLAND.
ROBISON BROSJ. CO. MELBOURNE,SOLE AGENTS
MY FIRST AND ONLY “MASH."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tub First Commandment, in the Old Testament,
ifl that we are to “ increase, multiply, and re-
plenish the earth.” It la supplemented hy the last
one, In the New Testament, that we are “ to love
one another.” These two aro often too much for-
gotten in the teaching of the intermediate ten.
We are to answer for our deeds and misdeeds,
gterne tells us how the recording angel produces
the “ book of remembrance” and how “ the angel
of mercy” once blotted out, with a tear, one of its
damaging records. If dying as a bachelor, as I now
live, I am to be asked at that day of fiual trial why
I have failed to comply with commandments one
and eleven, I shall have to ask the crier of that
high court to call Emily Hillgay in proof of my
plea of what the French call “ extenuating oiroum-
gtanoes.”
Half of the bachelors in the world are those who
have had those “ disappointments,” which they
never get over. I am of that number. A man of
any soul can really love but once—
» To look and sigh and to converse,
To flirt and play the fool
Is sending passion out to nurse,
And putting hearts to school;
But love, to be completely true,
With life and death should deal;
Should be the first one ever knew—
In short, the one I feel,”
or rather felt then, and feel still, for the afore-
named Emily.
I met Emily, first time, at the Crystal Palace—at
the great Exhibition of '51, when it stood, as a
palace of glass, in the grounds of Hyde Park. It
was all over a place in which to fall in love-so
rare and radiant was the building, and so novel the
exhibits. The day began with romance, for I had
in dressing for so fine an occasion as my first visit
to the enchanting place, forgotten to take money
with me. If it has never happened to you to go
out for a day’s pleasure moneyless, then wholly
unknown to you is the great excitement of get-
ting that which was, with me, forgotten.
The sweetest things in life are its “ flukes.” The
song which tells us of meeting “ by chance—the
usual way,” means that in that usual way we
usually meet with the best things. Here I stood at
the Crystal Palace, at 10 a.m., four miles from
home, with the purse left in the pocket of what
hung on the peg behind the door there.
In such cases of hard-up. I had a resource in a
void pencil-case, found in Westminster Hall some
time before. It was generally with “ my uncle ”
for one purpose or another, for money is much
wanted in the days of our youth. On this occa-
sion it was, however, available, and I set off in
search for the nearest sign of the three golden
balls As a special Providence, I met with a friend
bound for the Exhibition, and thus found com-
oany and the loan of a sovereign.
Wandering with him about the palace of En-
chantment I came upon a fairy-like being keeping
a wax-flower stall, and my fate also, in her fair
hands- The Koh-i-noor had no longer any attrac-
tions for me, nor had the t»«* of thousands of
other exhibits. I even forgot the most wonderful
exhibit I ever saw in or out of any collection.
This was a most delicate piece of Italian wax-
work, "the last hour of a man in a consumption ”
-the most terribly fascinating pourtrayal of
death I ever looked upon. T
I was in another sort of consumption—I had
fallen in love 1 Intending to improve the oppor-
tunity to any extent and to inform my mind with
all the wonders here set before me, I had now
quite lost my head in so losing my heart. The ex-
hibition contained to me but one thing of Interest
-a fair-haired girl with blue eyes and dainty-
looking figure. In theatrical language, she filled
the large stage of that great show, or did so for
me, and, of course, that was everything—as Byron
tells us of one similarly troubled:—
" What to me was the world beside, I
With all its change of time and tide—
Its living things, its earth and sky,
Were nothing to my mind and eye.”
Even the recurrence to that long past time
makts one do now as I did then—grow poetical;
It also makes me feel thirty-five years younger.
Hovering about that stall was now my custom
of an afternoon—whenever I could, on any ex-
cuse, get away from office. It was so delightful
to get heavily into debt taking my beauty to
evening teas and nightly concerts—heavenly
time, but awfully expensive to a salaried clerk.
This sort of midsummer madness continued until
the close of the Exhibition. Happy domesticity
was to follow that event. Warren commemorated
it in his “Lily and Bee” jumble of verse. With
me it was to be commemorated by a marriage, and
life thus looked all rosy. I was always having my
enslaver's portrait taken—to set In lockets and in
keepsake ornaments. I didn’t think then, but
have often since thought, that she never asked for
mine in return. When I came to think further of
it, afterwards, I found that I had nothing of her’s
as a present but a piece of hair—a gift costing
neither money nor trouble. I did not know then
that blue-eyed girls with fair hair are usually un-
troubled with sympathy and sentiment. The
heart is, with them, too often represented by a
gizzard only.
BMy innamorata lived in lodgings with a good old
soul-a widow named Duncan. Never a Sunday
was I away from her tea-table—coming back with
Emily from excursions to Gravesend or Richmond
Hill. One Sunday I told her that I should be
absent on next Wednesday evening, wanting to go
to Macready’s final appearance and benefit at
Drury Lane.
“Ain’t I to go, too ?” she said.
Not possible,” I answered; "Ihave no dress-
circle places and shall have to be at the doors an
hour before they open, to struggle for a place in
the pit or stalls.”
“ And can’t I do that as well as you 7 I see, you
don’t want to take me I”
This, was feminine, indeed, and cruel. I ex-
plained that she would get her tiny feet trodden
upon and her dress half torn oft In such a struggle
as she must needs have in a crowd in which I
could not help her. It was all of no use. She
,£° w^ ere 1 was going and face all such
difficulties. It must be something worth all that
rnuch, otherwise why did I do it ? I explained my
admiration for Macready and for the piece he was
to play—“ Marino Faliero for that night only,
one knew as much about Macready and Byron’s
play as she did of the planet Neptune and its
Popple, but go she would. When the feminine
mind is made up, right or wrong, we have to give
way to it—if we happen to be stupidly in love.
It was by repetition hammered on the ear ” of
Emily that she would need to wear her oldest
™ 8 and bonnet and her thickest boots. Also,
that she might have to put up with losing me alto-
gether in the rough-and-tumble jostle of such a
crowd. Mrs, Duncan heard It all, and understood
it, and so one would have thought did Emily. At
I thought so when I left her at the door—
getting there the last kiss I ever had from her.
.Where she lived was but a short distance from
the theatre, and she was to be ready by six sharp
—the doors open at seven. 1 was there to time,
but no Emily appeared. She was busy dressing,
so Mis. Duncan said. Knowing that no dressing
was needed, I sent up word for her to come down
at once—as agreed upon. “ She wouid be down
soon was the answer brought to me.
I waited in that parlour below stairs for a
quarter of an hour, and then could sit no longer.
1 fumed about in a stew there for another like
time. At half-past six things looked dreadful, in-
deed, for any chance of getting into the theatre,
and I again sent for our hostess. Again was the
message returned that Emily would soon be down
—that she was dressing. To say that I felt anger
growing upon me was not expressing the real feel-
ing, but there was no help for it, and nobody to
swear at in that lonely parlour. Another quarter
of an hour went by, and then another. The clocks
were now striking seven quite audibly, but no
sound as yet was to be heard of Emily coming
down stairs. I could hear, in the mind’s ear, the
theatre-doors opened; and see, in the mind's eye,
every seat filled. Rage had now subsided—anger
was burnt out. I was calm and stony when Emily
at last appeared—at a quarter past seven—in a low-
necked dress, got up in the style she thought ap-
propriate only to theatre-going. She had, proba-
bly, been once before, and to the dress-circle; and
had no idea of going to a theatre otherwise.
She was, I saw, simply a mindless fool. I said only:
“You can go back again, and take all that off;
the theatre has been filled to the celling for a
quarter of an hour past. It is an hour and a
quarter after the time when you were to be ready.”
No apology was made, and but this short speech
given me:
"Oh, nonsense; don’t wait here like a fool, but
go and fetch a cab I”
It was all over! She had cured me of my love’s
fever, and that completely. Passing her, I passed
out, as she thought to get that cab. I have been
35 years gone on that errand—for I never returned
nor saw again that first and only love of mine.
AUSTRAL.
Mbs. Bouncer (to hor lady friend, who has
been trying to make herself out about the
same age as Mrs. B.): “ There, let’s drop the
subject. I have always been told that I was
deserted by my motner when a child, and
how am I to know that you are not that
heartless parent ? ”


THE SYDNEY BICYCLE CLUB.
FOURTH ANNUAL INTERCOLONIAL AMA-
TEUR CHAMPION BICYCLE AND TRICYCLE
RACE MEETING.
Under the patronage and rules of the New South
Wales ’Cyclists Union.
To be held at the
N.S.W. CRICKET ASSOCIATION GROUND,
Moore Park, Sydney, N.8.W.,
SATURDAY, 33nd AUGUST, 1885.
PROGRAMME:
1. One-mile Bicycle Championship of N.S.W.—
Special Club Trophy M w
2. Ten-miles Bicycle Championship of N.S.W.—
Gardiner Cup
3. One-mile Bicycle Handicap _ .. .
4. Three-miles Bicycle Handicap—The Ladies
Bracelets . , . . . .
Competitors in this race must be nominated by
ladles.
5. One-mile Bicycle Handicap, for Malden Riders
only
This race to be ridden on Roadster Bicycles.
Minimum weight, 351bs.
6. Two-mlles Tricycle Handicap
GOLD MEDAL FOR FIRST SCRATCH MAN
PAST THE POST, IN ADDITION TO THE
THREE PRIZES ALLOTTED TO THE HANDI-
CAP; ANY COMPETITOR ALLOTTED A START
TO BE AT LIBERTY TO GO FROM THE
SCRATCH MARK IF HE CHOOSES.
THREE PRIZES IN EACH EVENT.
ENTRIES CLOSE AUGUST 10, AT 9 O’CLOCK
P.M., AT CLUB ROOMS.
7. 150 Yards Handicap Foot Race
8. 440 Yards Handicap Foot Race
9. Parade—Prize, Silver Bugle, for the Club ex-
celling in appearance and manoeuvres.
All events open to all amateurs.
E. H. MCRAE,
Honorary Secretary.
All communications and enquiries to be ad-
dressed to, and entry forms obtained from, the
Club Clerk, J. Copland, at the Club Rooms and
Headquarters, 85 Market-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
EigltU ART
Intending Investors are invited to make early
application for tickets, as the Drawing will take
place at an early date. Remittances may be made
by cheque, P.O.O.. or stamps. Agents for New
South Wales—SULLIVAN & JACKSON, 143 King-
street, Sydney.
AGLBHAWK MECHANICS’ INSTITUTE.
£
GRAND ART UNION,
in strict accordance with the Act.
FIRST,
PRIZE.
VALUE
PRIZE £500.
SECOND PRIZE, £200. THIRD pRIZE . m
4 prizes, value £50 each. 100 prizes, value £5 each.
4 „ „ £35 each. 550 „ ,. £1 each.
40 „ ,, £10 each. 300 „ « lOs.eaoh.
1000 PRIZES I 1000 PRIZES I
10,000 TICKETS at 10s. each, obtainable at most
business places in the colony.
N.B.—In proof of the value of the above, the
Committee undertake to find purchasers for the
various prizes at the prices named, and to hand the
winner full amount in cash, less 10 per cent, for
commission. , . . .
The drawing to take place in August, under the
supervision of the Mayor and Councillors of Eagle-
hawk and a Committee of Shareholders.
T. H. TAYLOR,
Managing Secretary.
Bull-street, Sandhurst, and
Mechanics’ Institute. Eaglehawk.
SULLIVAN & JACKSON, Agents.
Vaughan Chambers, 143 King-street, Sydney.
“THE LYCEUM7’
Newcastle,
SITUATED IN THE BEST PART OF THE CITTi •
It is capable of seating 500 people,
and suitable for
MUSICAL & DRAMATIC ENTERTAINMENTS.
The Stage (40ft. by 34ft.) is furnished with
STOCK, SCENERY, &c.
For Terms, apply
COLIN CHRISTIE,
“ The Lyceum,”
Newcastle.
Xjocla.-XDla.u. dz> Sla.suao.roc!ls
3-Star 10-Years’Old Whiskies. The Oldest. Purest, and Most Mellow Imported. GOLD MEDALS— Cal
cutta, N.Z. and S. and W. Australia. HOLLAND & CO.’S OLD TOM GIN. G. H ADAMS. 119 Pitt-
street, Sydney ; and at Melbourne. Adelaide, and Brisbane, Agent. Kirker, Greer, & Co. (Ld.)
CENCT
New
m
ML
tOAn*.
sgStO:
WAREHOUSES, SYDNEY.
Tit In Zealand Lu ul Mercantile Apt; Cram
(LIMITED',
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
LONDON.
Corplto,! - - £3,500,000.
THIS COMPANY WILL CONTINUE TO DISPLAY AND SELL
WOOL!
ON THE MELBOURNE SYSTEM,
At their Magnificent Warehouses,
BEIDG-E S T IE3 E IE! T.
w* EVERY LOT WILL RE CAREFULLY VALUED, AND SPECIAL ATTENTION WILL BE
BESTOWED UPON SMALL FARMERS' PARCELS, WHICH WILL BE PLACED ON A FOOTING
OF EQUALITY WITH THE LARGE CLIPS,
If reserves are not reached, the nominal charge of one shilling per bale only will be made,
WOOL SALES, EVERY FRIDAY. SHEEPSKINS, EVERY TUESDAY. HIDES, EVERY FRIDAY.
Way Bills and all Information can be obtained on application, or will be sent by return of post.
Sydney Wool and Grain Warehouses.
H. H. LANG, Produce Manager.
THE SYDNEY SPORTS
DEPOT.
389 GEORGE-STREET SYDNEY
(Opposite Royal Hotel.)
bicyclesQricycles.
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles
and Tricycles
Have Every Improvement.
OUR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadster.
THE UNIVERSAL CLUB
BICYCLE,
fitted with Improved Ball Bear-
ings to front and back wheels,
Hollow Forks, Patent Head ana
Detachable Bent Handle Bar,
Easy Slide Spring, Hubs Platen,
Black Ename lied Spokes,
1MS universal Club, a thoroughly reliable and easy-running Price, *13 l«s. At the price
1 maoh££Ball bearingsto both wheels, and improvements. we defy competition.
JAMES MARTIN ft COMPANY, 388 Georgo-st., Sydney.
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE ft MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER Or CLARJENCE AND MARGARET STBJSBTS. --
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES)
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
JS- BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING!, Merchant ftlmporie
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty s Hotel.!
professional Dirwton*
d-v EORGB PB i WIMAN. Scene Painter, Theatre
tTf B Royal, Bri 1 *ne. Disengaged.
A L.
TH B A T R B ®
Under the management of
sara ‘Williamson, Garner and Mubobov**
Lessee Mr. 8. Lazar, treasurer, Geo.L. Goodman.
Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
Overture at 8 sharp.
(IOLANTHE
j IOLANTHE
PERFECT SUCCESS1
perfect lucoiilf 1 iolanthe
The Music composed by
W. S.
Prices of Admission: Dress Circle 5s., Stalls, ds.,
F t“ ilurM' part, of the house »t Eastward
H Bo* plan open at theatre fromU tlll t. No free
list. Doors open at 7.15. Carriages at 10.50.
— T uw OPERA HOUSE.
]N Under the Lesseeship of
MATERONI and WILSON.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING.
Grand Farewell BENEFIT tendered to Mr.
PHILIP DAY, under distinguished patronage.
SAT CRD AY. "AUGUST 33. 1885,
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN SY DNE1,
LUSCOMBE SEARELLB S
Latest and Greatest
IS. noRi OMANTIC in°:i A?tt
ISIDORA as a long run in ISIDORA
IsiOORA MAJERON1& WILSON'S ISIDORA
18 GRAND COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
nnd declared by Press and Public to be the best
musical work of MnLuscombe Searelle.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Huenerbein’s Music
t ic^®^„j?g»a^Q^c-
of the house may be obtained at Roberts , tooac
conist, next theatre.
~A I B t r thbatrbi
G
Lessee Mr. B. N. Jones. Treasurer Mr. H. Musgrove
Doom open at 7.30. Overture at8. Carriages at 10.15
No Free List—Public Press excepted.
SPECIAL COMEDY SEASON,
Messrs. WILLIAMSON?GARNER?& MUSGROVE
8UC com^?an?^r? i FRA?NK^THC)^NXON?^ 8 * 1
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY,
Mr. Frank Thornton as the Rev. Robert Spalding
A SPECIALLY-SELECTED COMEDY COMPANY
The furniture and appointments from Hamilton’s
Globe Furniture Depot, Park-street. _
Admission— Parquctto StaUs, 5s.: Stalls, 3s., Bal-
cony, 3s. Box plan at Nicholson s Music Ware-
house, Qeorge-street.
General Business Manager, Mr. H. R. Harwood.
The ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George street, Haymarket.
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
CROWDED and FASHIONABLE AUDIENCES.
IMMENSE SUCCESS IMMENSE SUCCESS
Mr. and Mrs. B. A. HART,
and
Miss LOUISE HART,
in the new and sparkling Comedy,
MY WIFE’S RELATIONS.
To be followed by
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY COMPANY.
Pronounced by the Press and Public the most re-
llnod Entertainment given in Sydney. Minstrelsy,
Olio, Farce, Every Evening.
Gentlemen ushers in attendance.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 3s; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
CH AS. AUSTIN, Business Manager.
AOADBMT OF MUSIC.
Lessee and Manager .. .. F. C. Hlsoooks.
THIS AND EVERT EVENING.
THE GRAND DOUBLE COMPANY,
LEON and CUSHMAN COMBINATION,
in conjunction with
HISCOOK’S FEDERAL MINSTRELS.
The performance concluding with Leon and Cush-
man’s Burlesque, ILL-FBD-DORA,
Two Screams and a Howl.
Prices : Reserved Orchestra, 4s.; Stalls, 33.; 1 ar-
quette, 3s.; Gallery, is. Flan box at Paling s.
Miss Annetfta Scar!
HAVING rested her voice for six months, after
a long and successful tour through New
Zealand, would be happy to
RESUME HER PROFESSIONAL DUTIES ON
THE STAGE ONCE MORE.
«*r Line of Business :-Opera Bouffe, Concerts,
Burlesques.
This young lady artists, being an eminent musi-
cian, would have no objection to travel with a
first-class company as Pianist.
All theatrical managers please address letters,
for the present, Post Office, Young.
Fust ill Fittrliiul
Inmates of
Asylums,
the Destitute
Parramatta.
THE Committee organised for carrying out the
movement, initiated by Mr. Quong Tart,
desire to inform the charitably-disposed that the
vpaWtS and ENTERTAINMENTS to the IN-
MATES of the two DESTITUTE ASYLUMS at
Parramatta, are fixed for
SATURDAY, the 33ad, and SATURDAY, the
B 29th INSTANTS.
Donations towards this most laudable work are
earnestly solicited, and will be thankfully received
by any of the following Committee :—
Joseph Smith, Esq , Mayor, Parramatta
W.J, Ferris, Esq., ..
Hugh Taylor, M.L.A., «
John Taylor, J.P , n
Varney Parkes, J.P., <*
H. S. Badgery, M.L.A., Pastoral 1
Chambers, I
D. O’Connor, M.L.A., Cleveland- 1-Hon. Treasurers
street, Sydney, I
Quong Tart, Sydney Arcade J
Robert Guy, J.P., 138 Victoria-street, Hon. Sec.
The kind help and co-operation of Ladies and
Ministers of Religion are specially invited, that
success may ensue.
The Feast given the old men at Liverpool, on
Saturday, the 35th ultimo, was received with
intense delight and expressions of gratitude,
PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
Twenty per cent, under any Sydney
House.
£400 WORTH OF STEEL ANGLOS
TO PICK FROM.
G
J. STANLEY,
CONCERTINA DOCTOR,
WILLIAM STREET, BATHURST.
Herberton, Queensland, June 18th, 1885.
‘ I received your concertina safe and sound, and I
am very well pleased with it. It is the best instru-
ment 1 ever saw. I will never try another of
those common concertinas, for they are a fraud—
every one of them.
Joseph Mitchell.
Melrose Station, Condobolin,
July 10, 1885.
I got concertina safe on Monday last, and I am
very well pleased with it. I believe it is as good a
one as ever I saw.
Henry Simpson.
Bathurst, July 14,1885.
I have much pleasure in testifying to the admir-
able qualities of the Anglo-German concertina I
purchased from you in April last. I have been
playing for the last 16 years, and during that time
have purchased instruments from some of the
leading houses in Melbourne and Sydney, and can
conscientiously state that I have never met one to
eoual it, either for tone or excellence of mechan-
ism. I may say that it is as faultless in tone as on
the*day on which I bought It. You are at liberty
to make what use you like of this note, as it is
only fair to the public that they should know
where a perfect instrument is to be obtained.
Charles Williams, Hairdresser.


m
* ' s
I 'll II I! ' Ill
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
f|lHIS triumph of musical invention is acknow-
I, ledged on all hands to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It is a wonderful little instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three.pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 33 reeds, plays in three keys, and all the
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the inventor, the world
was first Indebted for the Organette; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and Intelligent
study, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of cost and crudeness.
It requires no skill t® extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &o , &c., &c. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy.
The player requires no instruction further than
the fow printed directions that are sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that “ he who runs
may read.” It is best adapted to the kind of music
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card-holder for convenience
in singing. It will be found invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should bo
supplied with one ; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
OF
474 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities-from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can offer as to the genuineness of the
Instrument, is the fact that, in all our corre-
spondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by all educators and moralists
that music is the great refining influence, and
especially with children its effect for good is
boundless. The love for music which music in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositiocs and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, end parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other
wise hard task an easy one.
The price of the Autophone Is 30s.,
and where good music can be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autopho o for 30s. we
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogues of tunes at any time.
PRICE. ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents for Australia:
Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-street, Sydney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets.
Most popular amongst the ladles is Kingsford’s
Oswego Cornflour.
mb. DbOourot Browns (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,'
“ Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “ Manual 01
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land ana
Mining Titles Agent, may he consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, •»" Mining Titles, a weL
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Brownes
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
Invalids and children—give them Kingsford’s
Oswego Cornflour.
The Cooktown Independent asserts that
the only gold ever found by New Guinea ex-
plorers has been “ hungry-looking In grain and
quality, and strongly impregnated with silver;
consequently it views, with much derision, the
stoiy of Kerry’s rich nuggets in pink quartz story.
For Blancmanges, Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour
cannot be surpassed.
Wolfe'a Schnapps should be in every house.
SUNDRY SHORTS.
Teeatr* Rotal “lolanthe” P-8
Opera House-” Isidora ” •• ..
Gaiety Theatre—" The Private Secretary „
Alhambra—” My Wife’s Relations” ..
Academy op Music— Minstrels ..
We stood under the gaslight in front of
otrdnev Opera House on Saturday night. We always
stand in the gaslight when we have our dress
Rothes on. Presently a cab drew up. and a Bene-
of 48 hours lightly stepped therefrom and
Sanded out his bride, who was decorated with a
mush that had apparently become chronic He
adjusting matters with the cabman, when she
the notice board. “First night of Married
? she exclaimed, and unconquerable decision
"“.’in her lones, “no, we are not going m here.
John get into the cab again. Cabman, drive round
the Prayer Meeting at the Young Men s Chris-
tian Association.” And as the;cab moved off we
were prepared to bet which one the two had be-
come- * * *
“ Married Life ” is a “ sparkling comedy ”
bills) in three acts. As far as the dialogue is
Concerned, the piece is sparkling, but not even
vvRuckstone could clothe such a skeleton as he has
nhnsen so as to make it presentable to an average
ondience. The only characters in the piece, are
Ape ill-matched couples, who, by their jealousies,
Sohrarisms, idiosyncrasies, gloom, or farcical con-
tradictions, contrive to make themselves thor-
Xmrhlv miserable. Then they desert one another,
come together again, and live very happily ever
afier There is a despairing attempt to make a
bve-Plot by adding bigamy to the show, but even
+hia did not cause more than an infinitesimal
amount of thrill. As Mr Dove. Phil Day.’ ‘fetched
?hem” every time. He looked the promoted
hiitler right down to the ground, but yet his
orenius could not atone for the faults of the piece.
Tpbe other characters it is not necessary to criti-
cise They, perhaps, did their level best to pro-
mote hilarity, but, as all the universe knows, you
cannot get blood out of a stone-“leastways,” as a
cautious old miner was wont to say, “ if there
ain’t no blood in the stone”—nor can even a clever
actor create mirth. He can interpret, or manu-
facture, but he cannot create.
* • *
“ Married Life ” only runs for five nights
Hor which mercy many thanks), being followed by
Phil Day’s “ben,” on Friday, Slat; while, on
Saturday. Luscombe Searelle’s comic operetta.
“Isidora” (he, too, affecting the “dorasl”), will
be shown for the first time in Sydney.
* * ♦ *
The last nights of “lolanthe” at Sydney
Roval are announced, and the yearning to see it,
with those who have hitherto been unable to do
ao prevents the lessees from mourning over any
vacant seats. Seldom has a piece been so con-
sistently favoured as this production.
« * * *
Hisoock’s Minstrels have returned to the
Academy of Music, where they opened on Monday
night to a standing-room-only crowd. An alliance
has been concluded with Leon and Cushman’s
combination, and if this does not fetch the Sydney
neoole. their ideas of humour and minstrelsy must
have altered marvellously. The Academy has
hist had a complete renovation. One more thing
is necessary: while the Minstrel season lasts the
place should be made larger.
Every Man His Own Librettist.
We were surprised once at the marvellous
celerity with which Luscombe Searrelle (the cele-
brated composer) turned out comic operas—scores
and libretti: but we’re not now. To write the book
is easier than the most transparent lying. We
have only just learned to make it, and we love it
dearly. Now just watch this:—
PRETTY PAQUITA.
Comic Opera in Three Acts.
Scene— An Inn. Mountains (of several colours)
in the distance. Villagers drinking.
1st Yil (at table): Ha, ha, ha, ha !
All (ibid): Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha I aha!
1st Yil. : Let us toast the lovely Paquita.
[Cue to the band-" The Lovely Paquita.”
SONG AND CHORUS.
1st Yil: You would not think, as here we drink,
No villagers are we,
We’re corsairs bold in search of gold
And di-a-muns, ye see.
All: And, &c. , . ,. , ... .
1st Yil.: You’d never, I make bold to think,
Take us for corsairs as we clink—
Bold corsairs of the sea.
All: You’d, &c.
1st Yil.: We’ve biffed the King from out the
court,
We’ve played the very deuce, in short,
And, loaded up with stolen port,
The bobbies in the street we fought I
We rang street bells, and this is true,
When came the “ party ” we cried
“booh!”
We stole a poor-box, too, ’tis said
Contents: a piece of fishing lead.
All: Chorus, and exeunt into inn.
Enter Defeated General of the King’s
Forces.
B G ■ Well, this is nice. Here was I was pro-
moted’yesterday, and now——(weeps.) Yet they
looked well. They couldn’t, they said, fight if
they didn’t get their six meals a day. But no mat-
ter! Though my army may be vanquished, lam
yet unconquered. That is a comfortable reflection.
[Cue to the band —“ A Comf. Reflection .”
SONG.
Defeated Major-General.
A major-general I am; and also a C.B.
I know a lot of warriors who’d love so to be me;
For valour on the tented field—the one, two,
three, and under ” —
This rank and cross I’ve torn from Fame—reluc-
tant Fame, by thunder!
I tan my tunic; gaze, and you will see some dusky
I my sabre now, it is so full of
I’d take a 6 month to tell you how for victory I’ve
A the panic-stricken enemies I’ve
sabred.
Behold my head-you think it real-that silly, silly
I ev’ry night just as a pan for
&Sb6B«
The splinter of a shell, good sirs, in my poor suf-
I’ve fought so fierce that hardly any limb about
me real is.
But, hoist me on my charger brave—though this
may seem self-flattery—
In red and gold, I am so bold, I d storm a ten-gun
battery!
A major-general I am, ’twas offered, and I took it.
And with one sweet and ringing voice the ladies
say “ I look it.”
You can go on with it yourselves. Paquita
comes in now, and sings something about the
throes of love beyond control, have pierced her
little quiv’ring soul. &o. dee how easy it is. Try
now, all of you, and you’ll soon be able to ball it
off with Searrelle’s celerity. We don t mind doing
a bit more for you, if you like to call round; but
you must be prepared to plank down an extra 4d.
“ for rolling aad glazing.”
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“J.A.M.”: You are told that you have a
vein of humour. You have a ten-foot lode of it.
But we have no vacancy just now... “A Bung-
wall Flat”: You ask why the duties of forest
rangers and school attendance officers could not
be performed by the police. Our answer is. be-
cause Ministers and members have poor relations.
Which accounts also for the fact that there are
rabbit inspectors in some colonies where there are
no rabbits... “ Civilian ” (Brewarrina): According
to the most reliable statistics published, the
American Civil'War cost the States the lives of
over eight hundred thousand men. A little Sydney
paper, the Echo, says that N.S.W. ought to get
ready to send a larger army than the last to help
England as soon as she runs amuck again —
“iHapworth”: Weak imitation of Mr, Spoopen-
dyke “London by Night”: You haven’t im-
proved on Charles Dickens "Ormuzd”: Yes,
we consider the fact that none of the papers
ladled out the customary gush about Prince
Alfred, as a sign of the times. Colonials are apt to
become aweary of this "loyal” slobber “The
Lord Mayor s Show” (Prahran, Vic.): At present
N.S.W. criminal libel rates this breezy sketch
would provide us with gaol accommodation till
nearly the end of 1897 “J.P.B.”: Good verse,
shows genius. The language, however, does not
fit the digger, and, therefore, the effect alternates
between the pathetic and the absurd. You can’t
every day write a thing like the “Diamond
Wedding.” “T. E. Liardet”: You give no ad-
dress. Send stamped addressed envelope, and we
will return MS “J.H.C.”: Your little lyrics,
alas! are la the W.P.B “C.C.”: Sir James
Martin’s address on behalf of Christianity is, from
a N.S.W. standpoint, the greatest compliment
that has been paid to the religion of our people
since the time of the catacombs “ C.W.S.”: An
advertisement for “ A Plain Cook ” can be read in
more than one way “Spectator”: Have taken
four lines out of forty...." Brum”: Local Option
is in force in New South Wales Municipalities, but
only touches the question of increase of licenses
or removals “J. Turner" (Surry Hills): Your
remarks on Land Nationalisation are very true,
but not sufficiently new or forcible for publica-
tion. You ask where will the money come from
for the purposes of Government? Let Dailey’s
speech at Albury, announcing taxation, answer
thisV..“ Bayard”: Held over for a week—“That
Portico”: We would like to publish your poem,
but have fears as to the result of doing so. Our
fastidious subscribers demand something higher
than lines like this verse, for instance:—
“ By Etna’s and Vesuvius’ craters,
Why did these champagne legislators
Ignore Newcastle’s city paters,
And make of them such small pertaters V’
..Next time you are very indignant, try prose...
“K.” (Townsville): Not point enough. ...“A.
O’Keefe”: It is impossible for us to deal with
your grievance, as your statement has a libel in
every line. Send it to some member of Parlia-
ment “A.C.”: We don’t think that journalism
is your forte. Your writing is too uneven. Of the
specimens you send, one is perfect as to metre,
while the other is mere doggerel. How is that
now ?
The Barmaid Question.
WHAT IT WILL COME TO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The first prosecution under the Barmaids’ Re-
gulating Clause in the Publicans' Act was heard
this morning at the Court before Mr. Cooey, P.M.
—Victorian Exchange, 10th August, 1885.
“ Police against Beerhouse,” the constable cried,
“ For the court is all ready, his Washup inside,
And a case of importance this day will be tried;
For Beerhouse has broken the law of the land:
To wit, at his counter allowing to stand
A golden-haired, full-chested maid of eighteen.
Bewitching the thirsty with bright glances keen,
He’s a bad lot is Beerhouse, that can’t be denied.”
A portly old party was Beerhouse the bold,
Now charged with abducting a lamb from the
And tra’dlng her smiles off for dull yellow gold.
On the floor of the court he’s allowed take a
chair;
By his side stands young Alice, the bar-tender
fair, , . . ..
And the traps testify that the maiden is new,”
But a week in the place, and “ so help ’em”
that’s true; „ . ,
Though a peeler’s “ so help me s not much, I
am told.
And the eye of the beak squinted suddenly
down , ,,
On the law-breaker there, with a ten-lashes
frown; „ , ,
And he asked of the maid: “ Had she been long
in town;
I fancy I’ve seen your face somewhere before,
When a quieter, lady-like costume you wore.
When a source of delight was your fond mother’s
smile
Ere you entered a life of temptations and guile—
For a barmaiden’s life is all that, you must own.
“ With your face and your figure, your charms
any day , .
Would have won you the power some mechanic
to sway,
And what was your age did you say, by the
The'police have, I think, fully proven their case,
So, to save this young maiden a life of disgrace,
I shall take her as maid in my own family.
She’ll be happier there than with one such as
he.”
Said Beerhouse; “ That barmaid’s a boy, Beak.
Good day.”
MAY DEN.
Mr. R. Colonna-CIose, a Sydney barrister,
has announced his intention of contesting the
Namoi. His chance of return cannot yet be esti-
mated. The Irish and Australian World has
not yet declared whether it will support or oppose
him.
An anonymous writer in the Gunnedah
’Tiser uses a column of that paper to announce
that Joe Abbott, as N.S W. Minister of Mines, has
been as conspicuous a failure in office as his pre-
decessor. Dr. Renwick. They are always making
discoveries at Gunnedah.
The Mayor of Paddington is organising a
banquet to Messrs. Trlckett (Minister of .Educa-
tion) and Butcher, the Parliamentary representa-
tives of the borough. This is as it should be.
There is no more edifying or lovely spectacle than
that of the meek Civil Servant doing homage to
those who control his official destinies.
It is understood that Mr. David Buchanan
(who, |by the way, has written to the AGE an
elaborate paper in favour of barmaids) has pre-
pared alonr and fervid oration on the Soudan
question, and has intimated to the N.S W. Ministry
that, unless the House meets shortly, he will burst.
David, by the way, will ere long leave for Cale-
donia stern and wild.
The two young new chums, who are in
custody on a charge of having chopped up Con-
stable Hird at Canterbury, Sydney, the other day,
do not, from statements attributed to them at the
inqu' st, seem to attach any great importance to
the death of a policeman. Their sentiments in
this regard are fully approved of by at least one
Illustrious official. We allude to the hangman.
Patti is to sing at Court again. Some
years ago the Queen ran her pen through the
diva’s name, but it has, it appears, been restored
to the list. By what process of reasoning Her
Ma'esty got over the Nicolini difficulty to her
satisfaction, we do not profess to know. The
workings of the female brain are ever subtle. The
Queen has perhaps been reviewing the love
escapades of her own immediate blood connections.
Those should teach Her Majesty leniency towards
others, if nothing else could.
A Victorian squatter said to have lost
£30,000 over cards, in one evening, at a Melbourne
club. That will cut into 1000 bales.
A REMINDER.
Our stage of politics is small, they find—
The English critics who come here to star.
Perhaps But they should please to bear in
mind
How very, very small the actors are.
This is how an Albury labourer writes us
re the banquet there:—" I see by the papers that
Mr. Dailey and some other honorable gentlemen
are invited to a banquet by the people of Albury.
That is as great a lie as the statement made in the
same papers that the people of Albury were in
favour of sending away the Contingent. The
whole business has been carried on from first to
last by the bankers, traders, and clerks, and the
working men have never been in it. Should any
person doubt the truth of this let him read over the
names of the contributors to the bogus Patriotic
Fund from Albury, and he will be convinced. This
people here have been opposed to the Soudan
business all through.” .
Licenses to cut timber are now being
plentifully applied for at the Victorian Lands
Office. Our red gums are found to be a mine of
wealth. This Australian mahogany turns out to
make the finest of all wood-paving. It resists wet
and the wear and tear of time and traffic better
than other woods. In that way it is as valuable as
the jarrah timber of Western Australia, which is
said to resist the teredo worm in the water and
the ravages of the white ants on land. The red
gum is not the most plentiful of Australian trees,
and may be exhausted in time by the foreign de-
mands for it now that its supreme excellence be-
comes known. The kauri pine of New Zealand is
being also rapidly used up.
The Rivenna sheep-men will presently be
again raising a great cry about the grasshoppers,
and every Mongolian that runs a garden will be
seen flourishing screens to drive the varmints off
bis cabbages. We had a beautiful garden up that
way once which we tended whenever we were not
helping to keep up a bar or to run a billiard
saloon. It was the delight of our eyes. Up came
the hoppers, and that garden went. We watched
and wept, but were cheered when we saw the
cusses attack the tomatoes and pepper trees. No-
thing, we thought, could eat these things and
live. Still, the hoppers did, and throve on them.
But now we read that the Californians, taking a
hint from the Paris-green treatment of the Color-
ado beetle, have triumphed over the hoppers with
a poison mixture composed of 501b. bran, 181b.
powdered arsenic, and 131b. common sugar.
Reported that the Anglo-Australian cable
rate will be reduced to 8s. Od. per word; Press rates
to be 3s. 8d. The Sydney Evening News will then
be able to publish a daily wire as to the state of
Alfred’s health. Which reminds us that credit
should be given where credit is due. The reduc-
tion, which is in the Interests of the general news-
paper-reading public, has been mainly brought
about by Mr. Henniker Heaton, who has long been
trying to arrange in this way for a big daily cable-
service for the Evening News aforesaid. The
S.M. Herald and Argus people don’t by any
means relish the prospect of so convulsive a dis-
turbance of the snug monopoly they have hitherto
enjoyed. The Sydney D.T. conductors, though
not rowing in the same boat as the News, will, of
course, be jubilant at the change, which means a
cut-throat competition among the London corres-
pondents of the big Australian dailies. Hitherto,
mere money has held a big lead At the 3s. 8d, rate
keenness and hard work must prevail.
The Pall Mall Gazette had a reason for
the publication of the gross details of high-life in-
famy. Had the particulars been ten times grosser
the end to be attained would have justified their
being printed. By no other means could the
object be gained. But it is quite a different thing
when colonial journals wallow in the prurient de-
tails. With them it is a question of increas-
ing the paper’s sale. The difference between
the act of the Pall Mall Gazette and
theirs is the difference between the professor
of anatomy who explains to his class the func-
tions of each bodily organ and the person who
vends indecent photographs Who believes that it
wss for the promotion of morality that the Even-
ing News published the sickening particulars?
Who thinks that morality was so promoted—that
the hint of the “ spicier ” matter in “ our second-
edition,” and of the spiciest of all in our “ third,”
was made with an eye to the exposure of black-
guardism, and not to the receipt of the pennies?
Eh, Alfred ? Further particulars, which are
utterly unfit for publication, will appear in our
“suck-ln edeeshun,”
The Hon. Finch-Hatton seems to have
been troubled with double vision at times—
to suit his double-name. He was for a long
time in Queensland, and explains much that he
says by telling us that “ the climate is a thirsty
one,” to which he adds: “the amount of hard,
steady drinking that goes on is astonishing.
Bankers and business-men, legislators and lawyers,
doctors and tradesmen, all make a practice of
every now and then deserting their business and
sallying forth to the nearest public-house fora
drink. No one who wishes to find a business-man
ever goes to look for him In his office, knowing
well that he is practising at the bar.” These are
among the hard things said of Brisbane Nothing
of the like can, of course, be said of Sydney, so the
effects of a liver thus disordered in Queensland are
seen in another way. He calls his book “ Advance
Australia.” Now to see how he helps to do it.
“ The general panorama of Sydney harbour, how-
ever viewed, ispositively ugly.” “ The climate of
Sydney is always detestable.” As if that was not
enough he seeks a third subject and finds The
Bulletin most prominent—next to the harbour
and the climate. Wo are abused in good company.
Mr. Proctor, M.L.A., in addressing his
Armidale constituents, played heavy on the
N S. W. Ministry. Concerning the finances he said:
“ Mr. Dibbs, in his financial statement, had said the
country was a million behind, and the amount
would have to be made up. In spite of this, the
bill which was to have yielded three-quarters of
a million, was withdrawn. The present Govern-
ment had either lived on borrowed money, or had
been manipulating the trust-funds of the coun-
try.” Then, after alluding playfully to the asser-
tion that members of Parliament pay themselves,
he is reported in the local paper to have stated
that: “There was the dump-cars affair. £40,000
had been given to a company for which Mr. Dibbs
was agent, and now this property was lying useless.
(Sensation.) Mr. Wright’s letting of contracts also
needed explanation. A contract was let for carry-
ing water to the Sydney station. As soon as the
matter was completed, Wright, Heaton, and Co.
bought the lowest tenderer out and took up the
work. This certainly appears an anomaly to me.
It seems strange conduct for Mr. Wright to in-
dulge in. If this sort of thing were tolerated it
would put other contractors at a great disadvant-
age. I shall always oppose Mr. Wright being
Minister for Works; and I Intend, if I am returned
to Parliament, to institute full inquiries into all
these contracts. I know for a fact that Wright,
Heaton, and Co. have been paid about £10,000 for
shifting furniture Into the various Land Offices,
and this without calling for tenders.” These
statements naturally created some talk, while
the condemnation of the Soudan expedition was
received with applause, and the name of the
Minister for Lands with “jeers.” We suppose
our exchange mei-ns “ cheers.”


BRIEF MENTION.
How was the Cahors lost ? Why, by hug-
ging the shore too closely. This should be a warn-
ing to girls never to stay out after 10.
David Syme, of the Melbourne Age, says
that “ Any Land Act In Now South Wales Is cure
to be more or less of a swindle.” More, David,
more.
“ElMahdi always prays before he sends
his soldiers away to massacre their enenles.”
What of that ? Our own Barry and Moran did the
same, but the prayer didn’t work.
A race horse called Solicitor has been
running in the N.S.W. provinces lately. Accord-
ing to his name, he should have won every time.
As he didn’t, he’s unworthy of the profession.
This mysterious par. is from the Went-
worth Advocate:— “Town quiet. Nothing stirr-
ing. Can it he that ? No, surely not I And
yet But no, it cannot be.” Oh, yes; It Is,
though. Rum.
The Art Society has established a class to
study drawing from the antique. Mr. Fletcher
Watson has been appointed teacher. The pupils
will meet every Saturday for practice at the Liver-
pool Benevolent Asylum.
The following ad. from a Sydney journal
bears the stamp of its true nationality la every
line:— ”Michael O’Blank, Merchant Tailor and
General Outfitter (late of Sackville-strcet, Dublin).
Seventeen years’experience in the colonies.”
Gordon bad an eye for the artistic after
all. One Item in his diary reads:—” Gladstone has
a rival here in shirt-collars. Mahomed Boy Ibra-
him appr r — cl with regular wings, a rather ragged
c•'Tl -- up ! • < -s regular orthodox patterns.”
Says a Melbourne evening paper: “A lot
of disreputable old women, who are a perfect
nuisance in Piinders-street, were ‘ run In ’ by the
police.” This is the way in which some Melbourne
men speak of their female relatives when they
grow old.
THE THIRD NAPOLEON AND DICTATOR
DALLEY.
What difference between these luckless two
Can we now scan ?
Not much. Both played, both lost, both had to rue
Sedan—Soudan.
As Sir James Martin observes, the ne-
cessity for the Atonement is well recognised in the
laws of N.S.W. The recognition takes the form
of the “ cat” (four strands wire, and five knotted
whipcord), and that dear old familiar institution
so fondly cherished by a large number of alleged
Christians—the gallows.
A Townsville Chinaman lost his horse the
other day, and complained to the Charters Towers
police:—”I Just now come from Townsville; I
losem my horsey. 1 don’t (hink Chinamen take
him. I don’t think white iel ow take him at all;
I think some fellow b — lluhman take him.”
The Cooma Express rejoices that a re-
spected citizen will soon “ return in the swaddling
clothes of matrimony.” This is an airy way of
saying that he is about to be married. But the
metaphor is not chosen with an eve to the bashtul-
ness of the pair natural in such circumstances.
* A Civil Servant down South took an action
the other day against a firm of builders to recover
damages for injuries to his head caused by a block
of wood being dropped on the same from the top
of a house the firm was putting up. The judges
smiled softly and dismissed the case—with costs to
the plaintiff.
From the News: —“To editors of news-
papers,—A lady authoress and F.8.L., returning to
London, desires engagement as English corre-
spondent. Noretta, Blank-street.” [Ill] This Is
pretty frank, n’est ce pas; but there would have
been more humour in it if the fair Noretta had
dated from Dapto.
A New Zealand legislator gravely gave
notice lately of a question he had to ask his Go-
vernment. The question was: “Wnat measures
are to be taken to preserve oysters on the coast of
the colony ?” How long it will take the picked in-
tellects of New Zealand to solve this problem it is
difficult to say. But we can do it ourselves in
three words—Don’t eat them.
Said his Honor Sir James Martin the other
night when asking if man could do without reli-
gion: “Which of us who easts a stone from him
can tell why that stone should continue in motion
after his hand was withdrawn from it?” That’s
precisely what every convicted stonethrower who
has gazed uu the awful and majestic countenance
of Martin, C.J., has never been able to answer
satisfactorily.
Jos. Symes observes that, had Queen
Victoria married John Brown, ” then the nation
would have worshipped John, and his pedigree
would have been tracad back to Kenneth M’Alpiae
or Prestor John, or somebody, and the name
Brown would have been derived Bruoln or Brud-
hoin. or something or other: and his royal virtues
would have sprouted and flowered like a bloom-
ing rhododendron.”
At a recent meeting of the Victorian
Racing Cm!), the bookmakers prerent, according
to a Melbourne paper, " represented half a million
of money.” It is impossible for the mind to con-
ceive a grander spectacle thaa that, except, per-
haps, at a fashionable Jewish synagogue. There
you get piety in addition to " vealth.” At the
V.K.C. you get the comfort of an abundance of
“ vealth ” and aquiline noses, but under a purely
secular asp* et.
An old man was found dead in bis bed at
Dunolly (Vic.), the other day, by the baker’s boy,
who called with the morning loaf. If the deceased
owed the baker a bill, the latter will have to wait
a good while before he can collect It. There is a
moral in this—one that was well formulated by an
old Machiavellian Florentine, when he safd: ” If
there be a matter which troubles you, put it off—
it will probably settle itself in t me.” That is to
say you may die, or the other man may die. This
principle is largely acted upon by subscribers to
country newspapers.
Thus spake the Rev. 8. J. Mitchell, of Mel-
bourne, in a recently-delivered keture to the
Newcastle “ Geordies ” :—“ Nations are wbat
mothers make them, and she who rochs the cram®
rules the world.” Splendid sentiment-splendid
bosh. Mothers are not quite so vulgar as to rear
their own children in this enlightened age. Ihe
party who agitates the cradle, and forms a
youngster’s character now,'is the slab-sided, Aery-
A down-South squatter goes by the name
‘ Cockney the Dog,” and it is a known fact
that he employs Londoners in preference to any
others. One day, a traveller, hailing from the
neighbourhood of the West India Docks, asked
for a job, and impressed upon the sheep-farmer’s
notice that they both came from the same locality
“ Where's that ?” said C. the Dog. “ The Isle of
Dogs I” was the answer. That traveller still humps
round “bluey.”
The Cumberland Mercury is now in re-
ceipt of ” Letters from Hell.” Fuller evidently
knows how to hit the taste of the Parramatta
people. And this reminds us that the Blacktown
correspondent of the powerful organ in question
waxes fierce anent the elimination of the word
“ hell” from the New Testament, and even hints
that neither Hades nor Gehenna is a fit substitute.
How can he expect the old revisers to know that
Blacktown” was in existence ?
The Eighth Champion.
SIR JAMES ( loq .): “NOW THEN, BRUNO, GALILEO, HELVETIU3, VOLTAIRE, GIBBON, HUME. PAINE, MILL, DARWIN, HUXLEY, TYNDALL, STRAUSS-WALTZ IN AND
TAKE YOUR GRUEL.”


headed Bridget, or the "rorty” little Jemima
Hann, who see more of a child in one week than
its high-toned Ma does in one year.
It is understood in ecclesiastical circles
that, in view of recent high sacerdotal appoint-
ments and in order to keep abreast of the times,
the Secularists of Sydney have determined to take
advantage of Dr. York’s visit to raise Mr. Thomas
Walker to episcopal dignity. Although Mr. Walker
will not be the first latitudinarian bishop in Aus-
tralia, he will be the first who has openly espoused
that faith. The consecration will take place at the
Sir Joseph Banks’ Hotel, Botany, on the next an-
niversary of the late Mr. Thomas Paine. We
°®heve it is Mr. Walker’s intention to dispense
with the appellation “ Lord," and content himself
with that of “ Right Reverend.”
He had listened, during ten minutes, to an
impassioned story of deeds of blood and acts of
valour, aud when the soul-sttrrlng narrative was
concluded, he said mildly;—” I perfectly believe
hJ I fully credit that you were at the
"™ °‘ the storming party who captured the goat
th ‘S? Q uay . »°d that your goose-step gained you
me Victoria Cross iu the maich on Pacjamas As
ru 8a rT’ you and 90 otner Bottled Beers tracked
1:, car Dlggum to his lair, and must have captured
T h ’ i! d there not been a back-door to the cave.
»hoMu ve upon my soul I do,” asseverated
“ e Lhristain pawnbroker—" but, I cant lend you
“lore than ninepcnce on your medal.”
h A Melbourne man complains that the local
wJr 1 “sawboneses” were so careless as to
jeave in him four inches of surgical tubing, which
hHii? U8 ] ; J! oen discovered and extracted by tne
riuiant Fitzgerald. The Melbourne doctors have
previously distinguished themselves in this line,
for not so many years ago some Alfred Hospital
surgeons sewed up in a woman on whom they had
operated, two sponges and a pair of bull-dog for-
ceps. Still, we consider that the patient who now
growls about this small matter of the tubing is an
ill-conditioned and badly-advised creature. Had
he been an intellectual and psychologically-dis-
posed person, he'd have left the acoustic tunnel
sticking in his frame, and amused himself these
long nights by conversing with his inner man.
The Singleton Argos this year has in-
duced the lyric Muse to desert her native moun-
tain, and shed the full force of her inspiration on
him alone. Therefore the poet of that journal is
enabled to present the N.S.W. Land Act in a cheer-
ful and even romantic manner. Here is one of the
charges made against that measure; —
“ All these were light that lustre shed,
Though brief their mortal span;
In every home a household word—
Th’ expected coming year.”
Rough. Isn’t It. But, alas I In other parts the in-
dictment is not nearly so severe as the metre.
A correspondent writes to the Melbourne
Age concerning the late police regulation forbid-
ding cash betting:—” You cannot suppress betting
in toto; regulate it, then, as well as you can, trust-
ing to the spread of education and religion to do
the rest.” As though religion were not a huge
gamble in Itself, and education a means of better
averaging the probabilities. There are any num-
ber of religions: one prize. “You pays your
money and you takes your choice.” Every three-
pence you put in the plate is a cash bet. You are
backing tbat particular persuasion against every
other to win Paradise for you. As for the man
who wrote the sagacious advice quoted above, be
should die soon, before the wicked world des.rjys
his lovely innocence.
“An Australian,” whose brain should
make a capital sponge, writes to the Echo
(of course) about “ the Kendall Monument.”
He says (being offended at Dan ’s circular):—” It
is absolutely false tbat the Poet Kendall s bones
have been neglected.” Well, we don’t miud say-
ing that we have been down there, accompanied
by bards whose rhythmic hiccups floated melo-
diously upon the Waverley breezes, on several oc-
caslons, taking our little lunches with us, and.
though we bivouacked (with tears) beside the
grave of “ Araluen,” and noticed the pitiful state
of the poet’s last resting-place, we certainly did
not discover (like “ Australian”) that “ his bones
had not been neglected.” We had a delicacy, you
see, in prising open the lid.
Writes a correspondent:— r ‘ Military stories
should be valuable during the colonial warlike
rash. So here goes. We were a half-battery at
Clonmel and our other half was at Cahir. Now,
they wanted to foist off upon us the Tipperary
Militia, officers and men, the latter of whom were
wanted for the Crimea, but we couldn’t stomach
the squireens. That did not prevent us inviting
them to mess. Now, the plate was at Cahirs, and
the liquors were handed round in the original long,
brown stone bottles, when out bursts Captain
Blake, or Doolan, or God-knows-what: “ H — to
your sowl, Seweantl Show me one of them large
seegawrsl’ When this reached Whitehall, they
determined that the B, A. mess, Woolwich, was not
Igore enough for the officers of the Tipperary
Militia*
Let us sing hallelujah to the calf of gold.
At a recent pow-wow of the Qoulburn Wesleyan
warriors, the chair was taken by a lay doxology
dumper named Brother Talt, who, amongst other
things, observed that one piece of advice he would
address to young men was “ to aim at something
high.” As an example of the soundness of this
theory. Brother Talt (hoping they would excuse
those bittah teahs) thought “he might mention
the name of a friend of his, which mention caused
a pang to his heart. He meant the late Sir
Blank Blank. He had told him (Mr. Tait) in his
own house, that he had made a fortune before he
was thirty. There was a glorious it stance of
wnat a good and moral young man could do by
something lofty I Shakespeare had at
least half a dcz«n of his immortal plays reeled off
before he was 30, Raphael drew his divine Madonna
before he was 30, Mozart gave us “ Don Giovanni”
before he was 30, but whet miserable models are
these for young men to follow, when placed by the
side of the glorious Australian, who made a
fortune at an age when many a better man could
barely earn a living I Brother Tait, however,
made one extremely Important omission. He for-
got to tell his hearers how Sir Blank worked the
rosy little business. And until he does this, his
advice is about as muph use to our young men as a
pair of Blucher boots would be to a Mei maid.
The S,M. Herald some time ago told
an expectant and credulous world that a youth,
applying for a Government billet, was asked, as a
teat of bis caligraphlc ability, to write cut the
Lord’s Prayer. Here Is what he is said to have
§ reduced:—“ Our father wart in heven, allowed
e thy nalm, thv Kingdom come, thy will bo done
in earth has it bis in heven, give us they stay tbat
will be dun ” This, the Herald remarked, was
too steep for the Minister, so the applicant did
not get the billet. From the first we looked upon
the story with derision and contempt. Who, we
asked, was the Min'Ster tbat knew the Lord's
Prayer, or could detect the falsity of a very
much revised version at sight— jtr, whenever
was ep.llirg a sine qua non to a Civil Ser-
vant ? Even a oerr»la Postmaster Getter*!
was not unfitted for office, though the ortho-
graphy of January was to him an inscrut-
able mystery. The whole thing was too thin, and
inquiries have since confirmed our suspicions. We
find tbat the fact was that the coveted office was
that of a tea-meeting reporter on the staff of one
of the Sydney morning papers, and that the appli-
cant was unsuccessful, not because bis spelling
was not good enough, but on account of the bent
of bis theological views as evinced by bis using
a small “h” to denote the future abode of the
somewhat erratic saints of this unbelieving
worlfi.
A SUGGESTION.
What shall we make of our Fine Art Committee—
The gay old humorists that we employ, sirs,
To buy us pictures ? It would be a pity
To sack them—and to keep them too much joy,
sirs.
We must not hurt their feelings—ill-conditioned
Are those who would—no, no, we must not rile
’em;
But let them henceforth proudly be commissioned
To purchase pictures for the Blind Asylum.
A Saulem Fact.
SIR ALEX.: “ SO YOUR FRIENDS WOULDN’T TAKE UP THE LOAN ? ”
SIR SAUL: “WELL, IP YOU WILL SPEND MONEY ON CONTIN — ”
SIR ALEX.: “THEN I S’POSE MB OB PLAIN WILLIAM ’LL HAVE TO TAKE YOUR BILLET IN HAND.”
THE ORGAN-GRINDER.
Crowned with no lordly laurel crown,
But with a battered plug.
The organ-grinder tramps the town.
And tramps it up and tramps it down—
An instrumental Thug.
His tunes are few, but all
Constructed to appal.
And small thought take they for
His secret, weird and stracge.
Who smile at his scant repertoire
And its restricted range—
The careless crowd that note the notes
He can but seldom change;
Little they think in him they soe
With his mad minstrelsy.
And weary, dreary grind and grind,
A symbol of the Human Mind!


That well-known Chinese gentleman, Mr.
On Dit, says that as Mr. Graham Berry caa never
again become a leader of a party, he means to
secure the Victorian Agent-Generalship at no
distant date. Mr. Berry also expects a knighthood.
No stimulant is more reliable than Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Ladles, if you want your Pastry light, use Klngs-
ford’s Oswego Cornflour.
A NEW DISCOVERY.—Hoffman’s Eucalypto}
(registered) “ Mixture and Injection.” They will
positively cure all kidney diseases and disorders,
all urinary complaints and discharges, irritation,
scalding, Inflammation, gravel, pains In the back,
&c. A case incurable In nine months was actually
cured In eight days with Hoffmann’s Eucalypti
Injection (‘‘purely vegetable”). Hoffmans r-’J*
oa< > ptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
no sandalwood, no balsam, or anything injurious
to the most delicate constitution of either sex*
Ask for Hoffman’s, and take no substitute.
Wholesale: E. Prosser and Co.; Elliott Bros. Be-
ta! L : All principal chemists and storekeeper*
Pr'oe. 3s 6d. and 3s. 6d.*
Just give Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour a tria*
when you are next cooking.
Persons whose blopd is thin and watery,
take Wolfe’s Schnapps,
Wolfe's Schnapps, the purest, safest, and
best article or its kind In use.
If you want good puddings use Klngsford’s
Oswego Cornflour.
If troubled with business cares and over-
work, Indulge In Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The Adatninaby correspondent of the
Cooma Express is of opinion that the prospects
df peace between England and Russia are very
gloomy. He was last seen disputing with a crow
a bone found on a local stump.
We learn from the Penrith Despatch that
the proposal to levy postage on newspapers is
generally condemned at Penrith. No tidings yet
as to the state of public feeling as detected by the
Warrangobolong Waddy re Russian intentions on
Zulflcar.
Mr. Graham Berry, the painter of “Black
Wednesday,” told the trustees of the Melbourne
National Gallery that he never looked upon the
Sreat picture of “Moses descending from the
iount” (without a feeling of annoyance. In his
grocer days, Graham was ren twned for the taste
displayed in the designs of his brown-paper sugar
bags.
A correspondent of the Sydney D.T. sug
gests that an heirloom, instead of a banquet,
should be given the Hon. F. A. Wright. Bosh. In
f lying Mr. Wright a big banquet they are giving
im an heirloom. We allude to the gout. That is
the best of all heirlooms. Gout is hereditary, and,
when it has originated from a Sydney banquet, it
takes an awful form in one’s descendants.
The originator of the West Maitland
(New South Wales) cavalry corps is a doc-
tor; At a recent meeting in connection
with the formation of the troop, the Mayor
presided, add stated that he felt sure the
movement would be a success, as bis friend, the
doctor, would surely make a good corps-pro-
nounced by his Washup corpse! This is rough on
the doctor, and the district, when it is explained
that his Washup is by trade an undertaker 1
The Colonist (Q.) announces the death of
a gentleman who was once a local member of
Parliament. He appears to have been distantly
related to some of the remaining aspirants to the
throne of France—if such a throne there be—and
was more than once urged to contest his chances.
We deeply sympathise with him, having estab-
lished beyopd doubt from internal evidence that
there is Royal blood in our own veins. The hang-
ing of uncle Jim and uncle Sam for burglary is
beside the point. Most crowns have been got that
way.
The Thargomindah (Q.) Herald says that
“ a man named Alexander Davis died at the Royal
Hotel from bronchitis. His remains were taken to
the grave in a buggy at a gallop, and bustled In
anyhow.” They don’t bother much with cere-
mony up there. Which reminds us that the rela-
tives of a lately - deceased man called upon a
Queensland parson once to arrange about the
funeral. “ Settle the time when you like,” said
his reverence; “it is much too hot for me to go
out this weather. I will read the burial service
over him first time I am round that way.”
More glory. The Soudan heroes are to b©
presented with the Egyptian medal and the sum
of £2. This latter gift is worth, in Sydney, 160
long beers, in the country only 80, but at some
local hostelries will earn 310 “ swankles.” Thus,
knowing that summer is near at the Antipodes,
does the mother country assist her martial sons
« i n their hour of need.” We hear that an effort
will be made to induce all the members of the
Contingent to devote this gratuity to the pur-
nose of buying a brewery. The campaign will
then be immortalised by Suaklm stingo, goat-
brand.
Recently, as one of the Queensland
steamers was nearing the port of Brisbane, at a
very early hour in the morning, a man who had
just “got’em again" cried that the ship was on
fire thus causing much alarm amongst the owners
(not occupiers at the time) of petticoats. One
young and very interesting lady showed a marvel-
lous amount of forethought on the occasion. She
rushed on to the upper deck, in a state of semi-
undress, with her gold watch in one hand and a
ship’s water-bottle in the other hand, for the pur-
pose, she said of putting herself out should she
catch fire.
The Riverxna Recorder, having looked
into things, says that “ Nobody can doubt Mr.
Dailey’s aetlon in sending the N.S.W. Contingent
to the Soudan was the greatest piece of diplomacy
ever performed by a colonial administration; and
refers to the prices of recent Australian loans in
proof of it. As our last loan had to be postponed,
It Is open for people to speculate as to whether
“diplomacy” is the best way of touching the
British money-bag. But as to “nobody” being
“ able to doubt,” &c., we have only to remember
that the Bivebina Recorder Is nobody. There-
fore the R.R. doubts, &0.-Q.E.D.
Mrs. Leavitt, the lady lecturess now in
Sydney, spoils a good case by trying to prove too
much. In one of her discourses last week she
traced every crime committed in America to
drink Then she said, “President Lincoln would
not have been assassinated had not Wilkes Booth
iaken strong drink to fortify his malicious pur-
pose.” This is too steep. Will advocates like Mrs.
Leavitt ever learn that there was crime in the
world before there was intoxicating drink of any
kind? There was no alcohol in existence when
Cain assassinated Abel. If there were, he would
perhaps have been too drunk to use his little
chopper.
State school teaching is making headway,
but enlightenment is not always satisfactory.
Mothers are often very conservative. Don Juan’s
mother, for instance, “ dreaded the mythology,”
and what It would tell to the youthful Juan. It is
the same now, as we find from a letter of com-
plaint, addressed by another anxious mother to a
Victorian State school instructress. The teacher
had endeavoured to enlighten a pupil in human
physiology, and the whereabouts of heart, liver,
lungs, and diaphragm. Such laudable efforts were
repressed by this note from the mother: “ Please
don’t teach my girl anything more about her
inside. It does no good, and is rude.”
The Queanbeyan Age has in one particular
acted without! that deep circumspection which
should be the badge of all provincial journals.
Still, the error is one toj which almost any news-
paper is liable, and we are, therefore, unwilling to
censure our venerated exchange. The oversight
Is, perhaps, even committed frequently, but we
now see clearly the evils to which it may lead.
The Age, it seems, has been publishing by weekly
instalments a tale called “Jealousy,” but (and this
is the error alluded to) has omitted in doing so to
warn readers against being misled as to the ulti-
mate fate of the heroine. Therefore, a correspon-
dent writing over the authoritative nom deplume
of “ One Who Knows,” asks a brief space to offer a
word of explanation as to the tale, and says;—“1
do so because some of your readers are jumping
at the conclusion that it is a libel on womanly
virtue and clerical purity. Let them reserve their
judgment till the story is finished; and when they
have read it, as I have, they will, to their surprise,
discover that the story reaches its climax in the
triumph of tempted humanity and a decided vic-
tory of religion and grace over the world, the
flesh, and the Devil.” This champion of womanly
“ virtue and clerical purity ” is a ten-ounce-to-the
ton humourist. He coolly tells readers of the yarn
what the climax will be, and then says that they
will be surprised when they come to it. At the
same time his humour is rough on Queanbeyan
clerics. We have become so accustopied to stain-
less and irreproachable clerical holiness that we
fear there must be another brand of the article
where our correspondent lives. Who In Sydney
would think of suspecting the purity of clerical
piety ? In Queanbeyan, it seems that people are
less credulous, and, perhaps, more uncharitable.
Still his idea must commend itself to novel writers.
Explanatory foot-notes in a novel would so much
tend to disillusionise readers. In “ Dark Days,”
for instance, a note to the page descriptive of the
murdered Ferrand announcing that it was not
Pblllinpa, but a man named Evans, who did it,
would lead to a much completer apprehension of
the mystery; would explain it all in the first pages,
instead of beguiling; the reader into all sorts of
foolish misconceptions.
A fisherman at Queensoliff (Vio.) caught a
fish a week or two ago which had a watch in its
stomach. It must have taken the hook in despera-
tion because it couldn’t wind the watch up and
was getting guyed for its “ llashness ” by the other
fish. The man who caught it got tired of the
watch, too. The paper from which we obtained
this information states that “ he said he was weary
of winding it up, and so he used it as a sinker.”
This is a man after our own heart. We had a
watch presented to us once in a velvet-lined case
and accompanied with a testimonial. We forget
now what the occasion of the presentation was—
probably we bad killed a policeman. It was what
you might call a thorough cosmopolitan watch— it
was. It had no prejudices about meridians. It
would as soon keep Greenwich time as Sydney
time or P«tagonian time, or either. And it did.
too. We think we are not overstating the case
when we say that there is not an observatory on
the face of this habitable globe which It did not
set itself by. for no apparent reason but mere
cussedness. We tried in vain to dispose of it in
the usual way. Judah jeered at us, and Benjamin
“ poked borak.” At last we took the works out
and used the case to carry matches in. Now we
are at peace. No more presentation Avatches for
us, if we know it. We are not averse to getting
tbina-s given to us, but in future we should prefer
them to take the shape of something to drink.
THE GIANT.
(AN ARTICLE EVERY WOMAN SHOULD BEAD.)
Thebe has been a great row in London about
“ mashers ” following ladles round and insulting
them, and all that sort of thing; and it would ap-
pear the outcry has been emphasized by the ap-
pearance, at Westminster Police Court, of one
Isidor Henry Weil, a cigarette manufacturer, and
“ well-known West End usurer.” Isidor followed
a lady for streets and streets, and “ pushing be-
tween her and the railings in Euston Square
tenderly squeezed her hand.” In court the gay
Lothario produced a written apology in which he
“expressed his sincere regret for naving annoyed
her, and hoped that such an expression of opinion
‘coming from a gentleman’ would be a sufficient
atonement for what had taken place.” [Ill] But
neither did the splendid humour of his proclama-
tion nor the publication of his aristocratic address
avail him anything. The noble Isidor got “14
days’ hard labour,” and but for an appeal being
allowed would have been carted off to Clerken-
well in the dark girl dressed in black. There are
any number of these gentry in Sydney. They
find a healthy growth «t the “sporting corners,”
from which classical resorts bedizened hangers-on
of the ring sally forth on the war patn of an
afternoon, and follow fair charmers to their own
doors. All this reminds us that once in the whirl
of a giddy age we endeavoured to hook on to
something symmetrical inside a black satin skirt
"and a seal-skin jacket. We were gazing into an
ironmonger’s shop, in George-street, and became
fascinated. We don’t know why, for we didn’t want
any fenders, or sleeper nails, or plough-shares; but
the fact, anyway, remains. A lady suddenly
approaches, is about to pass on, stops and becomes
fascinated like ourselves. On the spell being
broken, we catch each other's eyes. She gives a
short laugh, we respond by a vacant smile, and
away she trips. An idiotic resolution at once pos-
sesses us to follow her, even though her destina-
tion be Greenland’s icy mountains, or India’s
Coral Strand. She hails a Glebe omnibus, and gets in
We follow. There is a jerk, and she sinks upon the
lap of an elderly gentleman. Happy elderly gentle-
man ! The next moment we are fumbling for tickets
and at length find two. With a courteous motion
towards her, we place them in the box, when it
at once transpires that she has paid her fare
with a threepenny-piece immediately on entering.
The driver, however, pulls his string, and the
documents fall into the box. The Company thus
benefits 31. at our expense. We feel that this mad
pursuit is growing expensive. The Glebe. She
gets out; we get out. Down a little narrow street
leading straight to a dismal swamp. She enters
one or three houses in a mildewed terrace, over
above which is a pub. of abject appearance. We
go in, and call wildly for “anything,” and, with
Sreat alacrity, the landlord (whom Melancholy has
[arked for His Own) serves us with rum in a
cloudy goblet. We make a pretence of drinking—
[HemI—Ed.B ]—and watch for her advent through
the bottom of a tumbler. She comes out, and
makes a bee-line for a cab stand. She steps into a
cab and says “ Erskine-street,” cheerily. We
climb into a cab and say “Erskine-street,”
gloomily. Balmain ferry. “Mort’s Dock,” she
chirrups, musically. “ Mort’s Dock,” is our hoarse
and ruffianly echo. Up a hill. The pace is
rapid—rapid, at our age, up a hilll She
enters a cottage enshrined in clematis. Per-
haps she lives there. How to inquire ? Flash I
The Hotel. There are seven of these within a
radius of about 700 yards. Just as we are prepar-
ing to enter she emerges from ihe house; the
people evidently having (it is Christmas time)
gone to the circus, Down the hill, ferry, cab,
Pitt-street pie-shop. She is evidently a well-known
customer, for her welcome is effusive. No one
welcomes us except an ugly dog all over sawdust,
who appears to have acquired a taste for Nubian
blacking. She has cream cakes (which she eats
with a spoon); also “ Ambrosia Water” (whatever
that is). Stung into competition by this lavish
order, we command (being exhausted after our
exertions) the attendant nymph to produce coffee
and a roll. She goes away for the coffee—ap-
parently to Mocha; and just as she returns with it,
the cream-cake lady pays, rises, and flits. We rise
and flit, but don’t pay. This results in our being
called ignomonlously back. “ Sixpence.” We
have nothing less than a shilling. To wait for
change is impossible; not to wait is ruin. But
what matter ? We have launched on a career
in which gold must be scattered with the hand
oi'-iTlmon. Horrorl We have lost her I No; she
la looking in at Farmer’s window. Here we grow
paralysed with terror. Supposing she should
enter the shop and go out at the other end. We
look round Avildly. Had there been an axe
handy, we should have split ourselves in twol
But, no; she turns and crosses the road. There is.
at the beginning of some planking she has to cross,
| a puddle. We stop to reflect. Yes; that puddle
would be a crucial test. Supposing we were to
place—Raleigh-like—our coat over it, and she
stepped on our coat, that should be construed into
a favourable sign. Again, if we put our hat over
the puddle and she didn’t step on it, Cupid’s dart
would surely have entered her soul. If, on the
other hand, she walked round the coat, it would
tend to show that “ we hadn’t wedged the man out
yet;” while, if she stepped on our bell-topper, we
—like our hat would be crushed. We are much
taken with this. A capital idea—with somebody
else’s coat and hat. By this time she is past
the puddle and looking into the window of
a pipe - shop. We watch her; the spell de-
scends, and she again becomes fascinated. Favour-
able augury ; but why should she look into
a pipe-shop ? As we arrive at it, she has passed
on. We can now understand the cause of her fas-
cination. A man is doing something to a meer-
schaum with a blow-pipe. It is effective in the
subdued light of a summer afternoon, and. but—
Onward I .... She has disappeared I Nol In
a lolly-shop. Just as we enter, she is ordering 31bs
of something. Two pounds! We tell another
young lady, who has chewed away all her front
teeth—like the old topers in Nevada, who had to
take their cocktails in blocks—to bring us three-
penny worth !of acid-drops. She does not appear
much impressed with the magnitude of the order,
and sweeps our 61. carelessly into the till. We
take the bag, and are about to retire, Avhen we are
sharply recalled. We have—being so flurried—
taken the lady's change for half a-sovereign,
instead of our own threepence. We disgorge and
apologise. A mistake. The shop-women are in-
credulous, and talk of the police. “ It is,” says the
toothless one, “an old game.” We are about to
apologise to the lady, when she is gone. Do con-
ciliate the saleswomen, we offer them our card.
They both read it, and on© says—" What does that
prove ?’’ We couldn’t say it proved anything, and
slunk out discomfited. Ha, ha I The tramline!
She must be going home, now, to tea. The terrible
moment is rapidly approaching when we must
accost her. She takes a Leichhardt tram. We
take a Leichhardt tram. Bump! we start North
Annandale. She gets out there-the next station
probably being St Petersburg. We stagger out
after her, a benighted being. A dreary flat, dotted
over with small cottages like timber monuments
of the unsanctifled dead. Now, or never. We
begged her pardon. Would she excuse “ Of
course.” she said, with a merry laugh; “ if you’d
spoken before, you’d have had a far better time.
Carry this [the bag]. Do you like sweets?” Did
she? “Immensely. So did her-sister.” We
adored sweets. “Do you live near here?” we
hazarded. “Quite close. Won’t you come in, and
have a cup of tea?” “Oh.it would be too much
” “ You won’t, then. Well, good —”
Would we not go in. Were her home on the
muddy banks ot the vast Mississipl, and she
appointed the darkest midnight in the year,
we would be on hand with a bouquet on
a raft. Arrived. Through a little gate, and
across a cinder garden, the only vegetation in
which appeared to be two beer-bottles and a jam-
tin. Roth front windows are lighted up. Cheer-
ful. Up some little crazy wooden steps, and she
knocks. We follow her closely, when.lo, the door
is opened by a be-whiskered swasbuckler 7 feet
high, chewing toast, in his shirt-sleeves I “ Good-
bye I” “Stay, don’t go,” said she. detaining us.
“This is my husband. The fact is, we are both
Slaying in the Royal pantomime. I am the Colum-
ine, and he is—the Giant. Come inside,”
That is the only time we ever remember beating
Mr. George’s best record.
At the Sydney Immigration Depot.
» A CROWD OF MISTRESSES WAS WAITING IN THE PASSAGE, BUT
A PRIEST ELBOWED HT8 WAT THROUGH. AND WAS ALLOWED TO GO IN AND
SELECT THREE OF THE GIRLS.”— Evening News Correspondent


No kitchen is complete without KingsforiJll
Oswego Cornflour.
The Wentworth Council proposed to dis-
charge the Town Clerk, Surveyor, and Inspector
of Nuisances. The object was economy. The pro-
nosal was so well appreciated that the ratepayers
propose to discharge the Council.
Our future Governor’s dinner in London
drew both the Echo and the Herald. The Echo
had it, “Lord Carrington and his lady,” the
Herald, “Lord Carrington and his wife.” To
anyone making a philosophical study of editorial
pates there is a jugful of meaning to be got out of
the use of these two little words just there.
As the world knows, a commission of
engineering experts has examined the N S.W.
railway-bridges, with a view of reporting as to
their safety. The commission’s report, it is
rumoured, will not be entirely pleasing to Mr,
Whltton, the Engineer-in-Chief; but, on the other
hand, it will bo by no means of a character calou-
lated to throw into ecstasies Mr. Cowdery, Mr.
Whitten’s opponent.
On dit that the N.S.W. Upper House is to
have some new members shortly: notably, Henry
Moses, squatter, and John Lackey, squatter, the
latter of which gentlemen turned against his
party, and, after having condemned the Land Bill
on its second reading, voted for the third. This is
surely keeping up the reputation of the Chamber
of Political Imbecility with a vengeance. Why
isn’t the House of the Glutton’s- Snore allowed to
die out ?
Mr. G. A. Sala, among other discoveries
regarding Australia, has found out that 'No
poverty is to be found in these colonies, except the
poverty of the incorrigible loafer and incurable
drunkard.” Yet In the year 1880 the present
Bishop of Melbourne gave public utterance to the
following words, in alluding to colonial poverty,
“ He loved the land in which he lived and had
learned to love the people, and the distress he had
seen amongst them had so preyed on his mind as
to cause him loss of sleep.” Which is it easier to
believe-i he Bishop, who has been for years in the
colony, or the journalist, who does a flying trip
through the land, collecting matter to fill up as
many waiting columns as possible ? Before that
book comes out, Mr. Sala might read the state
meets of the Argus reporters, printed last winter,
concerning the fearful destitution prevailing in
some part of Melbourne.
Mr. Ben Hill, publisher of the Port Doug-
las Chronicle (Q.l. horsewhipped the editor of
the local Times, it has always struck us that it Is
not easy to horsewhip any man who knows how to
use his hands. A stripe across the face would
generally end the horsewhipping business, lor
there are not many men who can hold with ope
hand and flog with the other.
At a late meeting of the School of Arts
Debating Club, one of the members was accused
of having written a letter to the Evening News.
Conscious that the crime of having written to
that publication could not be condoned, he flatly
denied the accusation. At a subsequent meeting
he "rose and explained that he had denied the
authorship in the heat of excitement, but he was
I now ready to acknowledge it.” “ In the heat of
excitement” evinces talent of a high order. We
trust this young man will porsevtre. We believe
he is in training for public life, and can assure
him that in a young country like this, which offers
such a held for exceptional ability, there is a
bright future before the youth who writes a letter
and then denies it “ in the heat of excitement.”
The Experiences of a “ Mew Chum.”


A great burden has been tilted off the
souls of all Cornstalks, and we respire freely and
regularly once more. It gratifies and soothes us
to Know that the Victorians cannot “ poke mud ”
at us regardin' that insignificant affair of the
“ Roll Call.” We have discovered that all the Art
“ flats ” In the Southern Hemisphere are not
stationed in Sydney, and we are glad. The trus-
tees of the Victorian National Gallery, it is
now alleged by their enemies, don’t know
a goodiplcture from a circus-poster. One or two
of the highest-priced specimens in collection
are vile daubs, and others are going bung”
through crude workmanship. T o hide is peeling
off Miss Thompson’s “Quatre-Bras,” and Her-
bert’s great effort, “Moses Descending Mount
Sinai,” bags out in places like a camel’s lip. The
Aob sacrilegiously advises that it be cremated.
Burn Holy Moses I Can’t they trade him off for a
drop scene ? If things go in the same groove, the
work of picture-selection will yet be performed
for the colonies by a committee of colour-blind
kanakas.
The fiendish liquor-trafflo is haring a
pretty unhealthy time of it down South, where
every township resounds with invectives against
the diabolical liver-destroying alcohol. The very
venerable Archdeacon Julius gave his little ex-
perience of the “shout” system at Ballarat, and
showed plainly that even a venerable Archdeacon
can tly in the face of Providence. He was journey-
ing In a coach in the neighbourhood of the Golden
City aforesaid, and had for fellow-passenger a
genlal-souled gentleman who got off at every
pub. to sluice his neck with the liquid damnation,
and each time tendered the Rev. J ulius a pressing
invite to come and poison himself, which the
latter coldly declined. At the last hostelrie, the
arid one used all bis powers of persuasion to
“fetch” the chuohman — only, however, to
receive a frigid “ No, thanks. I am not
thirsty.” “ Not thirsty I murmured the drinker
amazedly; “ Not thirsty I Well, I’m con-
“ BEACH’S ”
CON8UI1TATION!
ON THE
Sir J seph Bank’s 4th Grand Handicap,
tober nat Botany, August 33ad, 26th, and 29th,
1885 ; also on
Hawkeabury Handicap, Metropolitan and
Melbourne Cup,
NOW OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10a. EACH.
First Horse, £250.
Address—
“BEACH,”
Care of J. G. Deeble,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney
Please apply early.
U/' !■/'
B!
£
g
m
jjlECDNOMiCALFURNlTUReiWrECONOMICALFURNITURE
, x
ii
...
.
THE LARGEST AND ONLY LEGITIMATE
TIME-PAYMENT FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THE COLONY,
365 PITT STREET.
denned I D ye wait till ye’re thirsty before you
drink?” This Idea seemed so amazingly ridicu-
lous that the man thought it could have emanated
from none but a new-ohum, and he advised the
Archdeacon to get hack home again as he wouldn’t
be a success out here if he dldn t irrigate. Now,
this par shows the difference between an arch-
deacon and a c immoo deacon. Had Providence
thrown such a chance in the way of a deacon,
there would have been a different tale to tell, for
at every available bar would the holy one have
crawled down from the coach-roof, to, in the un-
melodiousl vernacular of the Cabbage-garden,
“ lubricate his ejaculator.”
Have you lost your appetite? Then take
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The purity and excellence of Kings ford’s Oswego
Cornflour is unequalled.
Take Hop Bitters three times a day, and
you will have no doctors' bills to pay. That is, if
made by American Co. See
Notice!—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs
Only sold by Hocklngs, 143 Pitt-street.
MaoLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 Qeorge-street,
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
Messrs. Sullivan and Jackson, of 142 King-
street, Intimate that the Drawing of the Kaarlc-
hawk Art Union (Prospectus of which appears in
our advertising columns) wi'l shortly taae place,
and invite early application for Tickets.*
“ The military review on Saturday was
grand, but,” she remarked. *• 1 should have been
delighted to have spent some of the time In ex-
amining the lovely things 1 subsequently saw,
very hurriedly, at Bray Brrs.' cbma chops in
Qeorge-street, near King-street.’ *
’Tis said that once in ages past,
When gifted Sapaho sung.
Her lute, for want of lofty theme,
in solemn silence hung.
Till aided by prophetic glance
She bade the music flow -
And hymned a soul-inspiring ode
To Summerfield and Co.*
Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour can be obtained
in and lib. packets.
Individuals afflicted with gravel or otlier
kidney difficulties need Wolfe’s Schnapps,
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
IT* shall to oumi to have tm **
uorotariei of racinj eltibi and monoosrs o r
tportina menu in cwneroL
RAGING
Northern Hunt Club, at Randwick...... August 23
Canterbury Park R.O. „ -8*|rt«nb«»
Hawfcesbury(Spring) September 10 I-
‘"“"'"“AM
OutMMO Park «A- wjSSSSjtl
Narrabrl J.C I
Liverpool J.O. November !)
Canterbury Park R.0 »
A.J.C. (Summer) m
Roseblil R.O. December 38
AQUATICS.
Newcastle R.O. Regatta SfSfclSw
M.R.C. Outrigger Race
Davis v. Maclean September 6
O.R.C. Trial Pairs Somber 5
M.R.C. Branch Regatta October 10
ATHLETICS.
Sir Joseph Banks Fourth Handicap.... August 32^
Mudgee Sheffield Handicap September 1
Eight Hours’ Art Union and Sports, Agrl-
cultural Society's Grounds October 7
'CYCLING.
Sydney Bicycle Club (Annual R.M.), Asso-
elation Ground August 22
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
Loud and deep hare been the growls over
the picking of the so-called N.8.W. football repre-
sentatives who started last Saturday for the
Queensland tour. To commence With, walker
should, without a shadow of a doubt* have b©en
picked for their back. The Redfern Slaughterer
baa certainly played rather roughly this season,
but" charity begins at homo,” and it seems a pity
the tender mercy of the Union should have
evinced itself for the first time when the football
reputation of the colony—if It possesses any-*-la at
stake. Tlley, Who has Jumped Walker a claim, is
no doubt an excellent tackier, but his greatest
friend can never accuse him of making a good
kick. “ Barley ” Bobberda may be looked upon as
the " daddyof the half-backs, although he
would not have to he very brilliant to douse
the lights of Lloyd and Cheeseman. Calrd should
have had a place in the trio, but amidst the
general muddle made by the Selection Committee,
he was not asked to play until too late to obtain
his leave. All through, the picking has been of a
most prejudiced order. The team la no way re-
presentative ” of Sydney football, and, should it
win the matches engaged in, the result will redound
leas to the glory of N.S.W. than to the disgrace of
the Banana-men.
• • •
And this Is how it all came about. The
Queensland Invitation was accompanied by a
*• private ” hint that, so far as it could be managed,
men should be picked who could be “asked out
with safety to the many “ hops " at which It Is In-
tended to regale our repro—we mean our culls—
the wily Queenslanders very llaely jumping to the
conclusion that the better in the ball-room, the
worse In the football field. The Selection Com-
mittee —save the mark!—fell In with their wishes,
and aa such men as Walker and Vaughan were
more renowned for their Iprowess on the green-
sward than for their wall zing and loe-eatlng
powers, their claims were over-looked, and a team
put together which will, uo doubt, do Sydney
credit in the glided " salongs " of the Uananaland
bong tong.”
* * ♦
And while on the subject of growl and
*' bong-tong," we are reminded of a bit of a tiff be
tween the Cumberland and Northern Hunt Clubs
over an alleged breach of etiquette on the occasion
of their recent combined meet at Parramatta It
seems that a dare devil member of the junior
Club led thadrag over a jump fully two feet high,
which reckless action, besides being a fierce viola-
tion of Club custom, prevented the rest from
following the—er—“ speckled beauties.” As It Is
alleged to be well understood amongst the mem-
bers that a foot and a-half In height or 3ft. 6ln.
ever water, are the regulation jumps. It Is possible
that the hare-brained Horseman alluded to will be
expelled for having set an examole calculated to
Stovoke huntsmen to suicide. How some of the
arned Britishers who belong to the Club must
"sklto” when they return home, about the stone
walls they negotiated In Australia! It was a young
man of this class who had just returned to Eng-
land from shooting wlld-beasts In Australia. This
aald young man has an old maiden aunt with a
large fortune, whom he thought quite necessary
to cultivate. On his arrival In London he suddenly
remembered that he had no piesent for her, so he
rushed off and bought a parcel of braid. Next day,
the old lady qaileu on a friend, and Said, “ Dear
George has come home again all safe, and be Is as
kind and thoughtful as ever. He has this morning
'Bent me some beautiful mohair made up from a
large mo, which he shot himself alter a great deal
of trouble and danger, and he tells me that he
tried hard to shoot me a dilemma also, so that 1
might put up the horns in the front hall as a hat
And umbrella stand; but he sajus he never oould
.get near enoughfor a shot. He however,
to have better luck next trip."
• ■ • »
Next Saturday the Sydney -Bicycle Club
will holds its “Intercolonial Champion ’Cycling
Meet,” on the Association Cricket Ground. It
•hardly seems 12 months since Bennett won the
champion mile at the Sydney Bicycle Club Cham-
pion meeting, or two years since Lee, who had a leg
in for the same event, was—well, we’ll put it lightly
—was prevented from winning the trophy right
out, by reason of the non-appearance of the stipu-
lated number of starters. At the time, we com-
mented upon the ridiculousness of the proviso
that there should be six starters or no race, but
the ssme farce still endures, and in the entries for
the mite and 10 miles championships,; we notice
four names, each with an asterisk following, and,
upon consulting the bottom of the card, we find,
“entered to start if necessary to comply with the
conditions—six starters or nolrace.” as it happens,
there are no less than six entries from Victoria for
the mile; but had the entries been more limited,
Bennett might have found himself in the same fix
that Lee was in in ’83, and his chance of wluning
the trophy right out would not have depended so
much upon bis ability to beat the best men op-
posed to him, as upon the humour In which the
four asterisks tumble out of their beds on Satur-
day morning,'. That Bennett will win tho trophy
right out, we believe, and should ho do s j, it Is to
be hoped that in drawing up c mdltions lor a fresh
series of contests, the 1 Jlotlo "six starters’ ’ stipula-
tion will be 'discarded. If only tor the reason th <t,
where the entries are at all limited, it leaves too
great a power in the hands of unscrupulous rtcers.
• •
The Sydney Bicycle Club have certainly
worked bard to make their annual meet a success;
and, given a lair day, we expect to see a best «u
record in the attendance hue. F ir the mile Vic-
toria has brought forth J S. Foul keg, W J. Elliott,
F H. onackelford, C »u, D*j er, H. R Stokes, W.
H. Bloomfi ld; while N S *V will contribute C. W.
Bennett, C. R. iVooii, and the tour astensx . For
the ten oiil«s Victoria will be represented by J, H.
Foulkes, W. H. Blount field, F. H. Snackietord;
and N.S,W, by J. Thmiow, G VV. Godwin, J. m.
Ferguson, C. W. Bennett, C U Wood, and the lour
asterisks; and the two miles trlcy.de handicap will
bring forth from Victoria H. K Stokes, E Lock,
W. Soelley, H. Stewart Bale; from South Austra-
lia, J. F. Holloway; and from N.S.W., C. W, Ben-
nett, C, R. Wood, J Phiz ickerley, P. E.
A. J. Herald, and A. H. Blaokstohe. It seems a
pity that Lee should have forsaken the racing
track. We were not singular in our opinion that
last year he was overtrained and stale, and we
should very much like to see him take another
turn at the wheel, for, without a doubt, he is the
most finished and taking rider that has yet sported
silk on the Association Cricket Ground.
m * •
Amateur aquatics are pretty dull in
Sydney just now, but fixtures for next month will
enliven things up a bit. September 5, the Sydney
Rowing Club have fixed for their annual Regatta
off the Branch, when races for senior sculls in
outriggers; maiden double sculls la skiffs, and
scratch junior and senior eights will be gone
through. The senior club la to be commended for
its effort to promote eight-oar rowing, for it is to
these races we must look for recruits for our In-
tercolonial eights. Fuller, of Melbourne, has just
finished two clinker eights for the olub, and Dodd
of North Shore has an order for four club skiffs,
to be ready for the regatta. Dodd has hitherto
confined himself to light craft, and we trust his
new venture will turn out a success, for we can do
with a few more good builders of that handy style
of craft, the olub skiff. By the way, wo notice the
senior olub never, by any chance, leaves an open
race on their c ird, although they are not them-
selves above picking up any unconsldored trltle In
the pot line In races left open by other clubs.
• * *
What a difference between the doings of
the old-time pugilists and the latter-day boxers I
No more two-hour fights and battered pbysogs for a
few pounds; the correct thing now is a four or
five-round “draw” with the gloves for any num-
ber of centuries gate-money. And even this sort
of thing is getting too rough, for we see Sullivan
and Mitchell have just gone in for the statue busi-
ness in America—Ajax offering to knock out the
lightning in four rounds, and all that sort of thing.
Mitchell Is travelling with a minstrel show, and
says he will in all probability visit Australia before
the end of the year. This will be good news for
the politicians who were so thick with Hanlan—
before the latter was defeated. The “special”
correspondent of a Melbourne Journal—who, by
the way, must be a perfect demon witb the snips
and brush, as we generally read his |“letter”
word for word piece-meal in the Yankee papers
before the Melbourne letter comes out—says of
Mitchell: “He Is the man, above all others, that
would suit the Australian people, because he is a
gentleman."
In the fulness of time, probably, some turf
reformer will move the abolition of the three-
furlong scrambles which disfigure certain race
programmes on this Side of the Equator. At
home, there are no races run over less than a-half
mile course, and very few of them. Considering
the difficulty of getting away a Held of two-year-
olds on perfectly even terms, it seems little less
than a farce to despatch them for a spin of three
furlongs.
• • •
A remark made in these columns a little
while back to the effect that John Roberts, jun.,
found a difficulty in getting a match on. without
giving away excessive odds, appears to be pretty
near the truth. During the season, the champion
has twice defeated Tom Taylor, when conceding
3000 points in 12 000. Another match was recently
arranged for Taylor to receive 4000 points from his
redoubtable conqueror, "spot-barred,” with the
result that Roberts was beaten by 314 points. Even
the strongest pitchers may go too often to the
well.
* * *
The professional bicycle meeting on Satur-
day last at the Sydney Association Cricket Ground
was but poorly attended, notwithstanding a tine
afternoon and the draw of a series of races for the
bicycle championship and a stated £200 between
John Rolfe and James Thomas, ’oyllsts who claim
the respective championships of N.S.W. and Vic-
toria. Rolfe won the two first events and the con-
test with great ease, covering the mile in the stated
time of 3m. 7sec. and the five miles in 17m. Sisco.
By far the most interesting event of the afternoon
was the trick-riding of John Palmer and three
youngsters, who went through a really clever
show. Amongst other feats. Palmer started his
machine, vaulted on to the saddle, then stood up-
right. and, with a couple of piece* of tape attached
to the handles of the bicycle, remained standing
until the wheels came to a standstill, when he
vaulted gracefully to the ground.
• •
Haitian is singing an altogether different
tune over in the States to that he gave us ere
leaving Australia. The Canadian or the reporters
of the different papers must be “ a bit mixed," for
in one paper we And Hanlan saying -dear old
familiar story—that B a ach is " the best man be
ever pulled against,’ and lo another he is rep rted
to have remarked: “ We h*ve faster men than
Beach In Amer ca. Beach could not row a mile on
still water in less than six minutes, while we have
men who could do it in 5mln 30sec. I think 1 can
beat Beach, and will go back and row him again if
my friends there des re me to do so at some future
time 1 wanted him to come to this country, but he
positively refused. They row straight away there
with no turns, and his friends fear if he came here
he would lose Ins record. I would not attempt to
take away any of Beach’s honours. He won his
racis ralrfy enough, but lam confident that I can
beat him.” If the live-event match between
Hanlan and Teenv>r met with no hitch, the two-
miles event came off on Saturday last, and the
three miles, three and a half miles, four miles, and
five miles are fixed for August 23, September 5,19,
and October 3, respectively. If they have an eye
for business, they wid make it turn and turn about
for the first four matches, and work up the agony
properly for the final on Octobers, But perish
the thought that American scullers or Australian
ped ’. would work a cross.
With Compliments to Melbourne PUNCH.
SUDDEN DEATH.
Mr. Gerald Eyre, a member of the company
brought by Mr. B juoioault from the United States
(says the Melbourne Aqe of the 8th Inst.), and
who sustained the characters of Kinchelaia The
Shaughraun, Sir BUdleigh in The Jilt and Kyrle
Daly in The Colleen B*wn, was taken ill on Wed-
nesday morning with a severe attack of pneu.
monia. He was attended with unremitting care
by Dr. Morton, who, seeing the matter was
dangerous, called In Dr. Fitzgerald. The doctors
at once recognised the case as hopeless. Mr Eyre
died yesterday morning at one o’clock, after only
forty hours of suffering. He was a young Eng-
lishman, who came out to New York about six
years ago, where he was a valued member of Mr.
Wallack’s company. He leaves a widow and two
children.
Everyone dreads the terrible Pneumonia. Its
coming is sudden, its termination usually speedy.
What causes the terrible scourge?
It is not “ in the air,”—infectious or contagious.
It results from exposure, changes of weather,
prevails more among men than women, more
among the apparently healthy than among the
feeble.
Pneumonia, we are told, Is invited by a certain
condition of the system indioated, if one has
occasional chills and fevers, a tendency to oolds in
the throat and lungs, rheumatic and neuralgic
pains, extreme tired feelings, short breath and
pleuritic stitches in the side, loss of appetite, back-
ache, nervous unrest, scalding sensations, or scant
and discoloured fluids, heart ilutterings, sour
stomach, distressed look, puffy eye sacs, hot and
dry skin, loss of strength and virility. These indica.
tlona may not appear together, they may come,
disappear, and re appear for years, the person not
realizing that they are nature’s warnings of a
coming calamity.
In other words, if pneumonia does not claim as a
victim the persona having such symptoms, some
less pronounced but more fatal malady will.
A celebrated physician has publicly stated that
pneumonia is a secondary disorder, the exposure
and cold being simply the agent which develops
the disease, already dormant in the system, because
the kidneys have been but partially doing their
duty. In short, pneumonia is but an early indica,
tlon of a Bright’s diseased conditions. This im-
paired action may exist for years without the
patient suspecting it because no pain will be felt in
the kidneys or their vicinity and often it can be
detected only by chemical and microsooplal ex-
aminations.
The only safeguard against pneumonia is to'
maintain a vigorous condition of the system, and
thus prevent Its attack, by using whatever will
radically and effectually restore full vitality to the
kidneys, for If they are not sound, pneumonia
not be prevented. For this purpose, there is
nothing equal to Warner’s Safe Cure, a remedy
known to millions, used probably by hundreds of
thousands and commended as a standard specific
wherever known and used. It does not pretend
to cure an attack of pneumonia, but it does
and can remove the cause of and prevent the
disease if taken in time. No reasonable man can
doubt this if he regards the personal experience of
thousands of honorable men worthy his favor*
In many instances, indeed, persons are reported aa
dying of pneumonia, heart disease, apoplexy, and
convulsions, when the real cause of death and so
known by the physician is this kidney consumption.
Thousands of people have it without knowing it
and perish of it because their physlcans will not
tell them the facts 1 The same fate awaits every
one who will not exercise his judgment in such a
matter and be true to himself, his family, and to
society.
SISTER: “DO YOU KNOW WHERE I'M GOING TO, FREDDY?"
BROTHER: “YES, THE TOP HALF OF YOU IS GOING TO HAVE A BATH, AND THE
OTHER HALF IS GOING TO A BALL."


COMPAGNONI CATERING CO., LIMITED,
M PITT STREET. SYDNEY " "
JSJ53lSX%S B S-*?“’ rer ' t0 H “ WOT “ P
* ™ DAffir'VS' 1 OOOMMt, ana loftiest to the colony.
n to-, (after to.
smwsksbs"* ''•'■•■ wanes
_ a> “• TOLLEMACHE, General manager.
Liclitner
32 O CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
IMPORTERS ■ ,OF SUPPLIES
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
’O-
Si
M
1
KG
r«
Q>
0}
t § .
§ Sa
‘‘■PS
» “• 3
tKrr>n afn
2! n H
3 £ DO
65 5t)
«3 ©
H
Co
3 ‘0 3- w ®
'sfuaujdinbj o/ V dojBo,o Vd a f3 ,dwoo
"Sd/uo/OD at/j. Uf fsadoai/j pun
‘lsdq' Vg pauDA }S0lu aqi so pasiuBooaj bjd suo/jDJodajd oiifdojBo;oijj jrtQ
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied, Jbest,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments, , lthfuUUtttru(!tl<)I1Ilf0I Hot1cm j
BULL DOS ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling’, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass' Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage In the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULLDOG
ALB, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO.,
Sole Agents.
VENETIA WALT!E „
Ths Air to 64 k wQ mmrkai, Otnouri tovtsuA
PP^ran tab ilk.
r'
red.
rod
-r
tr,X
W ILLIAMBULLARD has the Largest Stock
If of MUSIC In the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
■Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
c Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, In variety,
f New catalogues will be ready in a few days and
sent gratis on application. *
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &c., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cftrds*
All orders executed In best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, In parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
solicited to all the’ leading maga-
Call and see the two most Important Copying
Instruments ever Invented, The Trypograpn
t®* 6 ® off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which Is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Bend and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM ~BULLARD,
343 GEORGE STREET.
ARTIFICIALTEETH
flPLETESFT
MARSHALL BRO:
DENTISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
O T I c E TO THE TRADE
Now landing ex Late Arrivals.
half-tester nickel bedsteads,
half-tester brass bedsteads.
half-tester iron bedsteads.
STUMP BEDSTEADS.
French bedsteads.
BLACK and GOLD BEDSTEADS.
BLACK and BRASS BEDSTEADS.
50 Cases of No. 14 AUSTRIAN CHAIRS.
450 Cases of AMERICAN CHAIRS.
760 Bales of BEST JAVA KAPOK.
10 Bales of COTTuN FLOCK.
30 Bales of CURLLD HAIR.
10 Cases of TOILET GLASSES (Assorted).
20 Cases of ROWCL1FFE SPRING MATTRESSES
15 Bales of BLACK CURLED FIBRE.
13 Bales of WHITE WOOL FLOCK,
J. LAWLER,
608 Georgc-st., Sydney,
IMPORTER of FURNITURE, UPHOLSTERER,
and BEDDING MANUFACTURER.
Qp 0 ALL WOMBN.
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY'S
I Borax Soap
TRY it for FLANNELS, LINEN. LACES,
OOLD I WA 0 TEK^ OOI}WORK, Glther H0T or
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERT
IN SOAP I
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with It;
HBAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONB TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
W Bold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
60. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers:
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GENT.’S ... .. ... 60. is. 6d.; 100, 2s. Bd.
LADIES’ 50. 2s. Od.; 100, 8s. Od.
Address, Od. extra.
■oat Business Cards.
100, 8s. Bd.; 860. 0s. Bd.; 600, 10s.; 1000, IBs.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
W* Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
THE DIET SUPPLY CO.
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
AYER’S PILLS.
A largo proportion of the diseases which
cause human sutfering result from derange*
ment of the stomach, bowels, and liver.
Ayer’s Cathartic Piles act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused by their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt, and
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of these
Pills by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation iu
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
substances only, and are absolutely free from
calomel or any othew injurious ingredient.
A Sufferer from Headache writes:
“Ayer’s Pilous are invaluable tome, and
are my constant companion. I have been
a severe sufferer from Headache, and your
Pills are the only thing I could look to
for relief. One dose will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. They
are the most effective and the easiest physic
I have ever found. It is a pleasure to me to
speak In their praise, and I always do so
when occasion offers.
W. Xi. Page, of W. L. Page & Bro.”
Franklin St., Richmond,Va., June 3,1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Pills in number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. We constantly keep them
on hand at our home, and prize them as a
pleasant, safe, and reliable family medicine.
FOR DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable.
J. T. Hayes.”
Mexia, Texas, June 17, 1882.
The Rev. Francis B. Harlowe, writing
from Atlanta, Oa., says: “For some years
past I have been subject to constipation,
from which. In spite of the use of medi-
cines of various kinds, I suff ered increasing
inconvenience, until some months ago 1
began taking Ayer’s Pills. They have
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
have vastly Improved my general health.”
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to the
whole physical economy.
prepared by
Dr. J.C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass,
Sold by all Druggists.
YOUNG,
OLD, AND
MIDDLE-
AGED.
ilitic taint,
by its use.
All experience the wonderful
beneficial effects of
Ayer’s SJarsaparilla.
Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
Ears, or any scrofulous or syph-
may be made healthy and strong
Sold by all Druggists; $1, six bottles for IS.
BROS, and 8. HOFFNUNG & CO. r
EBiki Wholesale Agents.
■■ I I I ■! II llll
* F IL" BtF0R * MOUSTACHE and WHISSSBS. *'rons after
Boyd's Beard Elixir did thin, and
will do it on either bald head or
bare fare, forces heavy IIons-
tache in from 3 to 4 weeks and never
Jails, 110,000 young men already
wear full beards, hewing need I to
Copyrighted.
Copyrighted,
3 puts. Bo injury, easily applied, tertain in effect . Packet) 1». 6 d.
each, 3 for 3s. Qd.,pest paid, sent under cover, free from observation.
saa~~, Vrmk Dougin, Sole Agent,Box 720, 0.P.O., Sydney,ff.B. W-
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
WILLIAM BALL,
THE “PROFESSIONAL” AND PHARMACEU
TICAL CHEMIST.
61 BOURKE-STREET EAST, MELBOURNE.
THE Toilet and Theatrical Requisites, manu
factured by W. Ball, are composed of the
purest Ingredients, and are guaranteed not to
cause the least injury to the most delicate skin.
There are few ladles now, either In private life
or of the Theatrical Profession, who do not look
upon the
BLOOM OF PEACHES
(REGISTERED)
as the one article that Is perfectly safe and satis*
factory to use either for the
THEATRE, BALLROOM, OR PROMENADE.
Our Cupids Manufacturing Bloom of Peaches
“ Dear Sir,—1 consider your * make-up' perfect,
and should never think of using anything else
while it is possible to obtain it.—Yours truly,
Ed. Farley.”
The following ladies and gentlemen have also
written, speaking in the highest terms of these
Toilet Requisites Mesdames Louise Pomeroy,
Alice Deorwyne, Myra Kemble, Eva Davenport,
Roland Watt Phillips, etc., etc.; Messieurs George
Titberadge, George Hlgnold, Sheridan, Henry
Hodgson. W. J. Holloway, Fred. Marshall, Brian
Darley, Frank Cates, etc.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
Wholesale Agents, N.S.W.;
Messrs. PROSSER & CO., Sydney.
G. F. PRIDDY ft GO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS/
Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.30 p.m.: Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
8TDNKT,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
LLAS
IMBR
Rl&oviaia
QTODI ECONOMY
0 and
Have yourU mbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
1 Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
anted
Bavarian M f|p
ittebs. nllr
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of the best Bavarian Hops. Superior to any
other.
They take the first place wherever tried, and are
well authenticated by eminent medical men and
well-known analysts.
Read the reports and testimony which acoo m
pany each bottle, and do not forget to *
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
P. KIRBY,
Prom the late Mr. Jamu Cubtis,
TJ ndertalcer,
S4 HUNTER A PHILLIP STREET*.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (18) years;
Manager for over ten CO) years.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found
last with the Argosy Braces at Gowlng Bros.
&
#5
i
7/
GOWING BROS.
Have Just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces I
Argosy Braces, 8s. 6d., Ss., 8s. 6d., A 4s. 6
GODriNG~BROS.p
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, *
888 and 488 Biorifitmt.


J1UBKITUB1 SHOW R 0 0 If .
BRADLEY NEWTON, and LAMB.
O’Connell and Spr'ig streets, Sydney,
Hall furniture, hatbtands.
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
Library furniture, centre and slop
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRET A rRBa
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
RAWING-ROOM SUITE*, fashionably uphoT.
stored, at all prices. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
ALL CABINETS for Choice China
VERT ELEGANT. Just received. Bridle*
Newton, and Lamb.
"OVBLTIBS In BOUDOIR and BOW WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley. Newton, and Lamb.
N!
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Grtat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB. Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
171 IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
24 Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
EDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs) .—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble ton
and tue back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE
with swing glass attached: PEDESTAL CUPl
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
HEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10a
6d.; Dining Tables, from 80s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.-
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s’.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
S
3
OQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oCOO strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Plush, &c.
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-stroet.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-street.
TARA WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL OHAIRS.-
U A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and Inex-
penslve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room-side-
board, dinner waggon, table,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR-
Patented.
as
ASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in any
rooms,
material.
Self-adjusting chair and couch for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN. ___
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, andJLAMR__
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early Engusn,
and other designs, which can be upholfltereom
any materials to meet the taste and requirement*
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room furni-
ture, Handsome and Massive. In oax,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REA
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Uphotetery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, an
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-Btreets.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, ana l<am_
BD8TEAD8, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb. .
EDDING.—All inscriptions at lowest rate*
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O too
aell and Spring streets. —-
WASHSTANDS, with marble, from 26s. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB. __
. AWN and PA'KK SEATS 6 feet long.
I a Cast-Iron Standards, 15s. each. Bradley, n
ton, and Lamb.
Bentwood furniture,-* very eom® 1 **'
Assortment; hast make, low »st VTU*
SOCIAL
Seldom has the large University Hall
looked so gay as on Saturday night last, on the
occasion of tbe Kendall Memorial Concert Lady
Loftus attended, and was attired In a black gown
trimmed with handsome white lace; a white lace
cap adorned with flowers. Mrs. Guerney, black
lace dress relieved by cream lace with slight
touches of crimson; Miss Guerney, black, and a
handsome crimson plush cloak; Mrs. M Quade, a
rich black dress draped with handsome lace; Miss
Wilkinson, white broche cut low, and half long
sleeves trimmed with chenille fringe and lace; her
sister in black; Mies Downing wore a pale blue satin
with long train, biscuit-lace flounces on the front
of skirt, and revers of maize satin, long tan gloves;
a lady from Potts’ Point wore a white surah satin
skirt, draped with spotted tulle, with an old gold
plush basque, adorned on the left shoulder with a
handsome bunch of nut-brown ostrich tips; a pure
white velvet; slightly relieved with crimson plush,
looked exceedingly well on a fair young lady;
simple, but very charming, was a soft-tucked
muslin dress made with full baby body; sash of
soft white surah satin, and in the waistband was
fastened a bewitching bunch of pink rosebuds;
Miss G. Garran wore a black dress cut half low
and short sleeves; Mrs. Kendall, lavender nuns
veiling, trimmed with white lace and black velvet
bows, half sleeves and black kid gloves: Mrs.
Benson, handsome black broche, draped with
black spotted tulle.
• • •
A goodly number of the elite of Sydney
wended their way through dust and Parramatta-
street on Saturday night to patronise the concert
at the University, given by Remenyi for the
benefit of the Kendall Memorial Fund. It was a
delightful concert, and, if the audience was a little
cold at the commencement, it must be remem-
bered that it was a high-class crowd, but later on
it seemed to forget Itself, and actually applauded
loud and long alter some of the items; in fact, its
stolid conventional dignity was quite overcome,
and—it was natural. In his opening solo, a
transcription of the “William Tell” overture, Mr.
Luckstone showed that he is not only a fine
pianist, but a creative musician besides, this
transcription being remarkably clever; and, later
on, in Liszt’s “ Polonaise in E ”—a piece which all
pianists are aware is fraught with difficulties—his
execution was admirable. The Australian clime is
evidently partial to Miss Downing, for—although
we were not very deeply Impressed with the lady’s
singing when she took part in the Remenyi con-
certs here before—on Saturday night her voice
was so sweet that at times we almost fancied we
were listening to Mrs, Charles Turner. In the aria
from “ Der Freischutz ” she may have lacked
warmth but the “Lullaby,” which was evidently
more suite d to her style, left little to be desired. For
encore she gave " Annie Laurie ” with sweet ex-
pression. Mr. Himmel, whatever his voice may
be, is certainly a finished vocalist, and his solos are
always well chosen. Mr. Hallewell, accompanied
by Mr. Hueaerbeln, gave the ever - welcome
“ Nazareth ” In grand style. Only one out of the
three solos down for Remenyi was given without
a hitch—the first one, Beethoven’s " Concerto.” In
this the violinist introduces a cadenza of his own—
a remarkable, fantastical conception with touches
here and there of real genius, but whether it was
altogether in keeping with the ‘ Concerto” is a
question; still it was very beautiful, very clever,
and Intensely interesting. The “ Elegie on
Kendall,” composed by Remenyi for the occasion,
teemed with exquisite musical thoughts, but the
“ Dead March in Saul” was cut short just before
the climax of the crescendo, on account of the
sudden indisposition of the organ. The cyphering
notes screeched discordantly till at last the
violinist impatiently unshouldered his violin,
shrugged his shoulders, and marched off the plat-
form, leaving his solo unfinished and his audi-
ence disappointed. Then, in the last solo, the
“ Australasian Hymn,” a string broke, and,
Mr. Luckstone gave us the item as a piano solo.
But notwithstanding these drawbacks, and the
absence of the Governor, the concert was a de-
cided success, and Mr. Dan. O’Connor, the chief
promoter, should be congratulated, and the
Remenyi quartette gratefully thanked by the
Sydney public.
* • •
Madame Charbonnet-Kellerman’s soiree
musieale, which was held in the new Masonic Hall
on the 11th inst., was quite as numerously attended
as the matinee on the previous Saturday. Only
the more advanced pupils took part in ttm second
performance, and Instead of Mrs. Atkinson’s sweet
singing, Mrs. John Spencer, who was in capital
form, gave “Non e’ ver,” and for encore “Killar-
ney.” Miss Josephine Smith, who possesses a won-
derfully powerful voice for a child, and who ap-
peared in dress and hose of light blue and high lace-
up boots, sang a solo, and was much applauded.
Master Beattie, who made his dibut as a pianist on
Saturday afternoon, sang one of his little songs
quite charmingly. The special feature of the
concert was Mendelssohn’s Concerto In G minor,
each movement of which was undertaken by a
different pupil. Miss James opened with the
“Allegro,” Miss Pltcalr-i following with the
“Andante,” and the “Presto finale” was admir-
ably played by Miss Cottee. The orchestral ac-
companiment, reduced for second piano, was
played all through by another very clever
young lady, Miss Paige. Madame Keller-
mann chose for her solo Hummel’s “ Alle-
gro Maestoso”, in B minor,” which was so rap-
turously epplauded that nothing less than an
encore would satisfy the audience. Showers of
bouquets and baskets of flowers were tendered to
Madame as she left tbe platform, and no lady In
Sydney so honestly earns the plaudits of a musical
populace as does Madame Keilermann Her
earnest endeavours to make tne ve>y utmost of
whatever talent a child may possess cannot be too
highly commended, but is only properly appreciated
by those who fully understand the benefits of con-
scientious musical teaching. Little Miss Mary
Gullfoyle, a child of about eight or nine summers,
showed pronounced talent in her playing of a
“Caprice In A Minor,” her wee fingers making
light of most Intricate passages. Numerous hand-
some bouquets rewarded the little mite after her
performance. The playing of the Misses Hunter,
Spencer, Mooney, and Palmer was well deserving
of mention.
♦ * •
The annual Masonic ball of the Sydney
Tarbolton Lodge, S.C., was held in the Town Hall
on Wednesday, the 13th, and the attendance was
the largest they have yet had, close on 300 being
present. The vestibule was decorated with flags
and Masonic emblems by Sale and Dare, The ball
was opened shortly after 9 o’clock by Dr. Sedg-
wick, I.Q. Master, and other Grand Lodge officers
marching in between lines of Masons in full re-
galia. The polonaise followed, under the direction
of Bro. Bllercamp, R W.M, and the dancing was
soon going merrily on to the fine music of
De Groen’s band At midnight the Masonic
quadrille was danced, the ladles wearing the craft ’s
regalia and jewels ’Twa a pleasant company
—pretty ladies and handsome costumes, amongst
which were Mrs. Hunt, in a white satin bodice,
and a beautiful whjte lace skirt, with tulle water-
fall back, the bodice cut square, and trimmed with
rose chrysanthemums; Mrs. Uhde, claret velvet
robe, with train, the front of the skirt flounced to
the waist with coffee lace; Mrs De Groen, a hand-
some black velvet dross, trimmed with white Jace:
Mrs. Aaron, cream satin skirt a'd bodice, sur-
mounted by a rich cardinal redlngote; Mrs Evans,
claret velvet sleeveless bodice, cut square, and a
white edelweissj lace skirt, trimmed with claret
and black ribbons; Mrs Lucas, cream and cardinal
satin ; Miss Timmins, bodice and pleated back
of moss-green satin, over a cream lace skirt,
trimmed with green and cream ribbons; Miss
Pay, bodice and puffings of pink satin, white
lace skirt and pearls round neck and head; Miss C.
Walsh, pink veiling skirt and satin bodice trimmed
with lace; her sister in pale blue nun’s veiling
skirt and satin bodice; Miss llenwick, black velvet
with gold fringe and tartan sash; Mrs. Collings,
pink satin dress, the front of which was draped
with spotted tulle; Mrs. Kingston, white tulle
skirt over pink satin, satin bodice out V shape;
Mrs. Arnold, white satin, lace, and pearls; Mrs.
Hermes, black and old gold satin; Miss Abraham,
pale-blue satin trimn ed with lace; Mrs. Poster,
white satin drees with train of white satin bro-
cade ; Mrs. Mulligan, ruby velvet bodice and
panlers over a pink satin skirt; Mrs. Scott,
green velvet dress, the front of skirt trimmed
with beaded lace ; Mrs. Smith, white tulle
skirt and satin bodice-cut square; a blonde
from Petersham wore pale-blue satin, trimmed
with white lace ard pink roses; her sister, a white
tarlatan skirt and brocaded satin bodice; Miss
Duncan, black brocaded satin and white lace; Mrs.
A. Aarons, pale-blue silk and white lace; Mrs.
Paul, cream and cardinal satin; Mrs. Kerr, black
satin and cream lace. The cards contained 35
dances, and Bros. O. Hunt and R. Moody were at-
tentive Ms C. Callaghan catered a good supper,
and to Bros. F. Washer and H. Marrow is due the
praise of making this one of the best Masonic
balls of the season.
• • *
Mr. Quong Tart is at it again. His
charity this time goes up to the Parramatta Desti-
tute Asylums. On Saturday a special train will
take visitors up to Parramatta, when they will
help Mr, Tart to dispense tobacco, flowers, crea-
ture comforts, and music to the poor unfortunates.
• • •
The Newtownians gave their sixth social
last Friday night, and although this was meant to
end their season, they are so pleased with them-
selves and their socials, that they have decided,
with a reckless disregard to expense, to continue
them a little longer. A new feature in Friday
night’s hop, was the introduction of the “Spanish
dance”—a simple little dance, which serves to
induce people to be “ social like ” and pleasant
From South Head Road came two sisters, in ver .
handsome costumes of stmber satin and black vei
vet; Mrs. Elen, cream draped with black lace;
fair lady looked well in black lace, and her slste
ditto in a skirt composed of three deep white
flounces, garnished with bows of black velvet
down the left side, white satin bodice, and black
gloves with armlets; Miss Freeman wore black and
pink; and Mrs. Green, a rich, black corded silk;
Miss Haslingden, black Madras muslin, her sister
blue and cardinal. A grand ball is to close the
season—date not yet decided upon.
« • «
The Parramatta Dramatic and Social Club
modestly intrude the fact of their existence
upon a suffering public with a representation of
“Richelieu” on the 3rd of September. We
wonder what will be the next piece in which they
will And full scope for their histrionic talents!
Now, a little thing from Shakespeare—say “ Ham-
let,” or “Romeo and Juliet,” might have been
good for a start. But, bless you, this trash doesn’t
repay the geniuses of Parramatta for their study.
Will somebody write something that.will ? Come,
Mr. Lewis Scott, here’s a chance for you.
* • •
The Condobolin Hospital ball was held in
Messrs. Nicholas and Raymond’s Hall on the 6th
inst., and can be classed amongst the most enjoy-
able dances of the season. Messrs. Walker and
Brown provided good danceable music, and the
ladies looked their very sweetest. Miss Slater
wore an artistic low-necked pea-green satin
trimmed with flaked gossamer and pink roses;
Miss Robinson white satin and pearls; Miss Row-
land, white satin and pink, cut low; Miss Waite,
pink broche and nun’s veiling; Mrs. Kelly, 4>lnk
satin and black lace; and Miss M’Lean, ruby velvet
and satin. Dancing till 5 a.m.
-• • •
The members of the North Shore Amateur
Dramatic Clublgave their initial performance on
Wednesday, the 13th inst., at the new Masonic
Hall, St. Leonards. The attendance was limited,
a fact which might be attributed to the Thespians'
omission to advertise their performance. The
amateur talent displayed was much above the
usual level. “ Peace at any Price ” opened the
show, and the characters were well taken by Miss
Llzette (whom we have surely heard before under
another name), and Mr. H. Summerville. The
artistic success must be attributed principally to
this gentleman s versatility, and it give us joy to
afford an amateur a word of unstinted praise.
Following the farce came various vocal contribu-
tions, viz., “I think of thee,” sweetly sung by
Miss Brady; “ I seek for thee in every flower,” by
Mr. Cole; a pleasant tenor gave the new song,
“Thy Face;” and Mr. Summerville warbled “ Alice,
where art thou ?” expressively. Mr. Harry Paul
contributed a number, but was seen and heard to
better advantage as Eglantine Boseleaf in the
concluding piece. “Turn Him Out,” in which he was
associated with Miss Cassilis as Julia, Miss Llzette
as Susan, Mr. Lumsdell as Moke, and Mr. Summer-
ville as Nobbs. Altogether, the performance
might profitably be emulated by other and older
clubs, whose performances it has been our dismal
lot to witness. We hear this club has in contem-
plation a higher flight, which will, probably, com-
mand the popularity it deserves.
• • ♦
Last Wednesday, the 14th inst., Miss
Alcock was married to Mr. John Single, of Penrith,
at St. Philip’s Church, Church-hill. The bride
looked very lovely in a robe of rich ivory satin
and broche trimmed with white silk lace, long veil
and orange-blossoms. The chief of the four
bridesmaids—the young sister of the bride
—wore cream nun’s-veiling and cardinal Tam-o'-
Shanter hat; another in pale-blue, and two in
cream veiling and pale-blue satin Tam o’Shanters.
Over 40 guests sat down to a sumptuous wedding-
breakfast, which was prepared in Baumann’s best
style, at the residence of the bride’s parents, and
the room was tastefully decorated by David Jones
and Co. The bride's mother wore a handsome
green surah silk dress shot with gold, and elegantly
tOmmed witn striped velvet and lace. Mrs J.
Alcock’s dress was of cardinal satin and cream
lace; the Misses Single, pretty costumes of bronze
Ottoman silk; Mrs. Burgoyne, silver-gray broche
and satin; her daughter in bronze and coffee lace;
Miss Hibberson, of Penrith, ruby satin and broche
garnished with fawn lace; Mrs. M‘Evoy, black
satin; Mrs. C. Robinson, black velvet and pink
scarf; Mrs. Cron black grenadine; Mrs. Pierce a
tasteful costume of black and pink; Mrs. Putland,
black silk and broche; Mrs. M‘Lennan, dark-green
shot silk. The bride’s travelling-dress was of gray
Garfield cloth and brocade with hat to match.
Honeymoon at Moss Yale.
• • •
The fascination that the red coats have
for the gentler sex was plainly evinced on Satur-
day afternoon, when they drove, rode, or trudged
through heat and dust in hundreds, to see the re-
view. For those who were fortunate enough to
possess the necessary “order” to drive through
the gates, things were comfortable enough, out
scores of cabs and carriages were compelled to
“lie to ” outside the fence, where they could sea
almost nothing. When the Governor vacated his
carriage others followed suit, and played “follow
my leader ” very prettily all the afternoon. As
for the ladies’ dresses, some were so dust-covered
that they looked not unlike the khakeo uniforms,
but a few who had taken the precaution to wear
light dust cloaks, which they threw off upon ar-
riving at the ground, were well repaid for their
trouble by looking in comparison quite fresh and
nice. The fancy for dressing in pairs, trios, aid
quartettes, is much in vogue, which is rather awk-
ward when a girl doesn’t possess a sister or sisters.
It is presumed that when such is the case she hires
one for the occasion, and thus another means of a
respectable livelihood is open to girls. A pair
on Saturday wore dove - coloured cashmere
dresies, with slabs of rich ruby velvet down either
side of the skirt, vest of ruby velvet, across which
was laced dove coloured silk cord—very striking
costumes, and worn by a pair of pretty sisters.
An exceedingly nice dress was of white flannel,
spotted with small lavender soots; the well-fitting
jacket bordered by lavender feather trimming. A
dress of the new Icanvas cloth was worn by a tall,
dark lady—the colour cream, handsomely embroi-
dered in shaded brown silks. A few ladies were on
horseback, one who wore a low-crowned, stiff felt
hat, and her fair curls falling over her shoulders,
looking particularly attractive.
* * •
On Thursday evening last, the Lynwood
Club entertained their friends at the second
social, held at the Club premises, Globe Point. The
grounds were splendidly decorated with festoons
of flags, which flapped quietly to and fro in the
calm, lovely evening, and were evidently a source
of great attraction, judging from the numbers of
young couoles who went into the garden to view
the’f ffect. Previously to dancing, vocal and instru-
mental selections were rendered by ladies and
gentlemen, the most successful being a comic
duet After the concert and refreshments, which,
by the way, were very choice as well as plentiful,
dancing was Indulged in until almost dawn.
Amongst the visitors were Mrs. A. Jonsen in sage-
green satin costume; Miss Miller, black lace dress,
wreaths of marguerites; Miss Schroeder, car-
dinal broche body, cream nun’s veiling and
lace skirt ; Miss A. Schroeder, ruby velvet
body, rale-blue nun’s veiling skirt; Miss Kelly,
black broche skirt tuffed with pink pons-pons;
Mrs. Joseph, ruby-brocaded velvet and satin,
trimmed with coffee-coloured lace; Mrs. Levy
wore a black satin costume, whilst her daughter
was attired in a black velvet body, edged with
swansdown and white skirt striped with black
velvet ; Miss Lardner, crushed strawberry
broche, trimmed with cream lace ; Mrs. Mal-
colm, pale-blue nun’s veiling, coffee lace,
with streamers of old gold and blue ribbons;
Mrs. Clark, grey homespun, trimmed with ruby
velvet; Miss Cohen, black grenadine and lace;
Miss Collins (a good elocutionist) cardinal silk body,
cream nun’s veiling skirt: Miss Bastway, cream
nun’s veiling, trimmed with cardinal satin. Many
more tasteful costumes were worn, and the
number of guests present was sufficient evidence
as to the popularity of the Lynwood Club socials.
• * ♦
The latest, the very latest, ball-room freak
is to place a large cake in the centre of the ball-
room, cut It, and present the first cut to the belle.
This ceremony was actually gone through at a
bachelors’ ball the other day not a hundred miles
from Sydney. The favoured one modesty ac-
cepted her slice of pound-cake whilst the slighted
ones looked on vowing vengeance on every
bachelor present.
♦ » •
Miss Essie Thomas (Mrs. White) has pub-
lished a pretty and melodious waltz, which she
calls the “Daphne.” This waltz is a great im-
provement on any music hitherto put out by this
lady which has come under our notice, and should
be a welcome addition to our ball-room waltzes.
It can be purchased at all music warehouses.
* * »
Of the many and merry socials that have
been given by Mrs. Brlerley, of Clythl, Burwood,
that of Thursday evening last was equal in every
respect to the best. Between 60 and 70 guests
were present, and by half-past 8 the pale-green
ball-room, prettily decorated, was the scene of
great animation, as some 3* couples stepped to
the excellent music. Two pretty sisters from
Liver pool-road; a well-known Petersham bru-
nette, in rich cardinal satin, with gold lace front:
a charming daughter of Zion from the Glebe, in
silver-spangled silk; a pretty dancer from Queen-
street, Croydon, in white lace skirt and pale-blue
bodice; a Five Dock girl, in sombre but beautiful
garb; and the faultless and fair daughters of the
hostess drew most attention. This is the first
social of this hospitable house since Mrs. Brierley’s
recovery from a severe Illness.
• • •
The Forbes annual show ball eventuated
on the 18th Inst., and was numerously attended.
The wife of the “ Lord of Warroo ” was graceful
and beautiful as usual, and the sight of the “ White
Bose ” recalled pleasant memories to those who
were wont to languish round the Sydney “ block ”
in times gone by. Two sisters introduced the very
latest in the way of English ball-dresses, and Mel-
bourne was worthily represented, whilst Newtown
sent the neatest dancer. The lady from Elstern-
wlck wore a dress that was a perfect poem, and
carried a bouquet worthy of an artist’s dream.
The daughter of a local magnate made several
conquests, and was altogether charming.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
[Note.— Social Items, In order to ensure inser-
tion for the current week, should be to hand no
later than Tuesday.]
“P.P.B.”: Event noticed in last week’s issue—
“ Old Friend Who are you, and what are you
giving us?.. .."R.M.O.” (Orange): See last
week’s issue.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Bicycle Sports, Association Ground,
Saturday ’. August 23.
Sydney Bicycle Club Ball, Town Hall. .. August 34,
Mons. Edouard Mathe’s Soiree Musi-
cale, Paling’s Warehouse, Thursday.,August 30.
Mayor of Petersham’s Ball, Petersham
Town Hall Septembers!.
Railway Officers’ Picnic, Botany September 00.
Dea.ii Peg,—I promised last week, in a moment
of vanity, to enlighten Netta as to the newest
style of table decorations, but reflection of the last
few days has convinced me of the truth of the
saying that •* there is nothing new under the sun,”
tor really, even in this small branch of art, there is
no absolute novelty. Still, I may, perhaps, be able
to write some hints that will serve her purpose; so
—as the lecturers say-I will plunge at once in
medias res. Strips of plush velvet, or satin trimmed
with lace, have had their day, and are relegated to
informal dinners, when flowers arc scarce, or to
the luncheon-table. In spite of fickle fashion’s
edict, I dare to think it is sometimes a great im-
provement to have the white cloth so relieved,
but it must be done with much reserve. For in-
Instane, a width of richest plush in a soft dark
sage-green, edged with real lace, having a low,
flat centre-piece of arum lilies and leaves; it
intervals tiny pots of yellow or white marguerites,
between them, and laid on the pltuh, large white
marguerites, with yellow centres, supported by
leaves of green, would look delightfully cooj.
Or you might use nasturtiums and their leaves,
taking care to keep the pale shades of yellow for
daylight, as they look white under the gas. If you
want to carry the red glow from your shades into
the table cloth, substitute a piece of turkey twill,
edged with torchon lace, for the plush, and use
only flowers of the same tone, such as red and
pink roses with their leaves. After all, the only
hard and fast rule that obtains for the present is to
keep as much as possible to one kind of flower,
and entirely to one colour. Wallflowers, shading
from darkest brown to pale yellow, always look
well. If your frost-bitten garden cannot supply
any of these requisites till the “ balmy breath 01
Spring wakens Nature into gladness,” you might
strike out in a ‘line .of your own, and become in-
tensely patriotic by utilising blue-gum leaves, if
notioverpo werlngly odoriferous, and holly; or pose
as an Ingenious economist by a nappy combina-
tion of carrot-tops and hips and haws. Then com-
fort yourself with the truism that “taste is at
best only a preference for what exists to-day,
which was not yesterday, and that may not be to-
morrow.”
On Saturday afternoon we went to the
Review. All the country regiments — corps
or companies, I suppose, would be the pro-
per term—of seasoned soldiers and raw re-
cruits were transported for the occislm, some
from a distance of several hundred miles But
distance proved no obstacle where patriotism and
reduced fares paved the way to a ‘ jolly spree ”
for the country lads, who had never seen anything
larger than their own primitive town in the far-
reaching eucalyptus forests of the north or south.
It was Queen's weather, so far as the sun was con-
cerned, for he was “shining with all his might’
in a cloudless sky, but from “ early morn to dewy
eve ” there came from the west a sound of wind
that filled the town with clouds of cho&ing dust.
The Review was fixed to take place in Moore
(Continued on next pure.)


YB MYSTERIES OF COOKING.
It must be admitted on all hands that the Sauce-
pan or modern domestic life, the pot of bygone
days, exercises a powerful iolluence on the above
therefore it Is just as well .-to have saucepans the
handles of which cannot pinch the hand and are
not liable to become loose after the manner of
some saucepans.
CHAS. OTTE & CO.,
Electrical Engineers,
113 Pitt Street.
Electric Batteries for surgical and household use, Electric Bells
Private Telephones, Electric Lights, Lightning Conductors, Dyna-
mos, and all Electrical appliances fitted at the shortest notice, at
25 per cent, under usual price.
CHAS. OTTE & CO., 113 Pitt Street.
Alex. Borthwick. r .
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c.
2S1 G-eorgre-st., S3rd.3^.e3r.
I
A
1
for Infants and Children.
Castorla euros Colic, Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation,
Gives healthy sleep and promotes digestion,
Without injurious medication.
Elliott Bros., Sydney, Agents,
“Castorl a is so well adapted to children that
I recommend it as superior to any prescription
known to me." H. A. Archer, M. D.,
Ill Oxford Street, New York, if
No. 3, 3 pints, 1/3.
No. 4, 3 pints, 1/6.
No. 5, 4 pints, 1/9.
No. (i, 6 pints, 2/-.
No. 8,10 plats, 2/11.
Larger sizes in proportion.
-uiiy kenrxck s Celebrated Hollow-ware;
"* , e care you get the saucepans of this unrivalled
? nd 8 2 that you may be sure of It, visit
£?,? Emporium, Haymarket, when you
will get the correct thing, and save 6/- in the pound
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket only.
QUOD PACIMUS VALDE PACIMU8.
(What we do we do well.)
YOUR PHOTO.-If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
counsel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries In the Sydney
Arcade. There you can Inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co,, which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
. ,, , You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices-C-D-V.,: Cabinets' 30s. per dozen.
_ CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE.
GRANVILLE.
THE RISING TOWNSHIP.
Buy in the
CITY AND COUNTY INVESTMENT, LAND,
AND BUILDING COMPANY’S Subdivision,
RIGHT IN THE HEART OP THE TOWN.
RAILWAY STREET FRONTAGES.
NEAR THE PUBLIC SCHOOL.
ELEVATED LAND.
LOW PRICES.
EASY TERMS.
90 PER CENT. TO BUILD
PLANS and PRICES from
CITY ■ AND COUNTY INVESTMENT, LAND.
AND BUILDING COMPANY (Limited),
16 ROYAL ARCADE.
Department of Public Work*.
Sydney, 18th August, 1885.
fflENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
JL PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office In the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a
this office.
Construction of Timber Jetty at
Byron Bay
Construction of Covered Service
Reservoir at Hamilton
Erection of Police Barracks,
Coonamble
Bridge over Duck Creek, road
Warden to Balllna
Bridge over Mosquito Creek,
road Warialda to Norse
Erection of Refreshment and
Accomodation Rooms at Wel-
lington
Bridge over Lagoon at Morpeth
Tuesday,
25th August,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Wharf and Shed at
Pelican Plat, Lake Macquarie
Construction of Public *eharf,
&c., at Cahill's, Bellinger River
Construction of Public Wharf
at Huskisson, Jervis Bay
Construction of Public Wharf
at Chatsworth, Clarence River
Construction of Public Wharf
at King’s Creek, Clarence
River
Erection of Fire Brigade Station
Sydney
Erection of Morgue, Newcastle
Tuesday,
1st September,
at 11 o’clock.
P A. WRTOH1
Walshe’s Family Hotel,
Corner of
ELIZABETH & HUNTER STS. SYDNEY
J. W. WALSHS, Proprietor.
First-class Luncheon at one o’clock. Best Brands
Wines, Spirits, &o. &o.
HORDERN’S
ON THE
Brickfield. Hill.
DOS STAY Mil COSSET ELPASTMENT.
CO
kX
,3°
k
c\
.
*' o
V s
%
\
r\
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Free oe Charge.
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
2b. lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., 5s. Cd., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., 8s. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12a 6
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS, 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill
—Orders from the Country will receive Immediate and careful attent on.
lecnTo* l Specialities.—Bait ana uart,
flaa tastetully decorated wit>
fu4v u- noral decorations. Artistic effects skll-
; peculiar brilliance in display
ummated. BOi Hunter-street. Sydney.*
8chn«i?r.. 8 1 tre ? 8thener of the weak Wolfe’s
apps Is absolutely matchless.
Ktamf?ra?r£P you are next cooking juat give
g8Iord 8 Oswego Cornflour a trial.
(Continued from page 16.)
Park, at 3 o’clock in the afternoon, and
nearly an hoar before that we made our way
to the sacred precincts of salutlng-polnt, to which
none were admitted but the priveleged few who
had friends at Court—or. In this case, at the Bar-
racks. Perhaps you are mentally questioning
“What is saluting-polnt?” Your Ignorance Is
auite excusable, for the position Is like an abstract
noun—known only by Us attributes—a moveable
D ost made stationary by the presence of the
Governor—a flag-staff with the Union Jack float-
ing aloft, and a guard of policemen that keep the
thronging multitude of the "Great Unwashed’’
from encroaching on the holy oblong of dusty
lawn. I was surprised to find how lew of the
“privileged few ” were there. Sir Alfred, Lady,
and the Misses Stephen, Admiral Tryon, Bishop
Barry, the Hon. E Barton and Mrs. Barton, Sir P.
Jennings, Count Von Bandissin, Mrs. and Miss
Richardson, Mrs. Mackenzie, Mrs. Airey, Mrs. Bou-
verie Mrs. Squler, Mrs. Taunton, Mr. and Mrs. P.
Moore, Mr, and Mrs. E. Hodgson (of Queensland),
Colonel Wilson, Colonel Bingham, Captain Mill-
ward, and Captain Bunbury were among the
select few. The last three are recent arrivals
from England, who are going tojend their superior
knowledge for the use and improvement of our
defences. I confess to be misty on the subject of
their mission, but not at all so as to their appear-
ance. They wore just the loveliest uniform of
dark-blue and gold imaginable; it is similar to that
of our Permanent Artillery, only that it glories
in a fine sabretache of gold, and white hel-
met 'with a blue band. Their movements
on foot or on horseback were watched with
great interest and admiration (of course, cela va
sans dire), by many eyes Soon alter 3 o’clock,
Lord Augustus Loftus arrived with Mr. Dailey,
Captain Loftus, and Mr. Unwin (private secretary),
and escorted by a detachment of the Sydney Light
Horse. Being deposited at the flag-staff, he did a
little greeting, then walked a short way into the
open park, and bowed to the thousands of assem-
bled troops far away on the other side of the field.
They acknowledged the courtesy by setting all
the bands to play a few bars of the National
Anthem— one al ter the other I 'The effect was
agonising, but mercifully short. Then the Go-
vernor was driven slowly round the field, with the
Light Horse as guard of honour, to inspect the
various regiments, who presented arms as he
passed. Our Light Horse are a very creditable
little body, considering their infancy, and when
they are converted into Lancers will no doubt cut
a dash. Some of their horses made one break the
10 h Commandment, in spite of good resolutions.
I set my affections on several, and one in particu-
lar, a delicately-made sorrel with a beautiful head.
I was too engrossed with the Review to notice
what people wore, and only saw that Mrs. Richard-
son had a pretty gown of dark green with panels
and drapery of alight green silk, and bonnet to
match; Miss Richardson and Miss Dickson were
conspicuous as the only equestriennes. I saw a
small lady in a charming olive-green plush mantle
with small silver clasps down the front. A stylish-
looking lady loosed very enviable, as the day
grew chilly, in a splendid sealskin mantle trimmed
with very deep sable.
Mrs. John Newton, of Pendhoe, Darling Point,
gave a most enjoyable dance on Thursday evening,
August 13, when she entertained about 120 guests,
Including Hon. E. Barton, Mrs. Barton. Mr. and
Mrs. George Monteflore, Mr. and Mrs. Lingen, Mr.
and Mrs. W. E. Mort. Mr. and Mrs. G. B. Simpson,
Dr. Bowkerand the Misses Bowker, Mrs. and Miss
Gray, Mr. and Mrs. B. R. Wise, Mrs. Wrench, the
Misses Throckmorton, Mrs. Nott, Mrs. C. Orr, Mr.
and Mrs. F. Orr, Mr. and Mrs. Prendergast, the
Misses Josephson, Mrs. and Miss Backhouse, Mr.
and Mrs Bauer, the Misses Mann, Miss Deen, Miss
Graham, Miss Daly, Mrs, and the Misses Cox, Cap-
tain Paul, ;Captain Pike, Mr. Moriarty, Mr,
Burnside, Mr. Campbell, Mr. Scott, Mr. Missing,
Mr. Hatton, Mr. Manning, Lieutenant Arnold,
U.N., and many others. Dancing began soon after
nine, in a pavilion specially built for the evening;
the walls were clothed in a dado and frieze of red,
with a broad white band between, while wreaths
of evergreen did duty as cornices. Looking from
the drawing-room across the conservatory, de-
nuded of its all for the night, save a bank of ferns
at the upper end, happily reflected in a mirror
above—the effect of so much colour in the room
was to cast a sort of subdued glow of pale red
mist, that was inexpressibly dreamy. Added to
that, the many-tinted dresses and sombre black
coats of the whirling dancers gave one the impres-
sion of a softly-changing kaleidoscope.
Some of the toilettes worn were extremely
pretty. The hostess looked exceedingly well in a
peculiar.dresslof cardinal satin and figured silk—
the satin being used (as a plaited underskirt, while
the over-dress, of leaden ground, covered with a
foliated pattern of subdued red and faded green,
ended in a court train of sensible length. The
bodice was cut square, with elbow sleeves, and
trimmed with light coffee lace: Mrs. Lingen, black
velvet and riviere of diamonds; Miss Josephson,
wore black; Miss Grace Josephson wore an excep-
tionally becoming gown of buttercup satin
and lace; Mrs. Grossman, a beautiful bridal dress
of soft white gros grain, the front a marvhl
of white silk embroidery ; Mrs. Harris, brown
satin and lace, relieved bv orange tips; Mrs.
Salomons, black and jet; Mrs. G. B. Simpson
looked well in a handsome gown of crushed
strawberry, with a front of pompadour roses
on a cream satin ground. Misi Kyngdon’s
quaint frock was much noticed. It was of the
new piece-lace so much in vogue, of ficelle colour.
A short waist cut en cneur, and finished by a hard
and fast line of amber beads, and a quite plain
ballet skirt; the finishing touches being butter-
yellow ribbons, tied in a bow on the elbow-sleeves,
round the waist, and suspending a palm fan
dressed up to match, and a necklet of stones in
*“' n °8t every hue the mineral woiId can produce,
the Misses Throckmorton wore beautifully fit-
ting white dresses—one of tulle, ornate with white
min ribbons and milliners’ pearls; the others in
striped satin and gauze. The two youthful d£~
putantes. Miss Backhouse and Miss E. Paige,
looked fresh and pretty in their soft white frocks.
Miss Millie Cox wore pale-pink. The rival beau-
ties of the evening were Miss Bowker, a tall slim
neauty, with soft languishing eyes; and Miss Far-
Quhar, equally tall and slim, with dusky skin and
eyes of deepest blue. Mias Salomons wore a
nandsome dress of brown satin and net; Mrs. F.
•ok’ ? n l 08t effective combination of pale-fawn
Sf;*3 ead 8°ld lace, and bronze-brown plush; Mrs.
rrendergast, a handsome black dress, much
trimmed with Indian embroidery of beetles’
prmf 8 ’ Hi 6 black and Kreen forming a happy
link* u . t0 the wearer’s very fair complexion and
Dancing was kept up till about 2 p.m.,
wnen the time-honoured “ Sir Roger’’ was ousted
thin 1 181 w &ltz, which culminated in “God save
me Queen. ’
JnH re ,u are man y other things I might write
whiiJh tae , pa P er chase on Tuesday, the 11th,
TM-tlr ™ et at Newtown ; the non-chaperoned
Hnii-. glve ? by Colonel and Mrs. Richardson, at
oiinswood, on Wednesday, 12th, which was a
nn u,!j Ucce8s , : the North Shore private assembly
tho i aj Q mht, another pleasant gathering ; and
sitv n !o“ 811 Memorial Fund concert at the Univer-
my on Saturday evening.
o/a U iM 8 H lf !i h ®. 8rt8 are rejoicing over the prospect
dav • uv 2“ ? deuce on board tne Nelson next Thurs-
br \’i^t D n a ,^ uveni l e Party on Friday evening given
mrii-I o. 1 ' 8 . of Hinemoa, Edgeoilff Road. The
van,.. v *£? e d froiickers jo k lorward t > a prl-
• ,u.H aem . b| y at Hunter’s Hill on Friday, 21st; and
Ocean 0 ?, glvea by Mrs. H. C. w hite at Calingra,
an-street, fixed for Tuesday, 25th.
CORRA LYNN.


Wolfe's Schnapps has often been pi
but haa never had a rival.
It would be amusing, if the issues involved
were not so terrible, to see how lighthoartedly the
English Jingo party would rush on war—bold
with the assurances of support showered so reck-
lessly around by Indian princes and colonial
statesmen. We read in an English journal that a
Hindoo gentleman of the name of Lalmohun
Ghose made what the journal in question calls “ an
important speech,” at Deptford, recently. In this
speech he made the magnificently Munchausenish
statement that “such was the enthusiasm of his
fellow-countrymen for the English Government
since the administration of Lord Rlpon that 380
millions of his fellow-countrymen would arise to
repel the invader, and thus give an answer to the
question whether they would rather live under
tno Queen than the Czar.” Thunders of anplause
greeted this splendid burst of mendacity. Yet any
schoolboy—as Macaulay used to sav—could have
told those hurrahing lunatics that the total popu-
lation of India—men, women, and children-ls not
more than 240 m'llions. Unless Mr. Lalmohun
Ghose meant that his dead countrymen would rise
out of their cemeteries to wave a sword of carnage
over the snow-clad mountains of the Hindoo
Khoosb. we do not clearly see how he could get
350 millions out of that lot. If he did mean this,
perhaps it might be just as well to let the dead
rest. We made ghosts of a few thousands of them
ourselves, about a generation ago, for which they
might not be as grateful as Mr. Lalmohun Ghose
seems to suppose. Pahawl India Is a splendid
Cleopatra. She will follow the fortunate. The
strong hand gained her. A stronger hand will
take her away. The assurances of suppocbxrom
Maharajahs and Nizams are worth just as much or
as little as the E gllsh Government likes to make
of them. For our own part, we should be sOrry to
see this threatened war break out, even though
the disbanded braves of the Contingent are sitting
moodily by their hearth«_y earning savagely to wade
In blood once more. We quoted this remarkable
speech by Mr. Lalmohun Ghose, principally to Illus-
trate the mad and Ignorant foUy which characterises
the conduct of the War Party in England at the
present time. Anything Is an encouragement to
them to ca ira and yell for gore, and plenty of It.
We believe. In all seriousness, that If Mr Dailey
offered to send a contlnger t of male kangaroos,
drilled in the use of the riMe and bayonet, to fight
the Hussians. h’S c ffer would be hailed with hys-
terical enthuslpf m by the J’ngo jourr als, and ac-
cepted in prwe good faith by th« Government.
Lord Rose* • rr—having bitn out here—might try
to make lm. of it, but he would not be attended
to. Fervid i n.tors would tay that the noble Dailey
had linked the old land to the new in another bond
cf affection, and that as long as either lasted bis
name would last. It is e mad world. Let us go to
dinner
Up to a few days ago we believed the
story of Androcles and the lion—how the run-
away slave took a thorn as big as a belaylng-pin
out of the king’s foot, and how his majesty, in-
stead of eating him for his trouble, provided him
with fresh meat six days of the week and tripe on
Sanday. When we first road this story we were
with dlffl ulty dissuaded from embarking as
cvbin-boy in the first ship going to Dahomey,
taking to the bush, and discovering whether that
lion left any similarly-affected descendants behind
him. But the handle of a hoe in the hands of a
prosaic father convinced us that work other than
going 1 1 Africa to punch thorns out of lions’ toes
be found nearer home, and that we’d better
settle down to it. We settled. And now, after
many years, we begin to doubt the whole story of
Androcles The AGE is responsible for our
nascent scepticism. It tells of an operation per-
formed a week ago on the old lioness In the
Melbourne Zoological Gardens. This animal had a
tumour in her lower jaw—probably from having
t >o much to say in family matters. She was very
much attached to this abnormal growth, and It
was equally attached to her. But the authorities
determined to separate |them, and so a veterinary
surgeon named Kendall, and a doctor called Le
Fevre attended with a knife and a bucket of
chloroform. After 5lb. of the anaesthetic had
been Inhaled the poor beast felt that a lie-down
would do her good. When she came to she missed
something, and found that her tumour was gone.
Then she spoke out in a way that brought all the
animals in the garden to the railings in front
of their premises. Now, had she been of
the same breed as Androcles’ brute she would
have fondled Kendall and Le Fevre. But, instead
of that, when they escaped from her premises
they appeared as if they had just come away from
a meeting of ’bus-drivers where they’d called the
chairman a liar. Whether this ungrateful conduct
1« due to her sex or not, it would be hard to say.
But it has shaken our faith in the whole cat
family.
The base recreant and treasonable
wretch who writes “ Things in Australia” for
Vanity Pair (London), thus discourseth in his
last, which is dated, as usual, from Brisbane,
Q. “ If I may judge from the papers that have
reached us, people in England do not understand
how it is that N.S.W. troops come to be in the
Soudan now; and they are drawing entirely er-
roneous conclusions from the fact. It may seem
an ungracious thing for an Australian to say, but
I can assure you that there was no unanimous out-
burst of desire on the part of the Australians to
send men to the Soudan —[Treason 1— Ed. B.j
nor was the feeling which prompted the dispatch
of the Sydney Contingent one of simple pa-
triotism; while the refusal to accept corps
from other colonies was received with more
genuine gratitude than any official communl-
cation we have had from England for some
Sears past.—[Traitor 1—Ed. B.——] . . . . . .
ne fine day Sir Thomas M Ilwraith sent the P.M.
of Thursday Island to annex New Guinea, and
suddenly the whole situation changed. . . . , .
In the confusion two men began to Impress them-
selves on the colonial mind as types of their hopes
and fears. One was Mr. Service, the shrewd but
enthusiastic Scotchman who rules Victoria and
attracted general attention as evidently the fitting
champion of Australian rights and the probable
realiser of Australian aspirations. The other was
Lord Derby, who became for us the embodiment
of all that was detestable in policy. For some
time there was no assemblage of Australians
where you could not curse Lord Derby with im-
punity; in fact, they were ready to quarrel with
you If your curses were not sufficiently deep and
comprehensive. In this sentiment we were all
at first unanimous, though from the first N.S.W.
hung back a little. She cursed too, but with mode-
ration, and in less forcible language than the rest
of us The Premier of that colony, Mr. Stuart,
was a man of no mark, and absorbed in bringing
about a change In the local land laws. But he had
a colleague, a Mr. Dailey, a man who is remark-
able in many ways Young Dailey had a
good education, as his parents became wealthy,
and he developed a great talent for public speak-
ing. I can assure you that as an orator Mr Dailey
would attract notice anywhere, and his brilliant
Imagination is refined by culture. A certain
physical laziness and a shrinking from the rude
conflicts of democracy kept him from seeking
political position by the ordinary colonial path.
He remained on the nominee Council, and only
roused himself from his cultured Indolence to
make a great speech now and again. He joined
Mr- Stuart’s Cabinet as he had joined other
Ministeries, content to accept a subordinate posi-
tion rather than buckle to the hard work of ad-
ministration. But Mr. Stuart fell ill, and Mr. Dai-
ley became the virtual head of the Government.
He displayed unexpected vigour, and a new and
startling departure. He became Lord Derby s
apologist, and posed as the humble servant of the
Crown, content to accept .whatever the Imperial
Ministers might see fit to do, rebuking the impa-
tience of those who murmured at the turn taken
by the New Guinea negotiations. Our ignorance
and the wisdom of Mr. Gladstone’s Ministers were
his text. At first he had hard work. All the rest
of Australia laughed and sneered, and Mr. Dailey
had, by a series of orations, to repress the mur-
murs which h's new departure excited even in his
own colony. There, however, he had a strong card
to play. N 8 W. has never forgiven the sudden
rise of Victoria into a colony outstripping its
parent in population and Importance, and even the
rapid readjustment now going on has not healed
the old hurt. Victoria has been arrogant, and
N.S.W. has sulked. Mr. Dailey, therefore, was
able, by dexterous use of this lurking jealousy, to
reconcile, or partly reconcile, his people to with
drawal from the Australian concert. Then oatnV
. his opportunity. The fall of Khartoum and death
of Gordon echoed through all Australia. Thera
was an outburst of the rage which makes rn P „
vaguely anxious to do something just to let nS
their indignation. Mr. Dailey saw his opportunity
of ‘dishing the Victorians.’ He had receiver!
several indications that his loyalty to the ColonSi
Office was appreciated, and he depatched his tel*,
graphic offer of troops. After an interval, wy
enough to make it sure that his offer would vo be!
fore the Imperial authorities by itself, and L. £
glory would not be dimmed by simultaneous ouetl
from elsewhere, he notified the Australian colonies
of what he had done. He had trumped Mr. <w
vice’s ace. The idea of offering troops to Emr"
land came as a startling novelty on Australia, and
there was a general throwing up of hats at the
delightful suggestion. Older heads were shaken
doubtfully, but it was evident to the Governments
that they must follow the example. Mr. Dailey
with a chuckle read of the reluctant offers made
by the other colonies, confident that he, as the
pattern good boy of colonial Ministers, would be
distinguished by a supreme mark of Imperial fa-
vour, and confident that his fellow-colonists, what-
ever they might think, would, in the favourite Aus-
phrase, ‘ see him through’ the enterprise.
What happened you know as well as I do. We were
all ready to j oln in, whether we liked it or not, and
to make a Joint Australian contingent. But that did
not suit Mr. Dailey, and he refused co-operation.
the refusal being backed by the Imperial autnon
ties. We were, of course, interested in tne
tunes of our fellow-colonists, but we were not
all disposed to send men for the autumn campaw •
even before this Russian trouble arose, foro
thing we knew perfectly well, that England
not at her last gasp because Khartoum had is* '
and that our services were not really needed, no*
our colonial troops may be very good-we u
they are—but they are certainly expensive. * .
shillings a-day, besides their keep, is the jai
which they servo their country; and rich asi
colonies certainly are, they cannot afford
much complimentary campaigning at tnai i
And I don’t think you can get men to recr u
foreign service out here at a much less raw-
you see, the idea that the Empire can cou _
any considerable military support from “ jch
entirely erroneous. The Patriotic Fund
was raised in N.8 W. amounted to * of
sura certainly, but not to one-tenth of t"f n.,jer-
tho expedition, which will make a very c. - ,
able item in Mr. Dailey’s next Budget- t> •
subsequent events have caused the penau
public opinion to swing another way. _
The Melbourne Lioness and Her Tumour.
18
August 32, is%w
THE BULLETIN!


Qitlcura
■pvISFIGURINQ HUMORS, Humiliating uiuu-
U lions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticuba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticuba and Cuticuba Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
C
Itching: and Burning: ,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s'ltch!
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, Instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticuba Soap and a single application of
Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticuba Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
• A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; h ’ ' ’ ‘
IUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
her, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Geeat Skin Cube (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
9^ ic ! ,ra l. boa P> an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and 1 oilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticuba, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Bashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
„ — o , have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty.four page
hook, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Austbalian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and 8km Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
tare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
lassachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Ai ea nn?^™ CuTICU S A ’ 80 cents P er box - la n?e boxes,
$1.00, Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cdticura Shay-
!Ng Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle. ’ v
Peepabbd bt the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
I
a
-v LIMITED
UHOSUf
EasyTime.
overSOOofthi
BestMah.
•um
SSS-f
-33
107 Pitt-street,
caterer and confectioner.
w LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT BOOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.
A.J.O. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRES8ING SALOON,
91 Zing-street.
N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA AND INSECTICIDE,
*
ACIDITY J of M STOMACH BILIOUS HEAnAPHP 7 f °/ I ™ < ?J GE9TT0N ’ FLATULENCE,
Invalids and Children. i!1LIODS HEADACHE, and a MOST GENTLE APERIENT for
r |ar See Medical Opinions Accompanying each Bottle.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout the Colonies.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
M d
from the Depredations of the Moth. BedroomFurnlture° rLh,na h Xt Pure
may be Cleansed of Insect Vermin by KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE. n8 ’ Eow Houses, and Dog Kennels
Bold in Tins, Is., and upwards, by aU Chemists and Storekeepers.
ELLIOTT BROS. J Q .
K. PROSSER & CO. f Sydne I r -
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 864 and 368 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only StudioT
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment. Australia.
e«outri"° “ ° arried 0B f0r »">•« 01 l»t« Mr.
Everybody should remember the address:
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, MANAGE*.
HERB, mums u( ci
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IM, 1JHW1EE, d UCDB! 10CIMT5,
Importers of
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSH WARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACK8
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
. '
VT A
PORTABLE, FIX!
and SEMi-PIXBD El
GINBS
W «*
1 S A H T A H pf&. PI^ffi
, SCRE1
DRILL&
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRAI
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLS
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, fto.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office
- 64 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
SYDNEY:
• • • 86 QRAOEOBUROH STREET,


W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and SYDNEY.
Catalogues
POST FBBB.
W. WALKER
and SONS
an one of the
Largeit
Stockholder*
and
Manufacturer*
High-olaii*
FURNITURE 1
3
ENGLAND,
POST PBBJ,
ALL STOCK
u ttaeii
SYDNEY
■OVII
Supplied
O1B10T
from tbair
London
Manufactory
and Lateit
London Btylu
Guabahtih
btdnet;branch ;
81 CLARENGE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ABB SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails. „ . . , ,
If you are comparatively well, hut feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of American Co. s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
Buffering from any of the numerous
diseases of stomach or bowels, it is
your own fault if you remain ill, tor
American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints. ...
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead” in the use of American Co. s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of malarial,
epidemic, bilious and intermittent
fevers—by the use of American Co. a
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, American HOF
BITTERS will give you fair skin, rich
blood, the sweetest breath, health, and
comfort. In short, they cure ALL
Diseases of the Stomach, Bowels,
Blood, Liver, Nerves, Kidneys, &o., and
£500
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything Impure or inju-
rious found in them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
Bister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
American Hop Bitters, costing but a
trifle.
Will you let them suffer?
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
American Hop Bitters,
And vou will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
pr See if the name of Br. Soule Is blown
In every bottle. If not It Is counterfeit.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUALLIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital ... £100,000.
Head Office : Melbourne.
New South Wales Branch : 171 Castlereagh-street.
N. 8. Wales Directors:
Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Frank Cowley, Esq.
George 8. Yeo, Esq.
Victorian Directors l
John LI Dow, Esq., M.P.,
Chairman
Hon. J. F. Levlen.MJ*.
Thomas Learmonth, Esq.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs Insured
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
Causes on land, rail, or at sea.
Marine Risks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted.
The only Live Stock Insurance Society In the
°Fullparticulars can be obtained from the under-
Sl Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
A. J. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.
Office, Boyle’s Chambers, Bond-street.
B
A U
4711
D B
COLOGNE,
4711.
Established 1793.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1872; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1878
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
a nofraiian nubile during the last 3S years, ob-
Sfnfa Prihe Cat Philadelphia Exhibition the
and First Prize Sydney International
uVhfhmon for its superior sweetness, strength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
pe ithM become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the of
®Th°e P farge and constantly increasing demand for
♦ho trenuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only in
Burop£ but also in North and South America,
and Australia, is further undeniable evl-
d< The 0 publio UP are° r re8peotfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number—47H changed into 7411.1147, 4ll7, &a, &o.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Mfidafat the Vienna Exhibition is that with
Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale *, e „t^ELLIO Sr BROTH1 1 Be, Hit.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
and Storekeepers. In town and country.
SOLE IMPORTER OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
187 PITT STREET.
BDliB A«ICMT FOR TUB
3MZTH ORGAN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
air'ni
5th Half-Yearly Sale.
JULY, m
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO
354 George-street, Sydney.
w _ y.f.rr respectfully to inform our numerous Customers and the Public generally, tBaf
JULY SALE has commenced in the usual way. The Ladies of Sydney
wUl no doubt remember what bargains they have purchased at our preyious Sjda;
therefore we venture to think that a great and speedy clearance will be effected, and
we trust by our well-earned reputation for really new goods, Ladies will determine to
attend the Sale.
ISOSS-A-XjIE, XsXdOTTD CO.
354 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Copper-Colored.
_T have been afflicted with a troublesome skin
rfi«nase covering almost completely the upper part
of mV body, causing my skin to assume a copper-
colored hue! It could be rubbed off like dandruff,
and at times causing intolerable itching and the
most intense suffering. 1 have used blood purifiers,
ouib and other advertised remedies but experl-
oneed no relief until I procured the Ccticuba
wWmkdies. which, although used carelessly and
ir?egularly cured me, allaying that terrible itching
rmtorlng my skin to its natural color, lam
Suing to mako affidavit to the truth of this
Statement. SO. BUXTON, Milan. Mich.
The weak, the nervous, the dyspeptic the
sleepless, owe more to Wolfe’s Schnapps than any
other cordial.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL'S
CSLSSI3iiTI]D
BISCUITS INC CAKES, TREACLE AND GOLDEN STM
Self-raising /Erated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
8
. & A. hare obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880; Special
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
Sydney Ayonts ■ W■ H* ARIELL & CO»p 343 end 345 Kent-street*
Gold M edal
A meeting of a pleasantly spirited kind
took place at the Muswellbroob School of Arts the
other night. Mr. E. C, Brecht moved that The
BtfLLETTN be supplied to the institution. The
motion wss seconded by Mr. Dowell and carried
by seven to five. This is bad news for us, as the
citizens of Muswellbrook, instead of having to
buy a Bulletin, will now stroll into the School of
Arts lor a cheap read. The Rev. J. S. Lalng
moved an amendment, which was ably seconded
by Mr. D. Robertson. If names are any guide,
both these gentlemen come from that godly land
where a seducer’s or thief s chances of salvation
are far before those of the “malignant who
“w hustles on the Sawbath.” The Rev. Lalng
considered The Bulletin totally devoid of wit
and humour.” Why he should so strenuously op-
pose such an obscure print Is not clear.
The reason is probably that It criticises
the actions of the heads of so-called re-
ligious sects, such as Dr. Barry and the
Moderator of the Presbyterian Assembly, with
a captivating frankness that doubles up the
“ Holy Wullles } ' of society with horror. But It is
at Lalng’s idea of what constitutes humour we
■would like to get. His predecessors couldn t dis-
cover any In “The Twa Dogs, or the Jolly
Beggars." He would probably see none In In-
goldsby,” or the “ Bab Ballads.” When he wants
humour of the very highest kind he naturally
goes to Knox’s sermons and teachings. Iso do we.
And we can honestly say It has long appeared to
us that, to find humour to compare with that con-
tained in the dogmas of predestination and infant
damnation, you must go to the sermons of those
who believe and preach them.
THE NOBLE ART.
Remarks by Admirers.
•• Give me a prize-fight,
For no other sight
Can excite such delight
In one’s breast,
“Asa* darkle’ and ‘ white’—
Flesh firm and eyes bright—
Giving proof of their might,
Half-undressed/’
" A clipping good bout.
This is, without doubt.”
“ There’s one in the snout
For the Black 1”
" Mind what you’re about,
Bon’t gouge his eye put I
“ My , what a clout!
“ There’s a smack 1
“ A game ’un, Lord knows!
Fair 'ome on the nose!
Just hark 1 how the blows
Now resound—
See, how the blood flows!
•• Jim, why don’t yer close ?
“ There, down Alick goes
On the ground!
“ My head’s all aswim,
And sight’s growing dim—
I can’t move a limb—
Oh, my head I
« Three cheers for our Jim—
You’ve glv’ it to him —
G 1 don't ho look grim—
he’s dead!
(Mutual congratulations among the winners, and
general stampede.)
“The Duchess of Edinburgh, sister to the
Czar, is very much distressed by the strained
relations between Russia and England.”—
London Paper.


A BOON TO THOUSANDS!
Yanhood and Vigour of Youth
Restored in Four Weeks. *
$
DR. RICORDS'
FSSENCE OF LIFE
JRestores manhood to the most shattered debiHtatei «m
.titution from whatever cause arising, in FOUR WEEKS, _
Sre is impossible if taken according to the printed di-
itcctions, which are very simple, and require no restraint or
lfcind ~^ e jnva^able' n remedy affords relief, and permanently
all who suffer wasting and withering of the nerves and
■muscular tissues, Indigestion, Lpss of Appetite, Disturbed
Trembling Sensations, Dimness, Spermatorrhoea, all
Urinary Deposits, which cause incapacity and degeneracy,
Jotal and. partial prostration, and every other exhaustive de-
vamremerrt of the system ; regenerating all the important
elements of the human frame, and enabling man to fulfil his
most sacred obligations. . ..
In Cases at 12s., or four quantities in one for 36s.; if by
Beach, 2s. 6d. extra.
NATURE’S GREAT REMEDY!
I
DR. RICORDS
SANATIVE PILLS
For strengthening the system, purifying the blood, regulating
the bowels, and removing all vitiated humours, bilious and
T iver Complaints, .Rheumatism, Gout, _ Scorbutic Affections,
CVictiveness, Skin Eruptions, and all diseases of the nervous
system. This never-failing remedy affords at once a new
lease of life to the sickly and a 8 ed of both se . xes >
a beautiful and clear complexion, a sure sign of health,
, strength, and vigour. Price, as. ; by post, ad. extra.
r AGENTS FOR SYDNEY !
iMessrs. W.BARCLAY & CO.,
AS G 0 VLB UBN STREET,
One Door from George Street South,
, And may be had of most Chemists. ;
1 Parcels Bached securely and free from observation, sent to
irarceis „„„ nf the Australian
or Stamps.
rom 00S6rUuZI0n f senz
tSKw* of the Australian
® Colonies, on receipt of Post Office Order
NERVOUS DEBILITy7
Lost Vitality, &C.-A simple and positive
means of Self-Cure, by an eminent
French Hospital Physician. Sent Free
Medico, P O. Box 760. Sydney.
cm
or
life
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
jExhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
.mature Decline- in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
imlscrles resulting from Indiscretion or excesses maybe
-alleviated, and cured. Those who doubt this should pur.
.chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
■pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Self Preservation. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
pll acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
BQ years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
ipy physician. 300pages, boundin beautiful French cloth,
gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
anypthar soldfn the country for 2 guineas, or the money
Will bo refunded in every Instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid- illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should be read by the young for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all. — London Lancet.
Addressthe World’s Dispensary Medical As-
sociation, or Dr. W. R. Parker, No. 69 Hunter
Street, Sydney, N.S.W. The author may TLJVQ
be consulted on all diseases requiring | M V 0
skill, secrecy, and experience.
PAIN
IMOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
•The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
NEURALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACiE,
Rains, bruises, turns, scalds, fcc and
taken internally cures DIARRHEA, DYSEAi jiiaUY,
CRAMPS. COLIC, and all other xutbrnu aches
tad pains.' ■
Price, 3/- Sold Everywhere.
g\ e. MOULTON, SOLE PROPr.llTOR,
AND SIDNEY.
Vt
mi
Marshall's
TONl't NERVINE
BSOI8TSRSD. _ ,
a**, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE forNer-
?r SSoohoL By its richness to Phosphorous an|
ianufaoturlng and consulting and
&sssstssjs&s m “ a
DTI.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT or PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital <300,000
Reserve Fund , <150,000
Dirbotors :
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chains
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George 8. Calrd, Esq.
Hon.Thlllp Gldley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. I Hon. H. B. Cohen, Br«!
Oknbral Manager: I Skorrtary;
F. A. A. Wilson. 1 Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Walks :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyngan
Beurke, Manly, Byerook, and Parramatta.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors :
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,E.C.M.G I Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Flnan
dal Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo.
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
NEUSTADT CO.,
COMFLBTB
ZIOTJSE
FURNISHERS,
39,154. 156. A 158 OXFORD-ST
SYDNEY.
%r HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERT REQUISITE,
ZZ Either for Cash or Time Payment,
bbst of upholsterers kept, and all
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
TO weak
suffering' from the
effects of youthful
•errors, early decay,
lost vitality, premature decline, nervous weak-
ness, etc., I will send you particulars of a
certain, simple, and sure "means of seif cure,
Free of Charge. Address, in confidence,
Prof. M. E. TAYLOP,
68 Elizabeth St.,
SYDNEY N.S W.
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of William-street, Hyde Park.
High-class Furniture
At Very Lowest Prices, compatible with the finest
workmanship and finish, for entrance halls,
dining-rooms, drawing-rooms, bedrooms,
and libraries.
CARPETS IN NEWEST DESIGNS AND
FINEST QUALITY.
WILTON CARPETS, BRUSSELS CARPETS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With Hearthrugs to match.
|&~ COHLICINE AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL AND
BLACK AND BRASS.
In all sizes and various designs.
A UBTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capital—£100,000 with power to increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES—20 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
C. B. MODINI,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a larve and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms .-JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don: THOS. BLAND & SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHA8. OSBORNE &
CO., London.
G. B. M. is also AGENT for the eminent firm of
BOBBY & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, &c., and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 Gaorno.st.p Sydney,
Where Inspection is Invited.
Champagne
Haldsleck & Co’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINK MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Roto Ao-entfi for Heidsiecb & Co„ Reims.
E V 8mHJLD USE I PEMELI I^S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE Is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
8S1 G corse-street, Sydney.
you going to Bourke ?
t^Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
Ned Warmoll.
I
The “LOUIS’*
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examiner may try every test of touch-
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble, while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them tq stand interminable
and rough wear, which would ruin real velvets at
four times the price. For Costumes and
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes in which Silk Velvet
may be used we specially recommend
the “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
the name of “ Louis.”
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of whom will
send patterns
post free on
application.
DR- O CON1TRLL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
SYDUEY, 2J.S.W.
A REGULAR GRADUATE in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long experience, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all private cases, chronic,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicine
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. Especial attention to
Severe and Long-standing Cases.
Nervous Prostration, Debility,
Mental and Physical weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects: —Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Face, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, Ac., are
_____ treated with unparalleled success. Cures per-
manent, safe, and private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of evqry kind, from whatever cause, promptly cured.
It is self-evident that a physician paying particular attention to a class of oases attains great Skill,
and physicians in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend cases to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of cases applying, the
charges are kept low—often lower than is demanded by others. It you secure the skill, and get a
edy and perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or^
Ms
fcilil
bM
mh
add:
DOCTOR. J. O CONNELL., <9
52 Castlereajch Street (ground floor), Sydney.
OFFORD & CO.’S uatq
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest,
652 GS-EOEO-E STREET.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DPVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
.Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing,
Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
w- Brass and Bell Foundin
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and
of every description.
••VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM
FBI
BOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,’
PUBV ENTERS, &0.
WATEB-WASTB
?o/e Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers. Exhaust Fan
Cowls. Gas Fires, Heaters. Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application.
m
oo
(s
o
C/j
jOO
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Ame-
rican “ Extra Toast ” BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and Incompatible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street, SrnxET.
V*ts> Head Offices. «**
First Fire Society established la me colony on
the Mutual principle, (riving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-hc'dersare perfectly free by law from
all liability .
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates*
WALTER C flURCH, Manager.
Head Offlcea-PITT and KING STREETS.
DB. BRIGHT’S PHOSPHODYNE
The only Reliable Remedy for Mental ana Physical
Depression, Nervous, Debility. Incapacity for
Study, Loss of Energy Sick Headache, Indigestion,
Female Complaints, Premature Dec ine, and la a
marvellous medicine for renovating Impaired and
broken-down constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought upon the
individual a« to the process. It moves the Jungs,
liver, heart, kidney, stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour, yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, and is the most powerful blood purifler
of the present day. Sold by all chemists.
Agents— Elliott Bros,


DR.SCOTTS
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by; he
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
If you have any pain, ache, or ill-feeling
from any cause; if you seem “pretty well,”
yet lack energy and do not “feel up to the
mark;” if you suffer from disease, we beg
you to at once try these remarkable cura-
tives. They cannot and do not injure like
medicine. Always doing good, never ham.
There is no shock or sensation felt in wear-
ing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during the
first hour they are worn their wonderful
curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all
the old-time health and good-feeling come
back. They are constructed on soientifle
principles, imparting an exhilarating,
health-giving current fo the whole system.
Professienal men assert that there is hardly
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily
practise the same, as your own physician
will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance
from those usually worn, as we substitute
our flat steel magnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in quality and design.
They are elegant in shape and finish, made
after the best French patterns, and war-
ranted satisfactory in every respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents.
&
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &c., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
No. 1
No. 3
No. 3
No. 5
Electric Belts
s. d.
6 6
8 6
10 6
16 0
16 0 ’
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of pries
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece of common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
64 Margaret-sfreot,
SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 231.
Printed and Published by Tan BUL&pxnr
paper Go. (£4iatted)> N Pitt-eU Sydney. KAw.
Wolfe's Schnapps promotes assimilation of
the food.
Ktngsford’s Oswego Cornflour superior to ail
similar articles in the market.
The only safe and sure cure for Gravel or
Urinary troubles, is American Co.’s Hop fitters
Prove it. Read
All diseases requiring invigorative treat-
ment are cured by Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour takes the full
flavour of every kind of Seasoatttfi
The most persevering man now alive is a
gentleman by the name of Frederick Ingeton,
who resides in the town of Krasw, which, accord-
ing to the reports of travellers, is situated in the
principality of Mecklenburg-Schwerm. That Meck-
lenburg should be Schwerin does not surprise us,
nor would it any other Irishman on hearing that
Mr Ingeton has taken up his permanent residence
there. Whv? Well. Mr. Ingeton was once a
brewer in Williamstown (Vic). While there his
mind was not wholly given up to the manufacture
of beer. It was frequently troubled about coal.
That extraordinary brewer brooded upon carboni-
ferous deposits all the time. But at last, glutted
with riches, he sailed away to Germany and left it
all behind him. Now, whether it is that he has
since spent a good deal of his money in buying up
orders or principalities, or that be had no amuse-
ment, we know not, but he is perpetually writing
to the Williamstown Council on foreign paper to
point out to them what dormant wealth is lying
under their feet waiting for the pick and the
shovel to burst Into glittering effluence. Sad to
say, each letter of hii—though accompanied with a
pile of plans and diagrams, showing the dip of the
land and the lay of the strata, and costing much
good German coin in postage stamps—is in-
variably, and with words of contumely, flung into
the waste-paper basket, and seen no more except
occasionally as a wrapper to his native sausage.
But yet the good old mule goes obstinately on.
His communicatlo.iis are as regular as complaints
from the ratepayers about the state of their right-
of-way. Lately they have been handed over to be
dealt with by toe inspector of nuisances. What a
pity all this perseverance' should be lost I The
moral of which is—do unto others as you
would have them do unto you, and your funeral
will be arranged for by the town council.
Andrew M‘Barney is a name which sug-
gests that its owner is a man who combines the
wisdom of the Scotchman with the simplicity of
the Irishman—in his raw state. Anyway, it is held
by an old Clarence River identity, who has just
been put through the mill in the most careful
manner possible by one of those social pirates
known as book-agents. This agent, it appears,
waited on Andrew one day, and trotted out his
time-payment Bible, “ Gulliver’s Travels," and
the like. He said none of us could tell what might
happen; our lives hang by a thread, as it were,
and it would never do to appear before the Judg-
ment Seat without a Bible, or at least a book of
travels. Just then, the book pedlar lost his
balance, and fbund himself suddenly lifted
over the front gate, and dumped down in the road
with a force that shook up every bone in his body.
Andrew then walked round to the back, and
arrived just la time to find the book-flend unrol
ling his pack at the kitchen door. Two seconds
later found the literary drummer standing on his
head in the next allotment, and kicking his heels
defiantly at the noon-day su i, while bis books
tumbled round in all directions. These things gave
the hawker an idea that Andrew was not thoroughly
hungry for his company, so he simply poked bis
head over the fence, and called out, “ That’s all
right, Mr. M'BaroejK I’ll pat your name down for
a • Waiter's Unaflncfeea,’ aod hurry along the
copy.” “ You dol” thundered Andrew; “ you just
put my name down for one copy, an’ I’m d—d ef
I don’t set the dogs on yer straight.” The agent
did put the name down, and in due time the book
was presented: M‘Barney Indignantly declined to
settle up, and the Sydney firm Immediately “ took
the law on him.” In the course of the examina-
tion, Andrew admitted using the words, “You
put my name down,” and the Bench ruled the
proviso touching the dogs out of court. It was
furthermore proved that the defendant swore at
the signature, and, as the local Solons ruled that
swearing at a thing and swearing to it amounted
to the same in law, the unlucky M’Barney was
ordered to pay for a book he was sure he’d never
ordered. Since the trial, Andrew has put in four
hours a day revolver-practice at a stuffed man
with a carpet bag - , and the sort of combined
Richard III. and Othello smile which lights up his
face is anything - but reassuring: to the book-
hawking bucaaners about the district.
Some Melbourne Barmaids.
THE GIRLS THEY WOULD ABOLISH.
