

THE BULLETIN
Vol 3 —No. 130 -New Series.
SATURDAY. DECEMBER 19, 1885.
JPrlo®—64.
The Bull
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 19, 1886.
The English Elections.
Now that the final numbers have gone up
for the British elections of 1885 it is clear
that the defiant blare which ascended from
the Jingo camp when the earlier returns
showed the Conservatives to be leading will
have to be much modified, Mr. Gladstone
was accused of having truckled to Russia,
capitulated to the Boers, bombarded Alex-
andria, allowed Germany its way in the
Pacific, sacrificed Gordon, and left ihe
Mahdi “unsmashed.” With such a record,
what more natural than to suppose that the
British public and the “Grand Old Man’>
would part company ? Then, again, a new
political factor had to be taken into ac-
count. The franchise had reached all but
the residuum—had, in one sweep, increased
the voting power to two millions. The
newly-enfranchised were to be found
chiefly among the rustics. They belonged to
the class generically known as “Hodge.”
For generations this fortunate class of
Britons has enjoyed exceptional advantages.
By means of hard work and slender pay it
has been preserved from many temptations
to which other sections of the community
are exposed. From the parson it could
always depend upon the best advice con-
cerning the extraordinary privileges that
would be allowed to it in the next world if,
while in this, it would only be content with
the station in life to which it had pleased
God to call it. From the parson’s wife the
elderly females of this favoured order often
obtained warm clothing at Christmas and
medicine—generally of the cathartic class—
during the entire year. Nor did Hodge’s
good fortune end here. It was now the
squire’s turn. He taught the lucky rustic
how fortunate it is to be born in a free
country-in a land where slavery is un-
known, and where, by merely working six-
teen hours a day in summer and twelve in
winter, bread and cheese could be fre-
quently earned. Thus, with the priest on
one side and the squire on the other, whole
generations of Hodges enjoyed an active
existence in this world and—through the
comfortable workhouse which topped the
neighbouring hill—passed to that higher
sphere where they expected to occupy seats
a long way in front of either landlord or
parson.
• ■* *
The landlords and churchmen of England
are Conservative almost to a man. For
over 300 years an adulterous union called
“ Church and State” has existed. More than
once this combination has almost succeeded
iu crushing out every vestige of liberty.
Wherever oppression existed there was the
priest to sanctify it. It was in the country
that this unholy alliance was strongest and
its power over the poorer country-folk was
supposed to be unbounded. Like Gibbon’s
pope, it preached humility and practised
arrogance. So, when the franchise in its
ever-widening duel® at last reached the
rural classes which had for centuries lain
helplessly at the feet of the alliance, the
opinion was widely entertained that they
would be unable to emancipate themselves
at once from the influences to which they
had been so long subjected, and that a Con-
servative vote would be the result. So far
from this being the case, it is precisely
where they expected to be strongest that
the Tories find themselves weakest. The
counties have gone dead against them.
When at first the borough elections showed
slightly in their favour, hopes ran high and
anticipations of a Conservative reaction
were freely But Hodge had
to speak, and the ingratitude of his nature
has shown itself in an emphatic repudiation
of his old masters. The result is that, in
spite of Mr. Gladstone’s blunders and the
general tiaccidity of his manifesto, the Con-
seivatives And themselves hopelessly be-
hind. Even with a compact body of nearly
90 Parnellites they have but an insignificant
majority. The Tory reaction, therefore,
turns out to be a veritable will-’o-the-wisp.
• • •
Perhaps the most significant circumstance
connected with the late elections is the im-
mense accession of strength with which
Mr. Parnell will enter the new Parlia-
ment. Hu is complete master of the situa-
tion. Without him the Liberals cannot ob-
tain power nor the Conservatives hold it. The
opportunity for which he has so Ion;; waited
has at length arrived. Those who know
anything of Parliamentary usages will be
the first to concede that, in the present
state of parties, .he and his followers have it
in their power to render representative
government impossible. Nor would a fresh
election be likely to mond the matter, for,
while it might cause some slight alterations
in the other sections, it would leave his
strength unimpaired. The Melbourne
Argus thinks that “ a union to carry on the
Queen’s government as against the Cham,
berlain and the Parnell parties would be
the best possible solution of the dilemma.”
To suppose that over a hundred epicene
Liberals—it would require that number to
make a stable government possible—with
the aristocratic Lord Habtington at their
head, would take service under the banners
of their hereditary foes, or that an equal
number of Lord Pallsbdry’s “ Church and
State ’ followers would fall on the necks of
their traditional enemies, shows that the
journal which mooted it is in no danger of
foifelting its reputation as a political au-
thority. The truth is that one of the
gravest moments in the parliamentary life
of the United Kingdom is at hand. There
are three possible solutions. The flrst is a
government such as the Argus suggests,
lormed by a fusion between the Tories and
the HARTiNGTON-cum Goschen Whigs. It
is only necessary to mention this to show its
wildness. The second is to grant the Irish
demands for a separate legislature with the
widest powers not incompatible with the
integrity of the Empire. The third is to
expel the Irish members, and govern Ire-
land as a Crown colony.
• * *
The latter would be Mr. Froude’s plan.
Sooner than let another Parliamentassemble
in Dublin ho would overrun the country
with troo,ps aud rule it like India or Ceylon.
There is no doubt that Great Britain is
strong enough to d® this just as Germany
is strong enough to hold Bavaria after a
similar fashion, or as the Federal States
were sufficiently powerful to crush all
Southern opposition after the surrender of
Lee. Even if the Irish, instead of being
unarmed aud undisciplined, were perfectly
armed and organised, the resources of the
two islands are so unequal that the smaller
must necessarily go down before the other.
It was one of Napoleon’s maxims that if two
natioi s equally brave go to war victory
will ultimatt ly be found—unless diverted by
some extraordinary combination of circum-
stances—on the side possessing the greater
resources. Such is the disparity of re-
sources iu the case with which we are deal-
ing that there would be no more difficulty
iu Great Britain's holding Ireland by mili_
tary force than in the entire Union’s hold-
ing the State of New York by similar
means. The question, then, is not whether
it would be poss’ble to convert the smaller
island into a Crown colony—to destroy the
little liberty there is still there—nor even
whether it would be right, but whether it
would be prudent? The lirst result, looking
at the matter from a purely British stand-
point, would be to materially weaken Eng-
land’s military power. However small her
influence in European affairs at present, it
would be even smaller if she had sixty or
seventy thousand men under arms in a dis-
affected province and no Irish recruits pre-
senting themselves lor service. Nor is this
all. Indeed, the mor<* Mr. FRODDE's'plan is
examined the more objectionable it becomes.
The whole of the United States would be iu
a ferment, nor would the British colonies
escape. Throughout the wor.d reprisals on
a scale hitherto undreamt of would be
planned, and in many cases effected. Every
means would be adopted for embroiling
Great Britain with foreign countries, in
fact, life in, many communities would not
be wanting in liveliness. Wherever a
British soldier or sailor landed, he would
And an enemy speaking his language. The
terrible agencies which modern chemistry
has placed within the reach of men would
be freely used as the grip on the unfortuale
country lightened. Preserve the Empire
by means of another Crown colony! Im-
possible.
• ♦ •
The second plan—to grant Ireland a legis-
lature with limited powers similar to those
possessed by an American btale, or by a
British colony—is the only feasible one.
Why this has not been tried before shows
how hard human prejudice dies. For over
80 years the gruesome story of famine, re-
bellion, coercion, starvation, depopulation,
and tierce resentment has gone on in order
that insolvent faineants might spend in de-
bauchery the money wrung from toiling
millions.
“ I know of nothing better calculated to make
the blood boll than the cold accounts of the
grasping, grlndlrg tyranny to which the Irish
people have been subjected, and to which Irish
pauperism and Irish famine are to bo attributed.
.... Cultivation was for the most part carried
on by tenants at will, who, even if the rack rents
which they were forced to pay, permitted them,
did not dare to make improvements, which
would have been but the signal for an increase of
rent. . . . Even durlcg the famine, grain and
meat, and butter and cheese, were carted for ex-
portation along roads lined with the starving and
past trenches in which the dead were piled. So
far as the people of Ireland were concerned, the
food thus exported might as well have been
burned up or thrown Into the sea, or never pro-
duced. ... It was the same remorseless ra-
pacity that robbed the Indian ryot of the fruits of
his toil, and left him to starve where nature
offered plenty. A merciless banditti of tax-
gatherers did not march through the land,
plundering and torturing, but the labourer was
just as effectually stripped by as merciless a horde
of landlords, among whom the soil had been
divided as their absolute possession, regardles s
of any rights of those who lived upon it.” (“ Pro-
and Poverty.”;
And it was to support this that local
government has been denied for almost a cen.
t rry, that millions have beeu driven across
me sea with hatred in tneir hearts against
a system under which such abominations
flourished; aud that, even now, when the
end of the cursed thing is almost at hand,
there are those who, to give it a fresh lease
BRET HARTE.


Th« fctATds or 3nB80axpa'io« to tmh linLLBUiB
are —For one year, 24s.; halt-year, 12s, fid,;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
Thb Advbbtisinq Kates are 5a. per In 3h i
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per Inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows: —On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions!
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or Intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Tka.ii/L ; for amounts
under XI, postage stamps of any Australian
Onlrvn v m v h<> i-f oioro nonvonlont
Wolfe's Schnapps restoies digestion.
Lawyers, Authors, Clergymen aud Phy-
sicians »ru ad favourably inclined towards Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Balmy zephyrs llgdy flitting,
Shade me with your azure wing,
Oa Parnassus' summit, sitting
Ai l me. Ciio, whiie I sing.
Aia me, so that I ix\a$ tell in
Plowing HtaJDz is shod with rhyme
Ti.at at 8u amt rfield’s they’re Felling
Suits toat lie you every time.*
Travellers and persons of feeble constitu-
tiou luae Wolfe’s Schuuppa.
of life, would suppress right by force, and
imperil the very existence of the Empire.
• •
Next to the relations between Great
Britain and Ireland, the most important
questions which are ripening for solution
are those of the Church and of the land.
Mr. Chamberlain, the Radical leader, goes
straight for the disestablishment of the one
and the subdivision of the other. But his
plan of establishing a peasant proprietary is
fundamentally faulty, inasmuch as it pro-
poses to give to the peasant holder that
very title which it should be the aim of all
true reformers to repudiate—the title to ex-
clusive property in the soil. This is a mis-
take at the very start. No land reform can
be entirely satisfactory which does not re-
cognise as a first principle the right of the
whole people to the land. It is idle to talk
of the necessity for alienating the land for
ever, in order that the occupier may enjoy
security of tenure. Such security can be
given without parting with the fee. In
many countries some of the most expensive
buildings and of the most extensive im-
provements are erected or carried out on
leased ground. Peasant owners, as France
shows, are merely reactionaries of a pecu-
liarly stubborn pattern. What Mr. Cham-
berlain now'considers to be a Liberal pro-
posal of startling audacity is, in reality a
Conservative measure. Regarding Church
disestablishment, if we are to judge by the
language used by some of the clergy, it can-
not be much longer deferred. One pro-
ponent churchman delicately alludes to It as
the most “ unprincipled robbery in English
history.” This is reassuring. When a
measure is thus spoken of, its utility is half
demonstrated. Considering the way the
Church has come by the property she now
possesses,ecclesiastics should carefully guard
against the use of strong language. There
is no doubt that, by disestablishment, many
inoffensive young men would be deprived
of a genteel calling, but by becoming trades-
men in a small way, their example might go
far towards infusing a spirit of integrity
among classes which appear to be badly in
want of it, and which preaching seldom
reaches. It is scarcely necessary to point
out that, as a baker or a grocer, a young
man of sound moral tone, whose loaves or
butter could be relied upon to turn a pair
of strange scales, would, by his very ex-
ample, do more towards elevating moials
than by a life devoted to preaching dull
sermons.
The New South Wales Financial Fizzle.
Thk Financial Statement which was literally
wrung out of Mr. Dibu-i, In the Naw South Wales
Assembly last week, proves him to be totally un-
qualified for tho position which he has held during
the past three years. This emphatic assertion we
base on two grounds principally—although we
might advance a dozen. 1st. 1 hat the revelations
made show unmlstakeably that tho hon. gentleman
Is a financial bungler; and 2nd, that he does not
possess a sufficiently fine sense of political honour.
The managing director, so to speak, of the nation’s
financial affairs, ought certainly not to claim im-
munity from obligations which are imposed on
tho managing director of an ordinary co.apany,
but Mr. Dxbbs seems to assume that he is so privi-
leged. If he had paid any attention at all to the
affairs of the Treasury Department, he must
have been aware many months ago that the
revenue for the year would not meet the expen-
diture sanctioned by Parliament, and one would
thlr k that under such circumstances he would
hav taken stops to reduce the expenditure. But
no’, only did he fall to put any appreciable check on
the - vpendlture approved of by Parliament—as he
ban ie power to do—he actually spent £779,917 in
in other words, the supplementary
esti • ites for the year amount to that sum. “ We
hav w control of the purso-strlngs,” is tho persistent
cry of blatant members of Parliament, who boast
that our system of Parliamentary government is
the model of perfection. But here is an instance
where nearly one tenth of the expenditure of the
year has been incurred without the authority or
knowledge of Parliament, and the 41 perfect ”
system of government cannot, by any possibility,
give Parliament any control over it. The money
having been paid, Parliament is called upon to go
through tho solemn farce of voting it. Of course.
Parliament may remove from office the men who
spent the money, but it cannot make them dis-
gorge it; hence the principle of control of the
purse-strings can in no way be upheld. The annual
Appropriation Act usually contains an item of
£100,000— known as the Treasurer’s advance ac-
count—with which the Government have to meet
unforeseen expenditure. The Invariable rale is
for Governments to spend an amount largely in
excess of this, but there is no instance on record
of a Government spending—as the Stuabt-Dibbs
Government have done—£780 000 in excess of ap-
propriations, more particularly in view of the
certainty that the revenue would not be equal to
the amount of the appropriations. On this ground
alone the members of the Assembly ought to give
Mr. Dxbbs such a vigorous kick as will transport
him to a position in the House where he will be
unable to indulge in such mischievous violations
of the spirit of our system of Parliamentary Go-
vernment.
« « *
The Statement in which Mr. Dxbbs says that he 1
prepared to stand or fall, is full of specious mis-
statements. Thus the difference of £821,000 be-
tween the estimated revenue and the actual
receipts for the year is attributed to 44 the
elements, or the band of God being against us,”
or, as it is put more specifically, the drought and
general depression in trade are the causes. The
principal item in which tho difference appears 1 a
£579,587 under the estimate. Had Mr. Dibbs said
that his over estimate was due to the fact that the
new Land Act was not brought into operation as
soon as it was expected it would be, he might have
induced many people to believe him, but to say
that it is due to the drought is so absurd on the
face of it that we shou.d wonder at a man who
presumes to have a spark of common sense, mak-
ing the assertion. Pending the assessment of the
rents of pastoral leases, as provided for under the
new Act, the old rents are being paid, and neither
the drought nor anything else could alter them.
The only way in which the land revenue can be
affected by drought is that it may deter people
from taking up land, but the supporters of the
new law say that its provisions have been availed
of to as large an exteut as was anticipated. What
are we to say of the man who, to bolster up a false
issue—that he is not responsible—avers that the
hand of God has been agalcst the colony? In
olden times such rank “blasphemy” would have
brought the offender to the stake, and he would
have had the satisfaction of gathering the fagot.
Now let us see whether there is any more truth
in the statement that the general depression in
trade has materially affected the revenue. This,
if anything, is a more outrageous misstatement
because it is refuted by another statement made
by Mr. Dibbs. His estimate of Customs and Ex-
cise revenue was considerably in excess of that of
the previous year, yet the amount rectived w«s
£33,687 inexctsjof the estimate. If from this fact
Mr. Dibbs can demonstrate that there has been a
general depression in trade ho must have dis-
covered a new method of deduction, wh ch, for
the benefit of the world of statists, he ought to
reveal. Says Mr. Dibbs:—“ The existence of a
deficit is of itself no evidence whatever of reck-
lessness in f stlmating revenue or of Incompe-
tency in financial administration.” We want
some more satisfactory explanation than has yet
been given to show that it is not the reverse of
this proposition which applies to Mr. Dibbs.
♦ * *
Three years ago Mr. Dibbs started his career as
Treasurer, with an acknowledged surplus of
£1,846,235, and on Friday night last he was forced
to admit that there is now a deficit of £1,053,614.
Thus, duriog the three years, there has been ex-
pended in excess of Income no less a sum than
£3,898,840. Everyone must have a lively reoolleo.
tlon of the flourish of trumpets which was
heard when Mr. Dibbs made his first Financial
Statement—how the gratifying intelligence which
it contained was fi shed to England at a cost of
hundreds of pounds, and how certain peiple
crowed over the sorry figure thnt poor benighted
Victoria, with her alleged ruinous Protectionist
policy, cut in comparison with New South Wales!
What a change has come o’er the spirit of the
dream! No brilliant peroiation frsm Dalleys
pen this time to impart a richer glow to the glit-
tering picture; but, instead, commonplace expres-
sions from the prosaic mind of Dibbs to indicate
that the former word-painting effort was merely
imaginary—that the surplus was ill-gotten and
ought never to have existed! Wo need hardly say
that the action of the Stuart Government in put-
ting a stop to the wholesale alienation of the pub-
lic estate was one which met with our entire ap-
proval. It was a commendable stroke of policy,
but the misfortune is that it has not been followed
up by other reforms which ought to have been
made consequent upon it. It was no secret that
the much-vaunted prosperity of New South
Wales, as shown by the Government banking-
account, was due solely to the wilful misuse of
I power by various Governments in the way of sell-
ing land at merely a nominal value—in such a way
as to preclude the possibility of the realisation of
its actual value—and when the vicious system was
discontinued it was cloaily the duty of the Go-
vernment to look to other sources of revenue to
maintain the condition of prosperity which then
existed.
» * •
Apart altogether from the consideration as to
whether, under a .judicious system of leasing of
the public lands, we should not be able to raise
sufficient revenue to meet the expenses of Govern-
ment, it can hardly be contended that there is not
in this country an almost limitless field for new
taxation, without the least degree of oppression.
Every article which the poor man consumes—his
tea, sugar, tobacco, and beer—is taxed to the
utmost; but the princely merchant, the lordly
squatter, the money-lending extortionist, and the
avaricious city and suburban property-holder, all
escape the tax-gatherer. Why? Because the
moneyed classes take good care to rqtain the
balance of power in Parliament. The working-
man seems dull to any sense of his power, and
where he does exercise it, he usually entrusts his
representation to some shifty individual who soon
betrays hla trust, and raises his voice in the in-
terest of the bloated monopolist. The remedy for
this undesirable state of things is undoubtedly
payment of members—a subject which it is hardly
within the scope of this article to discuss, and
upon which we shall say nothing further at
present. It is clear that if the principle of repre-
sentati m, according to taxation, were removed
from the realm of theory, tne working class
would be the predominant power in New South
Walts.
• • •
When the colony is in the full tide of prosperity
and there are no complainings about the heaviest
part of the burden being put on the backs of those
who are the least able to bear it, a Government
may be excused for fighting shy of taxation pro-
posals, but there is no such excuse for a Treasurer
who has to face a deficit equal to one-eighth of the
year’s revenue. This is Mr. Dibbs’ position. Ho
comes forward with estimates of expenditurojon a
mere extravagant tcale than ever, and with esti-
mates of revenue sho wing a considerable increase—
an expectation for which there is, according to his
own showing.no justification, or, at any rate, no
certainty—and Instead of making up his deficit by
legitimate taxation, he actually proposes to tide
over the difficulty by the issue of Treasury bills
extending over a period of threi years! All this
sounds very much like a verification of the old
saying, “ Quos Dens.” &c. This summarisation
of the figures should he their condemnation:
-In November Mr ,Dibbs showed a surplus of
£310,OdO, and promised levenue for this year of
£8,485.000; tha expenditure authorised was 1
£8,421,000; £450,000 of this amount was not
spent, yet the total for this year Is £8,800,000.
Mr. Bibbs’ financial genius taught him to pro-
mise a surplus of £275,000; he now an-
nounces a deficit of £1052,000, and explains
that Providence has collared £1,325,000-whether
in answer to Mr. Bolton s prayer or not, we don’t
care to enquire. He promises a surplus of
£243,000 on next year’s operations. Prom the fact
that next year, on account of the recent very
heavy fall In the price of wool, must be worse
financially than this one has been, we are inclined
to believe that Providence will again grab a mil-
lion or so and leave us in a worse position than
that which we now occupy. We have long ceased
to regard Mr. Bibbs as a statesman—now we have
come to the conclusion that it would be fulsome
and disgusting flattery to call him a politician.
PLANI ENGLISH.
Bang!
The custom of firing salutes, in sorrow over the
dead, or in joyous welcome to the living, is one of
those relics of barbarism to which Imperial civi-
lisation fondly clings. The volley fired over the
grave is doubtless a survival of the savage
custom of beating drums or tom-toms round a
dead body to scare away the “ debbil-debbil” who*
it was supposed, was waiting to snatch the depart-
ing soul. When or how the habit of burning
gunpowder to “ speed the parting, welcome the
coming guest,” originated, we know not; wuy It Is
perpetuated we shout! be glad to learn. There is
surely some inconsistency in firing cannon in both
eases. If a tremendous report followed by much
vibration is a symbol ot sorrow on Friday,
we fail to sse how it can be interpreted
as a token of joy on Saturday. You fire
30 or 40 guns over 8oratohi,by, who is dead.
It makes no difference to Scratchley ; he
is unconscious of the honours paid to him. You
treat Cabington, who is very much alive, to a
similar prescription on the following day, and he
is (or should be, if he has any sense) intensely
bored and disgusted. Poor Kobinson, who pays
for the priming, is the only one who has a lasting
remembrance of the transaction. When you are
told that each bang costs (like a third offence
against the law prohibiting drunkenness) forty
shillings, and when you know,"on the authority of
the Colonial Treasurer of New South Wales, that
there is a deficiency of over a million in the year’s
rsveaue, does it not seem a foolish, useless, waste-
ful expenditure of mom y ? This is one of the
results of having in N° r South Wales an Army
and Navy. If they did .ot give some evidence of
vitality, peoplowoulo uogin to think they could
be done without.
A Bit of Bush Law.
The verdict la the Floyer-Dixon libel case,
heard last week in Sydney, shows that juries have
discovered that, if they would see justice done,
they must disregard Judges’ directions and intro-
duce a little agricultural equity into their deci-
sions. Th® plaintiff, Dr. Floyer, had been held
up to ridlculo by a playful paragraph in the
Botjhke Watchman, which implied that patients
were not to him “a little dearer than his horse”
—which animal, according to the evidence, seems
to have been, in the vernacular, a howling equine
swell, and, therefore, entitled to much respect.
There was no uncertainty as to the application of
the skit, nor was there any doubt whatever that
the Dr. was brought into ridicule by it; and the
Judge is reported to have told the jury that it was
not necessary to prove that the plaintiff had been
damaged—the mere fact of his having been made
the object of ridiculs was sufficient to gain
him a verdict. But the sagacious four, hav-
ing in view the Clontarf libel case, whereim
the jury lined the defendants one farthing andl
the law took from them 1.930,000 farthings more,
Indulged in a little “ tomahawk-law ” by hading
for the defendant. They gave the verdict which
by their oaths they were bound to give, even
though they were obliged to disregard technical
law in so doing. This is a way juries have. But
lately we have seen that Sydney j urors, observing
how little attention was paid to the rider of mercy
on a conviction for capital crime, have sensibly
brought in verdicts of manslaughter. We hope it
will always be so, as long as a code of law, ages
behind the sentiment of the people, is administered
with the present cold-blooded technicality.
Warm-blooded men wjll never learn that their
fellows are to hang or be financially ruinea. be-
cause of some incomprehensible technicality.
We hasten to correct two paragrapns
which appeared in our issues of the 3rd and lOch
October with respect to our late New Caledonian
contemporary, Le Progrks, and Its proprietor,
M.Larade, whom we by mistake referred to as
editor, at the same time referring to the actual
editor, M. Hillairet, as proprietor. In consequence
of this confusion of names, our paragraph made
It appear that M. Larade had been sentenced to
six days’ imprisonment in connection with
a libel action, which is incorrect. The
editor was, but M Parade was not the
editor; and although the exchequer of Le Pbo-
gres may have been, as we said, empty, that
expression was not meant to convey, and did not
mean that M. Larade, who, we are informed, is a
gentleman of means, was without ample resources
for more encouraging enterprises. Our sympa
thies are quite with M. Lrvrade in this matter, and
as it neither was nor is our wish to aggravate his
annoyance.a. we treat ho will accept our explana-
tion an., apology in the spirit in which it Is
written—should it ever reach his eye.
CORRESPONDENCE
[Correspondents who grve nesther name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“ W.H.R.” : Thanks. Next week, pro-
bably. H.G.K.” (Paddington): Many thanks
for extract ” sarcasm - like-re Carrington”:
You may be very loyal, but you can’t spell...
‘ A Citizen”: We will print your letter and our
reply to it in an early issue "Ignoramus”
(Peat's Ferry): You ask: "Does the law forbid a.
man to distil his own whisky, providing it is lor 1
his own use, and not for sale ?” This Is an absurd 1
question, and can only be justified on the supposi-
tion that you could drink all the whisky producible ■
by your little private still. If you are going
Into the business don’t tell the police. (3.)‘
Mr. Skinner, bookseller, Castlereagh-street
“ C. F. De Crespigny”: Mr. Labouchere, from
whose paper, Truth, the Globe s paragraph was
quoted, is as much an "aristocrat by birth” as
you can possibly be. He belongs to the Taunton
family ” Barbara Allen ” : Well written, but
unsuitable, fry again—try a short story with
more striking situations “ C.C.R.” : It was
Walker, not Wright, who claimed to have ran
down and shot the bushranger. Thunderbolt
" W.H.B. ”: Much obliged “Pantomime”: We
have seen worse stuff than yours, dear boy
but only in the Jernil —“Alpha”: If your
par. is fala« it is ubei; if true twaddle
" Veritas”: You say, "In a late leading article!
you ma-ie the extraordinary assertion that ’there
are circumstances under which an untruth is not,
alone allowable but meritorious,’ Are these news-
paper ethics? ’ Certainly. All newspapers lie—
except The Bulletin. We And it pays us better
to tell the trutu, because then we have no com-
petitors. If we found it would pay us better to
lie wo would do so without a gram of compunc-
tion, and, when we once started, Ananias would
be a fool to us — “Falmouth” (Wagga); Exactly-
the reverse is really the case. The significance of:
the Liberal and Radio d win in the counties is tre-
mendous, and snows the effect of Mr. Gladstone’s
Act enfranchising 3,003,000 voters. The aid of
tnese latter will enaole the Radical leaders to
carry a Manhood suffrage Bill in the Commons.
What then will become of the Crown, the si-
called nobility, and the Established Church?
“ w. Carlton”: If lour doctors instead of two,
examined the piisoner, all the better for our
argument, and all toe worse for yours, as the con-
vict (for whose crime there was no intelligible
motive) and the other man (whom the autopsy
showed to have been suffering from brafn-
tumour) were pronounced sane by substantially
the same medical commission. You tell us in
effect that humanity is kept moderately Eiraight
by no other means than the lash and the noose,
w e haven’t so mean an opinion of Man. In France
and Germany—somewhat civilised countries,
aren’t they ?—there is no Bogging or other such
torture, and capital punishment is rarely enforced.
In Italy, even, they have abolished the death
penalty. If you are prepared to concisely argue
the question, and tersely explain why Australians
deserve flogging more than the citizens of the
Continental states—also why flogging is calcu-
lated to have an especially beneficial effect in tbra
country, we shall be nappy to afford you the
necessary space. You might at the same time let
us know now the British army and navy authori-
ties have got along since the abolition of flogging ;
and show why (since it has been fouud easliy
possible to maintain order among common soldier,,
without the cat) the ttogger should be a necessity
among the civil population where a less vigorous
discipline is called for. Likewise, on what osychc-
loglcal principle the Government of Victoria*
while it forbids a schoolmaster to corporally
punish his pupils (discipline, mark you, Is never-
theless maintained in State schools), continues to
flog men? "J.G.B.”: Thanks "M. von.
Jargou de Kougnshodd ”: .Received - will read
Ducemens”: Please call — “ it.A.” (Picton): We
did not write on the subject. We are sorry that
itiel was hanged. We ar« not very old, yet we re-
member a comparatively great rebellion, led in
Upper Canada ov Mackenzie, and in the Lower
Provinces oy Papineau. Tnls revolt was DO'
child’s play, and Sir Jno. Colborne won honours
ny its suppression. Tne men named lied, and were
not taken. Earl Durham was sent out to Canada
with exceptional powers to redress the grievances
which had led to the rebellion, and with the prero-
gative of mercy In his hand he at once proclaimed
an Amnesty. What followed? Mackenzie re-
turned to carry on the editorship of a loyal news-
paper, and Papineau, returned to a Parliament of
the United Provinces, was elected the first
Speaker of that Assembly. The Canadian half-
breeds who followed Biot’s lead were suiferlng
from monstrous injustices. The Queen could
have afforded to pardon the unhappy enthusiast,
who was a brave man ”CK”; We don t want
any odts to Lord Cariugton, just yet. You are all
rubbing him down witn the dandy-brush, just
now; by-aad-b*e, perhaps (when he has got to
know you), you’ll bo scraping him with the curry-
comb "J.BG.”: We lit it by holding it to the
nose of one of Alfreds poets "Jorum”: The
last is not flrff in point of merit, bur, will try to
work in... ’Pippj”: Always space for verse of
the kind yon send. Unlimited space. Theysweip
rubbish off the streets every morning, at this end
of the town — “Elector”; Yes, if the Opposition
could muster a oec-nt crowd and produce a
Liberal programme, we’d hope that they’d stay la
office. But we ctn look tor nothing good trom
the old members of the NS W. Assembly, who
should b« publicly poil-axed. A1 we cnu sew
ahead In the event to which you refer, is a Parket-
Davies-Hensoo-Renwick Ministry, with a p c-
gramme of bigotry and cold water. N.S.W. hat.
such a gang la office once, and we aon’t turns, tne
country will stand a tecond cose ’’Censar,”
*‘J. B.,” and several score others: Noiic i next, w ee a.
...’’ Semper Fidelia ”: We are not interested about
tne doctor, but other pars, are acceptable
"Bank Shareholder”: Your working is correct,
but you go upon wrong ideas. The disdmilarity
of dividends can oniy bo explained by enquiry as
to the history and policy of the bank. Profits also
depend largely upon the consciences of managers.
“Sr. Denis ’: Tne card is a mystery. What
Essie Steinhotf has to do with Silverton races you
B we not condescended to explain “ Dorunda ”:
We agree witn you that it was an impudent thing
for Mr. Dibbs to state that the hand of God
g> abbed a million and a half of the colony’s money.
With regard to the thousands thrown away on the
Soudaa Expedition (and norhlng will convince us
that it only cost £113 000) we think that m this
case the hano cau.e, not from Heaven, but from
another aud a hotter, very much hotter, region..
“ A.B.B.”: Always g'ad of suitable items. .."Fiji”:
Sugtr and nauauss Queeucitmi aho exports
cholera just n .w.


Wolfe's Schnapps for the overaumaetl
nervea.
BRIEF MENTION.
A writer in the Melbourne Herald says
that mule-flesh makes good eating. The oannibal I
A married lady is missing from a Victorian
town. Her husband is now offering a handsome
reward for the discovery of her body. Her body I
We make no comments.
A writer in one of the English magazines,
brought by the last mail, says, “It is more to teach
us where wo go to than to tell us what wo came
from.” That is so—but then there are so lew
people to whom you can speak plainly.
“Gentlemen,” said the back-block J.P.
(he was a candidate for Parliament) at a meeting
the other day: “You all know my watchword.”
“ Yes,” yelled one of the free and independent,
“ we know it—twenty bob or a month.”
Borne philanthropic ladies in Melbourne
have expressed a desire to do something for the
young women engaged for the ballet in tho Pan-
tomime. xf their pbilanthrophy took the form of
bottled beer and oysters they would become popu-
lar with the ballet at once.
The officer in command of the artillery
corps stationed at Queenscliff (Vic.) told his men
the other day that “ they were like a lot of mem-
bers of Parliament.” Several of them have since
deserted. A soldier does not cease to be a man
because he wears a uniform.
The Reverend Rentoul, of Melbourne, in a
lecture he delivered lately, expressed his sorrow
that he could not go away as missionary among
the savages. There was silence for a few moments
after he said this. The audience entered into his
Borrow. They shared it, in fact.
A gentleman named Hughes was found
dead on the floor of his bedroom in a Melbourne
boarding house. It appears that “ there were no
marks of violence upon the body.” Of course not.
Hash leaves no marks outside the body. Its
violence is restricted to the interior.
One of the late additions to the regula-
tions of the Victorian military forces is a rule to
the effect that •* not more than two trumpeters are
to be on the establishment at the same time.” This
rule, we presume, is intended to rebut the Trollo-
pian assertion that the Viororians are fond of
“ blowing their own trumpet.”
Oh, it was a learned counsel, and he was
wishing to oast aspersions on the character of a
feminine witness. Said he: “ Now. madam, listen
to me. You are. I believe, usually seen outside
the theatre after midnight ?” “ Yes, I knows you.
and you knows me.” Then did that counsel set
down with considerable hastiness.
A N.Z. surveyor out in the bush wanted
to buy some fresh pork from tho natives: he had
no steel-yard, or rather weighing-machine, with
him, so he had tho pigs hung up on a tree, took a
squint at them gravely through his theodolite,
and then announced the weight to the vendors.
That surveyor was not to be done; but the Maoris
were.
“Strange conduct of a man at Kew,” is
the heading of a paragraph in the Melbourne
Herald. The Lunatic Asylum is at Kew. It is a
hard thing if a man can’t act strangely there with-
out getting his name in the newspapers. If he is
not allowed to act like a Bedlamite there, where
can he ? It takes money to get Into the Legisla-
tive Assembly.
The Sydney D.T. relates how a congratu-
latory telegram sent by a sucking M.L.A. to the
Orange Lodge at St. Mary’s, South Creek, whs
delivered to the Plenary Council sitting at Sc.
Mary’s Cathedral, Sydney. This shows how just are
the dealings of Divine Providence. The man who
congratulates an Orange Lodge about anything
deserves to be “ sold.”
An affair of last week shows the danger of
quarrelling with a man who has a jug in his hand—
and many of us have jugs in our hands during
this merry Christmas season. A man died in the
Sydney hospital a few days ago from a fractured
skull received from being brought into too violent
contact with a jug in the hands of a person whom
the D.T. innocently calls “a friend.” The latter
is now in the “ jug.”
An ex-prisoner rounded up the gaol officials
In Christchurch (N Z ) the other day. He was an
old man, and had done his stretch of three months
for vagrancy. He now appeared before tho Court
to claim redress for having been obliged to wear
the shirt he was sentenced in throughout the
whole period of his incarceration. It appears that
the gaoler thought the sentence too short to en-
title a prisoner to any luxuries.
The late R.O. Plenary Council, held at
Sydney, decided that three more bishops and a
coadjutor-archbishop are wanted in Australia.
The three ne ' bishoprics are to be in Northern
Queensland, South Australia, and Glppsiand. and
tne coadjutor-archbishopric In Melbourne. Whafs
the use of doing things in this half-hearted fashion ?
Woy don’t they bring the Pone out at once ? But
they would first have to put Zachary Barry in a
straight jacket.
Advertisement from the London Sporting
Chronicle:—“ Wanted.—Young man from the
country wants to learn how to play cards. State
terms, A 40. at this office.” Come along, young
man, come here! What ho, there! Unloose our
tame Jew. who plays solo. Take from his cage our
pet Greek, witn his icarti pack. Bail out our
three-cardsman. Let us teacn this young man to
play cards and he will find out the terms for him-
self.
During the recent sitting of the District
Court at Dunedin, a tremendous noise was heard
outside, and the Judge, who seemed to be in an
extra judicial and irritable frame of mind that
morning, ordered the usher to go out and quell it.
In a few minutes tne usher returned. “ I can’t,
your Honner,” “Can’t?’ said the Judge, with a
portentous frown. “No, your Honner; it’s out-
side the jurisdiction of the Coort—it’s a thunder-
storm!”
There are now twenty-four millions of
miles of submarine telegraph wires In the world.
Twenty-four millions of miles of wire for the
diffusion of mendacity! How Baron Munchausen
would have enjoyed Jiving in this enlightened
nineteenth century! We have a grim suspicion
that he does live—metempsvchosloally-some-
where In the neighbourhood of Boggabri. At any
rate, that is where the Paris correspondence of a
certain Sydney daily seems to come from.
The local parson and the editor of the
Granville (Sydney) organ of public opinion are
pegging at each other on the very shallow question
as to whether the Church was made for the world,
or the world was made for the Church. I he parson
appears to have got in on the professional ink-
slinger, who, in a plethora of parenthetical “ den-
sities,” plaintively remonstrates: “ It is not for ms
to proceed into a province of enquiry which is
shut off from mortal scrutiny!” it is to be in-
ferred, however, that it is only his modesty which
prevents him from soaring into Immortal spheres.
Someone having thoughtfully presented
the Police Court reporters ot the Sydney Evening
News with a “remarkable event ” almanac, quite
a new feature has been added to the reports of the
druns and disorderly doings lately. For example,
one day we read: “ Captain Cook landed. Forty-
seven patriots celebrated the event, and paid the
usual amount.” Next day it is: “ This being the
anniversary of the opening of the Bendigo gold-
field, 17 (supposed) old Bendigonlans got tight, and
were fined.” And so on, ad nauseaum. We quake
for tho hour when this brilliant ” Brevity ” bandit
will touch off the events of Good Friday.
Thus a back-blocks correspondent“ We
have waited patiently for ‘Christian Evidence,’
whatever that may ne. They have been at it a
year, and at the time of writing the result is still
so small as to expose the evidence men to un-
righteous ridicule. Let us give them an item
just to show that we are anxious to help them : —
• And the dead shall rise,’ A squatter’s dummy
died about 13 months ago, but yot that dead man
answered tne roll-call of th« Inspector of Free-
Beleotions and fulfils the residence clause. He
looks younger than ever, and has acquired a
foreign accent in the grave, and has also a smile
like tne man with the * Bucca Fissa’ in L'homme
qui rit.”
The Soudan fizzle has fired the ardour of
the Victorian militia, apparently. Anyway, wo
hear of a Melbourne warrior inflicting grievous
bodily harm on an unoffending citizen with his
musket. A detachment ot “ troops ” was march-
ing violently down a side street. The only enemy
In sight was an inoffensive young man, hurrying
home to an early supper. The troops charged
with such gallantry that somebody’s weapon
“landed” the young man in the stomach, and
hurt him pretty considerably. In the excitement
of the moment, they must have taken the poor
devil for an Arab—or a goat.
Judge Trench, of Victoria, has written a
pamphlet scarifying the present system of im-
prisoning criminals. His arguments are sound,
but are here and there open to criticism. He says,
for Instance, that prisoners should bo made to
work at some craft in gaol until they had—in the
case of persons imprisoned for theft—earned suffi-
cient money to refund what they had stolen. How
would this act if applied to embezzling bank clerks
or fraudulent Civil servants ? They would have
to be released before they had earned enough to
Say back their defleits-good word, deficits. The
ay of Judgment would be on them. [We are
sorry to hear that Judge French has just been
stricken by paralysis.]
“Call that a pumpkin-country! ” said the
puntman. “ Well, you’ve never been on the
Richmond River. I’ve seen the Triton pass by
here one year with a pumpkin on board; it was
forard on deck, and they had to load her by the
stern to keep her from diving to the bottom like
a duck. I never saw such a pumpkin as that;
two of ’em would have just balanced the Triton,
and three of ’em would have sunk her like a
stone.” And the old man left the dinner-table to
explain to the crowd outside that the country on
the Richmond was the finest in the world, barring
Patagonia, where they nad, in his day. to bora the
core out of pudding-apples with a diamond-drill,
and slice them up one at a time in a steam-power
chaff-cutter.
The Anglican Church Society lor the
diocese of Sydney is hard up; it is not above your
prayers, but infinitely prefers your cash. In an
advertised appeal, ad miser icordiam, members of
the Church are “ earnestly invited” to assist the
work of the Society In one or other of the follow-
ing ways;—“(1.) By becoming a subscriber. (2.) By
Increasing our present subscription ; or (3) By
undertaking before the year closes to find a sub-
scriber. (4 ) By sending for a collecting card and
becoming a collector for the Society. (5.) By re-
membering the Society’s work in your offerings
and prayers.” Prayers, you observe, come last:
cash is the mtin desideratum. Carefully readlrg
the above, it would appear that if you assist lu
either the first or the second “ way” you need not
bother about the praying part of the business.
When Edward Huuter was hanged at
Sandhurst, the other day, the correspondent of the
Melbourne Age telegraphed the particulars and
said; “ He (Hunter) seemed by bis actions to be In
nervous haste to get the experience over and done
with it.” The “ experience,” observe I The gal-
lows has evidently no terrors for the man who
conceived this phrase in such a connection. Per-
haps he was born to be drowned. It reminds us
of something we heard one day while standing
outside the Darlingburst Court House. There
was a man there who was charged with something
or other—we forget what, but it was pretty bad —
and he was waiting for his case to come on. “I
wish they would hurry up,” he said; “I want to
get this little bother over.” He got seven years
that afternoon. You see “they” weren’t in ouch
a hurry as he was.
One often “peruses” curious advertise-
ments (we make no charge for such work), but the
following, cut from a Sydney daily, we have read
with much interest:—“ Girls, 35, wanted, to cover
nips. Apply, Cameron’s Tobacco Factory, Pltt-
street.” Had the sex been of the stronger order,
we would at once have met the demand, and
supplied without delay 35 scribes who could. In
any emergency, be backed to cover all the “ nips ”
which the proprietary of the Pitt-street Virginia-
leaf Manipulating Company would be prepared to
place on tbe counter. We call the respectful at-
tention of Temperance societies to the above ad ,
as one to which some of their female branches
could respond. They need not “-nip”—just cover
the “ deadly ” with their chest-protectors and tote
it along to the W.C.T. or the Chief Water Swal-
lower of any of the male departments of the tribe.
A writer in the Melbourne Age in a lead-
ing article on tha Forestage question quotes Addi-
son, approvingly, to this effect:-" When a man
considers that the putting of a lew twigs into
the ground is perhaps making one of his own
descendants easy or rich, bv so inoonsiderab e
an expense, if ha finds himself averse
to it ne must conclude that he has a poor
and base heart, void of all generous prin-
ciples and love to mankind.” Wnen Addison
sat down to write la his claret-coloured coat and
ruffles, he could throw off fine sentiments of this
sort easier than Donaid Dinnie can throw around
dumb-bells. But there was not much in them.
Our experience of average human nature is that
the majority ot men care not the kick of a cock-
roach for posterity. 'There are a few, however,
who might plant trees if they thought their des-
cendants would hang themselves thereon.
Forty years ago a roan was apt to feel
lonely in the Australian bush. There were not so
many people in the country in those days. Near
[ Mudgee there dwelt in seclusion about that
Interesting period a gentleman who piled
the peaceful avocation of bushranglng The police
were after him, they out his tracks at length, and
two of them ran him to earth in a humpy away
back. The outlaw was at supper -had just boiled
his billy, and settled down to his evening meal;
ho had a pot of butter—a luxury not easily obtain-
able then-a few biscuit’, and a tin of fish. The
police were in a hurry, and could not allow him to
have supper. Drawing a bead on him, Sergeant
lodged a ball in the centre of the bushranger’s
forehead, and, as he dropped dead In the midst ot
tbe collation he had provided, his life-blood
spurted over the eatables. Tne captors entered,
and, nutting him aside, fell to at once and
demolisned the blood-stained banquet. Fact.
The glory of Numurkah (Vie.) has de-
parted. Its streets are silent. The sound of
revelry by nlgnt is heard no longer in its halls of
wassail. It has gone over body and bones to the
Blue Ribbon Army. We remembf r when Numur-
kah smelt afar off—a grateful odour—of potent
spirits. The incoming stranger snuffing the
aroma smacked bin lips reflectively, and soltly
said to himseif “ Kami” Few of the residents
then Knew their own names for a week at a time,
and the man who did not walk in curves was
looked upon witn a distrust thatgradually ripened
into aversion. AH that is oyer now. however.
And the change seems not to be for the better.
There was a Bluo Ribbon picnic there lately, at
which there were over 3000 people. A collection
was made for the local hospital, which resulted In
the noble sum of £5 6s. Gingerbeer evidently
does not open the heart, nor lemonade the purse.
In the old times the hospital collector might have
gone into a bar and got that much. Icbabod!
We cut this from the Gifted Winter;—
“ A very old man, named Thomas Harvey, was
sent t.s gaol for 13 months, as he was Incapable of
helping himself, and had no home.” We remem-
ber reading of a tribe of savages—we forget what
country they Inhabited, and it isn’t of muon con-
sequence, anyhow—who annually made their old
men and old women swing on the branch of a tree
by their hands. If they were able to hold on for a
certain time they were allowed to live for another
year, but if tney dropped before that time was up
they were promptly olunbed on the head and
turned o\er to the tribal cook. Are we—with all
our Christian charity and all our classic culture-
far ahead ot these savages la oar treatment of the
homeless and helpless old ? We have an institu-
tion or two for them, it is true, but they are filled.
The last time we were at Liverpool (N.8.W.) Asylum
we went to take a look at the old men in the yard.
They were so thick together that—but let us not
exaggerate. The place waa full, anyhow. Are we
much better than those savages when we have to
send our poor old men to gaol as If they were
criminals ? It is a pretty nice prospect for us
when we grow old.
Extract from Japan Daily Mail of Gth
June last: —“ Mr. Hiss, a new and successful manu-
facturer of aerated waters in Tokyo, has requested
us to assist his enterprise by giving publicity to
his prospectus. We gladly comply;—
* Tokio, Skltshichome Ichibanchy.
‘Sir!
‘Man haf it say to me that many my chapman
and female customer are desiring my Soda Water
Maschine rigt to comprehend—for it—i allow me
the honour to making Avis to Tokio Resident I
that i. the undersing, the maschine at 5 o’clock on
Saturday, 6th inst, will detailing expllcitemently
in the English-language ant prey that the presence
all person intercut.
‘ Free drinks to chapman and female costumer I
•Avis important!
‘ For sell from me makltl
‘ Best Rie bread 8 cent, for £
‘Lof „ 6 „ „ £
* Bisquit (not yet makltl)....30 ,, „£
‘Sakeh champagne 15 ., ,. doz.
‘Any person will be persecute for sill bread
from Tsukiji Backery, me exceptit!
‘C. I. Hiss.’ ”
The lawyer nas been noted in all ages for
his heroic impudence—his superhuman “cheek.”
The reputation of the profession in this respect Is
not likely to be depreciated by its Victorian repre-
sentatives. The Me'bourne lawyer is probably tho
most brazen-faced being that walks on two legs.
A letter appeared in the Argus, the other clay,
signed “ A Barrister.” Here is one sentence from
it:—“The barristers are complaining about the
small amount of business in the Supreme Court.”
Complaining, mind you—feeling aggrieved ard
hardly-used because uot enough people ruin them-
selves and their families by plunging Into law-
suits for the benefit of barristers. Bo an under-
taker might complain that after all it wasn’t
cholera that was imported per tbe s.s. Dorunda.
8o a shark might complain that so fow persons tail
overboard just now. So the hangman might
grumble at tbe dearth of murders this season.
What do people mean by living peacefully to-
gether and taking the bread out of his mouth ?
This would be his line of argument, and it is pre-
cisely the same as that taken by “ A Barrister.”
So the Devil might consider himself put upon and
swindled by a decrease in the annual total of dam-
nation. But there Is no fear of Mm having to com-
plain while lawyers flourish.
That our doings in the Soudan still hold a
place in the memories of the people was strikingly
exemplified in a Sydney Police Court recently. A
Soudan warrior (one of those heroes who came
back bloated with glory and covered with goat-
hair) and who had previously applied for police
protection, stated that he was annoyed by certain
young bloods known as the “ Wynyard Square
Lambs ” The Lambs, he asserted, greeted him on
all occasions with a loud bleating. Those
“ Bleaters.” being summoned by the police, one
of the force swore that this form of riotous be-
haviour was known to them as the “ Soudan Baa.”
and that it was used derisively towards the Con-
tingent The Lambs were then fined heavily for
“ acting the goat.” From specimens of the ‘ naa”
given out of Court, It seems a pity that the Soudan
goat was prematurely snatched away—his pupils
had scarcely caught on. But if the goat is dead
the donkey still liveth. Randwlok residents In-
form us that he Is in good voice, and. as the
“ Lambs ” have evidently asinine proclivities, they
might interview him with advantage. His note
requires a wider range cf voice than that of his
unfortunate and muoh-to-be-deDlored country-
man; the shakes, runs, and trills In which it
abounds are not to he easily acquired. Hia style
is. however, much more telling, and, if sufficient
time and trouble Is devoted, the “ Soudan Bray ”
will eclipse the “Baa” even as a foghorn does an
ice-cream trumpet.
BY FLOOD AND FIELD .
The Glebe Rowing Club had a dull but
calm afternoon for their seventh annual regatta,
on Saturday last. For the race of the day,
the junior doublc-sculls, open to all clubs—
the Sydney, Mercantile, Balmain, North Shore,
and local clubs sent representatives. The Glebe
pair, P. Maitland and G. W, Durr ell, rowed in first-
class form, and led the M.R.C. pair (who, by the
way, rowed the crack skiff over which the recent
unpleasantness occurred), round the turning buoy
by a clear length, which lead they lengthened out
to several lengths half way up the bay. Balmain,
in the calm water under Pymont, looked as if they
were going to steal a march on the locals, who
had eased down, but the Glebes noticed them in
time, and drawing away, won a good race by a
couple of lengths. G. J. Robertson won the senior-
sculls from start to finish, and three other events
drew a lively and well-managed afternoon’s sport
to a close.
• ■ o
The race between young Charley Matter-
son and Nelson over iho champion course, on
Saturday last, has again shown the amount of
dependence to be placed upon the time-trial. On
the strength of a reported wonderful “trial.”
voung Matterson was backed freely at Hand 7 to
•1 on, but Nelson led him from the first stroke, at.d
won without the semblance of a race. Young
Matterson started badly, and Nelson led pastUhr’s
Point, with a length s lead, and by Uje time the
mile was shot, in (imin. 40sec. t there was a couple
of lengths of daylight between the boats. Ap-
proaching Putney, Matterson spurted and de-
creased the lead, but when the spurt died out
Nelson drew away, and eventually wor, with a
deal to spare, in 33min. 35seo. “ Save me from my
friends” the younvster may well cry, notwith-
standing the fact that he has at his back the most
Iloertl patrons of aquatics Sydney—and probably
th“ -"'irld—ever saw. Whan the same party took
unfortunate Tom Clifford in hand they found he
a terror under the time-test, and in piace of
letting him work Ms way rung by rung up the
aquatic ladder of fame, they must needs come
out with offers to back the giant for £500 aside
against Beach, Haclau. and Teemer Then they
discovered young Charley Matterson could knock
spots off the chronograph, and they subjected
him to a defeat on Saturday, over which it w 11
take him no short time to “suffer a recovery” in
the confidence motion. Neil Matterson has, of
course, had tho watch on him, but we do not
think they will recoup much over his race with
Beach next Friday for the championship. So far
as rowing tne champion Is concerned, the elder
Matterson Is every bit as untried a man as his
brother, for as yet Matterson’* best penorm-
ance has been the defeat of Charier Mes-
senger. The youngster rows in gooi form,
and holds a reputation as a great spurter,
the masters of tne Parramatta steamers,
“who ought to know, you know,” going even to
the extent of saying that he is better in this
respect than Beach, nut the man who lid-^tlned
finish in front or Beach after covering 3 miles
330 yards of the “historic” course, will have to
prove himself something more than a spurter.
We are pleased to learn that the “senior
fours" at the Sydney regattas is not for the
future to be confined to the one-horse show oe
tween the two senior clubs The Balmain Club
broke the spell at the last Balmain Regatta, and
the Glebe Rowing Club has now decided to send a
crew for the National Regatta, consisting of
Messrs. R P- Smith, G. W. Durrod, G. J. Robert-
son, and H R. Cox, so we may expect to see four
crews entered for this race. The junior club could
not have picked upon a better time for their
maiden effort, as we understand the Sydney and
Mercantile crews will both be weakened by the
absence of Messrs. O. Bros and S. Martin respec-
tively, who are going out of training for a well-
earned rest.
mem
At the opening of Foley’s new hall, on
Saturday nigut, a couple of hours’ real good work
was put In by a crowd of promising talent. The
athletes were ail amateurs with the exception of
Walsh, the New Zealander, who, in a merry spin
with the champion, showed that he had a lot to
learn yet. The ball was opened by Consdell and
Turnbull, who gave a wrestling exhibition of
clinches and breaks. Both men were in good buckle
and tho show was a good one. Cansdell and some of
( his pupils next put In a few minutes on the bars,
&o. This was the most peaceful icun in the bill.
No one wts seriously injured. Turnbull and
Carsdetl followed this part of the performance,
and amused themselves by lifting large nieces of
iron Into the air. Turnbull put up 1301bs. six
times running, and then elevated the 130 and 611.
Norman can find plenty of this sort of fun at
North Shore ; ttiere are some rocks there
which would all the lift out of him.
We put up £724 once—at draw-poker. The
same two artists next performed with Indluu
clubs. We could twirl an Indian club once upon
a time. We have sat in a stage cannon and
twirled the clubs on towards the gallery, then,
when the gunner gave us a start, we caught the
waddles In mid-air, and landed in a sitting alti-
tude in the select circle with a club In each hand,
a lighted cheroot in our teeth, and tho ep rit of
beautiful truth In our young and trust-
ing heart. [It has since left.— Ed. B ]
roloy and Cansdell presently stepped into
the arena, and, donning a pair of
as hats, proceeded to assault each other violently
with sticks. What caused this disagreement wo
could not at the time learn, but we blamed Turn-
bull for standing by and taking minutes of the
procesdings without once attempting to stop the
battle. We were just on the point of appealing to
a man near us to rush between them, when Turn-
bull called out that the champion had won the
singlestick match. It was not a singlestick match
we can affirm, as Foley, after breaking two on bis
opponent’s weapon, was forced to get a third ere
he could “do” him This Is a very dangerous
game. Someone will be getting hurt at it yet. It
is quite as vicious as football. Borne amateurs
donned the mittens after this, and showed occa-
sional good play, which was applauded liberally
by the discerning audience. The amateur next
sent a friend a fast quarter, and the pupil of the
phenomenal Larry put in the best work of the
evening. His opponent was altogether over-
matched, and though a plucky fighter, stood no
show with the catapulter. Foley and Walsh worn d
up with a short fpln. In which the champion
amused himself pretty much at the expense
ot the New Zealander, whom he occasionally
chased round the ring on the off-chance of
getting a shot at him. Larry will, with prac-
tice, make a very| good Lexer. The audience,
of over 300, was probably the most respectable
ever gathered In any athletic hall—the pei formers
were In most instances good, and displayed no in-
temperate, unscientific attitudes when receiving
the r punishment,;and we are glad to be able io
congratulate the champion and his coadjutor,
Cansdell, on their efforts tof“8terand developethe
athletic spirit of our youth. Foiey will, at an early
date, offer £300 In prizes for professional heavy
and middle weight, and all-comers amateur com-
petitions, £100 for each oias r , to come off In about
two months. Foloy does not intend to compete
himself, and such good money should bring forth
the best talent in at least the two lines first
mentioned.
♦ • *
Says London Bell’sLipe “ A cablegiam
from New York Informs us that thelong-taiked-of
match between Edward Hanlan and John Teemer.
of Pittsburg, was rowed on Saturday last, when,
after a tough race all the way, Teemer proved
successful. The race, It will be remembered, was
fixed to lake place on October 36. It, therefore,
seems more than passing strange that the date
should have been thus altered. Such a course Is,
we believe, without precedent in the history of
professional sculling. Adverse weather has often
compelled the postponement of important matches
but we have never heard of a match for mom y
being decided in advance of the date originally
fixed before. We not" that the American ex-
changes of October 17 make not the slightest
allusion to the alteration, which, therefore, must
have been agreed to at ihe last moment, If the
cablegram Is correct.” Another exchange say*
Hanlan rolled out of hts boat. The fact of ti e
alteration of date would imply that the whole
affair was a “hippodrome,” and that the specula-
tor who engaged the pair fouud the advanced
date would suit his purpose better than the 36th.
• ♦ a
By the victory of the French mate
Plalsanterle In the Cambridgeshire, some £100.000
crossed the Channel, with very remote prospect of
Its ever recroislng. This is the more galling to
English sportsmen as English horses are debarred
from running In France In any race but the Grand
Prix, while French horses are allowed to run fop
any stake in England. Admiral Rous and Lord
Falmouth advocated reciprocity in this respect,
and the French mare's win has opened up the old
sore.
* m m
No “dead-heads,” we hear, at the Botany
handicaps. Even competitors are charged their
half-crown dally for admittance to the ground.
This la rough on, at least, the acceptors, win so
growls are loud and deep at what they term tho
carmine Imposition. F.B. evidently forgets tho
fact that the peds. provide the sport which shovels
in the grist to the mill.
• • •
We are rather amused at the virtuous
indignation shown by membeis of tha N.S.W.
Cricket Association over the fact that Aleck
Bannerman should ask £15 for his services to olay
in the Intercolonial In addition to bis Government
pay. If our memory does not play us false
Government officials of a higher grade, with big
fat screws, have before now accepted half salary
in addition to their shares of the plunder of an
English tour, while Bannerman never received a
shilling from the Government whilst away on any
of his English trips. And these self same officials
now sit in judgment on Bannerman. As the “lung
dictionary says, “ Pluck forth the mote ” [Quite
sufficient. Consult the religious editor next time
you try a quotation of this sort.—Ed. B.]
• • «
The proposed meeting between Newton
and Foley has, as we anticipated, ended In news-
paper talk. Newton at first said he would box m
Svdney, but he now wants the meeting to come
off on the border, and Foley has withdrawn his
deposit. The Svdney middleweight champion hus
now given up all Idea of getting on a match, and
intends to devote his time and energies to tnu new
gymnasium.
♦ * ♦
J. J. Miller, though Parliamentaried out
ot Victoria, has yet a world oistwhere. New Zea-
land Is still open to racing sweep-promoters A
big thing was got up for tne Melbourne Cup race
at Christchurch. We should hard.y thought of
that ecclesiastical city as the fitting place for
sweeps, but you never can tell, a sweep for £3000
has been pulled off there, the two winners being
assistants In a provision warehouse and a furni-
ture "ne. A net result of £1713 apiece for them is
what it comes to—a little hedging having served
to reduce iho otherwise bigger total.
♦ ♦ ♦
This is neat, and explains quite a heap in
the way of aquatic “ hippodrnming”: — Courtney
(to outsider): “ It Hanlan would only agree to any
reasonable terms, he could get un a race with me
In five minutes.” Hanlan: “Mr. Con rimy. I il
row you ou any terms you please.” Courtney: ‘ I
won’t row on those terms.”
* * I m
La«t Saturday morning J, D. said he had
purchased a copy of the “Death of Nelson” to
sing alter the boat-race. And although he did
not have cause to warble that particular ditty, he
could not forgo his little joke, for, on seeing
young Charley after the event, he said, “It doesn’t
Matterson-ny, we’ll 4 suffer a recovery ’ next
Friday.”
* • *
Tho Overrland China Mail comments
on Neil Mattorson’s chances for the champion-
ship of the world as against William Beach, What
a little world we live in, after all.


A MERRIE MENAGERIE.
HERE is something
delicious In the thought
of being- “out for the
day;” of being far away
from where it can be
told you, in dulcet tones
which often mask a
sinister authority, “to do
the best you can with
that little thing from
the Macleay,” or be “ de-
pended upon ” to write
a first-class critique on
a picture gallery, with a
dash of humorous badin-
age and a caustic disser-
tation on the increase of
pre-Raphaelitism, “ and
not make it more than a
stick.” Sweet to be away from the office;
to lie coolly on the sward and picture to
yourself the “ other fellows ” bedewing rhyming
dictionaries with tears of sweat, writing pars.
* with a light hand ” in which the “ crack ” must
come in the bottom line; and wandering down
long "galley proofs” with starting eyes and a
weary brain. This is the only real, out-and-out
holiday we have had for years. We got the last
one under such peculiar circumstances that it
might Interest you to know what they were,
v
We were not on this paper then, but we
belonged to a journal the name of which we shall
ever bold in veneration, not to say respect. It was an
excellent Journal—a very excellent journal—but If
It had one fault it was that it erred on the side of
liberality. One morning (we trust this does not
bore you) after we had gone round to all the police
stations at 6 o’clock for a " creeper,” inspected two
corpses at the morgue, made inquiries and ob-
tained the list of casualties in the Hospital, written
our “ copy ” In the old room at Punch's while
mumbling a sausage-roll, the editor, meeting
us in the office, motioned us into his private
room. " Would you mind,” he said, "sleeping in
a haunted house?” "Very much,” we replied.
" Ughl you groveller,” he growled, " how do you
expect to rise in your profession ?” We suggested
to him to send the sub-editor, who, w© submitted,
would naturally be more "used to it” than we
were; but this suggestion was so stormily received
that (seeing our 30s. a week trembling in the bal-
ance) we, ultimately, consented to go. So having
received 6d. for expenses, also two ’bus tickets, we
started for the haunted house—having previously
“exploded” one ’bus ticket at Jim’s; keeping the
sixpence for emergencies. It was about 1 o’clock
when we reached the haunted house—a tumble-
down pub. out at the Globe, with a forlorn lamp
burning in front, and a general air of spectral deso-
lation about it. We entered the bar—not a soul
to be seen; but after we had tapped our sixpence
upon the counter until our arm ached, there
emerged from the parlour a tall woman whose
face was one livid mask of ghastly terror. " Are
you the gentleman ” she commenced, in a
low, tremulous voice, "who—.” We said wo
were; and, casting our sixpence upon the counter,
demanded, in rather a roystering tone, a glass of
"sherry wine,” "Help yourself, sir,” she said,
wearily—not even glancing at the money—" there
is plenty of everything behind the bar.” At this
moment her husband—a fellow over 6ft. and
carrying a carter's whip in his hand—entered the
bar, and bade his wife good-bye. " It’s very un-
fortnet, sir, j ust at this time, my having a conteract
to cart cement with my team to Botany nightly,
sir. I don’t mind these here ghostesses, and would
like to stay with the missus—but when you have a
conteract, you see—I only laughs at it; but it’s
having the conteract, you see, as ” And he was
gone.
* * •
Being made free of the house, we took a
seat behind the bar, and, discarding “ sherry-wine’’
for three-star, partook of refreshment until we
began to consider the idea of a haunted house a
very droll one indeed. Ha, hal Haunted, yes I
Gurgle. Haunted—ho, hoi Rldickllshl The land-
lady lay groaning on the sofa in the parlour, and
declined stimulants. They only made her worse,
she said. So we returned to the bar, and, settling
down to “St. Clair of the Isles,” which constituted
the library of the establishment, calmly awaited
business. Not a solitary soul came near the place
till nine, when a ragged girl with no boots entered,
•nd, hoisting a pickle-bottle on to the counter, en-
quired if we would trust Mrs. Rogers for half-a-
plnt of beer. Bewildered by this rush of business,
we were for a moment silent. " She’ll send it over
when she gets paid for the mangling,” said the
little girl. “ Oh, in that case ,” and wo then pro-
ceeded to haul on the beer-engine. There were
three. The first we tried was porter. When we
discovered this, we manipulated the second one,
but only froth came out; so we had to travel on
to the third handle, and contrived with some exer-
tion to fill the pickle-bottle. We don’t know what
was in it; but, anyhow, she got half-a-plnt, more
or less, of something. Shutting-up time at length
arriving, in our zeal to make everything secure
and comfortable, our first proceeding wai to got a
ladder and extinguish the ghostly glim in front.
Having reported this much progress, with con-
siderable satisfaction, to the landlady, she thanked
us in a feeble voice, but mentioned that the fact
of there being no light in front of the house
would entail upon her a flue of £3, Much
staggered at this, we once more seized the
ladder, and having made a torch of half
the Herald, clambered up again, and re-lit
the dingy lantern—breaking one of the panes of
glass in our hurry. Returning to the house, we
locked, barred, and bolted every conceivable door;
hung bells upon the back and side ones; saw to
the windows, which had all been nailed up; and
finally announced to the landlady that things were
so snug, a mouso couldn’t get In. It being now
be time, we put out the gas in the bar, and low-
ered that in the parlour; armed with the remains of
the three-star, we proceed ed upstairs, followed by
e andlady, who gasped and moaned continu-
ally, and was but indlffer ent company. Our room
was ob the first floor, facing hers. Before
entering it, however,. uh& requested us to look
at the door of hers, and she showed the means
she had of fastening it inside. She had a big,
strong lock, two heavy bolts, and some poor
swindle called a “ Thief Defier,” which she had
probably purchased in Paddy’s Market. “Now,”
she said, “you listen while I fasten them all.”
We stood outside, with the candle in one hand,
and the three-star bottle in the other, doubtless
presenting but a feeble spectacle. The key
turned. The first bolt—clang 1 The second bolt—
clang 1 The ‘‘Thief Defier”—click 1 Pah! then
the thing dawned on us. “ Good night,” we said,
laughing. “ Good night,” in a faint groan.
m *
We had solved it. We—but hang it, this
article is supposed to be about the Zoological
Gardena. Yes, enough about this haunted busi-
ness. Even as far back as the reign of Caligula,
zoology-—Oh, if a lady asks us, that’s another
thing—
■ * ■
We had eolved it. We went into our room,
which had two French windows looking on to the
street, and sat on oue of the four beds of the
departed lodgers, and chuckled. Why the thing
was as plain as Alexander. The woman was a
somnambulist, who undid her own door, wandered
about, upset things, and had thus burst up the
hash-house. A nice mystery! Much disgusted
(we shall come to the Zoo presently) we appro-
priated three of the pillows of the departed
boarders, and taking off our coat, waistcoat, and
shoes, trimmed the horrible candle, and half
resolved to “ make a night of it.” Well, here's to
the ghost’s health. Haunted—bosh! Here’s to
the ghost’s health again. Haunted I Pooh 1
Haun .
“Wake up! and look over there.” It was
the landlady! This was becoming monotonous.
. ‘My good woman,” we said, “please go back to
your room. The fact Is ” “ Look 1 ” she
shrieked; and dragging us to the window pulled
aside the ourtain. Horror 1 Straight over on the
other side of the street, standing on the top door-
step of an uotenanted house, was a stout white
figure, which pointed its finger straight at the
hotel. It wore a patch over one eye, and the
whole of its livid, horrible face was at times en-
shrouded by some thin vapour. We stood spell-
bound gazing at this grisly vision, until it disap-
peared. “ Now,” cried the landlady, hastily making
for her own room, “ close, bolt, and barricade your
door, or you are a dead man.” On this she fled like
the wind, and wo heard the key turn round, the
two bolts shot into their sockets, and the Thief
Defier hastily set. Then rising, sick with terror
wo locked and bolted our door. We drew the
chest of drawers against it, and a bed against tho
chest of drawera. We drew a bed against each
window, and at length sank down panting on the
bed. The brandy was there, and we poured out
half a tumbler of the spirit and drank it. Of what
avail the brandy, now ? None I We were about to
reach out for another draught when, suddenly, a
loud shriek resounded through the house-not the
cry of a woman in distress, or that of a man in
despair; but an unearthly yell, culminating in a
burst of demoniac laughter. Then one by one the
doors opeueo and shut below, tho bottles jangled
in the bar, the beer-engines worked fitfully and
wildly, and every form in the dining-room was
thrown down- We sat up in bed transfixed with
unutterable torror. If we had had a pistol with us
we should have shot ourselves through the heart
A moment later our door, which we had locked
and barricaded, flew open-and then we fainted.
• * *
We entered the office early that morning
with a pa.lid face and a tottering step, bearing in
our hand a little bundle of rather uncertain manu-
script. “ You slept there, did you ?” growled the
editor, fisting the slips. “ Yes, sir,” we gasped.
“All right,” ho said; “ you can have a holiday to-
day. Here,” he continued, drawing half-a-crown
from his pocket, “go and enjoy yourself. If I
were to make it half-a-soverelgn I shouldn’t see
you for a week.” We spent that holiday in bed,
with the clothes pulled close over our head,
writhing, now and anon, as a mocking voice
seemed to whisper in our ear—“ Haunted, hal ha I
—Pooh I” We were discharged from that paper
because we would Insist upon spelling agreeable’
with two “e's”l
*" • »
Now for it! The ghost is laid, and the
noble King of the Forest is going to have a show
Well, having a second whole holiday, we resolved*
to spend it at the Sydney Zoo, that being a spot
which blends instruction with amusement, and
about which there is nothing in the least “per-
nicious.” The Zoo, you must know, ladies and
gentlemen, is an enclosure containing several
anina s (both wild and tame), situate near the
Captain Cook Hotel, on the Hand wick-road. The
land—that extensive plain I—was granted to the
Zoological Society, free of cost, by the Corpora-
tion, and the moving spirit in the whole thing is
Mr. Walter Bradley. That charming gentleman-
Presidont of the Zoological Society—is a hearty
enthusiast. Every day, at about 4 o’clock, Walter
arrives and beams on the collection. He and the
other wealthy merchant who constitute the
Society have got the Zoo so much on tho brain,
that when they encounter friends in the city they
stop them, and in a burst of hoapitality, Invite
them to come and lunch with the lion, or take tea
with the tiger. To get over preliminaries as
speedily as possible, in order to beard the lion out-
side his don, we may at once state that a very
charming military-looking gentlemen, named—we
have his card somewhere—ah, W. J. Powell, is the
Superintendent of the Gardens. He was good
enough, on our holiday, to interest himself so
heartily in our welfare, that when wo had been in
his pleasant society half an-hour, our head got so
full of natural history that we could hardly keep
our hat on.
• •
To come straight to business, the Zoologi-
cal Society’s Gardens in Moore Park occupy an
area larger that than required by Chlarlni's Circus,
but not so large as that required for Cole’s. In the
centre of the enclosure is a pellucid lake, and in
the centre of the lake is a tropical island. The
effect of this la picturesque beyond compare, only,
as we sat down on a seat, with our eyes fixed in
dreamy gaze upon this picture of enchantment, a
feeling of uneasiness came upon us lest on some
dark night a drunken artilleryman should climb
the fence, and, alter first drinking up the lake
gobble up all the island. In the lake is also a
grotto,which reminds us of the architectural efforts
our offspring used to effect with the shells of our
“ little three dozen;” and on the top of the grotto
is a fountain, which, like that of Wemmlck, plays,
when turned on, to that extent that it almost
makes the back of your head damp. Swim-
ming about the lake are a number Of
beautiful black swans—birds embodied with
a highly personal flavour—and the lake is
bridged by an ingenious if primitive arrange-
ment of two planks supported by a pile of
four gin-eases. The effect, however, is very
pleasing—rural, in fact, and we congratulate the
Society upon their enterprise in practically open-
ing a practising ground for juvenile “Blondins.”
If they fall here, they fall into something soft
Such is the wisdom of Bradley. “ Great headl”
• » *
The first animal that attracted our atten-
tion was an Indian pig. We looked at that animal
long and fixedly, and in the end came to the jump-
ing-frog man's friend’s conclusion : “that we
couldn’t see no more points about that pig nor
any other pig.” Wo have an idea that this is
Bradley’s little joke, and that of an afternoon
when the ladies are ejaculating, “ Gracious I look I
an Indian pig,” he rams his nose up his coat-cuff
and chuckles. In the next cage was an Esquimaux
dog. This was genuine. We gazed at him with
much curiosity, for it was only the other day we
were reading the “ Arctic Regions,” by Dr. Hart-
wig, who knows more about the Esquimaux than
we would care to, and who is very chatty on the
subjqpt of these dogs. It seems they can do almost
everything. They draw their masters about in
sledges, help them to catch fish, boll the billy—
though we won’t go so far as to say they make the
damper. More than this, they hunt the bear.
Listen to Dr. Hartwig :—“ The Esquimaux of
Smith Sound hunt tho bear with the assistance of
their dogs, which are carefully trained not to
engage in contest with the bear, but to retard his
ARTIFICIAL LAKE WITH REAL BLACK SWAN.
BEAR AND FORBEAR.
HOW TO “HANDLE” A HYiENA.


If you are nervous take Wolfe's Schnapps,
Durham, Iowa, March 2,
Sarsaparilla has cured mo of the Inflammatory
R&eumaiism, after being troubled with the disease
for eight years.—W. M. moore.
If you are weak and sleepless try Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
lllght. While one engrosses his attention ahead, a
second attacks him In the rear, always alert, and
each protecting the other; and thus it rarely
happens that they are seriously Injured, or that
they fail to delay the animal until their masters
come up.” We contemplated that dog for some
time, wondering whether he would do all this for
his master. The conclusion we came to was that
he would be a splendid hand at letting the other
dogs do It. We enjoyed ourselves over the next
exhibit. It consisted of two little Japanese boars,
one of which was the image of Frawncis Hablgail,
M.P. They were let out of their cage, and it was
the fun of fifty fairs to see them gambol about
and then make straight for a distant tap they
are acquainted with, for a shower. No words
can describe the beauty of the coats of these
little animals, and the sweetness of their tem-
pers is remarkable, although one of them
(Abigail), Mr. Powell Informed us, was suffer-
ing from the toothache. After their batb, they
made straight for the monkey-house (which Is
their invariable custom) from whence they were
with difficulty extracted. A hyrena lives next
door to the bears, and Is an animal, so Aunt
Mavor’s spelling book tells us, which Is generally
supposed to be untameable. This one, however,
has apparently benefited by the moral atmosphere
he breathes, because he allows the Superintendent
to scratch his head. “When you handle a wild
animal,” said Mr. Powell to us In an impressive
voice, “always keep your eye fixed on his.” We
drew back a bit from the cage, and said that when
we did handle a wild animal we would concentrate
our gaze into a focus. But wo weren’t in a hurry
to do it.
* * *
Further on is the heroine ot the compli-
cated cablegram, “ Nancy,” the lioness. Nance
was bought by Sir Samuel, through the London
Zoological Society, and the mildness of her de-
meanour impressed us favourably. Her eyes
glow with the very spirit of gentleness, and the
general expression of her face is of a reflective,
not to say studious character. When we had
looked at her for some time, we asked Mr. Powell
the price of a lioness like that. He said he could
not tell us just at that moment, and enquired
why ? We replied it didn’t matter ; hut when he
heard of a lioness like Nancy going cheap, he
might let us know. We should like to have one
to mind the children In the “ three-roomer,” when
we and the missis went “hout for the day.”
There is no mistake about the Society’s Hon. It is
stated to be the largest lion, In cantivity, In the
world. Anyone who would want a larger lion
than Bradley’s would be greedy. He and Nancy
were married the other day, but they appear
to have become cool already. The usual row,
we suppose, about taking in the milk I The
tiger Is exactly like the pictures you see
of tigers in the Natural History Book. The
likeness is wonderful I The tigress Is nursing
a cub, and to see them together Is worth more
than sixpence. There are. It seems, trifling diffi-
culties in the way of rearing a tiger-cub, but
with care and forethought these may, no doubt,
be overcome. In a general way, said Mr. Powell,
the tigress will eat her cub immediately after its
birth. If, however, the cub escapes that, she
would eat it the moment she felt more than ordi-
narily hungry. And if she were “ put out,” or
teased in any way, she would eat it immediately.
And if the tiger were let In to the tigress, he would
first fight the tigress until he had killed her, and
then devour the offspring. It Is no wonder there
are so few tigers I An interesting animal was an
American pig. This Is what he will do. You
meet him, we’ll say, in an American village, and
olfend him; and he will go around among his
friends, gather together all the boys, and carefully
wait till your waggon starts. Then he and his
mates will follow you at a distance until you
camp, and when you are fast asleep, the herd will
set upon you and eat you all up I The pig in ques-
tion, however, did not impress us of possessing
sufficient mental calibre for such audacity. He
looked more like a pig who would pass a bad half-
sovereign on a widow woman at sundown.
• ■ •
The monkey-house is a great attraction.
This is the haven which makes the children—to
quote Crril Havlland—“melt in pure delight.”
There is a little pig-faced monkey there that would
make the fortune of any circus. He turns sum-
mersaults, does a kind of primitive trapeze, and a
hundred other tricks besides. If a man had a
monkey like that of his own, the trips of the jug
would cease, as if by magic. Passing on an in-
teresting interview occurred. “ Your appointment
was a surprise,” we sail, “but we may tell you, Sir
Alexander, that It is a source of satisfaction to the
colony to know that she will be represented at the
Exhibition by one whose appearance will cause a
sensation in the fashionable world.” “Just so.
You are doubtless right to be reticent as to the
precise date of your departure. Of course we
understand your reason, Sir Alexander. Popular
men, like you, are apt to be mobbed on leaving
those who love them so dearly. We’ve been that
way ourselves. Good-bye, Sir Alexander.” In
the monkey-house Is the collection of snakes,
which includes a rattlesnake about the length of
a corkscrew, and several others which are kept in
jewel cases, like watches. From a zoological
standpoint, these reptiles are Interesting, but
from a conversational point of view they must bo
written down as failures. In the monkey-house
also is a splendid little white parrot, who, Mr,
Powell Informed us, was a magnificent talker.
He was eating a nut when we visited him, so Mr.
Powell said we should have to wait until he
finished it. He finished it at his leisure—doing,
indeed, at the last, quite a table-napkin and finger-
glass business—and—we waited. “ Pretty Cocky.”
Not a move. “Hullo, boy.” Speechless. “Want
a biscuit?” Dumb. After standing there ten
minutes, we said to Mr. Powell that for a parrot
who was a magnificent talker, we never saw a bird
so reticent before.
♦ ♦ •
Wandering about the gardens a little, we
chanced on the house where the white ass was.
We stood against the railings and gazed at him
fixedly. Presently a rough-looking old fellow
came up, and immediately became greatly in-
terested. “ Fine animal, sir,” we said, “ consider-
ing his age,” “ Why, how old is he ? ” asked the
old gentleman. “About 3000 years,” we replied.
He seemed to think so, for he remained there with
his nose cooling on the rail, and his eyes glued on
the ass, all the time we were la the gardens. As
fast as the people came up to look at her, he told
h em that she was about 3003 ye"rs old now, and
the original animal spoken of In the Bible. This
information appeared to be received in such a
spirit of disfavour by the various visitors, that we
have no doubt the aged stranger was killed long
before the day was out. There is, by the way, a
small tiger in the gardens, who is Interesting, if
only from one standpoint. He consumes exactly
one-half the beef, dally, that will satisfy the
greediest member of the N.8.W, Legislative Coun-
cil. This is a fact, and should be put on record, In
order that it may become historic. Because, in
future ages, people may forget the statesman re-
ferred to, but they will never forget his
• • m
We were sorry to see that the two big
elephants are kept closely hobbled, which debars
them from even indulging in a game of euchre, or
any other rational amusement that would vary
the monotony of their existence. We don’t, of
course, say that they should be allowed liberty
sufficient to enable them to play lawn-tennis, but
still, we contend there should be a reasonable
amount of freedom. It’s rare, Jessie’s keeper
told us, that they are permitted to roam as far as
the pavilion, even to get a cup of tea and a scone
at Quong Tart’s I This almost amounts to tyranny.
We spent a pleasant day at the Zoo. The humours
of it are endless. We said to a boy, pointing to a
house in a far-away corner where they keep a
turtleHave you ever seen a polar bear?’ ’
“ No. sir,” he replied, “ I seen plenty poley cows,
but I never seen a poloy bear.” And he ran away,
j ust as we left, to see it. In conclusion (and we
are sure you have had enough), we think the
fiercest thing In the whole show was the man at
the gate when he thought we wanted to press In
“ on the nod,” and didn’t belong to the fourth
estate.
• « «
And this has just occurred to us. Should
the energetic Mr. Walter Bradley be unable to
obtain more ground and should he find the show
don’t pay, he can always— travel it!
PORKUS INDICES BRADLEY ONENSIS.
MARRIED I
AN “INTERVIEW.’'
THE FLYING IRISHMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There are incidents in every man’s career
which he is reticent about; whole chapters, per-
chance, the most interesting in the book of his
life, which he is chary of narrating. He may have
had adventures In which the part he played was
that of the villain; about those he is not likely to
be loquacious. There may have been occasions
when he played the hero, the brave, the generous
one; here modesty keeps him silent.
• • •
There is a third head, which includes the
“ower true tale” you will find below—that is
when the story leaves the land of the common-
place and is located in the realms of the Im-
probable. A man is rather shy of telling a per-
sonal yarn which he knows will be received with
a chilling silence, or an allusion to Baron Mun-
chausen. It is only when In his cups that he is
likely to tell those tales which border so closely
on the marvellous; where the line that separates
truth and falsehood is so finely marked as to be
almost invisible. I am not in my cups, dear
reader, but the approach of Christmas prompts
me to unbosom myself, in the hope of obtaining
relief from the feelings which torment, the appa-
ritions that haunt me. I was coming down from
Hay one Christmas to the Exhibition—it was then
I met with this, my first, and I hope my only
romantic adventure.
• • •
At that time the railway only reached
Junee; consequently, one Ann morning 1 bowled
down Lacblan-street on Cobb s coach, behind four
piebalds. On starting, for various reasons, I was
somewhat dispirited, but the sight of my thwarted
creditors standing at their shop-doors enlivened
me, and the sight of my •* clear-out ” had a similar
effect on them. The butcher ran out into the
roadway and loudly sang out after us “ Brusher,”
and, having thus partially paid off scores, went in-
side to kick his wife.
IPS * • •
My companion on the box-seat was Cor-
nelius O’Toole, J.P., of Toolywhackspuddery. An
Irish landlord, who, being unable to Insure his life
at home, was travelling for the good of his health.
It was a sweltering day, no air stirred; the dust
rose from the horses’ feet and hung round as if it
loved us. The air, generally so clear and dry in
Riverina, was Insufferably close and muggy. I
felt as if all the universe was sustained by my
shoulders, as if all the rays of the sun were fo-
cussed on my hat. 1 got down at every stopping-
place to stretch my legs and to irrigate. Not so
O'Toole; he had a tlask in his pocket, which, when
necessary, he replenished from a whisky-jar that
was in the boot, “ quite convenient.” And so the
day went on; O’Toole drinking hard, avoiding
meals, and saying little. An alcoholic vapour
began to environ the coach, which would nave
been refreshing were it not for the strong animal
taint which pervaded it. The flies, always trouble-
some in Riverina, on flying round O’Toole head,
preparatory to settling behind his ears, now fell
m a comatose state inside bis collar; those which
were bolder and lighted on his nose were simply
scorched out of existence.
* * •
Night coming, "I retired inside the boot,
where I slept soundly though uncomfortably on
the mall-bags, spare lamps and horse-collars.
Awakened by O’Toole in search of his whisky, I
emerged on deck; day was breaking, and he was
still drinking. His eyes glared in the semi-dark-
ness like the lamps of a locomotive in a tunnel,
his nose emitted sparks, near him the air was fur-
nace-like. As the morning advanced, our atmos-
phere became still more alcoholic—an excise-man
might reasonably have concluded we had a private
still on board.
♦ ♦ »
At the stopping places now the driver
declined “to go inside”—it was no longer neces-
sary to pay for stimulants; we simply filled a pan-
nikin from the water-bag, held linear O’Toole and
in a few seconds drank excellent half-water grog,
with, however, a strong Irish accent. On leaving
Narandera the scenery became somewhat interest-
ing after the monotony of the eternal plains we
had crossed; but O’Toole did not seem to notice
anything. #
He now Ingeniously moored himself by
putting one foot through the ear of his whisky-
jar, whence he never moved it unless his flask was
empty. He was a gigantic man, and seemed to be
expanding—puff ed out on all sides, he reminded me
of a captive balloon. Nearing Wagga, I was de-
sirous of making a good impression on entering
the town, accordingly I took off my collar, wrung
out the moisture, and when It had dried proceeded
to mangle It between the pages of the Narandera
paper which 1 sat on. Just then I heard a peculiar
sound, an eerie, unearthly, lost-soul sort of a cry.
Turning round. I saw O’Toole smoking like an
active crater. In lighting his pipe his breath had
Ignited. A cavernous roaring next disturbed the
stillness—such a sound as I imagine precedes the,
eruption of a volcano. His eyes shot fire, little
Jets of flame fizzed from his pores, a lambent
flame enveloped him, and his hairs had the stiff-
ness and luminosity of electric wire. The effect
was terrific, the horses were cast loose, and de-
serting the coach, we stood at a safe distance
waiting for him to burn out or go off bang. He
did neither, for now gravitation lost Its power,
e? .rth for him had no further attractions. An
unseen hand drew him swiftly from his seat to the
upper strata of the atmosphere. The whisky in
the jar (seven gallons of Jamieson’s best' had also
caught fire. It, therefore, assisted instead of re-
tarding his translation, w 1th looks of amazement
and horror we regarded his serial flight, until fol-
lowed by a long trail of sparks, he dived Into a
black hank of clouds which lay on our west. And
we saw him no more. I lost my collar, a silk ooat,
and u cabbave-tree hat in the conflagration, whloh
at one time seemed likely to become general.
Indeed, on regaining our seats and our senses,
the driver asserted that I narrowly escaped
becoming a satellite of this new planet. As
my fears for him had taken precisely the
same direction, we had a serious quarrel,
but the “ Insides ” interfering, we were re-
conciled, and went on our mournful way in
moody silence. Arriving at Wagga four hours
late we pave information to the authorities, who
pooh-poohed us and talked of duckings in the
Murrumbldgee, straight jackets, and the lock-up,
giving vent to their unbelief without ceremony.
Soon after my arrival in Sydney a comet became
the topic of the day; Messrs. Kussell and Tebbutt
were on his track; people were up all night to get
a glimpse of it I Kent very quiet, I said not a
word, but but Iknew who that Comet woe. I recog-
nised the unfortunate O’Toole, now somewhat
beyond the influence ot our planet, doomed to
perform an renal round of warning to absentee
landlords, until some universal convulsion of
nature shall restore him to his native soli of
Toolywhackspuddery. Reader, take warning.
This is why I am prematurely aged, reserved, and
melancholy; this is why I dream, and have noc-
turnal visions of an appalling character; this is
the reason that I never touch it.
A FASCINATING STUDY.
THB CUP THAT CHEEKS.


Political Points
The grandfather of the present Lord Ran-
dolph Churchill proposed In the English House Of
Commons, half a century ago, that members of
Parliament should be paid. The scale he eet up
was £4 per day for country and £3 for borough
members. The motion was lost.
The Dutch Government propose expend-
ing the modest sum of 2&000 florins on an explor-
ing expedition to hutch New Guinea. Pools build
houses for wise men to live In. The Dutch had
better keep their money In their pockets. Ger-
many will soon own Holland and ifll her colonies.
Sir James M‘Cullooh is going to live in
Scotland, where he will probably buy a few
counties. He will long be remembered among
Victorians as the author of the historical ‘ Iron
Hand motion—the first form of the “ cloture ”
ever introduced into an English speaking Parlla-
ment.
The Sydney Town and Country thinks it
time that a larger and more suitable residence for
the Governor of N.S.W, should be provided. Con-
sidering the populatiomuf the colony and the state
of its material development, additional expendi-
ture on a purely ornamental figure-head should be
stoutly resisted.
Now that the whole of the correspondence
about the Pacific Mail Service has been published,
It will be seen that Mr. Norton, Postmaster-General
es i^ ed T t0 . 1 pla ?r a “ lone hand ” against
the Maorlland Sir Julius Vogel and lost. Vogel
is about the best hand at euchre, nap, or poker in
the Southern hemisphere, and before he blossomed
i into a statesman the Vogellan exchequer was
frequently replenished by the “ Bibles.” Norton
will have to travel before he can come up to the
Vcgelian standard.
It took Ihe Victorian Assembly 16 hours
to discuss the advisableness of increasing a Civil
servant’s salary by £150 at a recent sitting. On the
9ih Instant a Bill authorising the borrowing of
eight millions was passed through the House in
exactly 00 seconds. The Melbourne D.T. vouches
tor the accuracy of the chronometer. There Is a
quantity of Scotch human nature in that Assem-
bly. In paying away it is stolidly phlegmatic. In
borrowing it is “all there.” But the latter is
characteristic of poets as well as of Scotchmen.
The proposed appointment of Mr. Kerferd,
the Victorian Attorney-General, to the Supreme
Court Bench, Is looked upon, not only by the legal
profession, but by the public generally, as an
Infamous political job. Since Mr. Kerferd left his
brewery at Beechworth to don wig and gown SO
years ago, he has been regarded simply as a pro-
fessional politician, not as a lawyer. The Court a
know him not, and the attorneys of Mel-
bourne don’t hunger for his legal opinion. In
addition to Mr. Kerferd’s personal disqualiflo -
tiozis for a Judgeship, there Is really no necessity
for appointing a sixth judge at all.
We read that“ At a South London
Ritualistic Church, in October, the vicar preached
a stirring sermon against a national system of god-
less education, and pointed out that the attack by
the Liberal party on the Church and religious en-
dowment is part of the same plan which showed
itself in another way when Mr. Gladstone and his
party supported the admission of atheists Into the
House of commons-all aimed at extirpating Chris-
tianity. The vicar concluded his eloquent appeal
by calling on the congregation to kneel down and
pray for the dellv* ranee of England from Glad-
stone, Bradlaugb, anl the Devil.” The vicar, it
will be seen, did not forget himself In the suppli-
cation.
'I be Queen is said to be much incensed
because Radical newspapers will persist In regard-
ing sir Henry Ponsonby s memorable letter as beat
suited for an audience of marines. These wicked
journuls alleged some time ago that Her Majesty
had Invested a million sterling during the present
year In London In real estate. Sir Henry wrote
an indignant Jetter asserting that the Queen had
not then that amount awaiting Investment. To
publish such a palpable evasion was, of course,
simply to invite bitter replies from the Radical
journals, whose influence throughout England is
enormous. One paper shows, by quoting the
Inland .Revenue Blue Book, that wnereas in J874-5,
the annual value of H.M private house property
representing a capital value of, say,
l he annual rental in 1883-3 had risen to
±316,0£6, with a capital value of £5,400,0001 How
the Income has more than quadrupled in eight
years, If Investments of something like £4,000,000
have not been made In the Interval, Sir Henry
Ponsonby has not yet tried to explain. The mere
fact of his having been allowed to write at all la
sufficient proof ot the Increasing sensitiveness of
Royalty to public criticism, but the transparent
evasiveness of his letter will do mere to exasper-
ftte an already enraged party, than the mere fact
which his denial only reveals the more clearly.
John Bull will stand bleeding, but will not be
bluffed.
At this Radical season, when Mr. Chamber-
W" preaches the disestablishment of the Church
of England, It Is a cheerful sign to find an inde-
pendent person step forward and bear willing
witness to the advantages to be gained by be-
longing to that Church at home. For a witness
"Milams, the social Democrat, who recently
did a month’s hard labour In Holloway prison,
London, lor the crime of having preached social
democracy at a city corner. Williams Is a decent,
hard-working labourer, and gives an interesting
account of his month s “anon.” “ If you say you
belong to the Church of England,”says he, "you
get out of your cell four times a week and once
on Sunday. ’ That boon to a man doing a solitary
stretch is something, and the Church of England
has therefore a large number of adherents In
Holloway prison. Williams also discovered that
if you only get a month you get nearly starved;
if in lor two months, you get rather better tucker
than for one; better for four than two; and better
than four. Peculiar ideas of deterrence
officialdom has. Tho professional “ lag ” makes It
his business to get six months, and sneers at the
poor devils who only get one. Of course Williams
was visited by the chaplain, who said, “Oh, you’re
Williams, are you ? I’ve been reading about you,
and wishing you’d be sent here.” To this very
onantabie wlsn Williams made answer that it was
kindly coming from a Christian minister. Then
the parson tried his band at "reforming” the
reformer, but without avail, and earnestly ad-
vised him to ‘‘mind his own business ” Instead of
meddling with such societies-" you must bo out
of vour senses.” said he. To all which Williams
submitted that he was perfectly sane. Now, why
don t the Williamses and kindred poor people
elect to mind their own business and leave socie-
ties ann Government and everything else to their
betters ? That Is exactly the problem the rulers of
England have to solve—but It is not by imprison-
ment. nor by a diet of bread and water and prison
coaplain s twaddle that their mouths of
the discontented multitude will be closed.
Awike, ye aristocrats of Britain, Nemesis
)s c ose at heels! The Radicals have won,
UDjversil suffrage is at hand, already he wto
I- not deaf c°p hear the muffled drums of the
public.
THE GHOST.
(As delivered at a meeting of the Coffin-Club last
Christmas Eve.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN, BY V. J. DALLEY.]
In a life I cm hardy call Ions:
I have had superstitions like most,
But I rise no v to own I was wronsr
la my notions regarding: the Ghost,
I was terribly hard on the Ghost.
And I think that a gentleman, when
He finds prejulici laad him astray,
Should acknowledge the fact, there and then,
In a simple and straightforward way.
In a candid and dignified way.
80 I tike this occasion to state
That the Ghost, which I thought was a dread
Thing cf Tombs that did merriment hate,
the gayest of creatures instead,
The most sprightly of creatures instead.
It w is night, and I sat in my room,
Striving vainly (on gin, tool) to write,
By a kind of a glimmering gloom,
That looked like the speotra of light.
Like the pale simulacrum of light.
I was working a yarn up for Yule,
That season of stories and toasts.
In which—like a blundering mule-
I bad cast some reflections on ghosts;
Most uncalled-for reflections on ghosts.
When, as I sat pondering there,
The candle burnt suddenly blue!
And I felt a cold wind in my hair!
That a Ghost sat beside me I knew—
I most surely and dismally knew.
I am not more than humanly brave.
And now to confess I am free
That this gentleman fresh from the grave
Was a sight that was too much for me,
It was mors than sufficient for me.
I think you will grant me just hern,
Such a sight would be too much for moat—
Though I hadn't the ghost of a fear
I might still have the fear of a Ghost,
The popular dread of a Ghost.
It star d, aid I star 3d at It back.
And I tried hard to speak: the words froze I
And I felt my jaws meet with a crack
Like the clappers that scare away crows,
That the farmer-boys use to crows.
Then slowly, by bit and by bit,
I began (and grew bold then) to see
That, although I was frightened of It,
It was vastly more frightened of me!
Many juvsful more frightened of me.
So I pushed round the gin—which was square—
With a speech in my courtliest tones,
But It sat like a corner-man there,
And absently rattled its bones,
Merely gibbered, and rattled Its bones.
Then I said, “ This to nothing much tends,
And I’m busy.” It touched with Its nails
That pious contrivance of friends
To keep dead men from telling of talas,
The jaw-bandage, stlfler of tales.
So I took un the scissors I use
(What the trouble was then bsosme pUln)
For dissecting my Items of nows,
And I severed the bandage in twain,
Cut it quickly and cleanly in twain.
Whereupon the Ghost rose up and laughed—
It would freeze you to hear Its dread laugh I—
And It emptied the gin at a draught.
Blessed saints, bow that Spectre could quaff I
You would catalepse seeing It qu aff.
Then 11 said: “ Arrah, give us yer flsht I
The dlvel a bone av me’s proud.
Though I happen jlst now to be dhrlst
Out to kill, in an llllgant shroud,
An ixpinslve and illigant shroud.
" And betune you and me and the posbt,
When I go on a bit av a shpree
There isn't, bo jabers, a Ghost
In the yard that can turn out loike me,
As glntale and as dhressy as me.”
Then 1 caught up Its humour and said:
‘‘If the question is not Impolite,
How long, sir, might you have been dead,
And planted away out of sight—
Dibbled down in the ground out of sight 1
“ For to me, by your leave, It appears
That with fun. and high spirits, you’re rife.”
“ Twinty years,” It replied, *• twinty years—
And the folnest I've shpint In me lolfe,
Just the gayest I’ve passed In me lolfe.
“ And the thought of that same makes me laugh
Though I don’t shtand another Gosht's J /ers-
When I look at me dPwn eppytaff,
Bemoanin’ me sad fate wld tears,
Wid poethry, praises, and tears.”
Thon It laughed, and I said, “ Bathershin,
Mister, what may your name be again ?”
It replied, “Thravel round wld the gin:
Me name’s Misther Murphy—from Shpane,
From the county of Cork in ould Shpane.”
Then said I, “ What became of your soul
Wnen your body died ? Where did it go ?”
Ils expression was dismally droll
As It answered: “ That’s more than I know.
Be me sowl, then, that’s more than I know.”
I said nothing, but lit a cigar,
And marked, with a so aroe-repressed sigh,
How the gin had gone down In the jar;
For the Ghost It was fearfully dry—
It was grimly and gruesomely dry.
Then It wont on, “ Now, lishten to me,
And ye’ll soon be as wise as an owl;
The parts ova man are jlst three—
The body, the gosht, and the sowl,
The gosht, and the body, and sowl.”
“ Well, the sowl of a man. whin ha dies,
Sithers off —” Sail I, *’ Whore do*s it go ?
Does it play on a trump in the skies ?”
The Ghost testily said, “ I dunno,
That deplnds on its hand. I dunno.
“ But I know that the body and gosht
Stay behind on the airth, and agree
That the gosht by itself for the mosht,
Should fly round, but at times, as wid me,
It takes its bones too, just loike me.
“ And I want ye to shtate—pass the dhrink 1
That we goshts are not gloomy or sad,
As ye people above seem to think,
We are merry as niggers, and glad
To be dead—and who wouldn’t be glad
* To have no rint to pay, and no debts,
No mother-in-law, and no wife,
And none of the throubles and frets
That make up the thing ye call Lolfe,
The sorry ould farce ye call Lolfe.
“And if nixt Christmas Eve ye’ll come round
To the Slmmethry, bringln’ a pome—
Yer shtyle is much liked undherground—
I’ll take ye where ye’ll be at home,
Where, mebhoy, ye'll at wanst be at home.
“ It’s a saypulohre, where a few picked
Shpirits meet to enjy thimsllves—quare
Chaps they are, too, but very sellot—
No ornery gosht gets In there,
No low sbpecthres ever go there.”
Then It rose to propose a last “ toasht,”
And It fell on its skull, and It said,
“ I’m not a rispictable gohst,
I’m dhrunk, sor—I wish I was dead I
Bj the hokey, I wish I was dead.”
But I lifted It up, and observed,
I would see It safe home to Its tomb;
So out of the doorway It swerved,
And we both plunged out into the gloom,
And It said, as we bored through the gloom—
“ Well, God be betune us and harm.”
And £ said, to myself. “ 'Twill look bright.
With a staggering ghost on my arm,
To be seen at this time of the night,
At this vagabond hour of the night.”
For It kept up a fusillade loud
Of fierce hiccups the whole of the way,
“ IT STARED, AND I STARED AT IT BACK.
AND I TRIED HARD TO SPEAK.”
Then It stopped and said, * Tuck up mo shroud I
I would not have it shpatthered wid clay,
Its too good to be shpatthered wid clay.”
How this score-year old shroud should be new
Was to me, sirs, a marvel unique;
But It airily said, “ I’ve a lev
Shtylish shrouds—I shtole this one lasht week,
From a nob that was berried lasht week.”
Then a cab passed. I hailed it. The man
Asked mo where he should drive, and I said,
“ To the Cemetery—fast as you can I—
To the Home of the Riotous Dead,
The Abode of the Rollicking Dead.”
“ Ante-up,” said the cabman, “ the fare I
I don't go, sir, on this lay no mare,
I believe in things done on the square,
I’ve been had by these dashed ghosts before,
Too frequent and often before.”
Then the Ghost went to peel off its shroud
To fl?ht, but I said, “ You keep still
Or you’ll bo locked up J Don’t be proud I”
To the cabman: '‘I’llsettle the bill!
I’ll fix up my spectral friend s bill.”
“ Fwhat,” it yelled; “I kin pay him his feel”
Then sobbed, "This disthrust is too hard—
Take me trmbshtone—it’s no use to me.”
“ Fooh 1” the man said, “ I’ve three In my yard,
Toree I got the same way. In my yard.”
So I paid. We drove off. Such a drive I
I’ve been round, In my time, much as most.
But I've never, since I’ve been alive,
Met such company as that same Ghost,
None so genial as Murphy the Ghost.
Grateful, too—for It said: “ I would loike
To give a mimlnto to ye
To put ye in mind of ould Moike,
The Gosht that ye met on the shpree,
The blathrln ould Gcsht on the shpree.
“ To such kindness as yours I’m not dull.”
Then it made the proposal bizarre,
There and then, sirs, to screw off its skull,
To give it to me for a jar
For " tabakky ’’-Great Scott I what a jar I
Well, the time pretty pleasantly passed,
Then silence awhile did we keep.
When we got to the graveyard at last,
By Jove, sirs, the Ghost was asleep.
Snoring hard In a stertorous sleep.
We went In—and the rest is a blur—
We each have our own little faults I
But some faint recollections occur
Of a revel in one of the vaults,
A wild orgie in one of the vaults.
In which 1 remember no more;
But that Murphy, my festive old friend,
Kept the ooffln-lids all In a roar
With his jokes—and that, sirs, Is the end
Of my story—the ultimate end.
How I got out I never have known,
But when dawn in the Eastern sky glowed
I found myself sitting alone
On a kerb in the Waverley Road,
At my ease in the Waverley Road.
My memory must be at fault—
There is mme Intellectual gloom—
But I never could find Murphy's vault,
Nbr could spend Christmas Eve In the tomb,
Christmas Eve in the jocular tomb.
So I think, sirs, I’ve put past debate
That the Ghost which I thought was a dread
Thing of Tombs that did merriment bate,
Is the gayest of creatures Instead,
The most sprightly of creatures instead.
A LESSON FROM CANDLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
Inanimate thou art, yet type of God’s great
masterpiece,
He made from clay, and thou from moulded
grease;
Untouched by trouble in thy little night,
No speck upon thee, beams thy cheerful light;
Let but the smallest atom touch thy wick,
The slightest spot, or speck, unto It stick,
Thou’lt either gutter wastefully till finished.
Or pine and die because thy light’s diminished.
So man, while all Is bright ana cheery with him,
And Life’s song hath no jarring in its rhythm,
Beams on the world with brave unflickerlDg ray,
But when the cloud of care obscures his day,
He sinks and dies or “ gutters” fast away.
It is to hoped that the good ship Carthage
carried some one aboard capable of furnishing', In
the fullness of time, a faithful and scholarly
chronicle of Its last eventful voyage. The grovel
of the dally Press has, thus far, somewhat mys-
tified us. The Melbourne Herald, which was
first In the field (after the Adelaide Advertiser),
speaking of a fancy dress ball on the quarter-deck,
says that “Lord Carington Surprised them all by
his get-up as the penny postman.” In what way
did his lordship surprise them all? Are wo to
understand that tho admlripg crowd on the
quarter-deck was startled to find how nearly a
Govsruor resembles a postman when
both these , paid servants of the State sport the
same togtf* ’ ? That rich Smith and poor Smith,
as originally turned out of Nature's workshop, are
muc .. j , a , m uohnesa ? No, we decline to credit
any dally ” with the Intention to publish such a
disgusting and disloyal sentiment, and for the
present the penny-postman puzzle remans dark.
But here is another mystical paragraph from the
Paper:—” Lord Carington accepted the pest
or timekeeper in the sports, and it is scarcely
necessary to add, fulfilled his duties faithfully. He
did not take part in the sports programme, being
Somewhat retiring in this respect.” What on
earth is the insinuation lurking in those words,
retiring in this respect”? Does the Herald
to ln f er that our new siiper-Kxcellency
could have scooped the pool in the potato-race,
tne long jump, and the obstacle race, if so dis-
poged, and that he modesty held back in order to
£lve the plebeians a show ? Or are w e to conclude
tdat he never enters into a competition unless he
sees a cert.? Truly, these are conundrums that
require salving. As for the bit about “ fulfilling
his duties faithfully,” that is really impeitre itiy
superfluous Do we require to be told that a noble-
man, specially selected for personal fitness to
discharge the functions of Governor of this colony
was equal'o tbe tasK of clocking a sack-scramble ?
Absurd! His Lordship’s sporting reputation is
world-wide. Ob, and by the bye, there was a
spalilng-bee held aboard. Now we pant to know
Excellency got through with that, but no
reliable information Is as yet forthcoming. Did
they give him very nice, easy ones ? We hope so.
occurs to our mind at this moment a certain
little poem, written many years ago by an ama-
teur ot horribly Republican convictions. Two
lines w© particularly remember:
“ Thom ’ere haristokratio swells,
They seldom reads, and never spells.”
The aristocracy (is he not a member of the great
family of 8mlt.es?) and swelldom of Carington are
undoubted. But how about orthography f


SPECIAL CHRISTMAS CIRCULAR.
Dear Reader,— We feel we cannot allow this
year to close without wishing 1 you the compli-
ments of the season, and, at the same time, thank:
you for your kind and liberal support. It has
been our endeavour to place before you, during
the year, the best value obtainable in tno city,
and we are pleased to see our efforts have been
appreciated. We have maae great alterations
during the year in our premises. In the Hrst
place by putting In new windows, wherein to dis-
p'ay our goods, and show the public what we
rea Jy can do; and, in the second place, by enlarg-
ing our show-rooms, and studying more the warns
and comfort of our customers. The Royal Fur-
nishing Arcade has been established over
twelve years. It was opened and carried
on successfully ty Mr. V,. «. Campbell for
seven years ; by Messrs Campbell Brothers
f> r four years, and the present year by C. J.,and
H. Campbell, under the name and style of Camp-
bell Broihrs We are pleaded to siate that our
ant'cip .tions have been fully realise... we having
had a most prosperous year We have just pub-
lished a aped tl Christmas and New Year number
ot our House Furnishing Guloe, wuich Is full of
Designs, and therefore of great value to our
country f.lends, and those to whom a personal
visit is inconvenient. Again tranking you'Tor
your kind and liberal support, and trusting to re-
ceive a continuance of same, we remain, yours
rrsp j cn .my.
Dec. 10th, 1885. Campbell Brothers,
An exhilirating cordial Is Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Woman, In our hour of oase.
Uncertain, coy, and hard to please;
But certain to oe pleased when they
The poods of Summerfleld survey.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps possess all the requisites
of ufainily medicine.
Lord and Lady Carington were accorded
a jrrand welcome on Saturday. The talk of the
town has Deeu uncut these noble personage* and
the genulnness of the cash discount sale at 402 aod
404 c.eorge-streec, to be continued for a few days
longer m enable Messrs. Bray Bros, to reduce thetr
extensive stock of O' ioa, Glass, and Earthenware,
, nd so bring- It wltfcia the storage limits of their
four places of busiiiesa*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre KorAij—"The Mikado p. 8.
Gaiety Theatre—“ Private Secretary ”
Opera House— “Oar Boys ” „
Alhambra— Variety Company ,,
Academy of Music.—Klckards-Leete Com-
bination , „
The Private Secretary’' is once more
installed at the Sydney G-aioty, and. judging’ from
toe attendance on the first night, the piece seems
likely to romp la the com during its short run of
twelve nights. Since it was first played here some
new business has been introduced, and the wnole
rapresentation has become more farcical —and,
therefore, to the major part of an average audi-
ence, much more amusing. The Kev. Robert
Scalding indulges in broader grimaces, intensi-
lies his effeminacy, developesa still stronger nasal
aacent, and seems to add to toe gratification of his
a Imirers Dy so doing. He, a boneiess, muscleless,
sipless curate, now leaps sofas and chairs with the
ease and grace of a practised athlete; and when
biffed out on his Imad through a window reappears
almost fmmediately afterwards without a hair
ruffled, and with a placid expression of pious
resiguxfion on his face. With uiu sinewless passi-
vity of a new-born babe he possesses the elasticity
of the bounding kangaroo; In either extreme of
this dual character his performance seems to be
equally productive of hilarity.
* » *
Taken as a whole, the company compares
unfavourably with that which played here pre-
viously. Oulyfoorof the characters are now In
the same hands Of the new-comers, that quaint
angler, Mr. J K Greville, Is the moat prominent —
and the most disappointing His interpretation
lacks the fullness and force of Cattermole, the
elder, as played by Mr. Harwood. His passion is
not so intense, tbs make-up less effective, and his
bye-play not so clever as that of his predecessor.
Mr. Harwood made so much of the part that his
successor is weivhted with a handicap by tne com-
parison. which he is quite unable to carry. An
equal misfortune has befallen Mr. Henry Taylor,
wbo plays Gibson, a part which requires most deli-
cate handling, a mode of treatment which, from
Mr. Taylor it does not receive. With the exception
of the “ after lunch ” scene, his business was
mildly unsatisfactory, hut it must be admitted
that he acted the drunken man with a natural
ease which is doubtless the result of long experi-
ence. Experience on the stage, of course, we
mean, ttobert Inman, as Cattermole the younger,
made his points finely, hut was occasionally just
somewhat too active. Taken all round, the “ Pri-
vate Seeretary’s ” farewell is likely to be preceded
by as much hilarity as is usually attendant upon
the departure of one’s mother-in-law.
» • *
At the Sydney Opera House “ Blow for
Blow” was not altogether an ueadulteratod suc-
cess. and, as It was followed by “ Our Boys” on
Wednesday night, we do not Intend to describe the
performance In detail For which resolve we
trust that the management will ever be grateful,
» » » •
“ Don Juan” was tried again at the Sydney
Olympic o" Monday, the title role being entrusted
to Miss Fannie Barony. A. couple of days’
previous indisposition militatid against her
success in the part; when she remembered
her lines she really acted very well, but this, it
must be noted, is praise of only a medium order.
The saying, “ ’Tie folly to remember, ’twere wiser
to forget.” does not apply to theatrical perform-
ances The remaining parts were well taken, and
Miss Emily Fox danced with more vivacity and
grace than usual. Most of the dresses were new,
and all were bright. The D.T. man thinks there
should be more of them; he should know by this
time that of the dresses of burlesque artistes
“ man wants but little here below, nor wants that
little long.” “ Orpheus” the best piece of the
Stan Add repertoire yet produced, followed “ Don
Juan 1 ’ on Wednesday night, Miss Yera Valentine
handling the name part.
* * * ♦
r 'Hanpy is the management at the Sydney
Theatre Royal, for at this season of the year when
moat managers are wonderlnv what on earth to do
to keep things going till Christmas, the •• Mikado ”
is drawing crowded houses, and will continue to
do so till the 24th. which is the last, night of the
present season. “Twelve o’clock most come,” Is
a melancholy, consolatory, stage max m: so must
‘■the 26th of December,” but the responsible
parties at the Royal have no desire to hasten its
advent.
* n ■
Of the performance itself not much that is
new can be said. Encores, greedily demanded,
and very generously given, increase in frequency
with every representation, and it is only fair to
Messrs. Vernon and Woodlield to notice that the
foreign business with which they invest their
characters is that which is most effusively ap-
plauded. Katlshaand Yum-Vum slightly improve
on their previous perfection, and Nankl-ooo seems
to lose nothing of his vocal power by the strain
which it nightly undergoes. On Friday Lord
Carlngton is announced to appear. That millions
will be refused circle tickets for that night goes
without saying; present holders will be able to sell
at a sufficient premium to keep them in “long-
shandies ” far into the new year.
♦ * * •
Harry Rickards still draws demonstrative
crowds to the Academy, and the chandeliers of
the place shake with the bubbling hilarity of the
crowd. That he has been able to fill the Academy
nightly during his season Is one of those things
which are to ns dark and unfathomable mysteries.
The close of his season is announced, as his suc-
cessors are due at Christmas.
Miss Nita Steele, who appeared in Sydney
sometime ago with Grattan Higgs, at the Gaiety,
has just made a successful debut as a vocalist at
Madame Vogrlch’s concert, in tbo Town Hall, Mel-
bourne. She has a deep mezzo-soprano voice, her
lower notes being remarkably rich and powerful.
“Saints and Sinners,” by Henry A. Jones,
is the new bill at the Melbourne Royal. A plav
by one of the part authors of “ Silver King ”
naturally demands respect and excites our
curiosity. The deadly feud which arose between
the collaborateurs anent their respective claims to
the authorship of that popular drama was common
talk. Hermann declared that Jones wa« not re-
sponsible for more than a few lines here and there
of “ Silver King.” Jones put it just the other way
round. “Saints and Sinners’ gave the London
public an opportunity of judging between the
disputants The public agreed that, while Jones
was quite capable of writing a good play all by
his own self, he had certainly done better when
Hermann helped him. Australian audiences will
probably endorse that verdict.
♦ * *
Tbo plot of “Saints and Sinners” is un-
deniably human, it developes more sin than
saintliness Strictly speaking, only one saint
figures in the play, and he, singularly enough, is
pastor of a Little Bethel in an English country
town. No apostle of muffins is this Jacob Fletcher,
but a pious, simple minded, honest old gentleman,
the very antithesis of Chadband or a "Harmy”
kernel. Jaecb has a daughter—
A little daughter Letty,
Very pouting, plump, and pretty,
Making eyes beneath a canopy of curls;
For though daddy runs a dispel
(Why did *ve eat that apple!;.
His daughter is—well, like most other girls.
Letty, in fact, is dangerously volatile. It appears
that there is a strain of giddiness in the family.
Mr. Fletcher’s sister, or the late Mrs. Fletcher’s
sister, was troubled with the complaint, and
pretty Letty takts after auntie. The Inevitable
captein is to hand to whisper poisonous llatterles
in the girl’s ear. She st,niggles against tempta-
tion, she promises her father to marry her rus ic
admuer, George Kingsmill, but Fate is con-
foundedly cruel to poor Miss Fletcher. By a ruse
the Captain carries her off to London. He pius her
In the wrong train—an artful device by no means
peculiar to the military. It is a significant fact
that Letty’s disastrous journey is the climax to a
Sunday-school picnic. These rural festivals have
been responsible for many another ruined reputa-
tion. The news of his daughter's disappearance
is brought to Jacob and the rustic admirer just
before the curtain falls. When we next see Letty
she Is living in gilded splendour and a plush robe
at the Captain’s house at Torquay. They are
not married. The Captain would be willing,
but a lawful wife and the bigamy clause
prevent him from fulfilling his promise to Letty.
She. poor thing, is about to accompany her gay
deceiver to India, when Jacob arrives on the
scene and conducts his daughter back to a life of
repentant rectitude, while the rustic admirer holds
the Captain in check and covers their retreat. The
play might have ended here except for the ol y
rascality of one Samuel Hoggard, senior deacon of
the Little Bethel. Hoggard is every Inch a deacon.
Because the worthy Jacob Fletcher refuses to be
his partner In some hanky panky business with a
widow’s estate. Hoggard ousts him from his
billet, and forces him to publish his daughters
shame outside the vestry. This is the most power-
ful scene in the play. The last act winds every-
thing up happily. The naughty Captain dies m
India, Jacob returns to his old floe t, Hoggard
robs a Savings Bank, and Letty and her rustic ad-
mirer agree to ignore that journey to London as
though it had never been. This story is illustrated
with some capital scenery. The dialogue is mostly
good, but the author exhibits a weakness tor pro-
longed conversations d deux. The scenic arrange-
ments require this, perhaps. The public don’t.
» * T
The acting in “Saints and Sinners” is
hardly so good as the bill promises. We speak of
the second night’s performance. The play seems
to have been rather hastily produced, and one or
two of the parts are hardly yet rounded off.
Among the principals, Frank Cates, as naughty
Captain Fanshawe, is most satisfactory. We have
seldom seen Mr. Cates appear to so much advan-
tage, personally or histrionically. His Fanshawe
fills the stage, and Is altogether a real, live, un-
principled military officer and gentleman. Mr.
Williamson, as Jacob Fletcher, labours under the
disadvantage of having to represent an anomaly—
a guileless Bethel shepherd—and hardly seemed at
home in his part. However, as the character offers
some good opportunities, it will, doubtless, bo
better developed by the time these lines appear in
print. Deacon Hoggard is played by Mr. Harwood
in his usual easy, unctuous style. It there be a
fault it is that Hoggard is too much the man of
“ business, energy, and push,” and not sufficiently
the sleek scoundrel who officiates with tne plate.
He looks too “smart’’for a provincial Pecksniff.
The minor character of Lydia—Jacob’s house-
keeper—is fllle-l only Maggie Moore could fill it.
A column of eulogiums would beauoerlluous after
saying that And very clever, too, is the Lot
Burdei of Mr. Redwood. Here the indiviluality
of the actor is quite lost. Nothing could be mor*-
ruggedly sympathetic than Lit’s manner and
vole?, white acquainting poor old Jacob of his
daughter’s abduction.
• * *
Miss Essie Jenyns gebs a big ohance as the
erring Letty. A good deal of Interest attached
to this young lady’s first appearance since her re
turn from Yurrup (vide bill). Miss Essie was a
promising actress before she crossed the water,
and is now none the less promising because she
has ciretully studied the postures and business of
certain popular London favourites Just at present,
however. Miss Jenyns is striving to do too mui>i,
and the result is not satisfactory. Wnen her
recollections of Mary Anderson, Ellen Terry, and
Miss Bastlake grow less vivid, we shall expect
great things of Jenyns. As Letty, she does best
In th» scene where she becomes aware of the C ip-
tain’s marriage. In her rage, Letty strikes the
bad man on tne breast with her two little fists.
This is effective but not original. It Is, in fact,
Ellen Terry, as Olivia, expressing her aversion for
Squire Thornhill. Mr. Holloway, also from Yur-
rup. appears as Lettv’s faithful admirer. There
Is one speech of Mr. H.’s that would make the pro-
verhla' oat smile He tells the Captain that If the
Queen knew of his goings-on, she would ” pluck
tuose epaulettes from his shoulders with her own
fair Rands." This is either an unpleasant allusion
to the Valentine Baker episode, or else pure bosh.
Wo think It Is pure bosh. All the minor people in
“Silntaaud Sinners” are really good, and con-
tribute considerably to the success of the play,
* * * »
“Faust” is still the attraction at the Mel-
bourne Opera House. There Is a weird laseination
about this show to all wko have any thought for
the great Hereafter. We see, in that last act,
Marguerite ascending to the Better Land in the
most select of company, and Faust sinking to that
burning lake, whereon—
“ Stretched out, huge in length, the arch-fiend
lay,”
until he was graciously permitted the liberty of
getting up again to worry us poor sinners. And
as we hurry off to catch the train, we find our-
selves speculating on the terrible uncertainty of
the future.
* * * *
At the Bijou, “The Glass of Fashion” is
promised as soon as “ The Magistrate ” is used up.
In last week’s notice of “ The Mag.,” by the way,
we might be misunderstood to that Miss
Boucicault compares unfavourably with others of
the caste. Perish the thought I
«• * * tr
Dion Boucicault is said to be writing a
new drama whica is to be played simultaneously
In tne Adelpbl, London, tne Opera House, Sydney,
and the Imperial, Mr. Jouoert's new theatre,
Melbourne.
« W W »
Writes a correspondent:— ‘ Harrison, the
famous tenor of our father's early days, was
picked up when singing in a country tap-room.
Wachter, the great basso, was a Viennese cao-
drlver. A fine baritone Is now coursing round
Emerald Hill and St. Hilda, Melbourne, selling
tlsh from a one-horse cart. His grand voice, in-
toning his fish-cry, can he heard the whole length
of the street, and ne has the stage qualification of
a goodly presence, which, added to the throat and
chest notes of a cuurch organ, is something to t>
envied and to b j better used than in fish-hawking.’'
•***•*
The last lecture but one of Mr. Charles
Brig'ofs remaraanie course of lantern-illustrated
lectures at Sydney Theatre Royal, was delivered on
Sunday evening, and, being devoted to the subject
of ” The Devil,” was of special interest. A young
lady from New Zealand made her bow to a Sydney
audience on this occasion, and performed two
pieces on the piano witn such skill and dash as to
greatly delighv, per hearers. This little maiden is
only 11 years of age, but exhibits all the nerve and
brilliancy of execution of an adult proficient. Htr
name is Alice Brabazon, and, young as she is, she
has made quite a reputation for noraelf in Auck-
land. at Mr. Bright’s last lecture, next Sunday,
Miss Brabazon Is to appear again and play a duet
with her brother, a lad who is said to be as great a
phenomenon as herself.
A mua in Bridge-street, Sydney, com-
plains lu a dally paper that the person who mani-
pulates the circular bombardon in an itinerant
band makes bis life dolorous. The bombardon, it
will be remembered, Is an instrument that en-
circles the artist s body and sends a note into space
that would make a corroborree of back-block
blacks curl up with envy. It appears that,
through some old grudge, the musician, when he
observes the man's office-window raised, leans the
sonorous end of his instrument upon the window-
sill and plajs Offenbach at the complainant. As
the bombardon has a range of but three notes, the
manner In which florid passages from 'Orphde”
are presented is not conducive to either happiness
or longevity. At any rate, the sufferer, unable to
get relief in the Courts, intends to shift to the
next floor, where his enemy can no longer molest
him unless he plays on stilts.
Some queer things about the “ Harmy ”
appear in a recent issue of the Wide Bay News
(Maryborough, Q ). Firstly, the Primitive Metho-
dist minister resigns owing to the little sympathy
of the members of his Church with their own
work since the Harmy’s advent. Next, it is an-
nounced that “ Adjutant and Mrs. Wright, of the
Harmy, are to arrive by the Kodondo. As Mrs.
Wright appears in full Hallelujah lass uniform;
doubtless there will be a larure turn-out ot ladies.’'
Then a correspondent writes to the News editor
that the Harmy’s advent has “stirred up more
strife, discord, and hatred between those who
were besom friends before than could possibly
have taken place during the next decade in Mary-
borough. Now can be seen tho bitterest enmity
existing between father and son, mother and
daughter, sister and brother, and those who were
bosom friends before show more fierce bitterness
towards each other than tho most pronounced
Catholic v. Orangeman—ready to clutch each other
by the throat and spill each other s blood.’’ From
which it would seem that ealvatlon Harmy ism
isn’t such a great improvement after all upon the
other current religions.
Mr. A, R. Fremliu ex-M.L.A. of N S.W.,
was some time ago called upon by an Orange
Lodge to explain one of the statements In his
viledlotory speech at Aedfern. in reply, he re-
fused to explain, and rubbed it into the Orange-
men by alluding to “ the tyrannical attempt
made not long ago by the lodgts to force certain
members of the Legislature to vote against the
Stuart Government—an iniquitous design, hap-
pily frustrated, though wltn difficulty— to inter-
fere with the freedom of the voting of some re-
presentatives of the people.” In conclusion, he
says:—“I have been enabled during many years
to prove my sincerity in tens cause of civil and re-
ligious liberty. Your order professes to be tho
great advocate of these human rights; but the
method of its procedure lately is only showing
i'S' If to be a huge sham.” We are glad that Mr.
Fiecclin has publicly denounced Orangeism, but
would venture to suggest to dim tna r . consider-
ing that bis election was ensured by Orangeism,
and that he was until quite recently a prominent
member of the order, it Is a wonder that ho was
cot sooner at le to discover that ‘ the whole thing
was a huge sham.” W« should have thought
more of Mr. Fremlin if he had denounced
Orangeism before his election. At the lime of his
writing tho letter we are not aware that he could
gain any advantage for himself by continuing In
the lodge.
One of the most satisfactory items of tho
times Is the fact that even such serious pursuits as
boycotting and moonlighting have not altogether
extlngulihed Irish lightheartedness. Only give
Pathrlck half a chance to-day, and the divil that is
in him will break out as frisay as ever it did in the
palmiest days of Garryowen ua Glory. At a wake
recently held at Mallow, tho tunny man of the
party armed hlmaelr with a red-hot poker, and
seeing (as one of the witnesses mildly put the
case) “another glntleman lying comically on the
ground,” the joaer conceived tnat It would be an
exquisite lark to liven the slumberor up with the
business end of the flre-encaurager. This was
done at once, the poker belog applied from the
nape of the victim’s neck to aoout 75 dtgrees
below zero, and hi* screams and wnthtngs were,
as one witness, Mullaily, observed, “ as foine a bit
av divarshln sz waz iverseen about the dishrlot.”
This did not end the joke, however. The frizzled-
up party took the tun into Court; all who were
present flatly denied having seen the branding
operation performed, and although the playful
one admitted the soft impeachment and the prose-
cutor bore the pokers trace, s(ill the case had to
be dismissed, because the injured man, after
frankly admitting his acceptance of a bribe, re-
fused to swear to the Identity of fhe jlnillman In
the dock. When the Court proceedings were over,
the whole of the wane revellers adjourned to an
aojacSbt shebeen and the busb-mouey was gener-
ously spent In driuaing long life to the corpse,
and many ov ’em. Now then, Mlsthur Boose-
oault, here's another Incident you can utilise in
your next delineation ot tne Oirish ohar-rack-thur.
LAND OF THE CROCODILE.
[By “MAROOGALINB.”
A short time ago a forum boariurn gladia-
tor, generally called a butcher, was driving a pen-
sive bull along a suburban street of Brisbane. The
latent ferocity of this playful animal was suddenly
roused to its maximum development by an unex-
pected attack from an Ignorant and unsocial dog.
The bovine Boanerges Hirst Intimated his Inten-
tion to declare war by pawing a hole In the street,
and so—
Full on the expectant canine band
He rolls his eyes of swarthy glow.
Spurns with black hoof and horn the sand,
And tosses high his mane of snow.
Then, with one earthquake roar that closed every
door in the nolgbourhood with a crash, and sent
the population into spasmodic contracts on impro-
vised 1 ortiflcatlons, he made one wild plunge for
the astonished mastiff, which at once, with an
agility never displayed by dogs under less urgent
circumstances, dived with one shoot into a green-
grocer’s shop. Inside that shop was a baldheaded
grocer behind the counter, and an aesthetic Ger-
man matron, weighing about a ton and a-half,
stood on top of the counter, to which dangerous
eminence she had ascended when the bull first
signified his intention of advancing In that direc-
tion. The dog entered the shop as if shot from a
catapult, the bull close on his rear in a cloud of
dust, snorting defiance and slaughter. But the
first glance at the interior of the shop brought the
noble animal to a dead stop. The scene he saw
there changed his whole nature in the fraction of
a second. The grocer was down on his hands and
feet trying to crawl under the counter, the ton
and a half of German woman landed broadside on
his back, and the dog completed the pyramid by
tumbling on the German woman. There was one
wild howl from a terror-stricken dog; an un-
earthly shriek from a frenzied “frau,” and a
piteous ** Oh, God, the bull has me I" from a bald-
headed grocer prostrate under a pile of woman
and dog. The bull was led quietly away from the
door by the car as harmless as a little child. That
scene had completely destroyed nis reason. He
was a hopeless imbecile I
• ♦ *
When the distinguished Russian scientist,
Baron Mlkloullo Maciay, was in Brisbane, he had
a wild ungovernable desire to become possessed
of the corpses of Chinamen and aboriginals. I
was present at the Brisbane jail one morning
when Elsdale and a Mongolian were playfully
tossed off a platform into space and eternity. The
Baron was also there. He had obtained permission
to take away the Chinaman’s head, and I stood by
while he decapitated the dead Celestial. He per-
formed the operation with as much compunction
as is usually displayed by a myall when cutticg
the head off a wallaby. He favoured me, during
th« proceedings, with scientific remarks on the
nervous and muscular systems. He told me, also,
that he Intended to settle tor ever the hitherto
unsolved problem of the actual difference be-
tween the heads of the Mongolian and the Euro-
pean. He took the head aw»y in a bag, and spent
the best part of a week in dissecting it. Up to
the present time the civilized world is not In-
formed whether the difference lies in the medulla
ohlunjata or the tail.
• » ♦
But the Baron’s grand star performance
was with the corpse of “Johnny Campbell,” the
Maryborough "aboiriijlne,” who was hanged for
devoting a lew months holiday to general cussed-
ness and the shedding of blood. Johnny s mortal
relics were handed over to the Baron—in the in-
terests of science. He out them into sections, and
packed them in a barrel of rum for transmission
to Russia. To avoid the superstition of nautical
men, who have a bigoted objection to this sort of
cargo, the Baron. It Is said, artfully labelled the
barrel “ Dugong oil,” and started it on its eventful
career. On the homeward voyage, a sailor, in
whom the bump of curiosity was abnormally de-
veloped, bored a small gimlet-hole in the cask to
ascertain the taste and llavour of dugong oil, ana
Its value for medicinal purposes. He formed him-
self into a committee of one to examine this new
Russian delicacy, and his report to the general
council of his seafaring confederates was of a most
enthusiastic nature. Prom that day to the ead of
the voyage they relieved the monotony of their
lives—after midnight—with copious libations of
solution of Johnny Campbell. They unanimously
decided that dugong oil as a beverage for sailors
was just what the human race had been making
frantic efforts to discover tor the last two thousand
years.
• * «
When the barrel reached Russia, there
was nothing In it but Joh.my Campbell, and the
balmy odour that filled the surrounding atmos-
phere when the top was lifted out would have
turned a Chinese fisherman's hair grey. If the
scientists who opened that barrel ever get the
ingenious Barou Maciay into their clutches, they
will not leave enough of him to prove whether he
belonged to the animal or the vegetable kingdom.
* * *
One of the straightest white men on
Charters Towers is J. S. Peek, the assayer. He
reads The Bulletin regularly, and, of course, has
the keenest possible appreciation of humour. At
one time Peek’s laboratory was next door to that
of a butcher. This “ prominent citizen ” was not
conspicuous for the fastldlousntss of bis olfactory
nervis. The smell from his yard occasionally
rivalled congpound extract of Constantinople.
Respectable crows fiew t>y with a contemptuous
expression, and Bohemian dogs tucked their tails
in and made splendid time for the fresn air of the
open fields. Peek, being a man of decision, adopted
vigorous and effective measures. He impregnated
a jar of water with sulphuretted hydrogen and
placed it under the butcher's counter. No lan-
guage, so far, in use by humanity could afford the
faintest idea of the fragrance of that jar. When
the butcher entered his shop next morning at day-
light , his first Impression was that five tons of
eggs, laid by Noah’s hers in the ark, had been
smashed somewhere in the vicinity. Seizing bis
nose with both hands, he rushed m to Peek for
advioe. He told the assayor that every pound of
beet in his shop was putrid and unfit for human
food. This was Peem’s hour of triumph. He rose
and went out to determine the nature and locality
of the pertume. He told tne butcher that the
doge must have buried a lot of stale meat under
the fioor of the shop, that the diabolic odour had
intected the fresh meat, aud that toe whole ot it
waa unfit for consumption. When the butcher
had consigned the carcases of two lat bullocks to
tne boilmg-aown pots, and dug up half the Hour
of his shop, Peek walked m and disooverea the
j*rl That night a Charters Towers butcher was
banqueting on new rum and raising Cain, while a
genial nesayer was complacently smiling himself
to sleep over the cheerful memories of the last 34
hours. Peek is now engaged writing an Austra-
lian drama to be called “ The Mad Butcher, or the
Atsayer's Revenge.'
a • •
W. G. Bailey is one of the members for
Wide May, and acts as Government whip, for
which he receives £300 per annum, each of the six
Ministers giving £50. That Is the usual rule.
But, at the close or this session, Bailey was aito
presented by the Ministerial supporters with au
Inkstand, representing an emu rampantreaardant,
and sundry ocher strange devices, symbolical O'
nothing in this world or the next. Yet the soul i f
Bailey yearned tor more recognition of his trans-
cendental strvics. He wanted a present from the
Opposition, ana calmly suggested it to one or two
members on that side of the House. It was re-
ported in the Press that Bailey nad received a
Masonic jewel from the MTlwraith party. Then
the majority ot that party were the maddest men
in Queensland for the time being, bs their friend-
ship lor Bailey is of a purely negative character,
do they arranged a bogus presentation to the
Wide Bay Cinclnnatus, being instigated thereto by
Morehead and Hamilton, aided and anetted by
Stevens m. Six ot them interviewed Bailey,
handed him a small box, and an address embody-
ing the following sentiment: —‘‘In compliance
with your special request, wo have great joy in
presenting yon with a souvenir which will appro-
priately testify to our admiration for thtise numer-
ous qualities which have always endeared you as
much to your enemies as your friends.” The
casket contained a sixpenny whip with a tin-
whistle on the end. Bailey will probably bring
an action against the Opposition collectively,
damages to be fixed at about ten millions. No
average politician would value himself at less
than that amount.
* * •
Many Northern men will remember Tom
Brown, the machine-owner of Ravenswood in
oays past, a most eccentric fellow, but one of the
best-hearted mon In the colony. For some time
lorn had more quartz than his stampers could
dispose ot. About a mile away two mates were
sinking on a new reef. Thev sent down ten tons
of stone for Tom to crush. Tom said it was
simply impossible. When he went to the machine
in the morning, one of the owners of the ten tons
was camped in the building I “Hillo, old man,
what in thunder are you doing here ? ’ “I reckon
1 m going to camp hero and see that stone through.”
You will, eh ? well I’ll see you first.’ •• Oh,
°o. I guess you 11 put that stone through; my
mate will be down here presently, and when you
see him you’ll start on that stone at once I” About
an hour afterwards the “ mate ” came down. He
stood six feet four, weighed about fourteen stone,
and looked as If h« could eat a man for an ordin-
ary meal. Tom just gave once glance at this
ferocious-looking Zulu, and remarked, “Well,
boys. I hope you’ll have a big streak of luck with
that reef. I’ll start on these 10 tons to morrow,
and at the present time we’ll go and drink success
to It I And the 10 tons went through with the
same results that have so far attended operations
In the Iri«h gold mine of Wicklow. There was not
enough gold to gild a bad sovereign 1


LORD CARINGTON INTERVIEWED.
Shortly after the arrival of Lord Carlngton and
suite at Government House, Sydney, a Bulletin
special reporter knocked at the front door, and
solicited an Interview. Steps had evidently been
taken to give a reception to any Press representa-
tives who might call. Behind the door stood a
powerful serving-man In his shirt-sleeves, with a
dangerous-looking club in his 16ft hand. At
various strategic points on the wide staircase male
and female domestics were in attendance with
household weapons of a miscellaneous character.
At the bottom was the chef de cuisine, with a roll-
ing-pin of cruel proportions, while, higher up, at-
tendants, variously armed, were leaning against
the bannisters, chatting and gesticulating with the
careless abandon of their class. On the landing
above stood the French bonne with a tongs. Our
reporter felt at once at his ease, especially when
he noticed that on his appearance the person who
seemed to form the first line of defence expec-
torated in both hands. “ Press,” he said insinuat-
ingly. Then he dodged, and the bludgeon missed
him. This, he thought, preparing to retire, shows
that literature is in favour with the new-comers.
Just then Lord Carington’s voice was heard on the
landing, calling for shaving-water, and demanding
The cause of the noise. “ We've got one o’ them
'ere reporters inside,” shouted the menial at the
door, as he gripped his weapon, and sulkily re-
marked, “ I’ve never been known to miss twice.”
*• Ask what journal he represents before pro-
ceeding to extremities,” came from the top. “ Bul-
letin,” bawled the scribe proudly. The effect was
instantaneous and ludicrous. The assembled
menials crawled away, while Lord Carlngton ran
down stairs in his dressing-gown, embraced our
reporter warmly, and said, “Come up and have a
chat with me in tho dressing-room. I told these
imbeciles to be sure and ask the * paper ’ before
starting. But you never can trust servants. Still,
after the way we were treated in Adelaide, it Is
hard to blame them.” Seated in the dressing-
room the reporter began
“Treated in Adelaide ? Your Lordshipir joking.
They were surely not rude to you ? ”
L C. (smiling): “Not rude exactly, but worse.
You must remember that at the end of a flve-
we ks’ voyage to an entirely now country a per-
son has a desire to look about and ask questions,
instead of being pestered with them. Now oon-
sfu .”
K. (rising with dignity): “ Thflb I presume that
I .”
L C : “ My dear, sir, pny be seated. It is of an
entirely ditfereat class of interviewers and of
journals I speak. I am going to be frank with you,
and may, prrhaps, say things that, coming from
me, will surprise you. Sucn, tden. is cbestupM
deference paid to the bearer of a title, and to his
opinions, that there are droves of silly people who
woiiiu oot-pt m/ views on the principles of par-
litiu n a y goveruLueut sooner than they would
those of Mr. Gladstone. Yes, who would prefer
my opinions on astronomy, of which I know
nothing, to those of my friend Mr. Proctor—who
was lately amongst you, and whom, by the way
(this slyly), you stopped from lecturing on Sunday
while the Salvation Army is permitted to br—to
play through your streets—who knows every-
thing. How wo live, whether we ki«s our wives,
fondle our children, or even blow our noses like
ordinary men, appears to be of the greatest In-
terest to this class of persons. It is they who
have added a new terror to the lives of tnose un-
fortunate enough to be born to a title. I said un-
fortunate, and 1 mean it. Some of your colonists,
I hare been told, are anxious to obtain titles. Ah,
if they but knew I Why, there is scarcely an
ambitious peer in England who would not resign
his title if be could. Directly a man takes his seat
in the Lords he knows that the Commons is closed
in his face, and that the political power of the
House in which be sits is about the same as the
numerical power of a cypher on the left side or a
line of figures. To the ambitious man it la teirible
to know tnat he is of little public account, and
that, in a few year?, he will be of none at all 8o
let us get baoa to tue Adelaide reporter.”
R : “ What your Lordship says will-lf you allow
the expression -‘shake up ’ some of our ctfionial
fossils who are always on the alert to make mem-
selves and their adopted country ridiculous.”
L. C.: “ We (.hffii come to that by and bye. Now,
about this Adelaide man. You noticed the pre-
parations that were In readl .”
R. “Yes. They were in a meisure forced upon
me. Even If I’d escaped the second luoge of the
swell-mobsman at the door, it la improbable that
all those on the srairk woul 1 miss me. As things
looked at one time, I thought the first to miss me
would be my wife.”
L. C, “I m afraid I shall have to discharge
Mao Taggart—the man at the door. ‘ Wales ’ gave
him to me to get him out of the road. He’s already
killed two reporters In Scotland, whom he founa
loitering near the Royal party. Nothing but the
Queen's personal intercession got him out of xhe
last job. Against the Press he appears to be studi-
ously vindictive ever since, on calling at the office
of a Glasgow journal to learn what was thought
of some verses sent in by him the previous week
—thflPe appears to be a subtle connection between
plush and poetry — the Irish «jb editor on duty
told him he'd have to convert a few more tons of
oatmeal into grey brain-matter before he could
write even a charity-school hymn. Tne excuse
which he will probably make, that he took you
for tho Evening News proprietor, shall not avail
him. Yes, Deli have to go. And now for this
Adelaide man. Lady Carjngton and I were scarcely
seated, when a person with uneven trousers and
odd boots came and sat between us. He had a
pencil behind each ear. The pencils were large,
but even had they been much larger, the ears were
sufficiently 1 must avoid personalities. ‘I am
from the Adelaide Advertiser,’ he said, and
looked from me to my wife to see the effect.
‘It is a favourite journal of mine, and from
the texture of its paper and the purity of Its
articles, it supplies a real want to Dorcas societies
and young ladies’ seminaries, where it begins by
inculcatlDg a lovely morality and ends in bib pat-
terns and papillotes,' my wife said with some
little irritation as she rose to go. It was only
when the door doted behind her and I was left
alone with the litterateur that an indescribable
longing to have the interview in the garret with
an open window in the room and broken bottles
on tho flags below took possession of me. I have
served m the army, as you koow, but no Corporal
of the Guards ever put me througn my facings 88
this fellow did* Questions concerning myself, my
family, and my wile’s relations, my own opinions,
the opinions of others, and the peculiarities of my
associates, were asked with no greater regard for
my feelings than the naturalist shows for those of
the beetle through whose back he is sticking a
pin. He would have my views on vaccination, the
atomic theory, and,three-cornered constituencies;
on Lord Rosebery's proposal tor colonial peeis
and the late Earl of Shaftesbury's Intention re-
garding costermongers’ donkeys. At last, fairly
exasperated, I said‘ My dear sir, your profession
is one for which I have always entertained the
greatest admiration. If I were not Governor of
N.8. Wales I would like to be a reporter on the
Advertiser, still, If you’ll bear with me for a
moment, I shall tell you all 1 know of myself and
others. I was born in ’43 and succeeded to the
title on tho 17th of March some years ago. This
may account tor my predilection tor the Irish.
Having successfully negotiated a number of
infantile ailments, beginning with teething and
ending with thrush, l was sent to a day school
where, from the pertinacity with which one eye
put on mourning just as the other was getting
well, it w«*s seen that the Army was my proper
spherr. At an early age It was my good fortune
to become acquainted with Aloert Edward, Frinoe
of Wales—an acquaintance which soon rlotmed
into a firm friends aip and continues to this day.
Our families lived near each other, which was
very convenient for borrowing things. But the
Prince was of studious habits, and would be poring
over Herodotus and Horace wtuie I was romping
with the housemaid, I never could find out now
such stories about Albert got about. Why, even
to this day, he is as modest as a Sunday-school
teacher, and blushes to the ey'.s when a pretty
girl asks him to take a shilling ticket in a bazaar
lottery. I otten tried to break him off the habit —
told him not to be so distant with the ladies, but
he could never overcome his shyness, so I suppose
It must be constitutional. It often struck me he
was intended for the Ctmrch, and, as a clergyman,
I am confident the number of his parishioners
would have materially Increased. With him i
went on two Journeys, to India and to Egypt,
where the gigantic remains of old-world civilisa-
tions appeared to Impress him deeply and confirm
him In the Habits of thougotmlness to which he
was always attached. Indeed, for some years the
learned have been looking eagerly for his long-
promised book on * The Analysis of a Saovelful of
Mad taken from the Nile opposite Thebes, with
Speculations on the true place in Entomology of
tne Sacred Beetle of the Pyramids.’ But tne in-
considerate British people will so insist on his eat-
ing so much ill-cooked food In public that J
by this time, tho ‘ Spsculatlons f have possibly
assumed a fantastic form. Of Lord Rosebery,
or his colonial intentions, I know but little.
I believe be has a programme of some sort, but
whether it is full or not 1 am quits unable to say.
Indeed, this is ths day of programmes, and no per-
son cm expect to get on without one. How your
Government nas managed to do so Is, no doubt,
due to some peculiarity in colonial politics with
which I am not yet acquainted. Regarding New
Guinea, I have no hesitation in saying that the in-
tention of the late British Government was to let
It alpne—an intention which her Majesty's present
advisers sea no reason to alter. Of courie, if can-
nibalism and head-hunting could be kept within
reasonable bounds, and a system of Parliamentary
representation introduced among the natives, wltq
woman suffrage, School Boards, payment by re-
sults, Local Option, Christian Evidence Societies,
and payment of members, it is hard to say what
womd follow. It is not well, however, to try pqo
much by introducing all these blessings at onco.
Savages are notoriously conservative, although
the converse does not always hold good, and often
receive their visitors with unconjfortahla warrpth.
Civilisation wlthoqt trousers or hats has never
made much progress, and is at best bpt a
poor affair. My opinion is that the rough
work of opening up the island might bo
accomplished by rwe religious organisation,
such as the Salvation Army. It is possible
that, in pursuing it, moat of them would find
living tombs, and a process taka place of what
might be called ‘mutual conversion.’ But then
tneir loss would aho be their gain—and ours. I
regret to h-:ar that a range of mountains has dis-
appeared since toe last expedition. This is but the
beginning of a senes of similar depredations that
may be looked for now that the Germais have
obtained a footing in the Island. M. Bismarck is
lamous for his shitting policy. Considering the
way tho hills have been removed, I think it would
be «s well to change the name of the principal
river. I think I have uow given you a large
amount of useful information on a variety of
topics »nd you are quite at liberty to use it.’ My
tormentor took ail this carefully down, then
squill -d to the door and fell down stairs.”
Tuo reportsr, seeing that bis Lordship's Shaving-
water was coin, c t and out.
A Carol.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
With the firelight falling brightly on the letter
in his hands;
That trembles in their nervous grasp, a man he-
wildbred stands;
Save but the ticking of the clock, half hidden In
the gloom,
No sound of voice, nor movement, wakes the
the silence of the room.
’Tls Chrlstmastide In England, and the streets He
cloaked in snow;
Some ill-clad vagrants shambling by, who see
the ruddy glow
Of cheery fire within the room and the figure
standing there,
Envy hli lot—he shivers with the ohlllness of des-
pair.
He turns, and with dull, bloodshot eyes, looks
out upon the night— s
The snow that coldly sparkler In the moon-rays’
pallid light—
Then draws the heavy curtains close, and moan-
ing as with pain.
Bends o’er tho fitful blaze to read his letter once
again.
• When you return this evening—I know not what
to say—
And find hut this to r greet you, I shall be far
away;
You’ll know with whom too soon, Tom, no need
to write the name;
He loves me, and I’ve turned aside to take the
path of shame.
" Oh, what a hateful, living lie I must seem in
your eyesl
The thoughts of vows and promises, so lightly
made, arise
To taunt me. When I spoke them, Tom, I knew
no taint of sin,
My heart was pure, God knows It, till his shadow
gilded in.
** ’Twas not your fault that, trusting, you were
/ absent for so long.
And he at hand to tempt me. 1 have done you
bitter wrong.
No woman ever bad a better husband, that I
know—
In vain my folly seeks excuse for dragging me
so low.
” I can’t ask for forgiveness—no, nor pity, Tom—
for one
Who wrecks a husband’s loving, loyal heart as I
have done;
Your's is the just man’s right to scorn a creature
so defiled—
But Tom, good Tom, speak gently of her mother
to our child.
“ Don’t let the wretched story ever darken her
young life;
From her contempt, of all on earth, in merey
shield your wife.
Ob, keep the secret from her. If you have it In
your power,
And He will bless you—surely as He frowns en
me this hour.”
Tho husband folds the letter ere he puts it In his
breast,
As though to hide the cruel tale so shamefully
contest,
Strong as he is he bows his head beneath the
sudden blow.
And in an agony of grief he rocks him to and
fro.
“Curse her I Curse her treacherous tongue, her
handsome, harlot face.
That fooled me into happiness to end in this dis-
grace 1
At least my hate can’t leave me while my days
are in the land,
And I’ll hate her for a viper that could bite my
fostering hand.”
The words have scarcely left hla lips, when open
files the door,
And a little bright-haired fairy comos tip-toe
across the lioor;
The golden firelight sheds as ’twere a halo round
her head —
She seems a t lay phantom of the woman who has
lied.
The father cannot bear the sight; he motions her
away,
The puzzled child looks up at him with Inno-
cent dismay,
But presently steals near to him and/plucklng at
bis sleeve,
Says, “ Why has mamma left you here alone on
Christmas Eve 7
“ No gas is lighted yet, and, oh, it is to dark la
here!
Don’t you remember what a romp you had with
ua last year ?
But now you seem quite sad, papa; it isn't right
to grieve-
And mamma ought to stay at homo with us on
Christmas Eve.”
Cut to the heart, he hides his face, but answerj
not a word;
Then the sound of boys' sweet voices in the
street without is heard
Carol-singing, and the homely words, borne
clearly on the air.
Have borne his dazed memory back beyond his
present care.
“ Dry every tear; let happy mirth
Keplaoe the c»re that g-ive mem birth.
And joy each bosom fill;
The message hear of priceless worth—
Peace on earth!
Peace on earth I
To all men Goodwill! *
Like as a mao who from a sleep awakes with
sudden start,
Ha stares a moment at tie chili, then takes her
to his heart,
And muttering, “May Heaven forbid that she
the truth should learn 1’'
Cries, “Your mother s gone a journey, dear, and
one day she’ll return.”
’Tls Christmas Eve again; again beside the
cheery blaze
The husband sits In moody thought, with wist-
ful, yearning gaze
Fixed on the fire. His careworn face and hair
bestreaked with gray
Are records of the blow that fell a year ago this
day.
He has fought against that sorrow—right well
and bravely fought—
And Time has lent a helping hand and consola-
tion brought;
Oft In her child, now grown so dear, he fancies
he can see
The erring wife—not as she is, but as she used
to be.
The streets are now deserted, It is gettlng‘;Iate—
but, hark I
Breaks rudely on his reverie the watchful house-
dog’s bark;
And then, amid the steady beat of cold, wind-
driven rain.
He starts to hear a timid tap against the window"
pane.
Who can it be ? He listens till the sound repeats
once more,
Then, wondering, hurries from the room and
gains the outer door;
And peering forth, the gaslight gleams upon a
cowering form
There standing, as In mute appeal for shelter
from the storm.
“ You here I ’ The colour leaves his lips, his voice
is harsh and cold;
Yet ob, great God I how ill she looks, how altered
' from of old I
He beckons her to come within; big tears are
on her cheeks.
And furtively she glances at her husband ere she
speaks—
‘ I’ve come to beg for succour, Tom”—what
anguish In her tonel -
11 1 saw you seated by the fire, and knew you were
alone;
Not to you should I appeal, and on this night,
Indeed,
But there’s no one else to turn to, and I’m ter-
ribly in need.
“ I’ve walked so far—up from the docks, and wan-
dered in my way;
The ship that brought me back from him is only
in to-day,
For months I’ve been upon the seas, that ere I
ever croes't
’Twere better I had died—oh, I know it to
my cost.
“But these are idle. Idle words. You heard the
plea I made;
I’ve reamed as I have sowed—but yet you’ll nut
refuse me aid
To earn a living far away, In some sequestred
spot
Where none will know my wretched fate, and
whispers harm me not.
“ And Flo., the little fair-haired thing I nurtured
at this breast —
You’ll let me see her sometimes, Tom, or I shall
never rest;
She Is my child, In mooting dreams 1 hear her
still repeat
The simple prayers I taught her as che nestled at
nay feet.”
The wife falls on her knees beside his chair and
sobs aloud.
As though the stricken heart would break that
once had been so proud;
No thought but one of pity has the husband for
her now.
And softly puts his trembling lips upon her
burning brow.
No harshness lingers in his voice, no accent of
reproof—
“Your place Is where it ever was, beneath your
husband’s roof;
The past is dead, and only for the future will we
live:
Both striving to forget that past, which freely I
forgive.
“No, not a word-enough for me that you are
back again;
The secret of the year was yours, yours shall it
still remain.
I never dared to hope for such a Christmastime
as this—
Let your greeting be my blessing, and your gift
to me—a kiss.”
Christmas in Australia.
A SONNET.
O day, the crown and cre«t of all the yearl
Thou oomest not to us amid the non,
But midmost of the reign of the rod roes;
Our hearts have not yet lo*t the ancient cheer
That filled our fathers' simple hearts when sere
The leaves foil, and the winds of winter froza
The waters wan, and carols at the close
Of yester-evo sang the Child-Chrlst anear.
And so we hail thee with a greeting bl^h,
And drain to thee a draught of our own wine.
Forgetful not, beneath this bluer sky.
Of that old mother land I beyond the brine.
Whose grey shies gladden as thou drawest nlgb,
O day, of God’s good-will the seal and sign 1
V.J.D.
New Year’s Wish.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A drop of water glistening rhlnes
A diamond on tne vase s brink;
A moment s tension, and its lint 8
Are sundered—lo I it slake.
A vagrant mist now thuls the ray
That lights the trembling vein.
And now the sun’s unclouded sway
Bediamonds it again.
So years from out the b~wl of Time
Are tailing one by one,
So fortune's rajs a< brightly shine
And are as quickly gone.
Still mty the cumulating yerr
Por you untarnished gleam,
A nd k.i y no envious cloud come near
To \e.i us lustrous beam.
D member, 1£85.
A Leading Question.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
J. P. B.
Topsy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They say thou art naughty
And wilful and wild,
And whispering speak of
The hearts thou’st beguiled—
Of character shady, of conduct outri ;
But I’ll stick to then, Topsy, whatever they say.
The red on thy cheek is
The blush of a rose,
I live in the light that
Thy hazel ©ye throws;
And while they are sneering, love, laugh and be
gay.
For I’ll stick to thee, Topsy, whatever they say.
Thy footsteps are music,
Thy laughter a dream.
Our oara dip together
In Life’s pleasant stream;
And though they may giggle, and whistle, and
wink,
I will stick to thee, Topsy, whatever they think.
The brush of thy skirt sands
A thrill through my veins,
A captive secured by
The strongest of chains;
And though they may dub thee a girlish rmi,
I never will doubt thee whatever they say.
No envy can sever
My being from thine.
No sophistry tempt me
Thy heart to resign;
Till youth has departed and skies have grown grey
I will cherish thee, Topsy, whatever they say.
The maiden of forty
May wrinkle her brows.
With her no false lover
Has broken his vows;
For beauty like thine, though, His Magdalenes
pray,
And to me thou art spotless whatever they say.
Their whispers, the falsehood
Of envious spite;
Too fair is thy forehead,
Thine eyes are too bright;
But the pain of their slander my life shall repay,
For I'll be with thee, Topsjr, for ever and aye.
J. P. B.
Wilson’s Downfall, N.S.W.
Time floats by on wings of elder,
Laden with the hours of fate,
Bringing joy to homes of sadness,
Leaving firesides desolate.
Whirling through the halls of pleasure,
Tinting youthful cheeks with red—
Youthful laughter drowns the rustle
Of its passage overhead.
Casting gifts of love and lightness
Unto Infant, girl, and wife;
But each gift, like poison’s pleasure,
Steals away an hour of life.
Rosy cheeks that time has ripened
Wrinkle, pinch, and then decay;
Hopes that rose with morning's sunshine
Wun the evening fade away.
Then we die. Have we been living
la this mystic wilderness ?
When our seeming day is ended,
rs Eternity the less ?
Or but phantoms filing onward
Noiselessly with banners furled.
Brought to being but. to swell the
Dismal cortege of the world ?
L. M.


Personal Items
“Buckshot” Forster’s political career is
at an end. He Is suffering from an incurable
disease—the gradual wasting of the tissues of the
brain.
Captain Everill, it is said, will shortly pro-
ceed to England, and will there publish an account
ot his New Guinea experiences.
George Augustus Sail has departed He
came to Australia as the ideal of bonhommie. He
leaves as the ideal of acidity, peevishness, Irasci-
bility, and troublesome wind. So much for Aus-
tralian cookery.
Captain Everill has named a river in New
Guinea after the Premier of Victoria—the Service
Elver. The Captain says that it 1s "two fathom*
deep In places.” This seems rather a shallow
compliment, after all.
According to the Macleay Auous, none of
the new local J’a.P. tut. In an appearance to be
sworn In by Judge Murray on his recent visit
Perhaps some of them were afraid of being called
on to write their names
In New Zealand there are exactly
Waterloo heroes left. The fractional warrior is
an old pensioner, with two iwooden lags, a
moveable scalp, and one "practical” arm, who
lives somewhere In Taaanaki.
Edward Stevens, 88 years of age, who
arrived In Victoria with Pasooe Pawkner, and was
one of the party who sailed up the Yarra, In 1835,
is still alive, at Hale’s Gap, Grampians, where he
has lived for over 20 years. The groat desire of
the old man is to see Melbourne once more before
be dies.
The defence in the divorce case of Cran-
ford v. Crauford, in which Sir Charles Dilke Is co-
respondent, will be the same as that so success-
fully pleaded In the famous Mordaunt case-
namely, that the lady was suffering from hysteria
and imagined things which did not occur. That
very often happens.
The Melbourne Herald has’settled a ques-
tion which It says has been greatly agitating
Journalistic circles of late. It states emphatically,
and has authority to publish the fact that though
Lord Carlngton’s title Is spelt with two r’s, his
family name contains only ono. Now we are
*ager to know how the Herald mans spells
Smith*
The Central Australian (Bourke,
N.8.W.), has "used up” another pressman,
Mr. Madgwiok. Bourke stands In relation to the
Press in much the same position that Cape Coast
Castle did to tho consular service. It used up all
but the toughest subject#. Mr. J. L. Persons, a
Sydney pressman who wields a neat quill, steps
into the vacancy In the C.A. office.
On Saturday Lady Carington landed
officially, undecorattd by Jewels of any kind. We
landed some years ago similarly eitua ed. Our
jewellery was still "In ” None of the papers,
however, saw fit to comment in any wav upon this
evidence of owr good trste. We now beg to call
the attention of our friends to the fact that when
we are observed at large without our fancy
goods, we are simply avoiding any elaborate dis-
play, and making an exhibition of our unadorned
L Indepkndant of New Caledonia learns
that Marshal Bazaine has fallen Into such deep
poverty that being Invited out to dine lately, he
nad to decline for want of clothes. The unforgiv-
ing Irench Journalist exclaims: “Where Is the
money the ex-Empress made from 1853 to 1870 ?
Why does she not give Bazaine some ? And tnen,
where are the Prussians? Can they not organise
a national subscription for him ?”
A reverend gentleman near Oatlands, Tas-
mania, is said to have netted £3500 over last Mel-
bourne Cup, having placed his little savings on
Sheet Anchor. Some of the ribald Hobart Press
want to know whether the lucky parson Is grolnfr
to donate any of his winnings to benevolent pur-
POS98. Why ? Would the " purposes” have stood
in if he had lost-there s the rub. The reverend
gentleman is a lucky man—and of such is the
Kingdom of Heaven.
G. A. Lloyd, M.L.A , in his address to the
electors of Newcastle, N.S.W., the other day, said
that his son, who had advocated his cause in his
absence, was a|“good coy." The future ot the
great country of NSW., then, will dep.-nd noon
the Little Boy at Manly and the Good Bny at
Newcastle. It is plain, from a variety of signs,
that we shall soon -ee iJoyo. Junior, k candidate
tor Parliament The ‘'Good tsn\ at Newcastle,
M.P.,” will sound well and give p.’eai ure to all.
There are still, according to the French
Military Estimates for this year, 1117 surviving
veer-ns of th-Army of the First Entire. Eatm
ot these vieux moustaches receives a i pedal pension
of 250 irat 08 |> r annum. In addition to the ordi-
nary one paid him. The»e ancient warriors are now
dying off at tne average rate ot five or six a
week, and In all probability not one of the 1117
Will be alive In 100 years' time. How many Bng-
iisn *arvivors of Waterloo are still alive? Millions
as the world now knows, Mr. Howard
Spensley, formerly of Melbourne, was one of those
returned to the Commons In the Radical Interest,
for Central Finsbury, filr John Bennett, who was
likewise a Radical candidate, observed re Mr.
Spensley, In a letter to the London Echo:— "To
my worthy Australian opponent I allow that he
beats me as a Judge of a kangaroo, but when we
have to deal with the British Lion my constituents
will, 1 believe, give the preference to —Yours re-
spectfully, John Bennett.”
That Victorian pettifogger, Mr. Justice
Holroyd, will henceforth be known as " the flog-
ging Judge.” Recently, in the Criminal Court,
Melbourne, out of eight men convicted for various
offences five were sentenced to receive from 10 to
30 lushes m addition to varlousterms of imprison-
ment. Unlike his colleagues, Mr. Justice Hlgin-
hotbam and Mr. Justice Williams, Judge Holroyd
is looked upon as an exceptionally orthodox
Christian—but so was Torquemada, the father of
the Inquisition, for that matter.
The Vivers family, one and all, should
no .T be e11 satisfied, which Is not what can be
said at the end of every lawsuit between families
or their ojnstltnent parts Mrs. Vlvera grata by
the fitting aside of the will one-third of the large
estate absolutely. True is better than the income
of the whole e tate for life only. The sons get
their shares at once, instead of waiting for same
until their motner’s death, and getting nothing
as of right during all that, possibly, long time,
Tne d ughters, who took nothing under the will,
get equal shares with the pods. Thus a famly
- hlch, under the terms of toe will, would have
been sundered by ill-feclinus, have now, thanks
to the court s decision, and the equitable terms of
the statute for Distribution of luitstates Estates,
got nothing to complain about.
This is a story they are telling one another
la Maryborough, Q. A distinguished and sged
loc»I personage, t > whom the Maryborough
gaid ns were a happy hunting ground, was ob-
served one night lately escorting a servant girl, to
whom he was pointing out the many beautiful
p'aces One of these was the island In the centre
ut a pond, and they crossed to it by the single.
The Great Sydney Dog-Ointment Case.
went in pursuit ana
succeeded in catching Mr. Tookbad. “ You
Lad much better go back and be pumped
out,” says O’Donohue. But no. Mr. Took«>
bad protested.
Ho was obdurate. He was then
taken in search of a medical man, who
gave the patient a draught to “ settle his
nerves.” The plaintiff did not remain
ill long; but the effect of the dog oint-
ment has caused complaints, for which
he seeks consolation in damages against
the chemist.
« The dog It was that died.”
Meantime the pills intended for .Mr,'
— Tookbad wore administered to the mangy dog, _
—" 1
He was then taken to the hospi-
tal. Dr. , on being told
what he had taken, said that the
- stomach-jjump must be applied.
Operations were begun by an at-
tempt to throw the patient on the floor. The latter .
struggled, and getting away jumped out of the win-
dow, and made off as "fast as he could.
Mr. Tookbad was instantly reduced to a state
of prostration. He knew not what he was doing.
He was put into a cab and hurried off to a chem-
ist’s. An emetic was there applied, but without
the desired result.
/ \ i*
He was quietly waiting the result of
the second dose of the mange mixture when some-
one rushed into the office and asked him whether he
had taken the stuff sent from Mr. Pop’s. He re-
plied that he had, and was about to take a third
dose. He was informed that he had taken poison.
The boy presented the medicine to Mr. Took-
bad, who at once took a “ teaspoonful ” upon
the point of a knife. The effect was anything
but what he desired, and the plot thickens. I
1
~~ And here may be seen (for six-
pence) the small boy who ran to
the said chemist’s in the interests
of Mr. Tookbad, and got by mis-
take the medicine intended for
the dog that was afflicted with
mange.
1IHI"
And here you have Mr. Shoticary
Pop, the chemist, who prepares pre-
scriptions in the most careful
manner.
And this is the dog of high degree
grievously afflicted with mange.
This is Mr. Tookbad suffering from an unpre*
meditated attack of cucumbers.


Wolfe's Schnapps 40 years before the
public and its qualities and virtues never yet ap-
proached.
Full many an aching heart is sad,
With weary sickness sore—
But clothed in tweed from Summerfleldjs,
Man yearns tor nothing more.*
A glass of Wolfe's Schnapps at bed time
will give you a sound night’s rest.
Our worthy Mayor, Aldermen, and Legis-
lators have welcomed Lord Caringtoo; and many
heads of families have welc >tr ed the bargains
otte red dunug the past week at Bray Bros’, place
in George street. Make no mistake—48 in the ill
genuine reduction for a few days only.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps for the bladder and like
complaints.
The breezes of spring hive a voice to the bard,
And seem to give him this advice:
If you would win fame purchase Summorfleld’s
pants,
They're unequalled for style, lit, and price.’ *
Persons whose occupations are unhealthy
take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Messrs. Boyd and King report having sold
theGoS'ord Model Farms, in subdivisions of a, 4,
and 5 aor* s at, from £15 to £20 per acre, amounting
to £21 430 9s*
, A strengthening cordial—TP olfe’sSchnapps.
•Tls s *eet to sit on a mossy bante,
Between two mossy boulders,
If you are but dressed in a Hummerfleld suit,
Which electrifies all beholdeia.*
plank which constituted the bridge. Then some
miserable creatures who call themselves good
citizens, and who had been watching the pair on
their {esthetic ramble, crept up and took the
bridge away. Whoever wants to hear a reliable
explanation of the situation h«s only to go to
Maryborough, draw aside the dlstlnguisheu and
aged person—we can guess his name at one try—
and judiciously Interrogate him.
Much to the public surprise, Lieutenant
H. P. Airey, of the late N S.W, Contingent, is ac-
cused before a military court of not having dis-
played sufficient zeal In the Soudan. Gherchons
nous la femme!
Mr. H. M. Chomley, the Victorian Chief
Commissioner of Police, is now happy. He re-
ceived a letter, the other day, addressing him as
“ General-ln-Chlef, Government Head Police
Office, Melbourne.” What more has he to live for
after that ?
Quoting the Home News the Sydney D.T.,
referring to Lord Carington, says: “ He taaes out
a large staff of aides-de-camp, and secretaries,
many more than will bo paid.” As this stands it Is
a £20,000 libel. Possibly one or other of the papers
was referring to dear old Lord Augustus.
Mr. John Qavan Duffy, M.L.A.—son of the
famous old Fony-Eighter Sir Charles Gavan
Duffy—has signalised himself by proposing that
the Victorian Government should undertake the
discovery of the South Pole. There is a general
feeling of agreement with the proposal if Mr.
Duffy will volunteer to join the Expedition. Many
members of the Assembly seem to think that
then their loss would be the South Pole’s gala.
About a year ago a gentleman visited a
station near Sllverton, and had a look at a claim
whlon is now a hous-hold word In mining ilrcleu.
The manager of the station owned two-fourteenth
shares, and offered to sell them to his guest. The
latter was willing to buy, but there was a difficulty
about the price. It was settled, however, that a
game of euchre 'hould determine whether the
price should be £100 or £120. The guest lost, and
had to pay the higher sum, much to the glee of
the manager. That two-fourteenth share is worth
£30 0110 to day. The manager has never been
known to boast about his euchre-playing since.
Is ther© to be no single illusion left us—no
historical fact which may be placed away in th*
pigeon-holes of memory, docketed, ticketed, and
dated, as an unassailable, Indisputable Incident?
We fear not. It Is now some years since Fred.
Ward (alias Thunderbolt, the outlaw) was shot
after a galiant and sustained struggle by Constable
Walker. The body of the deceased was Identified
subsequently by a youth, Mason, and another per-
son, and Walker was rewarded. Fred Ward dis-
appeared from the highway, and the name of
Thunderbolt was heard no more. His cheerful
“Ball upl” sounded never since, and his steel
revolver-barrel glistened never more In the moon-
1 ght with a chilling ghastly glitter as he covered
the person to be operated upon. Thunderbolt Is
dead enough, but Fred Ward Is still alive, and the
man who fell und-r Walker's fire was not the
daring outlaw.
At a Victorian hamlet, ca'lecl “The
Borings,” there lived. In 1879. a quiet, inoffensive
old gentleman, named W. Burton. He was an im-
Eerlal pensioner and lived on his scanty pay. He
ad one great soul-absorbing occupation in lite
He wished to place before people of the world a
full, true, and particular account of the life of—
no less a personage than the Devil. His “Life of
Lucifer ” was to be a gigantic work—it bristled
with tacts, so the old fellow said. Ho never “let
on ” where he got them He would write all day,
and sometimes half into the night, sentences rich
In Howlug periods, logical deductions, and geo-
logical sequences. The poor old fellow never
knew that nls sentences were in no one case ojie-
plete, that his best matter was a maze of meaning-
less words. One morning Burton was found dead
la bod. He bad gone to head-quarters to collect
facts for the journal.
“ Rev.” Peter Campbell, bush mission-
ary and Freethought lecturer, has now been
In Melbourne Ga d tor 15 months, a.d Is likely to
remain there until ho can obtain sureties to pay
Mr*. Peter thirty shillings weekly for maintenance.
Peter says he ues nc means and cannot obtain
sureties, so that wnen he Is liberated he will be a
“ lifer.” No one who snows anything about the
man's career and the way In whicn he L said to
have treateod his wife—who, litre all other women
Is, of course, a perfect angei—can have much sym-
patny for him personally; but surely It Is a mons-
trous law which condemns a husnaud to be incar-
cerated lor llte simply because he is unable to
comply with a malntonancs-order made by a
bench of magistrates. A petition to the Executive,
In which Peter undertook to provide a nomo for
Mrs. Campbell or pay her Kb. a week, has remained
unanswered tor six months
Mr. Jan. Gibb, M L. A. for Mornington in
the Victorian Assembly, does not Intend to seek
re-election, as he purposes visiting Europe. Mr.
Gibb’s exit from Parliamentary life will not be
the means of sending the Victorian community
Into sack-cloth and ashes. Since he sat in the
House be has consistently voted with the Conser-
vative party, and we don't recollect him ever
having opened his mouth theie. As a silent mem-
ber he completely puts in the shade the venerable
Hopkins, who, when in Parliament, dl l rise irom
his place upon one occasion, and move, “ that the
proceedings of the Assembly be opened with
prayer.” When the pious Hopkins went back to
his constituents they relegated him to private life,
where he has since remained—a fate which Mr.
Gibb seems likely to share. L. L. Smith, or “don’t-
you-feel-w 11-young-man ” celebrity, will pro-
bably be elected for the seat about to be vacated
by Mr. Gibb.
The “Vagabond” is in Victoria again,
and was lately occupied lu snake-oharmlng m the
country about Sale. Here Is how he writes his-
tory “ I sit on a log, and fascinate a black snake
whlob has just attempted to cross the road from
the other side. Wnen It catches my eye It stops
and curls back, awaiting events. I make an effort
of will, and l believe I thoroughly scare that
snake; It aare not move backwards or forwards.
Then I search with my hand for my stick which
may be In the bracken behind me I tug at a small
bough, and for one second am fool enough to take
my eye Irom tin repdle, and he Is gone—made
clean tracks for the Baw Baw.” But here Is how
the snake writes It:—“I was sitting on a log when
a queer-looking thing on two loet crossed the
road. When it catches my eye It curls back. I
make believe that 1 am going to kick it. While
searching for my boots I take my eyes off It for an
Instant, and it is gone—made clean tracss crying
* Baw, Bawl' ”
The Duke of Northumberland has. Inst
mail’s papers announce, just got the vacant “ Gar-
tor.” Most people think the Duke s family name
Is Percy. It ought to be, but It Isn't “His Nibs’”
name is Smithson. Like many other families, the
Percies became extinct In the male line, and the
race and titles wer« continued on the dlitatf side
of the house. In other words, the heiress of the
Percies took as husband a certain Sir Ruga Smith-
son apothecary to His Most Sacred Majesty, who
equally hated Walpole, boetry and baintlng The
first Duke of Northumberland under the new
regime asked for the Garter, and was refused. The
heir both of the Percies and the compounder of
pills and squills felt, aggrieved at this, and laid his
complaint before King George III., saying he was
first Duke of Northumberland who had ever been
refused the honour. “ Yes, ’ said Parmer George,
in the only v;Itty saying recorded of him, “and
the first Smithson who ever asked for It."
It is related that at Queen Victoria’s
Coronation the ring which the runic direct* to be
put on the third had been stupidly made for her
Majesty's little finger. She ext-nded the latter,
but the Archbishop Insisted on Its going on the
former. The embno Queen protested that it was
too small, but the prelate was obdurate, and the
ring was at last, with much difficulty, wedged oh,
but It hurt her so much that immediately upon
the conclusion of the ceremonial Iced water had
to be applied to reduce thejlnflammatlon that the
bauble might be removed. Which reminds us
that when a well-known Australian lady was pre-
sented at Court she Is reported to have gripped the
joyal "flipper” with much warmth, and to have
exclaimed, “ I’m real glad to see that you’re ’ale
and stout,” To which friendly greeting the Queen
is said to have replied, “I thank you, but if you
would be happy, don’t strive for a crown or
’anchor after distinction.” The lady remarked
that she only wanted a peerage tor her “ ole man,”
and backed out, knocking down two peers, a
baronet, and a duchess in her too precipitate
retreat.
Monl-e Brown, the genial and Thor-bearded
theatrical agent, is, we learn, a grandson of the
late Lord Viscount Montague Browne. And we
have spoken of him familiarly, and even freely
and easily, times out of mind! But, there—it
always is our luck to And ourselves hobnobbing
with dukes and princes of the Blood Boyal with-
out knowing it. We suppose they are attracted to
us by our distinguished air. We have been mis-
taken for a Calmuck count before now. Monte
was a journalist once, and sub-edited the Mel-
bourne Daily Telegraph. But he discovered
that there was more money to be made in the
show business than by writing articles running
down the poor old Pope, so he threw up his posi-
tion and entered upon the luxurious career of a
theatrical agent—a profession in which he has few
superiors and no equals. We nave been Jed to
making these remarks by reading a notice in the
Melbourne Hhhalo to the effect that Monte’s
father, who was also a journalist, died at Gisborne
(N.Z ), the other day. If our sympathy is worth
anything, Monte has it.
It is well to be well-connected when we
get into trouble. Mr. John Wesley Berham. whose
name will Identify his goodly connections, has
been brought up at Melbourne for large embezzle-
ments. He was accountant for eight years past of
the Fourth Victoria Building Society. The solici-
tor for the Society pressed only one charge against
him, for a small item, and prayed a lenient sen
tence. That much was necessary that the amount
of the defalcations might be recovered from the
Guarantee Society. So Mr. Derham got off with
two months of imprisonment only. In the paper
In which we read this, we read also of a 15 years’
imprisonment yet being suffered by one George
De Thouars. In the Kelly days De Thouars stuck
up the Holy Plains Station, taking from It, how-
ever, only a horse and a rifle. He repented of this
two days afterwards, and restored the property
voluntarily, giving It and himself Into the hands
of the police He had injured no one, and yet he
is still suffering the harsh sentence given to hlm-
harsh, indeed, compared with the way in which
the much-befriended Derham has been treated.
Thus the Melbourne Herald on the burn-
ing question of the number of r’s in Canngton:—
*• It is of Interest, however, in this connection, to
mention tha’, whil >ln Normandy, to which some
of the Carrington stock trace back their origin
[Why, certainly 1—Ed B] there is a town called
• Car-et-un,’there Is on the border i of Surrey and
Hampshire a hamlet called Carrington.’’ Now,
what, in the name of Patience, bad a Norman
town or a Surrey hamlet to do with a banker
named Smith, whose property was In Lombard-
street, London ? Not that there is anything re-
markable about an e mobled Smith changing his
name, it Is always done. But why does the
Herald s;ek to find possib'e explanations of the
much-oeslavered title ? Is It notin JPendcnnis
that someone enquires why the new journal is to
be oall-d the Pall Mall Gazette ? “ Because,
says Captain Shaudou, '* thn editor was born In
Cork and the publishing office is In Paternoster
Row. Everything have a name. Exact y ;
and perhaps the Herald will allow my Lord
Carlngton to have a name without worrying about
where he got It from. However, “ it is of interest
to mention ” that no Schmidts came over with the
Conqueror. That “ Oar et-un” Action won t wash.
The Premier of N.S.W. and the Mayor of
Sydney had a funny little squabble for precedence
at the rt caption of Lord Carlngton on Saturday.
If Mr, Dibhs. the Premier, claimed precedence by
reason of his superior inches In height, Mr. Play-
fair should have given way; but if Mr. Dibbs, the
Treasurer, claimed first grip of the vice-regal flat
(>n account ot his abilities as a financier, we think
frrm all we have heard that Mr. Playfair was
quite right in refusing to allow the claim.
Seriously speaking, however, ignorance alone
could have prompted Mr. Playfair to make so
preposterous a demand as that for precedence
over the Premier of the country. Even if the
question were not definitively put beyond dispute
by a law with which the Mayor should have been
well acquainted, it ought to have occurred to Mr.
Playfair that Lord Carlngton was on the occasion
being welcomed not merely to Sydney but to New
South Wales.
Journalistic amenities are still the order of
the day down South, and here’s a sample of the
latest typhoon Queanbeyan Gale has raised to
blast off the head of the beggar opposite“ It is
not often the long-haired editor of the Cooma
attempts to produce facetious paragraphs,
but when he does so there Is a grimness and
mouldiness about them in keeping only with the
’ silent tomb.’ In the last issue of his mirth-pro-
voking organ he hints that tne advent of ‘ Jaok-’o-
Lantern’ in Cooma is awaited with anxiety; add-
ing, in his own quaint fashion, that he wishes the
event would come off early, as he wants to borrow
a new plant As to his wanting to borrow a new
plant, we think he is about right, for the residents
of Cooma must by this time be tired of trying to
read a journal printed with telegraph-tar and
scrap-iron; and we think, judging by the appear-
ance of the , that—well, that the editor
couldn’t travel more than 11 times round the
world on the yearly profits of his journalistic ven-
ture, so that to borrow would be to prosper. We
ever had our doubts about the editor of the ,
and when we mention that he now takes leading
parts in Shakespeare’s nlays it will serve to satisfy
the public that he needs sympathy, and-a head I”
Queanbeyan will find the sympathy, no doubt, but
charity begins at home, and Queanbeyan is rather
short of heads itself at present.
The Narrabri Northern News is the
name of a festive little paper just established in
a N.S.W. country district. The man who runs it
writes with a waddy when he isn t using a scalp-
ing knife. Here (omitting names) Is an airy
slab from our journalistic brother's second Issue.
Needless to s ly, it refers to an opposition scribe;—
.. Mr , tno editor of the —- —. nicknamed
the 4 Boss paper of the North I’ is the man we
allude to. We have known him for years, and we
are proud to say that recently ne bestowed on us
the honour of his bitter personal enmity. To it ne
fives expression in his issue of the 2nd instant, in
an article whioh-though only one of his usual
abortive attempts at Irony and sarcasm—is niieo
with all the bitter venom which envy and malice
will breed In low and reptile-minded cads. But
wo thank you, Mr. . for what you have done
for us. The next thing we strive for, after the
applause of the good and generous, is the hatred
of men like you. . . You advise us to Invest In
a 4 gramma.’ We suppose that is the way in which
you pronounce and writ** the word whied to ton
general public is Known as ‘g.ammar. If that is
the cas9, we Deg to inform you that we have done
so, and in our turn will now give you an advice
which you might do well to consider In your own
interest and that of the general public. Do not
Invest In either grammar, spelling-book, or things
of that hind. They would not be of any use to
you—It is too late for you, and your ignorance is
too great. If ever you have any spare cash. Invest
it in a rope and get yourself hanged; that is the
only thing you are good for.” There, now I
A correspondent of the St. Louis Repub-
lican objects to the statue. Star of tho West,
which represents a female shading her eyes with
her hand. He denies that it true to nature, be-
cause 44 A woman always shades her eyes by turn-
ing her hand N ver—the palm upward-so that the
back of the haad is upward.” The correspondent
goes on to say that during the American war the
nex of a woman who entered the ranks was dls-
covered owing to her habit of shading her eyes In
the way he mentions. We once served in the
ranks with a woman. How she ever passed the
doctor was a mystery, but It was years before her
sex was discovered. Her military name was John
Jones, and In the barrack or guard-room few
could roll out a rounder oath, chew stronger
tobacco, or hold a better hand at all fours than
Jack. At wrecking a public-house, too, she could
hold her own against any grenadier in the regi-
ment. Indeed, the state of desolating chaos to
which she could reduce the premises of an un-
accommodating publican made her an object of
interest to the tradesmen in the neighbourhood
who followed this calling. How was Jack’s sex
discovered ? It was this way. At the taking of a
New Zealand Pah we were wounded. The locality
of the wound we have always kept a profound
secret for reasons of our own. As we lay on the
ground private Jones swept superbly by, “not to
lose the fun,” as she observed in passing. But
seeing us lying there wounded she stopped, looked
round, stooped down, and Kissed us. We never
again saw her alive. When the story went round
that Jack was found dead with a bullet through
her brain, and was discovered to be a woman, the
latter circumstances was no news to us.
When Sir Edward Terry was Governor of
Port Stephens he had under his supreme control
the convicts in the service of the Australian Agri-
cultural Company. The lash was never employed
at his instance, and always against his inclination.
Perusing the books of one of his superintendents
In the course of his duty, ho observed that in this
man’s gang the lash was never used. This was a
noteworthy circumstance, and he sent for the
officer to receive some information. ‘‘How do
you manage to entirely avoid t he use of the oat ?”
he asked. “ Well, Sir Edward,” replied the super.,
“I treat my men like men—if one commits himself
in anyway I call him out, make him peel off, and I
attend to him myself; give him always a fair field
and no favour and the best man wins.” “ But do
you never get worsted ?” queried the Governor.
“Barely,” he replied; “though I have been put
througn once or twice.” “And then?” “I give
him a talking to in a friendly way, give him
another chance, and if he again misconducts him-
self I send him in to headquarters; but, win or
lose, I give the roan a glass of rum, treat him
everyway as a free man, and I think I can safely say
that a finer, better-behaved lot of men—cleaner,
smarter, or better workers—are not to be found
in the settlement ” And the old governor, who
used every year to invite the people of the settle-
meat, bond and free, to sitrt a table a couple of
hundred yards long, eat their Christmas dinners, re-
ceive Christmas gifts, hear a few kindly words irom
one who looked upon men as men, and go forth
every man to his enjovment for the day—this
man, we say, vowed the lash should henceforth be
laid down. That was nearly halt a century ago.
Sir Edward sleeps with his fathers, and the thongs
which tear the quivering flesh from the quaking
culprit, swing and sing, whistle and whish their
bloodreddened music, their debasing, degrading
passage through the purer air of ’85, and threaten
to bring us by retrograde progression to the en-
lightenment enjoyed by the criminal outcasts who,
victims of brutality and tyranny, perpetrated out-
rages which yet stain our country with the marks
of an infamous infancy.
John d© Pearce was known to the men of
’40, He Is known to the angels since ’60. Johndy
—so he wos called—was not, as his name would
Imply, a Frenchman—York claimed him as a pro-
duction of her fertile territory. He was hut-
keeper on one of Messrs. Cox Bros.’ stations in the
early days. His hospitality was undoubted, but
peculiarly biaesed. The traveller who rode to the
hut was welcomed by the old fellow with a hoar.-e
4 Good day to 'ee. mawster. Got any tobacco ?”
An affirmative reply, and a flg of the same beie g
haaded to him, secured for the guest the choicest
morsels in old Johndy's larder, with a cordial In-
vitation to 44 blow ee bags out.” A negative was
received In silence, ana ft koolanian filled with
thick milk was the tare set before the hungry one,
who, with so much and no more, was taiu tj be’
o mtented. On one occasion, a young gentleman
visiting the stat'on was brought by the super to
Johndy’shut. He was very stylishly dr-ssed, and
the old fellow’s eye wandered frequently from his
johnny-cakes to the clothes of tho youth At
length the anc ent one called him outside,
and, gazing lovingly on the garments, re-
marked, 44 'I’hat’s a nlco coat, miwster; that ’ud
Just about fit I. Take It off till 1 try it on.” In high
dudgeon the youth returned and told his expe-
rience to the super, who, well acquainted with the
old fellow’s ways, laughingly observed; “Just
like old Johndy, and, mark me, beTl have the
coat.” which verv shortly afterwards he did on the
annexation principle. But his crowning effort was
the getting ahead of the super himself. As hut-
keeper, Johndy milked a tew cowe, and the
milker’s calves were his perquis tea. At one
general muster he proposed to the super to ex-
change some bullocks for heifers. Tde super,
fully prepared to be *>ot at in some way, con-
sented, and, when tho branding was going on, told
him to pick his heifers. Butting his iron in the
fire, Johndy branded the ones he chose until tho
number of the 44 swap” was reached. 44 Now,”
said the super, 44 let us have your bullocks,
Johndy. 44 Opening the gate of the weaners’pen.
Johndy drove out a mob of 44 poddys,” little fel-
lows, who, deprived of the maternal nourishment,
had waxed thin and hollow. 44 There they be,
mawster,” he said, " floe bullocks in two or three
years ” He never left the elation, tor long be-
fore he had increased h s herd sufficiently to bid
for a baronetcy the white-winged angels called his
simple soul home.
Competitive Loyalty In Mew South Wales.
MR DIBBS (THE PREMIER) WANTED TO RE THE FIRST TO WELCOME LORD CARTNQ-
TON. 80 DID THE MAYOR OF SYDNEY. THIS IS THE RESULT.


SOCIAL
At Kingsley College, Burwood (principals,
Mrs. and the Misses Ross), a nice entertainment
was (riven by the yourg lady pupils previous to
the “breaking-up” for the holidays last Friday
evening. The guests numbered over a hundred,
and were well pleased with the clever French reci-
tations, pianoforte solos, and singing of the child-
ren. Two or three of the young ladles success-
fully passed the junior University examination
this year, and were accordingly the lions of the
evening. After the prizes had been distributed,
the young folks dancod and refreshed until mid-
night.
* * ♦
The bazaar which opened on Wednesday,
11th irst., at Sobraon College, Begg street, Pad-
dington, promises to prove unusually attractive.
The event is in aid of the Infants’ Home, and will
be open some aays.
• * *
Messrs, Needs’ juvenile fancy dress ball,
given on the 8th Inst., was attended by about 250.
Most of the fancy dm sea wore exceedingly pretty,
and the dancing of the children excellent. The
heat was intense, and 11.30 saw the last dance.
• » •
The members of the Sydney Owl Club
hdd their usual “ hoot ” ontheOch. Programme:
Recitations and songs.
• * ♦
Madame Charbonnet-Kellermann must
Indeed be popular to succeed in drawing so goodly
a crowd to her matinee last Saturday, when other
attractions were so various. Madame, who ap-
peared in a pure white grasscloth dress, nicely
touched with black velvet, and a double string of
pearls round her head, played her own transcrip-
tion on M’appari, left hand only, and a “ Fantasie
Caprice” by Lefebure-Wely; and also took part
in a trio, duet, and Liszts “Rhapsodie Hon-
grolse ” arranged for eight hands, which latter
was one of the gems of the Concert. Miss
R )8e Samper, who is making rapid pro-
g 388 ss a pianist, and was the gold-medalist
lass year, shared honours with Madame in the
opening duet. Mrs Atkinson sang the two comic
songs, “ Katey’s Letters,” and “Barney O Hea,”
with much archness, and was encored for both.
Madame Rosalie Morz gave an aria, with violin
obligato by Mons. Caron, and a 'cello solo by Herr
Patek, aud two violin solos by Mons. Caron com-
pleted the programme. Sir Patrick Jennings being
unavoidably absent, Madame undertook the
task of presenting the prfz°s herself, after
which, on behalf of the pupils, C.-msul
Griffin presented ivtadame with an elegantly
illuminated address, signed by 50 names. Madame
whose voice trembled with emotion, thanked
them all In her pretty way, both for the kindly
thoughts expressed towards her in the address,
and also for the handsome present, consisting of a
complete dinner-service, which they had sent to
her residence that morning. Circulars in the hall
informed the public that Madame Kellermann has.
in conjunction with Mons, Leon Caron, opened
violin, harmony, and accompaniment classes at
her conservatoire, tho pupils of these classes being
entitled to the same privileges as those of
Madame’s piano oia*ses, i.e., those who show
sufficient improvement will be allowed to perform
at the pupils’ concerts, and a prize will be given
to the best pupil of each class at the end of three
years studies.
• * *
The Glebe regatta, held at Johnson’s Bay
on Saturday last, was quite a nice affair—numer-
ously attended, and some sort of punctuality was,
by way of a change, shown as regards the events.
Appropriatf.-costumes were worn by the ladles,
and refreshments were liberally provided for the
guests.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Messrs. Needs’ Pupils’ Bill, Niths-
dale December 17
Mr. F. G. Halle troll’s Benefit Con-
cert, New Masonic Hall December 17
Sydney Lledertafel Concerts (3), Pro-
testant Hall Dec. 23 & 21
Wednesday, December 16.
Devr Peo,—Poor slow-going old Sydney has
lived so hard this week through Its various ex-
periences of grave and gay, that one Is quite
apprehensive of a painfully sudden re-actionary
collapse I Its great, slow heart has not been moved
to such heights and depths of emotion since the
Contingent departure. There is a well known
truism, which has been the refuge of many a
shallow writer, and the backbone of countless fierce
“yellow-backs,” to the effect that the immov-
able phlegmatic when once roused to life, de-
velopes such latent powers of activity, that there
Is no morel chance of stopping its huge gyrations
than of stemming the Amazon. Analogously, it
may be that the oldest city of the Australias has at
last made a move towards throwing off this chronic
inertia which has earned for us the name of the
slowest-going community South of the line. A
money-grubbing, pelf-gathering people, with no
soul above a halfpenny—scraping, economising,
hoarding, till snug thousands lie to our credit;
then away to the old c >untry to make a moment-
ary flash in tho pan, among the friends of our
youth. Anon, back again to the old gleanings
and garnertngs. No thought for tho depressed
Inner-man, starved to a shadow In the accumula-
tion of money. Money, the root of all evil as weh,
as the source of much good; the great world-
leveller; the sordid soul-squelcher; the incentive
of genius. In a word, the beginning and end of all
things in this world of llttls atomiei 11 this Aus-
tral social mill we have no leisure-class; the happy
idlers go elsewhere to enrich other lands with
their wealth, and only return to gather more gold
and grumble at our inartistic, uulntellectual, joy-
less, laborious days. But another and a brighter
day has dawned for us, and no linger shall we
oaqse to groan over a parsimonious vice-
royalty paring the eheeae and weighing the soap;
whose existence was kept before us solely by Its ;
Impecunious difficulties and economical vagaries.
Let us hope that, having escaped the Scylla of
non-expenditure, we do not fall into the Charybdls
of f jolish extravagance.
At 11 on Friday morning the huge Carthage
steamed slowly up to Farm Cove, gay with bunt-
ing from stem to stern, amid a flotilla of yachts,
launches, and water-going crafts, that saluted
with ringing cheers. For the rest, the viceregal
party were allowed to land quietly and walk to
Government House, where they were met by Sir
Alfred Stephen, and remamed incognito till tfatur-
cay afternoon, no doubt lost In admiration at the
unique taste that had beautified their new homel
Have you yet heard the number and names of the
distinguished strangers ? It Is not an easy matter,
as no two lists quite coincide. Lord and Lady
Carlngton are accompanied by their three pretty
little daughters—Majorle, Alexandra, and Kuby,
the Hon, Judith Harbord, Lady Carington s sister,
Captain Gascoigne (principal aide-de-camp), Lord
Bertie (pronounced “ Kartle ” lor the edification
of your rusticity), Mr. Terry and Mr. Leigh (extra
aldes-de-ctmp), Mr. B. W. Wallicgton, Private
Secretary, and domestics without end. Are you
auenurant? Then to proceed. Oa Saturday there
was more bunting, more aquatic evolutions off
the Gardens; ash-re, the mustering of Lancers,
the martial sound of distant band?, the gleaming
of red and blu j coats. As they marched through
the streets in serried ran* and file, the fast gather-
ing crowd that thronged tne Quay and streets at
every vantage point-the ships black with sight-
seekers, the small ferry boats, and finally the vice-
regal salute, which told us Lord Carlngton was
about to make his official entry as the Queen’s re-
presentative. In a few minutes the Nea was seen
steering a rapid course through the narrow channel
of men-of-war boats, which manned their oars and
dipped their flags in salute as the beautiful little
steam yacht cleft its way to the Princes Stairs.
We could e»sl)y distinguish Lord Carington in the
handsome Privy Council dress of blue and gold,
and cocked hat, as he walked from side to side
bowlngfhls acknowledgment.to the ringing cheers.
Lady Carlngton and Miss Harbord were In per-
fectly-fitting Ivory-wnite costumes from their
dresses to their veils, and the aides-de-camp in
brilliant red uniforms. Arrived at the steps, the
Mayor, in civic purple robe, welcomed Lord Car-
lngton with a meroifully-short address—conveyed
the vice-regal party across the stage to the land-
ing, where two small children presented Lady
Carlngton and Miss Harbord with lovely bouquets
tied with long pale-blue streamers. For which
pretty gift they were rewarded by Lord Carlngton
with a kiss apiece (happy little maidens!) In a few
minutes we saw Mr. Dlbbs (the Premier) hand her
ladyship Into her carriage, which, I quite forgot
to tell you, was what most interested ug before
the arrival of the dramatis personae. The open
barouche was drawn by four spanking bays with
a postdion on each near-side horse, and two foot-
men in the rumble 1 Such a sight Sydney has
never before seen—unless, perhaps, In the days
when George the Fourth was King.
The procession of Lancers, mounted police,
military, and civic dignitaries made up a very im-
posing picture. Lady Carington was showered
with bouquets that came falling upon her In a
perfect flower-storm until the carriage was nearly
tilled with them. She Is exceedingly pretty, with
a bright winning smile and geutle manner, and
looked, as did her husband, as If she heartily
entered into the spirit of the o ration. At Govern-
ment House the hall was thronged with rffleia's,
and a few ladies were privileged to stand on the
stairs to watch the swearing-in process, and be In-
troduced afterwards. Among tbem were Ljdy
Stephen, Miss Stephen, Lady Hay, Lady Mannlog,
Miss Manning, Lady Stuart, Mrs. Barry, and Mrs.
Barton.
We are all privately wondering what sort of a
coterie the Caringtons will, by and bye, sift out of
our society for their special delectation, to the
envy, hatred, and malice of the not-ohosen. It Is
a foregone conclusion that youth and bright
spirits will have a good show for the front, but
what sort of headway will hpr Ladyship make
against the dignified, dull respectability, that
rears its head in crushing slleuce over the fast,
slangy section that carries the day by mere force
of cheek? If she uses the tact with which she Is
credited to a clear course between the two
antagonisms, and raise up a third party from the
cream of both, happy shall we be, and gratelul
beyond words to find this abominable syttem or
cliques has had Us death-kntli. But, if these
stolid paragons of virtue blunderingly set up the
back of her little ladyship, It strikes me they will
cry peccavi In vain.
There will bo a sound of weeping and gnashing
of teeth whtm It la known that of all the brilliant
suite only two are dancing men. Men and
women don't educate their heels at the ex-
pense of their heads “at home” to the same extent
as they do here. It is quite possible to be an accom-
p ished rational being without knowing In the
least tho delicate Intricacies of a quadrille, or
enjoying the liquid motions of the massy waits on
a hot summer night. In fact, it's not even con-
sidered a cardinal crime to admit you can’t Cancel
Here’s a “ wrinkle” for your dress-maker. Lady
Carington always dresses in simple gowns per-
fectly flttin-g; and nearly all her bodices are made
la the Nortolk-jacket style, no matter what the
material.
Lord Carlngton held his first levde on Monday
afternoon, when there was a tremendous crush—
It is said nearly 2000 gentlemen must have been
present, and the crush was so great that hats were
best left at home. Among the loyal subjects of
Her Gracious Majesty who hastened to protest
their allegiance wore a nigger and several China-
men.
During Sir Alfred Stephen's tenure of office as
Lieutenant-Governor, he and Lady Stephen have
had weekly Saturday water excursions, using the
Government House launch for the purpose. On
the last Saturday (5th Deo ), quite a large number
cf friends, about 40, were invited to test the
powers of the new Government, launch—the Car-
ingtou. All went well till off Watson’s Bay, when
the engines broke down, and a great alarm n-
sued, iest the boilers might be considering the ad-
visability of bursting However, nothing more
serious eventuated, so alter loafing in a casual
way for about threw hours off Middle Harbour the
Carington was befriended by a passing tug and
Ignomlnloufly towed back to 8ydn« y 1
Lady Stephen held her lust Reception on Tues-
day, December 8th, between 3 and 6 o’clock.
It was very crowded, with a fair show of the elite
of Sydney, as well as all sorts and conditions of
men and women. The day was Intensely not, with
a burning hot wind blowing, and the air made
more oppressive by a (■term that would not brew
properly, consequently t\u demand for lees and
mica like cooling deleotables rose to a premium.
Government House wai in a state of contusion
past description—it seemed quite Impossible that
things c mid bs got stra gat by Friday. The ball-
ro un filled with furniture, a scaffold! rg over the
archway, furnlturt-vaus depositing spring-beds at
the large entrance ; altogether the scone was
cuarmlngly suggestive of a happy picnic time
for Lord and Carlngton I We were
given to understand that the Reception
ro iras had been put into fresh garments In honour
of tue new comers. We fervently hoped such was
not th« case, though there Is every reason to
believe that truth is stranger than fiction in this
case, and we can on y the more commiserate tho
unhappy victims. Imagine your feelings if you
hai to live, move, aria think in a room wh< s«
entire, s )ia->, and ottomans are covered with huge
Isolated bunches of abnormal red rosts on a wmta
chintz gr and; the cupel deep red, and The cur-
tains crimson damask, with the thermometer ».t
b.Bzing p.ilnt, as it was on Tuesday. They win
cone u e tbs Fiend Incarnate has formed him-
self Into a committee of -vays and means for ti e
uouo i We dee ,iy sympathise with Lady Caring-
tor, especially as this room does not carry off the
palm for distinguished bad taste f It Is ueces aiy
to Interview the upstairs room to appreciate pro-
perly the thoughtful care and excellent Judgment
that has so freshly garnished the old house. We
must count much upon her ladyship’s charitable
disposition, and trust that she has provided against
such emergencies, and will evolve something
more artistic out of the inner consciousness of
that 140 tons of furniture which comes with them.
For ourselves, I am truly sorry that Lady Caring-
ton’s first impressions of the colony should be
coloured by that chintz. But to return to tne
reception. It was very pleasant. Sir Alfred and
Lady Stephen, with their three daughters, moved
hither and thither with cordial greetings and
pleasant remarks for all, so hat one felt the genial
influence everywhere. There was nothing special
to remark about the outer habiliments of the
assemblage; as a whole, it was brilliant in colour-
ing, various in design, overpowering in concep-
tion, painful in administration, and occasionally
outrageous in taste. Of course, there were many
charming exceptions, but, as a rule, quietness
bordering upon the shabby or extreme gorgeous-
ness caught the eye. But, what would you? Many
men, many minds. Among the guests were Sir
Alexander and Lady Stuart, Sir Edward Strick-
land, Lady Martin, mo Misses Martin, Lady Man-
ning, General Field, Hon. B, Knox, Mrs. and the
Misses Knox, Hon. J. B. Watt, Miss Watt, Hon. J.
Norton, Mrs. and Miss Norton, Mrs. Laldley, Cap-
tain Brooke (H.M.S. Opal), Captain Paul (tt. 4 >.),
Captain Hosayns (H.M S. Myrmidon), Lieu-
tenant-Colonel Alrey, Mr. Alrey, Mrs. Mac-
kenzie, Mrs. Flood, Major and Mrs. -.lavage,
Mr. C. Kolleston, Mrs. and Mies M’Farlaud,
Mrs. Koach, ihe Misses Gore, Mrs. O’Brien,
Mrs. and Mias 8. A. Stephen, Mr. and Mrs. Garran,
Mrs. and Miss Salomons, Mr. and Mrs. Hewlett,
Mrs. Donkin, the Misses Busby, Mrs. T. Robertson,
Mrs. Bouverie, Mr. and Mrs. Deffell, Mrs. C. Det-
fell, Mrs. Murray, Mrs. Walter Lamb, Mrs. Mac-
kay, Miss Graham, Mrs. A. Mac Arthur, Miss Enid
MaoArthur, Mrs. Eustace Smith, Mrs. Leigh Lord,
Mr, and Mrs. W. Campbell, Mr. and Mrs. Augustus
Morris, Mrs. Gilles, Mrs. i'rickett, Mrs. Daynan,
Mrs. Harold MacLean, Mrs. Sydney Want, Mr. and
Mis. G. North Ash, Mr. and Mrs. Ralfe, Mr. and
Miss Wluueyer, Dr. Manning, Dr. Ellis, Dr. Jen-
kins, Mr. A. Dowling, Mr. M. Campbell, Mr, W,
Watt, Mr. F. Orr, Mr. Oliff, Mr. Weston, &o , &o.
Sir Alfred and Lady Stephen held a very in-
teresting juvenile reception on Monday, 7th, at
Government House. About 50 children were
present, most of whom were grandchildren and
connections of the vivacious octogenarian.
CORRA LYNN.
P.8.—I told you of the distant effect of Lady
Oarlrgton’s drees. Now you shall hear what a
nearer view proved. Lady Carington wore ivory-
white China silk, with oaehtnere jacket made
Zouave-fashion, with a lull front of the silk
trimmed with rich Indian embroidery, and caught
in at the waist by clasps, and losing itself In
drapery towards the bottom of the skirt. The
bonnet was transparent, fitting close to the head,
and trimmed very high with bows of ivory ribbon,
fastened with diamond pics Tan gants ae Suede.
Hon. Judlrn Harbord, in ivory muslin trimmed
with embroidery, and made decidedly bouffant;
high transparent hat of Ivory, with a brilliant
peacock-coloured bird. Both ladies carried Ivory
parasols. It was aa imp sing sight to see the
Acting-Governor, Sir Alfred Stephen, conducting
Lady Carlegton up the hall, while the Chief Jus-
tice and Judges, in scarlet robes, stood at the
table at the toot of the stairs to receive Lord
Oarlngton, who followed with his aides-de-camp.
Writes a far Northern correspondent:—
“Captain Bverlll, leader of the late New Guine
expedition, says that the Fly River rises close t
the north coast of the island. Does it? I
source, I should think, must be somewhere in th
very centre of the broadoft portion of the islanc
otherwise, where do the rlveis come from dis
covered by Finsoh in Astrolabe Bay and the Gu
of Huon ? ”
Strange things sometimes happen t
people in up-ooumry districts in Na.w. Whll
some your g men were returning: irom Binalon
to Burrowu recently they observed » smalt re
object protruding: irom the dust on the roac
“ Snaths!” said one; “ Triantllopesl” said another
One boldly dismounted, cleared away the dust, anc
discovered a huma being, just alive, on the broat
of his back, the ftoeiy-tmted apex of his nose
being the cause of bis discovery. After dusting him
thoroughly and applying wnisky quant,, guff, in
terually, tne " being" revived, and, by the applioa
tlon of still more of that precious fluid (whic
travellers should never be without;, recovers
consciousness. He announced that he hsdtumbl.
from the back seat of a buggy while being: driven
by a couple of friends to Burrowa, the dust on the
road having: completely buried him. The two
friends were “disputatlng a bit’’ as to whethe
Tom Slattery would, or would not, be able to
“siither-siather the lot of ’em into voting fo
Dibbs and a branch line to Burrowa,” and tailed to
observe their friend’s sudden disappearance. Since
this became locally known, all the "dead-boats’
and “whalers” in the district, whenever they hear
strangers approaching, roll themselves up in the
roadway and cover themselves with dust.
RECENT POETRY.
It is from the Sydney Echo this time, and
comes to us in the shape of poetry. It tells bow
a small boy Jay dying, and how bis toys and pets
and playmates were brought to his bedside. One
of the playmates, named “Jim,” seems to have
been a hardened young scoundrel, for the poet
says:—
“ ’Twas longer and harder to deal with Jim—
The child grew grave as he lookvd at him,
For he thought to himself ‘ he bets and swears
And I hardly believe that he says his prayers.”
But does the dying lad despair of relaiming this
scoffer ? Far irom it. He goes at once to the
root of the matter:—
“ Oh Jim, dear Jim, if you do such things
You’ll never be dressed in a harp and wings;
He talked to the boy as a father should.
And begged him hard to be grave and good.”
At first Jim appears to have put on an air of
bravado—tried to brezen the matter out, possibly
let off some mild profanity or expressed in a rough
way a preference for the conventional jacket and
trousers over a “ harp and wings,” seeing that he
could not play the one and would probably break
his neck if he tried to us-t the other. But his
better nature re-asserts Itself, lor we learn that—
" The lad lounged out with a brszen air
And whistled derisively down me stair:
But they found him hid In the hole lor coal,
Sobbing and praying in grief of soul.”
It is a curious fact that the more derisively a lad
whistles, the nearer he is lo conversion. '1 nereis
no better sign than to bear an intemperate hod-
man whistle insultingly as the Salva ion Army
marches by. It is not so long since wo ourselves
cocked a derisive lip when we observed the tam-
bourines turning tne corner. But you should
hear us now letting out from the worst end of the
repentant form. Still there is on« tolng in the
last verse that puzzles us—why Jim swaggered
Into the “ hole tor coal ” to weep. It is
difficult to divest oneself of the suspicion that
he was “ run in ” lor the manner in which he left
the Sick chamber. But »e must hasten on. The
boy s kittens, dogs, and Noah’s a ik, w» re fetched
to nis hedstde, and then “ Punch ” was brought in.
From the following verse it would seem as if the
latter was a donkey, not the murderous person
who unfeelingly smashes bis wife’s head, and pur-
sues the hangman with cruel vindictiveness:—
“ His mother he bade, with tearful cheek,
Give Hunch his carrot three days a week,
With lettuoe-ieaves on a cautious plan,
And only just moisten bis daily bran.”
We have given enough of this powerful poem to
show that day by day Australian poesy is reaching
a higher level-b c ming more thoughtful and
graceful. If the Echo will only continue to de-
vote its pages to verses like the foregoing, Austra-
lia will very soon make a n»me lor Itself In one qJC
the most delightful of the Arts.
A lawsuit even more absurd than that
fS t | r Sydney lust week by the Bourke
W. ) doctor against ttie local editor is men-
tioned in a Russian paper. A wealthy lady at her
death placed her pet dog Gypsy In the hands of a
triend, with the request, to, provide lor her with
the annual interest on 1000 roubles, sei aside for
pu £ f l.?* e , 1 “ der wi)1 - The other day Gypsy
wdo h » d cuarge of her took ft
*°JT ?J ant , e< i that tte money was now her own.
dy ’ how ?^‘ r - appeared on the scene,
who owned a son of Gypsy, and who claimed that
h n e «« d^f^ a8 be,r t( L t ? e income of 1000 roubles,
?L DC^? otb iD , g waB 8aid la the testament regarding
Gyp8y 8POaal 0t th * 8 money hlt,er the death or
The proposal to form a Scottish Rifle
Corps in aydney and the fact that a strong opinion
i?/ x1> i a 5 8t,d lu lav ° ur ot tde ki.tsas being con-
sidered by many the only true garb for Bootoh-
fP fe Pn^ eraD n 8 Vn of a , 8 S. ene 0D a 1'ttle racecourse*
la the small village of Tfabulam. N B.W. a loyal*
son of Caledonia, stern and wild, put in an appear*-
® ox * n K Day mounted on a steed eff
doubtful mottle, as uncertain la his movements tur
the national flower—the bonny thistle—which no
wise man will ever sit upon with any degree of
safety. Tonald was clad in " the klltr,’ - and allowed
he loi kit real Draw.” To his side rode u
“ al , w ° un d. tot wholly wmed, native, and lilting
the kilt, wnlcn floated round the saddle like a
ballet dancer's costume, te dropped the whip
P c i?i! 8 i. th P thickest end ol the Scot, exclaiming.,
vvhat the ——- are you doin’ here without ytr
trousis on, and wimmiu' abou>, too; go home, you
lo * —- dogl ’ ana wheeling nisnag he •• yo-hooa ”
a “ d “Ljer the wearer ot the snort coals
and chased him off the course.
We have frequently endeavoured In a.
submissive ana reverential way to suggest that;
tb P- P aw system of j\ew Bourn Wales
which is as great a disgrace to the men who’*
fP le fPo te 11 aa L> i tb i? {rcDlu8tJM w ho aie answerable
for Its present thape, should be swept out of
existence, and something reasonable substituted
The criminal code ia only tic lor a community ot
convicts anu clergj men. Heie is a specimen of
the way justice Is aumlnlsten d. A man named J .
-x. Gibsou was last week found guilty ot forglmr
an order and was remanded lor sentence. Next
day tne man whose name was alleged to have Demi
h„ri g a e , d n“A' j P ‘° rw . hra a 2* d provtd tp at he nimseit
had signed tne order. Tnus the erst criminal was
left without a stain on his character.” But the*
Jaw would not allow this. The Innocentman
with the conviction still recorded against him, was’
d sonar/ed on his own recogmsmces to appear for
judument uhen called upon, the Judge, with won-
drous sagacity, remaralng that it tne Jury had
nrnham 8 addlt f° nal evidence before them, they
probably would not have found him guilty
strangely enough, when an lr nocent man Is con-
victPd of crime, there is noming said about «
uiiscarriatte ot justice; * but let a man, whom
K * * uld 0 ‘mvlor, bo released by the Jury™-
verdiut, and tne walls ol tae court will ring with
lue uorsehalr-wiggea functionary's denunciation
of tie jurymen employed on the case. And the*
worst ot It Is that the dally icwspapers, which*
ad re corstrn .■ t amu i.ij, n u mailer how con—
iuVi.r*obiy lane up the Ju ge s jowl.
THE GRATEFUL BOY.
A CHRISTMAS STORY.
Such a ragged little boy he was. The sort of
urchin whose weazened form directly appeals to
your sympathy—through the holes in his clothes—
and immediately Alls :your mind with dark mis-
givings as to the sufficiency of the local water
supply. He was leaning up against a post in
street, in a restless, uneasy sort of way, suggestive
of there being strange secrets circulating between
him and the post. But what need to dwell upon a
picture so familiar to all who make Insect life
their study ?
It was Christmas morning—warm, brilliant, and
tolerably early morning—and we were taking a
pre-breakfaat ramble, when our eyes encountered
that boy. As the bright sunrays fell athwart him
and his perforated garments (very few fell athwart
the “ togs ”) our heart grew sore for thinking how,
in t'<ie glad season of peace and plenty, there could
still be so much nakedness in the land. The boy
must have heard our incidental sigh, for, after one
hasty, piteous glance, the poor waif hung down
his head as though to hide his face. The effort
was successful, In so far that his face became at
once tne most secluded portion of his personal ap-
pearance. Then we observed a number of wet
spots upon the pavement at the boy’s feet
indicating a sudden flood of childish tears.
At any other season of the year, or In any
less charitable frame of mind, we might possibly
have mistrusted those—in the words of Lady Mac-
beth—“ d—*—d spots. **
But the boy 8 pathetic attitude was convincing#
The expectoration theory was not to be enter-
tained. “ Here,’’mused we, " is a suitable object
for Christmas charity.” We had been reading
“ A Christmas Carol” overnight. Presently the
boy raised a grimy arm to his downcast face, and
sobbed as only a grief-stricken boy can seb.
“ Poor U fc tle beggarl” we murmured, and walked
across to the post. We didn’t touch him—there
are bounds at which even Christian good-will
pulls up short. But we inquired why he wept.
“ This is Christmas Day, ain’t It, guv.? ’»
“ Yes, my little man.”
The boy’s evident acquaintance with the origin
of our faith gave him fresh claims to our sym-
pathy.
“ Most ’as a square meal on Christmas Day,
don’t they, guv.? •*
** Yes, my man—why do you ask ? ”
“Nothink, guv., only I was thlnkin’ of me and
mother”
At the mention of his mother’s name the boy
rubbed against the post with emotion.
‘‘ Won't you have a meal then ? ”
No-o, iiuv. Not unlesss I eat mother.”
We aie kot richly endowed with this world’s
goods, but we lelt tola to be a case calling for a
We thought of how tne*peoplo
in Charles Dickens stories loved to behave on
Christmas morning, and our Ungers involuntarily
sought a bait-crown.
“ Here, my lad, hold out your hand, and let me
drop something in.”
Not a my riad of Dickens’s would have induced
f * t0 ™l UtCh th® boy’s outstretched Hand, as we
crown m < f° | 80 we dropped the naif-
gli‘^?ani yer hia< lly-a merry Christmas to yer,
Christmas to you, my lad, and many
Glowing with the consciousness of having made
?h !*£“? h ? ppy th “| dt *y- we strolled slowly up
* de . feeling, for all the world, like a re-
claimed Scrooge. A. hand pulling gently at our
coat, brougot us sharp round, and face to face
with our little friend.
* ay,KUV- ” “Well, young one?” “ One good'
another, if ytr see any otuer boys*
agin posts, don t give em nothink. f don’t like to*
see real good arted gents imposed upon—Cnrlat-
mas-time and all. Yer seu 1 ain’t ungrateful, guv.,
it l did nave yer. ° •
Like one in a droam we watched him once more
taae up his position against the post, and drop bis
head in counterfeited woe as another likely
mark loomed in sight. y


TWO ANGELS.
A FAIRY TALE OF CHRISTMAS.
LBy Several of Us.]
We don’t believe you’ll like this story a bit. There
is nothing sentimental about it; nothing about
the widow, who, on Christmas Bve, Is seated in
her cottage (scrupulously clean) reading Isaiah
out of a time-payment Bible to her three beauti-
ful children, poorly clad, alas! (but scrupulously
clean). That widow does not say, in our story,
drawing her children towards nor: “It is just
throe years since your brother William went to
sea. AlasI dear little ones"—here she drew a
handkerchief from her pocket (of coarse texture,
but a 180, of course, scrupulously clean)—" I fear
he has perished in the circumambient billows."
In our story no “ springy footstep Is heard on the
threshold" and no bronzed-faced sailor bounds in
and cries “Mother I” and clasps her in his arms.
And wu will take thundering good care also that
In our tale no one weeps! for joy and falls down
on the hearthrug to engage in silent prayer! No
sailor, In our little yarn, shall pull out a big bag of
gold, and, laying It at her feet, cry: “ Mother, be
poor no longer—this Is all for you,” and rising
nand round a shark’s tooth to the rest of the
family.
No; and that’s why, somehow, we don’t think
you’ll like this story.
We don’t believe sailors lever come home like
that except at the theatre. We are, Indeed, con-
scientious on the subject of this feeble style of
narrative, and deprecate it, on the ground that It
is calculated to mislead the publio. Now, If the
"sailor’s return” business were given In the follow-
ing style there might, we consider, be some sense
In it, and a moral would certainly be sharply
pointed. The best way, we consider, will be to
cast the subject in a dramatic form.
THE SAILOR’S RETURN.
ROMANTIC DRAMA IN ONE ACT.
Scene:
Cottage of Widow Boozer in. Woolloomonloo. Every-
thing in the interior unscrupulously dirty.
Widow discovered nodding in her chair. Enter
Henry Boozer (her son ) abruptly, with jug.
Hen. it’s no good, mother. Ho says you can’t
•* bite his ear" for no more liquor.
Soon as I strike ’em, you collar your whack of the
plunder.” He kissed me then, and went straight
over to the nubllo-house; and (weeps) lalat'seen
him since. I never got no letter, and I never get
no ingots.
t Footsteps without. The bandplay a " hurru .” when
enter Wdlum at f ull speed through the door.]
Wjd. On, Wlllum!
Will Cheese It, mother. Hide me in the cup-
board, I’m wanted for a watch!
Tableau and Curtain.
This, we submit, Is a niece of realism, yet, no
doubt, there are people who would prefer the other
version of this popular legend. The fact Is, aU the
world isn’t honest. It all pretends to like Christ-
mas Merry Christmas! It makes a feint of being
hearty when you meet It In the street, and babbles
of the wattle-gold that blooms out here, and of
the snow that “coruscates” at home. It seizes
you by the hand, and says, “Come and have a
drink." You answer, “No thanks; I’ve just had
one.” On this It adds inanely, “ Then have
another,” and you go off writhing with
anguish.
And a Christmas dinner—a real family Christmas
dinner. What a pitiful mockery that Is—what a
feeble farce! There is “ma” In a flurry, and
"pa” In a stiff white waistcoast; and of course
there's gramma, in a condition of ineffable dig-
nity—and there s granpa in a state of senile decay.
All this diorepit octogenarian can do is to nod
his head at all sorts of unexpected times, and
chirrup to the host—"Yes. William; right William;
you are right, William, ho, ho; ” and Is generally
such feeble company, that all the other guests
thirst la their hearts to lift bis other foot Into
the grave, and so make an end of him. “ Gramma ”
is pretty stiff, we tell you. and hates the other
gramma, a wizened widow, with a hate scarcely
ever known off the stage. Then there’s Uncle
Ned, Uncle Ned is a man, take him all la all, who
ought to be killed with something blunt. He is of
the jovial kind, and oracks his jokes continually;
he also, confound him, sings a song about a cer-
tain Maria who
" Ran away with a solger,
Who e-lo-ped with a solger,
It was pretty hard when she hooked it with a
guard
And left me forlorn for a solger!”
first time we read a recipe for plum-pudding was
on a Christmas Eve, years ago. We passed
sleepless night, and, when Christmas came,
we rode out to a tavern in Hlghgate,
aid dined on a mutton-chop, some sherry
and seltzer, and the cheese; looking down on
London the white, and chuckling to think how
bilious and bad-temnered it would feel by and bye.
Do you remember the dinner at Todgers’s ? Well,
this bauquet was the very counterpart of it, with-
out Its joviality. Let us see wnat they had now,
at Mrs lodgers s. They had “ flsn,” against par-
taking whereof Bailey had spectrally warned the
Miss Pecksniffs over night, a pair of fowls—" not
skinny ones-oh, no I" and . . . "boiled beef,
roast veal, bacon, pies, and abundance of such
heavy vegetables as are tavourably known to
housekeepers for their satisfying qualities. Be-
s des whlon, there were bottles of stout, bottles of
wine, botties of ale; and divers other strong
drinks, native and foreign. , . . The dessert
was splendid. No waiting either. The pudding-
places had Dean washed in a little tub outside the
door while cheese was on, and though they were
moist and warm with friction, still there they were
again—up to the mark, and true to time. Quarts
of almonds, dozens of oranges, pounds of raisins,
stacks of bifBas, soup-plates fail of nuts.” They
eat of all tnese things at this Christmas dinner
until they became greasy with repietion and pel-
ueose with Indigestion. Tney had nearly all par-
taken of goose, too—who, to his pleoeian
cnara iter, had oeen kept aloof on the side-board,
the gardenor-ln-waltlng naving Instructions to
wnisper to each guest: “There is a nice young
goose, sir. If ” when ne Immediately received a
large order for sage and onions. But after the
dinner—after they had partaken of all these things
what abject creatures they werel Uncle Parker
trusted that the peace of the neighbourhood was
not going to be uiscurbed by well-meant but de-
cidedly Inharmonious attempts at vocalisation,
which drew forth a retort from Uncle Ned that he
trusted no one was going to scrape gloom off a
“ two-ten’’ violoncello, and again spoil the draw-
ing-room carpet with hla d 1 rosin. Uncle
Parker then took himself off, and the maternal
" Gramma” caliedUncle Ned *• a brute.” (The only
{fleasant Incident lu tne proceedings, as all the re-
atlons went severally their savage way, was when
the host, who bad been inwardly praying tnat^bls
foundation oould generally be traced to the two-
penny beer bar. He grew savage In his conversion.
and discarding Bob Cratohlt’s speeches altogether,
would drag Jed. Into secluded parts of the front
olfioe, and s&y (with Scrooge): —
"Merrv Christmas I Out upon merry Christmas 1
What’s Christmas-time to you but a time for pay-
ing bills without money; a time for finding your-
self a year older, and not an hour richer; a time
for balancing your books, and having every Item
In ’em through a round dozen of months presented
dead against you ? If I could work my will . . .
every idiot who goes about with ‘ derry Christmas’
on his lips should be boiled with his own pudding,
and burled with a stake of holly through his
heart. He should I”
The severe spirits in which the boy took his con-
version told upon his apple-cheeks. Their roseate
colour faded, and they fined down considerably.
After a month his face had a parchment hue, and
his eye an unholy glare. We congratulated him
upon this happy change, assuring him he was now
on the fair road to fame; for, wo pointed out,
look at the standard description of any poet,
actor, or philosopher. It Is always this;—" In ap-
pearance his face was sallow and drawn, but there
was a world of genius reflected In the wondrous
brightness of his large dark eye.” One day his
father called round (the lad having elected to lie
in bed that day and spurn the world), and said he
had noticed some change la his boy since he had
been in our employ. He had grown cautious and
reserved, and the savage way in which he bit at
ms Dread and butter, at meal times, was a source
of anxiety, generally, to the family. Rethought,
all things considered, that . We said certainly;
and explained to the aged father that our time
was too valuable ti bother about boys.
Tnls completely crumpled up the aged
father, who walked out and up the street like a
man In an unpleasant dream.
This Is rather a long introduction to a short
story, ladles and gentlemen—but we must eat.
Now for It. But we know you won’t like it. At
this festive season, a plethora of goose will have
turned your brains, and thus the spirit of appre-
ciation will be temporarily damped. Talking of
geese, we have three In our yarn at the present
moment, and owing to the ferocious character of
their deportment, they are masters of the situa-
tion. Everybody comes in at the front door now
Sketches by the Man Who Tried to Find a Seat in Sydney Domain.
"Win. The willin’I Never mind. When It’s
dark, Henery, you take and heave a stone through
his winder. (Looking round) Where’s them kids 7
If they don’t come In out of the gutter won t they
cop a spanking I
t Enter tivo children hastily, one with dead kitten
and one with an old boot 1
Both. Here wo Is, mother.
[ Widow spanks children all round ]
Win. You young devils, I’ll warm you. You’ve
busted the toes out of your new boots already.
Here you. Henery, shut the door and light the
bloomin’ din.
[ Henry lights candle on blacking bottle to slow
music.1
Win. Well, this is gay, this 1«. Here’s a poor
wldder woman with a tongue on her like a number
8 saw without a deener In her kick this here blessed
Christmas «ve. Someone’s dumb over the fence and
stole the bloomin’ goose, and there ain’t enough
wood in the yard to boll a sheep’s trotter. Here’s
my old man dead three years ago this very last
October
Hen. I never seed father, mother, did I ?
Win. No; and you didn’t lose much, neither.
He was the most hngerly man you every struck.
Hen. What was he, mother ?
Win. He was a volunteer fireman, my son.
Hen. But what did he work at I
Win. (disgusted.) Nothun. As If a man need
work at anything when he’s a volunteer fireman.
Ah I (sighing) he was a greedy man, Henerv. and
that’s what busted him. There was (much affected)
a fire at a grocery. " Mother," sez ho, as he was a
buckling on his haxe, "give us the bottle and the
bag. It s a cornin' on Christmas time, so I’ll fetch
’ome some candy-peel In my helmet." (Weeps.)
Well, son, he goes to the blessed fire, and suddenly
he sez to the capting. " I think I nears a wolc» In-
side,’' and drawing his haxe, la ne goes. While he
was a fillin’ of his bottle, and a loadin' of his self
up with rum, a beam comes a failin’ down, and
busts a klg o’ gunpowder that was near the rum
cask. I never knowed it till two hour arter, when
they brings a bit of him la a sardene tin for me to
look at. What a turn It give me I
Hen. How long has Wlllum been away, mother ?
•*Win. Three year this here blessed night. He
come In afore he went, and he sez— *’ Mother,
give me two hob, and put my duds up m a hanker-
<sher, I’m a gVn’ to the lauu wuoro the Ingots Is.
And when encored, which he always Is by a beastly
boy for whom hemp-seed has long been sown, ho
gives a sentimental ballad, commencing—
“ Behind the fleecy clouds of gold
The red sun slowly sank;
When lo, I met my love of old
Upon the river bank.”
Chorus—
“ Upon the reevur ba-hank,
Uoon the rover bor-hank
I met my love, I met my love
Upon the rlvah bank."
"Uncle Parker, the other uncle (maternal side),
being something of a musician, strongly objected
to these vocal exercises,: and, on tno company
assembling in the drawing-room before dinner,
had audibly expressed a wish that this year they’d
he treated to none of that "dam bawlin’." Uncle
Parker was In the Civil Service, ana when invited
oat. either " humped ” a violin, or else sent a vio-
loncello, looked In an enormous coffin, on before
him In a cab. The " little musio ” he brought, ne
carried under his arm in a Russia (or Duhoo)
leather case, profusely emblazoned with various
gold lettering, which set forth that Septimus
Parker was K. A.M of somewnere—probably Jam-
beroo. Ho played nothing but classical music,
and never left a house but ne waded home knee-
deep In curses. H)a piece de resistance was a fan-
tasia on Wagner’s " Nlebelung King," which played
just three quarters of au hour. After 10 minutes
of it. people used to break things, do imitations of
the denizens of the farm-yard, give alarms of Are
—but all to no purpose. Replayed on. His soul,
he said, was lu the music. The children were
there, of course, four of them. Including the
beastly hoy. They were horrid children. Three
little girls, with r«d heads and vacant counte-
nances, who were continually babbling (they went
to Public School), "It’s Cnrlstmas Day, Uncle
Parker; look at the oily and the mistletoes;”
whereupon Uncle P. would reply, drily, "So you
said before, my dear, hum; so you said before;”
and temporarily paralyze the juvenile contingent.
The dinner-horror I—one grisly bath of pungent
vapours. It was a dinner whose common-place
aspect rendered It hideous. There was turkey, of
course—boiled turkey-and there was also thit
annual Britrib Insult—the plum, pudding. Tae
guests would choke themselves with every wal-
nut they cracked, arose, and soundly spanked
the beastly boy for pocketing the almonds and
raisins.
Hollow, very hollow, all this, Is it not ? Well, as
Mr. Sparkler used to Bay, there's no “ blgodd non-
sense" about us. When we think a thing we don’t
dissimulate. We lay It straight out before the
world, and religiously charge sixpence for It. And
we do our best, too. to convert those around us to
our condition of thinking. An nnple-laced boy
onoe was engaged at this office, who came, near
Christmas time, with his heart full of robust
thoughts of Christmas, and appeared, as the beau-
tiful day grow nearer, to have exchanged his brains
for sage and onions. He was a student of Dickons
In bis little tin-pot way, and knew the Christmas
Carol off by heart. We had at that time a cashier
of the name of Jeddediah, who was an ardent and
most enthusiastic unbeliever In everythin* except
fisting his share of the office " loot’’ on S iturdar.
'Veil, this bey so preyed on him with his gorgeous
joviality that Jed. wai within an ace of falling.
Che boy would recite this daily in a far corner of
the fish-shop, while Jed was artistically packing
awav slabs of black fish:—
“ Oh, a wonderful ouddlngl Bob Cratchlt said,
and calmly, too, that he regarded It as the greatest
success achieved by Mrs. Cratchlt since their mar-
riage. Mrs. Cratchlt said that, now the weight
was off her mind, she would confess she had her
doubts about the quantity of flour. Everybody
had something to say about It, but nobody said or
thought it was at all a small pudding for a large
family. It would have been flat heresy to do so.
Any Cratchlt would have blushed to hint at such a
thing.”
We got hold of that hoy. We flattered him
about his handwriting till he was half out of his
senses with delight; we gave him orders for the
circus, where we saw him one night holding his
girl’s hand, under cover of her dolman; and we
put him on the free list for the wax-works. There
we commenced to mould him to our cast-iron will.
We moulded him so successfully that before long
he laughed Christmas to scorn. We got him to
grant that Bob was only a poor vulgar creature,
who, when once a year he caused a goose to be
butchered, made it a ttoman holiday. We pointed
out to him that this hearty Jovialr.v when on, or
nea ing the 255h of December was ail bosh, and its
and the wear and tear of the landlady’s oil-cloth la
terrific.
Attention, Messieurs et dames,
Henry Junk* may be written down as a hope-
less case. He was tno kind of man who irot up la
the morainic barking at the sun, and went to bed
at night spitting? at the stars. He was a tall fellow
with a hollow onest and an eye that was almost in-
variably glazed, but when it was not glazed was a
wanderer. His features wore regular, but the
same cannot be said for his blotches, which ara-
beeqned his countenance In a decidedly eccentric
manner. His "address" was abject. No police
court reporter could have dubbed him as of
‘ Keotiemanlv appearance ” if he entertained even
the dimmest hopes of a heavenly future Black
was the ipolour he elected for his dress;’but the
action of the atmospheric elements, the drippings
of beer and the droppings of rum, had so operated
upon the dye that his apparel looked twenty dif-
ferent colours. In twenty different lights. His hat
was a study. It had been a smart “ Christy " bell-
to.per once, but bad been so often sat upon, used
aa a pillow in the “ lungs of the city,” and thrown
out after the owner when ejected from public
houses, that it was so bulged and rasped and bat-
tered, so barked and stained and cracked, that it
reaUy looked more like anythin* else than like a
hat. Still he wore it-jauutlly on ithe side of his
head, too; but was debarred from taking it off to
salhte a lady from the fact of its always belntr full
of cheese, biscuits, and green onloBS-dellcacles
furtively gleaned from the counter-lunches of the
city public houses.
It was 4 o’clock on Christmas Eve. and Henrv
Junks walked down King-street, his features
wearing an expression of supreme disgust
Henry bad been various things In this metropolis
since he honoured it. seven years ago. by landing
on his head from one of the Orient boars, acconf-
panfed by his wife and two little daughters Ho
uad oommeneed by being the gentlemanly Went
for a life insurance company, who travelled with
a duly qualified medical gentleman. In a superior
buggy, with instructions to “ bite the ears ” of the
back-blockers for policies. The expedition how
ever. was tar from successful, the ,7 duly qualified”
getting D I s at the first stoppage; a Ji/e of con-
duct which acted so strongly upo i me sympathetic
nerves of Henry that he ecu the assurance


(Martin’s Home and Farm, August,)
“ Hold fast to that which is good.”
In a foot-note on one of our pages we advise
our readers to write to or call on those firms who
advertise in our paper.
By this it is not insinuated that they are the
only reliable houses of their kind in the colony,
but what we mean and say plainly, is that we
know of the reliability of every firm advertising
wiih us, as we are at some trouble to find out that
the firms who advertise, and the goods advertised
are genuine, before we admit them.
We should like to go much further, and expose
and denounce the rubbish which is constantly
being sold by means of false advertisements and
fraudulent testimonials; but the libel law of New
South Wales compels silence where, in many cases,
it would be greatly to the Interests of our people
if the truth could be plainly told.
We have, therefore, only one way of giving
advice—that is, to recommend what we know to
be genuine and good, and regret we cannot de-
nounce that which is worthless and bad.
This being so, we purpose noticing from time to
time such articles as are advertised in our pages;
and, to remove any doubts our readers may have
we ask them to do their part, and, if they have
reason to believe that in any case they do not get
from our advertisers what they were led to expect,
to report such case to us, and we shall have it pro-
perly attended to; and, should a satisfactory ex-
planation not be obtainable, we shall cancel such
advertisement.
Having made this explanation, our readers
be prepared to believe that we are not likely to be
Influenced by any false claims put forward in the
interests of any article or firm; and when we
undertake to say a good word for
ST. JACOBS OIL
our readers can accept what we say, with our
assurance that “ we know of what we speak.”
That
ST. JACOBS OIL
has a place—and that a large place—in relieving
the bodily pains that “ flesh is heir to ” is admitted
the world over; but tnat it will relieve or cure
every pain is absurd.
Our experience with it has been somewhat ex-
tens ive, and we will give a few instances.
We know one gentleman who was so reduced in
strength by long-continued rheumatics that be
despaired of ever again being able to work. That
gentleman is to-day an active man, and if any of
our readers ask him what cured him he will say
at once,
ST. JACOBS OIL.
We know another gentleman who suffered for
two years with an acute pain in the lower back—
the result of catching cold, by being chilled after
active perspiration. That gentleman got almost
instant relief from
ST. JACOBS OIL.
so we say to our readers : It you suffer as elthe
of the above gentlemen did, try
ST. JACOB.
We also know of several instances where the
use of
ST. JACOBS OIL
enabled the users to endure what they will each
state they do not believe they could have accom-
plished bad it not been for this OIL.
A friend of ours, aged 19, and weighing only
8sk. 61b,, completed a journey from Sydney to
Rockhampton, 1306 miles, on a bicycle; and al-
though it would be saying too much to say that
he could not have done this journey without the
assistance of this OIL, yet he does say that the
rubbing down with the OIL after a long day's
ride freshened him up so that the following morn-
ing he did not feel any ill effects from his nrevious
work.
We know two other cyclists who have each done
from 500 to over 1000 miles hard and almost con-
tinuous riding, and both of them used
ST. JACOBS OIL
freely. These two gentlemen are firm friends of
the remedy which assisted them in their per-
formance, and always have a good word for
ST. JACOB.
Whilst this is so, we know of several oases which
have caused complaint.
We know of one gentleman who dressed his
wile's sprained ancle with
ST. JACOBS OIL
in such quantity and in such a way that it acted
worse than a strong mustard plaster, and was
really doing more harm than good. But that was
net the oil s fault; it was the fault of the person
who applied it.
From what we have said above, our readers will
see that we believe in the merits of
ST. JACOBS OIL,
especially in such cases as we have named.
After considerable experience, we do not hesi-
tate to recommend our readers to give
ST. JACOBS OIL A TBIAL,
Oriental Gold
Christmas Gifts!
CHRISTMAS GIFTS
THE
ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
BEG to draw attention to the REDUCED
TRICES of their
Majnikii Jmkj!
OBSERVE PRICE LIST BELOW.
Ladies’ Handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 10s, 16e.
17s 6d, and 20s each
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 4s and 6s per pair
Ladles’ Choice Necklets, 6s each
Ladles’ Choice Necklets, best American Plate, 20s
each
Ladies’ Elegant Bangles, 4s, 6s, and 10s per pair
Choice Lockets, 6s each
Handsome Gem Rings, 4s and 8s 6d each
Wedding and Keeper Rings, In Solid Gold, 7s 6d
each
Ladies’ Handsome Lockets, 10s each
Ladies’ Elegant Crosses, 4s, 6s, and 6s each
Ladles’ Brooch and Barring Sets, from 6s to 16s
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3s fid each
Gents’ O. G. Watches, Hunting, Open-Faced
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 30s each,
warranted 3 years
Ladies’ (same as above.)
tr These watches are made specially to oui
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and Jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully Jewelled, In hunting or open
faced crystal glasses H 0 I
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
Jewelled, and compensation balance .. S6 0 0
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers £4 10 6
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. £5 0 C
The celebrated Waltham Watch, In hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses.. .. £2 15 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance.. .. £4 16 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph, £6 0
Ditto, extra Jewelled, of the highest
grade £6 0 0
Ditto, in hunting oases, compensated and
full Jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £8 10 0
We Import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 36 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle*
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £6
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £10.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 4s
each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Bings, half round buckle
flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck rings
2s 6d each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 3s, 4s, 6s, and 6s 6d per set.
Same as above, only haif sets, Is 6d, 2s, and 3s per
set.
Best American Patent Spring Solitaire Suites,
5s per set.
Gent’s elegant Seals, 4s each.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, 6s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold handsome Scarf Pins, Is,
6d, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s, 4a 6d, 5s, and 5s 6d eao
Very best American Pencil Cases, 2s 6d each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Match Boxes, 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign Purses, 4s each.
Richly engraved Bracelets, 6s each.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully jewelled, 8s, 10s,
12s, and 14s each.
Brooocbes, Brooches, Brooches, Is 6d, 3s, 2s 01, 3s,
3s 6d, 4s, 4s fid, 3s, 6s fid, 6s, fis fid, 7s, 7s fid, 8s, 8e
fid, 9s, 9s fid, and 10s each.
PLEASE NOTE.
All goods will be sent post free, with the excep-
tion of the watches, orders for which must be ac-
companied with an extra amount of two and six-
pence to defray postage expenses. Send In your
orders early, as the goods must be sold, and no one
should miss this chance of procuring the beautiful
gems at less than cost price.
Note tub Address :
The Oriental Gold Co.,
474 George Street,
OPPOSITE THE MARKETS.
society’s “ turn-out” at public auction, and settled
down to a steady and systematic coursra of rum.
Subsequently he was “boots” at a boys’ college,
but was discharged on being discovered retailing
tobacco to the scholastic youth at half-a-orown a
plug. On this he took to writing pars for the
dailies, and, as ho was a persistent news grubber,
he managed to earn enough to keep his lamily la
oatmeal, and himself in drink. He had received
that Christmas Eve £1 for contributions on the
very afternoon we meet him, but 9s. of that had
been expended for three tickets for the Theatre
Royal, as he .was pledged to take his two pretty
little daughters, B;auty and Yseult, to the play,
more than a year agone. Another 5a. had gone
for an aggressive gooae, got on credit five weeks
ago; three more hadj?one for the pudding, and bo,
with the balance of his week’s earnir.. s jingling in
his “kick,” he strolled, as we have said, down
King-street, cursing everything, but especially
cursing Christmas.
He entered a hotel and ordered rum and sarsa-
parilla. There were three or four young lellows
in the parlour drinking “long shandies” and
talking'rather boisterously aboutIChristmas. He
sat down and sipped his rum, until, by-and-byo,
one of the young men said, “A merry Christmas,
sir.”
He looked up and was silent for a few moments,
when he said: —
“ I have a suspicion that you young men ride on
bicycles.”
Tney at once admitted that they were enthu-
siastic bicyclists.
“ 1 thought bu,” he rejoined, meditatively; you
are the persons who mount upon steel machines
and look unpleasant.”
“Ho we? ’ said one of the young men, laughing.
“Certainly,’' replied Junks, gravely. “Before
you youngsters succeeded in obtaining a time-
payment bicycle your brains were as large as a
sponge. Then you entertained a broad view of
human nature. Now your Ideas are narrowed
down to two wheels and an oscillating lamp, and,
consequently, the size of your intellect has
dwindled to tnat of a walnut.”
The young fellows laughed and asked what he
was.
" I am a journalist, he answered, proudly.
“Poor fellow,” chorused the bicyclists; “take
something to drink.”
He took something.
He took something more. He took more rum,
then “ two ales,” shandy-gaff, long beers, and old
Tom. By-and-bye he slumbered.
There is a picture of the people coming out of
the stalls entrance of the Theatre Royal on the
night of Christmas Eve. There is a picture of two
lovely little girls dressed in white who are accom-
panied by a man who reels and staggers at every
step. There is a picture of the surging crowd
separating the little girls from this abject drunk-
ard, and of their wandering through the streets of
the city alone.
On the rooks. There is a picture of a man now
more drunk with despair than liquor, darting up
the steps leading to the miserable hovel he in-
habits, and wildly plunging in at the door. A
woman confronts him who probably had once
been prepossessing. Her age may be about 40, but
she hardly looked that, with her cheerful face and
buxom figure. She, by reason of her husband s
excesses, had not been * * worn to a skeleton ”
(which is the correct thing in the average Christ-
mas story). He had married her when she was a
nursery governess, just as he had retired from the
“service” In consequence of his having insisted,
when on duty, upon a sentry taking oil his boots
in order to let the snakes out of them. They
stood him a long time, but as nothing would
convince him that a dog was real, and every night
after mess he Imagined himself a cook, and crowed
to an extent which disturbed the garrison, the
Colonel seized upon the first pretext In order to
get rid of him. She was a calm, phlegmatic
woman, of an even temperament. She had come
to regard her husband's drunkenness as a disease,
and so condoned It. There were Implanted in her
heart the germs of the old love she had had for
him, but the light of her soul was her two little
&riri9«
“HenryI” she cried, as he entered, “where
are the children ? ”
He sank into a chair, and faintly ejaculated—
"LestI” , M
“ Lostl ” she shrieked, darting towards him, and
seizing him by the throat, “ what do you mean ? ”
He explained.
In one second that cool, calm, woman was trans-
formed Into a demon. Seizing the poor drunken
brute, she overturned his chair and cast him on
the floor. Once there, she would have taken his
life by means of her furious blows, but that the
neighbours who had Altered in during the disturb-
ance intervened, and dragged the man away from
her.
Scratched and bleeding, with a clouded brain
and an uncertain stop, the sodden wretch crept
out at the door, felt his way down the reeking
steps that led to the street, and so was gone In the
pale moonlight to roam over the city poisoning
the atmosphere.
“I will go out and seek my children, cried
Alice Junks, when he had gone, “ and that aban-
doned villain shall enter this door no more.
Though descended from genteel ancestors, I will
take in mangling to support them, though (in
tears) I was not to the mangling born.”
It was Christmas-time, you must remember, and
the influences of the festive season were strong
upon her.
Hastily arraying herself for a midnight exour-
sign, the woman, with a wild cry, darted out of the
house, down the steps, Into the street.
“Did you mark that,” said Mrs. M’Doodle to
Mrs. Whilks, as the sorrow-stricken mother
plunged out into the night. , , „
“Whatl Mrs. M’Doodie, mam ? ” enquired Mrs.
Whilks.
The answer came in a hollow whisper—" She had
a bottle of rum under her cloak.”
The moonlight is bright and vivid, and two little
gir's dressed lu white, stand hand-in-hand down a
low right-of-way off Kent-street. They have wan-
dered there upon losing their father, la an aimless
view of discovering their own residence, but they
are quite tearless, too, in the grand glow of this
lovely night, and rather enjoy themselves than
otherwise. , ,, , ..
They stand In the middle of the lane and listen.
Thudi “ Ob, don’t beat me, Jack, don't beat me,”
moaned a woman’s voice. Thudi “Oh, Jack,
don’t beat me when I love you so—don’t
“ Wot s the good of four bob .’ “ Dear Jack,”
was the reply, “ it was all I could get, but betore
you have spent that, darling, you snail have some
more.” “ That be d d,” rejoined the gruff
voice, “you’re too lazy: that’s what you are.”
Thud I “ Jack, Jack, don’t beat me, when you are
all In all to me; don’t, don’t do It I There! give
me my bonnet and dolman, and lot mo kiss you;
and come down-stairs. Jack, and see me off for
luck I Let me light your pipe first, you dear old
fellow. There I come along.
They descended the stairs, and opened the door,
•when the woman suddenly uttered a loud ory.
There, standing hand In hand before the house,
dressed in pure white, were two golden-haired
little girls. , . ,, ..
“ Jack,” whispered the woman to him, these
are two angels come on Christmas Eve to ask you
to be kind to me: to ask you, dear Jack, to try
and do a little work when times arc bad-only a
very little, Jack, dear, when times are very bad.
Will you, darling, darling Jack—will you, and I
■will be so happy ?” .... ... , . .
The man gazed at the children with a look of
affright, and sank down on the doorstep.
“ See these darlings come to us,” sobbed the
woman;see them come to ask you to boat me no
more, when I love you so. Jack, dear,” she said
softly, entwining her arms round his neck, while
his head sank upon her shoulder, and he sobbed
convulsively; “ and I have dreamed that wo might
go away from this horrible place, and live where
there Is soft green grass and bright running water,
where we may both work for one another, and
live for one another. Jack, look.”
He looked up, but the children were gone.
“ Mary,” he said, in a broken voice, clasping the
girl to bis breat ; “ Marv, my heart is ee«rly
roken. From henceforth 1 lead a chaugt d lift.
Take these four shillings, expend them m rum,
and we will enjoy a happy Christmas together.”
She embraced him frantically; uttered a wild
cry of joy, and fled away on the wings of the wind
to a friendly public house.
A picture of two little children playing about a
narrow wharf, beneath which a dark tine rushes.
It is high tide, and they are leaning over playing
with pieces of wood which run whirling and eddy-
ing past them. There is a picture of two little
white laces struggling In the waters, and whirled
past within reach of man’s hand, with no man
near to save them. A faint cry that grows fainter,
fainter, a little white hand that Is lifted despair-
ingly for the last time, and that is all.
Another picture. A police-station. “ What’s
the charge against this woman, constable ?” en-
quires tue sergeant. “ She’s either mad or mad
drunk, sergeant,” replied the constable; "she has
been tearing about the town all night, shrieking
out for her children.” “ My poor darling, lost,
babiesl” cries an infuriated woman with
dishevelled bair and blood shot eves; and she
rushes at the sergeant, yelling, “You have got
them, you have got them,” and plucks his shlrt-
oollar cut by the roots. But she is overpowered
la a moment. Fetters of Iron are placed upon
her wrists, aad she is thrust, shrieking, into a
dark ceil.
“ Come, wake up ; »ro you going to sleep here all
day?” A sbaboy bundle slowly arises irom a
ooueh on which It had been sleeping off Its mani-
fold potations, “EhI” “Yes, eh; you’d better
clear out of this.” “ What’s to-day.” asked the
bundle, which suddenly disclosed a man Inside it.
" Christmas Kve, yuu fool,” cried the impatient
barman. " What time is it, please?” quavered the
man, trembling. *• Past six, and time you was
home,” said the barman.
Here the man burst into a shower of tears.
“ Then I haven’t lost my children f ” he sobbed.
“ Lost wha-at ? ” cried the barman.
“ My wile Is not Ironed and mad In a police-court
cell,” he cried, half laughing and half crying.
“ What’s that?” asked the exasperated barman,
approaching in order to run him out—" Wbat ?”
The man mildly waved him off.
“ My humble home,” he murmured, in a low
voice, “ is still my own, and I wid make It a very
paradise for my wife and my darling children.
Barman,” he continued, with emotion, "I call
upon you to witness a vow I now register.”
“ Well, hurry up,” said the barman.
“ No more rum for me,” cried the man, impres-
sively. “ Remember that.”
“All right.” said the barman; “now what will
you have before you go ?”
“ Go, tempter!” replied the man, who was none
other than Henry Junks. “ Mv dream,” he con-
tinued, “ Is to taste no other fluid than that which
comes fresh from the babbling stream; to walk
abroad, hand In hand with my children, clad In a
white waistcoat and blue necktie, and be happy in
th« consciousness of my own sobriety.”
On this he hunied home, frantically embraced
his wife, and told her of his dream, with his chil-
dren perched upon his knee, and in a voice broken
now and anon by sobs. Then they all embraced,
until they were quite a tangle.
By and by, while the poor woman, with a joyous
heart, went out to buy some dripping, the father
bribed the children with a halfpenny to show him
the “ plant.”
Corrupted py this largesse , they pointed out the
tin-tea-caddy in which the plunder was concealed,
whereupon he fisted the theatre-money and
“ got.”
That night he was brought homo on a shutter,
feebly pawing the air.
This Is all our Christmas story. We said you
wouldn’t like it from the start, but you’ve got to
read it. You’ll buy the paper for sixpence, and
on Sunday afternoon you’ll tackle it after Inflict-
ing, at dinner, severe punishment upon the board-
ing house. Wk know youl
A nd if you don't— our troubles I
Some Old Cards.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Christmas, by Jove I I’m forgetting,
I must look out a card for my Nell—
The dear little girl would be fretting
If that were omitted. Ah, well 1
I remember when stationers’ trifles
My own verdant fancy could please,
But Time, the old reprobate, rifles
The heart of such pleasures as these.
There’s a lot of ’em, sent me by Circes,
Safe hidden away la a box
Along with a bundle of verses
And assortment of true lovers' locks;
Tokens of long-buried passions.
Which held me a season enthralled;
For Cards, bless my heart 1 were la fashion
Before I grew grizzled and bald,
Here’s one—a young pair In a meadow,
’Neath trees of Impossible shade;
That contrast of sunshine and shadow
Is rather too strong, I’m afraid;
Those sheep, in the distance a-grazlng,
Look fearfully groggy and fat—
No, In spite of Its elegant glazing,
I don’t think I’ll send Nellie that.
What’s this ? A fair maid meditating,
With a far-away look in her eyes;
Flo sent it—'tig me she's awaiting.
Egad I but how quickly times flies.
Poor Flo I she was terribly nettled
Because I hung back from the scratch—
Well, she’s happily married and settled—
They say it's a very good match.
Two birds (they’re exactly like sparrows,
Except that the plumage Is white).
And Cupid, with bow and long arrows—
Some verses, too, signed “ Sissy White;”
Sweet Sissy I a bright little kitten,
With lips ever tempting a kiss;
Since when have those verses been written—
kitten’s a cat before this.
Here’s a sketch, very simple and homely—
A girl wreathing flow'rs for her hair—
Even Nell’s not more charming and comely—
Stay I that face is familiar, I’ll swear;
Of course! I know whom It resembles—
Have I treasured her golden brown curl ?—
Pshaw I why my hand fairly trembles —
No, that’s not the one for my girl.
A churchyard I quite a subject pathetic,
It came with a photo, from Kate;
No choice could have been more prophetic,
'Twas a picture foretelling her fate.
Had she lived—oh, enough of those fancies.
She “ might have been,” none can now tell;
And we never once met save at dances—
I couldn’t send that card to Nell.
jgClose down the lid—recollection
Is waked by the things lying there;
But I’m glad that I made the inspection.
For, till now, I was hardly aware
That my heart was so foolishly tender,
Although It be battered and scarred;
As for Nell—may the angels defend her I—
I’ll go out and buy her a Card.;


Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 7th December, 1885.
TENDERS FOR NEW BUILDING.
TENDERS are invited for the Erection of a
Wooden Building: at the Arncliffe Public
School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for New Building-,
Arncliffe Public School,” must be lodged with
the Under Secretary, Department of Public In-
struction, at or before 10 o'clock a.m., on Monday,
the 21st December, 1885.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
W. J. TRICKBTT
I TURNER ROBINSON & CO A
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Georgo-stroat,
Established 1864.
HAH THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
3S
EC0N0MICALFURNI7UR
Ef. .'fi
MICALFURNITURE
/ /
r THE LARGEST AND ONLY LEGITIMATE
TIME-PAYMENT FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THE COLONY.
365 PITT STREET.
s
SACRED & CLASSICAL CONCERTS,
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
NEW OPERA HOUSE.
Doors open at 7 p.m., commence 7.30. For pro-
gramme, see Saturday’s papers.
SeatJ—3)., Is., 6d.
Conductor Herr Kuster.
READ IT ALL.
It may Save your Llffo.
AMERICAN CO.’S
Bop Bitters
ABB
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARB COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Ructiu, Mandrake, and Dandelion*
“ The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘ and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
‘ earth.”
They Wto New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
' Men, Labourers, Ladles, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach,
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are Invaluable, being
• highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
• without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
• symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘aliment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
• feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost."
Ask your Drucght or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
• friends suffer, but use and urge them to
• use the American Co.’s Hop Bitters.”
“ Remember, these Hop Bitters are
• no vile, drugged, drunken nostrum,
• but the purest and best Medicine
• ever made, and no person or family
‘ should be without it.”
Iar" See that the name Dr. Soule Is blown
in every bottle, none other genuine.
pu
KRITDtl SHOWROOMS.
BRADLBY, NRWTOH. and LAMB,
O’Oonnell and Bnr'xv streets. Sydney
HALL FURNITURE, HATBTANDB, *ni
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
T IBRARY FURNITURE. CENTRE and 8ID1
li TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES
BEADING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, m &xquibitb
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, «fco
TBRT ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley
Newton, and Lamb.
Novelties in boudoir and bow window
SUITES. Bradley. Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-fe«t
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB. Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
IjlIGMT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES—Thi
li Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table an<-
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’ConneU-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble tot
and tue back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE
with swing glass attached; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s ;
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from S310s.; Clothes Horses, from!0s.6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
£
3
OQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sounc
5wOO strong, and durable, Trichord fuL
lompass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsomt
Case. Free at rail or wharves lot cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Hanasome Fashion-
able designs In Black and Gold, with Sldt
ihelves; also In Oak and Walnut, at all prices
IRADLET, NEWTON, and LAMB.
rbCCASIONAL TABLES In all Woods, Immense
Lf variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Plush, &o.
WHATNOTS, effective designs
Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
CrConnell-Btreet.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, foi
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowen
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
0 Connell-street.
RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
■J A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BED STEADS, forming CHAIR
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and Inex
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, 0 Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room-side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
JOINING TABLES, with _patent_ Mtendlni
screw, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR-
Patented.
r:::
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It Is simple, yet ingenious in Its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fils perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It Is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com
plete, and occupying only four inches In thickness
when fi idod. Price 80s. BRADLEY, NEWTOF
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2s. 8d. extra.
S
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
B
AGATELLB BOARDS. Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment In Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered is
any materials to meet the taste and requirement!
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room furni-
TUBE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, an* 1
LAMB. Spring and O’Connell-streets.
B
BDSTBADS, nickel-plated and black and brass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
DDING.—All descriptions at lowest rates,
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell and Spring streets.
W
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 26s. each
BRADLE Y, NEWTON, and LAMB.
g AWN and PARK SKATS 6 feet long. Rustic
Cast-Iron Standards, 15s. each. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb.
Bentwood furniture.-a v-ry
▲HOltmtBl, beet UAt*. lew aft prises.
AMUSEMENT AND YOUNG
On receipt of the advertised price, any of th«
following Tricks will be sent by return post
THE DISAPPEARING CARD BOX.-A card!
S laced in the box instantly vanishes, and the box;
i shown quite empty. Price Is., post free Is. 6d.
THE MAGIC CORK BOX.-A capital multiplit-
cation trick. Three corks are placed In the box*
which Is seen by the audience to be quite empty*
The lid is placed on, and when removed there are-
found six corks within. Price Is., post free Is. 6d
THE WIZARD OF THE NORTH’S CHANGING
CARDS.-Tbese cards change Instantly to other
cards, whilst held in the hand, in a most surprising
manner. Price Is., post free Is. 2d.
THE GREAT HAT AND DIE TRICK. A solid
die passes completely through the too of a gentle-
man’s hat and is found Inside. Price la. 6d., .post
free 2s.
THE MARVEL CIGAR CASE. —The case Is
shown crammed full of fine cigars, which instantly
vanish. Excellent trick. Beautifully made in
leather. Price 2a. 6d., post free 3a.
THE MAGIC SNUFF BOX.-A most excellent
trick. No opening can be discovered anywhere.
It looks just like a solid piece of wood,'and no
person can possibly open it but the owner. Price
Ss., post free 2a. 6d.
THE MAGICIAN’S PACK OF FORCING
CARDS.—No conjuror with card tricks can pro-
perly perform without them. The most astound-
ing tricks can be performed with them. Very
superior cards. 2s. 6d., post free 3s.
DEMON HANDKERCHIEF.—Indispensable to
every conjuror. Watches, rings, coins, and any
articles placed under this handkerchief, instantly
disappear, although the handkerchief is thoroug h 1 y
shaken and shown to the audience each time.
Price 2s. 6d., post free 3«.
THE MAGNETIC PACK OF FLYING CARDS..
—Can be made to run up and down the arm or
body, and elongated in the air two or three feet
apart in the most beautiful regularity without one-
of them falling. Very astounding. Price 2s. 6d ,,
post free 3s.
THE MAGIC DIE AND HANDKERCHIEF.—
A solid wooden die Is placed under the handker-
chief, and felt to be there by the audience, one of
whom may be allowed to hold it. The performer
exclaims, “ Presto I gone I ” and instantly takes
the handkerchief and shakes it to show the die has
vanished, and exhibits it thoroughly, whilst the
die Itself is found inside a canister or any other
article. Price 2s. 6d.. post free 3*. 6d.
THE WONDERFUL JAPANESE DRAWER
BOX. The performer sends round a prettyUt*ti e
box to the company, which they fill with wigs,
gloves, coins, &c. Directly the performer tiaas
it in his hands, without removing it from slgnt,
the articles instantly vanish, and the drawer is
Shown empty. Price Is. 6d., post free2s.
THE MAGIC DISSOLVING PACK OF CARDS.
—A pack of playing cards are shown to the au-
dience and then placed into a case just large
enough to tiold them. One of the audience instantly
after this is done, opens the case, and finds it full
of sweets, and the cards vanished. Price Is. 6d.,
post free 2s.
THE MYSTERIOUS CANDLE AND BE-
WITCHED HANDKERCHIEF.—The performer
brings forward a candle out of a tight-fitting case
and lights it. He then borrows a lady’s handker-
chief, burns it to ashes in the candle, and places
the ashes and eandle in the case again. The lady
Is then called on to open the case, which is handed
to her. She does so, and finds her handkerchief
restored therein but the caod & entirely gone.
Very excellent trick. Price 2s. 61p ost free 3s.
N.8.W. stamps taken at par, otaei colonies add
Id. to each Is.
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT
BOX 641 G.P.O. 401 GEORGB-8T., SYDNEY.
Between King and Maraet Streets, opposite the
Royal Hotel, and no other address.
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only Bs.
Small Bottle, , [is. 6d,
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. fid. per Bottle.
MURRUMJ3IDGEE PORT,
M. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BMAUMONT PORT
Is. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Botties, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible PrIo3i.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
Ir, 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke<] Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles and square bottles,
laroibt sizi.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MBLLOWc
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
C. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
■YDS EX.
-n
SMOKE
/
GENUINE
■J
ii
IT IS THE GREATEST
SUCCESS OF THE DAY
GIVING SATISFACTION
AND MAKING FRIENDS
'' 0
WHEREVER IT GO E S
f >
c. ■■
m
V*
zz/z i n/
t?ei?za r
Sl'CY/l
m
tizey
LI O N
Irh rr FA'C SIMILE,.;


Twenty Years of Agony Ended.
for twenty years with an ob-
in disease, called by some M. D. 8 paoriaris,
in leprosy, comm«Dcicg on my scalp, and
■stfifii j * °°uld do, with tne help of the most
.i.nfoi doctora « it slowly, but surely, extended,
? e % r thla winter It covered my entire
'Person in form of dry scales. For the last 3 ycais
, ee u unable to do any labour, and suffering
antonsely all the time. Every morning there could
n ® ari y a dust-panful ot scales taken from the
mneet on my bed, some of them half as lame as the
n? if 6 contalnirg- this letter. In the latter part
ior winter my skin commenced cracking open. I
itned everything almost that could oe thought ot,
without any relief. The 13th of June I started
West, in hopes 1 could reacn the Hot Springs. I
■reached Detroit, and was so low, i thought I should
have to go the hospital, but finally got as far as
|Dausing, Mich, where X had a sister Jiving. Ono
Ur *~ treated me about two weeks butdid me no
good. All thought I had but a short time to live.
X earnestly prayed to die. Gracned through the
iSKin all over my hack, across my ribs, arms, hands
.limps, feet baaiy swol.en, roc-nailserme off, finger-
nans dead and hard as none, hair dead, dry, and
ufeless as old straw. Oh, my God I how I did suffer.
My sister had a small part of a box of Cuticura
to the house. She wouldn t give up; said, “We
will try Cuticura.” Some was applied on one
handandarm. Eureka! there was relief—stopped
the terrible burning sensation irom the word go.
They immediately got the Cuticura Resolvent,
Cuticura, and Cuticura Soap I commei ced by
taking one tablespooufull of Resolvent 3 times
,a day, rfter meals; had a bath onue a cay, water
About blood beat, used Cuticura Soap freely.
Applied Cuticura morning and evening. Result :
returned to my home in just six weeks from time
I left, and my skin as smooth as this sheet of paper.
HIRAM E. CARPENTER.
Henderson, Jefferson County, JHevo York.
Sworn to before me this nineteenth day of
January, 1880.
A. M. Leffingwell,
Justice of tne Peace.
The great anti-Dilious remedy Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Higher teaching of our daughters has become the
common cry;
And it is right that each colonial girl should
know
That the cheapest and the choicest of the pants
which boys require
Are supplied by Messrs. Summerfleld and Co.*
A timely useof Hop Ditters (American Co.’s
■will keep a whole family In robust health a year
with but a little cost.
Wolfe's Schnapps cheers the mind and
body.
A WORD OE WISDOM.
If the heart of man is oppressed with care,
It won’t help him any to go on a tare —
He should always keep his head quite clear
iiy drinking nothing but 8T. LOUIS LAGER
BEER.*
People are loud in their praise of the merits
of Wolfe’s schnapps.
Notice !—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for Invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hocklngs, 143 Pitt-street.
The public should be careful they are not
imposed upon with imitations of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
MaoLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 Qeorge-streel
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &o.*
Wolfe's Schnapps is known and appreciated
throughout the colonics.
Here is Summer upon us, causing a mighty
thirst. Don’t fail to obtain your supply of Lemon-
ade, Seltzer, Soda Water, Ginger Ale, Tonic, Potass
and Llthia Water (for Gout), of Dalm and Oertel,
iErated Water and Cordial Manufacturers, 403 Pitt-
street. Delivered regularly in town and suburbs *
Avoid excitement, dissipation, and late
hours, and take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Mb. Db Cornier Brown* (late Deputy -
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the ** Miners’ Handy Book,’
“ Mining Leaseholders’ Guido,” and “ Manual ol
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Arbitrator. Advisor,
and Mining Titles Agent, Beresford Chambers,
53 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
Purchasers should use caution else they
will have a counterfeit article palmed on them as
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
1 To produce real genuine sleep and child-
like repose all night, take a little American Co.’s
Hon Bitters on retiring. Look for
minuonal uinowry.
GEORGE PE I KIMAN, Scene Painter, Theatre
Royal, Brisbane. Disengaged.
m HBATBB ROYAL.
JL Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Mcsgbovb.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo.L. Goodman.
UNPARALLELED SUCCESS of
WILLIAMSON, GARNER, and MUSGttOVE’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
LAST NIGHTS of
THE MIKADO THE MIKADO
THE MIKADO THE MIKADO
THE MIKADO THE MIKADO
THE MIKADO THE MIKADO;
or,
THE TOWN OF TITIPU.
Admission : Dress Circle. 5s.; Stalls, 3s.; Family
Circle, 3s.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel, Box plan open at the Theatre daily from
10 till 5, No Free List.
N
1 .u°r p «ka house.
under the Leaseeshlp and Management of
Mossis. E. MAJEKON1 and W. J. WILSON.
LAST NIGHTS
LAST NIuHTS
„ Mr G. W. ANSON.
Mies FLORENCE WADE.
„ . „ . Mr. HENRY ALLEYNE,
and Majerom and Wilson's Comedy Company, in-
cluding Mr. J. L. HALL.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 17.
OUR BOYS OUR BOYS
OUR BOYS OUR BOYS
OUR BOVS OUR BOVS,
with full Cast of Characters,
Prices as usual. Box plan at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse, 325 George-street. Day tlcsets at
Ooie s Boo a Arcade, G* orge-street, Furniture
supplied by the Globe Furnishing Warehouse.
» I 0.
40ADBMY OF MO
Under the Management of
RTQNOLD, ALLISON, and HISGOCK8.
Positively Last Five Nights 5 Nights
KICK ARDS-LEE I'E COMBINATION.
Mb end EVERY EVENING.
SPOONS. SPOONa. SPOONS. SPOONS.
Lightning Cartoonist Sketches, National Local
Celebrities.
CG8 ’ 8 ‘ , I®- Box olan, Nfchol«on*s.
No Free List. Manager lor Mr. Rickards, Buchan
Hepburn. Acting-Manager for Hignold, Allison,
and Hiscocks, G. A. Coleman.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. John Solomon
Sub-lessees and Managers, Williamson, Garner
ana Musgrove.
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.
A GREATER SUCCESS THAN EVER.
Notwithstanding which, it can only be repeated for
SEVEN NIGHTS ONLY.
Mr. FRANK THORNTON, as
THE REV. ROBkRT SPALDING, will bid
;farewell to Sydney,
Mr. J. R. GKEVILLE has been specially engaged
to support Mr. Frank Thornton this season, to-
gether with a Specially-selected Cast.
“Tickets may he purchased during the day at
Cole’s Rook Arcade. Box Plan at Nicholson and
Co.’s.
THE OLYMPIC
(late Old Masonic Hall, York-street).
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. M. L. Raphael.
Stage Manager . .. Mr. D’Arcy Stanfield.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, December 17th.
Three Last Nights of the
OLYMPIC BURLESQUE COMPANY.
SATURDAY, December 26 (BOXING MIGHT),
will be produced, on a scale of great splendour,
the Drury Lane Grand Comic Christmas Panto-
mime. entitled,
MOTHER GOOSE,
And The Enchanted Beauty,
with a magnificent oast of 40 Artists, engaged spe-
cially for this brilliant spectacular production.
Entirely New Scenery. The dresses worn in the
Pantomime are from designs copied trom the ori-
ginal, and have been prepared regardless of cost.
Grand Marches, Splendid Lime Light Effects, Mag-
nificent Transformation Scene, and Comic
Harlequinade.
Doors open at 7 30; Overture at 7.45.
H. TREVOR AH, Business Manager.
nnHB ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
■ George-street, Haymarket.
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
TO-NIGHT. TO-NIGHT.
The Home of Mirstrelsy and Mirth.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
IMMENSE SUCCESS. IMMENSE SUCCESS,
of the Alhambra Variety and Speciality Union in
the Refined Entertainment,
TO-NIGHT TO-NIGHT.
The strongest Combination of Variety Artists in
the colonies Refinement without Vulgarity.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 2s; stalls, la;
balcony. Is.
In active preparation, “ King Cockatoo ; or. The
Enchanted Riepbant,” an entirely new and ori-
ginal Extravaganza, by Leopold Jordan, Isq.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
HALIEWELL’8
CONCERT,
NEW MASONIC HALL,
THIS (THURSDAY), 17th DECEMBER.
H. J. 3AMUELL, Manager.
Lynch family bellringers
(Organised 1867)
Manager Harry Lynch.
NOW ON TOUR SOUTHERN DISTRICTS, N.S.W.
Nlmltybelle. 17th; Br>mba!a, 18th-19th December
Candelo, 21st; Bega, 22nd to 26ch December.
Returning to Sydney, via Moruya, Nowra, Kiama,
Wollongong, &c.
Admianon- 4s., 3«., and 2s. Doors open at 7.30,
Overture at 8.
Lynch family bkllkingbrs.
, A CARD.
at en G uirle 8 from residents
at Bathurstand Dubbo, Mr. Harry Lynch pegs to
fh.? S 6 t i? e “ tilrl °Ker« will visit that portion of
tho colony during next February and March.
REGULAR ASSOCIATION PICNIC
TO CLONTARF,
On CHRISTMAS DAT.
FIRST-CLASS BAND, DANCING, 8PORTF, &c.
Steamers iGhve foot Phillip.street every half
hour trom 9 30 a.m. tlh 3 p.m Return tickets,
Including admission to grounds. 2s.; children free.
Hot and cold water provided.
BEALE & COMPANY
City Show Rooms,
386 and 612 GBORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
151 OXFORD STREET
AGENTS and TRAVELLERS in EVERY
COUNTRY TOWN.
Address Letters of Inquiry—
371a Plit-atmet, Sydney.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH of SEWING MACHINE
MECHANIC?,
The “BEALE”
HIGH-ARM
PATENT SEWING MACHINES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Werthaim Sewing Machine,
BEALE.
The 11 Hapsburg” Pianos.
SOLE IMPORTERS,
BEALE AND COMPANY.
THE “HAYDN” ORGANS
AND
HARMONIUMS.
;8ole Importers
BEALE AND COMPANY.
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
and
FULL INFORMATION,
Address
ANY LOCAL AGENT OR TRAVELLER;
or,
BEALE & COMPANY
Sydney.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 10th December, 1886.
TENDERS FOR WOODEN BUILDING.
TENDERS are invited for the Erection of a
Wooden Building at the Canteibury Public
School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen. anduForms
of 'i ender obtained, at the office of the Department
of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Wooden Build-
ing, Canterbury Put lie School,’ must be
lodged with the Under Secretary. Department
of Public Instruction, st, before 10 o’clock
a.m., on Wednesday, the Z3rd December. 1885
The Minister does not bind hlmsei' to accept
the lowest or any Tender.
W. J. TRlCccElT.
Department of Public Instruction.
Sydney, 11th Decsmber, 1885.
TENDERS FOR WATER-CLOSETS, RETAIN-
ING WALL, AND IMPROVEMENTS.
TENDERS are Invited for the Erection of
Water-closets ard Retaining Wall, and for
Improvements, at the Newtown North Public
School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen and Forms
of Tender obtained, at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed "Tender for Water-cksets,
Retaining Wall, snd Improvements, Newtown
North Public School,” must he lodged with toe
Under Secret ry, Department of Public Instruc-
tion. at or before 10 o'clock a.m,, on Wednesday,
the 23rd December, 1885
This Minister docs net bind birrs ilf to accept
tba lowest or any Tender.
W. J, TRICK ETT.
Department of Publio Works.
Sydney, December 15, 1836.
TENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
PLIB8,—TENDERS are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Oovbrnmhnt Gazbttb, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office In the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced. If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
lesathe terms of the notice are strictly complied
With.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Mature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received [it
this office.
Additions to Reformatory,
Shaftesbury
Additions to Water Police Court
Additions to Spectacle Island
Magazine
Fenolntr, Tank, &c., Courthouse,
Qulriodi
Bridge over Psppenbarra Creek,
road Upper Hastings to Port
Macquarie
Supply of Bulldina- Stone, Par-
ramatta Gam, 1886
Bridge over Johtaon’s Creek, at
Clarence lown
Erection of Station Buildings at
Wollongong
Erection of Station Buildings at
Gundagai
Brldgeov* r WinburndaleCreek
road Peel to Dur mana ■
Supply of lour (4) Tiam Carp, '
North Shore Cable Tramway |
Conetnrtlon of Timber Br dge i
on Brick Piers over Railway I
at Mllthorpe, G w. Railway |
Ertcl i o ot Sheds for fctons, i
Victoria Barracks
Supply of 30 Smiths’ Healths, I
Smiths’ Snop, Tramway I
Biahcu, Ratdw;ck i
Walis, Supeis.raciurc, Finish-(
ing Trades, and annex's oi l
Worhsaopa, Nos. 5 to 15. Kve-
Itigh
Supply of Railway Water Cranes |
Tuesday,
December 23,
at 11 o’clock.
Bridge over Mehi River, at Tel-
jpr»ire, mad Narrabrl and Mo-
gll to Mungendl
Construction or Public Wharf
at Wickham
Erection of Shed for Volunteer
Keglneeis. Victoria Barracks
Supply of Boildioir Sand lor the
Kxlst'ng Lines, Branch Rail-
way Department, dunng the
year 1«86.
Hydraulic Elevators for Gene-1
rai Poet-oflice
Construction of Collecting i
Sewer, Liverpool-street to
Comber and Great Baroom I
s>r<ets
Erection of Courthouse. Comwa i
Entrance Gat s, Piers, &c , Gar-
den Palace Gr unds
Erection ot Post and Telegraph I
Office, Waverley
Tuesday.
December 29,
at 11 o’oloca.
Sydney, 11th December, 1885.
TENDBRS FOR GIRLS’ SCHOOL AND
WKATHBRSHEDS.
tflENDEBS are invited for the Erection c
JL a Gina' School and Weathershedeattue Blic
Qroye Public School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Girls’ School
and Weathersheap, rilrch Grove Public School.”
must be lodged with the Under Secretary.
Department ot Public Instruction, at or before
10 o'clock a.m., on Wednesday, the 33rd December,
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 10th December, 1885.
FRESH TENDERS FOR vv ATBR-CL08ET8 AND
IMPROVEMENTS.
FKB9H TENDERS are invlied for tho Ere
of Watt r-ciosets and for Improvemen
tne Newtown Superior Public School.
Plans at d Specifications may he seen, and F
of Tender obtained, at the office of the De
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, erdoised “Fresh Tender for Water-
closets and Improvements, Newtown Superior
Public School.” must be lodged with the
Under Secretary. Department of Public In-
struction. rt or before 10 o clock a.m , on Wednes-
day, the 23rd December, 1885,
The Minister docs not bind himself to accept
the lowt st or any Tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
OFFICE-31 LOMBARD ST. LONDON.
IN PRICE
SCOTIAN -HORIZONTAL E N@l NES, «?« « «w“™!2'°
ALBION” LsONCSTROKE HORIZONTAL ENGINES.
CLIMAX” VERTICAL ENGINES X BOILER’S.
“CLIMAX” PORTABLE -HOISTING! ENGINES.
“BRITON”‘HORIZONTAL COMPOUND LAUNCH ENGINES.
INVERTED COMPOUND MARINE ENGINES.
■. ■ PORTABLE STEAM CRANES.
VERTICAL,CORNISH, £ MARINE BOILERS.
i.imuw
i min ii in 111111111111111111 ■ i • 1111111
1 ARGE ST0CKS:T0R FULL PARTICIILARSAND PRICES APPLY . 0
D.& SOUTH WALES.,
J.W.SUTTUN &C0: BRISBANE. S0L€‘ AGENTS"« QU EE NS LAN D.
ROBISON BR05.& CO.MELBOURNE.SOLE AGENTS -^VICTORIA.


The FESTIVE SEASON of which we are now in the midst, and the near advent of the year
EI&HTEEN ZZTJItTOZSEnD .A.3ST3D ZEICKEZT^-SIZZ,
affords us once more the opportunity of wishing everyone
A MERRY CHRISTMAS and a HAPPY NEW YEAR,
with just one little regret that numerical and other difficulties prevent us personally expressing our good wishes and congratulations.
LOOKING AT THE MATTER FROM A
point of view, can once more congratulate themselves on a prosperous year’s trade in that now almost historic locality,
and wish to say they are not in the least unmindful of the fact that, in a large measure, that prosperity is due to their
numberless friends and patrons.
The Christmas Soason is now at its height, Christmas Fare is in full bloom, Christmas Holidays are near, the concert of
enjoyment and pleasure has commenced through the length and breadth of the Australias, and with these suggestive ideas
in view, it is just as well to bear in mind the immanao advantages offered by
Tla.© Palace Eraporiura, ZZa.3r:cQ.©a:]s:©t,
TO ALL AND SUNDRY.
What is the Palace Emporium, Hoy market? It is The People’s Mart, it is the chosen Home of Economy, it is the
Centre of Fashion, it is the only Tent in the Camp of Commerce this side the Line where the people can buy everything
under one roof.
Well have its proprietors earned for themselves the merited title of
THE OITLT TJITIVEEGiiL PEOVIEEES
in the Southern Hemisphere, for of a truth they stand alone in that respect.
What a medley of occupations do these enterprising Caterers go in for 1 What a wide Sphere of Trade do they cover 1 What Paths
of Usefulness do they tread !
NO WONDER THE PEOPLE APPRECIATE THEIR EFFORTS!
No wonder the people flock in thousands to this Hive of Industry; no wonder that the name of ANTHONY HORDERN and
SONS is a watchword in the Manufacturing World, for they, in a large way, help 10 keep the wheel of commerce on the turn.
Their name is as well known to Yankee Notion Vendors as it is to the Cotton Princes of Manchester, and is as familiar in German
Factories as in Birmingham Workshops and in the halting places of Japanese Curio Collectors
Pins and Pie Crimpers, Clocks and Cotton, Silks and Shovels. Baskets and Boots, Arm Chairs and Aniline Dyes, Bread Platters
and Bo ks of Account, Cooking Stoves and Crimean Shirts, Garden Hats and Gold Watches, Meat Skewers and Moleskin Trousers,
Corsets and Cricket Bats, Macintosh Coats and Mangles, Egg Cups and Eu-de-Cologne, Furniture and Flannels, Ironmongery and
Infants’ Swaddling Clothes, Slop Pails and Satin Costumes, Patent Medicines and Pot Scrubs; all these and no end of others come
within the ken of the Only Universal Providers, to whom no article made, manufactured, or produced is strange, whose
programme is absolutely universal, and whose prices are
THE LOWEST IN' THE LA.NE!
Remember the ONLY ADDRESS of the ONLY UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS.
m
X OKL
CLOSE TO THE KAILWAY STATION.


Never Travel Without It.
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS
ALLNOXIOUS INSECTS,
FLEAS,FLIES. BEETLES MOSQUITOES
COCKRCACHES, i AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUH E
HARMLESS TO BIRDS DOGS
r*"'
FOWLS or other;
ANIMALS
<V
Ci
SOLD
, o'IN tins
& s$ £_v I s VUPWARDS
CHEM1STS
jy
WSr
. C £ J AND STOREKEEPERS
WHOLESALE
FELTON-CRIMWADEUC 0
I — MELBOURNE —
Oiticura
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cutic-ura Soar, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiliers, externally.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Itching: and Burning: Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors ; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
K. Towns & Co., New South. "Wales.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
Por Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared bt the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
YANKEE DOODLE CONQUEROR
Wanted in Every House.
Wanted in Every House.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THB
AMERICAN CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastarn Backboard Waggons.
tr BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING!, Merchant A Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
, and CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. Q. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
, ail
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
MINING. CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDBRS’
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &o.
JAR, PLATE, SHEET.;
and HOOP IRON
1A.LVANI8ED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
1HBBT and PBBPO-
RATBD ZINC; TIN
PLATES
i*IQ IRON and LEAD
)IL8, PAINTS, and|
BRUSH WARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACK8
JHEARING SUPPLIES |
JUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
IOLLED H GIRDERS
55
m
AIM
tfH
Mi
m i
PORTABLE, FlMx
g-gw-ifera ».
~ TEAM and ottae
PUMPS
lathes, planing
. SHAPING, SCREW
INGL and DRILLlNI
_1 MACHINES
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRAf
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLS
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, fto.
ijy.W
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
EGBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
Head Warehouse - - ■ - 54 YORK STREET,
- ■ “ - - HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Store*
London Oaoo -
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
*
H GKAOlO&USOa ITRURr
CXX?
0 9 *NOS A
KS
'jM -■
:-;V ,-
su
SopOQ 33MN%
. ColSifi toR ,
. .. T O B.AC C.gJl^/
TWIST & PLUG
mVttnH a en«« CuHnau possess the largest Factory, Manufacture more
UIABUM SON OUwOp ojuncjj Tobacco, and consume more American Leaf,
K than any factory in the southern hemisphere. . _ . _ .
i-sP" YANKEE DOODLE, CONQDEBOB, Sir Boger, Champion, and Dixson’s Cut Tobaccos.
ZDsurlira.g' HEstr'too-a.r Hotel,
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Railway Gates).
STEPHEN HOPKINS (Late of Wagga Wagga), Proprietor.
especial accommodation for country visitors.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre-
► ervts. strengthens, and beautifies the hair : It
contains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can
u iw be also had In a golden colour, which is
efpsclally suited forfairor golden-haired children
unu persons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALTDOK. is a most
cooling, healing, and refreshing wash for the lace,
hands and arms, and is pertectlv tree from any
mineral or meta"lc admixtures ; It disperses
j reckles tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &o.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRR
produc-8 Immediately a perfect change in red or
grey hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and
permanent brown or black, which colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
»purious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents—Elliott Bros ,
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
S
ENT .POST FREE FOR Is. STAMPS.
Social Science.
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders, Chronic
Diseases, Impediments to Marriage, &o.. How to
onoose a partner for life so as to live happy, How
to Regain and Preserve your Health, &c.
Address—R. T. SELBY, M.H., Devonshire-street,
Surry Hills, Sydney.
ANHOODiRESTORED)
A Clergyman having tried every known rente?*
O for the CUREof NERVOUS EX HA
HON, PREMATURE DECAY, &c., hu a>
‘ tat discovered a simple SELF-CURE, wnich, fm
ue aake of suffering humanity, he will send FREE
a* Prescription which CURED him, Addreaa,
. ith self-ad dree ted stamped envelope—
Dr. JE. A* CLARKE) F.O. Box aw, Sydney.
r£|HB REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY, BASE,
CONVENIENCE, economy.
1&~ THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time, writing- much
taster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the space occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reporters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY and CO.,
85 Clarcnce-street.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale bv Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser
and Co., Pltt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge; Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD. Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
O-loss
mo Country Journallsts.—Leaders, Telegrams,
JL and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. “ Beta,” Bullbtir Office.


AUSTRALIAN MDTUAL PROVIDENT
SOCIETY,
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DIVISION OF PROFITS.
INTENDING Policy-holders are reminded that
all policies effected before the 31st Irstant,
■will share in the distribution of profits to be then
made.
RICHARD TEECE,
Acting Secretary.
QUOD FACIMUS VALDB FACIMFS.
(What we do we do well.)
TOUR PHOTO.—If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
couusel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule loading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can Inspect an
array of portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
In price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby b® but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices—C-D-V.,; Cabinets" 30s. per dozen.
CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE.
MADAME VAILLANT, Parisienne Dress-
maker, has the honor to notify that she
h»» left Messrs. Buckley and Nunn’s, and started
a first-class Dressmaking, Corset, and Mantle-
making Establishment with Madame Elise, of
28 Colllns-street East, Melbourne.
USE f PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW. and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
8S1 Keorse-street, Sydney.
A 0
4711
D 1
0 0 L 0 G N A
4711.
Established 1783.
Gold Medal, Moscow. 1872; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for Its superior sweetness, strength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the dllte of
Europe.
The large and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also In North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of Its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number-4711 changed into 7411. 1147, 4117, Ac., &o.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
street, Sydney.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
and Storekeepers, in town and country.
w. WALKER and SONS
Catalogues
LONDON and SYDNEY.
POST PRES,
W. WALKER
and SONS
.
ere one of the
Largest
m
Stockholders
and
Manttfaetvrtn
m
m
■<>k>eliu
FURNITURE J
ENGLAND.
Catalogues
POST PRBB.
ALL STOCK
In tkeir
SYDNEY
■euai
■applied
dibbot
worn then
London
Manufactory
and Latest
London Stylos
GUABAWTJ1D
SYDNEY BRANCH:
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
J. S. FRY & SOUS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or oorter.— Lancet.
HOLLIKG & SPANGENBERG PIANOS.
ZEIT2 LEIPZIG
(Hlano Makers to the Imperial Court of Germany),
PRIZE MEDAL IRON-FRAMED OVER-
STRUNG PIANOFORTES.
This high-class Pianoforte combines the Latest
Ilnprovements with Economy of Price, and can
be had on application to the appointed agency,
G. J. WEIiLS,
I, Hunter Street, Sydney,
from whom may be had prices and terms to meet
all demands. Also, all kinds of German mnkers,
■lords.
THt3 STAN DA HD ORGANS,
at Very low prices and terms.
G.J. WELLS,
I Hiintar-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.
HEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES -WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION
WALLACH BROTHERS.
BLAKE’S IMPROVED
STEAM PTJMPS.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
17 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
ARE BOLE AGENTS FOR THE ABOVE,
and have In Stock and to airlva—
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
mining pumps
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING PUMP
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
SKND FOB PBICK8 AND ALL PARTICULARS
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FREE.
Anew biforb MOUSTACHE and WHISZEBS. won after
Boyd’s Beard F.lixirdid this, and
Vfili do it on either bald head or
bare fare. Force9 heaty Mans-
tache in from 3 to 4 weeks and never L
' /ailt, 20.000 young men already
wear full beards, having used 1 to
3 pkt». No injury, easily applied, eertain in effect.
each, 3 for 3s. (id., post paid . sent under cover, free from observation•
Frank Douglas, Sole Agent, Box 730, G.P.O., Sydney,N.8, W»
Copyrighted.
Copyrighted.
Packets Is. Qd.
i
P. KIR BY,
from the late Mr. Jamib Ctjbtib. 7
XTaad-ertsLlcer,
S4 HUNTER ft PHILLIP STREETS ’
EUNEBALS NEATLY EXECUTED
i If. Wi_i . *
Wr*l- W , M ln . *Ke employ of the
(18> yean;
Mr. James Ourtls for sixteen
Manager for over ten QO) rears.
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of all kinds of Crated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Prourietor of Vi™,.™
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at VlflOrlllOp
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDN FI V
CoiCUtta EM,t,0n 0WardeH ihe 0nl * Go '° MeM for Wafers; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueur.Rm.r , &c .
SWALLOW
ARIELL'S
BISCUITS AND CAKES, TREACLE AND GOLDEN SIRUP
JT- A ■ mmrn 1
Self-raising JErated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
8. & A, have obtained First Awards all over the world inolndfno TVn nr j i Q , _ _
and Seven First Awards. Melbourne. 1881 ; SSmS, Sfi&LB.
Sydney Agents* W. H. ARIEL! A CO., 343 end 345 Kent .treat


A BOON TO THOUSANDS!
Manhood and Vigour of Youth
Restored in Four Weeks.®
Ruttrn manhood to tho moat fluttered and debilitated CO*
•Illation from whatever cauic arising, in FOUR WEEKS,
Failure is impossible if taken according to the printed di-
rections, which are vary simple, and require no restraint or
hindrance from business.
This invaluable remedy affords relief, and permanently
antes all who suffer wasting and withering of the nerves and
asneonlar tissues, Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Disturbed
Sleep, Trembling Sensations, Dininess, _ Spermatorrhsea, all
Urinary Deposits, which cause incapacity and degeneracy,
total and partial prostration, and every other exhaustive de-
rangement of the system ; regenerating all the important
slcments of the human frame, and enabling man to fulfil his
eieat sacred obligations.
In oases at its., or four quantities in one hr jis,; If by
toaeK, as. id. extra.
NATURE’S GREAT REMEDY!
DR. RICORDS
SANATIVE PILLS
Par strengthening the system, purifying the blood, regulating
the bowels, and removing all vitiated humours, bilious ane
Liver Complaints, Rheumatism, Gout, Scorbutic Affections,
CastivenesB. Skin Eruptions, and all diseases of the nervous
system. This never-failing remedy affords at once a new
lease of life to the sickly and aged of both sexes, imparting
a beautiful and clear complexion, n sure sign of health,
strength, and vigour. Price, se. | by post, ed. extra.
AGENTS FOR SYDNEY I
Messrs. W.BARCLAY & CO.,
. 45 00 VLB URN STREET,
Own Doon from Onoxon Stxbbt Soon,
And may be had of most Chemists. w
fnree/s jsaeAed ttcurely and fr»* fr»m observation. Mot to
QnttmlanU, Ntw Z»atand, tr •nujmrt of Mo
Oelonlu. sn rtotlpt of Foot Offieo Onfor or Stamp*.
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
Lost Vitality, &c.—A simple and positive
means of Self-Cure, by an eminent
French Hospital Physician. Sent Free
Medico, P.O, Box 766, Sydney.
met
or
life
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORE on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
n! ov^t S y eSUl i t ' lngfl ’.° m m n<Iiscreti0n or messes may h(
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
J Medical Association, entitled tho Science of Life
° r ,A e . lf Preservation. A book for every man, young!
a “ d old- It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. 300 pages, bound in beautiful French cloth
full gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
w!M°al iel lc 01 a 1 ! 1 . comlt ry for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps Gold
Tf.™ 1 - awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
. Science of Life should be read by the young for
instruction and by the afilicted for relief. It will benefit
all. —London Lancet.
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As- 11 »■ n ■
69 Hunter, HEAL
The author may JHYSELF
consulted on all diseases requiring’
KkilU secrecy, and experience
MOULTON’S
TpT?T I l >LA ;Jr XT P° sitivel y cured by MGULTON’S
rRUli. 1 ILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures aiu- nc
d H° ULT0^’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from toe
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
*Le LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
I HE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit),
ihey are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price Is. 3d.
0. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
TON ft NERVINE
TRA.DE MARK-“ TONIC NERVINE.”
ADAfB, CKRTAlN, & SPEEDY OURJS lot Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring- from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Proetratlen, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power
&o. By its tonic and soothing effects It at once
removes all craving for Alcohol. By Its richness
la phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALLS TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigour to the whole system.
Price, is. 6d., or 26s. a ease- Sold everywhere.
Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS. Registered
Chemists, 104 and 106 Market-street, near H;
Pn*k. Sydney, and 5 Pltt-otree*. ;oiwml«»-onnv.
W.B.—All imitations Illegal. TAKE NO BURST*
rUTl.
I A U T I 0 N
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO THE PUBLIC.
In consequence of an attempt to substitute In-
ferior and spurious articles for “ Dr. Scott’s Elec-
tric,” the Pall Mall Electric Association, 54, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, desire to caution the public
against purchasing any counterfeit of the follow-
ing goods Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets, Dr.
Scott’s Electric Belts, Dr. scott’s Electric Hair,
Flesh, or Tooth Brushes, Dr. Scott's Galvanic
Generators, and Dr. Scott’s Electric Insoles.’
Every genuine article bears the word “ Electric”
and the name of Dr. Scott, as also does the box
containing same. The extent of our trade, and the
marked appreciation of the public having Induced
certain parties to manufacture a line of worthless
goods, having something of the general form and
external appearance of ours, and variously styled
“Magneto-Electric or Electric Magnetic,’
we respectfully ask that parties who have been
Influenced by the many testimonials we publish,
all of which are strictly genuine, or the universal
reputation of our goods, to give electricity a
trial, will see that the name of Dr. Scott and the
word “ Electric” appear on every article purchased.
In addition to this, we have recently registered a
new trade mark—an oval label with our local
address, “Pall Mall Electric Association, 54, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, N.S.W,” In marginal lines,
encircling the device of a mailed hand holding a
group of thunderbolts.
“tK/C
*3
$
$
£
As we are the on-y pa +fes n Australia Importing
these goods direct from Dr. Scott, and are prepared
to guarantee the genuiixeness of every article
bearing this label, we advise purchasers to see
personally that this trade mark Invariably appears
on any and every Flectnc Corset, Belt, Insole.
Generator, Hair. Flesb. or Tooth Brush, they may
desire to purchase. This borne In mind, much
vexation and dlsappointmi nt will be saved-and
we respectfully request th t any person who has
been Induced to buy any of those imitations under
the Impression that they were Dr, Scott's Electric,
will at once communicate with us.
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by, he
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give a
trial ?
U
m
m
Dr, Scoffs Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &o., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows
No. 1
No. 3
No. 3
No. 5
Electric Belts..
s. d.
..6 6
... 8 6
., 10 6
.. 16 0
.. 16 0
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannet get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is, 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece of common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque.
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
ELECTRIC ill,
64 Hargaret-streat,
V^SSRaft^KfflBQE^MBL"* 00
Capltal £100,000.
__ Head Offlc© ; MolbmifnA
"SJKi :
Victorian Directors:
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P.,
Chairman
Hon. J. F. Levlen, M.P.
Thomas Learmonth, Esq.
N. 8. Wales Directors:
Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Frank Cowley, Esq.
George 8. Yeo, Esq.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Doirs Insured
biseaso, or Natural
causes on land, rail, or at sea.
Merchand®elccepted? k ooyering m «rtallty or on
oTonles Dly LlTe 8tock Insura nce Society in the
signed par^cu krs can b® obtained from the under*
Active Agents wanted whore unrepresented.
nfflno A.J. WILKINSON. Branch Manager.
Office, Id Oastlereagh-strnet.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
OF
RILEY BROTHERS'
ORIGINAL
£5 1UR1T BALES!
PACKED In CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
5? r £ la £ e pald mall all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been In operation for 12
time we have despatched over
faotfon hOU8an(1 balP8 ’ ab K ivin K the greatest satis-
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe.
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT—ELECTRIC BELTS
MESSRS. NKILD and CO., on behalf of The
Magnetlcal-Eleetrlo Appliance Company,
earnestly desire to call the attention of the public
to the fact that, In consequence of the success
attending the sale of the above Company’s Elec*
trio Belts, Corsets, &o., a so-called Caution has
been published, emanating from an agent for
Electric articles, who, prompted by a motive to
attempt to monopolise the sale of such articles,
the principle of which we emphatically assert has
been known to the world lor at least twenty years
and are now being manufactured in Great Britain
by dozens of firms, and variously styled lor the
purposes of a trade mark only, but avowedly par-
taking of the same nature, being an adapta-
tion of the element of Magnetioal Electricity.
We ask, therefore, those who desire to adopt
the treatment of Electricity for constitutional
or local derangements, to compare our Elec-
tric Belts, Corsets, &c, with those of other
manufacture, as they are undoubtedly of su-
perior Electrical {Strength, design, quality of
material, and elegance of finish. The 15s.
Gent.’s Belt is the best ever offered to the public
for electrical strength and quality. Gent.’sspeolal-
power Electric Belts, 20s. These Belts are manu-
factured eiprctsly for tropical climates, and are
very durable, as also are our Electric Corsets,
Lung Invlgorators, Spine Bands. &c.
THE
” MAGNEiTICAL
<<>
The “ Magnetlcal Electric” Appliance Company'*
ELECTRIC BELTS. Corset Lung Invlgoratom
Spine Bands, Kneecaps, Insoles, &c., &c, is the
only perfect method for generating the curative
properties of the continuous current of Electri-
city, without the aid of batteries or use of acids
without incurring any risk of undue action upon
the most delicate Invalid, and Impart Health and
Vitality to all who wear them.
The MAGNETICAL ELECTRIC TREATMENT
Is now admitted by Medloo-Elcctrlc Scientists, and
many leading Physicians, to be the most valuable
Electrical Remedial Agent for the Cure of all
Nervous Diseases, Affections of the Heart, Epi-
lepsy, Spinal Complaints. Rheumatism, Lumbago
Sciatica, Paralysis. Gout, General' Debility. Indi-
gestion. Female Complaints, &o„ &c., and Is now
adapted for the Successful Treatment of all Lung
Troubles, hitherto without the domain of Electr'o
Agency.
One of the Special Features of this Treatment la
the MAGNETICAL ELECTRIC CORSET, which
Is unsurpassed for Its curative properties in all
female troubles, and is of superior shape and
manufacture. Price, 10s„ 15s., and 20s. ‘ & “
The Guinea Special Power Electric Belt Is the
same as sold in England for £3 3s. Thousands of
people of all ranks In the United Kingdom have
testified to the beneficial results of the Magnetlcal
Electric Treatment; and Testimonials from lead-
log Medical and Scientific Men are In our nos-
SC SSlODf
GENTLEMEN’S BELTS are manufactured of
superior material, in the shape of a riding belt
and are very durable. Send si?e of w«Sl outside
extra' armeD * ; * Price, 15s, and 20a.; if mailed, Is, fid.
LUNG INVIGORATOBS. 20s.;
TV^n! : S^ PS ’, 7 *V 6 1 d - ; BPjNE BANDS, 10s.
INSOLES, Invaluabje for cold feet, chilblains, and
defective circulation, 5s. fid. Send size of boot, or
paper pattern of inside (Is. fid. for postage).
All correspondence treated with the greatest
despatch. Post-office orders to be made payable to
E. S. NEILD & CO., 158 Pitt-street,
Sole Proprietors “ Magnetlcal Electric” Appliance
Company, London and Sydney,
*5 LADY’S BALE.
5 Ladies’ Chemises
; Pairs Drawers
7 Nignt-gowns
5 Ladles’ Camisoles
i Ladies’ Petticoats
i Children’s Chemises
“ pairs Drawers
" Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longclotb. and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered Instead of
any of the above.
£K MOURNING BALE.
25 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
.1 Rady’s Bonnet
si Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVES.
On receipt of 3a. In
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 3 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For accouchementa, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5,
15s.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
* large Dressmaking Department, pre-
hKn°I e t b f a lady . of «reat experience, antf shall
oSi« a 5 py t0 patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials-Silks, Velvets. &oT-wlth
?f rl applled d tm U Instructlon or self-measurement,
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Originate 18 of the celebrated £5 Bales of Drapery
THE SYDNEY SPORTS
DEPOT.
389 GBORQB-STREET SYDNEY
(Opposite Royal Hotel.)
BICYCLES,jrmCYCLES.
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles
and Tricycles
Have Every Improvement.
OUR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadster.
THE UNIVERSAL CLUB
BICYCLE,
fitted with Improved Ball Bear*
logs to front and back wheels.
Hollow Forks, Patent Head and
Detachable Bent Handle Bar.
Easy Slide Spring, Hubs Plated.
Black Enamelled Spokes,
Price, *13 10a. At the price
we defy competition.
: ausfsa istsisjar*
JAMES MARTIN & COMPANY, 388 Ooorgo-st., Sydney.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL
MITTAGrOKTG.
FIRST CLASS ACCOMMODATION COMBINED WITH
The Best Brands of Ales, Wines, and Spirits always in Stock.
BUGGIES AND HORSES ON HIRE OR SPECIALLY ENGAGED.
ft
&
t/3
co
0^0
PETER MURPHY, Proprietor.
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wtlsoa’s Ame-
rican “Extra Toast “BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert
nothing equals them. Delicious with
®uperb with wine, and Incomparible
with coffee or cheese. e
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street, Sydney,
OFFORD & CO.’S HAlS
n Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
Next to Royal Hotel, and at 652 George Street.


NOTICE.
ADVERTISERS and others will please take
notice that Mr. FRANK A. HALL Is NO
LONGER CONNECTED WITH THIS OFFICE
as Canvasser, Collector, or otherwise.
W. H. TRAILL,
' Managing Director.
The Bulletin Office,
Sydney, November, 1885.
0 aCTORS, ACTRESSES, MANAGERS, &C.
‘ THE THEATRICAL NEWSPAPER
BUREAU.
All the chief London Theatrical Papers on sale,
including " Stage,” “ Theatre,” “Topical Times,”
“Dramatic he view,” “Bat,” &o., at moderate
prices. Postage free to any address In Australia.
Write to Manager,
10 IMPERIAL CHAMBERS,
Bank Place, Collius-street. Melbourne.
NNUAL CHRISTMAS FESTIVAL.
PEAPES and SHAW
Invite special attention to theirlarge a c 8omnont of
Fancy articles, suitable for
P h Ei> KNTATl ON.
Thev comnrite almost
EVERY CONCEIVA HLE A RT1ULE OF LUXURY
CHRISTMAS CARDS,
ranging in price
FROM ONE PENN V TO ONE FOUND EACH.
PEAPES & SHAW’S
ELEGANT
ARTICLES -i
for
PRESENTATION.
f Ladies’ Hand Bags, with
and without fittings
1 The largest stock of beau-
tiful Fans in tne city
Scent Caskets, Boudoir
I Nlcnacs
1 Card Cases, in silver,
I ivory, pearl, and Rus-
sian leathtr
Purses, Memo. Tablets,
Pocket Rooks
Cabinet and Carte de-
1 Vlslte Screens
Photo. Cases, Photo.
Frames, Albums
I Pocket Mirrors, Tourists’
, Cases, Writing Cases,
Writing Desks
I Fitted Dressing Cases,
I. and Bags, &o.
PICNIC'LUNCHEON BASKETS,
all sizes.
HILDEGARDE,
the new game of cricket for ladies.
PARLOUR, FIELD, and LAWN GAMES,
in great variety.
f Lawn Tennis Sets, Cricket
I ditto, Croquet ditto,
Rlngolette, James the
Janitor, Parlour Skit-
tles, Toys for the little
ones, solitaires, Ger-
man Tactics.
-{ Mechanical Toys, Horses,
Dogs, Cows, Sheep, Rab-
bits, Monkeys, Rocking
Horses, &o., &c.
Work Baskets, Work
Boxes, Combination
Boxes of Games, Com-
bination Boxes of Toys.
DOLLS, DOLLS, DOLLS, LOVELY DOLLS.
BOY DOLLS, GIRL DOLLS, BABY DOLLS,
TALKING DOLLS, CRYING DOLLS,
LAUGHING DOLLS, SLEEPING DOLLS.
f We shall show This Day
a special Shipment of
I Millinery, imported dl-
1 rect from Paris express-
ly for the Christmas
j Trade, Choice and Styl-
> Ish Goods, and they will
be found cheap, being
J marked at a minimum
I rate of profit to meet
I the extraordinary com-
t. petition now existing.
PEAPES & SHAW’S
GRAND
ASSORTMENT
of
TOYS and GAMES.
PEAPES & SHAW’S
SPECIAL SHIPMENT
CHRISTMAS
MILLINERY.
JUST OPENED,
the
NEW CABINGTON SQUARE-SHAPED
PARASOLS.
COME AND SEE THEM.
They are tbe Fashionable Novelty of the Day I
f Novelties in Ruffllngs,
I New Linen Sets, New
1 Lace ditto. Fichus and
1 lace Mantles, Black
Spanish Mantlllas.beau-
tlful French Cambric
and Fancy Handker-
chiefs.
1 A Special Importation of
beautiful Real and Imi-
tation Laces, in every
{ width, colour, and de-
I scription.
Our Laco Department is
crowded with New
Goods and Novelties.
PEAPES & SHAW’S
LACE
DEPARTMENT,
Full of NOVELTIES.
I
A BEAUTIFUL ASSORTMENT
of
EVENING JERSEY BODICES,
in all the
NEW LIGHT SHADES.
JERSEY JACKETS IN ALL COLOURS,
Cs. lid.. Is. 6d , 8s. 6d., 10s. 61, and 138. 61.
COME AND SEE THEM,
THEY ARB EXCEEDINGLY CHEAP.
PEAPES & SHAW’S
GLOVE
and
HOSIERY
DEPARTMENT.
BEST MAKES.
LOWEST PRICES.
f Our Hosiery and GloV<>
Department is replete
with all the newest and
most reliable Goods,
Our Hosiery from J.
and R. Morley s, our
Kid Gloves Irom Dent’s
and our Fabric Gloves
from Fownes Brothers’.
It is well known these
makers cannot be
beaten, and we are sure
our prices cannot be
either.
324, 326, 328 George-etreet,
INTENDING VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY'
Should Carefully Preserve this Notice.
"THE WONDER” COACH
CARRIED 1933 PASSENGERS LAST SEASON
Mr. P. J, Rumney, of “ RIDGE’S FOOD” fame,
is still running his celebrated four-horse Stage
Coach, "THE WONDEEf,” between London and
Ht. Albans, leaving Hatchett's Hotel, In Piccadilly,
London, every morning at 10.45 returning to Pic-
cadilly at 5 45 p m.
Ample time is allowed at St. Albans for lunch
anr or passengers to inspect the CATHEDRAL,-
wblcu is one of the FINEST and OLDEST IN THE
WORLD.
The trip la one of the delightful that can
be taken, and the price charged for the return fare
is fifteen shillings.
For Time Cards and other particulars, apply to
“WONDER” Coach Office, Hatchett’s Hotel,
Piccadilly, London, England.
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News*
pWPer Co, (Limited), Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W,
COMPASNOHI CATERING CO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE oldest and leading Catering N.8.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor.
. T ’ a ? 1 d J oftle8t intb ® ° 0i0ny *
GRILL R0 a™ 11 p.m. (after the
Theatres 0 delect Tour owrTsteak. *o7, and see it grilled in the room. This la one of the acquisitions
S^W®u“»mte.' elt Motion ‘"'Slf' B^T^LWClll^n^U ’VJiiwr.
LIMITED,
356 George-stroet,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS
and
MUSIC
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W.H. PALING & Co.
»5« Ceorge-street, Sydney.
A CHANCE to secure a first-class
Farm at Gosford, for £15 per acre,
payable at the rate of 2s. per acre
per week and no interest, is an oppor-
tunity for a profitable investment that a
never allows
to pass. Dur-
ing the past
month a large number of actual set-
tlers availed themselves of this liberal
offer by the Vendors of the Model Farms,
Blocks, and com-
menced improve-
ments on choice
lands, well adapted to dairy, live stock
and general farming purposes, from which
can be selected that
cannot be excelled
the Australias,
FOR PARTICULARS, MAPS, ETC., WRITE TO
VL4.XJLJ.Ujr JLVJL IM
WISE MAN
month a large nur
tiers availed themsc
offer by the Vendors c
BOUGHT
lands, well adapted 1
and general farming ]
A FARM
BOYD & KING,
AUCTIONEERS,
96 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
i'
fa
VS?
“ Mr. William Ball.—Dear Sir,—Allow me to say
that I find your‘Bloom of Peaches’ superior to
anything of the kind that I ever used before.—
Yours truly, Emelib Melville.”
•• Dear Sir,—1 have never used anything equal to
your ‘Bloom of Peaches.’— Maggie Moore.
•‘ Dear Sir,—I have the greatest pleasure In re-
commending Mr. Ball’s ‘ Bloom of Peaches ’ and
‘Fett-Puder’ as being invaluable.—Yours truly,
Alice Rees.” , , „
To be obtained of all chemists.
Pries, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
“ FETT-PUDEB,” a delicate and Invisible
powder for the face. Beautifully perfumed.
White, Pink, or Cream, to suit all complexions.
Price, 1/6 per box.
Manufactured only by
WILLI AIK BA LI,
The “Professional” and Pharmaceutical Chemist,
61 BOURKB STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Agents for Sydney;
Messrs. E. PROSSER & CO. ; Wholesale OhemUtft
FHAITGS-’S
CHRISTMAS CARDS
AND
CHRISTMAS SATIN ART PRINTS.
ALL STATIONERS.
Sole Agents, ROBERT JOLLEY & CO.
DR. THOMAS
may be consulted on
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affections.
Medical Establishment, 203. Bllzabeth-street,
near Bathurst-street.
Hours: 9 till 10 daily.
Dr. Thomas is the only medical man advertising
in Australia who has passed the degrees of an Eng-
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations passed
—Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians,
London. 18«4; Member of the Royal College of
Surgeons. London, 1859.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TL2M Iw^nutritious
AND
WHEN ALL
KINDS OF FOOD ARE-
REJECTED. AT ALLCHEMISTS IM
106* 20 oz BOTTLES
C ARNOLD 8BRIDCES t
Rev. Father Wilds’
EXPERIENCE.
The Kev. Z. P. "Wilds, well-known city
missionary in New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds, of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
“ 78 E. 54 th St., New York, May 16, 1882.
Messrs, J. C. Ayer & Co.. Gentlemen:
Last winter I was troubled with a most
uncomfortable itching humor affecting
more especially my limbs, which itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so Intense-
ly, that 1 could scarcely bear any clothing
over them. 1 was also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough; my
appetite was poor, and my system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from personal use
In former years, I began taking it for the
above-named disorders. My appetite im-
proved almost from the first close. After
a short time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs of irritation of the
skin disappeared. My catarrh and cough
were also cured by the same means, and
my general health greatly improved, until
it is now excellent. I feel a hundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of the Sarsaparilla, which
I recommend with all confidence as the
best blood medicine ever devised. I took
it in small doses three times a day, and
used, in all, less than two bottles. I place
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may do good.
Yours respectfully, Z. P. "Wilds.”
The above Instance is but one of the many
constantly coming to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from impure or Impoverished blood, and a
weakened vitality.
Ayer’sSarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of the stomach and
bowels, and thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofu-
lous Diseases, Eruptions of the Slcin, Rheu-
matism, Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state of the system.
prepared by
Dp. J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all price $1, six bottles
for $5.
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
PILLS.
Best ’Purgative Medicine
cure Constlpatiop, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious Disorders.
Sold everywhere. Always reliable.
ELLIOTT BROS, and 8. HOFFNUNG & CO*
Wholesale Agents.
A Blessing In every Family. _
Hollow a Y’s pills and ointment
There is not a country In the civilised world
where the healing virtues of these grand medi-
cines have not been recognised by thousands of
sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their
beneficent action Is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use In
everv disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only Kt78NEwOxFOiu>-RT.. London.
Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots If the address is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
Study economy
and
Rave your U mb rella Frame*
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-Uned and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Bta.
Parasols made to match ooe-
J tume*. Repair* neatly ex#*
saWi
')■
BULL DOG ALB.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
IMJttilllK Ul JJttOO AA47 U»f v - ' *
Robr't Porter and Co. the highest award glvenat
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connolsocurs of Burton
Boer may obtain their favourite beverage In t°e
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTBLL & CO
Bole Agents.
I\m?(/flan* iQse ■ SMetafter?
p
ITJIT’ILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
\\ of MUSIC In the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &o.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, In variety
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, Ac., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards
engraved or printed. Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards. _ ..
ah orders executed In best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and Bchool Prizes, In parcels,
41 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bugs, Fans, Ac.
Music and Books bound In any style, cheap.
Christmas and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock.
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most Important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Borrygraph, the cost of
which Is a mere trifle, takes on 70 splendid copies.
Bond and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAH~BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
ARlIFICIAlTtETH
complete SET
MAR^ALL*BRO?
DENTISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
CLEARANCE SALE. BONA FIDE.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st., Sydney
(Established 1800).
FRONT PREMISES having BEEN CONDEMNED,
the
WHOLE STOCK MUST BE CLEARED
AT A SACRIFICE.
SALE CAN ONLY LAST ONE MONTH.
NOTE-ONE MONTH ONLY.
BEDSTEADS 1 f
BEDDING I „ TT , m '
COTS I MUST
GLASSES I be
FURNITURE f „ T
CHAIRS | CLEARED.
BLANKETS I I
QUILTS J L
MUST BE CLEARED
to admit of
NEW PREMISES BEING ERECTED,
for which tenders have been called.
BALE CAN ONLY LAST ONE MON IH,
So Purchase Early,
BARGAINS 1 BARGAINS 1 BARGAIN! 1
at
J. Lawler's,
608 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J STOCK,
1 £15,000.
