

THE BULLETIN
Vol 3 —No- 128-Naw Serier.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1885.
MeML
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER U 1888.
The Elections.
The chief conclusion to he drawn from Fri-
day’s elections is that, however the New
South Wales Parliament and the Sydney
daily Press may unite, for reasons best
known to themselves, in patching up
political reputations, the electors have
an awkward habit of forming thtir own
opinions and acting upon them. The
complete dispersion of the five Minis-
ters—this number, it will be remembered,
enriched our language with the word
“ cabal ’’—whose names were conspicuously
bracketed with administrative eccentrici-
ties, is a significant fact. Sir A. Stuaet and
Mr. Fabnell, whose alleged leaning toivards
oyster-culture and nepotism gave rise to
suspicions alike unfounded and ill-natured,
put the safe breakwater of the Upper House
between themselves and the rising tide of
public disapprobation. Mr. Cohen, be-
tween whom and “Standard Paint” it was
sought to establish something in common,
retired into tne privacy from which it was
unwise for him ever to emerge. To Mr. Dibbs,
the Premier, and Mr. Wright, the Minister
for Mines, tell the ta-k of convincing the
country what able servants it possessed in
them, and how foolish it would be to dis-
charge them just when their usefulness was
being mellowed by experience. But the
electors of St. Leonards and Redfern
entertained different views. When a Par-
liamentary candidate holds one opinion, and
the majority of voters another, it will be
found that the latter always have their
way. Three years ago the Premier was the
second member for St. Leonards, and but
three votes behind Mr. Holtermann, the
senior. Now he is rejected, being over a
hundred votes behind Mr. Ives, and nearly
five hundred in rear of Sir Henry Pa. kes.
At Redfern, Mr. Wright’s defeat was even
more ignominious; Of six candidates he
was placed last but one, obtaining consider-
ably less than half the number of votes cast
for Mr. Sutherland. When it is remem-
bered that it was for this very constituency
he was senior memoer up to tae late disso-
lution, his present position is full of sugges-
tiven .as. The fate of Messrs. Dibbs and
Wright will probably lead Sir A. Stuart
and Mr. Farnell to think that, after all, a
nominee Upper Chamber is not suotra mis-
take as Radicals would have us believe. If
only for saving disc, redded politicians from
learning the estimation in which they are
held by their constituents, it has its uses.
The first lesson, then, taught hy the metro-
politan elections of 1883 is that, if Ministers
wish to seohre and preserve public confi-
dence, they must not only have clean bands
to start with, hut must avoid toying with
anything likely to smudge them.
» * *
But it is by no means the only lesson. The
city journals, without exception, drnounoed,
in language full of fire and curiously-con-
structed sentences, tfie factious tactics of
the Opposition. The malignants who re-
fused to follow Mr. Dibbs’ triumphal dump-
car, or failed to become enthusiastic over
barbed wire, or objected to recognise sons-
in-law as an essential part of land adminis-
tration, were told that they were merely
committing a political “happy despatch”
—that their actions were indecent and their
speeches vulgar. They were further as-
sured that, if they persisted in putting un-
comfortable questions, the people would
arise in their might and crush them. The
people rose in their might, but they—owipg
to some blunder, no doubt—appear to have
crushed the wrong lot. 0£ the 45 members
returned not more than a third are Govern-
ment supporters. Of the 35 who held that
Mr. Wright was quite justified in presiding
over the State railways while at the same
time presiding over a company whose in-
terests those very railways touched at a
hundred points, eight have, as we write,
already been drummed out, and it is
certain that many more will be squelched
before the elections are over. From
this it would appear that the wisest
course to be adopted by anyone de-
sirous of gauging the political feeling
of the country would be to study the Sydney
daily journals and embrace an opinion
directly contrary to theirs. At least this
would be the wisest course it one could
always tell what their opinion was. But,
when the little Echo, after hurling at the
Opposition the fiercest defiance, barbed with
contempt of a peculiarly pungent pattern,
remarks concerning the Governmental col-
lapse:—“The result of the elections may
generally be considered as satisfactory,” the
difficulty of ascertaining whether metro-
politan newspapers have any opinions, and,
if so, what they are, becomes apparent. If
a complete rout is satisfactory to those who
have to run, they might at least tell us
what they would consider an “unsatisfac-
tory ” engagement.
• * *
The South Sydney election possesses three
curious f eatu res— the| triumph of Mr. Davies,
the rejection of Mr. Miller, and the num-
ber of informal votes. There were 252 of the
latter. They were the direct result of the
general backwardness of New South Wales
in everything political. To the stranger
there is nothing more surprising than the
primitive method in vogue amongst us of
performing every public function. When
two ways of doing anything present them-
selves, our rulers seem to have a natural
gift, little short of inspiration, for choos-
ing the wrong one. Nine candidates
stood for South Sydney. Voting papers
with the nine names, but with no directions,
were given to electors, many of whom had
never voted before. Even with plain direc-
tions on the ballot-papers voters occasion-
ally go astray. But it is clear that this
liability to err is immensely increased when
there are no instructions at all. There is
little doubt that most of the informal papers
committed to the South Sydney ballot-boxes
were due to the fact that flurried or igno-
rant electors, having no directions btfnre
them, ran their pencils through the names
of the candidates for whom t*ey intended
to vote. Every paper so treated, there
being at least live names left untouched,
was necessarily informal. And, had there
been but seven or eight candidates, the
matter would be worse instead of better.
For, now, those who marked the names of
their choice have the additional mortifica-
tion of learning that, although the papers
were correct, the votes went to the wrong
men. It is because there were nine aspi-
ran ts for four seats that the number of in-
formal votes in South Sydney shows out so
conspicuously. But there is no doubt that
in the twelfth Parliament of New South
Wales will be, found men entitled to flood
the country with flaccid oratory and pigeon
English because the official mind of the
colony has not yet grasped the idea of put-
ting a few plain directions on voting papers.
» ■ *
We have said that Mr. Davies’ success is
curious. It is so in the light of his previous
political and public record. It shows, too
that, by using water as a beverage and
wearing a variegated sash in memory of a
Dutchmans who reigned over and disliked
Englishmen two hundred years ago, a couple
of powerful societies will entrust you with
the making of laws, allow you to adopt any
school of orthography short of the phonetic,
and wear diamond rings approximating in
size to those so much affected by the leading
lights of negro-minstrelsy. Considering
that the working men of South Sydney en-
gaged to pay Mr. Miller’s expenses and
contribute to his maintenance if returned,
that South Sydney is the home of the working
man, and that Mr. Miller was rejected, the
unorganized state of bona fide labour in
New South Wales could not be better illus-
trated. It shows a constituency possessing
the ill and power to return a certain candi-
date, and yet failing to do so through want
of organization and consequent loss of force.
Ihe natives of India have the will and
power to drive the English into the sea, but
they fail in doing or even attempting it,
through precisely the same cause that re-
sulted in the rejection of Mr. Miller. If
the men of New South Wales who earn
their living by manual labour could only
be brought to see the essentiality of proper
organization—that, divided, they are con-
temptible, while, united, they are irresist-
ible-there would soon be in the House a
majority pledged to payment of members,
Protection, stoppage of land alienation, and
—most pressing of all—the repeal of criminal
laws which, unlit for Hottentots, bid fair to
distinguish Australia as that part' of the
world where barbarous punishments, ban-
ished from older countries, took root and
flourished. By a combination of workmen
alone will New South Wales become the
land of the free, instead 01, as now, the land
of the gallows and the oat-o’-nine-tails.
« ♦ •
But it is the Soudan Mumbo-jumbo which
has had the severest fall—a fall to serious as
to prevent future statesmen, who happen to
be touched with “Imperial” crazes, from
erecting a similar idol and inviting their
fellow-citizens to worship it. When we re-
member the rivers of turgid rhetoric which
but yesterday were poured out to prove
that England was in danger; that a con-
federation of English-speaking people, in-
cluding the Americans, was the great want
of the age; that famous leaders had at vari-
ous times appeared amongst men, but that
Mr. Dalley was a head and shoulders over
them all, the relegation of this Soudan
fetish to the limbo of exploded fooleries
is instructive. Those who had bowed
before the ugly thing preserved a pru-
dent silence, ihe eloquence of Mr. Dal-
let was unavailing. Having patiently
hearkened, the people of St. Leonards has-
tened away to record their condemnation of
the whole business. The comfortable as-
sumption that the country was with the
Cabinet in their unsolicited filibustering
raid was turned inside out. Next to the
collapse of the Ministry, this pricking of the
“ aiding-the-old-mother-in-the-time-of -her-
need ” bladder was the moat suggestive les-
son taught by the elections of Friday,
THE LATE PROFESSOR SMITH, OF SYDNEY UNIVERSITY.


Thb Rates op Subscription to Thb Bullitin
are—For one year, Ma.; half-year, 12s. Bd.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
Thb Advertising ratbs are ss. per Inch!
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods- as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertlonsf
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O, Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
The Governor’s Departure.
Agents arc requested to send
in orders early for the attractive
Supplement which will accom-
pany next week’s (Oct. 31) issue
of The Bulletin.
Wolfe's Schnapps cannot be approached
for its flavor and purity of spirit.
Advise your friends to drink Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Why persist in drinking lemonade manu-
factured from imported mostly adulterated ‘ Oilof
Lemons,” if you can obtain a genuine article, pre-
pared from Australian grown lemon, at Messrs,
balm and Oertel Aerated Water and Cordial Manu-
facturers, 403 Pitt-street ?♦
If you are low-spirited take Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Wolfe's Schnapps is the remedy “ par excel-
lence” for kidney diseases, indigestion and debility
THE FUNNY MAN.
The funny man went to his desk to write,
He thougnt all day, would write all night,
To finish his work would trim the light;
His pen flew fast and the hours went on.
Till the night of toil was almost gone;
It was drawing close to early morn.
At last he speaks with that good cheer.
Bring me a bottle of ST. LOUIS’ BEEU,
Just off .the ice cold and clear.
Then he dropped his pen and raised his head—
Now the column is finished, the funny man said,*
Be sure you get Wolfe's Schnapps.
To avoid gll mistakes ask for Wolfe’B
Schnapps,
Mr. Cat M'Quade.
Tub other dav a leading Melbourne medical man
wrote us:—“ Continue to preach the nobility of
man and our near optimistic future. No human
being should be flogged, or starved, or solitarily con-
fined, for that way madness lies,"
* * ♦
We see that that ponderous Parliamentary
failure, Henry M'Qcade, his been beaten in the
Hawkesbury electorate. M’Quade, who wears an
eyeglass which magnifies his mlcrobish mind and
mirrors the stupidity of his admirers openly
proclaims that he favours the brutal flogging
system. We rejoice to see Mr. Henry M'Quade
kicked out. We are prepared to support while
we live, through thick and thin, any man, white,
black, or yellow, Orange or Green, Freetrader
or Protectionist, Imperialist or Republican,
who will help us in effacing from this blood-stained
land the accursed system of the lash. We will
give Mr. Bowman, M’Quade’s victor, some
pounds to help him to buy a few score volumes of
the newly-issued edition of Marcitj? Clarke's
book, “ His Natural Life,” for distribution among
the electors of the Hawkesbury. just to remind
them of the times that were and to show them
accurate pictures of the Infamous old-world mon-
sters who foisted on Australia a diabolism belong-
ing to the days of the rack and the thumbscrew;
the senseless brutes—murderers, with opportuni-
ties, Who upreared in every hamlet of this so-called
Christian land the hideous triangle, at the foot of
which, scarce 40 years ago, ten million bulldog-
ants used to gorge themselves on human flesh that
the lash had scattered on the ground. Goo alone
can gauge the effects of the lash upon a man’s
mind and body. You cast him off the triangles
with the white ragged sinews sticking out of his
back, and, unless he has the physical and mental
attrlbutesof a pugilist, he goes into the world, with
bis nervous system ruined, to nurse a horrible
wrath against society, and to beget Idiots, mur-
derers, and hereditary drunkards.
• ■ •
You can, in some sort, compensate a man for
imprisonment unjustly suffered, but never can
efface from the soul of an innocent man the
marks made by the degraded State-paid Garrett
who grins as he combs the bloody lash through
his crooked fingers. The man who writes this
was ten years ago a newspaper reporter in Mel-
bourne. One day he went to a suburban police
court, and saw a young workman committed for
trial on a charge of Indecent assault. Two women
and a child gave evidence against the prisoner.
The reporter felt instinctively that they were
liars, and told his editor so when he returned to
the office. The editor watched the case, and con-
cluded that the man was Innocent. But the work-
man was convicted and sentenced to seven years’
imprisonment, with three floggings-one of 40
and two of 25 lashes.
♦ * *
The editor worked day and night to prevent the
consummation of what he knew to be a horrible
injustice. But the conventional Press and the
conventional public were against him, and the
man was flogged and taken down from the
triangles fainting. The editor did not relax his
efforts, but the man was flogged again—by-and-
bye he was flogged once more. One day, after the
miserable prisoner had been four years in gaol, a
dying woman sent for the clerk of the court at
which the charge had been originally beard. He
went to her, and she confessed that she had com-
mitted perjury—thaij she had suborned her
daughter and the other woman, and had, from re-
venge founded on ( jealousy, hounded down
the prisoner, who was presently released. Society
compensates him, now that he is paralysed, by
allowing him to beg and sell boot-laces, and not
prosecuting him too often for vagrancy. When
last in Melbourne the writer bad the pleasure of
helping him across the street—he is nearly blind—
and giving him half-a-crown. The name of the
editor who for so long fought the battle of this
unhappy man is J. M. Lynch, who is now a mem-
ber of the staff of the Sydney Evening News, and
was then one of the editors of the Melbourne
Daily Telegraph.
• e •
Rich men have deserved flogging, but no rich
man has ever been flogged. The lash is an instru-
ment designed by a bogus aristocracy for the
backs of the proletariat, and the Democracy which
countenances its retention is a Democracy of fools.
It has no place among the noblest civilisations of
Europe. Sixty millions of Germans work out the
destiny of their great nation without the flogger’s
thongs. How long will Australians allow laws to
be made for them by the arrogant custodians of
traditions dating from their epoch of scum ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Herald’s” Home News.
If the only means possessed by colonists of keep-
ing au cnurant with British and foreign affairs
consisted of the information supplied to the Mel-
bourne Ana us and the Sydney Morning Herald
Australian ideas of home subjects would be about
as wide of the mark as those entertained by the
Chinese concerning Western barbarians. As
cunning whisky-blenders know the precise de-
scription of article that will suit their customers,
so the astute “ ink-slingers ” on the Thames have a
clear conception of the precise kind of blend their
antipodean readers will greedily swallow. This is
well Illustrated by the Hebald man oh some late
sayings and doings of Mr. Parnell. The Irish
leader declared for Irish .local government,
as Grattan did a century ago. Common
sense would have suggested that Parnell
no more meant independence in the sense
that England is Independent of France, or
Belgium, or Holland—than Grattan did. But,
as If to shut out any possibility of mistake on the
subject, he, at a late banquet in Dublin, expressed
himself thus:—“ The Government of Ireland as a
Crown colony would be the,Government of a very
large Crown colony, a much larger one than they
possess, or have over attempted to govern from
London up to the present. It would simply load
to the cone: salon of a Constitution similar to that
which is ujjcyc.l with the goodwill of England by
peohsuil slid t y colonies; anu that is
practically what we have been asking for on be-
half of Ireland, so that whether they choose
directly to give us the right of self-government in
its fullest sense, the right of national self-govern-
ment, or whether they choose to govern us
as a Crown colony, it will come to the
same thing in the long run.” One would think
this sufficiently explicit. Parnell and his fol-
lowers no more wish for complete separation from
the British Empire than the State of Pennsylva-
nia desires entire severance from the Union. They
do not wish it (1) because by force of arms alone
could it be obtained; (2) because to secure it by
such means is impossible; and (3) because, even if
it could be compassed, Ireland would be the chief
loser. She would appear in the European political
system as a new third or fourth-rate power, un-
able to protect her shores or make her voice heard
in national councils. Between the two islands
forming the United Kingdom the relations are so
strained that the upshot must either be local
autonomy for the smaller or its conversion into a
Crown colony. No middle course is possible. All
British possessions beyond the sea—omitting India,
Ceylon Hongkong, and others which are not
colonics in the proper sense—were once governed
direct from London. They gradually obtained
local but not complete independence. Parnell
very justly thinks that the Crown colony of Ire-
land would, in like manner, pass into an autonom.
ous province, so that he is perfectly consistent in
saying “ it will come to the same thing in the long
run.” And what does the clever correspondent
say to this? Hear him:—“The assertion that
government as a Crown colony without any Par-
liamentary representation whatever is the same
thing in the long run as national self-government
is one which would require a good deal of Irish
logic to justify.” Of course, this is an Impudent
twisting of words out of their obvious meaning.
But worse remains behind. “ There is a unani-
mous agreement amongst politicans,” the cor-
respondent goes on, “ that, Inasmuch as the
United States of America went to war for the
sake of maintaining their union unimpaired, Eng-
land, if need be, will do the same.” Here it will
bo seen that the demands of the Irish and the de-
mands of the Southerners are put down as essen-
tially similar. But there is no parallel between
them, and persons who endeavour to institute such
a parallel are eit.er very ignorant or very vicious.
The Southerners would have independence com-
plete and uncontrolled. They would have armies
and navies—a president at home and ambassadors
abroad. To concede such demands would injure
not alone Democracy but humanity. All the
evils of the European system—evils which
unnumbered brave men have laid down their
lives to destroy would find a home on
the North American Continent. Immense
standing armies, with the usual accompani-
ment of desolating wars, would bring progress
to a standstill. This is why the aristocracy
of Europe was so anxious for the success of
“ Southern chivalry.” If Lee and his men could
have only dealt a knock-down blow to Democracy
by driving a wedge into the Union the princes and
priests of Europe would have discovered that sell-
ing niggers by auction was a pious, not to say
gentlemanly calling. Twenty years have gone by
since the great struggle, and to-day we find each
Southern state in possession of autonomous rights
precisely similar to those possessed by the con-
querors-preclsely similar to those demanded for
Ireland by Parnell, England would light to
keep Ireland in the Union ? No doubt she would,
and conquer, too, with ease. She would have even
a greater right to prevent the smaller island from
setting up housekeeping on its own account than
the North had in preventing the South. For the
Southern states entered voluntarily into the
Union, while Ireland was a conquered country.
But why Englishmen should fight to prevent their
neighbours across the channel from minding their
own business and spending their own money in
making railways, digging canals, building ships,
or working mines is one of those riddles which are
standing puzzles to European statesmen, and of
which even the far-seeing correspondents of the
Ahqus and S.M. Herald have, so far, offered no
solution.
The Sydney “Echo” and its Friend, the
Rope.
Sir Edmund Du Cane has published a small
volume on the effects of capital punishment, which
the Sydney Echo takes as a text for a sermon.
Under these circumstances it is almost unneces-
sary to say that the titled one believes fully in
“ the bit of rope.” That is why the Echo loses no
time in turning his lucubration to use. The
only point in the pioduction we now refer to is
that which represents a convict In Western Aus-
tralia writing home to his friends in a fashion Sir
Edmund and the Echo think proves conclusively
the efficacy of capital punishment as a deterring
expedient. The convict Is quoted as saying,
“ That bit of rope, dear Jack, is a great check on
a man’s temper.” “It would be difficult,” says Sir
Edmund, “after this to dispute the deterrent effect
of capital punishment.” So says the Echo. Now,
in the first place, it is no more difficult to dispute
it than it was before. A point that has puzzled
the heads of psychologists for centuries is hardly
closed up for ever because of what one convict in
Western Australia writes to his friend Jack. But,
in the second place, if this settlement of the ques-
tion be good for anything it must necessarily be
good beyond the limit within which Sir Edmund
and the Echo view it. If the fear of capital
punishment deter from crimes now tabulated as
capital, then it crimes of other sorts be entered on
the same table, the fear of capital punishment
will deter from these also. Wherefore, by making
the commission of each and every crime a capital
offence, the fear of capital punishment will deter
from all crimes. This is right in the teeth of the
tendency of modern legislation. The world once
hanged for 10s. Punishment was then absurd. It
is on this reduclio ad abaurdum Sir Edmund Du
Cane and the Echo now labour.
The Immediate Future of New South
Wales Politics.
The result of the Now South Wales elections, so
far, has been to completely smash up the present
Miiiliiry, and their decease may be certainly
looked lor,members are true to their hustings
promises, as soon as, or before, Parliament meets.
And what then ? Will Sir Henry Pabkes be the
leader of the next Ministry ? Possibly he may be,
and may have for his colleagues such men as
John Davies, Dr. Renwick, W. J. Foster, and
Sir John Robertson. But a Cabinet of such
men will never again have the- confidence of
this too trusting country, nor will it be able to ob-
tain a consistent and suliiclent support. Sir Henry
has triumphed, it is true, but his triumph is as hol-
low as his heart, secured as it was at the
of one hands of the least patriotic constitu-
encies in the colony, the road-and-bridge-hunt-
ing district of North Shore. Orangeism, the
meanest and most corrupt of the secret
organisations which honeycomb our political
institutions, has managed to place its pets- Jan-
nery John Davies and Dr. RENwiCK-among the
chosen. But this is no sign that these men stand
higher in the estimation of their fellows than they
did when they were kicked out of the same con-
stituencies three years ago. It simply shows that
men distrusted the political party to which the
two opposed themselves, but it is questionable
whether this worthy pair would be more esteemed
as Ministers than say Parnell and Cohen. Sir
'Henry has managed to obtain large support in
the past by flourishing the “Bloody Shirt”
of New South Wales politics, the “Protestant
Ascendancy.” Therefore, he may look for no
mercy from Romanists now, nor from those
who regard religion as anything more than an
injunction to hate their neighbours. Sir Henry
is not the leader of any fixed party nor the cham-
pion of any principle. In this colony there are no
political parties, nos do there seem to be any poli-
tical principles. Further, although Sir Henry
has won the spoliaopima in the late contest, he has
gained no glory in so doing. His vulgar abuse and
silly speeches have disgusted his best friends! and
intensified the hatred of his many enemies; while
the crowning error of embracing on the front of
our political stage John Davies, C.M.G., and
guaranteeing his excellence to an observant
audience has brought upon him the derision of
those in whose breasts there lingers a solitary spark
of political honesty. Sir Henry’s day has departed.
He may lead the House for a few months, but the
country is weary of him, and of its old leaders. A
fresh cast must be arranged. Younger men, and
men in whom the country will have somo con-
fidence, must soon sit on the Treasury benches
Such men as Bdmdnd Barton, G. H. Reid, J. P.
Abbott, Henry Copeland, G. R. Dibbs, J. P.
Gary an, must have their place in the team of the
future. New South Wales looks for men who can
divest themselves of the sentiments of fifty years
ago—men who can ask support on account of their
principles and their measures, not on account of
their views concerning the Shamrock and the
Battle of the Boyne. Too long have electors
been asked to look back on the shameful acts
and wretched strife of their forefathers. The
hatchet must now be buried, and the country
governed for living Australians—not for living
Popes, or dead Dutch potentates, or Egyptian
bondholders. In one matter the recent election
has been gratifying: it has shown the wish of the
electors that the characters of our rulers should be
above suspicion. The Ministry was charged with
political trading:the country has emphatically de-
clared that no Minister may rest under such a
charge with impunity. Those who believed that
such trallic was a lawful perquisite of office have
now learnt that nothing of the kind is allowable.
We, in our attacks upon the Ministry, cherished no
personal feeling. We merely asserted a principle.
That this principle has been endorsed thoughout
the colony is now a matter of history. And it
may be that some members of that Ministry which
has been crushed In order that this principle may
be emphatically vindicated, may yet do goo a
service to their country, when they have
thoroughly learnt that lesson which this election
has taught.
Glory, Glory, Hallelujah!
That highly-reverenced, oleaginous, and well-un-
derstood politician, George Alfred Lloyd, the
saintly pet of the S. M. Herald and of the Rev.
Jefferis, will, in a day or two, be on his way from
London to Sydney with H. B. Lord Carington.
We are delighted to think that his Lordship’s first
considerable experience of a colonial politician of
the pious genus should be in connection with the
high-priest of the political order so fitly repre-
sented by the smug Lloyd, whose face glitters like
a benediction and “shines”—to quote Charles
Lamb —“ to the tune of ‘ Unto us a child is born,’ ”
Lord Carington will have six weeks at sea with Mr.
George Alfred Lloyd, and if by the time he
reaches Williamstown, he has not taken his politi-
cal measure to a halr’s-breadtb, his Lordship can
hardiy be much of a man of the world. One
month on the briny is calculated to give you a
better insight into the eccentricities of your fellow-
passengers than ten years abiding with them on
shore, and so strong is our belief in the efficacy of
the ocean blue as a bull’s-eye lantern on character
that we could almost wish that half-a dozen
other New South Wales politicians of the slimy
school had been deputed to proceed to England
and accompany Lord Carington on his voyage to
Australia, so that he might ere landing have got a
fair idea of the sort of people who obtain the
public confidence of the electors and are
made Ministers of the Crown. But we digress-
The purpose ,of this paragraph was to trot out
the following lovely exoerptfrom last week’s Aus.
tralasian
“ From Sydney we hear of a delicious Colonial
Office despatch just received by Lord Augustus
Loftus. Anticipating the vestimentary obliga-
tions of office as Executive Commissioner to the
great London Exhibition of 1880. Sir Patrick
Jennings, it appears, applied to the proper Im-
perial authority for permission to wear a certain
costume, the uniform of a Colonial Minister, Mr.
George A. Lloyd, formerly a Colonial Treasurer
of New South Wales, applied for the like privilege,
and also for the favour of adding to his ■ ame the
prefix, “Honourable ” for Ilf**. We are informed
that ail these requests were graciously conceded
to the applicants, and the fact announced by an
official communication to Lord Augustus. Sir
Patrick is the sort of man commissioned by na-
ture or the jus Divinum to carry off any quantity of
gold lace, Hoggings, cocked hat, or other bcaiz n-
ments; but Mr. G. A. Lloyd was brought up in
the severest ways of Congregationalism, and
pomps and vanities were supposed to be
as far removed from the range of his ambition as
speculr.ting in flour-cargoes was supposed to be
within it. As events have turned out, Mr. Lloyd
may have the burdep oast upon him of wearing
honours for two, for Sir Patrick Jennings stays
in New South Wales to bear his part in governing
his adopted country, as one of the Dibbs Ministry.
[Does he ?— Ed. B,] This, however, is one of the
trivial accidents or the hour. What is important
is the Imperial Government recognising the neces-
sity of putting colonial statesmen into brilliant
clothing when they go home to stand before
princes.
Sir Patrick Jennings has a happy knack of
getting into good company. He was elevated to
the dignity of Knight at the time of the historic
ennoblement of the well-whitewashed John
Davies ; and now, if what the Australasian
says be true, he goes to the Court tailor arm-in-
arm with Mr. George Alfred Lloyd ! Ye
gods II
The reason why women do not cut them-
selves in two by tight-lacing is because they lace
themselves round the heart, and that is so hard
they cannot affect it.
One Parisian connoisseur , we read, will
hoard nothing but the stay busks of famous
women; another has collected the stockings of
historical celebrities; whilst a third claims to have
an unique collection of knitting-needles. There is
a ghastly accumulation, shortly to bo exhibited at
the Anthropological Congress at Rome, of the
skulls of criminals. No less than 700 of them have
been duly preserved and classified; and, to add to
the completeness of the collection, it is to be sup-
plemented by the photographs of 3000 more con-
victed criminals of various countries. Nor is this
all, for in 150 cases the brains of notorious male-
factors have been obtained, and will be on view
with thousands of autographs, poems, and
sketches, ell from the hands of convicts, with
specimens of the instruments and weapons used
by them in their nefarious acts, and albums full
of detailed analytical observations on the habits
and traits of criminals, made by experts.
The rage at present is for clerical stories.
There were two parsons in a certain town down
North, and neither was remarkable for particu-
lar brilliance, unless it was that brilliance which
consists in the oratorical rendering of other peo-
ple’s brains. And in that town there lived a canny
old Scotchman who had both heard and read a
good many sermons in his day. To one clerloo he
went in the morning, and heard a rattling sermon
with a thrilling peroration, and at the close was
the announcement that the rest of the discourse
was reserved for a future occasion. In the even-
ing he wont to hear the other minister, and then
it was that ho heard the sermon of the morning
with the other part added to it and without any
peroration. Rummaging amongst some books he
was possessed of, he picked up one containing the
sermons of F. W. Robertson, of Brighton, England,
and there he found the evening sermon complete.
Two acts of plagiarism are surely enough in one
town in one day. The man who preached the full
sermon in one day was possibly the more honest of
the two, for he never attempted to spoil the beauty
of the borrowed ideas by any maudlin sentimen-
tality of his own.
A correspondent writes “ The Harmy
have a sweet little oat-disturber—we mean hymn
—with which they are particularly fond of de-
stroying the peace of the neighbourhood. It be-
gins:—
* Who would not be a soldier ?’
We quite agree with them. Who, Indeed ? If he
were only an artilleryman with a Nordenfeldt
gun and had the whole army in front of him in a
small straight street! However, we have some-
times longed for the glory and pay of a soldier,
especially at the time of the departure of the Con-
tingent:—
“ We’d like to be a soldier
To march out with the band,
To make love with the lasses
And squeeze each darling’s hand;
If dark and drear the night time
As round the streets we roam—
Ah 1 that must be the right time
To see the sweet ones home.
“ We’d like to be the Captain
Who marches on before,
With head raised up so proudly
As he gazes on bis corps.
The lasses they all love dim,
He kisses each soft cheek;
And what is more, he draws the screw
Of fifty bob a week.
“ If we can’t be the Captain
With all his glorious pride.
We’d rather be the drummer,
Who’s envied lar and wide;
And then when in procession
With enthusiasm real
We’d storm the very gates of—
We mean the gates of Sheol.”


AMUSEMENT AND YOUNG.
On receipt of the advertised price, any of the
following Tricks will be sent by return post:—
THE DISAPPEARING CARD BOX.-A card
£ laced in the box instantly van:shes, and the box
i shown quite empty. Price Is., free Is. oa.
THE MAGIC CORK BOX.- A capital multipli-
cation trick. Three corks are placed in the box,
which is seen by the audience to be quite empty.
The lid is placed on, and when removed there are
found six corks within. Price Is., poet free Is. t>a.
THE WIZARD OF THE NORTH’S CHANGING
CARDS.-These cards change instantly to other
cards, whilst held in the hand, in a most surprising
manner. Price Is., post free Is. 3d.
THE GREAT HAT AND DIE TRICK. A solid
die passes completely through the too of a gentle-
man’s hat and is found inside. Price Is. 6d., ;post
free 3s.
THE MARVEL CIGAR CASE.-The case is
Sjiown crammed full of fine cigars, which Instantly
vanish. Excellent trick. Beautifully made in
leather. Price 3j. od., po6t free 3s.
THE MAGIC SNUFF BOX.-A most excellent
trick. No opening can be discovered anywhoie.
It looks just like a solid piece of wood, and no
person can possibly open it but the owner. Price
35., post free 3s. 6d.
THE MAGICIAN’S PACK OF FORCING
CARDS.—No conjuror with card tricks can pro-
perly perform without them. The most astound-
ing tricks can be performed with them. Very
superior cards, 2s. 6d., post free 3s.
DEMON HANDKERCHlEF.—lndispensable to
every conjuror. Watches, rings, coins, and any
articles placed under this handkerchief, instantly
disappear, although the handkerchief is thoroughly
shaken and shown to the audience each time.
Price 3s. 6d., post free 3s.
THE MAGNETIC PACK OF FLYING CARD?.
—Can be made to run up and down the arm or
body, and elongated In the air two or three feet
apart in the most beautiful regularity without one
of them falling. Very astounding. Price 3s. 6d ,
post free 3s.
THE MAGIC DIE AND HANDKERCHIEF,-
A solid wooden die is placed under the handker-
chief, and felt to be there by the audience, one of
whom may be allowed to hold it. The performer
exclaims, “ Presto I gone I ” and instantly takes
the handkerchief and shakes it to show the die has
vanished, and exhibits it thoroughly, whilst the
die Itself is found inside a canister or any other
article. Price 3s, 3d., post free 3s, 6d.
THE WONDERFUL JAPANESE DRAWER
BOX.-The performer sends round a prettyliUti e
box to the company, which they fill with mgs,
gloves, coins, &c. Directly the performer
it in his hands, without removing it from sight,
the articles instantly vanish, and the drawer is
shown empty. Price Is. 6d., post free3s.
THE MAGIC DISSOLVING PACK OF CARDS.
—A pack of playing cards are shown to the au-
dience and then placed into a case just large
enough to hold them. One of the audience instantly
after this is done, opens the case, and finds it full
of sweets, and the cards vanished. Price Is. 6d„
post free 33.
THE MYSTBRIOTTS CANDLE AND BE-
WITCHED HANDKERCHIEF.—The performer
brings forward a candle out of a tight-titting case
and lights it. He then borrows a lady's handker-
chief, burns it to ashes in the candle, and places
the ashes and candle in the case again. The lady
is then called on to open the case, which is banded
to her. She does so, and finds tier handkerchief
restored therein but the oand o entirely gone.
Very excellent trick. Price 3s. 61., post free 3s.
N.B.W. stamps taken at par, otaei colonies add
Id. to each Is.
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT
BOX 6H G.P.O. 401 GBOHQB-BT., SYDNEY.
Between King and Market Streets, opposite the
Royal Hotel, and no other address.
. C. W. EGBERTS
Singla Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only ,oa.
Small Bottle, . [4a. M,
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
Prom Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORK WINE
FOB INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
la. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
9s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT)
Sa. per Bottle.
BUM,
In Flasks, Bottiea, and Impostal Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
ls.9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke* Prize Medal Brand,
in atone bottles and square bottiea,
LA.RGSBT BIZB.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND HBLLOW.
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
SYDNEY.
Mind you get Wolfe's Schnapps.
Ask for Wolfe's Schnapvs , and take no
other.
A genuine source of health—Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Everybody nowadays drinks Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Thenew N.S. W, Ministry was a representa
tive one, so far as names go; for “ money” is re-
presented by “ Dibbs,” the Church by “ Abbott,”
the poor by “ Want,” the lawyers and sportsmen
by “ Badger(y),” the “ shady” portion of the com-
munity (i e„ the lawyers) by “ Trickett,” and they
consider themselves (W)rlght, although they have
a Far(k)nell sounding in their ears. See ?
A “ syndicate how one has learned to
hate that grandiloquent word, which just as often
as not means an insolvent grocer, a draper’s assist"
ant, two barber’s clerks, and a pious sharebroker—
has been formed in Sydney to work a gold mine
(situated in North Queensland) compared with the
. wealth of which that of the famed Mount Morgan
is said to be not the merest circumstance.
Charles Bright has been working, for some
weeks past, at a course of six lectures with ori-
ginal lantern-slide illustrations, which he intends
giving in N S.W. and the neighbouring colonies.
The course is to be entitled “ Gods, Goddesses,
Devils, and Priests: their Origin and Growth,
Doings and Misdoings.” The works of Max Muller,
Herbert Spencer, Tylor, Lubbock, and others fur-
nish the basis of these lectures.
In the Goff’s Harbour (N.S.W.) murder
case, wherein a grey-headed old Russian Finn
killed his mate, a young man, and cut up and
burnt his body, it was stated that prisoner, who
has been sentenced to death, confessed to a police-
man "after a glass of spirits, which had been
given him, it being a cold morning.” “ In vino
veritas ” is evidently an honoured adage with the
NSW. officials, who give men brandy on all f orts
of occasions—before they are flogged, and after
they have been flogged, before they confess, ana
before they are hanged.
The Marquis of Queen sherry has been
patronising Harry Maynard’s “drum” in San
Francisco, and the illustrious nobleman, whose
mighty brain evolved the “ Rules ” of amateur
boxing, graciously put on the mittens with one
of Harry’s pupils-Jim Dennis. The newspapers
say that the Marquis proved himself a clever
boxer. So he is-for a Marquis. This intelligence,
by the way, ought to be very soothing to poor
Symes in his present hour of trouble, for Joe and
the Marquis are kindred spirits as regards re-
ligious—or ra' her irreligious -matters, i he latter
divided his time between the study ot Freethought
principles and boxing. He boxes more than he
thinks, however.
A North Queensland tale of this year;—
“ A squatter out West has been so perplexed with
the oreadful visitation of drought that he was
Bl'ina strait betwixt two ’ as to whlch of his
of sheep and cattle he would sacrifice to
save the balance, and. after mature consideration,
he V resolved upon killing 500 ot his cattle The
method he adopted was novel. He had the mob
driven into a small paddock in which there was no
water, and allowed to miserably perish, the last
one dying after three weeks without the watery
fluid. His reason for thus destroying them was
that he did not k ow when the ram might fall,
and, in case of its coming, the whole of the stock
thus oast to die should be saved.
The Salvationists are suffering reverses
just now. That astute American, General!Booth,
has been hooted several times lately. His son,
Mr Bramwell Booth, is indicted for abduction,
and worse still. Is what has happened to an en-
thusiastic convert. He sought to soften a
woman’s heart by prayers, delivered on his knees,
on her doorstep. She answered them byemp ty-
ing buckets of water upon his head. This was
not endured as a martyrdom, as it should have
been, for we read that the magistrates fined her
half-a-crown for what looks to us quite justifiable.
It was but a year or so back. in
Mr. Byron Moore, secretary of the
a mob of the Salvationists with a red-hot poker
for disturbing his sick brother s rest.
The settlers of Northern Queensland im-
portune in vain for a detachment of native police
Sensible ot the outrages perpetrated by these
sable minions ot the law until within a few years
ago Mr. Griffith holds a deal ear to the squatters
cries The Cookto*u Courier points out, how-
ever,' that this course, although aPP ar 6{“Jy
humane, will be swiftly destructive of the black
race in the North. “ If the squatters are left un-
protected, annihilation will bo the fate of the
Cape York tribes,” It asserts. Its opinion is that a
contingent of Native police will observe some
method in the career of slaughter, but that squat-
ters, not having time to be particular, will slay
indiscriminately. There is here something for Mr.
Griffith to ponder over, and something also that
might be worth investigation by the Queensland
Attorney-General In his capacity as Chief Prose-
cutor.
Melbourne’s sensation the other day was
a rise from 15s. to £5 in the 21,000 shares of the
Hepburn Estate Company. We went into this
company in 'Bl, and it well exemplifies what min-
ing is to the generality of investors. We paid 31s.
a share, and then threepenny calls for two years,
then ninepenny calls for another year, and then
shilling ones. As constant dripping wears away
the stone, so constant dripping in the pocket wore
away our patience. When the shares got down to
7s. 6d. value we let them go—in default of paying
calls. So went another 350 of hard-earned money.
We found sympathy with poor devils who had
paid like this on 600 and 800 shares. A bank got
the shares of the first-named and the Hebrews
those of the latter. Such is life, and yet we doubt
not that we shall be going In again for a flutter at
the Cup meeting. “ Hope springs eternal ” in the
breasts of all—fools included.
A league or “ syndicate ” is being
formed in Melbourne to promote the sale
and use of Australian wool in Japan, China,
and Hindoostan. We have no wish to
crush enterprise, but the promoters should
travel and see what the Chinese and Hindoos are
Some success may be had in Japan, where the
people seem inclined to imitate Western world
customs. In China and India they will, however I
find all their efforts as fruitless as are those of the
missionaries. Nothing can Induce the Chinese or
Hindoos to adopt new fashions—thsy will only do
as their ancestors have done for thousands of
years past. Hindoos to wear wollen goods, in-
deed !—a people who make of one cotton sheet
clothing enough for half-a-do/.ea. The British
certainly thrust opium upon the Chinese at the
cost of two wars, and wool might be forced upon
them in the same way, but not otherwise.
Thady O’Kane, in his very latest, pleas-
antly remarks “ Though the oldest of the
colonies—and probably because It is the oldest—
N.S.W. contains more elements of evil, a greater
undergrowth of brutal and low human passions,
fewer signs of real progress and culture than any
of the other colonies. It possesses more material
wealth, and its outward symbols, but for real cul-
ture, liberal and humanising institutions it still
ranks among the ferce naturcc— wild animals.
N.S.W. ‘blocks the way * in the path of progress.
Stuart, tue Premier, is a narrow-minded bigot of
the John Knox type ; Dailey, the Attorney-
General, Is an Imperial toady. The two have
dragged N.S.W. in the mire, and exhibited her to
the world as a crawling sycophant at the feet of
Imperialism.” Having finished off on colonial
politics, Tbadeus proceeds to give his readers some
municipal advice “ We would recommend
owners of dogs to get them registered at once.”
Dan Daley, a Barcoo (Q.) bushman, was
the other day thrown by his horse and severely in-
jured. Finding he could not stand, he crawled to
a neighbouring creek, and, after having a drink,
started on his hands and knees for his camp six
miles away. He thought the use of his legs would
gradually come to him, but the poor fellow was un-
happily mistaken. As he progressed locomotion
became more painful, the pangs of thirst and hun-
ger troubled him, and the wood-ticks, which clung
to him in hundreds, caused him great agony. But
the plucky man kept travelling—now rolling, then
crawling on hands and knees, now again dragging
himself along—no one to reply to his fainter grow-
ing cooeys-until on the sixth day he reached
within a mile of his goal. One of his occasional
cooeys was at last heard by the men at the camp,
who had providentially returned, and they imme-
diately went to his assistance. They found Daley
in a sad plight; he was covered with ticks, which
h ad-lacerated every part of his body, the hands
knees, and elbows were all raw flesh, and the toes
of a strong pair of boots were completely worn
away; in addition to this, his emaciated appear-
ance, resulting from six days’ starvation, struck
his deliverers with awe.
An Australian on a holiday trip writes to
us from Trouville, just now the fashionably-
crowded French watering place. He says:—
11 This is the place to see ‘ life ’ of all sorts—and to
pay heavily for it. Silver is of no account here,
half a napoleon being the lowest coin in general
circulation. Even that much is received without
thanks for the smallest service done. About £lO
a day is the average expenditure by those who
don’t go to the Casino, as almost everybody
does at night. All day long the women and girls
abandon the use of shoes and stockings, wearing
shapely bathing fakements to the knees only and
jaunty little jackets for a top-dressing. The sands
are covered with tents, inside which benches sre
cut out with shovels, and let In that way for as
many napoleons as can be got for their use. Scores
of these are for gambling in some shape or another.
Display In dress is reserved for evening and for the
races, which are in full swing for a week together
here. The place is full of money, fools to spend
It, and blacklegs to get it. ‘ Ouida,’ you will re-
member, makes this place the opening scene of
her novel of ‘ Moths.’ Its characters and charac-
teristics have not been overdrawn by her. Any
English watering-place is dull as a Quaker’s meet-
ing-house compared with Trouville.”
The N.S.W. elections of the week only
serve to show the utter hopelessness of Mr. Dibbs’
effort to retain power. At Camden the Ministry
sustained the worst defeat of the campaign. Mr.
Henry Badgery, who was third to Messrs. Kidd
and Garrett, has large influence as well es a great
number of relatives acd friends in the.district, is a
fair speaker, and could have easily secured a place
had he not been handicapped by his alliance with
the Government. The electors liked him person-
ally, but they could not accept him coming as a
Minister. So far, the Ministry have only su?
ceeded in winning about one-fourth of the seats,
nor is it likely that this proportion will be much
affected by contests yet to be decided. There were
some gay dciogs at Orange consequent upon the
candidature of the third man, Mr. Heaton. Mr.
Clark is reported to have said In bis hustings
speech:—“i will tell you a secret. Mr. Kenna
wrote me a letter te liog me that if I got the Go-
vernment to take bis houses for the Lands office he
would not oppose me. (Laughter and yells). He
told me that if I got his shops taken by the Go-
vernment, he would get up a testimonial to me."
We think this cm hardly be co reet. Mr. Clark is
a religious man, and would not use naughty
words. For the same reason there may be some
truth in the other statements, and it will be re
membered that the present senior member was
very active in the matter of obtaining a Lands
office for Orange.
It is from Victoria, and it deserves to be
quoted in full:—”I have been looking at the
dresses of various candidates for seats in the next
Parliament of N.S.W., and I notice that many of
those who hail from the Emerald Isle applaud the
Soudan Contingent and advocate a Free-trade
policy. How do you account for this, in view of
the fact that the Soudanese were simply fighting
—like the people of Ireland—to be free, and it was
a Free-trade policy that extinguished Irish manu-
factories ?” There is no accounting for it except
by candidly admitting that the great mass of the
Irish, whether at home or abroad, have never been
able to free themselves from sacerdotal thraldom.
Why Irishmen should for generations demand the
right of attending to their own affairs while ever
foremost in volunteering to crush the aspirations
of other people has always appeared to us a mys-
tery, More than a hundred years ago they volun-
teered in thousands to stamp out liberty in
America. A lltt:e later on they enlisted in thou-
sands to stop the progress of the trench Revolu-
tion. Later still tney were to be seen conquering
the Purjaub, defending the temporal power in
Italy, and laying down their lives to preserve
slavery south of Mason and Dixie’s line in
America. There is but one remedy for all this,
and (worse luck) it seems a long way off. It is that
a great tidal wave of scepticism, submerging alike
Catholic and Presbyter, shall pass over the green
island. Then, and not till then, shall she take her
place among nations.
People who object to the aborigines being
run down like wild beasts are from time to
time peppered with extracts from letters written
to the papers by settlers in Northern Queensland.
These extracts paint the settlers’ existence in
colours like those Fennlmore Cooper used when
describing white life in the country of the scalp-
fmnter. Their cows, horses, and sheep were
always being carried off or killed. The last six
months supplied a rush of these lamentations, and
loud appeals from the Mulgraye and the Barron
were made to Government for police protection
against the unsleeping foe. Inspector Carr was
at last despatched to the infested country. He
returned a couple of weeks ago and the sum
of his report is that the aborigines have been
wrongfully blamed. First, the lamentations were
all too shrill for the damage done. If
a cow strayed into the bush the imaginative
settler wrote a letter in which the solitary quadru-
ped figured as ‘ cattle.” If a calf got torn with
dingoes it was described as “ruthless slaughter
of young stock.” Where a cow, a calf, or a horse
was missed the Inspector has no doubt that the
animal either lost itself in the bush or was de-
voured by alligators. The report makes one
shudder. It awakes crimson memories. How
short tne time is since settlers’ letters like those
from the Mulgcave were followed by the despatch
of grinning troopers with snider rifles and the one
word—“ Disperse 1” Then souls were shot from
the black bodies of men, women, and children,
and the carcases left on the parched grass for the
eaglehawk, the crow, and the dingo.
Tbe Bathurst correspondent of the S.M.
Herald telegraphs the “ miraculous ” escape of a
child. It appears that the wee thing is just two
years old and belongs to a railway fettler. A
goods train consisting of 15 loaded trucks was
coming east at 40 miles an hour, when the driver
saw the little fellow rise from a hole between the
sleepers and try to clamber over the rails. To
stop was impossible; but let the correspondent
tell the result in his own words:—" The driver and
guard, as soon as they managed to pull up, ran
back expecting to see the child’s mangled remains,
but, to their astonishment, found the youngster
alive and well. It seemed that, in passing, the iron
rod In front of the engine struck the child in the
forehead, and it was this which knocked the little
thing down,confused and slightly stunned for a mo-
ment. This is the second or tnird time that the child
has similarly escaped.” This singular infant appears
to have a mania for wrecking locomotives. And
the tiny creature’s artfulness 1 Just popped his
head out of a hole when the train was almost upon
him and laughed in the driver’s face I It is only
by a rod of iron that such offenders can be kept in
their places. Still, if the engine had not had such
a backing of trucks the struggle would have been
more equal, and there might be a different tale to
tell. Then, it is not the child who would be “ con-
fused and slightly stunned,” but the engine would
require attention. The authorities should induce
the parents of this oddly-gifted lad to remove from
the vicinity of the railway and bring their child
with them. The juvenile who at two bails up
trains, even at the risk of being “ slightly
stunned,” will pile sleepers on the line at five.
Yes; nothing but constant watching diversified
with judicious spanking will Induce this designing
lad to confine his recreations to hop-scotch and let
locomotives be.
Thady O’Kane, of the Northern Miner
(Q.), describes the brief matrimonial experience
ot a Sydney lady who replied to the advertisement
of a Charters Towers tailor, who advertised for a
wife, and in the ensuing correspondence, asserted
that he wanted “ a companion to pray with him.”
Such a pious man could not to be other than a
good husband, so the maiden rolled up her
“ drum,” started North, and was duly married.
The bridegroom had a bandage on his face till
after the ceremony, to conceal damages his
face had sustained, and when this was taken
off the lady looked upon her spouse, and ‘‘saw
him very plain.” Their married life was a deliri-
ous dream of joy for a few days, but then this
“ earnest Christian ” is said to have pulled his wife
out of bed at 5 a.m. and flipped her with a wet
towel. She did not care for her share In this ex-
hilarating exercise, so laid an Information against
the sartorial artist, and had him bound over
for 13 months. "Thus endeth the first lesson,
dear brethren,” says Thady, “afforded by ‘an
earnest Christian and a Baptist by profession.’ ”
The “ editor of a hundred libel suits ” hath a plea-
sant wit of his own. This is from a recent issue
of the Miner: “ Mr. L. W. Marsland, who has
turned sour lately in consequence of some articles
in the Northern Miner, sent his clerk with an
advertisement to this office yesterday, so his clerk
says; the advertisement was paid for—7s. 6d. This
morning a note comes from Luke saying the ad-
vertisement was not intended for the Northern
Miner, but for the Towers Herald. The adver-
tisement was in cor sequence banded back to Mr.
Marsland’s clerk, but when he demanded the 7s.
6d. we demurred, and finally said, ‘JVb, we charge
'is, 6 d. for perusing the advertisement.’ We have
received half a miie of a bill of costs from Mr. L.
W. Marsland, and almost every third item is ‘6s.
Bd. for perusing ’ a telegram. Now, we don’t sse
why we should not charge Mr. Marsland 7s. od.
an editor being higher in the scale of creation
than an attorney—for ‘ perusing ’ his advertise-
ment.” Thady should know that his charge is one
that would hardly be deemed allowable in a court,
and that he has not the attorney’s privilege of
bleeding clients in any way that may suggest itself.
Only lawyers have the permission of law to
plunder at discretion.
Three Victorians have been prospecting
for sheep and cattle lands in South America.
Their report appears in three columns of the
Argus. In condensed form it may thus be given:
Population of Buenos Ayres, 300,000. Country
Rtverina-like,;all flat, treeless plains,with no stones.
Well-water everywhere at few feet sinking.
Country very well grassed, carrying three and
four sheep to acre all year round. Horses, cattle,
and sheep on all stations. One of 38,000 acres carried
35,000 sheep, 9COO cattle, and 1500 horses. Another
offered for sale at 17s. per acre was of 173 000 acres
carrying 30,000 sheep. 34,000 cattle, and 3500 horses,
and considered but halt stocked. Shearing done
mainly by women. Wool averaging only 6d. per
lb., but weight of wool half that of Australian. Im-
proving-stock only just beginning. Fuel very
scarce; and fencing done by imported wood and
wires—the posts placed at three times the distance
apart to Australian usage. A clay bed found a
few feet beneath the surface, uf this bricks,
thick only, made and burnt in kilns, fed by
dried thistles and cow-dung. Of these, are
all buildings. Rivers rare and small, beyond
the great La Plata. Footrot and scab very
troublesome. Ninety-nine millions of sheep
in the country per latest calculation. Life
and property about as secure as in Australia 30
years avo. Carrying revolvers quite the fashion.
Objection to Europeans settling is the utter want
of society. Destined, before long, to be Austra-
lia’s greatest competitor in wool and tinned and
frozen meats. Freight to Europe, 13s. per ton.
Until completion of railway to Bahia Blanca, the
lighterage of 13 miles doubles this cost of freight.
Trade so groat that more vessels lying in road-
stead than to be seen in Sydney and Melbourne
harbours put together. Horse production enorm-
ous—few properties carrying less than 1000. Splen-
did horsemen, and superior to Australians. Horses
of 5 or 6 years old caught, broken in, saddled,
and ridden away at once. But little agriculture
beyond maize and wheat here and there, but soil
highly adapted for it. Land sold by auction, also
marked out for selection at an upset price, also to
be had as “ selections ” on terms of improvement
to be worked by “ dummying,” as in Australia.
Revolutions in Government not quite at an end,
but not what they were. Many Englishmen en-
gaged in business, most of the assistants, servants,
and workmen being Italians and Spaniards. The
three Victorians did not invest.
Clare.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Little I care
How the world may deride,
With thee at my side,
Bonny C[are;
I laugh at Its sorrows, and smile at its gloom,
And the ghosts of a life-time skulk back to their
tomb
’Neath the touch of thy soft golden hair.
Pleasures may 11 y
On their sombre-Hedged wing,
With the songs that they sing
To the sky j
All I ask to remain is thy heart bound to mine,
AVith a clasp that when older will closer entwine,
And the faith of thy beaming blue eye.
Fears fade away,
But I mark not their flight
In the languid delight
Of to-day;
We will live in our lives while the sweet moments
cast
The glamour of love o’er our hearts, and at last
Together will sink in decay.
J P.B.
My Maud
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
0 darling mine, ei ce when we glode
Together in tne dance.
My life has not been d la mode,
But one long sweet romance.
1 see those pearly cheeks of thine
With roses red entramelled,
Whose fragrance lingers still on mine
0 swear they’re not enamelled I]
To that arched brow of raven hue
(Whilst in the madding waltz)
I weaved a sonnet; though you’re true,
Say, can that brow be false 1
I’m ravished with the golden hair,
Don’t think it infra did-
In accents soft to speak me fair,
And vow it’s not a wig.
And from that alabaster neck
My hand I’d scarce relax,
W bat held it there I little reck—
-1 wonder if ’twas wax.
Your ruby lips when mine they met
I saw rare pearls did hold,
But, tell me truly,.were they set
In vulcanite or gold ?
The effort, too, to press those Ups
New wonders did reveal;
I happened then to press your hipf—
They bent just like spring steel.
O speak, mv heart’s proud oonqu ror,
The word that love releases;
Are you a solid woman, or
Do you come all to pieces ?
HENRY O’DONNELL.
Adelaide.


Personal Items
Why, they say in the English papers that
his lordship actually bolted to Australia without
even paying: his lodgings.
We read that “ an Australian speculator ”
has bought Millais’Academy picture, “The Orni-
thologist,” for £SOOO, and means to bring it to the
land of the Kangaroo.
We absolutely refuse to believe the cur-
rent story that the commodore of one of the
Sydney yacht clubs always travels overland to
Wollongong because he doesn’t think it safe to
venture outside the Heads.
On Ist September, the name of Dr.
O’Doherty, of Brisbane, Q., was added to the list
of freemen of the City of Dublin. The nearest
names to his, omitting those of Irishmen, are
Gladstone’s and Ulysses Grant’s.
TO DION.
Oh, the poets for ages have sung Love—
Of its glories, its rhapsodies told:
But ’tis best not to turn to the young love
Until we are quit of the old.
Colonel Ike Austin, the celebrated marks-
man, has been cutting his throat in Brisbane. It
can’t be much more than a year since the weird,
peculiar-looking Colonel got married, and a re-
markably festive bridegroom he made. Possibly
his joy has been too much for him.
The Malthusian, a, journal devoted to the
interests of a league of that name in England,
argues the marriage question under aspects that
convince the Melbourne Leader that a bachelor
deserves a premium, and not, as Draconian
Shackell wanted to decree, a poll-tax.
Another apostle of “sweetness” has just
come to “ light.” Oscar Wilde, in short, has an in-
fant son, and they call him name Cyril. This
will provide Oscar with a new diversion. In his
more spiritual days he was wont to sit up all night
with a lily. Now he can bit up all night with the
baby.
Mrs. Elizabeth Butler, of “Roll Call”
celebrity, will, it is arranged, accompany her hur-
band to Wady Haifa, to the governorship of which
the newly-made General has been lately appointed.
Mrs. Butler will live on the outskirts of the desert,
and there Intends turning to artistic uses her so-
journ among Eastern scenes and military sur-
roundings.
Thus the Australasian:—* 1 In Melbourne
is the greatest of Australian artists. . . Some
day when there is no Buvelot to appreciate the
tribute to his genius there will be a Buvelot Ex-
hibition. I ask why not now ?” The suggestion
is an admirable one. Buvelot is the greatest artist
who has yet painted in Australia. His “ Water-
pool at Coleraine” in the Victorian Gallery stands
alone.
From New Zealand we hear that Sala’s
"Land of the Golden Fleece” articles are-in
Masrlland, at least—not coneldored much better
than “ Eothen,” and but little superior to the
"Innocents Abroad.” Just as pmple paid their
money, sat out one of Archibald Forbes’ lectures,
and went home blaspheming, so newspaper readers
wade through an article by G. A. S and then enter
on a course of hideous dissipation.
A Chicago paper has a column headed
" Births, Deaths, Marriages, Divorces, and Elope-
ments.” This is a specimen of its notices under
the last-named head“ From Carthage, near Cin-
cinnati, Mrs. Thomas Horton, 38 years old, with a
fat boy of 17, name unknown.” Whlcblremlnds us
that a Sydney lady against whom divorce pro-
ceedings were pending has Just “ cleared” to N Z.
with her friend, a Government officer.
The Pall Mall Gazette may now be con-
sidered General Booth’s special organ. And yet,
only the other day, when the Pall Mall’s sub-
scribers were Invited by the editor to give a list
of /‘the greatest living Englishman”’ in ten
different spheres of life, General Booth, under the
“Greatest Living English Humbug” division,
polled a good third, the votes being for the Claim-
ant, 463; for Oscar Wilde, 230; and for Booth, 30511
Dr. Cecil Morgan, of Sydney, is admitted
by his professional brethren to b e facile princeps
as an operator. There are but few brilliant opera-
ting surgeons born, and it will alike grieve the
£rofession and the public to hear that Dr. Morgan
so ill that recovery Is despaired of by even him-
self. At a recent meeting of the Sydney Hospital
committee a letter was read from the doctor asking
for a month’s leave of absence. He had been long
lU and could never recover, he said, and he wished
to die in harness 1
During a recent trip of one of the A.S.N.
Co.’s steamers from Townsville to Brisbane, t h e
captain—one of the most popular officers on the
line— noticed a saloon passenger take his seat at
the dinner table, minus his coat. In the blandest
manner the captain requested him to retire to his
cabin and put on that garment. He rose to do so,
whereupon both hands came in view, as they
rested on the table, and the skipper, with Cheater-
fleldian courtesy, added, “And at the same time,
sir, please oblige me by washing your hands.”
By the time Lord Carington arrives, we
may expect to have a Sydney Court Circular
In full swing. We’re getting on. This was one
of the telegrams to Melbourne last week:—“The
Hon. F. Boyle, son of the Earl of Cork, who Is on
a tour through the colonies, was a guest at the
Mayor’s luncheon to-day.” The rubicund Earl of
Cork, by the way, is only remarkable as being one
of the State barnacles. He draws, or did draw, a
" screw ” for serving his Queen in the particularly
useful capacity of Master of the Buckhounds. He
must be thinking of a future colonial Governor-
ship for his boy.
When his Worship the Mayor of Mel-
bourne entertains his friends with a ball in the
Town Hall, a stranger in that city would think the
Czar of all the Kusslas was about. Some forty
yards of pavement in front of the municipal
Salace is denied to the unhappy wretch that
oesn’t possess a ticket. He mustn’t even walk in
the roadway while the carriages are discharging
their lovely burdens. The whole police force of
the metropolis is employed in seeing that he
neither walks, loiters, nor stands still within at
least thirty yards of the Town Hall steps. That
mayoral ball is the apotheosis of snobs in seedy
waggonettes.
Says the S. F. Call:—" George Augustus
Bala has been making a speech in which he said, in
a complaining kind of way, that posterity will
judge him only by his books, while the 7000 edi-
torials he has written, and upon which he has put
so much laborious thought, will be covered with
the dust of oblivion as soon as ho is dead. We are
not quite so certain as Mr. Sala is that posterity
will remember his books. But if he is really
anxious to be handed down to posterity, he should
be photographed in the act of delivering one of
his wonderful lectures. If the artist succeeded in
catching the expression of Mr. Sala’s clothes at
such a moment immortality would be assured.”
The Melbourne Age thinks that if Charles
Strong had had more pugnacity of disposition, he
would not have been persecuted by the Presby-
tery as he has been. There is much truth is this.
Bisbop Moorhouse is to many of his flock as
much an object of the odium theologicum as his
fellow-townsman, but fear of his rhetorical sabre
makes them whisper their charges to one another
behind doors. There is not the slightest doubt
that had a badly-paid and badly-fed curate in
Mooroopna, or among the tents of the Mallee, ex-
pressed nlmeelf in Biblical matters, and the tra-
ditiona of the Christian Church, as the Bishop has
done, he would have been incontinently cashiered
from the fold of the 30 Articles.
Mr. Howard Spensley writes that he is
working hard as a candidate for Clerkenwell in the
forthcoming election. He has three Liberals to
divide votes with him, and one Conservative
against them—and him. He is confident, however,
of making a good show at the end of the polling.
He says:—“ln my canvassing I have come across
a returned Australian now in business in Clerken-
well. I did not know him ‘ out there,’ but there is
a clanship about the returned colonists which has
made him my enthusiastic supporter. Sir Samuel
Wilson is standing for one of the divisions of
Buckinghamshire—Disraeli’s constituency. His
claim on it is only that he rents Lord Beacons-
fleld’s house and follows him in Conservative
politics.”
The arch-heretic Joe Symes, whose writing
becomes better and better as he approaches gaol,
has produced what a Glppsland paper calls a
“ malignantly scurrulous ” parody on the National
Anthem. Joseph, who is now quite a humourist,
softly warbled the following:—
“ God save our great Tom Cat,
May he be ever fat I
God save our Tom,” &c.
which reminds one of the fact that last year, when
a cricket-match was played between the bar and
the clergy at Melbourne, Joseph's organ informed
the public that the “barristers succeeded in scor-
ing 230 runs in their first innings, therefore defeat-
ing the Almighty by one innings and 93 runs I ”
Sydney, a few years ago, possessed a
genuine humourist in the person of a German
barber, of Hunter-street. One day the late Edward
Butler, Q.C., who, for long had been a constant
patron of the ancient Teuton, went in for a shave.
Just at the time Gardiner, the bushranger, after
committing a large number of daring highway
robberies, had suddenly disappeared, and Mr. But-
ler, albeit that the soap was surging round his
lips, began to audibly speculate on the then all-
absorbing topic—“ Where was Gardiner ? ” For a
long while Herr Scholtz said nothing, but went
on rubbing in the lather upon his eminent client’s
stubbly chin. By and bye, however, the medita-
tive barber hazarded a remark—“l tinks, Mr.
Butler, that the shentleman haf retired from
bractice.”
A person anxious to swear an affidavit
waited upon a recently-appointed J.P. of N.S.W.
and, tendering his form, asked how he should pro-
ceed. His Worship replied: “Oh! I know all
about It. You ask me to sign my name there
[pointing to where the deponent should sign], then
to kiss the Book and say ‘ So help me God ’—and
you put your name there ’’—pointing- to the end of
toe jurat. This legal (?) process having been duly
performed an adjournment was made to a neigh-
bouring hotel, where the new administrator of
Justice asked for a further inspection of his legal
labours, on gaining which he erased his name with
a convenient pen, and said, “I’ve a wife and
family, and blanked if I’m going to be stuck in for
a thousand ‘quid.’ Go to some other positive
colour beak.”
To “lisp in numbers” is of the poet’s
gifts, but to use them otherwise is accountants’
work. Mr. Hayter, the Victorian Government
statist, is “ mixing them up,” as Buttercup did
with the babies. Being turned of 60 he has, by
Civil Service rules, to retire soon from his figure-
work, and has, therefore, dropped into poetry as
another form of the application of numbers. It
is blank verse which he is producing, month by
month, in that fossilized periodical, the Victorian
Review. So very blank is this verse of Mr. Hay-
ter’s that It bothers the reader with the notion
that one or other, himself or the writer of it, can-
not be quite right in the head. When such result
comes of reading, the author is usually condemned
Civil servants are (by rule 17) prohibited writing
to newspapers. The prohibition evidently re-
quires extension.
A. very old pressman and a man of varied
fortunes died at Singapore last month. He was
Upton O’Reilly. He arrived in Singapore away
back in the year ’36. He kept books for English-
men, Chinamen, and representatives of all nation-
allties. He was connected with several news-
papers, the names of which alone now exist. Most
things had a habit of going wrong in his hands.
The Straits Observer was a likely paper for tv o
or three years, and the management of O’Reilly
was earning a reputation. But one morning it
was found there was no foundation to the build-
ing, and the ill-fated editor had to march out and
look elsewhere for a job. Since 1865 he has been
attached to the Straits Times, but in a subor-
dinate capacity. He wrote a great deal of toler-
able verse, which that paper Is now re-publishing.
He died in his 83rd year.
Mr. John Bryce, Minister for Native Affairs
in N.Z., has at last gone to Englanf. for the pur-
pose of suoing Mr. G. W. Rusden, late of Victoria,
for a libel upon him in the “History of N.Z.,” lately
published in Rondon by Mr. R. He takes with
him all the evidence given on commission in N.Z.
to prove his case. A pretty expensive matter this
action will be to one of the parties when all is
over. Rusden (who is bringing a cross-action
against Bryce to recover damages for injury to
the sale of his heavy ar.d hlgh-prjced book conse-
quent on plaintiff's institution of logal proceed-
Ings) no doubt looks upon It as a good advertise-
ment. The libel chiefly complained of is a state-
ment that Bryce, while an officer of irregular
cavalry during the N.Z. war, deliberately caused
a number of Maori women and children to be
sabred or shot down.
“’Tis good to be off with the old love
before you are on with the new I” A £lO telegram
appears in the Age to inform us that Mrs. Agnes
Boucicault—formerly Miss Agnes Robertson—
objects to Mrs. Louise Boucicault, lateTharndyke,
taking her title. Mrs. A. B.’s reason for so inter-
rupting honeymoon bliss is that “the divorce pro-
ceedings are incomplete ” between herself and
Mr. B. Latitude is always allowed to genius, and
those possessing it are not to be bound down by
the rules applicable to others. In these days, when
marriage proposals are made and accepted before
the funeral is over, it [seems absurd to urge the
non-completion of divorce proceedings as a reason
for waiting. It is the Jewish custom to simply
send the wife a letter of divorce and to marry
again on the posting of it-a proceeding quicker
even than the Indiana divorces to be obtained
while the train waits at the station.
Her© is a true tale that would have roped
the sympathies and aroused the genius of poor
Adam Lindsay Gordon. In a certain town up
North there recently lived a party by the name of
Brown, and he woke up one morning to find him-
self stone-broke and on the threshold of ruin.
Being “real grit,” however, he determined to
stake his all on a double, which would either put
him straight again, or at least provide fcr his wife
and family. Having a horse entered in a steeple-
chase, he took £2OOO to £3O from the peacillers
against his oil chance, after which he insured his
life for £3OOO, and prepared to face the starter.
Getting away well, he rode at his fences like mad,
cleared four, broke through three, and then get-
ting tangled with the last leap, he came down a
cropper and broke bis neck. So the “ books ” were
never paid, but the insurance leg of the “ double ”
came in handy for the use of poor Brown’s widow.
A London correspondent writes “ G. C.
Levey is, notwithstanding his recent|disastrous
failure at the Alexander Palace, as chirpy as ever.
He contemplates another Amsterdam-like venture
in shape of an Exhibition at Constantinople—of
all places. The Sultan’s city has never been
blessed as yet with one of these Western-world
shows. His late partner, Edgar Ray, is quite
broken down in spirits, and, suffering as he does
severly from rheumatism, no longer looks the
evergreen who started the Melbourne and the
Sydney Punch, lectured d ila Albert Smith at St.
George’s Mall In 1861, and stood in the Richmond
electoral contest in 1865. Everything he has
touched, even to his agency for the Williamsons
In their season here with “Struck Oil,” has been
unfortunate for him. After that theatrical ex-
perience he produced the New Era as a theatrical
paper, which had a sickly time of it as a high-
priced and died as a low-priced production.
A daughter of Charles Kingsley, who
writes,- in the Fortnightly Review and else-
where, as “ Lucas Maler,” calls the late General
Gordon "the youngest of the saints.” He was,
she says, “ a fanatic, a fatalist, an ascetic, a celi-
bate (and strictly so), fond of fantastic religious
speculations, impatient of opposition, invincibly
self-reliant, and of but doubtful sanity.” She is
not the first, by many, to form the last-named esti
mate of Gordon of the many she has enumerated.
Gordon was impracticable, would not work with
others. “ You can do nothing with him ” was the
summary of those who tried to reason him out of
his eccentric ways and beliefs. His letters on his
Holy Land tour are as good evidence as anything
that he was what the Americans call a “crank.”
He might have become a second Peter the Hermit
and led a crusade to again free that country from
Mahommedan rule, Oi such only was his true mis-
sion among modern men—out of madhouses.
Someone has been clever enough to “ take
a rise” out of that literary celebrity, the dear,
genial old “Vagabond.” Not long since he was
travelling from Rockhampton to Townsville in
the s.s. Katoomba. Amongst his fellow-passengers
were two young photographers who had their
paraphernalia on board with them. A passenger
who happened to go on deck saw the “Vagabond”
in a peculiar position, and called the attention of
the two young artists to the predicament he was
in. Mr. Thomas was fast asleep couched on a seat,
snoring hard, his face looking towards heaven, anu
his mouth wide open. He had on one supper, his
head was covered with a cap, and a red baud was
securely fastened around his waist. The photo-
graphers lost no time in getting their apparatus
fixed In proper working order, with the result that
a capital photo, of the “Vagabond” in this in-
teresting and dignified attitude was scon obtained.
When Julian awoke and found how he had been
“caught napping ” he swore, like Sala, in several
languages.
The cdcoethes has still most virulent and
tyrannous possession of our old friend, D. B. W.
Sladen, 8.A., the bard of the Kabtit-dnvo. He
was in Edinburgh lately, and wandering into St.
Giles’s while service was going on, he took a seat
in a pew, drew forth his note-book, and started to
write a “ ooem.” Only we don’t know in what
category to place Sladen’s prayers, we should call
that manner of employing his time in church a
sacrilege. The “ poem ” appears duly in the EniN*
burgh Courant, the poet notifying that he wrote
it “ during the first service attended by the author
after his return from Australia.” Cannot some
Soudan patriot, on fire for the fair fame of Aus-
tralia, look up Douglas Sladen and earn another
medal? In connection with the above, we may
say that Mr. Sladen has published another volume
called “ Cornwall and Across the Sea,” and Figaro
in noticing it, says“ The best advice we can give
him is to allow his Pegasus a long holiday, and the
next time he mounts that steed to ride him only
on Australian ground.” The reviewer wishes to
be kind to the poet, no doubt, but he ought not to
be unkind to Australia. While leading English
journals advise men like Sladen to come to Aus-
tralia with their Pegasus es, it is vain to dream
about the federation of the Empire.
From Paris comes the good news that,,
since the death of Gabriel Emery, a couple op
months ago, there remains but one survivor ofi
the “grand armee” that warmed its hands at,
burning Moscow, and had such a stormy passage'
across the Beresina. Joseph Deoroix, aged 94, is;
now the sole representative of the half-million or
so of men who, at the bidding of Napoleon,,
crossed Europe to teach the Russians manners.
Do we imagine that when Joseph answers his.
name at the final tattoo, he will leave behind hlnu
none who
“ Followed bold Ney through the fire
And charged at the side of Murat ? ”
Sad experience teaches us that as it was only In
1883 the last Highlander who fought at Culloden
died, and as numerous naval and military Brltona
who bled at Trafalgar and Waterloo are still
scattered through the Empire with the tobacco;
and beer-consuming peculiarities of their adoles-
cence quite unimpaired, so Joseph Decroix willl
leave behind him many who had charge of an
“eagle" a" Marengo and Austerlitz. Those;
veterans are immortal. Next to their wonderfuli
capacity for alcohol is their singular devotion to.
lying. Once a man has lost a leg in the service of
his country, he thinks it incumbent on himself to,
live far into the second century, and mislead sun.
ceedlng generations with barefaced falsehoods.
Life is not all beer and skittles for that,
Prince Henry of Battenberg. Denied by Court
etiquette the solace of the meerschaum, in colour-
ing which were spent many of his happiest hours,,
he now has to ruminate over old times in a kilt.
Since he accompanied the Queen to Balmoral he is
allowed to wear nothing but the Scotch national
costume, and trousers have become to Henry but
as the shadow of a dream. Rail as we may against
the ennoblement of pauper German princes, it is
impossible to feel ©ther than sympathy for this
one in his latest costume. The poor fellow is
miserable, and his unhappy knees are rapidly suc-
cumbing to the ravages of rheumatism. And all
to gratify a mother-i E-law’s caprice. For it can
hardly be that Beatrice—considering how she is
related to him—can take as keen an interest in the
margin between the edge of Bat ’s kilt and the top
of Bat.’s stockings] as her mamma is s*ld to take.
No, we absolve the Princess of all complicity in
this cruelty. And then there is another pill foe
Battenberg to swallow. He has to go into,
ecstasies of delight over the Scotch national
music. As a German, he must have received a
decent musical education (look at the Sydney
German band, for instance), and yet he had 10 put
up with “ See, the Conquering Hero Comes,”’
played on the bagpipes, as he was driven up ta
Balmoral Castle. Quite a touching little story,,
by the way, is told aoout this. The Queen asked
His Royal (no longer Serene, alas!) Highness if he,
didn’t like bagpipes “Oh, yes,” answered Bat.,,
thinking pensively of the discarded garments and
the coloured meerschaum, “Hike mein * bags’ atdl
my * pipes.’ ” Oh, and before we finish with Bat h
let us mention that he is very popular with his,
new little nephews and nieces, because, aa a Lon-
don paper gushes, “ he shows them how little Ger-
man boys and girls play.” This is quite too,
funny. What those youngsters require is an
uncle capable of teaching them how English boys,
and girls play. They’ve not had one yet except
Lord Lome, and he can’t be expected to devote;
much attention to children. If he has done so,,
no success has rewarded him, so far.
Our beloved Sovereign’s Rojal uncle,,
George IV., endeared himself to the British,
people by inventing a shoe buckle. That, apart
from the fact of his having been the first black-
guard in Europe, was enough to keep his memory
green for a generation. Indeed, there have been
iew prominent personages who are not better
known to us by some eccentricity of mind or
body, some peculiarity of manner or taste, than
by the most famous action of their lives. To many
persons Wellington’s name is associated with a
particular description of boot rather than with
the bad quarter of an hour he spent when the
Old Guard were gathering for the final charge at
Waterloo. It is the little hatchet rather than
York town that will send Washington’s name
down the ages. To come nearer home. Lord Au-
gustus Loftus promises to be remembered among
us not so much by the colourless vapidity of his
reign as by the curiously constructed state-coach
he brought with him. Before we saw that vehicle
we were joyous acd gay. We looked the world in
the face and laughed, and the world smiled back.
But it is different now. From the day Lord Au-
gustus drove past us in his coach life became a
blank—a dreary, aimless, purposeless void. Guesses
were freely made by the bystanders as to the true
meaning of the gorgeous pageant. Some said it
was an allegorical representation of Caesar
setting out for Britain, While others, less con-
versant with history, set it down as a Yankee
circus advertisement containing the daring bare-
back rider of the troupe. The coachman in pow-
dered wig and abnormal bouquet they considered
the ring-master, while the stockinged flunkeys
behind were said to be the clowns. It was not till
his lordship alighted that the mistake was dis-
covered. Then it was seen what a keen appi ecla
tion of the fitness of, things was possessed by the
home authorities in sending to rule over a boister-
ous young Democracy one whose apprenticeship
had been served in courts where ribbons ana
crosses, stars, medals, and knee-breeches passed
tor political talent and foresight. Big-bearded,
touzle headed men in the crowd—men on whose
cradles on the Darling the sun first shone through
cracks in the logs—looked in each others’ faces and
gloomily retired to the nearest public-house. They
had com© to Sydney full of loyalty. They re-
turned to the back-blocks saturated with Repub-
licanism and rum. If the slender thread binding
us to the mother country is to be preserved, wo
see nothing for it but to forbid the importation of
another state coach and to turn the present one
into a bathing machine.
Pere Joseph Garavel, the well-esteemed
French missionary priest who died at Petersham,
Sydney, on 9th Inst., aged 61, had for over 30 years
lived in N.8.W., and was remarkable for his devo-
tion to his Church. Thirty-six years ago—in 1849
—he commenced his missionary career among the
Maoris, and (we quote from the Freeman) “ the
mention of this early period of his priestly life re-
vives memories of his and of those heroic sacri-
fices too little known. Ordained in Auckland,
N.Z , by Bishop Pompalller, whom he had accom-
panied thither from France, Father Garavel at
once entered upon his difficult and dangerous mis-
sion in the Waikato. At that time there was not
even a worn track to travel by, and riding was
both difficult and perilous. Travelling day and
night, often with one meal in 34 hours—and that of
a very meagre description—having, on his jour-
neys, to cross swollen rivers and swim rapids, he
would retire to rest sometimes on a pallet of straw
or a! heap of ti-tree cut from a neighbouring
thicket, with notnlng but the canopy of heaven
for a roof; and the pale moon to serve as a lamp to
light him to bed. He wouid rise, next morning,
stiff in the joints from the effect of the falling
dews. After having offered a prayer to God for
His mercy and goodness, he would bathe in the
nearest stream; then, breakfasting on a biscuit
and a drink of water, would move on to his duties.
Days and days might pass, during which he
would not see the face of a white person, for his
energy and devotion had cut him off from all
Europeans. To him the Maori was everything.
He cared for nothing but to direct them in the
manner of their living, and to divert their atten-
tion from their cannibalistic practices to those of
a more civilised character. Never did he forget
the reason why he was sent amongst them, and
ever did he seek to dp his duty towards them; and
LEAVES FROM THE DIARY OF AN AGGRESSIVE SYDNEY POLITICIAN.
AS HE WENT TO WRIGIHT’S MEETING.
AS HE CAME AWAY.


READ THIS!
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS.
Manufactured by
THE GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS CO.,
SALE.
Certificate by Wm. Johnson, Government Ana-
lytical Chemist
" Government Analytical Laboratory,
“Melbourne, July 14th, 1884.
“ I have examined Trood’s Hop Bitters (manu-
factured at Sale). They are remarkably pleasant
to the palate, and as a general tonic and promoter
of appetite for invalids and young people are no
doubt excellent. The Hop Aroma is delicately
combined with a fragrant fruit flavour, producing
a really elegant preparation, which may be relied
on as beneficial to health and free from anything
deleterious.
(Signed) “ WM. JOHNSON,
“ Analytical Chemist.”
THESE celebrated Bitters have been proved by
analysis to be a pure, delicate, palatable com-
pound, and are invaluable in affording relief in all
cases of disorder! of the blood, stomach, liver,
nerves, etc.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Will be found a perfect “ Balm of Gilead” to all
who are suffering from shattered nerves, an over-
worked brain, or lassitude; they are, in fact,
nature’s brain and nerve food.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Are an excellent appetiser, and may be taken
with perfect safety by the most delicate invalids
and young people.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Enrich and purify the blood, and are an exquisite
tonic and stimulant. If you are sick, no matter
from what cause, use
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS.
The large and increasing consumption has
gained for the Gippsland Hop Bitters Manu-
facturing Co. a wide celebrity.
Beware or Imitations,
And use only those manufactured by the
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS CO.
They are pronounced to be the best and only genu-
ine Hop Bitters manufactured in the colonies.
Sale, Nov. 11th.
THOMAS TROOD & CO.,
Proprietors.
To be obtained from all the leading merchants,
chemists, and hotels in the colonies.
Sole Agent for Sydney—A. W. KBBSON, Foy’s
Chambers, Bond-street, Sydney.
TJSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1878.
Capital—£loo,ooo with power to increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES—3O per cent, paid annually since 1873.
PE APES & SHAW’S
SPBIII SHOW!
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING MILLINERY.
PEAPE'S and SHAW’S SPRING COSTUMES.
PEAPBS and SHAW’S SPRING DRESS
FABRICS.
PE APES and SHAW’S SPRING FABRIC
GLOVES.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT
KID GLOVES,
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING HOSIERY,
from J. and R. MORLEY’S.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
LACE GOODS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
EMBROIDERY.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
, PARASOLS.
SS? - " SPECIAL NOTICBI
All the above goods are
Now Open for Inspection.
Large Shipments
for other Departments are
CLOSE AT HAND,
and a constant how of
NOVELTIES
will be opened up
DURING THE SEASON.
PEAPES & SHAW,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS,
324, 326, 328 George Street.
J. NOAKE,
320 A 446 George Street,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
•Just Unpacked, ex s.s. Rome,
12 Cases Heal HAVANNA CIBAHS
(Finest Brands), oonslsting of
"ANTONIO MURIAS”
• VILLAS OF VILLARS "
' HENRY CLAYS”
“REAL”CABANAS
“LAKRANAGA”
“ RITICA ”
“ MORALES ”
“ FLOR DE NARBB ”
“PARTAGAS”
“INTIMIDADS”
“ FLOR DE CUBA ”
“ESPANOLA”
“LA CORONA”
J. NOAKE,
320 & 446 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER ST J. VEST.
s
ENT POST FREE FOR Is. STAMPS.
Social Science.
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorde rt, Chron
Diseases, Impedimenta to Marriage, &c., How 1
choose a partner for life so as to live happw, Ho
to Regain and Preserve your Health, &c.
Address—B. T. SELBY, M.H., Devonshire-,stree
Surry Hills, Sydney.
AHHOODiRESTOREDI
A Clergyman having tried every known rseseijy
J» tefteCUREoiNERVGUSEXHAOS.
TION, PREMATURE DECAY, &c. f ku »♦
last discovered a simple SELF-CURE, wh ich, for
the sake of suffering humanity, he will send | T REE
the Prescription which CURED him. Ad Ureas*
with self-addrestted stamped envelope— a
Dr. E. A. CLARKE, F.O. Box 292, Sy dnef.
PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT-ELECTRIC BELTS.
MESSRS. NBILD and CO., on behalf of The
Magnetical-Eleetric Appliance Company,
earnestly desire to call the attention of the public
to the fact that, in consequence of the success
attending the sale of the above Company’s Elec-
tric Belts, Corsets, &0., a so-called Caution has
been published, emanating from an agent for
Electric articles, who, prompted by a motive to
attempt to monopolise the sale of such articles,
the principle of which we emphatically assert has
been known to the world for at least twenty years
and are now being manufactured in Great Britain
by dozens of firms, and variously styled for the
purposes of a trade mark only, but avowedly par-
taking of the same nature, being an adapta-
tion of the element of Magnetlcal Electricity.
We ask, therefore, those who desire to adopt
the treatment of Electricity for constitutional
or local derangements, to compare our Elec-
tric Belts, Corsets, &c, with those of other
manufacture, as they are undoubtedly of su-
perior Electrical Strength, design, quality of
material, and elegance of finish. The 15s.
Gent.’s Belt is the best ever offered to the public
for electrical strength and quality. Gent.’s special-
power Electric Belts, 30s. These Belts are manu-
factored expressly for tropical climates, and are
very durable, as also are our Electric Corsets.
Lung Invlgorators, Spine Bands. &o.
THE
MAGNEiTICALT
if-'-.
.v
The “ Magnetlcal Electric” Appliance Company's
ELECTRIC BELTS, Corset Lung Invlgorators,
Spine Bands, Kneecaps, Insoles, &c., &c, is the
only perfect method for generating the curative
properties of the continuous current of Electri-
city, without the aid of batteries or use of acids,
without incurring any risk of undue action upon
the most delicate Invalid, and impart Health and
Vitality to all who wear them.
The MAGNBTICAL ELECTRIC TREATMENT
is now admitted by Medico-Electric Scientists, and
many leading Physicians, to be the most valuable
Electrical Remedial Agent for the Cure of all
Nervous Diseases, Affections of the Heart, Epi-
lepsy, Spinal Complaints, Rheumatism, Lumbago.
Sciatica, Paralysis, Gout, ..General Debility, Indi-
gestion, Female Complaints, &c„ &c., and is now
adapted for the Successful Treatment of all Lung
Troubles, hitherto without the domain of Electric
Agency.
One of the Special Features of this Treatment is
the MAGNETICAL ELECTRIC CORSET, which
is unsurpassed for its curative properties In all
female troubles, and is of superior shape and
manufacture. Pries, 10b., 155., and 30b.
The Guinea Special Power Electric Belt Is the
same as sold in England for £3 3s. Thousands of
people of all ranks in the United Kingdom have
testified to the beneficial results of the Magnetlcal
Electric Treatment; and Testimonials from lead-
ing Medical and Scientific Men are in our pos-
session,
GENTLEMEN'S BELTS are manufactured of
superior material, in the shape of a riding belt,
and are very durable. Send size of waist, outside
first garment. Price, 15s, and 30a.; if mailed, Is. 6d.
eXt LUNG IN VIGOR ATOBS, 30a.;
KNEECAPS, 7s. (id.; SPINE BANDS, 103.
INSO LBS, invaluabje for cold feet, chilblains, and
defective circulation, ss. Od. Send size of boot, or
paper pattern of inside (Is. Od. for postage).
All correspondence treated with the greatest
despatch. Post-office orders to be made payable ( to
E. S. NEILD & CO., 15? Pitt-stkeet,
Sole Proprietors “ Magnetlcal Electric” Appliance
Company, London and Sydney. ‘ '
ECOHQWitofUHWnuR
ECONOMCALFURNITURE
' / ' > I -•
-waaRtWKW’
365 PITT STREET-
Head Offices.
First Fire Society established In tne colony on
the Mutual principle. Riving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-hc’ders are perfectly free by law from
all liability ,
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates-
J, TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’i
TAILORING EHTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Georga-stroeft,
Established 1t64,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect lit
guaranteed.
QUOD FACIMUS YALDB FACIMUS.
(What we do we do well.)
TOUR PHOTO.-If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
couusel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices-C-D-V.,; Cabinets- 30s. per dozen.
CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE.
IINNi Baa HUllWh
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
WALTER C 3URCH, Manager.
Head Offices—PlTT and KING STREETS.
V|ni \fji7 A V PniTRS suffering from the
I F| » WIMA yyjif’ tVj effects of youthful
u ■ errors, early decay,
lost vitality, premature decline, nervous weak-
ness, etc., I will send you particulars of a
certain, simple, and sure means of self cure,
Free of Charge, Address, in confidence.
Prof. M. B. TAYLOR,
68 Elizabeth St.,
SYDNEY N.S W.
DR. BOYD,
52 CASTLBREAGH-BTREET, SYDNEY
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p m. Monday, Wednesday;
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Diseases
Specialty.
Box 120 G.P.O.
TO Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams,
and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. “ Beta,” Bulletin Office.
BEST in
I
THEWORLD
OFFICE -31 LOMBARD ST. LONDON.
W
111
FRomZto WOO horse: power.
»
i
a
lowest
IN PRICE
SCOTIA——"L EK'O^ES,fr l^ °
ALBION” LsONCSTROKE HORIZONTAL EN@INES. a
“climax” Vertical engin es &bo lers
“CLIMAX” PORTA BLE
BRITON”*MORIZON' FAL COMPOUND LAE%i ENGINES.
INVERTED COMPOUND MARINE ENGINES. /' •
®. PORTABLE STIEAM CRANES.
Vertical.cornish.& marin_e.Joiler£;
. -
piii
i
ULARS ANDTRICES APPLY TO
iGENTS fo» NEW SOUTH.WALES.
AGENT’S
SOLE AGENTS -VICTORIA
. \
It is no exaggeration to say that he has left his
name engraven on their hearts and memories.
His hardships and sufferings, during his twelve
years’ residence among the native tribes of the
Waikato, have in few cases been equalled. During
the war Governor Brown instructed the ollicers to
allow the beloved priest to pass to and frojbetween
their camp and that of the enemy. Father Garavel
would stay all night with the Maoris, hearing
their confessions, and doing other good and holy
things. At daylight, having passed over to the
British camp, he would do likewise for the soldiers.
His work at this time was one of unceasing toll.
He alone was the privileged person allowed to act
In such a manner, and to hold intercourse of any
description with the Maoris. Several missionaries
were refused the same liberty, amongst whom was
the late Bishop Selwyn, of the Anglican Church.
Between 40 and 50 priests took part injthe funeral
offices, and the Very Rev. Fere Joly, a compatriot
and life-long friend of the lamented deceased,
officiated at .'the Requiem High Mass and at the
ceremonies at the grave.
A Hobart lady sends us a few breezy items
from the Tight Little Island : —The “ balmy
breath of spring ” has wakened many Hobartlans,
not “into gladness” but into what the H. Mer-
cury, with comfortable vagueness, terms the pre-
vailing epidemic, otherwise fog-fever—rather a
misnomer as regards Hobart, though quite appli-
cable to Launceston. And “ thereby hangs a tale.”
Last winter a man visited the Northern capital of
the Tight Little Island (his first appearance there),
put up at Sutton’s Coffee Palace, had some tea,
and went out. While absent, a dense fog enve-
loped the town, he missed his way, and, unable to
find the palace, applied to a policeman, who
directed him thither. Next evening same
thing happened again; he appealed to a po-
liceman, who stared at him, and remarked:
“ Surely you haven’t been looking for Sutton’s
ever since last night I” He was the identical
“ bobby ” who had assisted him the previous even-
ng. ..Concert-programmes regarded as reading
matter are usually as dry as a red herring without
any whisky. That arranged for the Hobart Lleder-
tafel smoking concert was an exception to the
rule, having appropriate Shakespearian quotations
after each item, in one case more appropriate than
complimentary—a performer having “ Tax not so
bad a voice to slander music any more than once”
under his name, and the event proved that
someone had accurately measured his vocal abili-
ties Men of brilliant intellect and high moral
worth have at times appeared in the Tas-
manian Parliament. An ex - member was ar-
rested last month in Melbourne for travelling
on the Brighton (Vic.) railway, with a Brighton
(Tas.) ticket. However, it was quite an accidental
use of the wrong ticket, though the gentleman
had not been in Tasmania for months. At the
Premier’s ball, one M.P. who for some time
openly defied social and moral law, was neatly sent
to Coventry by the ladles present, so for once his
wife received his undivided attention. Another,
when questioned by the free and Independent
electors as to his views, replied, “they were the
same as his father’s. He had not considered the
subject, but would read It up,” and, when re-
turned, could not thank his supporters-the agent
had to speechify for him. But it was not Mr.
Dooley who presented the petition “ for the pro-
tection of young women and girls from the Young
Men's Christian Association.” Imperfect punctua-
tion casts serious reflection on pious individuals.
~. A lady entering a boot-shop In Hobart lately,
was confronted on the threshold by the proprietor
with, “You’re ad d sneak, that’slwhat you are I”
As it was her first visit to the establishment, this
unique reception startled her, till she discovered
that the words were Intended for a boy in the
shop, from whom the man had turned in anger.


Profmlonal Directory.
GEORGE PEttRIMAN. Scene Painter, Theatre
Royal, Bri-bane. Disengaged.
m H B A T R B ROYAL.
JL Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Gabnbr and Mtjbgrovi.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo.L. Goodman.
Another Immense Success achieved by
WILLIAMSON. GARNER, and MUaGRuVB’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
LAST TWcTnIGHTS
of Gilbert and Sullivan’s Opera,
PATIENCE
PATIENCE
PATIENCE.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 34,
Grand Revival, and for the first time tor 4 years,
H.M S. PINAFORE.
Admission : Dress Circle. 5j.; Stalls, 35.; Family
Circle, 3s.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’a
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre dally from
10 till 5. No Free List.
NBW OPBRA HOUSE.
Under the Lesseeshlpand Management of
MAJRRONI and WILSON.
LAST NIGHT BUT ONE
of
Mr. GEORGE DARRELL’S
Great Sensation Drama,
THE SUNNY SOUTH
THE SUNNY SOUTH
THE SUNNY SOUTH,
with Its
FIVE HUGE SENSATIONS.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 34,
A Remarkable Phenomenon,
THE NAKED TRUTH.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Huenorbeln’s Music
Warehouse, 318 George-street. Tickets for all parts
of the house may be obtained at Roberts’, tobac-
conist, next theatre.
JOB BROWN, Business Manager for Mr, Darrell,
New opera house
(kindly given by Messrs. Wilson and Me jeronl,
and Mr, George Darrell).
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 31), 1885,
GRAND MATINEE PERFORMANCE
by the
FRATERNITY OF MUTUAL IMPS
(Sydney Lodge, No. 6.)
All the leading artists In Sydney will assist.
Tickets everywhere,
Bro. W. J. B. JENKINS, I Bnrs
Bro. D. G. CLYNB, f Hon ’ Becs ’
Bro. Joe Brown, Business Manager.
Gaiety theatre.
Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
Manager for Mr. Solomon, Mr. B. N. Jones
Manager for Mr. Dampler, Mr. F. Gunther.
DAMPIBR SEASON.
THIS and EVE RY EVENING, until further notice.
Crowded houses nightly to witness DAMPIER in
an entirely new and original,Drama (in 4 acts), by
Messrs. Henry Pettitt and Merritt, entitled
BROUGHT TO JUSTICE.
Note.—Mr. Dampler has purchased the sole right
of producing this drama in the Provinces and New
Zealand from Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and
Musgrove, and the present production in Sydney
is by special arrangement with them.
GRAND CAST OF CHARACTERS,
Prices—Boxes, S 1 3j.; cicoestra chairs, 45.; stalls,
Bs.; parquette Si ; ia k cny, Is. No Free List.
Box plan now open at Nicholson and Co., Music
Warehouse, George street.
H E O L Y M PIC
(late Old Masonic Hall, York-street).
Stage Manager .. Mr. H. Trevorah.
Crowded Houses to witness the
OLYMPIC BURLESQUE COMPANY
in the latest London Burlesque,
ACIS and GALATEA,
ACIB and GALATEA.
READ OPINIONS OF PRESS:
“ The company is a capital one for burlesque.
The Olympic will become the home for burlesque.”
—Telegraph.
“Aclsand Galatea bristles with puns and bon'
mots, and affords much scope for many good songs
and capital acting. A visit to the Olympic is now
rendered well worth an evening, and bids fair to
make a decided hit.”—Herald.
“ Acis and Galatea.—The Olympic was thronged
on Saturday. The dancing was the finest ever seen
for a long time at.any.place of amusement.”—
Evening News.
The performanc to commence with the laughable
operetta of
THE BLIND BEGG ARS.
Million Prices—Stalls, 35.; Balcony Is. A few
reserved seats at Nicholson’s, 3j.
General Manager, Mr. M. L. RAPHAEL.
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Haymarket.
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING.
THE HOME OF MINSTRELSY and MIRTH.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
MINSTRELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
UNPARALLELED SUCCESS
Unparalleled Success of the
ALHAMBRA VARIETY COMPANY.
Refinement without Vulgarity.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 3s; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
CHAS. AUSTIN, Business Manager.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
Lynch Family Bellringers
(Organised 1867)1
Manager HARRY LYNCH.
FIFTH MONTH IN SYDNEY.
i "The great houses attracted nightly is a suffi-
cient index of the merits of the performance,” &o.
—Bulletin.
To-night—Thursday .. Foresters’Hall, Waterloo
Friday, 33rd October .. Foresters’ Hall. St. Peters
Saturday, 34th ... .. Town Hall, Parramatta
Miss Annetta Scasl
HAVING rested her voice for six months, after
a Isng and successful tour through New
Zealand, would be happy to
RESUME HER PROFESSIONAL DUTIES ON
THE STAGE ONCE MORE.
nr Line of Business :—Opera Boufle, Concerts,
Burlesques.
This young lady artiste, being an eminent musi-
cian, would btfvo no objection to travel with a
first-class company as Pianist.
All theatrical managers please address letters,
for the present. Post Office, Young.
JURST APPEARANCE IN THE COLONIES.
FRYER & CO.’S CIRCUS,
EQUINE PARADOX and TRAINED ANIMAL
EXHIBITION,
DIRECT FROM AMERICA,
Belmoro Park,
For a brief season, commencing
Wednesday, October 28.
A Chaste, Moral, and Unique Exhibition as
novel as interesting.
Twenty-five Ponies, Dogs, and Goats, whose
like do not exi t on the face of the earth. They
speak with eloquent action, and demonstrate
superior sense.
A troups of
FINISHED ACROBATS, GYMNASTS & CLOWNS
RIDING GOATS,
RIDING DOGS.
GRAND MILITARY DRILL BY A REGIMENT
OF PONIES.
Admission—4s., 3s. 6i„ Is.
Doors open at 7.30, performance begins at 8
o’clock sharp ; carriages ordered at 10.15.
Special MATINEES, for Ladies and Children,
EVERY SATURDAY, at 3 p.m,
"THE LYCEUM,’
Newcastle,
SITUATED IN THE BEST PART OF THE CITIt
It is capable of seating 500 people,
and suitable for
MUSICAL & DRAMATIC ENTERTAINMENTS
The Stage (40ft. by 24ft.) is furnished with
STOCK, SCENERY, &c.
For Terms, apply
COLIN CHRISTIE.
“The Lyceum,”
Newcastle.
JgOTANY SOCIAL CLUB.
A PLAIN and FANCY DRESS BALL
will be held in the
SIR JOSEPH BANKS PAVILION, BOTANY,
on
FRIDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 33, 1885,
on termination of Season.
Ladies’ tickets, ICs ; Gentlemen’s, 15’.; Double,
31s. To be had from Committee, or
A. GEDDES,
Hon. Secretary.
A Special Palace Car will leave Bridge-street at
7.30 p.m .stopping at King-street, Liverpool-street,
Railway-steps, Cleveland-street, Pltt-street, Red-
fern, and Post-ollice, Botany, and through to
pavilion; returning at 3 a.m.
Ball tickets must be shown on the special.
ANT E D .
TOMMY EMPSON,
Write immediately,
Harry Pettifeh,
Albion Hotel, Hobart.
Important.
Victoria Racing Club
DERBY -
CUP ....
OAK i - -
STEEPLECHASE
- Saturday, Oct. 31
- Tuesday, Nov. 3
- Thursday, Nov. 5
- Saturday, Nov. 7
The Battles are the Largest ever made.
RETURN TICKETS AT HOLIDAY EXCURSION
EARES from all Stations.
The conveniences for the COMPORT OP THE
PUBLIC at Plemington are now admitted to be
THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.
Nearly £lO,OOO have been spent in enlarging the
Railway Platforms and other improvements.
H. BTRON MOORE,
Sec. V.R C.
P. KIRBY,
from the late Mr. Jauib Curtis,
“CJ r2.d_erta.lcer,
84 HUNTER ft PHILLIP ITREETI.
f UNSEALS NSATLT EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Eirby was In the employ of the
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (18) years;
Manager for over ten (10) years.
Allen’s Black Wlngen Oils.
THEY WOEK LIKE A CHARM.
TO those who have been suffering from Rheu-
matism or Sciatica, we come with glaa tidings
of the wonderful cures that have been effected by
CHAS. ALLEN’S BLACK WIN GEN OILS. Num-
bers have been cured, and can attest to the great
and miraculous powers of these already famous
Oils.
There is now no reason why anybody should be
be racked wi h pain, when for the small sum of
2s. 6d„ a bottle of CHAS. ALLEN S BLACK
WINGEN OILS may be obtained from any che-
mist or storekeeper. On how many occasions,
when you have been laid up with a severe attack
of lumbago, would you have given anything to
get relief; also, when you have been rendered
sleepless through neuralgia or toothache, have
you sought in vain for a cure. Suffer no more •
keep the balm by you—a bottle of Chas. Allen’s
Black Wingen Oils. It is needless to further recom-
mend, as a simple trial will prove to the most
sceptical the merit of Allen’s Black Wingen Oils
“TRY THEM.”
COSTELLO & GREY,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
ALLEN’S BLACK WINGEN OILS, stand un-
equalled for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs
saddle girth, and wind Galls, Strains, Stakes,
Sprains, Bruises, Sweat Boils, Fistula, Wounds of
all descriptions No ’bus proprietor, carrier, or
stockowner should be without them. They will
heal any sore, no matter if freshly done or of
years’ standing. No spell required to effect a cure.
“TRY TEEM,”
May be obtalned.from Chemists and Storekeepers.
COSTELLO & GrREY,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Agents. ■
CHAS. OTTE & CO.,
Electrical Engineers,
113 Pitt Street.
Electric Batteries for surgical and household use, Electric Bells,
Private Telephones, Electric Lights, Lightning Conductors, Dyna-
mos, and all Electrical appliances fitted at the shortest notice, at
25 per cent, under usual price.
CHAS. OTTE & CO., 113 Pitt Street
3Y
t'y*
K
"fm
<■ ,
*
railij
M
A''-
Hf
w
Ci
t
E
Q
T
Q
>9
S 5
*
Sydney* Royal Arcades
©
5-Acre Model Farms
FOR
FOR TICKETS, AND ALL OTHER INFORMATION, APPLY TO
SO*2"3D <35 SIITCr, -A-VLction.eers,
86 Pitt Street, Sidney.
Intending purchasers are conveyed via the Overland Route, allowing G hours in Gosford.
8
October 34, 1885.
THE BULLETIN.


Hi
SSI
w,
II
= • IIJiM
THIRTY SHILLINGS,
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
THIS triumph of musical invention is acknow-
ledged on all hands to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It Is a wonderful little Instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes Its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 22 reeds, plays in three keys, and all thS
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. llorton, the Inventor, the world
was first indebted for the Organette; but that wai
too expensive to come within the reach of all;
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
study, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of cost and crudeness.
It requires no skill to extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &0., &c., &c. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy.
The player requires no Instruction further than
the few printed directions that are sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that “ he who runs
may read.” It 1s best adapted to the kind of music
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card-holder for convenience
in singing. It will be found Invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one ; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
or
474 GEOR6E STREET SYDNEY
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities—from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can offer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corre-
spondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers Who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by all educators and moralists
that music is the great refining influence, and
especially with children its effect for good is
boundless. The love for music which music In
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, end parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other
wise hard task an easy one.
The price of the Autophone Is 80S.,
and where good music can be procured for such a
trifle, It Is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autophoce for 30s. we
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it ouf
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogues of tunes at any time;
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS;
Sole Agents for Australia!
Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-street, Sydney, ‘. 1j
Opposite entrance to Fruit Market!,
If you are weak and sleepless try Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
If you are nervous take Wolfe's Schnapps m
A DRIVING AGB.
This is an age of keen, intense competi-
tion. With a falling wool market, political
troubles in Eastern Europe, and complications in
the great labour circles of England and America,
the British manufacturers are cutting profits so
flue as to be scarcely visible. But ’tis an ill wind
that blows no one any good, and one of the smart-
est and best known men in the English markets is
the home buyer for the well-known Sydney firm
of Summerfleld and Company. Taking a walk
through their stores this week we noticed some ex-
traordinary purchases, which we recommend
to the notice of our lady readers. For instance, a
good drill man-o’-war sailor suit, sizes 000 to 6, at
6s. lid , could never have been made for the
money, and some two or three thousand fine es-
temene serge sailor suits, with gold badge, flannel,
whistle, and lanyard, at 10s. 6d. The stock of
tweed knicker suits is something like eight or nine
thousand, in every design, from ss. lid. to 13s. 6d,
For lads and youths of 9 years to 19, there is a
good variety made from their well-known wear-
resisting fabrics, at 315., 355., and 30s. Ladles re-
siding in the country can obtain, post free, on ap-
plication, a beautifully illustrated fashion book of
33 pages. The only Sydney address of Summer-
field and Company, the Great Juvenile Outfitters,
is 235 and 337 Pitt-street.*
Wolfe's Schnapps cheers the mind and
body.
The great anti-bilious remedy Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
[HE ELECTORATE OF EAST MACQUARIE.
TO JOHN SHEPHERD, ESQ.,
OF YEIHOLME AND SYDNEY.
Dear Sir,— Understanding that a vacancy in the
representation of this electorate will occur con-
sequent upon the absence from the colony of New
South Wales of Edward Coombes, Esq., C.M.G , we
request that you will allow yourself to be nomin-
ated as a candidate for the electorate of East Mac-
quarie, and will do our best to secure your return,
We remain,
yours respectfully,
AMBROSE JOHNSON, J.P,
And here follow 630 other signatures.
To Ambrose Johnson, Esq., J.P., and the others
signing the requisition.
Gentlemen,—ln response to your largely signed
requisition, 1 beg to announce to my fellow elec-
tors that 1 am a candidate for one of the seats now
vacant in the electorate of East Macquarie.
The election is an important one, involving
issues of the gravest character affecting the very
foundation of responsible government. It is for
the electors to decide if Mr. Wright and other
Ministers are to hold office in defiance of the true
spirit of our Constitution.
Lately honest administration ceased, and it is
now the inperative duty of every colonist to
take an active part in bringing to a termination
the reign of corruption and gigantic log-rolling.
The indecent waste and unfairness with which
some of the elections have been fixed while others
are postponed must arouse a suspicion in the minds
of the electors than an attempt is being made to
gag discussion. The last Parliament was elected
to deal with a much needed land reform, but un-
fortunately the power of the large monetary in-
stitutions and other Influences inimical to the
welfare of the people dominated, to the effect that
the present law is worse than the last. Settlement
is debarred, and oppresion is a leading principle of
the Act. The true interests of the colony demand
that the Land Act of the Government be without
delay amended.
The reckless squandering tendencies of the Gov-
ernment has resulted in reducing a large surplus
to a deficit of probably a million, and the failure
to secure a su Hi "lent revenue from the land will
necessitate a seneme of taxation; but lam totally
opposed to the late impracticable and unjust pro-
posals of the Colonial Treasurer. 1 have always
been opposed to a nominee Upper House, and the
nominations made by the late Government should
strikingly convince the electors that a system of
elective representation should be adopted.
The absolute regardlessness of some of the
members of the late Parliament to the right of
the majority of the people, their subservience to
the Ministry, the species of log-rolling which
took place ever the Land Bill, the extraordinary
railway votes, and the now notorious division
against Mr. Garvan’s motion, lead me to believe
that a reform is necessary, whereby members
should be paid for their attendance in Parliament.
A department of agriculture should be established
with a responsible Minister at its head, so that
those interested in agi-icultural pursuits would be
afforded some better means of demanding and ob-
taining their rights.
The mining laws require codification and ma-
terial amendment. Simplification of those laws and
the regulations thereunder would tend to develope
the great resources of this important elec-
torate. Schools of mines similar to those at Bal-
larat and Sandhurst, in Victoria, should be estab-
lished, and facilities afforded to test by assay the
discoveries of bona fide prospectors and miners.
I have for many years been actively identified
with the developoment of this district; my con-
nections with it as a miner and agriculturist will
lead me to an intimate and practical knowledge of
our many requirements.
Upon the above heads and other matters affect-
ing the political situation, I will address you per-
sonally at various parts of the electorate.
If elected you will find me sufficiently firm and
independent to carry out the trust reposed in
me.
I am yours faithfully,
JOHN SHEPHERD.
JJrooklands, Yetholme, 10th October, 1885.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
THEATRE BOTAL—“ Patience” P. 8.
Gaiety Theatre— “ Brought to Justice.... «>
Opera House— “ Sunny South ”
The Olympic— Comedy and Burlesque <>
Alhambra— Variety Company »
Academy qe Music—Minstrels •>
Lynch Family Bellringers »
Fryer’s Circus, Belmore Park «
“ Quits” held the boards at the Olympic
last week, and during its course was successful in
everything except the audiences it drew. Possi-
bly the elections had something to do with the
moderate attendances on two or three evenings.
After all, fiction cm never excel fact, and it is no
discredit to the Olympic crowd to say that the
politics “ discoorsed” by the indignant Dan or the
fantastic Frawnsis were among the funniest things
ever submitted to a discriminating Sydney
audience, and when Toohey’s beer was on tap in
every street, and free whisky was obtainable in
a dozen places, not even local optionists felt in-
clined to seek the theatres, so electioneering pros-
pered and the managers mourned.
» * ♦
“ Quits” was followed on Saturday night
at the Olympic by F. C. Burnand’s burlesque,
“ Ads and Galatea,” which was preceded by Offen-
bach’s “ Blind Beggars.” This operetta contains
some bright and lively music, but otherwise there
is little in it deserving of attention. Nor did it
earn the appreciation of the gods in the gallery,
tor Immediately the curtain fell cat-calling and
whistling prevailed to such an extent that Mr.
Rivers Allpress of the Beautiful Hair was twice
obliged to stop his team in the hope of inducing
the ‘‘ push” to cease their Inharmonious accom-
paniement. We have said that “ Acis and Gala-
tea” is a burlesque by Burnand, but it was bur-
lesqued on its first representation to an extent
never contemplated by the author. In the first
place, the curtain was hoisted just a trifle too soon
for the workers in the forge iof Vulcan, where the
first scene is laid. This greatly marred the ensu-
ing chorus, and the derision of the gallery uamins
broke forth once more, much to the discomfiture
of most of the actors. Bach subsequent scone
was blemished by want of sufficient rehearsal, and
the prompter, though not mentioned in the cast,
took a very prominent part in the dialogue. Ner-
vousness played havoc with the company gene-
rally. Miss Amy Horton and occasionally Miss
Bmilv Fox alone rising above the influence of the
surroundings. The former played with all the in-
nocent diablerie which popularised her in “ Quits,”
and won tho unqualified approbation of the house
■ * *
During this week the performances of
‘‘Acis and Galstea” have been much more suc-
cessful. It contains some very clever word-play
(mingled, unhappily, with some atrocious word-
torturing) ; the scenery is attractive, and the
dresses are in unison with the newness and bright-
ness of the little theatre itself. Of the cast, Acis,
Miss Horton, acts with verve and dash, and makes
all her points cleverly. Miss Annie Shrader as
Nydella sings like a seraph, but stands like a wax
doll, and Galatea looks pretty enough to explain
the rivalry of Acis and Polyphemus. Rosie John-
son is a symmetrical Cupid, and the dancing
of the sisters Martin is the best seen in Sydney for
some time past. Fred. Dark and D’Arcy Stanfield
put In good work as Vulcan and Polyphemus. To
those who appreciate the music of motion, and to
those who love to study art and—well, say nature,
in its most natural form, the burlesque should
appeal successfully, while the present low tariff is
a powerful argument to the economical. Rivers
Allpress has a very capable company with him,
and the excellence of the overture is a feature of
the entertainment. As the piece runs at present
it is about as bright a show as we have had for
some time.
** * *
“ Patience ” by the Comic Opera Company
at the Sydney Theatre Royal, has been an emphatic
success as far as mere attendance can make it such.
And yet it is a bit of a mystery to account for this
intense popularity. In Sydney, the satire is en-
tlrely lost We have no local Bunthornes, no
Oscar Wilde, and no intense maidens. The few
men who affect long hair merely serve to excite
the Irreverent (jamin to remark languidly: ‘‘Say,
mister, there’s a man a-chasin’ you. ’B’s a bar-
ber.” Nor can the wit of the dialogue be the
secret, for this has long since become ‘‘familiar in
our mouths as household words,” while the music
has been thumped out of every suburban piano
and city hash-house and deserted even by the
butcher-boys. And, finally, the efficiency of the
present cast can hardly be the cause of its popu-
larity. Miss Alice Barnett is the very massive
Lady Jane, and her singing wins the lion’s share
of the plaudits, but those who saw Navaro
in this character will admit that though the inter-
pretation of Miss Barnett may be the more faith-
ful, still the former lady managed to popularise
the part to a greater extent. Howard Vernon
made a very capable Bunthorne, gaining encores
always in the second scene, and in this his bve-
play was “ quite too, all but.” Patience (Miss
Alice Rc.es), who is now not so much a
“ willowy maiden of mournful mien ” as she
used to be, sang ( cela va sans dire), her
solos excellently and her action improved
considerably after the first night. Nor did she owe
much of her success to the orchestra, which,
especially on Saturday evening, exhibited some
little eccentricities that were less improvements
than novelties. The choruses were perfect, and
the scenery by Gordon well worth attention.
‘‘Patience” gives place on Saturday, 24th, to
“Pinafore,” and as this operetta is always a
favourite with Sydney theatre-goers, the demand
for seats should continue to exceed the supply.
« * * *
The Alhambra Variety Company has been
successful in attracting good houses to their
recent performances. Miss Minnie Hope, a new
and welcome addition to the ranks, and Mr. Behn
Henrix, another new comer, have added much to
the attractiveness of the programme, without de-
creasing the favour shown to the older members
of the company. The Ghost should continue to
walk at the Alhambra with the regularity of his
past perambulations.
*« « *
Let us drop a silent tear. Hiscooks’ Min-
strels are about to depart. They have become an
institution in Sydney. Beginning 18 months ago
with an audience less remarkable for its high-tone
than its powers of whistling and cat-calling they
gradually improved the tone of th “ push ” be-
fore the curtain, whilst they maintained the char-
acter of the original programme. Now the last
nights are announced. The Academy Is to let tor
next week, Harry Rickards opens there on the
31st. Let us weep again.
• * *
This week W. B. Warner has been again
with them, and takes to himself a big chunk of
the programme. Amery has also returned, and
does his share of the business. The “Brigands
mixed up by a Private Secretary,” is an absurdity
founded on several of the pieces lately played in
the various Theatres
** * *
“Brought to Justice” was put on at the
Gaiety on Saturday. To those who like this kind
of thing, it is just the kind of thing they will like.
But we are delighted to "see that there is still a
section (and that a very large one) of the commu-
nity which delights-even in these degenerate
days, when Barabbas is not only pardoned for past
offences but returned at the top of the poll—-in the
triumph of virtue and the downfall of villainy
represented on the stage with the usual accom-
paniments. To such “Brought to Justice’ ap-
peals, and appeals with quite the usual effect, for
the plot is interesting if somewhat improbable,
and the acting and mounting are in keeping with
the merits of the piece. Merritt and Pettitt, by-
the-way, arc the authors. To describe the plot
would be a work of superogatlon, and would add
nothing to the interest and sympathy of those who
love the moral side of the drama.
The Lynch Bellringers appear at Waterloo
on Thursday, St. Peter’s on Friday, and Parra-
matta on Saturday, whence they positively, with-
out any humbug this time, start for the country.
Their live months’ season in Sydney has filled
them with lasting joy.
** * *
Our dear old friend Adam Bede turned up
as the hero of a “ Beautiful Pastoral Drama ” at
Melbourne Opera House. An unvaried company
has held the boards for too long a time at this
theatre, and pieces are now produced under a
serious disadvantage. A quick succession of
thrilling dramas, peopled always by the same
players, is apt to weary the public. This may
largely account for the very lukewarm favour ac-
corded “Adam Bede.” Or it may be that the
theatre-goer’s stomach has been so pampered with
light fare that it can’t digest anything as heavy.
“ Adam Bede,” the playbill tells us, has been dra-
matised and adapted by W. Howell Poole and
George Rignold. If Mr. Poole supplied such of
the words as are not George Eliot’s, and Mr. Rig-
nold suggested the situations, then the latter must
be adjudged the cake. The first three acts are ex-
ceedingly well constructed, hut most of the in-
terpolated dialogue is poor stuff. There are
four acts, and the last one has the mis-
fortune to be the dullest. With that amended
and the time of the whole play taken a little
quicker, Adam Bede may yet make a big name for
himself. The acts, by tne way, arc rather short,
but the waits, on the other hand, are nice and
long.
* ♦ *
Hetty Sorrell has been carrying on with
young Squire Donnithorne before the curtain
rises on the rural festival that celebrates his com-
ing of ago. For a stage merrymaking this was
above the average. The rustics were positively
rollicking, some of them. The scene was pretty,
and the scent of the hay (as Mr. Pinero would ex-
press it) was carried over the footlights. At the
end of this act occurs the light between Adam
Bede and the giddy Donnithorne. Adam sees the
squire squeeze. Hett y—his own girl, whom he didn’t
intend to kiss himself until the wedding came off
(bless him!)—and goes for the dashing libertine.
’Tis a grand “ mill,'' but any odds on one from the
very start. A long course of deadly combats in
the “Romany Rye ” has made George Rignold as
fit as a fiddle and as game as a pebble, while Mr.
Darley, as Donnithorne, seems troubled in his con-
science and inclined to duck his head. That last
trick quite neutralised his advantage in height.
Adam Rignold Bede secured first throw, first
blood, and first knock-down blow, and, as the
squire was unable to come to time, the curtain
fell. After this Hetty Sorrell becomes the prin-
cipal figure. She flees from the Hall Farm on the
eve of her Intended wedding with Adam Bede, and
turns up three months later on a lonely road.
Then blank despair is on her lace, and in her arms
a baby. The remembrance of the touching scene
has made us Shakespearian for the moment. The
baby was remarkably good. It was one of the
quietest little pledges of affection that ever
nestled in a mother’s arms. Yet Hetty with diffi-
culty restrained her inclination to drown it. The
cool river was adjacent, and Satan at her elbow
murmuring “pop it in.” But she didn’t; she
merely put baby in a place of safety, while she
sought succour. Then it was that we discovered
the reason ot the little one’s exceptional silence.
It was dead all the while. Hetty is wrongfully
arrested for its murder, and Adam Bede arrives
in time to see her dragged to gaol. This was
another dramatic curtain. In the last act, Hetty,
of course, dies as the order for reprieve comes to
hand.
♦ * *
Without discussing the question of how
far this drama realises the characters of the im-
mortal book from which it is adapted, the fact
remains that it is a powerful drama and well
played all through. The company here has never
appeared to better advantage. The supper at
Martin Poyser’s house, with Mrs. P. presiding, was
a snug affair—a rare virtue with stage spreads.
Mrs. Bede, though, might, with advantage, be left
out of the play. It’s not her fault that she becomes
a nuisance, but, nevertheless, it’s a solemn fact.
George Rignold is well suited as Adam Bede. His
leading up to the fight with the squire was natural,
and his fighting, as before mentioned, was worthy
of the palmy days of the PR. His bloodless lips,
too, when told ot Hetty’s flight, were an artisti-
cally conscientious touch. A slight tendency to
dwell on the “situations” alone marred his per-
formance. Brian Darley looked Arthur Donni-
thorne, and W. G. Carey did the same justice to
Parson Irvine. The honours, though, were borne
off by Miss Kate Bishop. In the opening scene she
was the little rustic flirt to the life—
Hetty Sorrell, Hetty Sorrell,
In your simple dress and floral
Wreath, interwined with laurel, you looked nice,
without a doubt;
And we didn’t wonder. Madam,
That your worthy lover, Adam,
Grew wild and picked a quarrel with the cove that
cut Inm out.
Later, her grief and despair were faithfully por-
trayed, and in the trying scene with the baby she
held even the gallery spellbound. Her death was
a triumph of art. But, as we’ve said already, the
public have become too familiarised with George
Rignold’s company in its tout ensemble, and the
efforts of Individual members, however clever
they be, seem to Jack the charm of freshness.
«* * *
Thanks to Phil Day, “ Mixed ” has taken
such a hold of the Melbourne people that it is
transferred from the Bijou—after a long run—to
the hitherto plobeianlNugget Theatre. This move
may improve the value ot the Nugget.
«« • •
The theatrical triumvirate have been ad-
monished as to their next pantomime production
by the Melbourne Argus. The “ leading journal ”
is severe and threatening. The Melbourne public,
we are told, “has been annoyed, if not disgusted,
by the spectacle of a low comedian, of large
dimensions, clothed in the garb of an overgrown
school-girl, and indulging in actions and gestures
of which the commonest trull would be ashamed,
unless she were overtaken by liquor. In lieu ot
admirable fooling, an audience is outraged by see-
ing a couple ot men playing women’s parts,
taking themselves and their dress to pieces behind
a blind in a powerfully-illuminated bed chamber.”
Hoity, toityl this is, indeed, severe. We remem-
ber to have seen the comedian of large dimensions
so darkly referred to, dressed as a girl, but we
were more wearied than shucaed by the spectacle.
“ To the pure all thirgs are pure,” and to us those
gestures and actions were pure “ rot.” And as
regards the couple of men undressing behind a
blind—which occurred In the last Royal pant., and
in every other pant, we ever had the misfortune
to enjoy in any city whatsoever—why, what would
the Argus have ? Possibly the journalistic moral'-
protector would prefer them to dress behind a
blind. We never thought of that. Something of
this sort will have to be done in the next “ Grand
Spectacular Graveyard, Mirth-Provoking,” &o„
&c , at the Melbourne Theatre Royal, considering
the Argus has decided that a “repetition of the
old coarse and clumsy devices is not to be toler-
ated.” The threat is ominous.
« * #> *
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Palmer, Fred. Millis,
W. B. Warner, and others open at Rockhampton
(Q.) on Saturday, 31st October, They will do a
Queensland trip as “ Palmer’s Seven Stars.” Three
stars are an undoubted testimony of merit in
North Queensland, therefore, seven should fetch
the crowd right down to the ground.
fit * * «
Miss Maggie Ford is doing “Our Boys” and
other comedies through Queensland. At one of
the Northern towns of that colony the local rag
takes the trouble of describing L’Bntr ’Acte sup-
plied to her numerous audiences, and explaining
its use. Thus by degrees doth civilisation extend
to the remotest parts of the earth. Maggie plays
through the Queensland towns and then returns to
Sydney. Harry Samuel, who has just piloted the
“ Fun on the Bristol ” Company through the Far
North, is now acting in a similar capacity for her.
# # # 41
It would, after all, seem that the Emilie
Melville company are not so hopelessly stranded
in the Bast. From a Hongkong paper of 7th Sept,
we see that they are playing opera bouffe to fair
houses, that the fascinating Emilie has completely
conquered the heart of the local newspaper man,
and that Verdi, who was a while since reported
dead, is still very much alive. “In the glou-glou
duets with Bettina, ably supported as he was by
Miss Melville, genuine hits were made, especially
on the occasion of the reconciliation of the lovers
In the palace, where an encore was loudly de-
manded.” And so on.
Modesty, as it is generally understood,
consists not in doubting your own merit, but the
ability of other people to appreciate it.
Sc?ne : A train just pulling up at a sta-
tion. Two ladies (who have been in close con-
verse) prepara to descend. First lady, placing
both hands behind her back and putting her
“dress-improver” into shape: “Tell me, dear, is
it straight V' Strange and sonorous male voice at
her elbow: “ Perfectly, madam, so far as I am a
judge.”
A 70-year-old Red Indian chief “ got at ” a
lot of pietists lately in Surrey Chapel, Southwark,
England. He was hereditary chief of the Lennl-
Lenapo tribe, who took up the tomahawk against
the Americans during the War of Independence
in 1780. It was believed the old man was now a
good Christian, and having put him into the
pulpit, the pious people clasped their Bibles
and listened. He made them “ sit up.”
The savage mind burst through the crust
of evangelical precept. His English was bad,
but he was able to explain that “ages before
the European set his foot on the shores of North
America the Indian enjoyed peace and liberty.”
He said that the Whiteman’s pretensions and pro-
fessions were all moonshine. They sought to
teach truth, but never kept faith with one
another. “ There was no such thing as want in
the forest, which supplied every kind of food for
man as well as for the animals,” The chief wound
up by intimating that civilisation and Chris-
tianty and the whiteman all round were howl-
ing frauds.


BRIEF MENTION.
The word Sheol looks cool and refreshing
this sort of weather.
A ball-belle up North told her admiring
partner that her father was an “ embalmer.” It
was quite true. He was employed at the meat-
preserving works.
Someone writes to a Melbourne paper en-
quiring for an easy receipt that will preserve eggs
in “ a good condition for a period of six months.”
Another boarding-house going to be started, evi-
dently.
Charles Hughes was charged at the Mel-
bourne City Court With snatching 11 copies of the
Herald out of a boy’s hand and tearing them up.
They said Charles ww drunk. We would rather
fancy that he was a sober philanthropist.
It was at an inquest in the historic
borough, and thei ury having retired to consider
their verdict, each member was consulted as to his
Individual opinion. Of course, one of the twelve
inOn good and true hailed from the land where,
according to the old refrain, the grass grows
green, and he thought that “The poor man Is
dead enough, and it’s no use throubllng about
him now.”
John Ferguson, of the Cumberland
Times, Is a very nice person Indeed. “ Who is to
profit by this ?" he asks—“ the dump-car men.
the Standard-paint men, or the white - faced
Hebrew who runs the scales of Justice ?"
“At Paddington, Mr. William Arrow, to
Nora, daughter or the late Mr. Shepherd Neave.”—
Daily paper.
Straight to the heart of Nora Neave
An Arrow made his way;
But Nora had a sweet revenge
And got tne beau to-day 1
The London Times, in an article on prac-
tises that have grown up under the Lunacy Laws
in England, says:—“That any two medical men,
destitute It may be of experience, with no know-
ledge of the antecedents of the person whom they
examine, may order him to be confined, perhaps
for his life, is a monstrous state of things.” Why,
In New South Wales on medical testimony in no
essential way differing from that, men often
sent up to be hanged hy the head till they are
dead.
We have the authority of the Australa-
sian for saying that the subjoined announcement
has been duly Issued by the Rev. J. H. Gregory, of
All Saints, St. Kilda:—“ Burial of the dead
The bodies of deceased parishioners (la the case of
adults, those who are already Communicants, or
those who arc desirous of receiving Holy Communion )
maybe brought to the church for service before
being taken to the cemetery if due notice be given
to the clergy.” We don’t trouble our readers with
comments. As It is electioneering weather, how-
ever, we throw in a few italics.
Mr. H. E. Cohen at first decided not to
stand for West Maitland, but finding that some
people desired he should be nominated, he ‘‘con-
sented to put himself in the hands of his friends ”
It Isn’t every Jewish gentleman who can thus
trust his friends. We once put ourjelves in the
hands of a Hebrew friend. When we went in we
were presentable at the Court of Bt. James’s;
when wo got out, Patkes’ friend, 1511 Sykes,
wouldn’t have walked with us down the New Out.
Not alone had we no shirt, but wo had no gk>n,
and Mr. Melchisedech Bhemomlnee held a HOu per
cent. “ morgltch ” over our immortal soul.
Presence of mind is just invaluable in an
emergency. Only last week a Melbourne gentle-
man was strolling alone by the banks of the
Varra, when besaw anoth r gentleman struggling
tor dear life in that pe.lucid stream. With the
pedestrian on the bank to see was to think, and
to think was to act. Without pausing for an in-
stant to consider that bo was already exhausted
with fatigue and needed rest, bo dashed off, and
“ reported the matter to the police.” The name
of this gentleman is unknown, it appears, and so
is the name of the other gentleman, unless his
body has since been recovered and identified.
The Sydney Matrimonial. News editor
announces in his paper that he may be consulted
personally from 3 to C o’clock daily on any point
relating to ‘‘courtship or marriage, or any other
difficult subject. ’ Fora paltry lee jf 5s or for a
single “Robert,” he will answer questions by
letter or in its columns (there aren’t many;. There
are several difficult questions we'd like to pay a
“bob” apiece to have answered satisfactorily,
but what strikes us most forcibly is that if the late
N S W, Ministry had Invested say half-a-sovereign
in this quarter the whole future history of Aus-
tralia might have undergone a cataclysmic revo-
lution.
We have repeatedly said that Hogging is a
punishment reserved for the poor man and never
extended to him of “ good social position.” Other-
wise how does it come that a leading citizen of
N SW. can behave in an Indescribably obscene
trainer, and in the presence of women, at
one of the principal railway stations, and yet
gounttogged? Drunkenness was held to be no
excuse in the case of the wretched man, Mild-
water, whi, while drm k on board a Manly
steamer, partially undressed himself in the pre-
sence ot the passengers—and for this offence, the
one bad action of an otherwise decent life, was
strapped to the triangles in the name of Justice
and had the flesh torn off his back. Workmen of
Australia, th© triangles and the flogger are for
you They are not for the rich man whose
carriage awaits him at the railway gates. We do
notask that;any man be flogged. We only ask that
reverence be paid to humanity, that the law for
one be the law for all, and that the blood of
no citizen bo spilt by a stipendiary scourgerora
State-paid man-butcher.
“ Editor Bulletin. Sir, —A writer in a re-
cent issue of The Bulletin desires to know what
becomes of the defunct South Sea Island niggers
up North. I am pleased to be able to account for
a great number of them. Peeidng the cane-mill is
a nice easy job for a blackfellow, but the hours
are many, and the monotony causes oizdness in
some cases, and in others a tendency to sleep. In
either event, similar results follow The florous
portions of the nigger's anatomy pass out on the
megass-carrier to the boiler-furnaces, and the
fluids of his body go to increase the density of the
cane-juice. Ten thousand gallons of caie juice
must not be thrown away, because a nigger or
two has been squashed up with it. Thousands of
snakt s share the samo late, hence the notercyof
North Queensland rum.—Yours, truly, J (I B.”
The question as to whether armed police
should be instructed to attend the conference be-
tween the recalcitrant congregation of Scots’
Church, Melbourne, and the local Presbytery was,
gravely discussed by theVictorlan Executive Coun-
cil. By the way, at the aforesaid conference it was
casually mentioned that there is a standard of the
Presbyterian Church which says their ministers
hold the keys of Heaven from where they may
exclude persons. The unco guid of Melbourne
hate reporters, and bar them out of their meetings
rigorously. And now we know the saints hold
the keys of Heaven we may be sure that when the
spirit of some poor devil of a pressman climbs up
the Golden Btair, some bald-headed crank, clad
in a crown and seraphic complexion, will double-
lock the door on the top-landing, and yell through
the key-hole. "Go ben the hoose ye lyin’ cheil
for th’ Board’s anointed will no he creetlclsedl”
One Johnny White, who keeps a farm neat
Parramatta, prides Himself especially on the apti-
tude of his jokes and the quality of his geese. Oil
ar.’sing one recent moraing, he was surprised to
True Till Death.
A NOVEL IN ELEVEN CHAPTERS.
EUCHRED.
Old mate, the llfiht burns dimly—dusky shadow,
climb the wall,
And the air seems dull and heavy; hear he
moan
Of the wind, ’tls sobbing' softly as the dead leaves
droop and fall—
Old man, this trip I'll have to go alone.
We’vo shared joy and pain together, in our years
of lonely life—
Been mates in weal and woe, in rain and shine,
But how changed had been our portion, blest with
home, and friends, and wife;
But 'tis late, old man, to sorrow or repine.
How we loitered through the sunshine, how we
rested la the shade:
When life was young the future we forgot;
As we gained our gold we spent it—ah, what piles
we might have mane I
“ What might have been,” old man, and -what is
not I
I must “go alone,” old fellow, and I think loan
get through;
Here, play to that, you. Mister—clubs is trumps;
Come on again—the bowerl—well, you haven’t got
the two
By Jove, he hasl-I’mup a stumpl
So younp! So fair!
ilim. Would to Heaven .
they had died fl
thus I ■
Ohap, Xl.—Oh! blame him not,
gentle reader, that he threw himself
away, and stood for Parliament*
Finis,
trembling with transport ho rushes
mto the presence of the one woman who could cal]
him from the confines of earth to claim her for his
own only to find that another had already claimed her
lor ms own apparently some time jireviously.
Chap. IX.-»“Who shall say
what emotions “ hovo ” that
manly breast as he stood upon
the well known threshold. " The
old house has not changed
much 1” he thought.
But, ah I how was it within ?
1
Chap. VIII.— .He arrives near the(
scene of his early tritrmplis, ana—tlio
plot tiuokens*
Chap. Yll ? — The sun was just sinking be-
hind the hills of Woolloomooloo when a young
// person of sober and industrious habits might
been seen leaving the city by rail. We know that he was sober,
because he walked upon one of the rails to convince himself of the
fact. We are sure that be was industrious, because had he been a lazy
man he would have taken a cab.
It was our hero, full grown and full of “tin,” on his way to tho
scenes of his childhood to seek out the old, oldjove.
'V
Crab. Vl,—His heart, now, is
quite another matter. Her image
was mdellibly graven upon it, and as
qur hero “ wore his heart upon his
Sleeve" our artist had no difficulty
in obtaining a satisfactory sketch of
said image , and a very passably pre-
Baflaelitish image it was.
Chap. Vfihe grewlo lovely thoughtful,
studious ; for awhile she sought no other companionship
but her hooka (which she got in the sixpenny editions) and
a confidential cat of good moral habits, which never for a
moment left her society, until at last it died of old age. The
cat was “True till death.” But did this lovely creature
(the young woman, I mean, not the cat) ever give one
thought to the absent hero of this tale, who was struggling
to get rich and grow up for her sake ?
Ah I who ahull fathom the mysteries of woman’s heart.
Chap. 1V..-Since the thrilling events
narrated in last chapter, the years'
have tiown past, and we have made
history rapidly. Men have gone, and
men have returned (entire cost of the
expedition, £113,000 —but we di-
gress). We have seen the Stuart-
Dalley Ministry swept away like the
| baseless fabric of a vision, and the
I Soudan goat has been kicked to death
by his comrade in arms, the donkey—
all of which have cemented the
silver bonds that bind us to the Em-
pire. But let us return to our hero,
whom we now find in the metropolis,
a frank, manly youth of 49 years of
age, plunged into the busy vortex of
trade.
Oeip. lll.—Our hem vowed ,
a vow that ho would overcome
both these parental objections,,
' or perish in the attempt; on
-7 the one hand by
[pEw property, and on the!
k other by growing up. 3
jmN. the printer obligejfi
the author by insert- ti*
K(/ \ ing a few stars hereu
\.\ to represent the lapse!
pAof years.) I
J** « « a
Chap, the course of true love never did run
smoothly, it would appear that the several surviving parents
or the twain objected to their union—her awful dad on
the grounds of our hero’s poverty, and his rna on -account \
of his extreme youth. And so they were separated. N/
cruelly— Oh, so cruelly ! ( \
w-, -iin, nr yjs-/ v v
* ■ w/V ■ 0V
Chap. I. —It was in the bright Springs
lime of youth, when life waa all sunshine and
buttons, that they pledged their young lives to
each other. He vowing to cherish her as the
apple (or perhaps we should say passion-fruit)
of his eye, while she promised'io try to grow
Up to deserve him.
r So young! 8<


From the Christian Record “ Scene;
Australian bush town. A prisoner charged with
removing goods, value Is. 4d,, from a store. Be-
fore the evidence was half finished a terrible
frown gathered on the Ma?istrate’s brow. Jim.
m ing his battered cabbage-tree hit well over his
eyes, in imitation of putting on the black cap, he
rose slowly up, and pointing a shaking finger at
the culprit, said: “ Take ’im away and ’ang him ”
“Beg pardon, your Worship,” said the constable,
t is only a case of—” “ Take ’lux away and
an 0 him,” repeated his Worship more slowly and
impressively than before. “But, your Worship,”
sec, instead of his splendid flock of 22 geese, which
ran In a paddock adjoining his cottage, only the
gander with something apparently heavy attached
u°hp 8 i tnff ca £ chin £ the bird and examining
it he found this to be a canvas bag enclosing 310.
wrapped in a paper, upon which the following
lines were written:— *
Sile Blnce Ver b ° en heard to joke * or eyen seen to
Sydney, are fast approaching- com-
pletion. It is sad to think that, as a club secre-
cy must almost necessarily be a single man.
. bas now solemnly committed himself
to o&iibaoy.
Other English boilers beside Crossland
aopoar to be troubled with a “ doubtful" delivery.
™ ? Gloucestershire truodler, takes liberties
<yitn batsmen sometimes and Lancashire cricketers
are naturally sore ” with Lord ’Arris for putting
i 11 ®!?’ 'T* 1^e the Southern professional
is allowed to hurl the ball in whatever manner
suits him best. This Woof occasionally proves
very deadly, and the next Australian team wlii do
well to keep their eye on him.
?, la * e ,?i he bewildered official, “you have no
power. No power, just ain’t I though?”
shouted the thoroughly infuriated Magistrate.
Ear what I say. Take him away and ’ang hlm ’
« 8 f dlnfir & t 0 his seat, be was heard toadd in
his son?” .W 08 ’ and L ”’ ’ a mercy on
+ho S nn VofoKi 80^11 * remonstrance was useless,
wards rit^rnah 6V^ d i the P rison er, and after-
si, r ® t , ur P e A- Taken ’lm away and ’ung
vu- a9k u, d the magistrate cheerfully, “Yes,
your Worship. All right, I sh’miss the case.’’
T £ r ;f G l Nyberg, of the N.B.W. Crown
n^fril^ 0 o P of^? l il nt, £ ai ? iliai ' ly known to his legion
tary to the N s'vv U pi , ’^ haB u beea a ,PP° inted eecre-
tary to tne N.B. W. Club, whose elegant premises
i silence, and Inform* the public that te has lony
| ceased to have any confidence In his power of
discretion* * n of wisdom and
‘ Upon the question of war, especially, I
think we need the Inculcation of a new and
higher lesson than is common to-day. If the
women of Spdn«y had had a voice In the matter
b oo^ oo absurd picturj of a
Soudan exp edition, the New South Wales Govern-
Em??lld 1 Id have already fallen instead of totter-
!^oniL to iJ tE I./ al ® mi(i the 3®ers and execrations
ot all the better cissies of the people ” This is
from the Melbourne Evening Heraed. A mo-
ments consideration will show that the writer
entirely missed the mark. If tha “ Inculcation of
. haven’t all the fun to ourselves. Here
way the Rev. H. M. Kennedy, vicar of
J^ 3 ?^ nd ' sensibly and forcibly exhorts
dntv f - “R« nnV n w en i d S nt a to do thelr Political
P^ befool s d - Sons of toil, do not in
politics trust a Tory. No, not if he came to you In
R’ ar b, and on bended knee before
BWo , re by the sign of man’s re-
demption that he only meant you well. If you
?auB , e . to / ear him - use deception. I ad-
7jaa yo if'hTmmfh term5 ' ot two evils choose the
less. If be must have an answer, tell your master
a lie with your tongue in preference to marking
with your pencil a terrible lie against yourself,
yoy.famfly- y°o r class,, your country, and your
God. The Bishop of Carlisle thereupon breaks
s!S42s&.aKsffid“ dw th ' ,uHM b6lon *
“ Dansons la carmagnole—
Vive le son! vive Ic son!
Dansons la carmagnole
. , . Vive le son du canon!”
before the tumbrlh ? And, 1 a ler still, whose was
the Influence which weiirhed down the scales in
wa9°i” to theVron^h 168 of 1870 ? K what consolation
ImS' to |?oT U W e *^the P succe f MTf
ssawsa^^iswgßKa?*^
a new and higher lesson ’ regarding war Is needed
It Is not women who will teach It. The caprice,
superstition, and intrigues of women have caused
some of the bloodiest wars in history. Lei a man
be unde- the dominion of priests and he will
do a deal to oo vert his fellow-man or bum
him. But let a woman be similarly olroum.
stanced and she will stop at nothing. To
a rival, please a lover, or bribe
a . ™ etal Image to Intercede for her
,i? ods thr one she would let loose a savage
soldiery on a peaceful province, and laughingly
Pj!9?j her dainty steps among the corpses they left
rotting in their wake. This Is no libel. It is a fact
£a I i 1 i? < lp n j£f srer t L pe than “F other fact in the
pages of history. Not to go beyond the French
N.S.W Metropolitan Politics.—The Dead-voter System.
SKELETON: “IS IT THE LAST TRUMP?’’
ELECTION AGENT: “ LAST BE BLANKED ! IT'S THE WEST SYDNEY ELECTION.
“ Daar Mister White,
We wish you Rood night;
P.ease dcm’t let it get up your dander,
But we ve purchased your geese
At a penny apiece
And left the amount with the gander.”


Wolfe's Schnapps is known and appreciated
throughout the colonies.
The public should be careful they are not
Imposed upon with imitations of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
“ BEACH’S ”
CONSULTATION
OH THB
MELBOURNE CUP,
NOW OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10s. BACH.
First Horse £260
2nd „ 100
3rd * 35
Starters * 05
Non-starters 60
Address—
“ BEACH,
Care of J. G. Deehle, „ .
Hotel. King and Pitt Street, Sydney
Please apply early, and register letters for reply
with stamped envelope.
USE [
PEMELUS
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FBOM THB BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinei
The PRICE Ys YEKYLOwTand
Is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL*
Ml George-street, gydncy.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We sited! be QlaA to have thie by
teeretariee of racing elvtoi and manaaeri •
roortina event* in aeneraV
RACING
v 0 R.a e Bpr a inK y ' ‘. .. .. . .October November 3,5, 7
Queensland *C • 9
wmiamstown' 8.C.V.) -•- • • • ]S?_ v ® o ' n 1 b ® 13
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C. Spring.. . November 10_ 13 m
Mur a rumbidiee T.d (Spring)... M
Nawabrft.ll”^.*^^^erontberS 3, 3
Brisbane Tattersall’s number 19
Canterbury Park R.C December i»
A.J.C. (Summer) December «>
Victoria A.T.C. (Summer) 38
Rcaeblll R.C D
V.R.C. (Summer) tSSSIi
Tattersall's (Annual) January 1
MJD&TIOB
Double Bay Reffalta October ,51
BY FLOOD AND FIELD .
Last Saturday showed the ‘.Sydney Mer-
cantile Club to to great The Sydney
R C had the excuse of execrable weather for their
recent effort in contradistinction to the Mercan-
tile?, who cannot raise the ghost of an i xcusefor
the landing of their unfortunate visitors at well
on t 7 o'clock in the evening, 'i he management
of these repat'as is he erming worse and worse, and
will continue so to do until the e 9 l J t 'ij.®
competitors they have a little backbone by start-
ing to time any crew or crews atthe
leaving the laggards in the lurch. Mr. Fred HaJU
one of the promoters, and for many years Captain
of the M R C., was present, after several years
absence from Srdney. Barring the double sculls,
thl rowing “as poor and it certainly could never
have struck Mr Hall that the Club form had im-
proved any during bis absence S 3 far as we are
concerned 7 we doubt much if the Mercantile Row-
ing Club of tc-day could raise eight men to beat
such an eight as they could have put together In
Mr Hall s day-.ay, Hall. Grange. D nd, B ett,
M Kensey. Metcalfe, Benson, and W. Ball.
• * •
T The open senior double-sculls is ever a
gift to the Meroantlles—Brett and Seale won as
they pleased from a couple of S R.C. crews and a
I air from the Balmain Rowing Club. Brodle and
innnntt dashed away at a steam-engine pace and
oeedllv drew out a lead of a couple of lengths
rom the Mercantile a wholedHart &°dThomp-
on by a length: the Balmains being, even at this
arlv stage of tVio contest, out of the hunt. Ap-
proaching Putney the leaders commenced to tire,
nd were first passed by Brett, and then by the
i Hantams.’* Hart and Thompson, who, as usual,
■owed In magnificent form Brett then eased up
md allowed Thompson to close the gap a bit, but
he Mercantlles were never extended, and eventu-
illv won with the greatest ease from the nlne-
itoners Hart and Thompson-who deserve
‘honourable mention” for their pluck and form
vhloh they retained from first to last. The maiden
’ours ended In an unsatisfactory win for Stobo,
Charles and Wilkinson; W. Charles ran
iwav with the junior single sculls; and Nowell and
Kemp made a win of the*junior pair oars Three
nrews—captained bv Brindley, Brett, and Martin
emnoeted for the trial four In outriggers, though
whv R B Brindley was picked to captain a crew
In place of George Seale la one of the so thmgs no
fellow can understand. Fitzgerald, Martin,
Warre. and Glltlnan pulled In far the best form,
and won with a bit in hand from B. Williams, G.
Seale, Brett, and Brindley.
Fouls occurred in the maiJen fours and
l nnlor pair-oars, caused bv the “ fiash “ steering of
L coxswain, who has In this manner lost races out
Sf number for the Mercantile Howlng Club when
rowing against other clubs. The youngster In
nuelflon's becoming too “ knowing.” and a re-
primand would have been more in keeping on
Saturday last than the subscription which was Ili-
ad vlsodly started on the youngster a
ran tain of the Club To our surprise, E. H. Wil-
klnsom who rowed with thesenlor Mercantile crew
at the recent North Shore regatta, stroked the
winning maiden crew, and, upon enquiry, wo
found that he had only rowed at North Shore on
t, understanding* 1 ’ that he could row in the
maiden crlw on^ Saturday last. This was most un-
the bona Me maidens who contested the
race leaving the question of the bad prece-
dent laid down by the committee In allowing him
so to do. we should have thought the honour of
assisting to annex a senior race for his club in an
onan contest would have more than compensated
Mr. Wllkmsonforthe loss of a maiden “pot” at
the club regatta. *
♦ * *
The two Mattersons and amateur Shar-
land were out on the Parramatta on Saturday las.,
mid treated the spectators to a liberal show of
♦hair ouallty. The elder of the pros., Neil, Is
tanned like a Red Indian from continual exposure
on the river, and looks more wiry than powerful.
Indeed to look at him, the wonder is where he
his speed from. He is all life and dash, and Is
”cleanest” seullers we have ever seen,
ao taking and leaving the water is concerned,
w hlfaSoea*B to lack the solid “ lift” of the
we have ever had the Idea that If
hard pushed. Matterson’s style Is not one to stand
hfm Tn good stead over a long course. Next
Saturday, at Lake Bathurst, he will meet the
champion with two and a-half lengths to the
good over a three-mile course with a turn. Beach
Is seated to be in not over good condition ana it
he wins on Saturday, notwitnstanding the advan-
tage he will have in the turn. It will be useless for
the youngster’s party to still hanker for a match,
unless, as the Beach party assert, they more than
expect to recoup themselves from the gate.
Amateur Sharland, who still finishes up with the
eld jerk, does not appear to have Improved any
since his last appearance on Parramatta waters,
and, although able to beat any of our amateurs,
bar Brett, he Is not class enough to have a ghost
of a show with the N.B.W. amateur champion.
• • •
Harrington, the N.Z. sculler, who has been
for some months located on the Parramatta, re •
turned last week to Maorliand. Powerful as a
horse, and a glutton for work, the New Zealander
overdid it and strained himself, and although told
by the generous people at his back he could stay
on so long as he chose at his quarterswthe rbmr,
he decided that the bracing N Z. climate would
tend further to his recovery. Harrington was a
rough diamond, and with a .little polishing, might
have turned out a gem of no mean order.
• • •
Gaudaur, the sculler who has lately been
brought prominently before the American public
by his so-ca'lsd defeat of Teemer over an
alleged three-mile course. in ,
rears of age. and mu't be a splendid specimen of
manhood, If the following measurements given In
n Yankee paper, are correct: -Height, hit. Mj'u .
weight, in condition, 12it. 21b.; and his measure-
ments are:-Uninllated chest, 40m.; thigh, 321 n,
calf, 15V£ln.; upper arm, forearm, Ihn.
G mdaur sent a challenge over not long since
offering to row our William, in the -ibates, tor
£IOOO aside but as may be supposed. Beach was
‘ not on.” Gaudaur. scored nine victories in single
sculls double scuds, and four-oar races, In the
period between May and July, and a real
good one. He is a farmer, and owns a farm near
Creve Coeur Lake.
• •
The opening event at Caulfield on Satur-
day was the Selling Race, which resulted la an
easy win for Soaramouche ; Duration and
Ravensworth ran a dead heat for the Second
Hurdle Race; Damocles made rather an easy win
ot the Nursery Handicap from Trojtn; the Open
Stoepfechase fell to Sailor; and the unfortunate
day’s sport was brought to a conclusion by a win
for Merrlma In the Windsor Handicap.
• • •
Banian has been rowing “ exhibition ”
races in the States with G. W. Lee, and walking
tK waters In hi* t n boots, in which. It Is re-
marked. bis pluck seem* now to have taken
refuge. The Clipper observes such con-
tinuous show business is below the status of a
man who for many years was the champion oars-
man of the world, and who pretends to again
aspire to that title. I have no hesitation in ex-
pressing' my opinion that Hanlan is rowing over a
very foolish course.” Another paper suggestively
says:-” Hanlan and toss took a spin in comoany
from the boat-houses on the Harlem to Oak Point
and back on Saturday, Aug. 15 They were thus
afforded an opportunity to Indulge in a nice, long
confab in private.” Teemer also pomes in lor a
fair share. One journal saysTeemer, who
allowed Gaudaur to beat him in a match, is goinfr
to Australia—a very good place for him to stay ,
and it then goes on to express a hope that Court-
ney. of skiff-sawing reputation, may accompany
him. It would be a pity to separate such a well-
matched m
The London Echo urges the Surrey
county cricket executive, in view of the next
year’s visit of an Australian eleven, to Institute a
regular charge of sixpence admission for all
matches, Instead of the present entrance of a shil-
ling, which is charged for all but county fixtures.
In this connection an English paper says:— Con-
sidering, however, that last year, whenever the
Australians played at the O val ,th eg round was
literally packed with spectators who thought It no
hardship to have to pay the customary skilling, it
is not at all likely that the Surrey.executive will
do anything of the kind. Indeed, it is very doubt-
ful whether the Oval, capacious as it is, would
hold all those anxious to witness a match such as
England v. Australia, if the entrance were only
sixpence, A shilling is certainly not a high price
to nay fora whole days’s real y first-class cricket.
This ought to prove a cheering item for the next
Australian eleven.
• • •
Eyewitnesses of the Caulfield Cup of
are never likely to forget the catastrophe with
wh'ch it will be always associated. That catas-
trophe, viewed from the Grand Stand, a Quarter
of a mile away, was sufliciently appalling. As the
horses came sweeping round the awkward turn
leading into the straight it seemed as though those
comprising the centre of the leading division were
tumbling into some pit prepared for them. One
after another they went down, and a great gap
was made in the field. A few women shrieked,
but among the general public the thought was not
for the unfortunate but the fortunate. The
momentary cries of horror were drowned in
shouts proclaiming the victory for such horses as
remained with the lead, and, as Grace Darling
raced past the judge, not a glass was turned
towards the crowd gathering round the
men who lay helpless, and-as it proved-
dylng and dead on the course The cheers
for the winner when she returned to scale
were as hearty as though the race had been the
grandest ever run. Even after the first excite-
ment wps over, but comparatively few people
appeared to take any Interest in the result of the
contretemps. Only a small proportion of people
gathered round the stewards’stand enclosure as
the Injured jockeys were carried through. And a
ghastly business that was. Nicholson presented a
terrible spectacle. If the bearers knew-and they
must have done—that their burden was a corpse.
It was strange no handkerchief was thrown across
the poor disfigured face. But sentiment la at a
discount on a racecourse. Just as, the < lead
body was brought in the saddling bell rang for
for the next race. Before *bat came off, certainly,
a large majority of the ladles had left the Stand.
The Governor's party gave the cue.
v • •
Despot, in the first instance, was credited
with having brought about the Caulfield- Cup
calamity. r ‘ Despot again, of course,’ was the
general exclamation. But in this instance the
little grey was sinned against and not for
he was one of those that came to grief through
the falling of Too Too. Little Ellis, who rode
Despot, came off about best of the unfortunates,
for he walked back to the jockey’s room looking
little the worse for his mishap.
* * *
Sardius, who fell almost simultaneously
with Too Too In the Caulfield Cup, appeared very
lame as he was led in, and the interesting intelli-
gence was promptly carried to the books anu
duly m
Among the unfortunate horses at Caul-
field it was hard to tell how many. If any, could
have beaten Grace Darling if they had stood up.
Winchester, at any rate, was done with before he
fefi. After leading his field for a little oyer a
mile, the New Zealand horse was completely
pumped out-or his little jockey was-and the
others passed him as though he wore standing
still. The lad. HuxtiWe, was unlucky In not hav-
ing dropped back a s icond or two sooner, for, as
it was, he must have been the rearmost of those
who fell. ,
* ♦ * ■
Poor little Sammy Craokneil rode his last
winner in the Selling Race on Saturday. The man
in minature was a prime favourite with the Vic-
torian racing public, who seemed to take little in-
tere-t in the fate of anyone but ” Sammy over
the Caulfield Cup affair. When he was taken off
the course some hopes of his recovery were en-
tertained. , . *
Halts, they say, was somewhat apprehen-
sive of an accident in the Caulfield Cup, or he
would not have stood down. It isn t often that
the Archer of Australia is missing from a big Aeld
io a biir race, ?*nd for hiß absence on this occasion
he has good came to be thankful Hales, by the
way. Is not looking himself at all jus l ; now, nor has
he been since he left Sydney.
4 ♦ • ■ 3 * '
So far, in connection with the Melbourne
Cup, the bookies are “ia it up to their necks.’
The scratching of Newstead and Commotion, and
the death of Helene, have filled their pockets with
unearned Increment Should this continue, and
the Maori Nordenfeldt be withdrawn, we will have
the knights of the pencil growing conserv it ye
and unsociable, and running up bijou sea-side
residencies jmt like policemen- It * narks us
worse than to ithac re to have the literary Israelite
rake In our little hit, without our having the satis-
faction of only losing it by a neck.
I The result of the open Steeplechase at
aulfleld was terribly galling to backers of Lady
shton and Stadley. Approaching'the
ie pair appeared to have the r * oe ,^Pj :lr ®i y t w°
aemselves. Studley, however, baulked, at the
imp. and caused the mare to run. it.
allor was then left with the lead, and he only just
ilssed coming on his head. M Leod recovered the
orse very cleverly, and won in a canter.
. • •
The sudden death of Helene from rupture
f an Internal artery provoked ptentyofunjust
ifiinuations. People suddenly remembered that
ertain other people had always been ready to lay
lie mare, and little sporting dramas were men-
illy constructed in which the equine heroine
ucoumbs to poison in the last act. As a rule, the
lacker who will buttonhole you by the hour
ogether. while ho dilates upon his own aches and
>alos, which no doctor seems to understand any-
hlng about, never givesi his favourite thOTOUgh-
ireds credit for any inside at all. A p ® d ® B t“ an ’
arsraan, or swimmer may be overcome by a
sadden faintness.” but a horse -never. If the
infortunate quadruped dr ps back UP ®* p ® c f® d i y
n a race it is ** pulled.* And yet, perhaps* a nasty
ialn at the heart, or a stitch in the B
esponsible for the defeat of a horse than of a man
-only a horse can’t talk about it.
• * •
A week or two back we were speaking of
tie rowdyism rampant on English racecourses,
dr. J. J- Miller, who has J istreturnedfromatrlp
;o the old country, referring to the raid on Tatter-
lall’s ring at Bpsom. rays, “According to myoD-
icrvatlon only one Kngl'sh paper had the courage
;o report the aft air in its entirety.
* * •
Dunlop will strip a better in the
tr r c. Derby than he did in the Caulfield Guineas,
’or which event he was d not cherry ripe.
Ringmaster, on the other hand, was the plcture of
londltion, and if the bloom can be kept on until
ihe Derby is run. will probably again awert hls
supremacy over all that finished behind him. Still,
it the best. Ringmaster is only a good little un,
and a good big ’un la bound to beat him.
» • •
Poor Newstead, he passed out of the
V R C Derby very peacefully at the finish, deeply
regretted by the “ books ” His end was not unex-
pected, for symptoms of approaching dilution
showed themselves a week back. Horses differ
from human beings, Inasmuch as they turn stiff
before they go off.
• * •
The N.B.W. Rowing Association have ruled
that a policeman is a amateur oarsman.
In this connection It la rumoured that one of the
suburban clubs has accepted as members, and
intends to send for the maiden fours at Balmain,
four Histone Permanent A-rtlllerymen. Should
there be any truth in the rumour, it will he in-
teresting to note the Association s action in the
matter, for we fail to perceive how they can reject
the artillerymen after accepting the policeman. So
far aa the Balmain committee is concerned, they
can scarcely upset the ruling of the amateur
rowing head-quarters.
• • *
The terrible accident at Caulfield last
Saturday reminds ua of the fact that when, a
week or two ago, Dick Rowe, the well-known
steeplechase rider, was killed by his horse falling
on him, the priest refused to attend his funeral
and real the service, because Dick had been remiss
in attending church and the confessional, bo
some prayers were read at the grave by Mr. Cur-
now, the hotelkeeper. In similar way Councillor
Butters officiated once at Melbourne cemetery.
Spankie, lately his partner, had suicided, and
the last service given to poor humanity was to be
denied him—and would have been but for Butters
volunteer services.
* * *
The death of the now renowned sire,
Musket is a severe loss to the Australian turf. He
was only in his 18th year, and with gopd fortune
his owners might have been selling his stock at
high prices ten years hence. Musket was a son of
the late Lord Derby’s Toxophollte, and was gene-
rally regarded as one of the stoutest horses ever
bred in England. His best performance was win-
ning the Alexandra Plate at Ascot over three
miles of ground. In Nordenfeldt and Thunder-
bolt he leaves two colts who are likely to play a
prominent part In this season’s racing, and some of
his young stock look so promising that there are
more unlikely things than the Y.R C- Derbies of
1885 and 1886 falling to sons of the defunct sire.
Perhaps Martial-Henry may perpetuate his fame
at the stud.
* • *
Lord Marcus Beresford, we learn from
English advices, is quite a success as starter, and
keeps the jocks in order by virtue of his noble
birth. This ought to be some encouragement to
the nobility to adopt useful callings. Blood will
tell, and a few dukes might clear the course in no
time. Talking of starters, by the way, Mr. George
Watson, who officiates for the V.R.G., is still an in-
valid, and his son Tom held the flag at the late
Caulfield meeting. For the Great Foal Stakes he
got his field away at the sixteenth attempt. As
there were 16 horses started, it is fair to presume
that each horse misbehaved itself in turn. Any-
way, every jockey in the race was fined for dis-
obedience.
• • •
Cablegram advises us that the English
Cue sire witch Stakes, the principal long-distance
handicap of the year, was won by Plaisanterle.
The sire of the winner is Welllngtoma, who, sin-
gularly enough, was a notorious non-stayer in ms
day *
Courtney, the chicken-hearted sculler who
is accredited with sawing his boat in two on the
eve of a match with Han na, appears to work well
enough in double harness. He and Conley rowed
a double sculling match against Hostner and Gau-
daur and won easily, the time beating all previous
American records for “ pairs.” There is no dif-
ference of opinion as to Courtney s magnificent
physique, but his heart isn’t as well developed as
his muscle. Yet there are more unlikely things
than the soft ’un being once more matched against
Hanlan—and beating him.
• • »
The series of matches between Cummings
and George, for the running championship of
England, excited more interest than any simi-
lar contests for many a long day. George ap-
pears to have been a little too fast for his oppo-
nent in the mile event, but for the four and ten-
mile spins the easy action of the Scotch profes-
sional enabled him to last longest. Cummings
style is as much superior to that of George as is
the latter’s to that of Myers, the American
sprinter.
Last Weak, at the Sydney Zoo, the Zoodan Donkey Mortally Kicked the Soudan Goat.
TTfiro behold the Soudan donkey kicking
the Soudan goat to death. We confess that we
for one cannot look upon the scene witdout
a shudder.
His Houor summing up. . . “ You have been tried by
a jury of your peers, and found guilty of a m °st cruel and
atrocious murder. The jury have recommended you to
mercy, and, therefore, it now becomes my solemn duty to
pass upon you the extreme penalty of the law.
“ I now sentence you to receive 999
lashes upon your bare back—
Afterwards to be
hanged by the neck
unlil you are dead,
and may Dailey
bring no more white
donkeys to this
colony! ”


Wolfe's Schnapps ia superior to brandy or
whisky.
Wolfe's Schnapps the great remedy for
dyf pepsin.
Renovate your failing frames with Wolfe’s
Schnapps
Wolfe's Schnapps an unequalled specific
for diseases of tbs Btoiu,.ch and bowels.
In the great mile race, at Londor for the
world’s championship between Georg , and Cum-
mings, George dashed off with a slight lead, and,
as he had the advantage of position, increased the
distance between himself and Cummings as they
ran round the first couple of turns. Going up
the bach stretch the shorter man closed up,
but made no effort to go by, the pace being,
so far, anything but a cracker. For pedestrians
who were about to cut record, it was surprisingly
slow. The first quarter-mile was officially re-
corded 58 l-ssec. Men starting on a 10-mlle journey
have got within two or three yards of this; when
Bjerfoot began his famed hour’s journey, hlj
Urst lan (four to the mile) was covered well Inside
a minute. When the first q uarter of the George-
Cummings raca was acc uplished. a decided
change cams over the aspect of affairs. So far
from slowing down, as is customary and necessary,
they ran on with little or no diminution of
pace. Then it was seen that, If they could
only keep oi. as they were going, something
would be done worth considering extraordinary.
Cummings, having waited long enough as he
thought, tried to go by, but George increased the
pace, and held him. There was no spurting, the
increase of pace being of the steadiest description
thus they ran during the second quarter, in the
midst of tremendous excitement, each side think-
ing that its representative had the other at his
mercy. Cummings appeared to be running well
within himself, but as he was taking stride for
stride with his opponent, and bad a disadvantage
in height of between four and fi re inches, this ap-
parent treading of George’s heels off could not
have been don? without a tremendous effort. The
half-mile time was 3mln. 3sec. This showed that
the men were running regardless of all precedent.
To get home for half a mile in 3mln. 3jec., with
another half mile before them, the first quarter
shouid have been ruu In at most 55jec., bearing in
mind the pace possessed by both men. This would
havo enabled them to have had a blow, and then
set about beating time at the finish. As they ran
a regular cutting-down race, what the winner did
was very remarkable. At the end of the half-mile
Cummlng s supporters, fqr some reason that was
not made plain, either then or since, shouted
in the moat frantic manner that he. would walk in.
and offered from 3 to 3 to 1 on him. Hj was stlli
running 1 In fairly good form as the second lap was
concluded, but his mouth was open, his arms had
dropped a little, and he looked anything but a
certain winner. Rounding the bottom curve,
George, in obedience to a call made on him, again
increased the pace, and the three-quarters of a
mile was covered by him leading quite two yards,
in 3min. 9sec. Now came the time when, with a
long straight in front of him, Cummings was to
make his Once again he tried to go past
and once again George responded to his challenge;
and so with a fine burst the two raced along. Tnere
the hopes of the Cummlngsites received sudden
and complete death and burial. It was fated thu
their man, despite his favouritism, despite bis
great previous performances, despite the con-
tempt he had shown for George when the matches
were first proposed, should never be In front from
start to finish. On and on and on they came,
George always keeping his advantage, despite that
it was only too evident now Cummings was
straining every nerve to get by. When Cummings
began his spurt, 5 to 1 was offered on him in vain;
as he ended it, 50 to 1 against him would not have
been taken. Towards the finish of the back stretch
he faltered, and before a word could be said the
race was over. He had “ cracked ” in most decided
manner, and George was left to come along home
almost alone. Friendly assistance was not, how-
ever, wanting, and he was hurried along as fast
as he could go for the sole purpose of beating
record, Cummings in the meanwhile getting
gradually slower and slower,until there was a gap
J of between 60 and 70 yards between him and hla
conqueror. Wh«n Cummings broke uo, the watch
showed exactly finln. SOseo., and, with but3Boyards
further to run, it looked aa though if George could
only keep on at a fairly average pace, he would
do something Indeed wonderful. If he were
Btr mg and could finish with a spurt, a* he has so
often done In handicaps, then we should have such
a record as in the wildest dreams of his friends had
not been believed possible. Unfortunately for
Gaorge and the theorists, a factor which has
always asserted Itself in foot-racing, but of
which they appsar to be profoundly ignorant,
again made Itself manifest If the champ'on
sprinter could only extend himself and get.
sty, balf-a-mile in his sprint form, be would
“knock holes” in all previous records; but
ho can’t, simply because If you make your pace at
one part of a journey you must surely suffer for
doing so In another. To run 280 yards In 42sec.
seems easy enough of accomplishment; that la
about the averasre rato throughout of a mile In
4min. 30sec ; if George could have run the last 380
yards of his mile in 43jec , he would have had a re-
cord of 4 min. 13sec. It certainly seemed as be
turned Into th-? straight for home, with his friends
running on both sides of him shouting to him to
keep on, that ha would at the very least have
equalled Cummings’s previous figures. But the
exertion had been too much for him, and gra-
dually but surely “the enemy,” whose mood la
ever the same, got the better of the situation.
George, whon he reached the tape, was so ex-
hausted that he could hardly run through. As he
finished a dozen watches around registered 4min.
20 l-sthseo. George was oausrht by bis trainer and
backers and borne off in triumph; some Jlttle
while after Cummlogs walked in—not exactly in
that way which his admiera had anticipated.
[Our readers know that in the four-mile and ten-
mile races Cummings won ]
Concerning Our 4t Grand Old Man/'


Persons whose occupations are unhealthy
take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps for the bladder and like
coin plaints.
MaoLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 Qeorge-street
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &o.*
An exhilirating oordialis Wolfe's Schnapps,
Wolfe's Schnapps 40 years before the
public and its quallth s and virtues never yet ap-
proached. •
PEPPER AND SALT.
Years ago the Saturday Rbvibw, after a
prolongedllnvestlgation, committed Itself to the
statement that If you want to see real self-appre-
olation, seasoned with infinite conceit, you must
see a subaltern in a light cavalry regiment when
he first tries on his uniform. For a long time we
believed that the Saturday man was correct. But
we have seen the consular body in Sydney, and,
compared with some of the members of this corps
diplomatique, the reviewer’s cornet is a fraud—a
showy sham. An ambassador has been described
as a person sent to lie abroad for the good of his
country. This might apply to old-world represen-
tative s, but it Is laughably absurd when ex-
tended to the Sydney consular body. It is
when dressed in the costumes of the coun-
tries they represent that these important
persons are seen to advantage. But it is when
swooping upon the pastry placed upon the annual
consular dinner-table that they are at their best.
It is probably due to this peculiarity that ex-
perienced restaurateurs are gradually declining
to contract for meals where a large consular con-
tingent is expected. To return. All the leading
nations of the world are represented in Sydney by
gentlemen whose zeal in attending to their coun-
try's business is only equalled by their capacity
for looking after their own. Nor are the smaller
Powers unrepresented. As things go, there is
every reason to suppose that long before the star
of the nineteenth century has gone below the hori-
zon every Pacific coral reef on which a shag can
perch will have a consular agent in N S.W. Already
we have the diplomatic agent for ‘ Erromanga.” the
Consul-General for “ No man’s land,” and the !•-
prosentalve of the “Tropic of Capricorn.’’ The
latest addition to the corps is the Persian repre-
sentative. We saw this enterprising young man
at the opening of the last session of the eleventh
Parliament of N.S.W. and the impression he
made on us then will be found as deeply stamped
on our heart as the less of Calais was on Mary’s.
He wore a fez. But that alone was not sufficient
glory—he had a feather attached. If the fez was
bewildering, the feather was maddening. What
but factiousness and obstruction could be ex-
pected from an Opposition which, on turning to
the diplomatic gallery, saw the head - gear
of forty centuries nodding to it ? As illus-
trative of the rapid manner in which Eastern
nations are adopting Western ideas, it may be
mentioned that the immediate progenitors of the
Persian ambassador were chlelly occupied in de-
veloping the pork trade. The pig, we know, is not
a fascinating animal at the best of tlm« s. He has
habits which unfit him for cultivated society. The
fact, then, that the Shah’s subjects have so far
conquered their repugnance to pork as to appoint
as their consul a person who makes no secret •
his connection with bacon, shows either tha-.
Mohammedanism is declining, or that the marbo
for pork sausages in Ispahan is a rising one. Stil,
it is with the decorations worn at a consular din-
ner we have chiefly to deal. You’ve never
been at such a dinner ? Then don’t go.
At least, if you do, don’t forget tills fact, that
the number of decorations and the gorgeousne s
of the uniform are in love se raiio to the
importance of the countries represented. The re-
presentatives of the United States, or of any of
the great European Powers, can afford to attend
in evening dress with, at most, a red or blue rib-
bon at the button-hole. Not so those of Costa
Rica or of the still unappropriated islands of tho
Pacific. At the congress of Vienna it was said that
the flunkeys could always tell the importance of a
State by counting the decorations on the breast of
its delegate. For every star they took off ten regi-
ments. Accepting such a method, we would be
within the mark in saying that the Persian Em-
pire had now a stretcher-party to ra *ke its decrees
respected abroad, while the Costa Ricans could
depend upon a drummer to have its demands at-
tended to. We had two chances ourselves o b '-
coming enrolled in the Sydney corps diplomatic
—once for Lapland and once for Patagonia. We
rejected both, but, ever since (he last consular
dinner, we are o nvlnced of our mistake.
* * *
There is bad news from the Sydney Zoolo-
gical Gardens thli week. The Soudan goat is
dead. Had it been killed by one of the larger
carnivora or even trod upon by the elephant
there would be no special humiliation in the man-
ner by which it came to its end. But a cruel fate
ordained otherwise. It was kicked to death by
the Soudan donkey. To be run over by an empty
hearse is bad, especially when the drlvor is sober-
a circumstance which is happily rare. But to have
your development arrested and your thread of
life snapped short off by an assl Surely, next to
getting into Parliament, there could be no more
bitter stroke. Still, some hope may be drawn
from the untoward incident. For if this comba-
tive donkey takes so naturally to kicking goats
there is no reason why his proclivities could not
be developed under judicious training, so that,
instead of confining his attention to inoffensive
quadrupeds, he might be induced to practise on
small boys, and, ultimately, on grown people. We
throw out this suggestion in the public Interest. It
is proposed to supply the animal with another goat
to practise on-a proposal ag dost which wo, for
one, lift up our voice. It the authorities think it
necessary to keep this truculent brute in good
humour by supplying him with something to kick,
wa know a bull-dog down ~ln Wooiloomooloo
whom we can honestly recommend for one trial-
We interviewed this latter quadruped a few nights
ago, and the doctor says that if erysipelas doesn’t
supervene we might be out of bad next week.
With hesitation we make another suggestion. It
Is that some of the late candidates for metropoli-
tan constituencies be enticed within range of the
creature's hind legs. But, no. Howerer d graved
an a*s may be be seldom wars on his kind.
I The Victorian Licensing Bill, Jin its present
amended condition, will not be finally passed with-
out a sanguinary struggle. The “ Friends of
Temperance” have met t’getber in mbd com-
munion, and expressed their total—teetotal—dis-
approval of the sops offere'd to the “ trade.” The
barmaids, who were to have been translated In a
bright golden-haired body to their own coffee
palaces, or the Harmy, or other spheres attainable
by Friends of Temperance, are still In the grip of
the “ lushy vlts,” so the Friends of T., not un-
naturally, wex wrath. As a matter of fact. It is
around Hebe that the liquor struggle chiefly
centres. The parsons, to an odd ’un, are for get-
ting the temptress away from hotels. If she Is to
lead anyone to ruin they would prefer to be the
ones I This Is the little secret at the bottom of
their recent resolution: “ That this meeting views
with Intense disappointment the concessions made
to the liquor trade, In particular the surrender of
the clause providing for the abolition of the bar-
maid system.” Intense disappointment, note the
words. The lay outsider, who has attentively
studied parsonic demeanor towards coffee-palace
waitresses, will immediately perceive the force of
our italics. But let these good people relieve their
feelings with a little hymn—
Purchasers should use caution else they
will have a counterfeit article palmed on them as
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Avoid excitement, dissipation, and late
hours, and take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Again we find it a pleastire to direct atten-
tion to the beautiful things to be seen at the
china shops opposite the Joint Stock Bink, The
Dinner, Tea, and Toilet Bets, are numberless in
variety; as also ate the articles for embellishment.
Messrs. Bray Bros, are alive to public wants.*
People are loud in their praise of the merits
of Wolfe’s schnapps.
Wolfe's Schnapps for the overstrained
nerves.
Notice!—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Bookings, 143 Pitt-street.
A glass of Wolfe's Schnapps at bed time
will give you a sound night’s rest.
A strengthening cordial— Wolfe'sSchnapps.
Political Points
I Ere long the Hon. Edward Barton, now
Speaker of the N.S.W. Parliament, will, if he likes,
be Premier. This announcement is not made with
a view to discouraging Mr. Barton.
“ Let me get my feet on the floor of the
House,” said O’Sullivan, ‘‘and N.S.W. shall ring
with exposures of wickedness.” The wickedness
remains unexposed, for, alasl the patriots feet
stuck in the door-wuy.
“I believe in the resurrection of the
dead,” confessed a West Sydney candidate: but
the totals recorded by the ballot-box too plainly
showed that the eleotots did not believe In the
•'Forgiveness of sins.”
The Canterbury (N.Z.) Times finds in the
fall of the Stuart-Dallev Administration the moral
that military glory Is not a passport to perman-
ence of political power. It describes the Incident
as “ a very wholesome moral lesson for a young
country.”
The Sydney Echo says the resignation of
the N.S.W. Government was “ the result of nothing
but the serious illness of its Prime Minister!
“The Echo,” remarks the Arm ldale Chronicle,
“ comes to the not unnatural conclusion that Its
habitual readers are confirmed idiots!”
Says the Toronto Herald:—‘‘The tenders
of assistance from the colonies spring as much
from a desire on the part of the people for
foreign adventure, as from patriotism. A taste
of discipline and hard service will cure all the
dependencies of the British Crown of the itch for
war.”
A Local Government Act has been passed
by, and is in operation In-Queensland, Victoria,
and South Australia. N.S.W. has got the length of
excogitating a Local Government BUI. Thats
how the Government keeps abreast of useful
legislation. But then, N.S.W. sent an army to the
Soudan.
Mr. Triokett, the N.S.W. Minister of Publio
Instruction, is consistent re payment of members;
he says he does not think that Ministers even should
be paid. Now, If Mr. Triokett conscientiously
holds this opinion, will he kindly explain why he
has accepted his little £lO4 3s. 4d. per month for
some time past ?
The Maitland Mail last week in its leaders
heralded G. R. Dlbbs as the very much “ Coming
Premier.” Now he mav be regarded as the Going
Premier, or, perhaps. Gone, for he was knocked
down in one lot at a low figure at St. Leonards.
No, dear Mail, the coming Ministry will consist of
Farnell, his son, and bis sons-iu-law.
I Mr. Harper, M.L.A. (Vic.), maintains that
making Civil servants of teachers is a mistake. As
Civil servants they cannot be got rid of if incom-
petent, or specially rewarded if highly efficient.
He argues that they will, therefore, be automata,
and Infers that in a few years it Is the weaklings of
the people who will be the instructors of youth.
The British Conservative papers, knowing
that the newly-enfranchised agrioul'ural labourers
if left to themselvt s will mostly vote the Radical
ticket, are busily pointing out that the ballot
doesn’t ensure seoresy, and that the man who
votes against his Tory master may bo found out! 1
We should say this is about the last kick of
Monarchism.
The Melbourne Argus, in a leading article
on the Legal Professions Amalgamation Bill
(which, wo observe, has again been rejected by the
Victorian Legislative Council), remarhs that if the
Bill became law, “ the publio would find out who
were the most trustworthy, punctual, patient, and
polite among lawyers, and go to them for advice. ’
And yet the Tory journal in question strenuously
opposes the measure that proposes to confer such
an advantage on the publio.
To the Sydney D.T. belongs the honour of
having given the soundest counsel on the present
state of affairs. It says: We strongly advise the
people to make and hold themselves complete
masters of the political situation.” Perish this
Press anonymity! The person who penned the
foregoing sentence should be known, the man
who Is capable of throwing such a bull’s-eye blase
on the troubled waters of faction is above leader-
writing. That man could be taught how to grease
a machine.
Thus the Akous, re Parnell and his doings:
There is no satisfying his demands for Ireland and
the Irish. “ He is tne most relentless, the most
successful, and. under the existing circumstances
of English political parties, the m st formidable
enemy that England has ever had. He carries on
the campaign against her—not in the Soudan, not
in Central Asia, but within the citadel of E igllsh
authority itself.” Whatever he has gone for ho
has got. What he goes for now is to destroy
English authority altogether in Ireland.”
Lord Randolph Churchill insists on Im-
perial federation. But the Canadian?, Australians,
and Cape people insist on being let alone Wh?n
one man demands a c rtaln thing, and eight or
ten millions determine he shall not get it, the latter
nearly always win. Some noisy colonists, It is
true, have done their little best to wake them-
selves and their adopted country ridiculous by
advocating a cause they did not understand, but,
their fervour having burnt low, we are not likely
to hear much more of this federation bunkum.
“Although I sat in the House during
the whole progress of the Land Bill through
the Assembly, I do not know any more about
its provisions than you do, gentlemen, said
a candidate for re-election at Parramatta last
week. “But,” he added, “who got the dwarf-
wall put round the court-house? Who had the
cemetery cleaned out for you ? Who got the foot-
path in front of the Town ’All arsphalted?
,»• “Hooray for Toocy Taylor, shouted
the crowd, and then they filed in and got drunk.
“What a crowd of nonentities are offering
themselves to the electors 1 Road the speeches of
the pitiful creatures. Oh, those dreary orations,
with not a novel idea or happy phrase in them!
How any number of intelligent men can allow
themselves to be insulted by a barren rogue stand-
ing on a platform talking rot to them forthree-
ouarters of an hour is olfiloult to understand.
This was not written for N.8.W., but alas I how
faithfully does it describe the large majority of
those who have recently aspired to Legislative
honours 1J
With the] lapse of the Crimes Act the
terrible system of “boycotting” has again been
brought into force in Ireland. Orders have been
given by Land League committees that all hotel-
keepers, shopkeepers, or others providing sheriffs,
constabulary, or those acting under their direc-
tions, with food, lodging, or any oth r necessaries,
are to be instantly “ boycotted ”; and any person
found dealing with such an offender Is immediately
to be placed under the same sentence of excom-
munication. Hundreds of fine standing crops are
being ruined because their boycotted owners can
obtain no labour.
What about the Sydney Even Nooze
being the wurrlkln mahn’s political primer, and
vade mecum In general, now ? Thursday’s issue
devoted a leader to the bolstering up of the Dibbs-
Jennings Ministry and the glorification of Mr.
Waterpipe Wright, who was confidently bailed by
the Market-street witches as the coming Premier.
Next day, however, the Ministry was “ biffed ”
out in one round, and instead of plumping for
Francis Augustus, as instructed, the ’orny-’anded
playfully mosatoed that gentleman’s best clothes
with the juice of a box of hen-fruit dating from
about the time of the Norman Conquest.
Some of the questions asked or suggestions
made by electors when a candidate faces them
from a public-house balcony are really uncom-
fortable. For instance, at one of Mr Barton’s
meetings in Sydney, a grlmy-looklng Democrat
sent his voice through a nebula of strong tobacco
to know if Mr. B. favoured payment of members,
Mr. Barton did not. “ But,” interjected the
facetious one, “you get paid yourself.” The
alacrity with which the late Speaker changed the
subject and started on “Imperial Federation”
showed that Mr. Barton could have given a crush-
ing reply—only he didn't think of it at the time.
The competitors in tbe West Melbourne
contest for Mr. Orkney’s seat are well assorted.
Mr. Carter has the claim of being in the licensed
victuallers’ Interest as a wine and spirit merchant,
and is a thirty-years’ resident in the constituency.
Mr. Simon Fraser was educated as a Presbyterian
preacher, but did better as a railway contractor
and land-speculator. He achieved fame lately by
paying Millais, the R. A., £2OOO to paint his portrait
while on a visit to London. These two can-
didates will divide the votes in the St. Patrick’s
division, while other two will cut each other’s
throats in the Railway or Radical division. These
two are a baker and a barber. The latter is also a
civic councillor for West Melbourne, and, there-
fore, likely to make a good show at the poll.
Mr. Orkney, M.L. A. for West Melbourne,
hss resigned his seat in a pet—the cause being that
his amendments on the new Licensing Act were
not adopted nor himself listened to in their sup-
port. Having been himself a publican, he was
entitled to be heard-as an authority. Orkney
was the “ Grand Old Man ” of the Assembly. Tall,
portly, fresh-coloured, white-haired, and of benign
expression, he was ornamental to the House. A
rigid Presbyterian also of the old school, and one
of principle and not expediency in all things. He
began in ’53 as a road-contractor, and then opened
the Sir Charles Hotham Hotel in Fllnders-street,
of which, and of the Esplanade Hotel, St. Kllda,
he is the freeholder. He married the mistress of
the Roman Catholic school at Williamstown, which
alliance secured him two sets of votes. He
defeated Sir Bryan O’Loghlen on the last oc-
casion, and always headed the poll in his elec-
tions. He is a wealthy man, without family, and
has made two or three yachting excursions among
the South Sea Islands.
At Southwark Park, London, the ultra-
loyal enthusiasm of the* people is of that kind
which must commend itself to our local toadies
and snoboorats. Recently the Queen promised to
present a pair of cygnets to the park, and a crowd
of dutiful subjects assembled on the appointed
day to see the birds launched. But instead of the
birds, came a letter from the Queen’s swan-
keeper, saying that he had not been able to catch
them, but would try again next spring. Where-
upon a vote of thanks to Her Majesty was moved
and carried unanimously. Whether the vote was
on account of the swans that did not come, or the
letter which did, or whether it was for the cygnets
which were to come next year, the wording of the
vote does not explain; but without being curious
on these points, the Incident (like a recent goat-
slaylog expedition) plainly shows that the groat
heart of the nation is true to the core, and that
the time is rapidly approaching when the federa-
tion of English-speaking people all over the
known world will be — [Boshl—Ed. B.]
The election for the historic borough of
Parramatta was the tamest held there since
it returned a member. “Yooey” Taylor, the
great statemxn and orator who has so long and
gracefully affixed M.P. to his butcher’s bills, roared
around again, and deluged the electors with
grammatical eccentricities and belchings of how
I got at the bloomin’ Government for that two
thousand for a kort’ouse site,” and sent
round bills with the old familiar interrogation,
“ Who is the working-man’s friend?’’ to which he
modestly added his own cognomen in “four-line ”
letters. Ho was unsucessfully opposed by a young
man named Ferns, who runs a wholesale liquor
store and vends small groceries. Ferris is supposed
to possess much latent ability, which (his friends
assert) will only bo developed by his being re-
turned to Parliament. This is rather unfortu-
nate, because he didn't happen to be re-
quired on tbe occasion. There is a downright
good opening for a man of decided ability to come
in and woo the pocket borough, the electors of
which are sick of tbe old factions.
Mr. Want, the N.S.W. Attorney-General,
opposes payment of members He said at Gunda-
gai “ if a man had not sufficient independence to
take his seat in Parliament, ho would never be an
independent member. If members were paid,
they would never be anxious for a dissolution, and
would vote for anyone or anything rather than
lose the salary.” And cynical electors down there
say that, as he accepted a portfolio in a Ministry
which he had expressed himself unwilling to sup-
port, he should be an authority upon the
question of Independence. But waiving his quali-
fication to speak thus, it is absurd to give this as a
reason against the principle of payment of mem-
bers. G anted that members would then value
their seats, do they not do the same now ? If the
position is not now to most what Mr. Want says
the salary would be then, why does he, and why
do others, now go to the trouble and expense of
contesting elections ? This is too thin altogether,
and lamentably so when taken as the best argu-
ment an Attorney-General and practised advocate
can produce.
With characteristic modesty Cyrus Edgar
Fuller, one of the candidates for Central Cumber-
land, has declared that he has a “ presentiment
that be is destined to play a great part in the
future history of the colony, and that he will
occupy the position of Premier at no very distant
date.” It is possible that the electors will
effectua'ly snuff Cjrusouton polling day by put-
ting a complete extinguisher upon these extra-
vagant notions Tne other cindidates for C.C.
complain about the manner in which they are
treated by the Fuller Floorcloth, as it now
contains nothing but Jeaders upon and reports of
Cyrus’s elocutionary efforts, whilst it passes them
by with as hort paragraph only. Parkes, Fuller, and
M‘Cul)''jh will, however, likely be Central Cum-
berland’s choice; the former will head the poll for
a moral, unless Fuller drops *’ fencing.” Bull will
hardly do the trick, notwithstanding his big Liver-
pool majority, and C. A. Scrivener, also of Liver-
pool, is out too late in the first place, and not
popular in the second. The other “son of his
father,” Frank Farnell, is unknown and uncared
for, and the one card he claims—paternal popu-
larity—is about the worst he could play. The
people of N.S.W. know what Farnell’s sons-ln-law
are like, and they don’t want to sample bis son.
HIS MYSTIC THOUGHT.
We rode together over the hill,
In. the hush of dawn when the East was grty,
The woods were wet and the winds were still,
And never a word did the Poet say.
Like men In a dream we rode a down
The hill, and breasted another rise.
His brows were set In a pensive frown,
And who might fathom his deep blue eyes ?
No speeches of mine the silence broke:
For miles had I left him in peace to thl.jk
His mystic thoughts; then at last he spoke—
“ How far must we ride till we get a drink ?”
THE MADNESS OF MELBOURNE
(AFTER SWINBURNE.)
It'oorners where weak women tremble
And shrink from the crossing of street,
le linger by day and assemble
At nights our acquaintance to greet;
n the blaze of the sunbeams a-basking,
Or blown by the breezes that nip,
ly night and by day we are asking—
“ What is your tip ?”
indeterred by the lessons of learning
That Racing has ruthlessly taught,
tur souls are enslaved by a yearning,
And Reason is reckoned as nought—
'ho yearning “ good things ” to discover,
As we stealthily, silently slip
'o the side of each check-suited brother
With “ What’s your tip ?”
there's a charm in the tie that is horsey.
In the pants gaily patterned and tight;
rhe coat that is short-cut and saucy,
The bat that is slanted and white:
iVe worship the wise men who wear ’em,
Their warm hands In our hands wo grip,
ind slyly we seek to ensnare ’em
Into giving a tip.
ro the “ house ” that is nearest and handy
We slmk from the city’s dull din.
And bathe their brains and our brains in brandy,
Or soak them in soda-and-gln;
Dur eyes «e make bloodshot and bleary
With the rum sailors swill aboard ship,
As we moan the monotonous query—
“ What is your tip?”
The brokers whoso business is broking,
The mild-mannered merchants who “meroh,”
With jockeys are jesting and joking,
Or wondering of winners in church;
For their senses delight not in dealing
In soft goods, and sugar, and scrip;
And the organ this anthem in pealing—
“ What is your tip ?”
The maidens, whose cheeks are as roses.
Whose long, laughing locks are as gold
As the sun, ere the summer day closes
And the curtain of night is unrolled,
Blush brightly, and timid their tone is,
And eager their eyes as they trip
To the side of some dapper Adonis
And ask for a tip.
Yea, the passion the proud people frenzies
To gather in nooks and in knots;
It is madd'nlng and mighty at Menzles’,
And scathing and scorching at Scott's;
In the rash, raging sea Speculation
Men deeply and dauntlessly dip.
And the cursed, crafty cry of the nation
Is—” What’s your tip ?”
I We’re sorry for Hc.be,
As ever will she be
Allowed to lead simple young fellows astray,
With her perilous graces.
And smirks, and grimaces—
The tidings have filled us with direst dismay.
The fledglings who court her,
Instead of cold water,
Will order what liquor she likes to su gost,
From hogshead or puncheon
To take with their luncheon—
No nearer’s the "evil ” to being redressed.
Like moths round a eandle,
Boys flock to the handle
Of engines that girls are permitted to draw,
Until they’ve a skinful—
Oh, shocking and sinful!
We must get old Berry to alter that law.
’Tis really too riling
That girls so beguiling
From giddy young mashers can not be decoyed;
At nice coffoe palace
Fair Lizzie or Alice
In waiting on us were far better employed.
TO THE YOUNG AUSTRALIAN PARTY.
If you would keep moving—as needs you must —
Trust not the reverend seniors I
There is nothing In common, of truce or trust,
Between the dry and the green years.
Too soon does the young enthusiast And
The world is full of old stagers
Who’ll have nothing to do with the march of
mind—
Unless they are made drum majors!


GOMPASNONI CATERING CO., LIMITED,
PITT STKEBT, BYPNBY. 7 *
g^ g atat!y.iiasj|ga
1885 Universal Club, a thoroughly reliable and eaay-runmng
machine. Ball bearings to both wheels, and Improvements.
THE SYDNEY SPORTS
DEPOT.
389 GBORGE-STRBBT SYDNEY
(Opposite Royal Hotel.)
BICYCLEOwCYCLES.
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles
and Tncycles
Have Every Improvement.
OUR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadster,
THE UNIVERSAL CLUB
BICYCLE,
fitted with Improved Ball Bear-
ipgs to front and bach wheels.
Hollow Forks, Patent Head and
Detachable Bent Handle Bar.
Easy Slide Spring, Hubs Plated,
Black Enamelled Spokes,
Price, £l3 10s. At the price
we defy competition.
JAKES MARTIN & COMPANY, 388 Cuarga-st., Sydney.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DPVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
MT Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blaoksmithing,
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girdw Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting 8
of every description.
DOUI/TON’B “FLUSH-OUT.” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-WASTB
PREVENTERS, &o.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Am Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowis, Gas F/res, Heaters, Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 8 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application
m
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilsoe’s Ame-
rican “Extra Toast ’’BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert
nothing equals them. Delicious with
, . milk, superb with wine, and incompatible
on with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street Sydney.
UP o ALL WOMEN.
HATE YOU USED
LEWIS A WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
OOLD i WA°TEa rOOI)WORK ’ eltber HOT ° r
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERT
IN SOAP I
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with It;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE
Storekeeper
per Bar.
Sold by evmj Storekeeper and Grocer at
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
AND
WHEN ALL
OTHERKINDSOFFOOD ARE
REJECTED.ATALLCHEMISTS IK]
lO&i 20ozB0TTLES
c ARNOLD BBRIDCE S t
8
T| THOM
Ar may be consulted on
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affections.
Medical Establishment, 203. Ellzabeth-street,
near Bathurst-stroet.
Hours : 9 till 10 dally.
Dr. Thomas is the only medical man advertising
In Australia who has passed the degrees of an Eng-
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations passed
-Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians.
London, 1864; Member of the Royal College of
Surgeons, London, 1»?59.
Rev. Father Wilds’
EXPERIENCE.
The Rev. Z. P. Wilds, well-known city
missionary In New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds/of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
“78 E. 54 th St,, New York, May 16,1882.
Messrs. J. C. Ayer & Co., Gentlemen ;
Last winter I was troubled with a most
uncomfortable itching humor affecting
more especially my limbs, which itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so intense-
ly, that I copld scarcely bear any clothing
over them. I was also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough: my
appetite was poor, and my system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from personal use
m former years, I began taking it for the
above-named disorders. My appetite Im-
proved almost from the first dose. After
a short time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs of irritation of the
skin disappeared. My catarrh and cough
were also cured by the same means, and
my general health greatly improved, until
it is now excellent. I feel a hundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of the Sarsaparilla, which
I recommend with all confidence as the
best blood medicine ever devised. I took
it 111 small doses three times a day, and
used, in all, less than two bottles. I place
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may do good.
Yours respectfully, z, P. Wilds.”
The above instance is but one of the many
constantly coming to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from Impure or impoverished blood, and a
weakened vitality.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of the stomach and
bowels, and thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofu-
lous Diseases, Eruptions of the Skin, Rheu-
matism, Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state of the system.
prepared by
Dr.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists; price §l, six bottles
for $5.
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
PILLS.
Best Purgative Medicine
cure Constipation, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious Disorders.
Sold everywhere. Always reliable.
"ELLIOTT BROS, and S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
210SSTASH J and WHISEEES. itrons sritn
Boyd's Beard F.llxir did this, and
toill do it on either bald head or
bare face . JFoi cea heavy Mous-
tache in from 2 to 4 weeks and never .
fails, 20,000 young men already
. . . . / ,\Anj young men already » ' ' 1
Vopyrxghted. W ear full beards, having f ised Ito Copyrighted,
3 pkts. No injury, easily applied, ter tain in effect
Packets 1«. 6d
each, 3 for 3». 6 d.,post paid . sent under cover, free from obeervai
w*., puiii. irnt unurr cover, jree jrom
, Frank Dougla., Sole Agent, Box 730, 0.P.0., Slid
BULL DOO ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage In the
ALB, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTßLL & CO.,
Sole Agents.
jh&jfierne false. J’MetaaU
f=f
f *
P
Ores -V
r...»
9
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
w V of MUSIC in the city.
Music. —Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, Ac.
£kur?li Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, Ac.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety,
tiosii ca^ogues can be bad gratis on applioa-
fttatlonery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, Ac., at lowest prices.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
vftrdSa
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels.
. upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Subscriptions solicited to all the’leading
zincs*
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which Is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
■ ILLIAM ~~BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
ART IFICIALTE ETH
Complete: SFT
-
MARSHALL BRO?
DENT ISTS
133 ELIZABETH S T
OTICE TO THE TRADE
Now landing ex Late Arrivals.
* -
HALF-TESTER NICKEL BEDSTEADS.
HALF-TESTER BRASS BEDSTEADS.
HALF-TESTER IRON BEDSTEADS.
STUMP BEDSTEADS.
FRENCH BEDSTEADS.
BLACK and GOLD BEDSTEADS.
BLACK and BRASS BEDSTEADS.
Cases of No. 14 AUSTRIAN CHAIRS.
450 Cases of AMERICAN CHAIRS.
760 Bales of BEST JAVA KAPOK.
10 Bales of COTTON FLOCK.
20 Bales of CURLED HAIR.
10 Cases of TOILET GLASSES (Assorted).
20 Cases of ROWCLIFFE SPRING MATTRESSES
15 Bales Of BLACK CURLED FIBRE.
12 Bales of WHITE WOOL FLOCK,
J. LAWLER,
608 George-sl., Sydney, j
“aastts* I
_ i nip v
■ jURING his recent vlalt to London, carefully
A/ selected a largo and varied Stock of
, A PI KHAIMS,
makers 0 * 111 * 6 by th ° moBt celebrated English
l efJlr w 810 R PP rl *e his customers
LAlio^ o «nM^T ND / B °N. W London: JOSEPH
CO N London >N ’ 1,011(1011 ; C HAS. OSBORNE
BOSSY &CO a ! B £otdo B n l ? Tfor th ® ominent flm
Ga “® B a «' a Gu ° Cases, Cartridge Belts, Ac., and all
k A D no° f Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 Georgo.st., Sydney,
Where Inspection is invited.
Been[hunting for ease all my life, and found
last with the Argosy Braces at Gowlng Bros
%
»
K>
GOWING BROS.
Have Just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces Z
Argosy Braces, Xs. giTas.. as. gd.,* 4s. g
GOWING BROS.p
MIN'S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS. A
ESS bhE 498 dMriMtrssti
' V BAK L L S
P
“Mr. William Ball.-Dear Sir,—Allow mo to say
that I find your ‘ Bloom of Peaches’ superior to
anything of the kind that I ever used before.—
Tours truly, Emelik Melville.”
“ Dear Sir,—l have never used anythin# equal to
your ‘Bloom of Peaches.’— Maggie Moore.”
“ Dear Sir,—l have the greatest pleasure in re-
commending Mr Ball’s ‘Bloom ot Peaches’ end
‘Fett-Puder’ as being Invaluable—Yours truly,
Alice Bees.”
To be obtained of all chemists,
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
** FITT-PUDEB,” a delicate and Invisible
powder for the face. Beautifully perfumed.
White, Pink, or Oream, to suit all complexions.
Price, 1/6 per box.
Manufactured only by
WILLI AH BALL,
The “ Professional ” and Pharmaceutical Chemist,
61 BOURKB STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Agents for Sydney ;
Messrs. B. PROSSER & CO., Wholesale Chemists.
G. F. PRIDDY ft GO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.30 p.m.: Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
BTDNKT,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
MBR|I.LAS
ftsJaSVEBIA
TODY BO ONDM 7
and
aveyourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match ooe-
p tumea. Repairs neatly eze>
*ule*;


F
DSNIIOHI BHOn BOOMS
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
Hall furniture, hatstandb,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
T IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
Jj TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES.
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in kxquisitb
taste, the very latest fashion ; -well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS (or Choice China, fco.
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
OVBLTIBS in BOUDOIR and BOW WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley. Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Qrtat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON.
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets. Sydney.
Ijl IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES—The
2i Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Barly English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tue back and Towol rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
HEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 278. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s ;
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3105.: Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
OQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
owOtl strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Case. Free at rail or wharves for cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs In Blaek and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also In Oak and Walnut, ai all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished In
Embroidery, Plush, &c.
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
ODonnell-street.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-street.
TARA WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
JLI A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
HAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR.
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and Inei-
panslve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top. 80s the pair.
PULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM-SIDE-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS. aU to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D
[ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK OH Alt-
Patented.
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and tries versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet Ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the * umerous positions
that can be obtained. Instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches In thickness
when ft Jded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
2s. Bd. extra.
S
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
for
B
AGATBLLB BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
FRAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment In Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, whlcn can be upholstered In
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
TjIRAMBWORK for DINING-ROOM FUBND
JD TURB, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, an®
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
B
BDSTBADB, nickel-plated and black and brass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell and Spring streets.
W
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 265. each
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
a AWN and PARK SEATS 6 feet long. Rustic
1 A Cast-iron Standards, 15a. each. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb. • .
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.-A very eompls*»
Assortment; best nAM. low art pricas.
An official enquiry is to be held into the
recent not very c editable quarrel at Parramatta
Court between the ever jocular Mr. Pitcairn,
Crown Prosecutor, and Judge Wilkinson. Prom
all one hears, it does not appear that Mr. Pitcairn,
who of late has on more than one occasion “ come
to cross purposes” with people in court, was solely
to blame for the trouble. Judge Wilkinson’s
temper, to quote the Southern nigger’s historic
phrase. “ ain’t all treacle.”
It is a significant fact of those members
who on the 30th January, 1884, voted against Mr.
M'Laughlin’s motion to permit children attend-
ing Denominational schools to travel on the
Government trams and railways on the same
terms as State s.hool children, all who have
presented themselves for re-election to Parlia-
ment have been rejected. This has been owing
to the action of the R.C. party, which voted
“solid” on the question; it was their opposi-
tion that ousted Mr. Griffiths from Bast Sydney.
The Sydney correspondent of the New
Caledonian Indkpendant Is not in sympathy with
the objects of the "French Association of New
South Wales in Sydney.” That is the full title of
the august body, and it may be remembered tiiat
under its auspices a musical and literary soiree
was lately given in memory of Victor Hugo in the
Masonic Hall, York-street. The correspondent,
after describing the entertainment, proceeds to
describe the Association. He cites a rule showicg
that the principal aim of the society is to help
cultured and respectable French people, resi-
dents or new arrivals, “to utilise their special
knowledge.” He construes this to mean that
a Frenchman seeking admission must present
something like a degree in Arts, with a certificate
of good character from the parish priest or local
magistrate. Then he runs easily through the list
of officers. We translate: "We have an hon.
President—the French Consul. That is all right.
We have for President M. L. Laura (I am quoting
from the fourth page of the programme!—doctor
of medicine, chevalier of the Legion of Honour,
doctor of national marine. That is better, but
listen: Vice-President, M. Henry E. Bonnard,
officer of public instruction (where?), officer of
the order of Nlcham (the devil I) consul-general
of the Republic of Salvador (off with your
hat I), and several other distinctions, the record of
which has not,” the correspondent observes, In-
creased the price of the programme. As the
society is to help to the utilisation of “ special
knowledge,” he hopes thieves and assassins "of
respectability ” will not find their way in. “ How,”
he continues, “ have the members of this com-
mittee come to find that they themselves are ail
cultured and respectable? Let them produce
reciprocal certificates and show that this officer of
public instruction is a judge of culture, and this
officer of the order of Nicham la a judge of re-
spectability. The poor Frenchman who is not
cultured and not respectable—what is he to do ? ’
So on. Evidently the Association has started on
unwise lines, or this correspondent, finding he was
not made President, is determined to be wicked.
Wolfe's Schnapps as a tonic aud-etimulant
cannot be surpassed.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated wit*
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 80* Hunter-street. Sydney.*
Don’t be fooled into taking any other but
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe's Schnapps tranquilizes the nervous
system. j
SOCIAL
The eleventh annual regatta of the Sydney
Mercantile Rowing Club eventuated lest Saturday
afternoon, and was attended by a lair crowd of
visitors. The regatta was held on i he Parramatta
River, and the Vernon boys, who were taken on
board the Eclipse at one of the points, contributed
towards the afternoon’s enjoyment. The ladles
showed as much interest in the events as the
sterner sex, and had attired themselves in the
prettiest of costumes in honour of the occasion.
Little Miss Spencer was dainty in a navy-blue
zephyr, with raised white stripes and white straw
hat and plumes; Miss Rewohl, navy-blue sateen
figured with white flowers, and small witch hat
trimmed with poppies and corn-flowers; a tall
lady, with faultless figure, wore a fawn and white
striped canvas cloth, plainly made, but quite
unique In effect; Miss May's trim figure was set
off by a richly-braided black jersey over a black
serge kilted skirt; a white serge, with blue velvet
vest and cuffs, was much admired; Miss Adams
wore a simple white dress, with old gold waist-
band; a beautiful fawn ottoman silk, embossed
with brown velvet, was perhaps a trifle too gor-
geous for the occasion, and the costly bonnet,
with Its magnificent plumes, was surely more fit
to grace a mayoral reception than a small steam-
boat; a fine blue serge exquisitely braided with
narrow white braid, and white sailor hat with
pale-blue ’kerohlef trimming, was as appropriate
as It was becoming to the petite blonde wearer.
Spotted zephyrs and canvas cloths were worn by
many, whilst sailor and witch-shaped hats were in
strong favour. During the afternoon refresh-
ments were banded round, and, taking it altoge-
ther, this was one of the most enjoyable regattas
ever held by the elub.
■ • •
A cricket-match was played at the Vic-
toria Barracks last Thursday (15th) between the
military and officers of the Nelson, which excited
not a little Interest. In the afternoon a number of
ladles patronised it, and some of the costumes
worn were very pretty. The wife of a Q.C. was
handsomely attired In a black-striped velvet dress
trimmed with lace, bonnet and parasol en suite.
Her three daughters looked charming: two in
striped misty-blue and cream crope dreises; the
third being clad In biscuit-coloured cashmere
picked out with scarlet. Two navy-serge dresses,
made d la militaire, looked rather unseasonable. A
fresh and pretty costume was a blue and white
striped cambric; and a pair of sisters looked
deliciously cool In steel-blue spotted sateens with
white vests. A young lady from one of the Points
was becomingly gowned In pale-pink and cream
striped crepe, adorned with loops of pink ribbon.
A riding party, who put in an appearance late in
the afternoon, had amongst them two ladles in
faultless dark riding habits set off with white ties
and high linen collars. At 5 o’clock all adjourned
to the mess-room, where they partook of coffee,
tea, and ices. The tennis net was set, Thursday
now being the tennis day at the Barracks, but u pon
this occasion the game was not patronised, cricket
proving altogether too attractive.
■ • *
The ball held at Hurstville on Thursday,
15th Inst, was attended by over JOO, many coming
from along the line and not a few from Sydney.
Everything was well carried out, and the decora-
tions were Indeed a feature—the goods-shod being
brightened up with as various an assortment of
wild flowers and shrubs as they boast at the Manly
■bows. A band of seven supplied the most taking
■elections from "lolanthe,” ‘‘Mikado,” “Patience,”
and the “ Pirates,” and Callaghan did the refresh-
ments. Mrs. Richardson wore a rich dress of eau
de nil and pink satin profusely trimmed with edel-
weisse lace. Miss North, recently from home, a
dress of olive-green plush made princess shape,
with a moderately long train, the nock cut square
and filled In with lace, and the front sot off with
the new dentelie de laine. Mrs. 8. Hodge (Sydney),
a magnificent black silk dress, touched up with
Alencon lace and trails of French roses. Miss
Hodge was in pure white ballet skirt of pompom
net and white satin bodice; Mrs Hodge, black
satin and heavy draperies of black Spanish lece
caught up with crimson roses; Mrs. Nicholson, of
Paddington, lavender broohe and black velvet
The Misses Hunter, of Sydney, were tastefully
gowned, one In a beautiful shade of heliotrope
satin draped with silk-embroidered muslin and
cream Spanish lace, the other in white nuns’ veil-
ing and cardinal satin. A nice dancer wore a white
satin with wide flounces of edelweiss lace, the
neatly-fitting bodice being edged with cardinal
pompons: Mrs. M'lnnls, a local lady, wore a rich
Ivory-corded silk draped with Madras muslin; Mrs.
Barsby, cardinal and buttercup satin trimmed
with lace and set off with a Medici collar of pearls;
Mrs. Klnseia, black and silver; Mrs. Gannon,black
and pink silk. A handsome brunette was prettily
dressed in chandron btoche and old gold satin
with a high Medici collar, and two pretty sisters
were bewitching In pink satin and white net.
Another nice dress was of white net studded with
gold pompons. The ball, which was given in
commemoration of the opening of the Iltawarra
railway line and in aid of the local School of Arts,
was a great success, the fun going on incessantly
till four in the morning.
♦ * •
The Sydney Theatre Royal circle on Satur-
day night looked as brilliant as in days gone by
when " Patience” was first produced here; and it
was a trifle more comfortable, since now the mana-
gers or the law or somebody have been the wisdom
of forbidding the passages to bo choked up with
people who can’t get seats. By the same token,
some Improvement might be effected down at the
stalls, where there seems to be but one door for
egress. Why not open a door on each side, so that
when a man has to keep an appointment during
the Intervals he isn’t compelled to struggle
through the whole width of the theatre before
he can gain the street If he happen to be seated
at the other side ? The preponderance of tho
stronger sex in the audience on Saturday night
was very marked, quite the reverse of what It
used to be when Verdi was Grosvenor. And
now was It that all the women were so fond
of Signor Blllgreeno ? Woodfield sings better,
and acts better, but here favourable com-
parisons end. A most beautiful dress was
worn by a tail fair lady, end oanslsted of a rich
white satin robe made princessshapo. with clusters
of hand-painted rosebuds and ferns adorning the
bodice and one side of the skirt- A deliciously
soft Indian muslin frock, worn by a fair curlv-
baired maiden from Wooliahra, was simply
adorned by a cluster of deep rod roses on the cor-
sage and in the waist band, the effect being
most picturesque. Miss Fullerton, In a low-cut
bodice of black jetted net and pretty silver orna-
ments, showed quiet taste; whilst to her left was
a girlish figure, with a wealth of golden curls, in
a pale-blue plush zuave over a full white muslin
bodice and skirt. Mrs. Holden wore a quaint-
looking Oriental silk gown, gold and crimson
being the predominating colours. A dress of all
crimson velvet looked warm, made as it was, close
to the throat and with long tight sleeves. A
silver-haired lady wore an extremely beautiful
cap, composed almost entirely of creamy pearls
and black velvet. Miss Alice Rees, as Patience,
has changed somewhat in appcaianca from the
milkmaid of yore. She wears her sk rts a trifle
longer, and doesn’t tuck up her sleeves quite so
high, but looks very nice for all that. Miss Bar-
nett's dress as Lady Jane Is quite too gorgeous to
talk about. The orchestra took a new departure
on Saturday night, when one or two of the per-
formers seemed to be competing with each other
who could play most out of tune.
* * *
A very fashionable marriage took place at
St. John’s Church, Toorak, Melbourne, on the
15th Inst., between Mr. Arthur Blackwood, only
son of the late Mr. James Blackwood, and Miss
Cunningham, paly daughter of Surgeon-Major
Cunningham, of the Indian army. The bride-
groom arrived at the church shortly after 13,
accompanied by his best man, Mr. P. Russell, of
Carngham. The bride, who was given away by
her father, wore an exceedingly rich dress of
ivory-white duchesse satin, with a beautifully-
arranged train. The front of the gown had a
tabller of exquisitely-worked embroidery and
pearls, with a panel of beautiful point d’Aiencon
lace, the oppos.te side being ornamented with a
large bouquet of orange uloesoms and lace. A
small wreath of orarge blossoms, covered by a
large tulle veil, edged with seed-pearls, was fas
tened to the fair hair by splendid diamond stars
and crescents; whilst round the throat was a
costly riviere of diamonds, one of the gifts of
the bridegroom; both wrists were also encircled
by the same precious jewels. The bridesmaids
were clad all alike in pretty cream broche-silk
over petticoats of cream lace. All wore tulle veils,
fastened with two natural cloth of gold roses, the
corsage bouquets being of the same flowers, fas-
tened with beautiful diamond brooches, the gifts
of the bridegroom. E ich carried a bouquet com-
posed entirely of cloth of gold roses and maiden-
hair. Mrs. Malleson, one of the guests, wore an
especially beautiful dress of cream watered-silk,
with tablier of mother-of-pearl sequins and ostrich
tips. About 3 o’clock the bride and bridegroom
left by special train from Spencer-street station,
starting for Mr. Robert Simeon's station—Longa-
ralkal—the bride wearing a travelling dress and
bonnet of a soft grey shade.
• • •
The Masonic ball, given by the members of
the Lodge Kilwinning, was held in Needs’ rooms on
Tuesday, the 13th. Amongst the most admired of
the ladles were Mies Doherty in pale pink and
cream cashmere with tasteful cream plastron
edged with lace, pearl ornaments, and pink taffeta
gloves ; Mis* Crawley, a nlue-eyed, fair-haired
divinity, in heliotrope satin and veiling and hand-
some garlands of violet pansies adorning the right
shoulder; Miss Ryan, siyllsh in crimson satin
bodice and skirt relieved by drab lace; MissAyro
wore an attractive toilette of rich rose-pink satin
with front tabller of flowered cream lace caught
up with sprays of silver flowers, pearls round the
throat and entwined in the hair; Miss Lucas
looked deliciously cool in white satin dress
trimmed with swansdown and lace, gloves, fan,
and shoes to mitch-in fact, a perfect snow-
maiden, rather difficult to thaw; Miss Mason was
stately in maize satin bodice with ekirt of cream
veiling and lace; Miss Wolfe, black velvet polo-
naise over cream lace skirt, Medici collar and
cluster of scarlet blossoms fastened on the corsage;
Mrs. Churchwood, maize satin with skirt panels of
maroon velvet; Mrs. Shipley, cream satin lavishly
trimmed with lace and bows of pale pink ribbon;
Mrs. Carpenter, lilac spotted satin with a pro-
fusion of cream lace flouncing. A charming dress
was of a delicate green cashmere garnished with
pearls and white roses. The dance of the evening
was the Masonic Quadrille, which was performed
about midnight; each Mason, having divested him-
self of his apron, fastened it solemnly round the
waist of his partner. This necessitated a vast
amount of “ taking in slack,” as the brotherhood
generally being of portly build (most good fellows
are), the aprons showed a disposition to slide over
oanlere, Improvers, &c. on to the floor. A very
late hour saw the last dance.
♦ ♦ •
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Needs, who have just
returned to Sydney from their wedding trip, were
entertained by their friends at a ball, at Nitbs-
dale, last Friday, the 16th lost. The pretty rooms
wore charmingly decorated for the occasion, and
during the evening a presentation of a handsome
tea and coffee service was made to the happy pair
on behalf of friends and pupils of the bride-
groom. The latter thanked them in words
which, although few, doubtless meant much.
Mrs. Needs was attired not in her bridal
dress - but in a handsome "costume of pink
brocade and crimson velvet, with pearls. Mrs.
Griffiths, pale-blue satin, with elegant train
of blue and gold brocade. Very sweet was a fairy-
like dancer in a mushroom satin, with pale-blue
feathers on corsage. A similar dress, adorned
with pink feathers and bertha of pearls, well
became a short-haired lady. Miss Rolya, a grace-
ful dancer, wore white skirt with edelweisse
flounces and pale-blue over-skirt, brightened by
crimson ribbons. The Misses Slattery looked nice
—one in blue, and the other in white tucked skirt,
with crimson bodice. Miss Campbell was much
admired in a pale-blue dress, made with baby body
and short puffed sleevts. Miss Turner, white
satin, adorned with white plumes A striking
dress was of cerise satin, the front and s.eeves
being entirely composed of bugle net-work. A
nice black gown was relieved by lavender ribbons,
and a black lace, over crimson, was very rich
looking. The floor was splendid, music and sup-
per good, and the pretty gold and white pro-
grammes had on the cover the monograms of the
bride and bridegroom.
• •
The bachelors of the Tweed have been
giving a plain and fancy dress ball, which proved
to be a most brilliant affair. The floor was ex-
cellent, music first-class, decorations beautiful,
supper splendid, programmes pretty, and gentle-
men partners in abundance, so the ladles’ hearts
were jojous Many rich dresses were worn. Miss
Righn appeared in a handsome Turkish costume;
Miss Bray, Night; Miss B. Marks, a charming
Snow. It's generally desirable to get away from
snow, but in this particular Instance everybody
was inclined to “git away closer.” A dark
married lady was a prettily dressed Watteau
Shepherdess In crimson satin and panlers of
flowered chintz, with crook in hand. A sprightly
lady from Kynnumboon dress sd as Lady
Teazle, and Miss Marks wore an uncommon
and effective fancy costume as Painting ; a
prettily dressed Jewish lady from Tirrah, In cream
satin and cashmere, vied for belleshlp with the
Hebrew lady above mentioned; Mrs. Grime was
very attractive in black velvet, combined with
pink satin, and lace, whilst her sister shone re-
splendent In a long-trained white satin, with pink
sish; a fine-looking lady wore a handsome drees
of black satin and beaded work, and a local beauty
In pure white skirt, with red velvet jacket, was a
favourite; Miss Clarke wore pink muslin, and her
sister a pretty white dress; Miss Bland dressed a
Flower Girl correctly, and Mr. Grime made a
dashing Grenadier ; a ruddy-faced bank clerk
locked natural as a Cricketer, and a road super,
seemed cool and comfortable as Lawn Tennis; an
M.L.A. and a Police Magistrate were sturdy wall-
flowers, whilst Messrs. Chambers, Clarke, C. W.
and 8. Charles, Aylwin, and Bwlng made admir-
able hosts.
• • *
On the 14th inst. a very large assemblage
gathered at Bt. Mary’s Church, Caulfield, Mel-
bourne, to witness the celebration of the marriage
ceremony between Miss Emily Kermode. daughter
of the late Mr. E. Kermode, of Mona Vale, Tas-
mania, and step-daughter of the Very Rev. Hussey
Burgh Macartney, and Edmund Gore-Yeo. nephew
of Colonel Sir Thomas Gore-Brown, late Governor
of Tasmania. The bride, who was given away
by her step-brother, Mr. George Macartney, was
attired in an elegant costume of ivory satin, with
round train, puffed and draped with exquisite
point d'alenoon lace, which has also seen service
at the wedding of the bride’s mother. The wreath
was composed of the usual olossoms, and a lovely
veil of real Honiton point lace completed the
toilette of the bride. The maids were pretty pic-
tures in white satin, the skirt entirely covered by
edelweiss lace, their heads slug surmounted by
tulle veils, fastened with blue aigrettes—blue
hose and white satin shoes completed the cot-
tumes. Their arms bore the gifts of the bride-
groom in the shape of tasteful bracelets. The
dejeuner at the residence of the bride’s step-father
was attended by a large number of guests, when
the usual congratulatory toasts were duly
honoured.
• * *
It is said that the Fairfax-Frazer marriage,
which will join two large fortunes, takes place in
Sydney 3rd November.
* * *
The days of romantic amours are pretty
well over when a conspiracy between postmasters
and maternal parents to intercept letters exists.
And such is the unfortunate experience of certain
Hebes and Lotharios not far from Sydney. The
Lotharios, it is needless to add, are hunting up the
law which enjoins that letter-stealing is amenable
to divers pains, penalties, and punishments.
* * •
On Wedn sday evening, at the Musical
Institute, Castlereagb-street, a social was given to
Messrs. Boyle and Co. by their pupils. The social
was in return for one given to them by the firm
some few weeks since. Eighteen dances and 14
songs made up the bill of fare, and were carried
out under the direction of Messrs. W. H. Bourke
and J. Rooney. The hall was tastefully decorated
and the catering done by Mr. A M'Kenzle, of Pltt-
street, the music provided by Messrs. G. Brown
and Wyatt. A young lady from Woollahra was
charming in a cream nuns’ veiling trimmed with
cream lace, Elizabethan collar and full waterfall
back. A Newtown brunette chose a skirt of
old gold satin and bodice of peacock-blue,
which made an effective combination. Two
sisters from Darlinghurst, one in pink and
the other in heliotrope muslin, were almost too
too. Many cool-looking white dresses were wom-
an especially attractive one by the daughter of a
Newtown M.P. During the evening, Mr. Boyle
was made the recipient of a neat baton of ebony
and ivory, presented by Miss Buckingham on
behalf of the ladies. Mr. Boyle, after heartily
thanking them all, gave a condensed history of the
classes. He remarked that the number of pupils
bad increased to 700, including ail the classes, in
one class alone there being nearly 400, and that as
without a doubt these singing classes had hit the
popular taste, he felt no hesitation in saying they
would compare favourably with si x liar ones held
on the Continent. In short, that there was a grand
future before them in N.S.W. After rubbing a
little soft soap into the Press in acknowledgment
of the flattering notices they had from time to
time given these classes, he stopped for breath
and allowed the dancing to have another innings.
The proceedings terminated about 2 a.m.
» * T
The Balmain Amateur Dramatic Society
gave a complimentary entertainment at the local
School of Arts, last Monday night, which was
attended by upwards of 300 guests. “ Partners
for Life ” was the comedy chosen, and it Is not too
much to say that both better and worse represen-
tations have been witnessed. But really, thesj
amateurs possess not a little “ go,” and succeeded
in making their entertainment quite enjoy-
able. The ladies dressed their parts remarkably
well, some of them changing their costumes no
less than three times during the performance,
v m *
The grand Cosmopolitan Fancy Fair, Gipps-
land (Vic.), promises to be a great success. Every-
thing is being carried out in great style, and the
amusements provided for visitors are to be as
varied as they are choice.
t ' ★ *
A plain and fancy dress ball in the Bal-
main School of Arts, on Friday, was attended by
about 70 dancers. A Moor© Park lady was cleverly
dresjed as Germany and a vivacious lady from
Ballast Point made a more than usually attractive
Red Riding Hood. Cherry Ripe was effective, so
was Arcadian Shepherdess. Pyrmont sisters as
Norwegian Peasant and Highland Lassie, were ad-
mired, and Summer Hill sent a capable represen-
tative in Maritana. Wind up at 330 am.
* * *
The Botany Social and Rinking Club give
a grand ball in Sir Joseph Banks pavilion on Fri-
day night, 23rd inst., to mark the closing of the
season. A special tram, leaves Bridge-street at 720
p.m., stopping at every street, and returns to town
at 3 a.m. A big attendance is almost certain. On
the same evening the Newtown Social Club hold
their winding-up ball in the Oddfellows’ Hall.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
[Note.— Social Items, in order to ensure inser-
tion for the current week, should be to hand no
later than Tuesday.]
“R.W.R.”: Many thanks.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Botany Social and Kinking Club Plain
and Fancy Drees Ball, Sir Joseph
Bank’s Pavilion, Friday October 23.
Newtown Socials’ Ball, Friday October 83.
Entertainment at Petersham Town
Hall by Members of Petersham
Football Club October 27.
John Try’s secand Annual Excursion,
Correy’s Gardens October 31.


CONTINUED SUCCESS
OF
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£5 DRAPERY DALES!
PACKED in and INSURED against
. Carriage paid by mall all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been In operation for 13
during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick ana safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
iBB LADY’S BALE.
8 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladles’ Petticoats
3 Children's Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longcloth and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, otoer articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
£5 MOURNING BALE.
25 yds Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
I Black Shawl
I Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVES.
On receipt of 3*. in
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 2 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For aooouohements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
15s.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials-Silks, Velvets, &c.—with
prices, and full instruction for self-measurement,
if applied to.
RILEY BROTHERS,
166 Oxford S’treet, Sydney.
Originators of the celebrated £5 Bales of Drapery.
fJIHB REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGE*? OVB 1 * THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY. EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
tW THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITRR saves
labour, stationery, and time, writtrg much
faster than »Xpert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the space occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reporters, and all men of busine s should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY and CO.,
85 Clarence-street.
I
win co.
LIMITED,
356 Goorge-streot,
Have the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS,
and
MUSIC.
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Piices on Application.
W. H. PALING & Co.
356 Geurge-street, Sydney.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 14th October, 1885.
TENDERS FOR REPAIRS AND IMPROVE-
MBNT23.
XBNDERS are invited for Repairs and Improve-
ments at the Balmain Superior Public School,
specifications m*y be seen, and Forms of Tender
obtained at the office of the Department of Public
Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Repairs and
improvements Balmain Superior Public School.”
must be lodged with the Undersecretary, Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, at or before 10
0 on Monday, rhe 2nd November, 1885.
i be Minister does not bind nimself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
Depurcmeni of puduc Work*.
Sydney, 30th October, 1886.
Tenders tor public works and bup-
TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing: Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office In the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders,
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
iMsthe terms of the notice are strictly compiled
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received [it
this office.
Brloge over Coonamble Creek I
at Coonamble
Tally walka Bridge, on road 800- I
ligal to Wlioania
Additions, &0., Dubbo Gaol |
Fencing, Tank, &0., Courthouse,
Quirindi
Construction of Timber Jetty,
Byron Bay
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Moruya
Erection of Courthouse, Cooma (
Tuesday,
October 27.
at 11 o’clock.
Supply of 850,000 Wood Pave-
ment Blocks for the Circular
Quay
Ferry Dues for 1886
Additions. &c., Post and Tele-
graph Office, Sutton Forest
Erection of Station Buildings,
&c„ at Cargo-road and Bore-
nore, Orange to Molong Rail-
way
Erection of Station Buildings,
&o , at Clifton and Bulll, Illa-
wana Railway
Erection or Station Buildings,
&c„ and Gatehouses at Ama-
roo. Orange to Molong Rail-
way
Tuesday,
November 3,
at 11 o, clock.
Bridge over Bar won River, at
Brewarrina
Erection of Courthouse and
Post and Telegraph Office, St.
Leonards
Laying Wooden Pavement in
Oi own-street
Construction of 8. tiling Tanks,
Albury Water t-upply
Tuesday,
November 10,
At 11 o’clock.
Bridge over Ulngwail Creek,
road Wardell to Broadwater
Construction of Wharf at War-
den, Richmond River
Construction of Wharf at Swan
Bay, Richmond River
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Goodooga
Additions Police Barracks, Graf-
ton
Tuesday,
November 17,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Wharf at Bal-
ranald, Murrumbldgee River
Tuesday,
November 34,
at 11 o’clock.
Supply of Twelve Passenger i
Engines Tuesday,
Construction of Railway from I December 1.
Pearce s Corner to tho North I at 11 o’olook.
Shore, with a branch line for |
coal traffic to Bald's Head |
H. S. BADGERV.
A Blessing in every Family.
HOLLOWAY'S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a country in the civilised world
where the healing virtues of these grand medi
cines have not been recognised by thousands ol
sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their
benlflcent action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use it
every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxkord-st., London
t*'” Purchasers should look to the Label on the
Boxes and Pots If the addrcsi is not 533 Oxford-
street, London, they are spurious.
for
infants and Children
What gives our Children rosy cheeks, f
What cures their fevers, makes Viem sleep; '
Castorla.
When Babies fret, and cry by turns,
What cures their colic, kills their worms,
Castorla. >
What quickly cures Constipation, . J
Sour Stomach, Colds, Indigestion ;
Farewell then to Morphine Syrups,
Castor Oil and Paregoric, and
Hall Castorla.
“Castoria is so well adapted to Children
that I recommend it as snjierior to any medi-
cine known to mo.”—H. A. Abchkb, M. D,
lU Oxford St., Now York.
Elliott Beos., Sidney, Agent*.
PBANG’S
CHRISTMAS CAROS
AND
CHRISTMAS SATIN ART PRINTS.
ALL STATIONERS.
foie A gen ts, ROBER TJOLEY & CO.
MELBOURNE ami IYONIY.
Look Out
FOR THE
“BEALE”
HIGH-ARM
PATENT
Sewing Machine.
OAK ASTOR GRECIAN CHAIR,
Cane Seat,
Price oniy 3s. 9d.
ANTHONY HORDERN <& SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket only.
Universal Providers.
_ _ „ Wednesday, October 21.
Dear Peg,—The elections have been more than
ever the one absorbing' theme of conversation
and thought this week, and I find I have un-
consciously imbibed a quantity of knowledge
anent the different candidates and their vague
opinions upon administration of things to come.
As to things past, the prevailing idea seemed to be
coloured from Parkes’ violent speeches which
condemned the old Government, and intends to
oust the present one—after that the deluge, and
his own apotheosis I We women ought to rejoice
In the Bibbs' defeat, for Sir Henry has declared
himself “ In favour of .women who have no male
protectors to act for them, having the electoral
franchise,” while Mr. Bibbs returns for answer that
“ ladies can taik enough at home without going
into Parliament.” and will certainly oppose the
amendment of the Electoral Act in thi t direction.
He is not polite, and I'm very glad he is worsted.
Not that I have any ideas about woman’s fran-
chise, except that I believe women would be more
conscientious in their views, and less open to cor-
ruption—than some of the so-called nobler sex.
But what a picnic there would be at election-time I
Picnics, by the way, are quite the order of the
day, and in this balmy moonlight weather very
often trench far into the night. Mr, and Mrs.
George Monteflore, the Octagon, Darling Point,
gave a very large one on Friday afternoon last at
abarita Park. Shortly after 3 o’clock the guests
assembled at Circular Quay, where a large steam-
launch waited to convey them to the plcnio-lng
ground up the Parramatta River. The weather
was brilliantly flue and the breeze off the water
delightfully refreshing, which made the trip up
the river not the least pleasant part of the pro-
gramme. Returning to Cabarita Park, afternoon
tea was found in readiness. This was merely a fillip,
for some while later, about 6 o’clock, a bell,
sounding the roll-call to dispersed groups who had
amused themselves by playing games or strolling
about the pretty point, brought the party back to
the pavilion, which had been converted into
anarcadian settle A manger. A large horse-shoe
table, bright with dowers, plate, and glass, spread
with a most elegant and richerchi dinner, Invited
to a ‘‘feast of reason and a flow of soul” that
lasted till the short twilight gave place to brilliant
moonlight. Then later dancing wound up a highly
successful entertainment. The Quay was reached
about 11 p.m. Among the guests, who numbered
about 60, were Professor and Mrs. Gurney, Captain
and Mrs. Bunbury, Mr. and Mrs. Salomons, Miss
Salomons, Mr. and Mrs. J. Ogllvle, Mr. and Mrs.
Garrick, Mr. and Mrs. Chadwick. Miss Chadwick,
Mrs. Airy, Mrs. Mackenzie, Captain and Miss
Klngdon, the Misses Denne, the Misses Monte-
flore, Mrs. and Miss Westgarth Mrs. Newton, Miss
Jenkins, Captain Hoskyns, Lieutenant Johnston
(H.M.B. Myrmidon), Lieutenant Bailey, Lieutenant
Forrest, Hon. Lieutenant Boyle (H.M.S Nelson).
Mr. Ogllvle, Mr. Smith, Mr. Gell, Mr. G. Simp-
son, Mr. Eemmls, Lieutenant Reynolds (H.M.S.
Nelson).
On Saturday afternoon Mr. and Miss Walker, of
Uralla, Concord, gave a large picnic to Middle
Harbour.
Lady Hay has issued Invitations for a ball at the
Town Hall, on Friday evening, the 23rd.
An engagement la announced between Lieu-
tenant Forrest (H.M.S. Nelson) and Miss Addle
Dsnne, fourth daughter of Mr. R. H. Denne, of
Baroda, Macleay-street, Potts’ Point.
CORRA. LYNN.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
SC.R.B.”: Of course we are sorry that
small-pox has a footing Id Australia. But there’s
□o occasion for panic. In London, sometimes
there are 6000 people in the smad-pox hospitals at
one time, and yet no one thinks about small-pox,
even if his next-door neighbour is "down”
“J.A.F.” fCarcoar): To decipher your cartload of
spidery 'MS. would occupy us from now till the
crack of doom—" Justltla” (Warwick, Q ): There
is libel in every line of your letter. There is. of
course, no charge “A.H.W.”: Thanks You
have our sympathy....“T.W.V.” (Gundagal): If
he is a qualified doctor, he will be on the medical
list. We are quite well, thanks, except for a
headache from reading your letter ..." Peter
Pindar”: Bad subject. Still, perhaps the subject
is superior to the verse even then R.C ”: How
should you purchase strychnine ? Well, one way
is to ring a druggist up at midnight, and ask him
for a penny packet of Epsom salts “ C. J.”: If a
cleric and a freethinker debate a religious subject
in public we suppose the cleric may fairly take his
whack of the gate-money.... (Marrickvllle):
You are getting no worse very fast. You last
J>oem to a gum-tree gives us a hint to your
dentlty, for you say—
“ And as I sit and scaned those limbs.
As they’er bending to and fro,
I thought of all the happy hours
I spent there long ago/’
Now we have it. You are a ’possum. Or a native
bear. Your poem is not sufficiently explicit. Who,
for Instance, is your darling “ Bub” (or is it Pub ?),
and what does this mean ?
“ But as I sit now all alone,
And scan that dry old limb up there,
I think that Bub once like it
Was blooming, young, and fair.”
How was Bub like that dry old limb when she was
blooming, young, and fair? These, your conclud-
ing lines, are worthy of Sladen:—
“ Yes, like that old green tree to-day,
We may be in our health and bloom,
To-morrow, like that dry old limb.
We're dead—but in our toumb.”
Please give us notice when you are gciog to your
little “toumb ”.."G.P.”,; Nothing in the parworth
printing....“ Curly Leg”: Not good enough as
poetj-y, and tyc i. (mt.lug t oagh for prose....
kl'. If you write any more poetry in th> t
j aw jjy in some safe ptece. Say in
®®*” ! No. As Bulwer Lytt n
says.— To be feeble and to be false Is the cnu-
stant doom of coalitions.”..,C. Jas. C.”: In-
f. n li o6, “ wt >y d o we not put your
in ? In the bar-parlours of London publlo-
nouses no mirrors are ever placed leet the hahi-
oched at their own teirlble appearance,
snould clear out and return no more. Similarly,
j ßre e P£ a £6d In a deep psychological study
R oetß > we don’t care to give you an oppor-
tunity of seeing yourself la print just now. Please
write again, and enable fo go on with our in-
vestigation. ...‘‘F.W.’ : il.) Tne N.B.W. Soudan
contingent privates got 6j. a day. (3.) The pay of
privates of the British Foot Guards is better by a
penny a day than the privates of the Infantry Hop*
a private in an Infantry regiment receives Is a da?,
a lance-corporal Is. fcfd., lance t ergeant2i., sergeai t
38. colour-sergeant 9j., and quarter-master se «
geant 4s. These rates oi pay, as far as the privates
are concerned, are subject to the following de-
per day for washing, and 3d. a
day for groceries and vegetables (tea, c ffe“,
sugar, potatoes, and green vegetables). After
SrP? e “eductions, then, the pay of a linesman s
oMjj. per day, but as he has to provide his own
underclothing, a further deduction of Id a day
Is made, thus bringing bis actual pay down to
HfsL (3) In the N SW. Contingent (6CKJ) there
were ten fleld-offlcers, more than half of whom
were lieutenant-colonels “J. <v.” (Cobar): We
don tsee the point of your statement... “Gam-
basino” (Tasmania):, Next week “ Hiram
Abiff : Not strong enough this tim*-.... “Econo-
my”: The publication of Government advertise-
ment by the means (a dally sheet Issue 1 from the
Printing office) you suggest, would nave many
advantages, and seems, as you say, to be practicable
enough. But the thing is that no Government
would dare to introduce It, under present cl cum-
stances. Government ads give a Ministry a hold
upon the dally Press which no Premier would
willingly lose. The local dallies may not have
much Influence, but they undoubtedly can, when
working together, prop up a Ministry for a time...
(Melb.): Clever, but not point enough...
Democrat”: Wo intend to go into the matter.
' J- Murly”: We don’t know who you
are, but call round, anyhow. Sry on Sunday
we ar ® 8l me! lines away then
H* K. Walker”: The dyspeptic youth who “does”
the Correspondence' has a severe headache.
He read your stuff. L?‘{f H.W.”: Your grip of the
political situation is simply wonderful.... “H.H.”:
Your verse is worthy of the W.P.8....“L M ”:
Correctly interpreteo....“Subscriber”: We can-
not tell why Mr. Jeiferis prefers a Cheap-John
auction shop to a theatre, unless It be that he fears
those spinster? for whom his soul yearns will
patronise the drama to the neglect of tte pulpit.
A. Prowler”: Why don’t you prowlrcunda
school and learn some spelling?. ..“ Dick Mortl-
boy, jucr.”: Excellent... “J P B Thanks.
Please call when in. t0wn....” W H.C.” (Q): Not
® n °ugh. You have a facile pencil ...
* remember you in our vespernal
petitions —“Oyster Johnnie’ : Glad to hear from
you again... *• W. Cralgle”; You say “facts are
stubborn things ” Sr are metres. Your lines are
clever, perfectly all but, in fact “Drum
Major : No use getting your hair out of curl,
dear sir. What la wrong ? Tell us oa'mly.


Wolfe's Schnapps possess all the requisites
of a family medicine.
The readers of works of a standard charac-
ter will ever remember tbe names of Shakespeare,
Scott. Milton-, Diclcens, Burns, Byron, Newton,
a d Dante; and as mementos of tnese giants,
Messrs. Bray Bros., 402 and 404 George-etreet, h ive
ju.it landed their Busts ; also some very choice
Orockery.*
Lawyers, Authors,' Clergymen and Phy-
sicians ara ail favourably inclined towards Wolfe’S
Schnapps.
Woman Items
At Adavale, Western Queensland, a man
put his wife up to auction. She was young and
comely and brought £5. She was a consenting
party. If the purchaser had held out he might
have had her for £2los.
“ Dear, when you go down town to-day
bring me a sponge, the biggest you can got.” And
when he brought uer brother home with him she
went right upstairs and cut her corns with his pet
hollow-ground razor. “Uncertain, coy and hard to
please.”
Proprietors of factories in London are dis-
charging girls under 16 years of age. They fear
that legal responsibility might attach to them in
cases of moral accident. There is a likelihood
that Parliament will legislate to meet the new
difficulty.
A |horseman forgot to remove his spurs
before entering a ballroom in Cooktown (Q.) on a
reeent occasion. For a while the girls thought
there were tacks in the floor. Yard upon yard of
muslin was destroyed. At last they saw where
the “ taoks ” were. He wasn’t asked to take the
spurs off. Taking himself off was ample.
11 1 Absurd modesty. In the circle the other
night. He: “ You must feel very warm with your
cloak on; let me remove it.” She: ‘‘Oh, really,
no, thank you. I prefer to keep it on. You see
(blushing) my new dress didn t lit, and I was
obliged to put on one with long sleeves and high
neck. I should be so ashamed to be seen in it.
Scientists often set themselves disagree-
able tasks. A doctor has been inquiring Into the
odours of the human body. Among the interest-
ing published results of his study, appears the
statement that blondes are endowed with flesh
that exhales a musk-like odour, while brunettes
smell of prussic acid. P.B.—The smallest dose of
prussic acid means death.
The marriage column of the Scotsman,
August 25th last, contains the following announce-
ment:—“At St. Mark’s Episcopal Church, Port-
hello, on the 21st Inst., by the Rev. J. M. Cotterlll,
Robert John Hamill, nursery propagator, Joppa,
to Fanny, youngest daughter of the late George
Tutt, Hallshaw, Sussex, England.” R.J.H. is candid
as to his Intentions, anyway.
I IWrinkles worth knowing : In the Corea,
when a young lady and gentleman are mated by
their parents, if they dislike each other, they are
horse-whipped till affection sets in. When mar-
ried, the bride and bridegroom are presented with
a red paper, their marriage contract, to read. That
affected, the document is torn in two, and one
half handed to each. While neither possesses both
moieties they cannot re-marry.
In England, recently, a man of 72, a
widower with several children, married a mere
child, midway only in her teens. Shortly after
the return of the couple from their honeymoon,
the happy husband took his child-wife to the local
theatre, where he was accosted on entering by an
old acquaintance to whom he Introduced his bride.
During an Interval In the performance, this same
acquaintance invaded the private box, bringing
with him a bottle of milk, which he handed to the
bridegroom, remarking, “ Here, George, your wife
may need this; I see her mother isn’t here.”
In the torrid fastnesses of North Australia
the fly in the social amber Is the dearth of ladles.
On a late occasion the entertainment seems to
have grown into theatrical proportions, and the
flgures that strutted the stage in petticoats made
those who knew what lovely woman was draw out
their handkerchiefs and sob themselves to sleep.
When the local editor awoke he hurried home and
• set up his sorrow in the eyes of the world. " It is
a Pity." he walls, “that we have not ladies to
launch out as amateur actresses, and so do away
with the necessity of having to build up ladies
from the masculine persuasion.
Tea kept hot under a cosy is rank poison.
To drink copious draughts of strong tea at the
best is most injurious, but to swallow Immoderate
nuantltles after it has been standing under the
irav-looking cosy for a time. Is to court premature
decay by one of the most deleterious compounds
known to medical science. Tea drunkenness is an
evil But it does not affect the brain like gin, or
whisky, or bad-wlne intoxication. Its special re-
sult is to render the nerves irritable; and as there
are few things in life which run on greased wheels,
it causes us to use up vitality too rapidly. One
should be as moderate in drinking tea as spirits.
At a “Hallelujah” (Salvation Army)
■wedding in NZ, “Marshal” Booth read the
Harmv’s articles of marriage, to which the happy
nsir subscribed. The declarations made were to
the effect that they did not seek marriage to please
themselves, but in order to become bettor ser-
vants to the Salvation Army. They Promised
never to allow their marriage to lessen their de-
votion to the interest of that body, that then-
home should be soldiers quarters (111 III), that
their children should be brought up to the service
of the Army, &c. The ceremony being happily
concluded, the major turned, and, despite the
difficulties presented by the Salvation bonnet,
managed to salute his bride, whereat the crowd
“booh-boohed,” and gave indications of the most
lively emotion.
Law is a queerly-edged tool. In the loving
davß of the honeymoon, a Southern husband made
hin will according to his marriage vow—endowing
his wife with ail his worldly goods. Ten years
afterwards, with altered feelings, he gave her, by
another will, only a life interest in his propert'ei.
She induced him to repent of this, and, in her pre-
sence, to destroy the second will, ot which his
lawyer had the draft. Nothing was said about it
tn the roan of law. The wife thought she had done
well until she learned, as a widow, that the making
of the second will had destroyed the first, and that
the after destruction of It did not revive said first
wm iler husband had. therefore, died Intestate
and" she was entitled only to a-third of his estate
She wished then that she had let the second will
stand—or had known more of the law.
It is something more than a remarkable
f Act that the first flight Italian operatic soprano
seldom or never have any family. The matter
might even be raised to the dignity of a scientific
Btvidy for it is an almost universal belief amongst
the Italians that maternity robs a woman of her
voice No Woolloomooloo resident will bet much
on this theory, however, for every street down
there contains at least on a sample of the ‘‘holl r-
ing” mother; a *otnun who never goes a ter any-
hTdv but yells to them across the street; wno
never looks for her children, but rushes down to
?hJ front gate with her mouth full of plus and
back hair, and still manages to howl Uko a foghorn,
until, in the pauses of her shrieking-, she hears the
young ’uns answering from the room she has just
left. Maternity doesn’t gag that woman much.
On the contrary, every new arrival seems to add
another octave to her vocal range, and when a
cyclone hears her voice in full blast it knows it
must either jump clean over it, or get wrecked
beyond redemption. “Ja-neyl” “An-n-eel”
Mr. Miles, the Queensland Minister of
Works, is strongly in favour of the abolition of
barmaids. In buttressing his argument the other
night, he introduced a Sydney experience. He
said that he one time lodged at a hotel in the City
of John Davies and the Beautiful Harbour, and on
going out to business in the morning he left a very
pretty girl behind the bar and an old gentleman
on the counter, “ sitting cross-legged like a tailor.’
On returning two or three hours later, there was
no change in the situation of either. “ Now,’’
contended Mr. Miles, “no one need tell me that if
there had been a man behind the bar that old
gentleman would have sat cross-legged on the
counter for three or four hours.” There is co-
gency in this line of reasoning, but it misses its
mark, Inasmuch as it does not inform us what this
photographed patriarch would have been doing
had not the pretty Hebe anchored him cross lepged
to the counter. He might have been labouring to
get into Parliament and working ten of his clerks
to secure him the portfolio of Minister of Works,
He was standing at the bow-window with
his adored and her assembled family, and it was
not till six weeks afterwards that it dawned on
him why he had been billed out on his collar-bone
and had his brain-pan fractured in several places.
It seems that a lady had been passing opposite
when he dreamily said, ‘ I wonder how that girl
would look without that hideous rig ?” He goes
about now with his head strapped up with a
saddle-girth, and on meeting an acquaintance will
tearfully remark that he was first introduced to
that family during a trip to the Hawkesbury, and
this is a lesson to him never more to engage him-
self in a family of Kurrajongers "Would the
thing now have occurred to you, old man, for a sin-
gle moment?” As a matter of fact, in these days a
man cannot be too guarded in the remarks he
makes to the girl he loves before he has got her
well round the corner and facing straight up for
the strand of the broad Pacific where nothing is in
the air but the angry song oi the waves as they
strew the shore with circumambient foam, and an
occasional sheep’s bead from the Glebe.
An English girl recently made up her
mind to trim a dress with canaries of the brightest
yellow hue, and had a lot of birds killed for the
purpose.
The chief effect of the terrible outburst of
saintliness that England has been suffering from
lately is the legislative measure known as the
Sheep’s Eye Casting Amendment Bill, which has
just come into force, and should commend Itself
to the earnest attention of the old women of the
colonial Social Purity socle ilea. The first clause of
the Act is designed to protect girls from the claws
of men, the second clause Is the same reversed,
namely, to protect men from the claws of girls.
The third clause enacts that no man shall cast a
sheep s eye at a girl; the fourth, that no girl shall
cast a sheep’s eye at a man. The fifth clause pro-
vides that no man shall flaunt his pookethandker-
chief when he sees a girl at a window; the sixth,
that no girl at a window shall wave her kerchief
to any man in the street. The seventh provides
that no man shall cough, hum, say “Aheml” or
“’Ullo darling I" when he sees or overtakes a
pretty girl. This clause is temporarily suspended
on holidays and in favour of all persons by the
name of ’ A.rry, as it is believed that they cannot
help it. The eighth clause enacts that all persons
attending any place of religious worship, theatre,
concert, or lecture, shall wear blinkers, and that
whosoever contravenes any of the foregoing
enactments shall forthwith be taken before the
registrar and married to tome other prisoner of
the opposite sex, without benefit of clergy and
with no hope of divorce. The last clause exempts
widows from all the pains and penalties of this
statute, as next year they are to have an Act all
to themselves.
THIS WICKED WORLD.
The Germans will make their mark in
New Guinea. Ilerren Elle and Schollenwich have
arrived there with 100 specimens of ,plants, three
Timor ponies, and 45 Malays. It is a question
whether the natives will become skilled in drink-
ing whisky or lager beer first. Australians should
hurry up ...The Melbourne Baptist Church has
rigged and equipped two young female mis-
sionaries to go and scatter the seeds of saving
grace among the spiritually degraded Indian
women of Nymensing Dion Boucicault is rough
on the Yarra, and suggests that “ that ‘mud-
hole ' should be covered in by the Corpora,
tion as the main sewer of the city.”.... It
is a statistical fact that single men are more
prone than married men to commit suicide. Some
branches of statistics make pleasant reading. ..
Berry’s new Licensing Bill contains a clause which
renders it impossible for a hotelkeeper to transfer
his license until he has held it for at least 13
months. The effect of this will be that if a
victualler is not making his place pay, ho will be
unable to out, and will have to stick there till he
“goes broke ; ” if he is in bad health, he must re-
main at hispost until death removes him; and if he
wants to go away for any purpose whatever dur-
ing the year he can’t do 50.... An aboriginal homi-
cide, one Logic (probably bad loirio), has broken
gaol at Adelaide. ..Mr. David Lindsay is start-
ing out to- explore the far Northern country,
where, it is supposed, the remains of Leichhardt
lie. ..A “lady from Paris” has opened a new
business in Melbourne. She will do up the com-
plexions of ladies and ‘ fit them for balls, con-
certs, churches, theatres,” &o, Melbourne will
soon bo worth visiting— Mr. Barrow, an Adelaide
uewspaper man, has got six months’ gaol for
libelling a politician bearing the poetic name of
Tomkinson. In passing sentence, the Judge told
his prey to be more careful in future, and to fol-
low in the footsteps of his father, who used
to be one of the editors of the Advertiser—
The Collins-stroet (Melb.) land, which the other
day bought £1240 a foot frontage, was owned by
Mr. Beauchamp and was bought nine years ago
for £2OO a foot. The present rental produced is
only £lBOO, which looks a small interest for the
£41,000 of purchase money. . They grumble in
Queensland because a gang of prisoners were
lately set to work on tl J roads near Roma. In
Victoria more municipal applications for prisoners
as labourers are being received than the Inspector-
General can entertain The Queensland Premier
proposes an Amerding Bill to increase planters
expenses and responsibilities in connection with
the Pacific Islanders’ Labour Act. The final clause
provides that after the 31st December, 1800, no
license shall be Issued for the introduction of is-
landers Amongst the late lamented Mr. Mahdl a
people the expression, “ My shoe-top at you,” is
used as a mark of supremo contempt. Now that
tne electioneering tout is on the war-p ath the
same thing frequently occurs over here, only the
shoe-top itsel fis used instead of the expresslo a .. -
Germany has 531 piano manufactories which em-
ploy 7834 hands, and turn out 73 000 instruments
annually, about 60,000 of which remain in the coun-
try. The balance are sold In Australia on time-
payment to boarding-house keepers in-league
with the chloral-sellers and undertakers.. Tho
Auckland Rationalist calls the luncheon given
to Mr. Sala by the appreciative people of that
town as “ a scratch-back soiree.”... .RavenSwood,
a hot gold-mining township in the Northern
colony, has had 11 Anglican parsons in the course
of the last 13 years. The miners appear anxious to
be kept abreast of the latest phases of Faith, and
find that this is best secured by getting a new
apostle every year.
♦ • •
Our dear old friend, Rochefort, says that
if the French Government will not avenge the
death of Olllvier Pain he (Rochefort) |“ will do so
as circumstances may present themselves and upon
the person I think fit.”....General Courcy has
prohibited the Sale of absinthe in Tor quin—The
German soldier-explorer Storms has given him-
|*,“ l f the title of “ Emile I, Emperor of Tang-
nika.” This is, Indeed, a tremendous appella-
n, surpassing even in awful import that of the
ier fellow who called himself “ Aureole 1.,
aporor of Araucaria.”....Mrs. Mark Pattison,
whom Sir Cnarles Dilke has been just married,
is a Miss Strong, a daughter of a Colonel Strong
the Madrai army. She lived at Oxford in her
ung days, and was always considered a young
ly of very high spirits. She married an old
liege Don, the Rev. Mark Pattison, the head
one of the Oxford Colleges, recently dead—
men Victoria, who made Henry of Battenberg a
ioyal Highness,” is fretting over the refusal of
e German Courts to recognise as a “ Royalty
e who, being really illegitimate, is and always
11 be less than nobody in Germany.. .The Queen
11 sees that John Brown’s grave is kept very
een Indeed.... Count Gleichen. a German rela-
te of the Queen, is carving a statue of his illus-
ions relative, and had much difficulty in getting
olock of marble big enough. This will easily be
iderstood on reference to Alfred’s picture issued
ith the Town and Kgntby Jernel—lt
eans death to any subject who mentions the
igust name of the King of Slam. From this fact
iginated th© practice of sneaking of a man as
Hr. W hat’s-hts-name,” In several U S. cities
e prominent men have adopted an automatically
luting hat. The principle is that when tho per-
n provided with one of these hals meets an
quaintance, he merely presses a button at his
le, and the hat is thereupon raised by hidden
aobinery....Music-teacher ; ‘‘Your daughter,
rs. Jones, has real music talent, she ought to have
thorough training.” Mrs. Jones: “That’s what
was telling Mr. Jones to-day, and we agreed to
re a competent teacher for her, after she had
ilshed with you.” “ Waiter, just look at that
iosn you have given me to take my soup withi;
s not washed; it's got chocolate on it. ’ Oh,
jar, no, sir, that’s not chocolate-it’s verdigris. ..
lys the N Y. Mirror:—“Mrs. Langtry is to ap-
jar in boy’s clothes in her newlplay, * The Tramp,
angtry fooled London once before, when she
ime to play Rosalind. It is an onen secret among
ar most intimate friends that she has the largest
id most sufficient reasons for adhering closely to
le conventional dress prescribed by the society
rama.” ...Adelina Patti recently wrote in an
bum:—“ Go to strangers for charity, to acquajn-
inces for advice, to relatives lor nothing, and
ou will always be well supplied.”.... When Mary
nderson and her company left England for
merlca they took with them over 1000 wigs.,.,
he King of Siam, besides four boys he has sent
) school in England, has 250 more sons and
aughters at home, 40 of whom are not as yet
eaned, and it is understood that two or three
tore little strangers are expected shortly. ..The
itter Cry of Outcast London (in the provinces
ad colonies): “Do, for goodness sake, send me
rose numbers of the Pall Mall Gazette.” —
porting Times ... A rattlesnake, having 18 rattles
ad a button, has been found in California curled
pon the body of a dead man As the man was
larrled, it is not known where the soake obtained
ae button.... There is a certain very successful
omlc journal in London which has made it a dis-
nct part of its policy never to hold up to ridicule
ither the “maiden aunt” or the “mother-in-
iw.” This was a compact between the proprietor
nd the first editor... .Catherine Gambetta, great
unt of the powerful Frenchman, has died at
tome, aged 105. She was very poor, and got her
ving by picking up refuse on the roads, and by
he sale of eggs from three hens. The Commune
aid the expenses of her funeral— On dit that the
panlsh doctor Ferran inoculated 47 nuns with
holeraic poison as a preventive against that dls-
ase, and that they all dledl Young Prince Oscar,
f Sweden, who is alleged to be “a fine manly
oung fellow,” will likely marry the eldest
laughter of the Prince of Wales— The small boy
ras asked:—“How can eleven pence be repre-
ented In silver pieces of money ? ” He at once
rrote:—“ By to lorpenlbits an wonfripmebit.”—
t is safe to assume that a man who attempts to
lescribe a kiss never had one. Men who have had
dsses-not smacks—don’t want to talk; they only
vant to think, and dream, and die with their shoes
m At a recent English fashionable wedding the
iridegroom’s best man was his eldest son by his
I rat and divorced wife, to whom he was married
!8 ears ago. His daughter was one of the brides-
naids, and among the company at the ceremony
iis first wife was also present.... W. S. Gilbert
;hus writes to the Times:—“ For my part, I could
lever quite understand the prejudice against
burglars. An unarrested burglar gives employ-
ment to innumerable telegraph clerks, police
officers, railway officials, and possibly also to sur-
geons, coroners, undertakers, and monumental
mesons. Aseoonasheis in custody the services
of a whole army of solicitors, barristers, judges,
grand and petty jurymen, reporters, governors of
gaols, and pr sm warders are called intortquisi-
tion. Really the burglar does more good than
harm.”....There isa coloured iraacherln Bufauls,
Cal, who is 103 years of age. He has been mar-
ried nine times, his ninth wifo being now alive,
and he claims to have had 117 children. He owns
20 acres of land, which he cultivates during the
week, preaching on Sundays— An Irish landlord’s
agent, named Payne, evicted a man, and because
he thought the poor wretch might creep back
again, as a dog would to his lair, so that
the roof might not shelter him he had
it taken oil his house. And yet Austra-
lians wonder why Irish landlords are shot...
“ Cham,” the great French caricaturist, lately en-
tered a restaurant where he was a stranger, and
took the accustomed seat of a stock broker, who,
wishing to make a laugh on the Bourse and to get
his seat, told the landlord that the unknown one
was the headsman—the public executioner. Highly
shocked at such company, the restaurateur re-
quested “ Cham’s” immediate absence—as a favour
to the house and its customers. On “Cham’’de-
manding wherefore, he was told in a whisper that
he “ was known.” In a like whisper he demanded
who had given the information, and the informer
was reluctantly pointed out. “ Yesl he would
know me,” said “Cham.” quite coolly, “I remem-
ber branding him at Toulon some years ago!”
“Cham "now left, but the laugh went the other
way.... The will of the late Sir Moses Monteflore
ewers 20 folio sheets. Value of personalty,
£350 000 In the first three-quarters of the
present year there were 99 persons lynched in the
outlying districts of the United States The
Hungarians won’t stand tunny papers. The editor
of the Scourge concocted a joke about tho Go-
vernment lately, and he was Immediately seized
aad sent to gaol for two years, with two fas flag-
days a month thrown in.
She was beauty, from her forehead to her dainty
Her hair was long and wavy, and her breath as
violets sweet, ....
A figure like Miranda, mortal man could not with-
As weTovedeaoh other fondly, ours was bliss the
most complete.
’Twas a little thing that did It; I was strolling with
My™and 6 upon her shoulder, toying with her curls
She sneezed, a kind of “ katchooi” She was bald
as Dailey’s statue I
And since then she doesn t know me—
When we meet we’re “ strangers yet.
MA BELLE.
She wears a tiny boot,
A number two;
But number four’s her foot,
And this is true;
Soft arms, as white as snow.
Of course, you know.
Comes off like pipeclay, t. ough,
They’re powdered so;
Her hand, a sculptor’s dream
See chemists’ 41 ads.,” —
Her bust (well, I should scream).
This is—er—p—s;
Her waist, is very slight,
Size seventeen—
Spring steels, laced somewhat tight,
Squeezed between;
She’s graceful, lithe, and tall.
On three-inch heels;
Long hair (she owns it all,
For cash she deals);
Her eyes are large and bright
With belladonna
’Neath brows as black as night
Pencilled on her;
Eye-lashes long and dark,
Black cosmetic;
Dimple (a beeswax mark,
Unresthetlc);
Bright, ruby, 41 klssy ” Ups
With carmine wet;
Teeth, white as orange pips—
£s the set.
Her temper, mild as milk.
See 44 Austral’s” screed.
He draws It fine as silk,
Who runs may read;
Sweet woman is a hollow snare,
And men know all about her;
But, after all, I’ll own it—there—
Life might be dull without her.
M. D.
‘ No barmaid under 30 can in future be legally employed in
PUBLICAN (to applicant for billet): “ARB YOU OYER 20?”
YOUNG LADY: “YES, 30 LIST BIRTHDAY.”


Gitlcura
IA DfIQITIIfC PIIDC
Never Travel Without It.
EFFEGf UALLY DESTROYS
ALL NOXIOUS INSECTS.
FLEAS, FLIES. BEETLES MOSCIUITO ES
COCKROACHES SF'rSAv AND IS
AT THE SAjUE TIME QUITE;
HARMLESS TO BI RDS DOGS
l
FOWLS OROTHER
foir
A- rt
animals:
-ww
jmm
’.V AV
.^'byALLCHEMISTS
AN D STOREKEEPERS
V . WHOLESALE
\fl ETON- GRIM WA D EttC?
I : MELBOURNE
Wanted in Every House.
Wanted in Every House.
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticura and Cutioura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman's Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Bcalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; nave had the best phy-
sicians ; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
, and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
■ Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
i it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
’ Cuticura, the Great Skin Curb (a Medicinal
' Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
’ heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
’ stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
f Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
j and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
j mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
t druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
, Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
I $1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25cents; Cuticura Shav-
j iso Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared p.t tub
Potter Drug & Chemical Co , Boston, U.S.A.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
£3013-aTbl@ Sia.g'g'les!
m-
\
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OP CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Blackboard Waggons.
tsr BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMIUd 1 , Morchant A Importer.
83 & 84 Olarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
, and CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
, mm, ail HI Him
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
RAILWAY AND OTHER CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS,
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDBKS’
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, Jco.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,,
and HOOP IRON
Q ALVANISBD CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC; TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSH WARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKB
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
£hal
Tt
PORTABLE, PIKED
and SEMI-FIKHD EN-
GINES
VERTICAL and HORI-
- ZONTAL BOILERS
' TEAM and other
PUMPS
——l= LATHES, PLANING,
SHAPING, SCREW-
X™? MA G dHmEB I)RILLING
[STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
FOUNDRY
ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, *o.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
EGBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse - -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office
- 54 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR,
SYDNEY.
- - -W QRACECHUROH STREET,
SCHOTT CO.,
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.;
Alflo, at London, Ma venue, Paris, and Brussels.
HT LARGEST STOCK IN THE COLONIES.
Alex. Berth wick. «.
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c. U, «SS.
2SI G-eorgre-st., 537-d.T3.e37-.
R. GOLDSBROUCH & CO.
LIMITED,
WOOL and GRAIN BROKERS,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
WAREHOUSES—DARLING HARBOUR.
MAKE LIBERAL CASH ADVANCES ON THE ENSUING CLIP, EITHER FOR SALE IN
SYDNEY OR MELBOURNE, OR SHIPMENT TO LONDON.
AUCTiOM ALES
Held EVERY FRIDAY during the Season, and at freq .
f . THE SALE OF FA
WOOL
intervals during the Winter Months.
STOCK
at Homebush, FREEHOLD and STATION PH PERTIFS, AIN, HIDE**. TALLOW
and other STATION PRODDCB, unde ihe Super! dence of Mr. GEORGE MAIDEN.
FULL UAI OF INTEREST
allowed on Fixed Deposits, Current Accounts, and FINANCIAL BUSINESS of all kinds conducted.
Sydney—lo Hunter-street.
Melbourne—Bourke and William Streets.
London—ls 6 and 157 Leadenhall-Street.
JES aumann,
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
LUNCH BON AND KBTKKBHMBNT ROOMS FOR LA DIBS AND OBNTLBMBN.
Barry's Trioopherons
Guaranteed to make the
ha r grow on bald heads, to
eradicate scurf and dan-
druff, and remove all Im-
purities from the scalp. It
positively prevents the hair
from falling out or turning
gray, and in every case
makes It thick, soft, glossy,
and abundant.
BARRY’S
FLORIDA WATER.
The Original and the Best.
The only perfume in the
world that has received the
endorsement of a Govern-
ment. Put up in three sizes.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnung and Co.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for Imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and EJProsser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge: Comet Co., Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Bedfern.
3La.xa.en. GKLoss


REMEMBER THIS,
IP YOU ARE 81 OK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature In making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
Buffering from any of the numerous
diseases of stomach or bowels, it is
your own fault if you remain ill, for
American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness,. Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ”in the use of American Co.’s -
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of malarial,
epidemic, bilious and intermittent
fevers—by the use of American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, American,HOP
BITTERS will give you fair skin, rich
blood, the sweetest breath, health, and
comfort. In short, they cure ALL
Diseases of the Stomach, Bowels,
Blood, Liver, Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
£5OO
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything Impure or inju-
rious found in them.
That poor, bed-ridden, Invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
American Hop Bitters, costing but a
trifle.
Will you let them suffer T
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
American Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or do<v
tors’ bills to pay.
0T See If the name of Dr. Soule Is blown
In every bottle. If not It Is counterfeit.
mHB AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LITE STOCK
X INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £lOO,OOO.
Head Office : Melbourne.
New South Wales Branch : 171 Castlereagh-street.
Victorian Directors:
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P.,
Chairman
Hon. J. F. Levien, M.P.
Thomas Learmonth, Esq.
N. 8. Wales Directors:
Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Frank Cowley, Esq.
George 8. Teo, Esq.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs Insured
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
Causes on land, rail, or at sea.
Marine Risks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted.
The only Live Stock Insurance Society in the
olonles.
Full particulars can be obtained from the under-
signed.
Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
A. J. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.
Office, 171 Castlereagh-street.
EAU DB COLOGNE,
4711 4711.
Established 1793.
G old Medal, Moscow, 1872; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, strength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the ditto of
Europe.
The large and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only in
! Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number—47ll changed Into 7411.1147, 4117, £o., Se c.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pitt-
street, Sydney.
To be had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
and storekeepers, in town and country.
w. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON" and SYDNEY.
Catalogues
POST PBBI,
W. WALKER
and SONS
are one of the
Largest
Stockholder*
and
IK
Mcmufacturtn
Hiffh-oIa««
FURNITURE
mj.
INGLAND.
Catalogues
POST FBBB.
ALL STOCK
In their
’SYDNEY
■OVII
Supplied
OIBBOT
from their
London
Manufactory
and Latest
London Stylos
GUABAKT HD.
SYDNEY BRANCHf;
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
SOLE IMPORTER OP
Only Iron-fframad Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
187 FITT STREET.
BOLE AGENT FOB TEIB
SMITH OHOAV:
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
Mm
■
A fashionable young lady was seen black-
ing her brother’s boots the other morning, and the
next day she helped to do the family washing. It
Is thought she is fitting herself to become the wife
of a well-connected ’’ young man who has just
been sent out here by his fond relatives for colonial
experience.
When Adelina Patti was recently in Phila-
delphia she heard someone singing with a very
powerful voice, accompanied by a wretched
violin. She sent for the singer, a poor sunburnt
girl* with tangled hair, and clothes of the dirty
fine order. Sue desired the child to come to her
hotel, and having heard her sing, pronounced her
voice to be of rare quality, and volunteered to
take her to Europe and give her a good musical
education, and her father, for a consideration,
surrendered her to Patti. The child’s behaviour
during her voyage to England was so strange that
her protectress, as soon as she reached home, sent
for a medical and musical friend to see the proUaie.
It was found that the supposed boy was a girl*
his father had made him wear girl’s clothes when
singing In the street, as girls always attracted
more attention and got more money than boys.
James E. Richardson,
Custom House, New Orleans, on oath, says : In
1870 scrofulous ulcers broke out on my body until
I was a mass of corruption. Everything known to
the medical faculty was tried In vain. I became a
mere wreck. At times could not lift my hands to
not my head, could turn In bed ; was In constant
pain and looked upon life as a curse. No relief or
cure in ten years. In 1880,1 heard of theCunoußA
Remedies. used them and was perfectly cured
Sworn to before U.S. Com. J. D. Cbawfokd.
For a torpid liver take Wolfe's Schnapps.
The weakest woman, smallest ch’ld, and
sickest Invalid, can use American Co. ’s Hop Bitters
With safety and great good. See
If you are a business man take Wolfe’s
Schnapps occasionally to keep your mental facul-
ties In good order.
GEORGE ST., Opp. Wynyard St.
r AMERICAN
NOVELTY CO.
fancy goods
NOVELTIES
L'U
Bring your Wife and Children with you.
Nobody pressed to buy.
YX7ANTED a number of Gentlemen who will have their
V V heads shaved as above, and guarantee to attend all
meetings and side-walk gatherings. SALARY LIBERAL.
DSE PEARL CEMENT
but Iron. Is. Bottle.
TOOTHACHE SSS
afraid tc use it freely. Nc trouble to the Teeth. Is. Bottle.
OFFORD & CO.’S HATS
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
Next to Royal Hotel, and at 652 George Street.
OBTAINABLE PROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
BISCUITS in CAEES, TREACLE AND UOIBO SOT,
Self-raising JErated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.-s^®
8. & A. hare obtained First Awards all oyer the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney LB., 1880: Special Gold M dal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta LB. 1883-4, P M “
Sydney Agents: W. H. ARIELL S> CO., 343 end 348 Kent-street.
Told in a Hut.
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
Good day, Blr, been bushed ?—ah 11 thought so—
That’s why I sent back a coo-ee.
I knew It was none of our boys,
| or there’s no one that lives here, but me,
It s close on ten miles to the station.
And the night’s closing in very black.
So you’d better stop here in the hut,
And to-morrow I’ll show you the track.
It s not often I’ve visitors this way,
So I can’t give you much of a spread,
Just the damper, and beef, and some tea,
with a sheet of bark under your head—
Not what you’ve been used to, I reckon;
I see by your clothes you’re from town,
Like—Heavens I I thought you were Tic
When you took off your hat and sat down.
Perhaps it was fancy at seeing
You there in my poor old mate's place,
But it gave me a bit of a turn
When the light flickered up in your face;
as you stared in the Are,
Were like his when he sat there alone
Ihenight we rode back from the post
With the letter my mate got from home
He had waited so long for a letter—
There’s the marks on the slab next to you.
Where he chalked up the day and the date
That the next mail from England was due.
Ah I well I remember that morning,
How gaily he cleared the top rail
Of the fence, and the bush track together
We rode knee to knee for the mail.
Twas a glorious day, and the sun
peeped down thro’ the trees on the track,
Whilst the wallabys scamped across
At the sound of our whips’ sounding crack;
Bat twas dusk when we entered the township,
And stopped at the post-office gate,
And, as he got down from the mare,
I whispered ‘ Good luck to you, mate I ’
He was back In the saddle again
Before many minutes had passed.
And I saw by the change in his face
That his letter had reached him at last.
I just caught a glimpse of the cover,
As he hid it away in his breast.
All I saw was a woman’s handwriting,
But it gave me the clue to the rest.
It was late when we reached home again.
And I noticed the day-break was near;
I walked my horse down for a drink.
And left my mate sitting in here;
I thought, as he’d not read his letter.
He was waiting to read It alone,
So I lingered outside with the prads
" Ah, God I: if I could' but have known 1
I peeped through the chinks at him once;
He was sitting there, shading his face,
The same as you’re sitting on now,
That scared me when you took his place;
And only a few moments after,
As I stepped up to open the door,
I heard the report of his rifle—
And, you see there's the stain on the floor.
“ The letter blazed up on the hearth,
As I knelt there to raise up his bead.
And the light flickered up in his face.
And I saw that my poor mate was dead.
" No, sir, there’s no more I know of him.
He’s buried out here on the run.
Whore we used to pull up for a smoke
’Neath the shade of the old spotted gum.
But you’re crying 1 Eh J—what’s that you say 7
This portrait is—Ah I sir, to late! 1
If this is the son whom you seek,
God help you 1 for he was my mate.
H.H.C.


A BOON TO THOUSANDS!
Manhood and Vigour of Youth
Restored in Four Weeks/*
OR. RICORDS
ESSENCE OF LIFE
Xutorci manhood to the most shattered and^
t(tution from whatever cauie arising, in FOUR WEEWo,
failure it impossible i( taken according to the printed di-
ctions, which are very simple, and require no restraint or
aindnqcc from business.
>le remedy affords relief, and permanently
urOI SU who Suffer wasting and withering of the nerve* and
| . • wit . * T *** aF A ■ lieliivnafl
nuscular tissues, Indigestion, Lost of Appetite, Disturbed
Sleep, Trembling Sensation*, Dininest, Spermatorrhoea, all
Urinary Deposit*, which cause incapacity and degeneracy,
■otal and partial prostration, and every other exhaustive de
rangement of the system; regenerating all the important
dement* of the human frame, and enabling man to fulfil hit
nott sacred obligation*. ... , , ,„.
la cases at its., or four quantities in one for jet., K *T
each, »*. <d. extra.
NATURE’S GREAT REMEDY I
DR. RICORDS
SANATIVE PILLS
for strengthening the system, purifying the Wood, regulatin*
the bowels, and removing all vitiated humour*. WUwJ* .and
Liver Complaints, Rheumatism, Gout, Scorbutic Affectum*,
Costiveness Skin Eruption*, and all dl.eas.« of the nervous
■vstem Tni* never-failing remedy affords at once a new
lease of life to the sickly and aged of both *•.*“»
» beautiful and clear complexion, a tore sign of health,
strength, and vigour. Price, •*. ;hy post, «d. eJttra.
AGENTS FOR SYDNEY I
Messrs. W.BARCLAY & CO.,
AS GOV LBVRJf STREET,
1 Qnx Doom nou Gaoxom Stun South,
lad may he had of most Chemltt*. 9
t war-
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
Lost Vitality, &C.--A simple and positive
means of Self-Cure, by an eminent
French Hospital Physician. Sent Free
Medico, P O. Box 706, Sydney.
the
CIEHICB
or
LIFE
KNOW THYSELF
A Steal MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses maybe
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Self Preservation. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. 300 pages, bound in beautiful French cloth,
full gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should be read by the young for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all.— London Lancet.
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As- II fI I
sociation, or’Dr. W. E. Parker, No. 69 Hunter Mb. A L
Street,Sydney,N.S.W. Theauthormay Y<SELF
be consulted on all diseases requiring
skill, Secrecy, and experience.
MOULTONS
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MUULTON’S
FRUIT PILL'S. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what wo say. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S PEUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit),
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Bold Everywhere, Price Is. 3d.
G. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
"t NERVINE
TRADE MARK-’ 4 TONIC NERVINE.”
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CUKE tor Nor-
vouB and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia
— ~ Losi of
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion,
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
80mplalnts, General Prostration, Impoverished
. loos, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
fW*W|U» p L UIJU(HUIC XJ CVUUU) AivOO U 1 ▼ AMU A UVTOI,
fto- By its tonic and soothing effects It at once
removes all craving for Alcohol. By Its richness
*n Phosphorous and other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
l£hei and gives vigour to the whole system.
Price, 4s. fid., or Sss. a case Sold everywhere.
K Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS, Registered
e mists, 104 and 106 Market-street, near Hyde
»k, Sydney, and 5 Pltt-street. :oiraui*v-auay.
WJL-All imitations Illegal. TAKE NO 3UBBTL
A U T I 0 N
NOTICE TO THE PUBLIC.
In consequence of an attempt to substitute In-
ferior and spurious articles for “ Dr. Scott’s Elec-
tric,” the Pall Mall Electric Association, 54, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, desire to caution the public
against purchasing any counterfeit of the follow-
ing goods “ Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets, Dr.
Scott’s Electric Belts, Dr. scott’s Electric Hair,
Flesh, or Tooth Brushes, Dr. Scott’s Galvanic
Generators, and Dr. Scott’s Electric Insoles ’
Every genuine article bears the word “ Electric”
and the name of Dr. Scott, as also does the box
containing same. The extent of our trade, and the
marked appreciation of the public having Induced
certain parties to manufacture a line of worthless
goods, having something of the general form and
external appearance of ours, and variously styled
“ Magneto-Electric or Electric Magnetic,’
we respectfully ask that parties who have been
Influenced by the many testimonials we publish,
all of which are strictly genuine, or the universal
reputation of our goods, to give electricity a
trial, will see that the name of Dr. Scott and the
word “ Electric” appear on ©very article purchased.
In addition to this, we have recently registered a
new trade mark—an oval, label with our local
address, “ Pall Mall Electric Association, 54, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, N.S.W,” in marginal lines,
encircling the device of a mailed hand holding a
group of thunderbolts.
RfC
SB
£
¥ TrJL
CYrtABB
-
£
As we are the only parties in Australia Importing
these goods direct from Dr. Scott, and are prepared
to guatantee the genuineness of every article
bearing this label, we advise purchasers to see
personally that this trade mark invariably appears
on any and every Electric Corset, Belt, Insole,
Generator, Hair, Flesh, or Tooth Brush, they may
desire to purchase. This borne in mind, much
vexation and disappointment will be saved; and
we respectfully request th , t any person who has
been induced to buy any of those imitations under
the impression that they were Dr. Scott’s Electric,
will at once communicate with us.
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by. he
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continenta
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give a
trial ?
&
cpf
m
3m
m
Dr . Scott s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipienl
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &0., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing oases, after all other remedies (so-
called) nave failed.
The prices are as follows
No. 1
No. 8
No. 3
No. 5
Electric Belts..
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electrio-Magnotic
influence can be tested. If you cannot gel
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece of common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P. 0.0., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
m
B 4 Margaret-straot,
SYDNEY.
P.O, BOX 881.
CENCT
m
Tm
y-".
t
'
:^V
warehouses. Sydney.
Tilt b Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Cup;
(LIMITED),
HEAD OFFICE ~ ... LONDON.
CsvpitaJ. - - £3,500,000.
THIS COMPANY WILL CONTINUE TO DISPLAY AND SELL
WOOL!
ON THE MELBOURNE SYSTEM,
At their Magnificent Warehouses,
BBiraE STREET,
SYDNEY.
t&~ EVERY LOT WILL BE CAREFULLY VALUED, AND SPECIAL ATTENTION WILL BE
BESTOWED UPON SMALL FARMERS’ PARCELS, WHICH WILL BE PLACED ON A FOOTING
OF EQUALITY WITH THE LARGE CLIPS.
If reserves are not reached, the nominal charge of one shilling per hale only will be made.
WOOL SALES, EVERY TUESDAY. SHEEPSKINS AND HIDES, EVERY FRIDAY.
Way Bills and all information can he obtained on application, or will be sent by return of post.
H. H. LANG, Produce Manager*
Sydney Wool and Grain Warehouses.
m
■ 3
■- f
y*
mr si
Vv.;
\>A
»3
VS
' '»«
NEW AND INGENIOUS READY-ACTING DOG-TAIL AND CAMERA ATTACHMENT, FOR
TOURISTS.
A patent Is now pending by the inventors.
They claim the dog’s tall and the Instantaneous shutter, also the combination of the shutter and
dogs tail, also the whole dog, and the general application, In the manner substantially and for
the purpose described.
ray <S& Llchtner,
32 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, in great variety, from «3. Catalogues post free.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOBRAPHY.
SOLE AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID In the Market,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied
best, and Cheapest in the colonies .
%
Caterer and Confectioner,
654 GEORGE STREET*
WEDDINGS, BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIES A SPECIALITY.


THE HISTORY OF A GREAT HIT.
The following thrilling and Interesting story, re-
garding perhaps the greatest hit of modern times,
we have reason to bellevo Is true In every parti-
cular.
Seven years ago in one of the beautiful cities of
the great State of New York, a powerful man,
both mentally and physically, lay dying. Though
less than 40 years of age, he had achieved a for-
tune by persistent and untiring labour in the
fields of merchandise, and yet what availed It him
now? The best medical skill seemed powerless,
andfthe strong man was going to an untimely
grave.
Being a man of wonderful nerve and force of
character, despite his bodily weaknesses, he lay
day after day quietly thinking out—for his mind
seemed more alert than ever—a plan whereby a
hit might be made, the effect of which should be
heard around the world.
To think was to act. A certain simple herb of
whose powers Mr. Warner was cognisant, was
given afdr and impartial trial, and what the com-
bined skill of physicians failed to accomplish, this
gift ot nature did. Strength under its use slowly
returned, and In three months time the man, sick
unto death, was given back to his family and the
world fully restored to health and strength. IB
gratitude for his delivery from death, Mr. Warner
resolved to devote a portion of his fortune lu
-preadirg abroad the merits of the preparation
which sav-d bis life. He gave It bis name, and in
1870 in a modest way btgan making the same,
giving it away freely to all netdmg It, Its fame
quickly spread abroad, the demand increased 'to
an extent uprecedented, and the gentleman found
himself the possessor of a business he had not
sought In a commercial way. Finding it forced
upon him, and snowing that to do good was the
sum total of living, he put all bis great energies
into it. and in less than five years the fame of
Warner’s Sa'e Cure was common tali in all parts
of the United States, panada, and England.
And Mr. Warner has not been niggardly with
the wealth which has come to him from a grate-
ful people. Ever foremost in good works, he has
taken a at* p lu advance, and combining education
with pleasure has erected and endowed an astro
nominal observatory, with the finest private tele-
scope in the world, at a cost of £30,000. Appointed
Lewis Swift, Ph D. F.K.A.B. director, and opens
the observatory free to the public two evenings a
week. He gives employment to over 300 men and
women, and Is a generous paymaster. He has a’so
encouraged a love for the fine arts by buying and
putting on exhibition some of the famous oil
paintings of the wor,d; notably Cameron's “Ni-
agara in Winter ” recently purchased at a cost of
£6OOO, and w hioh, we are informed, will ere long
be exhibited In Australia.
But it is of Mr. Warner’s recent achievements
we would sneak. Knowing that serious kidney
and liver difficulties prevailed to an alarming ex-
tent in the colonies he decided to open a branch
laboratory here and bring help to the suffering
and hope to the despairing. As a result of his de-
cision the three-story blue-stone building at 147
Little Lonsdale-street West, Melbourne, has been
secured and fitted up with all the scientific ap-
pliances known to modern science for the succest-
ful manufacture of the Safe Remedies, in their
purity, everything necessary, even to a practical
chemist, being imported. The medicines are now
being put on the market as rapidly as possible,
and we believe we are doing our readers a service
in calling attention to them. As is well known,
medical men as a rule will not prescribe proprie-
tary medicines, and yet such intrinsic merit does
Warner’s Safe Cure possess, that it has for the past
five years dally been used by the profession with
the most gratifying results in Bright’s diseases of
the kidneys, and other diseases of the kidneys,
liver and urinary organs No less an authority
than Kodert A. Gunn, M.D., Dean of the United
States Medical College of the State of New York,
came out with a card in the public press, and ac-
knowledged over his own signature, that he knew
fora surety that Warner’s Safe Cure possessed
wonderful power over Bright’s disease, and that
he had personally known of cures being affected
by its use. Another eminent authority, J. B.
Henion, M.D., Rochester, N.Y., after being given
up to die with Bright s disease, and who was so
prejudiced and bigoted that he would not take
Warner’s Safe Cure because it was a proprietary
medicine, although he had the premonltary death
hiccoughs, was providentially saved by its use
through the intercessions of his wife, and his pas-
tor the Rev. Israel Foote, D.D., at that time rector
of St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, who had been
called in to minister to the physician in his sup-
posed to be last hours. Rev. Dr. Foote attested to
the truth of this statement in an article in the
Living Chubch, a leading church organ of
Ghioago.
The army of witnesses to the efficacy of War-
ner’s Safe Cure is marvellous No other proprie-
tary medicine can boast of such a following of
Illustrious men and women; Bishop Wilson, of
Ottawa; Bishop Wilmer, of Georgia; Dr. Kendlck,
Professor of Greek in the Hoc heater University,
and one of the translators of the revised New
Testament; ex-Governor Alvord; Beth Greeb, the
world’s famous plsloulturlst; together with thou-
sands of others, comprising bishops, reverends,
surgeons, barristers, have written autograph let-
ters. expressing their gratitude for a purely vege-
table preparation, made strictly on honor, and
which will do all that is claimed for it. There was
no known remedy for Diabetes until Warner’s
Safe Dlabet* s Cure was given to the public Now
all is changed. Col. T«ssin, U.B.A , stationed at
Fortress Monroe, says, “ I was given up to die by
the highest medical authorities of Washington.
*fcer a thorough treatment of Warner’s Safe
Diabetes Cure. I have gained what I had com-
pletely given up-hope of more years of useful-
ness.” Warner's s*fe Cure and Safe Diabetes
Cure are put up in 18uz. amber glass bottks, the
largest on the market, and despite the duty, retail
a, re for 3s. each. Warner’s feafe Piiis, made from
the formu.a of a British army surgeon in India,
unruly vegetable, sugar-coated, retail for Is. IJjjd.
per vial. The trace mark is a representation o
an iron safe, whlon is on every genuine package.
Look sharp for it. Take none without it. Ask
your oruggist for these safe Remedies; do not be
put off with something be may recommeud as
‘just as good." If he will not order them for
you. by addreising H. H. Warner and Co., 147
Little Lonsdaie-street West, eLoloaing price, the
tuiue will be sent you.
We might go on and fill columns regarding the
great and successful hit given all forma of kidney,
liver, and urinary diseases by the potent W aruer s
Safe Remedies, but time and space torbil. We
can only advise our readers to send c > ihe 1 Mora-
tory (addressjust given in preceding paragraph;
for a pamphlet, with a Hth. graph, in fyur o<«lorr,
of Niagara Falls, containing a vast amount of ii -
tereatiog and rrliab.e testimony regarding the
wonderlul curative effects produced by skilful
combination oi simple herbs from nature's great
laboratory.
Travellers and persons of feeble constitu-
tion take Wolfe’s Schnapps,
Ah! you have a headache! Why don’t
you try Ayer’s Pills ? They will revive the
stomach, restore the digestive organs to healthy
action, remove the obstructions that depress
nerves and brain, and thus cure your headache
permanently.
Mb. DbOoubot Brown* (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on ©very
description of Land ani Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Boresford Chai
reagh-street, Sydney, _ , _ .
proven speciality, %3T~ LaudTities, Mr. Browne’s
mbers, 53 Castle-
Mining Titles, a well
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
Obstructions of the kidneys and attendant
organs will prove fatal if not removed by Ameroan
Hop Bitters. Bead
}Volfe's Schnapps restores digestion,
The announcement mad a by Hon. James
White i s to Nordenleldc aud the V.K.C.
Derby, once more brings to the Iront teat
much vexed question to waat extent an owner
of racehorses is Justified in -doing ss he
nkes with his own.” this will probably alwajs
remain a disputed point. Quite ctruln ia it that
wl.hout the patronage of iho public race meetings
would BO<>a oeaee to be, auJ tuat, in a meat ure,
therefore, a racehorse is a pulilio servaut. It is
eoually certain that owners, not m-eemg-pj.)
moter«, provide the sport whimi the pubho pay u>
see Each side gives what the other tawis. And
lor an owner to imagine that »uy amount of lu
dlgnant protestation will prevent the pub.io fr..m
hacking his horses at whatever time t..ey deem
suitable is absurd. Mr. D. M tto r orison pet u -mly
, \ plains that no scratched bis huiso Corom t lor
the Caulll.id Cup -istcousequunce of being tore-
• Palled hv conain lucmb rs ol >he ring and b g
public -bettms.” 1.1 answer to this the “big
public b tlurs” would prooab y say that they
backed ibe horse at their owu risk because ih. y
fancied his chance, and that it was dune open lo
rho owner to forestall them In the latter cate,
then would have been forced to put up »lih short
price! and Mr. Koberttou might have hedged
some of his long shots at the expense of
an accommodating public. Ihe latter is a
feature of the question that owners persls-
tlntiy ignore. It is the public who bring
the business that enables bookmakers to lay
liberal prices (which owners have the opportunity
to avail themselves of), and it is the public who
alone can keep a horse in the market position
which provides remunerative hedging for the first
investors. Mr. ttobertson’s wail only provokes a
ami in and at the same time defeats Its own object.
Tn raise the cry” of “forestalling” about a certain
horse merely exaggerates the public’s opinion of
horse’s abilities, and ensures a repetition of
thS grievance in future handicaps. The late
Toseoh Dawson, a celebrated Newmarket trainer
and owner Twas “forestalled” over Thurlnglan
PHnco ior the Ascot Koyai Hunt Cup. Almost at
the last moment he went to the men who held the
hulk of the money about his horse, and made them
lay Mm. all he wanted at his own pr ee, under
throat of scratching the “good thing,” which he
then perm to come oil. Mr. Eobertsou might
have done wojfljc than take a leaf ftpm the old
The working man’s Parliamentary patrons
put the matter pretty straight in England nowa-
days. Speaking at a recent mass meeting in Lon-
don, for instance, Mr. Hyndman, M.P., observed
that “ he was told It was unpatriotic on the part of
the labouring man to hold demonstrations at this
particular juncture, but he asked what spirit of
patriotism could men feel who had just been
evicted from their homes by the South Yorkshire
Colliery Company—ejected with their wives and
children within the last few days ? The enemies
of these men were not the kuseians. tCheers.)
Their enemies were these coal companies—the
shareholders and the infamous managers. (Hear
hear.) If working-men wanted to fight let them
fight these; (Cheers.) If they wanted to slay—he
did not want to slay anybody—but If they wanted
to slay anybody, slay these. If there was anybody
they wanted to slaughter, slaughter the men who
slaughtered working-men—not those who had
done them no harm. (Cheers ) Did they think
the Government cared for the working class ? (A
voice: “Not a bit!”) He had himself heard a
Cabinet Minister say, referring to representations
made on this subject, ‘ You entirely exaggerate
what is going on in this country; I never believe
anything until bakers’ shops are rilled, and until I
hear of a rising in the city.’ ” That Minister will
require to slow, or a bad time is apt to settle on
himself and the bakers.
At the “Saved Drunkards’ Demonstra-
tion,” held at Melbourne, recently, a “ soldier ”
from Sandhurst said he remembered his mother
taking him on her lap and giving him one spoon-
ful of liquor, while she took throe herself. At 17
ho was a confirmed drunkard, and had bamona
9iS w?ek9’ bpvivwring yyhtpb be bad spent £I4)Q,
Our own case, precisely. At the early age of
three days we can remember climbing on to the
maternal knee In search of liquor. We have also a
vivid recollection of observing the good soul who
was responsible for our first appearance on the
stage of life imbibing freely. Tea, she said It was.
Bosh I It was prussic, acid, or some other hell-fire
fluid, else why would we now drink brandy and
cayenne pepper to sting our stomach Into acknow-
ledge gtthe existence of our palate? Wo developed
toperish tendencies subsequently, and a little
“something warm,” with sugar in It, was our
favourite beverage. At the early age of 18 monthi
we might have been observed astride of a fiery
and untamed broom-handle charging down on the
ducks in the back-yard, and ever and anon re
freshing ourselves by a pull at the flagon wi
carried. At 10 years of age we were inordinately
fond of gin—black gin—and many a time and ofi
have we chased the bounding “gohanna,” or
tracked the fierce grub to his lair in company will
an uncovered edition, in quarto., of the artloh
referred to. At 16 we were an irreclalmabl*
drunkard, and, after spending £30,000 in threi
d-ysidiedin a fit of “fantods,” and went to join
Aaanias in the land which is hotter than to-day.
At least we ou?ht to have done so if we had been
such teetotal truth-perverters as some of these
shocking examples. Saved drunkards 1 Oh yes.
Sived from schnapps to bo damned for lyln/,,-1
Dshl
A DAY DREAM DISPELLED.
SCENE: CLONTARF, OR THEREABOUT.
The Drover’s Life.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hurrah for the drover’s life 1
He hath neither home nor wife,
Nor trouble hath he nor care,
So the glass of Life’s “ set fair;”
’Tis a lot without compare.
And he sings to. his horse, and laughs at bis dog,
and his whips he swlngeth free,
Nor K.C.M.G., nor monarch, nor prince, hath a life
as brave as he.
With the morning star he wakes,
The dew from his blanket shakes—
“ ’Tls daylight, my lads, turn out;”
And the drover’s hearty shout
Echoes loud from rocks about,
And the billy it sings on the blazing fire, while the
stockmen roll their “ drums,”
Bre their fast they break in the wild wood’s heart-
'neath the lofty Whitt-barked gums.
“ Then saddle, my lads, and slide
While the day is young we’ll ride,
Our horses are fresh and strong;
'though the miles in the bush are long.
Let’s beguile them with yarn and song.”
For the bushman’smate, as a brother, tried, cheers
ever his comrade’s lot,
And be laughs and sings while the day is long; in
the tush is care forgot.
Nor taxes nor rent he pays,
Nor dreadeth he quarter days; ,
Me knoweth not debt or dun,
No woman his heart hath won
(In a single life there’s luo).
Though the drover bold loyes his pipe and lais,
yet he loves to be free also,
And he ties no knot with a careless tongue, which
his teeth will not let go.
A life In the bush for me,
The life that is ever free,
Where the friends one makes are few,
Where man to bis mate is true
And Life’s sky is ever blue;
Where the birds sing sweet at the dawn of day, and
care from the heart has flown;
Hurrah for the bush and the bushman’s life, to
doctor or dun unknown.
M. D.
A Strange Story.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You didn't know my JJolllo—such a pretty girl she
Flowers fair as she ilon’t blossom every day;
But I seldom speak of Nellie now to anyone, be-
cause
She jilted me upon our wedding day.
She and I grew up together, we were playmates in
our youth; ~ .. .
Aye. even as ahoy, X loved her dear,
And I always looked on Nellie as the very soul of
truth —
But she wasn’t—she was very insincere.
When boyhood’s days were over, and I came to
man’s estate. . ~
We plighted, full of love and hope, our troth,
One eve when wo were standing by the little
And K gazfng B at the stars that smiled on both.
The happy day was mentioned, when there came
into our town , v . ~
A parson— quite a masher, young and slim;
He often looked at Nellie, but my visage wore a
WhenTnoticed my JUxncic looked at him.
Still my heart was unsuspecting, and when she I
was to wed ...
Developed a religious turn of mica.
And west in for Confirmation—well, I merely
And thought no more about It (Love Is blind).
Long I waited at the altar on that memorable
morn
That was to make one person of us twain;
Neither Nellie nor the parson cams, however—
they were gone
Up country by a cheap excursion train.
’Twas the GittiJlrincUiotl did It (as It s done for many
Uy the time she knew her catechism through
The parson taught her lees ms she hal never
learned before— .......
In the vestry. (Every word of th sls true.)
I’ve only mat her once since; she’s a hallelujah
(Theoostuma. too, becomes her very w. 11);
And they tell me that the parson Is a bljaop-let It
The P ume icihoome (most probably In—Sheol.
NO. i.
CAPTAIN TOFFEY: “IN THIS ARCADIAN RETREAT, ANGELINA, WITH YOU BY MY
SIDE, I COULD DWELL FOREVER; FORGETFUL OF THE WORLD, OF SELF; UN-
TRAMMELLED BY THE COLD CONVENTIONALITIES OF SOCIETY, UNDISTURBED
BY THE ”
NO. If.
(800 00-00-000 1I) “ FOR HEAVEN'S SAKE, SAVE YOURSELF. ANGELINA I ”
