

THE
BULLETIN
Vol 3 —No. 129 -Now Series.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1885.
Frio*—64.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 81, 1886.
Orange Schemers and Their Dupes.
It may be safely said that the ballot-box
influence possessed by the Orange lodges of
New South Wales is a standing proof of the
unfitness of a section of the electors to hold
and exercise the franchise. It is more than
this. It is incontestable evidence that a
portion of the community is still sunk in
that state of civilised barbarism which has
left upon three centuries of English history
a disgraceful and indelible stain. Wt o now
oan|read of the murderous zeal of a Bonnob,
the fanatical fury of Bloody Mart, and the
pious butcheries of Oliver Cromwell with-
out detesting those misguided and brutal
euthusias s? They were unable to see that
religion, pure and undefthd must be will-
ingly accepted, and cannot be forced upon
the conscience of another. They lost sight
of the high and holy teachings of true reli-
gion in their reverence for some trivial
points of distinction laid down by men
perhaps less wise, and more barbarous than
themselves. And yet their error is not even
now apparent to our “Cromwells without
opportunity.” The Orange organisations
could not exist to-day if there were not a
number of fanatical imbeciles who think
that by their efforts liberty of conscience
may once more be utterly destroyed, and
power given to the State to punish those
who dare conscientiously to hold opinions
different to their own. This is their highest
hope, but as this, even to themselves, does
not seem to be attainable for some time,
their present energies are devoted to the
noble purpose of annoying in any way pos-
sible the opposite party. Where fools are
gathered together there will adroit and un-
scrupulous men be found also. This is the
case in the gambling dens, it is the same with
the Orarge lodges.
♦ * *
If we were asked for proof of the election
influence of the lodges we would point to
the return of John Davies, C.M.G. His
public record is remarkable for his devotion
to Sir Henry Pabkes, the eccentric nature
of his orthography, and the virulence of his
enemit s, who accused him of using his posi-
tion of public trust for the purpose of ac-
quiring diamond lings, tall hats, and iron
railings—libels which a jury, unable per-
haps to gauge the relative value of money
and character, assessed at one farthing. We
do not assert that any of these charges were
true, but we believe in Bentham’s seeming
paradox that it is more necessary that our
public men should be devoid of suspicion
than that they should be absolutely incor-
rupt. John Davies may be innocent of
everything imputed to him, but now that
he, who has been accused so often, is again
in Parliament we cannot be absolutely sure
that unscrupulous men may not again
come forward to confront him with fresh
unfounded charges of fraud. It would
have been much better if he had re-
mained a private citizen, and there is
no doubt that he would have done so,
had he not been the chosen one of a section
of the people who love to commemorate the
religious cruelty of their ferocious fore-
fathers. Dr. Renwick is a further proof of
this influence. Another devoted follower of
the Prophet of Bigotry, Sir Henry Pabkes,
his public career is famous only for a Forest
Bill (which, as a practical joke, was the
biggest thing ever known, but as a legisla-
tive measure was an abortion), and his
childish “blabbing” of Cabinet secrets for
electioneering purposes. Again we are at a
oss to account for the success of air.
Honodrable-Within-the-Colony Lloyd,
unless, indeed, he was favoured by the
Orange vote. Mr. H. W. T.C. Lloyd was once
a Minister; he was also a Hour-merchant;
occasionally he was unfortunate in his specu-
lations; now, we believe, he is rich as well as
“ honourable within the colony.” But
mere riches do not make a legislator,
although a yellow sash and an attachment
to a Dutch king may make a member. Mr.
Henson, another protege of the lodges, is an
excellent man, who has gained political
celebrity by his marvellous silence and legis-
lative incapacity. Yet he again is to elec-
trify the House with his astonishing lack of
political intelligence. Mr. William Clarke
has been once more returned for Orange,
and Mr. Abigail comes back a victor from
West Sydney. Space will not permit us to
describe their political qualifications. And
yet but very little space would suffice.
* ♦ ♦
The effect of this influence is twofold.
Men are put into the House who are not fit
to be suburban aldermen, and good men are
deterred from coming forward. No man fit
to vote on a motion of adjournment even
would come out as the Orange candidate,
for he would be bound to class legislation of
the vilest and most retrogressive type. The
Orange candidate may have what views he
likes upon any subject, provided only that
he will always vote for anything which
would lay any disability on the Romanists,
and against anything which is in the
slightest degree to their advantage. These
conditions do not apply to those who, with-
out seeking it, obtain the Orange vote, but
merely to those so-called politicians to whom
the yellow ribbon is the essence of their
being, as members—to those who, to use a
slang phrase, “travel ” on the lodges. Such
a man must sell his political conscience and
his independence for the coveted seat. He
must become a mere puppet to be set in
motion by the High Priest of the Order, and
so long as he is subservient he may be
utterly incapable, or even corrupt, and yet
retain the support of his bigoted masters*
No man of independence and self-respect
would be a party to such a contract, but few
sensible men would oppose the candidate
who has the support of the lodges,
where the Orange vote is dominant.
Argyle will prove the latter statement.
This constituency has lately been proved
by the letters of Mr. George Ranken and
the Parkes correspondence to be controlled
by Orangemen. And what choice had the
electors of that important district? The
candidates were three in number: Colonel
Holborow, who has always had the Orange
vote, and whose silence is an index of
his wisdom and statesmanship; Mr, Tait,
who was, we believe, once a Wesleyan par-
son, then a landjobber; and Mr. Ball, a
barber whose scissors are much more in-
cisive than his speech. The latter gentle-
man was one i Mayor of Goulburn,
and it is, perhaps maliciously, related
that, after receiving the Governor on
the occasion of his visit to that city, he
was afterwards sent for to shave His Excel-
lency. We have heard of more than one
man who would have done much credit to
the constituency, but the mere fact of its
being an Orange district deterred such in-
dependent “strangers” from coming for-
ward. So now Messrs. Holborow and Tait
are deputed to represent Argyle in the next
Parliament. It is only just to the con-
stituency to say that we hope they do not
represent the intelligence of the voters I
• • •
There would be less reason for censuring
the Orangemen if they had any definite
political purpose in view. But they can
have none, unless it is the reduction of the
country to the conditions of religious
tyranny which prevailed when William
the Dutchman was King of England.
Orange puppets in Parliament agree upon
no one point save their aggressive and often
assumed hatred of the Romanists, and their
devotion to Sir Henry Parkbs, to whom the
idiotic jealousy of various sects has been the
secret of power in years past. He has been
most powerful when best able to work
any point for the oppression of the Irish
or Romanists. Look at the infamous 9th
clause of the Treason Felony Act, a measure
passed by Sir Henry and his yellow-sashed
followers, and which is a disgrace to our
Constitution, not less than to our legislators.
This clause alone is a proof of the Orange
influence in that Parliament. By raising a
religious cry Sir Henry was able to pass the
Education Act by a large majority and to
retain power throughout that Parliament;
and the Protestant Ascendancy cry of two
years ago was an insidious attempt to raise a
fallen party upon the bigotry of the voters.
But the effort was useless ; no sectarian
strife followed, and an independent, though
somewhat inefficient party, obtained the
reins of Government. As parties now stand,
Sir Henry will be able to lead, if he can
raise sectarian strife and influence the
minds of the majority with hatred and dis-
trust of those who are led by priests instead
of by parsons. Unless he can do this, his posi-
tion as Premier will not be worth three
months’ purchase, although such tried-
much tried—public men as John Davies,
C M.G., Dr. Renwich, Colonel HolboroW,
Honourablk-within-thb- Colony Lloyd,
and Francis Abigail, may support him.
And we do not believe that Pabkes will
this time succeed in raising the Kiama
Ghost.
• • •
It is urged by the dupes of Orange
leaders, that the Order or Society is founded
upon religion and loyalty. The excuse is
not worth controverting: it can hardly
delude those who assert it. Law is founded
upon truth and justice. “By their fruits ye
shall know them,” applies to each institu-
tion. In each case the foundation was good,
but what of the superstructure? For what
does Orangeism now exist but as a machine
to be worked by the fools for the benefit of
knaves—and others? If a cause of strife
was necessary to the existence of some men,
why was it not looked for upon Australian
soil? Why go back to find it in the miser-
able quarrel of a barbarous age ? But it is
again pleaded that unless Orangeism inter-
posed a barrier, the tyranny of the Pope
would divest Australians of their rights.
This is a slander on our age. Free men
have too much enlightenment and too great
a love of freedom to allow pope, archbishop,
priest, or parson to fetter them. They know
that politics must be kept free from the
dogmas and the pretensions of any sect.
Australia for the Australians is now the
thought of every true colonial patriot, and
if it were not for the foreign fears, or as-
sumed fears, of our Davieses and M‘Coys,
Orange lodges and Guild Unions would long
since have been left to the care of the
bigoted foreigners by whom they were first
founded. Every true Australian will notice
with joy the decay of these institutions, a a
much aliens to our free constitution as they
are to our native land.
M. EMILE ZOLA.


AMUSEMENT
POR OLD
AND YOUNG.
On receipt of the advertised price, any of the
following Tricks will be sent by return post :
THE DISAPPEARING CARD BOX.-A card
£ laced in the box Instantly vanishes, and the box
i shown quite empty. Price Is., post free Is. 6d.
THE MAGIC CORK BOX.--A capital multipll-
c atlon trick. Three corks are placed In the box,
mvij, . Been by the audience to be quite empty.
The lid is placed on. and when removed there are
found six corks within. Price Is., poet free Is. 6d
0F THE NORTH’S CHANGING
CARDS.—These cards change instantly to other
cards, whilst held in the hand, in a most surprising
manner. Price Is., post free Is. 3d.
THE GRB4.T HAT AND DIE TRICK. A solid
die passes completely through the too of a gentle-
man shat and is found inside. Price Is. 6d., post
free 23,
THE MARVEL CIGAR CASE.—The case is
shown crammed full of fine cigars, which instantly,
vanish. Excellent trick. Beautifully made in
leather. Price 3j. Gd., post free 3j.
THE MAGIC SNUFF BOX.—A most excellent
trick. No opening can be discovered anywheie.
it looks just like a solid piece of wood, and no
person can possibly open it but the owner. Price
35., post free 33. Gd.
THE MAGICIAN’S PACK OF FORCING
CARDS.—No conjuror with card tricks can pro-
perly perform without them. The most astound-
ing tricks can be performed with them. Very
superior cards, 3s. Gd., post free 3a.
DEMON HANDKERCHlEF.—lndispensable to
every conjuror. Watches, rings, coins, and any
articles placed under this handkerchief, instantly
disappear.although the handkerchief is thoroughly
shaken and shown to the audience each time.
Price 3s. Gd., post free 33.
THE MAGNETIC PACK OF FLYING CARD?,
Can be made to run up and down the arm or
body, and elongated in the air two or three feet
10 the most beautiful regularity without one
of them falling. Very astounding. Price 3s. Gd ,
post free 3s.
THE MAGIC DIE AND HANDKERCHIEF. -
A solid wooden die is placed under the handker-
chief, and felt to be there by the audience, one of
whom may be allowed to hold it. The performer
f J c| ai m s. Presto I gone I ” and Instantly takes
the handkerchief and shakes it to show the die has
vanished, and exhibits it thoroughly, whilst the
hi© itself is found inside a canister or any other
article. Price 3s. Gd.. post free 3*. Gd.
THE WONDERFUL JAPANESE DRAWER
BOX.-The performer sends round a prettylilAie
box to the company, which they fill with mg*,
gloves, coins, &o. Directly the performer ti kas
it in his hands, without removing it from signt.
the articles instantly vanish, and the drawer is
shown empty. Price Is. 6d„ post free3j.
THE MAGIC DISSOLVING PAC<£ OF CARDS.
—A pack of playing cards are shown to the au-
dience and then placed into a cise just large
enough to hold them. One of the audience instantly
alter this is done, opens the case, and finds it full
of sweets, and the cards vanished. Price Is. Gd..
post free 2).
CANDLE AND BE-
WITCHED HANDKERCHIEF.—The performer
brings forward a candle out of a tight-fitting case
a °d lights it. He then borrows a lady’s handker-
chief, burns it to ashes in the candle, and places
the ashes and candle in the case again. The lady
ij then called on to open the case, which is banded
to her. She does so, and finds her handkerchief
restored therein but the cand e entirely gone.
Very excellent trick. Price 33,61., post free 3s.
N.B.W. stamps taken at par, otaei colonies add
Id, to each Is.
Address all communications;
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT
BOX 641 G.P.O. 401 GEORQE-ST., SYDNEY.
Between King and Market Streets, opposite the
Royal Hotel, and no other address.
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only [9s.
Small Bottle, . [la. 64.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINS,
la. 6d. per Bottle.
HURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
*B. par Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT)
Is. per Bottle,
RUM,
In Flasks. Bottxes, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
Is.Od. each.
The Key Brand, and Henhetf Prize Medal Brand.
In stone bottles and square bottles,
LA.BGBBT BIZI.
IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W, ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
'YBNKT.
Thi Rates ot Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 84a.; half-year, 18a. 6d.;
quarter, 6a. 6d.—ln advance.
Thi Advertising Rates are sa. per Inch!
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 86 consecutive insertions!
Ifi per cent.: For 58 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under 41, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Be warned in time and take Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Persons whose blood is thin and watery,
take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Tima may tear love-bonds asunder.
Truest hearts in time may sever;
But the suits of Summerflela are
Like the sun which shines for ever.*
A-k for Wolfe's Schnapps and take no other.
Persons whose avocations keep them in-
doors should take occasionally Wolfe s Schnapps.
As an antidote to the consequence of late
hours Wolte’B Schnapps stands preeminent.
Something upon which we can rely—
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe's Schnapps is a donor and preserva-
tive ot health.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Privileged Thieves.
Dishonest lawyers are not treated like other
people in the Australian courts. At Burra, S A.,
the other day, some of them who 'had 6een
accused of default in paying over clients’
money “ consented to he struck off the rolls
unless they settled the matter within 31 days."
"Consented,” Indeed! How obliging the law-
yers have become 1 Of course this convenient
little arrangement amounted to nothing but
compounding a felony, which offence, when
committed by any man other than a Judge,
Is a misdemeanour punishable by no end of gaol.
The other day, In Australia, a number of unfor-
tunate people wore *’ struck ” by a rascally attor-
ney for a sum total of trust-funds variously
estimated between £50,003 and £lOO,OOO. When
next some poor devil of a clerk is put be-
hind the spikes at the New Guinea Supreme
Court, and ferociously summed up against by the
upright Judge, we shan't be surprised If the jury
return to Court after a short consultation and say
through their foreman: "Yer Honor, look here.
The fellow in the dock only stole £2, and would
have returned It had his horse not fallen In the
Caulfield Cap. I backed the very same moke my-
self. Now, if the prisoner were a lawyer he could
steal any amount of money without being sent to
gaol. We’re not going to put a layman in gaol for
a crime that could be committed with Impunity
by a lawyer. So, though the evidence against him
Is conclusive, we have very much pleasure in
Hading him not guilty.” Wc hope to see the people
up North take this hint.
Misguided Mirams.
“ Mb. Mirams, in the Assembly, yesterday, moved
for a return showing the total cost to the cilony
of His Excellency the Governor and bis establish-
ment. . . There were cries of dissent when the
hon. member was reading out his motion, and
groans when he sat down. Mr. Patterson rose to
propose, amidst loud cheers, that the motion
should be opposed. He stated that the colony at
the present time had a decent Governor, and he
failed to Bee why the House should go out of its
way to insult him. Mr. Harper suggested that
the hon. member should withdraw tbe motion.
Mr. Mirams declined to do so, on the ground that
the Government had agreed that it should be
placed on the unopposed list. The Speaker’s
ruling was sought on the point, and he decided
that the motion should be transferred to the list
of 1 opposed.’’’—Melbourne Aoe. It is a pecu-
liarity of the tpeaking members (as distinguished
from the dummies) of the Victorian Assembly
that when one deems It his duty to sit upon little
Mirams, the rest also deom it their duty, and suc-
cessively sit upon him till he is aa fiat as a cheese-
plate. But the little mauls plucky, and can bite
like a bull-dog ant when he likes. Some of his
speeches have a fine bitter-aloes flavour very re-
freshing after the syrupy sing-song of some other
members. They are too long, however, but that
la the fault of his stature. It Is the characteristic
of little orators to make big speeches. Yet we
would not, for all his eloquence, care much for
Mr. Mirams as a boon companion. There is no
mellowness about him. Too much Yan Yean,
taken undiluted, has made him hard and sapless as
a hat-rack. This hardness and want of sap has
crystallised in the form of a mania for figures.
And so Mr. Mirams is a great financier—on paper,
of course, though we believe some of his private
transactions have been marked with a certain cool
power of calculating the chances which might
have brought him to the first ranks of the pro-
fession if he had started as a bookmaker. Mirams
the Metallioian has a ring about it that pleases our
simple ear. But to be serious. Mr. Mirams was
wrong in letting his arithmetical mania run him
amuck against the representative of Royalty and
the divine right of the Few to get up and
ride on the shoulders of the Many. No wonder
there were “ cries of dissent while he was reading
out his motion and groans when he sat down.”
We are only astonished at the moderation of the
members of that Democratic assembly in refrain-
ing from smothering him under his own umbrella.
That splendid patriot, Patterson, did not lose
this opportunity of making his little point. With
fine carelessness of logic he did it, too. “He
stated that the colony at the present time had a
decent Governor, and he failed to see why the
House should go out of its way to Insult him.”
There is only one thing to he inferred from this,
of course—namely, that there have been repre-
sentatives of the Crown in Victoria who have not
been what Mr. Patterson calls “ decent Go-
vernors,” and that there may be again. He would
not, judging by his words, have much to say
against a motion asking for a return showing the
cost to the colony of any of these. But the very
next Governor who is sent to Victoria may be
Such an one. And the one after him again and a
whole string of them; for good Governors are
not as plentiful as baldheads at a pantomime.
Most of the colonies know this to their sorrow.
Are Governors therefore to he considered sacred
personages—remote as Grand Lamas from the
breath of inquiry for ever because one or two
Of them happened to bo “ decent ?” This is what
Mr. Patterson’s argument amounts to. It all
homes of his recent trip to Europe. He lost no
opportunity of improving his mind; while he
Was away. He seemed to regard himself as a
chosen vat sent home to bring the old
wine of wit from its ancient places to
this new land. So be filled himself up with as
much of it as he could get. Of course tbe dealers
in culture and tone cheated him a little. To use a
vulgar, but expressive phrase, “they saw him
coming.” And they accordingly “ring in” on
him a quantity of lees and dregs which the palate
of Europe objects to—lees of loyalty to old belief
in Blue Blood; dregs of faith iu the divinity that
hedges round that mob of dissolute drones called
the Aristocracy. But whatever the contents were,
Mr. Vat Patterson came back full. He was
bursting with culture when he landed. It has been
oozing out of him ever since. It is hardly sur-
prising, then, that he should stand up for the
Governor as he did. Sir Henry Loch is said to
be a man of refined, and even scholarly tastes, If
he has not quite what that august old humourist,
Mr. Samuel Levey, of Sydney, calls ‘*the manners
and deportment used during my early manhood at
theCouitof llis Majesty George IV.” Mr. Pat-
terson and he would, therefore, take to each
other naturally. In mutual conversation—seasoned
no doubt by sparkling silences and haughty
hiatuses on the part of His Excellency, by glitter-
ing (jaucheries and splendid solecisms on the part
of Patterson—they might console each other for
the disheartening unlntellectuality of this barren
land. That is, presumably, Mr. Patterson’s view
of the situation. Whether it coincides with Sir
Henry locu sis another question. It is a curi-
ous, if sorrowful, fact that whenever a naturally
able man is lifted up by his own strength of intel-
lect out of the ranks of the people, to be a cham.
pion of the people, he has only to rub shoulders
once or twice with the enemies of the people, and
the virility goes out of him forever. The Delilah
of Caste has only to
“ Prepare the soft cushions of Sidon,
Make ready the rich loom of Tyre
and he grows languorous; he lies back in the
purple as one born to it; the fatal scissors gleam;
his sinews are slackened, the might of his muscles
made vain; the secret of his strength is laid bare;
and then—
“ Hoi Samson,
Upon thee the Philistines are,”
Wo have wasted more poetry over Mr. Patter-
son than those conversant with his career will,
perhaps, think justifiable. We will, therefore,
descend somewhat abruptly to the Lemnos of in-
glorious prose. It is the business of members of the
Ruling Caste to learn the weaknesses of the
castes beneath them. This particular weakness of
the Demagogue they know hy heart and play
upo?. it as upon an old fiddle. They wait like the
bird-catcher in philosophic calm, and let the un-
suspecting sing or soar at his own sweet will,
knowing they have the decoy that will lure
and lime him at the lest. While they have the
power of corruption—this ability to dispense ficti-
tious honours and favours from a high place—
they will laugh the strength of the fiercest Demo-
cracy to scorn. The men of the French Revolu-
tion knew this—knew also the one stern remedy—
and acted up to it. They pulled them down. Let us
return to little Mirams. He was misguided in
charging with his rhetorical umbrella against the
windmill of Ancient Use and Wont. It stood—
and he fell. We have yet said nothing about the
fact that Mr. Patterson put his own haughty in-
terpretation on the motion of the member for
Collingwood in saying that it was “ an insult” to
the Governor. We really see no reason why the
Victorian public should not know how much a
year they are paying to keep up a shadow of that
Rryal State which the British public pays for so
prodigally. But then we are low persons our-
selves—mere Collingwood Flatters, in fact, with no
reverence for anything because it is old If it is
not also good. Still wo would rather be Mirams
than Patterson—ln this particular instance.
Io, Freedom!
The jury empantelled to try Joseph Symes, the
Freethought publicist of Melbourne, have been
unable to agree to a verdict. All, except a very
few demonstrative pietists, will rejoice at this. It
is a solid victory for the courageous Freethinker.
It is no if si a victory for those who do not adopt
the tenets of Symes, but who value free speech
and a free Frees as the most active and powerful
of the agents whereby the race can be lifted to
higher levels. It has been, we know, aflirmed by
the persecutors of Mr. Symes that they too are
awake to the advantages of this dual freedom.
They present a fanciful distinction between
license and liberty. The distinction rests on the
same old basis which has been always at the ser-
vice of Churches when they wanted to crush
sects and of tects when they wanted to crush
schisms. It is no more and no less in the eyes
of the impartial observer than the reproduction
in the realm of thought of the tyrannous old de-
monism that justified the oppressor, who had
power to manacle and gyve the man who had no
power. Intellectually, a distinction between
license and liberty can be apprehended. Practi-
cally, it can be illustrated. Intellectually there
was no license in the attitude of Joseph Symes.
The primer of freedom and equality teaches that
in the community in which one man is free to de-
clare that there is a God, another man sh>uldbe
free to declare that there it no God, The mind
Insists upon that as a postulate in any argument
about a free society. Those who prosecuted
Joseph Symes iterated and reiterated the state-
ment that it was not on the intellectual ground,
but in the practical use made of his liberty the
arch-heretic sinned against society. Thus do
we see revealed the bedrock on which all
persecutions, spiritual and secular, rest for their
final struggle. The kicking from this base will
have marvellous vitality while the people support
it. When the people fall back—and they are
bound to fall back from the superstitions of the
present and future as they have done from those
of the past—the tyrannous old demonism will He
down and die. The note Hounded by the Mel-
bourne jury means business. The kicking symbols
of religious intolerance have lost the day.
Correspondence
ICorretpondents who give neither name nor nom-dc-
vlwne cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed. 1
“Jubilee”: The exceeding magnificence
of Her Majesty’s reign we admit with pleasure and
even pride, but that the glory of it has been in any
way brought about by the genius of the Queen’s
exalted person we respectfully but firmly deny—
“ Currajong Many thanks. Letter at Post Office
in your city....* 1 A.G.” (Arundale): Thanks.
Already noticed “Veno”: Your case Isa hard
one. We will keep the matter in view and write
again on the question before Parliament meets—
‘‘Junius Junior We did not see any brightness
in your essay till after we had borrowed a match.
... "J.P.B ” (Wilson’s Downfall): Vour last does
not do justice to your Muse “P.” Sorry we
can’t approve. M.S. on application “Wag-
tail”: Will see what can be done with it—
“ Woodpecker”: Your cutting is good, but the
poetry “ about a flirting, Jilting jade, supposed to
be a charming maid,” is an outrage on human in-
telligence “ A.W.M.” (fhargomindah, Q):
With the blackest of ink upon the whitest of
paper. Every line must be clear and firm, and
there must be no wash or half-tones “X.YZ.”:
We buy contributions from any one who can
write well enough “A. Olive”: P.ease
send your address “Juvenile”: Thanks—
“M.G.”: We like the sentiment of your “song.”
That “ press her to my heart ” business always en-
sures our warmest, 18-carat sympathy, but, taken
as a whole, It does not seem to us to be absolutely
perfect. You will notice that the second verse
contains 47 feet, while the next has 151. Now, if
both verses are to be sung to the same tune, either
the words or music must be of the most elastic
description. Therefore, we heave your little lyric
into the cavernous jaws of the pitiless, cruel
W.P.B “J.L.”: Copyright of stories, &e., rests
with the newspaper, unless agreement to the con-
trary has been made. Papers, however, rarely, if
everjrepublish tuoh matter. Payment is usually
made per column. As you say you have not yec
published anj thing, we advise you not to worry
yourself about details, until you find that your
MS. is marketable. Few people can write an ac-
ceptable short story —“B. Thompson ” (aibury):
Had your friends any “down” on us that they
persuaded you to send your screed here?..
“Besey”: The examinations are held in Syd-
ney. Better write to the Department for
list of subjects “Neutral”: Thanks. Will
try to use some portions of your essay.
“H.K.”: Thanks. Will work into a par
“ P.D.” (Sydney): Consistently with the principles
it professes, the Freeman s Journal should
have opposed the expedition to the Soudan. The
arguments that justify the taking and holding of
the Soudan by an armed force justify the same
thing being done to Ireland. It is to be regretted
that the Freeman s Journal lent itself to a lire
of policy that must hang like a millstone round its
neck when it again speaks straight. That it should
have so blundered Into the hands of the enemy
may be, as you say, wholly due to the fact that
Mr. Dailey initiated the movement. It is due,
certainly, to the blinding effects of some dazzling
folly “M.J.”: The Governor of Victoria gets
£lO,OOO a year salary. To say that Mirams’ demand
for a return of the other expenses of Victorian
viceroyalty was “an insult” is bosh. “ Insult 1”
that is the tone the cook usually adopts when
called upon to explain the housekeeping expenses...
“8.8. J.”: Thanks, but you want us to dish up
some libels which would malpe the fortune of the
youth who reports every game of rounders played
by Brown’s youngsters in Jones’ back yard
‘ Michael”: Stop versifying, dear sir. and get
yourself into a state of grace to meet His Immin-
ence the Kyardlnal “D.B”: Your screed is the
most stupid we ever read. But do not be dis-
heartened. We believe that you will And your
Heaven-sent mission is to write Herald leaders.
“Maud S.”: For the sake of enlightening your
ballet “mash,” we find room “New Chum”;
It Is not usual In the colonies to have public baths
open to both sexes. Whether it Is desirable or not
is a question which we don’t care to discuss now.
Your caligraphy excites our special admiration.
“Pollard’s Opera Co.’: Will try to get the
desired intormaticn “H. Dodds” (Silverton):
The indictment of Symes is under an Act 104 years
old. At the time it was passed Romanists were
under heavy disabilities, there was no such thing
as re.lglous liberty as we now understand it, hang-
ing was the penalty for stealing 40 shillings, and
half the members in the English Commons were
Civil servants while the other half were returned
by pocket boroughs, most of which were bought
by the highest bidder. As the bigots of the present
day call this Act to their aid, they should also go
back to punishment by the pillory, and those
moral teachers ever dear to our holy ancestors—
the thumbscrew and scavenger's daughter. We
doubt if those who ®’e egging on the Victorian
authorities will eve» obtain a jury sufficiently
bigoted, barbarous, and corrupt to bring in a ver-
dict against Symes “Olympic”: Your poem
about the goat and Mr. Dailey is not worthy of
either of them. But, tell us now, why did you
kick the goat to death ?— *• G.1.R.”: As a literary
relic, your contribution Is of value to lovers of
antiquity. As a modern joke, it is a ghastly
failure “Australian”: Will consider for next
week....’* A.D.”: “Poems,” you fcall them....
“ J.8.W.”: Yon say, “Is Babylon got no Divinely ?
Is he ? It Is a dangerous thing,” We quite agree
with you. But, tell us, now, whatjarc you putting
on to us ? Is it a fancy soap advt. 7 “ Arthur b.
Vincent": It would ne quite Impossible to pub-
lish jour facts. The N.S.W, law of libel is rtn
especially for gentlemen of the class you describe.
‘ J. 8.5.”: The age in N.S.W. is 14—“ C. S.”:
(1.) It has not [been stated. (3) Gordon had long
been fullering from fever, and was, when he shot
Sunning, probably in a delirious or semi-dellrlous
condition. Bunnlng, who was the manager of the
station, had refused, for some reason, good or bad,
to procure for Gordon admission to the district
hospital. We think Gordon’s life should have been
spared.
“To-Day’s Bulletin.” Supplement.
The approaching departure from N.B.W. of Lord
Augustus Loftus suggests the questions-(1),
Why we want a Governor at ail ; (3.*, why,
one being necessary, he must be an Englishman In
whose selection we have no choice; and (3;, why
aged men should he sent us whose whole lives
have been passed In despotically-governed
countries ? What sympathy can there be-
tween the old man schooled In Autocracy
and these rough-and-tumble Southern De-
mocracies ? If you cannot transplant an oak
at fifty, what chance is there of transplanting
an agea statesman and expecting him to take an
interest in affairs which, to him, will probably
appear commonplace and vulgar ? American
States containing more people than all Australasia
elect their own Governors. But if only a volcanic
mud-bank three miles from Sydney Heads were
seized by Britain for a llag-statf station, a Gover-
nor would have to come from London to see that
the sea-gulls didn’t take liberties with ths Union
Jack. It is time to stop this thing.


BUSH BALLADS.
Editor Bulletin.— Sir,—ln The Bulle-
tin of 10th October (which does not reach our
back-block country until some ten days after the
publishing date) you comment upon a letter In the
Melbourne Herald accusing “Long” Gordon of
writing what the Herald correspondent calls the
“ Stockman’s Last Bed.” “ The Stockman’s Grave,”
written by George Moran, a Northern Territory
bushman, In 1863, is the song asked for. It runs
thus
“Ye bushmen, or not, to my story give ear,
Poor Jack he has gone and no more we shall hear
The crack of his stockwhip or steed’s steady trot,
His clear ‘ Slew the lead,’ or his jingling quart-
pot.
“;in a nook where the wattles and wild flowers
wave,
The tall gum trees shadow! the stockman’s lone
grave.
“ While yarding one day he was rushed by a cow,
‘ Alas” cried poor Jack, ‘lt’s all up with me
now;
My seat in the saddle I’ll ne’er take again,
Nor bound on a buckjumper over the plain.’
" In a nook, etc.
“‘My whip shall be silent, my dogs they will
mourn,
My horse look in vain for his master’s return;
All alone and uncared for, unpitled, I die,
Save Australia’s dark sons, none shall know
where I He.’
“ In a pook, etc.
“ So, stockmen beware, when you’re passing that
way,
If ever in search of a mob you should stray,
Tread lightly down there where the wattle trees
wave,
“ In the bend of the creek Is the stockman’s lone
grave.
“ lu a nook where the wattles and wild flowers
wave,
The tall gum tree shadows the stockman’s lone
grave.”
There Is the song asked for, and. If It has not been
already supplied you, may be of use to the gentle-
man seeking It through the Herald. At the
same time, I might remark, as one who knew
Gordon well (though I lost sight of him after he
went to Melbourne), that If half the sickening
posthumous praise he received had assumed the
form of practical sympathy during the last three
months of his life, that lonely strip of beach at
Brighton had not been stained with his blood, and
we might to-day have been listening to the voice
of one at least of those ill-fated three, who gave
the lie to the assertion there is no school of poetry
In the land of the songless bird. To accuse Gordon
of writing such ‘taiuck ” as the verse quoted in
the Herald Is an\lnsult to the memory of that
erratic and ill-fated genius, which no man capable
of appreciating poetry would be guilty of. Gor-
don was just the last man in the world to write
such arrant nonsense as “No more to the saddle
I’ll vault light again.”) Few bush horses would
submit to the vaulting business, and certainly not
the horses which would be used in a big muster.
The chances are that when the stockman com-
menced to vault, his half-wild nag would turn
quietly round and watch the proceedings with an
Inquiring eye, and by the time the vault was con-
cluded the “animile” would not be there. Poor
Jimmy Breen, a steeplechase rider of some ability,
was the only man I ever know who could vault on
to a young horse, but he was as quick as a light-
ning-flash. Gordon, In common with other bush-
men, had to learn that the wallaby bounds “ over
the plain,” or that the stockman was given to
Imitating Its “weird and wonderous” perform-
ances on the flat or over sticks. I do not
remember to have read at any time of Gor-
don’s leap over the fence on the edge of the
Blue Lake at Mt. Gambler. Those who have been
In the South-eastern district of S.A. know the
peculiar formation of the Blue Lake, a basin some
miles In circumference, with Its hanks apparently
plumb from the water’s edge. There Is no ripplo
on Its surface, Its waters are the deepest shade of
indigo, and it never varies from one level. One of
the favourite drives of visitors Is round the lake,
and a charming panoramic view of the country is
obtainable from the eastern eminence. Passing
along the fenced road, which approaches In places
very close to the edge of the lake, Gordon’s friend
remarked, “ That would be a plucky jump.” The
words were scarcely uttered ere Gordon wheeled
the scraggy little nag he was on, and,dropping the
whip into her, lifted her over. His friend reached
the fence just In time to see him extricating him-
self from the ruins of the mare some 50 or 60 feet •
below—shaken slightly, minus his hat, but other-
wise O.K. “There,” he said, calmly, as he stood
on the roadway again, “ I’m about the first man
who’s been over there.” And, as far as I know,
he is the last. He was a white man—straight as a
plumb line. De mortals nil nisi verum. The
gentleman who could enthuse over that effusion
atd associate the "Stockman’s Bed” with the
running fire of stockwhips, and the fiery run of
hoofs, with the rush and scamper of the “nuggets,”
and the yells and shouting Qwhich accompany a
muster, may,' perhaps, be able to coruscate over i
the following lines, portion of one of Gordon’s
prentice efforts, and written as early as IS53:
“ Let woman’s nature cherish grief,
I barely heave a sigh
Before emotion takes relief
In listless apathy,
While from the pipe the vapours curl “
Towards the evening sky.
And ’neath my feet the billows whirl
In dull monotony.
“ The sky still wears the crimson streak
Of Sol’s departing ray:
Some briny drops are on my cheek—
'Tis but the salt sea spray!
Then Jet our barque the ocean roam.
Our keel the billows plough I
I shed no tear on quitting home.
Nor will I shed them now.”
Tbe bird which could warble a musical lay In ’53 o
would scarcely sound the euphonious note of the 1c
jackass In 1863. In, the following lines there
breathes the spirit which pervades most of his
subsequent writings:— s
“ While the bells on distant cattle “
Waft across the range, r<
Through the scented golden wattle, ei
Music, low and strange.” G
This Is an Australian picture. The bushman wants
no interpretation of it. He does not require to Q ,
read between the lines. He sees the picture as the H,
Poet saw It; he is lying beside the camp fire; a tt
cool evening after a hot day, the drays are drawn tv
up close together, tarpaulins are spread, the beds e s
are made, he thinks of turning In, and rals- th
mg himself on his elbow listens for a moment th
to the bells to get the bearings of his teams ni
so ithat he may find them when daylight he
breaks. A soft zephyr floats down the gully v j
through the grove of wattles, and with the per-
fume of the golden blossoms comes the music of ra
*0 or 30 bullock-bells, the sound harmonised by yf
Distance, the effect calculated to awaken the poetic j u
sensibilities, however dormant, In the roughest
halry-chested bullock puncher who ever cursed
his near-side leader, or playfully tied true lovers
knots in the tail of an ugly, crooked-pulling (camp
bullock. Bush poetry, so called, Is, like Dlbdln’s th
seasongs, more frequently heard elsewhere than
amid its proper surroundings. The sea songs of
Fhe stage are not the “ shantys ”of the fo’ksle, nor
is the bush poetry of the city the galloping rhyme Te
bt the back-blocas. The dying stockman of the T 1
Poet (and, by the way, I never saw or heard of a It
dying or dead stockman, not in harness, anyway), la
“hot the dying bushman of the bush. The only
difference between a dying stockman and a dying
Policeman is that the latter “ dies ” while the
ormer “ pegs out.” The “ Silver punch bowl,” bu
“The broken-hearted shearer,” “Burke and
Wills,” and the “Stockman’s grave.” are not
nearly so well known in the bush as “ Nancy Lee,”
“ Widow Dunn,” “ Silver threads,” &s., &c. Let
me close this sketch with—
“ THE BROKEN-HEARTED SHEARER.”
Air; “ Wearing of the Green.”
“ I’m a broken-hearted shearer, and ashamed to
show my face,
The way that I’ve been treated is a shame and a
disgrace;
I raked a cheque together, and thought that it
would do,
Sol went down to Sydney just to spend a week
or two;
I thought I was no ‘flat,’ so resolved to* cut it
rat,
Dressed myself from top to toe, put a pugg’ry
round my hat;
. Then I went to get a nobbier at a certain house
In town,
Where the barmaid was a caution to lamb a
shearer down.
Chorus (omnes)— " To lamb, &o.
“ Oh, she tossed me up at ‘ Yankee grab’ to keep
me on the booze,
And, somehow or the other, I was always bound
to loose;
She would turn and twist about, saying * That
slews you,, old chap;’
‘ Sold again and got the money,’ ‘ Who struck
Buckley such a rap ?’
She had all the slang and flash talk that was
going round the town,
And she'd sling it at me right and left while I
was lambing down.
Chorus, &o.
“ Now, my money being finished, I resolved to
know my fate.
So I asked this pretty barmaid if she would be
my mate.
She said: ‘Young man be civil, on my feelings
don’t encroach;
I’m a decent married woman, and my husband
drives the coach I’
My smiles, that used to be, were all turned into
frowns,
When she made the grand discovery that she had
me lambed down.
Chorus, &o.
Oh I I have sold my good old horse, and I’ll get
some work, I hope;
I’ve some tea, and some tobacco, and a half a
bar of soap.
Some flour and some matches, a billy, and jack-
shav.
And box of Cookie's pills, and a jar of Holloway.
A that’s all my live years’ gathering since last I
left the town,
But it’s nothing when you’re used to It to do a
lambing down.”
Chorus, &o.
The old-time bushman will guarantee the fidelity
of this sketch. The city bushman, who would get
lost In the Domain at night, perhaps will not.
A.O.
!ZMr. Edward Ellis, one of the best all-
round literary men we have in Australia, is to
edit the new Sydney daily evening paper, The
Globe.
When Shakespeare observed that “the
quality of mercy is not strained,” he had never
heard of Mr. Seymour Luke Itobinson, who robhed
the Federal Bank, Melbourne. Mr. Robinson got
twelve months for breaking open the safe at that
establishment, and a very pleasant twelve months
they are likely to be. He is employed as clerk in
the office at Melbourne gaol, and the ordinary
prisoners know him not. In the matter of society,
he comes off but moderately, though, as his only
visitor Is a nice young lady cousin. Soon, how-
ever, Mr. Robinson will be able to hold a levee, or
rather a drawing-room of ladles, If he wants to.
We surmise this because we understand that the
luchy young man has dropped into a legacy of
£3OOO since his incarceration.
Wolfe's Schnapps promotes assimilation of
the food.
No stimulant is more reliable than Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Tell us, oh, tell us, where shall we find
The pleasure that leaves not a sorrow behind ?
The joy which no sorrowful pang e’er dispels
Is found in those garments which Summerfleld
sells.*
Wolfe's Schnapps has often been pirated,
but has never had a rival.
Woman Items
Neither bustles nor corsets are worn in
Japan, and when a Japanese maiden sits down
suddenly in a skating-rink she gets her money’s
worth every time.
There are five newspapers published
among the Mormons of Salt Lake City. One editor
reports as follows: “The unknown woman who
was killed at the railway junction three months
ago proves to be one of the wives of the editor of
this paper.”
Speaking of the scarcity of children among
queens of song and the theory that maternity
robs a woman of her voice, it Is worthy of remark
that Madame Goldschmld—the once Incomparable
Jenny Lind—sang none the less sweetly for having
made her husband a happy man. And Trebelll-
Bettlni, still the finest contralto on the operatic
stage, has a daughter who has just made a suc-
cessful deb At. This young lady, It is sold, inherits
her mother’s beautiful voice. We know she Is a
true Trebelli in appearance, for we have seen
mother and daughter together. They are a grand
looking couple. Madame Trebelli stands alone on
the stage as exponent of the art of wearing ’em
with the natural ease, grace, and dignity peculiar
to the stronger sex.
A “young ladies’ journal” answer to a
corresp ondent: “I f you are devotedly In love with
the young man. and he Is devotedly In love with
you, we see no reason why you should not marry
rtm. Grubs and black-heads can be removed from
the face by the use of a watch-key. You ought
to obey your mother In all things. Wash your
faee In rain-water. A young lady should not
speak to a man to whom she has not been intro-
duced. Take salt for blotches. If you desire to
be a good conversationalist you should read en-
tertaining books and pay close attention to clever
talkers. The tress you send Is light-brown.
Moses led the children of Israel from Egypt. The
far-flirtation was published In a recent number.
In winter always warm your feet before going to
bed. It Is a good habit to acquire. We cannot In
print say exactly why, but If you forward twelve
stamps and a directed envelope we’ll go Into tnfe
matter.”
An operatic star has given a curious ac-
count of a midnight performance given by her In
Bavaria—by royal command—to a “one-man”
audience. The audieiyie aforesaid consisted of
the king only, and began at midnight—the audl-
torium part of the theatre being In total darkness
until the fall of the curtain at 3 a.m. His Majesty
—who Is given to these and other eccgntrlc freaks
—sat, solus, in his curtained box the whole time,
and for half-an-hour afterwards, indulging, undis-
turbed, in his accustomed “reverie,” The per-
formers were bidden to wait, noiselessly, on the
stage for that time, and until the ringing of a bell
gave notice that the “ audience ” having cleared
out the performers might follow. A bouquet and
a presentation were then, by royal command,
handed to the prima donna, who had now to write
a letter of thanks to the king, dictated to her by
the Lord Chamberlain. With private Individuals
such kingly behaviour would be good evidence on
a de lutiatico inquirendo.
The “ King of the .American Dudes,” Mr.
H. Berry Wall, is "busted.” His embarrassment
will bring grief to the hearts of many talloas,
bootmakers, hatters, and other dealers In the ar-
ticles that go to make up the personal outfit of a
particularly gorgeous swell. Mr. Wall was popu-
larly supposed to possess a suit of clothes for every
day In the year, and to own no less than 500 pairs
of trousers. When he travelled he carried more
trunks than a prima donna. He was never noted
for quiet colours or patterns In the matter of rai-
ment, and as a general thing his apnarel was such
as to attract attention wherever he went. He led
the fashion among the young men of his own set,
and when Berry Wall appeared In scarlet neck-
scarf, striped blue vest with brass buttons, a
foliar that raised his ears, a monocle, and patent
leather shoes with yellow uppers, the front of the
Brunswick at once blossomed with gilded youths
similarly arrayed. None of the peculiarities In
bis drees were mere whims. On the contrary, he
followed them out In a manner which showed that
I they had been adopted only after a careful study
or the effect. For instance, he never wore a collar
of the same pattern as his shirt, and his shirts,
though always startling, contained no colours but
red and sky-blue. Canary vests were popular in
the mind of the king, and his handkerchiefs were
simply gorgeous. Of jewelry he was fond, and his
display was exquisite. His favourite topics in
talking with friends were sporting matters, and
he was wont to regret that he couldn’t have any
sport In this country " like we find in England,
don’t you know.”-S. F. Call.
T* l , 6 . Dijorc® Supper is the very latest
holds the same relative posi-
tion to the Wedding Breakfast that the Burial
q Service does to the Baptismal* A s soon as the
n 18 pronounced, the petitioner and re-
’s spondents invite to the Divorce Supper the oo-
respondent or —dents, the witnesses, the counsel,
dand the judge, who acts the part of the venerable
clergyman at the wedding feast. The ex-brlde Is
” attended by her maids, who are usually the maids
.a —rS- evidence In court, as to their
s mistres s little receptions In the absence of her
1 husband. The ex-brldegroom has his groomsmen
with him, who are generally the coachmen and
g grooms who have driven their master to the little
y villa. There is the divorce-cake, In which Is
k embedded a broken wedding-ring, and which Is
e surmounted with a trophy of flowers such as
g forget-me-not,” and "love lies bleeding.”
1- , a ‘ ao decorated with the pressed and dried
io floral treasures which were carefully garnered
> courtship. There are slippers to throw
tg after the disunited couple as they drive away after
a supper In separate cabs—the very slippers which
n were so carefully warmed the first year of matrl-
d mony. There are showers of rice to symbolise
n the rise and fall of love In the human breast.
n There is champagne to indicate that matrimony la
,r Preceded by a “ pop,” busts like a bubble, and
soon lies flat and sour at the bottom of the glass.
The toast of the evening, “ Brown v. Brown,
“ Jones, and Robinson” Is drunk with enthusiasm,
n to which Brown stammeringly replies, “ Ladles
b and gentlemen. Unaccustomed as I was to public
y speaking before —er —before recent revelations
compelled me—er—to open my mouth In the
Divorce Court, circumstances I say which—er—but
er—ladies and gentlemen, I need not go Into parti-
culars, as—er—you can read them—er—for your-
selves to-morrow morning In—er—the papers.”
At a oritical period of our youth, when a
beetle-nosed Hebrew had a mortgage over every-
thing we possessed In this world, and was asking
for a Hen over that which we hoped would get us
a better existence In the next, we fell in love. The
Idol of our heart was a waitress at a a bru-
nette of some 18 summers, with the face and figure
of a goddess and a stylo of orthography very
much lower than a C.M.G. Being young and in-
experienced, we didn’t take so much Interest in
orthography as we did In face and figure, the re-
sult being that one morning we visited a church
together, and left It bound with the band of matri-
mony. We settled down together in a 15-bob-a-
-week suburban villa, furnished on the time-pay-
ment system, and for about six months happiness
was ours. But after that time gloom settled down
In our home, and happiness took his departure.
We think the frequent visits of the bailiff
frightened him—anyhow, our wife became morose
and despondent. Her beautiful eyes lost their
lustre, her cheeks their bloom, no longer could wo
hear her quick step—she glided about the house as
noiseless as a spirit. We tried to cheer her, but
our efforts (rasping on a violin and solos on the
trombone) only made her worse. One evening
on returning home a note—written on the back
of the unpaid butcher's bill—was on the table.
We took it up and read—“ Dear Gorge, I
have curmltted suesighed. There alnt nuthln’
to eat In the hous but a bunch of parsnips and 3
red-herrings, and I cant say that I likes em mfloh,
so, deer gorg, I hend my hexshlstance. You will
find me out In the wash-bouso ’anging by the neck
ded. You’ve!not bln a very good husband, but
may Qord bless yer, and sometimes think of yer
poor little ’arf-starvod, broken - hearted wlfey
tlfey.— Nellie. (P.S.—The pawn-ticket for the
grid Iron and rollln pin is In the boot trunk.”) We
went to the wash-house and sure enough “ ’ang-
ing by the neck ded ” was our wlfey tlfey. What-
ever wrong we had done her In life we atoned for
by the respect we paid her at death. Her funeral
was got up In gorgeous style, we having Instructed
the undertaker to spare no expense In getting
ready for the last scene In our little domestic
drama. Her remains were encased in a neat little
polished cherrywood with Imitation silver orna-
mentations; Indeed, we persuaded several of the
mourners that they were real sliver—and they
wept as they pocketed the ham sandwiches the
undertaker had bought for his lunch. When thd
cortege arrived at the cemetery, the little coffin,
with the polish of the Ud already blistered with
pur tears, was lowered Into the cold, cold ground
to await the coming of the crack of doom. Wo
often go to the grave and weep and pluck the
sweet flowers that bloom o’er our Nellie. Little
does our girl in the ballet know where her
bouquets come from.
A Melbourne Harnry captain worked a
cruel revenge upon some outside sinner- who
B * ;o ° i e ft t his (the captain’s) head while
marching to Barracks. He went straight to meet-
Ing afld prayed very earnestly” for the fellow
that flung the stone, expretslng the hope that he
might ultimately become a " valuable member Of
the Salvation Army.” That sort of thing will soon
thl Harmy? the hablt of heaving r*ad-
Wolfe's Schnapps, the grandest tonic in
the world.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a most comprehensive
preventive and remedy against all diseases,
* Sectary pursuits are enfeebling. Thert
take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The large circulation of the specially-madb
for b^f ak / aat * dinner, and tea, and
aa the combination dinner and toa set is
making the house of Bray Brothers known every-
where for this particular line. When In George-
street call and see their Showrooms, No. 403 and
.JY^ C ' 8 Schnapps is greatly used in hospi-
tals for medicinal purposes.
When refreshing slumbers fail to visit
your pillow, take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Mb. DiOoubot Browne Gate Donniw
a Au°thnr he of M^ I S. Bo'u-d S New
•• A, /• Author of the Miners Handv Bnok™
Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual n t
M xpert * Adviser, and Land and
een }' may be consulted on every
Buppwnellourt!’ record In the Cmutment, ■.<
of Physicians and analysts have
certified to the purity of Wolfe’s Schnapps,
Wolfe's Schnapps a powerful and wholes
some tonic.
A BROAD VIEW.
JONES always Weed to say something sententious and exhaustive: *“ MY DEAR,” he remarked to his
bride, as tliey were leaving church, “WB HAVE NOW NOTHING TO LOOK FORWARD
TO BUT DEATH OR DIVORCE.”


Personal
Items
Again—About those promissory-notes frr
£SOOO found among the dead personage’s papers.
What was the consideration ?
The Auckland Rationalist calls Mortimer
Pranklyn, of the Federal Australian, “the
bard of beeves, the laureate of rams, and the
troubadour of tallow.”
The editor of the
Northern Miner Is to
go into the District Court
at Charters Towers at the
end of the present month.
It Is only a writ for libel
that draws him. Thomas
Buckland is again the
plaintiff, and Thady says
the damages expected are
£2OO.
Judge Casey, of Vic-
toria, owns a dog, a
Jocund St. Bernard,
rather less than an ox.
It started to cat a man at
Sorrento the other day,
and had got outside of a
considerable portion of
him wnen Interrupted.
The Judge will find It
fvetty expensive to feed
hat dog, unless he tries
arsenic.
Mr. Mowbray Morris
will probably succeed
John Morley as editor of
Macmillan’s maa a -
kiNE. Morris, who for-
merly held an official
position in Adelaide, S.A.,
and Is, by the way. the
author of “ A Voice from
the Bush,” a set of verses
commonly attributed to
Adam Lindsay Gordon
and included in all the
editions of that poet’s
works. Mr. Morris is now
dramatic critic of the
London Times.
Dion Bouoicault says
Agnes Robertson’s claim
that sue Is his wife is “a
farcical claim.” As the
parties were connected
with the stage they ought
to know well what far-
cical things are. Two
theatricals took It Into
their heads lately in Mel-
bourne to make a farci-
cal marriage, putting a
Hag out of the window
with "Registry Office”
painted on it, and dress-
ing up a super as the offi-
cial for the occasion. One
of them will ba calling
this a “farcical affair”
some day, no doubt.
Mr. Howard Spens-
ley, one of the three Aus-
tralian! contesting seats
In the elections now go-
ing on in England, Is
a wealthy man. The
Royal Arcade, In Bourke-
street, Melbourne, is
one of his properties.
To be “In it” In every
sense of the word, he has
taken a house in the
centre of the Radical
constituency he Is can-
vassing. His opponents
try to turn this seeming
a'vantage to his disad-
vantage In a curious wav.
They have circulated a
report that he has been
forced to the step ho has
taken by the loss of bis
fortune, and the electors
are urged not to allow
themselves to mend the
broken fortunes of a
poor man. There Is al-
ways a way of thus turn-
ing things round.
Literary greatness is
worshipped in America,
in the latter part of
Emerson’s life, when his
mind had failed some-
what, his daughter came
Into his library one morn-
ing and found him enter-
taining a stranger, a
Boston woman. As Miss
Ellen entered, the sage
looked up with an ex-
pression of hopeless be-
wilderment. “Ellen,” ho
said, “I wish you would
attend to this lady; she
wants some of my
clothes.” Trained by
long experience to the
vagaries of the llon-
huntlng female, Miss
Emerson was rather
taken aback by this
somewhat startling hn-
nouncement ; but the
visitor proceeded to a
voluble explanation that
she was making a
“drawn-In” rug, “a
poet’s rug,” made of
poets’ cast-off clothing.
Mr. Longfellow had given
her an old shirt, and “if
Mr. Emerson had a pair
of worn-out pants—
So it is coming off, after all. We read in
New York Life:— “ Archibald Forbes, the English
war correspondent, Is engaged to a daughter of
Quartermaster-General Meigs. He was with her
at Mount Desert this summer. It Is said the wed-
ding will take place this fall.”
The Czar of Russia struggles hard to keep
down his Increasing bulk. We constantly hear of
men turning pale with fear, but It comes as a sur-
prise to read of a poor wretch getting fat with
funk. Every fresh dynamite explosion claps It
lbs. onto Alexander’s shivering frame.
The clay of M. Mardeau, which has filled a
convict’s grave In L’He de Non, is to be removed
to the general cemetery of the capital of New
Caledonia. Mardeau was editor of La Rue and of
Montaione In Paris, a brilliant writer and bitter
scorner of the aristocracy, who had him exiled for
“ sedition.”
The distinguished Mr. 8. A. Joseph, M.L.C.,
of Sydney, has, wo read, taken passage from
London In the same steamer as Lord Carlngton,
the new Governor ot N.B.W. Mr. Joseph, we
remember, went to England with Lord Rosebery.
Thus is it demonstrated that the cohesion of the
aristocracy is made perennially secure by the
operation of the subtle law of natural affinity.
“ Grovel ” is the password now in Victoria.
A while back, an independent-minded working-
man made an audible enquiry as to the status of
Governor Loch s orderly . He merely said, " Who’s
that on horseback ?” but the —— heard It.
That working-man got two months for hii curiosity!
Scoffers have a bad time of It down South. There’s
Joe Symes, for instance. But, then, Joe flies at
higher game than amateur policemen and orderlies
Touching the Dilke divorce case, an aristo-
cratic London journal takes great pains to tell us
that “it is considered at the clubs a noteworthy
proof of there being no truth in the charge brought
against Sir On aries Dilke in the Divorce Court that
the father of the accused lady, Eustaca Smith,
MP , is much seen with the Baronet.” Humphl
That is one way of accounting for the presence ot
the lacteal fluid In the amygdala theombroma.
Some people, however, would say—[Exactly.—
Ed. 8.1
A Dr. Patton is allowed to toll the English
public through the London Times that Hon.
Kevin Izod O’Doherty (late of Brisbane, Q.), to
whom the Dublin Corporation have lust voted the
freedom of the city, is “an ex Fenian convict.”
This will give the Australian public an idea of the
amount of oredenca that can be attached to the
intelligence concerning Ireland which reaches
here through Reuter and from “ Our Own Corres-
pondents,” and on the strength of which the
“ loyalists ” and the scyophants of colonial society
work themselves Into such a state of fierce Indig-
nation against the Irish cause.
Sir Samuel Wilson Las a tuft-hunting
rival in one of greater wealth than he possesses
and of no less ambition. Only, like himself, now
a knight, Mr. Thomas Brassey is ambitious to be a
peer. He Inherited many millions on the death of
his father, the groat railway con*ractorand partner
In the firm of Peto, Brassey, and Betts. O.d Bras-
sey’s father-in-law was an Australian emigrant In
’53, and talked often to us of the prosptcts of get-
ting bis son-in-law out here. The railway con-
tractor was, however, doing far better at home,
and soon well able to provide for his wife’s father.
The Norway trip, given by Brassey to Mr. Glad-
stone in the yacht Sunbeam, Is expected to bring
its reward should Gladstone again become Premle r
—a likely thing enough.
In Melbourne, some time ago, the son of a
well-known Victorian land-owner sat down to
pass a Jolly evening at the card-table. The com-
pany he was in was much too good for him, so
when the game terminated the giddy youth owed
the table £1500, and gave a bill to satisfy the debt.
When the paper became due It was dishonoured,
and, on the drawer being applied to for payment
of same, he replied that he had no funds. A writ
was thereupon issued by the holder of the precious
document for the recovery of the amount, and to
save an expose the youth’s “ unfortunate ” father
liquidated the son’s liability. A Melbourne Jewish
financier cleared £700 by this little transaction.
The original holder of the bill, bemg afraid that it
might not be met in due course, discounted it with
the Hebrew, who paid £800 for same.
Somewhere in the neighbourhood of the
Equator there appears to be at present one of the
finest humourists of any age or country. It is
Captain . If what his crew say of him is true,
no man who ever went down to the sea in ships
has a keener grasp of facetiousness. When last
heard of he was enjoying himself in the Malay
Archipelago. He would run his little schooner
into any harbour that happened to be In his road
and blandly request the first natives he met to fill
up his craft with pearl-shells and beche-de-mer.
As the request appeared to be made whil's the
skipper was at the right end of a breech-loader,
and the nigger at the wromr, it was seldom refused.
On one or two occasions, when the noble savage
said, “ But I am King of this island.” the Captain’s
hilarity knew no bounds. It was then he laughed
outright and remarked: “ why, you’re the very
person I’ve been looking for all this time. There’s
no society In which I enjoy myself so much as in
that of monarchs. Only give me a king to talk to
and you make my life a real treat. So now cut
away, and if you and your intelligent subjects
haven’t that trim little schooner of mine piled
up with pearl-shells before sundown, the next
mariner that visits this island will find himself all
alone.” It Is said that the way these kanakas start
to work when reasoned with like that is pleasant
to witness, showing, as it does; that human nature
is not entirely depraved. The Captain is a Portu-
guese, and for the Englishman and the Union Jack
he seems to have a deep contempt. We believe
the South Pacific is the place where this bold s°a-
man appears to the best advantage, except, indeed,
it might be at the end of a yard-arm.
Since the Rev. Nathaniel Kinsman, 0 f
Melbourne, had such a first-class free ad. in the
Wilkinson divorce cise, his “ marriage - made-
easy” business has looked up wonderfully. He
unites as many as 15 coup es per week in the
sacred bonds, and if a fair per centage of these
adjourn to the worthy pastor’s furniture shop to
select a few ‘‘sticks,'’ with whlcn— or, rather, on
which-to commence housekeeping, the old bov
must be getting a bit both ways. Nat., by the
way, is the sort of parson that deserves to get on
He is aljovial-faced, full-whiskered divine, with a
hearty, free-and-easy manner about him. Nat
looks as though he wouldn’t mind advancing ■
spare “fiver” to any of his young clients who
need it to start them fairly on the matrimonial
road. We can’t say for certain whether any of the
bridegrooms do “touch him,” but hiss mile will cer
tainly tempt us to try it on the next time we get
married at his establishment. By the way, we may
soon have a visit from Nathaniel, as the authorities
of the Sydney Zoo. think of writing him to come
across by express and unite the newiy-arrived
lioness in the holy bonds to a certain monarch of
the forest on whom she has her eye.
The Melbourne Age
says that “the ribs of
Death Itself could not
hold out very long
against the poems of if
B, W. Sladen.” If this
be true, it is a poor look-
out for persons about to
die. Wo always thought
hart’s of the Bladen kind
were innocuous alter
they were safely planted-
but it seems not. The
evil that they do lives
after them, as the Jong,
headed William has pre-
viously observed. That
it should live on the other
side of the grave is, of
. course, a natural corol-
iary when one comes to
reflect upon the matter
This gives a new terrorto’
Tophet.
A story—a very likely
one-ls going the rounas
that Lord Tennyson and
his family, Including his
little grand-daughter,
were dining at Osborne
by Invitation of the
Queen. During the meal
tne oread-plate ran low
and the Queen took the
last piece. Thereupon
the little Tennyson girl,
who had been taught that
It was bad manners to
take the last piece on the
plate, pointed her linger
at the Queen, and said,
scornfully, “Piggy, P jg.
gy. pig I ” 'I he guests
expected that nothing
less than decapitation
was In store fcr me child;
but the Queen came to
the rescue. “You are
quite right, my dear,”
said she; “nobody but
the Queen should take
the mat piece on the
plate.”
Piince Edward of
Saxe Weimar has seen no
active service for over
thirty years. But all the
same, his cousin. Her
Gracious Majesty Queen
Victoria, insists on gi vlng
him command of the
army in Ireland. And
for her second son, who
potted the British nation
for the price of the pre-
sents he made to Austra-
lian toadiis, the com-
mand of the Mediter-
ranean fleet is reserved.
When the English shot
Admiral Byrg, Voltaire
said it wss lor the pur-
pose of encouraging the
others. So the appoint-
ments of Edward and of
Alfred to important com-
mands will go lar to en-
courage naval and mili-
tary officers to love their
profession. It was
thought at one time that
jobbery would disappear
from tee army when the
purchase system was
abolished, but it appears
to be just as rampant in
the higher ranks to-day
as it was before the with-
drawal ol the Royal war-
rant. Rule Britannia!
The Emperor of Rus-
sia weighs sixteen stone,
and is taking strong mea-
sures to reduce bis size,
eating only one meal and
walking seven miles a
day. The inclination iq
grow stefit in the Ro-
manoff family wa intro-
duced by the wife of the
Emperor Paul, a W ur-
temberg Princess. Her
brother, who married the
eldest daughter of
George HI., was declared
by Napokon to be the
stoutest man in ail Eu-
rope. At the Congress of
Vienna a bow was cut in
the dinner-table to en-
able him to sit near It,
and he died of llver-com-
plaint the year after-
wards. His nephew, the
Emperor Nicolas, grew
very stout as he veered
towards fifty, but an at-
tempt to poison him in
1848, and the Crimean
War, effectively thinned
him down for the rest of
his life Napoleon him-
self was extremely stout
in later life, and the doc-
tors who i erformed his
post-mortem examination
stated that they had
never seen a dead man in
such good condition.
There have been in the Sydney papers
lately some more or less mysterious paragraphs
concerning an alleged case of Insubordination on
the part of a trooper lathe “Lancers.” A board
of enquiry has ear upon the matter, and the Go-
vernor Is to finally decide the case. The real ques-
tion which has been agitating the alleged minus of
the thirty or forty field-marshals, generals,
colonels, captains, &c, belonging to this blue-
blooded corps of less than a hundred strong Is,
however, not stated In the Indictment preferred
against Trooper Debney, who happens to be -awl
—a common man, Inasmuch as he is actually en-
gaged in retail trade, and doesn’t dye,his mous-
tache to make himself look fierce. We quite ap-
prove of the efforts made by the more high-toned
membahs of this distinguished corps to repress the
threatened irruption of the plebeian element.
Patriotism, if not patrician, isn’t worth a cent.
A fly has got into Sir Samuel Wilson’s
ointment-pot. Having secured Disraeli’s late
residence— Hughenden—he thought to have the
admiration and support of the whole county of
Buckingham. He laid himself out for it, and went
in for it, regardless of expense. Now an ambitious
Jew and a much wealthier man has come and
jumped his claim. This Is Mr. Edward Levy Law-
One should begin practising at short
range.
Rifle Association Notes.
Weep not for me, dearest , if I fall in this rifle-match
I shall leave behind me an unblemished life, fully
covered by insurance. You will find the policy in my
left coat-tail pocket.
Riflemen shoilld avoid disputes as milch as possible.
' u
•Tones, who saw the match from
what he considered to he a safe
distance, goes to his doctor to ha\ o
a few cartridges extracted from Ins
person, which were intended for
tlie target.
I say, yon know, I just called to get
you to bore a few holes in my target,
somewhere near the centre. I wish to
preserve some memento of my skill.-
Our representative, who is cross-
eyed, provided himself with a
suitable telescope.
Should a rifleman inadvertently pepper a spectator, the
least he can, do is to instantly apologize.


PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT-ELECTRIC BELT
MESSRS. NBILD and CO., on behalf of Tt
Magnetical-Electrlo Appliance Company
earnestly desire to call the attention of the publl
to the fact that, in consequence of the succei
attending the sale of the above Company’s Elec
trie Beits, Corsets, &c , a so- called Caution be
been published, emanating from an agent fo
Electric articles, who, prompted by a motive t
attempt to monopolise the sale of such article!
the principle of which we emphatically assert ha
been known to the world for at least twenty year
and are now being manufactured In Oreat Britaii
by dozens of firms, and variously styled lor th
purposes of a trade mark only, but avowedly par
taking of the same nature, being an adapts
Mon of the element of Magnetlcal Electrlcltj
We ask, therefore, those who desire to adopt
the treatment of Electricity for constitutions
or local derangements, to compare our Elec
trie Belts, Corsets, &o, with those of othe
manufacture, as they are undoubtedly of su
perior Electrical Strength, design, quality o
material, and elegance of finish. The Isa
Gent.’s Belt is the best ever offered to the publii
for electrical strength and quality. Gent’s special
power Electric Beits, 30s. These Belts are manu
factured expressly for tropical climates, and an
very durable, as also are our Electric Corsets
Lung Invlgorators, Spine Bands. &o.
THE
MAGNETICMI
6
❖
<
M'
Electric” Appliance Company
ELECIRIC BELTS, Corset Lung Invigoraton
Spine Bent’s, Kneecaps, Insoles. &c, &c, is th
only perfect method for generating the ouratlv
properties of the continuous current of Bleetr:
city, without the aid of batteries or use of acids
without incurring any risk of undue action upoi
the most delicate invalid, and Impart Health an
Vitality to all who wear them.
The MAGNET ICAL ELECTRIC TREATMEN'
is now admitted by Medico-Electric Scientists, an
many leading Physicians, to be the most valuabl
Electrical Remedial Agent for the Cure of al
Nervous Diseases, Affections of the Heart. Epl
lepsy, Spinal Complaints. Rheumatism, Lumbago
Sciatica, Paralys's, Gout, General Debility, Indi
gestlpn. Female Complaints. &c„ &c, and is no\
adapted for the Successful Treatment of all Luni
Troubles, hitherto without the domain of Eltctri
Agency.
Features of t his Treatment 1
the MAQNETICAL ELECTRIC COFSET. whlc
is unsurpassed for its curative properties in a
female troubles, and is of superior shape an
manufacture. Price, 10i, 15s, and 30j.
The Guinea Special Power Electric Belt is th
same as sold in England for ,t‘;> ;is. Thousands o
people of all ranks in the United Kingdom hav
testified to the beneficial results of the Magnetics
Electric Treatment; and Testimonials from lead
mg Medical and Scientific Men arc in our poe
session, v
GENTLEMENS BELTS are manufactured o
superior material, in the shape ol a ilding bell
and are very durable. Send size of waist, outsldi
garment. Price, 15 3, and 303.; if mailed, Is. (id
LUNG INVIGORATOFS, 303 :
SP,NE BANDS, ios.
INSOLES, invaluable for cold feet, chilblains, am
defective circulation, 5s (id. Send size of boot, o
paper pattern of inside (Is Od. for postage).
All correspondence treated with the greates
despatch. Post-office orders to be made payable t(
a . NEILD & CO., 158 Pitt-stheet,
Sole Proprietors “ Magnetlcal Electric” Applianot
Company, London and Sydney.
“x-ujpr
§
m
s
ALFURNITUR
ECONQMICALFURNITURE
// / 1
t&~ THE LARGEST AND ONLY LEGITIMATE
TIME-PAYMENT FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THE COLONY,
365 PITT STREET.
Wolfe's Schnapps thould be in every house.
In case of emergency you should keep a
bottle of Wolfe's Schnapps on the premises.
J, TURNER ROM NS ON & cp,’ c
TAILORING -ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Georgs-straot,
Established H6l
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFaCTUKERL
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well thrums, and a perfect lit
guaranteed. ,
QUOD FACIMU3 VALDE PACIMUB.
(What we do we do well.)
YOUR PHOTO.- If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
counsel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you canlnspectan
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic,yet cutlon and elegant
Amah, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine y t ur choice In their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices-C-D-V .; Cabinets' 30s. per dozen.
CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, 8 YDNE Y ARCADE.
Annual umm monli »b« jbiuimi
SI
ft**
$0
«»«»
co-
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
BEST
THEWORLD
I
I
i
LOWEST
IN PRICE
OFFICE-31 LOMBARD ST. LONDON.
SCOTIAN -HORIZONTAL ENGINES,IL™, 6 ™!2 0
‘ALBION” UONGSTROKE HORIZONTAL EN@INES, a
‘CLIMAX” VE RTIOA L ENGINES 5 BOILERS.
'“CLIMAX” PORTABLE-HOISTING ENGINES/
‘BRITON’TIORIZONTAL COMPOUND LAUNCH ENGINES.
INVERTED COMPOUND MARINE ENGINES.
.*• PORTABLE STEAM CRANES.
Vertical.eoßNisH.s marine boilers.
LARGE STOCKS;FOR FULL PARTICULARS AND PRICES APPLY TQ
D.& W.ROBERTSON.SYDNEY.SOLE AGENTS NEW SOUTH WALES.
J.W.SUTTON &CO, BRISBANE.SOLE AGENTS ""QUEENSLAND.;
ROBISON CO,MELBOURNE; SOLE AGENTS |
son, who was known by two-thirds of his present
name when he was poor, and not the proprietor,
as now, of the London Daily Telegraph. He is
bidding quite as rabidly for honors as Is Sir
Samuel, and goes In for giving expensive dinners.
His last one was to our coming Governor, Lord
Carington. To be quite on a par in rivalry. Levy
Lawson has taken Edmund Burke’s former resi-
dence, Hall Farm, in Buckinghamshire, which he
intends to run in opposition to Beaconsfleld’s
Hughenden. It is going to bo Short and Codlin
between this tuft-hunting pair.
Mr. James Munro, of Melbourne, has been
starring it in England as “ the Hon. James Munro,
of Australia,” and was lionised by the teetotallers.
He has been more complimentary to the Austra-
lians than to the Aoglo-Australians He is speak-
ing of Victoria when saying, “Wo expend five
millions a year with less than a million of people,
which shows that we drink a great deal. The
consumption is not, however, with the Australlan-
born, who care little for it, but it is done by those
topers whom you send out to us, and whom we
cannot cure of their bad habits.” We always
thought that some explanation was wanted, and
now we have It. It needs a man to go to the other
end of the world to make such discoveries—dis-
tance lends a difference to the view when facts
are focussed from 16,000 miles. Alderman
M’Arthur, who has been in Australia, acted as
chairman, and introduced Mr. Munro as “the
terror of the liquor interest in Australia.”
It is some time now since Queen Victoria
has been troubled by any eccentric young men. It
has always been cracky and youthful beings of
the masculine gender who have taken to annoying
[Royalty—irom young Francis and the boy Jones
•down to the lun&tic of 18 months b&ck. A younff
man, all the way from Trinidad, has now taken up
the running. He applied at the Palace to sell Her
Majesty a magic bottle. The contents, when
•dropped upon a wart, will Immediately inform the
wart’s wearer of what the Queen maybe thinking I
He considered ir dangerous that such a liquid
•should be out of Her Majesty’s possession. A diffi-
culty suggests itself as to whether any more of the
stuff might not be obtainable in Trinidad. Sadok
made long search for the Waters of Oblivion, but
a well of Waters of Revelation appears now to have
been discovered. The magistrate stated that the
■doctors had examined the accused and certified
him as unfit to be at large, to which the reply was,
“Nonsense, I have been like this for two years! ”
A well-known Victorian squatter gave,
the other day, 90gs. far a prize ram. Entering the
pen to examine hi* acquisition, he made the un-
pleasant discovery that, it was a battering-ram.
The squatter weighs stone, and landed with
such force on the butt end of hta spinal column as
to wedge his teeth gently, but firmly, through the
middle of his tongue. This prevented him from
swearing, until a couple of station hands, chancing
down by the peo, perceived his lingual Indenture,
and, knowing the agony he suffered by non-
engagement in picturesque and artiatic profanity,
released his fettered member by laji.iar hold of
either jaw and pulling his Ivories forcibly out of
his epithet-distributor. He scrambled to his feet
and went straight for the ram: “ You blank-blank
blank, blank-blai k blank, d’ye think I gave 90
blank guineas for your blank blank-blank carcase
to butt me about like a ninepin ? And blank you.
If I do want a blank se'ectlon you needn’t think
I’d peg out in my blank-blank mouth.” And so on.
“ Ghosting ” any one is a peculiar form of
punishment, none the less troublesome because it
involves no danger to life or limb. For years past
we have seen its infliction upon a man whom we
really begin to pity. At first we laughed at it and
then smiled. Now we have got grim about it.
When a pale, fragile-looking lady walks down to a
railway station every evening there to watch for
the coming of one being only, It becomes observ-
able. When she addresses only one speech to
him—never varied—it becomes noticeable. When
persisted in for months and years, it becomes a i
nuisance. The words said are meaningless enough 1
to us—if not to him—being only, “Now I see you
again I ’—only that and nothing more, the which j
heard off he starts at a sharp pace with herself in i
the rear at a slower one. There is no need to hurry, <
as she knows where to find him next evening at I
same time and place when same programme is
again gone through. We wish he would emigrate
or change the locality of his residence, for his <
fellow-passengers are tired of this protracted i
mystery. i
Since Sir Henry Loch’s admirers staited j
the idea of providing His Excellency with a
country residence, the question has developed
burning interest. It Is not so much shad this thing
be, as where shall it be. The quiet little town of \
Geelong, ia particular, has awakened from a long i
letjarglc slumber, and energetically Invites the
Governor to dream away the Summer months <
upon the peaceful shores of Corlo Bay. First, the i
Mayor waited upon Graham Berry with the offer '
of a piece of land overlooking the Botanical Gar- \
dens. Now, a private citizen—Mr. Silas Harding—
has gone “ one better,” He not only offers a free i
site for the gubernatorial mansion, but he is ready ,
and anxious to subscribe £5OO towards the cost of .
building it. As Dr. Watts might have put it —
Silas has a bit of land, i
it is a pleasant site.
Something tells us it must be pleasant, because It !
adjoins Mr. Harding’s own residence. Yet, after £
all. £sloand a strip of earth is a paltry price to 1
offer for the privilege of getting a live Governor (
for one's next door-neighbour. If the Victorian c
Government is cute, It will take free tenders for 1
the housing of Sir Henry, the successful tenderer 1
to have the option of serving as butler in the *
edifice he is permitted to pay for. We are poor :
judges of human nature if the scheme doesn’t 1
work well.
We read it in the Hamilton Spectator t
(Vic.), and to us it seems a junk of snobbery little 1
short of the sublime:—“ Queen Victoria—An In- t
cldent in connection -with Her Majesty that has v
never yet appeared in print, has been told us by a c
medical gentleman of this town. During his t
tenure of office as house-surgeon at the London t
htspital Her Majesty paid that institution a visit, n
and was going through the wards when she came p
to a bed occupied by a little boy with hip-disease, v
Weil, my little boy, and how do you feel tc-day ? ’ h
asked the Queen in a cheerful, homely way. tl
The little patient promptly replied, ‘ Very well,
thank you, mum, how’s yourself ? ’ Having re-
sponded to this friendly query, the Queen laugh-
ingly walked away, evidently enjoying the unin-
tentional blunder made by the child ia mistaking'
a majesty fora mum. This is one of those inci-
dents which, thoughtrifling of itself, have served
to endear Her Majesty to her people.” There I
' Mistaking a majesty for a mum.” Henceforth
for us life will pe a dreary journey, unless we
succeed in seeing the boy whose hip was bad, the
surgeon who thought such slip-slop worth the
telling, and—above all—the kanaka who let it be
told in his paper. It is this sort of swill that makes
thoughtful men bald before their time. And the
Queen walked laughingly away.” Did she now ?
Wnat did the saw-bones expect she’d do—turn the
cart-wheel to the next bed ? She is a “ mum,”
isn’t she ? At least the British tax-payers think
so, considering they have to support her family.
Endear Her Majesty to her people I” Sainted
Sardanapalus I
Writes our London oorr spondent under
date sth September:—“ It would appear that the
Hon. Thomas Holt, M.L.C., of Sydney, or. f suppose,
it should here be Mr. Thomas Holt, has finally
d'termined to settle in England, for he has bought
a ‘ place’ called Hallcot, near Bexley Heath, in
Kent, where he now resides, and Thomas Ja not
the man to buy a place one day with the prospect
of sellingit at a loss on the next. By all accounts
Hallcot has (been furnished, ‘regardles?; ’
and it is evidently the old man’s intention- to
court the county families and to endeavour to find
aristocratic husbands for some of his amiable
daughters. By Sydney papert I learn that before
leaving he distributed some comparatively insig-
nificant sums among the Sydney charities. This
was neither delicate nor diplomatic on Tom’s
part. Having made up his mind to abandon the
country in which he, in the course of many years,
has amassed his va»t hoard, he should have slipped
away in silence and without oste tation. I don't
think he Is much of a loss to N.B.W. Wherever he
Is he is not tne man to spend a half-a-crown where
a shilling would suffice. If he only had the spirit
ne could cut Sir Samuel Wilson out in no time-
hut he has not. You can now join with
Victoria in crying 'a good riddance I’ When
the great Victorian millionaire, Clarke, was
over here for a short stay he played old Harry
with Wilson. When the latter gave largely to a
charity Clarke would promptly double him, and
the pleasant little game of social poker became
quite exciting. Clarke would have certainly
ruined his opponent if he had remained in Eng-
land for a couple of years.”
An illustrious English literary man had a
brother-in-law who died suddenly in Sydney 15
or 19 years ago. A queer story is told of
the latter. He was rather averse to tem-
perance principles. One night he reached
his lodgings, situated in a Sydney suburb, in a
state of mental obfuscation. The house was in
darkness, and its inmates safe in the embrace of
the drowsy god (soa Evbnen’ Nooze). Our hero
serpentined his way through the passage, tore off
his shoes and hid them safely, one in the coal-
scuttle and the other in a half-empty basin of
soup left on the dining room tabio, and then, on
all-fours, managed to crawl up stairs. This opera-
tion made a big hole in two hours. Once on the
landing, he ricocheted along the passage between
the bedrooms, till he stopped with a monumental
sigh at his landlady’s door. Then elapsed ten
minutes. At the end of this period he sighed
again, and, pounding the door with clumsy, drlnk-
paralvsed list, said, thickly: “Mish, misb; ga
—up I Braw—'ome—kish—for-sper. Ga—up.”
Silence and misty cogitation for a quarter of an
hour. Then he began Again: “Ga —up, say. Ga
up I Braw—some kish—kish sper. Kish spor. Ga
—upl” Silence for another quarter of an hour.
Re-commeccad the battering with his fist, and
urged his landlady to get up. “Ll—fire. Li-say.
Mishl Li—firah, and coo—ook kish for sper.” No
good, so he gave It up, and parabolaed his way
down stairs, muttering gloomily. His landlady
heard him strike a match, and then he relapsed
Into profound silence. After waiting a longtwhlle,
she awakened her husband, aietalled the circum-
stances of their client's drunk, and induced him to
go down stairs on a voyage of discovery. He did so.
A lighted candle flared and guttered on the table.
Before it, his elbows on the table, and his head
sunk in mellifluous slumber on his breast, was the
midnight reveller. In his right band he held aloft
a huge bullock’s kidney transfixed on a toasting-
fork. He had been endeavouring to cook it over
the tiame of the candle when he fell asleep.
Thus an American writer concerning Mr.
Frederick de Belleville, who is well remembered
in Australia as a member of Mr. Garner’s London
Comedy Company, and who is now playing at
New York with Bartley Campbell in “Paquita”:
“ The company is a good one, and the-hlt of the
piece has been made by an actor who has been
waiting his opportunity for some years. For a
time it looked as though Mr. Frederick de Belle-
ville’s sole title to fame would rest upon his
numerous and rather complicated matrimonial
experiences. About the time that his wives were
making such a particular clamour in New Zea-
land, Australia, New York, London, and other
quarters of the globe, Mr. de Belleville said that
he was sure he could Jive the scandal down if he
had but half an opportunity to distinguish him-
self on the stage. Everything is forgiven the
man who succeeds. In looking the matter over
carefully nowadays, and in view of some recent
developments, it would appear tdat Mr.de Belle-
ville is not so much married, by 00 or 70
per cent, as was at first supposed. He plays
a strong character in ‘Paquita,’ and plays it
extremely well. Hs has made a hit, in fact,
that is very similar to that which Mantell
made in ‘Fedora.’ The most striking scene
in the play, and the one in which he makes
the most decided sensation, is in the fourth act.
The Mexican lover with the Cockney accent has
been shot in a duet, and lies at the point of death
with a bulletin his brain. An aged physician is'
called in, and he says, after examining the patient,
that there is only one man alive who can perform
the operation and save the patient’s life. This
man is called in. It is Dr. Manuel, the hero of the
play, otherwise known as Mr. Frederick de Belle-
ville. The man who lies dying in the next room s
his greatest enemy. His faithless wife still loves
the Mexican with the Cockney accent, and the
struggle which goes on in Mr. de Belleville’s mind,
to decide whether to allow his enemy to die
naturally from a bullet or save him by the opera-
non which he alone can perform, is dramatic and
intense. Presently his bettor instincts prevail; he
disappears within, and after a sufficient length of
time, comes out upon the stage, looks at his wife,
who is weeping for her lover, throws the bullet
contemptuously on the floor, and walks off with-
out a word. 11 is one of those touches of dramatic
lire which redeems Mr. Campbell's work from the
dead level of the conventional.”
An Adelaide telegram says that Mr. God-
frey Bgremont, secretary to a Iccil building
society, has disappeared with the contents of the
cam-box. We hope-the allegation is rot true. If
it should be, many wll be sorry, for G idfrey had
a sweet voice, and in his seasons of virtue he used
to let it out. From time to time it came to The
Bulletin olfioe, and as the zephyrs that bore it
staggered up to the front doo£ we sent down half
the staff and had the music carefully and securely
tied. Heie are some verses written by him four
years ago:—
Wattle Bloom.
The pink-eyed almond blossom threw
it’s petall’d drifts of white,
To the young grass a lighter dew
Clung through the fresh spring night,
Gay wattle bloom hid biade-like loaves,
The earth—now smiles, now tears
Brought promises of garner’d sheaves
And long Australian years.
“ 'Twas August, and I saw the birds
Dart through the sunset glow,
. And heard her sing some simple words,
Whose tune too well 1 know.
She held a bough of wattle bloom,
And said, “ If death divine
Should take me first, let o'er my tomb
These yellow glories shine.”
“ Then, with her sweet adventure done,
Our childless house was thrill’d;
She smiled a mother with her one
Great hope of life fulfill’d.
I sat, and held her dear, thin hand.
And watched her patient eyes
Turn where the wattle bloom was fann’d
By winds as soft at sighs.
‘ ’T/s August, and above my head
The scented tranches wave,
But underfoot the lovely deal
Lie in their silent grave.
She sleeps—the baby on her breast;
Nor lonely in the gloom.
For shining o’er their quiet rest
Droops yellow wattle bloom.”
A very natural subject for inquiry arises here.
How and by what fatality is it that men who can
coin their brains into rippling song like this,
nearly always run away with the cash-box ? If
the thing be not a cash-box, it is something that
answers as well. Philosophy must yet tackle the
question in earnest, The butcher within whom
tne higher aspirations never stir, is the owner of
the cash-box. The poet, lull to the chin of wisdom
and harmony, and walking daily with the gods of
the seen and the utsaen, steals in some night,
abstracts the contents, and bolts. Now, why ?
Sladen has never stolen a cash-box, 7 hat is because
he isn't a poet.


Academy of music.
Under the Management of
BIQNOLD. ALLISON, and HIBCOCKB.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT,
GRAND OPENING NIGHT.
Celebrated and Unrivalled
RICKARDS-LEETB COMBINATION,
acknowledged by entire Press and public the most
powerful company ever witnessed.
Be-appearance of the Great and Only
HARRY RICKARDS HARRY RICKARDS,
the world’s Premier Vocal Comedian,
supported bv his new company of
LONDON SPECIALTY ARTISTS.
Miss Kate Leete, Miss Nelly Wilson, Miss Daisy
Simpson, Miss Ada Juneen, Mr. Harry Phillips,
Mr. Harry Cremar, Mr. Edgar Austin (the
Lightning Cartoonist),
who will appear In the new absurdity,
BRIC-A-BRAC BRIC-A-BRAC.
All the Latest London Successes.
New Songs, Dances, and Specialities,
HARRY RICKARDS in entirely new and wonder-
ful Comic and Character Impersonations and
his great Patriotic Songs,
The LIGHTNING CARTOONIST nightly sketches
National Portraits and Leading Sydney
Celebrities. .
Box plan at Nicholson and Co.’s Music Ware-
house, 325 George-street.
Day tickets at Harrison’s, Tobacconist.
Prices-45., 3s, 25., and Is,
Manager for Harry Rickards— Buchan Hepburn.
Acting Manager G A. Coleman.
ROTEBTANT
Castlereagh-street.
HALL,
TUESDAY, 3rd NOVEMBER.
MB. HENRY TEECE
(Prize Elocutionist of New South Wales)
in his popular entertainment,
“THE POETS OF ALL NATIONS.”
Acknowledged by the Press and public to be the
greatest Elocutionist and Reciter in the colonies.
Doors open at 7.30.; Overture at 8 o’clock.
Carriages for 10.45.
Admission—Reserved Seats, 35.; Body of Hall
and Gallery, 2s.
C. W. RICHARDS, Business Manager,
47 Sydney Arcade.
G
BEAT
SUCCESS
of
FRYER & CO.’S CIRCUS,
EQUINE PARADOX and TRAINED ANIMAL
EXHIBITION,
DIRECT FROM AMERICA.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), OCTOBER 29,
and each evening until further notice.
Belmore Park.
&T" A Chaste, Moral, and Unique Exhibition-as
novel as interesting.
Twenty-five Ponies, Dogs, and Goats, whose
like do not exist on the face of the earth. They
speak with eloquent action, and demonstrate
superior sense.
A troupe of
FINISHED ACROBATS, GYMNASTS & CLOWNS
BIDING GOATS,
RIDING DOGS.
IRAND MILITARY DRILL BY A REGIMENT
OP PONIES.
Admission— 4a., 2s. 6d., Is.
Doors open at 7.30, performance begins at 8
a’olook sharp ; carriages ordered at 1045.
Special MATINEES, fov Ladies and Children,
EVERY SATURDAY, at 2 p.m.
TH JR OLYMPIC
(late Old MasoEicHall, York-street).
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. M. L. Raphael.
Stage Manager .. Mr, H. Trevorah.
Brilliant and Undeniable Success of the
OLYMPIC BURLESQUE COMPANY.
_ The now Fashionable Lounge.
Enthusiastic reception of the latest London
Burlesque,
ACIB and GALATEA,
Ljst two nights of this sparkling burlesque, with
all the favourite artistes in the most popular songs
and dances of the day.
-—. SATURDAY, OCTOBER 31st, and every
evening till further notice, Grand Production of
Byron’s famous and successful burlesque (with
entirely new scenery, new music, new dances, and
new properties) DON JUAN. JtJNR.
Special engagement of Miss B. A. LAMBERT,
the well-known favourite contralto, with this
Company, who will appear on Saturday Night
next as Zoe.
“THE LYC
Newcastle,
SITUATED IN THE BEST PART OF THE CITY
It Is capable of seating 500 people,
and suitable for
MUSICAL & DRAMATIC ENTERTAINMENTS
The Stage (40ft. by 24ft.) is furnished with
STOCK, SCENERY, &o.
For Terms, apply
COLIN CHRISTIE,
“Thb Lyceum,”
Newcastle.
TO Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams,
and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. “ Beta,” Bulletin Office.
Professional Directory.
G
EORGB PEIRIMAN. Scene Painter, Theatre
Royal, BrL bane. Disengaged.
Th bat r b roy a l.
Under the management of
Meesrs. Williamson, Garnbb and Mubqrovm.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo, L. Goodman.
Established Success of
WILLIAMSON. GARNER, and MUBGROVE'S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING,
LAST NIGHT of
H.M S. PINAFORE.
FRIDAY, BENEFIT of Miss ALICE REES,
PATIENCE.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 31,
Grand Revival, for a few nights only* of the
Success of Successes*
lOLANTHE lOLANTHE.
Admission : Dress Circle. 55.; Stalls, 35.; T amlly
Circle 2s*
Tickets’ for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box plan open at the Theatre dally from
10 till 5. No Free List.
N
BW OPBBA HOUSE.
Under the Lesseeshlp and Management of
MAJERONI and WILSON.
There is no question about It.
CROWDED HOUSES UNANIMOUSLY AFFIRM
the
MAGNIFICENT and COMPLETE SUCCESS
of
Mr. GEORGE DARRELL’S
Admittedly Best Dramatic Work,
THE NAKED TRUTH
THE NAKED TRUTH.
The audience are worked up to an unprecedented
pitch of enthusiasm, and the calls for the author
and principals are given with deafening Intensity.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Huenerbeln a Music
Warehouse, 318 George-street. Tickets for all parts
of the house may he obtained at Roberts’, tobac-
conist, next theatre.
JOE BROWN, Business Manager for Mr. D arrell
N
EW OPERA HOUSE
(kindly given by Messrs. Wilson and Mejeronl,
and Mr. George Darrell).
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1885,
GRAND MATINEE PERFORMANCE
by the
FRATERNITY OF MUTUAL IMPS
fig
(Sydney Lodge, No. 0.)
All the leading artists in Sydney will assist.
Tickets everywhere.
Bro. W. J. B. JENKINS, I Hnn s „ ra
Bro. D. G. CLYNB, \ Hon ’ Becß ’
Bro. Joe Brown, Business Manager.
G
AIETY THEATRE.
Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
Manager for Mr. Solomon, Mr. B. N. Jones
Manager for Mr. Dampier, Mr. F. Gunther.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING,
LAST NIGHT
of
BROUGHT TO JUSTICE
BROUGHT TO JUSTICE.
Remember,
LAST NIGHT.
FRIDAY NEXT will be pjMduoed a play that
for t e last 273 years has bees produced in every
part of the civilised world, and always with in-
creased enthusiasm.
Prices—Boxes, £3 2j.: oo’aestra chairs, 45.; stalls,
35.; parquette, 2}.; t a Icony, Is. No Free List.
Box plan now open at Nicholson and Co., Music
Warehouse, George street.
ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
_ George-street, Haymarket.
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
rpHB
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING.
THE HOME OF MINSTRELSY and MIRTH.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
MINSTRELSY, OLIO, mid FARCE.
UNPARALLELED SUCCESS
Unparalleled Success of the
ALHAMBRA VARIETY COMPANY.
Refinement without Vulgarity.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 8s; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
Victoria Racing Club.
DEBBT - - -
CUP - - - -
OAKS
STEEPLECHASE
- Saturday, Oct. 31
- Tuesday, Nov. 3
- Thursday, Nov. 5
- Saturday, Nov. 7
The Entries are the Largest ever made.
RETURN TICKETS AT HOLIDAY EXCURSION
FARES from all Stations.
The conveniences for the COMFORT OF THE
PUBLIC at Flemington are now admitted to be
THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.
Nearly £lO,OOO have been spent in enlarging the
Railway Platforms and other improvements.
H. BYRON MOORE,
Sec. Y.R.C.
Miss Annetfta Scasl
HAYING rested her voice for six months, after
a long and successful tour through New
Zealand, would be happy to
RESUME HER PROFESSIONAL DUTIES ON
THE STAGE ONCE MORE.
iar* Line of Business .-—Opera Bouffe, Concerts
Burlesques.
This young lady artiste, being an eminent musi-
cian, would have no objection to travel with a
first-class company as Pianist.
All theatrical managers please address letters
for the present. Post Office, Young.
A Derangement of the Liver
THE CAUSE OF DISEASE
STOMACH
KIDNEYS
SYSTEM.
Below will be found a brief summary of a Lecture upon the Liver, delivered before
the Electric College of Medicine, by
DR. J. HAYDOCK,
The Liver has been known as the great hlood-maher and blocd-purifter of the Circulation. From
its size and spongy structure, it plays a most Important part in the animal economy, es regards
assimilation and nutrition. Food taken in the mouth and acted upon by the digestive organs of the
stomach is converted into Glucose and Peptone, and in these forms enters the Portal vein. Here, by
the action of the liver,these substances are converted into a form of sugar and piss out of tho livtr
by a large vein, called the Hepatic vein, into the general circulation. The new material now formed
serves two purposes, viz ; tho maintenance of heat in the body and asshting in the cell growth of the
system.
Dr. Murchison says, “ The composition of bile and its secretion is very complex. It is constantly
being secreted by the liver, and, increasing suddenly before eating, gradually decreases as soon as the
appetite is satisfied and feeding ceases,” Now, if this most important organ of the body becomts
torpid, or the passage of bile interfered with, emaciation and disease ensue. 1 note eight marked
peculiarities that now occur, and which we all know of
1. The patient complains of a feeling of weight and fullness of the stomach.
2* Distension of the bowels by wind.
3- Heartburn.
4. A feeling of weariness, pains in the limbs and great sleepiness after meals.
5. A bad taste in the mouth, especially in the morning, and furred tongue.
6. Constipation, with an occasional attack of diarrhoea.
7. Headache in front of head.
». Depression of spirits and great melancholy, with lassitude and a disposition to leave
everything for to-morrow.
All of the above symptoms go to show functional derangement of the liver; and now comes the
great importance of anv error made as to the condition of the patient. He should immediately pic-
vide himself withaUIVEK STIMULANT, the most common form of which is a Pill. Daily ex-
perience shows that this, when the Pill is compounded properly, is the readiest mode of inciting and
promoting the action of the Liver, and can be almost always relied on. I have devoted many years of
my life, as many of you now before me know, to compounding a Pill that will act readily and system-
atically as a Bilious Remedy. Ido not believe in great purgatives, and therefore have made a Pill, one
of which is an active and thorough dose. I have called it
Or. Haydock’s Now Liver Pill (Sugar Coated.)
One Fill is a Dose! One Fill is a Dose! One Fill is a Dose!
For all Diseases of the Kidneys, Dr. Haydock's New Liver Pills are a perfect cure. One Pill
will satisfy the most sceptical.
For Female Diseases, Nervous Prostration, Weakness, General Lassitude, Want of Appetite, and
Sick Headache, Dr. Haydock’s New Liver Pills will be found an Effectual Remedy.
They are universal in their effects, and a cure can almost always be guaranteed.
Each vial contains Twenty Pills—One Pill is a Dose. Price Twenty-Five Cents.
FOB SALE BT ALL DRUGGISTS.
Evcrv Pill is Suaar Coaled. If your drusmlst does not keep them, we will mall them free to any ad-
dress on receipt of 25 cents. Five vials for $1 CO. BUY AT ONCE DO NOT DELAY.
CAUTION.— To secure the genuine Haydock's Pills, observe that the signature of J. H Francis,
Agent for the United States, is written on every dozen packages. Purchase none without this.
As Dr. Haydock’s Liver Pills are entirely different from the 212 kinds now In the market, any scep-
tic can have a sample bottle sent him free on receipt of his name and address.
HAYDOCK & CO., New York, U. S.
TH
n
WATCHES JEWELRX
Electro-Plate
|M<
'■Hj*
*o
o
:a
a
0
BONA-FIDE REDUCTION
523*®'
I ' mz
RM&C
a 34i GeorgeS T Sydney
n AND AT •
H BoURKE S T , E.MELBOURNE


The Autophone!
THIS triumph of musical Invention Is acknow-
ledged on all bands to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It Is a wonderful little Instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 22 reeds, plays in throe keys, and all the
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the inventor, the world
was first indebted for the Organetto; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
study, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of cost and crudeness.
It requires no skill to extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &0., &c., &o. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy.
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that “ he who runs
may read.” It Is best adapted to the kind of music
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card-holder for convenience
in singing. It will be found invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one ; and ©very household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Auto phone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Solo Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
OT
474 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-School superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities—from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can offer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corre-
spondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by all educators and moralists
that music is the great refining influence, and
especially with children its effect for good is
boundless. The love for music which music in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, pnd parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other
wise hard task an easy one.
The price of the Autophone Is SOs.,
and where good music can be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autopho .e for SOs. we
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
ah orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogues of tunes at any time.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sol© Agents for Australia:
Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-strcet, Sydney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
i -n*-«
I 1 ieatbb BOTAL-" Pinafore” p. S.
GArfciw TBeatrE— “ Brbught to JUstlde— „
Tri® OLtMtuh-Comedy and Burlesque „
Opera House— “ The Naked Truth ” ..
Alhambra— Variety Company „
Lynch Family Bellringers „
Fryer’s Circus, Belmore Potrk
There was a good attendance at Sydney
Opera House on Saturday night. Mr. Darrell's
new sensational melodrama was the attraction. It
is entitled “The Naked Truth,” acd consists of
“ five epochs, an episode, and an event ” Its con-
stituent parts are a mesalliance, a parental effort
to reclaim the prodigal, a matrimonial barter, two
bricks, an elopement a carriage accident, a duel, a
drowning, a reconciliation, and a baby. After
passing through the alembic of the author-actor’s
mind, these constituents utter themselves in an
ensemble of unconsciously caricatured sentiment.
There Is a little light now and again, a little fun, a
great deal of nervous excitement, a passage or two
pointing upwards, and a quantity of common-
place complacence. The parts the author-actor
intended to be the most tragic are, however, the
drollest, and his most pathetic parts are the most
laughable. , * ,
p Mr. Darrell is tantalising. There is power
somewhere in him or about him. His acting in
some scenes deserves very high praise. His gene-
ral manner merits to b 3 liked. But he gives him-
self such things to do as no man can do and keep
a reputation for sens®. When he comes down to
the bank of the Thames, and stands soliloquising
close to the prostrate torm of the little girl he has
treated so badly, the run of the spectator s
thoughts Is that there will, be a scene between
them. Hardly any other playwright would have
been able to get out of this. Mr. Darrell clears
himself with surprising facility. He gets himself
hit on the head with a brick by a drunken man,
who has no earthly business in the play at all.
When hit, George lies comfortably down, and
waits till they carry him away. Dexterity like
this has its value. It shows nimbleness of thought.
It proves fertility of resource. But it makes one
despair of the author-actor’s ever achieving any
consistently good work.
* * *
Miss Mayor played the part of Muriel with
earnestness. The character is teasing, however.
An unwedded wife cannot successfully come on
the stage unless Genius has made a mantle for her
to move in. Mr. Darrell believes largely in real-
ism. He makes Muriel pose, and proclaim, “ I was
so young, I loved him so; God forgot me, and I
fell ” It would appear that the better the actress
and*the more sympathetic her Intelligence, the less
successful she will be in working out a character
such as Muriel’s.
* * *
The other parties to the play do not require
notice. The opportunities were not such as to
evoke qualities differing from those already
described. Yet they all played with zest. The
audience was in good humour, and what was done
well was liberally acknowledged.
** * »
We have often wondered why the Canter-
bury (N.S.W.) murderers should have committed
the fatal deed on their way home from the Al-
hambra Music Hail. Lately we have been to that
foretaste of Elysium, and wonder no longer. They,
we now remember, were drunk, or partly so. No
wonder then, after leaving the Alhambra, that
they imbrued their hands in gore. There is
nothing highly artistic about the performance at
this resort, atd yet, it draws well. Part
I consists of minstrelsy, of which, of the
kind, there is too much. The patrons of the
Hall do not yearn for ebullitions of sentiment.
Thev want comic butineas, and the broader this is
the better they will like it. That “ bright star of
hone.” Minnie of that ilk. generally achieves an
encore, and when Nellie Herbert sings ‘’ Call me
back again,” they generally do; but Mr. Clay, with
“When robins nest again,” is not so euccessful,
principally because it would seem from his voice
that they nested in bis throat ibis season. The
sparkling originality of the corner-men evokes
the hilarity of the gallery gods, and if Bqnes only
smiled more like a N.<?.W. Cabinet Minister who
has just “faked” a dump-car contract, and less
like a candidate who hears that he has dropped his
little forty “quid,” his bon mots would fall with
still greater effect. The second part, comprising
comic songs, dancing, etc., goes more briskly, and
the “locals” are apropos and clever. Amy Rowe and
NinaVTulloch put in good work, as does Mr, J. Col-
lins who was, as he confidentially relates, Intro-
duced to this world of toil “ all to oblige a lady.”
« * *
“ Popular ” business in Sydney seems to
be a draw. The only nlty is that they don’t make
it more popular. Of Frank Smith’s crowd, at the
Alhambra, we have already written. By the way
a Smith also runs the New Masonic, and hu
stave manager is H. Smith. The name seems tc
no so thoroughly associated with the business that
we are basely tempted to think that Cottier, of tht
People’s Concerts, has only taken his presenl
name for the same reason that another more cele-
brated man had labelled himself Carlngton—tc
hide a “vulgah” patronymic. R. C. Cottier hai
his two brothers, his sister Lucy. Johnny Cowan,
and half-a-dczen others in his company, and be-
tween them they manege to grind out good stuff
He is wise in making the programme as lively ai
nosslble. Lovers of high-class music do not, as £
rule patronise the “ pops.” The habitues of sucl
entertainment go that they may be amused
Partied or made oblivious to the troubles of £
”0.1 to the £ universe. They sit down with deliber-
ation and lay themselves out to secure a bob f
worth or more if possible. They enter fully intt
"the best that’s going,” and stem to con
sider themselves shareholders in the concern, tc
the extent of their entrance money. So In thi
London music halls, many a man has felt himsel
more than a match for all the Russias after encore
“ 01 .. w“ don’t want t. tight ” half a dozen times
and has then entered his own house through t
back window to avoid the vengeful broom of hi
infuriated spouse. But to return to tha “ pops.’
rrup dottier programme explains the crowding foi
front chairs, but might be still further popu
larised At the New Masonic the Anglo-Aus
tralians give some good topicalities and variet;
business which seem to take. Linden, the bonus
haa ft mouth Hto Keenan's, but there the resem
blance ends. T. H. Rainford is the interlocutor
Meandering from these entertainments, we sav
that someone was singing in the Temperanci
Hall But we did not venture in. There weictoi
manv yellow scarfs about for us to feel altogethei
safe We thought we recognised Dick M‘Co:
Date p G or something io the Holy Joes) on thi
nlatform That was enough. Even while thi
doorkeeper imolored us to take a blue-ribbon, w«
tied even as Joseph lied from the blandishments
of tin wife of the late M. Potiphar,
* ♦ w •»
The great Coleman is ouca more amongs
UR this time as tbo pilot-fish for the Rickards lot
who ape“r on Situ day at the Academy o
Music in Victoria aud Queensland this crpwi
w B fi C 'heen very successful. There are eigh
artists in the show—four of either oex. The ladle)
dance and sing, and the men follow suit. Mis
Nellie Wilson, the “ champion top-boot dancer,
nnnears to be able to do more in Wellingtons thai
an ord?oa?y person could In slippers. Harry him
self is said to be rather better than he was whei
hßrfl ever so long ago. Then thera’s a llghtnlnf
cartoonist” o (Mr?Austin), who, with two stroke
of a piece of chalk on a black-board, will brln,
Gladstone. Beacon,flald, Parnell. or Tim Heal:
before you. He will also deal in local celebntle
-is probably now interviewing J h em-
tremble to ihink of the number ot times th
proud face of Dan O'Connor will appear on tha
board befor© Christmas.
** * «
“ Pinafore ” has been put ou lor fiv
nights at the Sydney Royal. This, by.many pei
sons esteemed the best of the Gilbert and bullii a
operettas, has not managed to draw good houses.
The plot of the piece is 3s follows:—Ralph Rack-
stfaw loVes the daughter of—[Give us the plot
of, “ Haihlet.” Two coUnffns here excised.—Ed.
B,] It is somewhat difficult to account for the
comparative non-stlocess of this operetta. Sir
Joseph Porter is represented Mr. Howard
Vernon, who extracts from the part all that it
contains. Miss Alice Bees takes Josephine, and
sings the music better than any other diva whom
we have hitherto seen in the character. Miss Bar-
nett is Little Buttercup, and her vocalism is a
feature of th® show; while Miss Ida Osborne leaves
nothing to be yearned for as Hebe; and Albert
Brennlr la Captain Corcoran. Yet with such a
cast, “ H.M 8. Pinafore ” is not by any means an
unmitigated success. The reason seems to be that
the actors regard indlvid ual excellence ratht r than
aggregate effect, and, therefore, the tout ensemble
is lacking in artistic beauty. Dick Deadeye is
somewhat too voracious of applause, and, conse-
quently, overdoes his part to an alarming extent,
writhing in his efforts after the artistic as if he
were more than slightly touched with a pain under
his pinafore; and, we would also remark, it is not
necessary that Ralph Rackstraw should act as if
he were “fou” all through the piece. Of the
songs. Miss Alice Rees was asked for an encore
in "Sorry the heart” and recalled in the trio
“ Never mind the wtiy or wherefore,” while the
duet, “Farewell, my own,” was simply a gorgeous
yellow-centred daisy. But ihe “We tars” song
was conspicuously absent. The salutes on the first
two nights were fired from new-fashioned gur s,
which first gave forth the report and emitted the
flash afterwards. This shows the enterprise of the
management. The guns of the future will, no
doubt, act in this way, but as they do otherwise
at present this fashion, like the report itself,
■ seems j ust almost a little too previous.
♦ * *
Miss Alice Rees takes a benefit in
“ Patience,” on Friday next, October 30; and on
Saturday, “lolanthe” will be revived lor a few
nights only. If all Miss Rees’ admirers are
present on Friday night, the contl mity of sar-
dines to one another in a tin will be nothing to the
crush in the circles and gallery. And just here
we would say what we omitted to mention before,
that the orchestra at the Royal seem to have aban-
doned the strivings after origlnaUty which made
some of their previous efforts more novel than
pleasing, and have apparently decided just to do
the music as the composer intended. Tnis resolve
is welcomed by the audience, who, so mcho w, have a
slavish adherence to conservatism as far as instru-
mental music is concerned.
• • • *
“Acisand Galatea” runs merrily at the
• Olympic, and attracts fair houses. D’Aroy Stand-
i field is a spirited Polyphemne, his bye-play being
[ at all times worth watching, while Vulcan’s
5 deliverances on political themes are clever, and
J usually earn a recall. Miss Emily Fox has much
' improved as Galatea, and acts with plenty of
“go,” her song, “One kiss more” in the fifth
scene, being a decided hit. Already the butcher
boy, who delivers the matutinal steak in our
3 suburb, has learnt it, and usually awakens us by
3 howling it as he goes his rounds. This is not alto-
r gether unpleasant, for then we think first of Miss
5 Emily and next of that butcher’s bill. Annie
3 Schrader has apparently been unthawed, and is
much more mobile in figure than formerly. Amy
Horton makes a vivacious masher-shepherd, and
if there is any cake about is entitled to a large
7 chunk of it. It is a pity that some of the audience
1 at the Olympic are so fond of applauding before
7 the music is silent. Frequently some of the best
t notes of a number are lost because a too demon-
• atratlve youth desires to express the feeling of the
? gallery. This is a compliment to Rivers Allpress
t of the Exquisite, Beautiful, Lovely Hair, ard
his very capable crowd; but as this is about
J the best orchestra in Sydney, there are those who
1 do not desire to lose even the concluding notes of
9 the songs. The performance closes with a comic
9 ballet. The children in the audience enjoy this.
“Don Juan, jun,” by H. J. Byron, follows the
I present bill on Saturday, 3Lst This has never yet,
1 we think, been put on In the colony, and from the
1 renute of the author, and the success of the piece
0 in London, It should be a boon here. Miss Nellie
Lambert and several other artistes have been en-
■ gaged for “ Don Juan,” and, joy for the anatomi-
-0 cal students, the sisters Marlin will appear in the
0 Hon. J,( White’s colours, and dance a double-
-8 jockey hornpipe. The colours will attract much
£ attention.
0 * * * *
s Fryer’s Circus brings good recoinmenda-
h tlona from California. This was the troupe, it
g will be remembered, which was so unlucky as to
a be denied a landing in New Zealand. In addition
d to the trained ponies and dogs forming part of the
1- stock-in-trade of similar shows, Fryer’s people ap-
i- pear to possess a couple of trained goats. Ever
since the return of the Contingent this quadruped,
together with the donkey, appears to be held in
. special favour in N.B.W. For years we’ve be-
-0 lleved that this obtrusive animal was useful as a
6 target for bricks alone. It therefore comes upon
0 us with some surprise to hear that he can be taught
f* to stand upon his bindings or jump through a
18 hoop. If he could be induced to jump over a pre-
? clpice how pleasant life might be made. We shall
■t have more to say of this anon. Alas, for the
■« Soudan goat! Ho was murdered only last week,
it and went to his last dread account in a most de-
J - plorably uneducated condition.
,a » • « «
i, A change of programme is announced foi
3 * the Gaiety on Friday night, when Mr. Dampiei
f. w fii under the patronage of H.E. the Governor,
10 produce “ Hamlet.” The Shakespearian drama
a should be a draw just now, as there has been sc
11 much of the comic business lately.
* * * *
a
The Federal Minstrels open at the Victoria
’ s Hall, Melbourne, on Derby night, October 31st,
0 They call at Wagga on the 20th and Alhuryonthe
i- 30th, en route. Warner has now joined them and
;0 helps Keenan with the tambo, while Moynham as
I 0 slats William Horace with the bones.
“ * * * *
s. The great Rickards has done very well ic
a Melbourne, and a lot of naughty old boys are nov
19 In mourning for the fairer members of his troupe
• ’ Now the bald heads of Sydney are to have a loot
ir in. Tha great one and his “ dainties ” open at the
Academy on the 31st.
8- * « • *
J At Melbourne Theatre Royal Mr, William
i- son and his wife have “ Struck Oil ” again in th«
r drama with which their names will ever be asso
W dated. Criticism of the piece is superfluous
-e “Struck Oil” cam®, was seen, and achieved con
>o quest years ago, and its claims to popularity art
jr b no means diminished in the latest production
iy As a drama, “ Struck Oil ” is undoubtedly more
ie interesting than “Rip Van Winkle,” which ir
ie some respects it so nearly resembles. And Us no
e too much to say that the. John Stofel of Mr. J. C
s Williamson—improved by a hundred touches slnoi
the character made his fortune—is every whit ai
human as the “Kip ” who immortalised Jefferson
The last time we saw “Rip Van Winkle” I
st dragged painfully owing to over-elaboration o
t. the great part. John Stofel’s return to reasot
at might easilv become as tedious as Rip’s awakenitq
rd from his 20 years’ deep. Bat it doesn't. Th(
it genius of tne actor is tempered by the common-
-38 sense of the husiness-man, and Mr. Williamson ii
R 8 alive to the fact that an audience—an Australia!
audience in particular—can have too much of i
in good thing.
i- » *
n John Stofel’s departure for the war as i
g “ i übstitution” for old Deacon Skinner, his seem
es with Lizzie when under arrest, and Anally his re
ig turn home a broken-down oid fellow, are eacl
ly and all of them perfect pieces of acting, rich li
os humour and touching in pathos. How muon th
'e pathos of the Dntchman’sgrief maybe heightens
ae by the broken English in hich it is expressed is
at question hardly worth considering. Tt is just a
legitimate a weapon ns Bouoicauit's brogue. Mi
Williamson gives us on® dull moment in tbis play
however. The drilling business at the opening o
70 the second act might be curtailed with advantage
r- And L’zzle Stofel—what shall we say of her ? Mis
in Maggie Moore romps through the part as merrll
as ever. Her feet are as nimble, her songs as
pleasing, her laughter more infectious. The
childish sorrow of the “ tomboy” upon learning
that her fond old father is about ti leave home
brought a lump into every throat in the theatre.
There is but one Lizzie Stofel.
♦ * *
Lizzie's young man was played in rather
“ woodeny ” style by Frank Cates. This gentle-
man's figure is somewhat too “genteel.” Other
stage lovers been as thin, no doubt, but we
never met one who made the fact so distressingly
apparent. It is almost transparent. Mr. Vincent
was satisfactory as a sergeant, but much better
when he blossomed into a Judge in the last act.
Mr. W. H. Leake was particularly good in the
character of Corporal Sharpe, and lent a good deal
to the dramatic effect of the closing scenes. As
Deacon Skinner, Mr. Redwood seemed not unctur
ous enough la his method. When he strikes oil he
ought to rub some of it into his system. Mrs
Bryer, of course, did her duty by Susan, and that
the drama was well staged goes without the
saying.
♦ ♦ ♦
“The Chinese Question” was rattled
through as an afterpiece. Everybody stays tosee
this, and everybody roars, especially when Wil-
liamson says he goes every Saturday night to the
gallery to see “ George.” “ Who’s George? ' says
somebody. “Whatl don't you know Oeorge
handsome George?” says Williamson; “he plays
‘ Henry V.’ ” The effect on the gallery boys is
electrical. They spit on the heads of the people in
the stalls with exuberance of joy.
m* # *
Mr. W. G. Anson has been in Australia
some weeks now, but up to the present has made
no sign. When the big gun does go off, however,
we expect he will “ knock ’em.” By the way,
nothing is decided yet about Charles Warner’s
visit, we believe, in spite of tales to the contrary.
** * *
Our London correspondent thus gossips
under date sth September:—“l was in Margate a
few days since, and there I discovered to my
alarm that the world is growing smaller with such
terrible rapidity that ere long numbers of us must
Inevitably fall off into space for want of standing
room. I will not mention the names of any of the
visitors from Australia 1 saw there, for fear of
sowing seeds of domestic dissension; but I metat
least two Cornstalks (I can see them now grinning
in their security as they read these lines) in com-
pany they ‘didn't ought’ to keep. I think the
whole of the English Contingent of the old Tam-
bour Major company must have been at Margate
this season. I went for a bathe one morning and
swam into the arms of Pattie Laverne, who was
playing splashing* with one of the ‘Officers’ —
a plumo little lady whose name has es-
caped my memory. Pattie’s laughter at the
strange rencontre would have gladdened your ears
to hear. Shortly afterwards I met Agnes Con-
suelo—who is still ‘ resting’—at the post-office, with
a short stout well-to-do looking man of middle
age. She was dressed, bless you; she doesn t
bathe in the sea, but takes warm salt baths. And
you must not Imagine for a moment that she was
1 staying at Margate. Oh, dear, no 1 Far too vul-
' gar (I mean Margate, not Consuelo). She had
1 come over for the day from the more aristocratic
watering-place. Westgate-on-Sea, where she was
temporarily residing. I saw them all again in the
1 evening on the pier, and, strange to stay, just as
1 th® band struck uo the‘Tambour Major’waltz,
1 I caught sight of Fred. Mervln. fatter tha ■ over,
and wearing a yachting-cap. I noticed, by the
way, that he and Kattie passed each other without
| speaking.”
r ■
r[ A three furlong race in which aged horses
a arc engaged is nothin? but a farce. One of these
o delectable spurts took place at the Moonee Valley
meeting, and the only redeeming feature about It
was the victory of a two-year-old over his older
companions. Even for juveniles nothing less than
a a half-mile course should be permitted.
'• W. G. Grace came out in quite his old
f form in a match between teams of Gentlemen and
. Players at Scarborough, last month. The cham-
’* pionwent in first and was ninth wicket down for
an individual score of 174 out of a grand total of
263. His chief hits were 25 fours, which proves
n that the “old man” still opens his shoulders a
little more freely than some of the young ex-
w ponents of the “ slow and scientific ” game on this
t side of the world. The trundlers for the Players
K in this match were Peat®, Barms, Attewell,
0 Flowers, Ulyctt, Bates, and Emmett,
Disaster has “ followed fast and followed
faster” on the Adelaide division since they opened
their campaign so favourably with Bob Cooper.
6 Helene is dead, and the crack,-, Newstead and
Sardius. sre both hors de combat. On Saturday
s> again Bob Conner was made a warm favourite for
*■ the Moonee Valley Handicap Steeplechase, but
6 old Granville proved one too many for him.
Isonomy for the Derby is now the forlorn hope of
0 South Australia.
,t !■
'■ EFFECTS OP A DRY SERMON.
>e
18 The minister last Sunday had preached a very
3 long, parched sermon on the Creation of Man and
his habits; one little girl in the congrega'ion was
*f utterly worn outl After the service sheisaidto
n her mother, “ Mamma, don’t you think some one
k should advise the preacher to drink that celebrated
6 ST. LOUIS LAGEct BEER?” “Why, child?”
[ r “We would not have to listen to such a dry
18 sermon then.” *
a Wolfe's Schnapps imparts healthful vigor
to the brain. , , . . ,
a If suffering from mental depression take
ie Wolfe’s Schnapps.
0 * Adam was the first man, as everybody knows.
He never called on Summerfleld, because he wore
ln no clothes; . , ...
10 But wh-n the fatal pippin brought our heritage
of woes,
a Man thought he ought to do a mash and Summer-
a3 field arose.*
y. Gloom and despondency removed by
Wolfe's Schnapps.
si Drink Wolfe's Schnapps and enjoy good
ly health,
The Poet Care.
! (For The Bulletin.)
! Care is a Poet fine:
J He works in shade or shin®,
I And leaves—you know h's sign I
No day without its line.
i He writes with iron pen
Upon the brows of men;
Faint lines at first—and then
He scores them in again.
' His touch, at first, is light
3 On Beauty’s brow of white;
r The old churl loves to write
0 Ou foreheads broad and bright.
A line for young love crossed,
” A line for fair hopes lost
a In an untimely frost—
‘ A line that means thou wast.
\ Then deeper script appears:
The furrows of dim fears,
a The traces of old teai'S,
The tide-marks of the years.
6 To him with sight made strong,
“ By Suflferiog and Wrong,
" The brows of all the throng
Are eloquent with song.
r.
Victor J. Daley.


BRIEF MENTION.
In the nebula of Andromeda a new star
nas been discovered.” Let’s see. It must be
George Wlgram Allen.
Phillip-street aphorism—wisdom of many
boarding-house keepers: wit of one. When the
meat-pudding plays with the S. M. Herald re-
porter it is generally a poor game-for the pud-
ding.
The Sydney Evening News babbles:—
“The ‘kibosh’has been put upon our ‘poet’s
corner ’ during these terrible election times. There
isn’t much poetry about Parliamentary elections.”
Never before have we entertained such a respect
for elections.
“ What have you got to give men if you
don’t give them the Terewth ? ” yelled a Harmy
preacher In the Melbourne Royal Park, a day or
two ago. "Give them Hell! 1 was the prompt
reply from a voice In the crowd.
A Wagga paper says it costa local solicitor
Id, to send Is. to Sydney through the Post ofllce.
That’s nothing; the lawyer needn’t growl. We
got a shilling through a solicitor once. It cost us
£135 to get It.
The Victorian Lunac/ Commission is
about to visit N.B.W. to report on our peculiarity
in allowing such singular latitude to the insane.
The result of some of our late elections appears to
have prompted the Inquiry.
The Bev. G. D. Buchanan specified an
audience he was addressing lately In connection
with Melbourne Presbyterian affairs as consisting
pf •* Christians, gentlemen, and business men.” It
Is not easy to see which constituent of orthodoxy
can take the most pleasure out of half-an-hour’s
chewing over this triune compound.
A recently-appointed J.P. out West in
NB.W., who wrote to a neighbour shortly after
the new list appeared, and in a friendly sort of
way told him of the eventful circumstance,
wound up by s»ying: " Shud you ever come before
pie In my Jewdlshil oupasity, you can depend that
1 will deal with you As leaniently as possible.”
This is what the game has been lowered to
at last. Scene, country court. Crown Prosecutor:
"Is the party who signed that receipt your
father?’ Witness: "Yes, he is.” OP.; “What
was his profession when he signed it?” Witness
(apparently much confused): “ Your Honor, am I
compelled to answer that question ?” His Honor:
“Yes; it’s a fair question, and must be answered.”
Witness: “ Well, then, I am sorry to say ho was a
member of Parliament.”
When the youth, M. N. Callaghan, went
out for a Sunday’s shooting- in Gormley’s pad-
dock, he overloaded the old single-barrel and la
the first discharge It kicked and cut his thumb
open. A back-blocks paper tells the particulars,
and the Salvation Army editor winds up with the
moral that we have here another proof of the
error of gunning on Sundays. Now, not a bit of
proof have we. Callaghan’s case proves that it Is
an error to put two charges la an old gun. That
is all.
From America comes the news that a
terrible accident, resulting In 30 or 30 deaths,
occurred at Stockholm a month ago. owing to the
crush In a crowd before Madame Nilsson’s hotel.
Referring to this the D.T. Innocently says:—" The
telegraph has failed to furnish any account of
the accident to which this dispatch refers.” Some
people are never satisfied. How can we expect
telegrams csecerning the deaths of a few dozen,
probably vulgar people, when such news as “ Mr
G. A. Lloyd accompanies Lord Carington; ” “ The
Queen h"s visited the Bast London hospitals;”
or Mr Henniker Heaton has presented bibs to
several Canterbury babies,” Is waiting for trans-
mission ?
Sir Salmon Wilson has, we understand,
traced the pedigree of his ram, Jason, in an almost
unbroken line, oack to the pair of merinos which
Noah turned out on the verdant slopes of Mt.
Ararat. He states (Samuel, not Noah, though one
family is nearly as old as the other) ;tbat he could
have run back to the creation with Jason’s line,
but the wet weather, which occurred, blotted out
the tracks of the predecessors of oia golden-
fleeced animal. Sir Salmon’s next effort will be to
prove that he was one of the 40 nights which are
historically associated with the daysof the Deluge.
The 0. T. revisers refused the task of undertak-
Ing the research. They were, they stated, no
judges of mutton.
Mrs. Armstrong, the fond mother who is
now so virtuously indignant about the detention
of her daughter, “ Lily.” by Mr. Rrsmwell Booth
and the editor of the Pall Mall Gazette, did
not come particularly well out of her examination
at the police court. On the same day that Mrs. A.
“ confided” little “ Lily” to the woman Jsrret she
was arrested for drunkenness, - Mr. and wra
Armstrong and live sons and daughters all sleep
°? e roo . m / The ? P tha
tience, in (act, went to prove that this proldt/cc
of the British Government did sell her child for
certain purposes, and that she only took fright
when the Pall Mall published her case. In the
face of this the Australian dally papers are jubi-
lant over the committal of Mr. Stead and his col-
leagues!
“Yes,” said the old bushman, meditatively
While gazing into the bottom of the pewter as if
dissatisfied with the capacity of the Imperial plat
1 ve been too honest in my time; If I’d duffed
cattle and branded cleansklns, and choused men
out of their wages, I might to-day have owned a
station, been rich and respected, la Parliament—
perhaps, a knight. I’ve had chances to be a rogue,
but I wouldn t. Why, here no more’n a month
ago I was goin up the Gayndah road and I see a
cove lyin down drunk and the end of a roll of
notes stickln’ out of his pocket. Some fellows
wouid have gone through him, but that ain’t my
Twenty ‘quid ’or more he had. Somi men
would a took the lot. I just took a couple and
put the rest back. It wouldn’t do, y’ know, to
‘cop’ ’em all, ’cause if he’d wake up and found he
was ‘touched’ and I had aoynotes on me, I’d a-got
into trouole. Ay, I’m too honest, that’s why I’m
a Poor man to day.”
Home papers are asked to copy the fol-
lowing obituary lines, which appeared in a late
188uc °f a Melbourne paper:
“ To part with dear father was a trial severe,
I Although he is better in yonder bright sphere
Our lojs is his gain ; he's &i angel above,
j He drinks perfect bliss at the fountain of love ”
The last line suggests some curious rdlectlors
If the departed parent In nnesVion G.’
the llesh, in the habit of frking his little rum and
Cloves occasionally, he might have hisownldeta
about what perfect bliss is in tha wav nf iinnnr
And though his children say with fond confidence*
that “he is better in yonder bright sphere,” he
Preparations for the Recaption of the Prince of Wales.
[THE MAYOR OF SI ONEY - HAVING PUBLICLY STATED THAT MR. D. O’CONNOR, M.L.A., IS JUST THE MAN TO MAKE A SPEECH OF WELCOME, THE JAYNIL ONE 13
ALREADY LOADING UP.]
