

THE BULLETIN
VoL 2.—No. 97.-New Series.
SATURDAY, MARCH 21, 1885.
Price—6d-
The Bulletin.
MARCH 21, 1885.
To Arms!
TUB irony of fate already begins to afflict
our Jingos. Nothing could have exposed
the artificial and fantastic character of the
craze which has affected the minds of a por-
tion of the community, and has betrayed
them into an exhibition of ridiculous and
spasmodic excitement, than the contrast
between their demeanour, on the one band,
respecting the crusade against the “Sara-
cens” of the Soudan, and, on the other, with
regard to the defence of the colony. In the
first instance all has been raving and exalta-
tion | in the latter case, reflection and
gravity. While the daily papers have
lavished pages upon the various develop-
ments of the immoral, [unprincipled, and
unconstitutional proceedings in the matter
of joining the mother country in the most
disgraceful and unjustifiable campaign with
which she has ever stained the pages of her
history, a few brief and obscure paragraphs
have been all that has been devoted to the
subject of preparations for the defence of
our own land against foreign aggressions.
The reasons to which this extraordinary
contrast is attributable are flagrantly ob-
vious. The dilemma in which the Jingos, in
the Press and among the public, find them-
selves is so extreme that it might arouse
pity, did it not more powerfully excite de-
rision. They have expended their stock of
“patriotism ” on afalse issue,and have none
left for the real demand. To raise ai true
patriotic voice now would involve a confes-
sion that the shouts still ringing in our ears
were the voice of folly and fraud. To in-
augurate a Patriotic Fund to be applied
towards the defence of our own land
would instantly swamp the mock Pa-
triotic Fund raised to facilitate the
repression of patriotism in the Soudan.
It is obvious that the instant an appeal was
addressed to the people of New South Wales
to contribute of their substance towards
contingencies arising out of resistance to
foreign aggression, the pseudo Patriotic
Fund would collapse, and the factitious and
artificial character of it would be brought
home to the entire community on the
instant.
* * *
The dilemma of the insensate advocates in
the Press of the Soudan expedition, is still
more seriously complicated. They have de-
prived themselves of the opportunity to
appeal to the patriotism of our people*
Under ordinary circumstances, the spirit of
the community would be invoked by ap-
peals to principles which would find an
echo in every intelligent mind and every
manly breast—principles so elevating and
so universally appreciated, that they would
only need to be pronounced to find one en-
thusiastic response. But the daily papers,
in their Jingo delirium, have for weeks past
been so energetically denying the force of
these very principles, and belittling and de-
riding them, that they dare not even men-
tion them now. Any reference to them
would strike instantaneously and with un-
mistakable application as a satire upon the
recent declamation of the dailies. How is it
possible, for example, for the Sydney Morn-
ing Herald, the Daily Telegraph, or the
Evening News suddenly to cease arguing
that it is a just, a worthy, and a splendid
thing to dispatch troops to assist in over-
coming the resistance ot the people of the
Soudan to a conquest by foreign invaders,
and in the next breath to stimulate the ener-
gies, and invoke and arouse the patriotism of
the people of New South Wales by reminding
them that resistance to foreign invasion is
the first and noblest duty of a people, and a
war of defence against aggression the only
species of conflict upon which the Almighty
could be expected to look with an approv-
ing eye? There is not an inspiring address
which could at this crisis be made to our
population to stimulate their patriotism or
arouse their spirit which would not read
backward?, so to speak, and be instantly
and inevitably applied by every colonist to
the case of the very people whom our
rulers, amidst the plaudits of the thought-
less and the unprincipled, have despatched
a detachment of our defence forces to
assist in afflicting.
But we, happily, are nob embarrassed by
any such dilemma. Jt is now our magnifi-
cent privilege at this juncture to be free to
address to the people of Now South Wales and
of Australasia the inspiring language of that
patriotism which is the emanation of eter-
nal, universal, and immutable principles.
We, at least, can cry aloud without belieing
our words of yesterday, that, although all
war is deplorable, terrible, and to be
avoided if possible, Liberty is a sacred
thing, and the defence of one’s country a
holy undertaking. Ours is the privilege to
quote the inspiring language of the poet, and
ask
. . . “ How oan man die better
Than facing fearful odds.
For the ashes of his fathers
And the Temples of his Gods ?”
without flinging dirt in our own faces and
exposing ourselves to the inquiry how we
can reconcile such sentiments with laborious
and persistent attempts to demonstrate
that it is noble and patriotic to assist in
slaughtering people who are engaged in the
precise function which we now pronounce
to be the noblest of all.
Our Defence.
Thb fact that the members of the Govern-
ment have been devoting consideration to
the subject of the defence of the colony
against possible aggression is satisfactory.
The position of the colony is very much less
so, however. It appears that, in connection
with the rash and unnecessary dispatch of
a portion of our defence forces to Africa,
our magazines have been so depleted of
munitions of war that a fresh supply baa had
to be sent for ; this is a very serious matter.
Should war be announced, or even should it
not be announced, our condition would be
seriously compromised, were there any
short-coming in the materials for effective
defence. It must be borne in mind that a
fashion has been Inaugurated, equally by
Great Britain and by France, of commencing
hostilities without troubling to observe suoh
punctilios as a formal declaration of war.
At the present moment Great Britain is in
the field against the Soudanese although no
war has been declared; and the French,
also, are fighting the Chinese without hav-
ing declared war. It is significant also to
bear in mind that the first heavy blow
against the Egyptian national defence—and
the blow which in effect paralysed the sub-
sequent operations of the Egyptians, and by
its consequences practically decided the
campaign—was prepared under pretence of
pacific manoeuvres. And the same exactly
was the case with respect to the first blow
dealt by the French against the Chinese.
In each instance -the bombardments of
Alexandria and of Foochow—the most
formidable line of defences — torpedoes
—were rendered unavailable to the de-
fenders of their country by the sim-
ple but decidedly shabby device of
getting into position in peace time for the
express purpose of striking a blow at the
proper moment. It would surely be folly*
and it would certainly be a poor compli-
ment to the honour of our own nation to
suppose that the Russians will be more ob-
servant of high-souled punctilios than were
our own and the French commanders. All
the advantage, when nice scruples or points
of honour are thrown aside, rests with the
aggressors. They alone know their own
intentions. They can prepare at leisure,
and strike suddenly. If Russia has deliber=
ately contemplated provoking war with
Great Britain, it must be regarded as at
least probable that she has been getting
ready for some time past. One thing is very
certain; if an expedition against the Aus-
tralian colonies has formed portion of het
plan of operations, Russia will not have
designed that expedition to reach here only
by the time that England, fully warned,
shall have re-inforoed the paltry squadron
at present in Australian waters. If the
blow is to come at all, it should be expected
almost simultaneously with the
meat of hostilities. It would not, in fact,
be unreasonable to reckon that the com-
mencement of hostilities may be this very
blow, and that Sydney may serve as the
Alexandria of the Russians. A nation going
to war is like a boxer commencing a tight*
It does not strike where it threatens. The
first movement is often a feint to facilitate
the delivery of a blow in quite a different
direction from that which the adversary
expects. It would be no more than wisdom
were our batteries manned, and our torpe-
does laid at once. One thing, at least, is
positively certain; that if war is to be de-
clared, and Russia means to deal a blow at
Australia, her commander will not have
the decent civility to wait until Mr*
Dallby has been enabled to refill the
magazines he has depleted, with cartridges
and other ammunition. To the absence of
the 700 men on the fools’ errand upon which
they have been dispatched, little importance
need be attached. Luckily, Mr. Dallby’
offer of two batteries of our only trained
force—the Permanent Artillery—was not
accepted, and a reasonable nucleus for the
formation of an efficient body of gunners
still remains in the country. And as for the
infantry, we have available for home de-
fence ten men for every one we have lost,
and of equal quality alike as regards train-
ing and spirit, while we have the whole male
population willing to take up arms, if tim e
to lick them into military shape be per-
mitted. If the Ministry will but put this
Soudan fad out of their heads, and reso-
lutely face the really serious business ahead,
and if advantage be not at once taken of the
present disorganized condition of our de-
fence forces, and the emptiness of our maga-
zines, the colony will speedily be in a condi-
tion to give a very warm reception to any
foreign invaders who may swoop upon us
with the professed intention of introducing
“good government,” or under other hypo-
critical pretence.
MR. J. D. MELVIN,
THE BULLETIN WAR CORRESPONDENT WITH THE N.S.W, CONTINGENT.—-(See next page).


-
ENOUGH & WAR
■ the I
! i. ill s
I °NIY REED ORGAN
h AVING the patent
Qualifying tubes
I GIVING THE
Nearest approach
ORGANS
NICHOLSON AND GO.,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand,
325 GEORGE STREET.
C. W. EGBERTS’
Single Bottle Department
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, , 4s. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET anJ OLD PORT WINE
FOB INVALIDS.
A /STRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMB1DGEE PORT,
2s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT
2s. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts,
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
ls ( 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke s Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
0. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
SYDNEY.
B BALE and COMPANY,
SOLE AGENTS
in
NEW SOUTH’WALES
and
QUEENSLAND
for the
SWEET HAPSBURG PIANOS.
HAYDN ORGANS and HARMONIUMS,
and the
WONDERFUL
WERTHEIM SEWING MACHINES.
Liberal Terms of Time Payment.
SHOW ROOMS.
Sydney ;
383 GEORGE STREET,
618 GEORGE STREET,
1 2 CENTRAL MARKETS,
and
151 OXFORD STREET,
or from our Travellers In town and country.
Head Offices and Warehouses :
371, 373, 375, 377A PITT STREET.
The most liberal terms to travellers in town
and country.
Commission only, or salary and commission.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Meeting of Parliament.
While this issue is being priute), Parli ment will
be discussing 1 the question whether It is to be
henceforth the servant of Cabinets, or the ruling
power. Son. members have been told in the
Governor’s speech that to have postponed the
Ministerial Soudan escapade — to have post-
poned undertaking. In the name of the colony, the
most momentous and grave obligations—“ would
have necessarily had the result of rendering the
proffer of troops useless.” What then? Events
have shown that it was useless, anyhow, Reason
might have taught that it must be useless. And
apart from that, even had it been useful, better
lot the occasion slip than degrade our Par-
liament and undermine our representative
institutions. The Parliament is also told that
u the course pursued has awakened the strongest
feelings of;?loyalty and devotion to the Throne
and the Empire.” Who, we wonder, is responsible
for this mawkish stuff ? Was loyalty asleep that
it needed awakening ? The whole assertion is
false, however. The strongest feelings of loyalty
Would only be evoked where Groat Britain is really
endangered, or when the mother country is fight-
ing in a good cause* in harmony with the moral
principles upon which as a nation, more than upon
her military strength, she bases her claim to be
greatest among the great Powers*
A Bit of Plain English.
THE following letter, written by an old soldier,
who served for many years in one of H.M. crack
line regiments, and who enlisted in the N.S. Wales
Contingent for the Soudan, has been received by a
membet of our staff. The writer had no conception
that it would find Its way into print, and wrote
simply for his friend’s imformatlon and to ease his
inlnd:—
“ 8.8. Iberia, tViday morning,
“ Here we are, hammering along against a very
Strong head wind. This will be posted at Adelaide
with which we are to communicate. Nothing of
importance has happened yet. Of course a great
many down with sea sickness, but I’m not in
that lot. They feed us jolly well, but the
discipline among the men is bad, and goes
h long way to fulfil Sir Henry Parkes’ pro-
phesy. Our performance in Victoria Barracks
was simply disgraceful, and, I believe, if I could
have left then I should have done so through
shame at being connected with such a corps; all
caused through want of discipline. Officers, with
some exceptions, have no idea how to maintain
discipline. The marines and blue-jackets at the
barracks stood and laughed at us. So far, Austra-
lians have little reason to be proud of their con-
tingent. Our only hope is to bo oiliccred by Im-
perial regimental officers, and to get rid of our
motley crowd who cail themselves such. Perhaps
things may change for the better. I hope so.”
It will be seen that the old soldier objects chiefly
to the officers. Now, these Australians, who were
bustled off in such a hurry, are just as good a lot
as we shall ever put into the field, so far as regards
their stamina, their pluck, or their character.
They were a fair average sample, equal in all re-
spects to us who remain behind. They will fight
as stoutlyfas ever recruits fought, if they got the
chance; but they are not, as a body, soldiers. No
cool man ever dreamed that they were or could
be. They had not been marched together
one’iweek. I Some of them had scarcely mas-
tired the elements fof drill as known even to
volunteers. They are good stuff, but raw material,
and although a friendly reception undoubtedly
awaits them at Souakim, no one should bo
more friendly than the Arabs. . If England
were to send all troops equally raw, the
patriotic Toause would look particularly bright.
Courage alone does not make a soldier. We
have dispatched some of the finest materia*
for converting into soldiers ever offered to a com-
mander; but it is a mistake to imagine that wo
sent a body of troops, merely because we for-
warded a lot of brave lads in scarlet coats and
acquainted with the goose-step—to the Soudan.
*
T&e Hamilton (Scotland) Advertiser, of 18th
Hecember gives HknrV George t severe hand-
ling. “He is practically a land agitator,” it says,
with fine irony. Probably if George were asked
by what title he would wish to beldesignated, he
would choose that of “land agitator” which the
AbvKRTiSER applies to him with such bitterness.
It wonders why ho does not get the masses to
emigrate to countries where land is in plenty, and
labour scarce, and adds, “There Is just about as
touch common sense and honesty In Mr. George
telling the crofters that the land ought to be
theirs for nothing, as there is in him going into a
clothier’s shop and cl .liming a suit of clothes for
nothing. This is really the practical outcome of
this deluded American fanatic.” By putting
the possession of land on the same footing
as that of a suit 8 of f clothes, this landlord
journal has unconsciously gone to the root of the
matter. Our contention has always been that
there Is a fundamental and Irreconcilable,- differ-
ence between a claim to land—which was not
made by man—and a claim to merchandise, which
was. If clothes lhad existed from the beginning
like land, or air, or water; If man did not make
them, and If it was Impossible for him to Increase
or diminish the quantity, then, we say, that the
possession of pnany suits by one person to the ex-
clusion of others .with an equal right to them
would be robbery.’ 1 It is obviously absurd to place
In the same category the productions of Nature-
such as land—which were made long anterior to
man’s advent, and those of industry—such as
clothes—which are the result of his labour and
ingenuity. If ail the clothes In the world
ivere destroyed to-morrow, It would, no
doubt, be unpleasant, and probably inconveni-
ent. Many persons, such as Monarchs and
Supreme Court Judges, whose wisdom and know-
ledge depend a good deal on the robts they wear,
Would, no doubt, fall In public estimation. Still*
the evil would be remedied in time, and the lost
Tevereccefor the great ones of the earth would
gradually return fas new slop-made apparel was
inanufactured, and enabled them to get about
again and uick up their lost dignity. But suppose
All the land on the globe ,submeii,ed for a time
Under such circumstances, even the Hamilton
Advertiser, while the water, rising in the office,
was forcing the occupants on to the roof, might
admit that there was a difference, after all, be-
tween clothes and land, and that it was much
easier to grab the latter by force and fraud than
to make It,
“The Bulletin” Special Correspondent
with the N. S. Wales Contingent.
The decision of the Cabinet to permit only three
war correspondents, representing the three daily
papers of Sydney, to accompany the N. S. Wales
Contingent to the Soudan, was naturally distaste-
ful to The Bulletin. The leading dailies of
Melbourne were greatly exercised at being thus
left out in the cold, but contented themselves
with making arrangements with the Sydney
dailies, with one exception. The Melbourne
Daily Telegraph determined that the occasion
ottered an opportunity for coming definitely to
the front, and resolved to ally itself with the most
vigorous of the Sydney newspapers, in order to
achieve its object of distancing all competition.
The Bulletin was, of course, the paper which
it turned to. But Mr, Dailey had, in the most
positive way, refused to accord to The Bul-
letin a passage with the troops for our
correspondent. Every argument had been ex*
hausted in vain. Mr. Dailey was even proof
against what should have been, we think, a
convincing representation, viz., that The Bul-
letin alone, among the leading metropolitan
newspapers is opposed to the polipy of sending
troops out of the colony to engage in a campaign
for the repression of a patriotic resistance to
foreign conquest, and that to send only repre-
sentatives of Journals favourable to his enter-
prise would bo unprecedented and suspicious.
The Melbourne Daily Telegraph offered to
share their man—the chief of their stair, and,
beyond all comparison, the ablest and fittest.
The Bulletin was willing. But how to carry out
the combined enterprise ? In the course of
a consultation with representatives of the
Melbourne Daily Telegraph, the editor of The
Bulletin cut the Gordian knot thus:—“Mr.
Melvin is a first-class man, full of enterprise, intel-
ligence, and energy. For all these qualities ho will
have full occasion should the campaign offer those I
opportunities which called forth the powers and I
exhibited the fitness of Archibald Forbes. Now, I
the case is simply this: Mr. Melvin’s difficulties I
commence at once. His campaign opens now, and I
here. H® is at this moment face to lace with his I
first difficulty. Let him give a touch ot his quali- I
ties and surmount this obstacle. It is not a ques- I
tlon now of overcoming apparent impussi- I
billtles to getaway a report ahead of all compe- I
titors, but it is a dilemma of the same character. I
Let Mr. Melvin contrive to get away in the I
Iberia.’ Mr. Melvin rose to the occasion. “I I
shall sail in the Iberia,” he said, with determination. I
The representatives of the Melbourne Telegraph I
applauded the resolution, and bestirred them- I
selves to facilitate its accomplishment. When the I
Iberia sailed, Mr. Melvin was on board. His first I
letter has already been received. Hardly had he I
gone, when the fact of his departure leaked out. I
Rival papers lost no time in earwigglng the I
Government. A telegram was despatched to meet I
the Iberia off Adelaide, with instructions that Mr. I
Melvin should be sent ashore. To avert the I
threatened blow (although the chance had been I
foreseen, and Mr. Melvin was on his guard), a I
leading member of the New South Wales Cabinet I
was at once Interviewed. “ Privately,” the Minis- I
ter said, “1 hope your man will succeed. You
have done the smartest thing in journalism to get I
him on board. The London Times couldn’t have I
done it better. But, officially, we’re bound to I
have him ashore, and we’ll do it! ” The threatened
wire was duly sent to Adelaide. But the
ships are just now steaming across the Indian I
Ocean, and our correspondent is still on board I
We give his photograph in this issue.
Mr. J, D. Melvin was born at Banff, Scotland,
on the lath of August, 11833; is the .eldest son of
Mr. John Melvin, one of the partners in the well- I
known mercantile firm of Parsons Bros., Bourke-
street West, Melbourne. He was educated at I
Banff Academy, where he distinguished himself
as an apt and zealous scholar. From early youth
he was a bold and venturesome spirit, and was not
only looked up to in the schoolroom, but followed
as a leader in the playground. One Instance of
his courage will suffice to show the character of
the little “ hero of the school,” for such he subse- I
quently became. While strolling along the shores I
of the Moray Frith one day in company with a I
chosen friend, he noticed that one of his school
mates, who was bathing, had gone beyond his I
depth, and was being carried rapidly out to sea by I
the strong current of a receding tide. There was
little doubt of the fate of the unhappy youth, I
and many of his schoolmates wore standing round, I
regretting their inability to render assistance,
when Melvin, who was only ]3 years old at the
time, stripped to the buff, jumped into the stream, I
and succeeded, after several ineffectual efforts, I
in dragging the lad ashore, where he was restored I
to life after two hours’rubbing. This .'8 not the I
only rescue of the kind that young Melvin bore a
hand in, but it will servo to illustrate his
character. Shortly after finishing his educa- I
tion, young Melvin accepted a situation as I
clerk in the Post and Telegraph Office, where,
in a short space of time, ho became an ex- I
port telegraphist, and a rapid and accomplished I
shorthand writer, his ambition being to become a
writer on the public Press. After some prelimin-
ary training, he joined the reporting staff of the
Forfar Advertiser, and displayed such uncom-
mon aptitude for the work that ho shortly
afterwards was offered, and accepted, a more re- I
muncratlve and more responsible position on the I
literary staff of the Perth Advertiser, and dur-
ing his residence in Perth his enterprising spirit I
and excellent work brought him under the notice
of Lord Kinnaird, which led to a singular and I
most friendly intimacy. The enthusiastic young
pressman was Invited to Rossie Priory, the real- I
dence of Lord Kinnaird, once a fortnight, and in
course of time, became a recognised personal
friend of the family throughout the country side I
Indeed, when it became known that Melvin had I
resolved accompanying his family to the
tair but distant land of Australia, Lord and
Lady Kinnaird endeavoured to oppose his de-
parture, but, finding their young friend firm I
in his resolution, they presented him with
two handsomely bound volumes as a token of I
their friendship and esteem. The Melvins arrived
m Melbourne in the early part of 1875, and shortly
afterwards • Joe” joined the reporting staff of the
Age, and distinguished himself on several impor-
tant public occasions as an accomplished jour-
nalist, until 1877, when he accepted an offer from I
the Argus, and almost immediately became the
recognised military reporter of that journal. Since
the deathofpoor Hunt, whose military training
with Garibaldi caused him to throw his soul into
the work, the military and police reports of the
Argus fell away to some extent until Melvin who
gamed a good dealjof military experience during
his connection with the Press in the old country
was selected for the position. Almost his first exl
perlence on the paper was in connection with the
Kelly gang of bushrangers. Roughing it in the
wilderness of the Strathbogle and Puzzle Ranges
was congenial to Melvin’s taste,
there was a modicum of danger Involved in the
expedition, and, as on all other occasions when he
was detailed off for special duty, he did striking
work and achieved several brilliant successes.
H the „ 8 i£ Be of Olenrowan. where he
had many hairbreadth escapes during the firing
and not only infused life and energy into the police
w , h 2^ re . w0 ™ out and wearied with the long
night’s hot work.butsentsuch life-like descriptions
of the occurence to the paper that the editor
and manager thanked him officially, on his return
for the excellence of his reports, whtoh “xteSS
over a page in length. Shortly after his return
from the Kelly country, Mr. Melvin was promoted
to the Parliamentary staff in the Argus, which
position he retained with credit to himself and
satisfaction to the office, until October, 1883 wheS
ed the *® ader8l “P of the reporting staff of
the Melbourne Daily Telegraph whir-vT“
had just changed hands, and become the property
ot a rich and enterprising proprietary. An inci-
dent occurred during Melvin’s connection with the
Argus, which shows the peculiar and determined
character of the man. Whilst reporting a debate
mA® wlifl ? ne f. veDi ?*' ho was instructed by
Mr -D- Watterston. the prince of “leaders,” to pro-
ceed to Beechworthonthe following morning in
company with Mr. E. C. Westlake, one of the
members of the staff, who is now, by the way thl
distinguished sub-editor of the Age, to “ do Mr
Kerferd, the Attorney- General, who was expected
to “say something” exceptional to his constRu
ents in view of the approaching election
w2 ub i$ 8 > . Mr * Westlake caught the train, but
Kelvin unfortunately overslept himself,
„L a 9 ded 9 n . . tho Spencer-street platform
half-an-hour behind time. He could not re-
turn to the office and admit his misfortune, so he
U P the li! ? e 88 far 88 Seymour in an or-
2 in , a J?V, red a special train, at an exptnse of £45,
PPL 0 ! 11 . 1 ! 9 wr } Pocket, as far as Wangaratta, and
+u P °-haste across the ranges the remainder
=T. e J°. urn ®7» reaching the reporteis table, to
i22.5H rpns Pi. of ever ybody, just as|Mr. Kerferd rose
to address the meeting, and Insisted upon doing a
A?, ir i 8^ are « the work. Mr. Gillies, who was
Minister of hallways at the time, recognised Mr.
Melvins enterprise, and reduced the amount,
without solicitation, to £25. An attempt was made
to keep the affair quiet, but it got talked of in the
Yonck Club, and ultimately came to the ears of
0l ! 8 People, who, wltn that magnanimity
that has always distinguished their management,
torwarded the delinquent a complimentary letter
and a cheque for the amount paid for the
special. The money was expended in the pur-
chase of a bicycle with which Mr. Melvin used to
make excursions in the country at odd times, and
write special articles descriptive of the novel ex-
cursion, and the scenery met with on the way.
This is the gentleman who left by the s.s. Iberia,
08 rhe 3rd instant, as our special correspondent
with the New South Wales Contingent in the Sou-
can. He is lit to represent The Bulletin. Among
the correspondents who have gone not one ap-
proaches him in journalistic capacity or .physical
fitness; not one is so highly paid, and notone has
a wider discretion in the expenditure necessary to
ensure rapidity in transmission of Intelligence.
Mr. Melvin is tully provided with credentials, not
merely to the colonial contingent, but to Lord
Wolseley and others in high command with the
Imperial forces in the Soudan and at Souakim.
Should events of sufficient interest and import-
ance occur, on receipt of despatches from Mr.
Melvin, special editions of The Bulletin will be
issued immediately. The Live Paper i
George Augustus gala.
George Augustus Sala is the younger son of
an Italian gentleman and of a lady from Demarara,
once well known In concert singing and the teach-
ing of music. Mr. Sala was taken in his early
years to Paris, and there educated at the College
Bourbon, where he had for form-fellow Alexandre
Dumas the younger. Sent next to an academy at
furnham Green, he took part at 15 in a public
examination of pupils, and in an amateur per-
formance played the parts of Brutus in English,
of Sganarelle in French, and of Wilhelm Tell in
Herman. Launched then upon the world with his
brains, his memory, and bis industry for patrimony,
he at 20 lirst attempted literature in the modest
pages of the Family Herald by a mild satire on
the railway mania. But the desire of his parents
had been to make him an artist, and he now essayed
art by illustrating some ephemeral books, engrav-
ing valentines and cartoons, and becoming a scene-
painter at the Princess’s Theatre. At the same
time he was editing and illustrating a small weekly
journal called Chat, and going about the country
giving lectures on “Aerostation and the Flying
Machine, and at 22 he produced himsell for a de-
fender of all ancient landmarks as editor and
proprietor of the Conservative Magazine. At
23, he returned for a while to art in order to
paint the staircase at Gore House and to cari-
cature the Great Exhibition; to Aerostation by
going up and falling out of baloons; and to the
drama by producing a pantomime. He then be-
came a contributor to Household Words, and
had made so much way as a writer that at 30 he
was found on the staff of the young Daily Tele-
graph, to which journal he has ever since been
attached, which he has embellished by some of its
most brilliant writing, and for which he has been
800rre8 P°ndent in well-nigh every quarter
of the earth. Mr. Sala is one of the brightest
writers that modern English Journalism has pro-
duced. His leading articles in the Telegraph
are generally on lighter topics, and above all, he
has the especial gift of making anything and every-
thing amusing, Personally he is an amiable, quiet
man, keen, alert, and furnished with the most
tremendous and varied stock of information,
which he keeps carefully at hand in his common-
place books. He has read and still reads much,
ms pen is in such demand that he commands his
own price, and now makes more money than any
journalist in England. He is admitted by all to be
the most brilliant of after-dinner speakers in Groat
Britain, and no one will doubt it after reading the
neat style in which he brushed aside Dailey’s
superelegant and overdone flattery at the Athe-
naeum dinner.
In Sydney, there are many retired officers
who have seen service. Wo noticed some of them
watching the evolutions of the troops at Padding-
ton a lew days before the historical 3rd of March,
we had seen them, in days gone by, leading their
companies were the lire was hottest. Will any of
them (who does not hold a Government appoint-
ment) come forward, give his name and regiment,
ana state that the men he saw blunder through a
tew elementary movements were fit to be placed
In the field ?


BRIEF MENTION.
The number of sane patients in the Vic-
torian Asylums and of lunatics at large is rapidly
increasing.
la anticipation of trouble with Russia, an
extra policeman has been detailed for duty at
Mossmaa’s Bay.
“ That’s an insult to the foorce,” said a
ntleman in blue, as he read the advertisement:
£ Wanted a potato-peeler.”
It is a pity the “Vag.” couldn’tget away to
♦he Soudan ; he would have vastly entertained
the army when lying on the field of battle.
An attorney the otherday swallowed half-
sovereign. Emetics were at oncelfreely adminis-
tered, but in the result only 3s. 4d. was recovered.
“The frontiers thereat,” says Russia.
“ Whereat," eays England. “ Herat,” says Russia.
“Not at all, it’s just whore you are at,” says
England.
Mem. for the Council Clerk to register:
nur new Town Hall clock is known by its colossal
hnnds That’s where it differs from the aldermen
below', who are easily distinguished by their colos-
sal feet.
The Mahdi’s wai
song “ Act on Gn
Square.”
Chris shows that th<
Nile route was a mistaki
from the beginning, tha
Wolseley is a muff, anc
should be at once re
moved to make room foi
a proper leader. We nov
know why Alfred went
home.
Here’s an item at
the way from hell. Sayf
recent Evensnooze;
“It is said that when £
man lies, the d e v 1
laughs.” If this is true
and if the News circu-
lates on the brimstont
lake Old Nick’s life rnusl
bo one eternal guffaw.
It’s all up with the
Mahdi now. Captain
Ellis, of the Rockhamp-
ton Fallbacks, In his re-
cent official report ob-
serves that “ fourteen
members of L. Company,
Q.V.I., attended a suffi-
cient number of drills
last year to entitle them
to be classed as efficients.”
There’s a noble army to
send to the relief of
General Wolseley.
Thus the Melbourne
Age on the warrior deeds
of Field-Marshal Jimmy
Service:—“It is the in-
tention of the comman-
dant [by orders] to hold
another sham fight in a
short time, when the
practical part of warfare
will oe carried out in the
most minute detail.” The
“practical part of war-
fare” Is good, but it pro-
duces a lot of real dead
corpses. Jimmy is not
the only Premier who
says a great deal more
than he means.
Mortimer Franklyn
steps gallantly into the
breach. Get ready the
melodious tin whistle
and the dulcet oboe, not
forgetting the ravishing
jews-harp, and let him
have it slap as he straddles
lor ward. It there be in
Australia one man who
has played the hero in
rating, goose-quill whip
in hand, the impudent
pretensions of the cana-
ille, It is the literary
bladder of Fiinders-lane.
Of late especially he has
been in the tantrums
Queens and Queens'
daughters were writing
books, and other exalted
personages were indulg-
ing in similarly danger-
ous antics, and the un-
mannerly populace were
giving away the little bl
aE respect they used to
nave lor those set over
them. It was in these
bitter circumstances Mor-
timer set himielf to
slay the crowd with bad
English. He cried Havoc!
and has been about since.
But the other day he took
in an extra button, and
swashing before the gaze
of his wondering readers
a scissored excerpt from
a letter of Prince A.bert
Victor, wrote, “ The
young Prince is evidently
the Inheritor of the g- od
sense which was such a
conspicuous quality in
his gifted grandsire, of
the savjir faire which his
father exhibits on all
occasions, and of that
amiability of disposition
which has made the
Princess of Wales so uni-
versally beloved.” That's
just it, Mortimer. All
you want now is a lint-
seed poultice on your
hock and a bowl of gruel
with a wooden spoon, to
be declared “ evidently ”
the Inheritor of the high
qualities of the noblest of
the Browns.
The Mayor of Paddington has banished all
the goats from his municipality. There soon
won’t be a suburb where a reporter can get ac-
commodation.
W. Bethune, Council Clerk of the Rand-
wick borough, advertises for tenders to “be re-
ceived up to 7 p.m. on the 3rd ultimo.” Bustling
place, Randwick.
“ 10,000 copies of the News were sold on
Saturday.” This from the “ Brevities.” What
have we to say to it ? Merely that the same num-
ber of persons were sold.
One issue of last week’s Rum quoted Illa-
Warra butter at “7s. a pound.” Dripping, you
see, will wear away a stone in time, even if that
Stone happens to be a brain.
A committee has been appointed to im-
prove the Presbyterian. This is bad news for
the butchers and buttermen. But it is about time
their monopoly was broken up.
The Nooze says that Huon Gulf, in north-
eastern New Guinea, was given to Germany in
t° “precipitate” Prince Bismarck. You
can t keep anything from Chris.
, “ What has Lord Carrington done that he
should be appointed our Governor ?” is a question
an ignorance almost brutal. As if he
,,l? n a pig in India till Albert Edward came
up and stuck it J
An advertising patriot sent “ 13 pots of his
Australian ointment” with the army. It is when
the butter has run out that this present to our
forces will be the most in request.
It was on the motion of Joe Thompson
that the Treasurer’s statement of the British and
Foreign Bible Society was adopted the other night.
Can this be due to the railway accident?
When a noise of the crashing of timber
and of thunder is heard at the top of William-
street, people merely shrug their shoulders and
whisper that it is M‘Elhone “taking his gruel.”
It is rumoured that when at his breakfast
with the Mayor, at Petty's, the distinguished
stranger asked for the supreme de volatile, his Wor-
ship passed the mustard. But we can’t believe it.
The best reason we have yet seen for con-
curring with Mr. Dailey’s action is because it
“ will bring N. S. Wales prominently before the
world.” The same reason has been heard before
now from the dock.
Hugh Mason, a prominent member of the
English Peace Society, offers “ his deep gratitude
to Almighty God that the victory at Abuklea has
been on eur side.” So the sin of lighting lies in
getting licked; eh, Mr. Mason?
This is an order of the Mahdi’s to Osman
Digna. “ Hi flti co rumpleleboozeo. Golopti
cooparitijou.” Freely translated this means ;
“Don’t kill the innocent Sydney crowd. All
you've got to do is to collar the beef.”
Good news from the Soudan. Our boys
are not to be chivvied during the Summer by the
Arabs. But the Mahdi has deputed two of his
best lieutenants to guard both routes. They are
Marshal Cholera and General Typhoid.
SPECIAL JURY—M’ELHONE V. BENNETT.
The Evening News, by Special Jury's aid,
A verdict in their libel suit obtained:
This is a change—too many libel suits
By aid of Special Perjury are gained.
Under cross-examination Handsaker ad-
mitted having lost his way and his hat the same
night. This was the result of taking a short cut
home. Had he been a News reporter he'd have
lost his supper also when he lost his hat. See ?
It has transpired that at the sermon
preached by Bishop Barry before tha'troops, a
verger nervously clutched Lieutenant Natham by
the regimentals, and entreated him not to snore
so 1 ud, or he would assuredly wake the com-
mandant.
Says the weekly Jingo:—“The dinner
party (a private one) included Sir Edward Strick-
land, K.C.B., who, in spite of severe neuralgia,
was eloquent on the subject of our troops.” Bah I
If a man’s well enough to eat and drink, isn’t he
,weii enough to talk ?
The Statistical Register and the Railways’
Report for 1883 are already out. While we are
gasping at this unheard of punctuality, we hear.
f r °m a Private source, that similar reports
for 1884 will be available in 1907. So we shall see
how we are getting on.
The Irish and Australian World, pub-
lished .m [the bustling town of Narrabrl, “ Dimly
discerns a dark cloud rising on the horizon of fete
which, ere long, will burst with such terrific vio-
lence that the whole world will be startled ” This
comes of starting a brewery in Narrabrl.
This is the style in which the “Brevity”
man gives away his employers:—“ A member of
the vigilance Committee says that he would
rather go without his tea than without his Even-
ing News. He can’t sleep until he has read it.”
We guarantee that he sleeps soundly afterwards.
The Rum thinks the Irish and Austra-
PANWORLO (Narrabrl) is the Fenian mouthpiece
in N.8. Wales This is the hardest thing that has
ever been said of Fenianlsm. And the proprietors
of this powerful but seditious organ are supposed
to be desperadoes of the bloodiest type. Morhleu ’
Wake up, Donagbue.
“And so you don’t believe in the Mil-
lenium ?” said an Army Captlng, witheringly, to
a morose-looking loafer in a Colllngwood crowd.
Yes, I do,” jerked out the waif. “ And when do
you expect it ? ” the officer went on. “ When the
wit of Melbourne Punch Is equal to its venom,”
said the outcast, and retired.
Read this: — “ Lecture —‘ Poets [and their
Haunts,’ bv Mr. Cyril Haviland, Sydney Mechanics’
School of Arts, 8.” This makes us think some-
how that if Cyril starts many more magazines
with “ Bam,” “ Philip Day,” and himself as prin-
cipal contributors, he will be likely to be better
acquainted with poets’ huncles that their haunts.
They had hardly got seven miles from the
Heads, when a weird and awful cry went up from
among the privates on the lower deck. There was
a rush of officers to the spot. "What is it?”
yelled the intrepid Nathan; "lire ?” “Worse than
that,” sobbed a white-haired private, with a hair-
lip and one front tooth; “worse than that, I’ve
forgotten my hair-oil.”
“ I hear scores of people have been buried
under the snow in Italy, this winter,” said the
man reading the paper in the corner of the bar.
An Orangeman, whose head was of the colour of
a cocoanut, and with a nose with a ruby light that
never was on sea or land, paused with his pewter
half way to his lips. “ The Higbtalians are all
holy Romans, aren t they ? ” he asked. “ What’s
that got to do with it? ’’said the reader. The ques-
tioner smiled all round and said, “ That’s nothing
to what they’ll have yet, mark my words,” and
plunged headlong into the foam.
A street Arab was about to take French
leave to seat himself on the step of a ’bus, but
d l? c ? ve Jl n « t0 his dismay that this particular ’bus
♦h J «°v. Ced la an . I hdian conductor, took the bull by
horns, and demanded: “Say, mate, I suppose
fufJ r ® 8 no harm Ia my resting my trotters behind
this yer waggon o’ yourn ?” “ Arrah now. ve
been he’re” d y6 W ° Ulda t a axed m0 if 1 todn’ta
deH«rfiB h f n »^ cent 0ran S e banquet, Farnell
declared fourteen persons owned over two mil-
'lon acres of the lands of New South Wales We
don t kn'iw how true this is, but we have received
a telegram from an old widow lady Samld
Malowney, of Ballarat, asking us to troon round
n n lnn e Jh^ t i her ® a< l alrles about the matter. She
has a son who levanted over to this side in 74 and
i2teF8 8 s e tatementr ery mU ° b lntere8ted ia the Min*
WHAT HE WOULD LIKE TO KNOW.
So^ any “ en ° ow take much to tell*
Why u hey dld not -I 0111 ln th e band ’
'' hgore, 88 g ° ne fr ° m ° Ur Sb0res t0 seek * lory an d
On Arabia’s deserts of sand.
This is all very well, but thoro’s one hh-Io
That we really are anxious to 4 6 tbin *
A ?, < J. that i8 > you see, we would like to be told
B hy in thunder they wanted to go. ° told
— A new thrashing ahd
shaking machine called
the “ Climax » has been
invented in Klama. It
consists of a long stick
with a knob at one end,
and a Celt named Andv
Malone at the other:
Singularly enough, the
P° wor is obtained
Q6lth6r from Rtpum »,_ .
electrlcity.^ittelved
from alcohol. This mtu
chine was seen to great
advantage on Patrick*
Day when it held undls
puted possession of the
town for some time 106
uD Wh ih nthund erwas
with our ufiiift
sober-sided old cotem
the Singleton Harqus’
ali e0 lt bC [J ay l
ail, It 100 Off bv
d“y wL er t t, h°e n Satur-
InYteadVfherth
this, it struck a
say rd lt U w« re 8 r ®tted to
awt "s p u r n b ;%“
readers with the usua^
assM'BtfS’S
8 .P ln Plates with its
w- which
business T l h n er ? he W 1? oll n c °
Wor«hin^ 8t ? rday * Their
virtue e *® m Plary
magisterial rosy
time continue. y
sa-wEa-Ls-
DarublI tSS. mJ'EIJj
beTaiilSS 1 .k 1 ? wl11
on th« bt Q hat v. whustlln
J; h ® Sawbath Day
th© banana
blocks of New Guineas
®n?, r fl me *yhlch not only
seat* 6 in tb h 1 n t0 i? 8 P e clal
seat in hell, but also
rf fl k 8 nf tbe r m h "«» the
j“£ of “ 5s - fine as well.
trmVnm P res ent, the
a ft,Vn e „ Up W . orth 1» over
“,r*m Cbar7ef b ,
Wbfln r8t h the Burdekin.
hen the first engine
started, the local Sabba-
tarian idiots followed it
miles, in order to
see the driver struck dead
by a thunderbolt, or the
earth open up and swal-
but as
neither little pleasantry
off, they turned
down their trust in the
wrath of Providence, and
nwffiPh d * 0Q 8am
Griffith to pull them
through instead. Of
course, such an event
eeuWu’ti pass by with-
out the champion journa-
list of the North, the
Irrepressible T h a d y
O Kane, having a fling
In, and his Immortal
opinion on the matter is
that It Is “a great deal
better for any person to
§o to the Burdekin on
undays, and have a
swim, than be cooped up
in a church for a couple
of hours, listening to the
same old yarn.” “The
same old yarn ! ” By
thunder, Thady, old
Nicholas will give you a
swim round the boiling
lake that’ll haul off your
hair and hide before you
paddle a hundred yards.
Repent, man, re pent I
So far, things have gone on capitally with
our troopships. Some little uneasiness was caused
by a report (published in the News) from the
Iberia that Bugler Leece had caught cold on duty.
It is not said whether a cough has supervened.
We shall probably have to wait till the arrival of
the boys at Souakim before getting full particu-
lars of the case. Young troops are always careless
in exposing themselves. Before leaving Sydney,
the men should have been taught that the first
duty of a sentry on board ship is to go below and
get into his hammock when he finds a disposition
to sneeze gaining on him. By this simple means
the energetic Bugler Leece might have escaped.—
Across the sea the message came—
The thrilling tale was told—
That on the road to martial fame
Poor Leece had caught a cold.
Noble 700 I Be your’s the glory and the
honour, and our*s the joy of welcoming your
return. Fathers I mothers 11 and Intending-to-be
fathers and mothers 111 make your homes attrao-
tjveand call and see how Bray Brothers, of 403 and
404 George-street, strive to aid you in that way.
All that is wanted in china, glass, and earthenware
they keep.*
u Blasted I Blast it! ”


Personal Items
The Pali. Mall Q azettb asked for a ple-
biscite of opinions as to the ten greatest living
Englishmen in each of ten classes—painters, scien-
tists, musicians, &o. Amongst journalists, Sala
came first with 883 votes, and John Morley second,
with 113
Gerald Massey is touring N. Zealand. Mrs,
Gena Cooke, a well-known American medium,
was, at latest advices, in Dunedin at the same
time as Mr. Massey. The Dunedin Herald says
the embers of Spiritualism, which were getting
almost sparkless in Dunedin, have been Ignited
afresh since the advent of Mr. Gerald Massey,
geances are held on all sides, and new circles have
been formed in and around the city.
In last month’s num-
ber of the “ Contem-
porary Review,” an ar-
ticle appears from the pen
of Mr. Justin M’Carthy,
M.P., entitled “ Dublin
Castle and Irish Discon-
tent/'in which the talent-
ed author deals tren-
chantly with what is
known in Ireland as the
“ Castle ” system of Go-
vernment. In answer to
the Question, "What is
the Castle?” he says: “It
is the seat of a Govern-
ment which is centralised
and virtually despotic. It
is tho citadel or every-
thin? that is anti-national
It is the fountain and ori-
gin of every coercive
measure which la im-
posed upon the Irish peo-
ple, It distributes honors
and hospitalities to those
who are conspicuous for
their anti-Irish senti-
ments and anti-national
conduct. If the mass of
the Irish people dislike a
man, Dublin Castle offers
him its welcome and its
rewards. If a man is
adored by the Irish peo-
ple, Dublin Castle tries
to put hiraln prison. Tho
Castle makes feeble at-
tempts to combat the
growth of public opinion
by appealing to all that
is snobbish,IJ.unkyish, and
servile in human nature.
‘Keep away from the Na-
tionalists, and your wives
and daughters shall have
invitations to the Vice-
regal balls. Denounce
tho Nationalists and
praise the Castle, and, on
the llrst opportunity, the
Lord-Lieutenant will be-
stow on you the honour
of a knighthood.’ This is
the lesson taught by Cas-
tle practices every day.
If you are a member of
Parliament and will only
get up at some important
moment and denounce
tho National party, or
publicly separate your-
self from them, the Cas-
tle will be sure to find
you a comfortable place
with a salary proportion-
ed to the services you
have rendered.” And, re-
ferring to the notorious
Dublin scandals in con-
nection with the “Castle”
officials. Mr. M'Carthy
says: “As to tho brave
man who, at such terrible
risk to himself, exposed
this hideous scandal, are
the Dublin Castle states-
men obliged to him for
it 1 They must feel glad
In their hearts that such
guilt has been exposed,
but will they say In pub-
lic one word in praise of
Mr. O’Brien ? Of course
they will not. Will Mr.
Trevelyan get up and say
that he now acquits Mr.
O'Brien of the accusation
of trumping up charges
against officials? Of
course ho will not. The
London newspapers used
to denounce Mr. O’Brien
day after day while the
charges he made were
still unproved. The mo-
ment the charges were
made good and the of-*
fenders denounced by
the Irish Judges, ihe
whole thing waadtopped.
I do not Know if any
London paper published
tho observations of Mr.
Justice Murphy, of Chief
Justice Morris, or of Mr.
Justice O’Brien.” And
right here we might chip
in with our little in-
justice. When we broke
up the Clontarf revels.
Judge Manning dropped
us in for heavy costs, but
now that the foul ulcer
that we bared is remov-
ed, and society benefits
by its removal, he forgets
to accord us our meed
of praise. However, it’s
not too late yet. We are
still alive and well, so
hurry up. Judge.
The love and olher letters of. the late
"ord Lylton will probably make their appearance
*n England after all. It appears that some of the
copies sent out for review were forwarded to
America, where they are now being reprinted. As
the work was suppressed no copyright in it was
secured, so. unless some extraordinary measures
are taken there will be nothing to prevent the
Importation of the objectionable, book in any
Quantities the public will order.
When Prince Albert Victor was at Cam-
bridge, he, with pardonable and intelligible pride
in understanding something of the way to feather
an oar or manipulate some boating gear, was giv-
ing some advice to a comrade more familiar with
the river than himself, whereat the latter, rather
intolerant of the assumption of superiority not
based on its possession, burst out, *• Vou teach
your grandmother fo —,” and then sunk into in-
glorious silence, quite appalled at the majesty of
the name he had so easily Invoked.
At the Alheiutium dinner to George
Augustus Sala. Mr. Curnow, of the S M. Herald,
relieved the platitudes of his after-dinner speech
by a feeble and cowardly attempt at killing repu-
tations, while pretending to reprehend the prac-
tice. Now, we believe in killing false reputations,
and are never better content than when we take a
spurious one by the throat and shake the life out
of it. Mr. Curnow’s whine was the complaint of
impotence, in bf longs to tuc class of iron foisted
ypon jou tai.'-U. by the late Joan lalrfax, because
they were mouthy In the pulpit, who never were
capable of killing a reputation, except by accident
—when they praised It.
Died lately at Wellington, New Zealand,
Frances Wordsworth, the only surviving female
of the few persons who were rescued from the
wreck of the ship Strathmore on the Crozcts
several years ago. After recovering from the
i sufferings endured on the island, Mrs. Wordsworth
returned to England, and afterwards emigrated to
New Zealand with her s >n and daughter. The
mother and daughter lived together in Wellington
j as teachers of music and dancing, but Mrs. Words-
worth never entirely recovered her strength, and
I has been ailing for a long time.
Michael Davitt having recently stated
that for “some assault” on the governor of an
English gaol O’Donovan Rossa was “ handcuffed
behind his back for HI days, and during that period
had to go down on his knees at meal times and eat
his porridge bv lapping it like a dog,” a correspon-
dent of the Pall Mall says: “ The assault In
question was one too gross to be publicly de-
scribed. Any other prisoner would have been
Hogged for it. The mistake was to have substi-
tuted the handcuffing, but this was done from a
mistaken feeling of mercy. Now let the world
juige.”
This is about Mr. Matthew Burnett whose
name has not for some time lent lustre to these
columns. A Melbourne £aper says that “a sub-
scrJption is being raised in Hobart to remunerate
Mr. Matthew Burnett for his self-sacrificing work
in the cause of temperance.” And very proper
too. We shall be proud to contribute a bottle of
the real old Mackay (kept specially for the regale-
ment of temperance lecturers who do us the
honour to call on usl to the fund. We take it, as
Matthew is admitted to have sacrificed himself in
I the cause of temperance, that liquor will be the
form which the compensation will take. He
should not be expected to get thoroughly sober
I for the rest of his life. Happy man!
|| Here we are again! At the first meeting
of the Singleton Municipal Council. Alderman
!f ’Anley Ifennett, of glorious Parliamentary merao-
, ry, bobbed serenely up, and, with all the native
modesty of former years, proposed himself as a fit
and pr per person to fill the first mayoral chair.
Unfortunately, however, jealousy of ’Anley’s
superior abilities prevented any other alderman
from seconding the motion, and he was once more
■carefully “sot in the mud, as usual,” Alderman F.
i King being returned unopposed. ’Anley now says
i municipal glory has no more charms for him. All
( he requires at presmt is the address of the party
I who wants a respectable, well-educated man to
•chop wood and mind his own business in return
1 for hie board and lodging.
It was with a gush of joy which almost
■brought the tears to our eyes that we read of the
contemplated visit to Australia of Sims Reeves.—
fvery ponderous writing this.—Kd. B.] And our
i surprise was as ggpat as our Joy. Seldom do artists
come to us while in the zenith of their powers;
seldom, indeed, do they come to us except on
crutches or in sections held together by screws.
But when they come they usually like us so well
that they die with us, and we have the proud pri-
vilege of subscribing to the funeral fund. It is
not so with this brilliant young singer, who is now
in only what might be called the first fresh bloom
of his fame, having made his deb&t scarcely half-a-
dozen cycles ago when the dolocephalic man was
in his prime. Mr. Sims Reeves, also comes to us
with the stamp of Theban approval, having sung
with great success before some of the most re-.
nowned of the embalmed remains of the Egyptian
Museum. Let us, when ha comes, give a hearty
welcome to this promising young vocalist.
Mr. Joseph Symes, of Melbourne, who is ]
now on exceedingly cool terms with his Creator, is i
the editor of a paper called the Liberator. And |
Mr. Justice Williams, who has gained great respect
in certun circles for his unassuming imbecility,
has virtually gone over to Mr. Symes. His book,
“ Religion without duperstition,” is to be seen in
the windows of the latter, but scarcely anywhere
else, except in tripe shops and on sausage stalls.
But the Almighty has found a friend in the person
of Mr. John Turner, of Fitzroy, who has declared
in print that he will see no harm come to Him as
long as he (John Turner) lives. There is under-
stood to be much timbrel playing and hosannahing
in heaven over this. And when he dies, Mr. John
Turner will, of course, expect to be made an arch-
angel for his championship. They all expect
something. We have read the arguments of Mr.
Turner, and will say, for his benefit, that if we
were In his position, and had written what ho has
written, we would sell out our chance of archan-
gelship for the first basket of sour apples we could
meet. Probably when he dies, he will be damned
for bis interference.
The once celebrated C. E. Jones is now
editor and proprietor of a small but strong-spoken
paper called the People’s Tribune. Tc is pub-
lished in Melbourne, and is understood to circu-
late largely in earthenware crates and shoe-trunks.
This is the legend printed at the head of the lead-
ing article: Subscribe and run it. Money is life.
Unremitting sympathy won’t pay our printers.”
There is a flavour of the epigrammatic about this
which speaks Indifferent badly for the success of
the enterprise. We have always noticed that it is
only your small journals, with a spectral circula-
tion, that can afford to say sharp things to their
subscribers. Perhaps, however, Mr. Jones is not
afraid of his subscribers. He has no reason to be
—judging by a casual look at his paper. Perhaps,
indeed, he has killed them all already, and is only
living in hopes of collecting their subscriptions by
harassing their executors. We wish him luck,
anyhow, if only for his gibe at Mr, Speight, the
Victorian Railway Commissioner. This is It;—
“ The times are out of Joint 1 O, cursed Speight I
That ever thou wast born to set them right.”
Not bad, is it ? Put—that poor Shakespeare I
After a long and careful consideration of
the painful subject, we have come to the conclu-
sion that about 75J3 per cent, of the whole of the
female population of the globe would willingly
give up everything they hold—even life Itself i f
they could—In order to enjoy the felicity of being
married to a real live man. In many cases the
question of who the man is seems to belmmate-
rial, for as one who knows the sex well truly
observes, there are some women who would
marry Lazarus himself, providing the old Biblical
deadbeat could pick up enough crumbs to keep a
family of two. And, talking of this, reminds us
that the somewhat liberal allowance of £50 a year
was settled by the Victorian Government on the
widow of the late Aaron Sherritt, who was wiped
out for “turning dog” by Joe Byrne, a promi-
nent member of the late Arm of Messrs. Ned
Kelly and Co. The sole condition laid upon Mrs.
Sherrit was that she should remain single, and this
she did until about a month ago, when she suc-
cumbed to the blandishments and deloodhurin
ways of a Castilian hidalgo by the name of Mur-
phy. As the Victorian financial year does not
close until the 30th June next, Mrs. Sheritt-Murphy
will continue to draw her little “ perks ” till then,
after which the Cabbage Garden coffers will bo
enriched to the extent of £50 per annum.
Hello ! what’s all this
—mutiny in the ranks
already? Anyway, it is
something remarkably
serious, for at a public
Patriotic Fund meeting
recently held at Rich-
mond, the Rev. Mr. Ca-
meron, after planking
down a “ pony ” on be-
half of the good cause,
quietly observed that
“the absence of Lieu.
tenant-Colonel Holbor-
row, of the 3rd Regi-
ment N.S.W.Y.I, from
his appointment, appear-
ed to be due to some
underhand manoeuvring
at head-quarters.” Ano-
ther sympathiser then
gave it as his opinion
that some notice ought
to be taken of the harsh
treatment the gallant
Lieutenant-Colonel had
re< eived, after which Al-
derman Keliy (who is a
full private in the Rich-
mond Fallbacks also)
struck the lloor, and in
a voice that was fairly
ague-stricken with emo-
tion (neat phrase that),
moved “ that this meet-
ing is of opinion that
Lieutenant-Colonel Hol-
borrow has been very
harshly and unjustly
dealt with by the present
Government, and that
through this treatment
a gross insult (yells of
raae) had been offered to
the lion-hearted 3rd Regi-
ment, which has the
honour of being com-
manded by such an ex-
perienced, such a brave,
such a courageous, such
a ne plug ultra (tremend-
ous cheering)-he would
repeat the woras-such a
magnum bonum oflicer as
Lieutenant-Colonel Hol-
borrow.” Subsequently,
what Bully Bolton would
call a more “condoling”
resolution was adopted
by a majority of one, and
from the tone of the r< -
marks passed, we learn
that the gallant Holbor-
row, feeling a trifle sat
upon when he heard that
Lieut.-Colonel Wells hau
been appointed to the va-
cancy caused by the re-
tirement of Lieut-Coionei
Raymond, culled upon
the Commandant to en-
quire into the matter,
and was plainly told that
Mr. Minister Wright re-
fused to give him the
appointment because ho
(Mr. Holborrow) was un-
popular with the oflicer b.
upon hearing this, the
Richmond Wolseiey re-
plied that so far as three
of the officers in question
were concerned, he could
easily explain how the
lacteal fluid got into their
particular cocoa - nuts
because one of those
heroes bold was heavily
in his (Mr. Holborrow's)
debt, another was a dis-
charged servant of his,
and the third he had re-
fused to recommend lor
an appointment under
Government. Another
reason for the slight of-
fered to the brave 3rd
Regiment of Richmond is
said to lie in the fact that
Mr. Holborrow is a mem-
ber of .Parliament who
has a penchant of late tor
sitting on the Opposition
benches, hence this thuc-
ness pn the part of some
of the gentleme i con-
nected with our War De-
partment. Taking it alto-
gether, this is a very
pretty quarrel as it
stands, and there is evi-
dently a smart rod in
pickle for Mr Wright on
his return from the half-
way house on the road to
the Soudan.
Wolseley is a rather mean man. He did
not send to the War Office Sir Herbert Stewart’s
despatch respecting the battle of Abu Klea, but
a re-written version of his own, and an extract
only from Stewart’s report. Wolseley’s written
opinion about newspaper correspondents amply
explain hisr despotic dealings with the despatches.
In The Soldier s Pock et Book” he says:—“ News-
paper correspondents and all that race of drones
■rft “ ®? c « Uf S! )raDce t0 an arn W- Thev eat the
rations of fighting men, and do no work at all
Without saying so directly you can lead your
army to believe anything, and as a rule in all
civilised nations what is believed by the armv
will very soon be credited by the enemy, having
reached him by the spies or through the medium
of these newly-invented curses to armies-I mean*
the newspaper correspondents.” There is a good
AT- °£. , ne8ty and personal disinterestedness in
this attack upon the correspondents, for Wolselev-
bas been enormously and fubomely praised by
journalists whose despatches have passed a very
critical censor—Wolseley himself, in fact. The
curses and drones,” who “ do no work at all.”
st -
One of the most remarkable men of his dav
Richard Chenevix French,
the Archbishop of Dublin. Dr. French comes of h
5huroh d thft fam i lj lv which has furnished the
Great h Rritiin rl^ulv, and the di Plomatio service of
Great Britain with many eminent men After
being admitted to Holy Orders, Dr. French held
SAMPLE SPECIMENS OF COURTSHIP AND MARRIAGE.
Courting Sample: Utter Disregard of Self.
Courting Sample:
Can’t Get Close Enough Together.
Courting Sample:
“Dear little innocents! ” —Other People’s.
Married Sample,
Married Sample:
Impossible to Get Far Enough Apart.
Married Sample!
“Confounded brats I’’---Their Own.


corral parochial charges in England. In 1845, he
se Q V a e phcsen Hulsian lecturer at Cambridge, and in
Divinity Professor and Theological Examiner
• King's College, London. Several years subae-
mipntlv he was consecrated in Christ Church
rathedral Archbishop of Dublin. His labours for
the furtherance of the Church in Ireland were in-
defatigable and he was always foremost in pro-
moting works of charity. In the realms of litera-
ture Dr. French also achieved much fame. His
announcement of his resignation, which took place
in December last, was accompanied by an intima-
tion of his intention to forgo his retiring allowance
of £2500 a year—an action which may be, said to
be characteristic of his whole life.
A little time ago there was in Ballarat a
house with a mystery. It was the house of that
war-worn veteran and great commander, Colonel
Smith. Unearthly noises were heard by shudder-
ing passers-by in the dead of night and in the blaze
of noon the noises still went on. They were like
the sound of hammering—the mighty hammering
of Titans. There was a whisper that Colonel
Smith, forZsome sin of his early life, was haunted
by an earthquake. This was, however, only lis-
tened to by the superstitious. The plain and
practical part of the community came to the con-
clusion that the Colonel had started a boiler fac-
tory in his backyard, and let the matter rest at
that. It was, notwithstanding, noted as a curious
tiling that the strange noises began immediately
the telegram was received stating that assistance
for the Soudan would probably be accepted from
all the colonies, and as suddenly ceased when the
telegram came, stating that the offer of New South
Wales only was taken. Then the mystery was
cleared. A small boy ascended the fence around the
backyard of the brilliant military chieftain
and saw, in a sort of dry dock, made of posts and
rails—a shoe. The shoe was sheathed in iron. An
hour after the whole city knew (and the intelli-
gence wont prancing on even to savage Dungaree)
that the Colonel, fired with the general enthusiasm,
had been for a fortnight previous armour-plating
one of his shoes, with a view of offering it to the
Government as a gunboat. This was the cause of
the unearthly noises. It is a pity that this noble
act of self-sacrifice was not allowed to be consum-
mated. But it would not have been etiquette for
the Colonel, as a distinguished Victorian com-
mander, to offer his personal assistance when the
offer of his colony had been declined. So the shoe
still remains on the stocks. It will probably be
offered to the Harbour Trust as a dredge when a
team of elephants can be procured to draw it to
the station and the railway bridges have been
additionally strengthened. Great sympathy is
expressed for the Colonel in Ballarat. It is said
that even the footprints he made in the late wet
weather have been held sacred and railed around
at the cost of the Council. There is a talk of turn-
ing them into ornamental ponds, but this project
is as yet only in embryo. Gallant Colonel 1 Gener-
ous Ballarat!
It was the opinion of one Milton (who was
a sort of poet in his own cld-fashioned way) that
*• The childhood shows the man, as morning shows
the day,” and, so far as the political childhood
and manhood of a person are concerned, we know
of no one who more fully bears out the great
poet’s theory than the Hon. W. B. Dailey. Beyond
a little expansion of mind and body. Time has
done little to change either properties of the
jovial little Joss, before whom the Jingoes have of
late bowed down, and adoringly offered up their
cheap and fleeting incense. From first to last, Mr,
Dailey’s career as a statesman has been that of a
bold political “plunger.” He played but seldom,
but whenever he did take a hand he raised the
stakes so high that he either made or broke his
party by the speculation. His coup d'itat of the
historic Third will shortly prove the truth of this,
and, if Rumour speaks rightly, it had its baby pro-
totype in the political career of our Acting-Pre-
mier, when he, as Solicitor-General, way back in
the early days, managed to work the oracle so that
the office of Attorney-General was conferred on a
man who had only been two months in the colony,
and who, at the time of his appointment, had
never sot his eyes on the Premier or any of
his colleagues. The whole of this latter
story is splendidly told by poor Deniehy, a
man who knew Little Tiptop, as he aptlv named
our hero, inside and out, and.so graphically has he
drawn his friend’s character, and so little has the
real man himself changed, that parts of the tale
might have well been written at the present day.
Here, for instance, is our first introduction to the
genial Solicitor-General of those days:—“Tiptop
was a popular man—a litlle idol, all jokes and em-
bonpoint, with hosts of supporters. I think I see
him now—there was scarcely an article of his cos-
tume, from his exquisite boot to his pepper-and-
salt merino hat, that enthusiastic tradesmen had
not tendered gratuitously to him —if he would
have taken them before he had opened his purse,
as tributes and testimonials of popular regard,
confidence, and gratitude for his great public ser-
vices.” Bearing in mind how the countless dona-
tions of everything, from boxes of flea powder up
to bags of sovereigns, have been laid at Little
Tiptop’s feet of late, it is easily to be seen that
Deniehy’s picture is by no means overdrawn; but,
to return to the master’s sketch, we are told that
Tiptop was looked upon in those days as a “ young
gentleman whose head had been turned by pros-
perity—a case of spoiled boy—and that his passion
for doing and being with the aristocratic outran
his attachment to principle. He was, you know, a
colonial lad of the lower classes, suddenly tossed
into power and position—all this, too, before he
had arrived at years of discretion; in fact, made
giddy by the fling up.” It is the daring, dicta-
torial boldness of the move attributed to our
hero in connection with the incident referred
to by the gifted little Dan which gives it so
close a resemblance to the decisive, and seemingly
reckless, policy pursued in the recent offer of
troops to England, and which proves that some 30
or 10 years have made little change in the temper-
ament of the man now at the helm of State affairs.
When the news of his promotion to the Attorney-
Generalship was first broached to the English
stranger, he frankly owned he had some misgiv-
ings on the subject, upon which Deniehy puts the
following significant words into the mouth of
Little Tiptop: “Don’t be afraid of shadows, old
fellow. You accept, and I should like to hear
any of the wretches And fault with my appoint-
ment.” Is it possible that such a speech as that
could have flitted across our Acting-Premier’s
mind when he ;made his warlike offer to Derby, or
suggested it to his own colleagues ? Anyway, the
spirit in which both offers were made was the
same; and now, here is another little sentence
which shows how thorough was Deniehy’s insight
into the character of his friend. The stranger, on
being further pressed, pleaded his unfitness for
the greatness about to be thrust upon him, because
he knew nothing whatever of local politics. With
a gay laugh, however, Little Tiptop smashed
down the difficulty by exclaiming: “Really, old
fellow, you are talking in a way unworthy of a
lawyer. Now, what do I know of politics ? Do you
think I even thought ten minutes in my life on
land questions or rubbish of that kind? Not I. If a
man is called into public life let him talk well, if he
can, and mind what he’ about —that's politics. It
is all very well for the leading demagogues to
chatter, and well for persons like himself to trans-
late into something that looks like a train of intel-
ligible reasoning in the English language what
they do chatter about politics. My idea is that the
whole thing is a social question. I go in for birth.
Talent, education, tolerably fair honesty, we can
get these things plentifully — even from the
humblest sources; but we want blood, sir, we want
distinction, we want style,” The upshot of the
whole affair was that Tiptop said the appointment
would be a good thing; the Minister for Works
[are you there, Mr. Wright ?1 swore he’d back up
anything that Tiptop said, and the backboneiess
Premier at last consented. Then the Opposition
storm burst, and so furious did it rage that Tiptop
foundered and resigned, or, as the story says, the
funny little dog, having got the rest of the Minis-
try into the scrape, left them to get out of the
business as best they could. Deniehy’s story may
have been all a myth, but certainly he was a man
who, in his mind’s eye, had correctly pictured the
future political career of his more successful
friend and rival little Tiptop.
* * *
General M‘Iver has beaten his sword into
a ploughshare. He is lecturing up country on
Sound Farming.
• • •
The Marchioness of Normanby died of
heart disease The German Emperor has been
suffering from inflammation of the bladder, which
breaks out in an acute state at the least cold—
Duncan C. Ross, the celebrated Scotch athlete, has
given up his liquor-selling business, renounced
athletics, and has decided to enter the Ministry —
Mrs Garrett Anderson, M.D., (sister-in-law of the
late Professor Fawcett), is. we learn, starting in a
few days, in the steamship Orient, for Australia,
in the hope that the change of the sea voyage, and
an escape from the English spring, may have a
beneficial effect upon the health of her little girl..
The late Colonel Burnaby has left the manuscript
of a political novel, in which he has dealt unspar-
ingly with his political opponents — How are the
mighty fallen ? “ Sir R. C. D. Tiehborne,” at whose
release from prison Ministers and judges were to
have trembled, has been refused by Barnum, and
is now a member of a provincial “ variety com-
nany.” “Vonare, the human serpent,” one day;
“ Sir R. C. D. Tichborne.” another, the “ Comical
Mule ” a third... Lord St. Vincent, killed at Abou
Klea, was a brother-in-law of Lord Harris, of
cricketing fame.
That furred tongue, had tasting mouth
and miserable feeling, says you need Hop Bitters.
Read and believe.
What is Bristol's Sarsaparilla?—It is rather
late in the day to propound this question. Forty-
five years of unbroken success as a remedy for
malignant cutaneous and ulcerous disorders,
would seem to establish the fact that, as a blood-
depurative, it s f ands foremost among modern
medicines.
Retributive Justice. —The most condign
punishment should be meted out to those who
pilfer the trade mark of an establishment, just as
condemnatian follows those whopurlionthe copy-
rights of authorship. The only difference is tbat
in literature the theft only hurts the author’s
fame and emolument, while, as in the case of
Wolfe's Schnapps, the substitute is generally
deleterious, if not poisonous. Be sure and obtain
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Mb. DbCourct Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresf ord Chambers, 62 Castle-
reagh-streot, Sydney, tar Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, 83T* Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter ox record in the Departments and
Supremo Court.*
A new discovery.—Hoffman’s Euealyptol
(icglstered) “ Mixture and Injection.” They will
positively cuie all kidney diseases and disorders,
all urinary complaints and discharges, irritation,
scalding, inflammation, gravel, pains in the back,
&c. A case incurable in nine months was actually
cured in eight days with Hoffmann’s Euealyptol
Injection (“ purely vegetable ”). Hoffman's Eu-
calyptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
no sandalwood, no balsam, or anything injurious
t® the most delicate constitution of either sex.
Ask for Hoffman’s, and take no substitute.
Wholesale: E. Prouser and Co.; Elliott Bros. Re-
tail : All principal chemists and storekeepers
, Price, 3s. 6d. and 3s. Cd.*
E/EPAUTEE.
1st. BOY (exuUingly): “I’VE GOT THE MUMPS, AN’ YOU’D BETTER MOVE ON OR
I’LL GIVE ’EM TO YOU.’*
2nd. BOY: “NAW YOU WON’T.”
1st. BOY: “WHY WON’T I?”
2nd. BOY: “CAUSE YOU’RE TOO STINGY I”
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His Real Halo.
Speaking of Gordon's departure on his
fatal errand, the Palo Mall Gazette says: “ Lord
Wolseley carried the General's portmanteau, Lord
Granville took his ticket for him, and the Duke of
Cambridge held open the carriage door.”
’Tis true, hv undertook a heavy task,
Holding his life out as a thing to barter;
That was all right enough, but let us ask
Was he not, after all. a happy martyr ?
Waiting some help, through weary weeks, close-
pent
By hostile swarms, was ugly work, we grant you,
But let us recollect that when he went
Lord Wolseley kindiy carried his portmanteau!
We ought to be ashamed-no doubt we are—
That he was murdered ’ere we lifted finger
To help him, but the light of one clear star
In the mid-heaven of our midnight will linger,
’Tis this—when last he started for Khartoum-
Dread name, that even now our souls grow sick
at—
Unconscious, haply, that he went to doona.
Lord Granville pushed ahead to buy his ticket!
The guide of childhood, he—of stricken age
The steadfast friend; the iron-willed Commander,
There is not written yet, on History’s page,
A holier name than Gordon’s, or a grander.
He did his duty to the end. and now
He’s dead, but this shall be our consolation—
In Heaven, he can proudly tell them how
The Duke of Cambridge saw him to the station I
Our Bankruptcy Laws.
Our present laws of bankruptcy
Are much in need of mending.
They press too hardly on the poor.
The biggest rogues befriending;
The laws that shield the “ wealthy ” rogue
Mysteriously fail
To save the “ poor” defaulter
From the terrors of a gaoi.
As things are now we often see
The big rogue do the grand;
He dresses well, and fares upon
The best things in the land;
He wets some influential friend
To let him use his name,
And with the credit thus acquired,
He plays bis little game I
He keeps no cash account—no books,
For books might tell a tale;
He can t tell where his money goes
(That’s “ very like a whale! ”),
And when his credit fails at last,
And things are looking “queer,”
He gets “ whitewashed,” a process known
To every trader here.
And when his dupes are threatening
All sorts of things to do,
Some “ bogus ” creditors step In
And see him safely through;
The flourish quite a host of bills
For sundry large amounts,
But knowing ones will tell you
These are only “cooked" accounts.
To show their generosity
They offer to forego
(What wondrous magnanimity I)
All that he doem't owe.
They little care how much the world
Their action may condemn,
Because they know that he may do
Some day as much for them.
But, ah! the tables are reversed
Upon the working man!
He cannot shirk his debt cn such
A free and easy plan;
When his accounts are overdue,
And trade begins to fail,
His creditors come down on him
And threaten him with gaol.
Without the wherewithal to buy
Protection from the law,
What can he do when once begets
In its rapacious maw ?
No “ bogus ” c r editors appear
With their complacent smile,
To smooth the matter down for him—
It isn’t worth their while.
It may be through no fault of his.
Yet pay he either must,
Or go to gaol—now what is wrong
It this is right or just?
It big defaulters cannot go
To gaol as well as small,
Then all I have to say is this—
Imprison none at ail.
New Zealand.
Chloe.
The inspired artist’s cunning hand,
Hath by this beauteous presence
Retained the sentence writ in sand,
And cheated evanescence
Hath limned the human form divine
In its dlvinest form.
To speak In beauty to all time,
Whilst human blood be warm,
The pictured stare, belongs not here—
’Tis Eve, the new creation,
God's great conception standing there,
But wanting animation.
How Much?
The Goddess of Civilisation,
Who started the people’s to run
In rivalry, nation with nation,
A race in the light of the sun,
Awoke on a late day from slumber,
And, shaking herself, said she’d go
And strike up a talk with a number
Of those who made up the front row.
For something looked wrong in the way that
They took to fullll the behest
She gave on the glorious day that
She smote the barbarian breast;
And pointed to noble endeavour,
Unselfish concern, high deeds—
To love of the strong and the clever.
For weakness that cowers and bleeds.
And now, worse than out in the wild wood,
Where man was a brute, to her eyes
Came wrlthlngs of hungering childhood
And manhood too weak to arise.
She said to a man of long speeches,
Who strode in the front of thS van;
“ See, there—a weak woman beseeches I
See, there—the worn ghost of a man!!
11 Go. give aid I ” Ho stopped his oration
On Progress, and touching his bat,
He said: “ Goddess of Civilisation,
How much will you give me for that?'”
A man of profound erudition.
Who taught how the truth will prevail.
And preached of the loflty ambition
Of raising humanity’s scale,
She told of a sick generation.
And showed what bis hands should be at;
He said: “ Goddess of Civilisation,
How much will you give me for that ? '*
She spoke to another, and others,
Apd marked how the wx-ecks lay behind,
Of poor heathen sisters and brothers,
Enfeebled in body and mind.
And when, with a warm indignation,
She showed what their brainsshould work at
They said: “ Goddess of Civilisation,
How much will you give us for that ? ”
“Alas!” sighed the Goddess, “endeavour,
Unselfish concern, and high deeds,
As far away, now, are as ever—
Barbarian Barbarian succeeds I ”
The Laughing Jackass and the Snake.
(A FABLE.)
Public School Teacher Reads:
SNA K15 who’d slept the
Winter through
('Twas somewhere up on
\k the Paroo),
i H Tired of hia muddy couch,
at last
fSm / pfk Yawned "Wonder If the
Winter's past?
— W P \ Ah, me, when life's so
3 I I short a day,
f Vw m wLJ That we must sleep ono
I M third away!
I’ll hie mo from this bed
absurd,
And feast me on some guileless bird;
They’re fat and plump now. I’ll be bound,
Who chirp and feed the whole year round."
“ Oh, a Jackass’ life la the life for me,
For I gaily float from tree to tree.
And my life is one unbroken spree,
Ha ha, ha ha, ha ha, ha ha, ha ha, ha.
For the shiny lizard goes down my gizzard,
Just like a sword down the throat of a wizard.
And what greater feed can a chap have than a
Great well-fed grub, or a tender *gobanna,’
And make all the other birds mad with the chaff
Of my pretty, little, silvery, unappreciated
laugh,
Ob, a ha ha, ha ha, ha ha, ha ha, hah I ’
(Da Capo.)
The serpent heard the festive song,
And cried, " Of all the birds among
The singers, none that I have heard
Can charm as thou canst, lovely bird;
Pour forth again the dulcet strain,
Let’s have some more of that refrain.”
John leaned his plumed head aside,
As if a modest blush to hide.
“ He’s food for me, as sure as fate,
No bird eats snakes whose bill is straight;
Some craven, fattened up on seeds;
’Twas Nature destined all such weeds
For food.” ’Twas thus the serpent spoke
Unto himself, then silence broke;
“ Come nearer, pray, and in mine ear
Pour forth thy lay, and never fear.”
“ I come,” said John, "thy charming beck
Prevails,” and—grabbed him by the neck.
And carried him o’er the topmost bough,
The wriggling snake hissed, “ What’s up now ? ”
“ The dog-and-meat game don’t do hero,”
Said John, hoarse whispering through his ear;
“ I know a rock from here due south,
Till then I open not my mouth.”
And up, and up, to two miles height,
John winged, the snake half dead with fright—
“ What, drop me here, thou murderer vile?”
“ Oh, drop you ? Never. I should smile.”
Moral.
Now, boys, the objective result of accurate
ratiocinationa applied to the elucidation of a
defective induction frequently display themselves
in disastrous subjective phenomena. The serpent
referred to in the text, assumed that, as all the
carnivorous birds he had hitherto observed were
hook-beaked, therefore, a straight-billed animal
must necessarily be graminivorous, and therefore
innocuous to the true carnivora of the reptllia.
And now, when the head and tail of that serpent
lie bleaching upon the rock, the balance of that
misguided reasonerfindssepulcherein the stomach
of the—er— First boy, stand up and read. Bul-
letin page.
Application op Moral.
Class Sings:
High on a gum tree, the gorged Jackass sits.
Full up of snake till his crop all but splits;
Every bird murmurs, “Surely Jack’s lost his
wits,”
But he only yells the louder ha, ha ha, ha I
JAMBS ROBERTSON.


N
N
D "
PUOP. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
In Australia, to Kent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castlereagh-street, near Bathurst-street. P.8.—
The ball-room Is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and Is superior In ventilation,
goring floor, &o. No decorations required.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OF THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, oare of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
>
R.BURGI:
TAILOR.
I s II JO
1RY BURGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STKEET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for scft-measurlng
forwarded to any part ot the colony
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 16th March, 1885.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind itself to aooepl
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Oates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Erection of Station Build-
ings, &c„ Dundee, G. N.
Railway
Erection of Court-house and
Lock-up, at Cobar
Erection of Police Quarters,
Adelong
Erection of Station Buildings,
&o., Deepwater, G. N. Rail-
way
Erection of Police Offlo°rs’ Quar-
ters, Forbes
Erection of Coke Shed, Enmore
Erection of Lock-up, Balranald
Supply of Spigot and Faucet
Cast Iron Pipes
Erection of Courthouse, Dubbo
Erection of Engine House, &c.,
Pumping Station, Walka, near
West Maitland
Leasing Land on Duck River
Erection of Passenger Station,
Werris Creek, G. N. Railway
Bridge over Delga Creek, road
Burrawang cross-roads to Bal-
dorogery
Tuesday,
21th March,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
31st March,
at 11 o’clock
Erection of Barracks, Fortifica-
tions, Newcastle
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Broughton Creek
lupply and Delivery of i
2900 tons of Pipes and Castings
required in connection with
the reticulation of country
towns
Bridge over Burying Ground
Creek, road Armidale to Rock-
vale
Erection of Reformatory for
Boys, Rookwood
Bridge over Toongabble Creek
at Oakes’ Farm
Tuesday,
7th April,
at 11 o’clock.
Wrought Ironwork for Flumes,
Sydney Water Supply
Additions Police Barracks, Nar-
rabrl
Laving Pipes, Wagga Wagga
Water Supply
Laying Pipes, Albury Water
Supply
Laying Pipes, Bathurst Water
Supply
Tuesday,
11th April,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Court-house and
Post and Telegraph Office,
Balmain
Tuesday,
April 21st,
at 11 o'clock.
F. A. WRIGHT.
B.
MODINI,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
FIREARMS.
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
desires to apprise his customers
of t °°f act teat he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms*'—JOHN RIGBY & CO„ Lon-
r "°S'"f A r ND * S0N " London; JOSEPH
LANG.& SON, London: W. POWELL & SON.
Birmingham: CHAS. OSBORNE & CO., London!
™ ls ? A 9 BNT for the eminent Arm of
13 UoSY & CO., London.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 George.st., Sydney,
Where Inspection is invited.
BARGAINS! BARGAINS!! BARGAINS!!
Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
Z30SS-A.3LZ B, LLOTD CO.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO, ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
ISr Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
Ladies should secure the
CHEAP LACES AND UNDERCLOTHING AT ROSSALIE, LLOYD St CO.’S SALE.
4s. In the pound taken off your Bill.
Thousands of Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laces.
Remnants of Ribbons. Remnants of Ribbons, Summer Millinery. Summer Millinery,
A MAGNIFICENT STOCK ALL INCLUDED IN THE SALE.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
Umbrellas. Umbrellas. Parasols. Parasols.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.,
NEAR THE GENERAL POST OFFICE
BOX7RKE,
Is the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel in the Western District. The Table and Llouora
oannot be surpassed, even in the Metropolis, Private Suites for families. First-class Stabling
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor.’
COTTA’CTE VILLA 0« BUSiNJtSS SITES
tSR 'MAIN ’BOA D-PV'DRLOOKTKTc?
* y V EL.APDDL RACECOURSE «•
cios-inro bait-way statlon'maus £
f-MTTRA. LI N E S URVE-VE.D B E^UCJ^fi.PiSTANfi;^
14 MILES from SYDNEY
LOTS PAVAB.L'E Si ■ SER ,fJO INJitflEST,
BoiO) hA/jy.c <
,su/cr/o,\s£fis . JfcT Pjtt S'SyMty
PLANS TREE
A
k
I
for Infants and Children.
Castoria cures Colic, Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation,
Gives healthy sleep and promotes digestion,
Without injurious medication.
Elliott Bros., Sydney, Agents.
“Castor! a is so well adapted to children that
I recommend it as superior to any prescription
known to me.” n. A. AncHBn, M. D. ?
111 Oxford Street, Ngw York, i
“ VICTORIA ” OFNER BITTER-WATER,
The Best and Strongest Natural Aperient.
A Natural Fluid Magnesia, as a safe, ordinary, and gentle aperient in Inflammation
and Congestion in Rheumatic and Gouty Disorders, against undue tendency to Fat
against Hmmorrhoide, in Bilious Attacks and Disorders of the Liver. y to rat,
Nature’s Apbbient Remedy during Pregnancy, and in many Female Di«»nsp a . f
Habitual Constipation, m Organic Diseases resulting from fatty degeneration to ream™
the consequences resulting from excess in diet, &c. ’ 10 remove
One wineglassful will usually relieve the most distressing headache.
ONE BOTTLE OF “VICTORIA” IS EQUAL IN ITS EFFECTS TO TWO OF OTHER HITTS w
WATERS, HENCE IT IS MUCH CHEAPER. HKK BITTER-
In cages of Indigestion, Stomach and Liver Affections, Constipation, and other DeranirpmonM
System, as a Family Medicine this has no equal. derangements of the
Sold in Bottles at Is. 6d. and 2s.,
And may be obtained of any Chemist or Patent Medicine Vendor in the United Kingdom
Professional Directory.
HI8COCK8’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
tles, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
W.
Sydney
HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’ Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
TO AMATEUR THEATRICALS—Scenery Sup-
plied or Lent. G. Pebbiman, Scene Painter,
No. 7, back of Academy of Music, Castlereagh-st,
ffl fl E ATRB ROYAL.
Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Mttsgboye.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager—Mr. H. H. Vincent.
Doors open at 7.15, commence 7.45. Carriages, 10.45.
Sixth Week, and established Success of the Royal
Dramatic Company.
THIS EVENING, at a quarter to 8 precisely,
The Latest London Sensation,
HAUNTRD LIVES
HAUNTED LIVES
HAUNTED LIVES
AN ENORMOUS SUCCESS.
Furniture and appointments from Hamilton at d
Co., Globe Furniture Warehouse, Park and Castle-
reagh-streets. ■ ,
Prices of Admission: Dicss Circle, 5s.; Stalls,
3s.; Family Circle, 3s.
Tickets tor all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box office open dally from 11 till 4.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. Wybert Reeve.
Stage Manager ... Mr. Howard Vernon
Under the Management of A. T. and J. F. Dunning.
Positively Last Nights of Dunning’s London
Comic Opera Company.
THIS EVENING.
The Greatest Successor the Season.
John Crook’s Spectacular Military Opera Comlque,
in three aets,
The
KING’S DRAGOONS
KING’S DRAGOONS
KINO’S DRAGOONS.
Witnessed by delighted audiences with unbounded
enthusiasm. Encore after encore.
THE AESTHETIC QUADRILLE
will be performed by the famous troupe of
Dancers.
Admission Orchestra Chairs, 5s.; Stalls, 3s.;
Family Circle, 2s. Box Office, Nicholson’s, George-
street.
New opera house.
Lessees, Messrs. E. Majeronland W. J. Wilson.
Under the Management of Rlgnold and Allison.
Stage Manager, J. F. Cathoart.
THIRD WEEK CONFUSION.
George Augustus Sala on “ Confusion “1
defy the veriest stoic in the way of self-command
to restrain a smile, and I myself plead guilty to
laughing boisterously.”
EVERY EVENING, at 8.15,
Rlgnold and Allison’s Selected Comedy Company,
Plan at Huenerbeln’s. Treasurer, G. A. Coleman.
IMPS. F.M.I. IMPS.
NEW OPBKA HOUSE.
By kind permission of Rignold and Allison,
also Majeronl and Wilson.
THIS (Thursday) AFTEBNOON, MARCH 19.
GRAND MATINEE ‘Imps.’ GRAND MATINEE
by the ” F. M. I.” "F.M.I.” “F.M.I.”
(FRATERNITY MUTUAL IMPS).
“IMPS.” "IMPS." “IMPS.”
SYDNEY LODGE, No. 6.
The Greatest Programme ever Presented.
The managers of all the theatres in Sydney have
most kindly consented to allow
THE LADY AND GENTLEMEN ARTISTS EN-
GAGED TO APPEAR ON THIS OCCASION, viz,:
Theatre Royal Dramatic Company.
Opera House—Rlgnold and Allison’s ( ,; Confusion”
Company).
Gaiety Theatre—Dunning’s London Comic Opera
Company.
Academy of Music—Hisoooks’ Federal Minstrels.
Also,
Miss Josephine Deakin, Miss Louise Crawford, and
Mrs. Colonel Ike Austin.
Doors open at 1.45 ; Matinee at 2.30 sharp.
Prices of Admission.—Dress Circle 5s., Stalls 3j.,
Farquette 2s.
Dress Circle Tickets may be reserved at Bro.
Louis Nicholson’s Music Warehouse, 835 Qeorge-
stroet.
Bro W. J. B. JENKINS, M.F., Hon. Sec.
Business Manager: Bro. Q. A. COLEMAN, M.F.
_0 F MUSIC,
Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
C A D B M Y
Lessee and Manager
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION
Every Evening in their Refined and Amusing
Entertainment.
The whole terminating with the Topical Absurdity,
by W. H. Bent,
REFUSED FOR THE SOUDAN.
Admission, 4s., 3s., 2s., and Is. Box Plan at
Paling’s. Carriages at 10.15,
gYDNEY O W L CLUB.
GARDEN PARTY
Will take place
THURSDAY, this 36th MARCH,
at the
Sir Joseph Banks’ Gardens,
BOTANY.
Tickets—Double, 30s. ; Gent.’s, 21s.; Lady’s, 13s 6d •
can bo procured from any of the Board o*f
Management.
MORRIS MENSER, Hon. Sec.,
384 George-street.
|y Special return tram, 11.30 p.m.
Academy of music
(Late Albert Hall). u
Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
The coolest and most comfortable Hall in Aus-
trajia. Seating capacity. 1300 ; stage: depth, 16ft.;
width, 58ft; height of grooves, left.: proscenium
36 by 30; dressing accommodation unlimited. Rent
or shares. For open dates, apply to DUVAL and
SMITH, Lessees, Tattersall’s Hotel, Brisbane.
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL, GOULBURN.
TH!S handsome Bijou Theatre, completely re-
modelled, is fitted with every convenience
ana has one of the best stages in the colony (50 x
30), 1s now open for engagement on very moderate
terms. Seats comfortably in dress cirolp . _ji,
fnheclty’ls-'neaSy
the Hal1 - wh >ch is now the most ponulmr
Nervous debility, lost vitat
Weakness, and Premature Decay- A fav


Oriental Gold
Is the latest discovery of Science and the grandest
achievement of the alchemist’s art. It looks like
gold, it 18 as heavr yas gold, and it is more enduring.
None but an expert can detect the difference, and
then only by.the Ornaments made
from this new composition are equal in designand
general appearance to .those made of the finest
aQ d y©t we sell them at but a tithe
of.the Cost of the genuine goods.
Remember that we do not pretend that Oriental
Oold is anything but a composition of pure metals;
eihrm that it is so perfect an imitation
of the sterling gold as to almost defy detection.
Jewellery made of it may be worn anywhere, and
the closest inspection will only strengthen the con-
viction that it is real gold. So perfect is it, and so
largo has our trade become, that jewellers through-
out the colonies are complaining of the dullness in
trade, and are constantly writing to us to secure
our goods for their own customers. But as we are
Sole Agents for those colonies, we prefer to deal
directly with the public. All of our Oriental Gold
Jewellery is made to our order, and is stamped
with our trade mark. You can order anything
from a Scarf Pin to a Watoh and Chain, and it will
be sent Post Free, and at our risk, on receipt of
price.
PRICE LIST.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double slides and tassels. 15s., 20s.. and 25s. each.
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 6s., 6s., 7s. (id., 8s..
8s. 6d., 9s.. and 10s. a pair.
Ladies’ choice Necklets, from 12s. 6d. to 30s.
Ladies’ very handsome Necklets, set in splendid
Alaska Diamonds, £310s. to £5 5s.
Ladles’ elegant Bangles, 7s. to 15s. a pair.
Ladies’ handsome Cloak Clasps, 15s. to 30s.
Ladies’ very best American Boiled Gold Chate-
laines, 30s. each.
Ladies’ choice Lockets and Necklets, 17s. 6d., 20s..
22s. 6d., 25s., 27s. 0d., 30s., a5s., and 40s.
Handsome Gem Bings, 7s. 6d., 8s. 6d., 10s., 15s , 30s.,
and 30s. each.
Elegant Keepers, Wedding Bings, and Fancy
Bings, from 2s. (id. to 8s. 6d. each.
Solid Gold Wedding and Keeper Bings, 10s. each.
Solid Sold Wedding and Keeper Bings, 18 carat,
ball marked, 21s. each.
Ladles’ handsome Oriental Gold Lockets, from
8s. 6d. to 35s. each.
Elegant Crosses, in Oriental Gold, from 10s to 20s.
Ladies’ Bangles, in Sterling Silver, warranted,
from 0s. 6d. to 10s.
Ladies’ Handsome Bracelets, in Sterling Silver,
ball marked, 17s. Od. to 40s. each.
Brooches, in Sterling Silver, from 7s. fld. to 30g.
Brooch and Earrings, in Sterling Silver, from IQs.
to 40s.
Thimbles, warranted Sterling Silver, 3s. 6d. each.
Ladies’ Lockets, in Sterling Silver, hall marked,
from 15s. to 35s. each.
Ladles’ Alberts, in Sterling Silver, from 10s' to 40s,
each.
Qent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, In bunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £3 2 0
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £3 5 0
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, In hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Oold double Albert
with slides and tassells £2 16 0
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £3 0 0
Piy These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; tho
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, In hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert £4 5 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balance,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 5 0
Botherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. £6 5 0
The celebrated Waltham Watoh, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £3 3 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert £4 15 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 6 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade £6 6 6
Ditto, in bunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £10 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £10.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska DiamondBings, 6s. 6d.,
7s. 6d„ 8s. 6d„ and 10s. each.
Gent’s’ Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond and Buby
Bings, 7s. 6d. and 8s. 6d., each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Bings, plain half, round
buckle, flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck
rings, &o., &c., from 5s. to 8s. 6d. each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 7s., 7s. (id., 8s., is. 6d„ 9s., 10s.,
and 12s. lid, per set.
Same as above, only half sets, 3s„ 4s., and 5s. per
Very latest American Patent Spring Solitaire
Suites, 10s. per set.
Gent’s elegant Seals, real stones, 7s. 6d., 8s., 9s.,
10s., and 13s. 6d. each.
Gent’s elegant Compasses, latest designs, 8s., 10s,,
and 12s. 6d. each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, handsome patterns,
6s. 6d. and 10s. each;
Gent’s very latest American Boiled Gold Alberts,
made specially to our order, 17s. fld., 20s., 25s.,
£md 30s. G&chi
Gents’ handsome Scarf Pins, from 2s. fld. to 12s. fld.
Gents’ Scarf Bings, 8s. each.
Very best American Pencil Cases, from 5s. to
12s. fld.
Gents' Hair Guards, 15 carat Gold Mounts, 20s. each
Gents’ Sterling Silver Alberts, from 12s. fld. to 30s.
each.
Gents’ Match Boxes, 8s. fld. each.
Gents’ Sovereign Purses, 7s.fld. each.
Ladies’ handsome Brooch and Earring Suites, from
8s. Od. to 35s. per set.
Bichly-chased and engraved Bracelets, from 13s.
fld. to 403.
Elegant Brooches, from 5s. to 30s. each.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 7s. fld.,
8s. fld. and 10s. each.
SPECIALLY OBSEBVE.
Should you be dissatisfied with your Investment
after inspecting the articles, re-pack them at once
and send them back to us. If this is done within
two days—or where malls are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured -we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will refund the
money for the articles_,not retained. Fair dealing
is our motto, and wo bind ourselves to give satis-
faction. Examine our catalogue, and send in your
order for what you may require.
Bemember the Address :
474 George Street,
OPPOSITE THE MABKBTS,
Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
mtxTHM ROTAL-“ Haunted Lives ” p. 8
n?iRA House “ Confusion ”. „
£*7rrY Theatre— 1 “King’sDragoons„
ACAPE** of Music.—Hiscocka’ F. Minstrels „
rn spite of the loyalty that’s in the air,
nr a small number found the road to the Gaiety
„ Saturday night to welcome the “King’s Dra-
ins ” It is whispered, too, that the “ghost ” is
Sitin’* a bit stiff about the joints. And there were
lanv vacant seats in the orchestra, caused, they
Dunning's wanting to double the salaries.
Tpfn musicians (to their honour) didn’t think them-
Livps justified in accepting such a rapid rise, and
thev adjourned to various street corners, where,
» believe, many of them were seen later on ex-
W wnrating on the pavement and causing some
Instruction to the police in the pursuit of their
Sonverous duties. The result of it all was that the
Sninme of sound coming from the orchestra was,
nerbaps, greater than even a powerful navvy
noald wring from a Jew’s harp; but it wasn’t
anmiirh to deafen anyone who had ever heard a
thunderstorm among the Alps or sat for some time
heside a steam hammer.
« * *
We believe the “King’s Dragoons” has
. fin beard in Sydney before. About the music
there is nothing specially attractive. It is pleasing,
hnt evokes no particular enthusiasm. The dra-
ins themselves are English ones, decent-looking
mirn enough, who, under Marlborough, were about
tn sail for Flanders to assist in “ oorpseing ”
Frenchmen. Still some of them seemed as if riding
nossessed no overwhelming attraction for them—
as if they’d prefer, if the choice lay with them, to
carry their horses, in the event of the military
authorities not supplying them with some means of
being tied on. Among this highly-organised force
there was also a pleasing diversity of size as well as
of appearance, when on the line of march. You
saw at once, from the way they stepped off and the
apparent interest taken by them in any house
wh«>re the family linen was bleached in the yard,
or where the preparations of food appeared to be
voing on in the kitchen, how vain would be the
expectation of finding any poultry or light articles
of bodily wear In the district through which these
iovlal patriots had but recently passed. Some of
them could take the right in a company of Life-
guardsmen alongside of 0g, Gog, and Magog, and
some would be placed in the centre of a troop of
Bosjesmen. t m m
Miss Leaf was not cast for a part. The
female parts, with the exception of that of Alice—
givefi to Ivanova—are small, and do not require
much ability, musical or histrionic. Appleby was
described as a “ Rustic Innkeeper,” and appeared
to be his own best customer. He looked like one
who, when trade was slack, would perch on a
barrel and suck the contents through a tube. He
had some singing to do, but not very much, and
always in company with others, so that the edge
was, in a measure, taken off his power of irritating.
And he had a sweetheart. So long as a man has a
“ pub.” he can always find a female to look after
the bar trade. From some reason or another—
probably from the effects of his own beer—he
enlists in the dragoons. Why he enlisted is not
nearly so hard to guess as why they took him. A
number of highly-coloured ribbons were attached
to his hat, but it was plain to see his heart was far
away—probably in the direction of the lumbar
vertebras. Of course, he wasn’t suffered to go
abroad. His appearance would have destroyed
discipline in any army—made a troop of paddy-
melons sit down and laugh. A substitute comes
forward and is accepted. Edgar (Mr. Knight
Aston) is the young fellow who turns up in time
to save the French armies in Flanders from
Appleby’s ferocity. The dragoons go, Edgar goes
with them, while the “Rustic Innkeeper” settles
steadily down to drink.
* m m
There was but little enthusiasm observ-
able on Saturday night. Sometimes, when the
dialogue got a little mixed, Sergeant Crow (Mr.
Howard Vernon—a flerce-looking pirate) pulled
matters through by halt drawing his sabre and
sending it back with a “swish” that would cer-
tainly have put a couple of blocks between him-
self and Appleby if the doors and windows had not
been fastened. The fact is that, among other
things, the falling-off in the orchestra’s efficiency
was a serious drawback to the night’s perform-
ance, leading otherwise temperate men to go out
between the acts and come back sideways.
« * « *
“Haunted Lives” is still running at the
Royal, but, so far, the endeavours of the authori-
ties to prevent a block have been successful. The
gentle Ruth still presses her darling to her breast,
and rejects, with scorn that does one good to wit-
ness, the dishonourable proposals of the villain
Howard. Why he persists in his unholy passion-
subjects himself to contempt so ineffable—is the
strange part of the business, only to be equalled
by Titheradge’s phenomenal virtue. Ah I If
T. would only forget himself for once, and
borrow some of Joseph Surface’s “ morality,” what
sufferings might have been saved. But, no. He is
constancy itself, and of course has to suffer for
it. Yon can see he suffers by the way he eats. At
least, if he doesn’t, the “ grub ” does. To have a
Russian countess (taught at the Conservatoire ),
tall, handsome, young, a splendid Lucia, a fasci-
nating Norma—to have all these perfections
thrown at your head, and to reject them—reject
them with cold, cutting disdain, stirred up with
hot indignation I Ventrehleu! ’Twas never our
juck to get a chance like that.
* * • •
There has been no change at the Opera
House—" Confusion ” not only reigns, but governs.
Good audiences attend, howl with laughter, and
go home thinking of the complications so often
arising from having babies and dogs in the house.
On the part of some of the actors there has been
a gradual addition of trimmings to the piece. The
dog seems to know his part bettor, having got
over his initial nervousness. He now sits upon a
tra u W d harks, A pin in the flunkey’s hand Is
probably the signal for this canine demonstrative-
ness. The interview also between Day and the
doctor has been a good deal elaborated. A table-
cloth, which the former stuffs in his breast, gives
scope for some amusing tomfoolery.
* * * *
It is on the cards that Mrs. Marcus Clarke,
who is acting here at the Opera House in “Con-
l0D ’ to have a benefit before she leaves
Fewer have a greater claim on our sym-
pathies than the widow of the author of "His
natural Life, ’ and if our wishes would do it, Mrs.
v would return to her six fatherless children
“ her pockets laden with gold. Sydney does
ack f or kind hearted people who only need a
EinkS t0 sh £ w them where best to bestow their
ainaness. Let us be your guide then, you of the
nnilo e « rtsand he avy purses, and follow us to the
cC’fb°e U ae 0 fit UP011 t£e nlght ° f Mrs ’ Marcus
* * * W
Sri'™ Sunday night last, Mr. Thomas Walker
Win™ audience to the Theatre Royal by his
rrmui r f’ ft® subject of which was the late political
vie latb £ Soudaa affair. In support of his own
fron-Moo? tbe subject, Mr. Walker quoted largely
hv 0 ?!.! 8 ? 1 week 8 Bulletin, and if any one judges
tinn o ierce .. appJau8e which greeted each quota-
disidnt reaf L tl0 P ia this Patriotic craze is not far
saiooHk,. , e lect ure was embellished by musical
condnoM ayed by a band under Mr. Allpress,
. lp ’ a recitation from Mr. Coll, and a
temple of songs by Mr. Whitmore.
* * * *
hniiS. a t ur day the “ Federals ” had a fine
formp’r i?. n Monday a moderate one. On the
minutes& w ?, m ? rely sneaked in for a few
and were b ro£ n ¥°? da^? re 8at doggedly through,
overtT,r£V ewa r ded - There was an “original”
from Principally of airs worked in
long bafL» ld Como fiuadrilles” that came in
locator went out - Then the inter-
real fun begtm h ' S bumourou8 questions, and the
This chiefly consisted of Horace Bent’s
“ topicalities ” and eccentricities. During most of
them he had to imitate a tipsy man, and it was
allowed on all sides, even by some towsle-headed
eld loafers who were glued to the door, that no
such representation was ever given in Sydney.
Laugh ? Why, as Davy Buchanan said, “ ’twould
make a cat laugh.” Some of the audience didn't
step at laughing—they barked. But Horace's
comrades didn’t seem to enjoy it nearly so well as
their patrons. Sam Keenan looked serious, and
La Peuillade homicidal. The alien who banes the
cymbals behind, tried to smile, but the result was
dismal. And the interlocutor ? It's hard to say
how he looked, as he seldom allows his feelings
to appear in his face. Still from the way he shifted
about, and glared at the corner-men, it was easy
to see how comfortable he felt, and how pleased
he was that Mr. Bent’s indisposition had com-
pletely passed away. Yes, ’twas the best imitation
that has been given for some time, and everyone
was glad to see Horace had entirely recovered his
old form. Still he shouldn’t eat too much.
♦ •
If the patriotic song, “ For the Old Land’s
Sake,” had only been written before the Soudan
expedition, no expedition would have been sent.
Nobody could be got to go. A few feeble cat calls
were given for it, which would not have been
heard at all but for the sullen silence preserved by
the great majority. The fact is. the mock patriot-
ism that culminated in the hideous blunder of a
fortnight ago (the sending of our poor little con-
tingent of “Johnny Raws” to face desperate men)
is already at a discount. The feathers have been
plucked out of it, and ’tis seen what a pitiful little
jackdaw it is. But there is one thing to be said
about it. It is no more ridiculous than the songs
and music composed to commemorate it. Still, it
1s very ridiculous.
* * *
The “Valiant Knight,” a fine baritone
song, was well given by Porter; but, so far as tho
singing was concerned, the gem (as usual) of the
evening was Amery’s “Loving Eyes.” Why one
with a voice like his hadn’t, before he was 25, mar-
ried a Russian princess, or headed a band of bush-
rangers, or even kept a public-house, is a grisly
mystery. But it’s not to be wondered at, after all,
when you come to think of it. Once a showman,
always a showman. Onoe a man wants to “act,”
he contracts a disease which nor poppy nor man-
dragora will ever cure him of. The “ French Con-
ductor ” (pretty well done to death) brought the
first part to a close. Horace Bent was, as usual,
the Conductor, and judiciously avoided stooping.
The Boulevards were brought back to us as we
heard the Parisian Mcrtschee Mushure worked off
by two of the performers. Mr. Keenan was there
with his big drum, and the customary tumble over
it took place. The dummy fiddle met its fate, the
curtain went down, and the drummer was left on
the wrong side of it in the same way as he has been
any time since the beginning of the century.
♦ * *
Then Mr. Barry O’Neill came on in “ new
specialities.” When we knew Barry first he was
the “ lion comique ” of the Count de la Chappelle’s
Melbourne Variates. It was there, as we remarked
some time ago, that the can-can was first intro-
duced to discriminating audiences of Presbyterian
elders and weedy young men Intended for the
Church. But the Victorian authorities (pro-
verbially moral) squelched the whole thing. With
out the can-can the Varieties was as insipid as a
larrikin without a paving-stone in his pocket.
While it lasted, however, Barry took immensely—
first, because his “make-up” was certainly the
best that had been seen in Melbourne; and, second,
because he Introduced a description of .music-hall
jingle that was at that time all the rage in London.
He was clever, too, in his way, although his voice
was never anything to speak about. Since then,
we believe, he has gone through many ups and
downs, and ought now—by all accounts—to be
rolling about in a spicy dog-cart, with a tiger in
buttons behind, instead of coming before the
public with new “specialities” and an enlarged
waist-band. However, that’s his affair, not ours..
The “ specialities ” on Monday consisted of music-
hall songs, exactly similar to those of old. In the
first he wore blonde Dundreary whiskers, his hat
on one side of his bead, and clothes which sug-
gested that they’d been drenched with saltwater.
The song was heard with silence bordering on
gloom. The fact is, the type of creature it repre-
sents—the moneyed cockney cad of the Lord
Tomnoddy school—is unknown amongst us. We
trust he will long remain so. And, of course, the
usual result followed. The young people forming
the main portion of the audience, and who’d never
seen this particular genius of imbecile couldn’t
see where the fun came in. It was just the same
with the opera of “ Patience ” when it was intro-
duced amongst us. It dealt with an artistic craze
which scarcely reached our shores, and so the piece
was simply idiotic. The second song was better,
and the third was broad. No; we don’t think this
new departure will be a success. And the reason
is, not because of the performers’ inferiority, but
because tho audiences which value this descrip-
tion of amusement are not to be found here.
Anyone who’s ever been in a London music hall
will remember how few women were to be seen
there. The attendance was mainly composed, in
the better places, of men about town—in the
lower ones, of men about town also, but more of
the ’Arry stamp. With us it is different. Women
form a large proportion of all our audiences—the
greater in some— and.they do not appreciate the
music hall ditty.
♦ * * *
On Thursday, March 19, the',“ Imps ” give
a grand matinee at the Opera House. The pro-
gramme is a bewildering one—bewildering in its
variety. About every mortal chip of talent to be
found in Sydney has something to do in it. Amery
is there with his song, “The last man,” in com-
memoration no doubt, of the Soudan contingent.
La Feuillade introduces his “ inimitatable imitation
of the bag-pipes.” He played it once, we believe,
in Dunedin, against a Highland piper with the
the real bag-pipes. The two latter were chucked
out. Then we have Ivanova, Annie Taylor, Con-
stance Deorwyn, Titheradge, Bent, Appleby, Ver-
non, Juncker, Ike Austin and Madame, Braham,
Read, Porter —whore will the list end ? Those
whose names we’ve not mentioned, let them put it
down to the proper cause—the office ink running
out. And Coleman bosses (as business manager, of
course) this milky way of talent. We shall be
there and shall possibly find something to say of
the affair.
It has been our heart-breaking task to
wade through many wearying columns of 50 o.p.
stupidity, penned in praise of the astuteness of
Dailey, the generosity of Jem Tyson, or the valour
of the volunteers; but an Echo scribe has now
proved himself to be the champion buffoon on the
stage of pseudo-patriotism. It would be useless to
attempt to reprint more than a few brief extracts
from his effusion—seas of "tangle” would not bribe
our comps, to set it up; and, besides, we do not
harbour such malice towards our readers as to
wish to afflict them with much of it. But there
are some gems of thought that ought to be res-
cued from oblivion, and exhibited here, so that, if
they cannot win praise, they may at least excite
astonishment. The writer is sufficiently conver-
sant with the feelings of the old country to consti-
tute himself its mouth-piece (so we gather from
his circuitous statement), and “to give at least
one forging blow of the Nasmyth hammer of
sympathy to the glowing steel of patriotism,
ere it have time to cool.” Isn’t that beautiful!
Whgt it means we know not. Nor is it likely
that he does. But he fears that the glow-
ing steel of patriotism may cool. We don’t.
In fact, we don’t think that the intensity of its
“glow” was ever more than (say) 30 below zero,
as far as the general public was concerned. Then
ho reels out a magnificent sample of bathos when
he describes the procession as “ahomely demon-
stration . . . the subdued quietness of it causing
me a thrill.” This reminds us that we once met a
man who could detect beauty in Douglas Sladen’s
poetry, but what was his skill beside the genius of
this scribe who is caused a thrill (splendid expres-
sion, that!) by the “subdued quietness” of a
military pageant? Further on we read that the
troops were led, “ as it were, without derogatory
condescension by the Ministry.” How pleased Mr.
Dailey and his colleagues will be to know that
their “ condescension ” in leading the awkward
sq—we mean “our noble fellows”—was not de-
rogatory, whether to the leaders or the led we are
not aide to determine. After a careful perusal of
the article, we are inclined to hope that the next
time anything “causes" this literary luminary a
thrill, his mind will (of course, without de-
rogatory condescension) cool to a subdued quiet-
ness without craving for newspaper notoriety as a
sedative.
Talk about separating from old England,
wby the ties that bind us are stronger than ever,
judging from recent events. It would be as easy
to divide parent from child, as witness the thou-
sands that have offered to shed their blood in
behalf of old fatherland—could more be done for
a parent ? Fathers and mothers, and those who are
not parents, can obtain all things necessary for
home wants in china, glass, and crockery at the
old house so well known, Bray Bros., 403 and 404
Goorge-street, Sydney, who import direct from the
potteries.*
BLEEDING THE SUNDAY SCHOOL CHILDREN.
REVEREND GENTLEMAN (suavely); “NOW, I AM GOING TO SEND THIS TO THE
PATRIOTIC FUND, NOT FOR MY OWN GLORIFICATION, OH. NO I BUT FOR YOURS.
REMEMBER, MY CHILD, IT IS YOUR OWN WISH; AND ALWAYS BEAR THIS IN
MIND THAT GOD WILL NOT LOVE LITTLE GIRLS UNLESS THEY DO AS THEY
ARE TOLD.”


PEPPER AND SALT.
It is related of the elder Cato that, on
seeing a Carthaginian “ drummer ” driving tho
wife of old Marcus Panza, the soft-goods ware-
houseman, along the Via Sacra with a spanking
buggy and pair, ho rapped his son Llcinianus over
the ear with his gingham, just to attract his at-
tention, and observed; “ My son, put none of that
soup on thy plate in future years, but remember
this—a good advertisement in a newspaper pays
no railway fares; costs nothing for hotel bills;
gives away no boxes of cigars to customers, no
merino dresses to custoiners’ wives; drinks no
whisky under the bead of travelling expenses, but
goes on at once and all the time about its business
free of such extravagances.” Golden words, in-
deed, and they remind us that for gentle unob-
trusiveness and lasting benefit it would be hard to
beat the followingJMittle gem from a recent
Nooze Births.— Grey — March 3, at Swish
House, Petersham, the wife of Winters Grey (com-
poser of the popular song, 1 Our Brave Boys at the
Hear ), of a son.” What a virgin forest of adver.
Using novelties is disclosed by that cunningly-
worded account ofj the little episode which hap-
pened in the house of Grey. For example, say
Smith has a daughter. Very well. Instead of
publishing the glad fact to the .world in the usual
repulsively-naked fashion he will now combine
business with pleasure ,'ln something after the fol-
lowing styloBirth.—At Raleigh Home, the
wife of John Smith [the sole agent for Puffaway’s
unrivalled Cabbago-storko] cigars, and the man
who defies all competition with his Tag Rag
tobacco. Give him a call, and see for yourself; 50
per cent, cheaper than any other bouse in town]
of a daughter, weighing 31b.” Or, again, in the
event of two episodes occurring to cheer the heart
of Jones, he might chip in an ad. after this pattern:
“Jones.—At her residence, Custard Cottage, the
wife of Tbeopbiius Jones [For testimonials re-
specting the marvellously nutritious qualities of
Jones’ patent self-raising flour, of which 77,000
tons are manufactured every day, see pamphlets
which are distributed by special runners. No
family should be without a tin. To be had of al
respectable grocers; but, as there are Inferior
Articles In the market, bo sure and ask for Pro-
fessor Theophllus Jones’ Self-Raising PJour, and
take no other brands] of triplets—two boys and
one girl- all the company doing well.” Now that
we think of it again, this novel and brilliant idea
might also be applied to the death notices of not
very much lamented relatives, and, instead of the
Nooze’s played out old rhyming rot of “Darling
Jimmy, how we miss thee,” something more busi-
ness-like and readable might bo blasted out. For
instance. How’s this for low ? “Died.—At his
residence. Hollow Log House. ‘The Rocks,’John T-
Robinson, tho beloved friend of Dx*. D. Sempronius
Schwlndler, aged 19 years. He was a native of the
Si-ll-ba-boo Islands, a pious man and a faithful
friend. His fatal disease, which is now of alarm-
ingly frequent occurrence, commenced with a
slight derangement of the bowels, which, being
further augmented by some of the vile nostrums
now deluging the land, embraced the kidneys,
liver, pancreas, and, In fact, the entire glandular
system, until at length death put an end to all the
patient’s sufferings. One bottle of Dr. D. Sem-
pronius Schwlndler’s Magic Life Elixir would have
made him who is now ‘food for worms’ [Shake-
peare] sound and healthy enough to pass even the
Soudan physician’s exam-nation, therefore, no one
should be without a bottle by bis side; for in the
midst of life we are in death, and 21s. purchases a
case containing 13 pints of the Magic Life Elixir.
R.I.P.” Then, again, look at the Invaluable bene-
fits to be derived from this new form of advertis-
ing, if applied toTmarriage notices. Not only
could the enterprising bridegroom chip in his little
liea-powder puff, or his livery-stable announce-
ment, or whatever else his biz. might be, but his
governor, and the bride’s governor, and the whole
of their able-bodied relations, way back to the
days of the destruction of Jerusalem by Titus,
could haul in their own specialities and rope the
sympathies of at least the whole of the newspaper-
reading females In the land. Business men should
cut this par. out and leara it by heart, for it is the
greatest boon they’ve struck since the world gave
birth to Caxton.
* * •
There was a time when it was the proud
boast of Bourke that it could turn out more first-
class lunatics to the square yard than any other
townjts size this side of the equinoctial line; but,
of late years, we fancy Mr. A. Q. Taylor’s frisky
electorate of Mudgee has been running It rather
closely. Beyond all doubt, Bourke owes its success
In this line to the “ pot,” but Mudgee owes hers to
the Press. Amongst the chief asylum workers in
the latter town Is an infatuated party who, when
he finds the artistic amusement of half-solelng and
heeling at 3s. 6d. a pair beginning to pall upon h( s
taste, drops the awl, grabs the pen, and writes 15,
puzzle epistles to the Independent, which are
headed “ Tho Reflector,” and are accompanied by
the motto, “To show the very body of the time.”
As a rule, however, these effusions generally show
a deal more square-bottle spirit than body; but
anyway, here’s a chunk from a recent riddle which
lays over everything that has appeared since the
Sphinx knocked off giving prize conundrums
Speaking of things in general, and nothing at ail
in particular, Reflector says:—“ The same old tune
of the country going to the financial devil in the
shape of tho Treasurer for the time being, with
the exception of the two brief periods when he
filled the office himself, and when the country was
too much taken up with’.the spectacle for gods
and men to do anything but contemplate it.”
Now, that’s a lovely little sentence, is it not?
First of all, it starts off with our bleeding country 1
then it yanks in the devil, flips up the Treasurer
for a brief period, and winds up at last with gods
and men. Why the gifted writer omitted to
favourably mention the Mahdi, and John Davies,
and the steam laundry company that fixes up
Adolphus G.’s shirts, is not known, but as be was
Our War Correspondent.


recently seen hammering;hls;head against a Church-
street post about 3 a.m., it is expected that his
next reflections will throw some light on these
subjects, and enable him to furnish another epistle
funny enough to cause gods and men to split
themselves into chips with laughter as they con-
template the m y 8terlous Production.
She saw the camel, and the way it came
about was this. The Victoria Barracks’ yard was
thronged with men, women, and children, or to
speak more correctly, with males, females, and
the youth of both sexes, and our Soudan braves,
picked and unpicked, were tramping round as
proud as so many poodles with baritone voices
and tin tails, when two Double Bay darlings, see-
ing a crowd of sightseers struggling to obtain a
peep through a certain window, crushed up also,
and as a pious-looking young man pushed past
they enquired what the excitement was all about.
And remembering the good instructions of his
Sunday-school-going days, the young man, making
answer, said: “ Ob, they’ve got the Sowdan fellers
in there teachin’ ’em to ride the camel.” This
raised the fair visitors’ curiosity up to 370 degrees
Farenheit Immediately, and the youngest and
prettiest of the pair—her name leaked out to be
Lucy afterwards—declared she’d die f she had to
go home without a sight of the fun they were
having with that camel. Having pushed her way
through the outer circle of gapers, the rest of the
crowd gallantly made room for her to pass, until
at last she reached the window, only to find it was
about 8ft. higher than her line of vision. “ Like
t’ hev a peep Inside, Miss ?” asked a sandy-haired
“swaddy” who was keeping guard. “Indeed, I
dearly should, sir,” replied the anxious maid: “I
never saw a camel in all my life, only those dirty,
tamo, old slobbering things in Cooper and Bailey’s
circus.” “ All right, miss; you wait there, an’ IT!
get yer a box t’ stand on,” politely remarked the
copper-headed son of Mars. Two seconds later an
empty gin-case was up-ended, the inquisitive little
darling hopped lightly up, took one good look, and
then—left the battlo-fleld immediately. . Genesis
tells us that in the Garden of Eden there was
placed a man and a woman, both naked, but not
ashamed. In the present instance, however, only
one of the parties was unadorned—viz., the man—
and, strange to say, he was not at all ashamed, for
he was a candidate for Soudan service, and was
being thumped and sounded by the doctors. It
was the party who climbed up on the box who did
all the blushing, and when she got iback to her
companion her skirts looked as if she had just
been hauled from under a hay-press, and her eyes
flashed up so fiercely that her lunatic fringe
caught fire in several places. She still thinks
kindly of our brave boys who have gone to glory
or the grave, but she has apparently lost all in-
terest in camels.
• • •
All things which are marvels at home are
very poor curiosities here. For instance, we road
of Professor Von Ranke that, “though 90 years
old, he is still deeply immersed Jn his literary
labours.” Why, out here, a man will not be ac-
cepted even as a candidate for the editorship of a
daily paper unless he is at least as old as that. And
the successful candidate will probably be able to
remember easily the time when Dirk Hartog was
cruising around the coast. We are open to wager
that the editor of the 8.M. Herald can call to
mind the time when the Phoenicians went money-
dredging where the continent of Australia is now.
He has called to mind nothing else of importance
ever since, or, if he has, it—like Glendower’s
spirits—has not come. Pooh! Talk of still being
immersed in literary labours at 90! Why, some of
our M.L.C.'s only begin learning to spell at that
age.
♦ * *
The office of the Gawler (S.A.) RoNnpis
burnt down. For this relief many thanks. The
tire took the more readily owing to the Inflam,
mable nature of the timber type, and to the exist-
ence In the office of a picture-block, to which had
been hung on every conceivable story. It repre-
sented a little girl (with more than her fair quan-
tity of hair) plucking at the skirts of a very tall
lady with an aquiline nose, while a stout man
scrutinises them both from behind some bushes
Sometimes, according to the tenor of the tale it
was attached to, this work of art was labelled
“The Father’s Return,” sometimes “She paused
in terror, fancying she had heard a footstep,
sometimes “On the Child’s Track: the Ambus-
cade.” We have seen also underneath It, “He
timidly made towards his faithless wife; not to
reproach, but to beg a crust of her.” What
crushed us most, however, was this: “Quite near
was the flowing river; it was midnight and not a
soul was about; this was, indeed, the hour to rid
herself for ever of the proof of her shame.” The
Bunyip used to be edited by a party who wrote
what he called “humourous paragraphs,” headed
by the startlingly novel quotation—
“ A chlel’s amang ye making notes,
And faith I he’ll prent ’em.”
Subsequently the chiel disappeared, and after-
wards turned up in Adelaide, where they probably
made glue of him.
Gulliver and the Giants.
“WE HAVE FIXED THE ADMIRING EYES OP THE WHOLE WORLD UPON OUR8ELVES.”-Daiici/.


Thus the Cooma Express on the prayers
of tbs Bishops prior to the departure of the Sou-
dan warriors:—“Several Sydney Churches were
engaged in an unholy work on Sunday last. The
Jingoism of the Government and a bastard pa-
triotism of mushroom growth in connection with
the Soudan war are at the bottom. The Christian
Churches pray to God for the preservation of a
band of men whose only mission in leaving their
peaceful homes and families is the wholesale mur-
der of true patriots who are fighting for their free-
dom, their homes, and their country. Bah I God»
f He is just, will think twice before He will
hearken to this kind of hypocrisy. We purpose
praying for the Mahdi and bis co-patriots.” And
when a Cooma editor tackles praying he means a
lot of business. He reminds us of the shipwrecked
sailor who prayed for succour while floating on a
raft. The tar said, “ 0 Lord, save us poor beggars
afloat. I never asked anything from you in my
life before, and if you help us this time I’ll never
trouble you again. I’m not agoing to be like
those crawling Methodies, bothering you every
day.”
* * *
The moment Chris, heard the verdict in
the M'Elhone case, he filled high the bowl with
Samian wine to the extent of ordering a portergaff
at Compagnoni’s. When people pressed round the
bar to congratulate him, Chris, waved them off
feebly, saying that his heart was too full for
poetry. He subsequently reproached the barman
for the very small measure of porter he had given
“ on sic a day.”. Frank, being more excitable, the
moment M'Elhone was crumpled up, flew round to
bis room and penned the following par.“ The
verdict given out for the News and Jbrnel will
suspend a warning ecko to those which k'ck®
against the llncks of an enlitenod Jernellsm. In
the day after to-morrow’s News will appear full
pertloklers of the speeches and suming up. Re-
gardless of expense, we will do our duty to our
constituents.” Then, leaning back, he glanced ad-
miringly at his screed, and murmured, “ Who’d a
thought two months ago I could a done this I Why,
even at the time Alf. went, I used to spell ‘agre-
abel ’ with two ‘ e’s.’ ”
• • *
From a careful perusal of the Soudan
leader in last week’s Freeman, we come to the
conclusion that Tom Butler (who is a gay young
bachelor) has had a row with his girl. We can
sympathise with him heartily if he has, because
we know how it affects ourselves. We know when
we have parted with her “for ever “hever”
she had it—at the William-street corner, and
watched her fairy form retreat into the nearest
pie-shop, we have gone home and written
“things” about Joseph and his brethren that we
now, when we are very hungry, regret. It
has similarly affected us when taking her into the
pit at the Royal to find the fellow on the other
side of her squeezing our foot (laid as a trap) with
his, in mistake for that of our enslaver. At those
times we have a vivid remembrance that Joshua
and Mrs. Lot have suffered severely. But we
have always been grieved afterwards. We have
never been quite able to justify Joshua, on scien-
tific grounds; but it is well known that the pillar of
Mrs. L. is extant in Syria ; and It is more than sus-
pected that Lot is still making a deuced good
thing of It by showing the pillar to passing
tourists. By the same tokens, we know well that
if a reconciliation have been effected since Tom
Butler wrote the article we are noticing (we have
known a threepenny bunch of violets do it I), he
will be in a state of great trepidation; even if
“ the iron will not have entered his soul.” Now
this is]part of the opening, speaking of the depar.
ture:—“The ‘first Australian army’ has gone,
and who that saw that striking scene will ever
forget its going ? Not only in numbers but
in enthusiasm, in wild, whirling joy, or irre-
strainable impulse .of some sort, no such ‘mad-
ding crowd’ ever possessed, from street to house-
top and beyond where beyond was possible, the
good city of Sydney before, and probably never
will again.” These two periods are, we must con-
fess, staggerers of no small dimensions to us;
though, doubtless, if we were good Catholics, the
film would be taken from our eyes, the veil from
our intellect, and we should learn in time—cen-
turies, perhaps-to understand them. We are
mightily taken, however, with the following
metaphor:—‘‘As from Jupiter’s brain sprang
Minerva full-armed, so from Mr. Dailey’s has
sprung New South Wales. . . .” This is truly
in the Ercles vein; and in ;the same spirit is the
statement that “no one can doubt the instant good
not to this colony only, but to all Australia, from
Mr. Dailey’s Jove-like feat.” [Ill] We can imagine
how some of the hair on the Mickeys’ teeth curled
as they read this; and how they scratched their
heads with their [picks when they read further
down of “our brave band,” “who, whatever we
may think of their mission, are yet our country
men going certainly to danger, possibly to death,
and in any case—who will doubt ?—assuredly to
glory,” The more we think of Tom Butler, who
is the mildest mannered man who ever wrote a
leader under the influence of cigars and slippers’
the more wo marvel. Sometimes it seems to us
strangely like the slab of a speech, which circum-
stances prevented being delivered, in response of
a well-known toast, say, at Catturango. Certainly
one expression—“ a foolish flash in the patriotic
pan ’’—savours angularly of — But if we air our
retentive memory, we shall never get our little
billet in the War Department.
* ♦ *
Prop up your ears and listen, O ye unc-
tious ones, whilst we give you another “ Lulyah”
lasses, little experience. The Collingwood police
have long had an optic on a crib in Oxford-street,
frequented by females, whose ideas of propriety,
to say the least, are a wee bit flighty. Constables
Oakley and Gleeson, armed with a warrant and a
horse-pistol, proceeded on the night of the Oth fq
the house in question, and, in their rambles round,
came across a man, a woman, and a young girl
sleeping in one bed—to save the trouble of making
three, probably. The trio were told to prepare
themselves to proceed at once to Government
quarters, and the constables modestly retired to
the pantry while they executed their toilet. Be-
fore the sausage-rolls were finished the girl made
her appearance, dressed in a full “ Harmy” rig,
glory socks, tin shield, and all. The three were
arrested, and were brought before the Mayor of
Collingwood next morning to answer a charge of
no visible means of support, the blood-washed
one still wearing hallelujah habiliments. After
hearing the constables’ evidence, the Mayor asked
the girl had she any remarks to make. She re-
plied that “ she hadn’t done nothin’.” “ You were
found in bed with a man not your husband.”
“Um.” ‘‘You must know that’s not right ?” “I
The Crushed Tragedian.


don’t think there’s anythin’ at all wrong about it.”
« Remanded till Tuesday,” said the Mayor, faintly.
And the prosecuting constable went wandering
about Collingwood with a dazed, aimless sort of
wonder. — ••-
• • *
Way back in what we, with true Pharisai-
cal bumptiousness, are pleased to call the “ be-
nighted pagan ages,” the question as to the pro-
priety of praying and offering sacrifices to the
gods for special favours, just as if the deities were
a set of mud-headed idiots to be cajoled by
flattery, or a crowd of miserly graballs to be
seduced by bribes, was much discussed by the
people of those days, and many of the advanced-
thought men of thg time fairly shamed the de-
based bigots of our own day by declaring that, as
none but the] deities could forsee the future, it
was presumptious on the part of a mortal to ask
for what he thought was a boon, but which, if
granted, might turn out to be a curse. So blas-
phemous had this praying business become during
the rousoabout days of Domitian that the giddy
ladies of Rome used to hire the priests to offer up
prayers, and to say Masses, as it were, for the suc-
cess of their gladiatorial bullies, or fancy-men, in
the prize arena. Juvenal has left us an amusing
description of a fat old high priest who was kept
standing in prayer by the amorous ladies of his
fiock so long that his feet became fairly foundered
sneer-— P ° et ’ a(ldre88 ' D f? the gods, enquires with a
t? JP u r, a ttention to such suppliants given ?
11 *o—there is not much to do in Heaven.”
A little farther along in the same satire the grim
bard gives his pagan idea of what a prayer to an
Omnipotent God should be, and In a few lines
shows that he possessed a knowledge of the true
attributes of a Deity, by the side of which the
Christian (!) opinions of our pampered pre-
lates is not even worthy of being named.
Juvenal was a heathen, and worshipped false gods
—If he really worshipped any—and, of course, as
all we good Christians know, he is know frizzling
up in front of the hottest stove in hell, but, touoh-
ng prayer, he sang
“ O, Thou who knows’t the wants of human kind,
Vouchsafe me health of body, health of mind;
A soul prepared to meet the frowns of fate,
4-nd look undaunted on a future state,”
By the side of these manly, yet pious lines, even
Pope’s “ Universal Prayer" sounds drivel; and
talking of prayer, reminds us the Rev. Mr. Spencer,
of Tumut, appears to have got the Mahdi mania
badly, for he writes to the local paper saying
“ I shall feel obliged if you will find room in your
next issue for the following prayers, one for God’s
blessing on our arms in Egypt, the other for His
favour and protection to the troops who left
Sydney yesterday to serve our common country.”
The prayers referred to are, of course, those re-
cently hatched out by Bishop Barry, who fs ap-
parently on the best of terms with the Almighty,
and clearly forsees that nothing but good can fol-
low on the massacre of the thousands of Sou-
danese who are now fighting for their country and
their creed. It is painfully evident, however, that
the bulk of our parsons either do not put much
faith in their own prayers, or else they are some-
what dubious If ever Providence can squelch the
Mahdi, for no sooner have they finished praying
for the safety of the troops than they delve down
into their breeches pockets and plank down their
piles in order to provide for doctors and widows
and orphans. This is hedging with a vengeance
for, no matter which side wins, the cautious clerics
can claim a trick, either for the efficacy of their
prayers or the generosity of their charitable
natures. Peter will require to be careful, or
they’ll bluff themselves into heaven before his
very eyes.
• * •
Councillor H. Crews, ©f the Prahran City
Council, has been served with a summons to ap-
pear before the local Court of Petty Sessions, on a
charge of using offensive language at a Counci
meeting. What has this man said ? you ask. Did
he run up every member’s pedigree till he got to
the ancestor who was hung for horse stealing,
noticing on the way, the uncle who brained his
wife and stuffed the baby up the stove-pipe ;
and the maiden-aunt who was habitually robed in
a straight waistcoat, and called herself Bloody
Mary, and howled all night for somebody’s gizzard
on a pitchfork ? Did he stigmatise each Individual
as a thieving, Hades-destined, crow-bait ? Did he
do these things, which have been! considered
aldermens’ rights from all time ? No. He simply
characterised a certain transaction of the Council
as a piece of jobbery, and they uprose against him
as one man and demanded a retraction, but B-
Crews was not on the retract; hence the prosecu-
tion. Who’d be a councillor after this ? What’s a
Council good for, if a man can’t give the grocer a
blast for not letting that little bill stand over a
while longer, or bullock-drive the publican who
won’t chalk it up for press-men? Not us; our
resignation has gone In!
* * +
He was a Civic dignitary way up in the
Kennedy district, and the occasion was either his
birthday or the anniversary of his mother-in-law’s
murder, or some other equally joyous occasion,
and, as a matter of course, it was a case of fill high
the bowl and on with the dance, let Joy be uncon-
fined until the clocks were just on the strike of 33
o'clock. Then the festive reveller, knocking
against both sides of the pub.’s passage as he
jogged along, determined to make for home, and
seeing a dark mass of something with a lighten
top of It across the street, he rent the air with
yells of “Hey! c»b ov’r here; looker live now!’:
And then, after screaming himself black In the
face and cursing every cabman in the land back as
far as the 47th generation, he flopped over Just in
time to And he had been hailing a pile of bricks, on
the top of which had been set the usual warning
lantern. After reprimanding the heap with his
head a couple of times, he finally pulled half a
hundred of the blocks on top of his spine, and on
coraing-to next day, he remarked to the local
chemist that It struck him as being remarkably
strange that whisky itself could be far more easily
rectified than the disagreeable mistakes It causes.
Open to Engagement Again.


N OCTOGENARIAN'S GRATITUDE.
A FACT.
George-street, Sydney, September 1,1884.
Messrs. Myers and Solomon.
Gentlemen,—It gives me considerable pleasure
to tender you my best thanks for your kind re-
commendation of St. Jacobs Oil. Acting upon
your advice, I tried it, and am happy to say the
very first application brought me instant relief;
and, by following it up for a couple of days, I felt
completely cured. Before using St. Jacobs Oil I
suffered severely—more especially from swollen
knees—and had tried many other remedies without
the least effect. However, I have to thank it for
making me myself again, and shall be careful to
recommend it.
I may mention that I shall be 80 years of age in
October, and believe that through its use I shall be
able to spend a pleasant birthday.
Yours faithfully,
JOSEPH HENRY.
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.8.W.;
price, 3s. 6d. per bottle.
“ BEACH’S ”
CONSULTATION
ON
SYDNEY CUP,
NOW OPEN. FILLING RAPIDLY.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10a. BACH.
APPLY EARLY.
Address—
“BEACH,”
Care of J. G. Deeble,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
W» lhaU be glad to bane this index patted up hy
ucretariee of racing elubt and manager* of
tporting event• in general^
RACING.
Canowindra J.G March30
i: ie
Tamut....! March 25. 26
Hawkesbury E.C. (Autumn) March 26, 37
iTc “iutumny.;:::::::::: *:aphi
Mifdgee Tattersaii’a'R.C."V”.*.V Aprils. 24
Western Downs J.C. (Tambo, Q.) Annual..May 13,14
Canterbury Park R.C May 16
Rosehill KO....... May 23
Wollontrong T.C. (Autumn) ....May 25
Walkerston (nr. Maokay ,Q.) R.C. Annual... May 25
Blaokall R.C June 4,5
Rosehill R.C June20
Rosehill R.C July 18
Canterbury Park R.C .August 1
Rosehill K C .............. a ' * f u «^ 8t f
Canterbury Park R.C .8*eptember 5
Hawkesbury (Spring) September 10. 12
A.J.C. (Spring) September 19,22, 24, 26
Rosehill fi.O .October s
Canterbury Park R.C October 17
Canterbury Park R.C December 19
Rosehill R.C December 28
AQUATICS.
Balmain R.C. Regatta March 21
Beach v. Hanlan March 28
Woolloomooloo Bay Regatta -April 18
Intercolonial 8-Oar Race . .. April
ATHLETICS.
Sir Joseph Banks Sheffield Handicap, Botany
March 14,18,21, and 23
Athletic Sports, Brushgrove. ..March 17
Oddfellows’ 100-Guineas Handicap, Show
Grounds, Wollongong April 6
STORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
If Lees wishes to have a bit of sport with
the mittens in Sydney, we have no doubt half a
dozen professionals can be found to take him up.
Mr. Tom Strange, at one time a shining
lijrhtln connection with the Mercantile Rowing
Club, to act as umpire In connection with the
Banian-Beach race.
The Woolloomooloo Bay Regatta commit-
tee should place a race on their programme for
the recently-formed Tradesmen’s Club at Miller’s
Point. It deserves encouragement.
If times go for anything, the Sir Joseph
Banks’ handicap is “all over, but shouting.” T.
Budd (11 yards) ran the fifth heat in the stated
time of 14 seconds. Boo hoo to you I
The Maorilanders have the sawdust wor-
riers all to themselves just now. At latest, Dave
M’Kune challenges either Swan or Raynor t> a 13-
hour or 50-mile walk for £50 a side and gates.
A local reporter of a cricket match at
Tweed River says that after tho game the two
elevens sat down to a dinner In the Commercial
Hotel, the fun culminating la all the men being
bowled out. This looks very like open confession,
doesn’t it ?
“The bodies of men,” once remarked a
philosopher, “ are peculiarly liable to contraction
and expansion under the influence of—circum-
stances.” Well, Beach takes the cake for expan-
sion. anyhow. A two days’ spell after hlj last race
put 51b. on him.
The mysterious Woolloomooloo Bay Re-
gatta has at last been fixed for April 18. Bstter
late than never, however, and in the hands of
Messrs. Myers, Mansfield, and Oatley, we doubt
not the 1885 meet will equal any of its predecessors
—and that is saying a good deal for it.
From Monday’s Alien we learn that
Hanlan and after incessant work on the
river, last week sought a change of scene in the
vicinity of the Lightship, where they hoped to find
restoration of their sunken strength in oceanic
breezes and rural tranquillity [Ohl turn It upl—
Ed. B ]
The Melbourne Spobstman seems a bit out
of its depth when speaking of a projected match
between a Sydney amateur boxer and Lees, of
Melbourne. The former is a bona fide amateur,
who boxes for the love of the thing, and we fancy
it is a pretty safe assertion when we state that the
Sydneyite has no intention of forfeiting his statue
as an amateur by boxing Lees.
Parnan has proved the greatest fighter—
in the newspapers—Australia has yet produced.
Foley's latest offer to box for the love of the thing
and pay his expenses over to Sydney cannot fail
to corner the Victorian, and he must now accept
or forever hold his peace. Foley has placed £350
in the hands of the editor of a local paper, Just by
way of showing that he means biz.
W. Rowe, of Penrith, and J. Kennedy, of
Shoalhaven, rowed in light skiffs on the Nepean
for £300 on Saturday last. By the time half a mile
had been covered Rowo had a half-length lead,
when his slide unfortunately unshipped, by which
mishap Kennedy obtained a lead of some six or
seven lengths, which ho retained to the finish of the
contest. Rowe was very bad at the finish, and fan-
cied he had injured himself inwardly.
At latest George Noremao still continued
to circle round and round the forty-four-lap track
in Midlothian Hall, N.Z., in his task of covering
fifty-one miles daily for one hundred days, resting
Sundays. On the evening of January 9 he was
the recipient of quite an ovation vipon the an-
nouncement being made that ho had polished off
three thousand miles of his long journey. With
the close of work on the 13th January his total
should have reached 3163 miles.
The match committee of the Victorian
Bowling Association have chosen the following as
the team to play against New South Wales:—No. 1
Kink; Messrs. Madden, Hornby, Stead, and Sims
(captain). No. 3 Kink: Messrs. Clapham, Kennie,
Hunter, and Meakin (captain). No. 3Rink: Messrs.
Cuddon, Ridge, Purves, and Hunt (captain). No.
4 Rink: Messrs. Windsor, Hardham, Bleach, jun.,
and Jessup (captain). Emergencies: Messrs. Bald-
erson, Mitchell, Fraser, and Hall.
A set-to, Queensberry rules, between
Adamson, a newly-arrived Britisher, and young
Smith, of Port Melbourne, came off recently in a
34-foot ring pitched a few miles from Melbourne.
Both stand about 5ft. 3in. in height, and scaled
about 8 stone. Adamson is 34 years of age, and
Smith 18. Sixteen rounds were fought in the most
orde r ly and fair manner, when the sponge was
thrown up In the Melbourne lad’s corner, and
Adamson was proclaimed the winner.
March 28 will see the two biggest rowing
events of the year—Beach and Hanlan on our
waters, and from English papers we see the Uni-
versity 8-oar race will probably be rowed on that
date. With respect to the former event, we will
leave our remarks over until next week, and as to
the latter, the following jottings may prove of in-
terest to our readers. Since 1838, Oxford bears tho
palm with 33 wins, as against Cambridge’s 18; a
dead heat was rowed in 1877; in 1846 outrigged
eights were used for the first time; in 1857 keelless
boats were started, and in 1873 slides made their
debut.
Sullivan, the Yankee boxer, must be a
perfect beast. On December 28 he was fined £30
and costs for cruelly ill-using a horse by kicking,
and striking it with his fists; and on another oc-
casion he appeared at the police court for assault-
ing a man by seizing him by the shoulders and
*' butting: him savagely In the face with hla head.
If John L. Is not a little more careful, a revolver
bullet may prove more rapid than whisky as a
knocker out. We never beard of Tom Crlbb, Jem
Belcher, Gully, Gregson, or other of the British
giants of the ring Indulging in these sort of
games.
Things are likely to be lively in the bil-
liard world this winter. Fred. Shorter is paying
his second visit to thi colonies, and has engaged
the rooms at Scott’s Hotel, Melbourne. We had a
taste of Mr. Shorter's quality when he was over
hero with Roberts, and if his right hand hasn’t lost
its cunning, some grand performances at the spot-
stroke may be expected. At this department of
the game he was always the superior of Harry
Evans, although with “spots barred” we should
be inclined to stand the Adelaide man. By-the-
way, a match between the redoubtable couple is
already on the tapis. This is French for saying
that they will probably play an exhibition game
shortly.
Seldom in a first-class match has such
execrable fielding been shown as that indulged in
by the Australians on the Association Ground on
Saturday last. Blackbam at the wickets was as
stale as a week-old loaf. Taking the ball from the
field he made innumerable slips, and on one occa-
sion when Read stepped out feet to a slow one of
Spofforth’s, and missed it, Blackham fumbled the
ball between his pads and made no attempt to
stump the Englishman. Read had another lucky
let off, when he was caught by Qiffen off a no-ball
from Spofforth, and we thought all through the
Demon bowled with very hard luck, indeed.
Amongst the many mistakes made by the Aus-
tralians perhaps the greatest was taking Trumble
off when he was doing so well.
Dust and a small attendance were the first
two items to strike the visitor to the opening day
of the Goulburn Turf Club races, on Thursday
last. Deception had a walk over for the Trial
Stakes; Saionara won the Shorts Handicap, after a
good set-to up the straight with Harold; Merlin
defeated Thackambau by half a length for the
Autumn Handicap; Deception won the Selling
race; and Raven won the Ladies’ Mile, after a good
spin up the straight with King Arthur. On the
second day (Friday), Right Bower defeated
Zulelka for the Flying Handicap; Harold won the
Novel Selling race; Thackambau made an easy
win of the Town Plate; Uncle Ned defeated Ajax
by a head for the Grand-stand Handicap; and
Deception made his third win by carrying off the
Forced Handioan from Raven.
The Glebe R.C. Handicap brought forth
some new blood, that, given they receive the
necessary coaching, may bring the club to the fore
in next season’s maiden and junior races. Brieriy
and M’Gregor are the makings of a good pair of
oarsmen, the former, in his maiden effort with
Williams, showing by his desperate finish he is
made of tha right stuff. Maitland showed by far
the best form on Saturday, but he Is not quite so
now to the game, and we fancy a mistake was
made in letting him off with the same weight as
Brieriy and ATGregor. These handicap races
should be encouraged by the clubs. They give a
show to all the clubmen, make a good afternoon’s
sport, and there is no style of rowing so calculated
to prove where the true gritlies as single sculling.
How is it the Sydney Rowing Club never goes in
for a race of this kind ?
lu connection with the par. we had in last
week, stating that an eight-pair scull boat had
knocked spots off an eight-oar boat on the Thames,
London Bell’s Life says;—“ It is probable that
several of the leading Thames clubs will now
patronise the new style of craft.” Years ago, in
the columns of The Bulletin, we advocated this
style of rowing, and we trust the colonials may see
fit to follow in the footsteps of their brethren on
the Thames. Sculling is prettier as well as faster
than oar rowing, and wo reallp cannot see why
“ eight” races for the championship of the colonies
should not bo best-and-bett both as x’egards boats
and propellers. Fancy four eight-pair scull boats
coming down the Parramatta like tarantulas in
April next. Such a sight once seen on the Parra-
matta, and wo should have no fear of the present
style again coming into vogue.
Truly, the ways ef the “backer” are in-
scrutable. For the Autumn Handicap, on the last
day of the Flemington meeting, Blink Bonny was
allowed to start at 30 to 1, while Ringwood was
second favourite at “ fours ” Taking a line
through Sheet Anchor, the odds ought to have
been just about reversed. In the Newmarket
Handicap, the mare was sot to concede 131b. to
Sheet Anchor, and opposite the carriage paddock
she looked as much like winning the race as any-
thing in it. Then in the Austra.ian Cup, wo have
Ringwood giving 81b. to Sheet Anchor, and just
winning by sheer stamina. No one who saw the
race would pretend to say thfct the result would
have been the same if the distance had been
shorter. And yet, when Ringwood meets Blink
Bonny, with a stone against him, over a course
just suited to the old m?re, backers estimate him
to have 5 to 1 the best of It. How far they were
out in their calculations, the result of the Autumn
Handicap proved.
The following is said to be the diet of a
Chinese athlete in trainingDrinking is prohi-
bited—i.e., of all alcoholic fluids. The use of
tobacco is either not allowed or is restricted to
five cigarettes or two pipes a day. Opium may be
indu'gedinattberateof a quarter-ounce a day.
In diet the chief staple is rice. Of this the hungry
aspirant for fame may use as much as he pleases.
Some eat five pounds of r.'ce in 34 hours. Meats
are used as flavours, and not as food. Light
vegetables are sparingly employed. Fruits are
also used. The bill of fare of an athlete in train-
ing is as follows: Breakfast-1 quart tea, lib. rice
3 sardines, 1 orange; dinner-3 pints tea, 31b. rice,
Hslb. chicken, duck, macaroni; lunch—
1 pint tea, lib. rice. J41b. perfumed pxrk, Mlb.
vegetables; supper—1 quart tea, lH>lb. rice, t|lb.
beef, Mlb. pork, lib. vegetables, sweatmeats.
No milk, butter, sugar, veal, lamb, mutton, fat
pork, cabbage, goose, ham, or bacon is allowed.
In drinks, water Is considered bad. Tea, lemonade,
orangeade, cocoa, coffee, and cider make up the
list of permissible drinks.
Says a telegram from Melbourne:—“A
meeting of the members of the Carlton cricket
club was held to-night, when they passed a resolu-
tion that they viewed with alarm the serious in-
jury which had been done to Victorian cricket by
the exclusion of the Victorian members of the
Australian Eleven from the recent cricket
matches, and still further the Injury that is likely
to accrue whilst the disqualification continued to
exist, and, therefore, they strongly urged upon the
Victorion Cricketers’ Association the immediate
removal of the disqualification.” We don’t see
it in the same light, and think the back-bone
action of the Melbourne Association has given to
Australian cricket the biggest fillip it has received
since the money-grabbing elevens first started. It
has brought the dollar-eollectors to their senses
with a vengeance; and, as the general public ap-
pear at all times to yearn for the good opinion of
the Britishers, they will have the satisfaction of
letting the Jack Bulls know that the feelings of
the Australians—or rather Victorians—are not in
unison with the fourth money-grabbing eleven.
Says the New York Clipper: —“The ioe
on the Manhattan Club track, New York, was in
fine condition on Thursday, Jan. 33, when a special
attraction was offered in the shape of a race
between L E. Myers, in spiked shoes, and Charles
Pfaff, jr., on skates. The original intention was to
have the former run 135 yards while the latter
skated 130 yards, but this was subsequently
changed to 130 yards for the runner, and 115 yards
for the skater, this change being necessary in
order to give the skater sufficient room in which
to finish. They were sent away evenly shortly be-
fore 5 o’clock, going off at high pressure. They
were even at 30 yards, after which Myers com-
menced to gain on his opponent, having a lead of
five yards at 80—a lead gained by about the tallest
bit of sprinting ever witnessed in this country—
and finishing six feet to the good, in the remark-
able time of which is the fastest time in
which the distance has ever been run in America
by an amateur. He had the wind at his back. The
applause which greeted him at the close was loud
and long.”
The following par., clipped from the
organ of theJNew Zealand aristocracy, the Auck-
land Observer, is of such a refreshing nature that
we think it worthy of a reprint in The Bulletin:
—“ Without a doubt Sydney, N.8.W., can boast, or
feel disgraced, as she chooses, about possessing the
lowest, most brutally ignorant, and grossly partial
of hoodlums and blackguards on the face of
God’s earth. Every paper in Australia is full of
strictures on the vile ignorance or unfairness
shown by men on the Parramatta River during
the Hanlan-Clifford race. Fancy the Minister of
Public Works, in the Government tea-kettle,
twice crossing in front, and once actually between
the two boats! Then, towards the finish, the men
had to pick their way through a fleet of boats of
every shape and make; while all the way up the
river, the steamers which follow the race were
dangerously near to the competitors. Bah! it’s
sickening; and they want the world to think they
are sports, forsooth. They don’t begin to know
what sport is. They arc just ‘shabs.’ Notallthe
Bulletins or other journals in the world can
shame such scum. It was i hese sort of cattle who
rushed ihe ring at the Miller-Foley and Farnan-
.Jackson glove fights—not dirty blackguards, d’ye
mind, but well-dressed and be-ringed hoodlums.
The first and second heats of the Glebe
Rowing Club Handicap were rowed off on Satur-
day afternoon, and out of the 15 entries but four
failed to face the starter—Burrell, Walford, Coker,
and M’Crea. The first heat was between C. Wil-
liams (501b.), Brierly (101b.), and Amess (feather).
Amess went away with the lead, but was soon
passed by Williams and Brierly, the former having
a lead of a length half way between Glebe and ,
Jarrett’s Points. At Jarrett’s, Brierly drew up
level, and the pair went at it ding dong to the
finish, Williams managing in the last few strokes
to drive his boat a few feet in advance of
Brlerly’s craft. ;M‘Gregor (101b.) defeated Icker-
son (401b.) rather easily for the second heat;
Robertson (451b.) finished in front of Haslingden
(351b ) in the third heat; Cox (351b.) then defeated
Smith (35lb.), and the final of the first round proved
a walk-over.for Maitland (101b.) For the first event
of the second round between Williams and M’Gre-
gor great things were expected of M’Gregor, but
the “ hero of a hundred fights” made rather an
easy thing of it. The second event brought Mail-
land, Cox, and Robertson to the tore, when the
trio finished in the order named. The final be-
tween Williams, Maitland, and Cox was fixed to
be rowed on Wednesday last, too late for notice in
this issue. A steamer followed the various heats,
which were seat off with commendable punc-
tuality.
Says George Fletcher in the Herald :—
“ Challenge.—1 will sail the St. Crispin against
.Eolus for twenty-five pounds aside over the
Balmain or Anniversary course within a fortnight.
A match can be made on Thursday night at the
Albion Hotel.” However, wo do not think
Geordie's challenge will he taken up, the Messrs.
Longflelds having decided to stick to pleasuring
on account of the disheartening manner they
have been treated by the Regatta Committees.
Early in the season the gentlemen in question had
the .Eolus built for racing purposes, had her fitted
with tip-top racing gear, and after all this expense
had been gone to, they have been unable to give
her a lair show against craft of her own calibre.
The Anniversary Regatta, which we have argued
all through, should be for champion races only,
had a 33-leet handicap race on the programme,
but the owners of the ASolus, an untried boat,
very properly refused to give minutes to one of
Donnelly's cracks with one of the best men in the
harbour at the tiller; a handicap now proved
ridiculous by the fact that the representative of
the Crispin offers to sail her level. Then came
Snail’s Bay, when it was hoped by lovers of the
sport that the Rosetta, Crispin, and AHolus, would
make a race second only in the interest to the 34-
footers. but how were we disgusted when a mixed
race—of which, by the way, wo trust Sydney
Harbour has seen the last—was substituted. We
are afraid there are not sufficient 33-foot owners
on the Regatta Committees, or we should not see
such promising additions to the grand sport as
the Messrs. Longfleld choked off quite so early in
the bud.
By the Yankee mail we learn Sullivan
had a couple of bouts with the gloves on January
13 and 19. The first event was with the English-
man, Greenfield, at Boston, of which the following
account is given in a New York paper:—“Directly
after time was called, Sullivan landed a left and
then right on the Britisher's ears, and two more
blows on the neck. Greenfield got in a light left,
and Sullivan hit his opponent on the neck and jaw,
shaking him up considerably. A rapid exchange
followed, in which Sullivan had the best of it. The
Boston bruiser sparred a while for an opening and
struck more jaw blows. Sullivan had it his own
way in the second round, and with a sudden rush
forced his opponent upon a stake, where ho deli-
vered three telling blows. They got into close
quarters, and after some hugging, Greenfield
struck out, but Sullivan ducked his bead. The
latter rushed again at his man, but Greenfield
escaped punishment by hugging his opponent,
much to the disgust of the spectators. The third
was the best round. Suilivau led off as usual, hit-
ting his antagonist three blows on the side of the
head, and by a blow on the neck sent him full
length on the floor. Upon getting up, he was hit
heavily in the ribs, and escaped more serious
blows by hugging. Sullivan landed his left on the
Britisher’s face, and a raoid exchance of blows en-
sued, which resulted in Greenfield being knocked
down in Sullivan’s corner. When he got up, he
ran away from his antagonist, amidst hisses. In
the last round, he was content to dance about and
hug his opponent. It was very tame. They
stopped before time was called and talked awhile.
The audience thought Greenfield was asking John
to hit lighter, and hissed both men. Greenfield, at
the close, said to the crowd: ‘You have many
good men in this country, but I never fought one
who knows so much or who hit so hard as Mr. Sul-
livan.’” The second event, at Madison Garden,
N.Y., with Paddy Ryan, was a still greater fiasco.
It was thought the pair still had an animus to-
wards each other from the ring fight some three
years ago, and that some lively work would be
negotiated; but the police soon proved the fallacy
of that Idea. As soon as they faced, Sullivan sent
an easy one at the stomach, barely touching, and
caught a light return In the same place. The
champion followed with the right on the side of
the head, and was countered on the chest. Blows
were then exchanged at the head, a clinch fol-
lowed, and each put in some heavy shots at close
range, In the midst of which cannonade the police
stepped in, and, amidst the hoots and hisses of the
crowd, put a stop to the proceedings.
Thus “Pendragon,” in the Referee of
January A fortnight from now, and Hanlan
will have had his second trial upon Australian
waters. The first race of the series which grows
out of his unexpected defeat by Beach is set to
take place on the 7th prox., and from its result we
shall begin to understand whether it is true, as
stated, that Australia has begun both a new de-
parture and a new development in the way of
professional sculling champions. If Hanlan
should succeed in lowering the colours of this
entirely new man, Clifford, we shall yet have to
learn whether Beach is of a class by himself; and
though Hanlan, In the following match with his
previous conqueror, will be all the better favourite
for having beaten Clifford, there will, e en then,
be no telling until after the race is rowed what
the actual result may be. But if Clifford succeeds
in the task that Beach essayed so triumphantly,
and Hanlan is again a loser, it will have to be con-
ceded that Australia is indeed a great and
a fruitful country. Hanlan, in all his shows,
either in his own land or in this, has ever been so
superior to his opponents that it might have been
thought sufficient for the ambition of any place
to find one man his superior. Not only has Aus-
tralia found the one man, but lo, she, in the
calmest conceivable way, at once trots out
another. The business seems really to® good to
be true, particularly after the style ip which
Hanlan defeated Australia's two previous best
men, Trickett and Layoock. The latest develop-
ment is generally found to bo the best, especially
with regard to young countries which, like the
lady in the play, are in a coming-on humour; and
it may be that in Beach and Clifford Australia has
a couple of scullers many lengths in front of the
would-be shearers who returned home so terribly
shorn after a short sojourn in this country.
But what troubles me in this connection
is, the comparatively advanced age to which
both Beach and Clifford had attained before
their quality made Itself manifest. Hanlan,
who appears a veteran by means of bis perform-
ances, and who has been well known as a sculler
here in England for nearly half a dozen years,
besides having come here with a great reputation,
earned In the most practical manner, is at least
five years the junior of cither Beach or Clifford.
Want of opportunity has before now kept many a
good man from knowing how really good he was,
but so far as can be discovered there is no want of
opportunity in Australia, when the opportunity is
one which concerns sculling development, f rom
the period when the gentlemen with the high-
sounding front names and the surname that
betokened his real quality, directly he was put
properly upon his trial-from the period that this
artist, Mr. Richard Alfred Willoughby Green,
arrived in England, with the avowed intention of
taking the aquatic championship to the ends of
the earth on his return there, until now,
sculling has been one of the most popular
professional pastimes among our antipodean
cousins. How strange it seems, then, that the
existent champion of the world, no less than his
compatriot who aspires to topmost honours,
should be in his thirty-third year; I am not sure
but one of the pair is still older. Hanlan’s youth,
when combined with Hanlan’s immense expe-
rience in matches for money, should not be for-
gotten when endeavouring to forecast the winner
on next Saturday week. So long as I can remem-
ber, and in every variety of sport, the regret as
ever been that by the day a man has gained the
experience which is at all times and in all things so
helpful on the road to success, he is in the athletic
world, as a rule, old, stale, and generally done for.
Well, now, in Hanlan we have a mao who has.all
the credentials which are theoretically necessary,
and yet who in the matter of age has every advan-
tage over his rivals. In this respect Beach and
Clifford resemble the mother of Gil Bias at the
tim .-of her marriage. They are no longer in their
first youth; yet one is still a novice, and the other
is only a step beyond his novitiate. As every
writer on sport must have learned before he had
been long at the work, it is not worth prophesying
unless you know; and I know absolutely nothing
but what I have read about the forthcoming boat
races on the Parramatta River. For all that, I
shall daro an opinion; those who like may construe
it into a prophecy. Ever since the news that Beach
had defeated Hanlan first arrived, I have consis-
tently stood by the belief then expressed by me
that something more than B .ach’s mere skill and
staying power was answerable for the sudden and
unexpected advance of Australia. I am not geing
to desert my colours now. There is always a cer-
tain amount of risk to be run in forecasting the
probabilities of any kind of race, whether on the
water or in the water, or high and dry upon the
land. A man may be ill, or he may meet with an
accident, or ho may lis on to reason, or a dozen
other things all antagonistic to success, may hap-
pen. But supposing that Hanlan is well, that he
does his level best, and that there is this time no
Tomkl interception, I shall expect to hear not
only of his beating Clifford, but of his resuming
possession of championship honours as soon as he
gets bis second trial with Beach, who still possesses
the unlimited confidence of all Australians.”
Wolseley’s Camel Corps.—A Full Private.


G0MPA6N0NI CATERING CO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. * '
T IIE * < , c £ t ® rln ff Establishment in N.S.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor,
Municipal Council of Sydney, the A.J.C., City Club, S o., &o.
Tne Din .ng Saloons for Ladles and Gentlemen are the Finest, Cooleest, and loftiest In the colony.
riiTTT unnM«I‘ CLASS w a B^^,, DA1 % Y -. private Bar-Good Wine List.
ROOM now open. A Grill can bo had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 pm. (after the
Theatres. Select your own steak, 4c., and seo It grilled In the room. This Is one of the acquisitions
rltv^’nh 11 nn«te* feltWa ' lQ «P ection invited Cmb rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht ClilS
and City Club, upstairs. Bi D. TOLLEMACHE, General Manager.
Foster s Bugle Brand
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
mi cm,
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
TO
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR FROM QEORGE-STRBBT.
THEY have ARRIVED.
An immense delivery
of
YANKEE RUBBER
BABIES.
Goes in the waistcoat poc
ktt; blows out to life size;
is washable, durable, r.nd
unbreakable ; resembles
life, for like the real article
it coos at pleasure, and yet
screams awfully if smacked
Experienced fathers are deceived by these laugh-
ter-producing infants, and no home is really a
happy one without their presence. Price (post
free): largest, Is. 6d.; medium, Is. 3d.
Also, just in, a large assortment of Conjuring
Tricks, catalogues on application.
•V
m
m
THE WIZARD CARDS,
changing from eights
to deuces, from black to
red, and back again at the
pleasure of the per-
former. Post free, with
full instructions. Is. 3d.
I’m a Daddy ; I’m in
Love; The Mother-in-law;
I’m a Farder; and Be
fore and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever Issued, 5 in each set.
Price, 6d. per set, or 5 eels for 2s.; by post, 3s. 3d.
The Three Donkeys. The newest “ have ” out.
Send for them, but keep It quiet. Price, Is.; by
post, Is. 3d.
The Sooner Dog—a wonderful little animal;
roars of laughter follow him wherever he goes.
Is. 6d.; by post, 3s. 6d.
Napoleon in Council, very rich, la. 6d,; by post, 3s.
HORTON and CO., 401 George-fltreet, Sydney.
Box 641, G.P.O.
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate in Medicine and Surgery, Registered
Physician of NeW South Wales.
Office Hours : 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., 7 to 9 on Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday Evenings.
Ladies’ Waiting Room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
11, 53 Castlercagh-street (upstairs.)
Send for Free Treatise on Vitality and Nervous
Debility, Diseases of Women.
Illustrated Works on Deformities, Electricity
and its Application. Hernia (ruptures), Varicocele,
&c., &c.
Address—Australian Medical and Surgical In-
firmary, Sydney ; or B. O. HOLTERMANN, Esq.,
M.P., President, Box 120, G.P.O.
Consultation Free by mall or in person.
Deformities. Specific. Female, and Nervous
Diseases, a Specialty.
BLAKE’S IMPROVED
STEAM PUMPS.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
17 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE ABOVE,
and have In Stock and to arrive—
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING PUMP
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
SEND FOR PRICES AND ALL PARTICULARS
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FREE.
The austral a sian mutual live stock
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £100,000.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Sydney Branch : Eoyle’s Chambers, Bond-street.
Victorian Directors : I N. S. Wales Directors:
John L. Dow, Esq., M P., | Andrew Town, J.P , Esq.
Chairman I Frank Cowley, Esq.
Hon. J. F. Levien. M.P. I George 8. Yeo, Esq.
TnomAsLearmonth,Esq. I
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs Insured
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
Causes on land, rail, or at sea.
Marine Risks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted.
The only Live Stock Insurance Society in the
colonies.
Full particulars can bo obtained from the under-
signed.
Active Agents wanted where unrepresented.
J. A. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.
Office, Roylo’s Chambers, Bond-street.
3 5
N
a
r=r
i
51
A
K
t/-»
>\
J5
V3
VT?
cl
'V
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS FALJS ALB.
MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1873.
Capital—£100,000 with power to Increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES—30 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
QHURCHILL’S
SYRUP OP THE HYPO-
PHOSPHITES.
THESE SYRUPS have so thoroughly obtained
the confidence of the Medical Facility that thef
are now preferred to any other preparations as
General Tonics.
The Syrup ot Hypophosphites of Lime has ptoved
itself for many years most useful In cases of Con-
sumption and diseases of the Pulmonary
It is also most beneficial to debilitated
tions proceeding from any cause whatever, as It
contains two of the most necessary ingredients for
building up the Human Frame, namely, Phospho-
rus and Lime.
Churchill's Syrup of the Hypophosphite of Iron
is one of the best preparation* of Iron and Phos-
phorus that has been offered to the public. As a
permanent ionic it has been found more service-
able than any other preparation of Iron, and is
especially recommended to those suffering from
the effects of a long residence in a hot climate.
Churchill’s Compound Syrup of the Hypophos-
phitos contains Lime, Iron, and Soda, and as a
general Tonic has been found most useful. Deli-
cate children have derived the greatest benefit
from going through a course of this medicine,
which supplies nearly all the elements necessary
to develope in perfection the Human Frame. To
Ladies suffering from General Debility, any of
these Syrups can bo taken with most beneficial re-
sults, but as almost every constitution differs, one
may give better results than the other. To be had
from all Chemists, and Wholesale from ELLIOTT
BROS., Pitt-street, Sydney.
SENT FREE, by POST ONLY, In an Envelope.
SOCIAL SCIENCE,
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders which
cause Impediments to Marriage, and all
Chronic Diseases; also. How to choose a partner
for life, so as to live happy and produce healthy
children; and how to regain and preserve your
health, &c, &o.
Address: B. T. SELBY, Medical Herbalist,
Devonshire-street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
14 sad IS Spring 1 Street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA.
- A WB
EARTHENWARE,
WINES. BEERS, AND SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and OO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GA YEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
▲. MBLY IN and SONS’
Bdlnbm gn Pale 1 m.
ESTABLISHED 18(50.
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
ns of ill,
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRASSES
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX,
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&o., &o.
COLL/if
BLEND
Jmab*
TRAD
..Ai
BLEND WHISKY.-Thls Is a B r F]
v> Of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, co
tuning fulness of body, with piquancy and delloa
of taste and flavour. CATTELL k CO., S<
Agent*.
WASTE PAPER Hoop Iron,
Cases for Sale. Apply Publish
Office
and Empty
er, Bullitt s
ffcis Head Offices. ®fcis
First Fire Society established in the colony on
the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from
all liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market
BOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINS
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
'
l»?Sae0fiM
ngi
FxSSENCEopLIFK
' The only infallible remedy for
//feaybi/s ))ebi1.i jyT
THIS Invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes Incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ox
haustlve derangement of the system: regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 12s., or four quantities is one for
i&a.; If by coach, 3s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,1
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 48 Goulburn-
street. One Door from George-street South.
VENETTA WALTZ!
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stool
of MUSIC In the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &c.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, In variety.
New catalogues will be ready in a few days am
sent gratis on application.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &o., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Mem
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels
»1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and sec the two most Important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The TrypograpE
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost ol
which Is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WALTER CHURCH. Manager.
Head Offleea-PITT and KING STREETS.
Watch and Cloekniakcr to the Victorian
Government.
T. GAUNT
Watchmaker,
GOLDSMITH,
hub mi mi,
297 and 299
George Street,
after oefore MOUSTACHE and WHISEEES. «Fons
tfnyd'a Heard P.tixirdid thin,and
ttfiu do it on cither bald fiend or
IaA / bare fare. Jfo: cea heavy Mon*-
tar he in from 2 to 4 week* and nt ver j
Copyrighted, {“ear 1% Copyrighted.
3 pkti. frb ifijitry, easily applied, certain in effect. Packet* 1*. G d.
each, 3 for &. til., post paid, sent under cover, free from observation•
Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent, Box 730, Q.P.O., Sydney,N.8. W'
Beon nnfatlntf for ease all my life, and found it at
last With the Argosy Braces at Gowlng Bros.
%
A
IS
I
s/
GOWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. Gd., 3s., 3s. 6d.,& 4s. Od
COWING IBROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, Sic.
332 and 498 George-street,
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
2«8 George Street, Sydney.
Every description of Shirts made to measure
A perfect fit guaranteed.
iA
1
-
5^
SMITH & MANNELL,
THE SHIhT MANUFACTURERS OF
AUSTRALASIA,
amp Late
0L —
■<b
DentistS
#4-6 MARKET ST ffYDN EY


J1U
BNITUBB SHOW BOOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
Hall furniture, hatstands, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
T IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
iSES
±J TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES.
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.
VERY ELEGANT. Just received. Bradley.
Newton, and Lamb.
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &o.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
EIGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BB
NEWTQN, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with slivered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 3 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 13s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80a-
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, ’ with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
X}QK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash opljr. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
/"VVBHMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashlon-
V-v able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also In Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c
finished In
IHlf'FONNlER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
Just received. Bradley, Newton, and jLamb,
O’Connell-street.
XJ1NAMELLED and JEWELLED MiHRUKS, tor
Jli Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for tiro grates. Very
Gunnell s f r g^. DLBY ’ NEWTON, and LAMB,
"ThRA WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
JLF A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CH AIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inez-
penslva. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
[OILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE.
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
T
Full suites for dining-room—side-
BOARD, DINNER _ WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Counell-street.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 6 feet long and up to 30 feet.
i ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIh-
j Patented.
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will oi
the occupant. It Is simple, yet Ingenious In It*
construction; works automatically. l'j le above
cut represents only two of the numerous pdintlom
that can be obtained. Instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of he body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It Is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired
The frames arc of the best Eastern ash—strong.
(only). Packing in canvas,’if required,
w8( 6(1, extra.
B
AGATELLB BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment In Chippendale. Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley. Newton, and Lamb.
1RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FUKNI-
F 1 TURK Handsom e~andMasaiveT* In" Oak"
Walnut, and VERY BEST REAL
MoS^sSSraMMMtoraboS^
B
B
ED8TBAD8, nickel-plated and black andbrasi
1 new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Laffi
EDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowes
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING. —All descriptions at lowest rate"
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB OTkm
sell and Spring streets. ’ u uon
W
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 28s aact
BRADLEY .NEWTON, and IAMB?*
ARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah PhniA
iX INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES BRAD 1
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB. O’cffnneH-st^ 0
BENTWOOD FURNITURB.-A very complete
Assortment: best make, lew est prices.
SOCIAL
About 250 ladies and gentlemen attended
the fourth hyginx of the Sydney Owls 1
It was at their usual haunt, the new Masonic Hall,
which everyone admits is a pretty place, full
dress was the rule, cloak-rooms being on either
side of the entrance, and on entering the large nan
a bar was found on one side for the lords of crea-
tion, and a dainty refreshment table on the other
aide for ladles, loaded with light things, custards,
cakes, and fruit. It is all owing to the fruit being
there that full dress is necessary. Bveryone knows
that before fruit first exercised itsmaUgnlnfl
over the female sex, the attention given to dress
was very scant. As scant as the raiment itself.
But, as the poet says—
“ Fruit caused sin.
Sin brought shame;
And all through shyness
Dresses came.”
Seems to us that’s plain enough,and lt’s jiistto
that red russet that Eve chipped into with her
shining pearly teeth that we now owe all those won-
derful fabrics that make Hordern s name famous
throughout the solar system, and ladles go to
Poapes and Shaw for gloves. A few flippant words
of that kind are thrown off to 8h th “f^ 0 .“ on t
go blind or careless as to how the ladies do them-
selves up "-no, Indeed, every little effort is per-
fectly appreciated; but we don t Intend to make
this a toilet article to-night. This particular
hyginx differed from all the others, whereat a
concert has formed first part, and dancing the
second. To those, people came late, and so it was
determined to start dancing at 8 o’clock, and have
the songs and music interspersed. In warm
weather this is a decided advantage to the dancers,
as It gives longer Intervals to get cool; but the
singers would probably not like it so well. They
were not listened to so attentively, and not so
well heard by those who did listen. Among the
Serformers were Misses Bayfield and Goldsmith,
[essrs. 8. Davis, Barrington, B. Lloyd, Phillips
the soprano. Ward; Mr. Hodgo gave a clever
saxophone solo, and Messrs. Shepherd and De
Groen were accompanists. The performance,
however, which received the most undeniable and
uproarious encore was Mr. Fred Dark’s musical
account of an evening party, and he had to come
on again, when he gave “ Baby Mine.” A large
contingent of musical and dramatic genius was
present: and the president, Mr. G. w. Tate, an-
nounced that a garden party would eventuate at
Botany on the Sflth instant, the company to go out
in the afternoon and return before midnight; din-
ner at 7, and dancing in the large pavilion all the
evening. The Owls got through a good many
dances by half-past 1, and Messrs Menser, Tate,
Clarke, De Groen were busy keeping fun on the
surface all the time. That’s all, except (it's won-
derful how we always stray back to this subject,
isn’t it ?), except to say that a little girl In pink,
with an unpronounceable name, danced exqui-
sitely; and a blue Mother Hubbard was equally
feathery; while two little girls in white, with
same names and similar dresses, who looked like
Bisters, but weren’t, divided much admiration.
Their names are a secret, but If you can read an
acrostic,Iwhy I here—
, Two little maidens of sparkling mien,
Under whose eyelids lurk
Heal Hashing danger—worse is seen
Neither in Arab or Turk,
Enter a harem, and you’ll not see
■ Hare little beauties like these two be. ,
« • «
The Mayor of Tam worth gave a few friends
a nice dance last Thursday night. About 20
couples wore present, and a very enjoyable even-
ing was spent. Miss Lambert and Miss Broadfoot
were much admired. The Bank of New South
Wales was represented by the local Bonner and the
affable Sydney Dowe. Three members of the
Commercial Bank were also present. Mr. Tribe
acted as M.C., and, size considered, conducted him-
self admirably. The meet broke up at about 3 30
when in every direction'pairs could be seen wend-
ing their homeward way.
■ • •
The Secretary for the Balmain Rowing
Club Regatta says the tickets are selling so fast
that he will have to charter the Great Eastern else
the Admiral or Leveret to carry the crowd on
Saturday next. This regatta la going to be
specially attractive, in that light refreshments are
to be served to the ladles during the afternoon,
and there is a chance that Beach will row down
In his boat to receive a handsome cup made by
some lady friends of the B. It. Club. As there are
seven events on the card, and good entries for
each, the affair should pass off merrily.
• • •
Perhaps the first time a trioyole has been
*used as a wedding carriage was when a nice young
couple rode up to the parish church In a Lincoln-
shire village towards the close of last year. The
parson earned his fee, and the happy pair rode
away on their sociable, man and wife. Dangerous
things, these sociables. It seems that the young
man had been riding with her out on It for some
time, and his friends had warned him that some-
thing would happen,
* * *
A meeting was held on Friday night at
Newtown, by gentlemen interested in the socials
which have been so successful in that suburb for
the past two years. The genial Billy Douglas was
elected chairman of the meeting, and it was re-
solved to form a club this season, under the name
of the “ Newtown Private Social Club.” Messrs.
Young, Vlles, and Douglas, with Mr. Wildmau as
secretary, and Freeman as treasurer, were elected
as committee. With the aid of such gentlemen,
the socials can hardly fail to be a success.
♦ ♦ ♦
" The style of dress most adopted by the
ladies at the Sydney Lledertafel concert, the other
night, was undoubtedly that of the ballet Skirt and
plain satin bodice. The skirts were almost invari-
ably composed of tarlatan, in white, pink, pale
blue, or the new shade of green, with bodices of a
Corresponding colour. Several wore the satin arm-
straps and neck-bands in lieu of bracelets and
necklets, which leads one to imagine they have
been reading about Mrs. Langtry’s latest freaks,
one of which is to wear plain satin bands round
her wrists, to match the most prominent colour of
her dress. This, being a very inexpensive fashion,
will, doubtless, find much favour, but for that
very reason, will not last long. Another odd
fashion we noticed in the Exhibition Building, the
other night, is to have the dress sleeves made too
long, so that they can be caught up and pinned at
the shoulder with a sparkling brooch or pin.
It has an odd effect, this tucking up of the
sleeves—it makes you fancy for the moment
that the fair one is Just preparing herself
to make up a batch of scones or mince pies
or something nice, which makes you think all the
more of her, till you remember that it’s only your
own imagination which is endowing her with gifts
which perhaps she doesn’t possess. Tuoked-up
sleeves can no more help agirl to make light bread
than long hair can help a man to genius. The only
dress which had room enough to be seen in its
entirety was that worn by Mrs. Frank Brewer, It
was composed of pale blue and pink satin. The
skirt of the blue, and bodice, short bunchy top
and long train, of the pink. Mrs. Vogrlch wore a
becoming black lace and silk costume. There’s
this to be said about Sydney concerts: As sure as
measures are not taken very soon to prevent
people from shuffling their way out before the
performance is over, so surely none but un-
musical folk will patronise these concerts. It
is a noticeable fact that it is mostly during ;
pianissimo passages .these selfish dolts choose for
making their ill-mannered and noisy exit,
A pianissimo passage is to them of no conse-
quence whatever—merely a bit of padding as it
were-but if they had a grain of sense they would
see by the angry glances levelled at them that
what means nothing to them is a great deal to
some people. One female followed by half-a-
dozen gawky girls, whose feet, to judge by the
sound they created, must have been the most
pronounced beetle crushers, were amongst the
most aggressive of these concert pests the other
night. They ambled their way from the very top
of the building like ailock of geese stringing off to
a horse-pond, and if glances had power to kill,
they must have dropped down dead long before
they reached the door. This nuisance was almost
as great at Mr. Hyndes’ concert a night or two
previous, and amongst the offenders were ladies
and gentlemen, who, if their own inate good feel-
ing did not prompt them to desist from thus
slighting an artist, the courtesy due from one pro-
fessional to another certainly should. It really is
time something were done to prevent this sort of
thing occurring.
* * *
When it was whispered around that the
Sydney Liedertafel intended to give a repetition
or Felfcian David’s “ Desert” at their nineteenth
concert the demand of outsiders for tickets knew
no bounds. Consequently, hist Thursday night
saw the Exhibition Building packed with one of
the most brilliant assemblages it has ever seen.
The first part of the programme consisted of a
few choruses and solos, Mrs. Frank Brewer and
Mr. Halle well being the chosen soloists. If any
voice baa power to fill the Exhibition Building ft
is Mr. Hallewell’s, but, however suitable Mrs,
Brewer’s may be for a concert hall, there cer-
tainly is too little of it to find its way around the
building in question. Thofiady essayed Felling's
song, “Dreaming,” and, although It was delivered
with nice expression, still we are apt to look for
better things at a Liedertafel concert. The
choruses were well sung, with one exception—the
Laughing Chorus,” It needed the greatest
stretch of imagination to discover anything akin
to laughing in the very mechanical “ Ha, ha, ha
it Bounded more like the cackling of (hens. They
were certainly “ off colour ” in this item. We are
beginning to know the beautiful music of the
Desert n so well now that we chafe at any short-
comings in the rendition of it. This means there
were a few on Thursday night, but so few that it’s
easy to single them out. Firstly, then, the strings
in the orchestra were too thin, and then, again,
when the new tenor (Scott we believe his name is
when off the stage—nice voice, too), who was evi-
dently nervous, was singing his solo, the piccolo
played so very sharp that the voice, as a natural
consequence, sounded flat. It was a pity, and un-
questionably told against the soloist. Mr. Frank
Brewer, as before, took the principal tenor solos,
and only began to show signs of fatigue in the
very beautiful, but difficult, “ Chant of the Muez-
zin.’ We have seen a better orchestra at a Lieder-
tafel concert, but that’s not saying that this wasn’t
far above our average orchestras. There was a
remarkably sweet-toned clarionet—but only one,
and, as we remarked before, the strings were
thinner than usual. Mr. Ralnford did the recita-
tion in a manner which seemed to be quite satis-
factory to—Mr. Italnford. Well, we could hear
him, that's one thing, but we can bear heaps of
things that don’t quite please us.
♦ ♦ *
It was a regular invitation audience that
greeted Mr. Harry Hyndes at his debut concert
last week. The adjective of course signifies
numerous, as it is a well-known fact that nobody
pleads prior engagements to a free show; it is
only when they are asked to ant8 up their coin
that they remember they have to dine at the
Smith’s on that particular night. But so pleasing
was the impression created by the young pianist,
that it's our opinion that not one amongst the
crowd (barring newspaper reporters, of course,
who, in some cases, know a good deal more about
flour mills than about Chopin) but would not only
forego the Smith’s dinner, but would cheerfully
pay their five shillings to hear him again. Mr.
Hyndes is very young, or he wouldn’t have de-
layed opening the concert for over a quarter of an
hour in expectation of being honoured by the pre-
sence of the Governor. You see he isn’t used to
our ways yet; he is just from Milan, where, we
believe, people of position have some thought for
others. But, at all events, the clock pointed
to 8 20, before It was made known that we
should have to worry along somehow without the
Government-House lot; and, if the truth must be
told, we enjoyed the music amazingly, notwith-
standing their absence. Wo had heard that Mr.
Hyndes was a pianist of no ordinary ability—a
finished artist, in fact; but our hearts misgave us
when ho sat down to the piano, for in bis demean-
our we missed many things we always imagined
were indispensable to the first-class pianist. In
fact, there was an utter absence of—what shall we
call it ?—winding of himself up; or, more expres-
sive still, side. When a pianist of renown takes
his place at the piano, he invariably quarrels with
the stool, and it is only after he has got up and sat
down three or four times that he comes to the
conclusion that it’s all right; then bo combs his
hair back (which is always long) with his fingers,
and after shaking bis head like a dog just out of
the water, he throws his eyes up skywards, and
then-hfinff. Not so Mr. Harry Hyndes, who
places himself at the piano quietly, modestly,
and without the slightest display. Those who
are lovers of fireworks and dash, will bo dis-
appointed in Mr. Hyndes’ performance, for there
is none of it. He Is of a refined school, and his
characteristics arc, a beautifully delicate touch,
“ runs ” swift and light as a sparrow's wing, allied
to which is a keen musical perception which
enables him to give a reading of the different
masters, which although novel to us here, is none
the less delightful. In the “Etude No. 7,” and
“ Valse Brllllante ” (Chopin), he proved to us that
none of the reports we had heard of bis soft,
pearly, yet brilliant touch were exaggerated, and
his reading of Chopin is peculiarly his own. For
an encore he played one of his own compositions,
which he published in Italy. Floral trophies were
pelted at him from all sides. It isn't fair to a man
this kind of thing, as no fellow shows to advan-
tage with his arms full of flowers. The girls
mean well, no doubt, but if they realised how
foolish it makes a man feel and look when be is
picking up bunches of be-rlbboned flowers, they
would pause era they repeated the act Let them
send round a dozen of fizz in order to express
their admiration, and it would be much more ap-
propriate. But to the concert. He's a success, this
young kangaroo, and, as he is going to give Sydney
musical students the benefit of his teaching, we
may not be wrong in prophesying for him a bril-
liant career. Mr. Fred. M'Quade took part in the
concerto in F minor—which was arranged for two
pianos—with Mr. Hyndes, and Herr Patek played
a ’cello solo charmingly. Miss Marie St. Clair sang
the “ Evening Prayer 1 ’ from Costa’s “ Ell,” and
Mr. Morgan the tenor solo, “ Smile and Bid Me
Live,” satisfactorily. Mr. Hallewell is one of
those singers who are never disappointing, and,
after being encored for “Hybnas the Cretan,”
gave Mr. C. Huenerbein’s patriotic song “To the
Front,” which song, by the way, is becoming as
popular as the genial composer himself. Mons. de
wlllimoff played one of his favourite violin solos,
the “Adagio Finale” (Mendelssohn) in his own
pleasing manner. The duet, “ Bella Imago,” sung
by Miss St. Clair and Mr. Hallewell, was a good
item. Mr. C. Huenerbeln acted as director of the
concert, and, but for a few unavoidable changes
in the programme, which so muddled some people
that they left before the end of the concert, there
was nothing to grumble at.
♦ ♦ *
On Saturday the crowd of spectators at
the cricket match was so great that ladies found it
impossible to parade the lawn in anything like
comfort, besides which, if they left their seats on
the stand they stood a poor chance of regaining
them. This was a nasty “jar” to the many who had
donned their most elegant costumes, and it was a
worse “ jar ” for us who wanted to see them. On
Monday there was more room, but scarcely any
tidies. Mr. Herbert Flemming escorted Miss
Solange Novaro and Miss Annie Mayor, the former
lady wore a light gray zephyr skirt with jersey of
a darker hue, small gray hat, and looked
very well. Mies Mayor wore a dark green
dress with waterfall back, and dark green hat.
A young married lady, cousin to Sir W. Loch,
wore a white lawn skirt, with black Jersey. Mrs.
Nlcholls, a rich black silk, and Spanish lace. The
Misses Dibbs looked very nice in navy blue serge
dresses, with military bodice and black braid
facings, seal brown hata and feathers. A striking
dress was a navy blue, the skirt of which had a
box pleating, with a gold satin lining—the old gold
was repeated In the jabot. A fawn-coloured full
skirt was worn in combination with a handsomely-
braided jersey in same colour. The air being chill,
many dresses were covered by winter capes and
ulsters. The Permanent Artillery Band, which
played on Saturday, is certainly an improvement
! upon the German, but on Monday the ground was
quite innocent of music.
* * *
The sleepy little town of Bingera was en-
livened by a ball last Wednesday week, which was
held in the Town Hall. About 25 couples made the
night merry, and some pretty toilets were worn.
Two sisters wore, the one pink and the other blue
tarletan and white lace, and their married sister
looked well in black satin and lace. A brace of
sisters from Tamworth, excellent dancers, were
greatly admired. One wore brown cashmere and
satin girdle, the other Indian muslin and lace. A
neat little figure, in navy blue and cardinal, from
the banks of the Gwydir, claimed notice; and a
married lady, in silver grey satin, was also a
favourite. Thursday morning saw the end of the
ball, which all agreed had been one of the pleasant-
est gatherings ever held in Bingera.
*» * *
Mrs. Watts, of Hordern Brothers, Pitt-
street, was presented with an address, gold suite
of amethist and pearls, and hand-painted ebony
fan inlaid with silver and gold, one night last week
as a mark of respect and admiration by the mem-
bers of the millinery department which she super-
intends.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
“ Sturdy” t Thanks for Item. Kindly send ac-
counts of your socials when the season com-
mences—not forgetting ladies’ costumes.
“ Tam worth” i We shall look out for notes ac-
cording to promise.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Balmain Rowing: Club Annual Regatta....March 21-
La Socleta Social at Petersbam Town
Hall. ..*.ii*.i....I March20.
Little Bessie Doyle’s Benefit Concert, Old
Masonic Hall March 25.
Sydney Owls’ Harden Party, Botany March 26
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Bet.ee,—The funniest thing I have
seen this week was a man with a piebald mou-
stache. It Isn’t always piebald, but it happened
in this way. He belongs to the Light Cavalry, and
his moustache Is of a most decided carrotty tint.
Now, he thinks ho can improve upon Nature, so
dyes it black. Well the other day, he was parad-
ing his charger, and was in full uniform, and—
truth to tell, dear—be made a nice picture. But
he isn’t used to his cap strap yet, ana can’t per-
suade it to stay in its place; so, with one hand
guiding his horse and the other holding his sword,
he was much fretted to feel the strap gradually
slipping away from bis under lip and fossicking its
way up into the regions of his moustache. Here
it waj caught, but the friction was death to the
dye, and the bold golden streak which became
visible was, to say the least of it, unique. I don’t
think he would have looked quite so self-satisfied
had he seen himself as others saw him, but be
would know all about it when he got home and
rushed to his full length mirror to have one more
look at himself before disrobing. Oh I these men
are so fond of themselves in uniform, dear. We
are now speculating what this man with the mou-
stache will do in iutureto prevent such another
catastrophe. 1 say he will bo sensible and quit
dyeing; Edith says he will glue his cap strap to
his chin, whilst Ned says ho will get a stronger
dye, but nows verrous.
Of course you have heard about Toby Rosen-
thal’s famous painting which has for its subject
Constance de Beverley standing in her page’s cos-
tume, and, as Ned. has it, “ cheeking the monks,”
I have only seen an engraving, of the picture, but
it is quite enough to satisfy me that the painting
must be very, very beautiful. I can so well ima-
gine the lovely passionate girl to be saying :—
“ I speak not to implore your grace.
Well know 1, for one minutes’s space,
Successless might I sue.
Nor do 1 speak your prayers to gain,
For if a death of lingering pain
To cleanse my sins be penance vain,
Vain are your messes, too .”
And just to prove what an incentive to reading
good picture is, I hear that the demand for Sir
Walter Scott’s “ Marmion ” is unprecedented.
There has been a special edition printed in large
type, which, to meet the popular demand, has
been sold at a low figure. One day a lady walked
into a bookseller’s shop, and asked for this same
edition. “ I am sorry, madame, but we are just
sold out, but we have a complete edition of Scott’s
works which I can let you have at a very low
cost.” “Oh, dear, no; that will not do,” replied
the lady; “I do not want your Mr. Scott’s poems. I
wish to obtain * Marmion.’ ” Mr. Clarke remarked
at the booksellers’ picnic the other day that they
(booksellers) lived in an atmosphere of romance
and poetry; but, judging by the above anecdote,
I should say there is a good deal of genuine every-
day fun intermixed with the “ romance of poetry”
—shouldn’t you?
We have had a surfeit of amusements this past
week, what with Mr. Harry Uyndes’ complimen-
tary concert, the Sydney Liedertafel, the cricket
match, and various others of minor importance. I
was really and truly charmed with Mr. Hyndes’
playing, dear—It is so delightfully undemonstrative
and artistic. One would be inclined to expect to
bear a little thumping when a man of gigantic
proportions sits down to the piano, but from Mr,
Hyndes the “thump ” is quite absent. In this, his
style is not unlike that of Mr. Fred. M’Quade’s—
both have a touch which is like velvet in its
smooth richness. His (Mr. Hyndes’) fingers seem
to travel over the piano without moving, and
there is a beautiful equality in both hands, which
alone is a feature in his playing. I have come to
the conclusion, dear, that a great deal in the touch
depends upon the fingers Now, for Instance, I
never remember to have heard this peculiar soft
pearly touch emanate from long bony fingers,
which latter create a more hard though, perhaps,
brilliant effect. You may smile if you like, but I
won’t own that it is entirely a foolish notion
until I have proof to the contrary. You
remember, don’t you, our first music master,
who used to look just like an elephant at the
piano, spite of which his touch was something
exquisite ? And again, our singing master, who
was as thin as our excuses used to be for not
practising, did he not break a string nearly every
(Continued on next page.)


A Bazaar & Art Union
IN connection with the Union Masonic Lodge,
of Berrlma, 981 B.C., In aid of the
WIDOW AND ORPHAN FUND,
V n £ er^°Pfttronft e e of th ® District Grand Master,
B°nilUhtet 8 itSti q on. 0f tb ° Dl8trlCt Gra ° d L ° dge *
£7000 Worth off Works off
Art, Pictures, &c.,
to be disposed of In Shares of £1 each on the Art
Union Principle, and to be drawn for at Moss Vale,
time and place of which will be given In public
Press, and the drawing will be under the super-
ylslon of the following gentlemen, who have
kindly offered to act :—
John Williams, Esq.
I. 8, Ponder, Esq*, , •
Jas. Taylor, Esq,
W. McCourt, Esq.
1st Prize—Picture, &o., valued at
2nd—
3rd—
4th-
5th—
6th—
7th-
8th—
9th-
10th-
11th—
12th—
13th—
14th-
From 14 to 24-10 prizes of £20 each.
100 Prizes—Pictures, valued at £3 each.
Tickets will bo forwarded by the Secretary, on
receipt of £1.
J. 8. HYAMS,
Hon. Secretary,
Moss Vale,
£2(00
1200
700
600
370
800
3U0
300
200
200
130
1<>0
100
100
E
A U D E COLOGNE,
4711 4711.
Established 1793.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1872; Prize Medal, Vienna, 1873
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 3o years, ob-
telned at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
S r M, edaI -* nd First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for its superior sweetness, strength,
and invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
petitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the ditto of
Europe,
The large and constantly Increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only In
Europe, but also In North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number—47U changed into 7411.1147, 4117, &o., &c.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Modal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
street, Sydney.
Tobe had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
end Storekeepers, in town and country.
HORDERN’S
ON THE
Brickfield. Hill.
OUR STAY HII CDESLT DEFARTMEIT.
Annual Income exceeds One MlUloni
f 1*6 >****'**•
P^ eU Yetxce
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid
CHIARINI’S GRAND CIRCUS
And
GREAT WILD BEAST SHOW.
J
vj| !H.
SYDNEY’S FAVOURITE SHOW,
Coming soon, direct from Melbourne.
Will Exhibit at its former location,
BBLMORE PARK.
BT Walt for it ? Watch for it 1 I See it III
Return to Sydney, after a deservedly prosperous
tour of Australia, New Zealand, and Tasmania,
Of the BIG SHOW,
In all its Wondrous and Gigantic Entirety.
Its Vast Pavilion Enclosures.
(Seating capacity, 5000 people).
Its Brilliant Illumination,
Its Perfection of Detail,
Grandeur, and Chracterlstic Completeness,
Always Distinguishing Features of the
royal Italian circus.
Its Noble and Costly
SPECIMENS of the ANIMAL KINGDOM,
Its Celebrated
GOLDEN and SILVER BAND,
Led by the Greatest Living Cornetist,
Professor Mehden,
Which gives a grand free out-door Concert for one
hour before each performance commences,
In Front of the Huge Tents.
Several NEW FEATURES Added Since its Last
Visit.
Everything about this
CONFEDERATION of SHOWS
Clean and wholesome.
m
See future announcements for particulars.
FRANK G. WILSON,
Advance Agent,
/(?
c d
Vjv
/
•'O
JO
\
vA»
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Eree of Charge.
Nursing aid Hiding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPERM BUSKS),
2s. lid., 3s. 3d., 3a. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4b. lid., 5s. Cd., Cs. Gd., 7s. 6d., 8a. 6d., 9g. 6d., 10a. 6d.» 12s 6d
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS, 668, Brickfield Hill.
N.B.—Order* from the Country will receive Immediate and careful attention.
(Continued from page 16.)
lesson with his thumping ? So you see there are
two examples to begin with, and I could mention
scores which would all go to show what a keenly
observant creature you have for a friend. And I
never think of these dear old masters without
being reminded of a remark one of them made.
He was one of those impecunious fellows who
was always in trouble. One day a friend was re-
monstrating with him regarding bis extravagance,
and when he had patiently heard him out, he
replied, “Oh yes, I know I’m wrong; but after all
it doesn’t matter, I shall go to heaven all the
same.” “ How do you reckon on that ? ” enquired
the friend. “ Well, you see, from what we hear,
music is indispensable up there, so it isn’t likely
they will reject the services of a man with my
reputation. No, no, mon ami, all musicians will
be welcomed in heaven.” This was a novel way
of soothing an uneasy conscience, wasn't it, dear ?
But I really believe he had the utmost faith, in
what he said, for he didn’t mend his ways a bit,
and I am afraid he never will.
' I had almost forgotten about little Bessie Doyle,
a pupil of Herr Kreitchmsnn’s, who played the
violin so nicely at a matinee one day, until I
heard yesterday that her friends intend to take
her to Germany to finish her musical studies. It
is intended, I believe, to give her a benefit concert
next Wednesday, in the old Masonic Hall, and as
she is Australian born, it is surely not too much to
expect that it will be well patronised. Anyhow,
the result of the concert will show whether Sydney
takes any pride in its native prodigies or not. I
mistake it much if it does not.
The “ Imps ” are going to give another of their
splendid matinees to-morrow afternoon, at which
nearly all the theatrical and musical profession
arc going to take part. They are a merry lot these
“Imps,” and know how to get up a first-class en-
tertainment. I remember at the last matinee, the
Opera House was packed from floor to celling,
and we were absolutely gorged with good things.
The “Owls,” too. Intend to vary the monotony of
their socials by giving a Garden Party next Thurs-
day, at Botany, which I have no doubt will be
very enjoyable.
Several of my friends, who have been visiting
Melbourne during the Inst month, have returned
sam crinoline. They tell me that they have almost
entirely disappeared amongst Melbourne fashion-
ables, but the steels in the back of the dress are
still indispensable. I thought crinolines would
not have a very long reign, because they are not
only inelegant but fearfully troublesome to
manage. Look how we have to absolutely steer
them through a crowd in order to prevent un-
pleasant consequences I and the ladies who sat in
the front side seats at the Lledertafel concert and
crossed their feet little guessed the entertainment
they were allording. Truly, ignorance was bliss
to them. The crinoline has its uses, certainly, but,
like most useful things, it is not an article of
beauty. In wot weather it serves to protect the
dress from being draggled through the mud, for I
will defy anyone, dear, be they never so careful,
to walk along a muddy street with a clinging skirt
without finding a goodly fringe of mud adorning
the hem of their garment when they arrive home.
But, apart from being a mud-protector, in my eyes
the crinoline is a simple monstrosity. Another
old, old fashion is being revived, in the shape of
the Garibaldi jacket. For slim young girls it, is
very graceful and pretty, and 1 saw one last Fri-
day on the block which caused quite a sensation.
The jacket was made of light blue cashmere—you
know the style: just like a boy’s sailor-jftoket,
only fastened up to the neck—and was worn over
a soft cream lace skirt. It was as simple as could
possibly be, but very effeciive and fresh looking.
Didn’t you tell me some time since that someone
had presented you with a dear little ugly pug ?
Well, now, if you were in Sydney and took it
about with you you would be in the height of
fashion, especially if you donned gold-rimmed
eye-glasses as well. I saw a lady yesterday drag-
ging one of these comically ugly little dogs about
with her, and it seemed to be as much bother as a
child. She led it by a string of coloured ribbons,
and seemed to make a perfect idol of the little
animal. There is a pug, you know, in “ Confu-
sion ” (oh I I quite forget to tell you I have seen it
—“ Confusion,” I mean—and—must I confess it ?—
I wasn’t at all shocked), and a baby also, only the
pug is real and the baby isn’t. So take my advice,
dear, and treasure your little dog, and when you
bring it to Sydney I promise you you wilt be quite
a distinguished personage.
I am having a kettledrum this afternoon, and
visitors are beginning to arrive, so I must go and
receive them—though, if the truth were known,
I had far rather stay and finish my gossip with you,
ma Belle. But the rest must wait till next time.
Ever your loving
MAB.
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated witb
fla<r and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 604 Hunter-street, Sydney.*
The act of disguising Summerfleld & Com-
pany’sclothing advertisement by covering them
up with an interesting article is a crime, and should
be punishable by law. Men with perfect tempers
are known to get blind with rage when,becoming in-
terested in some article, they And it end with "Sum-
merfleld’s trousers to order, at 36s. 6d , are perfect
fitting and.tboroughlylshrunk.” Such advertising
dodges as these tempt men to thrash their wives,
or to kick their children, and still we wonder at the
prevalence of crime. The only Sydney address
of Summerfleld'.and Co., is 335 and 237 Pltt-street.*
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
T. Mayor (Melbourne): A private mat-
ter. Don’t see our way to chip in.... “W.A.”:
ohylock’s Knife in Egypt” crowded out for the
present. Very long, and written on both sides of
the paper “G.H.P,” (Woollahra): At Park-
street, where we personally were, there was no
enthusiasm, although plenty sight-seeing curi-
osity. Our representatives, scattered at different
points, reported to the same effect. We under-
stand, however, that on the wharf there was some
appearance of emotion, and that some of our
heroes were observed to be drunk in the ranks.
The paragraph, however, was written on the
Tuesday afternoon, and the paper went to press
the same night, so that many significant details
had to bo left out....”W.A.M.”: Too late....
C.M.G.” (Bodumba): Thanks; shall have atten-
tion... • H.J. (Parramatta Koad): Don’t be tire-
some. You send us a “ poem ” all about frost and
snow, and yet you can’t understand why we say it
is necessarily imitative. Where did the frost and
snow bite into your soul, “H.J.”? Notin \ustra-
i* a - .. The True Soldier” is excellent moralising,
but It is not poetry. It is tinkered into verses thus:
Who craves for sword to don
For human foe to fight ?
Let him his feelings con,
Lest vanity blind his sight.”
\ ou are jammed into using words to fit your
rhyme. No . spontaneousness here “ Know-
nothing”: Certainly, it is the duty of the Auditor-
General to call attention to any misappropriation
of public money, and the paying of a salary to a
man who is in receipt of. a retiring’’allowance, un-
questionably comes under that head... “Hazard”
asks: Can a charge for admission to a “ public
licensed billiard room” be legally made where a
pre-arranged match is being played ? Of course it
can. There is no iuch thing as a public billiard
room in the sense which applies to a public
The proprietor of a billiard room may
charge how he pleases and what he pleases, and
admit and refuse to admit any person.. .“ E K."
(Macquarie): Thanks for suggestion. There is,
however, unfortunately, nothing new in the
association of rum and Bibles in our righteous
dealings with people we want to wipe out in a
decently hypocritical way..“ Say Hem Glanders”:
We should inier from your “ war correspondence”
that you had a mind about the size of a globule.
In what you send us, your display of sense is about
on a par with your display of syntax, and though
you evidently “ fain would rise,” take our advice
and do no such thing. If you do you’ll get such a
1 fall”—a back one—as will necessitate your boss
putting on at once a substitute to drive the bread-
cart “Fax”: Thanks for your letter. We have
had many in the same spirit. Just in time for
these few words before g olng to press.
“And his hat, which once was glossy,
Had its ancient lustre lost,
’Twas but four-and-twenty month’s since
Four and ninepence it had cost.”
Yes, Fitz’s wardrobe was getting seedy. The
silver spoon, which, it appears, had filled his
mouth on his natal day, had been removed, luck
had deserted him, friends had proved unkind. He
had mortgaged everything of value to his com-
mercial uncle, and his hunday-going toggery had
been grasped by the same avaricious hand. And
the hail Ah I The hat, of which the poet speaks
in such sympathising rhyme, the elegant hat
which had so long adorned his graceful head, that
also was getting into “ the sere and yellow leaf ”
of age. The only wonder was, that it had lasted
so long; the time of wearing was certainly not a
brief one, the original cost clearly not excessive,
a £d yet, even now, there was an air of superiority
about that hat which even two years hard labour
could not efface. When wo say it was purchased
at Anthony Hordern and Son’s Palace Emporium.
Haymaraet, we say enough.*
Thus he went on In ways of sin and shame,
His feet upon the paths of wrong and error,
And people never mentioned him by name,
But only know him as the Qoulburn “Terror,”
Till came a time when, while the public cheered
.Half joyfully and half sarcastically,
Twas known the volunteers had volunteered
To start tor Africa to fight for—Dailey.
Full late one night in that excited week,
when Gordon’s fate uproused all men to
menace,
And Blackehaw’s ardour seemed but mild and
meek
Beside the frantic heroism of Dennis.
He hurried home, and in an earnest tone,
Spoke thiswise soberly unto bis mother—
Look here, old party, it’s all up I I’m done;
I ve had a blazin’ roughlsh sort of life,
I’ve never brought you anything but sorrow.
But that’s enough—I’ve cut It like a knife,
1 ve joined the soldiers, and I start to-morrow.
“ No more you’ll see me drunk on Rod Heart rum,
No more you’ll find me hanging round the
Royal,
From now my game is following the drum
And fighting like a soldier true and loyal.
Don’t pipe your eye, old girl, I’ll be all right;
I m ready now to make a bloomiu’ wager
That when they’re had a chance to see me
fight,
In lees than three months I’ll be made a
major.
“ There’s no one left in Goulburn now to lick,
I've bashed the lot—there’s nothing I’m afraid
of
(rd like just now to run against Old Nick—
I d soon find out the sort of stuff he smade of).
But tins is blowing, and I mustn’t blow;
Fromnow the battle-field my proper place is;
To-morrow, mother, I am booked to go
And fight—and see if I don’t fight like blazes I ”
Tears trickled fast adown his mother’s cheek,
And fast-arising sobs her voice seemed chok-
lug,
But thus she spoke—when she at last could
speak—
“ 0, pity me, and say you’re drunk—or joking;
iou cannot leave rael Think, oh pause and
think
Of what you do. ‘You go to certain slaughter.
Besides, in Africa they sell no drink, ;
I’m told you can hardly get brackish water.
“ My son I my son 1 where is it you would go ?
To the far land in which the cruel Nile is.
Where every thicket hides a watchful foe,
Where vigilant, the hungry crocodile is I
Where the dread Mahdi, with his countless
swarms,
Holds towns in which the clean-picked English
skulls lie—
0 stay, my child, within my sheltering arms
And leave such things to warriors like Woles-
ley.”
“ What are you giving us ? ” the offspring cried,
Don t fret yourcelf on my account, old lady,
Before I risk a crocodile’s inside
To fight the Mahdi—well, I wish I mahdi!
Oh, no! not much. Instead of a real sword,
I fancy blood and fire will suit my book well,
1 ve only joined the Army of the Lord—
Who send me to belt Satan out of Crookwell I ”
A YOUNG RECRUIT.
Hia mother doted on him. Then, ’tis truth,
T at mothers in such things are always silly;
He was a wall-eyed, misbegotten youth,
Whose home was fast beside the Wollon-
dlily
(We’ve no id a why his home was “ fast,”
But that seems orthodox. We take a pride in
Resuscitating from the buried past,
The queer expressions that occur in Dryden).
Ho was a wretch of most forbidding mien,
The hue of leather was his evil visage,
Id years but lately having passed nineteen.
Yet villainous beyond men four times hits age.
His legs were failures, one being much too long
To suit the other; and, in youthful quarrels,
His nose had long ago been driven wrong,
And now had grown as crooked as his morals.
He didn’t have, in fact, one single point
Through which, for him, could pity be en-
listed;
His thumbs, with slogging, were both out of
joint;
His mouth, with blasphemy, wasHsimply
twisted—
A real bad lot he was. We’d freely bet
No qualities cut out to win the hate of
All white men. like to his, have ever yet
Beei concentrated in one Goulburn native.
(We’ve not been drinking either, though this
sounds
More than a trifle like exaggeration)
His life was as a fiend’s; he knew no bounds
In any form of vice or dissipation.
It had been better far if he had died
In teething, or In something or another;
But no 1 he lived, and was the joy and pride
Of his devoted, old forgiving mother.
He’d get home, somehow, after roaring nights
Spent in the pubs, with wild misguided
creatures,
And tell his mother all about his fights
While she stuck plasterfon his injured features.
He’d tell of boot-closers who hemmed him in
While he was thumping one, and mauled and
mobbed him,
And then relate with joy—this child of sin—
How, one by one, he’d chewed ’em up and
jobbed ’em.
Of future punishment he had no fear,
Hell's threatened horrors found him brave as
Gordon;
The bishop made him grin from ear to ear;
Worse still, he “chiacked” publicly Frank
Warden.
In words more vigorous than Holy Writ,
He very often called his brother Racca;
You should have seen him drink and smoko and
spit—
He always chewed the very worst tobacco I
His language was the reflex of his mind.
Much bitterness of soul his lips did utter
i n phraseology as unrefined
■n/fQd foul of odour as a Sloane-streot gutter,
with him a spade was never called a snade,
A or woman was a “ bloke ” or “ donah,”
*or all drinks fierier than lemonade
He was even as the whale that swallowed
•Jonahs


Political Items
Fancy Gladstone’s saying we ought to
welcome German colonisation. The Bulletin
anticipated the Grand Old Man in this sentiment.
For the first time in English history there
to he scores, if not hundreds, of representa-
tives of labour in the Commons. The Durham
miners alone have decided to have three mem-
bers-for they will be members-and to subscribe
,-£1600 a year for them. And that sum is only a
farthing a week per man? What ought not the
workmen of all London to be able to do ?
A Duhbo correspondent writes to us,
asking when that patriotic, soul-stirring, and war-
like speech which was not delivered by Sir Ed-
ward Strickland on the occasion of the banquet
tendered to Sir Patrick Jennings at Dubbo last
week, will see the light of day in the Sydney
dailies. He goes on to say that the lighting-
dodgers at both ends of the line had a very lively
time of it on Thursday night, sending and receiv-
ing those rounded periods of martial oratory for
which Sir Edward is so justly famous, and which,
although nieely written out and handed to the
reporters of the metropolitan dailies, the ban-
quettera would’nt wait to hear.
Dailey declared at Dubbo that the people
are with his war mania. Yet we quote the follow-
ing from a Sydney barber’s hand-bill:—'“ War
means taxation—taxation means that all your
little luxuries will be taxed—and tobacco is always
the first to suffer. The working man’s little bit of
comfort goes first. Incomes wifi also be taxed
(catch on to this). When this is being done, see
that the i cale slides upwards. At the time of the
Crimean War, bread rose from 3d. to 3s. per 2-lb.
loaf. Work was very scarce, and the poor fellows
enlisted right and left—not for love of country—
not for loyalty—not for an enthusiastic patriot-
no 1 but for something to eat and to wear.”
With respect to the Soudan war, the Lon-
don Echo remarks;—“As the blood flows and the
Income-Tax rises, the Gladstone Government will
got plenty of blame; but the Parliament and the
people of England are as much in default. The
former supported tn6 Government, the latter ac-
quiesced in its acfions, and It is idle to begin
scolding and lecturing now. Only the very
limited minority of Radicals. Freethinkers,
Atheists, Infidels, and Pagans, with an odd Chris-
tian or two.Iwho opposed this Egyptian folly from
the first, have the right to utter a word of con-
demnation. The Archbishops and the Church
have prayed too much to justify any grumbling
now.
On the authority of a Victorian Minister
of the Crown, the Ballarat Courier states that
the Australian Governments had been apprised by
the Imperial Government of the presence of Rus-
sian emissaries in these colonies, the objects of
these emissaries being presumedly to keep the
Russian authorities informed of the condition of
colonial defences and the amount of money and
specie available in the event of a raid being made
upon Australia. The Courier’s informant says
that previous Governments have been advised
from time to time upon probable Russian designs
in Australia, but that recently the Governors of
the colonies have been again, and more definitely,
communicated with by the Imperial Government
on the subject.
From the Pall Mall Gazette A curi-
ous circumstance in connection with the explo-
sions at the House of Commons is pointed out by
a correspondent of the Irish Times, who went
through the House just after the explosions.
Round the moulded base of the side galleries
which line the Commons, a national blazon of each
of the three kingdoms alternates as a linial or or-
namental head to the beams supporting the
gallery. The only one of these emblems affected
by the explosion was the harp, uncrowned, by the
way, which had been deftly snipped from its place
between the British Hon and the thistle of Scot-
land and landed, of all spots in the House, right
upon the seat occupied by Mr. Parnell. Two Irish
members who visited the scone, regarded this cir-
cumstance as an augury of national independence.”
This, then, is the Irish interpretation of the augury.
But from all one reads, it is easy to see that the
senseless outrage bodes no good to Ireland, or to
Mr. Parnell, or anyone else.
Thus a correspondent:—“ I do not know
if you are a Mason. I am: nearly 30 years of age
in the craft. Therefore, I am constrained to shake
vour band in the third degree for your article,
‘ Masonry and Massacre.’ The gifts of this bogus
philanthropy are deliberate robbery of those
whose healths are drunk in silence in the third
toast of obligation, ‘To all poor and distressed
Masons, by land and by sea, and a speedy relief to
all their necessities.’ I have not been in the
Soudan, but I served in Abyssinia, next door to it,
and found Masons as far as I could make them out
and received their hospitality. I suppose Monolik
by Solomon, out of Queen of Sheba, was a Mason,
and ho was about the first king in that country.
So, again I say that the lodges who subscribe to
the breeding of eternal hatred in Egypt or else-
where, are (if I remember aright) violating their
oaths and misappropriating a charity unless they
can plead in mitigation ‘ ebrietas aut dementia.’
Yours fraternally, Hiram A rife. P.S.—Ask any
Mason if he has ever been so poor that he could
absolutely give nothing away ?”
It seems that the arts of unwarrantable
d irt-throwing and blasphemous prayer- slinging are
not monopolised by our holy Jingos. The Al-
mighty'will have to choose whose instructions He
will follow—Bishop Barry’s or El Mahdi’s. Every-
body knows that Bishop Barry has prayed and
blessed our troops, and we now learn that Prophet
Mahdi prayed and blessed the Soudanese troops
i ust before they advanced against the fortifications
of Khartoum, in this instance the Almighty
seems to have listened to the Right Rev. the
Mahdi, as, to quote his own report: They entered
Khartoum In a quarter of an hour, killed the
traitor Gordon, and captured his steamers and
boats, God has made him glorious. Be grateful;
thank and praise God for His unspeakable mercy.”
** Tue traitor Gordon,” is good. Just as good as
the rebel Soudanese. We are sorry that the Mahdi
has scored first answer to prayer, but we rever-
ently trust—and, in fact, feel quite sure—that
when the Almighty learns that Bishop Barry has
sent up a counter-petition, and that the 8.M.
Herald approves of It, He will change sides as a
mark of respect to a real Bishop.
At a meetiug of the Bathurst Hospital
Committee, the Hon. W. H. Suttor moved: “ That
it is undesirable that members of this committee
tender for supplies for the hospital.” The motion
was glumlyi received, and an amendment was
tried on to the effect that, should a committee-
man’s tender be accepted, he should resign. Toe
subject stands over to the general meeting. This
opens up a nice little question. The pickings out
of the Bathurst Hospital may not be much, but it
would mightily interest the public to have a re-
turn made of the names and occupations of every
committeeman and trustee in the colony who have
a voice in the control of Institutions supported by
urivate charity and State endowments, for the tax-
nay er has to pay. There is little doubt that tens
of thousands of pounds ungrudingly given by the
people are turned to the purposes of commlttee-
Jnep and; trustees, either by direot tender winked
at by fellow-members waiting: their turn, or by
indirect tips to interested Arms outside. To what
extent this game is played amongst municipal
bodies every town and city in the colony knows
too well.
Thus a treasonable English “rag” “ A
little more stringency in housekeeping would
enable Her Majesty to follow the example of the
Prince of Wales in declining to ask, for the present
at any rate, for any fresh Parliamentary grant.
The Queen has already economised considerably in
her household. There is still, however, a margin
for saving. Her cook has more than her colonels
—viz., £700 a year, and board and lodging. The
four master cooks, who assist the chef in his ex-
hausting labours—for we know how numerous are
the banquets at Windsor and elsewhere, now-a-
days—have £330 apiece, and, being each permitted
to take four apprentices at £150 and £300, make,
with perquisites, a pretty good thing of it com-
pared with a captain, or even major. Then there
are the ‘ Gentlemen Porters ’—very gentlemanly
porters, indeed, who have liberal pay, and are only
on duty on alternate weeks. There is no reason to
suppose that the six * Pages of the Presence ’ suffer
from overwork, either. They receive £180 each,
and their arduous and anxious task is to be in at-
tendance on the lords, ladies, and gentlemen of the
household at nreakfast and luncheon. There are
three ‘ Pages’-men,’ whose whole and sole duty it
Is to wait on the six pages.”
The principles of liberty have inspired, the
poets in all times. While it is Impossible to quote
bona-fide and honestly any thing that would lend
endorsement to the invasion of the Soudan, and
the entrallment of the people of that country, an
embarassment of lyric riches attends him who
would find passages which, at one breath, con-
demn that wicked enterprise, and inspire the
hearts of all Australians to arm for the defence of
their country. Thus, Dryden for example;—
“Arm, arm, ye brave; a noble cause,
The cause of heav’n your zeal demands;
In defence of your nation, religion, and laws
The Almighty Jehovah will strengthen your
hands.
“ Call forth thy pow’rs, my soul, and dare
The conflict of unequal war:
Great is the glory of the conquering sword
That triumphs in sweet liberty restor d.
“No unhallow’d desire our breasts shall inspire.
Nor lust of unbounded power;
But peace to obtain, free peace let us gain,
And conquest shall ask no more.”
(Judas Maccabeus.)
A Sydney telegram to a country paper
reads this way:—“Among mercantile men yester-
day considerable difference of opinion existed as
to whether the Soudan expedition would prove
beneficial in a commercial sense.” There is no
doubt of It, and there could be no more stinging
proof of the conclusion influential men have come
to as to how to deal with the situation. It is a cool,
business-like acquiescence in the constitution of
our political life, a cold-blooded, common-sense
way of accepting the folly of the time, and mak-
ing the best of it. Privately, they do not hesitate
to express their contempt for the whole business,
but out on the Exchange and the market-place, it
is how about leather, flour, the exportation of
horses, provender, clothing, and the endless
chances of contracting with an unpractised com-
misariat department. War that brings death and
mutilation on husbands and brothers, and taxes
the earnings of the peaceful for the support of
orphans and widows (at all times with us) brings
huge fortunes to the men who know how to work
the oracle. “ Splendid times,” wrote home a rela-
tive of thejwriter, in 1862, from America. “Just
erected a new gun factory. If the war will only
last another year or two, as I hope and expect,
none of you will know what want is any more.”
A CAMERONIAN WHINE.
Heard at “ J. D.’s ” pub.
“Mr. Angus Cameron is to be opposed for
the Chairmanship of Committees. The opposition
in this case will come from among the ranks of the
Government supporters.”
“What is up?” cried “J. D.;” “what arouses
your ire ? ”
“It’s in print,” shrieked poor Angus; “look here!
in the Lyre.
Opposed I’m to be, and I may be defeated I
With my last little terrace not nearly com-
pleted.
I' In a buggy once more—oh, the horrid position !—
I'll be canvassing with a Life Office physician;
You must know those weird doctors who always
do come,
All so chokeful of curses and pickled in rum.
“This fell rumour, ‘J. D.,’does my poor heart-
strings gnaw;
I’ve forgotten to hammer, and can’t use the
saw.
If against me ray enemies all settle to strive.
They’ll be left but your free lunch to keep me
alive.”
A Radical journal, alluding to the fact
that the papers are lull of interesting personal
remlnescences of the officers who fell at Abou
Klea, remarks that the excessive proportion of
casualties among officers is most certainly a tri-
bute to their courage, and the whole country, no
less than the Conservative Press and the aristo-
cratic Glasses, shares the feeling of pride at the
gallantry of the well-born Englishmen, many of
them scions of the nobility, who fought so
courageously at our latest battle. It is to be
regretted, however, that anyone should have been
tempted to divide the honours of victory, with
the apparent object of extracting a political argu-
ment from a military success. Eighteen officers
fell, but 158 non-commissioned officers and men
fell also. Tho steadiness and pluck of the rank
and file won this battle; and if there is any reason
at all to be critical on the question of the
fighting, it would certainly appear to us that the
men were badly led and unnecessarily exposed,
that blame lies somewhere for the breaking of the
square, and that thos e who planned the expedition
have to thank tho British soldier for averting a
great catastrophe. The rank and file risk immea-
suroably more than their superiors. An officer is
killed, and there is doubtless many a sad heart
weeping for him. A common soldier is killed, and
a family starves for fcJm. An officer returns home
wounded, and is a proud and honoured man dur-
ing the rest of his career, for the services he has
rendered and tho sufferings he has endured for his
country. A private is incapacitated by wounds
from further service or work, and he lingers on
through life on a beggarly pittance, alternating
the charity of friends with the relief of the Poor
Law Union, (or the Patriotic Fund. Humph I—
Ed. B.)
When principles are violated they assert
themselves in a thousand ways. Now, the com-
mittee of the Sydney Liedertafel had no idea of
lashing the Jingos who plead that violation of
the principles of national liberty is innocent when
we do it. Yet we clip the following scathing
satire verbatim, just as we find it, from the book
of the words contained in the programme of the
concert on Thursday night last. The first part is
the conclusion of a part-song, the second portion
is the whole of another, and the finale is a motto
introducing “ The Desert.” One can almost hear
the Soudanese chanting the words:—
“ While all are sleeping
Our watch we are keeping;
With sword and lance
And eagle glance.
The ready troops advance.”
• ••••*
“ Foreign foes never shall confound us,
Well for danger we’re prepared;
For the solemn oath hath bound us.
This our native land to guard.
Every storm resolved to weather.
Strongly, firmly, knit together,
Here we standi
For our land—yes, for our land—
This our native land to guard.”
• • • !
« Patient of thirst and toil.
Son of the Desert! even the camel feels.
Shot through his wther’d heart, the furious blast.”
THE WORKMAN’S ARGUMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The masters run the Unions down,
And say they ruin trade—
They get the workmen shorter hours.
And see he’s better paid.
If they’ve nothing worse to say
Than these two last complaints—
Why, short hours and good pay suit men,
The other might suit Saints.
What’s wrong in men combining, then,
To see the right thing done,
Of sticks a bundle’s harder far
To break than only one.
The master has his Union, too,
To fight against the man,
And all the workman tries to do
Is just the best he can.
Men, beasts, and insects in this world
Throughout Creation’s scale,
Work with one object, everything
Tells but the one old tale.
“ We do our best for number one,”
The lesson is they teach.
Employers cannot shake its truth,
Howe’er they write or preach.
Pigs never think of making pork
When they devour their swill,
Cows don’t eat grass to give us milk
But their own belts to fill.
Bees do not slave the summer through
To give us humans honey,
So we work for ourselves and not
For bosses to hoard money.
When Sir Henry Loch visited Beechworth
the other day, the Chinese filled up the ruts on the
road so that his carriage might travel smoothly
They also—for they are very numerous about that
part—decorated the trees with garlands and lit-
tered particular portions of the route with flowers.
To these proofs of a lively sense of His Excel-
lency’s greatness they added oriental salutations
and a sort of tangle-foot obeisance, the signifi-
cance of which the born despot at once appre-
hends. Sir Henry left his buggy, and took a turn
about their camp. It is said he spoke kindly and
sympathetically to the melancholy heathens, and
that ,it was with difficulty he made them refrain
from holding their noses and almond eyes in the
dust while he passed. Every story has two sides,
and so has this. Here’s the under side. Sir H. “ It
gives me—ah—profound—ah—satisfaction, as the
—ah—representative of Her Majesty in this—ah—
magnificent colony, to-ah .” John (who does
not know what His Excellency says or wants
to say); “Hulliloo! Hullllool Hulliloo! Blitons
never sail be slaveys 1 Hulliloo! Hulliloo!”
Sir H.: “This spontaneous outburst of enthu-
siasm is deeply gratifying to me, and speaks, as
your costly offering of labour and love in procur-
ing flowers and weaving them into such artistic
shapes, has already spoken, of esteem and rever-
ence for the Throne I represent, and of confidence
in its justice and benevolence.” John: “ Hulliloo I
Hulliloo! Hulliloo! We’ll not goly homey till
molly! Blitons never!sail be slaveys. Hulliloo!”
Uld Hand to John, when the procession moves off;
What the Hades, you yaller effigy, are you grin-
ning at him for?” John: “ Whisply. In my
countly governors are all big fellow robbers. No
§ive, they takey; no kneel down, they knock
own; cheap to give bunches flowers, kneel down,
say Hullilo, Blitonsnever ” O. H.: “But, you
yaller effigy, a Governor out here has no power
either to rob or not to. He has no power anyway,
unless to give feeds to the swells. He’s nobody.
Why, even a common bobby can do more for you
than he can.” John (with that resignation so char-
acteristic of his race): “ Oh, Helly 1 Damly sold I”
The fashion in which the Jingo excite-
ment is bolstered up by the Sydney dailies is posi-
tively scandalous. When it was obvious that to
tell the truth regarding the condition of the pub-
lic mind, as exemplified by the various meetings
at Newcastle, Balmain, St. Leonards, the Hyde
Park statue, Camperdown, and the Domain, would
present a woeful contrast to the Jingo effusion of
the S.M. Herald’s summary dispatched with the
Iberia, what did the conductors of that paper do,
but, in lieu of sending their usual summary by
the next mail, suppress all the later incidents, and
reprint the old summarp. So again, not a word in
the Herald abeut the unanimous condemnation
of the dispatch of the contingent by the five or
six thousand labouring men at the open-air meet-
ing. Not a word of the crammed audiences at Mr.
Walker’s Sunday lectures denouncing the whole
affair. And of course, from suppression—which is
tacit misrepresentation - to misrepresentation pure
and simple, has been an easy step. Thus with the
meeting at Albury. The account published by the
Herald gave quite a false colour to the proceed-
ings. That report omitted to mention that only
one-flfth of the people in the room voted, and that
the chairman tried hard to prevent any opposition
speaker from being heard, and finally put the
motion in so obscure a way that few knew what it
was about, and only about 25 voted for it, and
about 10 against it. Mr. Luke Guisun then called
for a division, which the chairman refused to
grant, upon which about two-thirds of the people
walked out disgusted with the unfair way the
meeting was conducted, it being well-known that
In Albury a majority are against the action of the
Government. “lam glad,” writes our informant,
that so powerful a paper as The Bulletin is
honest in the cause of humanity, and above the
snivelling cant of Christians who think to serve
God and fill their own pockets by raising in this
country the bigoted cries of the Old World. The
‘ Battle and the Breeze ’ business, when allied to
Murder, is about played out, but has been galvan-
ised into life for a time by the heroic Dailey. Sir,
several of my fellow-townsmen have asked me to
thank you for the manly stand you have taken in
this matter.”
The great movement towards social re-
form is exciting interest all over the world. The
South Canterbury Times, of Tlmaru, N.Z., re-
cently contained a very brisk discussion on the
question, between the editor, on one hand, and a
Radical correspondent on the other. Considerable
ability was displayed by the prolessional, but the
amateur proved to carry metal too heavy, and the
editor beat a retreat by declining, as “ too lengthy
for insertion,” a letter in which his antagonist
utterly demolished his (the editor’s) arguments.
The correspondence has been sent to us, declined
letter and all. It is all good, and in tone courteous
on both sides, but we can only chip off a few
samples of the rejected letter:-“Civil and Re-
ligious Liberty. Editor S. C. Times— Sir: At the
risk of being considered hypercritical, I wish to
say a word or two with reference to your leader
on the above subject in Wednesday evening’s
paper. The statement to which I took special ex-
ception was this: ‘ It is under England's flag that
civil and religious liberty exist in perfection.’ In
your leader of Wednesday evening this statement
is considerably modified—it reads as follows: 1 We
wrote advisedly when we stated that it was under
England’s flag that civil and religious liberty
existed in greater perfection than in any other
country.’ You will readily see that these
two statements have a widely different meaning.
I think, sir, the position you take up in this mat-
ter is, in some respects, untenable, if not Illogi-
cal, even according to your own reasoning. You
admit that there are many barbarous, absurd, and
antiquated laws in England, and yet you refer to
the Constitution under which such laws exist as
a‘model’one. I think if the term ‘model’is at
all applicable it would be more accurate to refer
to it as a model of inconsistency and corruption.
In this model Constitution, to which you refer
with evident pride, we have lately seen the some-
what curious spectacle of an irresponsible body of
hereditary legislators setting the nation’s will, as
expressed through the people’s representatives at
defiance. This, 1 presume, is another example of
the civil liberty enjoyed by the people of Eng-
land. In this ‘ model’ Constitution millions of the
people who contribute their fair share towards
the revenue of the country have no voice in the
making of the laws under and by which they are
governed I In this ‘model’ Constitution, where
the masses live at the present time in a state of
semi-starvation, £50,000 was lately squandered on
refitting one of the several steam yachts kept for
but not used by the Queen. In this ‘ model’ Con-
stitution the absurd doctrine is taught by a num-
ber of pious loafers that the ability and the
right to govern are hereditary I In this ‘ model’
Constitution something like a million of money
(to say nothing of the millions spent in maintain-
ing a standing army of professional murderers) is
filched from the pockets of an impoverished
people and paid annually, in the shape of pensions,
to a number of persons, the great majority of
whom have no better claim upon the people's
bounty than the fact of their being the descend-
ants of court pimps and the illegitimate offspring
of Royalty I In this ‘model’ Constitution the
tribunal which punishes the peasant is utterly
powerless to deal with the peer, who demands to
be tried by his equals I In this ‘model’ Constitution
the poor are systematically robbed in order that a
favoured few may wallow in ease and luxury! A
model Constitution truly I On the theory that the
Constitution of England is perfect, or even moder-
ately so, how do you account for the present con-
dition of Ireland, and the disaffection which
prevails in many parts of Scotland? On
such a theory, can you tell me why it
was lately considered necessary to send an
armed force to the Isle of Skye to coerce,
at the bayonet’s point if necessary, a few half-
famished , crofters, who were openly rebelling
against these very laws which you are pleased to
consider perfect? Can you explain such a circum-
stance on any other theory than this: That the
greater part of England’s laws have been framed
to protect the rich and powerful at the expense of
the poor and weak? There is just one
other point to which I should like to refer before
concluding. You say, ‘If Progress is not so rapid
as the advanced thinker desires, it is perhaps
sounder, and if changes do not occur with vol-
canic suddenness, they come sooner or later, and
we must wait upon the immutable laws we cannot
control,’ &c. Now, it might be due, on my part,
to spiritual blindness (whatever that means) or
wilful perversity, but this is a doctrine I do not
understand. I know of no law working out civil
political, or religious reforms apart from human
effort. What reforms do you suppose would ever
be obtained if people were to fold their arms and
wait for them 7 or what abuses would be swept
away if no voice were raised to protest against
them ?”
George Eliot’s views (as expressed in a
private letter) on “dog-like attachment”:—“There
certainly are some women who love in that way,
but * their sex as well as I may chide them for it.’
Men are very fond of glorifying that sort of dog-
like attachment. It is one thing to love because
you falsely imagine goodness-that belongs to the
linest natures—and another to go on loving when
you have found out your mistake. But married
constancy is a different affair. I have seen a
grandly heroic woman who, out of her view as to
the responsibilities of the married relation, con-
doned everything, took her drunken husband to
her home again, and at last nursed and watched
him into penitence and decency. But there may
be two opinions even about this sort of endurance
—i.e„ about its ultimate tendency, not about the
beauty of nature which prompts it, This is quite
distinct from mere animal constancy. It is duty
and human pity.” *
A CEREBRAL AFEECTION.
To his doctor an Invalid said,
“There’s something gone wrong with my head;”
“ Ha hum," thought the doctor, “ the matter
Is plain, he’s as mad as a hatter.”
And then he examined his crown—
“ Your brains need o’erhauling, sit down;
There now, I’ve abstracted them slick,
Come back for them say in a week.”
He went, but returned not again
(That he didn’t much miss them, ’twas plain);
But the doctor one day on the street
The brainless one happened to meet.
“ Hiilo,” he cried, “ why don’t you come
For your brains, you must want them to hum ?
They are polished and properly sorted,
And waiting once more to be sported;
Bring your skull, when you call, and I’ll fill it.”
“No, thank you,” the brainless one said,
“ Shant want them no more in my head.
For I’m now in a Government billet.”
A. STUART.


A.J.C. CIGAE DIVAN AND HAIR-DEESSING SALOON^
91 King-street.
W~ N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
BEAD THIS I
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 10s. each,
Warranted for three yean,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 Piit-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER ANd JEWELLER
Black Swan Hotel.
GREEN WELL POINT.
F Tnom _ J - H - DEVLIN, Proprietor.
1 C l? ss Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, flahinc and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsu“
passed. The magnifleient s s. Illawarra! “eaves
f ffik. 6V0ry Tuosday and Frlday Kt- at Sl
t DOMESTIC PAPER FASHIONS
J-vfvfvr shown in our Illustrated Catalogue
Price, Threepence ; by Post, Fourpence.
CHAP PlTli A CO..
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern Sewing-machine
746 GEORGE ST., HAYmArEET, SYDNEY.
repaired, and all fittings, &c., kept In
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
d>- 6<i.; loo, as. «d.
L ‘ ADIKS ’ 50, 3s. 0d.; 100, 3& Od.
Address, 6d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. 6d.; 250, 6s. 6d.; 500, 10s.; 1000, 156,
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
BE* Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
IT
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
M- A. BROWN & CO.,
PRO FESSI ORAL HAIRDRESSERS,
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-streeU
From the Strand, London.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
ETer %l¥A7l ,s
8bould that th0 above is B °y d ’ 8 only studiT
ETOT^S ” *» «• benefit of the late Mr,
Everybody should remember the address : ’
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manager.
f -w-mmm and CO,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
M, EdBDWAK, mi 1CEIM MEBCBAJTTS,
Importers of
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
lit UN
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
plates
PIG IRON and LEAD
FENCING WIRE,
WOOLPACK8
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
SMB
t
PORTABLE, FIXED
.MSKMl-FtYEO EN.
® S ?UMPS a ° d 0th "
L s A H Al,Vd, PL B *cffi:
£S«<W S&%“nE3 DMLL “ NO
STEAM HAMMERS
E ? U °C ! NDkY U3 ' BRABS
QUICKSILVER, &0.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on appheatiou.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS* & CO
I Woroh AIIOO Pi TTATl TF
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office -
- 54 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE. STREETS
- HABBOUB STBEJSI, DABLING HABBOUa
SYDNEY.
• - 86 GRACEGB.URGH STREET,
Qiticura
Disfiguring humors, Humiliating Emp
Gone, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
I,os8 of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
CutIcuba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticura and Cuticuka Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiliers, externally.
new Blood Puri-
- cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Itching: and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Citticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
pUTICUUA RESOLVENT, the:
\J tier, Diuretic, and Aperient, clt
T Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), Instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the RE-
SOLVENT. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have boon obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
ns pure us a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
bpok, “ Ilow to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Furthers and Bkin Beautitiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from OuxibuKA, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
For Sale by all retail-chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Cuticura, 60 cents per box, large boxes,
&1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shay-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared et the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, TJ.S.A.
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.
Holiday Presents.
W. H. PALING
AND CO. (Limited),
HAVE JUST RECEIYED A MAGNIFICENT SHIPMENT OF
COTTAGE,
UPRIGHT GRAND
SEMI-GRAND,
CONCERT GRAND
PIANOS,
by the
MOST RENOWNED
MAKERS
in the
WORLD.
AMERICAN
ORGANS,
b
BELL and CO.,
PALACE CO.,
STORY and CO.,
at
PRICES to SUIT ALL
CUSTOMERS.
These Instruments have been SPECIALLY SELECTED bv Mr W ft pat
IN EUROPE, and may justlybeconsidered ‘ PALING > who NOW
1 HUB HID. MOST IB SHIPMEIT
of Musical Instruments ever introduced to Australia.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash; or Easy Terms.
Mr. PALING has aUo FORWARDED a COMPLETE ASSORTMENT of
*U“SICXj IBOXXES,
FROM TWO TO SIXTEEN AIRS.
These Goods will be Sold at Unheard-of Prices.
H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and SYDNEY.
Catalogues j Catalogues
POST FREE.
IV. WALKER
and SONS
POST FREE.
ALL STOCK
In their
[SYDNEY
are one of the
Largest
HOUSE
Stockholders
Supplied
and
DIRECT
Manufacturers
from their
'%g
ll'gli-class
FURNITURE
ENGLAND.
Eondon
Manufactory,
and Latest
London Styles
Guaranteed
SYDNEY BRANCH :
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robe Makers.
Trousers from 21s. to 40s.
N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Co.
W. Sheabsby & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
Ned Warmoll.
VALUABLE
TRUTHS.
“ If you are suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
‘takeehetr, for
Hop Bitters will cure yon.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘weak and dispirited, without clearly
* knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Revive yon.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
‘ taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘ and work,
Hop Bitters will Restore yon.
“ If you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your every-df) v duties, or a man of let-
‘ ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
“ If you are suffering from overeating
‘ or drinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
‘ nation, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, as is often the case,
Hop Bitters will relieve yon.
“ If you are In the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
* that your system needs cleansing, ton-
' ing, or stimulating, without inttoxicat-
‘ing
Hop Bitters is what yon need.
“ If you are old, and yeur blood thin
* and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘ unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters will give you new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS is an elegant, heal-
* thy, and refreshing flavouring for sick-
‘ room drinks : impure water, etc., ren-
‘ dering them harmless, and sweetening
‘ the mouth, and cleansing the stomach,"
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors' bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for sick-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
them harmless, sweetening the mouth, and cleans-
ing the stomach.
WeakNervousMen
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay
and failure to perform life’,
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will hud a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THEMARSTON BOLUS.
, Neither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Nervous Debility and
. , i*hyslenl Decay is uniformly
■ successful because based on perfect diagnosis
new and direct method, and absolute thorl
onahnesa. Full information and Treatise free.
Addn
dress Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDYCO., 62 CasUercigh St., Sydney
Christmas Presents and New
Year’s Gifts!
J" U8T RECEIVED, a Large Assortment of
Gold & Silver Jewellery,
SUITABLE FOR PRESENTS.
Ladles’ Gold Dress Rings, from 10s.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, from £310s.
Gent.’s Silver Watches, from £3 10s.
And other articles too numerous to mention.
C . GRANT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER.
K84 George Street, Sydney.
ty Country Orders promptly atteuted to.
SOLE IMPORTER" OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
8QLB AGENT FOR THE
SMITH ORGAN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
. i ■ inm
nnrnii
KilllBil
MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
169 Collins-street, East, Melbourne.
*■ I have tasted the llavarlan Hop Bitters;
they are palatable, and being: aware or their cow
pononts, I should say wholesome, and suitable tor
those conditions of the liver and stomach that
require herbal stimulants.
J. H. WEBB, M.E.C.8., En ff .
dr. scorns electric hair brush!
A HONEST REMEDY. Prescribed by the BEST PHYSICIANS.
THEY WILL POSITIVELY
Nervous Headache in b minutes!!
Bilious Headache in 5 minutes! !
Neuralgia in 5 Minutes!!
Falling Hair and Baldness!!
Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp I
Promptly Arrest Premature Grayness. Make the Hair grow long
and Glossy. Immediately Soothe the Weary Brain.
■t
- v
8
r i
53*
Handsome
unbreakable BRUSH,
Elegantly Carved & Mounted
Dec. 28. 1881.
Crowkerne, Nov. 12, 1880.
Sir, —My patients have given
me a very satisfactory account
of Dr. Soott’a Electric Hair Brush.
One lady assures me that she gets no
neuralgia in her face if she uses it, and
others state that by a few minutes’ brush-
ing with the Electric Brush, a nervous headache,
or one arising from overwork or debility, is quickly
removed. The invention is, I think, very valuable.
I am, your obedient servant, Q P WllL8j M D i M>R . c .s,E.
From Dr. Lemprikrr, D.C.L., &c., St. John’s College Oxford
ssjs ss*t s::s sztsttssszr ,u,ure o[K,n *• o, w„d d.™.* v
Yours faithfully, i C. Lkmpriere, D.C.L., &c.
Their Highnesses the PRINCE and PRINCESS of WADES, PRINCE
BPSMARCH, and the KING of HOLLAND each use a pair of Dr. Scott’s
Electric Hair Brushes, and a long list of Distinguished Patrons could be pub-
lished, and their Testimony added, did space permit.
. _Jw® Handle is made of a new odorless composition, resembling ebony; a combination
f substances producing a permanent electro-magnetic Current, which iota
upon thQ ta , ir Q-landa and Follicles. This power can always be
tested by a silver compass, which accompanies each Brush. J
PURE BRISTLES—NOT WIRES. Wire Brushes injure the Scalp,
and cause baldness and irritation.
The Bight Honourable WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE, M P
has written upon the merits of Dr. Ccott’s Electric Hair
Brushes, and has added them to his Toilet.
Lady A. C HURCH ILL-daughter of the Duke of
Marlborough (hero of Blenheim), and sister of
lord Randolph Chuichill, of Parlia-
mentary celebrity—uses t hem regularly
and thinks them unequalled for
the hair.
£2T Send, for Circular of
Dr. Scott’s Electric Flesh
Brushes, Corsets, & Beltt
for Ladies’ and Gen■
tlemen’s use.
These Brushes can bo obtained of allChomists and Fancy 8torckcopers.'or will bo forwarded
direct to any part of N.8.W. or (iueonaland upon receipt of prices named, withla. added. Bo-
jnlttauco, can bo made in Cheques, Drafts, P.O. Orders, Stamps, or currency. Cheques cun be
crossed Union Bank of Australia. Sec that the name of Dr. Scott ia on the Box,without which
none are genuine.
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
64 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
P.O. BOX 22!.
In ancient—very ancient—times, it was
the custom when a new ruler was required for a
city, for the people to assemble In the temple, and
pray to whatever particular god they patronised to
chose a suitable leader for them, and to also notify
by some special sign, on whom the divine favour
rested. The children of this generation know a
trick worth two of the ancient plan, however; and
a very good proof of this was given a few day a ago,
way up In that sultry spot called Townsville. It
appears that on a certain Monday morning the
City Fathers assembled to elect a Mayor. Three
candidates offered themselves for election, and
each one was equally supported. In consequence
Of this promiscuous state of affairs there was a
dead-lock in municipal matters until the following
Monday, and as things were In the same position
thehi the Fathers adjourned, not to the temple to
pray, bdt to the back parlour of an adjacent pub.
to shako up a matoh-box, and trust to the hazard
of the dice. The highest thrower shortly after,
wards entered the Town Hall; one of the unsuc-
cessful pitchers proposed, and the other seconded
him; and all the subsequent proceedings went as
merry as a MOrmon’s marriage bells. There is an
amount of sound sense about this affair which
causes us te doubt if it over really did occur in
the annals of a municipal institution.
Edward Harrison belongs to the festive
school of Thievery. It Is known, of course, that
just as there are many schools of Theology, each
with Its special traditions and practices, so there
are various schools of Thievery. Nothing further
is Suggested by the Juxtaposition. Edward went
•into the Union Hotel In Kussel-street, Melbourne,
very recently. The day was a golden one with
Host Blake, and ten sovereigns stood on a corner
of the counter as a proof that whisky was still a
power in the land. Edward put forth his hand,
pocketed the proof, and ran. Host Blako
also ran. Constables by one, by two, by
three, ran. The general public with its
broad sympathies for anything likely to end
'.UR with a light, also ran. Edward turned a
'corner,’ turned another, and kept at It until the
bewllderd. pursuers began to believe their town
was all-corners. “ Why, dash It,” panted one con-
stable, “ this Is the third time we have done this
oorper." " Ods, nonsense I” panted another, “It
is the sixth time.” So the constables. Host
Blake, and the general public continued
running. In the meantime, Edward counted
out the ten sovereigns on the corner of the counter
in the Union Hotel, and, lighting a cigarette,
stood with bis hands in his pockets In the door-
way. That showed he belonged to the festive
school. In an hour or so the pursuers had run
themselves out, and the front pair of peelers spin-
ning by the wall for the thirteenth time, said: “It’s
a go,” and retired to a door-step. Then somebody
said to them: “ Why, he was nabbed In the shop
ion$ ago!”
Anyone with a tendency to paralysis
should stay away from Melbourne. It is Imma-
terial what part of you is most open to the attack,
‘but peculiarly evil consequences are likely to
arise if the tongue be assailed. A shellback
named Forman was beached there not long ago,
and, succumbing to a paralytic stroke In the open
street, he was soon Interviewed by her Majesty’s
officers. They turned him about and enquired
into his past history, and not finding him fit to
stand on his feet, tried him on his head and various
other ways. “Be Jabors,” said they, “this is
dbrunk, and no mistake 1 ” They carried tho poor
old fellow totbe lock-up, and next day propped him
up for the Judgment of his Worship. The Bench
ordered nine days In Melbourne Gaol. “That’ll take
the fumes av the dhrlnk out av ye, ye soaker,”
they said. As is the custom, they threw him into
a tank when they got to the gaol and scrubbed
him with vigour. They soused him in water, and
scrubbed him every day till the period was up.
Still the old shellback was groggy. "The dlvll
the like av it ever crossed mo,” said one bobby;
“ be Is as drunk as a lord yet, be jabersi ” “ He
must be getting It by some unlawful means,” said
another, “and still there's nobody coming in to
deliver it.” “ Maybe, he makes it, said another.
But time was called, and friends came and took
him home. The poor old shellback never rose
from his bed, and the medical men who were
called in pronounced that it had been paralysis
that ailed him all along. The Chief Commissioner
of Police-promises a searching Investigation, and
it isia pity that among the witnesses to be ex-
amined, the old shellback will not te num-
bered.


Sulpholine
Lotion,
the CURE FOR SKIN DISEASES!
In a few days Eruptions, Pimples, Blotches entirely
fade away. Beautifully fragrant. Perfectly harm-
less Cures old-standing Skin Diseases. Astonish-
ing results follow It removes every kind ol
Eruption, Spot, or Blemish, and renders the skin
clear, smooth, supple, ar d healthy. Sulpholine
Lotion is sold by most Chemists. Bottles, 3s 9d
each. Made only by J. PEPPER and Co., London
PEPPERS
QUININE & IRON
““Sfc, TONIC
ORRAT BODILY STRENGTH I
GREAT NERVE STRENGTH I
GREAT MENTAL STRENGTH I
GREAT DIGESTIVE STRENGTH follows tho use
of PEPPER’S QUININE and IRON TONIC. It
promotes appetite, dispels languor, depression,
&c., Is a remedy for Neuralgia, Chest affections,
and wasting diseases. Bottles, 33 doses. Sold by
Chemists everywhere. Insist on having Pepper’s
Mado solely by J. PEPPER and Co., London
Special'y suitable for the colonies.
Loclsisrer’s
&ULPHUK
HAIR RESTORER
THE BEST. THE SAFEST. THE CHEAPEST.
Restores the Colour in a few applications.
Large Bottles, Is. 6d. Made in London.
r//c
cm
or
LIFE
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, p re .
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses may be
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis
pensary Medical Association, entitled the' Science of Life
or Self Preservation. A book for every man vonnir
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be’
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all acute and, chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. 300 pages, bound in beautiful French cloth
full gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will he refunded in every Instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps Gold
medal awarded the author by tho National Medical
Association, to the officers of which ho refers.
The Science of Life should bo read by the young for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all.— London Lancet.
Addressthe World’s Dispensary Medical As- 11 I s A I
sociation, or Dr.W, R. Parker, No. 69 Hunter M t A L
Street,Sydney,N.S. W. Theauthormay p
be consulted on all diseases requiring
skill, secrecy, and experience.
AST LEXSOftf
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SVD NEY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
g “ est inown remedy for RHEUMATISM,
HEADACHE, TOOTHAC IE.
RAINS, BRUISES, TURNS. SCALP 3, & c and
*Aken internally cures DIARRHOEA,
CRAMPS, COLIO’j and all other i. uterus aches
Mid pains ,
Price, 2/ - Sold Everywhere,
G. E. MOULTON, sole PROPm.TOR.
Melbourne /vistd s’.lney,
mu
TONIC NERVINE
An.„„ bbqistbbbd.
8 ™u^ 0 £H TAIN ;£ SPREDY CURE for Ner-
that •nwn« a |p d General Debility, and all complalntt
T<fothachf fr v m aok of ncr^ e force, as Neuralgia,
AmSrtite % £o7°H?P e88 l Indigestion, Loss ol
Compton*.r male Reorders, Liver and Kidney
and S, f X 1^ 1 Power > & o. By its tonic
for Alcohol e » e< u? ?t once removes all craving
other richness In phosphorous and
Swuftcutrim?’ Marshall brothers, -Vp/ei!
TOTK ® rcul ar-quay. TAK1 NO SUBSTI-
GOOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX, *
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 G-eorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
NO MORE CORNS J
CORNS AND WA"1S removed without pain
by the use of Palmer s Painless, Harmless,
and Effectual COHN AND WART REMOVER.
This preparation is the most wonderful over used
for Corrs, Warls, or Bunions. If appled accord-
ing to the directions, it will effectually remove
them in from six to el. ht days.
PALMER’S
ESS} FACIA- CURA
For Neuralgia, eiiher Chronic or Local.
This moat wonderful Preparation 1ms surpassed
all others in speedily removing- this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters not
how long or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed in producing the desired re-
sults; and it can be most confidently recomme ded.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general stores: wholesale by Messrs Elliott Bros,
Sydney ; E. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton,
drlmwado. and Co., Melbourne; Kcmpthorne and
Prcsser, Dunedin,
NEUSTADT CO.,
COMPLETE
FURNISHERS,
39, 154, 156, & 158 OXFORD-ST]
SYDNEY.
Eff" HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
Either fob Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers
MANHOOD RESTORED!
A Clergyman having tried every known
remedy for the Cure of Nervous Exhaustion
Premature Decay, &c., has at last discovered a
simple Self-Cure, which for the sake of suffering
humanity, he will send FREE the Prescription
which CURED him. Address, with self-addressed
stamped envelope—
Db. B A CLARKE, P O. Box 293, Sydney.
3 O WL AND i CD OK TO is the best nur-
ii t ’ 2i2. <3 ™ 0fct fragrant preparation for the teeth
health depends in a great measure upon th
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish,
mg the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as R pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such Row-
lands Odonto has always proved itself to be
ROWLAND V EUKONIA is a beautiful!,
nire, delicate, and fragrant toilet, powder, and has
lately been much improved. Each box has inside
the lid a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwond
Ph D„ F.C.8., &c. Sold in three tins "white, rose
and cream. ’ ’
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask &ny dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ ar-
ticles; ol 30, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless Imitations
Wholesale and Retail Agents, Elliott Bros.. E
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Compr.gnoni’s.)
THE undersigned, r, cognising the want of a
FIRST CLASS TAILORING ESTABLISH-
MENT, have OPENED the premises lately occu-
pied by the Bank of Australasia, at 168 PITT-
STREET (THE WEST END HOUSE) where they
intend to carry on a High-class and Fashionable
Trade.
The public may feel assured that we shall be
able to maintain a high standard, when wo state
that our Mr. Ward his had some yeais’ experience
in the best houses in to don, Paris, as well as in
flist-class Sydney Establishments, namely, Farmer
and Co.’s and David Jones and Co.’s.
Our Mr. Wilson ha? had fully 20 years’ expe-
rience in the Australian trade, and has just re-
turned from England where he visited ail the
principal Woollen Mills, including that of Hud-
dersfleld, as well as Weft of England and Scotch
Mills. This will be a sufficient guarantee that the
tastes and requirements of the public will receive
the attention they deserve.
In conclusion, wo desire to say that we hope to
obtain a fair share of patronage, in return for
which we guarantee first-class work, all hand-
made, well shrunk, perfect fit, and ail in the latest
London and Pane styles.
Soliciting a trial, we remain,'
Very truly yours,
FREDERICK WILSON.
HUGH WARD,
Fashionable Tailors, Robe and Habit Makers.
West End House,
188 Pitt-street, Sydney,
Fills
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy
from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cer.-
; so a&jpie. yet most effective “they wn be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully ore-
pared preparation, and the result of nract rai°el
perience. They overcome the wore? fora of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys
immediate rehef. ear that they have not alIorded
434 GEORGE STREET.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
808 GEORGE STREET.
'*A.f BRtfP
°^ScoitW(ii«^
WHOLESALE
QKOCEK
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MBB-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGBN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL,
IMPORTER
Of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
’ MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATE!
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
THE
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINF
ever Introduced Into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, EASY TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine In the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FilBDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modere
Science, and of the Best Possible Mateiials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS in Town and Country
Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE tc
any part of the colony.
B. O. Heltermann & Co.,
Sole Agents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.'S
TAILORING establishment
MARKUP CLOTH HATX,
478 Gcorge-stroet,
Established 1884,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLON Y,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
ma<iei weU 8hlunk ' and * perfect fit
A. A C. KUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music IVare/wuse,
318 GEORGE STREET,
Next Pc-pea and Shaw.
1ST The moat liberal house for Pianos and Organa.
for Ca-h or Easy Terms. *
Inspection Cordially Lnvithl
A. & C. Huenerbein,
318 GEORGE STREET.
W. H. CHARD AND CO,
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLACE, )
SYDNEY.
T IBERAL ADVANCES made on WOOL er
other PRODUCE shipped to their LoftSon
Agents, Messrs. Redfern, Alexander and Co., 3
Great Winchester-street, E.C.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well-
known Arm is given to all consignment?.
DENTIST.
(Of America)
GUARANTEES .
Perfect Fil and Mastication.
PRICES MODERATE.
Corner George and Market Streets.
OVER HUNTER’S BOOT PALACP.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
'WWW
ESTIMATES FOE PRESENTATION PLATE.
B
CC
Ct-.
o
o
<x>
</)
«su-
(.J
K
3
Cu>
O
£
*2
r,
*
<4>
•8
aft.
/
&
t
K
A
s
%
(A
V
%
%
fe
©
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLEC
KeliaTtol© 1
/• '-'^a
B
/
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET 81 REETs 9
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Vfaqqons.
t&~ best manufactured articles only kept in stock.
WIT iT JAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer
i 22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)


B had the misfortune
of having my leg broken, In front, of William
Sterns’s dry-goods store, by a case of goods being
thrown on me. The bone was set by a physician
of this place. Upon removing the splints, sores
broke out from the knee to the heel, and several
physicians called it varicose veins, and ordered me
to wear rubber stockings. After wearing out
about $25 worth of different makes without anv
signs or any cure I bought the Cuticura Beme-
dies for the purpose, as I expressed it at the time
to be humbugged again. Before halt had been
used I was astonished to see the sores heal up one
by one, and now not one sore is to be seen I
recommended the same to a neighbouring ladv
who had been troubled for years with a sore wrist
After using hundreds of remedies she is com-
pletely cured, Henry Landecker, Dover N H
Corroborated by Lothrop andPinkham, druggists'
Dover, N. H.
n^ A a H « R fV —T fltoo est and Mutest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 652 George-street. Brickfield Hill.*
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
oS‘, uS a%te robalM4 ftom H °<™s
Printed and Published by Thb Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 84 Pltt-£t„ Sydney, N.S.VV,
WON MAN ITEMS.
' A man in England, recently, sold his wife
•• In open'market” for “ a shillings with all faults.
This Iterii has made a big impression upon a
gentleman who resides in a largo piano-playing
terrace He authorises us to state that he doesn’t
-having a position to keep up-wlsh to make the
thing too public, but anybody who is In search of
a fine figure of a woman with a high-pitched voice
and a pretty good notion of using it, can be Im-
mediately accommodated, No cash required; but
a small bonus will even be given, and—wo sorrow- .
fully quote him—" the confounded planner thrown
in.”
The average income of the Parisian ballet
girl is something like £100 a year. The French are
notorious for their thrift and good management
of monetary matters, and this may possibly ex-
plain the mystery how these ladies are enabled to
keep up establishments of groat splendour, to be
driven to their respective theatres In broughams,
drawn by hlgh-steppers, and to clothe themselves
Jn raiment which would have made the of |
Sheba look shabby; but It is evident that their (
British s'sters can give i hem tons in economy and
wisdom, for they do all this on about half the ,
screw. I
The clerk to the
Kingston-on-Thames
Guardians has reported
that since the publication
of the letter which had
been received from a
Soldier at the Cape, In
which the writer asked
that a woman might be
sent out to him, as he
was anxious to be
married, no less than 193
applications had reached
his office. Many of these
applications, It is stated,
ttrere “ written In tender
imitation of the genuine
language of confiding
love, and were accom-
panied with portraits,
Or with glistening and
Well-pomaded looks ol
hair; ruthlessly cut off as
bfferlngs to an unknown
affection, and as a tempt-
ing guarantee of femi-
hino charms. Some, on
the other hand, were
business-like and matter-
bf-faot, but all breathed
(I desire for matrimonial
Fife.” The Board, hav-
ing received the clerk s
heport, “passed on to
the next business with-
out Comment.” In other
Words, they said nothing,
put, being married men
themselves, they thought
a thundering deal. But
there Is a sad side to
the affair. As Miss
Lydia Beckes declared In
her famous petition to
the House of Commons,
“ Marriage is the true end
Of woman.” “Love,”
wrote Scott, "rules the
court, tha camp, the
grove.”
The latest “wrinkle”
to the peaceful shepherds
who dispense evangelical
doctrines to the footsore
and weary, has been
an by the Rev. George
, of Lambeth. He oon-
!8 his brother sbep-
uorda to be on their
guard when they stand
at the baptismal fount
and prepare to enrol
among Christians the
lambs or the fold. It
has been his own painful
experience that the rams
and ewes of a flock come
along with their little
ones without any of that
profound respect which
the sacred occasion re-
quires. The other Sun-
day, for Instance, a
doughy mass of squall-
ing original sin was held
up to him to be branded.
“ What name ? " asked
the Kev. George. “ Ban-
doline Fllatrlce,” was the
reply. The Rev. Uoorgo
docs not explain fully the
subsequent proceedings,
but says: “ I refused to
give it tbat name, but I
called it Mary Anne.”
Then he confidentially
tolls his brother shep-
herds that “ Bancolino
Fllatrlce is a semi-liquid,
oleagenous substance
with which clerics and
others anoint the hair
upon their upper lips.”
Truly, the sponsors of
tbat infant were under-
taking grave responsl •
bf titles with a light heart,
and his reverence de-
serves the thanks of tho
community for setting
upon them with such
energy. “ I called the
child Mary Anne.” What
we would like to know
now is the exact measure
of dissent which this de-
cision created. Or, was
there anybody present
with a better right to
have a casting volo in
the naming of tho child
than the Kev. George I
Tho point spurs specu-
lation, but wo can't give
ourselves fully up to It
till we come back from
the war.
“William Bloom, collier, of Biackrod,
was charged at Bolton, yesterday, with having
neglected to comply with a separation order by
which he was required to contribute 8s. per week
to the support of bis wife. Complainant said her
husband had paid nothing since the order was
made. In reply to the Beach, she said she de-
ollned to give him time to pay. She had not been
able to do anything, owing to the effects of W*
um assault, for which he was lined £3 and costs
There was now a club formed of persons, who
had been convicted of wife-beating, and when
“embers were fined the club paid the line. They
paid the fine and costs for her husband.—Man-
chester Guardian.
From the Pall Mall, apropos of J. L.
Toole’s rejoinder to Mr. Burnand’s recent denun-
ciation, in the Fortnightly Review, of the
“Immorality of the Stage”:—“ A good deal that
Mr. Toole says, although true enough, Is no reply
to Mr. Burnand’s main position, supported as that
has been by the candid confessions of Mr. Hollinps-
head. That position, In brief, is this, that no
decent girl, not born and bred in the atmosphere
of the green room can go upon the boards of some
theatres without very seriously endangering her
virtue. All that Mr. Toole says about the gener-
osity of actors and actresses is beside the point.
The most lavish generosity often goes hand in
hand with absolute indifference to the Seventh
Commandment.” Burnand threatens to write yet
another article on the same theme.
At London, Miss Ma
tilda Hougb, a barmaid
sued Mr. J. Cooke, an
opulent leather mer
chant, for breach of pro-
mise The correspondence
in the case was volumin
ous and most interesting
Cooke's letters were near
ly all couched in th
most glowing and gush
ing terms of love and un
dying fondness; and in
one of them he declare*
ho eo T Id not sleep by
night, and scarcely worl
by day, through thinking
of his dearest, darllnj
’Tilda. (Laughter.) The
parties became engaged
and while defendant wai
travelling on business
wrote on an average flvt
or six times a week what
tne learned counsel de-
scribed as most amatory
and love-sick epistles ad-
dressing her sometimes
as ‘ his dearest, sweetest
Tilda,” “Dearest, most
loving, darling Mattie,’
&c„ and signing himself
“ Four fondest, pining
Jack.” (Loud laughter.
He assured her that some-
times at church he was
so distracted by thinking
of his absent, cherished
one that he could not
properly attend to his de-
votions. (Renewed laugh-
ter.) Again he indites:
“Sweetest One, I am all
alone, but not In my
glory. Oh I darling, how
I wish that you were by
my side whispering cheer-
ing and soothing words
to me.” (Great merri-
ment.) On another occa-
sion he wrote a letter,
in which he pathetically
complains, as languish-
}ng Joyere sometimes will,
for he (counsel) might
speak from experience—
(laughter)—" I went to
bed last night at 9.15 p.m.,
but I tumbled and tossed
about so that I could
not sleep, all through
thinking of yop. Jn T
deed, this is but a re-
petition of many nights’
sad experience. No sleep,
but fitful slumbers and
dozes, which cannot be
called sleep, in which I
do nothing at all but
dreapi of you, dear ’TiJ-
$ a ;” /?, oa r 8 of laughter.)
Ah I time hangs heavily
upon me while I and from
you ; but 1 feel your
absence (which some poet
says makes the heart
grow fonder) most at
n{ght when I return home
and enter my liftlp room.
and_ find fhat lamalpne,
Without my dearest, fond'
eat one by m y side.”
(Great laughter.) "lam
looking forward to that
indescribably happy time
when, however, I shall
not be alone.” Suddenly
however, the gush stopl
ped, and Cooke, turning
on the cold water, ad-
dressed his former god-
deEs merely as "dear
Miss Hougb,” and re-
turned to her, through
the very prosaic medium
of the parcels post, hep
loyc-letters and the books
ima various little tokens
of plighted attachment
that she had sent to him
during their courtshln
Verdict for £100. wb®
ftU things considered, was
a cheap escape for Cooke
We are Free! With what frantic elation
..*;? p 9“ r the lonR beers down our necks
At the tale of this Emancipation
C)f °ur too-lonsr-autrerinar sex 1
f^h eo! .t® 1 *!* e wonderful tidings
Go forth on the wings of the wind.
"wmirm ASf 110 ? 8 ca .n Sflve their wive hidings
Without being heavily lined 1
we have found the correction
Of women task;
®°* {Wd and some such protection
As this is is a boon that we ask.
Hitherto we’ve been bitterly hamsied
By lavra that oppress us and daunt—
Showing off the way Cain managed Abel,
In a way much more hearty than Cain’s,
After wrenching the legs from the table
To beat out the missus’s brain;
If for reasons that we are aware of,
We drag out her hair by the roots.
And, to finish the little affair off,
On the face leave the prints of our boots;
If we choose (and you know when we tipple
We do choose) to smash our own wife,
And leave her a wreck and a cripple
So to limp out the rest of her life;
Just for having a sly bit of fun in
Our own wa^—we’re fond of such freaks—
We’d stand a g'dod show to be run in
And barked at by bald-headed beaks, 1
Who would toll us the law had a long hand
To reach where such crimes might abound.
Which it meant to put down with strong hand.
And in this case they’d line us a pound.
If occasions arise, as they will do,
When a man feels a bit out of sort?,
And. in order to rub off the mildew.
And have his own pure fireside sports,
He goes straight for his wife or his daughter
(It don’t matter which to a cove),
And scalds her with blazing hot water.
And thea holds her down on a stove;
If a poor chap comes home who has been on
The spree, and his missus shows fight,
And he stuns her, and pours kerosene on
Her clothing and sets It alight,
-t matters not what explanation
He gives of the things that he did,
For the fines upon every occasion
Will run into two or three quid!
Worse than that, if a wife, to relieve her
Bad feelings, gets slanging her hub.,
And he splits her right down with a cleaver.
Or thumps her to death with a club.
If, in manner quite winning and artless,
He afterwards chaws off her ears.
British law, wh'ch is stony and heartless,
May “ fix" him for several years!
So has Woman on Man ever’trampled.
So her foot on our necks has been set
With a tyranny quite unexampled,
But a good time will come for us yet.
We are bursting the bars of our prison.
We are now from the spell half-released,
And the light of a sun newly risen
Is shedding a glow in the East.
In this Club that assisted Bill Bloom, of
Biackrod, wo can see now at last
A fair system that must be the doom of
The sorrows we’ve known in the past.
But henceforth we’ll not thus bo embarrassed
This club settles our long-felt want.
Hitherto flogging wives has been fraught with
Some trouble; for if we went in
With much zest, our enjoy ment’was bought with
Two notes, or a fourteen days’ spin—
Hitherto our upraised arm has faltered,
And paused as we thought of the cash;
But now that Is all happily altered,
The club pays— we've only to bash!
In the past we’ve been heavily ruled with
A rod; but the past has gone by,
And in luture you’ll not seo us foo’ed with
By females, without knowing why.
In the past, if at stray times we licked ’em,
The beak made the line pretty hot.
And we felt less like victor than victim
When the time came for paying the “shot.”
To nur wives we’ve been bound in (hraldom,
Like that which binds each Russian serf:
If we’ve ever grown “ nasty” and mauled ’em,
And “ lauded ’em oul by the scruf;”
If, at times, when they've let all the truth out.
And called us hard names to our face,
Wo have playfully knocked an odd tooth out.
And generally given ’em Mace; ;
GBOEGE AUGUSTUS SAT,A
If pur wife doesn't care for exertion,
won ’t earn enough for our keep;
If she tries to put on the Pair Persian,
u * anc * es she’s hitched to a sheep;
If she can’t keep us going at mangling.
But wants us to keep her instead,
And it loads to some nmritial wrangling,
And ends in our bro.iking her bead;
If we've found that the woman we’ve trusted,
And kept in occasional togs,
Doesn t keep the wood properly busted.
But skips -as some will-the hard logs;
If she sterns to feel antagonistic,
And slightly disposed for “ back cheek,”
And we go on true rules pugilistic,
And leave her laid up for a weik;
If, our children are sick, and our larder
. “PH ?,? re * ? nd our homo scarce a name.
And the wife doesn’t Just work the harder.
But tries on some snickering game,
w here our own fancy draws us,
Mid liquor and light and such joys,
“St Yfhen she comes oryimr and jaws us.
Wo stoush” her In front of the boys;
If, on pay nights, and after we’ve had some
flQod fun till the pubs, shut us out,
The desire to keep ou being glsdsome
Made us start homo and set right about,
( Long, too long, have we worn the soft fetters
Of Woman—too long we have knelt;
Now, wo’ll pretty quick show we’re her betters,
And, likewise, how well we can beltl
From the present, mere floes have no terrors;
f Our wives now in peace we can drub,
And won’t they skip round—make no errors—
When once we’re enrolled in the Club.
In the past we’ve been too hesitating.
But henceforth united we stand,
And we’ve no hesitation in stating
We’ll rule with a real Iron Hand!
