

THE BULLETIN
VoL 2.—No. 93.—New Series.
SATURDAY. FEBRUARY 21, 1885.
Frloe-M.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1886.
The Plutocrat in Power.
Among the books, pamphlets, magazine and
newspaper articles on social quesiions of the
greatest moment to the civilized portions of
mankind, which are being constantly issued
from the English press at the present day, a
nondescript publication, called by its
author “A Politico-Economical Sonata in
four movements,” deserves attention, not
only on account of its substance, but also on
account of the earnestly-playful spirit in
which it is written. Its title is “ Mr. Heney
George’s Unproved Assumption; or, the
Pauperism of Capital;” but as the writer
merely states in his opening paragraphs that
the author of “ Progress and Poverty ” be-
lieves firmly in competition, and assumes
that “when the great monopolies, of which
the monopoly of land is the greatest, have
been abolished, labour and capital will not
longer stand opposed as enemies, but that
the dependence of the one upon the other
will result in harmony between them;” and,
moreover, towards the close of his first
movement, acknowledges that, in the event
of the reforms he advocates being also at-
tained, “it is difficult to see why some such
harmony as Mr. George and others have
dreamt of should not be realized,” the in-
corporation of his name in association with
the phrase “ unproved assumption ” would
seem only to be a device to attract the
favourable attention of persons in search of
an exposure of the American economist’s
arguments, it may be the case, however,
that Mr. F. J. Bruce, to whom we owe this
sprightly and able essay, is not acquainted
with Mr. George’s “Social Problems,” for
in that work he would have found a chap-
ter dealing with the very question he sup-
poses that Mr. George has overlooked. He
is, certainly, not one of those critics who
charge Mr. George with contending
that the abolition of private property in
land is more than an indispensable pre-
liminary to the establishment of “ the
Kingdom of Heaven on eo/rth .” There is no
antagonism, but, on the contrary, there is
a great deal of harmony between the objects
aimed at by the two writers, and the
grounds on which they base their arguments
In support of these objects. Both find in
the iniquitable distribution of wealth the
main cause of the prevailing poverty and
misery of the mass of the people in every
civilised nation at the present moment; and
Mr. Bruce, with the aid of Herr Franz
Stopel, to whose book on “ Individualism
and Socialism” he acknowledges his indebt-
edness, further agrees with Mr. George
that there is a moral wrong at the root of
every social evil, and is as eager aa him to
eradicate the cause; instead of merely allay-
ing the symptoms of the disorder. What
Mr. Bruce, who incidentally informs us
that he has never earned a penny all his
life, complains of is, that the law interferes
iu the free competition of capital by guaran-
teeing great debts incurred by the State, and
secured on property, thereby giving 30 sav-
ings invested in these debts an artificial
security, which they cannot find in produc-
tive employments.
• * •
The great debts guaranteed by the State,
nnd secured on property, with the guaran-
tee of law, simply form, Mr. Bruce tells us,
an establishment for the [reception of
sturdy vagrant capital.” With none of the
ree classes into which the community is
ivided by this “pauperism of capital”—
e creditor, the debtor, and the trader in
ebte is the writer at all satisfied. Many
creditors practice some art, profession, or
trade, but there are, especially in England,
large numbers who are creditors pure and
simple —rentiers who practice neither art,
profession, nor trade. “ The modern system
of debt, in short, has been invented by the
devil himself for the purpose of producing,
in countless swarms, that public nuisance
of the Platonic state—the drone.” Of the
moral condition of the creditor class, to
which he himself belongs, Mr. Brdce pre-
sents us with an ugly picture—‘The man
who can live cheerfully like a pauper, with-
out doing a stroke of work, and feel no
shame or sting of conscience; who can
spend on bis sports or his dilettauteism, and
be thoroughly satisfied,”—to cite the linea-
ments of only a few of his features—“ that
man,” Mr. Bruce declares with consider-
able emphasis, “ that man is contemptible
in proportion to his smug contentment.”
There are creditors, however, who are not so
ignoble as this; men who have been born in
the “ workhouse of wealth,” who feel the
burden of their disgrace, who wish for
duties and for work, but cannot make up
their minds to cast the cause of their degra*
dation from them -these men, he tolls us,
are “only saved from contempt by being
pitiably miserable.” Of course, there are
hosts of creditors who hover between these
two extremes; “but into the hands of the
inheritor of these per cents., mortgages, and
the like, is put the two edged sword of
independence, which not one in a thousand
can use without danger to himself and his
neighbours.” Many who suffer from the
curse inherent in riches of this kind, feel
the curse, Mr. Bruce says, but will not con-
fess it; and, whatever may be the moral
condition of the creditor class, who fare
sumptuously on the earnings of the indus-
trious, “At least it is clear,” Mr. Bruce
asserts, “ that the State, in furthering their
existence, is working at its own disorganisa-
tion, is wasting the human power at its
disposal, and fearfully accentuating the
antagonism between rich and poor in mak-
ing their relation that of tax-gatherer and
tax-payer.”
% * ><•
Regarding the condition of the poor
debtor, it is so obvious that little need be
said. “If the debtor is not a worker,” says
Mr. Bruce, “someone else who is must be
paying his debt. Debts can only be paid
out of produce; the ultimate payers are
the productive classes, and of those the
weakest pay, or, at least, suffer most. The
employer, whether he be landowner or
capitalist, may be bound with heavy chains
of debt as he sits in his chair of state, but
the strain is on the arms of the working
men who carry him.” As to the trader in
d bts, or speculative gambler, or whatever
he may be called, he may be safely dismissed
without a word of comment. No one is
likely to be deceived in regard to his char-
acter. Now, the policy that maintains the
creditor and trader in debts upon the earn-
ings of the debtor is contrary to true eco-
nomy, under which, as Mr. Bruce contends,
“ the main object of the laws should be to
protect labour, to encourage it in all, and to
ensure to it a full and satisfactory reward
which would imply full protection of the
light to all property which oan be regarded
as the accumulated result of labour. It
should not be their object to favour pro-
perty, wealth, and idleness at the expense of
labour, poverty, and industry. Yet, such
are the effects actually brought about by
the laws on which our great system of In-
debtedness rests. To the poor and industri-
ous and honest they are a curse, and nothing
but a curse; but to the rich, they give op-
portunities of adding to their riches without
effort; to the idle, means of living in perpe-
tual idleness; while into the hands of those
who gain control over the money market,
and the circulation of money, is put vast ir-
responsible power, which they may, and do,
use without scruple solely for their own en-
richment, and which, at times, makes it
possible for them to dictate terms for labour,
to stop industry and commerce by holding
back the necessary medium of exchange:,
and to ruin more families than a great war/*
* * *
There are other counts in the indictment
that Mr. Bruce draws up against the present
system under which capital is diverted from’
free competition in productive
but what we have given may surely suffice:
As a matter of course, he proposes a radical
alteration of the existing laws. Not only
would he pay off and abolish the national
debt, but he would also declare it to be Il-
legal to contract any permanent debt ontho
security of the nation or of any local go-
vernment. Then he would abolish the right
of raising money on the security of land.
“ Englishmen, not to speak of the rest of/
print-reading mankind,” he tells us, ** are
gradually waking up to the fact that there
does not and cannot exist a right to property
in land as absolute as the right to property
in things made by hands; and there is no
probability whatever that the classes in-
terested in the abolition of monopoly in
land will ever again close their eyes and
sleep as quietly as before. Land reform
there must be, and the first step,” he says
“should be the abolition of the right of lay-
ing a burden upon the necessary condition
of all production.” Moreover, Mr, Bruch
would also decree that the State should
cease to give encouragement to any form of
indebtedness whatever. We pass over the
remarks of the writer on the modes by
which the remedies he suggests should b®
applied. Of one of the results that would
follow their application, however, we must
allow him to say a few words.
“ The chief gainer by the free competition of
capital for productive investment will,” be de-
clares, “ be the land ; for land will be the Safest'
of productive investments. Land reform will
take the gains of monopoly for the State, but will'
make still more secure the rights of the improv-
ing holder. For the sake of this security, many
who are now content to live on the fixed gains of
debt-invested capital — landless, homeless, and
often useless—will wish to possess. In some country
district, land and a house. Those who hold much land
will find it safest to spend savings In its Improve,
ment, and, rightly looked at, a tract of oped
country is an inexhaustable field for Improvement
—for the creation, that is, of healthy country
homos, untainted by sewers and the abominations
from which life in large towns has never yet been
free. If more capital Is spent In the country
there will be less crowding In the towns, and the
abolition of debts will thus help in the cause of
decentralisation. ’ ’
In laying the views of Herr Stopee and Mr.
Bruce before our readers, we are perfectly
well aware that they have little chance of
being immediately accepted by any large
number of them, and there Is still lew
chance of their being immediately carried
into practical effect anywhere. But it is
well, we think, that Australians shall make*
themselves acquainted with the economical
and social doctrines, and theories which ar®
being ventilated in Europe, and w© consider
it part of our duty to keep them duly posted
in movements of this kind; for any radical
changes that may be made there, affecting
the condition of the people, are certain.
MR. J. A. PROUDE, THE HISTORIAN.


Annual income exceed! One Mlllloji
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Battle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only 9s.
Small Bottle, , 4s. 6d.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. Od. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2a, per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT
2s. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts,
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN-IN FLASKS,
Is. 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke’s Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles and square bottles,
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
C. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
iTBHET.
sooner or later, to produce a powerful effect
here. It is better to be too early, surely,
than to be too late. We abstain, for the pre-
sent, from pointing out the bearing that
the abolition of the debt system which
Mr. Bruce advocates, has upon th e position
which the Australian colonies pow occupy.
Many occasions will present themselves for
doing this ; and that before long. The con-
sideratiou of the arguments in his pamphlet,
of which we have only given a brief and
hasty summary, will help considerably to
prepare us to take an intelligent and com-
prehensive view of the ever-growing obli-
gations that we are undertaking ; although
a much larger proportion of our loans is
expended for productive purposes than has
been the case in Europe.
• • •
Meanwhile, we shall take leave of Mr.
Bruce's “politico-economical sonata,” by
referring to the moral elements with which
the closing “movements” are occupied.
“ Plutocracy, or the element of unearned,
irresponsible wealth,” has come to the
throne, and must, he thinks, be put down;
and he appeals, not only to the working
man, but also to the wise of all classes, in-
cluding royalty, to combine for its destruc-
tion. To accomplish its overthrow, he
emphatically asserts, sacrifice is demanded
Addressing the rich—or rather, perhaps, we
ought to say the wise among the rich—he
reminds them that the sums they give or
waste in so-called charity, which look
large, but only show how much they
can give away yearly without any
substantial curtailment of their luxu-
ries, and boldly says, “Let there be real
sacrifice, and let the national debt be cleared
off by voluntary subscription} surely there
must be enough public spirit among us for
this, if it were properly appealed to 1 ” His
invitation to royalty to throw down the
gauntlet before plutocracy, and ally itself
with the nobler spirits of democracy, in pre-
paration for battle to the death with this
tyrant of plutocracy, is another, and even
more startling evidence of Mr. Bruce's
quixotic credulity j but, we must state that
he follows up the last-mentioned ap-
peal with the exclamation i—“ But this
is mere dreaming I Englishmen would
more readily realise the significance of
the public-debt burden that weighs so
heavily on the people in many parts of the
world,” he rightly tells Us, if they were not
themselves their own public creditors and
the creditors of half the world besides, and
glory in the fact. “ The smug British fund-
holder sucks the life-blood of the nations in
naive greed and contentment,” he remarks;
“he is fat, if not pretty, and his parents
point to him with pride. It is well, no
doubt, to find food so nourishing. But how
about the nurse?” Aye, what about the
nurse from whoee breasts the nourishment is
derived? “This is the weak point,” Mr. Bruce
says, “ in the position of the whole moneyed
or bourgeois class, whether in England or
elsewhere, culminating, as it does in its
golden calf, the millionaire speculator. It
may go about with its pockets buttoned by
a prudent philanthropy In conscious integ-
rity, and boast of its liberalism; but it is the
natural enemy of all progress so long as its
stronghold and the secret of its stability lie
in this great modern wrong—in the existence
of that gigantic burden of debt which power
and wealth has wantonly heaped on the
backs of the nations. Abolish debt, and the
rich man ceases to be the idle, good-for-no-
thing, or the ambitious power which
he has now become; for wealth not in-
vested in debts cannot be preserved, much
less increased, without care and watchful-
ness, and must be applied to some useful
purpose, if it is not to waste away. But if
debt is not attacked, the power of the
plutocrat must grow as other powers fade,
or are cut down; and against the Plutocrat
Siegfried (the upper-class Siegfried) needs
to be on his guard more than against all
other enemies.
Dailey’s Device.
It was in one of his inspired moments that
Mr. Dalley made the famous offer of troops
for service in the Soudan. So mueh damage
has been done to the federal sentiment by
the easy way in which Germany has been
allowed to seize Pacific lands, that an irrita-
tion was set up whose ultimate effect no
man could foretell. It was just at this junc-
ture that El Mahdi and his fanatic followers
captured Khartoum. At once all sense of
soreness between parent and offspring was
forgotten. Prom all lands where the Eng-
lish tongue is spoken offers of mili-
tary assistance reached London. New
South Wales was the first in the field. Her
offer has been accepted, and her states-
man—always popular—who made it, dis-
covers that, by having done so, he has
reached at one step the highest rung on the
ladder of popularity. The colonial enthu-
siasm evoked first by the tender of militar y
assistance, and second by its acceptance,
is significant. It shows the existence
and vigour of a sentiment which many
doubted and some denied—the sense of the
essential unity of the British Empire. It
proved that the natural soreness of colonists
towards the Imperial statesmen who, they
thought, had lightly regarded a colonial
iaUcrilanoo, did not extend to the mother
country itself. But it proved much more.
It showed that this sentiment was suf-
ficiently vigorous to induce a people, the
uneventful current of whose national life
had hitherto been undisturbed by war’s
alarms, to offer help of a practical kind.
• • •
Nevertheless, we think the offer was not
sufficiently considered. To begin with, a
proposal was made to land an infantry force
of 500 men in the Soudan in a few weeks.
But we have no such force to land—at least,
no disciplined one. England, France, and
Germany find that to make an effective in-
fantry soldier requires at least two years
constant training. In a week, it is probable
that more than double the number of men
required could be readily obtained, chiefly
from the ranks of the various volunteer
corps. In physique and esprit, it is certain
that these men would at least equal the best
British line regiment. But what real train-
ing have they undergone ? Compared with
that to which English regiments are sub-
jected in the great military camps at Aider-
shot, Shornoliffe,;and the Curragh, they have
had none. In a few weeks we can, and pro-
bably will, land the promised force of armed
men at Suakim, but they will not be sol-
diers. No general who had highly-organ-
ised troops at his disposal, would risk a
reverse by sending them to the front. They
will be sent into garrison or employed
guarding convoys of provisions and war
material to the advanced posts. It is not to
service like this, we presume, in a country
where, according to Wolseley and Gordon,
Europeans die like flies during certain sea-
sons, that Australians look forward with
such enthusiasm. They want to see some
real fighting—to show that the warlike
qualities of the race have not degenerated
by a residence under southern skies. All
Australia would be mortified on learning
that their contingents were guarding safe
positions, or escorting ammunition waggons
from camp to camp, while their British
comrades were away at the front doing the
real fighting. Yet, in their present state of
organisation, this is all they can look for.
It was just here the initial mistake was
made—the mistake of proposing to give
what you do not pessess. We offer England
500 soldiers. We send her the same number
of recruits.
• • •
This incident, which has caused such a
commotion in our otherwise humdrum pub-'
lie life, has a suspicious resemblance to a
feat of political legerdemain. It could not
have arisen from any belief in England’s re-
quiring our aid. To suppose s*, would be to
attribute to the Acting Premier an entire
ignorance of Britain’s resources. It would
require no extraordinary effort on the part
of Britain to entirely subjugate the Soudan
and reduce its remotest inhabitants to sub-
jection. We may be certain that no such
offer would have been made if the United
Kingdom were engaged with a great Euro-
pean Power, instead of with a mob of naked,
half-armed nomads. Then, all our strength
would require to be husbanded for our own
defence. Instead of sending men abroad to
fight for England, we would be obliged to
leok to her for help in keeping our coasts
clear. No possible effect, one way or the
other, on the Soudan war can be produced
by the Australian contingent. If required,
Great Britain could land atSouakim twenty
thousand highly organized native Indian
troops, as she landed them at Malta when
the Russians were in sight of Constanti-
nople, and our ships, double-shotted, were
feeling their way through the Dardanelles*
♦ ♦ ♦
Why then is an Australian contingent sent?
The answer is not far to seek. The man who
is at present at the helms of the lead-
ing Australasian colony is imbued with
the notion that all political projects are in-
significant, compared with that of preserv-
ing the British Empire inviolate. He looks
con fldently forward to the time when Eng-
lish statesmen will grasp the idea of a
British Empire, one and indivisible. Cavour
sent Italians to the Crimea to fight for their
old enemies the Turks. He knew that his
small contingent would count for little in
deteirmlng the struggle, but he looked
ahead and saw a United Italy arising from
such small beginnings. So with Mr. Dal-
I.BY.. Judged by his public utterances,
he ithinks that it would be a fatal step
for u Australia to go alone at any period of her
history. He sees no difference between an
Aus tralia of three millions and one of
thir by. He does not look at the subject
from a priori standpoint—would it be ad-
vantageous for a populous Australia, capa-
ble of holding her own against all-comers,
to bo bound to any European nation and
mixod up in European broils? Would it
even i be advantageous to England ? He
wan ts to foster the federal feeling, either
ignorant or regardless of the breakers
ahead. Sending an Australian force to the
Soudan has a tendency in this direction,
and, therefore the force is to be sent.
» * »
But why did England accept? It could
not be because she required help. There
is but one reasonable answer, and it lies on
the uurfaoe. The Imperial Cabinet had it
forced upon them in a manner there was
no gainsaying that Australians were sore
over the German Pacific annexations. Bo-
lides this, there is a growing feeling at home
that, although the time may come when
separation will be a necessity, that time is
not yet. A chance of soothing the ruffled
feelings of the colonists was looked for.
Such a chance unexpectedly offered itself
when Mr. Dalley sent home his now
famous telegram. To reject might be con-
sidered churlish, although acceptance
brought no real strength. It flattered anti-
podean amour propre , and—Australia goes
to war,
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Little Heathen.
“Why should I remain at homo?” This is the
question asked by Mr. C. T. Studd, on the eve of
his departure from London to convert the Chinese.
Mr. Studd is one of the English cricketers who
visited Australia some years ago. On his return
to London he fell under the spell of Mr. Moody,
and became a convert to evangelical Christianity.
In the farewell speech—given on Christmas Day—
which contains the opening question, he admits
that during the seven years following his conver-
sion, “Ho did not work for Christ. He had be-
come cold and worldly, and he thought it was very
much owing to his Inactivity. The Christian
in order to be healthy and strong, wanted exercise
as well as feeding.” And it was in order that this
“exercise and feeding” should not be wanting,
that the converted cricketer started East, with the
message of peace and good-will for the heathen.
But since he asked the question, “ Why should I
remain at home?” we shall endeavour to tell him.
Wo think that if he, and those like him, who swarm
over the world with messages of comfort to those
who are already comfortable, required “ exercise
and feeding” for their Christianity, they might let
Eastern Asia alone, and dive into the courts and
alleys of Eastern London. Up reeking mews and
garbage-paved slums, they will find multitudes of
their own countrymen living in a fashion that
would shock the meanest Chinese. There will be
found sullen, savage-looking men driven to des-
peration by want, with which they are powerless
to cope; women robbed, by hunger and brutality,
of all womanly attributes; children who never
saw a green field, nor enjoyed a wholesome meal,
whose childish yearnings were met by curses and
blows, and upon whoso evil, unchildllke faces
suffering and vice had already set their marks.
And these are but a few of the abominations to
be found in that “ horrible London,” on which Mr.
Btudd and others, whose religion requires “ exer-
cise as well as feeding,” complacently turn their
backs in order to carry glad tidings to the “ little
heathen." In connection with the mass of dwel-
lers in Great English cities, a state of physical and
moral degradation exists, which is not to be found
in so-called heathen lands. And it is this terrible
paganism those leave behind them who go to con-
vert the Chinese. If, instead of bringing discord
among the adherents of religions which were old
before Christianity was heard of, Messrs. Moody
and Studd started a mission to convert the
wealthy English to humanity, and induce them to
give a helping hand to their starving fellow-
countrymen, they would surely find sufficient
“ exercise and feeding ” for their Evangelism, al-
though the “ little heathen ” ran the risk of going
to blazes.
Jingoism in Excelsis.
In a “ leader ” giving 1 a short resumi of Soudan
and the Soudanese, the Sydney Morning Herald
says:—“ For many hundreds of miles there is not
much to repay the tax-gatherer, but there Is
supply of a never-ending Imperial want in men*
That is one vast possibility. The men [Arabs] who
fought at El Obeid and El Teb and Tamanleh and
Metemneh are of a very different calibre from
those [Egyptians] who ran at Tel-el-Kebir. They
are soldiers born and bred, needing only to be
armed and drilled to stand against any force in
Europe. It is difficult to get an idea of their num-
ber, but it is safe to reckon them at hundreds of
thousands of lighting men. And it is easy to see
tho advantage of even 100,000 tried lighters within
one day’s journey of Souaklm and six of any post
in the Mediterranean.” The suggestion here is
pretty obvious—conquer the Soudan, occupy it,
train its inhabitants to arms and discipline, and
then turn them loose on any European country
with which you may be at war. The immorality
of such a suggestion is only to be exceeded by its
unique short-sightedness. The writer forgets the
lesson of the Indian Mutiny. He forgets the dig*
grace that France brought on herself, and for
which she had to pay dearly, by employing the
savage Turcos in her last war. Fancy the appear-
ance of a European province when 100,000 fanatic
Soudanese had passed over it, and what quarter
would be given to a British column surrounded
by an overwhelming force of Frenchmen or Ger-
mans whose towns the Herald's lambs had left
smoking behind theml Thus it was left for the
Herald to suggest, the other day, the policy
against which Chatham thundered a hundred
years ago. But it is the foolishness of the proposal
that is so phenomenal. In India we cannot
depend upon the native troops. We do not
train them to the use of artillery, we arm theta
with the old “ Brown Bess ” or ;the Snider, allow
them to keep but a few rounds of ammunition in
their pouches and overawe them by 60,000 of
the elite of the British Army. Then, again, they
speak various languages and are of different
castes and religion. Thus, by a careful balancing
of religious and racial prejudices, we manage to
just hold our own with the certainty of a desperate
struggle ahead of us. But the Herald, with
characteristic farsightedness, would conquer the
Soudan, train to modern arms 100,000 fanatics,
mostly speaking the same language and professing
the same religion, supply them with breech-loading
rifles, keep them in order by the presence of 40,000
white troops, and so hold the Empire together.
But it is not by means like these that empires are
held together. When prosperity or effeminacy
have advanced so far that the citizens of a state
are too well-to-do or cowardly to fight for them-
selves, the fall of that state is at band. As re-
marked in last week’s Bulletin: “It might be
possible to hold India with Egyptian native regi-
ments, and Egypt with Indian troops. This was a
plan which was carried Into practice by the Roman
pnperois, The lesult waq the fall of the Empire
after It had been for centuries the prey of the alien
generals of Its alien-filled legions. Such recourses
mark the decadence of a nation.”
Disgrace and Indignation.
Mb. Abbott thinks that Mr. Garrett has acted
disgracefully, and Mr. Abbott is Indignant. The
feelings of the Minister for Mines are aroused by
a circular alleged to have been sent by the ex-
Minlster for Lands, in which Mr. Gabbett offered,
for a fee, to appear in support of, or to decline
appearing against claims made before the local
land boards. There Is no necessity that we should
express an opinion as to Mr. Garrett’s conduct.
He has done and said a good many things in his
time, about which opinions have been expressed,
and he will probably go on to the end of the chap-
ter doing and saying such things. Mr. Garrett
may consider his circular to be in perfect good
taste, and not in the least to be incongruous with
his political position. And it is quite likely that a
great many people will agree that the circular
quite fits Mr. Garrett’s political reputation, and
that as a matter of private business, it is In sweet
harmony with it. Therefore, on Mr. Abbott’s
opinion of that which Mr. Garrett has done, we
have no opinion to offer. But as to Mr. Abbott's
own position as regards land legislation, a word may
be fairly said. Before he became a member of a
Government and Minister for Mines, his criticism
of Sir John Robertson’s land laws was derived
from a profound knowledge of all sides of the
question, gained by baying acted as solicitor for
squatters and free-selectors. He himself said, In
Parliament, that this experience had put him up
to the evil doings of all parties; whence It may be
fairly concluded that Mr. Abbott did not invari-
ably pick his clients from those who bad jus
causes, but, like a sensible attorney, fought for
the party who retained his services. And if Ihe
were not Minister for Mines, he would be, doubt-
less in all honesty of purpose, ready to do battle
for a client who was engaged in litigation under
the land law. And he would not consider it neces-
sary, in the first instance, to hear both parties to the
case before taking up the side of one. But he
would not send out circulars to say that, as an at-
torney, he was open to engagement, or that a re-
taining fee would silence him. That, as a matter
of professional etiquette, would be in very bad
taste, and, indeed, might lead to serious conse-
quences. Before he became a Minister of the
Crown, however, be was open to engagement by
claimants under the existing Land Acts, and
whenever he ceases to be a Minister of the Crown,
his talents will be again at the disposal of bis
clients. But it is quite evident that Mr. A bbott’s
views as to advocacy of land claims are d liferent
under different sets of circumstances. When, as a
Cabinet Minister, he hods a land agent offering to
take up cases, he is indignant. When, as a simple
attorney, he is Invited by a client to conduct that
client’s case, he will do it, and make out his bill
of costs. In Mr. Abbott's eyes, the vice of Mr*
Garrett's proposals seemed centred on the fact
that Mr. Garrett is not an attorney at law.


Important Notice.
ggiiro of opinion that the N. S. Wales contingent
will (if the accceptance of its services be not with-
drawn under some polite excuse, before tbetime
for its departure) be kept In garrison at Souakim,
the proprietors of The Bulletin have not yet
engaged a special correspondent to accompany the
troops. Should the affair come to anything, they
will invite M, Oliver. Pais, the distinguished
Radical Journalist, at present with the Mahdi, to
furnish accounts, from the Soudanese patriots’
point of view, of the unnecessary and bloody
invasion of that country, which has sought no
quarrel with Great Britain, let alone N. S, A alee,
and only asks to be let alone.
The New Couth Wales Contingent.
Fhe proffer of a body of colonial troops from
fjew South Wales, to proceed to the Seudan and
cd with the Imperial forces, having
t)rpno.o C *? epted , Her Ma i e 8ty’8 Government,
utmri? tlon8 J are belD k Pushed forward with the
speed by the Minister for M orks. The
will forc ® be under Colonel Kichardson, and
tellonTf P infa e n°t?y. battery ° f artillery aDd a Mt '
fipTi 6 r,rn 1 ? me , ry battery will be constituted of 1
1 t'u 06 * 1 captain. 3 subalterns, 1 staff surgeon,
snhn.af . C £T’ 36 con-commissioned officers, 8
gunn P d r a cer8 ’ 3 trumpeters, and 168 gunners
batted 8 and d,i yers. being a total of 212 men. The
car^ftffP^ft'Lo 180 incldd ® 173 .horses, 21 gun
& unp » 4 ammunition waggons, 1
gon & car^ lape ’ } fora S® waggon, 1 stoic wag-
6 8BiBn f i? era service waggon, 1 store cart, and
Hon one"“pgons for carrying infantry ammuni-
uod, and 300 rounds of shot for each gun.
toM»oi Infantry will comprise 523, all
commnnri b pf h r? n , faat , rv and artili ery will be under
composed n/fh« p nel Blchardsou. A staff will be
tlhristip Commandant Lieutenant-Colonel
The iniaSS^ 11 Mac kenzk-, and the paymaster,
colonel a pro ? er wlu delude 3 lieutenant-
wfioneis, 2 majors, 3 captains, Including the adju-
taut, 2 surgeons, 9 lieutenants, 4 staff-sergeants, 1
bugle-major, 4 colour-serfireants. 20 sergeants, 30
corporals. 8 buglers, and 433 men, with 24 horses
for tiie officers.
The expedition will be accompanied by 4 sur-
geons.
A commissariat is being organized with six
months’ supplies When the enrolment is com-
pleted, five hundred stand of new arms will be
issued. From 230 to 250 horses will be required for
the expedition, which is to embark about the 3rd
of March. The following—so far as the lists are
complete—are tne officers who will accompany the
forct: -Colonel Richardson, commanding the ex-
pedition. Artillery (permanent) : Colonel Spald-
ing, Major Airey. Staff-Surgeon Williams. Infan-
try (volunteer): Colonel Raymond, Major Richards,
Captain and Adjutant Bartlett, Captains Farrell,
Wilson, Johnson, Morris; Lieutenants M’Cutcheon,
Cran.na, George, M’Donald, Anderson, Brereton.
For gunners in the artillery and privates in the
infantry, the following scale of payments has
been adopted:—
_ .. „ SINGLE.
Bally paj L’i 2 !- 3d, j def0r red pay, 2a. 9d. (can be
made payable to order in the colony); total, 5s.
-k ,, „ mahried.
£J 383 L , i 28 ‘. 3d ’ ; deferr ®d pay, 2s. 9d. (can be
?^^ paya, u e to order In the colony); wife, 3s..
a ° d pftr j 161 ?, for sirls 1 inder 16 years of
age, and boys under 14.
TJ 111 5* higher rates, to be subse-
L 1 puf ai. y ,. n £ ll l ed ‘ Bef erred pay can be made pay-
able to order In colony.
Vn® 0:m , cerf< enumerated, the fol-
lowing from the lorpedo Corps (volunteer) have
o ff n a r nf fl w Ir w-7 1Cea \ Ca T Pt«jn P- B. Walker, Lletl-
mondt8 W ' rll80rl, Brought;on, and F. Ham-
kq ™ bil °u° f thf L Volur \ teer Artillery, 7 officers and
53 men have offered their servici is.
Think and Act. many trials,
JJ*®' Balm aad Oortel succeec led in preparing a
Thfiv T° na ? e i rom J Australian lemons.
* i^ P ? r f ed i. um wholesome Oil of
pftTstreet^ 170 ** 8 trial * ' lErate fl*w»ter works, 403
FACTS AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Gordon reported stabbed by traitors In
Khartoum. The taking of Khartoum Is ascribed
to treachery. It ia believed the Mahdi could have
had it long ago.. Lord Charles Beresford (Charley
can fight as well as make a fool of himself)
rescued Sir Charles Wilson’s corps, who were
wrecked In the Nile... .Gordon was sold by two
pashas, who had been trusted.... Beresford’s rescue
of Wilson’s men Is said to be one of the pluckiest
incidents In the Soudan campaign. A pluckier
thing would have been to have had no campaign.
— The Hon. Thurston, Colonial Secretary, Fiji,
advocates annexation of that island by New Zea-
land... .Chinese have blockaded the River Min ..
Anarchists anarchlsing again In Paris Victoria
Is rapidly exterminating the rabbit... The feno-
ing-off system is the most effective rabbit de-
stroyer in Victoria.... Mr. Froude’s visit to Sydney
is awaited with interest by the Gunnedah paper.
— Mr. Targett. M.L A., addressed the electo rs at
Lithgow, and explained why some of his previous
e xplanations required explaining The rains
of last week have changed the Albury
district from a dust heap to a splendid pasturage.
.... Rev. J. Tenison-Woods has made valuable coal
discoveries in Borneo Mr. Hay ter, statist to
Victorian Government, makes a forecast of popu-
lation of Australia. 1884, 3,247,365. Taking rate of
increase at rate of 1871-1881, he figures out 76,230,040
as the population for 1974. We shall take a note of
the date, and check the census of that year....
N.S. Wales has 1370 policemen, and three of them
do not own terraces, while upwards of six are re-
ported as holding only two watches, 13 pocket-
books, seven meerschaums, and 11 pen-knives...
Mr. Pearce, of the Fairfield shlp-bulldlng yard, has
designed a cruiser and submitted it to the Ad-
miralty. He claims for It a speed of 25 miles an
hour—Melbourne proposes a statue to Gordon.
The Mahdi, or Arabl, or Osman Digna will be lucky
if they are not hanged for their pluck Chalmers
Church, Forest Creek (V.), was burnt down lately.
....The Tlchborne Toucher proposes to lecture in
America Gabo Island has offered the British
Government the service of two goats for trans-
port — Sir Evelyn Wood, V.C, will succeed the
late General Earle, who was killed....The Bon.
Meade, who represented Britain In Berlin, la re-
called to explain his proposals to Bismark re Ifew
Guinea—The Melbourne boot factories have re-
opened. ...Colonel Smith, of Ballarat, ia eager to
lead hla thousands to the bloody fray in tlffi
Soudan. He Is always on some great feet. One of
“Is boots would make an excellenot transport If
fitted with a screw. The Colonel always loved a
good screw, whether as blackmailer for squatters,
or as Minister of Education....The death of Gor-
don is being used as a draw topic to lug in the
name of a patent medicine. There are people who
would like to have the dead body and stick It up
hi the window as a draw to a fish shop At Lome
Davis sheared 207, 194, and 149 sheep in three
successive days; Shea shea-red 185,179. and 107....
Mr. Hindaon, of Sydney, offered £200 towards a
Soudan expedition... Some American States are
compelling the railway companies to reduoe their
charges on the carriage of wheat. In many dis-
tricts Indian corn is used for fuel Sydney Jews
charge 503 per cent, for discounting salary orders.
....Dr. Glllhee, of Melbourne, left £30.000. The
pill-box is mightier than the pen, and Bennett’s
pen Is mightier than the sword... .11,000 Wesleyans
have seceded In Tonga and founded the Fred
Church of Tonga. The clergy followed the people.
Trade follows the flag... .Arrests for drunkenness
In N.S.W. for 1884 were 13,925—613 more than the
preceding year. Time to sober up. Local Option
is no check....O’Donovan Hossa’s paper offers
£10,000 for the body of the Prince of Wales.
Round with the hat. The Bulletin hereby offers
10s. a load for the body of O’Donovan Rossa—
for manure ...The Sepoy reinforcements to
the Soudan are to be four battalions of infantry
and one regiment of native cavalry... Germany
refuses to budge re Its New Guinea seizure
Two International Commissions will sit In London
re New Guinea and German claims there and In
Samoa The Germans seized Apia, in Samoa,
professedly to protect German Interests....The
appeal case, Harris v. Davies, C.M.G., baa been
decided in England. Dismissed with costs.... Aus-
tralian representatives not recognised in the In»
ternational Postal Congress at Lisbon. We are
only a few struggling convicts, with a dread of
competition .from reoidivistes—Russia is ex-
tending her frontier to the Hindoo Eoosh.
Some talk of the British occuplng Herat.
Everything points to John being em-
broiled all (over the world before long.
Johnny's Valentine.


Personal Items
The future husband of Princess Beatrice
has at present no money and no fixed place of re-
sidence. In Australia we call such people vagrants.
From a letter written by a friend of
Michael Davltt, which has just been received here
from London, we learn that the “ Father of
the Land League ” was to spend his winter in
Italy, and that his tour round the world, In the
course of wnlcb he is to visit Australia, will con-
sequently not be begun till the Spring. Mr.
Davltt received £400 from Messrs. Chapman and
Hall for his “Prison Experiences,” which is de-
scribed by the Pall Maw. Gazette as a singularly
racy, eloquent, and Instructive book, that is cer-
tain to be popular far beyond the limits of the
circle that sympathises with Irish disaffection.
The Rev. Dowie —may his tribe increase!—
has been cruelly treated by the Melbourne Press.
Even the pious Tewsobaph won't take up Dowie
and his faltb-boallng, somehow. Yet Dowie bears
no malice, not he. With Christian charity, this
brave apostle has been saying; " Poor and Insigni-
ficant as I am to-night, 1 am prepared to lay my
poor body down for the Hebald and Age t.odrlve
their literary nails into my hands to-night, the
Abqus to press 1M crown of thorns on my brow;
while the Tar.ion apft, like the priest and Levite,
passes by on the other side.” By the way, if ever
you’ve seen Dowle’s brow, you’ll understand the
Impossibility of She Argus making much Impres-
sion on It. A ten-penny nail could at be driven Into
that noble skull.
Lord Sherbrooke, better known as “ Bob ”
Lowe, baa been following the example of Dr.
Bromby in taking unto himself a wife In his old
age, to comfort him and keep him warm. Bob
was one of the old Identities of Sydney, having
arrived here la 1843, a year after his admiasloa to
the English Bar. His first big professional ease
was when he was engaged to defend a titled con-
vict, Sir John Knatohbull, for the murder of Mrs.
Jamieson, who kept a small shop in Sussex-street.
On that occasion the forensic abilities of Mr. Lowe
were fully recognised, and though he made a
brilliant defence, be failed to secure the acquittal
of his client, who was bung on the 13th of Febru-
ary, 1844. In connection with this tragic affair, a
strong spice of romance comes in. Mrs. Jamieson
wss, at the time of her death, a widow with one
infant—a glri. Mr. Lowe had then been married
some time, but not having any children of his
own, he adopted, reared, and educated the little
orphan, who. In course of time, developed into the
handsome and accomplished woman he has just
married. Lord Sherbrooke has attained the ripe
age of 73, while his new partner for life, the Sua-
sex-street native, may be put down at 43 This
romantic marriage, strange as It may appear, was
not wholly unexpected by those who were ac-
quainted with the Sherbrooke household, but that
It would be consummated within three months of
the death of the late Lady Sherbrooke no person
for a moment entertained the Idea, and, conse-
quently, the affair has been the subject of con-
siderable gossip In the ranks of the upper ten of
Great Britain.
, Our eye catches the statement that some
of the prettiest things at the Melbourne Shakes-
pearian Show were made by the Misses Rowe.
And barely five minutes back we read that Power,
the bushranger, has just been let loose. No con-
nection? On, yes, there Is. About 15 years ago
the father of these girls nearly captured Power.
When old Dr. Rowe was at Mount Battery, near
Mansfield, Power used to hang about \ ery per-
sistently. But In case anyone might think it was
on account of the ladies, we might say at once
that the attraction consisted of a magnificent
thoroughbred In the doctor’s stable, which the
freebooter had made up his mind to annex, and
one day he actually came down a hill at the ba<rk of
the stable, and would possibly have got the animal
If the doctor hadn’t run In and got a gun. Then
Power ran away. That’s ail that occurred, but It’s
what the valiant old doctor—a Justice of the
Pence, he wss—ever after construed Into “ nearly
■capturing ” Power. But If the bushranger can bo
acquitted of any honourable Intentions towards
the Misses Rowe, the same can hardly be said of
another celebrity, Wild Wright. Long before he
had anything to shsde hla upper lip, Isaiah Wright
was a renowned fighter, and many a time, when
the Mansfield “ foorce ” sought to Incarcerate him
for some of his numerous offences against Her
Majesty's peace, he stacked ths whole constabulary
•of the place in a corner, heaping them on top
•of one another with ignominy and Irresistible
vigour. Of course, they always captured him
eventually: even If they had to bring in the aid of
some local Delilah to compass that end. Well, the
sheep at Mount Battery shed had to be oherry-
ploked, but one season shearers were so scarce
that In a weak moment, the doctor lot Isaiah on to
his board. The wool never How till then; ears,
legs, and horns were chopped off with cheerful
Impartiality by the wild youth, until at last the
horrified old squatter could stand It no longer.
“ Come up and get your cheque,” he said. Isaiah
went, and when shears and oil, two figs of tobacco,
a box of matches, and half a bar of soap had been
deducted from his “account,” Wild Wright re-
ceived the balance. But he still stood, twiddling
tals hat, and looking distressingly modest. “ Is
there anything more 7" “ Well, there’s one thing,
doctor, but I hardly like to mention It; I’m sorry
my shearing didn’t suit, you know .” “ Yes,
yea,” spluttered the doctor, somewhat mollified;
“ your blow does n’t quite suit, but if there's any-
thing more I can do for you ” “ You can I you
oanl old buck I” shouted Wright; “thlm’s bee-
yu-tlful daughters of yours, doctor. Give me won
of thlml”
In default of the crucial teat of active ser-
vice In warfare, the higher naval officers of most
nations to-day, have achieved their position by
favour, as the chief factor, and *8 secondary
factors, by the exhibition of scientific and profes-
sional aptitudes suoh ns occasions may have served
to draw out. Admiral Courbet Is 58 years of age, and
is one of the few French Admirals who have
passed through the Boole Polyteohnlque, which he
entered In 1847, and quitted In 1849. Hla commis-
B ion as Bnselgne de Valsseau dates from 1853.
After pWhlDf with credit through the different
grades, and having, in 1857, achieved the distinction
of Chevalier of the Legion of Honour, and studied
the art of sub-marine defences at the naval Insti-
tution set apart for that purpose, M. Courbet was,
in September 1880, elevated to the rank of Rear-
Admiral,and in the same year was appointed Gover-
nor of New Caledonia. Two years later he re-
linquished that position, and was riven command
of a division of the Mediterranean Squadron,
whence he was transferred to the naval command
at Tonquln, where, shortly, the Command in Chief
of naval and military forces alike devolved upon
him and were discharged with vigour. Last year M.
Couroet was promoted to the rank of Vice Ad-
miral. and his Alexandrian exploit of getting the
defences of Foochow under his guns in time of
peace, as our Admiral Seymour did the Egyptian
defences at Alexandria, thus depriving the de-
fenders of the benefit of torpedo obstructions, Is
sufficiently well known. His services in the pre-
sen* Chinese embrogllo have already won for
France, little, but for himself ths decoration of
Grand Officer of the Legion of Honour, and the
military modal granted to generals who have com-
manded in the face of an enemy.
The “ Continental Gossip” of that darling
“ Stella” (the Old Dame’s Paris chiffonniire), is
bound to cook us, in the end. Hoar her this time.
Sims—“ a late eminent surgeon and ‘lady doctor' ”
—wrote a “ History of My Life,” and this is how he
speaks of his interview with .Napoleon III. “ When
he sent for me I expected to be somewhat em-
barrassed, but bis manner was so gentle and kind
that I quite forgot I was talking to an Emperor,
and It was only afterwards that I remembered I
had not once said ‘sire ’ In addressing him.” And
“ Stella,” the dear, sends all this slush out to us
from Paris. We wonder whether If old films had,
for once In his life, spoken the truth after the fol-
lowing fashion, a place would be found for It In
Continental Gossip”: “Sitting In the presence of
the bastard son of one of the greatest trulls In
Europe discomposed me somewhat. I shuddered
as I thought that the man before me, with no drop
of French blood in (his veins, was the murderer
whose half-drunken troops, acting under his
orders, shot down hundreds of inoffensive msn,
women, and children In the streets of Paris a few
years ago. To alt and talk to this butcher was
loathsome to me, and, on mr return home, It was
some time before I could divest myself of the
feeling that, by calmly talking to the scoundrel, I
alse had helped to strangle liberty In France.”
Why, you might look through Stella's gossip from
now till John Davies playea a trombone at the
head of a procession of priests going to in-
augurate a new Orange Lodge, without bit-
ting on such a junk of plain truth. But
we must get films’ book, because the old
rascal appears to be delightfully imbecile.
Hear him about Eugenie: "The Empress, turning
her head to the carriage In which he (Sims) was
seated, called to him, saying, * O, Doctor, wo arc
going for a long drive; It will bo evening before
we get back. It may be oold then though it Is hot
now; so you had better run upstairs and get your
overcoat.’” How nice It must bo to be an Ex-
press—to know that, If you tell an old man, who
should have known It himself, that It would pro-
bably be cold and he’d better bring his coat, half
the literary lacqueys In the world will hand down
vour twaddle, as If ’twas one of De Sdvlgn6’s
letters! “I have sat by for hours when the Em-
press and the Duchess of Hamilton have been
talking together upon almost every subject—poli-
tics, religion, philosophy, art, &o„ and I have con-
stantly been amazed at the width and profundity
of her knowledge of men and of things, continues
this old chap. Of course she had. But, consider-
ing that It was mainly through her that France
wag smashed In 1870, and that while Frenchmen
were perishing by thousands In that cruel winter,
this gifted woman—“ with her profound know-
ledge of men and things”—was kneeling all night
before little wax figures to get them to intercede
with the “ First Cause,” and turn aside the Prus-
sian bullets, we—well we’d like to hear some of the
“philosophy” with which Eugenie and her Grace
of Hamilton "knocked ” old films.
From the English papers that have come
to hand within the past few days, we-are better
able than we wore a snort time ago to understand
the reasons to which we owe the visit that Lord
Macdonald, of the Isles, Is now paying to the Aus-
tralian Colonies. Lord Macdonald and the other
land proprietors In Skye served notices ol eviction
on a large number of their crofters, which were
Intended to take effect at Whitsuntide. These
"lairds” gave their poor tenants tho old legal
notice to turn out of their holdings at the end of
forty days; but the Highland Land Law Associa-
tion of London took the advice of several leading
barristers, and determined on behalf of the threat-
ened crofters to contest the legality of eviction
under the old short notice. The Lord Advocate
was asked whether, under the new Agricultural
Holdings Act (Scotland), the crofters were not en-
titled to six months’notice from the lit of Janu-
ary, and, la tbe.abseaco of that notice, could not
be evicted. Like all his predecessors. Liberal or
Conservative, the Lord Advocate answered this
question In the landlord's favour; but the Associ-
ation, having no faith In his Lordship’s deliverance,
instructed an Inverness solicitor to defend the
crofter*. The Sheriff of Skye gave his decision in
favour of Lord Macdonald and brother landlords;
but, on appeal, the Sheriff of the county reversed
this ruling. Lord Macdonald then appealed to the
Court of Session, and that Court unanimously de-
cided that the Sheriff nf Inverness was right; con-
sequently the evictions have to b# deferred for at
least another six months. Tho costs of this litiga-
tion. which, of coune, fall or Lord Macdonald and
the lairds associated with him in the action, are,
we are pleased to notice, described as somewhat
heavy; but, unfortunately, neither he nor the
other lairds are at all likely, wo regret te say, to
be called upon to pay the cost of the police, the
marines, and the gunboats that have been de-
spatched to the iiland to " assist ” In the projected
evictions that have legally been declared to be
premature. Now, It would have been an obvious
and very gross broach of propriety, to put It
mildly, for the Chief to have presented himself
among his clan at the very moment when armed
forces were expected to execute his decree that
the remainder of the said clan should be expelled
from the land of their birth. But for the legal
bar that has been Interposed to stay the action
he had resolved upon making, the evictions
would have been made about the date when
his Lordship landed at Adelaide; and. unless he
extend and prolong the tour on which he is en-
gaged, It is clear that in the altered circumstances,
that he may return to Skye before the Island can
be cleared of Its tenant-vermin and made ready
for sheep, or grouse, or deer. We shall, conse-
quently, not be surprised although Lord Mac-
donald should make a more thorough exploration
of the Southern Hemisphere than ho originally
intended; and, indeed, it js by no means im-
Erobable that six months hence no will find that
is powers as landlord have been materially cur-
tailed, and his difficult! s with his tenantry in-
creased rather than diminished. Apropos, we
read in a paper received by last mail, that “ Lord
Macdonald’s factor has intimated to the Rev. Mr.
Durrock, the pariah minister of Portree, that on
account of the refusal of the crofters to pay the
rents, his Lordship will not pay Mr. Durrock his
half-year’s stipend.” Nothing like discipline
applied to parsons to keep the Christian religion
sate on the side of the rich. Lord Macdonald Is
very welcome to Australia, but it not far enough
away from home to prevent his reputation over-
taking him.
* + *
Mr. Bradlaugh, M.P., writes“ I have
never in my life received one farthing for travel-
ling or hotel bills in connection with outdoor
meeting* on political questions. It Is true that my
tongue often earns large sums; if It did not, I
should starve.” ..Alphabetical Sladen is now in
England, and is churning out poetry by the
fathom.
Mashers.— The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter. 652 Oeorge-street, Brickfield Hill.*
Whloh la the Beat Perfume? There are
«ome “ Open Questions ” with regard to the toilet,
but this is not one of them. The ladles hare
settled It—wisely and finally. As there are
counterfeits, always ask for the true Florida
Water prepared by LANMAN and KEMP, New
York,
Political Points
As a matter of course, when the news
came that Berry had succeeded in getting a treaty
of commerce between Victoria and Tasmania,
granny, the Bum, the Hekka, and the Noozb
all predicted that Tasmania would not agree to
intercolonial reciprocity with her big neighbour.
But the treaty is popular in the Island, and the
Sydney dalles, are, as usual, “ out of it.”
It is now made manifest that the reason
the Hon. Geoff. Eagar first retired from the Civil
Board, and then didn’t, and flnallv said ha would,
was, as Mrs. Gamp would put it, •* rows.” The two
lawyers on the Board would Insist upon giving
opinions and sticking to them, though the rest of
the Board out-voted them. And Mr. Eagar wanted
to postpone for a season the reduction of the five
per cent, from salaries, but was out-voted. Of
course, none of these reasons appeared in the Syd-
ney dally papers.
The telegram announcing that England
had accepted the offer of the New South wales
troops, was received with great favour in the Bur-
rows electorate. Immediately afterwards along
procession of men with halters, and horses at the
end of them, interviewed Mr. Slattery. They
wanted him to use his influence with the Acting
Colonial Secretary to have their horses bought for i
service in the Soudan. Most of the animals had I
one good eye each, and there were none that were
not sound upon one leg.
Several noblemen and gentlemen of in-
fluence are considering the desirableness of form-
ing a syndicate, in order to raise five million ster-
ling for the purpose of building a fleet of war
cruisers. It is intended by the promoters of this
movement to rapidly construct a number of ves-
sels, with a speed of not less than 35 miles an hour.
The new cruiser fleet will be placed at the disposal
of the Government, not for the purpose of secur-
ing a profit to the syndicate, but under terms
which shall not Involve them in any loss.
“We must have a nice little Latin quota-
tion in that leader about New South Wales sends
help to England,” said Angus Mackay, of the
JiEHNiii. to John Plummer; "give us something
original if you can.? John hunted, up his quota-
tion library and handed in: Dulce et decorum est
pro palria mori. “ But, I say,” said Mackay,
"that sounds comic. Can’t I keep it until I make
another speech bristling with humour ?” “ But it’s
not comic,” answered John; “ here’s a translation
by one Sever * Mori , the more I get; propatria,
for my country; dulee est, the sweeter It ls. ,T ’
The Berlin correspondent of the Daily
News says that the communication in thatjournal
on "Foreign Intrigue against the English Govern-
from which we quoted in our leader last
week, has excited much attention. Some of tbo-
journals, Including the Cologne Gazbttb. resent
It as a violent attack on Prince Bismarck. The
Frankfort Gazhtti admits that the Prince
treats Mr. Gladstone much as he treated th® late
Prince Gortschakoff. The Dailt News octree-
pendent In Rome says It Is well known in Italian
political circles that Prince Bismarck’s personal
animosity to Mr. Gladstone is at the root of the
Egyptian difficulty.
Lord Randolph Churchill, whom no onh
can accuse of being a rebel Irishman, when asked
by a representative of the Pali. Mall "What
about Ireland ?—Is there a lesson to be learned
from Bismarck there also?" replied—“If a large
expenditure of money by the State on public
works is Bismarckian, yes. That would bo an
immediate and an enermous measure of pacifica-
tion. And alongside of that it is of primary impor-
tance to reform the Castle. It is a nest of political
corruption—of more kinds than one; and when
next you want a new sensation it could not do a
better public service than by telling us ‘ The Truth
about Dublin Castle.’ ”
“Why should Ragland embroil herself
with her neighbours to please the jaunty gentle-
men of Melbourne ? ” asks the London Echo.
“ They would cut the connection with the mother
country to-morrow but for the knowledge that it
at present pays them better to maintain it. By-
and-bye, 20 or 30 years hence, when Australia has
doubled her population and become a Republic,
she will be enabled to annex the islands she covets.
Until then she must be content to see some of
themJhold by [foreign Powers.” In other words,
the Echo says England could have peaceably
taken New Guinea and most of the other islands
months. If not years ago; but England preferred
to let them alone, as by-and-bye Australia will be
strong enough to fight for their possession.
A private letter from one of Lord
Wolseley’s officers has recently been received In
Melbourne, written long before the catastrophe at
Khartoum, which states that a universal feeling
pervaded the army that a great catastrophe was
pending. According to the same authority, the
sufferings of the soldiers have been Indescribable,
Including a visitation of small-pox. and other epi-
demics. There was a presentiment in the mind of
the writer that the Mahdl’s forces, so recklessly
underrated In the first Instance, were slowly clos-
ing round the English. Concurring in the same
view, Mr. O’Donovan, the able correspondent of
the Daily News, who fell a martyr to this Ill-fated
expedition, described It In one of the last letters
he ever wrote as a mad enterprise, at the same
time expressing his fears that few would ever re-
turn from it.
Civilisation is to be forced upon the Niger
niggers at the mouth of the spirit bottle. An Im-
portant firm In Hamburg Is making arrangements
to go In and possess some lands which Herr Flegel,
the enterprising Germaa traveller, has “opened
up” on the Niger and the Binue. The territory,
according to Herr Flegel, consists of a tableland,
with a healthy climate, and producing all the
plants both of the tropical and the temperate
zones. The natives, however, are deplorably back-
ward In point of civilisation; and Herr Flegel pro-
poses to improve their condition by extensive Im-
ports of gin, rum (the latter preferably In casks),
guns, crockery, and cloth. So “ unenglishl” Eh?
More Nihilists, among them a woman,
have been sentenced to death by a so-called
*• court of Justice ” secretly held In the realms of
“ despotism tempered by assassination
“But whether ®n the scaffold high,
Or in the battle’s van,
The fittest place where man can die
Is where he dies for man.’’
The more this annexation puddle is stirred
the more malodorous it becomes. Long before
Mr. Service penned his spread-eagle telegrams, our
own Jack Robertson and Jimmy Martin had had a
tussle with it and were “shook out bad.’’ This
New Guinea business Is about the funniest thing
we know—always barring a parade of the Pad-
dington Militia. Read the whole thing through,
up or down, sideways, endways, or always, and
this is what keeps running through your mind
"If the annexation of Pacific islands were an
Imperial question, why did colonial statesmen
touch it at all? Could not British leaders be
trusted (to know what was good for themselves?
And, If It was a colonial question—as, of courts, It
was—why was not generous provision made at
once for the Inevitable expense of the job ? Why
should any of Hodge’s 10s. a week go In a venture
possessing Interest for those alons who are ten
times better able to pay for It than he, but who
would meanly shirk their responsibilities as they
did In the ease of FIJI ten years ago? Yes; ex-
amine It how we will, we’ve come out of this
annexation craze badly.”
Lord Rosebery, who sent out a circular to
his brother peers, asking them how far they were
prepared to reform themselves, hasgot a charm-
ingly naive reply from one Lord Walaingham:—
“ The best reform, and, In my opinion, the one
most required for the House or Lords, can be
effected only by a Government who will recognise
that the financial prosperity of the country Is de-
gendent upon a reasonable measure of success in
iritlsh agriculture. If Peers who are for the most
part landowners were not forced by one-sided Free
Trade to let their Londonfhouses and live In the
country, the attendance In the House of Lords
would bo greatly Increased, and the many thou-
sands of unemployed working men In our country
villages would spend a happier Christmas and be
better able to buy the bread which, even at Its pre-
sent price, they too frequently see only through
the baker s window.” How simple and easy, to do
sure I Only a small tax on bread, only a slight in-
crease of rents, only a few more cases of starva-
tion, and the Peers will be able to live In London I
It will be dirt cheap. How honestly this glided
personage grants that a tax on bread|would rescue
the nation from its financial embarrassments I
No wonder the English lords fight like
grim death to maintain their privilege. They and
their friends hold the best of the lands, and the
best of the offices. There is also the pension list,
with such strange pay as £1342 a-year to one duke
for feeding hawks that are not, and £6000 to
another for presenting a flag to our Sovereign
each 2nd of August, The peers have, during the
memory of living men, fought tooth and nail
against reform, increase of the electorate, cheap
erections, the ballot. Increase of polling beoths,
cheap paper, cheap education, reform of endowed
schools, renting charity lands to the poor, preser-
vation of commons, allotments for labourers.
Agricultural Holdings Act, compensation to
tenants for improvement or disturbance, reduc-
tion of law costs, religious relief to Roman
Catholics, Jews, and Nonconformists, safety to
miners, artisans, women, children, and sailors.
And fought for purchase In the army, selection
by favour to other offices, bribery and corruption
at elections, ground and other game, seduction by
invalid marriages, tithes, church rates, capital
punishment for minor offences, and a thousand
other infamies. No wonder Swinburne writes,
and the people echo, “ Clear the way I ”
W® are not in the habit of loading our
pages with reprint matter, but when we come
across a text like this we cannot alter It without
laying ourselves open to the charge of bias. The
Tumut Times calls on the district to throw up
caps: and the Qundagai Times, copying the par.,
rips off his own scalp over this mighty achieve-
ment. We mark a few phrases to indicate a thing
a two characteristic of colonial politics, and which
are so juicy in the mouths of “local” members- —
“ Mr. L. F Heydon, the member for Yass Plains,
has, by persistent perseverance, obtained from the
Government a concession that will prove a vast
boon to this and the neighbouring districts, viz ,
the construction of a first-class bridge over the
Murrumbldgee at Comlns’ Crossing. We learn
that Mr. Wright, the Minister for Works, has
accepted Messrs. G. H. Royce and Co.’s tender of
£10,384, for constructing Taemas Bridge at the
above spot. The long delayed improvements which
the Tumut Progress Committee have been seeking
to get effected upon the road between Tumut ana
Bookham will doubtless now be carried out.” That
Is to say, that an expenditure of £10.000. long
known to be urgently needed in the Intererts of a
large srctton of the community, was delayed and
Relayed, mjtH Mr, I, F. Heydon, by persistent
NEW ANECDOTE OF WASHINGTON.
“ Hum 1 George, what la that you have
in your mouth ? M
, ‘‘Jt is impossible for me to prevaricate,
father; it is my little pea-shooter. Too-f-f-f!”
*• And, by-the-bye, I happen to have my
trunk strap with me. Let us proceed to the
wood-shod. I admire your candour, but 1
had rather lose every cherry-tree on the
place than have my nose made a target of.”


Supposed Poison.
My wife had a most annoying eruption make its
appearance on the Angers of both bands about the
first of last March. Supposed it was ivy poison.
Several physicians saw it, some diagnosing it as
above, others pronouncing it salt rheum. A great
many domestic remedies were used, with no effect.
The disease steadily grew worse. The prescrip-
tions of three of our very best physicians were
tried, with but little better results. The terrible
itching was so great as almost to deprive her of
sleep. After two months of this suffering she be-
gan the use of the Cdticdha Remedies. What
was the result ? The first application of the Ckm-
ctniA allayed the itching, and now, alter tour
months’ daily use of them, her hands are sound
and well. I doubt not. If they had been employed
at first, a crurdwould have been effected in a short
fine. Dr. w. H. H VLb, I’bysleiaa and Druggist,
Frankfort, Ky.
nyrsovwranc* convinced the Minister for Works
that the Government should make a concession,
go it seem* the carrying out of public improve-
ments does not so much depend on the reports ox
professional men, sent In the Interests of the whole
country, as on the “persistence” of local mem-
bers in rounding up the permanent staff and
forcing the hand of the Minister of the day.
Happy land! Ruled quite as well as it deserves.
A correspondent writes, re the “ special
nrayer” recently composed by the Archbishop of
Canterbury for the use of the British troops in the
Nile expedition:—The great “medicine man” has
once more sent his instructions to the “ God of
Battles,” re our army in Egynt, &c. He begins:—
“ o, Almighty Lord God, King of all kings and
Governor of all things, that sltlest on the throne
ludglng right.” Now, if the Archbishop believes in
this God who “ governs all things” and “Judges
right," why does he presume to instruct) Him 7
Then: “Wecommend to Thy fatherly goodness
our men,” &o. But, as if doubtful of this ‘ r fatherly
goodness,” he teaches God His duty to the British
section of His family, forgetting that His “ fatherly
goodness” might have an equal in our Egyptian
brothers; for. If God be father, the Soudanese are
our brethren. He asks God to “ protect our men
through all dangers”; but what are the dangers7
They are the sfleots on us, the Invader, of the self-
protecting efforts of the Invaded. He invokes
divine help to the mighty army of oppressors, and
divine hindrance to the feeble crowd of the
oppressed. The “medicine man” also says: —
« Grant also that we may evermore use Thy mercy
to Thy glory, to the advancement of Thy kingdom
and the honour of our sovereign.” What mercy 7
Mercy to the British 7 Te* ; but what Is its cor-
relative? Why, suffering and death to the
Egyptians. But of course, that Is nothing to us;
we are pious people. Then, again, do the “ ad-
vancement of God’s kingdom” and the “honour
of the sovereign ” run in parallel lines? If God’s
kingdom be the ultimate good of mankind, then
His glory would be enhanced by the obliteration
of the last trace of kingcraft. But most strange
of all, this empurpled and flne-llnen’d high and
haughty vicar of the “ meek and lowly ” one tries
to hoodwink the Omniscient by saying, “ We.seek
alv/ay the deliverance of the oppressed.” The
Archbishop must know that the whole history of
tae Church proves his words to be false. If there
be such a thing as blasphemy, surely this prayer
is a specimen of It.
Algernon Swinburne’s new volume of
poems, just published, contains a series of six
which are terrific blows at the House of Lords.
From a critical notice in the Agk we quote:—“ The
Saturday review. In defending the House of
Lords, boldly declared that ‘ as a matter of fact no
man living, or who ever lived—not Ctesax or
Pericles, not Shakespeare or Michael Angelo—
could confer honour more than he took on enter-
ing the House of Lords.’ Inspired by that text,
Mr. Swinburne sing* what he terms ‘The Conser-
vative Journalist’s Anthem,’ which Is one of the
most scathing satires of modern times. After duly
celebrating
‘That House wherein the all.envious world ac-
claims
Such glory that the reflex of It shames
All crowns bestowed of men for prose or rhyme,
the poet acknowledges that
‘ While abject souls in servitude of praise
Bow down to heads untitled, and the crew
Whose honour dwells but in the deeds they do,
, From loftier hearts your nobler servants raise
More manful salutation;
And, consequently, theirs are still
The corn and wine and oil, and their’s,
• Our worship yet, O Lords our Gods.’
But the ‘ Lords our Gods * are not to retain their
ascendancy, according to Mr. Swinburne, very
much longer. Their nour. Indeed, is nearly come.
A twilight, like that In which the gods of the north
disappeared, is settling over them, for
* Light is more than darkness now, faith
Than fear and hope than hate:
And what morning wills, behold, all the
Night shall not withstand.
Bods of office, helms of rule, staffs of wise
Men, crowns of gre*t; ,, .
While the people willed, ye bare: now their
Hopes and hearts expand;
Time with silent foot makes dust of
Your broken crowns and rods,
And the lordship of your godhead Is gone,
0 Lords our Gods.’
After this, we need not dwell on the lines In which
Mr. Swinburne, somewhat peremptorily, and most
unceremoniously, orders the lords and their lackeys
to * clear the way!’ In ‘ A Word for the Country,’
however, be refers most contemptuously to those
among the peers * who are Graces by grace of such
mothers as brightened the bed of King Charles,’
and, in the name of the English people, declares
that ‘no man shall be lord of us reckoned who Is
baser, not better, than w e.’ Only the worthier and
wiser, he proclaims, is in the future to be master
and lord or his brothers in England; where lands-
men and seamen are to be * brothers and freemen,
and lordless, and fearless of lords.’ ”
“Nothing,” says the Times, “ischangedin
Russia. Despotism is more violent and resolute
than ever, and the Press is more than ever subject
to the arbitrary will of the authorities, editors
being daily accustomed to receive invitations to
avoid discussing specified questions. Nihilism is
not disarmed, but still exists, with the aggravating
circumstance that the army, formerly exempt
from contagion, has been contaminated. Among
the last batch sentenced to transportation for
affiliation to Nihilism was a lieutenant-colonel.
Count Tolstoi, the Minister of the Interior, is
chiefly engaged in the discovery and prosecution
of Nihilists. But while he is the great detector of
Nihilists, he is also their especial victim. He is
daily inundated with anonymous letters from all
parts of the empire, announcing sometimes that a
mine has been laid under his office, and sometimes
that he has been condemned to death, and that the
sentence will be executed the next time he crosses
his threshold. He is kept in such suspense that he
rarely goo# out; is absent even from Cabinet Coun-
cils: and, when imperatively bound to attend, is the
subject of special precautions by the secret police.
It is notorious in 8t. Petersburg that every time
he is bold enough to stir out, a supplementary ex-
pense of 300 roubles is incurred. When Irving
Bishop, the “thought-reader,” lately visited 8t.
Petersburg, the Count asked the Academy of
Sciences to get up a stance, but one of the mem-
bers told him: “Why, for the 500 roubles which
your going to the Academy would cost, the
medium would hold a stance under your own
roof.” While Nihilism has thus extended its
sphere of action to the army, and is more danger-
ous than ever, the persecution of the Jews la even
as fierce as it was a few years ago. Financially, the
situation of Russia is not more brilliant. The
crops are less profitable than formerly, and Ame-
rican wheat subjects the Russian to a severe com-
petition. The army is a crushing burden, and the
advance towards Merv has been a ruinous ex-
pense. The Emperor’s favourites are urging him
to restore the prestige of the nobility, so much
impaired since the enfranchisement of the serfs.
Referring to a meeting held under the
auspices of the Highland Land Daw Reform As-
sociation, in the hall of Anderson’s Hotel, Fleet-
Street, London, at which John Macpherson, the
leader of the Skye crofters, and martyr to the ex-
tent of sixty days imprisonment, along with two
comrades, gave an account of the situation, a
correspondent who has exceptional means of
knowing what is doing in political circles in the
knghsh metropolis, writes as follows:—“ It was the
most enthusiastic and altogether the finest meet-
ing I ever was present at, and the crofters will re-
}M rn to Skye with a far stiller back-bone than
"hey had when they left it Another re-
sult of the meeting is that the Association under
whose auspices it was held, has found out that
mi v!. ? eme dy is preposterous—that whereas it
might have been accented ten years ago, it is now
ridiculed. Fair rents, in fact, are about as
oong'stent as /air burglars, or & fair rape. Fair
rent paid to an individual for the use of land is
he laughed at very generally. The
• 1 l?00 “ , A , m 9 derate souls, thought that they
oouid keep the land question within legitimate
orTri *1’ at)d they did—but not those they proposed;
and they now see that if they are to keep the*r
seats, they must go In for the land for the people.
M’Farlane. M.P.,was in the chair and he and Frazer-
M’lntosh M.P., and Sir George Campbell, M.P.,
who also took part in the proceedings, acquitted
themselves remarkably well; but the speech of
the evening, and one of the ablest speeches I ever
heard, albeit It was not lengthy, was delivered by
a Rev. Mr. Reaney. There were about thirty re-
porters present at this meeting. The universal
opinion among those who took part In It was that
it marks a second step In the revolution— It Is non-
sense to call the movement now on foot anything
less than a revolution. As a mere matter of fact,
the questions of to-day are a thousand times
more revolutionary than changes of dynasty
would be, for they are fundamental changes In the
organization of society.” In another part of his
letter, this gentleman says:—“You will havelearnt
that the dynamltards have been at their work
again with their usual success. However, thank
heaven I up to the present they have not killed
any friends to the Irish cause. It Is not that I ob-
ject to dynamite when there Is Justification for Its
employment-as against a Czar of Russia, for ex-
ample—but those Invincible* of ours Invariably
pick out the places for their explosions where
the people would be the sufferers. I there-
fore,” the writer adds In puzzled Irony,
“come to the conclusion that they are the
agents of Ithe Archbishop of Canterbury, the
Prince of Wales, and, of course, the Grand Old
Man. I am strengthened in this Idea from Har-
oourt’s falling to provide extra precautionary
measures for the protection of the People’s League
for the Abolition of the Hereditary Chamber,
which will probably be the next edifice selected
for their operationsPublic feeling in England,
and especially in London and the great towns,
would seem to be assuming a very threatening
tone. After indulging in a rather extravagant
rhetorical flight, our facetious correspondent ex-
claims: •* Verily, I say unto you (and I speak not
as the scribes of custom) this land problem will
never be Anally solved by pen and ink, nor in the
pulpit, nor in the senate or forum, but with fire
and the sword—with gunpowder and with dyna-
mite—in the streets and alleys, in the squares and
boulevards of great cities. Nevertheless, dearly
beloved I for the pen and for the Ink, yea, and for
the throwing of much mud, too, Is there also a
mission, for these are the things that prepare the
way to all redemption; and, as it was once before,
even so shall it be once again—only worse. I say
this in seeming levity; but, soberly, I feel that
events are pushing on, on all sides, not to land
revolution only, but to an almost universal revo-
lution—not merely to a political but a social revo-
lution-of which the settlement of the Land Ques-
tion, though foremost, will only form a part.
Why I The attempt on London Bridge only failed
by a mere chance, and if it had succeeded, it would
have disorganized all London; and what security
have we against a similar attempt next week ?
There is no security, no possible security against
such recurrences, and will not be until the founda-
tions of society rest on a more equitable basis.
While human rights, and human intelligence are
outlawed, coerced, and trampled upon, human
revenge will step in and try to rectify the balance.
The maintenance of slavery in Ignorance was diffi-
cult enough; the maintenance of slavery with
intelligence is impossible.”
m • •
Germany was foiled at St. Luoia, where
Sir Henry Bulwer, on his own responsibility,
hoisted tne British flag just before Germany,
whose Press waxes furious over the matter, had
got things ready.... The movement started by Du
Toit for the South African Republics is un-
doubtedly animated by antagonism to England.
An offensive and defensive alliance has been con-
cluded between the Transvaal and the Orange
Tree State “I challenge the hereditary prin-
ciple in legislation,” says Bradlaugh, “ it belongs
to despotism, and not to representative govern-
ment. ’ Thus a Times’ correspondent:—“ When
the Germans entirely altered their system of drill
to meet the requirements of breechloaders, the
only change made in the English army was alter-
ing the word of command, ‘ Right about face 1 ’ to
‘ Right about turn; ’ and so we shall probably go
on until disaster overtakes us.” A recent
Chinese steamer from Hongkong to Tientsin
brought as passengers 13 German sergeants, or
drill-masters, for tie Chinese army. They had
Just arrived from Germany, and had been en-
gaged by the Chinese Government. On arriving
at Shanghai they took passage as missionaries, and
went north....The great English Radical party has
decided to vote for no member seeking re-election
who did not vote straight for Bradlaugh’s ad-
mission to Parliament and the Affirmation Bill....
The French correspondent of the N.Y. Herald
professes to know that Austria, Germany, Russia,
and France arrived at an entente directed against
England immediately following the departure of
Prince Orloff from Paris to assume the Ambassa-
dorship at Berlin....“ An Expert,” writing in the
Pall Mall, says:—“ We (England) have to go to
Germany for the most suitable powder for great
guns, and we have as yet no evidence of our being
able to imitate the article so obtained III” Prior
to the Khartoum ftaeoo, the Wolseley-worshlppers
were putting forward the claims of their Idol to a
field-marshal’s Mton. Wellington had fought in
India and in Spain, had beaten all Napoleon’s mar-
shals—Junot, Boult, Marmont, Jourdan—before he
obtained the hdton, after the crowning triumph
of Vltterla—Frem “Songs of the Governing
Classes”:—
— The Prince of Wales got a good deal of credit a
few weeks ago for declining to appeal to Parlia-
ment just yet for an allowance for his eldest son.
It was not known then that Parliament will be
asked next session to give Princess Beatrice an
annuity of £0000 a year. Two applications of that
sort in a single session might I nave led to some
very plain speaking, and a division list that would
not have been a pleasant study for royalty....
“ Before Lady Day,” remarked the Pall Mall of
80th December, “there will probably not bo a
single good harbour on the route between Austra-
lia and Panama that has not been annexed by some
European Power.” “ The House of Commons Is
the ‘best club’ in London.” “Yes,” retorts
a Radical paper, “ because the entrance-fees
are so high that the people are not there.”. ..
In Austria, a man charged with treason has been
acquitted. This is most extraordinary. Austrian
juries must be getting disloyal —The Cologne
Gazette, commenting on the report of the cap-
ture by the British sloop Osprey of a slave dhow
off Zanzibar, remarks that “any one acquainted
with the ways of official hypocrisy in England
knows that she always spreads reports of the slave
trade and of tyrannous excesses and of oppression
amongst the natives of a country when she is
preparing to put it in her pocket.” Humph!..
According to the London correspondent o* the
Liverpool Mercury, “ among Ministers the gene-
ral belief is that the eleventh Parliament of Queen
Victoria will consist of hardly fewer than 450
Liberals, 70 Parnellites, and only 150Conservatives.
“I am afraid General Gordon Is safe,” recently
said an English Conservative member Mr. Cole-
ridge Kennard, M.P., speaking on the question of
fair trade, said he was fairly astonished at the in-
difference to their own interests shown by the
British working classes in consenting to contribute
no less a sum than 13 millions sterling to the na-
tional revenue derived from tea and tobacco,
while every lady they see is in the enjoyment of
silks and satins, without paying to the State a
single stiver for the pleasure they derive from the
gratification of a more or less unhealthy extrava-
gance. Liberals, he said, aided and abetted this
monstrous system.
Woman Items
She is the same age as her husband, but
she conceals the awful fact. The other day she
observed to a visitor: “ My husband is
There are Just five years bstween us.” And her
friend was mean enough to reply: “ la It possible ?
I plve you my word you look as young aa ho does.”
They don’t apeak now.
Women are gradually usurping the man-
ners and habiliments of thetmonster, man. The
latter has now practically nothing left that he oan
call his own, except his pantaloons. Should the
doctrine of Dr. Mary Walker come Into general
Sraetice, man will be compelled ere long to give a
lood-curdling yell, and take to the bush.
A recent copy of the Loudon Times con-
tains an advertisement for an upper and an under
housemaid for a large country house. They must
be good-looking and one “ will have to volet the
gentleman.” The advertisement is vague as to
whether “ the upper" or “ the under" Is to valet
the gentleman. Possibly the better-looking one of
the two will obtain the proud position 1
In London, the other day, a girl’s father
sued her employer for damages. She had, through
the carelessness of a fellow-emplov<, crushed her
ring-finger (since amputated), and this, alleged
Flalntlff, would Inevitably prevent his daughter
rom getting married. £26 damages were awarded,
and the Judge,(being a gallant man, did not suggest
that the young lady's wedding-ring should be worn
in her nose.
Lately, in St. Petersburg, a Russian
actress, who had been the favourite of a prince
for many years, and who was finally abandoned
for a rival in the same company, played in the
same scene with her successor. The new favourite
drank from a cup. It was a poisoned one. The
stage carpenters conveyed a dead woman from
the stage, and the convict convoy escorted her
murderess to Siberia.
A lady was charged at a Paris police-court
the other day with stealing a clock from an hotel.
It disappeared when she left. She was pursued,
and at once taken to the bureau by tbepolloe. while
she was attesting her innocence, the clock, con-
cealed in her dress improver, struck 12. That
ladles have clocks on their stockings, all of us—
except Professor Black!®, who ignores ankles—
know already, but it is news to us that a lady oan
have a clock in her bustle.
Is was a close race between two French
beauties, but at last one fairly distanced the other
by giving the following directions to the modiste
who was making her ball dress:— 1 14 Now, I must
make a sensation. Leave my arms, neck, and
shoulders quite bare. Cut the .body down In the
back, so as to show my curve—you understand? In
front, nothing, of course, but lace. But it must bo
the thinnest you oan get. I leave the rest to you."
There wasn’t much left to the dressmaker.
She looked very pretty and gentle in her
widow’s weeds, and the callers sympathised deeply
with her. “ Such an awful fate! ” one said, *• W bat
a terrible ending I ’ ‘‘How you overlived through
it is a mystery to mel" sighed a third. “ Ah, it
was fearful, ,r said the widow In her sweetest
tones, “fearful, fearful. My husband had, I
thought, been very long dressing for dinner, and I
went Into his room. There I saw him with bis
throat «ut from ear to ear. I at once looked in
the glass, and, would you believe it, my face was
as pale as ashes.
An American actress has been eloquent on
stockings. This authority says that " Minnie Pal-
mer probably has the largest collection of stock-
ings of any Amorioon actress. She always has her
eyes open for new beauties. She told me that she
bad found some gems in a French house in Lon-
don. She goes in very strongly for stripes and
embroidery. Lotta also has a fine collection. 9he
prefers pale blue and salmon. Tben there is
Lillian Russell. She has a passion for handsome
hose. But, bless me? what outri colours and de-
signs she takes up."
Woman has much finer feelings and a more
delicate mind than man, and he seldom knows
what she suffers. It was only the other Sunday,
at Summer Hill, that esteemed merchant, Sandy
Sugar, Esq , was taking his wife to church, when
she suddenly stopped. “ What’s the matter ?’’ he
asked, startled by her’agonised face. “It’s my
brown hatl” she burst out. “Eh! what?" ejacu-
lated the astonished man; “what is the matter.
Martha ?” “ Oh, can’t you see what’s the matter,’ 1
sobbed the wretched woman; “I’ve got on my
brown hat with my pea-green bodice! Oh I what
will people say ?"
The husband of the celebrated Madame
Geoffrln was fond of reading, and often had re-
course to an obliging friend, possessor of a well-
stocked library. Wishing to peruse a certain book
of travels, he borrowed the first volume, and,
having finished It, took it back to the owner, and
asked for the second, which, in a fit of abstraction,
he left on the table, carrying away the one he bad
just returned, and reading it over again without
pereeiving his error. His wife, seeing him deeply
absorbed In the contents, inquired how ha llkea
the work. “ It Is extremely interesting," he rfe
plied; “ but It strikes me that the author Is rather
too apt to repeat himeelf."
Another wretch has been striving to
wreak harm In a London theatre. At the Lyceum,
Miss Mary Anderson, on taking up the phial from
which she is supposed to drink her sleeping
draught In the potion scene, noticed a strong smell
of snuff, and, looking closely at the vessel, found
that a quantity of the pungent powder had been
put in It. The obvious intention was to set Miss
Anderson sneezing, and mar the whole effect of the
scene. Thanks to the fair actress' presence of
mind, and her strong olfactory nerves, the plot
was a failure. Probably the man who did this was
a Fenian—he was most assuredly an Irishman. We
don’t think so ourselves; but we make the state-
ment so as to anticipate the other papers.
Mrs. Weldon, the notorious English liti-
gant—who, by the way, may yet live to emulate
the unhappy and recently-deceased Joseph Bragg
Black, ot Ylctoria-bas been bringing more actions,
but has bad a bad lime of it lately. In her latest
suit, she wound up her “opening spsech ” by
bursting into tears and then declaring that she
was “utterly penniless and hadn’t a lartbing in
the world.” This, oh reader, is the fate of even
the successful litigant, Mrs. Weldon, despite the
fact that she acts as her own lawyer. Madame
masculine though she be, baa yet enough of Qfe
woman In her to be able to turn on the tears aso8e
turns on the water by pulling tire string a( the
shower-bath. “ A woman's tears, ’ they say, “ cost
her little and gain her much.” Better, after all,
shed tears than feed sharks.
OFFICIAL HUMOUR.
“ IN THE BRAKE VAN OF EVERY PASSENGER TRAIN THERE WILL BE A COMPLETE
AMBULANCE PLANT, INCLUDING STRETCHERS, BANDAGES, TOURNIQUETS, TOGETHER
WITH A MEDICINE CHEST.”
SCENE: THE NEXT RAILWAY SMASH.
EXCITED OFFICIAL: “WHAT AEB TOU DOING THEBE, INSTEAD OF ASSISTING
THE INJURED MAN?”
“WE’RE A LOOKING FOR THE AMBULANCE AND MEDICINE CHEST, THEY’RE BE-
LIEVED TO BE SOMBWHERB3 UNDER HERB."
“ My Lord Tomnoddy i8 thirty-four;
The Earl can iasfc but a few years more.
My lord In the peers will take his place,
Her Majesty’s councils his words will grace,
Office he’ll hold, and patronage sway,
Fortunes and lives he will vote away,
And what are his qualifications 7 One I
He’s the Bari of Fllzdotterel’s eldest son.”
A WOMAN’S NAY.
No, Impudence, you shan’t have one!
How many times must I refuse ?
Awayl
I say I
Or else you’ll sure my friendship lose.
I cannot bear such forward fun.
So, quick, begone 1 If not, I’ll run I
Why, now I'll have to be severe—
No, not a kiss to you I’ll give—
Take care—
1 swear
I'll tell papa, sure as I live!
I never saw a man so queer!
But are you certain no one’s near ?


IN THE PRESS, and to be published shortly the
HISTORY OF THE YEAR 1884.
A complete record day by day of every event of
Interest to the colony, in town or country. C em-
ptied with great care, and Intended to fill* US a
work of reference, a long-felt want.
Send 5s. Od. stamps to
JOHN WOODS AND CO. (Limited).
Bridge-street, Sydney.
BNTAUR’S IN DBXj
AUTUMN EDITION.
R. MARSHALL, 100 Market-street.
OOFFERERS Afflicted with Nervous Debility
>5 Lost Vitality, &c., be your own Physician, j
The FRENCH HOSPITAL REMEDY will soon re- j
ptore you to health and manly vigour. Prescription i
free. Bend your address on a stamped envelope to
C. C. W., Box 766, G.P.O., Sydney.
u
N
N
M)P. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, wea-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite ot
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
In Australia, to Rent for Balls, Wedding?, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, tol
Castlereagh-street, near Bathurst-street, P.B.—
The ball-room is much longer than vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can ail be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
snrlng floor. &o. No decorations required.
MADAME CHARBONNET KBLLERMANN’S
CONSERVATOIRE DE MUSIQDB,
140 Phillip Street.
Madame KELLERMANN, having secured a
commodious residence in a healthy position
two minutes from Domain, is willing to receive
pupils from the country or neighbouring colonies
as Boarders. Exceptional references given and
expected. Apply 119 Phlllip-street.
R.BURG19
TAILOR. .
m
'zm
TRY BURGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from 16s. 6d.i All- garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest bouse for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STREET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams tor sc
forwarded to anv part of the colon?
T
Department of Public Works.
Sydney. 17th February, 1885.
BNDBRS for PUBLIC WORKS and BUP-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of thn Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not hind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Erection of Passenger Station
at Summer Hill, Great South-
ern Hallway
Supply and Erection of a 10-ton
Steam Crane Wharf, Woolloo-
mooloo Bay
Laying Pipes, Goulburn Water
Supply
Erection Timber Wharf, Cow per
Clarence River
Erection Timber Wharf, Yarra-
happlnl, Maoleay River
Erection of Wharf at Bourke
Erection Caretaker’s Residence,
Campbelltown, Sydney Water
Supply
Turret Clock and Bells, Tower,
General Post Office
Wrought and Cast Iron for
Superstructure of Plate Girder
Bridge, Throsby Creek, Wara-
tah. Great Northern Railway
Braldwood Gaol Repairs
Repalrs,old Lands Office, Sydney
Bridge over Breakfast Creek,
Road, Rylatone to Bylong
Manufacture in this colony—3
Locomotive Boilers
Painting Passenger Station,
Sydney
Repairs, old Land Office, Sydney
Bridge over Double Creek, road
Bega to Brogo
Construction and Supply of
Wrought and Cast Ironwork
for New Boiler Shop, Honey-
suckle Point
Washing Sleeping and Dining-
Car Linen, &c., during 1885
Renting Refreshment Rooms,
Parramatta Railway Station
Supply of Steam Traverser
Tuesday,
31th February,
at 11 o'clock.
Extension of Jetty at Eden,
Twofold Bay
Erection of Lock-up Milltown
Erection of Courthouse, Ar’luen
Completion of open Canal below
Prospect Reservoir ; Con-
struction of Pipe Head, Ba- I
sin, &c., Contract 31, Sydney ‘
Water Supply
Registrar-General’s Office, Ad-
ditions
Erection of Courthouse, Wollar
1 rection of Post and Telegraph
Office, DubbO
Bridge over Murran Yarrein
Creek, Road Moama to Mou-
lamein
Construction of Bridge, Pelican
Flat, Lake Macquarie
Bridge in Broulee-street, Bega
Bridge over Creek in Campbell’s
lane, Road Bega to Bodalla
Bridge over Hoskinson’s Creek,
near Barraba
Tuesday.
3rd March,
at 11 o’clock.
P. A. WEIGHT.
208 George Street, Sydney.
Eyery description of Shirts made to measure
A perfect Bt guaranteed.
k
ft
hk
Professional Directory.
TT 1
XX 1
HSSl*
W
Bydnej
IBCOOKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
apply F. B. Hlaoooks..
HORACE BENT, with Hlsoooka’Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy ol Music,
mo AMATEUR THE ATRICAL8.— Scenery Sup-
I piled or Lent. G. Perriman, Scene Painter,
No. 7, back of Academy of Music, Caatlereagh-st,
mHEATRB ROYAL.
M Under the management of
'Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Mdsgrovh.
Leasee. Mr. 8, Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager-Mr. H. H. Vincent.
Doors dpen at 7.30. commence at 8. Carriages, 10.40.
Immediate and Substantial Success on the reap-
pearance of the Royal Dramatic Company
In the two New Pieces :
An Elegant Comedy In one act, entitled—
WRITTEN IN SAND ! , WRITTEN IN SAND I
and the Screaming Farcical Comedy, In 81 acts,
NITA’S FIRST I NITA’S FIRST !
The same programme will be repeated every even-
ing until further notice.
Special Notice.—Pricks op Admission.- The
Management beg to announce that the prices of
admission which have been so popular in the
Theatre Royal, viz., Diess Circle, 5s.; Stalls, 3s* 5
and Family Circle, 2s., have been reverted to.
Tickets tor all parts of the house at Bastway’s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4. No free list.
N ’
Lessees
BW OPERA HOUSE
Managers ... B.Majeronl & W. J. Wilson.
Treasurer and Secretary ... Mr. Joe Brown.
Stage Manager Mr. George Leopold.
MAJBRONI and WILSON’S
COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
THIS EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
by particular
by particular desire,
LA FILLS DE MADAME A
Friday, February 30,
BENEFIT of Miss FRANCES 8AVILLE.
Saturday, February 31,
Offenbach’s delightful and pretty opera,
* LA PERICHOLE.
Prices of Admission :-Boses, £3 3s.; Dress Circle,
5s.; Stalls, 9s.; Parquette, 2s.
Box plan now open at A. and C. Huenerbeln’s
Muslo Warehouse, 318, George-street. Stalls and
Parquette Tickets may be purchased at Roberts ,
tobacconist, adjoining the theatre.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. Wybert Reeve.
Pndpr the Management of A. T. and J. F. Dunning.
THIS EVENING.
THE EVENT OF THE SEASON.
An ENTIRELY NEW and ORIGINAL OPERA
* COMIQUE.
in 3 Acts and 6 Tableaux, entitled
RIP VAN WINKLE
RIP VAN WINKLE
FIP VAN WINKLE.
The Soeolal Engagement of
MR. HOWARD VERNON,
under whose direction the Opera is produced.
Admission r—Orchestra Chairs, 5s.; Stabs, 3s.;
Family Circle, Ss. Box Office, Nicholson’s, George-
street.
0 A D B M Y
Lessee and Manager
OF MUSIC.
Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
BIBCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALITY UNION.
Tremendous Success of W. H. Bent’s New Topical
Song,
THE BGYPTION QUESTION.
The whole terminating with WEDDED BLISS.
Admission, 4s., 3s., 3s., and Is. Box Plan at
Paling’s. Carriages at 10.15.
T
HE AUSTRALIAN
WAXWORKS
Opposite the Cathedral,
Jus* added,
SIR HERCULES ROBINSON.
Open daily from 10 a.m. till 10 p.m.
Admission, One Shilling; Children, half-price.
O
L D
MASONIC
HALL.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 33.
BENEFIT of Madame PAULINE RITA.
Popular Programme,
in the rendering of which
Madame RITA
will have the support of the following distin-
guished artists, professional and amateur who
have most kindly promised their assistance:
Miss LELIA FABIEN
Miss GERTRUDE PALMER
Lady Amateur (Flautlste)
Mr. JAMES (amateur)
Mr. HALLEWELL
Mr. CHARLES RUBNBRBBIN
Mr. JOHN RADCLIFF.
Particulars will be given in newspaper advertise-
ments.
Tickets, 5s., 3s., and 2s , at Huenerbeln’s Royal
Music Warehouse, George-street.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 33.
ANTED, five GENTLEMEN— i.e.. Junior
Lead, Old Man, Walking Gentleman, and
twoUtlllty, to Join the “Howard Family English
Comedy Company.” Open in Brisbane, Monday,
March 2nd. Salary and return passages guaran-
teed. Apply, stating lowest terms, care of J. B.
Hiokik, Lessee.
W
two U1
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL, GOtTLBURN.
fllHIS handsome Bijou Theatre, completely i
■ modelled, is fitted with every convenient
and has one of the best stages In the colony (50
30), Is now open for engagement on very modera
terms. Seats comfortably in dress circle, 350- t
and stalls. 500. The population of the olty is near
DO00, and the Hall, which is now the most popul
place of amusement, is situated in the most ce
tral position of the main street. Mr. Chari
Turner, of the Montague-Turner Opera Compan
eays“ The Hall I consider second to none in Ne
South Wales. The acoustics are good; the stai
and dressing-room accommodation ig superior
Spy colony. Applications addressed
I. B. PULLEN, Secretary, will receive prom'
attention.
U 8 I
Academy of m
(Late Albert Hall).
Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
The coolest and most comfortable Hall In Aus-
“ «• Seating capacity, 1800 ; stage: depth, 46ft.;
dr?®?* * height of grooves, 16ft.: proscenium,
36 by 30; dressing accommodation unlimited. Rent
-
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OP THE PIANO-
Communications to be addressed, care o£
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
SMITH & MANNELL,
THE SHIRT MANUFACTURERS OP
AUSTRALASIA,
BOT7R1KE,
la the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel in the Western ’District. The Table and Liquorg
cannot be surpassed, even in the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. First-class Stabling.
THOMAS HUGGIVIS, Proprietor.
Oiticura
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and CtrTicDRA Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiliers, externally.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Itching; and Burning; Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, washerwoman’s It
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peouhvgj
to both sexes. Instantly relieved by a warm bath
Cuticura, the Great Skin Curb (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases. ’’
Australian Consignees,
JJ. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Bashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiliers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared bt the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
CASTOR I At
for Infants and Children.
Castorla cures Colic, Constipation,
Sow Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation,
Gives healthy sleep and promotes digestion,
Without injurious medication.
“Castorla is so well adapted to children that
I recommend it as superior to any prescription
known to me.” H. A. Archer, M. D., ,
111 Oxford, Street, New York. *3
Elliott Bros., Sydney, Agents.
“VICTORIA” OFNER BITTER-WATER,
The Best and Strongest Natural Aperient.
A Natural Fluid Magnesia, as a safe, ordinary, and gentle aperient in Inflammation
d Congestion, in Kheumatio and Gouty Disorders, against undue tendency to Fat,
ainst Iltemorrhoids, in Bilious Attacks and Disorders of the Liver.
Nature’s Aperient Remedy during Pregnancy, and in many Female Diseases ; for
ibitual Constipation, in Organic Diseases resulting from fatty degeneration, to remove
B consequences resulting from excess in diet, &o.
jag?” Q ne wineglassful will usually relieve the most distressing headache.
«« BOTTLE OF OF OTHER BITTER-
of Indigestion,
Sold in Bottles at Is. 6d. and 2s. }
d may be obtained of any Chemist or Patent Medicine Vendor in the United Kingdom.


m
A.
thirty shillings.
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
THIS triumph of musical Invention is acknow-
ledged on ail hands to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It is a wonderful little instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OP A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 22 reeds, plays in three keys, and all the
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the inventor, the world
was first Indebted for the Organotte; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
study, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of cost and crudeness.
It requires no skill to extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &o , &c., &o. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy.
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are sent with each
Instrument, and are so plain that “ be who runs
may read.” It is best adapted to the kind of musio
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card-holder for convenience
in singing. It will be found invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one j and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
or
474 GE0R6E STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities—from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can offer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corre-
spondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by ail educators and moralists
that musio is the great refining influence, and
especially with children its effect for good is
boundless. The love for music which musio in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, end parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other
wise hard task an easy one.
The price of the Autoplione Is 30s.,
and where good musio can be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autopho o for 30s. we
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for musio are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogues of tunes at any time.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Solo Agents for Australia s
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY,
i
474 George-street, Sydney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets.
Ball Room Special! ties.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 60% Hunter-street, Sydney.*
T> BALE and COMPANY,
BOLB AQBNTS
in
NEW SOUTH WALES
and
QUEENSLAND
for the
SWEET HAPSBURG PIANOS.
HAYDN ORGANS and HARMONIUMS,
and the
WONDERFUL
WERTHBIM SEWING MACHINES.
Liberal Terms of Time Payment.
SHOW ROOMS.
Sydney :
38? GEORGE STREET,
818 GEORGE STREET,
12 CENTRAL MARKETS,
and
151 OXFORD STREET,
or from our Travellers in town and country.
Head Offices and Warehouses :
371, 373, 375, 377a PITT STREET.
The most liberal terms to travellers in town
and country.
Commission only, or salary and commission.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Thsatrs ROTAt—“NIta’s First” p. 8
OPERAHouse—“Madame Ansrot”... »
Gaiety Theatre—” Rip Van Wink’e”
Academy ov Music.—Hisoocks’ F. Minstrels ..
The “ Colonel ” fired a new programme
into us on Saturday night. In the hall we noticed
some peculiarities. There were more vacant seats,
dead-heads, fat men, large-mouthed women and
mosquitos in the front seats than we ever remem-
ber before. Still, ’twas a very good house, and
why we mention the empty chairs is because they
are so seldom seen there. Probably the success
of the “Royal” people since the withdrawal of
their bewildering pantomime had something to
do with it. The appearance of Nick La (no less)
Feulllade always possesses, for us a fascination
weird and maddening. With the first rasp of his
bow the ghosts of gloriously mis-spent days and
wild nights of revelry rise from their graves and
file across our mental platform. The " Casino de
Venise” is again in vigorous youth. Ike Coleman,
Joe and Barney Thompson, with Harry Sellers in
readiness as * f ohucker-out” if the “gents” for-
get their manners or the “ ladles ” their modesty.
Then then cosy little drum upstairs, where the
roulette ball was kept rolling till jocund day stood
tip-toe on the [On, give us something fresh.—
Bd. B ] Well, anyway, this is what is running
through our head as Ball, the interlocutor, says,
“ Gentlemen, be seated,” and Nick's lovely mou-
stache comes into view.
• • •
!TThe singing on Saturday night was,
if anything, better than usual. Amery’s song,
** Trusty as Steel,” was the gem. There s
no denying that his voice has more music
In it than all the others welded together,
and that’s saying a great deal. Why he
has stuck to the burnt cork biz, so long,
Is as hard to guess as how the milk got into the
cocoanut, or John Davies Into a former Cabinet.
We give It up. While Sam Keenan is singing,
every grimace made by him is faithfully and un-
consciously copied by Amery. This occasionally
gives the latter’s face a bloodthirsty and cynical
expression entirely at variance with his amiable
character. It is Sam’s teeth, no doubt, that
possess for him the same terrible fascination that
they do for us. Gaunt and grim they stand out
from his gums like the blackened stumps in a 10-
acre paddock over which a devastating bushfire
has swept. And Bent had a “ comic topical ” ditty
—“ The Egyptian Question.” If Tennyson were
here, we might attribute it to him, but as he is
not, we are forced to put it down to either Garden
Honey or Dan O’Connor. Whoever wrote it has
quite as good an idea of poetry, as Mr. Dailey of the
time required to change a mob of Joskins into a ser-
viceable infantry regiment. Here’s one couplet—
“ If Gladstone were out and brave Palmerston
were in.
Brave Gordon this day might be living;
Rum-ti tum-ti tiddy.”
♦ * *
The stories were insufferably spun out,
and, as in a tedious law-suit, the point was often
reserved. In the “Coloured Wedding” Bent was
the clergyman. He proclaimed himself a man of
peace, but :a fistful of flour deftly planted be-
tween bis eyes seemed to change the tenor of his
thoughts. He forgot his sacred character, and
became noisily aggressive. W. B. Warner, the
“ Australian oomique ” {Eheu /), gave us a couple
of character songs, and, in response to an “ ankor,”
mostly from the gallery, a recitation, which was
chiefly remarkable for its novelty. But his
“ brogue ” requires attention. Some of the words
might pass muster in Cork, but many of them had
the unmistakable Woolloomooloo trade mark.
And Carroll was there with his brace of voices.
As we’ve said so much of this young man, and as
just now—although we are writing In a cellar—a
much-admired voice insinuates that it is time to
take the billy round for the beer, be must be con-
tent.
• • •
Then there was a sketch, “ Thespians,” by
Mr. Horace Bent. For us Mr. Bent’s sketches pos-
sess a maddening attraction. Through all of them
runs a pungent raillery combined with flashes of
fancy that would make Tom Hood give up writing
and take to peddling ootton-balis. And they never
degenerate into horse-play—this is the odd part of
it—but always keep up the same even level of im-
becility. Seeing them, and knowing how true
they are to nature, sets us speculating on what
place the nigger fills in the scheme of creation, or
why the Yankees liberated him. And yet the
whole.house laughed—none louder than we—to see
Horace prancing across the stage as a locomotive,
with a train of tin-cans, kerosene-tins, washing-
dishes, and saucepan-lids clattering behind him.
It is only when we reach home, and in the silence
of the night think of what enjoyment there might
be in life if penal servitude was the reward for
writing a “ negro sketch,” that we get morose and
murderous.
♦ * *
“ Wedded Bliss ” wound up the gaff. We
don’t know who the author is. If we did, we’d be
in gaol and he in the churchyard.
* * * #
L' Ent/r' Acte tells us that the “ Royal”
has repented and come back to “ popular prices.”
“ Much they knows about pop’lar pieces m these
yere digging.” we beard a towsle-bearded, blear-
eyed, malodorous busbman observe to his mate as
they dived into between the acts the other night.
“ wen I was in Californy in ’*9 it was nothink for
the dress circle; you got a dollar lor goln’ In the
pit, an’ e£ you climbed into the gal’ry you was
treated to a champagne blow-out wen the black
rag went down, besides bein’ allowed to empty
your sbootin’ irons at any o’ the ‘ push’ as didn’t
know their parts or couldn’t sing ‘ Yankee
Doodle’ to the gineral satisfaction. Them was
the times pard, (with chilling irony)”* Pop’lar
prices. Wofs yourn ?” We believe this to be
a gross exaggeration.
• * *
Ten we eounted in the Royal orchestra-
five strings, two woods, two brass, and the indispen-
sable drums. It is weak for so large a house.
This orchestral poverty is about the first
thing that Axes an English theatre-goer’s
attention when he drops in upon us. "Don't
tell me,” said a new chum (rather dlcta-
torlally, we thought) to us at the opera the other
night, “where are your horns,!your bassoons, your
opheioleldes, your oboes, your .” “Pardon,
sweet sir,” we observed, ‘‘remember you’re not
in London or Paris, or Vienna, but .” “ Who’s
talking about London,” he snapped. “You’re as
big as Dublin, and ever so much bigger than
Edinburgh, and you give us an orchestra of 10
or 12, just the instruments you can’t possibly do
without—I’d b’lieve you’d whittle it down to five
if you could—when, to make anything like a decent
show, you should have at least 20.”* We collapsed.
The truth of his strictures was too obvious. And
we may as well remark, as our hand is in, that
this is by no means the worst of the business.
Our impressarios very often start well, give us a
fair orchestra at the opening of a season, but
when things got a bit slack, or the season
approaches its and, there’s a string dropped here
and a reed there, and a brass maybe yonder, till
the opening 15 shrink down to the closing 10.
The fact is, and we challenge contradiction, ever
since poor Lyster gave up the biz. and took (let
us hope) a front seat in the greatest orchestra of
all, we have been treated shamefully in this de-
Eartment by his degenerate successors. And now,
aviog had our little growl, let us get back to the
Royal.
« * *
We nearly forgot. On the piccolo we
speak with authority, and play with singular
effect. Our skill on this tiny but harrowing in-
strument got us drummed out of one regiment,
and fourteen days pack-drill in another. Not now,
thank you-the story is too long and mournful for
us to give at present. Some other time, maybe.
What we would Impress upon you is, that, as
poetry found Goldsmith poor and kept him so,
even so the piccolo found us an outcast, and bids
fair to leave ua a pauper. Still, we love It. When
friends grow cold, funds run low, and a stony-
hearted landlady, with chilling politeness,
requests a “ settlement," we look ourselves
in, and play the variations to the “ Copen-
hagen waltz.” The other lodgers stand It
for about 10 minutes oh an average, before they
club together, settle the account, and poke a re-
ceipt in full under the door. Once —in Balmain,
this was—they held out for half an hour, but they
were mostly Civil servants and reporters. The
receipt given us on that occasion was stamped
with bricks, and necessitated our retirement to
the hospital for some months. All which goes to
show that we know something of the piccolo, so
that (this is serious) when at the Royal some nights
ago, we heard the player (we don’t know him, and
don’t want to) go through whole bars of musical
gymnastics with a tone and neatness almost equal-
ling Radoliff’s, we said, despondingly, "It we
could tootle like that, literature might go to
« * «
The house fills comfortably every night,
with the exception of the gallery. The opening
piece—" Written in Sand is a mere trifle, but it
is a sparkling, scintillating trifle. About the dia-
logue there is a keenness and finish, very plea-
sant when contrasted with the flabbly common-
places to which we are so often condemned to
hearken. “Your conduct is low,” pettishly re-
marks Kate Shirley (Miss Mayor) to her bibulous
cousin Tom (Mr. Vincent.) ‘‘Then it is all the
more easily over looked,” answers this confirmed
vaurien. Of neat little repartee like this “Written
in Sand” is full and running over. Undiluted
E raise is not much in our line. Still, we’ve tried
ard to think how the performance could be im-
proved upon, but our failure has been complete
and depressing. If are celcure artem be the highest
art (Horace told us so when Christianity was in
swaddling clothes), then Mr. Titheradge and Miss
Mayor are artists in the best sense. The night we
were there he had some troublo with the leg of
his chair. He is not the first. When the great day
of reckoning comes, it will be found that the leg
of a chair played a more important part in man’s
history than the printing-press, the steam engine,
or even The Bulletin. Nor is Tom Potts far
behind, while Mr. Flemming and Miss Watt-Tan-
ner (the inadequacy of any mere mundane punish-
ment for people who bring children into the
world with names like this is the only thing that
reconciles us to the doctrine of eternal torment)
go through tdieir parts in a manner that reflects
—[Oh, this is Evening News style.—Ed. B.]—credit
—[Booh I—Ed. B.] [Finish it yourself.—Critic.]
■ • •
“ Nita’s First ” followed. We’ve already
described it. From start to finish ’tls a scream. Of
course, some of the characters are impossible
, creations—St. Oeorge, for instance (although,
mind you, there are even in Sydney some well-
dressed imbeciles who nearly tie him). But this
does not make the fun less boisterous. It is not
with an occasional titter of approval that the piece
is received. The approbation goes far beyond
that, and expresses itself in stampings and guf-
faws. The night we were there, Jane—the house-
maid (Miss Pattie Brown)—laid the breakfast and
gawkily knocked a couple of eggs off the table.
They were the usual stage eggs, and were either
laid by the pre-historic hen, or were made of cast-
iron. Likely enough, they had done duty as eggs
when the actors who were condemned to eat them
were in frilled drawers or in embryo. Anyway,
they came to the ground like round shot, and a
fashionably-dressed, elderly lady behind us sent
a “puff” our way suggestive of an illicit still
concealed about her person, and followed by
"hard biled”ln a metallic "don’t-dear-me-sir”
voice. It was the only sign of animation she gave
during the evening.
♦ * * *
Friday saw the last of “ La Belle Helene ”
at the Opera House. Little Searrelle waits till bis
orchestral slaves are well seated before he enters
by a side door, and stalks moodily but majestically
to hiSxplace. We see by L’JEntr’ Acte (the funniest
fly-blister out) that he (we suppose ’tls he) severely
punished three "well-dressed cads,” who (we
quote) " aimed a most insolent and Insulting re-
mark at the fair companion on his arm.” (Booh I)
We shall keep a civil tongue In future. We object
to be flattened out before our time by any des-
perado, however distinguished.
* * *
The Echo man doesn’t wonder at “ He-
lene’s” not drawing. It was not to be expected
that people would take much Interest in things
that happened quite “a thousand years ago.”
Yah I At the temple that Calchas (Leopold. He is
the life of the piece) “ bosses,” one maiden laid a
votive offering of fruit. When she started for the
shrine, we thought she was a converted prize-
fighter. “Proud genius from his noble face
beams,” remarked Helen on first seeing the shep-
herd, Paris. An indescribable look of levity
Eassed over her face when he was described—by
eopold—as a mere "mutton-minder.” He might
have been, but to us he looked uncommonly like
the person who first potted us with the match-
box trick. Harding s most effective effort was in
“’Twas but a Dream,” with Plaisted. But the
pace is telling on him, and some of his upper notes
are a bit rough. Helen’s "Venus, dear, what have
1 done,” was received with plaudits. But to us
the prettiest and best-rendered movement was the
chorus with which the second act is brought to a
conclusion. A pleasant diversion was caused by
Meneiaus’ white, battered bell-topper rolling off
the stage and completely enveloping a dark, lanky,
long-haired young man, who plays one of the
fiddles in the orchestra with singular ferocity.
The incident might have been in the piece, but, if
so, it would be as well to expunge it before an
accident ocurs. For, some night, when this
"splrituelie ” kid is not minding, that hat’ll cover
him so that he’ll have to be dug out with a spade.
On Saturday, " La Perlohole ” is promised.
* * * *
A good crowd rolled up to judge for them-
selves what “ Rip Van Winkle” was like. There
were two intervals of about half-an-hour each
during the evening, and, as the gas was then kept so
low as it could be, without going out, there was a
good deal of ail-round gratitude expressed. The
upshot of it all was that the curtain didn’t fall
till half-past 11, and so an opportunity was given
people at Waverley, Woollahra. Bondi, &o., to walk
home. Grey-headed, sedate looking men, and
severe middle-aged women hurried along to the
junction of Liverpool and Elizabeth Streets, learnt
from a minion there that the last trams had gone,
and then sat on the rails to invent a new and in-
genious description of blasphemy to meet the
case. We have lived much amongst soldiers,
sailors, lumpers, and larrikins, but we never knew
what profanity was till we walked up Oxford-
street on Monday night behind a mob of Waverley
people who had been to the Gaiety.
• • •
The opera of “Rip Van Winkle” is not
only founded on the play, but is identical with it,
or nearly so—so far, of course, as the dialogue is
concerned. Everybody knows the story of the
drunken vagabond and his long sleep among the
mountains. Appleby was “ Rip,” and would have
made a good one if he could eing. But having a
voice suggestive of a cross between a circular
saw and a colicky-camel, his solos left the house
feeling the legs of their chairs to see if they
could be easily unscrewed. When a piece depends
wholly or largely upon acting, he is a success.
Hut when he has to tackle long solos and climb
up to a high tenor note here and there, he is
(this is putting it delicately) not at his best. M.
Loredan was an English Intantry Captain, and
had Utile to do but make love to Mias Leaf—which
he did to the satisfaction of the house, and, no
doubt, his o urn and hers. His uniform requires
some attention. A needle and a piece of white
. cotton properly applied will cover a multitude of
—sins. His knee-breeches, too (universal at the
time) might be turned (out) to advantage. The
sash, mon cher, was not worn over the shoulder like
that when George III. was King.
* * *
Mis Leaf’s laugh is infectious. Mr. Dark
(the schoolmaster) makes timid overtures (honour-
able, of course) to her, while Ivanova is explain-
ing, to indifferent music, the mystery of the
" Kaatskills.” He is unsuccessful—that time at
least. One good look at hie legs explains why.
It is the refinement of cruelty to oblige him |
to appear In knee-breeches. It doesn't give
him a chance of pressing bis suit with any
hope of success. “ What would you do," he
sheepishly asks Miss Leaf, “ If you Jived in a glass
house ?” “ Pull down the blinds.” she Jerked
out promptly, and she looked as if she would do
so, and then —proceed to enjoy herself. Master T.
Myers and Miss Maud Morrison are two kids. Maud
is about seven or eight, and T. perhaps a little
Sounger. But they are marvellous—especially
[aud. Cid! to see the wee wench’s self -posses-
sion I Mr. Vernon was the landlord—Nick Vedder.
We have tried to discover where his representa-
tion was faulty, but—so far—have not succeeded.
And there were soldiers In the piece. If our boys
bouud for Soudan are anything like them, the
Arabs will have them converted Into sausage meat
an hour after landing.
• * •
Over Vedder’s inn is a picture of George
III. which does duty as George Washington (a
much more respectable man) after the British sur-
render. But then one meets pictures of George
Washington In the oddest places—performing, pos-
sibly, some useful function. The best music (such
as It is) In the piece is allotted to Ivanova, Rip’s
wife. “ Come back to me ” is a pretty, taking air.
But it is In the concerted piece that whatever
musical strength (not very much) the piece has lies.
The chorus ending the first act is the best of them.
From a musical point of view, “ Rip Van Winkle ”
is decidedly weak, in both music and dialogue it
hobbles. During most of the performance on
Monday the audience looked stonily on, as if they
would like to kill somebody, but didn’t know ex-
actly whom to fix upon. There is no sounder test,
after all, than the conduct of an average audience.
If you find them (this is for the “ perfesh ”) look-
ing at their .watches or at the doors, or smiling
feebly when you thought they would be clamour-
ous, then, mea amis, the fault is either with you or
with the piece—a little of both, (perhaps—and not
them. Remember the simmer the bouse was kept
in during “ Boccaccio’s ” reign; compare it with
the dull apathy of Monday, and—be wise.
“ Confusion ” has accomplished its seventh
lap at the Melbourne Bijou, and is still on the
track. For all that, there are plenty of people
who will tell you that the piece is as dull as ditch-
water, that the incidents are too impossible to be
humorous, and that (this with majestic emphasis)
there’s nothing sparkling about the dialogue.
Bless their hearts I Do they ever remark a painful
lack of luminosity about their dialogue, we won-
der? Not they. After indulging In this little
philosophical outburst, we’ll candidly admit that
a good deal of the talk in “ Confusion ” is not
ultra-Byronic. But, then, that doesn't matter
much, because the two principal characters don’t
talk at all. The beat and burden of the play are
borne by a pug dog and a baby, both of which are
speechless. We’re well aware, of course, that an
impulsive young mother doesn t think “ baby ” is
speechless. To her, baby talk is the purest
poetry in the whole of the wide, wide world.
Out of consideration for her motherly feel-
ings, we never would have referred to the “ Con-
fusion ” baby ns speechless if it had been a
live ’un. But it isn’t. Judging from the colour
of the legs peeping out from its dainty white gar-
ments, we should guess the youngster had been
dead for years. And the other leading character
—the pug-dog—doesn’t say any more than the
baby, although *ho thinks a lot. Bo, if you have
followed our reasoning closely, you will see that
sparkling dialogue is not an actual necessity to the
successor a three-aot comedy like “Confusion."
What is of far more moment, is that it should pos-
sess a small element of naughtiness, a slight fla-
vouring of giddiness. In this George Rignold's
latest importation is not wanting. There are some
speeches put into the wrinkled mouth of the
maiden aunt which—but control your impatience,
dear friends, for you will soon have an oppor-
tunity of Judging of their wickedness for your-
selves.
A GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY.
Never again will the ladles of Sydney have the
golden opportunity, ‘now offered by Summerfleld
and Co., the Great Juvenile Outfitters, to buy
boys’clothing at the price now selling. Thin UI
Boys’ Knlcker Suits, in every size, at 4$. lid., 5s.
lid., 7s. 6d.; extra qualities, in fine Worsteds, at
10a. 6d. md 13s. 6d. Long Trouser Suits, at 17s. 6d #
and 21s. Summerfleld and Co., The Great Juvenile
Outfitters, 235 and 237 Pltt-street.*
Our Anniversary festivities are past and
gone, and so is the Citizens’ Ball to Commodore
Krskine and his officers. Now there is plenty of
leisure to visit the upstairs and other show-rooms
of Bray Bros., 403 and 404 George-street. New
Dogs, Goats, Deer, and Dinner Sets just received.*


PEPPER AND SALT.
Here’s our luck again. We never loved a
young gazelle or a domino club, but the first was
certain to be locked up, and the second to be
busted. Look at Glblln’s now over the Fulford-
Buokingham business. That was a place we re-
vered ; and the only reason we avoided Glblin
when there, was because he always wanted to read
to you about Joshua and the Mount of Olives.
Glblin used to go to church all Sunday, and be-
lieved in every particular concerning Joseph—
also his brethren. To us, he said, “Never
gamble ! Fray as much as you like, but don’t
wager.” This will at once show his bona-fides.
When we want to gamble now we will go some-
where else. Glblln’s is far too holy a place for us.
• • •
We understand that despite the critical
situation of England, with regard to Germany in
respect to its New Guinea policy, the attitude of
the warriors at Fort Macquarie is still undaunted.
The heroes of Dawes Point, too, wish to be led to
carnage; and the garrison at Bradley's Head states
that he would prefer an easy death at the hands of
enemy to enforced inactivity. “Even
with nine meals a day,” he cries, “I find! the time
hang heavily on my hands. Let them Just hoist
another man up here to fire off this old gun (I
ean't), and give me active service. Who’s afraid I
Put me in a sentry-box with an arm-chair and a
gas-stove, outside a public-house, and I’ll keep
guard till further orders. I’m good colonial grit,
I am.” We are as much re-assured by this as
though we saw Lieutenant Nathan sharpening his
sabre on a grindstone.
■ • •
A bevy of clerical gentlemen were “doing
a pitch ” lately on the subject of local option and
the liquor question generally, when one of them*
whose sermons, like a nostrum which need not be
mentioned here, “induce sound and refreshing
slumbers when everything else has been tried in
vain,” said, “Well, I may say for myself that I
never so much as taste a glass of wine, for, speak-
ing confidentially (and here he tipped a knowing
clerical wink) alcohol of any kind makes a perfect
fool of me." “Ah I ” chipped in a layman, who had (
unnoticed by the reverend inheritors of Apostolic
powers, taken a front seat at the meeting, “ you
mean then that liquor does not affect you in any
way whatever,” But the irreverent one took good
care to make himself a stranger to the neighbour-
hood before the meaning of his remark was per-
ceived.
* ♦ »
“For this relief, much thanks.” That’s
what Lord Wolseley of Cairo will say, when our
gallant array arrives to succour him. It is not
generally known that this idea of sending away
soldiers, on part of the Executive, borders on the
furtive. “ By,” argues Dailey, “ sending 500 troops
to Egypt, if we can do the enemy no harm, a 1
least we can do Wolloomooloo some good.” We
know a whole lot of recruits who would be glad
to go. Twenty-seven cavaliers who earn a pre-
carious living by “ foxing ” outside Wooloomooloo
pubs, on Sunday, have reported themselves as
willing to wade in gore for their country. Three
barbers out of work are also eager for the fray.
Thirty-four gentlemen who reside in the Domain
call as loudly for a horse as ever Richard the Third
did; and the one-armed man who sells papers
outside the Post Office demands a sabre and a
salary. There is, however, not much enthusiasm
to be found amongst the regulars at Dawes Point.
The Idea prevalent among them is that there is
nothing in their articles of association with the
Government to compel them to do more than de-
fend Lower George-street at the bayonet’s point.
Confine them to Lower George-street, they say,
and prodigies of vtllour may be expected. In a
confidential conversation with one of the de-
fenders of our hearths and homes the other day*
he said: “It’s not for the danger. We have all
hearts of she-oak—oak, I mean; but wo don’t care
about the trouble of fighting. Besides, it spoils
your clothes.” This is happily not yet known to
the intrepid Nathan, who, ever since the intelli-
gence that his services might be required in the
field, has been sand-papering his battle-axe.
JARGON.
“ I own I’ve met a better man ”
(Forgive him for his sins);
“ In my next race,” then Beach began,
“ I hope the best man wing.”
“ I’ll win, for I know all is fair.
And I will use no ruse;
And all my friends, 1 now declare,
Will see the worst man lose.
“ My name’s Ned Hanlan, and to hide
This fact, sirs, I don’t want to;
I’ll pull for millions a side—
Yes, I come frow Torontol”
It really jars, Ned, understand!
So please put in the bung—
“ Three cheers for Mr. Clifford, and
The health of Mr. Young."
The following has been handed to us for
publication, but whether as a guarantee of good
faith or not we have not yet been able to deter-
mine :—
“ Auckland.
“ Feb, —1884.
“ dero Frank, don’t put this in print as it lax
my usual pollish having been sea sick. I made
a little pome on It. It begins—
* Thy name is Norsea, in the ’ ( ansetra .
Our Only General.
“ SHOULD IT EVER BE MY LOT TO LAY ASIDE THE PEN AND TAKE UP THE SWORD, I KNOW OF NO BODY OF MEN I WOULD
SOONER LEAD ON TO GLORY THAN THOSE I SEE HERE TO NIGHT.”
[Alfred's speech, on being banquetted by a number of pot-bellied toadies, and other kidney-fat warriors ]


It’s very pretty and when quite done you can
put it in the ladys kollum. a paper is going to
put in a par about me bedded— ‘ Arrival of a
Distinguished literature.’ I seen it in print
last nlte it begins ‘ we gladly welcome to these
shores a famous jernelist and scholard who has
done so much In his kuntry for fine arts and
the hel Utters (ask Kris what this is) a man told
me beniker got It and it has been in type ever
since copy it in the News and add something
about the ‘amonla* of jernelism.’ all well
except the botom out of a shoe trunk caused
by the devouring billers, must clothes to
catch the male.
“ALFRED.
“ poetorlptwill send a large suply of the
worst ink In the world from Frlsker.
“A.
The last mlnnlt. found that the Sydney
washerwoman has charged 9d. too much also
two odd sox how can I expect to get rich’
“A.”
This communication was endorsed, “ Quote from
this among the breviaries.—Frank.”
• • *
Now that it has been officially announced
that an army is to proceed to Egypt, additional in-
terest will be centered in what we are about to re-
8 e ’ When we lirst heard of the calamity in the
ooudan (every phase of which has been so abun-
antly recorded), and that it was in contemplation
to offer a contingent of N. 8. Wales heroes to the
British Government, we sharpened up our pike,
and used It with groat effect after hours in the
folding-room. We got filled, somehow, with a
yearning for martial glory; and should, undoubt-
edly, have volunteered to make one of the gal-
lant band which is to encompass the destruction
of the Mahdl, but for the following advertisement
which appeared in the newspaper:—
“ Important Meeting.— In view of the
mlLi 8 ™ 10 ? 8 %P ect of ln tb0 Soudan, a
of citizens will he held at 4 to-mor-
row, at the Tambaroora Hotel, |ln thlscilv to
consider the advisability of ' recalling
requesting him to*place
hU flword at the disposal of his country.
“ (Signed) Garden Honey, sec, pro. tem.”
There was a mixed muster, which Included Chris.
Bennett, Frank, Thumby Davis, the Celebrated
Chicken Butcher, Wlngy Cohen, Percy Lucas.
Billy Hayes, and many more distinguished per-
sonage*. General M‘Iver was also understood to
be watching the proceedings on behalf of the
Republic of Uruguay. Chris., rising, said he
desired, before addressing the meeting at length,
to move his valued friend Garden Heney into the
chair. This being seconded by the Celebrated
Chicken Butcher, Garden Honey took the chair
accordingly—having previously requested Frank
to keep an eye on his orange*. Chrl*. then pro-
ceeded to state that they had met together to dis-
cuss the advisability that a deputation, selected
from a committee to be afterwards appointed, wait
upon his gallant brother (now in America,) and
request him to lead the colonial armies to glory.
(Hear, hear.) The Celebrated Chicken Butcher
then rose to move the first resolution! “That
this meeting approves of a deputation waiting
upon Alfred with the view named. He himself
had had a large experience In chicken-butchering,
and was assured that the gallant gentleman in
question was the very man for Generalissimo of
the New South Wales forces. When chicken-
butchering up country, ho had had some expert*
ence of warfare, having been for 10 days corporal
in the Gundagal Galoots. He Intended to do as
much Arab-butchering in Egypt as he had done
chicken-butchering in the market.” (Applause.)
Frank then roto and said he was willing to assist
the meeting in any but a pecuniary way. He
moved that all expenses connected with the expe-
dition to Alfred be defrayed by the Government.
(Carried.) And further he suggested that those
member* of the various committees who are to
meet hereafter for the transaction of business,
defray the cost of their own refreshments. This
was also carried,after some demur,the principal dis-
sentients being;tho Chairman and the Chicken-But-
cher. At this point Chris, rose excitedly, and said he
wished to make a personal explanation. A person
present (he would not say bottle-merchant) bad
sot going a story to the effect, In the first blush of
the excitement consequent on the death of Gor-
don, he (Chris.) had started for the Soudan, but
had not got any further than Wollongong. (Cries
record that, prompted by his friends, Mr. Pearce
dldlpropose, In due form, to the lady, who, in reply
told him to run away and play. Mies Carmichael
has now been wedded for some months to a Mr.
Townsend, who, it la reported, is of a singularly
unromantlo temperament. Miss C. has, therefore
now, in Edinburgh, to take in the milk, knead ul-
limlted bannocks for the old man, brew a peck o’
maut (presumably not with a right gude willio
waught— whatever the deuce that may bel), and
manipulate the kail. When asked, it Is rumoured,
by the boss, the other day, to do him up his other
shirt, and look sharp, as he bad to attend a lodge
meeting, she crlod-“To you may be sweet
tempests of a stormy home, give me the peaceful
romance of the lovely Loch Ard.” And it was aJ
he could do to dodge It, as the flat-iron went hurl
Ing through the air.
of “ Shame I” and “ Apologise J ”) The story was a
gross fabrication. Thumby Davis then said he be-
lieved he was the person alluded to. He refused
an apology, and believed moreover that, on the
occasion of the last speaker's recent European
tour, he went to London by way of Ultimo, and
stopped there. Confusion, during which Garden
Honey hastily vacated the chair, as he had to go
for his Evening Newsbs; and Wlngy Cohen then
taking possession of it, after a short wrestle with
clie Clllcken .the meeting sine
* * *
You all remember Miss Carmichael, who
was saved by midshipman Pearce, whom some
idiots considered she ought to marry, it is on
How About “Dilly” Dailey, Now?


There was a lot of humour in the proceed-
ings of the Newsletter people, and it 1s to be
regretted that they have not been able to carry
out their benevolent literary intentions d Vigard
of the “ solitary shepherd ” and the “ adventurous
back-blocker.” The humour of it is that over 40
country papers and one metropolitan weekly were
taken in by Bodway’s effusion, which, as we
pointed out, when it first appeared, was full of
absurdities. The thrilling story by the late Charles
Dickens, for Instance, was a gorgeous joke, and
the statement that they had made special arrange-
ments with the postal department to have the
Newsletter delivered alike at the mansion of the
squatter and the hut of the boundary-rider, was
a magnificent flight 1 The paper was announced to
come out on October 26, but the newspaper yokels
in the country continued inserting the ad. on credit
until far into December. When things began to
wear a somewhat ugly aspect, we went upstairs in
J. D. Young’s building, and discovered the News-
letter offices, which consisted of four rooms—
secretary’s office, board-room, reporters room,
and another room whose name we forget. It was
easy to see, at a glance, that the first three of these
partments were entirely unfurnished; while the
fourth contained a small rlcketty table, a carpet
composed exclusively of exchanges; three chairs;
and a groat big white jug (dirty) full of colonial
beer. Two mottled-faced men in greasy attire sat
at the table, pottering over a confused heap of
greasy slips—one of them (the dirtier) feigning to
be writing. Wo said—” When do you propose to
come out ?” On this the one who was writing said,
In tones quavering with nervousness, “ You’d
better see him—he knows—I’m only the seo-
ketary.” “ Where Is Tie ? ” we enquired.
»• Gone to Parramatta,” was the ominous reply*
“There are some parts of your programme which
we don’t quite grasp,” we went on; “ perhaps you’
(turning to the other, who was shaking like an
aspen leaf)—“ perhaps you, sir, can explain how
you propose to make up your paper.” “ I’m only
here temporary,” he replied; “you’d better seen
him indeed.” “ You have seen a copy of the S. F*
Newsletter, we presume, gentlemen ? ” “ No-
oo,” they replied, uneasily—” not yet.” “ Gentle-
men,” we said, with a beaming smile, “it is now
Dec. 20tb, and your treat to the adventurous back-
blocker was promised for the 26th of October last;
and you have not even seen a copy of the S. F.
paper you are to stereo! Gentlemen, good morn-
ing. All doubts as to the genuineness of this pro-
duction are now set at rest; but were we in your
editor’s place wo should not hurry back to the
office for a year or two.” And we walked away,
leaving them gasping. The sequel is to come.
When the Evening News reporter inter-
viewed Mr. Froude, he noticed that he had “ only
a common old fashioned watch-chain, and was
attired in a loose grey tweed suit.” We have not
space to show how thoroughly Mr. Froude was un-
wound, but we select a few unpublished mems. “ I
believe, Mr, Froude, you are the author of the
Shorter Catechism?” “You do me too much
honour. You must know that I am a disciple of
Thomas cf Chelsea.” “ I am glad to meet you.
Give me your hand. I’m a Chelsea man myself.
And how is old Thomas doing? I bought these
boots from him thirteen years ago, and the uppers
are good yet. By the bye, you can get a patch on
the ipstep here for a shilling, while you wait*
he still in the boot line?” “You make
a mistake. The Thomas I refer to is dead. He
was a writer—Thomas Carlyle.” “ Never heard of
him—what paper did he report for ? If you’re
not sure he’s dead, Bennett, that’s our boss, might
fake him on. Bennett’s our boss, you know, and
he’s gone to England to pick up men and things.”
“ I am certain he’s dead; and, anyhow, I am
afraid his views and the Bennetts’ would clash. I
don’t think they could work together in one
room.” “ What might you pay in England for a
suit like that?” “Sir?” “ The suit—that tweed suit.
Two pounds ten.” Mr. F : “ You observe that
door?” “ I do; they’re made in Sydney. We ban
compete with the imported article.” “ Have you
taken a full view of that door? Note how
gracefully it is designed to close behind one
on walking out to breathe the balmy breeze off
your beautiful harbour.” “ In this interview,’
continued the E. N., helping himself to a
of cut-up from Mr. Froude’s pouch on the mantle-
piece, “ I think It would facilitate my enquiries if
yon would narrow your observations now to the
point I raise. We like Brevities in our paper-
Now, about annexation, and all that. Give me in
few words what you know.” Mr. F. furiously ;
“ I think .” "Tut, tut, never mind what you
think, I want facts. Stick to the point, my man,’-
and a moment afterward a hat dashed on the foot’
path, from which rolled a junk of corned beef and-
a cold carrot, followed by a mass of a reporter with
legs tied in a knot, and two arms broken. There
was also the slam of a door.
Hop Bitters gives good digestion; active
liver, good circulation and bouyant spirits. Redd
larger.
Got there at last, the boat made fast
(Those steps broke a suspender),
A soldier red, in sad tones said,
“ Don’t fire, sir, I surrender.
“ I’m not afraid, still I’m not paid
With enemies to trifle;
Take,” he did cry, without a sigh,
“ My ’bacca and my rifle.”
“ Steal on—now hush I—the other ‘ push ’—
I don’t do this for lucre I—
Is staking hard on ev’ry card,
Their game is * out-throat euchre.’ ”
We gazed in—there were fierce alarms.
And all cried, “ We lay down our arms.”
Then with a smile, one by his style,
Was certainly commander
(A weak flow’r he who seemed to be
A social oollander);
“This fort your prize now quickly make it;
We’ve long wished somebody would take it.”
* * *
Salvation Army Captain, entering bar of
well-conducted pub.: "Buy a War Cry, sir; only
a penny.” Landlord: “ Why, arn’t you the man
who roars out that my hotel is a temple of Belial ?’*
S.A.C.: “It wasn’t me, please, sir; it was the other
Capting. Buy a ” [exit hurriedly.]
* * *
A CALAMITY.
(Inscribed to the “Evening News.’*)
Dismay was in each limpid eye,
And paralysed each brain;
sey and Commandant Hill are wavering in their
allegiance, as they are of opinion that Mr. Smith
has neglected to forward their claims with re-
ference to several public matters.”— Macleay
Herald.
Shame on ye, rustics, for (how true!)
R. B. has been too good to you!
We know, sirs, that the Kempsey men
Have bridges nine to ev’ry ten!
The local blacksmith has, we’re sure,
An aqueduct “agin his dure!”
And each selector has (you goad
Us to hot frenzy) his own road!
The man who rowed the punt, we state,
Is now a blooming magistrate 1
Up there there are no “Junior hands,”
All Kempsey’s kids are “ in the Lands I”
The girl who was an hotel waiter
Is now a “ junior operator;”
The gawk who kept (we vow no less!)
A toffee-stall, is “ C.P.S.”
The man who used to hawk his fish
Has in the Lands a fine “ peslsh.”
A road was closed upon a run—
A wink, sirs, and the trick was done!
Scorn Cupid when he asks, ah zounds I
For Kempsey, twenty thousand pounds!
When he could bring a small-sized dray
And cart your puny town away I
You’re bumptious, that we must allow;
But, come I where’s Kempsey, anyhow ?
When Bob sees you have made this fuss
Eheu! Gordon.
THE GARRISON.
The breeze was stiff, as in a skiff
(With jib and mainsail, too),
We straightway steered to what upreared
Above the “ waters blue ”—
(The last line’s sad and almost solemn,
But we must have some mor. 1 a column.)
They searched for “ it ” both low and high.
But always searched in vain!
They clustered, those reporters four,
Their looks were white and blank.
Who’d meet the eye of Davies, or
The spectral gaze of Frank ?
“ You had it last.” “ I gave it back— ”
“ Oh, it was you, I think,
Who painted where it wasn’t black
The blotches o’er with ink.”
• ••••♦♦
Despair and gloom it did befall,
You’d on each wan face note;
That night it was the Mayor’s ball,
And where was the dress coat 1
They clubbed together for the “ tin,”
Though sorely put about;
The fact is—that dress coat is “ in,”
And they must get it out.
They got it out, that fatal coat;
They felt no man’s disdain;
And o’er this item you will gloat
That garment’s “ in ” again.
:GRATITUDE!
“ Our Member.—We regret to hear that
Mr. R. B. Smith, M.P., has found it necessary to
decline the invitation of the Agricultural Society
to be present and open the Show, through pressing
engagements. At the present time several of Mr.
Smith’s most prominent supporters inWest Kemp-
(We wish he represented us !)
He’ll straightway (you can take our tip)
Give all you dunderheads the slip!
Then, how you’ll rue that sorry day I
The town will fall to dire decay 1
When not for it he’s in his seat,
The grass will grow in ev’ry street;
The Mayor will offer with a sob
The Town Hall clock for thirty bob.
The wharf will be but food for worms.
The pound put up on “lib’ral terms;”
And then you, in your dire despair
And hunger, sirs, will eat the Mayor!
’Tis pain, this, to the bard who sings;
He hates to say unpleasant things.
VICTORIAN PATRIOTIC SONG.
The bold British Lion once boasted of claws,
Helghol helgho!
They were snugly concealed ’twixt the pads of his
paws,
Heigho! helgho!
But still now and then, in the moment of need.
He could let ’em out, but from what we can read,
The King of the Forest is altered indeed—
Helgho! heigho 1
For now the poor beggar seems clawless and old,
Heigho! heigho!
And submits to be chained with bright fetters of
gold,
Helghol helghol
Quite still on his haunches he sits in a doze.
While Eagles take tit-bits from under his nose
(Bill Gladstone has drugged him with “ gab,” we
suppose)—
Heigho! heigho!
But Service shall shout in his drowsy old ear:
“ Hulloa! hulloa!
Awake, shake the mane like you used to do, dear—
Hulloa! hulloa I”
The Lion will hearken, and make himself free,
His roar shall re-echo across the broad sea,
And the Eagles will screech (in duet) as they flee—
“ Hul-loa ! Hul-loo
[Certainly.— Ed. B.]


TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“Inquisitive,” of Ermington, asks : 1. Are
priests allowed to marry one belonging to
their own Church and one of another de-
nomination? 3. What costume is most appro-
priate for a young lady taking the character
of a Dutch girl? 3. What is the latest
style of dress? 4. What is thought of my hand-
writing ? Answers : 1. Certainly, so long as he
marries them to different spouses. 3. A Dutch
costume would be quite the cheese. 3. A night-
gown 4. Good enough for more useful purposes
than asking ridiculous questions “Anxious”
(also from Ermington, and writing on same paper as
“ Inquisitive ”) asks; 1. Is it bad taste to wear gold
and silver jewellery together? 3. Which is correct,
the third finger of the right, or the third finger of
the left hand, to wear the engagement ring on ?
3. Which are the most fashionable, black kid
gloves or gauntlets ? 4. What do you think of my
handwriting, and would you advise me to change
it? Answers: 1. Undoubtedly not, if a married
woman. Silver suites are worn with a gold wed-
ding ring, or even single girls with gold-mounted
teeth. 3. On both, if you can get him to shout
two diamond rings. 3. White women should
not have black kids. 4. Think you should
employ another hen to scratch for you
E.D.” (Melbourne): Still below par. Why spin
so long a web with so little silk ? We utilise just
•™p —"Fred. Heyne”: Your letter received.
-Thanks. Story was original, but was written six
years ago for the Queenslander when author
was connected with that paper...." The Zemin-
dar” : Will try and find space for it. But why lay
the scene in Calcutta ? Nous avons changi tout
cela. ... A.S.*'(Goulburn): Rather a risky sigaa-
ture, yours. You evidently don’t know the yarn
about Douglas Jerrold and Albert (Smith. Smith
signed, as you do, A.S., and Jerrold remarked
that the signature conveyed only two-thirds of
the truth. What you send us is not poetry,
although it evidences both feeling and thought.
You love poetry and nature evidently. Well,
suppose you love music —that wouldn’t in-
vest you with the gift of composing it
“Fred Nelson”: Roughish, but grit in it....
“Major General MTver”: We should be obliged
if you would kindly call....“Land Grabbing”:
Fair. Would perhaps suit the Sydnev Mail....
“How I was bested." We would prefer
something from your friend Tom, as he seems able
to go one better “Chandos” : Verses not
worthy of you. nor even of the Mahdi. Par. uti-
lized J.M.K.”: Ingenious but laboured. Lacks
motif, also. Try something in another vein.
There’s ore somewhere about "Zacharlah”;
Thanks. Didn’t find card enclosed. Please
send it up, and we will publish par
“Philo Veritas”: Your little essay on wealth
shows that your mind is active, but also that you
write before you have read. It is very crude, and
tends rather to confuse than elucidate the subject.
You use as convertible, terms which are quite dis-
tinctive. You must learn to distinguish between
“money” and “wealth," for example. Had you
studied the subject, you would never have laid
down such a maxim as “Financial skill and a
faculty for business are even greater money-pro-
ducers*’—than money itself. Here you use the
term money as though it was the same as wealth.
Now, neither financial skill nor business faculty is
a producer of wealth. (The production of
money Is not a philosophical process at all. but
a mechanical art; money being merely a medium
of exchange—generally coin, sometimeslpapor,
cowrie shells, cakes of salt, etc., etc.) Industrial
skill and mechanical aptitude are factors in the
production of wealth. Financial skill and business
faculty produce nothing, and add nothing to the
world s stock of commodities. These qualities
simply enable one man to obtain for himself more
than bis due proportion of commodities already
existing. That is not production—it is mere artful
appropriation’...."R.W.": Quite impossible. ...
Cato : In last week’s paper you will see a re-
ference to the matter. New religions or reforms
are always persecuted and misrepresented. Do
you know that the early Christians were accused
of the most infamous practices. Luther was like-
wise accused of all sorts of indecent and vile con-
duct. In marryinar a nun, he as violently out-
raged the social decencies as generally observed
and understood in bis days, as a man would in
these times by living with a woman without mar-
rying at all. The spirit of persecution and
bigotry is as rampant as ever, only the op-
portunities are fewer. The books for publishing
which Freethinkers like Brad laugh and Mrs.
Besant have been prosecuted, are maintained by
Freethinkers to be valuable and instructive, and
not published for indecent purposes any : more
than the books of Aristotle. But the plea is of no
more avail against prejudice than was Luther’s
declaration that his views were not impious. If
the row occurred at the grave in the manner de-
scribed, the exhibition was one of disgusting bad
feeling and bad taste. There are violent and of-
fensive bigots even among reformers It wasn’t
good taste of the early Christians to defile the altars
of their heathen neighbours, for example: yet the
early Christians were sincere and right in the main
... U. S. A.” (Wardell) Richmond : Sorrv to
hear you didn’t get your Christmas copy. That
issue was exceedingly popular—in the Post Office
We have no doubt you “ did it.” They “ a’ do it”
..., Vinci” (Penrith); Your letter, till now, over-
looked; will probably bo the text for an article,
shortly.......“ j.8. ’ (Bolivia): Not much in the
verses about the three brothers who married three
young women. If the three brothers had married
iT 0 . 1 } 11 *! wom an it would have been odd. That
the brides names were Wheat and Mill opens the
way to a sort of double entendre, no doubt. But
we don t r ultivste wheat when it is affected bv
8mu * bnoeks ” : Thanks for cartoon sug-
gestion. Very welcome, but subject had already
been treated when yours was received “Second
Attack ” writes us a long rigmarole from Sand-
hurst:—“I have heard that you have a room of
horrors, in which are the remains of unfortunate
poets, whom you lured to your den—and rash
publicans who asked to pay up old scores. Is
there any room for me?” Well, no, “Second
Attack,” we can’t find room for you there. Your
proper sphere appears to be either the lunatic
asylum or the dusthole...." Voltaire”: There is
a very easy way of remedying the fanaticism of
which you justly complain. So long as you allow
such a number of clergymen on the committee of
your School of Arts, and allow them practically
to choose the books and papers you should read,
what do you expect? Rollup, then, to the next
committee meeting, and put on t! aboard liberal-
minded men, who will supply you with mental
pabulum other; than Sunday ischool slip-slop.
The Philosopher and the Pit.
“A PHILOSOPHER, AS HE WALKED ABROAD, FIXED HIS BYES ON THE STARS, AND REFLECTED DEEPLY ON THE WONDERS OF THE CONSTELLATIONS. WHILE
SO PONDERING, HE WALKED INTO A PIT WHICH HE HAD OVERLOOKED."-(Old Proverb)


“ BEACH’S ”
INT£RNATI0MAL_C0N8ULTATI0N8.
SYDNEY CUP and NEWMARKET
HANDICAP
NOW OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10s. EACH.
Address—
" BTJACHjf.’
Care of J. G. Deeble,
Hotel, Kingr-street, Sydney
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We $hdU be glad to have thU index potted up by
teeretariet of racing clubt and manager $ of
•porting event* in general.}
RACING.
Tasmanian R.O February 18,19
Murrumburrah T.C. (Annual) February 18,19
Moree February 35, 38
Taralga (Annual) February 35, 36
Manaro J.O. (Annual) February 35, 36
Yass R.C -.. March 5, 6
Canterbury Park R.O March 7
V.R.C. Autumn Mooting Feb. 38, March 5. 7
Goodooga J.C March 11,13
Orange J.C March 11,13
Goulburn Turf Club March 13,13
Barmedman R.0 March 17
Liverpool J.C MarohJ7
Bombala J.O March 17.18
Glen Innes J.O March 17,18
Gundagal J.O March 17,19
Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.) J.C March 17,19
Canowindra J.O March 30
Wellington J.C... March 24, 35
Cowra J.C March 35,36
Tumut March 35, 36
Hawkesbury R.O. (Autumn) March 36, 38
Yarraman April 6
A. J.C. (Autumn) April 6, 8,10,11
Rosehlll R.C April 18
Mudgee Tattersall’s R.C April 33, 34
Canterbury Park R.O May 16
Rosehlll R.C May 33
Wollongong T.C. (Autumn) May 35
Rosehlll R.C June 30
Rosehlll R.C July 18
Canterbury Park R.O August 1
Rosehlll R C August 8
Canterbury Park R.C '" • September 5
Hawkesbury (Spring) September 10 13
A.J.C. (goring) September 19,33, 34, 36
Rosehlll R.O October 3
Canterbury Park R.C October 17
Canterbury Park R.C December 19
Rosehlll R.0 December 38
AQUATICS.
Aquatic Show February 31
Clifford v. Beach February 38
Woolloomooloo Regatta March.
Rowe v. Kennedy, Nepea n March 14
Balmain R.C. Regatta March 31
Beach v. Han lan March 38
Hanlan v. Clifford (if Clifford beat Beach).... April 18
Intercolonial 8-Oar Race April
ATHLETICS.
Anderson v. Hogan, 3 miles, Kelly’s Grounds
February 31
Sir Joseph Banks Sheffield Handicap. Botany
March 14,18,31, and 38
Athletic Sports, Brushgrove March 17
Oddfellows’ 100-Guineas Handicap, Show
Grounds, Wollongong April 6
CRICKET.
Shaw’s Team v. 15 of Cumberland,
Parramatta March 13,14.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
At Temora last week, J. Courtney showed
his back to li. Thomas in a 160yds. spin on the
local cricket ground.
A portrait model of Captain Dudley, of
the ill-fated Mignonette, is the latest addition to
Madame Tussaud’s wax-works exhibition.
■In the last North of England match Atte
well took in the first and second innings respec-
tively five wickets for 18 runs and four for 30.
“The Physic winsl” shouted an excited
fair one on our right, when the Psyche made an
easy win of the “ mixed ” race at Snails Bay. Pact!
Here is a rare chance for some good old-
fashioned N.8.W. Legislative Councillor. T. Liddle,
of Blaydon, England, will run anyone living one
hundred yards backwards for £60 or £100 aside.
A subscription list has been started in
English rowing circles, with the object of placing
a head-steno on the grave of the once well-known
English sculler Tom White, who died some months
back, in Queensland.
At a benefit tendered to Lees at the Vic-
toria Hall, Melbourne, he put up the 1201b. dumb-
bell twice with one hand. Lees now wants Farnan
to renew the offer for a four-round box. Farnan
certainly requires a lot of drawing out.
We cannot say if the Wanganella still has
the dead weight on her keel. Assuming that she
has, we believe Mr. Trebeck could make a different
boat of her by having it off and razing her down
some inches. From the first we did not think she
would do anything in the racing line in her present
shape.
At the recent cricket match between Ade-
long United and Gundagai C.C., at Gundagai,
Walsh did the hat trick, and what's more, got the
hat. In a match last month for the Gregory Cup,
won by the A.U.C.C. by an innings and 113 runs,
Walsh made a clean hit for 9, one for 7, and several
6’s and 3’s.
We see that “Tout Cela” has been ap-
gointed sporting correspondent of the Newcastle
webt. Hanby calls him “the veteran king of
the sporting press.” 8o he is. By the way, we are
rather in want of something spicy in the special
sporting line. If anybody la cognizant of the
whereabouts of Moah, kindly request him to call
round.
“I have heard a rumour—very indistinct,
but still a rumour (says ‘ Dainty Ariel ’ in the
Auckland Observer)— that Welcome Jack does
not belong to Mr. Pllbrow now, having been pur-
chased by the Hon. James White, and that it was
for him the grand horse has been sent to Aus-
tralia. I even heard a figure mentioned (£2000), so
it might be true; but I only give It for what it is
worth.”
Mr. William Wright, the Paris metallician
(“Joe Thompson’s friend”), who “keeps 18 ser-
vants and entertains statesmen,” formerly kept a
large list in York-street, Co vent-garden, Loudon,
and he was one of the first men whose promises
were seized when what is known as Cockburn's
Act was put more stringently in force. It was
then that Mr. Wright moved over to Paris, where
he seems to have done well.
The number of different hands which any
single player at whist may obtain from a pack of
52 cards, without ever repeating the same combi-
nation of cards, is 635,013,559,600, and the 53 cards
may be distributed among four players in
53,611,737,765,488.792,839,337,410,000 different ways.
This is comforting. There are yet a few rubbers
to be negotiated in a possibly now way before we
abandon the grand old game and take to poker.
We have received a copy of “ M‘Farlane’s
Pedestrians’ Index,” giving the performances of
the various competitors in the Botany Handicaps.
The little volume should prove Invaluable to
handicappers and pedestrian circles In general.
Mr. M’Farlane has been for many years well known
in the Sydney pedestrian world, and, if wo mistake
not, some seven or eight years ago rather made
his mark as an oarsman in connection with the
Mercantile Rowing Club.
Young Drake has at last dropped upon a
“heeler ” in the Hero, Donnelly and Sullivan’s last
fourteen-footer, with which he fairly ran away
with the 14ft. race on Saturday, Drake has tried
boats, in the most plucky manner, fr m all the
Seat builders in the harbour, and though be has at
imes thrown his winning chances away, taken all
throughlhe has not had the luck his pluck de-
serves. However, in the Hero, we fancy he has the
daddy of the mosquito fleet.
Charley Bannerman’s 79 not out was a
first-class performance, but It is ridiculous to at
once jump to the conclusion that he haa harked
back to his old form of six or seven years ago. For
the first half century he was very cramped In his
play, and If he did show a ghost of bis old form, it
was during the compilation of the last score or so
of runs. However, an even better performance,
at all events for Charley, was the collection of
some £65 in recognition of his play.
The 33ft. half-deokcr, Clare, has com-
menced her career very badly. On Anniversary
Day she could not make a show of carrying her
sail, and at Snail’s Bay she capsized in the softest
manner possible. Rounding the flagship she was
jibing, and the boom was Just thrown across when
a bit of a puff struck her, and before the crew
could “hang out” she was in the gutter. The
! Clare was turned out by the young Lungfords,
i and if we mistake not. the amateur crack, Mr.
Harry Stephens was at the pick-handle.
We are pleased to see the working men
are going in for a rowing club of their own.
Officers have been elected, and the club has been
dubbed the Miller’s Point Amateur Rowing Club.
It is from a club of this sort that we may look for
our future champions, and it is to be hoped the
Regatta Committees will encourage it by placing
liberal prizes upon their programmes for competi-
tion by manual labour amateurs. London Bell's
Life remarked the other day that, as steam had
run the dashing young watermen out of date,
their only chance of raising a champion would be
from one of the tradesmen’s clubs.
Admiral Rous used to tell a story of a
trainer who was a bit of a musician. In order
that the Jockey should not know what was to be
done until it was too late to communicate with
his confederates, the trainer would station him-
self on the far side of the course at one of the
turns, and when the horses passed he would sound
his bugle. If it was a sharp, shrill blast, the horse
was to be pulled, but a deeper note meant to go
on and win. All went well with this arrangement
until an ass of a Jockey got into the saddle who
had no ear for music, and, making a blunder
which cost the stable dear, the bugle was sold
cheap.
It is a wonder that retrievers are not
utilised more for cricket. A match was played
near Rickmansworth (England), in 1827, between
two gentlemen of Middlesex and a Mr. Francis
Trumper, who was to have the help of his dog.
The dog stood near his master when he was bowl-
ing, and ran after the ball when it was hit; he then
returned with it in his mouth so quickly that the
two gentlemen had great difficulty t* run even
from a long hit. Mr. Trumper went in for his dog
and eventually won the match. A good dog would
be more useful than half a dozen bad fielders,
while for single wicket matches in the country a
dog, If properly trained, should be invaluable.
Good man, Deykin! At a Birmingham
council meeting:—“Alderman Manton most sin-
cerely hoped that the police would keep their eye
on public-houses that allowed sparring. Aider-
man Deykin hoped that nothing would be done to
prevent young men indulging in that exhillarating
exercise, which was good for the muscle and
brain. Alderman Manton: Stuff (laughter)I Alder-
man Deykin denied it was * stuff.’ He knew some-
thing about boxing. Alderman Manton: Stuff
(laughttr)I Alderman Deyton reiterated his denial
that ‘sparring’ was ‘stuff.’ He knew more about
the matter than did Alderman Man, who he wished
would leave off Interrupting him.” Neat hint, eh ?
The 24-foot race at the Snail’s Bay reeatta
was robbed of all Interest by the capsizing of the
Lottie and the Dreamland. The Jury-rigged Car-
lotta led first time round the flagship, but later on
she was compelled to resign pride of place to
Mr. Creagh’s new clipper, the Aileen, George
Ellis’s latest creation in the 34-foot line. It was a
pity Mr. Dietrich could not keep the Deronda on
her pins, and give Mr. Creagh a chance of seeing
what the Aileen is made of. Mr. Creagh must be
an enthusiastic open-boat sailer, to have a new
boat put together, when it is taken into consider-
ation he already owns the fastest 34-footer in the
harbour—bar, in our opinion, the Carlotta. This re-
minds us of the father of open-boat sailing, Mr.
Hyam, who sold the Lottie, a boat able to run
over everything of her day, and gave Joe Don-
nelly an order for the Carlotta. Had the Carlotta
capsized on Saturday, we should have said she hid
her head for very shame at the thought of the
olden days.
The Snails’ Bay regatta passed off in first-
class style on Saturday, if we except the mis-
management which caused an advertisement to
appear in the Herald stating that steamers would
ply to and from the flagship every 30 minutes, and
then left a crowd of people to cool their heels at
the Balmain Ferry wharf for nearly an hour, and
at low tide at that. Ugh I The half-deck handi-
cap, over 30 feet, fell to Mr. Goddard’s Bula. The
trio for the 30 feet half-deckers finished in the
order of Wingadee, Wanganella, and Marltana;
Bourke and Connelly, N.8.R.C., made a win of the
maiden double sculls, from B.R.C. and G.R C. crews;
Mr. Creagh’s new 34-foOter Aileen won the open-
boat race; Regina won the 16-foot race after a
great contest with the Sophia; the Psyche, well-
handled by Mr. Moppett, ran away with the
"mixed” race; the 30-feet and under open-boat
race was won by the Ruby; Bourke and Connelly
made a second win in the Junior double-sculls,
when they defeated A. Fraser and Beadman of the
B.R.C; the Hero won the 14-foot dingy race; the
Chance won the 14-foot canvassers; Seale and
Martin, M.R.C., carried off the race of the day, the
senior double-sculls; and Sundy won the darkies’
race.
Says the Standard (London) It is a
melancholy record. The descendant of the Jolly
Young Waterman, whom Dibdln immortalised in
verse seems to have lost that exceptional skill for
wager-boat rowing he undoubtedly at one time
possessed, and no longer feathers his oars with
that “skill and dexterity” in which, for more
than half a century, he stood pre-eminent. His
stamina and courage have evidently forsaken him;
he is now floundering hopelessly In the “ Slough
of Despond,” with but faint prospect of recovery,
and it is tolerably certain that we must not look
for the restoration of our lost laurels to the pre-
sent race of scullers. Our boat-builders and oar-
makers have steadily advanced; their handicraft
is as near perfection as possibly can be conceived;
but the motive power necessary for the swift pro-
pulsion of the light and graceful craft which John
Clasper turns out of his workshop at Putney is
wanting—intelligence and physical power by no
moans go hand-in-hand Just now. We are not
exactly drifting into the condition of things which
existed in the days of the “ trim-built wherry,”
before light boat rowing commenced, but it is
quite certain that our present aspirants for
aquatic fame lack the stamina, or whatever, it
may be, that makes a successful sculler.
There appears to be great doubt in the
minds of outsiders, just now, as to who rules
cricket in our colony—the Association elected by
the cricketers, or the clique which has the Carlton
Club for its head centre; and Judging from events
in connection with the late Intercolonial and other
matches, their doubts appear to be well founded,
with regard to the match Just finished, the Asso-
ciation in the first instance very properly decided
that Bonnor was not eligible to play in the match,
but at a subsequent meeting the Carlton “push”
was rounded up in the hope of having the decision
reversed, and were so far successful as to have the
matter left to the decision of the Selection Com-
mittee. Two members of that body, to their
credit, decided against selecting him. Notwith-
standing this fact, in the absence of Evans, Bonnor
was selected to field, the 13th man (Downes) being
Ignored. This, in itself, was bad enough behind
the backs of the Selection Committee, but note
the “Job.” The Sydney men having a few minutes
left to play on the first day, Bonnor was at once
rushed in to make his inclusion in the team for the
ieit of the match a certainty. Whether Massle,
tne captain, alone is responsible for thisipiece of
dodgery, we cannot say, but the whole business
smacks of similar smart tricks on the part of the
“clique” aforesaid. If the Association cannot
uphold their authority any better in the future
than they have done iu this matter, it would save
a deal of useless talk if the whole management of
<>ur cricketing affairs was handed over to the
C rlton Cricket C.ub.
The warm glow of patriotic pride suffuses
our cheek, ana the light of satisfaction sparkles In
our aye as we clip the following par. from the
Melbourne Herald; —“Sporting papers received
by the Iberia show that young Eustace Giles, who
Is a South Australian by birth, kicked a splendid
goal during a football match between Taubrldge
School and the South Saxons, from the centre of
the ground.”—
On 18th December, Kearney (who hails
from Birmingham, and is of Irish parents), and the
Hebraic “ Johnny” Jacobs (from the Bast Bnd of
London), fought for the light-weight champion-
ship of Bngland. Both men were well known
previously, Kearney having been successful in no
fewer than seven battles, and in the Midland dis-
trict he has for some time been acknowledged as
the Light-weight Champion. When hostilities be-
gan, at 4.30 p m., not more than 30 persons were
present. No fewer than 55 well-contested rounds
were fought, lasting exactly Ih. 45min. It was a
ding-dong fight for fully an hour, during which
there was little to choose; but afterwards Kear-
ney mended considerably on his fighting, and
countered aad cross-countered with rare effect on
Jacobs. Between the 40th and 55th rounds the
Jew was floored four times, and received his coup
de grace when Kearney delivered an upper out
with the left, lifting him clean off the ground.
Jacobs fell quite senseless, and when raised was
unconscious, so that Kearney was declared the
victor of one of the best contested battles which
even veterans have ever witnessed. Another big
fight had, it is said, been arranged to take place in
London soon after Christmas. The P.R. is de-
cidedly “ looking up.” At Birmingham, Johnson,
a local man, and “Little Jemmy from New York,”
milled for £50 a side. The men fought for an hour
and a quarter with desperate determination, and
then Johnson, who had been terribly punished,
gave in. The fight, it is said, was conducted with
perfect fairness and straightforwardness, and was
witnessed by many persons holding a high com-
mercial position in Manchester.
Nowadays, in our city, at least, it is not
everyday we are enabled to present to our readers
an account of a well-conducted, fair and square
set-to, betwixt a couple of the spirited youth of
Sydney, but the other day we were treated to a
little flutter In this line which, besides breaking
the monotony of watching a very onesided cricket
match, gave us a cheap exhibition of the noble
art of self-defence. An innocent remark made
by a respectable onlooker, as to the style and
general get-up of a passing bicyclist was taken or
construed as an insult, and our hasty rider as
hastily dismounted and intimated his desire to
“put a head ” on the party who had so seriously
offended. The gentle answer which sometimes
turns away wrath, made by the gentleman
addressed (a very light weight), had no soothing
effect upon the injured one, whose ire seemed to
grow rather than diminish, when he found ha had
at least three stone the best of it. and as nothing
but blood would satisfy him, off went the duds.
Prom the great Inequality of weight, years, and
inches, we were prepared to witness a brief con-
test a la Sullivan and others, but our little ’no was
no slug, as it turned out, and he simply had his
man licked after three rounds were accomplished.
After eight rounds had been done, the bigger op-
ponent shewing unmistakable signs of distress,
and whilst our smiling little butcher boy was fit
far as much more, there came sauntering up a tall
well dressed gentleman in white gloves, with gold
letters on his cap, whose presence we found so ob-
jectionable, that wo, like the rest of the crowd,
thought it were better to “nit,” and soon the
lively scene was in sole possession of our blue-
coated masher.
The senior double sculls at the Snails’ Bay
regatta proved one of the best contested races we
have had for some time past, and as such, we
think it worthy of a par. all to Itself. No less than
five pairs faced Mr. Elkington—Messrs. Brodie
and Dobson, J. Thompson and P. Hart, and Sharpe
and C. Thomson, of the 8.R.C.; and Brett and
Trimble, and Seale and Martin, of the M.R.C.
Brodie got the best of the start, and went away
with the lead, but nearing the island, Martin, who
had the best position, well to windward and out of
the flood tide, commenced to edge down on his
men, and it was theu seen he had a clear length to
the good. Bounding the reef at the north-east
corner, Brodie collided for an instant with the
loaders, when Brett, who had reached the island
absolutely last, made his effort, and dashing past
the smaller fry, looked as if about to take pride of
place, but Martin and Seale managed to get clear
in the nick of time, with a bit to the good, and a
ding dong struggle between Brett and Brodie for
second position, resulted in the Meroantiles cut-
ting the Sydneys down, Martin led Brett into the
homestretch by a couple of lengths, and “ Jaoky ”
Thomson and Hart, coming in the most plucky
manner, passed Brodie and Dobson, and chal-
lenged Brett and Trimble. Martin and Seale pulled
in first class form throughout.and won rather easily
from Brett and Trimble, Thompson and Hart a
good third. The two leading pairs will meet at a
club regatta on April 4th, when, if Mr. Trimble
frets himself into better fettle, a great race may be
ooked forward to. Since writing the above wo'
have heard Mr. Dobson’s slide oame to grief at the
back of the Island, but, though they might have
run into a bettor position if all had gone well, we
do not think it made any difference in the result
of the race.
We were not quite sure whether to hand |
the following account of a ’Frisco cock-fight over
to the religious ’editor for a slating, or to the
spoiling man; but we were saved further per-
plexity by the dropping-in of the latter, who gave
It as his opinion that the par. was the next best
thing to that aesthetic little bit we gave some time
since, with regard to the fight with Nature’s
weapons between a gentleman yclept “ Brumma-
gem Bill” and “Nobby Tom,” a celebrated Bir-
mingham bull-dog. So here goes“ ITpon a word
from the referee the birds were dropped into the
pit, and the fight began. The Pyle made a desper-
ate rush and fly, and sent the red staggering back
ward. Like a flash the Pyle flew again and drove
its long gaff through the neck of the red, but the
plucky little bird shook the gaff out and breasted
the Pyle. The red was dazed and staggered, yet it
flew rapidly at the Pyle and struck hard. After
fighting 10 minutes the Pyle had knocked both
eyes out of the red’s head, leaving him stone blind.
But the game bird would not give up, and when
the Pyle, now spotted with blood, came up, the
red would fly at him. Both birds became very
much exhausted, the bill of the Pyle hanging open
and its breath coming heavily. The red could no
longer stand. It Jay on its side, with its head on
the ground, breathing short and quick, like the
violent pumping of a bellows. The birds were
handled and breasted again. The red could not
keep its feet, and the Hyle had strength enough
only to totter over to the dying bird and peck at
its sightless eyes. The Pyle made a fin«l lly, and
thrust its bloody gaff through the neck and wind-
pipe of the red. The rattle in the red bird’s throat
was heard over the barn. * He’s killed!’ said the
old man, who thought the bird in no condition to
fight. But the red bird showed his breeding in his
dying moments. With both eyes hanging out of
their sockets and the breath escaping with a rat-
tling noise from a hole in his throat, the red
caught the Pyle's bleeding comb in his bill and J
made one last desperate fly, drlviag his shining
gaff into the white bird’s shoulder. It was the red
bird’s last struggle, for he dropped over and could
not move. His heeler picked him up, and be was
taken to a coop In the hayloft, and the referee
<?ave the battle to the Pyle, The tension of the
excitement which the spectators felt was broken,
and they retired to the bar, observing that it was
a plucky fight.”
Those who say that the days of chivalry
are numbered with the buried past, are mistakef.
We put it mildly but firmly, and without ringirg
in any strong language to back up cur case. Fact *
are good enough for us, so lay back your ears ard
listen: Traralgon is a domesticated sort of buth
township In Olppsiand (Vie.), surrounded by tali
timber and several swamps, and Traralgon was the
scene of much gore and profanity on Saturday
week. A woman at the bottom of it? you savl
We should smile. Well, ’twas this wayJ Keogh
a citizen of the adjacent village of Morwell. and j.
Sheehan, a resident of the vicinity of Flynn’s
Creek, both loved the same girl-the dashing bel'o
°t Traralgon. Sheehan is a loose-made, muscular
youth from the *• ould sod,” ready to “ coort ” or
fight on the shortest notice, while his rival
Is a shade his senior in years, and, though
slightly shorter, scales heavier. Sheehan laid
vigorous selge to the young lady’s affections
in the most approved style of Irish court-
ship, and had a good innings, when the insi-
dious Keogh came along and “wid his phil-
andherln’ ways” prevailed on the fair one to the
extent of allowing him to be her escort for a rural
walk. This sent the blood of the ardent Sheehan
about 40 degress above boiling point, so he
promptly trailed his coat on the Traralgon side-
walk, and issued a free invitation to Keogh to
‘thread upon the tail ov it.” Tho latter was
equal to the emergency, and it was agreed that a
settlement should be arrived at on an early date.
Saturday week (Tth instant) the rivals toed the
scratch on a green plot adjacent to the township,
surrounded by the iUU of Traralgon, and it was
evident from the start that skin and hair would bo
made fly. The local “fooroe,” with their usual
good nature, kept at a respectable distance
until the fun was over, and the affair was
most enjoyable for all concerned. Keogh was
the first to make his mark, with a left-hander that
raised a mansard roof over Sheehan's right optic,
but that gentle hint had the effect of putting the
latter on his mettle, so ho warmed up to his work,
and brought Keogh to grass several times in quick
succession. The latter lasted about 20 minuifes,
and 22 rounds wore fought, Sheehan depending on
his Blogging powers, while his opponent, who
adopted the tactics of scientific fistic warfare,
dodged about and fell in accordance with the rules
of the P.R.—he fell oftener. in fact, being assisted
by Sheehan’s vigorous loft in his descent. Finally,
Sheehan was declared the victor, though both of
them were badly punished, and, as none but the
brave deserve the fait, he now holds undisputed
possession of the belle of Traralgon. It is stated
that he'd tackle Larry Foley now, before he’d loose
the girl.
Drowsiness, biliousness, pains and aches,
and ague, Hop Bitters always cures. Read and
believe.
MR. PrCoubot Brownh (late Deputy
of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, jar - Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record In the Departments and
Supreme Court*
So much thought and talent is expended
now-a-daya In the production of ou»- beautiful
Christmas cards, that but the fag end of artistic
invention is left for our valentines. Notwith-
standing this, we have seen a few very beautiful
samples of the latter from the establishment of
Messrs. Robert Jolley and Co., sole agents for L.
Prary and Co., Boston. The fringed and be-
tasselled frames surround dainty and artistic pic-
tures, with, of course, pretty and appropriate
verses—friendly or loving as the ease demands.
These works of art—for such they are—are a
marked Improvement on the valentine of by-gone
days, and we wouldn’t hesitate to send one to our
very_ best girl. This alone shows what a lot we
think of them.*
Five hundred stout New South Welshmen
to help thrash the rebellious blackguards in the
Soudan I Half a thousand patriotic volunteer
cornstaiks to avenge the untimely fate of
Chinese Gordon. Bravol Mr. Dailey: no dally-
ing this time. Capital, Mr. Stuart. The Idea is
worthy of a descendant of the right Royal House
whose name you so honourably bear. And the
ten popguns ! By the living bomb, what a scare
there will be among the “ dirty spalpeens” on the
banks of the Nile; and, by the way, what a splen-
did opportunity for some true lover of sport to
offer a Gold Cup to the man who pots the most
niggers 1 What a reception there will be when
Johnny comes marching home again,” with the
scalps and the trophies of war! But they are not
gone yet. If they do go, It is to be hoped i hey will
be equipped properly ; no shoddy boots, with
brown paper soles or other arrangements of a
similar character. Rather than there should be
any doubt about the matter, it would “ be better
by far” to send the entire contingent to Anthony
Hordern and Sons’ Palace Emporium, Haymarket
when ©very man jack of them can be rigged out
from helmet to boots lathe twiukling of a mos-
quitos wing.*
HARD FACTS.
Glebe, Sydney, June 26, 1884.
Messrs. Elliott Bros.—Dear Sirs,—I am pleased to
inform you that the Hamburg Tea has afforded me
substantial and, I trust, permanent r elief. I suffered
for years from a weak digestion, and was subject
at intervals to severe attacks of biliousness ana
dyspepsia. Since leaving the “ old country ” these
have increased in frequency, and although I have
tried many other preparations, none have suc-
ceeded in yielding me relief. Noticing a case simi-
lar to my own, in which Hamburg Tea affected a
cure, I resolved to give it a trial, and am happy to
say the results were most satisfactory. jtf eadache
—a troublesome symptom in this class of malady—
at once disappeared, and by steady persistence in
its use I experienced a gradual return of health
and vigour, and I have every reason to believe mv-
self completely cured.
If this testimony is of any service to you. use it
in any way you please.
Faithfully yours,
A. THOMAS.
[If every Individual and every family would be-
stow a tithe of the care requisite in any ordlnarv
attack of acute disease, in striving to prevent
and ward off its attacks, there would rarely be anv
use for calling in the aid of the physicians. In all
ordinary derangements of the stomach, bowels
liver, or kidneys, you need only a few doses nf
Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea ] 0f
Good news From Home.
Let every face, bewreathed with smiles,
Be buried in the bowi
In honour of young Eustace Giles,
Who kicked that splendid goal.
Such tidings from the distant Isles
Fall sweetly on the soul.
Tea, let the cry through stately hall
And humble oot resound,
How Austral’s sons at duty’s call
Are ever ready found—
How Eustace landed home the ball -
From the centre of the ground.
And though the ocean’s saline tide
Betwixt the twain may roll,
Our country, of her Giles denied,
May still her heart console
With thinking how her hope and pride
Has kicked that splendid goal.


NOTICE OP REMOVAL.
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
TO
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR FROM GEORGE-STREET.
/ |PTIFICIALTe ETh
.(omplete T
“DENTISTS'
'Oiri MARKETS? ffYHN £/
THEY have ARRIVED.
An Immense delivery
of
YANKEE RUBBER
BABIES.
Goes In the waistcoat poo
ket; blows out to life size;
is washable, durable, and
unbreakable ; resembles
life, for like the real article
It coos at pleasure and yet
screams awfully If smacked
Experienced fathers are deceived by these laugh-
ter-producing infants, and no home Is really a
happy one without their presence. Price (post
free): largest. Is. fld.; medium, Is. 3d.
Also, jurt In, a largo assortment of Conjuring
Tricks. Catalogues on application.
THE WIZARD CARDS,
changing from eights
to deuces, from black to
red, and back again at the
measure of the per-
Jermer. Post free, with
full instructions, Is. 2d.
I’m a Daddy ; I’m In
Love; 1 he Mother-in-law;
I’m a Farder; and Be
for© and After Marriage,
The funniest pictures ever Issued, g In each set.
Price, Od. per set, or 6 sets for 2s. ; by post, 2s. Sd.
The Three Donkeys. The newest “have” out.
post! £y he “. but keep <l ulet - Price, Is.; by
The Sooner Dog-a wonderful little animal;
of laughter follow him wherever he goes,
is. od.; by post, 2s. 6d.
Napoleon In Council, very rich. Is. 6d.; by post, 3a.
Bo H x°K N p a o n<i C0 "’ 401 ° eor se-streGt, Sydney.
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST,
Graduate In Medicine and Surgery, Registered
Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours : 10 a m. to 4 p.m., 7 to 9 on Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday Evenings.
Ladies’Waiting Room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
11, 52 Castlereagh-street (upstairs.)
n?™& f0 r»?’ rec Tr ®«Mso on Vitality and Nervous
Debility, Diseases of Women.
W 5 k8^ n Deformities, Electricity
-d its Application. Hernia (ruptures). Varicocele,
“if •» * ibbIuoDIj BOX tr.JreU*
Oonsultation Free by mall or in person.
D£SS2?. J ffi , ol^ty. CifiC ‘ FEMALE ’ aDd NERV0TTS
JAS. LAWS0N & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Comer of William-street, Hyde Park.
High-class Furnifare
A \^l y J j0W u? t Pri 9 es - compatible with the finest
W ?Unf naD8htp flnlsb * for entrance halls,
aming-rooms, drawing.rooms, bedrooms,
and libraries.
CARPETS IN NEWEST DESIGNS AND
FINEST QUALITY.
WlI fON CARPETS BRUSSELS CARPETS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With Hearthrugs to match.
CORLICINE AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL MTD
BLACK AND BRASS,
to Ml sizes aqd various designs,
Fester’s Bugle .
T
COMPAGNONi GATERING CO., LIMITED,
im , PITT STEEHT. SYDNEY. "
Theses 0 sEt^ufowVateaT* o zndVeTitZriUnfL*?? time fron ? 8 a >“- to 11 p.
or the city, and a long-felt wai t’ Insnectlon invirni 6 ** rwa* 6 room * Tnis Is one of tne acquisitions
and City ChEynpatalra. invited.
n
V
%
m
ss
H
ss
h*
ss
a*
i£.
S*i
vJS
m
p.~~:
&
ESS?
SM
m
m
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE AT.fr.,
MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
n Established 1873.
mMisw'K 111 power to increase to £1,000,000
BON USES—20 per cent, paid annually since isfcl.
C 1
HUROHILL’S 8TRUP OP THE HYPO-
PHOSPHITES.
., SYRUPS have so thoroughly obtained
the confidence of the Medical Faculty that they
General JSStoJJT®* to any other Preparations as
, Hypophosphltes of Lime has proved
itself for many years most useful In cases of Con-
rl 1I ii p^i0n apd diseases of the Pulmonary Organs.
b ? neflclal to debilitated constltu-
n!w 8 Q PJ=°^ eedln A^ rom any cause whatever, as It
hn?Min» « 6 m08t necessary Ingredients for
rus U and R Llme he Human Frame * namely. Phoepho-
la nne !rPfthl 8 i?Zi+ Up of th ®. Py po P b csp h, te of Iron
l?h^.?,P f *l h ! 1 l e8t tP reparati0Ils ° r Iron and Phos-
phorus that has been offered to the public. As a
?Prf n *P ont tonic .Jt has been found more service-
able than any other preparation of Iron, and is
fffPPcJahy recommended to those suffering from
the effects of a long residence in a hot climate.
roh H 8 . Co, ? pound Syrup of the Hypophos-
phites contains Lime, Iron, and Soda, and as a
notlf^hiM 0nl0 P as be P n found most useful. Deli-
frnm C^i!, ren *^ ave I derived tbe greatest benefit
»nJPv. 8roInsr ii tbrou,?h a course of this medicine.
fr> h ioi.«i«n P i 68 ne *rly all the elements necessary
to dev elope in perfection the Human Frame. To
Ladies suffering from General Debility, any of
2JH? ? y ™ps can be taken with most beneflclalfe-
sults, but as almost every constitution differs, one
may give better results than the other. Te be had
BROSrPR^^“y d dK l9,al0 fr ° m ELLIOTT
SENT FREE, by POST ONLY, in an Envelope.
SOCIAL SCIENCE,
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders which
cause Impedimenta t« Marriage, and all
riP r< ?fP° also, How to choose a partner
80 “ llve happy and produce healthy
health* &o , a &o. W ”* ain pro8erva 5™?
Address: R. T. BE I. BY, Medical Herbalist,
Devonshire-street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
14 and 18 Spring: Street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for 8ALB
to the TRADE and WHOLE.
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
m
earthenware,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and OO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. G A YEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgn Pale Ale.
ESTABLISHED I860.
J. lillBE,
608 George-st.,
as
SYDNEY.
IRON, BR *f 4 >^ rE NIOKEI,PLAT E D
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRA8SE9,
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX,
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&o., &o.
COU/f
blend
TRADE
MARS
C°of L ™. PUKESTVATraK^.f , t g , “m
3TLT 1S&
. \
-® 81 ® Head Offices. «*»
+ J I (? t F ir ? S 5 0, ® t J; in the colony on
Riving- policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
alSbmty ld6rS are perfectly free by 1&W from
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlemert for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
The BEST ALE anf. STOUT In the Market
BOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINK
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
MfiaeeKBff
THIS Invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
afford! relief and permanently cures ail who
suffer wasting and wiihaiing of the nervous and
muscnlar tismies, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
depoilts, which causes Incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
baustlye derangement of the system: regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
apd enabling man to fulfil his moil sacred ohllga-
ilons. In coses at 12«., or four quantities Is one Tor
Ua.; If by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,)
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and cO M 43 Gonlburo-
Street One Door from George-street South.
T
A L L WOMEN
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY'S
Borax Soap
IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
o^d I wa ( ter^ OOI)WORK ’ 111 elther H0T or
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY
IN SOAP I
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with It ;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
6d. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
VBNETtA V7ALT2T.
Th* Air to be I call marked. OakoliF e Loir Tin ait
PP,eatitabilk
Ped.
PecL
I^f I urrorm LI lu RD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Sengs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Chnroh Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, In variety.
New catalogues will be ready In a faw days and
sent gratis on application. J
Stationery.-Aeoount Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &o., at lowest prices.
Printing.-Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed In best stylo and promptly.
Books for Present* and School Prizes, in parcels,
.upward. Liberal discount allowed.
A b « m !l Pur Card (Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
1 ?2 ok o bound , 1 S * Dy cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
solicited to all the leading maga^
Cal! and see the two most Important Copying
L&SvJi ® y ® r ln X en £ d - Trypograpfi
whufv,^?. 3000 co ? 1 f5 ’ ! h ? Berrygraph, the cost of
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
W. R. DRAPE & CO.,
MINING BROKERS AND AGENTS,
Mining Exchange,
r FITZROY STREET, ROCKHAMPTON.
Commissions entrusted to our care executed with
Judgment and despatch. Latest Mining Intelli-
gence from the surrounding fields,
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Offices—PITT and KING STREETS.
S P » C i 1 MOT I .52^i£ B1 *- ALTEttATI0N OF AK
RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAT
Swimming Baths
(the *nly pure sea-water baths near Sydney.)
Open every day for Ladies and Gentlemen from
6 a.m. till dark.
Admission, 3d.; Children, accompanied by adults,
2d.; 100 tickets, 21s.; konthly Tickets, 5s.; An!
nual Tioksta. from 1st September, 31s.
SWIMMING TAUGHT by Mr. Fredhrick
uavill, the world-renowned swimmer, who swam
IT”? 6 to Bn kland in 13 hours, 20th August
1877. Six Lessons, 21s. The North Shore Ferry
Btsamers leave the Circular Quay for the Batlis
every quarter-of-an-hour.
HOSESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
ORNi
6RN,
and
m
iMl
It Is of the utmost Importance that contents of
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
?®'£l n !a!iSSSL lmpOTtrt toto New So “ h
«f e a? t £» r + b i r n and8 ’ wh * 61 } t 5 ey wlu flnd » difference
LAND WHISKY CeDt ‘ ln fav0ur of l0r NE HIGH-
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
J. MASSEY, Jim,,
PIAIOS AO OSAO
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Be fu n^ hu ?^ n A f0 A easea U my J,fG - and found it at
last with the Argosy Braces at Qowing Bros.
%
\
s.
It 1 - 1
f
m
%
GOWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. 6d., 3s., 3*. Cd.,& 4s. Gd
GOWIKG BROS.,
MEN’S MERCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, &o.
332 and 408 George-strcct.


JjlURNITUKl SHOW ROOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
Hall furniture, hatbtands, *>S
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library furniture, centre and bidi
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES.
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, In EXQUISItS
iyof
D .
taste, the very latest fashion : well worthy o:
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CABINETS for Choice China, fee.
. w VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley„
Newton, and Lamb.
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for (dubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, Ac.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-fe«t
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON.
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-pound bedroom suites.-tAs
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and twe chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached: PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and S CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMa
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 37s. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30a.; Cedar Sideboards,
5
X?QK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
P&tJtJ strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
MIRRORS, Handsome Paahlon-
v able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also In Oak and Walnut, at all prioes.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished In
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &o.
HlFFONNlBR WHATNOTS, effective designs.
C Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb?
OConnell-street.
TjlNAMBLLED and JEWELLED MiKRORS, for
XjJ Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for flre grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-street.
u
RA WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES,
lees, from 13s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BE D STEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and Inez-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
mOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING
GLASS and WAS!
1 with swing
marble top, 80s the pair.
{'ABLE,
TAND,
T71ULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM—SIDE-
J} BOARD. DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Coanell-stroet.
D
THING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet.
[ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reolmlng and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious In Its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of tbe body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet Invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-«hore, or wherever comfort Is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds oqm-
plete, and occupying only four inches In thickness
when fc ided. Price 30s.' BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing In canvas, if required,
2s. 6d. extra.
B
AGATELLB BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
FRAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered In
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
RAMBWORK for DINING-ROOM FUHfrl-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery,
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
B
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
EDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con*
Bell and Spring streets.
W
’ABH8TAND8, with marble, from 26s. eaeh
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah
O' 1 INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. B
LET, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
[ENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very eemplet
k Assortment; best make, lowest prices.
SOCIAL
Not many ladies graced the cricket ground
on Friday, the first day of the match, notwith-
standing that the weather was perfection, but on
Saturday they turned out in full force, and the
costumes were as brilliant as the weather was
dull and oppressive. Hut the rain held off, so that
was something to be thankful for. It would
have gone to our hearts had the wearer
of the beautiful cardinal satin dress with
front width worked in coloured flowers, and
the cream lace bonnet trimmed with pearls
and feathers been compelled to relin-
quish the promenade for the shelter of the
stand. A piquant costume was a pale nun s-
velllng trimmed with shot silk of mingled
blue and brown shades; white hat trimmed with
black velvet and feathers. A beautiful blue satin
skirt glimmered through cream lace, and tied
round the hips was a scarf of old gold brocade. A
pink muslin, trimmed with cream lace and ribbons,
adorned an exquisite figure, and a cream spotted
muslin, made with full skirt and gathered scarf,
with old gold bonnet, trimmed with olive green
lace, looked extremely well. An erange Madras
muslin, profusely adorned with stripes of black
velvet, was striking. It struck us It was worn out
of compliment to the striped caps. A cardinal
sateen skirt, draped with black lace, worn
in combination with a black jersey, owed
a great deal of Its effectiveness to the figure
It covered. A sweet face smiled under a white
hat turned up with pink—a pretty contrast to the
deep green satin dress. Spotted China silks were
worn by many, and looked both seasonable and
pretty. A pair of sisters wore dresses made
wholly of beautiful deep cream antique lace, with
just a sensation of eardinal here and there. A
crimson veil gave the wearer’s face the appear-
ance of a boiled lobster; perhaps she thought It
was becoming; we didn’t. One of the very hand-
somest dresses on the ground was a black ottoman
velvet velours basque over a black ottoman skirt,
heavily trimmed with chenille fringe. The wearer
had bright golden hair, and plenty of it. The little
black lace bonnet with dead leaf trimming was the
acme of good taste. Not a few ladles wore their
chatelaines as others did their field glasses,
strapped over the shoulder, giving them quite a
Jaunty and sportive appearance. The applause
which followed Morris’ catch must have been
death to many a pair of gloves, but it’s good for
trade, and, as we haven’t got to replace them, It
doesn’t matter a bit. Where any peculiarity was
seen was chiefly In hats, which are no w various, and
works of architecture; and the female mind seems
to have resolved itself into this conclusion—that,
while It is possible, In some shape or other, the
Eoke principle must be clung to. It is true some
ats are reared up towards the blue canopy of
heaven to an astonishing height; some project
nearly a foot into the future, while others creep
unduiatingly around the outlines of some dainty
face; the very newest and cheekiest hat being
scooped out behind so as to artfully disclose a rush
of hair climbing up from a whlte-naped neck into
the recesses of a conical crown. But, however
the modern girl’s aspect may vary behind, or on
top, she has decided that to frame her face in a
poke hat is, for the present, the most effective
way of meeting the gaze of a critical world. And,
talking of hats, about the last thing seen on the
lawn on Saturday was a hat. It was being carried
round for a cricketer who had made some runs.
A lady in the stand asked: “ But why should he
have all that money given him ?” But ladies are
so innocent. Why, it is absolutely necessary to
send the hat round, for the honour of cricket 1
e ♦ •
A pleasant and creditable concert was
that given by the Oxford Private Social Club on
Friday. If there was no genius so high as to rise
above the comprehension of the audience, so
much the better for the audience. They had no
need—as the disciples of culchah often have at
very pretentious performances—to simulate en-
joyment, while concealing their yawns. What
there was, was real. Most of the performers were
amateurs, known among those who heard them,
which enhanced the Interest. It was a private en-
tertainment, and the Protestant Hall was entirely
filled below, with a good lining round the gallery.
Evening dress being the rule, the ensemble was
gay. Mr. George A. Stonier, who was to have
been accompanist, did not appear, and at brief
notice his place was taken by Mr. Albert Fisher,
who did well. Messrs. H. Pelr and A. Edward
opened with a duet, the latter appearing twice
afterwards, while Mr. Pelr also sang “The Pil-
grim” and “The Anchor’s Weighed.” Mr. W. H.
Needs contributed a violin solo, and Mr, J. B.
Meyers gave “ Good Company ” and “ Steering
Home ” just as the good company began steering
home at half-past 10, Miss 11. Watt, according to
the rule adopted in heaven, that the last shall bo
first, sang the waltz song “II Ballo ” first, though
it was set down for later on, and as it came close
to Miss Lee’s “Roberto,” this double dose of
Italian was rather severe on the people in the gal-
lery who didn’t understand the language. The
lady, however, sang archly and looked nice, and
anyone can understand that. “ The Wreck of the
Hesperus" was recited by a namesake of the author
—a longfellow, commonly known as Mr. J. H. Rain-
ford. He painted the agony of the Hesperus
going down so vividly that it seemed almost as if
e must have been on board. It is almost a pity
he wasn’t. Mr. Fletcher with a cornet solo, Mrs.
Innes with “ Gates of the West,” and Miss Roseby
with “ Kathleen Mavourneen,” all filled their
parts. After giving “ The Little Hero,” Mr. C. W.
Richards recited for an encore piece "Napoleon s
March to Moscow,” one of the finest items of the
night A clear enunciation, easy and apt manner,
and there you are. Mr, J. Connery’s pupil, some
one said; and a good one. Miss K. M’Elhone mani-
fested an independence of manner, which is charm-
ing—and, probably, hereditary. Timidity in a
Singer is out of place; it affects the hearers and
makes them uncomfortable. Well, Miss M’Elhone
Is not that way at all. And as she chose a piquant
little ballad Just suiting her style, “ The Miller and
the Maid,” it was Immensely successful. On re-
appearing, she sang another well-chosen trifle,
“ Going to Market,” and her third piece was
Denza’s song, “If Thou didst Love me.” Miss
Roseby and Miss Lee sang respectively “ Coming
thro’ the Rye,” and “ The Vision,” as encores. It
was the least those young ladies could do in return
for the costly bouquets which a throng of wor-
shippers hurled at their tiny feet,
• * *
A pleasant dance was given by a few
ladies and gentlemen of Adelong in the Oddfel-
lows’ Hall, a coterie of visitors coming from
Tumut to join in the Joy. A very charming young
lady from Tumut, daughter of an auctioneer,
caused the young bachelors’ hearts to bob up
against their waistcoats, and to fall Into reveries
of the most distressful kind. They might be called
Brown studios. A dark lady from the same place
(not in the market) was also admired. A Sydney
brunette waltzed so well that the local youth could
hardly muster courage to inflict themselves upon
her, and she was chiefly monopolised by a Tumut
visitor, who did the new step fairlj well. But, like
others who ought to know better, he persisted In
trying to do the waltz step to all other kinds of
music—which shows he has a good deal to learn
yet. Simpsons provided the music, and the com-
pany went home at early morn, through the
beautiful moonlight.
• • •
On the 11 th ultimo, at 10 a.m., the
marriage of Miss Christina Ballantine, daughter
of the late John Ballantine and step-daughter of
Mr. John Williams, of Dowllng-street, Moore
Park, to Charles M’Allster, Esq., of Friday Island
S Torres Straits), took place at St. Patrick’s Church.
Che ceremony was conducted by the Rev. Father
P. Le Rennetel, 8.M., after which Mr. and Mrs.
M’Alister, accompanied by a number of friends,
proceeded to Sandringham, where they partook
of the wedding breakfast. After drinking numer-
oub toasts (champagne) the company indulged In
various amusements, such as cricket, sing-
ing, dancing, &c., and after an agreeable
afternoon’s pleasure, went back to town.
The happy couple proceeded to Moss Vale,
after which they Intend sailing by the Shannon
for Europe. The bride, a pretty brunette, wore a
handsome cream satin, with lace and orange blos-
soms; the bridesmaids, pale-blue nuns’ veiling
trimmed with cardinal, and hats to corresdond.
The bride’s mother wore a handsome claret satin,
trimmed with eldelweiss lace. Mrs. M. Foley, of
Woollahra, wore a handsome myrtle-green, with
brocaded top in same shade. A sister-in-law of the
bride, a grey dress with ruby velvet trimmings.
Miss Foley looked charming in a dove-coloured
satin. A lady from Palmer-street was attired in a
tasteful black satin, trimmed with beautiful lace.
Alderman Poole’s daughter, white nuns’ veiling,
richly trimmed with lace and cardinal velvet. A
Darlington young lady wore a pretty fawn-
coloured costume, with lace trimmings. A young
lady from Kent-street looked well in a pea-green
dress, richly trimmed. A Bourke-street ditto, in
a prettily trimmed pale-blue veiling.
* ♦ *
On Thursday last, the Albert Hall, Peter-
sham, was the scene of a private social, arranged
by a few ladles of that vicinity. There were about
30 couples present, and all enjoyed themselves.
During the evening several songs were given by
ladles and gentlemen, which added zest to the pro-
ceedings. Ladies proved attractive in their neat
and pretty dresses. From Newtown came a pretty
little dancer all in blue; from Stanmore two
sisters, one in lavender bodice and white skirt, the
other in blue and white. Pltt-street was repre-
sented by two ladies, one in cardinal and pink, the
other in all pink. From Leichhardt appeared a
lady in cardinal and white. There were other
pretty costumes, notably that of two shades of
pink and cream worn by a lady from Annandale
who was thought to carry off the palm. The
duties of M.C. were performed by Mr. Cron, who
was untiring, and so on. Towards 11 o’clock, an
adjournment was made for refreshments, during
which the toast “The Promoters of our enjoy-
ment, the Ladles,” was proposed and responded
to. Afterwards dancing recommenced aad con-
tinued till 3 o’clock.
* • ♦
Several gentlemen of Manly, whose hearts
were filled to overflowing with the many kind-
nesses they have invariably received at the hands
of Mrs. Kilmlnster, made up their minds that they
would give vent to this overflow by giving the
lady a picnic and a presentation. Accordingly,
early last Saturday morning, several traps con-
veyed a merry party to Lake Narrabeen. Imme-
diately before starting, a dry plate photographer
asked them all to look his way, and before they
had drawn half a breath in their astonishment at
such an invitation, they were “ taken,” Aunt Sally
and all. Upon arriving at the lake an amateur
postman took round valentines to all the ladles,
which were duly appreciated. After lunch, the
presentation was made, in the shape of a hand-
some locket and necklet, bearing the following
inscription: “ A souvenir to Mary W. Kilmlnster,
from her friends at Narrabeen, February 14,1883.”
Many a gentleman, might with advantage, take a
lesson from the ladles In the matter of making
speeches. Upon this occasion, Mrs. Kilmlnster
spoke a few words which were pithy and to the
point, and remarked that if every woman received
so much kindness from everyone as she did, there
would be no occasion to light for woman’s rights.
Rowing on the lake and dancing on the green
were the principal amusements. Some went off
in pairs to gather ferns, they said, but the funniest
part of it was, they forgot to bring the ferns back
with them, and didn’t seem in the least unhappy
about it either. A harp and violin played the
dance music, amongst which we recognised Mr.
Huenerbein’s pretty “ Rodondo ” schottisohe. Sun-
down saw the last of the merry making, and
everybody agreed that they had spent a pleasant
day.
» • ♦
Miss Maud Dibbs, one of the Colonial Trea-
surer’s ample family of daughters, was married on
the 11th inst., at Penrith. A numerous and upper-
class assemblage of friends gathered to see the
ceremony performed in St. Paul’s Church, a
special train being put on from Sydney in the
morning to convey them to the spot. The bride-
groom is Mr. G. C. Waldron, solicitor, of Castle-
reagh-street, and son of Mr. Q. K. Waldron, of
Kiama. The Rev. W. Allworth performed the
ceremony, and among those present, besides rela-
tives, were no less than five Ministers of the Crown
with their wives, several of the most important
Government officials, Sir John and Lady Robert-
son, and quite a quota of medical and other pro-
fessional men. Dresses were of that rich but quiet
and tasteful kind which bespeak the solid status
of their wearers, delicacy of fabric being scarcely
suited to a long journey. But, of course, the bride
and her maids wore—as such interesting young
ladles always are—garbed in raiment of mqSt beau-
tiful kind; the former wore a rich ivory ottoman
dress, with the usual trimming of orange blos-
soms. and decked with daintiest lace. The half-
dozen maids, all in cream, were Misses Laura and
Kate Dibbs, Fannie Barton, Waldron, Dolly Cad-
den, and Eneld Russell. At Riverside, the Hon.
G. R. Dibbs’s country seat, the welcome wedding
breakfast was laid, and the health of bride and
bridegroom, who sat at the head of a happy com-
pany, was proposed by Sir John Robertson, who
is, no doubt, a flrst-clnss authority on “ annexa-
tion” of this kind as well as any other. The Hon.
W. J. Trickett gave the health of “The Brides-
maids,” and the Hon. Geoffrey Bagar, of the
Treasury, proposed “ The Parents.” The Hon. J.
P. Abbott, on “ The Ladies,” was followed by the
Postmaster-General, the Messrs- Dibbs and other
speakers, and when breakfast was over most of
the company returned to town. Mr. and Mrs.
Waldron took the express train to Melbourne,
there to begin the consummation of love’s young
dream.
♦ ♦ *
Snails’ Bay Regatta has always been one
of interest to the residents about that part, and on
Saturday, the racing was good. Capsizes afforded
lots of excitement, and the appearance of the
prettily-uniformed lady competitors—in the sail-
ing race, where the crews were equally divided in
sex—was admirable. And as the boats are limited
to a certain quantity of sail, the venture is quite a
safe one; unless, indeed, the male half of the crews
can be said to be in danger from the ladies them-
selves. On board the flagship Kentmere, there i
was a fair gathering. Two prominent sympa-
thisers with the capsized Lottie were Mesdames I
M’Donnell and Fisher, the one attired in a light
chocolate-coloured body, and white muslin skirt;
the other in a dress of similar fashion, but having
the body of navy blue, with scarlet spots, a style
which is very popular just now. The Misses Schultz
were there, prettily garbed in blue and white re-
spectively; while Miss Pearce wore a nice costume
of cream nun’s cloth; and Miss Smith was arrayed
in a stylishly-made costume of dark slate colour,
and looked decidedly more cheerful than such a
colour would lead one to expect. The little daugh-
ter of a local alderman seemed over-weighted by a
sombre maroon dress, which may have been re-
sponsible for the apparent dolour of its wearer.
Miss Morran in a pretty mauve under white net,
with natural flowers to match, and Miss Carrie in
white, were quite nice enough to justify the vigi-
lant attendance they commanded all the afternoon.
Among others noticed on board were Dr. and Mrs.
Evans of Balmain, and Mr. and Mrs. Ellis from the
Shore. A band discoursed music as the crowd
promenaded the long clean decks of the Kent-
mere, and at the close of the day prizes were
handed over by Mr. Elkington to the winners.
* * *
Milton Terrace, Dawes’ Point, the resi-
dence of E. Cantor, Esq., was the scene of much
gaiety and pleasure on Wednesday evening last,
when a goodly number assembled to bid good-bye
to Miss E. Cantor, who leaves in the P. and O. Co.’s
b.b. Rome for a tour in search of renewed health.
A large number availed themselves of the invita-
tion of the host and hostess. The latter’s health
was most fittingly proposed by Mr. James Barnett,
and supported by Messrs. W. H. Jennings and J.
Norfke, and responded to by the host. Dancing
was vigorously carried on till early morn, and all
the guests left after a most enjoyable evening,
wishing oon voyage and a speedy and safe return,
restored to good health.
Mr. A. H. Gee, the well-known tenor
singer and teacher of music, was married a few
days ago at the Folly Church, Waratah. His bride,
like himself, Is musical, being Miss M. K. Jones,
daughter of an old Tlghe's Hill resident, of both
vocal and Instrumental reputation in the spheres
of melody. Mr. and Mrs. Gee are to reside per-
manently in Newcastle, where he has a connection,
and is leader of the Liedertafel. Perhaps this
little item may Interest a few desolate Parramatta
girls.
• * •
On Saturday afternoon last, in St. Mary’s
pro-Cathedral, Miss Mary Butler was married to
Mr. John S. Ramsay, a gentleman of genuine
literary ability, well known in Sydney press
circles, and at present connected with the water
Conservation Commission. The bride was dressed
In white satin bodice and skirt of white grass-
oloth, ornamented with Inestimable cream lace of
great width; and Miss Grace Robinson, as brides-
maid, wore also white grass-cloth trimmed with
lace; the peals of the organ making the service
the more Impressive. Breakfast was elaborately
laid at the residence of the bride’s mother, Bourke-
street, where a large company assembled. Among
them were Miss Butler, in dainty cream nuns’
veiling trimmed with lace; Miss Ramsay, a pretty
little sister of the groom, in peacock-blue veiling
and lace; Mrs. Butler, wearing a cheerful black and
white flowered sateen; Mrs. Robinson, in black
satin, was a sister of the bride. Mrs. Hall wore
black silk trimmed with Spanish lace; Miss Cissy
' Earl a pretty lemon-coloured dress, with electric
blue spots; while Mrs. Earl wore black silk; Mrs.
i Boyd was garbed in a rich olive ottoman silk,
trimmed with same satin, and Miss Farrell in a
black silk costume. Mrs. Hourlgan’s fine figure
was admirably set off in a nice cream dress; and a
brown silk costume worn by another married lady
was excellent. Good spirits and jokes freely
flowed, as the toasts were wetted with copious
draughts of dry monopole, and a cruel bombard-
ment of rice was performed as the happy couple
drove off to take the Manly boat, [e« route for the
sylvan shades of Newport.
* * * *
The fair mania haa reached Dunedin,
and a Fair of All Nations is drawing
great crowds there The best elocutionist at
hakespearian Fair, Melbourne, was J. H. Hyman,
who recited from “King John.” Last week, Mr.
J. 8. Shearston, the sailor’s friend, arranged for
a number of seamen from the men-of-war to
have a pleasure-trip to South Head, where they
Inspected the lighthouse, batteries, &c. Govern-
ment steamers were lent for the occasion, and
fruit and cigars freely circulated among the tars.
Shearston Is a genuine fellow....On the 11th
February, at St. Kilda (V.), Mr. J. A. Blackle, son
of the great Scotch publisher, was married to Miss
Oemmell, daughter of the late auctioneer,
one of the most popular men ever known
in Melbourne, Bridesmaids—Misses Gemmell and
Sloane. Honeymoon, travelling the colonies
Surplus of £120 from the ball given to Nelson
officers is donated to the Ooodenough Sailors’
Home ...On Saturday, Rev, Canon Kemmlsleft
for an English holiday, taking with him £500 sub-
scribed by parishioners. Ill health is said to cause
the holiday. Walt till the clouds roll by, Kemmy 1
— J. A. Froude, the historian, and his son, Mr, A.
A. Froude, came over from Melbourne last week.
He stays at the Australian Club, and has been
doing the harbour Mr. W. Soott, Professor of
Classics for the University, arrived from England
on Friday, and lodges with Sir Wm. Manning
Lawn tennis starting at Jerllderie; and the social
fetes consequent on the railway extension will
probably be held in two months....The Melbourne
University team of cricketers were picnicked by
the Sydney team at Pearl Bay. A sumptuous
dinner was followed by a few speeches, and the j
Achilles returned to town with the festive fellows
about dusk....Mr. Hugh Taylor, M.P., treated tbe
Sisters’ School, Parramatta, to an excursion down
the harbour last week. Over 200 present, and a
§leasant day.... St. Patrick’s Day can't be let pass,
ports, and a ball at night, will mark the 17th
March at Wagga At Young, there is to be reck-
less dissipation on 26th March, to celebrate railway
extension to that town. Ball, banquet, excur-
sions, illumination, and wholesale determination
that the inhabitants shall not suffer from drouth.
Gordon and Gotch have published the “In
Queensland Polka.” It is by F. Toni Last
Saturday, a social reunion of Queenslanders, at
Compagnoni’s rooms, was chiefly remarkable for
the presence of Mr. F. Morgan, one of the original
discoverers of the marvellous Mount Morgan-
known as the Mountain of Gold. Mr. S. Bolitho,
of Ravenswortfa, was chairman, and a num-
ber of toasts were honestly disposed fof
A race ball happens at Corowa on 2nd April On
lltb inst., the Randwick Asylum children had their
annual picnic to Chowder. Nearly 400 went down
In the tram, and then took the fine steamer Bal-
main down to the Bay, where they had plenty of
sport and tucker, and a generally Jolly time. The
German Band was engaged, and a large number of
visitors were also present ... The Union Glee Club
has been formed in Parramatta; C. H. Spier, con-
ductor. ...Mrs. Parker has sociables every Thurs-
day evening at Newcastle in the Science Hall....
There is to be a grand demonstration at Junee
Junction on the 5th March to mark the opening of
the new refreshment rooms. The Ministry and a
lot of big men have been invited to the banquet
and ball, and as the price of tickets is equal to that
charged for flrst-class metropolitan entertain-
ments, it is evidently intended that Junee shall
bathe in a flood of glory on this great occasion.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Metropolitan Lledertafel Social (New
Masonic Hall) Feb. 19.
Drapers’ Association Picnic (Cabarlta) February 28.
Grocers’ Annual Picnic (Cabarlta) March 10.
Booksellers’ Annual Picnic (Botany) March 12
Sydney, Wednesday.
My dear Belle,— I believe It is a positive fact
that we are going to have a new Town Hall clock
—a clock, mind you, which will tell us the proper
time of day, and not be so eccentric in its move-
ments as the present pretence of one has been. It
will be quite novel and delightful, I assure you,
to have a truthful clock in such a prominent
place. I wonder whether they will have it made
upon the new system of reckoning time, which
is, instead of reckoning each day and night as 12
hours, they simply lump them both together, and
call them 24, so, instead of saying " quarter to 7,”
we should have it “ quarter to 13.” It will, no
doubt, be awkward at first, but anything, oh I any-
thing for novelty.
What do you think of this scheme of sending
some of our men to the Soudan service ? It makes
me wish I was a man, so as to have the chance of
being picked to go; for, as we all have to die
some time, it’s ever so much better to die a hero
than a nobody, isn’t it ? Not that I suppose these
men of ours will get killed—at least I sincerely
(Continued on next pape.)


Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 10th February, 1885.
fresh tenders for retaining wall.
tar-paving, TURFING, &o.
THRESH TENDERS are invited for the Erection
? Retaining Wall, and for Tar-pavimr.
turfing, &c., at the Darlinghurst Public ScaooJ.
nf P T«nh^ nd . s P?clllcations may be seen, and Form#
o, “ theue "“ rt ““ t
De h DartmMtof b P w i th th . e Under-Secretary,
Instruction, at or before lo
o clock a.m., on Monday, the 2nd March, 1885.
J o tedder? 0t biad hlm8eIf t0 aocept the
W. J. TRICKETT.
J. NOAKE^
320 & 446 Georga Street,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
Just Unpacked, ex e.s. Rome,
12 Cases Rea! HAVANNA CIGARS
(Finest Brands), consisting of
“ ANTONIO MARIAS ”
OF VILLOR8 ”
‘ HENRY CLAYS”
“REAL”CABANAS
LORRANAGA”
“ RITICA ”
“MORALES” *
‘ FLOR DB MORES”
“PORTOQA8”
“ INT1MIDADS”
“ FLOR DB CUBA”
BSPONOLA ”
“LA CORONA”
J. NOAKE,
320 & 446 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
PAINTS.
OILS.
fS? WALL
V PAPERS
Office: 330 Gaargo-street.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
N.B. Patterns and Prices sent.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 10th February, 1885.
TENDERS FOR IMPROVEMENTS TO
PLAYGROUND.
TENDERS are invited for Levelling-, Draining
and Tar-paving the Playground at the Cam-
perdown Public School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the ofllce of the Department
of Public Instruction. Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Improvements to
the Playground, Camperdown Public School,”
must be lodged with the Under-Secretary, Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock
a.m., on Wednesday, the 35th February, 1885.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
WILLIAM HERMANN WITTE.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of above
party, last heard of in the employ of a Land
Commissioner, in Bathurst, in July, 1883, will oblige
his American friends by kindly communlcatinsr
with
GILCHRIST, WATT, & CO„
Sydney.
ON THE
IBriclsifield. Kill.
Dim STAY MI DDES IT EEPAETMEIT,
Ct,
(Q.
<z O
a
*r,.
Cm
i'O
uO
fJ
[S.
C’v
W A #
«!
I
M
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Free oe Charge.
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPERM. BUSKS),
2s. lid,, 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4a. 6d., 4s. lid., 5a. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s*. 6d., 8a. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10a. 6d., 12s<5d
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS, 668, Brickfield Hill.
N.B.—Orders from the Country Mill receive immediate and. careful attention.
(Continued from page 16.)
hope not—but even if they come back unscathed
they will still have a tinge of heroism about them
on account of having been there at all. Ohl how
I did cry when I heard of poor Gordon, and how
thankful I was that we had no engagement
for that night, for poets can talk as they like about
« beautiful pearly tears ” and all that, but I would
no more think of facing the public after a good
crying bout, than I would go out in a dress of last
year’s fashions. What with swollen nose and
inflamed eyes, a girl looks a pretty sight at such a
time—don’t you think so ? I always thought .there
was a great deal of affectation about poets—for
Instance, if a girl is given to be untidy with her
hair, they talk about the “graceful locks which
burst from the imprisoned bands,” and such like
nonsense. Now, before I had mine cut short, It
used to be most frequently: “Oh! Mab., Mab.,
there’s your back hair all loose and untidy again;
do, for pity’s sake, fix it up properly.” It may be
that our want of appreciation of untidy locks,
swollen noses, and inflamed eyes, is due to the
total absence of true poetic feeling; but, if so, I
should wish to remain matter-of-fact and prosy all
my life long.
We have been very scarce of day-time amuse-
ments this week, with the exception of the Inter-
colonial Cricket Match, and you know we girls
don’t go to these matches so much for the purpose
of watching the game, as to ;see people, and snow
our new costumes. We went on Friday for an
hour or two, but it was a long way to go in order
to see so little, and it was so cold on the stand
that we were quite glad to walk about
a little to keep ourselves warm. On Saturday
we were not able to attend, but I hear that
the show of dresses was fairly good. I fell to
wondering on Friday whether some of the blue-
cap players possessed any sisters, cousins, or aunts.
Because if they do, it is a shame they allow them
to wear such shabby faded caps. Some were so
faded that it was almost impossible to tell the
colour of them. Men, you know, dear, don’t bother
about these trifles themselves, and it is only fair,
when we go to see the fun, that we should see that
they are as smart and presentable as it is possible
to make them. Now, do you suppose I would
allow Ned, if he were a cricketer Instead of a
cyclist, to play in a match with a shabby cap ? No,
I certainly would not; I would have a new one for
him every time—provided, of course, that he gave
me a sum which would sullies for the cap and
leave a balance just sufficient to buy a pair of
f loves for myself, for my trouble, you know. Oh I
could never be so unkind and thoughtless as to
allow him to go in a shabby cap.
A little boy made us laugh heartily in the Gaiety
the other night. It was when the “ Ballet of
Nations” were trouping on to the stage, carrying
their national flags. "America” had just danced
on with their stars and stripes and called forth
such deafening applause that I looked around to
see If I could discover Hanlan or any other
American celebrity; but, unless they were be-
hind a curtain in one of the boxes, they were
not there. So the warm reception of the pretty
American flag was unaccounted for. Then
came two Highlanders carrying their orange-
coloured flags, upon which the little fellow jumped
off his chair, screaming out, “ Oh, mama, mama,
come home, do.” “Why, dear, what’s the
matter ? ” “ Don’t you see, they are showing the
small-pox flags to scare people away. Oh, do
come, before we catch it.” It was enly when the
pretty Highlander threw down the flag in order
to dance the Highland fling that the little fellow
was pacified, and indeed he was so pleased with
the dancing, that the small-pox flag was soon
banished from his thoughts.
They have quite a nice orchestra at the Gaiety,
and it is to be hoped the management will refrain
from thinning them down as the season goes along.
It is a way these managers have, dear, of cutting
down expenses, and I am almost certain if they
knew how really we appreciate a good orchestra,
they would try some other way of economising.
Now, at the Royal just now, they seem to think
that, because they are running those two attrac-
tive comedies, they need not be particular what
kind of music they give us in the waits. The con-
sequence is they have about as small an orchestra
as they can with any shadow of decency, place
before us. And the music they play la almost
contemptible. This would not be so remarkable
at any of the smaller theatres, but we always
expect the very best of everything at the Royal—
and, as a rule, we get it, too, which makes any
short-comings the more notlcsable. The horn-
player at the Gaiety is the same who caused such
amusement at a rehearsal of one of the suburban
societies some time since—a long time ago, in fact.
He was playing flat, so the conductor called out to
him, “Get nearer, my man; nearer to the piano.”
So “ my man ” grabbed his stand in one hand and
his chair in the other, and sat himself as close to
the piano as he could. The conductor, who had
turned his back for a moment to give the tenors
their cue (why are tenors the most troublesome
voices in part singing ?), made a fresh start. With
eyes blazing with rage he turned upon the unfor-
tunate humorist and demanded what on earth he
meant by disobeying his instructions. “ Vy, you
told me to coom nearer ze piano, and I coom; vat
vas I to do zen?” The matter-of-fact German
had placed himself near the piano Instead
of the tone of his instrument, and, whilst
we could hardly contain ourselves for laugh-
ing at his funny mistake, he sat stolid and
smilelegs; for you know, dear, Dutchmen have as
little appreciation of a joke as a Scotchman. But
when I saw him and heard him play at the Gaiety
the other night, it all came back to me,and I enjoyed
It all over again. I love the French horn so, and
am always so glad to see one in an orchestra.
Whilst I am on the subject of theatres, I must not
forget to tell you that they are giving “ Bobadil”
for just a few more nights at the Opera House
before they go on to “ La Perichole.” “ Bobadll”
is sure to go better than ever, for the chorus has
been so much improved since the first production
that it is both pleasing to the eye and ear.
I am sufficiently unamlable (as, no doubt, you
have found out ere this) to take a pleasure in see-
ing a man “put down” when he has been doing
or saying something foolish. One day, when It
was raining, a coloured gentleman entered a tram-
car, and no sooner had he taken his seat than one
of those fussy individuals, who are a plague to all
humanity, remarked: “Budgeree rain, eh; you
get em welly wet ?” No response from the new-
comer, but his questioner, all unabashed, con-
tinued: “ You no like em rain ?” With a dig-
muod air, the coloured gentleman turned
to this persistent lump of fussiness: and re-
marked: “I beg your pardon, sir,” but if
you will speak to me in plain English, no doubt I
shall be able to understand you ; at present, I
must own I am quite at a loss.” The white man
ftoa the grace to mutter a smothered “ Beg par-
don, I m sure no offence meant,” and buried his
tace in the newspaper for the rest'of the way. But
now, isnt a man foolish to lay himself open to
such snubs? I really have no pity for them, for
i re 18 OQO thing in this world I detest, it is an
officious, inquisitive man, who is always ready to
he patronising—it is quite bad enough iu a
woman,
ni^ui‘ ro P oli t a , n Liedertafel concert to-morrow
5*™' I wish they would add to the request on
• * that none but evening dress be worn,
? a ?° ute J ntlmat1on that we should all take it as a
People would deny themselves the plea-
eatinS onions for dinner on the evening of
Last time we were nearly suffocated
e °* 3our - PheuI 1 shall never forget it.
not every one has so fierce an objection
ve?Pf a hii’ D but A? “ e the y are the most aggressive
WT& n* 68 on the face of the earth. I don’t mind a
r, a man doesn't wear a dress suit at a conoert,
a r pn'?^ he J doem ’t eat onions. You know we
hlimUr.2 b lge<i . to loo]l at him, but there is no
Bfivn^ g i°. l i raelve8 to the sense of smell. As I have
more thi« to to-day, you must excuse
more this time, and believejme to be
Yours, as ever,
MAB.
(mah^ ll m 0 W K ine> and Spirits, 0f reliable
S? ffiBtreet?* r0haSed from HocKINQS and
BRIEF MENTION .
Sir W. Bede Dailey, Bart, (cost nil).
A sure remedy for insomnia—Rum.
Sir Dan. Cooper, junr., Kt. (cost £1000. A
bit less than the price of daddy’s baronetcy).
Sir Trustees in Estate of late Samuel
Bennett, Kt. (cost £300 per head per annum). In-
come. £35,000 per annum.
Sir S. M. Herald, Kt. (cost £1000 per
annum for three years. If by bad luck they start
at all'. Income, £100,000 per annum.
The following wire recently went shiver-
iDgalonsrto Parramatta:—“ Keep over the leader
of Political Calisthenics, and put in theJClrcusad.”
“ Would you like to see the Evun Nooze ?’
said a waiter to a diner. “No, thank you,” re-
plied the diner; “ I read the Herald th s
morning.”
They are getting pretty high-toned at the
Girls’ High School. The following is a copyof a
note sent by one young lady to another “ WrTe
me some verses for my scrap al***.”
Under the title of “ Municipal Notes,” in
the Parramatta Fkrgy, “ Long Sleever ” writes
half-a-column of sporting! We spose next week
they’ll label their report of the Council meeting—
“ Latest Gallops.”
Theft of a gold watch, chain, and pencil,
from St. Andrew’s Cathedral, on Wednesday, 3rd
February. “ My house shall be called the house
of prayer, but ye have made It a den of thieves.”
Flow on, gentle Rivers.
The Rum “ entirely withdraws the charge
of indifference” made against Lord Carnarvon
for not seizing every Pacific rock ten years ago.
His Lordship has been ailing for some time, but
this news will bring him round a bit.
The Wilcannia Times says“ Wiloannia
appears to bo able to boast of, perhaps, taller
men, and more taller men, than most other towns.”
Well, this may be, but Wilcannia can’t boast so
much about its grammar, judging by the above.
A shock went through England when the
news arrived of the brave Duke of Connaught
having fallen alongside the fearless Earle at the
head of his column. The public grief was only
allayed when intelligence came that Connaught
was spearing pigs in India, and had no desire to
crush the Madhi.
“What do you think of it, Clifford?” we
0DQn! r *d of the stalwart sculler, after the race.
“I—I can’t think—” he faltered. “We forgot;
we rejoined, hastily. [Here’s a chance for the
backers of this magnificent sculler to present him
with a second-hand mind.l
The Newcastle Hanby talks of a woman
‘who was forced by the husband, who should
have protected her, to lead a life of immortality, ’
and a little further down states that “ his discarded
sister watched him from the curbstone.” Never
mind I what the staff lacks in spelling, it makes
up in beauty.
When the news was flashed along that the
Innocent travellers by the Cootamundra train
were killed, while the poker-playing sons of Belial
escaped unharmed, a certain pious politician—it
wasn t Abigail, of course—exclaimed : “ Well,
heaven be praised; but the ways of God are indeed
unscrupulous.”
From a sub-leader of Frank’s not yet in
pri 5,t:—“ Now thatit has transpired that Gordon
is Chinese the near-sighted polisy of English
Government is more plainer. The trechery of
the Chinese is providential.” We expect the sub-
editor will crowd this out, on pretence of receiv-
ing an extra Hamburg tea manifesto.
When the proffer of the New South Wales
contingent to serve In the Soudan was discussed
in the Cabinet, Lord Augustus, in the truest spirit
of self-denial, offered to spare Nathan. “ If the
siege of Kharteum should be determined on,” said
his Lordship, “Nathan’s services would be Invalu-
able. He’s unsurpassed at opening a door I ”
After a long sitting, the new committee of
the Gundagal Literary Institute, presided over by
Father Bllworthy, J. P., recently passed accounts
to the amount of £2 15s. I Surely this couldn't
have been the Institute’s subscription to the
Qundagul Times! This sum has broke the Insti-
tute, anyhow; and there’s not enough to the com-
mittee’s credit, now, to enable it to buy lights for
the caretaker’s dog.
The Cootamundra Herald requests its
readers “to excuse all shortcomings, this issue, on
account of the temporary Indisposition of the
editor.” We do so, unhesitatingly. We shall
ask people to excuse us when we are seeing griffins
on the mantelpiece, and vampires in the ewer.
This reminds us, that feeling “ indisposed ” at race-
time, a lam worth editor wrote his leader in one
monosyllable—" Hie.”
•‘England must take the country (Soudan),”
shrieks Granny, “but for what purpose—to hold
or surrender ? If the latter be determined on, to
whom?” Well, we would say diffidently that, if
twas to be given back at all, It might just as well
be returned to the proper owners. If a thief
wanted to make restitution the person entitled to
receive the plunder would, likely enough, be the
person who was robbed.
Jimmy Service gave a [slap in the face
to some parsons who interviewed him on the Sun-
day train question. Said James: “I never take
any heed ot charges made in the newspapers, un-
less they make out a p rima facie case. Charges
are made In the newspapers, and, allow me to say.
In the religious newspapers, which, at least, show
wilful negligence in not inquiring into facts.” We
trust this was not uttered in covert allusion to
The Bulletin.
“What are lyour political opinions?” en-
quired an elector of Waverley of Mr. Freeman s
Journal Murray, who is to put up for that con-
stituency. ‘Yours,” replied Tom, promptly;
come and take something.” Not only a certain
vote secured, but this Is the man who, at nomina-
tion, will get up, and say—“ I have mush pleshur
In sheckonding (hie) the nomi (hie) nation of Al-
dermansh Murrish, whose peculiar talents and
much virtue eminently (hie) tit him fosh legisla-
torsh.”
The crisis was come. It was felt that it
must be met. As evening drew on, the citizens,
with eager and determined countenances thronged
the thoroughfares, and surged up to the tree in
the centre of the town of Blackall. The wretched
vlclim was dragged to the foot of the tree, and
amidst roars of execration, was swung up with-
out being afforded time to mutter a prayer. He
met his doom without a word. It was a man
named Slater who had been beaten in a municipal
contest by 44 to 30, and he was made of straw.
If the home, be it a aottage or manor, has
been designed with tho Architect’s best skill and
executed with faithfulness by tho Builder, it will
be incomplete and unattractive until the Delf—as
many call it—is found in its place—kitchen, dining,
drawing, or bed room. China, Glass, and Karthen-
ware is displayed in great variety at Brays, 403 and
404 George-street.*
Big oaks from little acorns Brow,
Large streams from little fountains flow
andffrom the mere knowledge of tho germs con-
tained in the juniper berry the world is supplied
with a preparation of gin unequalled in the trade
markets of the world and known to all who have
been fortunate enough to test its virtues as the
celebrated Wolfe’s, Schnapps Always obtain
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
“ Many a good thing ends in smoke,” is
an old saying, and is literally applicable to one of
Noake’s Cigars. This gentleman has imported the
choicest and most expensive shipment of Real
Havanna Cigars that has ever been landed in
Sydney. The varieties comprise Antonio Murias,
iienry Clay’s, Partagas, Villar y Ylllar’s, and
other choice brands, some as expensive as £60 per
thousand. They are well worth inspection, and
may be sampled at either of Mr. Noake’s establish-
ments, 33 Hunter-street, or 830 George-street.*
In a recent issue we mentioned the names of
Messrs. Simpson and Kennedy as a possible entry
for the junior double sculls at the late Snails’ Bay
Regatta. We were so informed by a gentleman
we ii ■ u *P . amateur rowing circles, and we'
published It at the moment, forgetting that Mr.
Simpson s win of the junior outrigger race at the
National Regatta had rendered him ineligible for
the race at Snails’ Bay. We are sorry the mistake
should have ocoured, but errors will creep into
the best-regulated families, and it is hardly neces-
sarry for us to assure Messrs. Kennedy and Simp-
son that our remarks were not called forth in any
personal spirit, but purely in the interest and for
encouragement of our young scullers.
TAKEN AT THE FLOOD.
Save money by joining the crowds now throng-
ing the Clearance Sale of SuramerfleldandCo., The
Great Juvenile Outfitters, who are bound to make
room for heavy consignments of Winter Stock,
shortly expected. All goods are being cleared at
less than English cost. A perfectly genuine sale*
Read this I Man o’ War, Estemere Serge Suits at
13s. lid,, usual price, 31s. Swmmerfleld and Co.
235 and 337 Pitt-gtreet.*
The oonsumption|of iEerated Waters in the
colonies has increased of late years to such an
extent as to warrant the importation of English
manufactures, but whether the imported article is
equal to the best colonial waters remains to be
seen. Mr. Rowlands, whose derated Waters, er- !
peclally Soda and Ginger Ale, have attained the
highest degree of popularity, gained at Calcutta
the gold medal over ail other competitors, and if
the award of the judges is to be taken Jas a crite-
rion, the public need be underjno apprehension as
r * ow^n,nc^,s tfoods over the
A New Discovery.—Hoffman’s Eucalyptol
(registered) ‘Mixture and Injection.” Their ex-
traordlnary efficacy in hundreds of cases proves
tneir effect to bo unequalled in the annals of medl-
c • They positively cure all kidney diseases
and disorders, all urinary complaints and dis-
charges, Irritation, scalding inflammation, gravel,
pains in the back, &o , &c. A case incurable in nine
months was actually cured in eight days with
Hoffman s Eucalyptol Injection, purely vegetable.
Hoffman s Eucalyptol, Mixture, or Injection con-
tain no mineral, no sandalwood, no balsam (paiba),
or anything injurious to the most delicate consti-
tution of either sex. Ask for Hoffman's and take
no substitute. Wholesale, E. Krosser and Co. and
all wholesale houses. Retail, all principal chemists
and storekeepers. Price, 3s. 6d. and 3s. 6d.*


GORDON.
To-day there oomee from where the English
crags
Stare blindly on the war of winter seas,
A woe of many mourners, and a breeze
Of sorrow from the stir of half-mast flags.
To-day with lifted voice and folded hands
Men pray for one new-lost, with stammer-
ing lips
Not often moved to prayer, in forts and
ships,
And wastes and cities, and in all the lands.
To-day across the earth sounds one long
moan
Of lamentation for the peerless loss
Of him who yielded up, beneath his cross,
The noblest life, since Christ’s, that men
have known.
To-day in that stern stronghold by the Nile,
Far from us nil amid a dusk, strange race,
Who knew not what they did, his martyr’s
face
Looks up to Heaven to greet the Master’s
smile.
This was the man who, swaying Pagan
hordes
With kind, strong wisdom, in a time of
flame
When China swooned in horrors without
name,
Won England victory through alien swords.
This was the man who, having fought and
won
His country’s battles, turned from all re-
ward,
And heeding the commands of his dear
Lord,
Sought all dark ways where good was to be
done.
This was the man whose hand but reached
for power
To use it in the help of humankind,
And leaving pomp and pageantry behind.
Fought Sin and Want with all his strength’s
large dower.
O, dead great Hero I true to peace or strife,
Lifting a giant’s arm to shatter chain?,
Or kneeling by some couch to soothe the
pains
Of such as groaned away a bitter life.
Brave Christian soldier I who, on hostile
walls,
Won martial glory high o’er all thy peers,
Then found thy duty, through unnoticed
years,
Down in the gloom s of gaols and hospitals.
What need hast thou of our poor prayers ?
who wast ,
In thy pure self-denial half-divine—
Whose name as a clear beacon-light will
shine
Above the name otf kings till time has past.
So lie, while round the world the requiems
roll,
By the dark Nile, and be thy monument
The record of a life of high intent.
Whereon men’s love will shed an aureole.
The Pall, Mall Gazette states that there
is reason to believe that Mr. Gladstone will vote
for Mr. Woodall’s Woman Franchise Bill, but will
indicate a desire for a scheme enabling women to
vote by proxy—so as to avoid the necessity, wo
suppose, of their attending the polling-booths.
From Shoalhaven a correspondent send us
an extract from a Dundee paper. It is, as will be
seen, simply a report of the proceedings taken by
a Yankee millionaire against a Scotch crofter, who
daros to keep a pet lamb In the land of his fathers.
Our correspondent writes:—“Mr. Winans —may
his tribe Increase I is determined to get rid of the
old Highland cobbler and bis pet Iambi He can-
not get the full benefit of his 350 square miles of
"shootings” so long as this old Gaelic-speaking
cobbler and his lamb remain within his bounds!
‘ Whom the gods wish to destroy they first deprive
of reason.’ There is a terrible day or reckoning in
store for the * Winans.’ I believe that day la not
single time do not disturb as people about who
remain." This should Interest our distinguished
visitor Lord Macdonald.
The friends who have taken up the cause
of the poor crofters are evidently to make good
use of the interval that must Relapse before they
can be expatriated, and the preparations that are
being made for their defence are promising. If
they are not even formidable* When Parliament
assembles, the serious crisis In the Soudan and
the Franchise and Redistribution Bills will neces-
sarily excite strong feeling and absorb a great deal
far distant; the storm appears to be gathering
round them on all sides; and they seem to be
totally blind to the signs of Its breaking. The cool
audacity of this ‘well-known sportsman’ places
him at the head of his class, He objects to one pet
lamb, because, if he tolerates It, he may haee a
hundred 1 It does not seem to strike him that any
one should object to him. I repeat, there is a fearful
and terrible day of retribution Instore for Winans
and all who ;crush and oppress their fellows."
In the month of October proof was taken in the
Dingwall Sheriff Court In a case concerning a pet
lamb, which excited considerable public Interest
when It was first mentioned a few months ago.
The pursuer Is Mr W. L. Winans, the well-known
sportsman, who proceeds against Mr. Malcolm
Macrae, shoemaker and cottar, Cairngorm, Mor-
vich, Kintall. The object of the action is to Inter-
dict Macrae from grazing or allowing to graze
sheep or other bestial belonging to him on the
doer forests of Kintall at Morvloh. The defender
admits In his condescendence that he occupies a
bouse for which he-pays no rent, and states that
he was In the habit of grazing sheep and cattle for
a period of years on the land In question, and with
the full knowledge of. and without objection being
taken on the part of the proprietor or the occupier
of the land. He also admits having kept a lamb at
the time stated, but maintains that it was kept In
hla house, although it might occasionally have
wandered for some distance from the house into the
forest. The hearing of the case was adjourned to
have the evidence of the proprietor, Mr. Mackenzie,
of Kintall and Glenmuick, and of Mr. Winans. The
Sheriff accordingly granted a commission to Mr.
James Maconachle, barrister, of the Inner Temple.
Both Mr. Mackenzie and Mr. Winans were ex-
amined before him on the 25th November in Lon-
don. Mr. Winans gave the following evidence:—
1 am the pursuer in this action. My shootings
extend something over 200.000 acres. Have you
taken it out in square miles?—I have on the
Ordnance map measured out the miles, and in that
way I have made it over 200,000 acres, between 300
and 3oO square miles. Would It do any good If you
got rid of the pet lamb without the cottars?—I
have explained that, if I get one pet lamb, I
may have a hundred. Without the pet lambs
the cottars would do a certain amount of harm.
Will the deer come near inhabited cottages ? The
tendency is to prevent, and it does prevent. I
cannot act the full benefit of the forest while the
cottars are allowed to remain there. The deer will
come nesr cottages when the persons are not out-
side to disturb them. While the cottars and cot-
tages are there, to a great extent that will pre-
vent tha oeer using the ground as a feeding
ground in winter. Do you think the cottars or
the pet lambs would do the most damage?-If
depends upon the pot lambs. What 1 desire is to
get rid of the cottages and their inhabitants. I
shan’t leave a stone unturned until I get rid ef them.
The public road would prevent the deer from
coming there very little In the winter; there
Is so little traffic in the winter. Persons passing a
of time and attention, but a strenuous attempt
will be made to press forward a measure on too
lines of the Report of Lord Napier’s Commission,
and, in the event of the necessary legislation hav*-
ing to be deferred, the Home Office itself is not at
all unlikely te favour the passing of a Suspensory
Act, to prevent eviction and consequent disturb-
ance in the meantime. The case for the orofteA
is now being carefully and ably prepared, and it is
far stronger than was generally supposed—especi-
ally from a purely technical and legal point of
view. Our readers are already well aware that,
down to comparatively recent times, the land
belonged, not to the chief, but to the
whole clan, and that the clansmen were
transformed ihto mere tenants by the ex-
tension of the English land system over
the Highlands. On the ancient tribal custom
the claim of the crofters is based. It Isa claim in
Equity; and Professor Blaokie, a warm friend of
the crofters, has brought prominently forward in
the work he basil ust published on ‘‘The Scottish
Highlands and the Kind Laws,” a most important
fact, which legally strengthens enormously their
claim In Equity. It would appear that after the
suppression of the Jacobite Rebellion in 1746. when
the Highlanders In blind obedience followed their
chiefs to battle for a cause of whose merits they
were ignorant, an Act was. passed annexing in-
alienably to the Crown the lands of the chiefs who
had espoused the cause of the Pretender. This
Act, which was evidently framed by wise and
humane statesmen, provldethat the rents and pro-
duce of the lands should be applied, not to the
increase of the private resources of tha monarch,
or even to the national revenue, but “to the pur-
pose of civilizing the Inhabitants upon the said
estates and other parts of the Highlands and
Islands of Scotland, the promoting amongst them
of the Protestant religion, good government, and
manufactures, and the principles of duty and
loyalty to His Majesty, and to no other use and pur-
pose whosoever.” Unfortunately, this grand Act of
Parliament of 1762 does not seem ever to have been
carried into effect to any considerable extent, and,
worse still, it has not even been allowed to remain
in abeyance. In 1783, Henry Dundas, afterwards
Lord Melville, obtained the passing of an Act by
which the forfeited estates were handed back to
the rebellious chiefs or their heirs. This was not
oniy an Act of Oblivion as regards treason, but
an Act of Oblivion as regards the rights of the
people, for by it the people, who had obtained the
State as landlord 30 years before, with a strict
provision that the State was to use the profits o
the land for their benefit, were placed at the mercy
of a number of private landowners, who were
henceforth empowered to deal with them Just as
they pleased. The chiefs, now transformed into
landlords, under this Act, passed by a Legislature
in both branches of which the landlord interest
predominated much more thoroughly than It
does even In the House of Commons and the
House of Lords, could raise the rents of their
tenants, destroy their homesteads, drive them
to the barren sea-shore and to foreign lands, and
turn the fertile glens into a wilderness at
their own pleasure. All these things they have
done, and are in process of doing. Leeds of un-
exampled Infamy and barbarity have been perpe-
trated by the landlords, who have cleared the
Highlands and Islands of their inhabitants, and
from the lips of aged men and women Professor
Blaokie has collected a mass of evidence whloh
more than confirms all that has previously been
made known regarding these atrocities. In the
abrogation of the Act of 1762 by the Act
of 1783, however, it is not only the High-
landers whose Interests are concerned. It 1$
little wonder that the English people see
in the story of the spoliation of the
Scottish Highlanders by the landlord Parliament
of 1783, only a parallel to the multitude of Private
Enclosure Acts passed in the latter half of the
last century, and the earlier half of the present,
under which they were deprived of their rights in
large portions of the soil of England. Such a
review of the measures of the landlord Parlia-
ments of England, as that upon which the people
of England have now entered, will unmis-
takably reveal facts that are calculated to
rouse angry feelings In the breasts of the
proletariat, or, to translate that term Into
its English equivalent of the "disinherited,"
and to lead them to consider whether it may not
yet be possible for them to recover the soil that
they have lost.flf thd Skys orsfters were to estab-
lish their claim to a joint ownership of the soil of
that island with the proprietors, the absolute
ownership of land enjoyed in other parts of Scot-
land, and throughout England and the British Em-
pire, would plainly be seriously jeorpadised. That
American millionaire, Winans, who has leased
shootings extending over 300,000 acres, or between
800 and 360 square miles of Scotland, and has shown
that he is to keep all Scotchmen off that portion
of their native land over whloh he bears sway, is
now engaged in prosecuting a cottar for keeping a
pet lamb, and while In the witness-box avowed
that the real object he had In view was to “ get rid
of the cottages and their Inhabitants,” as well as
of the lamb. This confession from tho lips of an
alien has (produced its natural effect upon the
Scottish people,(and even upon the English as well.
It certainly brings the question as to whether it Is
right that the land should be made the subject of
Srivate property, and be bought, sold, and admin-
tered solely for the benefit of .a private owner,
before the people’s eyes In a very precise and de-
finite form, and as Mr. Winans kindly Informs the
British public that he will not leave a stone un-
turned untils he clears off the cottars and their pet
lambs, of whom he complains, the conflict will be an interesting one to
follow to its Issue. It will be found that Mr. Winans has the existing law on
his side, and If he can get it applied in his favour, as he undoubtedly will,
It will be demonstrated In a striking way that the existing land law ignores
entirely the Interests of the people. The land move-ment is evidently un-
folding Itself steadily, and even speedily in Scotland. It will be well
,to watch closely its development.
GORDON, IN HIS ROBES AS A MANDARIN OF THE CHINESE
EMPIRE#
CHINESE GORDON.
FROM A PHOTOGRAPH TAKEN AT THE CONCLUSION OF THE TAEPING REBELLION
GORDON PASHA WHEN GOVERNOR OP THE SOUDAN,


BARGAINS! BARGAINS !! BARGAINS!!
Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
<Sc CO.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO, ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale. Last Week of Sale.
Ladies should secure the
CHEAP LACES AND UNDERCLOTHING AT ROSSALIE, LLOYD St CO.’S SALE.
4s. In the pound taken off your Bill.
Thousands of Remnants of-Laces. Remnants of Laces. Remnants of Laces.
Remnants of Ribl>on9. Remnants of Ribbons. Summer Millinery. Summer Millinery.
A MAGNIFICENT STOCK ALL INCLUDED IN THE SALE.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.
Umbrellas. Umbrellas. Parasols. Parasols.
ROSSALIE, LLOYD & CO.,
NEAR THE GENERAL POST OFFICE.
*
I
I
VP
AT
£<-
I
ran
\
§
ACEfsTTS
FOR
BAKER
KY
P
LATE
M
fW
6
Rm
I
I'lL
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
LUNCHEON AND REFRESHMENT ROOMS FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.
Holiday Presents.
W. H. PALING
AND CO. (Limited),
HAVE JUST RECEIVED A MAGNIFICENT SHIPMENT OF
COTTAGE,
UPRIGHT GRAND
SEMI-GRAND,
CONCERT GRAND
PIANOS,
by the
MOST RENOWNED
MAKERS
in the
WORLD.
AMERICAN
ORGANS,
b
BELL and CO.,
PALACE CO.,
STORY and CO.,
at
PRICES to SUIT ALL
CUSTOMERS.
These Instruments have been SPECIALLY SELECTED by Mr. W. H. PALING, who is NOW
IN EUROPE, and may justly be considered
ID MD5T
of Musical Instruments ever introduced to Australia.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash; or Easy Terms.
Mr. PALING has also FORWARDED a COMPLETE ASSORrMENT of
l£TJSICiiL BOSES,
FROM TWO TO SIXTEEN AIRS.
These Goods will be Sold at Unheard-of Prices.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
366 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
T-A-CSZ TH0I£PS01T,
A.J.O. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON,
91 Kins-street.
iar N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
READ THIS!
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 IDs. each,
Warranted for three years,
CAN BH BOUGHT AT
269 Pitt-st, Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER ANu JEWELLER
Black Swan Hotel,
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting. Ashing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magaiAolent s.s. Illawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday Bight, at U
o’clock.
1 AAA domestic paper fashions
JL vJvfvJ shown in our Illustrated Catalogue
Prick, Threepence ; by Post, Fourpknob,
C H A P P E L ft CO..
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern and General Sewing-machine
Agency,
746 GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and all fittings, &c., kept in
stock.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
OENT.’S 50, is. fid.; 100, 8s. fid,
LADIES’ 60. 3s. Od.; 100, fit 04.
Address, 6d, extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. 6d.; 250. 6s. 6d. ; 500, 10s.; 1000, 15a.
NO CHARGE FOB ENGRAVING PLATE.
0T Orders executed and forwarded by rfitjuu
post.
TIE MET SUPPLY GO.,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
M. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS^
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street,)
From the Strand, London.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 354 and 356 GEORGE STREET.
IT*
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest In Australia.
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is informed that this Studio is’ carried on for the benefit of t|ie lata Miv
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Everybody should remember the address ;
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney,
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Maka«ml
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R, G. WATKINS.)
and CO.,
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
in, mm, ui mom uuun,
Importers of
ST ¥a M tt E^?FF^t?^INEBR8’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
RAHWAYANDOTHEKGONTttACTORS* PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS,
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACH BOX LDER V
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &o.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS.
BRUSHWARE
and
FENCING WIRE,
WOOLPACK8
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
PORTABLE, PtJCEB
and SEMI-FIXED BN-
OINBS
VERTICAL and HQRL
ZONTAL BOILERS'
4PS
33® PUMJ
and other
LATHES,
SHAPING, _ _
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BRASS
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLER
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, &o.
0T Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office
- 64 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR,
SYDNEY.
- 80 SRACE0HTOP8 STfiBKC,


W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON 1 and SYDNEY.
Catalogues
POST FREE.
ALL STOCK
in their
[SYDNEY
HOUSE
is
Supplied
DIRECT
from their
London
Manufactory,
and Latest
London Styles
Guaranteed
SYDNEY BRANCH:
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
~“wTshearsby & CO.,
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and Robe Makers.
Trousers from 21s. to 40s.
N.B.—Mr. 8HEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Co.
W. Shearsby & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
Ned Warmoll,
Catalogues
POST FREE.
W. WALKER
and SONS
J
are one of the
Largest
Stockholders
and
Manufacturers
m
ss
High-class
FURNITURE
ENGLAND.
REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ABB SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any other of the numer-
ous diseases of the stomach or bowels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will And a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries—malarial, epidemic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver
Nerves, Kidneys, &o., and
£500
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer 7
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doo
tors’ bills to pay.
WeakNervnusMen
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature dccny
igk and failure to perform life’s
“ ■' duties properly are caused by
excesses errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THEMARSTON BOLUS.
Neither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Kervous .Debility and
“ Physical Decay is uniformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO.. 52 Caitlemgh St., Sydney
Christmas Presents and New
Year’s Gifts 1
JUST RECEIVED, a Largs Assortmentol
Gold & Silver Jewellery,
SUITABLE FOR PRESENTS.
Ladles’ Gold Dress Rings, from 10s.
Ladies’ Sliver Watches, from £210s.
Qent.’a Silver Watches, from £3 10s.
And other articles too numerous to mention.
C . ORANT ,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER.
B84 George Street, Sydney.
pT Country Orders promptly attented to.
INVALUABLE TO DYSPEPTICS.
Heath Bank, Sandridge.
Dear Sir?,—I have during the last few weeks
advised several patients to try your
Bavarian Hup Bitters.
Toe result baa been uniformly favourable. In
dyspeptio eases of long standing they will prove
invaluable.—Yours sincerely,
FftANCtS CH BHTHAM, L. et L. Mid., B.C.P., Kdln
wc
me
or
life
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nerrons nnd Physical Debility, Pro-
Suit nre Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
Miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses may be
and cured. Those who donbt this should pur-
chose and road the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Self Pregerratlon. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all aente and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
jvalnable. So found by the author, whose experience for
90 years Is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
»fay physician. SOOpages, bound in beautiful French cloth,
fhll gilt, guaranteed to bo a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded in every Instance. Price, only 12/6 by
,wail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which ho refers.
•The Science of Life should be read by the young for
Instmation and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit/
all.—London Lancet,
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As-
sociation. or Dr. W. E. Parker, No. 60 Hunter
Street,Sydney,N.S.W. Theauthormay TMUQ
he consulted on all diseases requiring | ■ O
•kill, secrecy, and experience.
AST L£ &S0N$
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
»
SOLE IMPORTER OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET,
SOLE AGENT FOR THE
SMITH ORGAN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH!
A HONEST REMEDY. Prescribed bv the BEST PHYSICIANS.
£-
THEY WILL POSITIVELY
Nervous Headache in 6 minutes!!
Bilious Headache in 5 minutes!!
Neuralgia in 5 Minutes!!
FallingHair and Baldness!!
Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp I
Promptly Arrest Premature Srayness. Make the Hair grow long
and Glossy. Immediately
Brain.
Mo. 1 Hair Brush
Mo. 2 Bair Brush
Mo. 3 Bair Brush
Mo, 4 Bair Brush
Mo. 6 Bair Brush
Dr
Tho
Es, Od.
7s. 3d.
9s. Ed.
11s. Ed,
13s. Ed.
Orewkerne, Nov. 12,1880.
Sir, —My patients have given
me a very satisfactory account
of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair Brush.
One lady assures rne that she gets no
neuralgia in her face if she uses it, and
others atate that by a few minutes’ brush-
ing with tho Electric Brush, a nervous headache,
or one arising from overwork or debility, is quickly
removed. The invention is, I think, very valuable. !If Unbreakable
1 am, your obedient servant, G. F. Wills, M.D., M.R.C.S.E. /1*Im Elegantly Carved & Mounted
From Dr. Lemprihrr, D.C L., Ac., St. John’s College, Oxford. Dec. 28, 1881.
Gentlemen,—I have known and appreciated the great advantages of your Electric Hair Brush for some time, and, as I find the benefits increasing,
I fek it my duty, as well as my pleasure, to earnestly recommend it. No one who has not tried it can possibly imagine how material its comfort is,
Your Flesh Brush is only one more proof of the enormous future open to the scientific development of useful and beneficial domestic appliances.
Sm-dtea ore indeed a wonder, and well worth the money. Yours faithfully, 0, Lumpriurb, D.C.L., &c.
Their Royal Highnesses the PRINCE and PRINCESS of "WADES, PRINCE
BISMARCK, and the KING of HOLLAND each use a pair of Dr. Scott’s
Electric Hair Brushes, and a long list of Distinguished Patrons could be pub-
lished, and their Testimony added, did space permit.
The Brush Handle is made of a new odorless composition, resembling ebony; a combination
f substances producing a permanent electro-magnetic Current, which acts
immediately upon the Hair Gland* and Follicles. This power oan always be
tested by a silver compass, which aaoompanies each Brush.
PURE BRISTLES—NOT WIRES. Wire Brushes injure the Scalp,
and cause baldness and irritation.
The Right Honourable WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE, M.P.,
has written upon the merits of Dr. Ecott’s Electric Hair
Brushes, and has added them to his Toilet.
Lady A. CHURCHILL-daughter of the Duke of
Marlborough (hero of Blenheim), and sister of
Lord Randolph Chin chill, of Parlia-
mentary celebrity—uses them regularly
and thinks them unequalled for
the hair.
S3T Send for Circular of
. Scott’s Electric Flesh
Brushes , Corsets, <£? Belts
for Ladies’ and Gen-
tlemen's use.
Tin** Brtn(h«ai h*n >■"
direct to any part of N
ml titmice? can '
can be mar.. • Drafts, P.O. Orders, Staiu
crossed Union Bank of AiuH,.a;lx tee that the name of Dr.
none are genuine.
,1 n f a n Chemists and Fancy Storekeoperafor will bo forwarded
naland in pen receipt of prices named, with Is. added. Re-
, or Currency,
cott is on thoBoTjWii
Iues can be
tout which
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
64 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
P.O. BOX 22!.
I
ODE TO THE YARRA.
(At least, It’s an odour something.)
T tie Harbour-Trust has done its fell work,
arid swept away the bolllng-down establishments,
boa»-mlils, tanneries, soap works, and all those
sfmroes of our varied Joys, which made Yarra
Yarra a power in the land. Now, she has nothing
ta depend on but one candle factory and a few
abattoirs to keep her end up, and these also must
quit. What, then, will the festive excursionist
have to enliven his little trip? Nothing—positively
nothing, but a few bloated dogs and a stray corpse
or two.
Oh Yarra, lovely Yarra,
Thou’rt lost, indeed, to fame.
And posterity will never.
At the mention of thy name,
Ping np Its little nose
With Its Sunday over-ooat.
Or cram a scented bed quilt
Madly down its throat.
This ii a very little ode. We wish we ode as little.
The China Overland Mail, one of the
newsiest papers in the world, has this “ A Mr.
Mooro has lately killed the biggest alligator seen
for a long time la America. The brute was shot
In Anollla River, Florida, land measured 12 feet
T inches In lon.tb, and weighed 5001b. It Is stated
by competent scientists, who have carefully ex-
amined It, to be over 1000 years old." From enqui-
ries made by our special correspondent In Florida,
we find the scientists overrated his age about 1880
years—but that’s a trifle In science. That alligator
ttrst smiled in the Buffalo (U.S) Dispatch re-
porter's room sometime about the end of 862.
According to the Dispatch, he was then 12 feet
7 inches, and weighed 500ib., and was 1000 years
eld, but was killed by a Mr. Geo. B. Green, a local
man, who had gone—nor, to Florida, but up the
Ban Fran cisco River, in Brasil, diamond bunting.
And Geo. B. Green never existed.


J. TURNER ROBINSON i CO.'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-sfraet,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
nr Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect lit
guatanteed. _____
A. & C. HUENEBBEIN'S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
SIS GEORGE STREET,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
tar Tbe most liberal house for Pianos atid Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Irspbctiok Cordially Invited.
A. & C. Huenerbein,
318 GEORGE STREET.
W. H. CHARD AND CO.
WOOL BROKERS,
. MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
LIBERAL ADVANCES made on WOOL er
other PRODUCE shipped to their London
Agents. Messrs. Redfern, Alexander and Co., 8
Great Winchester-street, B.O.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well-
known firm Is given to all consignments.
DENTIST.
(Of America)
GUARANTEES
Mi Fit and Matin.
PRICES MODERATE.
Corner George and Market Streets,
OVER HUNTER’S BOOT PALAOB.
1 .1 —
Royal Hotel,
Bungexidore:
FIRST CLASS ACCOMMODATION.
J. HcMAHON, Proprietor.
NO MORE CORNS 1
CORNS AND removed without pain
bv the use of Palmer’s Painless, H«rmless,
and Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER.
This preparation Is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If applied accord-
ing to the directions, it will effectually remove
them in from six to eLht days.
PALMER’S
F»C1/C CUBA
For Neural ala, either Chronic or Local.
This most wonderful Preparation has surpassed
all others in speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing: comolalnt. It matters not
how Iona or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed In producing the desired re-
sults : and it can be most confidently recomme dod.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general stores: wholesale by Messrs Elliott Bros.,
Sydney ; E. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton.
Hrlmwade. and Co., Melbourne; Kempthorne and
Prosser, Dunedin.
NEUSTADT and CO.,
COMPLETE
FURNISHERS,
39.154, 156, i 158 J
SYDNEY.
0T HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
EITHER. FOR CASH OR TIME PAYMENT.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash. Purchasers.
Miyunnp RESTORED I
A Clergyman having tried every known
remedy for the Curb ot Nervous Exhaustion,
Premature Decay, &c., has at last discovered a
simple Self-Cure, which for the sake of suffering
humanity, bo will send FREE the Prescription
which CUR ED him. Address, with self-addressed
stamped envelope—
DR. B A CLARKE. P 0. Box 292, Sydney.
BOVVIiAND3 ODONTO is the best, pur-
est, and most fragrant preparation for the teeth
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-grltty tooth powder; such Row-
lands’ Odonto has always proved Itself to bo.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and has
lately been much improved. Each box has inside
the lid a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwood,
Ph.D., F.C.8., &o. Sold in three tins : white, rose,
and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes. _ . _ , . ,
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands ar-
ticles, ol 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations
Wholesale and Retail Agents, Elliott Bros., E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
16S PItT bTBIET, SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Compagnonl’s.)
THF, undersigned, r< cognising the want of a
FIRST CLASS TAILORING ESTABLISH-
vttvNT have OPENED the premises lately occu-
pied by th I Bank of Australasia, at 168 PITT-
?TREBT(THE WEST END HOI SP) where they
intend to carry on a High-class and Fashionable
Trade.
The public may feel assured that we shall be
able to maintain a high standard, when we state
that our Mr. Ward has had some years experience
in the best hous< s in l o don, Paris, as well as in
first-class Sydney Establishments, namely, Farmer
and Co’s and David Jones and Co.’s.
Our Mr. Wilson has had fully 20 years’ expe-
rience in the Australian trade, and has ]ust re-
turned from England, where he vsited all the
orincipvl Woollen Mills, including that of Hud-
dersfield as well as Wert of England and Scotch
Miffs This will be a sufficient guarantee that the
tastes and requirements of the public will receive
the attention they deserve.
In conclusion, we desire to say that we hope to
obtain a fair share of patronage, in return for
which we guarantee first-class work, all hand-
made, well shrunk, perfect fit, and all in the latest
London and Paris styles.
Soliciting a trial, we remain,
Very truly yours,
FREDERICK WILSON,
HUGH WARD,
Fashionable Tailors, Robe and Habit Makers.
Wen End House,
168 Pltt-street, Sydney.
.ii.'braJn.sisaa.’s
«S*S»
flilfw
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy I
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteen lb cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
Immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
tar 808 GEORGE STREET.
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
80LB~AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
BCH NAPF8.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFER
THE
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever Introduced Into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, EAST TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine in the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS in Town and Country.
tSF - Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE to
any part of the colony.
B. O. Holtermann & Co.,
Sons A cents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THB
IGNO
Piano.
as
E»
FAMOUS
their bald Imftations with a tremendous flourish
of trumpcteT What result hare they to show.
Sales of the Mignon Plano
have Trebled.
the mignon piano
it. way into every town almost of all
Victoria and New South Wales,
frnm north to BOuth ; to the far north of Queena-
New Zealand, from one end to the other
of the In South Australia and Tasmania
THE MIGNON
can be found, and Its name Is really a household
word. _____
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for its size defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, because the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be had.on very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for first-class work and
richness of tone.
pr illustrated Catalogue, with full description
of THE MIGNON and all other good instruments,
on application.
NICHOLSON AND CO.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
PAIN
MOULTON'S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
i. URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC IE,
RAINS, BRUISES, SCALD 1,&C- and
Aken internally cures DIARRHOEA, IVfSE .ajcIRY,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other .uterus aches
aid pains. i ii
Price, 2/- Sold Everywhere.
S. E. MOULTON, sole prop; i::or,
MELBOURNE AND • DNEY,
PAINT
wais
TONIC,NERVINE
B*GI8T*RBn. Knr-
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURB for not
vous and General Debility, and all
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuraig .
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Goss
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kmn y
Complaints. Loss of Vital Power, &c. By its to
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By its richness in Phosnhoro *VT.’B
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSH au
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour m
the whole system. f*rice, 4s. M., or 25s. a cas •
Sole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTH KK8.MP.S-
Manufacturing and consulting Oaemists. lot a
h* naif ■ de Par*.
Circular-quay. I AK1 NO SUnSll-
tutb.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
u
K
88
8
Et
&
&
O
feS
u*
<•-)
So
t
R « •*
si;
*
s
o
*
*a
II
lA
«■
ML
ar
r>
3
J||
»
O
2
$
CO
&
I
®
rRFQTS OF ARMS* AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLEI
yyy^yyyji
rw
,
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
•371a.© TReixe-'bl® BvLgrgrlee!
PKOCUttABLB ONLY AT THB
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
“ ORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
best manufactured articles only kept in stock.
WILLIAM FLEMING-, Wardian! & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty s Hotel.)


N OCTOGENARIAN’S GRATITUDE.
George street, Sydney, September 1, 1884.
Messrs. Myebs and Solomon.
Gentlemen,—It gives me considerable pleasure
to tender you my best thanks for your kind re-
commendation of St. Jacobs Oil. Acting upon
your advice, I tried it, and am happy to say the
very first application brought me instant relief;
and, by following it up for a couple of days, I felt
completely cured. Before using St. Jacobs Oil I
suffered severely—more especially from swollen
knees—and had tried many other remedies without
the least effect. However, I have to thank it for
making me myself again, and shall be careful to
recommend it.
I may mention that I shall be 80 years of age in
October, and believe that through its use I shall be
able to spend a pleasant birthday.
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.S.'W.;
price, 2s. 6d. per bottle.
A FACT.
Yours laithfully,
JOSEPH HENRY.
Printed and Published by The Bulletin Newt-
paper Co. (Limited)i 24 Pitt-»t., Sydney, N.S.W.
A SILENT CITY.
We do not wish it to be thought that we
•re as migratory as tbe swallows; nor do we de-
•Ire It to be considered that we are running too
much In the same groove; but we feel we should
be guilty of a dereliction of duty towards the
public, and of a lack of consideration towards
ourselves, did we not unblushingly state:-We
have moved again! [This is getting cloying.—
Bo. B.J
» • *
When we say we have moved again, and
are about to set down in, we hope, a certain num
ber of rhythmic phrases, the particulars of our
new residence in the cheerful feeling that an
editor, who, though disinclined, at times, to make
“further concessions’* is—[You’ll have to wait
till Saturday.—Bo B.l an editor, we say, whoso
magic pen [Two columns of fulsome flattery
editorially eliminated. We can’t be always re-
deeming your dress-clothes.—Ed. B ] Situated as
woare, with every desire to pay 20s. in the pound—
a yearning even—it behoves us, in the choice of a
residence, to be conscientious. So long as we can
say—button-holing the landlord—at the end of the
week. “Here is half the bill; for what with yester-
day having bad to assist a suffering sister, this
morning pay the fine of an aunt who has seen
better days, and also (in a quavering voice) to give
our usual small (but, we trust, godly) contribu-
tion to the Infauts’ Hospital—things are not so
gay as they might be." When we can wedge all this
in, we feel—unless the bonifaoe be unusually
brutal—ourselves secure, anyhow, for another
week. To all intents and purposes, tbe landlord is
powerless. A troubled expression will, perchance,
enshroud hi* countenance; he will murmur some-
thing about its being “near the first of tbe month,”
and then stride to the othersldeof the bar to nega-
tive a hoarse-voiced man’s suggestion for M a beer
until by-and-bye.*’
♦ • •
And this reminds us of a circumstance, the
drollness of which almost borders on the weird.
We remember this incident well, for it was in the
early gloaming of the darkling eve [II—Bd. B.]
We were seated at one of the tables of the coffee-
room of a large and expensive hotel, gazing upon
the crimson bars of tbe distant sunset as they
melted, with kaleidoscopic effects, into tbe placid
ocean. We had stayed at that hotel for some
weeks, and had evolved a liking for various ex-
pensive articles of diet, both solid and liquid. We
had (with some difficulty) caused tbe landlord to
believe that patching our shoes with tin tacks and
sardine-tins was merely an act of eccentricity; and
wo even beguiled him into anteing-up for the
washing (13s. 6d.) upon representing that our
editor (who was out of town) “ would see things
right.” And when we had bestowed upon him an
order for the horse-taming (which was subse-
quently dishonoured) we considered ourselves
secure. But it was not so. The landlord, a cour-
teous and athletic gentleman, suddenly appeared
before us, just as on the fly-leaf of our washing-
book—a volume pregnant with dismal reproaches
—we had penned—our eye (why only one eye?)
rolling in a tine frenzy—the following, which we
trust will be appreciated.
Fast fading, O most glorious orb!
A myst’ry thou must ever be!
Thy radiance does our soul absorb,
As slnkest thou below the sea I
In northern lands—you'Jl see a rhyme
Will never, never, never fail us I —
We've marked, in many a frigid clime
The weird Aurora Borealis!
At this moment the landlord said, "A word with
you.” There being another gloomy guest polish-
ing his molars (in anticipation of something to oat)
in the gastronomical saloon, we requested the
“genial coalface” (Ob, Frank!) to accompany us
to our apartment. Our apartment, we may state
(for the information of travellers and country resi-
dents), was on tbe top floor. And this reminds us
that when we reside at an hotel we always are
either on the top floor or on the kerbstone. "Sir,”
■aid the landlord, seating himself upon a trumc,
which, though feebly veiled by chintz, assertively
proclaimed itself a recent denizen of the shoe-
shop ; “ Sir,” said he, “ I should regard a settlement
as satisfactory. Kindly oblige. Here is your ac-
count.” We took the document mechanically,
and read, falteringly, as follows:—
" No. 246.
£ s. d.
*■ One week’s board 5 6 0
Bread and cheese after theatre 0 a 6
Bottle of rum 0 6 0
Ibid 0 « 0
Cash paid (for washing) 0 0 9
Bottle of rum .. 0 6 0
Cash lent to purchase new bat (after
theatre) 0 7 6
Ewer of colonial ale (insisted on) 0 3 0
Ewer broken (price of set) o 15 0
Bottle of rum 0 6 0
Absinthe 0 1 0
Cash lent (for half-soleing pair shoes)... 0 4 0
Bottle of rum 0 6 0
Expenses relative to bailing-out 0 ID 6
Bottle of rum 0 6 0
Cuffs and oollar lent (not returned)— 0 2 6
Dinner given in honour of a prominent
member of Parliament, since dis-
, covered to be a billiard-marker— 5 5 0
Total £14 14 3”
After pondering for a little while over these items,
we said, airily, “ You needn't be uneasy, old boy;
our luggage is here.” He glanced, with a pensive
countenance, at tbe biggest of tbe trunks, and
after essaying vainly to lift it, sadly said, “Your
luggage would be no good to me; you see, I don't
t oant to build.”
* * •
Returning to the premises which we now
pervade, we may tell you that we are boarding at
an hotel in ’* a populous district,” which, for subtle
mysteries, is a perfect “ Castle of Otranto.” It up-
rears its facade several stories and dwarfs the
neighbourhood, and the neighbourhood, indignant
at being dwarfed, refuses "as with one voice”
(who originated these mouldy old expressions?)
to patronise the establishment. Awed by its size,
travellers in search of acoommodatiou pass it with
respect, but always pass it—and hasten to immure
themselves iu small pubs , whore they sleep five in
a room—with the spirit of last night s rum hover-
ing over them—which makes six!
• • •
Hide your smile in your church service,
when we tell you that we, in this enormous es-
tablishment, are the only boarder. Tho place is
quite deserted, and we are simply scared, as we
descend for rum in the morning, by the thunder-
ing echoes caused by our slippers. Thelandloid
generally arises at half-past 7, has bis bath, skims
the daily papers, and opens tbe bar about 9. It
would be useless for him to open earlier, tor even
if he threw wide his portals at 6 o’clock, probably
all the custom he would get betwixt that hour and
noonday would be * Corporation labourer asking
the right time, and a little school girl beseeching a
« drink of water.” One morning at 6, feeling more
than usually thirsty, we went down and hammered
at his door with a brick for a solid half-hour. “ Is
it fire ?” at length he enquired faintly. “ No,” we
replied, “the .” “Oh, what do you bother mo
for ?” he said tartly; “ why can’t you put it under
the door ?” # 0
He’s a charming landlord—always spick
and span, clean-shaven, and with the most resplen-
dent wtilskers. We told him one day (when deep
in bis books) that he was more like an angel than a
landlord, aud ought to se'l out to St. Peter, and so
exchange businesses. Bat be replied, while lan-
guidly mixing (for himself) a drink of lemon juice,
gin, and ice, that ho didn’t care about ihe neigh-
bourhood of Cook’s River.
• * •
<W© are Writing, now, with a splendid
smile in an enormous drawing-room, with three
njapfw, one grand, and, we presume, all over-
strung and suited specially to tbe Australian
climate. No one ever plays upon these instru-
ment*. Sometimes the landlord climbs a couple of
flights, opens one, whistles Into It, and closes
it again. This is the nearest approach to a
concert we have had, as yet, la this gor-
geous caravanserai. We may tell you that
when It first opened, in rash anticipation of a
rush of business, he engaged 16 servants, who
were all young women of “good character and
industrious habits’’ mustered on a pinch by the
Plymouth bellman. These young ladies enjoyed
themselves exceedingly, and used to pass the time
telling one another's fortunes on the cards. They
were conscientious, however; for one night when
a solitary belated traveller, “ lost in Sydney. ’ en-
tered, requesting entertainment, he was shown
four times Into the wrong room, had his bed
made In seven different fashions, and when he
retired, found on bis toilet table 16 flat candle-
sticks. On the following morning, eight different
persons a«ked him what he would like for break-
fast, and when In the bathroom he discovered, to
his dismay, 29 bath towels, and 19 pieces of soap.
While under the shower, seven different voices
assured him, confidentially, that he needn't hurry
himself, as “master had a tub of bis own; ” and,
subsequently, he was in reeript of the same num-
ber of apologies for the unaccountable loss of
one of his patent-leather shoes-13 fairy hands
having cleared the other one with blacking of a
lugubrious character. He then fled, leaving his
luggage behind, which, being a carpet-bag full of
fishing-bait, it is somewhat astonishing was never
advertised for.
• • •
There is only one servant now, who is a
stout party by the name of Musldora, and who is
valet, butler, and serf generally, to the present
writer. Feeling the hopelessness of keeping this
palace in good order, Musldora has given up try-
ing. So. when not cooking, she sits on the
stairs near the bathroom landing and sings songs,
to Improvised air», out of a popular songster.
One Saturday night—she had probaoly (or possibly)
been paid her wages that day—we detected her
on the seventh-floor balcony deep in a shilling
negro “ side-splitter.” Creeping noiselessly up,
we stopped and listened. She appeared enthralled
by a nigger melody, which seemed to run as
follows: —
He's a gwiae adoun de street;
Jes he am, dis niggar;
He’s to meet his nyum nyum sweet—
Yes, he har, dis niggar!
The rest of this was lost, owing to her receiving a
call (in ghostly tones) from the deep below, in-
forming her that there was sometniug wrong
with the metre. If Musidora h«d a weak point—
besides the female love for what is martial—it
was her cooking. In a platonic way we were
fond of her, and thus for many days we struggled
with her sausages, fought (tnough rou ed with
great slaughter), with her fried flsh; wrestled with
her ragouts, and sparred with her spuds. Her
ideas on the manufacture of coffee were preg-
nant with originality, and her tea was like the
grace of God—it passed all understanding. One
day we remonstrated with her; when, rubbing her
nose apologetically with a saucepan-lid, she said
she knew the “ Saussingers wasn’t up to Dick,” but
thought there was something w rong with the range.
We were astonished, for awhile, at no complaint
emanating from the landlord, even though we
formed ourselves into a deputation, and criod
aloud” about the cabbage. He said he hadn’t
noticed it much. Subsequently, however, we dis-
covered that three times per diem be falsely and
basely filed over to the bam shop opposite, and
surreptitiously devoured his food (rolls, too!) in
the bar, while we were tearing at unseemly tripe,
or browsing, frownlngly, on heart-breaking beef.
Wo had pudding, once, we remember—apple-
dumpling. In order to get at the apple we had to
put the dumplings on the wood log, and chop them
hard with the American axe. We recollect giving
the apples to the local youth, and the outside to
the dog. The dog died. We won’t say what be-
came of the youth. We are aware that anything
we now set down may be used against us at our
trial. We had almost said that, acting under the
advice of our counsel, we had reserved our de-
fence.— tVery wild, this!—Bd. B.]
* ♦ *
Now, bolt your biscuit and cheese, dear
brethren, for tola la where the important part
come Id, [Enfln!— El. B.] For reasons upon which
we do not leel called upon to expatiate, we awoke
one morning—sometime Iwe judged) alter Sol had
tumbled in the meridian. Descending, by easy
stages, into the bar, we discovered the landlord,
solus, paring the moss off one of the beer-engines
with a toothpick. “ You’re late,” he said. A
solemn, even an awful stillness, seemed to reign
over the place. Ther* was nothing coming, no-
thing going without. There was no loe-crcam cart
with Its harrowing horn, no bellowing ’busman.no
demoniac dray. We wandered out, and down the
street, but no wood-oartor’s carol met our ear; and
the howl of the fruit-fiend was mysteriously ab-
sent. Suddenly we stopped, and looked around.
Then, leaning against the shutters of our hermeti-
cally sealed tailor’s shop, we gasped for breath.
A horrible thought dawned upon us. We were
alone-alone in a silent city 1
• • •
Not alone, for a small boy crept, as we were
pa sing along George-street, through a small aper-
ture cunningly devised in some shop’s shutters,
and to him we said: Who's dead?" “Uncle,”
ho said. "Poor boy ! here’s three no; here’s a
halfpenny for you. When did your uncle die?”
“ Pour year ago, on the Barcoo.” We recovered
the coin alter a severe tussle, and then upon a
hoarding we read—
“ Anniversary Day I ”
» * •
Terrible thought. Everbody had gonesonae-
where but ourselves, and we were left solitary in a
vast metropolis with an uglv (and uncultured) boy.
Dazed with this grisly reflection, we wandered
down the street to the “corner.” Not a pro. there!
Amazed, we stood for a few moments, speechless
upon the pavement I For some one to speak to—
evenaolown-a minstrel-Eastway’s empty! Our
voice sounds hollow as we give an order. A
strange young person comes to execute it. whom
we have evidently disturbed whilst probing the
mysteries of Irisn stew. “ Where’s everybody? ”
we enquire, falteringly. “ Gone to the races,” she
replies: “ it's an noliday, you know, sir.” “Thank
you; good afternoon.” “Beg pardon, sir. six-
pence—” Equal to the occasion, we retorted:
That’s all right; it's owing to us by the other girl .”
With that we strode out, while she once more re-
turned to her gastronomical mystery.
• • •
The Club. The hall porter asleep in a
glass case, and not a sign of the white jacket of a
Hitting waiter. “Any Tetters? ” we enquire of the
drowsy Cerberus. “ We paid the other man yester-
day, and hero’s Dls receipt,” he replies, triumphant
in his drowsiness. Forgetful for the moment of
our snowy locks (to say nothing of our wandering
eye) he takes us for the gas collector. But recover-
ing himself, he replies rubbing his eyes, “Beg
pardon, sir; but as it’s an noliday. I one letter,
sir." “ Tnank you.” We open the missive while
climbing up to the smoking room. The usual
thing; “ To account reveatedlg rendered, Is.3d. All,
or a portion of this, will be received with thanks. It
has been so long outstanding.” Crumpling the
letter in our alabaster hand, we turned angrily
upon the gold-bedizened footman, and said—We
forget what we said just now; but it s all in the
Minerva Press novels. We didn t say anything;
but merely thought—“ What persecution—of an
noliday, too I-especially as it has been‘so long
outstanding.’ ”
♦ * *
In the smoking room there is a well-known
politician asleep on a sofa. The noise of our en-
trance arouses him, and he rushes to the window.
“Thunder! who’s dead?" he cries, gazing wildly
upon the deserted street. “ Uncle,” we say, in a
rasping voice. “ Is that all?" savs the well-known
politician; "well, if ho'U keep till to-morrow, and
you’ll pay my cab-fare, I’ll go to the funeral ”
He then immediately composed himself to sleep
again. Bell: and after a long pause, appearance
of strange waiter. We told him we thought we
should like some luncheon; upon which, with an
imploring look, he said that, it being an noliday.
the com-mittee had
» • •
King-street. We stand at the corner by
Bass Hodge’s hotel, and gaze wistfully up and
down the silent street. Not a soul stirring; not *
bus, cart, or cab. Apalled by this stillness wn
discover ourselves gazing curiously into the in
terstices of the wood pavement to discover if
their are any signs of Brass sprouting up. 41 There
must be some one in town I" we mutter, and stroll
Into the nearest cigar store. A feeble bov la
in charge; and we say to him recklessly: 44 Give
us a Habana-Toreador Chico de Cuba.” 44 Choose
one yourself,” said the youth, with an alarmed
look, pointing to a stick-rack ; 44 they’re from
half-a-crown to 103 ” 44 You don’t know the brand
then ? ” 44 Well, the fact is, it being a noliday
I . At J. D.’s we considered ourselves*
certain of finding someone to talk to. That priv-
ate bar usually teemed with life In it, of a morn
echoed the musical tones of M’Elhcne; wafted*
across it were to be heard the erudite conversation
of Larry Foley.the captivating com ments of Carter,
and the maguiftcient monologue of Meeks. There
at least .... Emt ty. The barman is stated
on a chair reading 44 Wedding Hells,” and is up to
his eye-balls in the troubles of the outlawed
baronet, and the melancholy marchioness He
looks up, with surprise, as we enter. 44 In town!”
be exclaimed. 44 Yes,” we say. glancing around
wearily: 41 in town; alone in a Silent City I” 4> No-
body dead in your family, sir, I trust? - * 44 No,”
we returned gloomily. 44 She still lingers. The
action of the menu of a Bligh-street boarding
house is slower than we expected.” At this
moment the sky, which had long been overcast,
commenced to spit at the city, and with a shiver,
we said: 44 Any warm water ? ” 44 Well, you see it
being an noliday . . . .”
» • »
Long before he had finished his blood-
curdling phrase, we were well on our way to
Hunter-street. We knew a gentleman in a board-
ing-house there who was either bed-ridden or
rum-ridden; anyhow he never got up He was of
a literary turn, and entertained original writers in
his bedroom, once or twice, weekly. The bed was
the chair, and there was an abundance of bottled
beer, cheese, whisky, bread, and sprats in a tin;
three of which cau«ed such a Sahara In your
throat, that in 20 minutes after partaking of three
of them, an unseasoned man would drink himself
straight into the paddled cell at the Reception
House. There was a calm, even a smug smile upon
our face as we sighted the house. "He can’t be
out, anyhow,” we murmured. 44 Is Mr. M'Doodle
in ?” we enquired. 44 We are an original writer,”
we added hastily. She looked at our faces, and ap-
peared doubtful; but glancing down at our boots,
became at once convinced. 44 No, he ain’t,” she re-
plied; 44 he’s gone to the races. His friends have
took him on a shutter. It being an noliday, you
see . . . .” Out in the street, again—not a soul
to be seen. We tat down opposite Bowden’s, and
looked sadly across the street. In a few minutes a
servant girl came out on the balcony with an
apple and a duster. She took a bite out of the
apple, and commenced flicking with the duster.
In the morbid state of mind in which we were,
this proceeding fascinated us strangely. When
she stopped, we had a vague idea of bawling over
the road, and entreating her to continue to bite
and flick. She, however, retired, only in a few
minutes to return with another girl, who had an
apple but no duster, and both gazed derisively
over in our direction. Unable to bear the scrutiny
(notwithstanding an innate consciousness of
beauty), we rose from our doorstep and mounted
higher up the street. This brought us to Kirby’s.
The door was open, and we stalked silently in.
Kirby, who was nailing a tin plate, with some-
thing about “angels” and 44 little Bobby” on a
three-footer, looked up-then started back in
evident perturbation. 44 1 can’t,” he cried. 44 allow
any more on the premises. There’s a coffin; and
the hearse is rouund at the stables; drive your-
self to the cemetery. Look what a bother tbe
last corpses got me into! ” Here he shut the door,
and put the chain up.
• • •
We then returned to our palatial resi-
dence, where, up to the time of going to press,
we still linger. At the latest, the landlord was
sketching leisurely on tbe bar in crayons; and the
billiard-marker was asleep in tbe billiard-room
with a fly on his nose.
Stuart Cumberland, the 44 Mind Reader,”
writes to the Pall Mall Gazette, challenging
Mr. W. Egllnton, the spirit medium who is now
the fashion, to produce, or cause to be produced,
physical manifestations called his pre-
sence and that of a chosen committee composed of,
say, Mr. Henry Labouchere, M.P., Professor E. Ray
Lankester, who exposed 44 Ur.” Slade, Dr. Crichton
Browne, who is an authority on nervous and men-
tal phenomena, Sir George hitwell, Bart., who cap-
tured the 44 spirit Marie,” and Mr. H. B. Lodge,
who exposed the spirit medium, 44 Dr.” Monck;
Mr. Eglinton, for his part, to select an equal num-
ber of representative spiritualists. The manifes-
tations are to be produced under strict test condi-
tions, such as will do away with the possibility of
human intervention. Mr. Cumberland undertakes
that, should he fall to explain away such demon-
strations by natural means to the satisfaction
of the committee, he offers to forfeit the
sum of £1000, and Mr. Labouchere is willing
to supplement this amount with another £1000.
Mr. Egllnton is said to have several highly-
respectable spirit 44 controls.” One of them is
called 44 Joey,” and the other claims to be a Be-
douin. Joey has an excellent appetite, and
devours fruit and dematerialises liquids in the
presence of true believers, while tbe Bedouin is
so strong that ne can with perfect ease whirl a
heavy chair over his head with one hand. To
shake hands with this ghost would appear to be
quite an ordeal, for so tight is his grasp that the
blood is made to ooze from the finger-nails of
those whom it may be his pleasure to take hold
of. These 44 controls” become visible in a very
remarkable manner. As Mr. Eglinton stands or
sits alone they, are evolved from his side until
they assume the physical proportions referred to.
Stuart Cumberland says, 44 All my
previous experiences in this direction have been
most disappointing. Some years ago I had an in-
terview with a spirit form in Bloomsbury, while
the medium was in a supposed trance in an ad-
joining room. He said he was the shade of a
brother I had never lost. I squirted him in the
eye with liquid cochineal in order to test his
reality. He disappeared with an imprecation
on bis lips, and on dragging the medium—the
notorious Harry Bastian—from the chamber
beyond, into the light, he was found to have
traces of cochineal on his face.”
Coreage of broche, open over a cascade of lace; it is fastened with two straps and
passementerie olives. Revers collar of ottoman. Elbow sleeves, edged with pleated
lace parements. The basques are plain in front, but arranged in deep pleats at the
back.
