

THE BULLETIN
,1. 8.—N —New Series.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1885.
Frloo—
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1885.
The Momentous Questions.
USLE88 the Parliament of a country is fairly
representative of the various classes com-
posing the community, it is idle to expect
just laws. But it is just as idle to look for a
lair representation of the working classes
under a system where men receive no
recompense for the time they devote to the
service of the State. Here are the two
premises of what might be called a political
syllogism. The conclusion is accordingly
unavoidable—it is futile to hope for fair
legislation in a country where, no remuner-
ation being received by representatives,
law-making is the province of those who are
pecuniarily independent. Indeed, on this
subject of payment of members, we have
all the reason on one side and all the preju-
dice on the other. It is said, among other
things, to be un-English. But there are a
great number of things which, at one time,
were violently un-English, but have since
been discovered to be strictly consonant
with fair play and common-sense. Compul-
sory education, vote by ballot, removal of
the disabilities from Jews, Catholics, and
Dissenters, shortening of the hours of labour
for women and children, and many other
demands which have since been conceded,
were denied for years on the assumption
that by conceding them the British Consti-
tution would be wrecked. Thus it is pos-
sible for a thing to be very un-English and
vfery just. Most of the independent nations
of the world, and many of the British colo-
nies, have adopted payment of members
with the best results. In fact, without it,
the struggles of Democracy to raise the
masses to a higher plane of well-being re-
semble those of the donkey to reach the
hunch of carrots dangled invitingly a foot
before his nose.
• • •
Und*r tha system of non-payment of
members, to say that any citizen has a right
to stand for Parliament is merely to say
that any mendicant has a right to attend
the Governor’s levee—provided he goes in
evening-dress. One of the great drawbacks
to progress in New South Wales has been a
stupid adherence to the usages and pecu-
liarities of the British Parliament. Many of
those usages were copied, not so much be-
cause they were good, as because they were
English. But the House of Commons has
not represented England for hundreds of
years. It does not do so now, nor will it till
the suffrage is universal and payment of
members enables representative working
men to take their places beside those who
have so long governed or misgoverned the
land. When that day oomes—it cannot be
much longer deferred, for English Demo-
cracy is stepping on far and fast—it is prob-
able that less polished language will be
heard in St. Stephen's than is heard to-day.
But there will be other changes equal y
significant. If the right of the industrious
to live and to enjoy life is allowed, it is cer-
tain that the long-enjoyed right of the idle
to quarter themselves on the nation—to
open the British oyster at their pleasure
—will be denied. The people of New
•South Wales should never forget the
tact that payment of members is not
alone theoretically just, but successful in
practice. Wherever tried it has suc-
ceeded. In no single country where it is
the law of the land is there the slightest
chance of its being repealed. All the dismal
predictions that were made concerning it
on its introduction into Victoria have ig-
nominiously failed. Melbourne conserva-
tive journals sent up a lugubrious wail at
the prospect of having the colonial Witana-
gemot rushed by tramps who relinquished
loafing on the Murray for legislating in
Melbourne. In many ways the paid legisla-
ture of Victoria is ahead of the unpaid one
of New South Wales. The members being
the paid servants of the State attend more
strictly to business, and there is a compara-
tive absence of those scandals for which
our legislature has become so notorious. The
suggestive words, “I must live,” are never
heard. Without going outside Australia
for examples, the result of the adoption of
payment of members by our southern neigh-
bours should prompt the electors of New
South Wales to demand a similar measure.
* * m
The second question which should be kept
prominently before the electors is that of
Protection. At Qosford, the other day, one
of the candidates, Mr. Scott, put into a few
words one of the strongest and best-worn
Free-trade arguments against the adoption
of the protective principle. “ If an industry
wanted coddling up,” he said, “and could
not exist without Protection it did not
deserve Protection.” This is a fair sample
of Free-trade reasoning. With equal justice
a newly-born child might be told: “If you
cannot shift for yourself but must have your
mother to coddle you when you cry you
don’t deserve protection.” At Darling
Point Mr. Can shell delivered himself as
follows:—“1 recommend poor men to go in
for Free-trade, as it gives them command of
the markets of the world.” Command of
the markets of the world while they
were unable to supply their own! Against
assertions like these, how absurd to
reason. Their yexy statement is their
best refutation. Among all the great
nations of the world is there one
which has adopted a Free-trade policy
except England ? Not one. Has England,
then, a monopoly of economic knowledge?
Are French, German, and American repre-
sentatives—all chosen as they are by man-
hood suffrage—so ignorant of the very
A.B.C. of political economy, or so cynically
indifferent to their countries’ welfare
as to impose duties which paralyse in-
stead of relieving ? England’s position is ex-
ceptional—unique. Her people, driven from
the land by violence and fraud, and crowded
into the large towns, were obliged, in order
to lire at all, to work for the merest pittance.
With coal, iron, and cheap labour, Free-
trade was the obvious course. Yet more
than two generations passed away from the
time that Smith wrote the “ Wealth of
Nations ” till Peel embraced the views of
Cobden. During that long period English
manufactures were being established on a
firm basis. Then, and not till then, did she
throw open her ports and invite the nations
of the world to follow her lead. But sup-
pose Free-trade had been adopted in Eng-
land when Smith preached it, and not GO
years afterwaids, where would Britain’s
manufacturing pre-eminence be now ? She
simply did what any clear-headed people
would do—looked after her industries,
children we might call them, till they were
fit to go alone, and then, like a sensible
mother, let them look alter themselves.
But our singularly astute statesmen have
improved upon this. They say to our infant
industriesi “If you are not able to hold
your own against the mature industries of
old countries so much the worse for yom
You need not look to us for assistance. If
you want coddling you will have to coddle
yourselves.” It was triumphantly shown
the other day that the annual excess of im*
migrants over emigrants in New South
Wales was much greater than in Victoria*
and this was set down to the superior fiscal
policy of the former. The writer for-
got to mention that protective Ame*
rioa was yearly drawing to her shores
hundreds of thousands of the sturdiest
sons of the Free-trade British Islands. The
cause is the same in both cases, and is con-
nected with fiscal policy in neither. NeW
South Wales attracts immigrants, just as
America does, because she has still plenty of
unalienated land. She is more than three
times as large as Victoria, is quite as fertile*
has resources immensely greater and a
smaller population. Under these circum*
stances, to credit Free-trade with the more
rapid increase of our population, is mere
ignorance, or worse. Indeed, it is by no
means improbable that if we had a 25 per
cent, tariff on goods which could be manu-
factored in the colony, the difference be-
tween our yearly increase and that of
Victoria would be double what it is. In a
letter to the S.M. Herald, the other day*
Mr. Hatter, the Government Statist of
Victoria, and one who, from his position,
enjoys a peculiarly favourable opportunity
for judging, says :—
“ Now, I am not asserting that the working matt
has not for a considerable period had very good
times in New South Wales; but has he not had
even better times in Victoria ? Those who have
required his services will tell Mr. Byron that for
the last five years he has been completely master
of the situation in this colony. Indeed, he has
been in such request, that complaints have been
frequent of masters going about from building to
building, and from work to work, and enticing
each others’ men away for their own Jobs, the
consequence being that no master has dared to say
a word to a man in the way of reproof, for fear he
should at once transfer his services to another
employer. I question whether such a satisfactory
state of things, from the workman’s point of view
—whatever it may be from the master’s—has
existed during the period In New South Wales, or,
indeed, anywhere else except in Victoria.”
It this enviable position is not the direct
result of Protection, to what other cause
can it be attributed ?
♦ * •
The third and by far the most momentous
subject of all—one whose importance in-
creases with the years—is that of the land.
While the litigants in the fable were disput-
ing about the oyster, the lawyer ate it and
gave a shell to each. The Land Acts of 1861
and of 1884 are the shells which are gravely
given to the advocates of each, while the
land—the oyster itself—is being quietly de-
voured by others. While Sir John Robert-
son or Sir A. Stuart extols the virtues of
his own child and condemns the blotches
on the other’s, the work of alienation goes
merrily on. It has been shown that as the
land of a country falls into private
hands, poverty deepens, ahd life, to
a constantly increasing number, be-
comes more hopeless. After an enquiry
as searching as exhaustive into the causes
of this growing want, Gborqe breaks out: •
“ There is but one way to remove an evil—
that is, to remove its cause. Poverty
deepens as wealth increases, and wages are
forced down while productive power grows,
because land, which is the source of all
wealth, and the field of all labour, is
monopolised. To”.extirpate poverty, to
MR. JOSEPH SYMES.


rnaki wages what justice commands they
shou'd be—the full earnings of the labourer
—we must therefore substitute for the in-
dividual ownership of the land a common
ownership. Nothing else will go to the cause
of the evil—in nothing else is there the
slightest hope. . . • 1 Ve must make land
comrtion property.”
* 1 ■
Many uphold private property in land on
the assumption that the soil is made the
most of by that means. They think that
under a leasehold tenure the same use would
not be made of the ground as under a free-
hold. There never was a greater mistake.
Indeed, the very contrary result would be
the more probable. It is not necessary to go
oeyond Sydney or its suburbs for a proof of
this. In almost every street will be found
valuable blocks of land lying idle. The
owners are waiting for pressure of popula-
tion to send up the price. They can sit at
home at ease or enter Parliament in the in-
terests of the poor, while their unused allot-
ments are doubling or trebling in value.
How different all this would be if the
State were the only landlord. No man
would rent land for the purpose of letting
it lie idle. Thus the common belief that in-
dividual ownership in the soil is more con-
ducive to the public welfare than any other,
is contrary to both reason and experience.
“ In the thickly settled parts of the United
States there is enough land to maintain
three or four times our present population
lying unused, because its owners are holding
it for higher prices, and immigrants are
forced past this unused land to seek homes
where their labour will be far less produc-
tive. In every city, valuable lots may be
seen lying vacant for the same reason. If
the best use of land be the test, then private
property in land is condemned, as it
is condemned by every other consideration ”
(“Progress and Poverty”). The foregoing
extract applies with equal force to New
South Wales. With us there are city lots
vacant and country lands idle through the
suicidal policy of parting with the fee-
simple. These are facts which even the
least observant can see for himself. Yet, in
the face of them, our public men treat the
great American reformer as if he were a
wild theorist, the acceptance of whose
teachings would mean a bloody revolution.
• • *
Wo have now touched upon the three
questions which should dwarf all others at
the elections for the twelfth Parliament of
New South Wales. Without payment of
members it is vain to look for fair represen-
tation ; without Protection it is idle to ex-
pect diversity of employment and its sequen-
tial advantages; without land nationaisi-
tion poverty and want will grow apace, till
the questions which are now stirring older
societies to their depths appear on this side
of the world and demand an answer.
Small-pox and Vaccination.
Tjtb doctors who want to make people that object
to vaccination punishable by law are likely to
have an arduous time of it in this colony. The
fates are fighting against them. Patients who have
just luxuriated in the delights of vaccine matter
fall victims to small-pox, while many who
have never had their arms slabbed with the
poisoned lancet go on their way rejoicing. The
gentlemen of the faculty are now busy explaining
how it came to pass that two persons who had
been most successfully vaccinated were, imme-
diately afterwards, quite as successfully small-
poxed. It appears that they were really small-
poxed before they were vaccinated, but vaccina-
tion, though small-pox had the start of it, ran its
race quicker, and got finished first. Then small-
pox showed In front, and had the course all to
Itself. Unsatisfactory, to say the least of it, to the
mind of a people who are to be wheedled Into
giving the police the right to compel them and
their children to be vaccinated, whether they ap-
prove of it or not. Not so long ago we wore told
that it was impossible for the two diseases to be
concurrent—that where the small-pox poison had
got a fair show the vaccine poison would bo of
non-elfeot, and vice versa. Now it seems they can
both have an innings together, and travel side by
side as amicably as two consulting physicians who
have just pocketed their fees.
• » •
Looking further afield we do not find ourselves
encouraged to wade into vaccine lymph deeper
than we can help. We would rather not rob the
cows of it. Canada, all whose infants have been
regularly inoculated with the virus for genera-
tions past, is at present suffering from an out-
break of small-pox, which is carrying off its
thousands. The doctors are recommending more
lancet and lymph. The efficacy of the stuff lies in
its repetition. Vaccination, and re-vaccination,
and surre-vacolnatlon (to borrow a prefix from
the lawyers) are required, so that it would look as
if, in order to guard against a possible attack of
small-pox, which a little extra care and cleanliness
might render innocuous, people were to keep
themselves perpetually ill with vaccine fever. Not
much wonder to hear that the Canadians are
breaking out as badly as the small-pox, and are
resisting the combined force of doctors and police.
a * *
The London Echo recently gave an account of
two sad deaths from vaccination. A girl of 19, the
daughter of Mr. Bawdbn, of Bcorrier, near Red-
ruth, died from the effects of re-vaccination after
prolonged suffering. The other case was that of
« c ii<l of Mr. Beaton, of West Hartlepool, aged
IJmimt*' -t-ho had not been vaccinated owing to
tbc- ciibt-.M of her parents in the orthodox pro-
phy actic. Tliey received an order to vaccinate
the baby, and complied with it. Desiring to en-
danger the child’s health as little as possible, they
had her vaccinated by Dr. Swanwich, with pure
calf lymph. The vaccinated arm became very
much inflamed, and 14 days after the operation, the
child’s whole body was covered with an eruption.
Various symptoms of blood-poisoning followed,
and the child died from mortification exact’y a
month after vaccination. It was declared that
she had been a perfectly healthy child until she
was vaccinated, and had thus simply been killed
by the operation. Her father now regrets that he
had not suffered imprisonment rather than have
it performed
■ • •
Dr. Carpenter, the eminent author of the
standard work on Human Physiology, tells us In
his reminiscences that he shudders now when he
thinks of the recklessness with which he used to
rush about bleeding invalids in the days of h's
apprenticeship. Phlebotomy was as fashionable
in orthodox medical circles then as vaccination at
the present time. The profession was unanimous
in its favour, while the dramatic satirist and
literary critic condemned it, and held it up to
popular ridicule. But Dr. Sangrado, when he
was master of the situation, never went the
length of calling upon the police to assist him in
fcis bloody work. If folks did not want to be bled
they were not put in prison for refusing the
lancet. We cannot sec why the lancet should
come now backed up by an Act of Parliament be-
cause it is the medical fashion of the moment for
it to have a poisoned point.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Australian Soldier.
Mr. Dalley afserts that—“ Everybody who knows
our military history knows that, for the most part,
our most accomplished and distinguished generals
have been at heart the veriest aristocrats alive.”
Everybody who knows anything of history
knows also that these “ accomplished and distin-
guished generals ” have invariably been com-
pelled to recant their aristocratic * creeds,’ or suf-
fer a worse fate at the hands of plebeians, “ whose
knowledge of their profession was derived from
their Democratic sympathies and perfected by
their patriotism,” We have in our recollection
the wars of ancient Greece and Rome, the Swiss
war of Independence, the French revolutionary
war, the wars connected with the struggle for
American Independence and the integrity of the
Constitution, the Cromwellian war in England,
and the effort of Tyrol to shake off the French
and Bavarian invaders of 1809. In this Tyro-
lese war the noble leader and vlotorous
general of the mountaineers was Andrew
Hofer, an Innkeeper and a dealer in wine
and cattle, and who, although of so humble an
origin, without the advantage of an education
“ mainly, indeed almost exclusively, confined to a
thorough mastery of the profession of arms,”
thrice delivered his country from a foreign yoke,
wresting his hard-won victories too, from generals
whose “ military genius” was no “ improvisation,”
but the result of life-long devotion to the art of
murder. So Mr. Dalley’s assumption is true,
neither of our own, nor ah European history, but
a mere assertion, totally unsupported by facts.
The soldier, no Jess than the poet, la born, not
made. Of course, if the soldier by nature is also
a soldier by education, so much the better for him
from a military standpoint; but the assumption
that the soldier by education can or does success-
fully distance or defeat tho born leaders of armies
is altogether false, and entirely unsupported by
the evidence of history. The mechanical pro-
duction of mllitrry discipline never stood
against the “great captains of armies,” “the
inspired generals” nurtured by Democratic
principle and perfected by patriotism. Crom-
well’s officers, consisting of brewers, tap-
sters, bricklayers, and shoemakers out of employ-
ment, were so strong in that “ knowledge of their
profession,” “ derived from their democratic sym-
pathies and perfected by their patriotism,” that
Rupert's aristocratic officers, with their life-
trained and hereditary militarism, were powerless
to cope with them. And if, as Mr. Dalley asserts,
“ tha most accomplished and distinguished
generals have been the veriest aristocrats alive,”
do we require additional incentive for crushing
beneath the iron heel of cold discouragement the
attempt to foster a spirit of love for blood-letting
in our midst ? Murder in the colonies is at present
a fine art-it is confined to the hangman and his
clients; do not let utf vulgarise and degrade it by
making it a common and artisan employment.
Mr. Dalley is ambitious, he desires that
we should attain his grand ideal, and Mr.
Dalley’s Ideal state is—of course— Germany.
Now, theQermacs so well appreciate the efforts
of their benevolent father, Bismarck, to perfect
their education, etc, in the art of man-killing, and
of standing still to be kilk d with propriety them-
selves, that they seize every opportunity of slip-
ping out of their beloved Fatherland (and wi’h the
Teuton Fatherland is no shadowy sentiment) to
escape the hellish imposition of military service
which demands the fairest forms and the brightest
blood of the Empire to feed the cannon and the
mitrailleuse, in the interests and in the quarrels of
an immoral old hypocrite whose life is spent
alternately In ogling the ballet-girls in the green-
room of a theatre, and on the barrack- parade in-
specting his dear children as they prepare their
bodies for the slaughter. Mr. Dalley gives us a
lot about “the educational Influence,” etc, but
we are astonished that he passed over a very great
instance of national advancement resulting from a
system of militarism—we allude, of course, to
Russia. The children of the Czar are so gratefu
for the pains taken by their loving parent to per-
fect them In the art of slaying that they have
repeatedly endeavoured to convince him that this
education had not been thrown away upon them,
by making a seriei of experiments upon his own
sacred person, although thtse evidences of their
appreciation have not met with an exceedingly
enthusiastic encouragement. Returning to Mr.
Dalley s assertion in respect to the "thorough
mastery,” &c., by genera's of their profession,
need we seek for illustrations for holding a contra-
dictory opinion in the farmers who left the plough
to lead the Roman Eagle to victory?—to those
generals plucked from every rank of civil life to
lead the French brigades of the Revolutionary
period against the Russian, Prussian, and Austrian
generals, and to fuddle the aristocratic brains,
diseased by too much “ thorough mastery,” &c., of
these martinets trained in the schools of Yauban
and the rest of the defunct strategists ? Need we
dilate on the thorough annihilation of these dis-
tinguished blue-bloods by these soldiers of Blood
and Fire, at whom they could only gape in bewil-
dered astonishment, although they were manufac-
tured in an atmosphere of "Democratic sym-
pathies” and “patriotism”? In conclusion, we
might remind Mr. Dalley that the noblest figure
of that period Was that of Lafayette, who, though
of aristocratic origin, was second to no other
leader of the time, as a patriot, and as a sympa-
thiser with the Democracy.
The Rustics Roar.
On the New South Wales political situation the
country Press is speaking out with a delightful
candour that almost repays one for wading
through columns detailing the peculiarities of
six-legged lambs and two-headed calves. Why
there should be such a radical difference of
opinion between town and country journals re-
garding the Stuart-Dalley regime, would appear
strange to one who did not know what an effect a
•* fat ” Government advertisement has in making
people discover blunt honesty in transactions
where the rest of the world sees only what is idio-
matically termed “tiddly-winking.” “When-
ever,” somebody said, “I hear of an eternal truth,
I think of an infernal Ho.” So with us. When we
see metropolitan journals go into maudlin
hysterics over a filibustering expedition worthy
of Bashi-Bazouks our suspicious nature is at
once stirred up from the dregs, and we would fain
get a peep behind the curtain, if only to see the
motive power that sets all the autunata capering.
So when we are told that Mr. Farnell's explana-
tion Is “eminently satisfactory’’—that no means
of locomotion at present known to science can
compare with properly-constituted “dump-cars”
—that few occupations are nobler than oyster-
breeding in some romantic inlet frequented
by the public—that the pigments hitherto
used are good in their way, but that the
‘ Standard Paint,” even when applied with
a mop, makes the others peel with envy,
and that Mr. Wright came out of the enfilading
fire of criticism, not only unperforated, but
sounder than ever in wind and limb, we smile
“sarcastic.” And now for the opinions of some of
our country cousins. The Adelong Argus says:—
“ The disclosures that have come to light show
that If over the Legislative Assembly needed a
thorough cleansing it is now. . . Whatever con-
clusions may be come to as to the merits of the
new land law, we venture to affirm there is not
one in ten in our own community but will readily
admit that its maladministration is notorious. . . .
The residents in this district must know right well
that Mr. Farnell's vindication was no vindica-
tion at all. . . . Gross wrongs were perpetrated.
It is a patent fact that the railway officials fully
understand that Wright, Heaton, and Co. have a
representative at head-quarters who is the final
resort in any dispute with the Railway Depart-
ment.”
Such reading is like a whiff of ozone after a
week’s sojourn down a well. But it is gentleness
Itself alongside the stuff ladled out by the Bourke
Watchman, the Gunnedah Advertiser, the New-
castle Morning Herald, the Bombala Herald,
and many others. It cheers one up—shows that
human nature is not entirely depraved—to ob-
serve the way, devoid of all affectation of good
breeding (and often of all knowledge of the libel-
law), in which these provincial prints knock the
Administration down and dance upon it. Let them
speak for themselves: —
“The debate has this effect: It has revealed a
large number of unsavoury practices on the part
of the present Ministry. . , . The country has
become so accustomed to the travesties carried on
by the present Ministry in the matters of reckles*
expenditure and oligarchic government that it
ceases to express any surprise at whatever may
transpire, i . . The Constitution Act may be
entirely ignored; immense contracts may be
quietly distributed; large tracts of land may be
manipulated; log-rolling, jobbery, and nepotism
may bo of the most bare-faced character, but the
Ministry jog merrily on. . . . The metropolitan
Press is content to bespatter the Government
with fulsome praises; having sounded its peeans
in favour of the Soudan expedition, the Sydney
Press shrinks from admitting its error, and now
endeavours to force the public into approving
that which its better and calmer judgment con
demns. ... A sweeping reform is required in
the character of the present Assembly. . . . The
numerous charges of corruption are not only de-
grading to the Ministry, but to the servile majority
in Parliament which upholds them in their ini-
quity. . . . This deplorable exhibition of the
white feather, with such a large and pliant ma-
jority at their back, is undoubtedly an evldenoi of
their own guilt and of the justice of the
charges made against them. ... It will be
the general opinion of the conailtuenc’es
that the Ministry were afraid to face the
fresh disclosures that would have been made
during the debate upon the motion of censure.
... It would be well, Indeed, for the country
did the whole body of the electors determine that
not one of the Stuart Administration shou'd
have a seat in the next Parliament. ... It will
not do to have the votes split up, and so allow
Mr. Oily Gammon [Abbott] to slip in between
them.”
These are a few, and a few only, of the bullets
that the rustic journalists keep firing into the
Government hide. But a few words more and we
have done. Most of the journals which lost their
heads over the mad expedition to the Soudan and
of the members who supported it try now to wash
their hands of the matter by saying: “It is too
late to dispute about it now; the thing is past and
gone beyond reach like last year 's snow.” This Is
Impudence in excelsis. As well might a burglar
who was not apprehended until months after his
offence, say: “ There’s no use making a fuss about
the thing now. The money I stole is in the hands
of the publicans months ago, while the pawn-
broker has long since kindly engaged to mind the
clothes 1 made off with. Why chivvy a poor
* bloke’ ’cause ’e cracked a crib last winter ?”
Gagging the Constituencies.
Last week we objected on Constitutional grounds
to a dissolution which, for whatever reason
granted, had the effect of stifling the voice of the
New South Wales Opposition In the Assembly, and
effectually hiding the administrative acts of the
Stuart Cabinet. Now we protest against a mani-
fest attempt to drown the voice of the constituen-
cies. The backbone of our Constitution Is the
rig! t it gives to the governed to be heard in the
halls of Legislature. The Assembly is intended to
contain the essence of the thought, and to be a
compendium of the will of the people. Therefore,
every facility should be given to electors to choose
representatives whose views are most in accord
with their own. The candidates should have full
time to prepare themselves and to publish their
views, so that a deliberate choice may be made.
The action of the Dibbs Ministry has been to
defeat this great principle. Parliament was dis-
solved on the 7th Instant. Nomination for all the
more important constituencies, and for nearly half
the seats, took place on the 13th October, thus
leaving only four clear working days for the
settlement of all matters necessary to candidature,
and for the expression of views of matters worthy
of the attention of a candidate. In rushing on th®
elections with such indecent and unconstitutional
haste, the Ministry reserved to themselves an enor-
mous advantage. Occupants of Treasury Benches
and their supporters, being in the secret, were
enabled to perfect their plans, and arrange
their programme, but the dodge will have the ex-
pected disastrous effect upon Opposition members
who were quite in the dark as to the intentions of
the Ministry. Ministerial supporters are not back-
ward In declaring that this was done “to euchre
the Industrial crowd.” This boast would serve to
prove, even though other evidences wore wanting
that the policy of his Excellency’s present ad-
visers Is to evade the one first principle of the
Constitution, and to secure themselves in office
by undermining the authority by which their
positions were created. The “move” should
servo to show how pleasant the sweets of office
must be to the now in power, and also the
policy and means by which they hope to retain that
office. In spite of this doubtful stratagem, we
think that electors will assert their will, and
decide that the Ministers who stopped the
mouths of those who desired to know about con-
tracts in barb wire, paint, dump-cars, and other
goods, and then deliberately set themselves to
falsify the voice of the country, are unworthy of
the confidence of those for whose benefit they
are supposed to govern. The voice of the people
stifled in Macquarie-street will speak with un
deniable force, the force of numbers, from out the
ballot boxes of the country.
"Hon. Joeseph Rabbott.”
In political life there is nothing more instructive
than to observe how an action that arouses the
worst feelings of a member in Opposition—that, as
it were, prompts him to weep for the increasing
rottenness of public life—becomes veneered with
a thick coat of the purest patriotism when he
assumes office. Everyone must have noticed this
peculiarity. Indeed, It is but a variation of the
old distinction between the “ people ” and the
mob the former being those who cheer you,
and the latter those who howl for the other fellow.
What suggests this to us just now is the following
circumstance :-On the 19th of September, 1882, one
J. P. Abbott, an Opposition member of the New
South Wales Assembly, was possessed of such an
exa’ted view of Parliamentary purity and the
necessity for keeping it undeflled. that he asked:—
Was a list of shareholders in the Junction
Brick Co. registered with the Registrar of
Joint Stock Companies on the 21st June, 1882 ?’»
(3.) Is it a fact that such company consists of
only 11 shareholders ?” (3.) “ Does it appear from
such list that Mr. Russell Barton Is the chair-
man of that company?” (4.) “ig B uch chairman
the honourable member for Bourke?” These
queries, put in the Interests of public purity,
brought the Hon. Water-jug Foster to his feet
tome time subsequently with the following
answers:—(1.) “A list of shareholders was regis-
tered on the 21st July, 1882.” (2.) “ The said list
gives only 11 shareholders,” (3.) “No.” (4.) “I
am not in a position to answer the question.” Not
long afterwards one of the firm of Qatt, Rodd,
and Purves (the latter partner is identical with
Mr. J. M. Purves, M.L.A.) was paid by Govern-
ment, in the ordinary way of business, a com-
mission of £9819s. 6d. on the sale of toll-bars, and
the irrepressible Abbott— always [anxious, you
see, to keep Parliamentary life above the reach
of suspicion—demanded, like the late William
Nye, to know if “ such things could be,” and got
the matter referred to the Elections and Qualifi-
cations Committee, who reported to the effect
that though Batt, Rood, and Purves {got the
coin, there was no evidence to show that Mr.
Purves handled any of It, Years passed. Plain
J. P. Abbott blossomed into the “ Honourable,”
and Government servants in the Mining Depart-
ment veiled their eyes on his approach. One of
his colleagues was accused of an anxiety to ex-
tend protection to oysters while educating their
families; another of a penchant for dump-cars;
a third, of having too many sons-in-law with
right of free warren over the public domain; a
fourth, of being solicitous for the success of a
new kind of paint; while a fifth was rounded up,
not only for sitting in the House, but for presiding
over a public Department of which his firm was
the best customer. Did the incorruptible Abbott
condemn these little alleged lapses of virtue ? Go
to. Don’t expose your ignorance of representative
institutions by asking such silly questions.
The Hidden Millions.
The new arrival, as well as the youthful native,
as he listens to the old time tales of pint pots being
tilled with gold by the not unpleasing process of
picking the nuggets from the bottom with a
pocket-knife, naturally enquires: “ Is all the gold
taken out of the ground ?” The answer invariably
is: “No, there will be more gold got in this
country than has been already obtained.” “ Then
why is it not done now ?” Let us answer it.
With the progress of settlement, and the aliena-
tion, reservation, and general locking up of Crown
lands, the field for the operation of the prospector
is limited. Men of small means who still toil at
the tub and cradle, the long tom, or the sluice-
ox, are forced to work at the old dig-
gings for a bare subsistence, though deep
down in their hearts is the settled convic-
tion that farther north or south, farther
east or west, there must be gold. The fence of the
squatter bars their seeking it. Talk with an old
miner for ten minutes. He will tell us gold is not
capricious or uncertain, it does not come to the
eui face here and cut out ten miles away, to reap-
pear fifty miles beyond that point. The quartz
and the matrix of the metal is a certain, sub


AMUSEMENT
TOR OLD
AND YOUNG.
On receipt of the advertised price, any of the
following Tricks will be sent by return post :—
TUB DISAPFEARING CARD BOX.-A card
placed in the box Instantly vanishes, and the box
is shown quite empty. Price Is., post free Is. 6d.
THE MAGfC CORK BOX.--A capital multipli-
cation trick. Three corks are placed In the box,
Is seen by the audience to be quite empty.
The lid is placed on, and when removed there are
found six corks within. Price Is., post free Is. Cd.
0F THE NORTH’S CHANGING
CARDS.—These cards change instantly to other
cards, whilst held in the hand, in a most surprising
manner. Price Is., post free Is. 3d.
THE GRE AT HAT AND DIB TRICK. A solid
die passes completely through the too of a gentle-
man s hat and Is found inside. Price Is. (id., [post
free 3s.
THE MARVEL CIGAR CASE.-The case is
shown crammed full of fine cigars, which instantly
vanish. Excellent trick. Beautifully made in
leather. Price 3j. fid., post free 3s.
THE MAGIC SNUFF BOX.—A most excellent
i V . opening can be discovered anywhere,
it looks just like a solid piece of wood, and no
person can possibly open It but the owner. Price
3s., post free 3s, 6d.
THE MAGICIAN’S PACK OF FORCING
CARDS.—No conjuror with card tricks can pro-
perly perform without them. The most astound-
ing tricks can be performed with them. Very
superior cards, 3a. 6d„ post free 3a.
DEMON HANDKERCHIEF.—Indispensable to
every conjuror. Watches, rings, coins, and any
articles placed under this handkerchief, instantly
disappear, although the handkerchief is thoroug h ly
shaken and shown to the audience each time.
Price 3a. (id., post free 3s.
THE MAGNETIC PACK OF FLYING CARD?.
—Can be made to run up and down the arm or
body, gnd elongated In the air two or three feet
a P a Jl m the most beautiful regularity without one
of them falling. Very astounding. Price 3a. OJ ,
post free 3a.
THE MAGIC DIB AND HANDKERCHIEF.-
A solid wooden die is placed under the handker-
chief, and felt to be there by the audience, one of
w hom may be allowed to hold it. The performer
exclaims. Presto I gone I ” and instantly takes
the handkerchief and shakes it to show the die has
vanished, and exhibits it thoroughly, whilst the
die Itself Is found inside a canister or any other
article. Price 3a. 6d., post free 3a. 6d.
THE WONDERFUL JAPANESE DRAWER
BOX.—The performer sends round a pretty! U'*, 0
box to the company, which they fill with -. „ c
gloves, coins, &o. Directly the performer t • f is
it in his hands, without removing It from stVn't.
the articles instantly vanish, and the la
shown empty. Price Is. 6d., post free 3j
THE MAGIC DISSOLVING PACK OF CARDS.
—A pack of playing cards are shown to the au-
dlence and then placed into a case iutl larae
enough tp hold them. One of the audience iuslantly
after this is done, opens the case, an J flifis it full
of sweets, and the cards vanished. Price la. Od.,
post free 3a. ’
THE MYSTERIOUS CANDLE AND BE-
WITCHED HANDKERCHIEF.—The performer
brl i 1 ?. 8 *9*5»rda candle out of a tight-fitting case
a ?r i lg P ts lt- He then borrows a lady's bandker-
chlef, burns it to ashes In the candle, and places
the ashes and candle In the casa again. The lady
is then called on to open the case, which is handed
to her. She does so, and finds ror handkerchief
restored therein but the cand c entirely gone.
Very excellent trick. Price 3s. 6 1 . > j t t free 3s.
N.8.W. stamps taken at par, ot i j. colonies add
Id. to each Is.
Address all oommunioatioas;
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DtPJT
BOX 641 G.P.O. 401 GEOBGB-ST., SYDNEY.
Between King and Market Streets, opposite the
Royal Hotel, and no other address.
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bottln Department,
[
! KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only ,0s.
Small Bottle. . [is. M.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
- from Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOB INVALIDS,
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. Bd, per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT.
9s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT}
as. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN-IN FLASKS,
ls» Od. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke* Prize Medal Brand.
In stone bottles and square bottles.
LABGB8T BIZI.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND 1MLLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
C. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets, i
•TSNET.
the horizon, unless N.S.W. Joshua and his
ragged regiment bid- It stand still? England
In dinger from a few thousand naked fanatics
armed with spears! But It is on the subject of
payment of members that Mr. Edmunds is at his
best. He believes In the principle, but would not
apply it, because “ they could find plenty of good
men to represent them without payment.” Mr.
Edmunds is a barrister—young, clever, and rising.
His attendance to Parliamentary duties would
increase rather than diminish his business. It was
the same with many of the members in the last
Parllamtnt. By voting for payment these men
would be going dead against their own interests.
By keeping poor but honourable competitors out
of the Seld, an unpaid Assembly not alone in-
creases a metropolitan barrister’s chance of being
elected, but increases his income when he is. To
swel l your stipend while getting credit for patriot-
ism is real talent. Will the constituencies never
see through the humbug ?
Wolfe s Schnapps is an unequalled brain medi-
cine, imparting healthful vigour to that sensitive
organ.
Buy Wolfe's Schnapps by the bottle.
The original genuine article— Wolfe’s Schnapps,
See that you obtain Wolfe's Schnapps.
A mild stimulant, a gentle tonic— Wolfe’s
Sclmapps.
The only perfectly pure spirit procurable—
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps, certified by the medical pro-
fession as the purest spirit procurable.
There is no calculating what the human frame
can bear, fortified by the celebrated Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Vitalize your enfeebled system and live: there
is health and strength in every bottle of Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Wolfe's Schnapps for liver and kidney com*
plaints.
Insist upon having Wolfe's Schnapps.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, 13th October, 1886.
TENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
PUBS.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
la kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
J, TURNER ROBINSON CO.'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKEx 1 CLOTH HALL,
478 Beorga-straat,
Established 1(61.
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THU MANUFACTURER*.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
ri1HK
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY, RAPIDITY. EASE.
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
THE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER saves
labour, stationery, and time, writing much
faster than expert penmen, and condensing naatter
to less than one-half the space occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-press. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergyman, editorsandauthors,
reporters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, And save muqh valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents.
1MRAY and GO.,
85 QJarenco-etreet,
The political and economical views of Mr.
Walter one of the candidates for West
Maitland, are interesting: chiefly because of the
glimpse they give us of the bent of the Young
Australian mind. Mr. Edmunds is a young man
and a graduate of the Sydney University. Colonial
Universities whose teaching staffs are mostly com-
posed of British professors naturally train our
youth to view everything through British spec-
tacles. If Cobden’s calico millennium finds favour
In Oxford we may be sure that it will be preached
in all its integrity in Sydney. There is probably
no colonial undergraduate of a couple of years’
Standing who could not entirely upset Hume's
philosophy and pitilessly expose the great Scotch-
man’s sophisms. Yet the “ Essay on Miracles ”
still holds Its cwn. To return to Mr. Edmunds.
His matured opinions are that: “An indiscriminate
Protective tariff was a pure fallacy, and Free-trade
was the great goal at which the colony should
aim. ... He applauded the action of the Gc«
vernment in sending troops to the Soudan to
‘assist the mother country.’ ... He was
in favour of payment of members as a prin-
ciple, but which was not necessary now, as
they could And plenty of good men to re-
present them without payment.” We quite
believe that “ indiscriminate ” Protection is an
evil, but it does not follow that Protection is. In-
discriminate love-making is an evil, yet judicious
dalliance is beneficial and pleasant witnai. Ma-
turity is the great goal towards which children are
hastening, but that is no reason why they should
not be protected on the road. Sp with industry.
Having toiled laboriously up the'Proteclivo steps,
Free trade England stands op the landing and in-
vites the nations ascending by the same route to
get over all the intervening steps at one jump.
*J,',ne crab in the fable railed at bis children for
walking sldew'ays, forgetting that they were
merely following his example. “Sending troops
to the Soudan to assist the mother eountry.” Is
then, the star of England’s empire so low
in the West that it promises to dip below
stantial, and independent formation, holding its
continuous way parallel with other formations in-
definitely. It is, the practical miner will say, pos-
sible to determine with accuracy the spot where
any quartz reef may be discovered by placing one
leg of a pair of compasses on the map on a well-
defined reef at, say, Gympie, and the other on any
point north or south at any distance. The reef is
thqre-it may be on the surface, it may be at a
depth of a thousand feet. Geologists may pooh-
pooh such expressions of opinion from the illiterate
—we give them as the ideas of men Intimately ac-
quainted with the matters of which they speak.
We do not intend to discuss the question; our
object is simply to answer the oft-repeated query:
“Why is the gold not taken out of the ground ?”
And we reply, “ Because the surface of the soil is
secured by individuals who, until a Mining on
Private Property Bill is passed, will keep the trea-
sure hidden under their broad acres on the strict-
est dog-in-the-manger policy.” Let us cite one or
two instances. On the Smithian settlement of
Yulgilbar gold in payable quantities Is known to be
easily obtainable. At Gordon Brook, a larg?
station in the Tenterfleld district, copper assaying
72oz. per cent, has been discovered. Silver has
also been found here. On a station in the vicinity
of Glen Innes antimony exists in sufliolent
quantity to be profitably worked. Two men,
splitting fencing on a pastoral holding in the
same locality, picked up a specimen of
nearly pure silver at the surface. At Bal-
llna, the Richmond River Heads, gold is now
being obtained by miners, who wash the sand on
the seashore. After stormy weather the Ballina
beach yields good wages to those working it. Old
New Zealanders need scarcely be reminded of the
palmy days of the Waimea, the West Coast, and
the Terrace, and the subsequent impetus given to
mining with the discovery of the unsuspected
wealth lying on the beach. We might mention
other instances, but have cited those given as
showing that there are fields of metal and mineral
wealth in the colony awaiting development. The
means to this end are in the hands of the people
through the medium of the ballot-box. The
holder in fee of large areas of country will
object to any measure being Introduced to
legalise mining on private property. And
as that class is unfortunately too well re-
presented in Parliament, the chances of such
a Bill becoming law are remote. But, in-
asmuch as the State retains possession of
metals and minerals, the people have a just right
to disentomb the hidden millions. This right they
can force Parliament to acknowledge, by making
the question a prominent one at the ensuing
election, and by giving their support to men
pledged to the active advocacy of an equitable
measure. While the freeholder is protected from
unnecessary annoyance by the prospector, the lat-
ter should be afforded every facility for prose-
cuting his search for gold, &o., in metalliferous
localities. The pastoral lessee or freeholder to be
guaranteed a fair compensation for surface dam-
age, and for that only, as his claim is merely to
the surface of the earth and its increase,
and not to the wealth in its bosom, which belongs
of right to the State, and, by virtue of that owner-
ship, to the people. With such a measure in
operation, we might not unreasonably hope for a
return of those “good old times” of which early
colonists speak, if not a return of the days of long
boots and bowies, or red shirts and revolvers, at
least the accompaniment of those times — the
national prosperity which places every man on
good term* with himself "Jid his neighbour, and
goes further than the preacher's most zealous
efforts to dispel the gloom, the envy, hatred,
malice, and all uncharitableness which, in less
happy circumstances, ever threatens a population.
Wanted, a Policy.
The taunt of the New South Wales Ministerial
candidates is, “ Where is the policy of the Opposi-
tion ?" As the Opposition naturally contains men
of various opinions, and, further, as thire is now
no burning question before the country, it cannot
be expected that a definite policy can be formu-
lated by the party which Sir John Robertson
nominally leads. The position of the latter party
is simply one of distrust of the present Ministry.
Confidence is necessary to the existence of a
Cabinet, The present Ministry asserts its wish to
do as the Stuart Cabinet did. Their opponents
say:—“You betrayed us over the Soudan busi-
ness; you showed that your sympathies were
of an imperial, not a Colonial character ;
you carried partial measures, and, worst of
all, when charges of Improper conduct were
brought against you, you bluffed them, and at
length closed Parliament that further charges
might not be ipade; therefore, we have no confi-
dence in you or your Intentions.” But as the
Ministry are so anxious to see the policy of their
opponents they may be j ustly asked to produce
their own. Their own so called policy is to carry
two Bills as soon as possible. The first of these,
the Health Bill, would deliver the whole com-
munity over to the doctors, and saddle the
country with dozens of highly-paid ofif olals; the
other, the providing for local government, is net
equal in any respect to that formulated by Sir
Henry Parkes, These two measures comprise
the Government policy, and it is a notable fact
that none of the Ministers care to dilate upon the
clauses of tljese two ponderous Bills, and in this
ihey show their sense, for the more the electors
know of the measures so much the more will their
Indignation be kindled against his Excellency’s
Present advisers.
Joseph Symes.
This arch-hf retie, whose portrait appears on the
first page of fo-day's Bulletin, and who is
creating such a flutter In the dovecots of devout
Melbournites, was trained for the Wesleyan minis-
try. His parents were staunch Methodists, and he
imbibed Methodism with his infantile pap. He
“ converted ” when about 17 years of age, be-
came a class-leader, a local preacher, subsequently
a theological student at the Wesleyan College,
Richmond, Surrey, and went on his first circuit in
1867 He continued preaching, chiefly in the county
of Northumberland, till 1873, when the spirit of
•Doubt became too strong for him, and he surren-
dered the pulpit, cutting nimself adrift from all
Churches, ana obtaining for a time a precarious
livelihood asa teacner. Then be became a Secular
lecturer, won a pcsitlon in his new vocation, and
elected'one of the vice-piesidents of the Na-
tional Secular Society of England, in 1883 he ac-
cepted an offer from the Secular Association,
Melbourne, and arrived in Victoria early last year.
He started The Liberator, a weekly paper, soon
afterwards. All that the so-called “religious”
People had to do was to keep away froin Ifls Sun-
day gatherings and never open his profane
journal.' In this they failed; and now they are
trying to put him in gaol and make a martyr of
"fin, in which they may possibly succeed.
The Referee.
BY FLOOD AND FIELD.
Horse-racing is a vastly popular sport in
New South Wales, but the miserable attendance
at the Sydney Turf Club meet at Randwlck, on
Saturday last, showed that the public can be
treated to a surfeit of even the “ Sport of Kings.”
The Hurdle Race set the ball rolling, for which the
Fish started at even money, but his backers were
not in the swim, as Michael won a good race by a
short half-length from Cymbal, who beat the
favourite by a head for second place Recruit
started at 3 to 1 for the Spring Handicap but was
unable to run into a place, and the finish saw Keith,
Phaon, and Gretna come in. In the order named.
For the Sapling Stakes a'deal of time was cut to
waste before the youngsters could be sent away,
but when fairly going, Blairgowrie soon showed
to the front, and was never approached, winning
by three lengths from Klngflsh, My Lady third.
The Selling Plate proved an easy victory for Prin-
cess of Lome, about whom money could not be
obtained at 5 to 3 on; and the October Handicap
brought the meet to a conclusion with a win for
Euroclydon, who beat Recruit by three lengths,
Clarendon two lengths away, third.
• • ♦
The Sydue/M.R.C. Regatta at the River
Branch on Saturday promises to be worth attend-
ing. For the principal event the senior double
scull crews from the Mercantile, Sydney, and Bal-
main Clubs have entered. Messrs. Brett and Seale,
the Mercantile, will, we fancy, be able to show the
way home. With favourable weather the Mer-
cantile may well expect to see a good crowd on the
river.
♦ * •
The Handicap All-comers Race at Lake
Bathurst has received entries from Beach, the two
Mattersons, Messenger, Pearce, and others. Mes-
senger did a smart bit of work with the boat in
which he Intends to row. He started on her at 6
o’clock on Friday morning, and when we saw her
on Saturday afternoon she was finished all but the
box and covering. The boat is not “ slung toge-
ther” either, for every joint is well fitted and
glued, and we fancy the Double Bay builder can
claim a best on record for his piece of handiwork.
• ■ •
The Hurdle Race furnished one of the
closest finishes seen at Rand wick for some time
past, Michael just winning on the post. The
gamest horse on the course was Sunray, who
jumped all the hurdles and ran himself clean out,
for on getting over the last obstacle, he quietly
lay down and remained stretched out for a few
moments, when he staggered to his feet and was
led away. The Sapling Stakes was the best betting
race for many a day, most of the youngsters being
backed. Martin Gallacher, who rode Fernandez,
the winner’s stable companion, was disqualified
till the end of the year for disobedience at the
post. Gallacher’s case is a hard one, indeed. An
allowance should certainly be made in these
youngster races, as it is not always the jockey’s
fault, the starter in many cases keeping the horses
too long at the post in endeavours to make pretty
starts, which are next to an impossibility with
two-year-olds. Selling races under the present
conditions are becoming played out on our race-
courses. Take Princess of Lome’s win on Satur-
day, for Instance. She was such a certainty that
the books ” would not lay against her, and the
event showed that it Is time some new conditions
were framed, which would put all the nags on a
somewhat level footing.
* • *
We have received a communication from
an admirer of William Beach, setting forth his
reasons why the champion should not row cham-
pionship races for £300 aside. He states that
Beach refused £700, win or lose, to row Hanlan on
the Nepean; that his supporters had to risk £500
when he first pulled Hanlan for the championship,
and that so far from Matterson’s backers risking
£300 on the venture, they would be more than re-
couped by the gate-money. This is the gist of the
letter. Beach certainly refused £700, win or lose,
and that before he had proved what he was made
of to row a “ hippodrome” on the Nepean River,
and, as our correspondent truly puts it, “ we have
not more than 100 scullers who would be guilty of
such an action.” As to the £500 match with llan-
lan, it is by no means on all-fours with the Mat-
terson case, as Hanlan travelled to the Antipodes
on his own account, without asking for the usual
expenses, while Beach is on the spot and can reach
the training-ground at any time at a few pounds
expense. The objection that any mountebank
oopld more than make his money out of a £300-
match, win or lose, could be met by Beach sug-
gesting that the winner take all the *• gate,” which
offer would set Reach right with the public (who,
by the way, recently subscribed a hat-full of
money for the champion), and at the same time
show Matterson’s intentions as to a genuine match.
As matters now stand, Beach’s terms are simply
prohibitive, and, until some Yankee comes over
the “herring pond” on a i money-making tour
first-class races over the old Parramatta course are
at an end. If such is to be the case, better far
Haul n had carried back the championship to the
S:..tc..
• • •
At popular RpsehlR the racing starts at
t o’clock and goes on without a break to the
nish. The Randwick people might well take a
leaf out of their book. On Saturday the first race
started at half past one, and then there was a
break till a quarter to three—too long a period for
the general public to put in without a grumble.
♦ * »
(graham is' starring the provinces as
“champion middle-weight pugilist and wrestler of
Australia and America,” a title he appears to have
acquired since last he visited Sydney. At Wll-
cannia, recently, he knocked out a six-footer
named Cox, for a tenner aside, which speaks more
of Cox’s unacqualntanoe With the gloves than
Grahahi’s ability with them.


Ask for and obtain Wolfe's Schnapps ; the pro-
Erietor is not responsible for the effect produced
y counterfeits.
Sell Wolfe's Schnapps, It is the Schnapps. All
Imitations of it you should treat with the con-
tempt they deserve.
4 What a jolly little wife you are. I never
see a soiled tablecloth, or anything wanting on the
table to assist one’s appetite. The food is the best,
and the china and glass I know is gobd, for it was
chosen at Bray Bros., 403 and 404 Qeorge-street;
and, by the way, I paid them a visit to-day.”*
The oldest bank-note in existence in Eu-
rope Is in the St. Petersburg Museum. It was
issued in 1399 B C. by the Chinese Government. It
is said that bank notes were in use in China as
early as 3509 B C. But that does not Interfere with
the fact that Summerfleld and Company’s boys'
suits at 8j. lid. are the talk of Sydney. Ladles,
write for our Illustrated catalogue, post free. Only
Sydney address, 335 and 337 Pitt-street.*
Patronize a house where Wolfe’s Schnapps is
kent—because you may then rely upon all things
‘ Schnapps has been 40 years before the
p J r > lc.
Personal Items
r The Marquis of Salisbury is the first Eng-
lish Premier since the time of Magna Charts who
has worn a beard while in office.
How about those promissory-notes for
£8000 found among the papers of the dead digni-
tary ? What was the consideration ?
F On 35th September George Greathead, one
of the first pioneer pressmen of Wairarapa (N.Z.)
and founder of Oddfellowshlp in the colony, mis-
took furniture-polish for rum, and died in the
night.
* General Ponsonby has publicly denied
that Her Majesty has amassed a fortune of a
million. We knew that all along. Amass a million
with John Brown and his clan having the run of
the pantry 1 Absurd I
Bismarck has declined to appropriate the
sum of 1,800,000 ready cash recently handed to him
as the result of the National Subscription. The
German Chancellor accepted the ancestral Schoen-
hausen estate purchased for him out of the pro-
ceeds of the subscription, but felt that he must
not accept ready money.
Oscar Wilde is now a father. The new
experiences are working wonders. His peculiari-
ties of dress have disappeared. The smile of
perennial sweetness has faded. The spirit of
ethereal languor has fled. He is tame, prosy, and
commonplace. And he has but ®ne yeti When
the thirteenth comes what a wreck of monumen-
tal beauty there will be 1
D. Dalziel, who started the Sydney Echo,
married Dickie Llngard, and made a fizzle with
the Melbourne Echo— a journal whose raison
d’etre was the charge made against L. Stevenson
and Sons by the Customs authorities—is now In
Chicago, where he successfully runs a paper
called the Newsletter. Dalziel, just after re-
turning to America, founded the S. F. Mail, a
morning newspaper.
Jim Marshall, who first discovered gold in
California, died in want last month. As in many
other pursuits, the first often comes out last on a
goldfield. Hargreaves, who found first gold in Vic-
toria, is fighting away yet for his reward. Only
a couple of weeks ago G. D. Curtis, the finder of
the celebrated Gympie “nugget,” passed over to
the great majority, after many years of only
moderate competence.
Mayor Carter, of Melbourne, who is a
wine and spirit merchant, is indifferent as to the
passing of Berry’s new Licensing Act—“For,” he
says, “ were the liquor-traffic abolished to-
morrow, he thought he (the Mayor) would bo an
acquisition to the Salvation Army, or he might
make a pretty fair local preacher. Or if the worst
did come to the worst, he dared say some of the
newspapers might give him £1 a week as an all-
round hack1”
“Lieutenant-General H. F. Ponsonby,
keeper of Her Majesty’s privy purse, has denied a
Statement which has been published to the effect
that Her Majesty has amassed a fortune amount-
ing to £1,000,000 during her sovorelgncy.” (Cable-
gram)—
We ourselves are content if we're paying our rent,
And can live like a decent civilian;
It troubles us not, so long as we’ve got
One sovereign, if she has a million.
In London, Mr. C. S. Parnell is now con-
sidered “a much more efficient popular leader
than either Grattan or O’Connell ever was.” Tem-
pora mutantur, and public opinion with them.
Yesterday he was an abettor of assassins. Now
he is a potent tribune. To-morrow he will be the
trusted viceroy of a free people, who, for the
second time in seven dreary centuries, touched
liberty’s goal. It is to be hoped that they will not
only touch it this time, but remain there.
The cruellest of all cruel fates seems to be
In hot pursuit of the once powerful and popular
Sir Julius Vogel. His claim upon the New Zealand
Government for £6000 as remuneration for certain
past set vices is under consideration, but it has
been conveyed to him openly and in an a Jthorita-
tlve fashion, that, If he will agree to leave New
Zealand for ever, Parliament will grant an allow-
ance to his wife and family. Ye godsl for what
does a man toil till his head is white and his
Strength is gone ?
Sir Bryan O’Loghlen, Bart., will probably
■eon be appointed a Supreme Court Judge of Vic-
toria, as there are serious dissensions in the
Cabinet over the proposed elevation of Attorney-
General Kerferd, who has his eye on the position.
The baronet, if not a brilliant lawyer, is a sound
one. In private life he is genial, unassuming, and
urbane; in politics he is a thorough-going Demo-
crat, and always voted consistently for a progres-
sive land tax, payment of members, protection to
native industries, and other liberal measures.
The death of poor Huxley, the jockey,
calls to mind the abuse that was heaped on his un-
fortunate head for not bringing Archie home a
Winner in the Y.R.C. Derby of 1883. Mr. Smart’s
horse started at five to four on, and was beaten
out of place. The cry was raised that the horse
been pulled, and it wasn’t until the winner—
Martini Henry—had romped in for the Melbourne
Cup in the quickest time on record that backers
began to see things in their proper light. At
that time horses didn’t require to be pulled in
order to get a fair view of Martini’s tail.
In a Southern Court not long back, a
Joking barrister wrote on the lining of a hat be-
onglng to another legal luminary the words
vacuum caput (empty head). The hat was freely
circulated, and excited a smile on every counten-
ance except that of the owner, who deliberately
took it up and repeated the words, and, well know -
tng the author, addressed the Court as follows:—
•• Mav it please your Honor, I ask the Court’s pro-
tection [holding up his hat], for,” said he, “I find
that Mr. has written his name in my hat, and
Ihave reason to believe he intends to make off
With it.”
Only one Yankee ink-slinger (we are told
by the N.Y. correspondent of the Age) dared to
impugn the private character of the late General
Grant, and two days later that editor fell dead
from his chair; the doctors could discover no
cause, and we are left to infer that it was a “ visi-
tation of Providence,” a concern which is about
■■ unhealthy as a can of nltro-glycerlne in the
vicinity of a small boy with a tack-hammer. Then,
the writer observes, the cottage in which the
General expired and a tree shading his grave,
were both struck by lightening within a short
■pace of time after his death.
Lord Randolph Churchill, if report speaks
truly had an amusing experience lately at St.
Panoras station, London. Having arrived there
tov train, he betook himself to the van to look
•Iter his portmanteau. The guard, who, with
Singular want of discernment, supposed him to be
» commercial traveller, jocularly remarked,
" What do you think ? We’ve got Lord Randolph
Churchill in the train, I’m toiq. I hope I shall be
able to see the cooky little swine.” “Well/’ re-
turned he “ that’s my portmanteau with R. C. on
CT bring It along to a cab, and you can look at me
J, long a* you like, for I’m the c ky little
Lord Houghton, the cleverest, best-
hearted, and certainly the most esteemed among
“swell” patrons of the drama in England, has
seen bis last play, and taken the chair at his last
literary gathering. In the latter capacity his
deceased lordship shone with more brilliancy than
G.A.S., and trod close upon the heels of the great
Dickens himself. And it was Lord Houghton, by
the way, whom Mrs. Langtry has, in a large mea-
sure to thank for her very profitable notoriety. He
spread abroad the fame of her healthy good-looks,
and first dubbed her the “Jersey Lily” years be-
fore the fortunate lady ever dreamt of dropping
ice down the Prince of Wales’ podgy back.
The Argus account of “ Cup Day ” is
always done by any literary celebrity who may be
on tour at the time. In that way it was done in
•83 by Forbes, and in ’84 by Moncure Conway. This
Sear a special engagement has been made with
tr. Sala for doing It, on a 50-gulnea fee. Sala is
now lecturing in some of the chief towns of New
Zealand by way of a feeler as to his popularity
there, and so to judge of the paying prospects of
another and longer visit. He will return at the
end of the month, by which time we hope that the
anger of some of those upon whose toes he has
trodden in Melbourne, will have cooled down.
Otherwise, his visit to the racecourse may not be
altogether pleasant to him.
Sir Henry Loch, the Victorian Governor,
is to have a country seat provided for him, where
he may milk the placid cow and feed the festive
chickens, like our own Augustus. Poor old Nor-
manby had to rub along as well as might be in the
hideous Government House, but then the Mar-
chioness hadn’t the physical vigour to shake hands
with “ members’ ” wives as Lady Loch shakes
hands with ’em. The present Governor’s wife
throws a world of feeling into those Incidental
hand-shakes, and Melbourne society is duly grate-
ful. And its gratitude will probably take the
£ radical shape of a snug little place at Mount
[acedon, in the retirement of which her Ladyship
will be able to recuperate the strength periodically
expended at her “ At Homes.”
A London correspondent writes: —“A
triple event will interest Australians at the coming
election, and be a good subject for your betting
men. Three returned Australians will, for a cer-
tainty, go to the poll. Hennlker Heaton will
stand for Canterbury in the Conservative interest.
Sir Samuel Wilson is to poll Londonderry on the
same ticket. Mr. Howard Spensley, formerly
Solicitor-General in Sir Charles Gavan Duffy’s
Ministry, is to contest Clerkenwell on the Liberal
cry. Clerkenwell is a new constituency, being a
division of the former Finsbury electorate. It is
chiefly known fonts famous Tothill Fields prison,
and the member for it will be something like
what an ‘honourable member for Pentrldge or
Darllnghurst ’ might fancy himself.”
According to German laws of royal pre-
cedence Prince Henry of Battenberg will have to
sit a long way off his Beatrice at any State ban-
quets in the Yaterland. Beatrice is two or three
years older than Bat., and the day will probably
arrive when a banquet in the Yaterland will be
his dream of bliss. So long, however, as the
Queen—whom may heaven and good living long
preserve!—is able to keep her regal eye upon her
youngest son-in-law, Bat. is not likely to get a
chance of passing the cruets and paying little at-
tentions to anyone else s wife- The Queen is up
to their games, bless you. The Duke of Teck
bolted away for her cousin Mary once, but he was
broug ht back. Battenberg won’t be brought back
like the other Serene Highness, for the excellent
reason that he’ll never be allowed to bolt.
The “Vagabond” tells of many changes
of fortune seen by him during his late Queensland
tour. He seems to have met with a second edition
of poor Holtermann in the person of a Mr. S. This
we take to be Horace Stubley, who was known as
“TheMundio King” when returned as member
for North Queensland in ’78, defeating the late
member, Mr. Macrossan, by a large majority.
Stubley was then drawing princely dividends,
monthly, from the Bryan O'Lynn and another
mine, both of which soon “ petered out,” and left
him unprovided for. The one or two hundred
thousand he had received had gone in one way or
another, but all alike in the wrong way. The
Bryan O’Lynn did not prove to be another Day
Dawn, nor a Madame Berry, nor a Long Tunnel.
To hold shares in these mines seems to enable one
to live where we like, how we like, and as long as
we like.
Poor Harry Jackson, who was well known
over here a few years back as a clever character
performer, died in London from the effects of
morphia. The drug was taken in the form of
lozenges, and under circumstances which favoured
the presumption of suicide, for Jackson (whose
family name was Jacobson, by the way, was up to
his ears in debt at the time of his death. Jackson
—a Hebrew, as his name indicates—was par-
ticularly successful in the interpretation of
“ flash” Jew characters, and only the night pre-
vious to the “ misadventure” he appeared as Moss
Jewell in “ The World,” a part he created on the
original production of that melodrama at Drury
Lane Theatre. The dead man will be best remem-
bered, however, for bis wonderful make up as
Napoleon the First in a farce called “ Heads of the
People.” Looking at poor Harry, the “ Little
Corporal,” as depicted in the best authenticated
portraits, appeared to live again.
The Western Independent— which is the
organ of Mr. Suttor, M.L A., the singularly
chivalrous personage who, under cover of Parlia-
mentary privilege. accused Lieut. Mulholland,
late of the N.8.W. Contingent, of cowardice in the
Soudan—sneeringly remarks that: “It would be
as well for the friends of Mr. Mulholland to lose
no time in exhibiting to the public a testimonial
from the officers and men who were comrades of
the gallant Lieutenant in the Soudan campaign, to
the effect that he was, during the stay of the Con-
tingent in Egypt, a brave, genial officer and
soldier. It would also be well to exhibit the
medal and other credentials of his bravery in the
New Zealand war.” It is almost unnecessary to
remind the public that a soldier is paid, not to be
“ genial,” but to be brave. “ Geniality ” is an at-
tribute peculiarly possessed by some country
editors and by all Sydney pot-house and Town-hall
politicians. It would, however, be well for Lieut.
Mulholland to make some public statement in re-
gard to bis alleged possession of the New Zealand
medal.
Those who deprecate the value of lay
evangelisation among the aborigines, as well as
those who deprecate evangelising the aborigines
in any way, would do well to call on Mr. Parry
Okeden, the [police-magistrate of a Western town
in Queensland. His system is a success. That can
be gathered from a blackfellow's evidence, ten-
dered in the court at Rockhampton lately. The
following is a snatch of it:—His Honor: “Do you
know what an oath is?” Witness; “Yes; that I’ll
tell the truth.” His Honor: “If you tell a story
what will happen ?” Witness: “ I’ll be put on the
fire.” His Honor: “Do you know that ?” Witness:
"Well, Mr. Okeden said so.” Counsel: “Whole
God?” Witness, jerking his head upwards: “Up
there.” Counsel: “How do you know?” Wit-
ness: “Mr. Okeden said so.” His Honor: “Do
you know wbat God will do if you don’t tell the
truth?” Witness; “Yes, put me down In the fire,
Mr. Okeden says.” Counsel;: “ What do you
know about God yourself?” “Well,” drawled
out Charley, “ I don’t know much about Him my-
self, but Mr. Okeden does.”
King Ludwig of Bavaria is still a source of
uneasiness to his subjects. The money the nation
allows him he insists upon spending for his own
exclusive enjoyment. He will allow no one to
Iiartlclpate, yet he is young and handsome. Intel-
ectualiy, be has many high qualities. The causes
of bis eccentricities are variously described. Some
attribute his solitary existence to “ blighted affec-
tion.” Others find the reason in the confederatl m
of the German Empire. King Ludwig was always
opposed to this union, and his love for solitude
dates back t® the time of its accomplishment.
Whatever the reason, his subjects are chafing at
his lavish and selfish expenditure. He rules with
a mild hand, however, and is no patron of flagrant
vice. "A simple comparison of the qualities of
the Bavarian King,” says the London Chronicle,
“ and these of (say) His late Majesty King George
IV. of Eu ♦ ant, would show King Ludwig in the
light of a 2-n among monarohs.” Waste of a
nation’s money cannot, nevertheless, be over-
looked, and accordingly the Bavarian Diet, the
German Bundesrath, and the Reichstag, are simul-
taneously entreated to interpose.
The upper circles in a N.Z town are
suffering from a most exciting flutter. She was
the wife of a leading business man, he was a spark
of a barrister. This is the way the story runs:—
‘The barrister was in the habit of visiting the"
home of his innamorata until, the relations be-
tween them being suspected, he was forbidden to
go there any more. He persisted in his visits at
t mes when he was informed the course would be
clear. The friends of the husband determined to
watch the barrister’s movements, with the result
that one night last week they bowled him out.
No sooner had he come out of the grounds after
paying one*of his clandestine visits than he was
seized, thrown down, handcuffed, his legs tied,
denuded of his clothing, and every inch of his
bare body covered with a thick c jatiog of tar and
feathers. This operation performed, the hand-
cuffs were removed, and he was then told that as
th-a river was flowing close by he could elect
either to throw himself in the stream or return to
his lodgings. He chose the latter.’’ The incident,
of course got out. Society held up its hands. Each
one said to the other, “ Keep it private,” and at
once entered into a circumstantial statement of
the case. Then all Wellington felt giddy in the
head, and, although it tries to banish reflections,
It still suffers from the dizzying worry.
The Matrimonial News is a new Sydney
journal whose name explains its object. It is
doubtful whether Sydney is a large enough field.
London supports three such publications. They
claim to pair off candidates at hundreds per week.
One of them confines itself to the higher class
of patrons, the management professing to be
honoured with the confidence of the Peerage.
That is said to be how Beatrice and Battenberg
knew they were wanted. The Sydney organ will
exclude no dats from its goodjservices. The high-
toned C.M.G. and the humble milkman are equally
free to the advertising columns. The editor of
the London Matrimonial News (which is the
paper of that kind) is a well-known figure in the
Strand. He is a very long and ancient party—
as long as and a good deal more ancient than
the good - natured and boyish - mannered Mr.
G. R. Dibbs, now Premier of New South Wales;
and, to make the resemblance stronger, he has
Q.R.’s trick of wearing his spectacles on the roof
of his head. The writer of this sat one day In
company with Fred. Thorne at the Vaudeville
Theatre opposite and watched a long array of
hatchet-faced females processing in to the Matri-
monial News office to see the editah; and it
struck both Frederick and the present scribe that
the women who wanted to get married were very
business-like and very old (they were, too, either
very thin or very fat); while the would-be hus-
bands, who were extremely few in number, had
for the most part the air of bachelor school-
masters, widower-publicans, or clergymen.
How times change! It seems only the
other day that Moodie. the Moodie, D C.F , of that
ilk, laced his watertights and padded the loyal
hoof from Adelaide to Wllliamstown, Vic., to
cane Clark, of the local Advertiser, who, In an in-
dependent Interval, alluded to our gracious and vir-
tuous Sovereign Lady the Queen as a “fatold
woman.” Now, English papers call her an “in-
visible old woman,” Fallen away lately, we sup-
pose. The loyal blood of the Moodie couldn’t
stand the " fat old woman.” He girt up his loins,
shouldered hia shlllelah and ‘streaked’ for the sunny
shores of Port Philip, overland. Clark was caned
—after a fashion—and Moodie, retiring to his log,
waited for that baronetev. It hasn't come yet.
His grandmother died, though, and left him her
bundle Thus is loyalty ever rewarded. But he
lives in hope, good hope—the Cape of Good Hope,
in fact. Joe Symes will learn with delight that he
contemplates another visit to the three-cornered
colony to attend to him And, by the way, now
that our Arab exterminators have turned their
rifles into reaphooks and their bayonets into
bread-knlve?, it may be interesting to know that
Moodie was the first Australian “ patriot.” About
the time of the Rorke’s Drift fiasco he proposed to
the 8.A. Government to equip 300 light horse
(under his own command) and wipe the gory Zulu
off the face of the earth. Cool as an iceberg, mo-
derate, yea. If he’d been a Minister ho could have
sent them first and . He suggested “ Gue-
rilla Fighters ’ as the title of the corps. Guerilla
fighters, then goat-flghters, um. And, after ail,
Moodie has quite as much sense as Dailey. Ihe
“ dear old mother country ” was In just as tight a
place and wanted just as much help after Isandula
as after any of her nigger battues in the Soudan.
When the Hon. Jim Cowlishaw, of the
Brisbane Evening Telegraph, brought Parson
Woolnough up from Sydney and slid him into that
old veteran, George Hall’s shoes, be thought he
had got a man as capable as the Immensely popular
“ Bohemian.” Whatever Jim thinks now, it is the
deeply-rooted opinion of the Brisbane public that
the portly parson cannot hold a candle to the old
warrior. Woolnough’s initial flourish was a piece
of arrant snobbery which Brisbane; pressmen
looked on as contemptible. George Hall’s “ Odd
Notes by a Bohemian 1 ’ formed the leading feature
of Saturday’s Telegraph . The paper wasibought
principally for the “Odd Notes.” They were
humorous or quosi-humorous, sentimental, ironi-
cal, and ever brilliant. When “Bohemian” went
out and Woolnough came in, the latter appeared
on his first Saturday with “ Stray Notes by a Non-
Bohemian.” and it is that non that sticks in the
throats of the good fellows of the Brisbane Press
The “Stray Notes” were stupidly dull, uninterest-
ing, and at times were drivelling bosh. It was
about the time the noble-hearted William
O’Carroll died that Woolnough’s production
appeared, and “ Bohemian ” was almost at
the point of death. The two old warriors and
friends lived next to each other in the picturesque
suburb of Kelvin Grove, and it was a great shock
to George when he was informed of the death of
his trusty confrere. However, he got well again,
and now appears to have got a new lease of life.
On getting out of bed he set to, and one day sur-
prised Walter Morley, the editor of the Observer 1
the opposition paper, with a bundle of spidery
copy headed “Odd Notes by a Bohemian. For a
week afterwards it was advertised he was to write
for the Observer, bo that when Saturday’s paper
came out there was a regular rush for “Bohe-
mian’s ” budget. Perhaps they do not contain the
fire and sparkle of yore, but still they are the
“odd Notes by Bohemian.” and by him the
“ wurrlkln ” man swears. Financially, the Tele-
graph is the best paying daily in the colony: but,
from a literary point of view, it is a wretched rag.
When Parson Brontnall ran it, its leading-articles
were of a powerful,sledge-hamms - ike character,
brimming with reason, biting sarcasm, and fierce
invective. Day after day it came out with power-
fui political leaders. It was always pounding the
heads of its Ministerial opponents, and so did it
mould the masses. But things have changed, and
now there Is a solitary, trashy, provincial leader,
a mere sprinkle of news, and column after column
of advertisements. It is rumoured Cowlishaw
intend! bringing out a morning daily in opposition
to the old-established Courier,
The Sydney Mail, in an issue last month,
reviewed Brunton Stephens’ volume and seized
the opportunity, to scold the Queensland public
for allowing the poet to remain an "Under-
secretary in the Lands Department,” and for not
having him placed in a position where he would
have nothing to do but to turn out poetry by the
yard. Now, Brunton Stephens is not in the Lands
Department, but in the correspondence branch of
the Colonial Secretary’s Office, where he was
placed by Sir Thomas M'llwraith, who took him
from the arduous drudgery of a school-teacher’s
life. He likes the billet, and is thoroughly satisfied,
and no one felt the sarcasm and general tone of
the Mail article more than himself. We are glad
to see that the Brisbane Courier took the matter
up, and in a leading article, couched in mild but
effective language, replied to the Sydney re-
viewer. The Courier plainly shows the estimation
in which Stephens is held in Queensland, and It
may well be forgiven for its laudable pride, and
its disparagement of Lindsay Gordon’s work when
It speaks of " Our Queensland Brunton Stephens,
of whof" are all so proud as the undoubted,
unques cl, proud Laureate of Australia-
sweetes ■ i best of singers that has yet ap-
peared ... his part of the world.” And here
is one for the reviewer:-“The real fact is that
there is a great amount of nonsense written and
talked on the subject of the wrongs of poets and
the manner in which they ought to be treated by
the public. In the case of Mr. Stephens, it amounts
to fussy Impertinence on the part of this Sydney
Mail reviewer.” The poet’s duties are not bur-
densome, and the appointment is a lucrative one.
While a teacher he was idolised by his pupils, who
would have gone any length to render him little
services. He had the reputation of having eyes in
the back of his bead, and there are fairy tales to
the effect that often when working out a difficult
calculation on the blackboard he would suddenly
wheel round and bring down the pointer on the
knuckles of youthful conspirators. With his pale,
thoughful-iooking countenance, noble brow, and
eyes that; at times Hash brilliantly behind specta-
cles, he pressnts a decidedly distinguished appear-
ance. He still walks firmly, and perfectly erect,
with squared shoulders well thrown back. And,
by-the-bye, we hear of a little joke at our expense.
With a brief review of his poems in a recent num-
ber, we presented our readers with a portrait of
the poet. One of his co-workers showing him that
Bulletin, covered the name at the foot of the
portrait, and asked Stephens if he recognised it.
He admitted having seen the features somswhere
before, but for the world he could not recollect
where or who the deuce he was I
The Diocesan Council in Brisbane is levy-
ing heavily on outside Churches for money to
build a palace for the new Bishop. The Rev.
Thomas Jones, of Toowoomba, has sent in word
that if the Council doesn’t stop it he will resign.
Consternation has seized upon land-
buyers and holders who have been waiting long
for large profits. The decision of the Victorian
Supreme Court, given last week by Holroyd and
Williams, is quite explosive in its character. Fif-
teen years’ neglect to put purchased land to use
or to show pot session of it in some way, gives a
right to anyone to jump it and hold it I • he pre-
valent idea that the jumper must have 15 years’
possession to show is now declared to be unneces-
sary. A week’s possession suffices to give him a
title at the end of the 15 years’ neglect by the pur-
chaser. A land-jumper’s company will, doubt-
lessly, now be started by some enterprising man
desirous to “ realize” upon this new turn of the
wheel of Fortune. Purchasers of suburban
allotments from land-syndicates are, therefore, no-
tified that they must, like selectors, show signs of
their possession of their purchases within 15 years
—a time that slips away very quickly with some
people.
In replying to a question asked by Mr
Suttor in the N.8.W. Assembly last week, Mr.
Postmaster-General Norton, referring to the
grievances of the telegraph operators, said;—“I
notice with regret that these officers have written
to the papers with a view of making a public
agitation, instead of placing the matter before the
heads of the Department in a properly official
way.” That sounds very well; but wheie
would have been the use of placing the matter
before the head of the Department, when that
bead distinctly states “ that he cannot recognise
their claim for a higher classification ? ” If Mr. Nor-
ton will look through the telegraph department, he
will find that of ull the clerks appointed, and who
are now entitled to their £30 per annum increase, he
will not find more than six who have passed the
Civil Service examination; while many of the
operators have passed that examination, and have
also gone through a long course of training to fit
them for their present positions, and yet they are
only to have £10 per annum increase, less 4 per
cent, per annum to be paid into the superannua-
tion fund (and in the case of country station-
masters less 7s. 6 i. per £100 per an. for a guarantee
bond), and to be classed with messengers, carpet-
belters, mud-lifters, and the like. These are
straight up and down facts, Mr. P. M. G. Norton I
Captain Armstrong, R.N., Woollahra, for-
wards a pamphlet detailing circumstances con-
nected with his removal from duty as Govern-
ment Resident at Lord Howe inland. A letter pur-
porting to have been written by the late Mr, J.
Bowie Wilson, and brought before a select com-
mittee of the N.8.W. Legislative by Sir John
Robertson, bore severely on the case, and this
letter the Captain undertakes to prove, “to all in-
tents and purposes, a fabrication.” Tae genesis of
the letter is highly peculiar. It was said by Sir
John—who, it Captain Armstrong's statements
are correct, must have been imposed on-
to have been written by Mr. Wilson on
hia death-bed. According to Captain Armstrong,
however, one part of it was written by
Mrs. Wilson, another part by her daughter,
and the balance by the other people. Cap-
tain Armstrong has something of a record.
He was aide-de-camp to Queen Adelaide in
1848. He served in suppression of slavery on
the West coast of Africa. He fought at Alma,
Sebastopol, Balaclava, and the Redan. He was
wounded three times, and is the bearer of medals
and clasps proving his zeal and gallantry. We are
unable to form a judgment on the allegations con-
tained in the pamphlet. Sir John’s account of
matters might put a different complexion on the
case. We think, however, that Captain Armstrong
is entitled to know what that account is.
He had wrinkles, she bad dimples;
He was mouldy, she was mellow;
She was peachy, he had pimples;
She was fair, he green and yellow;
She a rosebud, he a thistle:
She was young, he dull and old;
Read the marriage—pray, don’t bristle.
She loves him, sis, he’s “ heaps” of gold.
THE GATES AJAR.
On the occasion of the birth of his first
child a poet writes:—
One night as old Saint Peter slept,
He left the door of Heaven ajar,
When through a little angel crept,
And came down with a falling star.
One Summer as the blessed beams
Of morn approached, my blushing bride
Awakened from some pleasing dream,
And found that angel by her side.
God grant but this, I ask no more.
That when he leaves this world of sin,
He'll wing his way to that bright shore.
And find the door of Heaven again.
Whereupon Saint Peter, not liking this imputa-
tation of carelessness thus (by a friend; replied on
the part of the defence ;—
For eighteen hundred years and more,
I’ve kept my door securely tiled;
There has no little angel strayed,
None has been missing all the while.
I did not sleep, as you suppose.
Nor leave the door of Heaven aj ar;
Nor has a little angel strayed,
Nor gone down with a falling star.
Go. ask that blushing bride, and see
If she don’t frankly own and say.
That when she found the angel babe.
She found it in the good old way.
God grant but this, I ask no more.
That should your number still enlarge,
You will not do as heretofore,
And lay it to old Peter’s charge.


READ THIS I
GIPP8LAND HOP BITTERS.
Manufactured by
THE GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS CO.,
SALE.
Certificate by ffm. Johnson, Government Ana-
lytical Chemist
“ Government Analytical Laboratory,
“Melbourne, July 14th, 1884.
“ I have examined Trood’s Hop Bitters (manu-
factured at Sale). They are remarkably pleasant
to the palate, and as a general tonic and promoter
of appetite for invalids and young people are no
doubt excellent. The Hop Aroma is delicately
combined with a fragrant fruit flavour, producing
a really elegant preparation, which may be relied
on as beneficial to health and free from anything
deleterious.
(Signed) “ WM. JOHNSON,
“ Analytical Chemist.”
THESE celebrated Bitters have been proved by
analysis to be a pure, delicate, palatable com-
pound, and are invaluable In affording relief in all
cases of disorder! of the blood, stomach, liver,
nerves, etc.
GIPPSLAND HOP BETTERS
Will be found a perfect “ Balm of Gilead” to all
who are suffering from shattered nerves, an over-
worked brain, or lassitude; they are, in fact,
nature’s brain and nerve food.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Are an excellent appetiser, and may be taken
with perfect safety by the most delicate invalids
and young people.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Enrich and purify the blood, and are an exquisite
tonic and stimulant. If you are sick, no matter
from what cause, use
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS.
The large and increasing consumption has
gained for the Gippsland Hop Bitters Manu-
facturing Co. a wide celebrity.
Beware oe Imitations,
And use only those manufactured by the
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS CO.
They are pronounced to be the beet and only genu-
ine Hop Bitters manufactured in the colonies.
Sale, Nov. 11th.
THOMAS TROOD & CO.,
Proprietors.
To be obtained from all the leading merchants,
chemists, and hotels in the colonies.
Sole Agent for Sydney—A. W. KBESON, Foy’s
Chambers, Bond-street, Sydney.
U8TRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capital—£100,000 with power to increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES—30 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
PEAPES & SHAW’S
SPUING SHOW!
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING MILLINERY.
PEAPE S and SHAW’S SPRING COSTUMES.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING DRESS
FABRICS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING FABRIC
GLOVES.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT
KID GLOVES,
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING HOSIERY,
from J. and R. MORLBY’S.
PEAPES and 8H AW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
LACE GOODS.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
EMBROIDERY.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
PARASOLS.
ESPECIAL NOTICEI
All the above goods are
Now Open for Inspection.
Large Shipments
for other Departments are
CLOSE AT HAND,
and a constant flow of
NOVELTIES
will be opened up
DURING THE SEASON.
PEAP1JS& SHAW,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS,
324, 326, 328 George Street.
J. NOAKE,
320 & 446 Georgo Street,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
Just Unpacked, ex s.s. Rome,
12 Cases Rea! HAVANNA CIGARS
(Finest Brands), consisting of
“ANTONIO MURIAS”
“ VILLAR OP VILLAR8 ”
‘ HENRY CLAYS”
“REAL”CABANAS
“LARRANAGA”
“ HTTICA”
“ MORALES”
“ FLOR DE NARB8”
“ PARTAGAS”
“ INTIMIDADS”
“FLOR DB CUBA”
“ ESPANOLA”
“LA CORONA”
J. NOAKE,
320 & 446 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
ENT POST FREE. FOR Is. STAMPS.
s
Social Science.
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders, Chronic
Diseases, Impediments to Marriage, &o.. How to
choose a partner for life so as to live happy, .How
to Regain and Preserve your Health, &e.
Address—K. T. SELBY, M E, Devonshire-street,
Surry Hills, Sydney.
ANHOODfcRESTOREDI
A Clergyman having, tried ever
)
for the'C U R E of N E R VO
TION, PREMATURE DECA' .
last discovered a simple SELF-CURE, which, for
the sake of suffering numanity, he wiU send FREE
the Prescription which CURED him. Address,
with self-addressed stamped envelope— '
Dr. El. A. CLARKE, P.O. Box 292, Sydney.
mimziw: nr w
n
2S r=r
i ECONuMICALFURNITURE
/ /
r~ THB LARGEST AND ONLY LEGITIMATE
TIME-PAYMENT FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THB COLONY,
365 PITT STREET.
Public Announcement.
TO ALL WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.
MESSRS. NEILD and CO., on behalf of Th«
Magnotical-Electric Appliance Company
earnestly desire to call the attention of the publlo
to the fact that, in consequence of the success
attending the sale of the above Company’s Elec-
tric Belts, Corsets, &o , a so- called Caution has
been published, emanating from an agent for
Electric articles, who, prompted by a motive to
attempt to monopolise the sale of such articles,
the principle of which we emphatically assert has
been known to the world for at least twenty years
and are now being manufactured in Great Britain
by dozens of firms, and variously styled for the
purposes of a trade mark only, but avowedly par-
taking of the same nature, being an adaptation of
the element of Magnetioal Electricity. Further-
more, to give substantial proof of our assertions,
we here cite the well-known names of firms whe
may well be called the pioneers of this form of
Electric Treatment, who perfected and popularised
its adaptation for Therapeutical purposes which
could be worn about the body as articles of
clothing, dispensing with the cumbersome chain
bands and the objectionable use of acids. Fore-
most among the promoters of this treatment are
Darlow’s “ Magnetine,” Scrivener GUIs’ “Amyn-
terion,” Wetton’s “ Magneticon,” Whiting’s “ Mag-
netod,” &o , &o. We wish, therefore, to refute
in toto any erroneous Impressions caused by the
before-mentioned so-called Caution, and we
emphatically assert that the Magnetleal-Electrlo
Appliance Company's Belts, Corsets, Lung In-
vlgorators, Spine Bands, Insoles, &c , and various
other appliances of their manufacture, embrace
all the latest improvements, and are manufactured
on strictly scientific principles, and in accordance
with the most modern and approved adaptation of
Curative Electricity. We ask, therefore, those
who desire to adopt the treatment of Electricity
for constitutional or local derangements, to com-
pare our Electric Balts, Corsets, &c, with those of
other manufacture, as they are undoubtedly of
superior Electrical Strength, design, quality of
material, and elegance of finish. The half-guinea
Gent.’s Belt is the best ever offered to the public
for electrical strength and quality. Oent.’sspeclal-
?ower Electric Belts, 30s. These Belts are manu-
actured expressly for tropical climates, and are
very durable, as also are our Electric Corsets,
Lung lavigorators, Spine Bands. &o-
We beg also to draw special attention to the fact
that we have secured the services of a Medical
Electrician, a gentleman who was for many years
engaged as consulting representative in the firm
of Messrs. Wetton and Co., London, whose ap-
pliances are of world-wide reputation, and who
was also recently engaged as consultant to the
Hygienic-Electric Association, of Regent-street,
London.
All correspondence treated with the greatest
despatch.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
We have just received a large stock of the Mag-
netical-Electric Appliince Company’s Half-guinea
Electric Belts, which are unequalled for electric
power and finish.
The Guinea Electric Belt is t ie same as sold in
England for £3 3a.
All our Electric Appliances are stamped “ Mag-
netlcal Electric Appliance Co , London and Sydney,
without which none are genuine.
E. S. NEILD AND GO.,
158 Pltt-st., Sydney,
SOLE PROPRIETORS FOR AUSTRALIA.
:*V
• ’ '4
Head Offices. ®*s®
First Fire Society established Iti me colony on
the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Polley-hc’ dors are perfectly free by law from
amiability .
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates*
Wolfe’s Schnapps Is an article of superior merit,
therefore ask for it, and accept nothing else.
Wolfe's Schnapps Is the best remedial agent
known throughout the world.
MaoLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 Qeorge-street
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
The Blue Ribbon Army have pirated the c olour of
Wolfe’s Schnapps Trade Mark.
Sustain the vigour and elasticity of the system
with the inestimable tonic Wolfe’s Schnapps
QUOD FACIMUS VALDB FACIMU8.
(What we do we do well.)
TOUR PHOTO.-If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
oouueel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can Inspect an
arriyof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co , which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C, and Co hold quite a
Unique position as potographers.
Prices-C-D-V,; Cabinets- 30s. per dozen.
CREELMAN & CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE.
*—al IscosM «mh<« eas MUUwi
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Offices—PITT and KING STREETS.
0 MM MiU
suffering from the
effects of youthful
errors, early decay,
hist vitality, premature decline, nervous weak-
ness, etc., I will send you particulars of a
certain, simple, and sure means of self cure,
Free of Charge. Address, i u confidence,
Prof. M. 33. TAYLOR,
68 Elizabeth St.,
SYDNEY N.S W.
DR. BOYD,
62 CASTLBREAGH-STREET, SYDNEY
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday, Wednesday;
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Diseases a
Specialty.
Box 120 G.P.O.
mO Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams,
■ and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man or long experience, on moderate
terms. *• Beta.” Bulletin Office.
BEST IN
THE WORLD
I
OFFICE-31 LOMBARD ST. LONDON.
m
&
EE
aiEwtoi, 1^
LOWEST
IN PRICE
Scotian +iorizontal engines,® 1^
‘ALBION” LsONCSTROKE HORIZONTAL ENGINES. a
‘climax”Vertical engines s boilers.
'“CLIMAX” PORTABLE “HOISTING ENGINES.
i“BRITON”«HORIZONTAL COMPOUND LAUNCH ENGINES.
INVERTED COMPOUND MARINE ENGINES.
»• PORTABLE STEAM CRANES.
Vertical.eoRNisH,§ marine boilers.
11 H M« .. ”■ 1 ' ' - V: ■ I i i... 11; . ... ,1 , , n ■ I' It II lltlllll M11 j 1111111
JJt
s
LiL-—L,
-
B
m
±o7;
mm
BSl'l£
LARGE STOCKSTOR
AND PRICES APPLY TO
D.& W.ROBERTSONiSYDNEY, SOLE AGENTS “»»NEW SOUTH WALES.
j.w.suttOn &cu. brisbane;sole Agents l«qu eensland
ROBISON BROS.& CO, MELBOURNE, SOLE AGENTS “-VICTORIA
Mrs. Addle Baillou has been enlightening
the Melbourne ladies as to their “place In the
world.” Ladies, we learn from Mrs. B., shine as
wives and mothers (some of ’em shine too fre-
quently in the latter capacity, bless ’eml), as
editors, as lawyers, as clergymen (imagine the
larks in the vestry with the best-looking church-
warden I), and as teachers. But they take the cake
right away as doctors. “History,” says Mrs. B,
“ has taught, from the first day’s sickness Adam
ever had. down to the present time, that woman is
endowed with gifts that make her, not only a
nurse, but also a physician.” Who that remem-
bers the medical treatment of his boyhood—the
powder skilfully administered in jam, the rhubarb
palmed off as “ nicey-nicey ’’—can contradict Mrs.
Baillou there ? Or, for the matter of that, who
will say that the attraction of a pretty, plump,
surpllced little seventeen-year-old maiden dispens-
ing the bread and wine wouldn’t tempt men who
now bolt directly the first piece is over to stay for
sacrament? No one, we imagine. The medical
and clerical professions evidently ought to be
handed over to the ladies, and the sooner the
better, we say. Anxiously we are looking forward
to the happy day when a pretty girl will pull us
through the measlds, and her younger sister come
and pray with us during our convalescence. After
you with the tuning-fork:—
Ah, Mrs. B., we sympathise
With you in these ideas;
’Tls plain that we monopolise
The ladies’ special spheres.
Man, in his selfishness, contrives
All callings to control;
You’ve little chance to save our lives,
And none to save the soul. ’
Yes, madam, we would emphasise
These two of your ideas;
Death rates ’twould revolutionize
If graceful little dears
Of doctors asked to see our tongues,
Or took, in dimpled hand,
A stethoscope to sound our lungs—
Jove I wouldn’t that be grand 1
And wouldn’t we just Idolize
A blushing parson fair I
One glance from lady vicar’s eyes
Were better than a prayer.
What more could mortal men desire
Than studying her whims,
And singing basso in the choir
When she gave out the hymns ?
Then lot’s experimentalise.
And give a chance, at least,
To any girl to exercise
Her powers as a priest.
No longer then could Chadband sleek
Mash maidens, anyway;
The vicars—oh, whas joy I—would seek
To lead us men astray.


Professional Directory*
I3.EORGE PE R EIMAN. Scene Painter, Theati
vJT Royal, Bri-bane. Disengaged.
Theatre rotai
Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson, Gabnkb and Musgboyb
essee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo.L. Goodmai
Return of
WILLIAMSON. GARNER, and MFSGROYB’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
GRAND RECEPTIONamTARTISTIC TRIUMP
of
MISS ALICE REES and MISS ALICE BARNETI
w ho have achieved a pronounced success.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of
THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE
THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE.
satubdayTFctobbr it.
Special revival of the charming opera,
PATIENCE.
Box plan now open Prices as usual.
New opera house
Under the Lesseeship and Management of
MAJERONI and WILSON.
Unabated Success oFtHE SUNNY SOUTH.
Brilliant Reception Glorious Triumph
of the Australian actor-author,
Mr. GEORGE DARRELL,
in
HIS GREAT LONDON SUCCESS.
Acknowledged by the Press and public to be th
Best Australian Drama ever written.
THE SUNNY SOUTH
THE SUNNY SOUTH
THE SUNNY SOUTH,
with its
FIVE HUGE SENSATIONS.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Huenerbeln’s Musi
Warehouse, 318 George-street. Tickets for all part
of the house may be obtained at Roberts’, tobac
conist, next theatre.
JOE BROWN, Business Manager for Mr. Darrell
GAIETY THEATRE
Proprietor Mr. John Solomor
Manager for Mr. Solomon, Mr. B. N. Jones
Manager for Mr. Dampier, Mr. F. Gunther.
Pronounced Success of Mr. ALFRED DAMPIER
A most enthusiastic audience witnessed the mar
vellous and realistic performance of
IT’S NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND,
which must shortly be withdrawn for another
great production.
LAST NIGHTS 3 LAST NIGHTS
of Cbarles Reade's Drama,
IT’S NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND.
The latest London sensation, the great Drama,
BROUGHT TO JUSTICE,
will be produced on SATURDAY.
Splendid oast of characters, new scenery, proper-
ties, and special appointments.
Prices—Boxes, £3 3s.; orchestra chairs, 4s.; stalls
,3s.; parquette, 3s.; balcony, Is. No Free List.
“Box plan now open at Nicholson and Co., Music
Warehouse, George-street.
THE OLYMPIC
(late Old Masonic Hall, York-street).
Stage Manager .. ,. Mr. H. Trevorah.
GENUINE and UNANIMOUS SUCCESS
of the
OLYMPIC COMEDY & BURLESQUE COMPANY
The only Home for Burlesque.
The coolest and prettiest place in Sydney.
OPEN EVERY EVENING,
with the
BEST COMPANY OF ARTISTES IN SYDNEY
amongst which are
MISS AMY HORTON,
the Queen of Burlesque ;
The Sisters ANNIE and KATE MARTIN,
Miss Annie Schrader, Miss Rosie Johnson, Miss
Bell, and others.
Messrs. STANFIELD and DARK,
renowned Comedians;
Mr. Percy Shannon, Mr. Fred. England, Mr. H
Trevorah, Mr. J. Lindsey, &o.
The orchestra of 10 first-class musicians, second
to none in Sydney, under the direction of Mr. G
Rivers Allpress,
Million Prices—Stalls, 3s.; Balcony Is. A few
reserved seats at Nicholson’s, 3s.
On Saturday next, October IT, and until further
notice, will be produced the latest successful
London Burlesque,
ACI8 and GALATEA,
produced in splendid style.
General Manager, Mr. M. L. RAPHAEL.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager.. .. F. C. Hlscocks.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
HISCOCK’S FEDERAL MINSTRELS AND SPE-
CIALITY UNION ALONE.
Revival with Great Success of the Original and
Refined Style of Pure Minstrelsy.
Terminating with the New Minstrel Burlesque
Sensational Play, entitled,
A PLUCKY YOU L'H; or. The LIG HT8 O’ SYDNEY
Prices : Reserved Orchestra, 4s.; Stalls, 3s,; Par-
quette, 3s.; Gallery, Is. Plan box at Paling’s.
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL-
George-street, Hay market.
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING.
THE HOME OF MINSTRELSY and MIRTH.
The Popular and Fashionable Resort.
MINSTRELSY, OLIO, and FARCE,
UNPARALLELED SUCCESS
Unparalleled Success of the
ALHAMBRA VARIETY COMPANY.
Refinement without Vulgarity.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 2s; stalls, Is;
balcony, Is.
CHAS. AUSTIN, Business Manager.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
Lynch Family Bellringers
(Organised 1867)
Manager HARRY LYNCH.
FIFTH MONTH IN SYDNEY.
Crowded Houses Nightly.
Friday, Oct. 10-School of Arts, Botany.
Saturday, „ 17-Oddfellows’ Hall, Newtown.
Monday, „ 10-School of Arts, Burwood.
Tuesday, ,, 20—Albert Hall, Petersham.
Wednesday, „ 31—School of Arts, Ashfleld.
Miss Annetta Scasl
HAVING rested her voice for six months, after
a long and successful tour through New
Zealand, would be happy to
RESUME HER PROFESSIONAL DUTIES ON
THE STAGE ONCE MORE.
S3F“ Line of Business Opera Bouffe, Concerts,
Burlesques.
This young lady artiste, being an eminent musi-
cian, would nave no objection to travel with a
first-class company as Pianist.
AU theatrical managers please address letters,
for the present, Post Office, Young* 1
“THE LYCEUM,’’
Newcastle,
SITUATED IN THE BEST PART OF THE CITY
It 1b capable of seating 500 people,
and suitable for
MUSICAL & DRAMATIC ENTERTAINMENTS.
Tbe Stage (40ft. by 24ft.) is furnished with
STOCK, SCENERY, Ac.
For Terms, apply
COLIN CHRISTIE.
“The Lyceum,”
Newcastle.
WATER ! SILVER WATER 1
THAT BEAUTIFUL ESTATE,
situated at the junction of the
CLYDE and PARRAMATTA RIVERS,
Will be Sold on the ground by
Messrs. CAMPBELL, MITCHELL, and CO.,
on account of the
LAND COMPANY of AUSTRALASIA, Limited,
on
NEXT SATURDAY,
the 17th instant.
THE CLYDE! THE CLYDE! THE CLYDE I
Think of the CLYDE of to-day, with its beauti-
ful green banks, its pure, clear, running waters,
its lovely scenery, its cooi, refreshing breezes I
THINK of the boating, Ashing, bathing, and
health-giving pleasures I THINK of all this, and
your ability to buy !-yes, your ability to buy I-
and your grand prospect in buying
THE CLYDE I THE CLYDE I THE CLYDE I
THINK of the CLYDE of the future I Picture
to yourself (and at no distant date) the busy hives
around it! Picture to yourself the manufactories
upon its banks on either side ! Picture to yourself
their wharves jutting out into the stream, and the
busy scene upon the waters ! THINK of its value
then I
This is no mere imagination. Manuf ctorles are
already in the neighbourhood, and their number
gill be rapidly increasing.
NEXT SATURDAY
will be the CHANCE for EVERYBODY I
WHY ?
Because the Land will be sold Cheap and on Easy
Terms.
Because it is situated upon the very banks of the
Clyde.
Because it is destined to become the centre of
Industry.
Because it is Land of Great Prospective Value.
Because It is Elevated and Healthy.
Because it is the Best and Safest Investment of
all; with prospects in the near future of a Hand-
some Return.
WATER FRONTAGES! WATER FRONTAGES!
766ft. of Deep-water Frontages to the Clyde River.
This fact speaks for itself. Every sensible man
knows the value of WATER FRONTAGES. They
are not obtainable every day, and even when they
are obtainable, they do not come within the reach
of the working man.
HERB THEN IS THE CHANCE I This is a
most liberal subdivision, upon the most Liberal
Terms.
£3 DEPOSIT WILL SECURE ANY LOT, and the
balance, If desired, may be paid by easy instal-
ments.
There will be Free Steamers from Sydney I
There will be Free Trams from Parramatta !
Lithographs, free tickets, and full information
may be obtained either from the Land Company of
Australia, Limited, 273 Pltt-street, or from the
auctioneers,
CAMPBELL, MITCHELL and CO.,
THE CITY PROPERTY EXCHANGE,
413 George-street (next door to Lasseiter’s).
G-CSFOED
DAILY
OVERLAND ROUTE.
CUT THROUGH RATES,
Round Trip, 7/6; Single, 5/-
The new Overland Route allows visitors si;
hours In Gosford. a most enjoyable trip, and n
sca-sicRness,
AGENTS:
BOYD and KING,
96 PITT STREET, SYDNEY ;
Or,'
J. MORTIMER,
Times Office, Gosford.
RAW VASELINE.
B
A
FORSoftening and Preserving Horses’ Hoofs.
Kills parasites, and prevents their growth.
As a Leather Preservative it is invaluable—pre-
vents it cracking’, and renders it waterproof.
From its anti-corrosive qualities, uneqalled as a
metal protector, and for keeping in perfect order
Firearms, Machines, &c. It is the sole material
used for the above purposes in the Austrian and
German armies. Sold by all Saddlers and Store-
Keepers.
SOLE AGENTS:
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
125 York-street, Sydney.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYD NEY
-IMPORTER rOTAUTHE
SHAPES.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
or
RILEY BROTHERS*
ORIGINAL
£5 mm SUES!
PACKED in and INSURED against
0T" Carriage paid by mall all over the ,
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer. c °lonle(
The £5 Bale rystem has been In operation t
years, during which time we have despatched 12
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest sat er
motion.
The goods are now better and cheaper thon „
and carriage arrange ments quick and safe n ever >
Price lists and patt eras sent poat free. '
GLOVES.
On receipt of 3*
stamps, we send,
free, a pair of 3 n p . o t '
button kid orslUroii 1
«ny.l z ,
nuahty and (aahligg
gr&Sftsag
Robe, Square, and Hn„3
or Hat. which wegend
carriage free eve“ d
where, on receipt of £5
15 s.
W e send, carriage f res
a Lady’s New Accouch!’
ment Belt for
shillings, or a pair of 5
Jhiift. 8tw ,or “«
£S LADY'S BALK.
6 Ladles’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladles’ Camisoles
3 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longcloth. and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
dBS MOURNING BALE.
35 yds. Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
DRESSMAKING.
We haves a large Dressmaking Department
sided over by a ladv of vreat PYn 0 rion„„ P«-
be happy to forward patterns of P the
able dress materials - Silks. Velvets*! 88
SfiT Instruction for
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney
0ri e^ rS * of ‘J® celebrated £5 Bales of Dranert
and Contractors for Linen Drapery to the
Government of New South Wales.
CHAS. OTTE & CO.,
Electrical Engineers,
113 Pitt Street.
Electric Batteries for surgical and household use, Electric Bells
Private Telephones, Electric Lights, Lightning Conductors, Pyiia’
mos, and all Electrical appliances fitted at the shortest notice at
25 per cent, under usual price.
CHAS. OTTE & CO., 113 Pitt Street
i
A
A
for infants and Children.
Castorla euros Colic, Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation,
Gives healthy sleep and promotes digestion.
Without injurious medication.
“Castorla is so well adapted to children that
I recommend it as superior to any prescription
known to me.” 31. A. Archer, M. D., j
111 Oxford Street, New York. 1
Elliott Eros., Sydney, Agents.
5-Acre Model Farms
FOR
40s. per Montli.
S-A-XjE on tHn.e G-rovum-d.,
FOR TICKETS, AND ALL OTHER INFORMATION, APPLY TO
BO"Sr3D <2z ZII1TG-, -^.VLctloaneers,
96 Pitt Street,
Intending purchasers are conveyed via the Overland Route, allowing 6 hours in Gosford.


T
HE ELECTORATE OF EAST MACQUARIE.
TO JOHN SHEPHERD, ESQ.,
OF YBTHOIiME AND SYDNEY.
Dear cir,—Understanding that a vacancy in the
representation of this electorate will occur coe-
sequent upon the absence from the colony of New
South Wales of Edward Coombes, Eeq., C.M G , we
request that you will allow yourself to be nomin-
ated as a candidate for the electorate of East Mac-
quarie, and will do our best to secure ycur return,
We remain,
yours respectfully,
AMBROSE JOHNSON, J.P.
And here follow 630 other tig-natures.
To Ambrose Johnson, Esq, J.P., and the others
signing the requls tlon.
OMttoinwfc-Tn response to your largely signed
requisition, 1 beg to announce to my fellow tlec-
tois that I am a candidate for one of the seats now
vacant in the electorate of Ejst Macquarie.
~ Ihe election is an important one, involving
Rsues of the gravest character affecting the very
foundation of responsible government. It is for
the electors to decide if Mr. Wright and other
Ministers are to hold cilice In defiance of the true
spirit of our Constitution.
Lately honest administration ceased, and it is
now the imperative duty of every colonist to
take an active part in bringing to a termination
the reign of corruption and gigantic log-rolling,
ihe indecent waste and unfairness with which
some of the elections have been fixed while others
are postponed must arouse a suspicion In the minds
of the electors than an attempt is being made to
gag discussion. The last Parliament was elected
to deal with a much needed rand reform, but un-
fortunately the power of the large monetary in-
stitutions and other influences inimical to the
welfare of the people dominated, to the end that
the present law is worse than the last. Settlement
is debarred, and oppresion is a leading principle of
the Act, The true interests of the colony demand
that the Land Act of the Government be without
delay amended.
The reckless squandering tendencies of the Gov-
ernment has resulted in reducing a large surplus
to a deficit of probably a million, and the failure
to secure a sufficient revenue from the land will
necessitate a scheme of taxation; but 1 am totally
opposed to the late impracticable and unjust pro-
posals of the Colonial Treasurer. I have alwajs
been opposed to a nominee Upper House. Tne
nominations made by the late Government should
strikingly convince the electors that a system of
elective representation should be adopted.
The absolute rcgardlessness of some of the
members ot the late Parliament to the right of
the majority of the people, their subservancy to
the Ministry, the species of log-rolling which
took place ever the Land Bill, the extraordinary
railway votes, and the now notorious division
against Mr. Garvan s motion, leads me to believe
that a reform is necessary, whereby members
should be paid for their attendance in Parliament.
A department of agriculture should be established
with a responsible Minister at its head, so that
those interested in agricultural pursuits would he
afforded some better means of demanding and ob-
taining their lights.
The mining laws require codification and ma-
terial amendment. Simplification of the se Jaws and
the regulations there under would tend todevelope
the great resources of this important elec-
torate. Schools of mines similar to the se at Bal-
larat and Sandhurst, in Victoria, should be estab-
lished, and facilities afforded to test by assay the
discoveries of bona fide prospectors and miners.
I have for many years been actively identified
with the developomont of this district; my con-
nections with it as a miner and agriculturist will
lead me to an intimate and prac'.ioalknowledge of
our many requirements.
Upon the above heads and other matters affect-
ing the political situation, I will address you per-
sonally at various parts of the electorate.
If elected you will find me sufficiently firm and
independent to carry out the trust reposed in
me.
I am yours faithfully,
JOHN SHEPHERD.
Brooklands, Yetholmo, 10th October, 1885,
E
LECTORS OF WEST SYDNEY
MR, GEORGE MEHK1MAN
la
A CANDIDATE
for
RE-ELECTION,
and respectfully solicits
YOUR VOTES AND INTERESTS.
OAK ASTOR GRECIAN CHAIR,
Cane Seat,
Price only 3s. 9d.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket only,
Universal Providers.
“ BEACH’S ”
CONSULTATION
OK THB
MELBOURNE CUP.
NOW OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10e. BACH.
First Horse £350
2nd „ ,..100
3rd 85
Starters 65
Non-starters.. 80
Also. CAULFIELD CUP.
1000 Subscribers at £1 each; First Horse, £500.
Address—
“ BEACH,”
Care of J. G. Deeble,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney
Please apply early, and register letters for reply
with stamped envelope.
V*
i>
1ST thirty shillings.
HT rmRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
* rons triumph of musical invention Is acknow-
I- lodged on all hands to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It is a wonderful little instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED P'ARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 22 reeds, plays in three keys, and all the
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the inventor, the world
was first indebted for the Organette; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
study, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over ali
the difficulties of cost and crudeness.
It requires no skill to extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &c., &c., &o. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy.
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that “ he who runs
may read.” It is best adapted to the kind of music
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power in,
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card-holder for convenience
in singing. It will be found invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one ; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess ac
Autophone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
OF
474 6E0R6E STREET SYDNEY
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to differeni
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonelj
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities-from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can c ffer as to the genuineness of tht
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corre-
spondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers whe
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by all educators and moralists
that music is the great refining Influence, and
especially with children its effect for good is
boundless. The love for music which music in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
disposition and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, rnd parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other
wise hard task an easy one.
The price of the Autophone Is SOs.,
and where good music can be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autophore for SOs. we
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogues of tunes at any time.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents for Australia:
Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-street, Sydney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets.
Says Mr. G. N. Griffiths to the East Syd-
ney electors:—“I heartily applauded the Hon. W.
B. Dailey’s patriotic action In sending the Contin-
gent to Egypt, In proof of our recognition of
the claims of the mother country to our help in
any time of need, and as an assertion of our r ght
to be considered an integral portion of the British
Empire. Much as we rightly deplore the great
nations of Europe founding convict colonies in
Polynesia, the seizure by a foreign Power of any I
portion of the territory of this Australian island
would bo of incalculably greater damage to us,
and Is a calamity we, with our limited means and
population, would be powerless to resist if we
were without England’s aid and protection.” Thus,
the reasons for the despatch of the 700 Johnny
Haws to the Soudan are gradually coming out.
According to one fiery supporter, they were sent
as an ’‘advertisement.” Another voted for the
absurd business "to show the nations of Europe
that in future complications N.S W. would have to
be reckoned with.” But Mr. Griffiths ingenuously
combines foresight with patriotism. He he.ps
Britain in the Red Sea in order to get her help in
Torres Straits. But if Mr. Griffiths was so ready
to render assistance when it was not needed, how
much more anxious should he be to afford it when
it is really required! Having gone so far, will he
go a little further, and say whether he would be
prepared to equip a force to help in handing back
the Bulgarians to the mild rule of the Turk-
should land decide to do so—or to meet the
Russians In Afghanistan ? As for being powerless
without Britisn aid to prevent the seizure of the
me st torrid and enervating portion of this Island
by a European the statement is far from
flattering to Australians. But is it true ? it is
not. The population of Australia is about the
same as that of America was at the time of the
Revolution. America was divided against Itself,
most of the wealthy classes having British leanings
just In the very same way as the plutocrats of Aus-
tralia are to day honeycombed by toadyism.
Besides having command of the sea, the English
held all the large towns and most of the strategical
points on the continent. Yet, even with the ex-
penditure of 50.000 lives and close on £150,000.000 of
treasure, they could not hold their own. A popu-
lation of 3 T)00 0C0 means, in case of real necessity,
an armed force of 300,000. Have European coun-
tries so little to do at home that for the purpose of
founding a convict settlement at the other side of
the world, they would set such a force at defiance ?
If they were so anxious for territory, why not
seize some places much nearer home—some of the
weak republics of South America, for instance ?
No, Mr. Griffiths. That excuse of yours is a trans-
parent after-thought. Like a good many others,
you threw up j our cap and yelled lustily for what
appeared at thet me to be popular, without giving
a thought to the questions of right or wrong. Now
that the people nave come to iheir senses, you
would have them celleve that to preserve Aus-
tralia you were prepared to cut the throats of men
goaded to madness by a cruel despotism. Fie, Mr.
Griffiths 1
Ask your medical attendant what he thinks of
Wolfe’s Schnapps as a tonic and stimulant.
Wolfe's Schnapps stimulates the liver.
The Working Man’s Golden Opportunity :
The sale of the Silver Water Estate, by Campbell
Mitchell and Co. on next Saturday. Lithographs
and free steamer tickets now obtainable. £3 per
lot deposit will secure any lot, including water
frontages. See advt. page 8.*
If asked for to drink call Wolfe’s Schnapps.
SUNDRY SHOWS
T jba.tr* Royal—** The Pirates of Penzance” P. 8
Gaiety Theatre—“ It’s Never Too Late to
Mend”
Opera House—” Sunny South ” ,,
The Olympic— Comedy and Burlesque
Alhambra —Variety Company „
Academy of Music— Minstrels „
Lynch Family Bellringers „
Mr. Darrell is still at it in the Opera
House. Quite an enthusiastic crowd fill up the
places below. They enjoy themselves heartily.
It looks occasionally as if they wanted to take an
active part in the representation. Miss Mayor has
grown more jolly and saucy, and is rewarded with
more frequent exclamations of “ Bully for Bubs.”
George ought really alter the name of his heroine.
Oily Deerlng shoots his revolver off more wildly,
and even when the curtain falls he keeps cracking
away. The hut is now burned down amidst
coloured flames. That is prettier that the natural
colour of fire. It is like the window of a chemist’s
shop.
# * m m
In the Theatre Royal a fine rendering of
the Pirates of Penzance ” is given. The com-
pany is large and well-selected, but the chief in-
terest of the revival centres in Miss Rees and
Miss Barnett. The latter was identified with the
original appearance of most of Sullivan's operas.
She possesses notable physical qualities, and mani-
fests skill and judgment in going through her
work. The character of Ruth seems to fit, and
was, in reality, specially composed to suit the
peculiarities of her voice. Miss Rees is giving a
farewell season, and as Mabel, her singing was
sweet, if here and there shrill. The other parts
were well filled, but in most cases with familiar
faces. Mr. Benham’s Policeman was perhaps the
freshest item. The mounting is extremely good.
• • • •
The Dampier Company have been running
“ It’s Never too Late to Mend” at the Gaiety this
last 10 days, and there is every likelihood the piece
will last till the end of the week. It is well
mounted and well acted. In the early nights the
audiences were large, and even yet, notwithstand-
ing the excitement of political meetings through-
out the city, the management have little to re-
fret. The version of the play now given is said to
o the author’s own.
♦ • •
Charles Reade had many of the best
qualities of the didactic writer. He composed
with a purpose. He wrote to reform. He had a
vision of the brightness of life. The g( spel of
gloom did not hold him. He was possibly too
sanguine of ultimate happiness, of final goodness.
But he is an antidote to those who hold crime ss
eternal. The hopeful man tries to ameliorate the
criminal, the tendency of the man without hope is
to obliterate him. In certain circumstances the
works of Reade could be made serve as adjuncts
in the advocacy of the abolition of capital punish-
ment, and, indeed, of cruel, vindictive punishment
of every kind. If it is never too late to mend, it
must be always too early to hang.
• * *
The cast is strong. Tom Robinson is pre-
sented with force and distinctness by Mr. Dampier.
Messrs. Holloway and Boothman were clever, but
not specially characteristic. Mr. Stark’s Crawley
was a more distinct study. The ladies were more
than fair, but out of the range of superlatives.
The scenery is the freshest part of the entertain
ment. The Australian bush where Crawley is
scheming, is net unlike Nature.
• * * *
“ Brought to Justice” is the unassuming
title of the piece Dampier announces for Satur-
day night. It is a story of love and villainy—of
blighted affection and dark deeds. There is a
proud wealthy heiress of the Yere de Vere school
and a winsome damsel of the Dolly Yarden pat-
tern. A young lord, an honest farmer, a scoundrel
of peculiarly callous nature, a secret marriage, a
baby, and a murdered policeman keep things
going. All ends happily except the officer—but
then a “ trap” more or less makes very little dif-
ference. We shall be there to see “ Brought to
Justice,” as there is nothing we so much enjoy as
to see virtue triumphant and vice defeated.
* * * *
The Leon and Cushman Combination have
departed from the Academy and the Fed orals
have it all to themselves, flam Keenan has got back
to his corner, to the great delight of the habituis.
Sam was mistaken for a legal gentleman on Tues
day night last. Just as he seated himself a trucu-
lent-looking person, with short hair, sat down in
the front rank of the gallery. The stranger looked
at him with amazement. “Who is he?” be at
length asked. •* Sam Keenan.” “ No, it ain't,” he
replied, “ he may call himself that, but I know
better. There ain’t two mouths in the colony like
that one. He’s the that sent me up for six
months.” And grabbing his wide-awake, he
wildly fled from the hall, and when last heard of
was preparing for a burglarious attack on the
house of the legal luminary “ next time he blacks
his bloomin’ mug, an’ goes to the play.” More
about this crowd next week.
* * * *
Lynch and his people are still prospecting
the suburbs, and appear to be on payable dirt. They
intend working the ground till the “ Cup,” when
a move will be made towards Melbourne. At
Botany, the other night, the company’s “ chucker-
out” had his hands full—so full Indeed that Harry
says he’ll never open there again unless he can
come to terms with Professor Miller and Larry
Foley to hang round and keep the back seats in
order.
* * * *
“Masootte” always fetches the Brisbane
folk. Williamson put it on for three nights to
packed houses. Nellie Stewart, of course, took
the palm as Bettina, but Woodfleld as Pippo was
thought inferior to Howard Vernon in the same
part. He aped Vernon to some extent, but not
successfully. When stricken with anguish he
would half-close his eyes (just as if he could mimic
Vernon’s beautiful obliquity), wrinkle his forehead
and halt open his mouth. He looked the picture
of a young Christian martyr of other days striving
with great fortitude to keep a hot potato between
his jaws without moving a muscle. Boyle, on the
other hand, was not so good in the part of Frit-
telini as Woodfleld was when he played it. Boyle
is a thin, but sweet singer. His is a unique voice
Nor did little Emma Chambers come near Fanny
Liddiard as Flametta. Wallace, as Rocoo, followed
closely on Kelly’s lines; and Brough made a
decided hit as Laurent. Brough made himself
very popular with the Brisbanetie?. The season
closed on Friday, 3ad irst., with ‘ lolanthe,” and
Nellie Stewart broken down in voice and health.
The part of Phyllis was well-played by Miss
Templeton.
» • « «
Things theatrical in Auckland are growing
in liveliness. Norton’s Minstrels were over there
lately, and, as a big boom was wanted, the strength
of the company was increased by the enrolment
of 14 local stars. The first local star came out
with what is described as “a sickly smile.” He
stayed singing until a good deal of furniture was
broken. Then the second local star appeared. Ho
stayed singing until someone threw a whiteAvash-
brush at him. Then came the third local star. He
prefaced his song with the hint that if he was in-
terrupted hair would fly. He wfs interrupted. It
did fly. And the company arose “on its hind
legs” and burled the balance of the local stars
down the back stairs. The manager avows that
the next town that offers him the services of its
local stars ho will straightway eat.
CORRESPONDENCE
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“Common Sense”: Was your screed in-
sured ? If so, you had better sue the company,
for it caught Are ** Surry Hills About up to
Noozb standard. ..“Who pays?” (Macleay):
Burdett is right this time. The pamphlet you
allude to, printed at the N.8 W. Government
Printing Office, Is a portion of Hansard type
made up in another form. Members who get
Hansard extracts printed as pamphlets, pay for
them at a rate which we believe entails no loss on
Government.. .“Nicholas 0. R”: Many thanks.
“C. Jerd”: The fact that Mr. Badgery took
part with Sir Henry Parkes in introducing Mr.
Yarney Parkes to the N.S.W. Assembly, clearly
showed that he considered himself a member of
the Opposition. Besides, leaving out of the ques-
tion many other facts pointing in the same direc-
tion, we have Mr. Abigail's assertion that Mr
Badgeryasked him (Mr. Abigail) to try and find
an Opposition seat for him. How Mr. Badgery
can, in the face of these circumstances, have the
front to accept a portfolio and brazen it
out, we must leave himself to say “A.
Feeney” : We can’t make out whether the
rumour was A SV 1' * ■ was “looking for
coin” or “o*•'> J. <.s;” but we don’t be-
lieve it, ar^v^tf 1 'Much o' liged —
“J.P.T.C.”; Wo do not agree with yr 11 Although
the Legislative Council has no po . .o interfere
with an Appropriation Bill, yet m ,„iures involv-
ing taxation may be amended m the Council, so
long as the taxation or money clauses are not in-
terfered with. Wore it otherwise, the Upper
Chamber would only have the power of register-
ing legislative measures or rejecting them in alobo.
3. N.S.W. police are not allowed to vote. 3. Mr.
Dlbbs served in Darllngburst for refusing to pay
costs of the slander action brought against
him by Mr. Shepherd. Believing himself un-
justly burdened with the amount, Mr. Dlbbs de-
clined to obey the decree of the Court. Like
Mr. Pickwick, he went to gaol on principle.. .
“J.C.F.”: Yes, Mr. Dailey has been in England.
He visited England many years ago with Sir
Henry Parkes on immigration business “ C.
Bonney”: Thanks We touched upon the subject
last week in “ Answers to Correspondents.” —
“ J T.R.” (Melb.): Thanks "Victorian Bache-
lor” (Illawarra): You ask: “ Has Mr. Shackell, the
member of Parliament, who wants the Victorian
bachelors taxed, any marriageable daughters. (3.)
If so, how many ? (3) How much coin are they
likely to get ? (I.) Is there a likelihood of getting
a good billet through Mr. Shackell If he became
my father-in-law ? ” We don’t know, and,
as these questions are a bit personal, we’d
rather not approach Shackell on the subject
“M.D.”: Alraid that wo cannot “doctor” these
up — “Consistency”: You say the “Echo is de-
serting the Ministry.” The rats and the sinking
ship — “ Gosford Jim ”: No, we don't tbink that
Mr. Parnell was made Minister for Justica because
he was suspected of unjustly favouring his sons-
in-law— "J. Amess”: Take our advice and start
a newspaper at once—in New Guinea. The local
niggers are most diligent readers, and just now
they have nothing to ponder over but the
missionary-letters of the S. M. Herald
“X.Z”; “Long live the King I” is the cry of the
Sydifey Echo, which represents no considerable
section of the public —“Boz:” Letter for you
posted to Parramatta. Please call when in town.
“ Elector ”: Ton ask whether we are in favour
of the Dlbbs Ministry as reconstructed. Not quite.
Eight changes are now requisite in the holders of
portfolios, and they want a policy besides—
“ D. M'P.” (Gympiei: AFreethinker simply thinfes
for himself, and acklowledges no human command
as to how he should think. We cannot tell you
whether it is a good belief; it all depends, you see,
upon how one thinks. ..‘Surry Hill”: Surry we
can’t accept... “Maud S.”: Please call on ac-
countant— “ From Start to Finish ”: Thanks very
much. Will probably be able to utilise “W.
Lee”: Although we strive to uphold Liberty, we
i have an equal reverence for Justice, and we can-
not therefore publish an ex varle statement which
there is no means of verifying. Our address is
1 34 P.tt-street, Sydney—“L. Moeller”: Many
thanks. Will consider....” Bega Next week
“ Valentine ” (and other correspondents innumer-
able) : Will read and notice next wet k.
9
October 17, 1888.
THIS BUIjJjBTIN.


BRIEF MENTION.
There is one policeman to every 614 of the
population In New South Wales, and one to every
kih In Victoria. We often wondered why there
wag more crime In New South Wales than in
Victoria.
The amount which the Queensland Go-
vernment had to pay as damages for the Injuries
caused by the Darra Hallway collisions was £14,060,
making, with the costs, a total of £17,957. They do
these things better In—Cootamundra.
The Queensland Defence Force num-
bered 600 men last February. On June 30 the
number of efficients was 3216. In four months
the God of War quadrupled his adherents in
Queensland. No otner god could have done the
like In that colony. Bxc.-pt, perhaps, the god of
Bum.
At Gunnedah, N.8.W., recently, a man
stole a blanket to get into gaol for medical treat-
ment. Be had tried to get into the local hospital,
but was unqualified. By paying a pound a man
can qualify himself to receive medical treatment
In an hospital. By stealing a pound a man can
qualify himtelf to receive medical treatment iq a
gaol. Gunnedah is a place of give or take in
more than one sense.
Constable Paioe, of Melbourne, was
“ charged with taking a bribe.” Is it necessary to
mention that the case was dismissed ? For the
credit of the constabulary we trust not. Is it
likely that any intelligent number of the foorce
would accept a bribe ? No, he would indignantly
knock the pris cner down with his truncheon who
hinted at such a thing—and help himself. We
never knew but one case of a policeman taking a
bribe. The tragedy occurred up a hye street In the
West End of London. We saw the active and in-
telligent one pocket a sovereign and let his man
go, so we went up and charged him at once. We
charged him half. s
A man who had been gazing on the “ rosy ”
until the said rosy had got the upper hand, was
brought, the other day, before a Bench in the
Farramatta district. On the Bench wore sealed
three man istrates- one of them evidently suffering
a recovery from the effects of something stronger
than lime-juice. “The Bench lino you 103.,” said
bis brother justice. “Oh, it! ’ said he of the
rubicund countenance, “give him three months.”
But it was too late; so Draco left his seat and
solaced himself by a visit to the pub. over the
way.
Cap ting Loftus’ recent appointment to
the N.8.W. Exhibition Secretaryship on the ground
of his being a gentleman of culchaw, reminds us
of the story told of old Jacky Dow, one of the
Murrumbidgee pioneers, who once advertised for
a station cook A few days later, a clerical
gentleman meeting the old man, strongly recom-
mended him to accept the services of a certain
eve-lamb of the reverend one’s flock, and pro-
ceeded to launoh out Into a glowing panegyric on
the lady’s decency and general moral qualifica-
tions, when Jacky hastily roared, “Oh, blank her
blanked decency! What I want Is a woman as kin
bile salt horse, an’ bake a gory damper.”
A suburban alderman at’eleetion time was
addressing the free and independent. “I was
always ” he said, “ in favour of the borough pay-
ing a moiety of the cost, and the State paying
another moiety, or even of th© Stat© paying two
more moieties.” “ Whatis a moiety ? joaredone
of the electors, but he heeded not. “ The State
ought,” he continued —but just then the question
merged into a universal yell. What do you
mean by a moiety ? ’ was the question from a hun-
dred throats. "Well, boys,” he said at last. 1m blest
if 1 know. 1 heerd ’em all saying it, and I thought
t© get it off on you. an’ I think yer ought to take
it I’m in favour of the State paying two moieties
and the borough another.” And they put him in
at the head of the poll, for they thought, as on
elector expressed it, he was too thunderin’ honest
to be left out.”
The editor of the Manning River (N.8.W.)
Times, la announcing the purchase by the local
Mr Mould of a new cheek-action, back-delivery
hearse, with a set of “ gorgus ” blacking-bottle
plumes, and all the rest of the pine-liner's para-
phernalia, innocently remarked that the “ spirited
proprietor deserves the support of the public.”
To which the “ friend opposite” replied that, on
the principle that example is better than precept,
the writer of the hearsey puff would do well to
shuffle off and patronise the novelty himself. A
coolness that would freeze a frog has now settled
between the pair. .
Some little time ago, when one of our
greatest steam navigation companies was gaining
ascendancy over its opponents, it was decided to
celebrate the occasion by a banquet, and a pro-
minent member of the company struck out the
lines of a speech in response to the principal toast.
He intended to Introduce the quotation “She
walks the water like a thing of Hie,” referring to
cne of the most popular boats in the line. But
memory in this Instance was a trifle defective,
and on coming to the point where this quotation
was to be introduced, our eloquent friend partially
Wright, the Old Man of the Sea.
HOW FAR WILL DIBBS CARRY HIM?
10
October 17, x88f.
THE BULLETIN.


forgot it. and blundered on, “she walks the water
—she walks the water—oh, she skims the water
like a (adjective) duck!” and finished up amidst a
round of applause.
“Character from handwritingat five
shillings the sketch is one of the noveltie* adver-
tised. This sort of thing is called “ graphiology.”
and the graohiologlst has to take oare not to
define what he may imagine to be the writer’s sex.
He mistook our script for that of a woman. It
was sent to him by a lady who, tired of fortune-
tellers and phrenology, hoped to learn something
f urther about what we really were. It was plea-
sant to road of the many (tool feminine qualities
we were credited with. “ To see ourselves as
others see us” is desirable, hut such Is clearly, to
our idea, not shown in the handwriting. Whole
families that we know of, learning at same school,
write pretty much alike, though they differ con-
siderably otherwise.
“ Etiquette for gentlemen” will need many
amendments in a new edition. The Hotham (Vie.)
Town Council has been giving some examples ot
.behaviour at the Council table. Councillor Green,
on being reminded by the Mayor that the place of
meeting was " not a bear-garden,” suggested that
it should not, in that case, “ have a bear to lead it.”
On a brother councillor expostulating, the irate
Green replied: " If you say another word, I’ll ram
you up the chimney.” On the Mayor trying to put
a mild meaning on such expressions, Green refused
all such palliation, saying: “You call me a liar,
then? Well, you're another. I am not a Scotch-
man fed on gruel and brought up on bare feet—
I'm an Englishman.” We are glad to learn this
much of what Councillor Green is, as we might
' otherwise have formed different ideas about him.
A oonsoientous lawyer—there are such
people—lately defended successfully a young man
who was charged with embezzling money. As a
servant, the accused one had lived only as became
his small salary, and if he had embezzled, as
charged against him, had made no show ot having
the money, which could not be traced satisfactorily
to his possession. His lawyer felicitated himself
on having defended successfully a wrongfully ac-
cused man. Next day the acquitted one called
upon him, when the following colloquy took
place: “ Can that charge be brought against me
again ? ” “ No, you have been tried and ac-
quitted!” “Nothing further can then be done
against mo ? ” “ No, you are free, and may thank
Providence for guiding the jury to a right view of
your case 1 ” “ Then I suppose I may now set about
making use of the money ? "
Here is an Australian “historical fact”
for the Sydney Mail, perhaps not brutal enough
to be humorous. An old boy, called “ Dusty
Bill,” lived at Yarrobeen. He was a hutkeeper
and earned his title by carrying a bag of flour
half-a-mile, having stolen It from some teamsters.
On dropping it among his mates, he said “ That’s
not so dusty.” Latterly Bill was employed by the
master to whom he was assigned in cattle-duffing,
getting one In three of the olearaklns. One day he
found some writing In raddle on his door, and, not
being able to read, he lifted the door off its hinges,
and carried it to the pub. three miles, thinking it
w.ia an order from the boss. This is what was on
the door:—
“ Dusty Bill of Yarrobeen
Tne dirtiest dog that ever was seen.”
Bob has been dead many years. Killed from a
buggy, bought with the proceeds of brand-faking.
When a country correspondent wishes to
let you know it rained round his end of the globe,
he considers the delicate state of your nerves, and
breaks the news gently by observing: “After
many days of aird desiccation, the vapoury captains
marshalled their thundering hosts and poured out
upon scorched humanity and the thoroughly
incinerated vegetation a few inches of aejuapura.’
This lets you down light, but a morbid desire to
appear original has gripped the soul of the Upper
Clarenoe correspondent of the Grafton Examiner,
and bis account of how the recent deluge roared
runs in thus wise:—“At last Ceres—moved to pity
by the doleful countenances of her favourites, and
the melancholy sight of hay being carted to the
stations to keep alive the starving ftock—has
caused the heavens to shower upon our parched
farms and Helds the much-needed rain; and our
farmers, their faith In Providence renewed, move
about with a more elastic tread.” “ Patience on a
monument smiling at grief ” was pretty good for
a man who wore a tead as bald on the top as an
egg and Gladstonlan collars turned downside up,
but Ceres perched ou a cockatoo fence and weep
ing over a dung-cart and a dead cow is a metaphor
th t could only originate in the sawdust brain 1
a Clarence correspondent under the influence of a
“lull moon ” and a bucketful of colonial beer.
Et tu Brute!
Those large sums of money which have been demanded by professional agents, for services alleged to have been rendered, will no longer be required to be paid ”
. —Mr. Abbott's address


There is a good tale told ot a guileless old
German galoot, whose frisky young wife was up-
stairs taking lessons from her music-master, and
who. hearing some snuffling going on, called out
to his eldest girl—" Grishdina, vat is oop mlt your
moder and dot mooslc blayer ? ” ** Nothing, pa,”
replied the girl; “they re only kissing each other
on the sofa.” "OhI dat vas all rlghdt den,” said
the satisQed Hans. “ I vas afraid they vas doin’
some vlghtln'.” Why we think of this to-day is
simply because we have just read the case of a
man who was recently hauled along to the judg.
ment seat at Parramatta, charged with having
fjlaoad his arm round the waist of a certain fel-
ow passenger of the female persuasion, in doing
which he almost “ squoze ” her to death, and on
her gently remonstrating with him, he added in-
sult to injury by telling her it was all right, as
she was only—well, no better than she should be
After heariDfr a lot of good all-round swearing on
both sides, the Bench dismissed the case, one of
the local Solons taking the opportunity to remark
that “ he thought that what the woman said was
true, but that they need not make such a fuss
about it.” Now, what the woman (who, by the way
is married) said was simply that she had been in-
decently assaulted, and obscenely abused by the
prisoner. And the magistrate tells her he believes
ail she says, but then, what’s the use of making a
bobbery over such a trifling piece of business,
it would have been a great “ throw-in ” for Col.
Valentine Baker and Lord St. Leonards if they
raised magistrates like this in England.
For rheumatism and gout Wolfe’s Schnapps
Silver Water! Silver Water! No doctor
could live there. It’s too healthy. S-fle day next
Saturday *
The Doctors recommend Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Call for Wolfe’s Schnapps and take no other.
Advise all your friends to use Wolfe's Schnapps.
Use your Intelligence and buy only Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
“ Wright must go.” Sydney D.T.
It will please a lot of people to learn for
certain, on the authority of a Sydney financial lu-
minary, that the plucky but unsuccessful Mr E
Hanlan took away from this sunny land the com-
fortable little sum of £7000. We don’t exaotlv
know how it was made, but when the truth comes
out one of these days, it will be found, in all pro-
bability, that after the ex-champion’s second
defeat, a subscription was set on foot, with the
utmost privacy, by some gentlemen who desired
to have an opportunity, apart from that afforded
by the public testimonial fund, of expressing their
admiration of Edward Hanlan’s uniform courage
and honesty in the field of aquatics.
In these days, when such an everlasting
howl is raised over the want of prudenom and
the excess of “ cheek ” which characterise the
Australian bushman, the following item from the
Bsrgowlahmlne (Q.) district comes as welcome as
the first sweet breath of Spring, or an invitation
to “step across the street and name it.” Some
distance from the thriving district of Yankaroo,
a certain contractor, carrying out some works on
the Holobllly station, bad his aged stepfather
living with him—if a man can be said to live who
happens to be paralysed from his toes to the tips
of his ears Knowing the “oil ’un” would have
to “step out ” soon, this practical youth put in
his spare time working at a gorgeous CDifin, and
E iJpleasEd was he with the successor his job that,
after pointing out its beauties to its future
tenant, he propped it up against his front fence,
near the main road, so that everyone with an
artistic taste who passed could stop and admire
the amateur cherry-case ’* bulider’s-slap-up” piece
of workmanship. The overseer on the station,
however, appears to be a soulless sort of Vandal;
as unable to respect the young man’s phenomenal
prudence as he was to appreciate the beauty of
his coffin-carving, and happening to arrive just as
the defunct old gent, was being tucked into his
{esthetic sentry-box, he called the young ’un “an
inhuman, heartless wretch.” To which the
amateur Mr. Mould apologetically observed.
Well, I meant no offence, sir, for selpme, ef I
thought you wos agin th’thing, I’d a burled th’
pi® buffer without eny coffin at all.” Thus it is
that the first buds of genius are frequently
squelched by the ruthless hob-nail heels of ignor-
ance and prejudice.
NOTICE.—CAUTION II
Mr. JOHN DAYIE3 says that “ the Go-
vernment have not cleansed themselves from the
charges of corruption made against them!” Coming
from such a source, this criticism is a “ clincher.
On the 19th May last the punt pilot at
Wardell, N S.W., Ashed up from the placid waters
of the Richmond River a bag. There is nothing in
ashing up a bag. Any average Government punt-
man would be equal to that emergency. But the
bag under notice contained some stones and also
some of George Crew. He had suicided, Defer-
minedly. With a blunt instrument he battered in
the back of his head, and with an edge-tool estab-
lish ed outlets for the stream of life, anyone of
which was sufficient, in the opinion of the medical
gentleman who post-mortemed him, to have
stopped the action of his aortic valve and
stranded his immortal bark on the boundlesslshores
of eternity. This should have obviated the
necessity for sinking the mortsl remnant
of his organisation in the Richmond. But
he was desperate. No half measures about
George Crew. Having severed his spinal
cord with a tomahawk, he placed some rocks
in a bag, crawled in, tied the muzzle, and slid like
a mud turtle to the bottom of the stream, to be in-
gloriously and unexpectedly resurrected by a
puntman. To bob up serenely from below too
soon for the general awakening. His case was in-
quired into, the jury were unanimously of opinion
that he met hie death through being: run over by a
dray—or murdered, or something. Nonsense. If
so, the Grafton gallows would ore this have facili-
tated the tlnal exit of the assassin. No, gentlemen,
George committed suicide, and performed the
Hinloo bag mystery business to prove this world
is all a fleeting “ show.” But wo pay no more in
reduction of the National Debt. Suicides of this
c'a<8 must be checked, dome one must hang.
Fosbery to the frontl If the police force of the
colony is stlil la existence, let the public read the
“ penny account of the hanging of the Wardell
murderer” in the Noozbj of Monday, November 15
POLITICS IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
“ I want a Policy,” the Premier thought,
“ To guarantee my Cabinet’s endurance,”
And so. in view of Its decease, he sought
A policy of mutual assurance.
An Old Story Retold.
DIOGENES BARRY, WHO SAYS THAT “ONLY HONEST MEN MUST BE ELECTED TO PARLIAMENT,” HUNTS FOR A PERSON OF INTEGRITY.
[ Ah! could we but raise the 40.]
“ A woman’s weapon's her tongue,”
Said the Bee, as be
Dipped his sting in her neck, ivory
Then her arms in the scented air she flung,
Her howis through the echoing ranges rung,
Said the Bee, as he winked, “That's woman stung.”


The, mo8t popular beverage in the colonies—
Tl olfc s Schnipps.
Silver Water ! Your olfactory nerves will
never be disturbed. All is fresh and sweet and
pure. Page 8 *
Bo not impose upon your customers by substi-
tuting: an imitation for the real Wolfe's Schnapps,
• As it was: Hon-est James Squire Farnell.
As it it: Non-est James Squire Farnell.
After the Qarvan-Wright ‘-knock-out.”
the other night, the N.S.W. Opposition took a deli-
cate way of giving Mr. “ Yooey ” Taylor to under-
stand that they duly appreciated his consistency
in sitting with them and voting with the Govern-
ment. They kicked hts hat and gingham out of
their room, and expressed their sincere regret that
“ Yooey’s” head wasn’t inside his hat when they
did the booting.
The present elections in N.S.W. are chiefly
remarkable for two things. The first is the insig-
nificance of the new men, and the second is the
unwelcome re-appearance of men whose names
we had fondly hoped would never again figure on
ballot-papers. Of the new men. one of tne most
capable is Mr. J. F. Smith, of Newtown, a man
who will leave a creditable record on the history
of his time. Mr. W. Edmunds Is also a cut above
the average legislator; Out, with these exceptions,
the list of new men is absolutely barren of promise.
And the resurrectionists make the political
put-look exceedingly gloomy. There is John
Davies, who Is a certainty for South Syd-
ney; Dr. Renwlck, whose election is by no
means certain, and various others (amongst
whom Messrs. W. J. Foster and J. Hoskins
should not be included) whose former appearance
In Parliament was neither productive of much
honour to themselves nor the electors who sent
them there. In the “ Sydneys ” a hot contest pro-
gresses; who the elected will be we do not care to
f'uess. The great Dan, It la whispered, Is “ shaky ”
or West Sydney, and this is a matter for regret.
In that he and Angus Cameron are (0 tempora !>
about the two best men out for that borough, and
infinitely superior to persons of the J. D. Young
stamp. For Bast Sydney the contest will be close:
Dalveen and Brown will, of course, be with those
who mourn, and possibly Sammy Lees and Grif-
fiths will be with them; but in the present state of
confusion of parties it Is diflioult to predict the
result.
The tame monotony of Messrs. Levien and
Gill’s Taaworth meeting, at which they gave
a glowing account of their Parliamentary steward-
ship, was somewhat enlivened towards the does
hy a decidedly * free and Independent elector
named Grehan, who, after generously offering to
sling the chairman out through the window like a
dead rat, excitedly yelled that Mr. Levlen could go
to Bheol, and “ft was like the chairman’s (Mr.
Underwood) d d Insulting manner to remain
on the platform. It was a vile conspiracy, and
■'rowed deliberate malice that Underwood and
Levlen had packed the meeting so that the case of
the selectors oould not be put before it In the
matter of trespass. He would speak to the meet-
ing wlthout'belng interrupted. If squatter's sheep
went on the selector he would haveto prove wil-
ful trespass before redress could be obtained, but
not so the other way; it was a damned hellish lie.
He (Mr. Grehan) was independent, and a richer
man than Mr. GUI; Mr. Levlen had been throwing
dust In the selectors’ eyes. Mr. Underwood was
an indignant fool.” This “praise to the face”
seemed repugnant to the bashful chairman’s feel-
ings, and he accordingly left the room, after which
r^!*w n ent . f° r our Harry straight,
and declared Mr. Levlen had tried In bis low,
Eolipe-eourt style to wriggle out of this. If Mr.
evlen doubted this he was either a bad
lawyer or a wilful liar; If that made nny differ-
ence. finally, having had his say, Mr. Grehan
swore he would vote for both the old members,
alter which the last act of Donnybrook Fair was
performed, and the bulk of the electors adjourned
tp the nearest bars w hile the balance slid round to
the local chemist’s and laid up a stock of arnloa
and sticking-plaster. So indicates a local paper.
A determined effort is being made to sup-
plant the vigorous Mr. J. P. Garvan, M L.A., by
the supporters of one Walker, a South-coast bank
manager, who, having made his little pile, has re-
signed his official position with a view to Inflicting
upon the reporters’ gallery the outpourings of his
money-bag mediocrity. The local papers seem to
have been extensively “got at,’’ for, we see, they
both “round ’’ on Mr. Garvan, who. it la amusing
to notice, is denounced by one little print as * h
Parliamentary failure,” a “discoverer of mares’
nests,” and so on. Ignorance and prejudice cer-
tainly reign supreme in the Garden ot Eden. It
is hardly necessary to state, ao far as Mr. Gat van's
friends and opponents In the Assembly are con-
cerned. that he is one of the keenest, most per-
fcin*pi°u8, and most forceful if debaters, that his
public and his private character are alike unsul-
lied by suspicion, and that he is one of the very
few men who have had at once the honesty and
the strength to act with absolute Independence
throughout his remarkable political career. We
say remarkable, for not to every man is it given
to wreck two Ministries with two speeches. It
was Mr. Garvsn’s Indictment of Mr. Watson,
Treasurer of the last Parkes Administration,
which precipitated the fall of that Government;
and his calm, judicial Impeachment of the late
Minister for Works has In a day driven the Stuart
patty to the country and Mr Wright from the
clerk-defended fortress erected by that Ingenious
Minister on the ruins of the Constitution. Mr.
Garvan, top. Is the man solely responsible for the
elevation to the Speakership of Mr. Barton, who
was nominated by the member for Bden despite
the strenuous opposition of Sir Alexander Stuart.
Mr. Gar van’s every action, so far, has been In the
Interests of political morality, and It would Indeed
be both curious and unseemly were the constitu-
ency which sent him to ParlFment as an untried
man now to withdraw its confidence from one of
the only four or five really strong men In the
Legislature.
In Pursuit off “Ideas.”
While contemplating a work of posted
upon a hoarding.
He was suddenly and un-
expectedly " slapped ” upon the back. It
was the orthodox hearty “ slap ” of the
Parliamentary candidate. The doctors
think they can wire our artist’s backbone
together again—that is, if they can find all
-he joints.
Attracted by the dis-
charge of fire-arms, he
looked over a wall, and
then he saw a young man
upon whose every fea- ~
ture was written " Gen-
tleman,” privately prac- ~
ticing at pigeon-shooting.
“If I can hit this here,”
he said, “ I can knock
over one of them ‘ loaded'
ones !"
Prom a scene so depressing he turned
with a sigh and was soon after dividing hia
attention between a political argument and
a dog-nght.
Countered next into Stock Exchange, still in
pursuit of the truly funny. Noticed that cer-
tain shares, for which he paid £3 7s. 61/2d. the
day before had dropped to rather less than
nothing* Nothing very funny about that, was
there ?
While chasing his hat he came in sudden"
contact with a cab. The latter got the worst
of it. Never losing his presence of mind,
our 0. A. took cab’s number, which
the cabman took so much to heart
that the number was restored to him
on the spot.
His hat being carried away by n
sudden gale of wind he took prompt
steps-towards its recovery.
And something did strike
him in the shape of a hod full
of bricks, which fell from a new
building which he happened to
pass. He made a note of the
circumstance.
And here may he seen our comic
artist proceeding cautiously, note-
book and pencil in hand, ready in
case anything should strike him. M
Daring a "brief lull In the recent political
storm, our comic artist said to himself, “ I
will go forth into the highways and bye-
ways, and seek a funny subject for a pic-
ture.”
13
October 17, 1888.
THE BULIiETIN.


Oh, howrefreshmg,palatableaa<irevivi £
is a draught of cool water with American w l
Bittern in it, to a fever patient. See
The cures consummated by Wolfe’s SehMPP
tell their own story and plead tneir own oaus-.
Political Points
Lord Randolph Churchill looks forward
to a new departure In Central Asia. So do the
Russians—the departure of the British.
The Parramatta Fergt remarks that the
Stuart Government went out of office “be-
smirched with the slime of a thousand slanders.”
In 18?4, the number of incomes in Great
Britain of £50,000 and over was 378, These aggre-
gated £35.110 644, or on an average amounted t j
over £00,358.
At Gunnedah subscriptions are being col-
lected to enable Mr. Poole to sustain the expense
of attending Parliament if elected. This loons as
If Mr. J. P. Abbott will have stormy times In his
native electorate.
Mr. Badgery says he went over to the N.S.W.
Opposition “ because they were in adversity and
out of contempt for their followers.” These
reasons will probably suppy also his reason for
now joining tbe Ministry.
The cause of State-aided immigration has
perished utterly in Victoria Mrs. Creswell. of
the Melbourne Society, declares that
the population of the colony needs no adventitious
aid to ensure a sufficient increment.
The Rabbit Conference have carried a
resolution in favour of Mr. Abbott's being allowed
to continue the administration of the N.8.W.
Rabbit Act. After a fair trial, the rabbits consider
that he is the only Minister who will allow them to
raise their families in comfort.
Sir Henry Parkes addressed a SmithfleM
mob on Friday night. He escaped. In other days
men spoke at Smlchfleld and never came home to
dinner. Our ancestors were not such fools as we
think. For persuading men to modify their poli-
tical and religious opinions there’s nothing like a
stake and a bundle of wet fagots.
This is the polished sarcasm of the Qunne-
dah Advertiser on Sir A. Stuart’s retirement:—
“ The rottenest trunk of this rottenest of Minis-
tries being gone, it is to be hoped that ho will be
speedily followed by the branches.” It is selfish of
the La Rochefoucauld who penned the foregoing
to bury himself away in Gunnedah.
The Southern world (Brisbane)confesses
in a leading article on gaol punishments, “to hav-
ing a much greater respect for the now despised
Mosaic code of lair for the criminal c'asses than
for modern Humanitarian views.” That confes-
sion is neither more nor less than a declaration of
preference of Judaism to Christianity. Awful,
isn’t it ?
The Northern Miner rings out its wild
insults in the following manner:-“The union of
the other colonies will soon force New South
Wales to abandon her unnatural position of isola-
tion. That colony isverylov as a political com-
munity.” We are not so low as the Northern
Miner fancies. We hang more and flog more
than Queensland at any rate. The Miner needn’t
blow.
It has now been made illegal in Victoria
for any ibrewer, spirit merchant, or distiller, to
hold a mortgage on a hotel. Information fur-
nished by the police authorities shows that the
majority of houses maintained under these con-
ditions are discreditably kept. It is in the interest
of respectable victuallers to have dens suppressed.
This is one of the straightest ways to go about
doing it.
The Bega Gazette fears that some con-
stituencies will be false to the State, and send men
into Parliament for other reasons than their
political fitness. It says that the following exhor-
tation is going the rounds of the electorate on
which the Gazette sheds knowledge:—“Never
mind his want of political stamina; vote for Mr.
Clarke, who sent you a bag of flour and a quarter
chest of tea in the old bard times, and did not
press you for payment.”
Kerferd, the Victorian Attorney-General,
is trying the old game of sitting between two
stools. He wants to please the bigots by flattening
out Symes, and to please the Secularists by flatten-
ing out the bigots. Consequently, Symes bites on
one side, and this is the way tbe Melbourne D.T.
bites him on the other:—"He renders the same
sort of assistance to all attempts to maintain the
Sunday law that a kicking mule does to tbe pro-
gress of the waggon to which it Is hitched.”
Members of Congress in the United States
receive £1000 a year. Cabinet Ministers in Wash-
ington receive £1600. But it is calculated that to
live in Washington and entertain on the scale
"which society expects” a member of an Ad-
ministration wants £3000 a year. Hence many of
the best men remain members of Congress and de-
cline the higher post- That is a new problem for
the American democracy. Only men with large
private means can accept the highest positions.
That looks like circular politics.
Mr. Want, the N.S.W. Attorney-General,
will Had it somewhat difficult to explain to his
constituents at Gundagai the reason of bis remark-
able conversion to Ministerial doctrines. It is
hardly a fortnight since some of his party there
wrote saying that it was reported that he wou d
support the Government and asking if this was
true. The wily Jack, In reply, indignantly denied
the rumour and asserted his intention of becoming
a strong Oppositionist If elected, a resolve which,
lathe phrass of Alfred, “gave great measure to
all!” But tbe halo which Illumines a Minister at-
tracts many votes 1
The Social Purity party in Adelaide are
reaching over too far. They will fall. They may
not hurt themselves, but are likely to hurt the one
or two good Ideas they have in their heads. They
are ambitious to control the forthcoming elections,
and lay down tbe following planks as preliminary
conditions to be accepted by candidates:—Prohi-
bition of tbe sale of all intoxicating liquors; re-
ligious instruction in State schools; suppression
of all houses of ill-fame; closing of all theatres
and similar places of public amusement; and rais-
ing the age of consent to 31 years. The party call
all that little. But they are bound to want that
little long.
Our dear old friend John Ferguson thus
emphatically standeth “on his hind legs” in the
last issue of the Cumberland Times:— “The still
strong man in a blatant land who can rule and
dare not lie would be a benefactor, and not a
tyrant, if he freed us from the despotism of these
dump-car demagogues. Standard-paint pettifog-
gers, barbed-wire wlneblbbers, and bogus-com-
S»uy carriers (limited); and not the Tammany
,mg Itself would be a more detestable tyranny
than that exercised over the ojuntry by a Pan la-
me- it, the larger h-lf of which is a rump that fol-
io v s the Government lead as servilely as the tall
of he our follows the head of the dog.”
-.There is great joy in Townsville, the future
capital of a coming colony. Thaddeus O’Kane,
of the Northern Miner, Charters Towers, has
followed in the stops of Leo Taxil and abjured bis
heresies. Taxli’s wore religious, however, while the
O’Kane’s were political. William Coote, the sec-
retary of the Separation League, girt up his loins
ab ut a fortnight ago, and, like Jonah, went down
by the sea to preaen to the arch-heretic, whom he
assaulted with argument. At last Thady bowed
and recanted. He out-bawled Stentor. He spat
on his hands and announced himself ready to fight
for Separation while a hair remains in his eye-
brows. This has sent a thrill through Northern
Queensland, for Thady is really a power among the
hirsute horde of the pick and drill.
A few months ago Bismarck passed into
law in Prussia a measure determining a graduated
scale of income-tax. No measure represents more
truly the activity of a democratic spirit than one
that makes the expense of conducting govern-
ment fall upon the subjects In proportion to the
benefits they derive from living under it. Bis-
marck has been minute in his graduation. He
begins with Incomes of £80, and between that and
£500, has no less than 17 classes. The bad point is
that the scale does not extend beyond incomes of
£500. However, Incomes up to this sum, from
whatever source derived, are taxable, a reserva-
tion being made In favour of members of the
reigning family and diplomatic representatives.
Foreigners residing in Prussia are amenable.
Some of the recent "leaders” in the Mel-
bourne D.T. are able. Those we refer to give
evidence of being ail written by the same hand.
The writer has been taught English somewhere,
and Nature has given him brains. Will the slip-
shod mediocrites who scribble in the Echo about
the nefarious doings of the Pall Mall Gazette
sit down and, over a pint of Redmyre milk, read,
mark, and inwardly digest the following ?—“ The
much-abused English journal has rendered an
enormous service to morality, in that It has set
one dreadful form of vice in the white light of
publicity, and the appalling vision has fairly
startled the world. We cherish the most healthy
contempt for those critics who keep all their in-
dignation not for the sin, but for its exposure.”
This reminds us of the saying that there are peo-
ple who have no displeasure for the wolves that
tear, but terrific indignation for the dogs that
bark.
Mr. Henry Badgery, having joined the
N.S.W. " Ministry ot Explanations,” spread him-
self to prove that he was rightly one of them. He
showed delicious naivUi in explaining that he sat
with the Opposition because they were in adver-
sity and deserted by their former supporters.
How kind I Mr. B idgery must have a heart as big
as a pumpkin, and as much sympathy as a step-
mother. He also explained that Mr. Abbott, the
new Minister of Lands, in publicly censuring Mr.
Farnell’s administration of the Land Act bad gone
too far in his remarks about land-agents. This
complicates matters nicely. Abbott slates Far-
nell, Badgery slates Abbott. Now our only
anxiety is to hear the views of Mr. Farnell con-
cerning Mr. Badgery. The latter Minister, by the
way, began the Campbelltown oration with an
“ explanation,” showing why he stood for Camden
instead of Manaro. The electors of the latter con-
stituency could also give their little tale explana-
tory ot the latter phenomenon. Deceased cats
labelled " for ’Enry” have been treasured through-
out Manaro for months past.
Some very ingenious points are being
raised by Sir Thomas M’llwraith and Mr. Macros-
san in the Queensland Legislative Assembly over
the Payment of Members question. It may be re-
membered that the Assembly passed the Bill re-
cently, and that the Council threw it out. There-
upon Mr. Griffith, the Premier, calculating that if
members were paid tbe sum would total £7000,
placed that amount on the Estimates “ to defray
the expenses of members of tbe Assembly.” Sir
Thomas quoted the standing order that “ no
member shall be entitled to vote upon any ques-
tion on which he has a direct pecuniary Interest.”
The Chairman ruled that the question was one of
State policy, and that members could, conse-
quently, vote upon it. Mr. Macrossan pressed the
point, and the Speaker had to take the chair. H?
also, however, determined that the question was
one of State policy. Then Sir Thomas, accepting
the Speaker’s view, announced that the Legisla-
tive Council would, as the money was simply a
question of State policy, have power to reject the
item. So it stands. As intellectual gymnastles
the performance is so far good.
The having landed some years ago on
Paddy Fowlers wharf “with a shilling in his
pocket, and a hole in bis coat,” is the chief plank
to Mr. J. D. Young s political platform—the bridge
by which he would connect the publiohouso in
George-street, Sydney, with that in Macquarie-
street. But, if having a hole in your coat consti-
tutes a legitimate claim to make laws, how much
stronger is the position of the person who landed
without a coat at all ? Indeed, if fitness for Par
liament Is to be gauged by former primltlvenoss
of apparel, there are surely citizens amongst us
compared with whose toilet on landing Mr.
Young’s first appearance on Paddy Fowler’s wharf
was that of a Beau Brummel. Mr. Young is not
sufficiently explicit. He has not told us whether
the holes in his coat were those he put his arms
through, or whether other orifices of a more
supererogatory character existed. The material,
too, is not mentioned, although a probably ill-
founded rumour went round the audience that
a canvas-bag with slits in appropriate places first
protected Mr. Young from the semi-tropical sun
of Sydney. We hope that, should this bumptious
whisky-seller unfortunately succeed in securing a
place at his adopted country’s council-table, he will
satisfy public curiosity by appearing In Parliament
with a coat-assuming the original to be lost—pos-
sessing at least some of tbe peculiarities of the one
which his success will have been la a large to
measure due.
Here is a gospel fact about Lumley Hill,
who has just been retuned for the Cook (Q.l in
the plnoe of honest and genial Tom Campbell,
the barrister, who was compelled to throw up the
seat through pecuniary complications. Lumley
has not got the best of political names. There was
a time when the Queensland papers used unjustifia-
bly apply to to him an opprobrious epithet someth-
ing like “informer ’ through bis Informing against
the Brisbane Courier in Greeley Lukia’s time for
not having the name of the company painted over
the door or on the building, viz , Brisbane News-
paper Company (Limited). In abort, Lumley is
not greatly loved, and he was returned for the
Cook simply because he was better in the way of
stumping than his opponent, Frank Gill, who is
too easy-going and somnolent, there being nothing
of tbe blowing demagogue about him as there is
about Hill. But, for all that, Lumley is locked
upon as a great man by—himself. On his way up
the Queensland ooost to stump the electorate he
happened to have as a fellow-passenger (whom we
shall call “ Mac” for short) an Influential gentle-
man and friend of Sir Thomas M'llwraltb. Lum-
ley told Mao. that, In consequence of a dis-
pute with MTlwraith he had Informed that
gentlemai he would show him the great
amount of political Influence he possessed,
and which he intended to exert againt Sir
Thomas He accordingly, he stated, put tbe
threat into execution, and, among otner things,
he went to Rockhampton when Macdonald Pat-
terson (Sam Gnffitn’s present Postmaster-GeaoraJ)
was contistiog that electorate, and, going on the
platform, addressed a crowded and enthusiastic
audience la favour of Patters in’s candidature.
Now, we might state here, that Macdonald Patter-
son got shamefully “ licked,” and he returned to
Brisbane and crawled into Garrick s seat at West
Moreton, when the latter was appointed Agent-
General. Weil, when Lumley had boasted of what
he bad done, Mac. turned on him quietly and
said—“Just so, Lumley, your doing so actually
beneflted MTlwraith and damned your friend, for
the Rockhampton people, knowing you to be a
blanked rat, rejected Patterson on account of his
association with you.” Lumley spoke no more on
that trip. He felt as if he could have sneaked up
the funnel, and sobbed himself into soot.
Mr. Samuel Levey appeals to the electors of
East Sydney in an address which, for comprehen-
siveness snd simplicity, seasoned with a firm
grasp of the more pressing wants of this fierce
Southern Democracy, stands alone—a solitary
obelisk in a Held of paving-stones. This young
man—he confesses to 83. but appears somewhat
older -observes with alarm the " strong language,
back-biting, and quarrelling now so often used in
the Assembly,” and promises to do all h« can to
“Inculcate Into the minds of the members the
manners and deportment used during my early
manhood at the Court of His Majesty George IV.
He says “George IV.” but he probably means
Elizabeth. Still, admitting the correctness ot his
chronology, It is doubtful whether, under the
most favourable circumstances, the stately man-
ners and polished repartee of the beaux of 60 years
ago could be easily fitted to the stormy petrel of
debate, M’Elhone, or to Mudgee Taylor the icono-
clastic. Mr. Levey, should he succeed, intends to
devote a good deal of attention to the Customs
Department of which “ he was for 35 years a pro-
minent officer.” He professes to bo “ thoroughly
conversant with the many necessary reforms re-
quired in that branch of Her Majesty’s service.”
We quite believe him. We ourselves have had a
sharp eye for sometime on that branch of the
public service, and, among other things, have dis-
covered that few Custom House officers iu N.S.W.
have ever reached the age of 40 without having se-
cured the fee-simple of a bulbous nose; and a per-
manently watery eye. But it la not alone on age
and experience that Mr. Levey bases his claim to
election. His habits could not but have the most
beneficial effect on an Assembly constituted like
that of N.S.W. As he himself says—" Having
always led a most temperate life, never smoked or
used tobacco in any shape, havo always taken
my cold bath for over 75 years at 6 a.tn., winter
and summer, and have never worn great coat or
flannel in my life ”—83 years of age and never re-
duced to the humiliation of cadging a chew 1 We
submit that, if for no reason other than
personal habits. Mr. Levey deserves the suffrages
of East Sydney. For, if his example does not
shame members into washing themselves once a
month or so while relinquishing flannels and
tobacco. It will be one more proof of the tyranny
of emtom, Mr. Levey goes on—“I shall also per-
sonally take in hand the Introduction of the Con-
tagious Diseases A?t, as I consider this measure
will be highly beneficial to the country from my
experience of over 80 years.” It Is given to few
to have an 80 years’ struggle In such an arena.
Mr. Levey must have commenced very young—
probably have started on measles—and worked
steadily through to fog-fever. The success of
his long vendetta with these insidious ailments is no
doubt due to the persistent washing he underwent,
winter and summer, for 75 years. If this is not a
proof of what cold water can do when sufficient
time is given it, wo should like to know what is
But we must get on. “ I am in favour of a tax
being imposed upon all bachelors under tho age
of 70 years. . . I shall try to advance the in-
terests of tho Salvation Army, as I am now fully
convinced that it exercises an immense power for
good.” To suppress celibacy and encourage oym
bals Mr. Levey would devote his best endeavours.
But-wo say it with all delicacy—is it fair for him,
is it manly, considering be bimself is a bachelor, to
draw the line at 70? Again, he would vote for
“ the closing of public-houses and the entire aboli-
tion of barmaids.” We happen to have seen more
than one of these ladles on whom, no doubt uncon-
sciously, Mr. Levey has made an impression. When
he appears in the bar for his customary bitters, it
is painful to see how those poor creatures betray
their feelings. Yet, by one fell stroke of legislation,
he would deprive them of hope and homel We
scarcely think Mr. Levey intended this, and, while
wishing him suooers in his candidature, we would
suggest that, before publishing another electoral
address, he first submit it to bis parents.
“ The Prince of Wales has only two objec-
tions to going out to Australia. One is, of course,
the length of time necessary to compass the
journey, and the other an eminently characteristic
one—his fear of the heavy and, In a measure, pur-
poseless cost to which it would put the colonists.”
—Sydney Daily Telegraph.
The Po\t Denison Times (Bowen, Q.)
tried a little amateur judge-and-jury business in
Northern Queensland lately, and it has bound It-
self, by a solemn oath, not to do it again. Three
men were committed for trial In Townsville, and
the Times, after carefully considering the case,
found that the “ grounds of committal were open
to criticism.” When the dav of trial came on, his
•ionor, Judge Cooper, asked the proprietor of the
paper to step forward. The Judge then read the
paragraph, and ask«d the proprietor if he was
willing to go straight away to gaol. Tho proprie-
tor held by the rails of the dock, and began the
history of “twenty years ago.” This seemed to
touch the Judge. The fact of a man having con-
ducted a newspaper In the North of Queensland
for 30 years was a reasonable ground for claiming
exculpation. “Well, will you swear not to do It
again?” asked the Judge. The proprietor let go
the rails and swore. It is said that he is swearing
yet.
According to the Government Statist of
Victoria, there are now in that colony 53 aboriginal
bachelors. This proves, at 411 events, (hat the
Australian native is not so devoid of intelligence
as some people would have us believe. By degrees
he lo becoming civilised. Considering (he sim-
plicity of tbe marriage ceremony among these
poor children of Nature, and the ease with which
a second wlf? can be obtained when the first has
succumbed to an extra application of “ waddy,”
the determination of these 53 braves to paddle
their own canoes is a hopeful sign of progress.
We are open to correction, but we believe that
this outbreak • f mis gy my is Indirectly due to a
late evangelical tour made by the well-known
missionary, Mr. Peter Campbell. Mr, Campbel 1 , it
will be remembered, bad some serious domestic
troubles which foun t their way into Court, and
sunsequently into tt- at trenchant organ of public
ODinimi, the Sydney Evening News. Among the
aborigines of Victoria, tho journal in question is
he d in deserved repute. Wheathe Kookaburra
tribe, to whom Mr. Carapbo 1 preached prior to his
misfortunes, road of his tall, 63 of them took to
celibacy. This wo believe to be tbe true story of
the aboriginal bachelors of Victoria. If ir, can be
relied on. It is a fresh proof of the far-reaching
power of tbe Press.
Melbournians are to lose one of their most
delightful holiday resorts. It will be sad for
honeymooners also, to have Fernshaw, its shade
and delighting surroundings, no more left tsi their
choice. The splendid waters of the Watts River
which there come tumbling along in such plenty
and coolness, are to be diverted thence and carried
off in aid of the Yan Yean water supply of Mel-
bourne. It Is a pity this was not done, if to be
done at all, 25 years ago, and so have given the
city a supply of water second to none in the world.
If the pellucid waters of the mountain-torrent
Watts River are to mix with the muddy Yan Yean
stuff! but little good will be done beyond Increas-
ing quantity at the expense of quality. The lucky
shareholders In the lately-formed Fernshaw Hotel
Company will now get a dividend—though It bo
their first and only one—In an unexpected way
Like all the other property-holders in that pleasant
dell, they will be cleared off at a profitable com-
pensation.
It is a bye-law of railways that all things
found In carriages, left there by passengers, are
the praperty of the Government until claimed.
Smith founa a penny lately upon the floor of a
carriage when about to leave it. Brown, his
friend, claimed “ halves” at once as the unwritten
law of such andlngs It was done to “ se 1” the
station master, who was standing handy. “ If you
have found anything in the carriages it must be
handed to me I” said that worthy, stopping the
way. “ Get him to give up his claim to half the
money I have found, and you shall have it,” said
Smith. “ I must have It whether or no,” said the
now excited official—hearing money mentioned.
Blowing his whistle for an assistant, he had the
bye-laws read for the edification of Smith
and Brown, who kept their countenances. ' * Well,
I’ll give it, subject to Brown’s claim which you
have heard made—notice is given of that."
The aspect of that statlonmaster and the look on
his rod face on getting the penny was something
awful.
Melbourne tramways are to start running
on the 1st November. The four-mile Hue from
Spencer-street station, twining thence into Flin-
ders-street. and so along Rlchmond-road to Haw-
thorn Bridge, is now finishing. It will run on
cable traction, and Is a well-finished road. So
promising is the work done that the shares of the
Tramway and Omnibus Cunpany are rapidly
rising—having gone from 24s. to 28s. during the
past three weeks on a paid-up 10s. only. On this
small paid-up capital a 13 per cent dividend has
been regularly paid, which is phenomenal when
not a penny has been yet earned by tramway
traffic. Neither have any calls been made nor will
any be made—which is phenomenal also. It Is not
every tramway company that has such a good
milch cow to suckle and support it as is the Omni-
bus Company which has fathered and promoted
this, the largest tramway company In the world, as
Its bantling. If similar economical management
be given to this tramway branch of Its business,
the 13 per cent, earned by the omnibuses is likely
to be soon doubled. Thi expectation is that it
will be trebled. This company has a monopoly of
street traffic in Melbourne and suburbs for 30
years, with no power of altering its scale of fares
for the first 14 years of its time. Sydney Cup
visitors will probably note and report, remember-
ing that comparisons are odious—when Sydney’s
tramways are part of the comparison.
“ Nissen’s Cafe,” an old identity of Mel-
bourne, and standing godfather to one like-named
in Sydney, has been sold by its freeholder (Mr.
Meares) for £40,000. Such Is good evidence of city
property value In Melbourne. It will be a sad loss
to its habituis If not continued as a caf A The pur-
chasers are those Parer Brothers who have done
so well as restaurateurs. Why Spaniards should be
so successful in this way above French, English,
and Germans who shall say ? But that “ Temple
of Pomona,” as it was once known, in which they
have made such a large fortune, was unsuccess-
fully kept by caterers of the three nations named.
Madame Hubert opened It in 1860. parting with it
in 1864 to try her fortunes In New Z ,'aland. Nissen
was next proprietor, who left It In 1867 to take the
oaf 6 now bearing his name. Alfred Harris had it
next, and then Louis Aarons, after which it was
for a time worked by Frahm, and then by Hughes.
In 1875 it was taken by the three brothers Parer,
who had come to Melbourne in 1&57 In the condi-
tion they proudly speak of “as quite penniless,
and knowing not a word of English.” Their suc-
cess as restaurateurs has been similar to that of
the Gattls in Locdon. We recall those successful
Italians as of but the other day (though it is, alasl
40 years ago) selling us penny ices on Sundays in
the old Hungerford market where the Charing
Cross Palace Hotel now stands. The Parer bro-
thers have a large farm some little way out of
Melbourne from whence come their vegetables,
milk, and butter. Fine terraces of houses In
Fltzroy and Carlton are pointed out to one as
being their property, and now this Nissen’s
purchase further bespeaks the length and strength
of a purse made wholly out of shilling dinners and
suppers.
The Pack-saddle Range and Station is now
well known by the late discovery there of a
rich silver reef. It la situated about the centre of
the Albert district, N.S.W. The spirit of the
enterprise, named Graydon, an assayer, auctioneer,
mining agent, &c, conceived a bold thing to be
done in floating a company. He, therefore, per-
suaded all the pastoralists to form a company to
work tho patch from whence h-: said he had taken
the exhibited specimens, and feteing and cham-
pagne with high revelry helped along the con-
cern, Beady cash flowed In until the projector
thought that the amount would enable him to
make a bold dash for another colony, so with two
good horses and £1300 in sovereigns, he struck for
the Queensland border through the bush armed
with revolver, ammunition, chart, and compass.
Crossed the border at Wompah and made for Thar-
gomindah on the Bullo, at which place, as well as
another bush house, he lived high. The telegraph
had preceded him as an absconder, and a smart
N.S.W. trooper was in pursuit. When at the latter
place his conduct attracted the attention of the
police, and they had an interview —a very short
one, as the policeman had been warned of his
being dangerous. An enquiry, a quiet stroll to the
stables, when Graydon turned and confronted the
police with revolver In band, demanded 40 yards’
start, which, it is said, he got, and made off. His
Nemesis pursued him in the person of the N.S.W.
policeman, and a black tracker, Tiger, who arrived
two days after, took: up his tracks, he being on
foot. Over the mulga scrub and stony hills of
Boorara to ten miles above Calwarro Station on
the Paroo Creek, where pursued and pursuers
arrived 13 hours apart. The prey was still on
foot and travelling with muffled feet, and
had no swag, only a water-bag In hand. A
shower of rain here gave him a short respite.
The pursuers obtained from M’Cotter, of Caiwarro,
fresh horses, and another tracker, and picked up
the track again, when they found he was travel-
ling In the wake of drovers, from whom he ob-
tained food and shelter, &c.; but the darkles were
not to be baffled, as six miles below the latter
station they sighted him sitting down reading a
book at the foot of a tree. A shout and demand
from the pursuers, a recognition from thtlr vic-
tim, a shuffling of his bands about his body, and
he was off like a redshank, for he was a splendid
athlete. The trooper dashed to the front With
loud commands for him to stop In the Queen s
name, the pace was neck and neck tor iw
yards, he making desperate efforts to get his re-
volver into his hand from the pouch on his hip. He
obtained this at last, the trooper having him
covered from the start, and when within about six
yards of him he took deliberate aim, leaned over
his horse, and shot him dead, through the tempie,
Mr. M’Geary, one of the shareholders, and two
black tracki rs being within sight at the time.
When searched, there was found on him only
in gold, revolver, chart and compass, a
gold weighing about 3 ,>z ,and a photo, of a woman
well kn -iwn In Sydney, The balance of the money
Is yet unaccounted for. Graydon is said not to u
known much in these colonies, but has some r
cird in New Zealand.
THE DEATH OF HONOUR.
In the good, brave days of old,
When Truth and Justice reigned;
When Honour, with her crown of gold,
Was never sold or stained;
When Chivalry’s bright casque and sword
True Honour did defend,
And men had but to pledge their word
To be believed by men,
Then Honour’s gems shone out and flashed
A gleam of truth across the earth.
And cravens hid their heads abashed
At sight of dignity and worth.
But now, alas, the scene is changed,
For Baseness walketh in the light.
The craven’s head stands high, erect,
And Truth bows to the miscreant’s might.
J. CHAS. F.
The Democrat who loves to rail
At Kings and Queens and thrones.
Should ponder well this simple tale,
And change his vulgar tones;
The regal waste, of which he prates,
Has ceased for over—hence
It is that Bertie hesitates
To put us to expense.
Of course he’d like to cross the seas
In well-upholstered boat,
And coma to the Antipodes
To interview that goat;
To view the land his royal ma
Nigh fifty years has bossed—
Twixt him and us the only bar
Is (bless his heart I) the cost.
Shad we believe the stories now,
Oft whispered at the club,
Respecting wagers of a “ thou.”
Depending on the “ rub ”;
Of races where he was “ hit bar 1 ” —
Of sums at hookey lost ?
No, no—he has too much regard
For what his pleasures cost.


THE SYDNEY SPORTS
DEPOT.
889 GBORGB-STREBT SYDNEY
(Opposite Royal Hotel.)
BICYCLE8~R1CYCLE8.
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles
and Tricycles
Have Evert Improvement.
OUR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadster.
THE UNIVERSAL CLUB
BICYCLE,
fitted with Improved Ball Bear-
ings to front and back wheels.
Hollow Forks, Patent Head and
Detachable Bent Handle Bar,
Easy Slide Spring, Hubs Plated,
Black Enamelled Spokes,
1885 Universal Club, a thoroughly reliable and easy-running Price, fits IBs. At the price
machine. Ball bearings to both wheels, and improvements. we defy competition.
JAMES MARTIN A COMPANY, 389 Baorga-st., Sydney.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPOSTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
OWING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, Ac
r Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithlng,
Plumbing, Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Boil-fitting
of every description.
UX O V OX J uuovx wvu.
DOULTON'8 “FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVR”*^ P^<^ 8ETS ’ "VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust fan
Cowls. Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 8 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application
m
oo
(s
C/J
£30
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Ame-
rican “Extra Toast ’’BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with
milk, superb witb wine, and incompatible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street, Sydney.
C0MPA8N0NI CATERING GO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE oldest and leading Catering Establishment in N.8.W. Caterers to Hla Worship the Mayor,
Municipal Council of 8yd a ey, the A.J.C., City Club, &o., &o.
The Dlnincr Saloons for Ladles and Gentlemen are the Finest, Coollebt, and loftiest in the colony.
FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar-Good Wine List.
BT” GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. (after the
Theatres. Select your own steak, Ac., and see it grilled in the room. This is one of the acquisitions
oi the city, and a long-felt wai t. Inspection Invited Club rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Oluu
and City Club, upstairs. Ei D. TOLL, ESI AC HE, General Manasrer.
T
BULL DOO ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MBDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
1HE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
l quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass' Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs o
iven at
Burton
Wine and Spirit Merchants,—CATTELL & CO.,
Sole Agents.
dime false sler?
fflw- -
W 1L c
iLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &o., at lowest prices.
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
Albums. Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, Ac.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Christmas and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock,
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM ~BULLARD,
842 GEORGE STREET.
ARTIFICIALTEETH
C0M[
pletesFT
MARSHALL BRO
DENTISTS
133 ELI Z ABETH ST
O T I C B TO THE TRADE
Now landing ex Late Arrivals.
HALF-TESTER NICKEL BEDSTEADS.
HALF-TESTER BRASS BEDSTEADS.
HALF-TESTER IRON BEDSTEADS.
STUMP BEDSTEADS.
FRENCH BEDSTEADS.
SLACK and GOLD BEDSTEADS.
BLACK and BRASS BEDSTEADS.
Cases Of No. 14 AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
450 Cases of AMERICAN CHAIRS.
760 Bales of BEST JAVA KAPOK.
10 Bales of COTTON FLOCK.
20 Bales of CURLED HAIR.
10 Cases of TOILET GLASSES (Assorted).
Cases of ROWCLIFFB SPRING MATTRESSES
Bales of BLACK CURLED FIBRE.
13 Bales of WHITE WOOL FLOCK,
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st., Sydney,
IMPORTER of FURNITURE, UPHOLSTERER,
and BEDDING MANUFACTURER.
ALL WOMAN
HAVE YOU USED
rji 0
LEWIS A WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
vr TBY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, In either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY
IN SOAP I
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everythin*
washed with It:
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and OUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE
Storekeeper
per Bar.
Bold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
Bole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
VPMSWWmVVWCV NS
PAUL LIEBE'Wp
UNLIKE
D0ES
-pa R. THOMAS
I f may be consulted on
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affections.
Medical Establishment, 203. Elizabeth-street,
near Bathurst-street.
Hours: 9 till 10 dally.
Dr. Thomas is the only medical man advertising
in Australia who has passed the degrees of an Eng-
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations passed
—Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians,
London, 18*4; Member of the Royal College of
Surgeons, London. H59.
AYER’S PILLS.
A large proportion of the diseases which
cause human suffering result from derange,
ment of the stomach, bowels, and liver.
Ayeb’s Cathabtic Pills act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused by their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt, and
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of these
Pills by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation in
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
substances only, and are absolutely free from
calomel or any other injurious ingredient.
A Sufferer from Headache writes:
“Ayeb’s Pills are invaluable tome, and
are my constant companion. I have been
a severe sufferer from Headache, and your
Pills are the only thing I could look to
for relief. One dose will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. They
are the most effective and the easiest physic
I have ever found. It is a pleasure to me to
speak in their praise, and 1 always do so
when occasion offers.
W. L. Page, of W. L. Page & Bro,”
Franklin St., Richmond,Ya., June 3,1882.
“I have used Ayeb’s Pills in number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. We constantly keep them
on hand at our home, and prize them as a
§leasant, safe, and reliable family medicine,
'OK DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable.
J. T. Hayes.”
Mexia, Texas, June 17, 1882.
The Rev. Francis B. Harlowe, writing
from Atlanta. Oa., says: “For some years
past I have been subject to constipation,
from which, in spite of the use of medi-
cines of various kinds, I suffered increasing
inconvenience, until some months ago I
began taking Ayer’s Pills. They have
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
have vastly improved my general health.”
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to the
whole physical economy.
PREPARED BY
Dr.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass,
Sold by all Druggists.
YOUNG,
OLD, AND
MIDDLE
All experience the wonderful
beneficial effects of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
' *npn~ Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
AGED. Ears, or any scrofulous or syph-
ilitic taint, may be made healthy and strong
by its use.
Sold by all Druggists; $1, six bottles for $6>
ELLIOTT BROS, and 8. HOFFNUNG & CO.
Wholesale Agents.
aftm a.fo.B BOUSTAOHiland'WHISSEES. »y°ni * FT AP
Boyd's Beard FUxit did this, and
I will do it on cither bald head or
bare fare. fm ces heavy Moue-
tar he in from S t o 4 ttxxks and never
1 /ails, 2O.U00 young men already
Copyrighted, wear full beards, having used 1 to Copyrighted.
S phts. No injury, easily applied, ten ain in effect. Packets 1*. <
each, 3 for Zs. paid, sent undr cover, free from observation.
Address, Frank Douglas, Sots Agent,Box 730, G.F.O., Sydney,N.8. W>
WILLIAM BALL,
THE “PROFESSIONAL” AND PHARMACEU-
TICAL CHEMIST.
61 Bourke-street East, Melbourne.
THE Toilet and Theatrical Requisites, manu-
factured by W Ball, are composed of the
purest Ingredients, and are fir«aranteed not to
cause the least injury to the most delicate skin.
There are few ladies now, either in private life
or of the Theatrical Profession, who do not look
upon the
BLOOM OFPEACHES
(REGISTERED)
as the one article that is perfectly safe and satis-
factory to use either for the
THEATRE, BALLROOM, OR PROMENADE^
Our Cupids Manufacturing Bloom of P eaches
“Dear Sir, -I consider your ‘ make up perfect,
and should never think of using anything else
while it is possible to obtain it ~ Y^r8^„^, Y ..
The following ladies and gentlemen have also
written, speaking in the highest terms oir these
Toilet Requisites ;-Mes£ames Louise Pomeroy,
Alice Deorwycie, Myra Kemble, Eva Davenport,
Roland watt Phil ips, etc., etc.; Messieurs Genrge
Titheradge, George Kignold, Sheridan, Henry
HodgsonT W. J. Holloway, Fred. Marshall, Brian
Darley, Frank Cates, etc.
i,To be obtained of all Chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
Wholesale Agents, N.8.W.:
Messrs. PROSSER & CO., Sydney.
G. F. PRIDDY ft CO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
leg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.30 p.m. s Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
CJTDDT ECONOMY
O and
HaveyourUncbrella Frames
re-covered, and yov •
Paraeols re-lined and l ale
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts
Parasol* made to match oos-
tumes. Repair* neatly exe-
cuted
Bavarian unn
im»s. nUr
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of tbe best Bavarian Hops. Superior to an
other.
They take tbe first place wherever tried, and ar
well authenticated by eminent medical men an
well-known analysts.
Bead the reports and testimony which aooom
pany each bottle, and do not forget to make a
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
P. KIRBY,
___ Prom the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
T7m.<3.@xtaJsex,
■4 HUNTER * PHILLIP STREETS.
PUNBKAL8 NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the
Mr. James Curds for sixteen 08) yean;
Manager for over ten (10) years.
Been hunting for ease all my life, und found
last with the Argosy Graces at Gowlng Bros
mm-h
Ml
ii/
7,
\
'A
%
A
as
m
w
GOWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. 64.. Ss., 8s. 64., R 4s. 6
GOWINtiBROS.,
MEN'S MERGERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, *
SSS SS4 498 fiHriMtTNtl


URNITUR1 SHOWROOMS
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTAND8,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT
and
Library furniture.
TABLES.
j n.i't u unc., CENTRE and SIDE
BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAtRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.
ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley,
newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON.
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney#
BBDRO,OM SUITES.-The
II, * uju/iiwuja osjxxjdo. —xne
-i Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising 1 ward-
robe, ohrat drawers, washstand, dressing table and
chairs. The lot for E8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, andJAMB, O’Connell-street.
Early English
EDROOM SUITES ,
Designs).—WARD
- —— 4ft., with silvered
door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tfle back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached: PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
HEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s.; Kitchen
uressers, from 27a. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s.;
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10a. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
S
,
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
d j - , ral1 or wharves foi cash only.
Bradley. Newton, and Tjtmh,
A8Y CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
» > rooms. New designs covered to order in any
material.
T>OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegantand restful,
a speciality. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O Connell-street.
_ K'-' * iiivautiCix | JWUiVV cC LAM1)|
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sta.
RAWING-ROOM FURNITURE.—The latest
xt^ 61 . 0 of fashion. ROSEWOOD and
Bi'ANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exqusits examples are now on
v /* ur Showrooms. A visit of inspection Is
solicited. BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
Elegant novelties in bbdkoom fur!
NIT ORE, full suites. inSATINWOOD, ROSB-
other CHOICE WOODS, richly inlaid,
’•'•h well repay Inspection.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB. O’Connell-st.
FOLDING-SCREENS (3 and 4 told) for the Draw-
ing and Dining Rooms and Office. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
GARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD<
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
RATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, 20s.; and
large variety of Chairs, &c ; special designs
extra quality. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring & O’Connell sta
M A £?£S- T c2, P . TABLES. on STRONG HAND
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, Ac.
SELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK OHAIE-
Patented.
S3
-J
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reelinlng and vice versa, *the“’wuJ”ol
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious In Its
construction; works automatically. The above
put represents only two of the numerous positloni
that can be obtained, Instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It Is superior
to anything yet Invented for the lawn, verandah,
ramp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort Is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when ft Jded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
aid LAMB (only). Packing In canvas, if required,
28. 6a. e^tr^.
PPICK FURNITURE. WRITING-TABLES
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
IRON SAFES, various alzes.~BHADLBYr
NEWTON, and LAMB, Spring & O’Connell sts.
COPYING PRESSES. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB. Spring and O’ConneU streets.
ALL MIRRORS and BRACKETS-Novelties
In plush and velvets and in all woods,
from 5/6.
ELhGANT VENETIAN MIKROKS, richly
enamelled In colours. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
COMMODE CHAIRS ; BIDETS, with PANl
Shaving Stands. Bradley. Newton. & Lamb 1
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted with
pulleys and cords. 6 x 8 9/6; 8 x 8, ll/ = ; 9x8.
13/-; 10 x 8.14/-; 12 x 8,16/6; 12 x 10 20/-.
BRABLET. NRWrQN, and LAMB.
ICE CHESTS, with CUPBOARDS, all sizes, from
27s. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
TTJURNITURE—THE LARGEST STOCK IN THE
JO COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB.
Spring and O’Connell streets.
SOCIAL
Two of Sydney’s prime favourites, Signor
and Signora Fabris, took their benefit concert on
Thursday the 8th, In the New Masonic Hall. The
concert was given under distinguished patronage,
but the attendance was hardly as large as the
occasion merited. The programme was rather
lengthy, especially as there was a presentation
scene to boot. Certainly la Signora didn’t know
anything about the presentation, or, perhaps, In
drawing out the programme she would have
allowed for It. Miss A. de Fontaine sang “Thee
Only I Love” very prettily, and Miss E. bherwln,
who has often been heard in opera here, was
successful in all she attempted. Signora
Fabris, who appeared in a crimson satin
gown garnished with cream lace, took part
in the duetto, “ Iv Vivo et ’Amo” with
Mi's Smith, a young pupil. This child has an ex-
cellent voice, which is well worth training.
Madame Kellermann played two solos to every-
body’s satisfaction, and other artists taking part
were Misses Mooney and Stanley, Messrs. Blake,
Kodd, Maclean, Caron, Humphrey, Mooney, Solo-
mon, and Fraser. Signora Fabris wept copiously
when two handsome bracelets were presented to
her, and tried to sobblngly express her heartfelt
thanks to her pupils and friends who were thus
mindful of her. These presentations are yearly
affairs, but they’re always genuine surprises,
nevertheless. Signora Fabris has the love and
esteem of all her pupils, and is both a handsome
and clever lady, and an ornament to her profes-
sion.
* m m
The fraternity of Mutual Imps are gener-
ous to their wives and friends, as they proved by
giving them another of their matinees, in their
room, Pltt-street, on Thursday, the 8th Inst. These
Imps must prize their Sunday revels very dearly
when they go to so much trouble to provide a
quietus for the sharers of their homes, who are
constrained to take their bread a nd cheese and lager
in solitude every Sunday night, whilst he is enjoy-
ing himself, to his heart’s content, listening to good
music, racey anecdotes, and the rest of it. On
Thursday the room was comfortably filled, and it’s
hard to say what part of the entertainment re-
ceived most appreciation. Perhaps, after the tea,
coffee, and sponge cake, Mil.is scored highest with
his remarkably clever ventriloquism. This young
Cornstalk tosses his voice about in the most ex-
traordinary manner, and wherever he throws it, it
never falls to make a hit. And Mr. Griffin sang.
It goes w ithout saying that everybody wanted him
to repeat the dose—they always do. It’s the
closest approach to Laddie’s singing that can
well be. Ailpress played a solo, and just here, it
may be remembered, that it’s quite possible to
have too much of a good thing. His solos are
always too long, though exoelleitly well played.
Miss Ida Osborne sang “ Forgive and forget,” and
charmed the company, especially the male part.
Brother Clive (or Chapman, which is it ?; gave one
of his very clever recitations, and a young lady
and brother somebody sang the “ Glou Glou” duet
very nicely. Harry Lynch hammered something
sweet out of one of his musical arrange-
ments, and Miss Wangenheim also contributed a
solo. It was a pleasant little entertainment, and
did the Imps much credit.
• * ♦
Herr Kretschmann held an invitation
matinee in the University Hall on Saturday after-
noon last, which was attended by a large and
fashionable crowd. Master Frank Smith, who, as
everybody knows, is one of Herr Kretschmann’s
favourite pupils, was down for two items on the
firogramme. Young Frank, like Harry Hyndes,
Ittle Bessie Doyle, aud several more of our clever
musicians, halls from Maitland, and is posleased of
quite sufficient talent to warrant his going in for
the musical profession. He has grown a bit since
he was last heard on a Sydney platform—wears
masher collars, and has learnt to bow—such a bow!
little short of a salaam, in fact. But nevertheless,
be can play the violin, and his musical memory is
quite extraordinary. Ho also poses well, and the
cool and deliberate manner in which be attacks
most difficult and rapid runs, proclaims him at
once to be a diligent and intelligent student. A
brilliant future may safely be predicted for him.
Messrs. Caron, Patek, and Kretschmann, took part
in Josef Kelnberger s quartette, and a clever
young lady undertook tie piano part. Save
for a too fantastic motion of the bands
(a habit, by the way, peculiar to Herr
Krettc amann's pupils), the young planlste
played with a style and taste which would have
done credit to one of more mature years. Herr
Patek gave a’cello solo in his own sympathetic
manner, and Mr. Knight Ashton sang two songs.
This gentleman has a rather good voice and some
really brilliant notes, but occasionally be sings
sharp and is somewhat mechanical. He made the
mistake on Saturday which many a better
man than he has made also. Instead of stopping
hhdrt whilst he was in full faVour he allowed the
falut attempt at an encore to his second song to
tempt hith on again. Consequence was, his 111-
qhoSen and badly-sung encore song left anything
but a favourable impression upon the audiehca,
VvJiereas,' if he had been content to bow his thanks,
as the others who would have been f ven more
testified in accepting an’encore did, it would have
cen infinitely to bis advantage. A st ing quar-
tette terminated a very pleasant afternoon concert.
• « a
The Sydney Social Club gave their third
annual ball at Professor West’s Academy on Fri-
day evening last, when about 60 couples met to
enjoy themselves at this wind-up of a pleasant
season. Many of the dresses worn were exceed-
ingly pretty, and amongst the best was a rose-
coloured skirt over which was a rich black lace
polonaise. A coffee-coloured lace dress was, if
rather sombre, very tasteful; and Miss Masterton
was bewitching in a lilac dresj trimmed with
white lacc. Mies Henderson was pretty in pale-
pink grenadine; and Mils Louis a crushed-straw-
berry satin ibesprinkled with silver stars The
heat was in ense, which was the mtans of sending
most of the dancers home quite early in tie night
Callaghan’s catering was well appreciated.
• • •
Graham gave one of hisinimitableooncerts
at the Protestant Hall on Wednesday, the 7ch
Instant. These concerts are now quite an institu-
tion. and are, In their way, quite unique. All the
aristocracy of Woolioomooloo turn out on these
occasions, and fill the handsomely decorated Pro-
testant Hall to overflowing. These concerts are
Mr. Graham s luxury. The little man devotes the
best part of hid life In preparing for them, and
spends no small sum in decorations, issuing the
many hundreds of invitations, &c. But, the pity of
it is that so much energy and devotion should be
so woefully misdirec.ed. Tint Mr. himself
possesses certain musical talent of a somewhat
eccentric kind Is certain, but judging by the
supreme indifference with whlou his orchestra
regard his beat, It can only be concluded that the
necessary qualities required by a musical con-
ductor are entirely lacking In him. About 31
young ladies were among Si the orchestra, and
much be it to Mr. Graham’s credit that he has
brought such a thing about, lor In this Sydney has
been tar behind the times, seeing that In Londonand
on the Continent most of the lashionable concerts
have ladies amongst their orchestras It Is cer-
tainly a novelty nere, and if the young ladles
would play in time and tune It would be a very
pleasing cnaoge. Perhaps the best amongst them
was “ Lady Jane.” at the ’cello, who, in the “ Auf
Wiederseheu” waltz, brougut out a good round
tone, besides which her bowing was very grace-
ful indeed. The violins were fair, but the clarionet
lady puffed out her cheeks like unto the heavenly
cherubs seen in pictures blowing their trumpets
—but the cherubs don’t know any better, and a
young lady in long frocks thould. As for the
flutes, why, it one hadn’t been half a tone too
tfharp, and the other a quarter flat all through,
Kadcliffe wquW bftye squired vylth qavy had ne
been there to hear them. Mozart’s “ Symphonic,’
played by the entire orchestra (a very numerous
one) was a decided “ go-as-you-please ” affair—
everybody seemed to be at cross-purposes, and—
great Scott 1—the effect was enough to make
Mozart turn in his grave. “ The Barber of Seville ”
was much the same, but perhaps this comes of
having a “mixed” orchestra. The waltz above
mentioned, played by ladies only, was certainly
the best concerted item of the evening. Mr. Gra-
ham was heartily encored for his violin solo, the
“Carnival,” and although the performance was
rather unequal, there were touches here and
there of the right stuff, which helped to atone for
a multitude ol fault*. Several ladiiS and gentle-
men sang solos, the best being “The Message,”
given by Mr. Stuart Harcoiirt.
* • •
The Sydney Liedertafel smoked, drank
and sang in the Exhibition Building on the 7th in-
stant. without Kowalski's contributions the con-
cert would have been rather tame. He was in
splendid form, and received overwhelming ap-
plause. Of the part songs, Schubert s ’* Gondo-
lier’s Serenade” (with orchestral accompaniment)
was the gem of the evening, and was given with
charming tff ct. Nos. 1, 5, and 10 went a trifle
flat, and “ Tom, the Piper’s son,” was extremely
uninteresting, though there is evidently a deal of
singing entailed In it. The drinking songs lacked
“go,” and the Rataplan would have been the
be ter for a little more enthusiasm. The soloists
were exceptionally good. Kemmls, in the
“ Romany Lass,” showed an excellent tenor with,
however, an inclination to shout. Edward gave
the solo in “ Ruby Tide” capitally. Piers’ sweet
tenor in “ Sunshine and Shade” fairly brought
down the house, and for an encore he gave” There
is a flower.” The ill-timed accompaniment of
popping corks, crashing of glasses, and shrieking
of steam-whistles spoilt not a few items. The
crowd was big and fairly appreciative.
* * ♦
The Southern Cross Lodge, No. 3 of the
R.A.O.B’s, held their first ball at Goulburn on
Friday. 2nd Inst. The affair was a decided success,
about 120 being present. The dancing of some of
the “Buffs ” was rather in ancient style, and not a
few came to grief on the well-polished floor of the
Oddfellows’ Hall. Dresses were plain and fancy.
Two young ladies, who were graceful dancers,
were captivating in lawn-tennis costumes. There
was also a charming Columbia, besides a Fortune-
teller, Daughter of the Regiment, and a most
grotesque dress intended to simulate a hornet.
Amongst the evening dresses the most con-
spicuous were a peacock-blue satin bodice over
cream lace skirt; cardinal and cream trimmed
with poppies; a pale blue and white lace, and a
cardinal satin with lace flounces. The ball was
honoured by the presence of five members of the
Grand Lodge officers, and during the evening
“Sir ” Frederick Cavill Invested Primo Rose, of
Goulburn, with the order of knighthood, at the
same time presenting him with a Jewel of a very
handsome design. Dancing kept up till dawn.
* * *
The annual ball in connection with the
Dubbo Convent Fund was held in the local Masonic
Hall on Wednesday, the 7th Instant. Only 20
couples presented themselves, as owing to the
cliqueism, for which the little township is re-
nowned, very few of those who consider them-
selves the elite put in an appearance. Indeed, it U
questionable whether there were sufficient tickets
sold to buy a pint of holy water or pay the fare of
the Dubbo representative to Sydney to help to wel-
come the “ Kyardlnal.” The few ladles who were
gracious enough to attend the ball were very pret-
tily attired, notably a Balmain lady,' Miss Roland,
the Misses Young, Daly, Styles, and Mrs. Purves.
• • •
Mrs. Darley gave a driving and riding
fiicnlc last Thursday at La Perouso. Amongst the
adles were Mrs. Busby, the Misses Busby, Miss
Clara Manning, Misses Maokellar, Watt, Enid
Macarthur, and Masses. The male sox were re-
S resented solely by the navy, a somewhat nasty
rush for the land-lubbers. However, a most
enjoyable day was spent.
• * *
The engagement of yet another naval
officer is being noised abroad. Landsmen, what
are you about ? Is it the papas that won't favour
you because you haven't got tho necessary brass-
buttons and “ Lieutenant ” or “ Captain ” as a
handle to your name ?
* ♦ •
Lady Hay will give a ball at the Town
Hall, on Friday, the’ 23rd. The Hon. J. B. Watt
will follow suit, but the date is not yet fixed.
* ♦ ♦
About 50 couples flocked into the Town Hall,
Liverpool, last Wednesday, when a plain and fancy
dress ball to wind up the season was held. The ball
was Indeed a plain one -painfully so, in fact, so far
as the gentlemen were concerned. Some came
with short pagets and excessively bell-bottomed
pants, and feet encasements of the blucher ten-
dency. A very funny “get-up” was that of a
young fellow from Parramatta, who majestically
aped the King of Spain. This dress has been to
every fancy dress ball held in Parramatta district
since the “ good old days ” Then there were Irish
in ke-ups, and Jockeys with postman’s “ togs” on,
n-d several cricketers elaborately flumcilod. The
ladies’ costumes showed nothing new or striking.
Mias Munro, a local belle, as an American Girl, was
n it altogether unflattering to “ our cousins,” and
miss Djyle, of Surry Hills, correctly dressed
lolanthe. Other noticeable ones were—Miss Spen-
cer, Liberty; Miss Ashmore (Melbourne;, High-
land Lassie; Miss Moore (Leichhardt), Salloress;
Miss Smith, Cbquette; Miss Scott, America; and
Miss Davies, of Parramatta, Vlvandiere. Of the
evening dresses, Miss Foster, of Balmain, wore a
neat black satin and old gold, and another nice
dress was fawn cashmere trimmed with biscuit
lace, worn by Miss Da Yero. Mr. Wring wrung in
good refreshments and the Parramatta string band
strung good music.
• * *
Patrons of Nithsdale are anxiously look-
ing forward to Friday evening, when a compli-
mentary bill is to be tendered to Mr. and Mrs,
Ernest Needs. All are expectant of a most suc-
cessful and enj lyable evening, and Judging from
the limited number of tickets issued and the
efforts of the committee their expectations will
be fully realised.
• • *
What was called a complimentary vocal
and instiumental soiree was organised by a
talented Parramatta vocalist, Miss Tunks, and
held in the Town Hall of the oldest borough on
Wednesday last. Miss Tunks, who possesses a
voice of nice register and sweetness, is the local
prtma donna, and has always responded to the
very frequent appeals made to assist in drawing a
hoqse for this or that t‘ good object.” There was
a large house, and the gallery was filled with the
upper half-score of the place. The programme
was a lengthy one and encores too freely given.
A pianoforte duet, nicely played by Miss Barker
and Mr. Edward Massey, opened the con-
cert. Then Mr. Davies sang the Toreador’s
song, which was hardly within his compass.
Miss Sherwlngave “Roberto” in fair style, and
assisted Signora Fabris to successfully warble
“Una s«ra d’Amore,” Mr. Yieussmx pleas! gly
sang ‘Tne Last Watch,” and seconded Miss Tank t
in the duet “I wandered in dreams,” and Mr.
Spier in “The moon has raised her lamp,” both
duets being well received. Tae beneficiare sang
delluhtfully the "Angels’ Serenade” to a violin
obligato, and was presented with a beautiful
bouquet. The same lady accompanied her sister
in a charming rendition of “I heard a voice.” Mr.
Ferguson blew the “Rjll Call” very spiritedly,
and Signora Fabris caused terrible commotion by
her binging of “In questo semolice,” and the
B dero irom “Vespri SiCillaal.” Herr Patek was
recalled for his ’cello solo; whilst Mr. E J. Brown
gave “ The Villlage Black»mith ” very creditably.
“ The Watch on the Rhine ” was given as a treble
quartette by gentlemen members of the Parra-
matta Glee Club, and was but indifferently sung,
sounding indeed more like a solo outing for the
tenor. Miss Barker successfully accompanied
throughout.
Hariog ceased their labours, many of the
football clubs have wound up tne season with
social meetings. Some have had concerts, and
others balls, where ladies oou'd guzs with interest,
and possibly admiration, on tbo heroes ot many a
memorable scrimmage. One of these socials was
given by the Summerhlll lea) lur-ttas* rj, a rising
young club with, no doubt, a largj amount of
tame yet before them, who lamed a number of
complimentary tickets. The social was capitally
managed, Mr. Hodgson beiug cour >nus as M.O,
and that tuneful twain, Sbapter and Herman, pro-
vided music for the two dozsn dances. Toe dalli-
ance of the ballroom is a great change from the
intense activity of the football ft aid. Yes, indeed.—
Ladies of the district did honour to the occasion bv
coming in full force and in pretty costumes. Tho
Misses Schofield looked delicious in creun and
ficelle raiment set off with fi iwers; and Misses
Evans and Crosaiogin black were also from Sum-
merhlll. Misses wis iheart, Bennett, Kennedy,
etc,, were from Petersham; Misits Williams, in
cream, from Pyrmont; Miss Byre was an acquisi-
tion from Melbourne, ani a llotle b'oode in blue,
from Tasmania was a fine daooor, as was also Miss
Heaney, in a ruby-coloured dress. MUs Mannoll,
of Ashfield, Misi Bottom from Bathurst, very
graceful in a neat black costume; Miss Negus, of
Bedfern, and Miss Edwards, of Paddington,
lightened the scene. A Bedfern maiden in white
and old gold, with a particularly enhanced figure,
shone as a dancer, and "Intros” were eagerly
sought by many an ardent would be partner. Two
sisters were from Darlinghurst, one In blue and
cream, and the other In a combination of black
and scarlet. Two fair ladles from Balmain, who
train young Australians how to grasp the mys-
teries of knowledge, looked exoaptioaally well In
cream toilets.
• * •
Messrs. Q. M. Horne and W. Howe were
the hnn. sec. and treasurer resoeotlvdy of the
third annual reunion held in Glebe Town Hall by
the Football Club last Friday; and these gentle-
men received their guests at the head of the stairs,
bestowing upon eaon one the cheeriest of smiles,
and a programme of 24 dances. Most were
waltzes, which the musicians played with unusual
slowness Not that it s objectionable, especially
on a warm evening. Only you have notice 1 that
slow music generally shows who can dance and
who can't. Anyone can swing round anl routld
in a wav, but it’s when the muolo is slow yod have
to do real stepping and know where to putylput
feet. It’s then that the pocr performers dance
on everyone’s toes but taelr own. However,
at the Glebe affair they were all goon
dancers For instance, there was Miss Furness, a
chipper little maiden in short skirts dressed as
Amerioa, Miss Colley In evening dress, and Mrs.
Quantook, who, in addition to being a beautiful
dauoer, looked charming la a all-white dre s with
just one or two deep red flowers to set it taste-
fully off. Then there was a Aedforn girl as Folly,
in very high spirits and a very low bodice, a cos-
tume of black and yellow, which was, la fact,
abbreviated at both ends. Mrs. Badford wore a
neat old gold satin over a pleated skirt of brown
veiling; and Mies Pearson displayed a handsome
evening dress of old gold satin, with a waistcoat
of sklrt-tablier of white satin, buttons and trim-
mings of gold gave the costume a very unique and
nice appearance. Mrs. N. Dwyer wore a rich
cream toilet prettily adorned wuh waratahs. Mies
Hanley was a small brunette in cream, and Miss
Bonan in light blue. A Forest Lodge blonde wore
a conspicuous dress, as It was all oaidlnal satin,
with golden-brown trimmings, B.sides which, ehe
was—
Another character was Good Lack, personated by
a lively girl In black, with silver hors* -shoes; and
Cards was represente i by Miss Fcrnit la cardinal
satin with trimmings of cards and their usual con-
comitant—coins. Miss Carrington wore a charm-
ing white toilet, and Miss Johnson black. Miss
Maud Priestly wore white, touohod tip with white
flowers and ferns. Alderman Conion, prosl lent of
the Club, was p.csant; and Mr. G. E. Edwards
catered In a most sat'stao.or/ wa/.
* • •
The committee of the Parramatta Hospital
recently refused to take a bem fl . offered in aid of
its funds because the meat s to the end consisted
of a theatrical performance! The president and
some of the body are good churchmen and Wes-
leyans. Is It considered more iu aocor .auce with
Divine Providence's chirlty to put the patients on
scanty fare than nourish them wLh the proceeds
of a theatrical show 7
* • •
The annual excursion of the Parramatta
branch of the A if C. Guild took place toCiontarf,
on Wedne d*y Jjtooer 7 Aoout 500 persons
found roo n on beard the Watervl«w. a number
of these belug visitors from 8yd.iey, and a very
pleasant day wasspon .. The G-il d bend discoursed
sweet music (though uf rather an ancient dtsorip-
tion), and the mr j ,rity of those present •* tripped
the light fantastic” i.i the pavilion, whilst out-
door sports were indulged in by others Tae re-
turn trip was dlu e without any accident. By the
way, a wedding, the outcome tf the previous Guild
outing, is whispered of, and will take place in the
course of a few weik). Tne principals in the knot-
tying match are a pretty little dark-eyed damsel
hailing from Parramatta South, and a well-known
local journalist.
• • •
The complimentary return ball, given to
Mr. H. Giltman, tv utuated on Tu.s lay, the 6th
instant, and washlgh y suocessfu’, about 45 couples
being present.
♦ • •
The railway ball, held in the Exhibition
Building last Thursday night, was a b g success,
and was numerously attended.
(Continued on next pa g*,)
No more they chase the sp rilv? s ohere
Along the green,
They share In tranquil pleasures here,
With smile serene.
O’er prostrate foes, in rush ng throng,
No more they olitnb,
But gently dribble girls along
lu waltzing time.
The men who,give the strongest k c'ts
Before the post
Are not, when with fair miids they m’x,
Esteomed the most.
All quiet here -no risk of shin,
Or neck, or muscle;
Yet there are subtle dangers in
This dancing tussle.
For, as the Reverend James observej -
Oh, girls, we grieve I—
Even the most alluring curves
Sometimes deceive.
Things are not, as the poet said,
Just what they seem,
And many a fairy “ fraud ” ij clad
In pink or cream.
If modern girls have any hearts,
The cynic feels
They must be bard, when e’en their sk'rts
Are lull of steels.
And virtuous youths, so It is toll,
Oft, in the twirl.
Wonder how xnuca of heart they hold,
And how much girl.
A very clever dancer, too;
Light as a feather—
Dance any step her partners do
And keep together.
Could do Dream Faces, Nauy Lee,
Or Myosotis;
But Just one heart's desire had she—
1 She yearned for notice I
With whispered words, aid bright eyed ash,
And Soft pors jaaions
You bet that sue was on the mash
• Qn this occasion,
Wight on the mash j 'twas plain she meant
To show no quarter;
You should have seen how that girl went
For the reporter!


LIMITED,
356 Goorge-struBt,
Hava the
LARGE S,T AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PI iNO 3, ORGANS,
and
MUSI C.
BEST MAKER- 1 . LOWEST FRIGES
E£SY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Iis'rument Guaranteed.
& Pi Ices on Application.
W. H. PALING & Co.
350 Seorge-street, Sydney.
0 O ,
DOBERT BUTCHER *
(Late William Long),
m~ WINE AND SPIRIT MBBCH 5.NT,
531 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALT, SYDNEY
Oountrr Order* reo dve prompt at on Ion.
C. B. HODIHI,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a largo and varied Stock of
FIREARMS,
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
G. B. M. further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed AGENT for
the following Firms:—JOHN RIGBY & CO., Lon-
don; TH03. BLAND & SON., London; JOSEPH
LANG & SON, London ; CHA8. OSBORNE
CO., London.
G. B. M. is also AGENT for the eminent firm
BUS87 & CO., London.
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts, Ac., and all
kinds of Sportsmen’s Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
602 Gaorge.st., Sydney,
Where Inspection is invited.
Allen’s Black Wlngen Oils.
THEY WORK LIKE A CHARM.
TO those who have been suffering from Rheu-
matism or Sciatica, we come with glad tidings
of the wonderful cures that have been effected by
CHA8. ALLEN’S BLACK WINGBN OILS. Num-
bers have been cured, and can attest to the great
and miraculous powers of these already famous
Oils.
There Is now no reason why anybody should be
be racked with pain, when for the small sum of
2s. 6d„ a bottle of CHA8. ALLEN’S BLACK
WINGEN OILS may be obtained from any che-
mist or storekeeper. On how many occasions,
when you have been laid up with a severe attack
of lumbago, would you have given anything to
get relief: also, when you have been rendered
sleepless through neuralgia or toothache, have
you sought in vain for a cure. Suffer no more :
keep the balm by you—a bottle of Chas. Allen’s
Black Wlngen Oils. It is needless to further recom-
mend, as a simple trial will prove to the moat
sceptical the merit of Allen's Black Wlngen Oils.
“TRY THEM.’’
COSTELLO & GREY,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
ALLEN’S BLACK WINGEN OILS, stand un-
equalled for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
saddle girth, and wind Galls, Strains, Stakes,
Sprains, Bruises, Sweat Boils, Fistula, Wounds of
all descriptions No ’bus proprietor, carrier, or
stockowner should be without them. They will
heal any sore, no matter if freshly done or of
years’ standing. No spell required to effect a cure.
“TRY THEM,”
May be obtained.from Chemists and Storekeepers.
COSTELLO GKREY,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
Ball Room Specialities. —Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-room* tastefully decorated wit*
Bair and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilllanoe in display
consummated. 60* Hunter-street. Sydney.*
Students of allolasses will be more than Surprised
how Wolfe's Schnapps assist them In their brain
work.
Mb. DbOottbot Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New Bouth
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,
“ Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 63 Castle-
skill, a matter of record in the Department* and
Supreme Court.*
You should be careful that you are not Imposed
upon. Ask for and be sure you obtain Wolfe s
Schnapps.
Feeble ladies, aged persons, weakly child-
ren persons of sedentary habits, all need Ameri-
can Co.’s Hop Bitters dally. Believe.
Ayer's Sabsparilla thoroughly cleanses the
blood, stimulates the vital functions, and restores
the health and strength. No one whose blood la
Impure can feel well. There Is a weary, languid
feeling, and often a sense of discouragement and
despondency. Person having this feeling should
t*ke Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to purify and vitalise the
blood.
Mr Wolfe must be a happy man, as he is the sole
proprietor of Wolfe’s Schnapps which is the purest
spirit in the world.
A beautiful house in a beautiful suburb,
surrounded with a beautiful wife and family, aod
every room beautifully ornamented with the
crockery and glass for which Bray Bros., of 408
and 404 George-street are noted, ought to make
any mortal happy.*
Wolfe's Schnapps is an unequalled brain medi-
cinei imparting healthful vigour to that sensitive
organ.
Is it wise to take infants in Trains ? Well,
there is a difference of opinion even about this.
Some of our regular every-day travellerj think
there is a certain deterent effect upon the brain,
and we know of one in particular who as he comes
to town sits with his back to the engine, and as he
returns, sits with his face to it. The eff ®p fc
may be to keep an even and well-balanced mental
equilibrium; whether it is so or not we cannot
tell, but whatever may be the difference of opinion
upon this subject, there can be positively none
respecting the beautiful situation, the exhlllrating
atmosphere, and the great prospective value of
(the Silver Water Estate, situated at the junction of
the C yde and Parramatta rivers, to be sold on
Saturday next the 17th instant, by Messrs. Camp-
bell. Mitchell and Company of 413 George-street,
from whom lithographs, free tickets, and full in-
formation may bo obtained.
A correspondent writes:—If the people knew
the value of Wolfe's Schnapps they would drink
nothing else.
Men Who Excel —The Scientific Ameri-
can gives several illustrations of the fact that in
almost every line of business there are men who
excel, because Cicero s declaration that a P° et
born, not made,” applies to others than poets. A
iman whose business in a certain tool shop was to
temper springs* worked 22,000 consecutively, and
of the whole number only six f*Ued to pass the
teat- hut during hla temporary illness more than
half’the springs handled by his assistant, who had
been under instruction a year, failed. Ina'targe
manufactory of sword-blades one man does all the
(temnerlng. being called in from other employment
a£ intervals, because, although he has
willing to instruct others, he has never had a pupil
who oould equal him in the work. There is a large
scythe manufactory in a New
ing 14,1)00 dozen scythes a year, and the president
«of the company has for years hardened and tem-
pered every scythe that leaves works, because
mo other man In the works can do it so well. And
there is not a garment of the m « a y th °“ sl r n n d8
ova wftfiklv made by Sumnifirflfild and 00,
r n r*i y e™
taken by tho purchaser. The fight high-class
cutters employed by Summerfleld and Co. the
well-known merchant tailors, of and 3$ Pittr
street, Sydney, are renowned for the superb tit
and slyle given to the famous 453 3s. BU Atfl w
measure.*
HORDERN’S
ON THB
BricDsflelcL Hill-
on: STiY MD CORSET DEFARTUEIT.
Q
£ r
m
•' o
7
r
%
to
Ik
f
$
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Free oe Charge.
Nursing and ;■ Sta/s.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
•Zb. lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. Qd., 4=8. lid., 5s. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., 8a. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10b. 6d., 12s 6
EDWARD HORDERN AND SON9, 666 and 66§ Bnpk field Hill,
-Orders from the Country will receive Immediate and careful attention.
(Continued from page 16.)
The eleventh annual regatta of the Mercan-
tile Rowing Club will be held at the Branch, Par-
ramatta River, on Saturday. The programme in-
cludes five events—senior double sculls open to
all club», maiden fours, junior sculls, junior pair
oars, and trial fours. For the open raoe the
aend J. Fraser and A. Kinnlmont; the 8.B.Cm two
crews, J. B. Mopoett and J. Brodie, R. Hart and
j. Thomas, the Mercantile crew being Seale and
Brett. , * *
The Cootamundra folk, on Friday evening
last, terminated for the season a series of Assembly
dances, in the Assembly Hall. About 40 oouoles
were present, an 1 the committee, which consisted
of Messrs Matthews, Taylor, O’Donnell, Gr0 ®7 en Pf’
and Barnard, spared no trouble to ensure the en-
joyment of the visitors. The dresses were plain
and tancy. Miss Sandeman looked very pretty as
a flailor Girl: Mrs Sandeman, Shepherdess; Miss
Sumner adopted the character of Spanish Tam-
bourine Girl exceedingly well; Miss Fitzpatrick,
Swiss Peasant; Miss Gilt, Grace Darling, Mrs.
Stafford, Watteau Peasant; Mrs. Chilcott and Mrs.
Dowling. Housemaids; Mrs. Doidge, Dlttle Bed
Biding Hood. The character of a Spanish Gentle-
man admirably suited Mr. Finch; Mr. O Donnell,
Midshipman; Messrs Sandeman B ™ngnln,
Sailor*. Many evening dresses were notable for rlch-
neis and becomingness. Mrs. Solomoa wore white
Indian muslin over a ground of heliotrope satin,
Mrs. M’Beath, sea-green satin; Miss Salmon, white
satin, hand-painted; Miss Truelove. ruby velvet;
Miss Ecclestone, pink brochf; Mrs. Large was ele-
gantly attired in black broohe; the Misses Large,
black' grenadine; Miss Jones, white satin; Mrs.
Taylor, silver-spangled grenadine: Miss Wlllans,
black satin with square Iront; Mrs. Finch, a pretty
cream dress with ruby velvet trimming; Miss
Taylor, pale blue tufted muslin; Miss Nugent,
pale pink silk with net waterfall; Mrs. Lowe,
black satin with short sleeves; Miss Sawyer, pale
oink broche; Miss Alice Sawyer, white satin and
grenadine. To name the belle might be invidious,
but many agree that the young lady was a local
one.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
rNOTE.—Social Items, In order to ensure Inser-
tion for the current week, should be to hand no
later than Tuesday.]
“ Zoroaster Thanks. Please send along weekly,
according to promise..Country Crlrl :
Yes, IPs quite true that square parasols are
tashionabie “Occasional Contributor :
Noticed in last issue.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Produce Merchants’ Annual Picnic,
Botany October 13.
Produce Merchants’ Protective Asso-
ciation’s fourth Annual Picnic,
Sir Joseph Binks’, B itany—...... October 16
Complimentary Ball tendered to Mr.
and Mrs. Ernest Needs, Friday
evening, Nithsdal© ..October 16.
Mercantile Rowing Ciub Annual
Regatta, Parramatta River October 17
Bilmaln Amateur Dramatic Society’s
Entertainment, School of Arts,
Balmain • • • ■ • October 19
Return Ball to the Mayor of Peter-
sham October 21.
Entertainment at Petersham Town
Hall by Members of Petersham
Football Club.... October 27.
John Try’s second Annual Excursion,
Correy’s Gardens .., * Ootober 31.
Wednesday, October 14.
Dear Peg,—I am much exercised In my mi f| f
over this political agitation-not that I am in the
smallest degree Interested, hut because I am s< >
femininely ignorant, and you want to know sc;
much I I have dutifully waded through heaps o'
tedious speeches. In the vain hope of gauging the
political out-look. But alas I I have only arri ved
at the very logical conclusion that by the tim
politics filter through the ordinary female bra n
;hey deteriorate In value, and emerge spectres o
their former substance.
Sir Henry Parkas Is having a lively time of it,
having taken up the gauntlet thrown down by the
ex-Premler, while he tilts a joust with the new
one. Mr. Dlbbs is full of promises to urge on the
Public Health Bill and the Local Government BM
as soon as Parliament meets again. But, It s no
manner of use to frame a “strong drastic bill,
full of fine theories, and carefully-planned result .
unless they go to the root of the matter first, and
test their foundations. Cammonsense is ringing
the same words of warning she has been clanging
forages, and, from force of habit, prejudice, or
Ignorance, we turn a deaf ear to the warning. But
a few enlightened minds turn their thoughts to
the language of the bells, and one of them has
found this interpretation— ‘ Where knowledge and
senseis most needed it exists least. Women are
almost wholly untaught. Young women, as a
rule, are studiously untaught in health matters.
Yet there are 6,000.000 of women of the nation on
whom full sanitary light requires first to ball
Healtn In the house is health everywhere. The
future progress of the sanitary movements rests
for permanence and executive support on the
women of this country. Ignorance and apathy
stand everywhere In our way. In these days, and
in England, compulsory legislation will go but a
small way. We need an awakened and sensitive
conscience; this alone will enable us to carry out
existing laws of health, and will Anally make a 1
such laws obsolete, because needless. All hall
to the dawning of the millennium of health and
cleanliness.
To turn from this “ social mill In which we grind
each others’ angles down ’’to the outward adorn-
ment, so unnecessary In Dr. Jefleris sight, is the
simplest trapeze-feat possible to my feminine
organisation, and pleasantly exhilarating to boot;
so I shall not find it burdensome In the least to
expatiate upon fashion for your benefit. With
regard to summer dresses, It ought to be easy to
supply you with an embarras dt richesses, the shops
are so invitingly decked with lovely materals. If
you read published list of fabrics, the strange
high-sounding names will dance a wild “ can-can
In you bewildered brain for hours after. But the
reality is not so bad. All these materials revolve
themselves into a kinship near or remote with the
familiar ginghams, canvases, or llamas. Crapes
adapt themselves so easily to the long. Irregular,
all-round draping that is shaping itself into
fashion for the coming summer. I think I have
pinned my affections to the soft pretty crepes such
as were worn last season, and have reappeared,
with little variety of make, but much new christ-
ening. As'to patterns, “many men.Imany minds,
but stripes or spots have most partisans; they both
vary in dimensions from a tiny dot to a large disc,
from a fine line to an Inch-broad band. The stripes
are usually a harmony of colours , for instance,
brown, faded blue, black, and cream have a good
kaleidoscopic effect. I saw some exceedingly
pretty, ladylike Turkish crepes, the other day, in
broad' stripes that melted Into one another and
oast such a delicate glow over the groundwork
that It was quite difficult to know whether it was
a pink reflection or foundation. White linen
dresses, elaborately trimmed with skirt-length em-
broidery, are to be much In vogue. They look
very handsome, and are an exceeding joy, until
one falls victim to a muff of a laundress—which
sometimes happens In the best regulated families.
The navy-blue and red combination Isas popular
as ever; it has the grand virtue of looking fairly
fresh to the last. But I must confess to being a
little tired of those red rash spots, which h ave
been such an epidemic.
Hats are worn tremendously high In the funnd*
sh«pe with curled brim, whlcn narrows slightly au
the back. But it is not sufficient that you should
sprout niae inches in ft sin#!© stroke of fortune,
you must induce your trimming to cry Excel-
slor,” too. Brilliant field flowers must raise their
heads ambitiously from a groundwork of velvet,
or pose liko a mammoth butterfly on the topmost
rung of straw. I have not yet seen any of the
Gahshorough shapes that were predicted, but
they are always a safe Investment, except on a
windy diy. Tequts or caps, are still correct for
tailor-mades or ihelr affinities, and I am glad to
find shouldpr capes reaching to the want are yet
allowed to be the refuge of overrSlim figures.
The paper chase on Monday week was a delight-
ful run, though not an unqualified success, except
from the hares* point of view, for the hunters
lost the trail near Bond', aad did not pick It up
again. The meet was at Woollahra House, from
whence they struck across Bose Bay. through
Bondi and Bind wick, ending up at the Z oo. There
was some hard riding and some very respectable
jumps, which were accomplished without disas-
trous results. The hares were Count d Bscheron
and Mr. W. Watt. They were followed by a
smaller field than usual, among them Mr. W. Mort.
Mist F. Watt, M'ss Sutton, Miss C. Manning, Mies
B. Stephen, MUS Consett-Stephen, Mr. Dion
Bouoioault (j anr ), Mr. Consett Stephen, Captain
Milward, Mr. El win Bloomfield, Mr. Norman
Machao, Mr. B. MacArthur, Mr. M. Campbell, Mr.
Chalmers, Mr. B. Stephen.
The B oucicault season is over. Last Wednesday
night the drop-scene fell between an enthusiastic
house, crowded from end to end, and the Bpuoi-
cault company, who split up and went their divers
ways next day. “ The Jilt “ was the benefit piece.
It Is merely a lively episode of a country raca-
meetlng. and gives Miss Boucicault an opportunity
or appearing io great advantage In a dark-brown
riding-habit, open coat-fasblon at the neck to show
the white stock, and coquettishly relieved by a
telling line of red. The bab't fitted to perfect!* n,
and made “La Petite Boucicault” appear m ire
charming than ever. She received a perfect floral
ovation. Miss Thorndyke, as Kitty Woodstock,
looked very nice when she wore full flowing
draperies, and her diamonds made one s mouth
water, but she Is too lanklly-wlllowy to be In
grateful harmony In a rldlng-hahit. She looks ns
if she was intended to be an exponent of Uscar
Wilde’s Intensities.
Another engagement is announced. Beally they
seem to come jwlth clock-like regularity to bring
up the rear of my weekly budget I This time it Is
from Ithe country, Mr Essington Gouch, second
son or the late Captain Goucn, of Goulburn, Is
engaged to be married to Miss May Thrpsby, eldest
daughter of Mr. Patrick Throsby-the Briers,
Bqng Oom?.
CORRA LYNN.
17
THE BUMiKElH.
OCTOBER 1?, 1885.


rj\0 THE ELECTORS OF EAST SYDNEY.
Gentlemen,—I shall at the forthcoming General
Election again seek the honor of being returned
as one of your fsur representatives. Since the
1882 election T have steadily studied and advocated
the Interests of the colony generally and of our
electorate.
As a business man, and recognising the neces*
slty for good and prompt legislation,' I have on
principle abstained from impeding business by
either long speeches of factious opposition.
Sitting on the Cross Benches, I have voted fear-
lessly for all good measures, and without regard
to party politics. Should you again do me the
honour to return me I shall adopt the same course.
I deeply regret that the Stuart Ministry previous"
to proroguing did not press on tho adoption of the
City Railway Plans, which had lain on tho table of
the Assembly the due time. I advocate this pro-
prosed line as the only one at present possible. In
view of the restricted area of the business portion
of this city, and the enormous cost—owing to
necessary resumptions—of any other scheme.
I heartily applauded the Hon. W. B. Dailey’s
patriotic action in sending the Contingent to
Egypt—in proof of our recognition of the claims
of the mother-country to our help in any time of
need, and as an assertion of our right to be con-
sldered an integral portion of the British Empire
If we disassociate ourselves from England before*
a powerful federation of the Australasian States
is established—occupying and able to defend the
whole seaboard of Australia—England would not
be called upon to engage in hostilities with any
nation which may see fit to found (perhaps con-
vict) settlements on the at present uninhabited
lands to the north and north-west of this vast is-
land continent.
Much as we rightly deplore the great nations of
Europe founding convict colonies In Polynesia,
the seizure by a foreign power of any portion of
the territory of this Australian Island would be of
incalculably greater damage to us, and is a calam-
ity we with our limited means and population
would be powerless to resist if we were without
England’s aid and protection.
At last election I expressed strong views in
favour of a revision of the then existing Land
Laws, Indicating on what lines such revision
should proceed. When the Stuart-Farnell Land
BUI was brought forward in the late Parliament I
voted after much hesitation for its second reading;
but when I found that after passing through com-
mittee the bill, nothwlthstandlng all efforts to
amend it, still contained so many glaring and
radical defects, I felt it to be my conscientious
duty to vote against it on the third reading.
When the Licensing Amendment Act was Hinder
discussion in Aprll-May, 1883,1 opposed those arbi-
trary clauses which prevent the citizens of large
towns obtaining necessary refreshment on Sun-
days.
Here as in other countries there must be special
legislation to regulate the liquor traffic, but this
legislation, whilst aiming to promote the sobriety
of the public, must not harshly interfere with the
legitimate trade of respectable citizens.
If elected, the Local Government Bill and the
Health Bill shall have my hearty support. With-
out committing myself to approval of all the de-
tails of such elaborate measure, I say I desire to
see our Statute Book enriched by Acts calculated
to provide efficiently for the local management
and construction of roads, bridges, and other
works necessary to the development of our great
Inland districts. The “ Shires ” Act in Victoria and
the “Divisional Boards” Act in Queensland have
shown us how local self-government is both pos-
sible and advantageous to the general community.
The condition of sewerage and drainage of our
great city and suburbs and the deaths and illnesses
clearly attributable to want of proper sanitary
legislation, render the consideration of the Health
Bill by Parliament a subject of llrst consideration,
having prior claims to any other measure.
The anomalies and Injustices which are now
found to exist so soon as the recently passed Civil
Servants Act has been brought into operation
need rectification, and the claims of those Civil
servants who are unfairly treated shall have my
earnest attention and advocacy.
When Mr. Dibbs brought forward the “railway
loans,’’ I opposed and voted against those which
could not be clearly shown to be for the general
advantage of the colony. I have nothing to regret
in what I then did, and I shall offer strenuous op-
position to all Railway Lines which cannot be
proved capable, either at once or in the near
future, of paying some fair return on the capital,
after deducting cost of maintenance and working
expenses.
The long recess has so delayed public business
that, after attention to the Financial Statement,
the next Session Is likely to be fully occupied in
the consideration of above matters; but I am
fully alive to the necessity for amending the
Bankruptcy Act and to the great questions of
City Water Supply, Wharfage Improvements,
Public Parks, Abattoirs, Settlement of Noxious
Trades’ Question, &o., &c., on which matters I
shall address you personally.
The “ personnel” of the new Ministry is, to my
mind, no fit subject for the address of one who
seeks re-election as an independent member. The
Ministry shall have my support in passing good
and useful measures and in the dispatch of public
business.
As attempts are being made to introduce a
policy of Protection intoN.S W,, I must again vow
myself a pronounced and sincere believer in Free-
trade doctrines
Your obedient servant,
J G N. GRIFFITHS.
Richmond Villa, October 8,1885.
AST SYDNEY ELECTIO
G. N. GRIFFITHS’ COMMITTEE.
John Mathews
Dr. J. C. Cox
F. Macdonald
W, A. Long
W. B. Walford
Alderman P. M’Mahon
J. T. M’Mahon
J. E. Myers
M. Quinlan
8. Punch
A. Lamb
W. H. M’Carthy
R. Hardie
H. Gorman
G. Hardie
T. Keary
G. btenning
W. B, Caddell
T. W. Crawley
J. Wells
J. Owen
J. G. Deeble
B. Byrnes
J. C. Beare
W. Bradley
B. M’Convllle
E H. M’Conville
F. Allerding
J. Allerding
T. Robertson
J. Loveday
F. G. Weaver
D. Lloyd
K. B. Treacy
Tims. Littlejohn
J, W. Johnson
a. Want
C H. Mitchell
H. Austin
George Pile
T. Peate
John Walsh
W, R. Mort
D. Keary
W. Hume
M. O’Neill
R. J. Wehlow
J. Cotter
8. Farrell
H. Foley
F. Penny
J. Smyth
R. Palmer
J. Ryan
W. W. Richardson
C. Billyard
G. F. Want
Edward M’Namara
Joseph W. M’Donall
P. F. M’Conviilo
M. Baar
J. L. Holmes
P. Kirby
Edward Palmer
C. Griffiths
T. C. Sandon
Horbury Hunt
Dan. Shethy
* Alderman Beare
Alderman E. Jones
Rollo Cape
Walter Bradley
H. B. A Allen
C. Moore
Captain Summerbill
R. T Carter
E. M. Stephen
R. J. Browning
Any gentleman desirous of having his name
aided to the above list will kindiy forward sam®
as soon as convenient.
F. WEBSTER, Hon. Sec.
Committee Rooms,
Tattersall’s Building, Hunter-street.
BEALE & COMPANY.
BEALE & COMPANY
Beale & Company.
SYDNEY and BRISBANE.
BOLE IMPORTERS OF THE
Sweet Hapsburg Piano,
SWEET “ HAPSBURG ” PIANO,
The FAVOURITE INSTRUMENT for Australia.
Iron framed, and of the strongest build,
Withstands the Greatest Extremes of Climate
UNEQUALLED IN TONE AND VOLUME.
The Principal of the Firm is at present Visiting
the Continent of Europe, and the
SHIPMENTS NOW ARRIVING
contain all the
VERT LATEST IMPROVEMENTS.
MORE ARE SOLD THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY than of
ANY OTHER MAKE.
Ever Growing and Widening Po pularity Attested
by High Testimony Daily Volunteered.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
Sole Importers of the
“HAYDN” ORGAN,
the Perfection of Cabinet Instrument. Of Great
Power. Perfect and Durable in Construction.
At Prices from 20 to 50 Guineas.
BEALE & COMPANY
Will Deliver
A “ Hapsburg ” Piano,
A “Haydn” Organ,
OR
A “Haydn” Harmonium
(CARRIAGE PAID)
To any Wharf or Railway Station in New South
Wales upon the most
LIBERAL TERMS OF TIME-PAYMENT.
Catalogues Free on Application.
BEALE AND~ COMPANY,
Sydney Show Rooms,
386 and 613 GEORGE STREET,
13 CENTRAL MARKETS,
161 OXFORD STREET.
BRANCHES and TRAVELLERS THROUGHOUT
THE COLONY.
Everybody i P'PILnPT T
sho ULD use f ■TJaMril |J| P
EXTRA SUPERFINE
FLOUR
IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE Is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
Is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL.
881 George-street, Sydney.
The boiliag springs of Rotorua and Roto-
niihana have bean put to a new purpose—a Mrs.
Seddon has committed suicide in one of them. As
the water averages 180 degrees of te perature in
these springs—or the majority of them—we know
hut one parallel to such a form of self-destruc-
tion. Tnls was the case of a Birmingham man
who threw himself Into a furnace when the fire
was at wb ite beat point. Not a scrap of him could
afterwards be found among the ashes. In Mrs.
Seddon’s oasa the boiling water had given a longer
time and a more painful one to the poor suicide—
her clenched hands were filled with skin torn off
the body.
We have seen him again. You know
whom we mean. No, no, not one of the Light
Brigade, nor a Soudan relic. The seaman who
was saved from the wreck of the Ill-fated “ Lon-
don.’* Time has changed him. When we saw him
10 years ago in Tierra del Fuego, he was a Spaniard,
and his name was Macarthy. He was thin, very
thin—so thin that he had to bend double to throw
a shadow. Now he is fat and short, and a Cana-
dian. He is the man, though, he said so himself.
Let us tell you his story. It may differ from the
current account of the disaster. Perhaps he has
added interest to the principal features in it. Per-
haps he lied. Judge from the following:—On the
11th January, 1866, after nlneldays’ knocking aDout
in the Bay of Biscay (you’ve heard of that place,
sir), the fatal hour arrived, and wo knew the good
ship London was doomed. We were 424 souls all
told. Our cargo was railway metal. This was
shifted by the terrible rooking she got, and at last
worked a hole in her. We bent a lug sail, I dived
below and brought the end up, it was made fast
This checked the Inflow of water somewhat, but It
gained on the pumps. A boat was got ready, and
some passengers got in her, she was swept away
from the davits, and all were lost. I was In the
second boat with 17 passengers, 20 gallons of water,
a bag of biscuits, and a tin of preserved carrots.
We were eight miles from Malta, the nearest land.
I had no instruments, and so worked by dead
reckoning. Our oars were swept away, but I
rigged a jury mast, and kept her before the wind.
Throe weeks afterwards, as we were labouring in
the trough of the sea, a sail appeared on the hori-
zon. In a moment 1 fired a blue-light and rocket,
pulled off my shirt, fastened it to an oar, and
waved it frantically. The Mignonette saw us, bore
down, and we were saved. I was the last man to
shake hands with Brooke. I am very hungry, you
haven't got .” We banded him the price of a
loaf of bread, and fixing him with our glittering
eye, asked sternly, *• Are those the facts ? ” “ Sir,”
he answered simply, “ I was there.” And as he
disappearel into the pub. to buy the loaf, we
wondered if, when our hair turns grey, and our
teeth turn yellow, we will be able to lie like that
old man.
A CURIOUS ADVENTURESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
The Imaginative faculty is very strong in many
people, and especially so In youthful ones. The
reason and foresight which would control them
later in life has not then developed any more than
their wisdom teeth. The most daring instance of
duplicity that I ever knew was exemplified In a
young lady whom to look at one would have
imagined to be Innocence personified. 8he was
only child of a well-to-do farmer who had been
left a widower, Polonius-llke, with “ this one fair
daughter,” when she was but 18. An old aunt of
hers acted as housekeeper to him, so that Miss
Mabel Smith, so to call her, had plenty of leisura
time and too much of her own way i i all things.
She was much of a spoilt beauty also.
“Nobody comlEg to woo,” was what mostly
troubled Miss Mabel. There are those who are the
-creatures of clrcumstanca and the tools of such.
Of these are the generality of us. There are but
few who make the circumstances, and still fewer
who can profit by so doing. With the others, the
circumstances so made are found to be uncon-
trollable. Like Mrs. Shelley’s Frankenstein, that
which they have made crushes them. It was so
with Miss Mabel Smith, who was otherwise, what
the old story-tellers would denominate ”a heroine
In humble life.” That she was villainously vile,
also, is beside the argument, and a mere matter of
detail. Many of thorn whom the world regards as
heroes, were, and are, consummate scoundrels.
Miss Mabel resolved not to wait for non-ojmlng
wooers. Waiting is tedious with the young, and
it is the poor resort of that patient herd—the
many. A noble lord, who was yet a bachelor,
lived within two miles of hor father’s farm. Why
should he not be her lover? After Mabel had
asked herself this question many times she an-
swered It; “ He shall be I ” Women are not
thinkers, nor taught to think, or to cjnslder the
probabilities of what they may do. It is possible
that if so endowed by nature or so educated many
of them would not do—much that they do, have
done, and will again do. Fouor I would see all
sorts of difficulties arising to a farmer’s daughter
making a lover of a neighbouring lord-without
h<s knowledge; but to the daring imagination of
Mabel Smith all difficulties disappeared—even sup-
posing that she could for-see any.
A chance had given her sight of a business-note
written by his lordship. With loan, or the theft,
of this note she laid the corner-stone of her cloud-
built castle. A little practice enabled her to imi-
tate the writing which resulted la her producing
letter No. 1 of the long series of love letters, she
now proceeded to write to herself and to sign with
his lordship’s name. Mo. Davis, in the Flying
Scud,” tells us that when “stone broke” he
amused himself with writing out cheques on the
Bank of England and then tearing them up. Not
so with Miss Mabel Smith. She proceeded, in
American phraseology, to “realise” upjn the
efforts of her pen, In place of destroying them.
His lordship’s letters —thus produced —were
handed by Miss Smith to her father and her aunt,
who were equally beguiled into a full belief of
their genuine character. Step the first having
been thus achieved, the next move was to get
some evidence of personal meeting with her lordly
lover. Her evenings away from the farmer’s fire-
side were put down to this account—she had been
walking with his lordship. Once or twice she had
been seen by neighbours, when at a distance, In
company and conversation with one of manly
form. VVbo it was that she thus impeessad into
her service as a substitute was never explained
satisfactorily, but her explanation was, of course,
that It was his lordship.
Love-making is, or should be, a progressive
thing. It may dawdle with some, but It gallops
with others-of which latter sort was Miss Mabel’s
love-making. As she made it all.herself, and to
herself, there was no need for any delays. Lovers
make presents to the object of their affections,
and the next step was for her to got the present,
of which she ought, under the circumstances, to be
the delighted recipient She had no money, and
her father, though not poor, had no pounds to
throw away. Necessity sharpens the Invention,
and helps much to so doing in its knowing no law.
If Miss Smith knew any, she utterly disregarded
such knowledge. Bonaparte loved Marshal Ney
because he was so lull of resource. "I have,” he
said at Borodino, ” three millions In my coffers at
Paris, and I would give th?m all for Ney.”
Miss Mabel Smith was resourceful. She had a
rich old hunks of an uncle—her father’s brother—
who was a money-lender and bill-discounter. She
had read of bill and promissory notes, and now
Sot forms of these commercial documents. She
Hod up a promissory note, at three months, In
favour of her uncle—so far as his name was used.
<fo this promissory note she now wrote his lord-
ship's name, much as Mo Davis signed bis to the
dummy cheques. The sum she filled in was £200.
It looked all well on paper, but Mias Smith’s object
was what the lawyers call “ reducing it to
(possession.” We, or moat of us, should think such
m document as too thin a pretence to deceivo any-
one, but Mabel had none of ths little doubts and
fears which mar so many of our projects.
She wrote a note to herself, as from hts lordship,
begging her to “get the promissory note dis-
counted by her unde.” His lordship explained
that be had been “ over-building,” and so had run
abort of ready money. He was desirous, he
said, to make her several lover’s present-a fifty-
guinea watch and chain, a pearl necklace, and a
diamond dress-ring, as also an engagement one.
Would she be good enough to apply th ? proceeds
of the discounted note to such purpose ? He wis
going to London and would meet her th ;re and
they would choose tMe articles together. As I am
telling facts proved ina court of law, t can set at
defiance tne laugh of the mere fiction-monger. A
novelist would not dare to put such an apparent
absurdity in his novel. It is, nevertheless, t-ue.
and was duly proved so at Westminster Hall, and
that in my presence and hearing
The two notes—the one quoted and the promis-
sory one—were now despatched by Miss Smith to
her uncle. That a money-lender could be taken
off his guard was proved by his sending her the
money—loss £20, which he charged for discount-
little enough, as he explained, considering that it
way done on personal security only. Mabel had
never handled money, beyond a fow shillings at a
time up to this period. She had now £180 and a
reason, good enough for her, for going to London
to spend it. To be all quite in order, she took her
aunt with her, and left the old lady in hotel lodg-
ings when she had to be cut and about in London
“with bis lordship.” The money was soon dis-
bursed, and the farmer’s daughter, dressed out like
a duchess and bedizened with Jewellery, returned
home with her aunt, you or I would give some-
thing for such a nervous system as she must have
had to sleep quietly and rise refreshed, with a
mind so troubled as ours would be under like cir-
cumstances. It Is “the bad heart and the good
digestion,” which, as Rochefoucauld says, gives
most happiness. , . .
The letter writing now went on as usual. Friends
of the family were taken into confidence, among
whom was the local attorney. It was a bold stroke
to attempt bamboozling him, but boldness wins
much, and he was beguiled with the rest. The
wedding day had next to be named, and as little
difficulty was n ade about that as about anything
else. Now, weddings require that the bride shall
have a fine outfit. Marriage is the oae great event
of a woman’s life, and must bo done in styie-lf she
is to be satisfied As Miss Smith had it all in her
own hands she decided that it should be so done.
She got his lordship to inform her—la one of the
now customary notes—that the ceremony should
take place in London at St. George’s, Hauover
which was the then fashionable place for
wJ&bldlBgs. She was to be accompanied by her
father only. His relatives would supply all tbe
rest of the company. They were dying to s e his
charming affianced one. He would leave the wed-
ding dress entirely to her choice By the way, as
he was still short of cash, would she ’'gi t the en-
closed second promissory note fur £100 disc noted
by her uncle ? " He would lr: in funds by the wed-
ding day, and would then settle thoSo matters, and
others, with ner father.
That all this deception was gsing on within two
miles only of where bis lordship resided, is simply
as true as it is astounding. A personal call upon
jils noble neighbour, by lamer Smith, would have
blown the bubble to the winds, but such call
was expressly forbidden by his lordship for one
reason and another, which Miss Mabel duly ex-
plained to her father. Before we blame the old
man, and laugh at those who believed similarly
with him, let us put ourselves in his and their
places. Was It thought for a m unent that a simple
looking country girl would have devised all this
daringly duplicitous business ? Certainly not: and
It would have probably gone hard with anyone
who had tried to undeceive the dupes. The second
acceptance met now with as ready discount as the
first, and from the same discounter. He now held
£400 of his lordship’s paper, and Miss Mabel Smith
had another £200 for a second London visit, and
for dissipation among dressmakers and the like.
The second visit to London was as agreeable to
herself and her aunt as was the first. Their
country residence was some 290 miles from the
metropolis, the gaieties of which were things the
old lady had given up all idea of ever so pleasur-
ably experiencing, Miss Mabel Smith had a genius
for spending money. Hired carriages took herself
and aunt about dally to the fashionable resorts. In
the language of the old lady, she made “the money
fly," which was, we must allow, only well acting
her part for one who was soon to be promoted by
marriage to a position in which money spending Is
supposed to be the chief business of life. It was
the opinion of her aunt, as she afterwards ex-
pretsad It on getting home, that her n ece was
never intended for a poor man s wife.
She had gifts of Nature, too, which make me
even now sorrowful for her. Her winning smile
and sweet voice are with me in memory as but
things of yesterday, and charming they were.
But what availed the lovely face,
And what the form divine;
What every added charm and grace
Which Mabel cauld call “ mine ”?
She was the whited sepulchre only, and her
beauty but the b&auUs dti diable of French phrase-
ology. I was a youth In a lawyer’s office when I
first saw her, and I freely forgave her all that was
then charged against her. It looked to me as a
pleasure to be befooled and swindled by one able
to do it so agreeably. This was what I thought,
but her uncle, my employer’s client, thought very
differently of her. when he came to knowhow
be had been “ got at’’ by that “ hussy,” as he called
her, his language was worse than 1 can repeat. He
was an old money-lender, and over 60, and I was
but 19 and poor, and therein lay all the difference.
Let me hasten onwards, if T am to keep pace
with one who went it so fast as did Mabel. All
the wedding outfit was procured, and proudly
enough did this country beauty array herself in it.
Vanity led to this full-dressed exhibition being
several times made to a roomfull of admiring
rustics. They would as soon thought of doubting
the sun-rlslng of next morning as of thinking It
nought but the mere theatrical rehearsal It really
was. A note from his lordship was, of course,
forthcoming, as appointing everything for the
wedding-day. Mabel and her father were to meet
him at Mlvast’s— a fashionable hotel near to St.
George’s Church. It was a grind departure which
this beauty made with her humbugged old father
on the day before the eventful one. “ Black care ’
is said to sit behind the fleetest horseman, and I
suppose that personage, or something of the sort,
sat in the railway carriage that afternoon with
Mabel. She never showed aught of knowing it,
however, maintaining her own and the old man’s
spirits in a great way for the whole of the journey.
What a night she must, to our think ng, have
had of It! Vet she was gay as a lark, and seem-
ingly happy the next morning, and ate as heartily
as her father did of the breakfast, His lordship
was to be there at 11—his note had said so. Ele-
ven o’clock came, and no noble lord with it.
Mabel left the room to make inquiries, and re-
turned now with another note from his lordship. It
grieves me to say that she had this note In her
pocket all the morning and all the preceding
afternoon and evening. It was part of her wed-
ding outfit, for she had written it to herself a week
before.
His lordship was very sorry, so the note said, not
to keep his engagements. Circumstances had
happened differently to what he expected. His
noble mother disapproved of the match. He must
not offend her because his future fortune de-
pended on her fancies and dislikes. Mabel must,
therefore, wait for a time. Time works wonders,
and his lordship hoped to be able to give another
Instance in proof of the proverb at no distant
date. Meantime, he hoped her father and herself
would return quietly to the farm, there waiting
and hoping—as he did and would continue to do.
Old Smith did not half like it—and said so,
but Mabel comforted him and “ bore up wonder-
fully” as he expressed it to her aunt. 8he de-
served that praise from her father as she went
back boldly enough, and as one satisfied with a
good spree which had left no headache after it. As
for heartache, I must acquit Mabel Smith of all
possession of a heart. There are feminine forms
In which a gizzard only seems to supply the want.
As carelessly as possible did Mabel let those pro-
missory notes become due. Her uncle did not
like the wedding postponement, and thought that
his niece had been ill-treated. Without a word to
her of his intentions, he wrote to his lordship of
the now overdue first note, and desired to know if
It was to be taken up or renewed. If renewed, it
was his custom, he said, to ask either half pay-
ment of it. or, In default, the additional security
of another name. Business was business with
him, whether he discounted for lordt or com-
moners He put that as a postscript.
A bollover had now come aoout, and the fat was
in the tire. His lordship answered that he knew
nothing whatever of the applicant, or the notes
referred to; he had given no such notes. His
solicitors were Messrs. 8o-and-So, to whom he re-
ferred tor anything further in the way of infor-
mation. Mabel was appealed to, and she bo;diy
faced it out Every thing was right, and there were
h.s lordship’s letters to prove It Her uncle could
compare toe letter he had lately received with
those she had received aforetime. Her uncle and
his solicitors did so, and it was resolved, on tuch
evidence, to sue his lordship, making Mabel a wit-
ness as the agent in the transaction.
Ail she could now write and say of the probable
ruin of her matrimonial prospects availed nothing
with the uncle. His lordship had humbugged, as
he said, the wed ling business, and now denied
his signature to the promissory notes. “ Play or
pay’ was the uncle s motto. He wrote to Mabel
that if bis lordship would not pay the first note he
should sue him, and be did so accordingly.
And Mabel appeared in thej witness-box, and
took the oath and carried on bravely—with his
lordship sitting on the bench beside the judge,
staring at her as at a mad woman. It was not
long, however, before her uncle’s counsel “ saw
through the case,” and threw up his brief and the
further conduct of the suit. The Jury ordered a
verdict for the defendant, and impounded the
promissory, as further proceedings might be
taken upon them in the way of indicting Miss
Mabel for forgery.
I IBeauty in distress always affected me greatly,
and Mabel was a beauty, and looked so in her
tears. They were genuine tears, too, distilled
from discovered deceit and the breakdown of
months of a successful game. To her father and
her aunt she was the injured female in distress.
Her uncle was not, however, to be further bam-
boozled, The scales fell from his eyes, and the
aburdlties he had before overlooked became pal-
pable. He was wroth at the loss of bis money, but
more so at the way his suit had been laughed out
of court. Far more wroth was he also with the
country-bred girl who had so befooled all her rela-
tives. Addressing her father and his brother, be
sald-r-
“ Unless you pay up within a week the money
you have allowed me to bo fooled out of, f shall
let the law take Its course against her. She has to-
day been pronounced a forger and a criminal—
she will then be a convict. 1 must take this course
in my own defence, or shall be looked upon as aco-
oonspirator with you and her to swindle his lord-
ship.”
Mabi.'l waa equal to the occasion—she was equal
to anything. ’’.Never mind what be says, father,”
sue said, as she led away the bewildered old mao,
“ It is not all over yet, and we will soon show the
world who the deceiver is. Uucle will then with-
draw what he has said.”
Next morning, however, Mabel’s father and aunt
f juud that they must return to the farm by them-
selves. Mabel was missing, and a note she had left
informed them that she would be absent for a time
I until she had got things put right. She saw a way
she said, of doing that much, and would stay away
from home until it was done. Her father and
uncle would hear further from her shortly, and
the former need not fear that ho would be dis-
tressed for the money by the latter. She would
see her uncle paid every penny of his loss. It was
a sorrowful return tor the old couple, but, per-
haps, It was as well that the cause of it all kept
aw *y for a time.
She kept away altogether—the farm saw her no
more. A beautiful girl, so untroubled with con-
science and shame as Mabel was, soon found ad-
mirers who supplied her with money. Within a
month she wrote to her uncle with the £400-
merely requesting that her father might be told
of the payment The letter came from Paris, and
gave no particular address to whfoh an answer
could be sent. A year after, while on a Conti-
nental holiday scamper, I saw her at the Kursaal,
or gaming house, at Hombourg—the reigning
beauty among the demi monde of that gay place.
If ever woman was born for the heartless life she
had adopted it was certainly Miss Mabel Smith.
To be a cunning adventuress was, without ques-
tion, that for which nature had formed her.
AUSTRAL.


Qiticura
IA POSITIVE CURE I
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticuba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticuba and Cutiouba Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
Itching: and Burning: Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, Instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticuba Soap and a single application of
Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticuba Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story; I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “IIow to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Austealian Consignees,
B. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
nUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fler, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cnticura, the Gkkat Skin Cube (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Uloers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cnticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and 1 oilet .Requisite, prepared from Cuticuba, Is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Bashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura JRemedles are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers free from mercury
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege’
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
i are by the Analytical Chemists of the State ol
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesab
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and Nev
Zealand. Cuticuba, 50 cents per box, large boxes
$1.00; Cuticuba Soap, 25 cents; Cuticuba Shav
ino Soap, 16 cents; Cuticuba Resolvent. $l.0(
per bottle.
Prepared bt the
Potter Dhug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.8.A,
SCHOTT OO.,
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.8.W.;
Also, at Lonimjn, M avenge, Paris, and Brussels.
er largest stock in the colonies.
Alex. Borthwick. «.
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c. »I«SS-
2S1 Creorgre-st., S3r<a.:n.e3r.
rTgoldsbrouch & CO.
LIMITED,
WOOL and GRAIN BROKERS,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
WAREHOUSES—DARLING HARBOUR.
MAKE LIBERAL^CASH^ADVy Sffii" ““ ™
AUCTION ALES
Held EVERY FRIDAY during the Season, and at freq ,
THE SALE OF FA
at Homebush, FREEHOLD and STATION PR PERTIES,
and other STATION PRODUCE, unde (he Super!
WOOL
intervals during the Winter Month*.
STOCK
AIN, SHEEPSKINS. HIDES. TALLOW
denee of Mr. GEORGE MAIDEN.
FULL RA1 £8 OF INTEREST
allowed on Fixed Deposits, Current Accounts, and FINANCIAL BUSINESS of all kinds conducted.
Sydney—10 Hunter-street.
Melbourne —Bourke William Streets.
London—156 and 157 Leadenhall-Street.
Baumann,
107 Fitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
LUNCHEON AND HRFRRSHMBNT ROOMS FOB LADIB8 AND OBNTLBMBN.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA AND INSECTICIDE.
a
RT 8 rrnnaff* B®“|dy for INDIGESTION, FLATULENCE,
Invalids and Children. saoMACH * BILIOUS HEADACHE, and a MOST GENTLfe APERIENT for
** ® ee Medical Opinions Accompanying each Bottle.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout the Colonies.
KRUSh’S INSECTICIDE
COOTROAPFrHS 0J T+ ?,?fl OU8 nBe ? t8 - 8uch a* FLEAS, FLIES, BEETLES. MOSQUITOES, ani
Sold In Tins, Is., and upwards, by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
ELLIOTT BROS. I„
K. PROSSER & CO. f Sydney.
IBvLgrgpi©©!
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Hannons.
w best manufactured articles only kept in stock.
HjT JAM FLEMING}’, Merchant A Importer.
8S & 24 Olarenoe-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS.
, al MACEI
Importers of
8T^TL^YAT N ANT?^REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
IL MimMa N r«rrsw?5ri C0N J T SAS r0R8 PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS,
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDKRS’
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &o.
BAB, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, FAINTS, and
BRUSH W ARB
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPAOK8
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
BS
p— —Em
'V
.-T C
PORTABLE. Min
and SEMI-FIXED EN-
GINES
VERTICAL and HOR1-
- ZONTAL BOILERS
TEAM and Other
ss-; 1 pumps
L M T ApfwJ, *'acSSw'.
g" 15 ? Si 0 de“i n NV tULLfi, °
STEAM HAMMERS
* ENGINEERS’BRASS
“ ‘ FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLLED
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, Ac.
jensjF
Price Lists and Cataloguer furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office
- 54 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS,
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUB
SYDNEY.
- 5 ? a QRAUBOHUROH STRUT
Barry's Tricoplierons
Guaranteed to make the
ha r grow on bald heads, to
eradicate scurf and dan-
druff, and remove all im-
purities from the scalp. It
positively prevents the hair
from falling out or turning
gray, and in every case
makes It thick, soft, glossy,
and abundant.
BARRY’S
FLORIDA WATER.
The Original and the Best.
The only perfume in the
world that has received the
endorsement of a Oovern-
® nt. Put up in thre) sizes.
Sole Wholesale Ageuts;
S, No if mi ny and Co.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and EJ Prosser
and Co., Pltt-street; W. J. Norris and Son', Forest
Lodge: Comet Co , Newcastle.
PAKISTAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None Renulne unless bearing the name and address
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Redtern.
JLiln-en. 0-los©


w. WALKER and SONS
LONDON and SYDNEY.
Catalogues Catalogues
POST FRB1.
W. WALKER
and SONS
are on«> of the
Larroat
E
Stockholder*
uan%fatlw$rt
m
■<gli«laii
FURNITURE
BNGLAND.
POST FREB.
ALL STOCK
In their
SYDNEY
lOVII
Suppled
DIRECT
from their
London
Manufactory
and Lateat
London Style*
GUABANT 111!
SYDNEY BRANCH';
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARO SQUARE.
READ IT ALL.
It may Save your Ufa.
AMERICAN CO.’I
Hop Bitters
ABB
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops. Buchii. Mandrake, and Dandelion.
•‘The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
'and Valuable Medicines In the world,
•and In addition contain all the best
‘and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘and life and health restoring agent on
•earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, lawyers, Literary
• Men, Labourers, Ladles, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach,
• Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
• Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are Invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘ without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Dont
‘ wait until you are sick, hut if you only
• feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
• dreds have been saved by so doing, at
' a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“ Do not suffer yourself or let your
• friends s offer, but use and urge them to
• use the American Co.’s Hop Bitters.’
“Remember, these Hop Bitters are
• no vile, drugged, drunken nostrum,
‘but the purest and best Medicine
• ev er made, and no person or family
• should be without it.”
|gp- gee that the name Dr. Soule Is Mown
In every bottle, none other genuine.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital £100,000.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Hew South Wales Branch ; 171 Castlereagh-street.
Victorian Directors.
Fohn L. Dow, Esq., M.P.,
Chairman „ „
Son. J. F. Levlen, M.P.
r nomas Learmonth, Esq.
N. S. Wales Directors:
Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Frank Cowley, Esq.
George 8. Yeo, Esq.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs Insured
.gainst death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
lauses on land, rail, or at sea.
Marine Risks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted.
The only Live Stock Insurance Society in the
°Full particulars can be obtained from the under-
ll Actlve Agents wanted where unrepresented.
A. J. WILKINSON. Branch Manager.
Office, 171 Oastlereagh-street.
E
A U D B
4711
O O L O O N B.
4711.
Established 1793
Gold Medal, Moscow. 1872; Vienna, 1873
This Eau de Cologne, so favourably known to
the Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tained at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition, for Its superior sweetness, strength,
and Invigorating qualities, excelling all other corn-
et tasbecome the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the Sllte of
Thehirge and constantly Increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Eau de Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
IndlaT and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of Its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number-4711 changed Into 7411. 1147, 4117, &c.
The real genuine article which carried off the
Prlzo Medal at the Vienna Exhibition Is that with
thenecullarGothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
street, Sydney.
To bo had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
d storekeepers, in town and country.
SOLE IMPORTER OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
187 FITT STREET.
dOJb,"! Aii£NT FOB THU
SMITE ORGAE.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STBEBT
;
prvwvr^rr
ill
■
Depot for the World’s Patented Articles
GEORGE ST.* Opp. Wynyard St.
AMERICAN
NOVELTY
CO
FANCY GOODS
tu novelties
Bring your Wife and Children with you.
Nobody pressed to buy
WANTED a number of Gentlemen who will have their
heads shaved as above, and guarantee io attend all
meetings and side-walk gatherings, f. ALARY LIBERAL.
USE PEARL CEHEIIT
but Iron. Is. Bottle.
TOOTHACHE TINCTURE.— :: replication. Don’t be
afraid tc use it freely. Nc trouble to the Teeth. Is. Bottle.
Infantile and Birth Humors,
Milk crest, scallhead, eczemas, and every form of
itching, scaley. pimply, scrofulous, and Inherited
diseases of the blood, skin, and scalp, with lore of
hair, frorii infancy to age, cured by the CtncuRA
HfcsoLVENt. the new blood purifier, intel-naliy, and
CtmcuaA and CtmotmA Soap, the great skin
cures, externally. Absolutely pure and safe, and
inavbe used from the moment of birth. Certifi-
cates of the analytical chemists of the State of
Massachusetts accompany each package.
•' A good name is better than precious ointment. ’
Wolfe’s Schnapps possesses a good name won by
merit.
If you drink wine, drink the best. If you drink
Schnapps drink Wolfe's, whion is the only genuine
Schnapps.
Notice!—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Pltt-street.
A cordial the marvel and admiration of the
Irorld— Wolfe's Schnapps.
Look for £1 orders in large bottles of Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps would not have stood the test
Of nearly a halt century were It not a most supe-
rior article.
IDarlinm-g" HarTooiar Hotel,
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Railway Cates).
STEPHEN HOPKINS (Late of Wagga Wagga), Propriefor.
1ST ESPECIAL ACCOMMODATION FOR COUNTRY VISITORS.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARI ELL’S
CELEBISAT
NITS AID EASES, TREACLE AID GOLDII SYRUP,
Self-raising AErated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE. *&£
S, & A. have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
Sydney Agents s W. H. ARIELL St CO., 343 end 345 Kent-street.
Hic Jacet.
Rippling, rustling, through the ranges winds a
tiny silver stream,
Laughing, bubbling, sparkling brightly, ’neath the
day king’s kindly beam,
Dancing down a grassy gully, fringed with lily
buds and fern,
There its waters kiss the rootlets of a gum-tree
old and stern.
Gaunt and grim, the gray old gum-tree watches
’neath the changing skies.
O’er the grass-grown hillock yonder, where the
burled bushman lies,
Far from friends, and home, and kindred, in the
bush “ away out back,”
Brief the record on the gum-tree traced—" Hie
Jacet, Derwent Jack."
Nothing more to toll his story; how he met his
lonely fate
When thus laid to rest for ever by some brave,
true-hearted mate;
E'en bis name untold; what matter, at the end
’twill be the same,
For his pioneering brother knew that God would
know bis name.
Unencumbered by his comrades in the yard or on
the track,
There he waits the angels’ signal, ’neath that
mound away out back.
Where the wild scrub cattle wander and the dingo
prowls at night;
Oft the setting sun In pity tints the turf with
golden light,
And the weeping silver wattles in the evening
breezes wave,
While the bell-birds ring the vespers o'er the bush-
man’s lonely grave.
A. O.
Fidele.
“ While round my head the vapours curl.”
—Gordon.
'The broken bough
From tree-top blown,
The sport of winds
On streamlet thrown,
To drift and die
On sandbank lone;
Methlnks, e’en then,
Hath kindred more
Than human waif
On life’s lorn shore.
When wealth is gone,
And hope is fled,
We turn to friends,
Hut friendship’s dead;
The cold, high glance,
Averted bead,
Mark all too well
They know him not,
Who moveth now
In lowly lot.
But one I found
Firm, fast, and leal,
to soothe my soul
In woe or weal,
To dull the blow
Which Fate would deal;
To loose my heart
From sorrow’s gripe,
A faithful friend,
My old black pipe.
a n
A. O.
20
October 17, 188B.
THE BULLETIN.


IMPORTANT NOTICE TO THE PUBLIC.
In consequence of an attempt to substitute In-
ferior and spurious articles for “ Dr. Scott’s Elec-
tric,” the Pall Mall Electric Association, 54, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, desire to caution the public
against purchasing any counterfeit of the follow-
ing goods:—“Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets, Dr.
Scott’s Electric Belts, Dr. ecatt’s Electric Hair,
Flesh, or Tooth Brushes, Dr. Scott’s Galvanic
Generators, and Dr. Scott’s Electric Insoles’
Every genuine article bears the word “ Electric”
and the name of Dr. Scott, as also does the box
containing same. The extent of our trade, and the
marked appreciation of the public having Induced
certain parties to manufacture a line of worthless
goods, having something of the general form and
external appearance of ours, and variously styled
“Magneto-Electric or Electric Magnetic ’j
we respectfully ask that parties who have been
influenced by the many testimonials we publish
all of which are strictly genuine, or the universal
reputation of our goods, to give electricity a
trial, will see that the name of Dr. Scott and the
word “ Electric” appear on every article purchased.
In addition to this, we have recently registered a
new trade mark—an oval label with our lecil
address, “Pali Mail Electric Association, 54, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, N.S.W,” in marginal lines,
encircling the device of a mailed hand holding a
group of thunderbolts.
r/V ?v C
d.
&
v.
•s
£
SB
As we are the only parties in Australia importing
these goods direct from Dr. Scott, and are prepared
to guarantee the genuineness of every article
bearing this label, we advise purchasers to see
personally that this trade mark invariably appears
on any and every Electric Corset, Belt, Insole,
Generator, Hair, Flesh, or Tooth Brush, they may
desire to purchase. This borne in mind, much
vexation and dlsappointrm ut will be saved ; and
we respectfully request th t any person who has
been induced to buy any of those imitations under
the impression that they were Dr. Scott's Electric,
will at once communicate with us.
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by: he
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continents
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them *
trial 1
&
HB
m
Si
■
B
n
Dr . Scoffs Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy
sicians as the best, safest, and most effect ua
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice.
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &o., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis
tressing oases, after all other remedies (so
called) nave failed.
The prices are as follows
. , B. d.
fo. 1 .. .. ..6 6
0.2 .. .. ... 8 6
0.3 .. .. .. 10 6
No. 5 .. .. .. 15 0
Electric Belts.. .. ., 16 0
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or (Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece ©f common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
ELECTRIC BUM,
64 Hargarat-straat,
SYDNEY.
P.0. Box 221.
S3
NCT
Ui
T'lOWii
5%*
m
WARtHOUSES. SYDNEY.
The In Ztalaii Loan and Mercantile Agency Company
(LIMITED,
HEAD OFFICE ... LONDON.
Capital - - £3,500,000.
THIS COMPANY WILL CONTINUE TO DISPLAY AND SELL
WOOL!
ON THE MELBOURNE SYSTEM,
At their Magnificent Warehouses.
BBIDG-E STREET,
SYDNEY.
„«i a rj££? !RY L0T WILL BE CAREFULLY VALUED, AND SPECIAL ATTENTION WILL BE
re?AVr^W^ L E P ii R R 'Sl 1^Lf/8? 0KI& WHICH W1LL BB PLACED °" A footing
If reserves are not reached, the nominal charge of one shilling per hale only will be made.
WOOL SALES, EVERY TUESDAY.
SHEEPSKINS AND HIDES, EVERY FRIDAY.
Way Bills and all Information can be obtained on application, or will be sent by return of post.
H. H. LANG, Produce Manager.
Sydney Wool and Grain Warehouses.
iWr.> t < & ■
-fr-Vfc
-— >
'"'.I
.JS*
35
w
NEW AND INGENIOUS AND CAMERA ATTACHMENT, FOI
TOURISTS.
A patent Is now pending by the inventors.
f ail „ and shutter, also the combination of the shutter and
the rurposeUiCdbed. 10 d °*’ and tbe Reneral applj °atloD, ln the manner substantially and for
l ay <S& Xj Iclitner,
32 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, In great variety, from *3,.' Catalogues post free.
THE LATEST WORK! AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
SOLE AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID In the Market,
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies.
Caterer and Confectioner,
6B4 GEORGE STREET.
WEDDINGS, BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIES A SPECIALITY.
A BOON TO THOUSANDS I
Manhood and Vigour of Youth
Restored in Four Weeks.**
DR.IRICORDS
ESSENCE OF LIFE
Rotorci manhood to the most shattered and debilitated cob
itltatioD from whatever cause arising, in FOUR WEEKS, _
Failure is impossible if taken according to the printed di-
rections, which are very simple, and require no restraint or
hindrance from business.
This invaluable remedy affords relief, and permanently
tm ret all who suffer wasting and withering of the nerves and
total and partial prostration, and every other exhaustive de
rangement' of the system ; regenerating all the important
* ' * man frame, and enabling man to fulfil his
elements of the human
most sacred obligations.
In cases at tss., or four quantities in one for ]6t.; If by
coach, ts. fid. extra.
NATURE’S GREAT REMEDY 1
DR. RICORDS
SANATIVE PILLS
r*r strengthening the system, purifying the Wood,
the bowels, and removing all vitiated bilious ant
Liver Complaints, Rheumatism, Gout, Scorbutic Affections,
Costiveness. Skin Eruptions, and all diseases of the nervous
system. Tnis never-failing remedy affords at a new
f JOlvlIla A 11*0 J 9 .
lease of life to the sickly and aged of both sexes, imparting
" ' ' complexion, a sure sign of health,
_ beautiful and clear
Itrength, and vigour.
Jon, a sure
Price, as. ; hy post
sign
:, ad.
AGENT* FOR SYDNEY I
Messrs. W. BARCLAY & CO.,
43 BOV LBVRX STREET,
On* Dock rnoh Gxokox Street South,
Aad may be had of most Chemists.
Force/# packed securely and free from observation, sent to
■ ■ ---■—• — — —-* —' the Australian
Queensland, New Zealand, or any part of — --
Colonies, on rscelpt of Fast Office Order or Stamps.
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
Lost Vitality, Ac.-A simple and positive
means of Self-Cure, by an eminent
French Hospital Physician. Sent Free
Medico, P O. Box 766, Sydney.
r//£
me
or
life
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOI
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pn
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untol
niiserfes resulting from indiscretion or excesses may I
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pn
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Di
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Lll
or Self I reservation, A book for every man, youni
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may I
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions fc
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is ii
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience fo
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot c
any Physician. 300 pages, bound in beautiful French clotl
fall gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense tha
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the mone
will bo refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 b
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. GoL
medal awarded the author by the National Medico
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should be read by the young fo
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefl
all. —London Lancet.
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As- liP I I
soeiation, or Dr/VV. E. Parker, No. 69 Hunter H t AI
Street, Sydney, N.S.W. The author may TLIVOF M
be consulted onfall diseases requiring | M I UtLI
skill, secrecy, and experience.
PAIN
j,MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM.
. HL.URAI.OIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE.
RAINS, BRUISES, 3URNS. SCALDS, Sec and
taken internally cures DIARRHCEA, DYSENxi&RY,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other iutfarna aches
And pains.
Price, 2/-
Sold Everywhere.
1 C. E. MOULTON, sole PROPm.TOR,
JtELBOUENL .A.3ST33 '3' . DNEY,
PUNT
TRADE MARK!-“ TONIC NERVINE.”
A bab'is, OBn.JLA.IN, & SPEEDY CURB tor Nor-
▼oub and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgt*.
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Losi cf
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline,.Loss of Vital Power,
&o. By its tonic and soothing effects it at once
removes all craving for Alcohol. By its richness
in phosphorous am other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE nour-
ishes and gives vigour to the whole system.
Price, fis. Od„ or 35s. a case Sold everywhere.
Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS, Registered
Chemists, 1M and 106 Market-street, near Hyde
P«»k, Sydney, ml 5 Pltt-street,. ;oiroui«v-ouav.
N.B.-A11 imitations illegal. TAKE NO BUB 1Tb
TUT*.
21
OCT0B1R 17 , 188B.
THE BULLETIN,


PRA SE FROM SIR RUPERT.
The following from the pen of Robert A. Gunn,
M D , Dean of (he United States Medical College
of New York, treating, as it does, a subject of
universal Interest, and being of vital importance,
Is our only apology for its prominent position:—
Sirs:—It is a well-known and established fact
that, as a rule, and perhaps wisely, any article pre-
pared and sold as a proprietary medicine is refused
recognition by the medical profersion. A little
over two years ago my attention was first called
by several patients to a proprietary medicine,
which I had reason to believe enjoyed a very ex-
tensive sale. About this time a personal friend
sought my advice. He had been in poor health
for some lime, and his applicition for an insur-
ance on h s life had been rejected on account of
Bright’s Disease. Chemical and microscopical ex-
aminations of his urine revealed the presence of
large quantities of albumen and granular tube
casts, which confirmed the correctness of the
diagnosis. After trying all the usual remedies, I
directed him to use the preparation 1 shall shortly
name, and was greatly surprli ed to observe a de-
cided Improvement within a month, and within
four months no tube casts could be discovered.
There was present only a trace of albumen, and
he felt, as he expressed it, “ perfectly well.” Ihe
great success attending the use of the remedy in
this case Jed me to communicate with the pro-
prietors!, with a view of ascertaining the history
of the remedy. In answer to my communication,
they sent me the following statement; “ Warner’s
Safe Cure was originally prepared from a pre-
scription of a regular physician, and was put up
exclusively for the use of the profession. As it
proved remarkably efficacious it was afterwards
advertised in the secular press. In lb79, the pres-
ent proprietor was induced to try the remedy for
a disease of the kidneys which many physicians
had failed to cure. Though prejudiced against
the u.e of what he considered a proprietary medi-
cine, he flnaLy decided to give it a fair trial, as his
ulsease was gradually becoming worse. In three
monies’ time he was fully restored to his former
health and vigor. This personal experience led
him to make further inquiry about the prepara-
tion, and he was so thoroughly convinced of its
great value to suffering humanity that he pur-
chased the formula, and determined to devote a
part of his fortune in making known to the world
the value of the remedy.” The ingredients of
which the remedy is composed are among the
most valuable medicines of our materia medlca,
and the combination is such as to insure the best
possible action on the kidneys and urinary organs
generally, in all cases of congestion and acute or
chronic inflafiamatlon of these organs. After my
first experience in the use of the remedy, I have
continued to prescribe it in both acute and chronic
nephritis (Bright’s Disease), and with the most
satisfactory results. In every case of this kind in
which the urine was carefully collected and the
quantity of the contained solids calculated, I in-
variably found, undey the operation of this
remedy, the quantity of solid urinary excreta
steadily and considerably Increased. These obser-
vations were neither small in number nor hastily
made. They extended over several months and
embraced a large number of cases, which have
proved conclusively to my mind that the old idea
of washing away materies morbi [waste material]
from the blood by the urine was at least based on
truth. In a large class of silments where the
blood is obviously in an unhealthy state, especially
where glandular engorgements and inflammatory
eruptions exist—indeed in many of those forms of
chronic Indisposition in which there is no evidence
of organic mischief, but where the general health
is depleted, the face sallow, the urine coloured,
constituting the condition in which the patient is
said to be “ bilious the advantage gained by the
use of this remedy is remarkable. In Bright's
Disease it seems to act as a solvent of albumen; to
soothe and heal the inflamed membranes; to wash
out the epithelial debris which blocks up the
tubiili uriniferi [urine-bearing tubes] a,nd to pre-
vent a destructive metamorphosis ot tissue. When
my experience gave me such assurances of the
worth of the remedy, I felt it to be my duty to
communicate my conclusions to the proprietors
who have since given my indorsement to the pub-
lic. Being independent enough to select any
remedy that will relieve my patients, without re-
ference to the source from whence it comes, I am
free to acknowledge and commend, thus frankly,
“ Warner's Safe Cure.” I personally know that
this medicine is used by some of the leading phy-
sicians of this land; and yet many of them do not
let their patients nor the public know that they
employ it when all other authorised remedies fall.
I believe if it were taken in time, and used as
diree'ed, it would rtfectually prevent the increase
in fatalities from various direct and indirect re-
sults of kidney disorders Indeed, I believe close
study of statistics would prove that, since this
medicine has been so extensively used, there has
been a very noticeable decrease of mortality from
these causes. It must be borne in mind that no
medicine can be expected to relieve chronic kid-
ney diseases immediately; and therefore when a
patient begins the use of the Safe Cure it should
be continued for several week, at least. The
remedy should be used strictly according to the
directions, and the diet should be regulated as
prescribed. In some cases the patient complains
of nausea after taking the medicine for a few
days. In such cases the dose should be decreased
for a time, and then gradually increased as the
nausea passes off. It is also Important that the
bowels should be kept regular during the treat-
ment The first efftct of the remedy will be to
increase the am • unt of solid ingredients thrown off
by the urine, and by the time five or six bottles are
taken the patient will notice a decided impipove-i
ment in his symptoms. Till recently my personal
experience with the Cure ’’ was confined to cars*
of acute and chronic Bright's Dlsea°e, in which 1
had seen the most astonishing results follow its
use; but during the early part of the present year
I have also found it a valuable remedy in Inflam-
mation of the bladder and in enlargement ot
prostate gland. I have been consulted by several
persons who bal tafeen this remedy for a consider-,
able time without deriving any benefit; but UPOS
examining their cases I foued they were
afflicted with aoy of the diseases for which the
remedy is recommended. I am lead to speak tnus
positively of this remedy because I have known sp
many persons being benefited by its use after tneir
cases had been pronounced hopeless by “any
the best physicians in the country; and becauw
my aim is to give the public the benefit of tne
most approved treatment of all diseases that
known to-day, without regard to schools or creeos.
As a rule patent medicines have little or n
merit, and tho public has been too of ten impCiPfi
use or some or teem, nise
have been prejudiced against recomnoepdHig su
remedies, but must acknowledge the truin
matter from what source it comes. —
Printed and
uoar Oc.
Published by Tm
Litalted). 94 rltt-st. Sydney.
William Sharpies, till lately a London
criminal, but now a heavenly seraph, appears
to have been the shuttlecock of evil fortune.
After serving with distinction a long sentence of
penal servitude for jumping on his (or someone
else’s, we forget which) mother, the happy day at
length arrived when William could mingle once
more with the outer world, and call himself a free
man. To the everlasting shame of the prison au-
thorities, he It said, William was also a hungry
man. Ne sooner were the Iron gates ajar for him,
than he made straight for a cook-shop, thera to
compensate his stomach for its ten long years of
“burgoo” with the well-earned reward of a
“square”meal. PoorWilliaml He was scarcely
half through with the second pound of steak when
cramp attacked his Interior, and he was laid In his
little grave with bis first banquet still undigested.
Evidently there must be a vast difference between
a .“free* dinner in prison and a dinner when
you’re free outside.
Sydney is nearly twice as old as Chicago,
which Is - only about the age of mushroom Mel-
bourne. Yet, according to the best evidence,
Chicago possesses 31 steam flrr-engioes, ready,
with 12 men to each, at 11 seconds’ notice of a
night and only four by dav. San Francisco has 14
of these engines and 8 horse ones. Neither Sydney
nor Melbourne has a single steam ft re-engine 1 The
effective working of the Chicago Firemen’s Union
is such that an alarm can be transmitted to all the
divisional branches by electric wires which wake
up sleeping firemen, pull the clothes off their beds,
and let them down through a trap, clothes In
band, on to the top of the engine. With the horse-
engines, the animals are trained to run into posi-
tion in front of the engine on hearing the bell.
We seem all asleep, regular Rip Van Winkles, com-
pared with these go-ahead people, who are pulled
out of bed by electricity, and in II seconds—ere a
dream oan be shaken off-are thundering along
the streets on the top of a steam-engine.
From Goulburn (N.8.W.) comes a circular,
which, if the information it contains be true, ex-
plains how it is that some Life Assurance com-
panies manage to trot out such handsome profits.
The matter is reprinted from the Goulburn Her-
ald, and is issued by Mr. William Davies, once
member for Argyle. This is the first piece of in-
formation which is given as emanating from a
thoroughly reliable source. A man insures his life
(the company be patronises is not stated, and for
aught we know may be in another colony),
and pays premiums for 50 years, when his heart
determines to knock off for a holiday, and never
throbs more. His granddaughter applies to the
company for the Insurance money, and Is blandly
told that she must bring proofs of her grand-
father’s birth. For 50 years h's premiums had
been accepted, and no hint given that on bis death
such proofs would be required. In early life he
came from a foreign country, all his contempo-
raries are dead, the church in which he was chris-
tened and all its records may have disappeared.
The directors are sorry, think people should be
more careful, reject the claim, and go home to a
dinner of ten courses. Here Is another suggestive
little fact. Premiums are paid In advance. On the
2nd of January a man pays his for 1885 He dies
on the 3rd. Docs his widow get the amount of
the policy? Bah I Where Is the money for the
high rents and sleek clerks to como from? The.
premium for 1S86 is also deducted True, the d« -
ceeSed never saw 1888. Well, he would It ne could,
and, besides, nobody else did, so he has nothing ol
which to complain. This shows the spirit of fair
dealing that guides the company’s actions. They
might have deducted premiums up to 1896—indeed,
In extreme cases, they might have demanded pre-
miums to cover the whole policy and leave a
margin to be received from the widow as well.
But through a stupid deference to public opinion
they content themselves with one year’s. Bo we
come to the third alleged fact, that Illustrates how
unfit these s'mole people are to conduct paying
businesses. A policy-holder m'ght besendlngtham
premiums every year till the Greek Kalends
were almo:t at hand, and they would never
ask him to prove hia ago. Bat when he dies,
and his heirs apply for the money, it is then
the question of age is mooted, and If they cannot
settle it, so much the worse for tdem. It would be
merely encouraging criminal carelessness to pay
’money to people like that, and it Is consequently
withheld. It might be said that insu ranee agents,
when canvassing for victims, should acquaint the
latter of all these trivial points. Does the recruit-
ing sergeant tell the country bumpkin that a week
in the black hole is the reward of a profane al'u-
Bion to a corporal’s eyes, or that some mlout.a
absence from parade Is met with some weeks >n
skilly? Far from It. He tells him that, In compari-
son with lounging about in a redcoat with the off-
chance of havlrg a Frenchman’s bayonet insinuated
between bis ribs, all other glory is commonplace
and mean. But we do not tblnk that Mr. Davies
strictures can in any way be applied to any of our
leading companies. We have never heard anyone
fairly complain of treatment received at their
hands : ou conlraire, they are often known to
stretch a point in the direction of liberality.
The members of the Yorick Club, Mel-
bourne, are all pretty well, up to latest advices,
notwithstanding Sala’s anathemas. He seems to
have written in his hate much as King David
spoke in his haste. Whether it be worse to say
that all men are liars than to write of a club as “ a
gang of cads ” Is questionable. It does come very
hard upon a club so constituted, muchly of the
“Bohemian” element, as is the Yorick, and with
editor Haddon for president, to have such a name
applied to it. And from a brother Bohemian and
pressman tool " El tu Brute!’ Saia must have
had a very bad night of it when he wrote thus
biliously to the London paper, Truth His paper#
are the Illustrated London News and the
Daily Telegraph, so that he went out of his
way, In many senses, to write so untruthfully of
the club who were the flist to meet him In Mel-
bourne, to welcome him to Victor.a, and to ask him
to dinner. Having given bis promise to dine with
them he should have kept it. Toe members spent
two guineas each, and domed drees suits
that they might do all honours to the’dinner
and the guest—who neyer came. Here we have
another instance that those who do Injuries, and
not those suffering them—have the bitterest feel-
ings. Mr, Sala is engaged, we hear, for another
public appearance in Melbourne, on his return
from New Zealand. He is now, however, In the
hands of R. 8. Smythe, as his agent, and we ques-
tion If that knowing Yorlcker will now let him
appear. His reception might be made too warm,
for the Yorick Club means the Melbourne
Press.
At the University sports, Melbourne, held
on Saturday, 3rd instant, a novelty was introduced
In the shape of a menagerie rac?, each competitor
having to run with an animal (horses and dogs
being barred). The distance was about 100yds.,
and it was stipulated that the animal had to be In
front of the competitor—none of the “ follow me
home” business. On coming to the scratch, It
was found that the common ordinary barn-door
fowl had by f «■ the largest say in matters. The
other representatives of animal life to face the
starter (who, by the way, rejoiced la the appro-
priate name of Dr. Bird) were a goat, a kangaroo-
rat, an ordinary house-rat, a cat, and a ferret. At
the report of the pistol, all got away well together,
but before travelling more than 10yds. most
of the poultry scattered most hopelessly and
made off the course, they probably having
“ laid ” against themselves during the day—that 1#,
the hen-portion of them. The first to show in front
was a noble-looking herald of the morn (no rela-
tion to our gay little cock of the evening) hotly
pressed by a kangaroo-rat, who, by tbe way, was
running strong and very straight. Within ten
yards of the winning-post, the rooster spotted a
hole In the fence and went for it forthwith, and
the marsupial romped in an easy winner, quickly
followed by the goat, who was kept straight by a
pole on which was suspended a tempting lettuce
just out of reach, the feathered tribe securing the
honour of being placed by the aid of a pea fowl.
It appears that the owner of the cat complained
that his chance was spoilt by the rat being allowed
to start, as no sooner was the start effected than
puss went for her natural enemy. The student
who piloted the winner, Mr. E. C. Hughes, was got
up in the somewhat unusual racing rig of light
masher pants, white vest, and faultlessly cut Beau
fort, the whole topped by a Woodrow’s best bell-
topper. Little wonder that that marsupial kept
well in front of to much manly beauty!
A curious case is now before the Mel-
bourne Courts. Very few compositors die as rich
as the late Mr. Vincent Matthews Whylly. He has
left some £80C0, the cause of quarrel already, and
possibly the cause of disgrace and punishment to
somebody. Mr. Whylly had a wife, but no family.
She had for years suffered from a form of de-
mentia know as melancholia, and was therefore
5 laced in the Yarra Bend Asylum, and a house-
eeper, Sarah Ann Irons, reigned in her stead.
Mrs. Whylly's brother. George Bolton, visited
Whylly’s house at St. Ki!da as lately as May last,
and therefore knew well enough the residence and
name of his brother-ln-Jaw. Whylly left the Go-
vernrpent Printer's at the beginning of this year,
and started a loan office in the Eastern Arcade On
June 20 he made |hls will, and in August caught
cold, and died, in three days, of inflammation of
the lungs. By his will, prepared by a respectable
firm of solicitors, he bequeathed all his property
to his housekeeper, except £1000, the interest of
which would pay the Government requirements
towards the keep of his wife at the Yarra Bend.
So far all is plain enough. The death of Mr.
Whylly was advertised with Christian names and
address in full. Mr. Bolton, the brother-in-law,
says be s«w this notice, but did not think it was
his relative, because “the surname was wrongly
spelled.” On the usual advertised, notice appear-
ing of Intended application for probate, a startling
romance begins. Bolton advertised for produc-
tion of a later will dated July 7, of the existence
of which he only seems to have known. His story
is that Whylly met him in the street, with a Mr.
Emmett, who was a stranger to him and cannot
now be found. That he took Bolton and Emmett
into an hotel and there wrote another will, which
they both witnessed and he took away with him.
The landlord of the hotel is oblivious of any such
occurrence. How to get this second wilt into
Court was now the question—with Bolton. He
tells of a queer call at his house late at night by
three strangers, who concealed names and ad-
dresses and undertook to produce the will on re-
ceiving the advertised reward of £25. He was to
advertise if he agreed to this, and to say where the
will was to be sent. The advertisement was
to be addresssd to “Ada,” and duly appeared
telling her to deliver the will to the Master in
Lunacy, and when delivered, to call on him,
Bolton, for the money. It would look more
common sensible to have delivered the will only
on receipt of the money by people who were so
mysterious and anonymous. “ Ada’s” letter ac-
companying the will is a gem in its way. It is,
like herself, all mysterious as to name or address
—stating that the will wai taken by “her man”
out of the pocket of “ another man.” and that
when “ her man” was drunk she had taken pos-
session of it. A “ cock-and-bull-story” may now
be no longer mentioned for wonderment. The
will benefits Mr. Bolt n, who Is male
trustee of all the property for his demented sister.
The Court have adjourned the case for a week for
further taking of evidence. The absence of the
witness “Emmett ” will, doubtlessly, prove a
serious Impediment.
The Hon. John Douglas, who is a Govern-
ment resident on Thursday Island, Is trying to in-
duce some newspaper man to go up there and
start an organ of public opinion. He points to
written notices posted against doors and sidewall*,
and whispers the talismanlc word “Adsl” But
there Is very little night up in that Queensland
dependency, and unless a man were used to get-
ting drunk in the daytime, life would soon become
insupportable. No Sydney journalist will go up.
Dr. H rbert L. Cortis has, at Careoar,
been rounding up a personage who, It is alleged,
for some time signed the letters M.B. after his
name, but was recently compelled, in the Police
Court, to confess that he had no right to the titles
he had assumed, and sought reiuge from the
charge of wilfully deceiving the public by the In-
genious < xcuse that with him the letters M.B.
mean*, not Bachelor of Medicine, but “ Medical
Botanist.” Dr. Cortis sarcastically remarks that,
with the gentleman in question, the letters M.D.
possibly signify “Mighty Deceiver,” or “Mentally
Deranged, ’ or “Morally Destitute."
THE REVENGE OF THE CHOSEN.
CLA RICE.
A CONDENSED NOVEL-IN FIVE CHAPTERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CHAPTER I.
TMe scene Is a than Sion near Rose Bay, the resi-
dence of Sir Ripstone de Pippin and bis beautiful
daughter Clarice.
“Do not speak any more about him,” said Sir
Ripstone; “hut think, child, of my honour and
your own, and our position in society.”
Clarice looked her parent la the face.
“ But, Pa,” she sail, “what has he dore to dis-
honour himself ?. Is he not bright, accomplished,
cultured, and blast
“Oh, go to blazes 1” cried Sir Ripstona, In a
frenzy of passion. “I say you are not to think of
marrying your penniless bank-clerk lover, es I
have already arranged for your union with Sir
Lionel Snuff racket, son of the Duchess of Darling-
hurst, and you shall marry him "
“Nevahl Nevahl” shrieked Clarice, as she
fainted and fell on her father's belltopper.
Chapter II.
“Ah, my poor Augustus Reginald,” said Clarice,
when they met in the garden at night, as she leant
upon his arm and looked into bis clear blue eyes
and admired the progress his moustache was mak-
ing—“ ray father says he wjll marry me to Sir Lionel
Snuflraoket, but by yonder aright star (she pointed
to the South Head light), I swear to you here that
you, and you alone, shall I marry, although you
only get 30s. a week in a city bank and owe a con-
siderable sum to Savage and Gibson, the tailors.”
Augustus Reginald was affected.
“ Noblest of women 1” he began, when two things
struck him: a thought and a half-brick He only
had time to say “ Be true, Clarice 1" when the bull-
dog was upon him. Hecrossed-on the bridge of
his nose—the ditch that surrounded Sir Ripstone’s
mansion, and escaped.
Chapter III.
Clarice sat in her room musing sadly. There
was a knock at the door. She answered it.
“Well,” she said, as she admitted Sir Lionel
Bnuflracket, " what’s your business ? ”
He bowed.
“ Tour hand, fair one,” he said.
He got It.
He sought the street, found It with diffi-
culty, and bathed his eye at a horse-trough.
“She shall repent of this, by Heaving, she shall I”
he cried.
He entered a pawnbroker’s and spouted his dia-
mond toothpick. He came out again, and turned
over the coin In bis hand. “ Money is power 1 ” he
exclaimed—"and now for my triumph. I will in-
terview Sir Ripstone, and try and get him to give
me Clarice. If he does not,” he muttered, as ho
pocketed the advance “ I’ll buy her." He then re-
tired into himself, and pulled down the blinds.
Chapter IV.
The peals rang out clear on the cold morning air
frem the church of the Two Apostates, on the 25th
April, 188-, and crowds thronged the streets,
anxious to get a view of the wedding—for a wed-
ding was to be celebrated that morning between
Blr Lionel Bnuflracket and Clarice de Pippin.
The bridal carriage drew up before the church,
and Clarice, lookiog pale and agitated, alighted,
and, leaning on her stern parent’s arm, entered
the fashionable fane.
“ Mushal” remarked one Celtic lady to another,
•* there’s something very wrong about this wed-
ding. By Saint Patrick* there Is, and that dirty
spalpeen, Lionel Snuflraoket, is at the bottom of
It. Ah, cushla!”
Sir Lionel arrived a few minutes after the bride,
entered the church, and took his place at the
altar.
The chaplain began the service, and asked Sir
Lionel: " Do you take this woman for your
wedded wife ?”
“ 1 do.” he answered.
“ And do you,” said the chaplain, turning to
Clarice, "take this man for you! wedded hus-
band ?”
" No, I do Mt," she yelled at the top of her
Voice. "I wouldn’t be seen with him at a dog-fight.”
Sir Lionel fainted, and brought down two of the
bridesmaids in his fall. It was plainly seen that
they wote barbers’-pole stockings. Sir Ripstone
took a bee-line for the door, and broke the hinges
oft In his attempt to get outside. The chaplain
turned his eyes to heaven and reverently asked
that a thunderbolt might be sent to blot the
desecratorS of the church off the face of the earth.
Amidst the commotion a young man In the con.
gregation arose and made his way to the altar,
a oh, blessed heaven, what is .the world earning
to t” cried the chaplain. “ And where, In the name
pf the Apostles, are you going to ?" he asked of
the young man.
“To marry this young woman,” he answered.
“ Clarice 1 Clarice 11”
"Augustus Reginald 1 my ownl”
Chapter Y.
Clarice and Augustus Reginald sat on the
Verandah of their mansion talking, “Ob, dear
Augustus Reginald,” said Clarice, “however did
Vou feel whan Vou got the letter ?”
"Well,” said Augustus Reginald, “see, here It
la from the solioltors-statlng that I have suc-
ceeded to the estates of Pettllaroend and title of
fiarlof Woolloomooloo, and all I can say Is that any
Peeling of surprise I had has now been blended
Into happiness.” ,,
Here he gave a glance of unutterable all action
his beautiful wife. As he did so his eye fell
Upon the figure of a constable coming up the
He got up, and with the Countess, went to meet
Robert X.
The Constable bowoi.
•> Your Grace,” he said, “ the body was found on
Plnchgut this morning, pretty well gnawed up by
sharks.”
“ What body ? ” cried the Ear).
" That of Blr Ripstone de Pippin, the Countess’s
father,” said the constable, who, turning to the
Countess, added—"Perhaps you, my lady, will be
glad to bear that Sir Lionel Snuflraoket has been
lumbered for using obscene language, obtaining
goods under false pretences, and resisting the
police In the execution of their dooty.”
The Countess turned her eyes upwards and mur-
mured—" Sweet Heaven, we thank thee for all
thy mercies—and,” ihe added, to the constable,
* tell the undertaker that a * plain plner * will do for
my father.”
Here the affectionate girl was overcome by a
flood of sad and tender memories Wiping away
a tear, she sighed—“After all, he wasn't such a bad
old brusher when he was off the beer.”
DISASTER.
Dnriei her bonnet 1 kissed her
Under her bonnet of straw-
It would not have been strange hwl I missed hei
For hut half of her visage I saw
A glimpse of her chin and her dimple—
And her nose showed its exquisite tip •
And it seemed so remarkably simple
To carom right there on her lip.
And under that mighty poke bonnet
I dived for a moment of bliss—
Vou may wager your wardrobe upon u.
T delivered a lightning speed kiss.
Ye*, under her bonnet I kissed her—
And somehow—the bonnet shows how —
1 found 'twas her Boston-bred sister.
«
• *
There are two girls don’t speak to me now
MINZESHEIMER, JR. - "Monmer, dot little Schmidt
boy said 1 vos a sheeny, un’ he hit me in der eye.”
Mrs M "Shust you go un’ tell your fader. Shakey.
'un’ he foreglose dot morgitch on dot Schmidt house
priddy qvick, don’d it?’’
