

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.-No. 126 -Net» Serlei.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1885.
Trio*—64.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1885.
Wright or Wrong.
Should any of the ingenious immigrants
who once joined hands to form the famous
“ Boss Tweed Ring ” happen to read the de-
bate on Mr. Garyan’s motion in the New
South Wales Assembly, they will probably
say, “ We came to the wrong country, after
all—came West when we should have steered
South.” In reading Parliamentary reports
and debates we have grown grey. What
effect this last will have upon us it would be
premature to say—weakened as we are by
Mr. Fabnbll’s late “satisfactory ” explana-
tion. Certain it is that if Mr. Wright’s ‘ex-
planation ” satisfies the people of New South
Wales, then, indeed, representative govern-
ment bids fair to become one thing on one
side of the equinoctial line and quite a dif-
ferent thing on the other side. Since the
day Mr. Stuart took charge of the ship pt
State, he has kept it bumping against “ex-
planatory ” rocks, each one punching a hole
in its bottom. Scarcely had the Parnell
bump been caulked when the vessel was
headed straight for the Wright iceberg.
Should the passengers retain confidence in
the pilots after this collision, the fact will
go far to show the robust nature of their
faith.
* * «
Mr. Wright is Minister for Works. This
includes a number of things — railways
amongst them. He is also one of the chief,
if not the chief, shareholder in the great
carrying firm of Wright, Heaton, and Co.
Some years ago he possessed nearly a fourth
interest in the concern, and probably pos-
sesses it still. The 38th clause of the Consti-
tution Act of New South Wales excludes
from Parliament persons peouniarly affected
by any contract or agreement with the Go-
vernment. The reason is obvious. Mem-
bers should be free not alone from corrup •
tion but from the very suspicion of cor-
ruption. Still it was seen that such a law
might be unjust in practice by closing Par-
liament to men having but small interests in
companies having dealings w ith the Govern-
ment. The injustice was surmounted by
the concluding sentence of the 38th clause :
—“ Provided that nothing herein contained
shall extend to any contract or agreement
made, entered into, or accepted by any in-
corporated company or any trading com-
pany consisting of more than 30 persons
where such contract or agreement shall be
made, entered into, or accepted for the gene-
ral benefit of such incorporated or trading
company.” We shall examine, further on, the
interpretation put upon this sentence by
Mr. Stephen, a Parliamentary legal light,
before whom—judged by his speech on the
occasion—there already opens a long vista
of usefulness. If the 28th and 39th clauses
of the New -South Wales Constitution Act
do not bear the meaning attributed to
them by Mr. Gary an, then is the Act
supererogatory and worthless. If a man
could turn his business into a com-
pany of (say) 100 shares, give a share
to each of his 20 servants, keeping 80 for
himself, then enter Parliament, and not
only have pecuniary dealings with the Go-
vernment, but become a Cabinet Minister;
if—to cap the absurdity—he could preside
over the very Department with which his
firm or company had dealings, then might a
fitting shroud be at once secured for the
38th clause of the Constitution Act of New
South Wales.
* * r
The following was Mr, Gabvan’s motion :
—“That this House disapproves of the posi-
tion of Secretary for Public Works being
held by Mr. Wright, of the carrying firm of
Wright, Heaton and Co., and that the
foregoing resolution be communicated by
address to his Excellency the Governor.”
Against Mr. Wright individually Mr. Gar-
van made no charge. He showed that the
firm to which the Minister for Works gave
his name, and of which he was a large share-
holder, had immense monetary dealings
with the Department of Railways, of which
Mr. Wright was Minister also. But he did
not stop there. He said that up to a short
while before Mr. Wright entered the
Assembly, and probably after he had
made up his mind to be a candi-
date, there were but 11 partners in
the company; that 10 new shareholders
each with one or ten shares—it is not
clear which, nor does it affect the mat-
ter — were admitted into the concern,
and that all the new men were clerks in the
company’s employ! This latter statement
is acknowledged by Mr. Wright to be
correct. On the Minister’s action, we
hold, only one construction can, under
the circumstances, be placed. Mr. Wright
heard of the obstacles thrown in his way by
the 38th clause and adopted the foregoing
ingenious method to remove them. Again,
some time during the present year, Mr.
Gary an found that the company was once
more registered with an “ increase of capital
and shareholders.” However much the
former registration—when the ten clerks
were admitted —may have increased the
shareholders, it does not seem to have added
extensively to the capital. Nor was the
second more successful. Indeed, it was less
so in one important respect, for it left the
company composed of Mr. Wright, his ten
henchmen, and eight outsiders—19 in all. In
this case, therefore, the 28th clause was not
alone circumvented, but defied. Mr. Gar-
van, while making no reflection on the
Minister’s purity, remarked: “ It was
however, the fact that the Railway
officials recognised that Wright, Heaton,
and Co, had a representative who was the
final resort in any dispute with the Railway
Department.”
mm*
And what was Mr. Wright’s reply ? The
other day we thought Mr. Fabnbll’s ex-
planation stood alone and unapproachable
in its unique ineptitude. But we have read
Mr. Wright's, and honestly think that the
Minister for Lands must come down from
his high niche and give up his place to a
real master. He gave a short history of the
firm, which had as much bearing on the case
as the latest work on conic sections. He
threatened to stand up and leave the House.
He remained and.sat do wn. He remarked
“ It was absurd to argue that because he was a
Minister of the Crown the Department would
favour him. By this business of Wright, Heaton
and Co., he lived, and his family got their bread.
Was it likely he would abandon it ? Was it likely,
after spending 31 years in building up this busi-
ness, that he would sweep it away for a paltry
£1500 a year ? He knew there was a sentiment in
the minds of those people who did not think that
a man could be honest that was making money
out of the Government, All that he would say In
icply wes * Prove It.’ The logical deduction from
this motion was that, independent altogether of
his being a member of the firm referred to, he was
unworthy of trust as a Minister. Should the
motion be carried, he would ask them to add to it
that Francis Augustus Wright be deprived of
his rights as an elector of New South Wales.”
It is marvellous. Through all runs the piti-
ful cry of “injured innocence.” It never
appears to have struck Mr. Wright that,
even if there were 21,000 shareholders in the
company instead of 21, still, so long as he
held a fourth, or a tenth, or a twentieth in-
terest he was evading the spirit of the law.
Nay, that even if there were no law on the
subject at all, no man of sensitive mind
would suffer himself to be placed in such a
position. For the same person to fill the
combined offices of parish doctor, under-
taker, and gravedigger, would not be more
indecent. When an'ailing pauper heard
that his professional attendant was getting
ready his spade and mattock, the news
would not) be And the per-
versity of human nature is such that
just as little comforting to the intend-
ing contractor would be the intelli-
gence that Wright, Heaton and Co.
were about tendering for certain Go-
vernment contracts. In a word, the
Minister for Works, owing possibly to some
cerebral lesion, does not appear to realise
his position. When we see a bold, forward
woman protesting her virtue, we naturally
think, “You may be a very excellent female,
but, if you wish the world to think so, you
should behave differently.” A ’coon on re-
turning home found there a skunk, which
protested that it also was a true ’coon. “ You
may be,” remarked the rightful owner of
the nest, “ but you do not look like a ’coon,
nor speak like one, and d if you smell
like one either.” By the help of these two
simple parables the well-meaning but ob-
stinate Mr. Wright may be brought to
see how he stands.
• • •
Ages before Portia discovered that the
Jew’s bond gave him no drop of blood,
lawyers were busy in framing laws and
then explaining that the texts did not mean
what they said, but something else. This
lucrative trade still flourishes. The speech
of Mr. Stephen is a fair illustration of how
written language, as well as oral, can be
made to conceal rather tha i express
thought. He said that by the 28th clause a
Government contractor was “ not disquali-
fied to be a Minister of the Crown, but that
he became disqualified to hold a seat in the
House.” In other words, it would be per-
fectly legal to have a Cabinet composed of
Government contractors all of whom had
been rejected by the electors. Did this ex-
haust Mr. Stephen’s ingenuity? Far from
it. His next venture was, “ Mr. Wright
was a member of an incorporated company,
and if that incorporated company was com-
prised only of five members he was relieved
from responsibility.'’ Let us turn once
more to the final sentence of the 28th clause;
“Provided that nothing herein contained
shall extend to any contract or agreement
made ... by any incorporated company
or any trading company consisting of more
than 20 persons, &c.” Any person other
than a lawyer reading this would say at once
that “more than 20 persons” applied to both
“ incorporated ” and to “ trading ” com-
panies. For, if it does not, observe the re-
sult. The holder of a 9-lOth interest in an
“ incorporated ” company having Govern-
ment contracts and consisting of five share*
holders would be eligible for Parliament,
while the holder of a twentieth share in a
“ trading” company of 20 members would
not. Before accepting as sound law these
novel interpretations of Mr. Stbfhrn it
THE TICHBORNE CLAIMANT.
(From his latest photo.)


would bo as well to hear what the Supreme
Court has to say on the matter.
• • •
All the arguments of Mr, Weight and bis
supporters resolved themselves into the one
monotonous wail, “ Prove that there has
been any corruption.” Not so very long
ago iu France, as even now in some Catholic
countries, there were Prince-Bishops—mm
who, as temporal princes, drank, swore, and
had liaisons, but who, aspriests, were models
of piety and asceticism. It was a rather
anomalous position to hold, but it is doubt-
ful whether the anomaly was greater than
that presented by the principal partner in a
large firm presiding over the State Depart-
ment with which his firm has extensive deal-
ings. The public will await with curiosity
the real explanation of why the exact num-
ber of ten clerks were added to the company
just when they were wanted. They might
have broughta huge accession of capital. The
incomes of clerks are large, and they are
notoriously provident. Still, if Ministers
adopt such methods, the public, who so often
do grave in j ustices to the best of men, will not
be slow to draw their own conclusions.
According to the decision of tbe Par-
liament of New South Wales, there is
nothing to prevent the members of the
Cabinet from forming a company with them-
selves as members and customers at the
same time. We have no doubt that Minis-
ters are pure and above suspicion. But
they have taken a singular way of showing
it. With Mr. Stuart explaining his Illa-
warra, oyster-bed, and barbed wire con-
nections, Mr, Farnbll his family ones,
and Mr. Wright those he had with his
clerks, there is a likelihood of the Stuart
Cabinet being known to posterity as the
“Government of lame explanations.”
• • •
Some of the remarks made by the Sydney
Morning Herald on this debate are too
good to be left entirely unnoticed. “ If Mr.
Weight’s position has brought temptations,
he does not seem to have fallen into them.
No mischief has been done by the course
Mr. JWriqht has taken When the
position was created by the Government the
House accepted it, and having approved for
so long a period it might have spared itself
the trouble of declaring its disapproval. Is
the House to say that no man who holds
8hares in a mine shall be Minister for Mines ?”
Why New South Wales is so backward in
many things suggests itself by reading argu-
ments like these. Mr, Weight “ does not
seem to have fallen into temptations !” For
this he has to thank his own exceptional
integrity. It is not because they were not
thrown in his way. But how many other
men similarly circumstanced would possess
such unswerving rectitude ? So it has opme
to this that, when a wrong has been perse-
vered in for a certain time, it must be con-
tinued. It is wrong to right it. Again,
what dealings has a mining company with
Government except to fulfil the labour
covenants and pay the rent of the land ?
The analogy sought to be set up is false an d
misleading. Further, if a large mini g
company had great monetary transactions
with the Government, and if a large share
holder, by being Minister for Mines, could
favour the company in any way, it would
be indecent for him to accept the post. The
debate and its result go to show that the
strictures in Sir Henrt Parkes’ Tenterfleld
letter were not undeserved; that the pre-
sent unpaid Parliament of New South
Wales is honeycombed with something
80 closely resembling corruption that
it is difficult to distinguish between
them, and that it is a good thing for the
country and for the decency of public
life that the members of the Assembly are
now to face their constituents.
The Lash in England and in New South
Wales
In the London Times of 1st August last a report
is given of an Interesting debate which took place
in the House of Commons on the preceding night.
To the 4th clause of the new Criminal Law Amend-
ment Bill, dealing specially with offences against
children, Mr. H. Fowler proposed an amendment
to the effect that atrocious offences on young girls
be punished, in addition to a term of imprison-
ment, by flogging. Readers of the Sydney dally
Press have not been made aware that such ado
bate occupied so lately the attention of the highest
deliberative assembly of the Empire. Nor have
they bad a hint of the issue of the deliberation.
These papers have keen eyes for other matters
occurring in the old lands. They bad news of the
death of an elephant the other day. They com-
municated Intelligence as to the numbers of body-
servants Governor Carington will bring out
They collect diligently for the Improvement of
colonial minds and manners a large amount of
matter about the doings of exalted personages. We
are reddening our hands every week. Every week
we tie some criminal to the triangles. We draw
his blood and cut the flesh from his bones. Some
of us sicken at the spectacle. More are gratified.
Our Legislature believes the entertainment to be
good for the criminal and good for everybody.
The House of Commons condemns the entertain-
ment as being bad for the criminal and everybody.
There are few things- the Intelligence of which
should have more importance to the people of
New South Wales than this. The highest delibera-
tive Assembly in the Empire declares to be de-
grading to Englishmen a practice the New South
Wfiles Government declares to bo su itable to New
South Welshmen. Yet the Press that chronicles
the career of a dead elephant omits mention of
this Intelligence. The omission is suggestive. Our
readers must not suffer, however. We invite to
an Impartial account of the proceedings. It will
show us where our people are, and where they
might be.
* • •
Mr. Fowler’s arguments have some strength.
The criminals he aimed at are monsters. While he
spoke the atmosphere of England was thick with
fact and suspicion about systematically-outraged
childhood. No title for eompassion could be set
up for the destroyers of the souls and bodies of
infants. That gave a great start to bis views.
The Government Bill had been conceived anterior
to the Pall Mall revelations. It contained no
authority for the lash for these offences. In the
panic, the Home Secretary adopted the amend-
ment. Mr. Finch Hatton supported it. Captain
Price and Mr. Monk pleaded for It. The Captain
maintained that since flogging was abolished in
the navy, assaults on superior officers had in-
creased. Mr. Monk asserted that flogging had put
down garotting. The general arguments were
that the lash was a deterrent, and that, however
degrading it might be held to be, it was not
too vile for this class of miscreants. Messrs. Hop-
wood, A. Arnold, B. Clarke, Picton, Labou-
chebe, Jacob Bright, Stanspbld, Stanley,
Sir H. James, Sir E. Wilmot, Sir T. Chambers,
SirF. Hbrsghbll, and others spoke against it.
The arguments used on this side have been, one
way or another, placed before The Bulletin
readers on previous occasions. The speakers held
that the lash debased both the criminal and
society. Mr. Hopwood called the proposal a re-
trograde step towards “ the Ideas which led our
forefathers to think that crime was to be most
effectually repressed by methods of cruelty and
torture.” That was the basis of the general argu-
ment. Mr. Arnold made a slight diversion. He
favoured flogging in the abstract, whatever that
is, hut fearing that criminals, If they occupied a
i high social position, would escape the lash, he
opposed its application totally. Mr. Labouchere
drove this point home. Sir F. Herschell ob-
jected to the lash on the ground tbat its infliction
was unequal and uncertain. The same number of
strokes would affect no two men alike. “Some
Judges would always flog, and some never, and
whether tbe punishment were inflicted would
depend, not on the gravity of the offence, hut on
the Judge.” Mr. Monk's allegation that flogging
had caused the decrease of garotting, was refuted
by the production of an official return. This
return showed that the decrease was estab-
lished before the law was passed. Mr. Jacob
Bright quoted Lord Aberdare to the same
effect. Sir B. Wilmot met Captain Price
by citing a recent statement of Lord Wol-
selby’s. Lord Wolseley attributed the efficiency
of his soldiers in late campaigns to the abolition
of flogging in the army. Sir H. James and Sir F.
Chambers rested on Radical objections to the re-
introduction of a barbaric instrument. Tbe
amendment was put to the House, when the vot-
ing was-91 for and 135 against the employment of
the lash.
♦ * *
It is to be remembared that the public mind in
England was at tbat time in a state of abnormal
excitement. It would not bo surprising if legis-
lation had been touched by passion. The cries of
little children were abroad. The execrations of
mothers were In the air. But the question was
argued out, and Parliament refused sanction to
the lash. It was admitted that tbe criminal was
already debased. Parliament refused to make
him more so. Society was outraged. Parlia
meat refused to outrage it further. “ There
is something very debasing,” said one mem-
ber, “ In the influence of such punishments
as flogging, not only on the criminals themselves,
but on the community at large.” Can we put
aside the contrast that arises here ? The English
Parliament, even in a panic period, declares that
for certain crimes the lash is a dishonoring bar-
barism. It affirms that it makes of the man who
is in part a brute a brute altogether, and of the
State, whose mission should be to elevate, an in-
strument to degrade. There was no panic period
in New South Wales when the lash was adopted.
It Is swung regularly at our triangles without a
pretext that passion nerves the arm. The English
Parliament tries to ascend to the position of a
humanlser and labours to lift tbe criminal. Tbe
New South Wales Parliament descends to the den
of the beast and fights him with teeth and fangs
like his own. From a contest with English law a
criminal will carry away a little respect for au-
thority and a little for himself. From a contest
with New South Wales law he will carry away the
feeling that he is a brute, and that the authority
over him is brutish.
• * •
It is alleged that the nature of colonial life
differs from tbat of home life and tbat the lash
becomes, therefore, necessary to repress certain
offences among us. Our country is open, habita-
tions are distant, population is thin, children have
often long journeys to make to and from school.
But, In the first place, opponents of the lash main-
tain the weapon adds to brutality of despotism
under all circumstances. They are justified in
using these very facts in their favour, if the in-
ferences of friends of the lash be true. But, in
the second place, the inferences are not true. The
topography of Australia is as much in favour of
virtue as is that of England. It is true that
families are far from one another here. But
families live under the same roof in London. In
one case children are, no doubt, in some danger.
In the other they are in infinitely more. Oppor-
tunities for crime and escape are much greater in
London than In any part of Australia. More men
are lost there than here. The advlsahleness of
using the lash in Australia should imply tbe im-
perative necessity of using it in England. The re-
jection of it, after deliberation, in England, should
secure the rejection of it, without deliberation, in
Australia. But the frknds of the lash in Australia
are not victims of false inferences alone. They
are also victims of arrested reasoning. If flogging
be deterrent in certain cases, it is a deterrent in
all cases. If a deterrent in all, why not adopt it in
all ? Why not lash back the race into primitive
innocence ?
■ * *
. The progressive abolition of degrading torture
is a note of healthy civilisation. In Germany,
Italy, France, and most of the States of the
American Union the lash is now laid aside. When
their civilisation was weak the lash was strong In
all these places. The Mosaic code admitted it.
Solomon would correct fools by stripes. Deu-
teronomy, ho ever, limited the number of stripes
to 40, “lest thy brother should seem vile unto
thee.” That indicates that even then the worst
evil of the lash was dimly apprehended. In time
the lash became restricted solely to slaves. It was
not looked upon as a freeman’s punishment of a
freeman. St. Paul objected to being scourged,
on the ground that he was a Roman citizen. The
Roman citizen was simply an approach to the ideal
freeman in the ideal free State. Civilisation has
kept urging the State and the man forward to that
Ideal freedom. It has cleared off slaves. It is
clearing off the lash devised for slaves. Where
the material is kind the work is easy. It is easy
in proportion to the fineness of the intelligence it
operates on. There are communities close down
upon the Intellectual level for which Deuter-
onomy was written. These require pressure of
opinion and encouragement of example. That
is the good done by the publication of debates like
the one we have treated. If the Sydney daily
Press were true to its duty, It would give this olasi
of intelligence precedence over accounts of Royal
pigeon-matches, aristocratic banquets, and obitu-
ary notlois of millionaires and elephants. It is
only in such ways the people of New South Walts
will see what they arc and what they might be.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Close of the Session.
The session ended, as it began, with a victory for
Sir Henry Parkes. The first act of the New
South Wales Ministry was to attempt to further
discredit the veteran in the eyes of the country.
In this they failed ignomlniously. Their last act
of the session was to advise the Governor to pro-
rogue. This was done while a vote—equivalent to
oce of censure—to be moved by Sir Henry, was
pending; when it was known that a motion to be
moved tbat afternoon would, if carried, refer the
seats of the Premier and the Treasurer to the
Committee of Elections and Qualifications; and,
lastly, when questions were on the paper asking
for information relative to the alleged irregulari-
ties in the purchase of goods from companies in
which Ministers were more or less interested.
Every sitting has heard a charge of corruption
levelled against a Minister; almost every day bears
a Minister's “explanation” on record. Nor was
the Opposition satisfied with the charges already
made. Threats of further attacks were uttered.
Mr. Abigail, who does not usually speak at ran-
dom, asserted himself able to prove a case of per-
sonal corruption against a Minister. Such an asser-
tion, for the sake of the Minister, should be met.
But i he Ministry preferred that such threatened
attacks should not be met. They advised and ob-
tained an immediate prorogation. Upon what
grounds this was given we oannot tell. To suppose
tbat Lord Loftus granted it on the grounds stated
—the obstruction of business by votes of censure
and charges of corruption—is to assert that he
misused the prerogative. Criticism and attack by
the Opposition are not just grounds for proroga-
tion. All authorities on the Constitution agree
that the chief responsibility of Ministers is upon
matters of administration; and members have
every right to express their opinion concerning
every act of Administration. This prorogation
has checked the Opposition, and has defeated the
object of their censure. It cannot be that Lord
Loftus willingly lent his prerogative to grant
Ministers immunity from the consequences of
alleged actions. Gladstone has announced his de-
sire to deprive the Queen of her prerogative of
dissolution. If it be true that Lord Loftus has
used his prerogative as a means of burking enquiry
as to the acts of his Ministers, it will prove tbat
this power should be taken away from the Go-
vernors of these colonies. In the days of the
Stuart Kings prorogation was used as a means
of concealing faults of administration. But the
stmdy patriots of those days wore not to be de-
feated so. They would make the halls of Parlia-
ment ring with the denunciations which had been
arbitrarily silenced as soon as the next session be-
gan, nor would they grant any supplies until their
complaints had been heard. This is a precedent
for our senators. Let them not rest in the next
session until they are satisfied concerning the
purity of all of the occupants of the Treasury
benches.
Dailey's Dalliance.
It Is not difficult to find a man who can earn a
glaring reputation in a circus by keeping half-a-
dozen balls in the air at once, but to juggle with
nations requires considerable expertness—we are
not sure that it does not require something else,
Mr. Galley, who for some reason or other bag
galnsd the reputation of an orator, undertook, on
Monday night, to deliver an oration (he never in-
tended a lecture), the object of which, It appears
to us, was—first—to turn the attention of the peo-
ple once more to the wretched Soudan business
and so divert them from the real issue of a criti-
cism of the past three .’years’ administration; and,
secondly, to prove by eloquence, declamation, and
figures that it is a more statesmanlike thing for
Australians to follow the example of the great mili-
tary nations and drill everybody than to bury
themselves in the great struggle for wealth. A
third thing, which we need not refer to, was
his opinion of Sir Henry Parkes. We allude to
that no further, because we believe concerning
those gentlemen and many others whose names
have been for a generation before the public,
that their estimates of each other no longer pos-
sess the slightest interest to the people who have
to work out the destinies of this country. Mr.
Galley took Germany in his right hand, and
said, “Behold a military nation. Their military
service is of Infinite worth as training when they
comeback to the plough and the farm. Behold
Italy, which a generation ago was sunk In barbar-
ism and ignorance, now comparatively civilised-
all owing to military training. And the gasp of
the eminent Frenchman (who never ate much
black bread nor ever shivered on the banks of the
Borodino)—Letbverything go, but oh, preserve me
the flag of my country.” Not a word in all this
about the chess-playing of Skobeloffs, Bona-
pabtes, or Von Moltkks. Not a word of
the bitter poverty, rendered bitterer— not in pat-
riotic and justifiable fight for fatherland, but In
the unscrupulous and notoriously cruel greed of
a few well-fed worthless Royal and bastard Royal
scoundrels. No word to say that the Italia
Llberata of to-day was owing to the destruction
of a discipline none the 1( as military because its pro-
fessed aims were holy, and its generals, recruiting-
sergeants, floggers, and oourts-martlal wore black
coats Instead of red. We are weary of this juggling
The German, Frenchman, or Italian who settles
abroad wants peace, and the very best supporters
of the anti-drill party are the men who have
been well drilled themselves. We may regret the
withdrawal of Mr. Dallby from prominent
politics, and might shed tears If we had not experi-
ence of what such withdrawals mean. In any?
case, we hope the new leaders will abandon the
notion of playing with Australians as toys, and)
setting up as our model the militarism of Ger-
many. If the State is going to adopt his sugges-
tion, let us be thorough. Let us also have a
Nepean of lager, and a State-pipe with a stem*
laid into every man's house.
“alfred” Come to Judgment.
We are giad to see that the Sydney Evening News
still retains its position as a powerful political
organ. And its consistency and sublime impu-
dence are on a par with its power. That’s why it
has such a hold upon “ the people” of Sussex-
street. J ust look at tbe following
Evening News.
Monday, October 5.
“It has been suggest-
ed in an apparently seri-
ous wav that a new or
third party should be
formed from both sides
of the Assembly, and
that Mr. Barton, the
Speaker, should be se-
lected as its leader. It
can scarcely be imagin-
ed that tnls proposal
nas been made with the
knowledge and consent
of the hon. gentle-
man who is scarcely
likely yet to aspire to
the Premiership. It is
not impossible that such
a time may come; but
before it does, Mr. Bar-
ton will have to play a
more conspicuous part
in public life than he
did while he bad a seat
in the Assembly as a
private member. What-
ever abilities as a poli-
tician be may possess,
he has modestly neg-
lected to display them,
and it is simply subject-
ing him to unnecessary
criticism to put him
forth as the only pos-
sible deliverer of the
country in its present
difficulty, or to suppose
that the veterans of
nublic life would follow
a younger man who, as
yet, is not much more
than a political gradu-
ate.”
Tuesday, October 6.
“As intimated in the
Evening News yester-
day, the Speaker of the
moribund Parliament'
(Mr. B. Barton) is not
only a coming man, hut,,
in racing language, has
come through his
horses, backed by an
almost unanimous sup-
port of the party which,
for nearly three years,
has sat on the right-hand
side of the Speaker, and
which is desirous that
he should be Premier
of the new Ministry.
The only difference of
opinion is whether Mr.
Barton should accept
the Premiership at oncei
or occupy a subordinate!
position until the elec-
tions are over and Mr.
Dibbs faces the new?
House. Pressure Is be-
ing brought to bear
upon Mr. Barton to.
induce him to take the.
former course, and al-
though he is said to be.
not personally anxious
for tbe position, yet it.
Is understood tbat he
is prepared to yield;
to the wishes of the
party. In addition to
the Ministerial party,
Mr. Barton’s accept-
ance of the Premiership
is esid to find favour
with several members
of the Opposition, who
see tbat, unless they
choose between Barton
and Parkes, they would
have to choose between
Parkes and Dibbs, and
who are not disinclined
to take a course which
will prevent them from
having to make the lat-
ter choice and to join Sir
Henry, with whom
they are not in com-
plete political sympa-
thy; while, for certain
reasons, Mr. Dibbs is;
not acceptable to them
as Premier, as he is not
to that majority of the
Government narty, who
would prefer to see Mr.
Barton in the posi-
tion.”
So you see the politician who, up to Monday,
had succeeded in concealing whatever abilities he
might possess, was, on Tuesday, the “coming
man,” who “ has come through his horses,” and
can depend, not only on the Government, but on
“ several members of the Opposition.” You can’t
keep anything from these newspaper people.
Toadyland—i e., Australia.
Not so very long ago Mr. Galton, of Orange
New South Wales, was removed from the
commission of the peace for having, while acting
as chairman of one of Mr. J. B. Redmond’s Land
League meetings, alluded to the English power in
Ireland as “ a foreign Government.” And when
the now historic Grattan Address was published
in Victoria the Jingoes and the bigots clamoured
savagely and loudly for the expulsion from Parlia-
ment of the signatories of that document, because
it stated that Ireland had been kept under “ the
hoof of a foreign despotism.” To escape expul-
sion Messrs. John Gavan Duffy, Daniel
BrophV, William O’Callaqhan, land James
Toohey apologised to the House for having
signed the “ treasonable ” address, yet the Hon.
Francis Longmork sternly and boldly refused
to retract, and declared that “ he would sign
it, and sign it over and over again.” But
for the abject apology wrung from the
first-named four signatories the whole five
M.’sL.A. would have been “ kicked out,” but it
was not deemed expedient to expel Mr. Long-
more, and leave the rest unpunished. We observe
that the Right Hon. Joseph Chamberlain,
M.P., leader of the great English Radlca
party, has committed the offence for which
Mr. Dalton suffered and the five Victorian
legislators were upbraided. Speaking at Hol-
loway, on the Irish question, recently, Mr.
Chamberlain said:—“ The time has come to re-
form altogether the absurd and irritating ana-
chronism which is known as Dublin Castle, to
sweep away altogether those alien hoards and
foreign officials, and to substitute for them a
genuine insn administration of purely Irish busi-
ness.” In another portion of his speech, Mr.
Chamberlain declared that the rule of Britain in
Ireland was but the grip of “ a foreign despot.”
Wa have not yet heard that Chamberlain is
t be annihilated for this treason; but then the
House of Commons, bad as may be its Constitu-
tion in some regards, does not contain any appre-
ciable percentage of the cringing, unmanly
vestryfled creatures by whose presence Australian
Parliamentary institutions are disgraced.


m
tAAGl c
MIRTH
g
, 1 , ; \n;
250 Tricks and Delusions
CARDS, DICE, and CONJURING APPARATUS,
and also containing over 100 tricks and deceptions
with cards, illustrated with blocks and diagrams,
fully explained, simplified, and adapted for home
amusement and social entertainments, forming
the most complete collection of its kind ever
offered to the Australian public. Mailed free to
any address ONE SHILLING.
THE WIZARD’S CHANGEABLE CARDS.
These cards change from Red to Black, from
eights to deuces and back again at the pleasure of
the performer, and elicit exclamations of wonder
and surprise from all who witness them. Post
free, with full instructions. Is. 2d.
COMIC CARICATURES.
“I’m a Fadder,” “I’m in love,” “I’m a Daddy,”
"Before and After Marriage,” “The Mother-in-.
Law.” Five separate sets, each set consisting of
five character sketchings that have convulsed with
laughter every gathering at which they have
appeared. Price, post free, Is. 3d.
WONDERFUL JAPANESE DRAWER BOX.
The performer sends round a pretty little box to
the company, which they fill with rings, coins, etc.
Directly the performer takes it in bis hand the
articles instantly vanish and the drawer is shown
empty. Price 3s.. post free.
GIVEN AWAY J
Gut this advertisement out and post it to us, en-
closing 5s. in stamps, or a P.O. order for 6s„ and
we will send you by return of post the above-men-
tioned goods, together with either of the follow-
ing articles
A LADY’S HANDSOME BROOCH or EARRINGS
GENT’S SCARP PIN or SET OF STUDS,
of the finest American Roll-plate Gold, guaranteed
to stand the acid test, and to wear for 10 years,
alone worth double the money, for which we
MAKE NO CHARGE.
N.8.W. stamps taken at par, other colonies add
Id. to each Is.
Address all communications:
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT,
BOX 611 G.P.O. 401 GEORGE-BT., SYDNEY.
J, TURNER R0R/NS0N * CO.S'
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Goorge-straat,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OP
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY.
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guaranteed.
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only ,9s.
Small Bottle. , is. 6d,
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
Prom Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALIDS.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINB,
is. 6d. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3a. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT/
U. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Botties, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN-IN FLASKS,
lf«9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henkejs Prize Medal Brand,
In stone bottles and square bottles.
largest size.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY,
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Market Streets,
SYDNEY.
THE PICNIC OF THE PATRIOTS.
It was a merry morning of Spring, with
just enough of a breeze lapping round the Cir-
cular Quay to give you a liberal taste of the city
dust and a copious glimpse of the ankles of North
Shore as their owners tripped down the planks
from the ferry. There were Neutral Bay ankles
also, emerging from rival boats, and a twinkling
array from Manly, accompanied by a kaleidos-
copic display of stocking. We stood awhile watch-
ing these ankles as they distributed themselves
over the city, and marvelled at the many changes
their arrival, at their various destinations, might
occasion. History will afford you many startling
instances of this Take Boadicea, for example—
and she only credited with having one pair!
* * *
It must not be thought, however, that an
occupation of so frivolous a nature would have
attracted us to the Circular Quay at midday. Our
business there was of a character we regarded as
sufficiently serious. We were in search of a
steamer which was to take us, with other godly
company, to Clontarf, where we were to honour
Mr. Dion Boucicault by entertaining him at a
picnic. It was a bit confusing down upon the Quay
on that sunny Spring morning, for the day was
prolific of picnics, and boats went dancing away to
popular music continually. Before we were put
right by that water-police officer whose sturdy pro -
portions admit of the waterside youth walking
round him for wagers of hardbake, we had made
two mistakes. We had “spotted” the boat, of
course, immediately on arrival, and having made
the usual confidential communication to the cab-
man relative to “ seeing him on the stand to-mor-
row,” we boarded a big white steamer, and, seated
next a young creature much Inflated by clock-
springs, began to enjoy the prospect. The appa-
rition, however, of a gushing charmer in black
bombazine over yellow bed-curtain, a straw hat
with a distressing “ ornament,” and bronze shoes
with red rosettes, caused us to reflect. She was
followed by a young man who had been furiously
freckled by Providence, and who carried a con-
certina-box. Surely—but, no! We glanced down
the list of our committee. Would L. Foley, Esq.,
or W. H. L. Bailey, Esq., tolerate this? No—
perish the thought! Hi, there! We are for the
shore.
m * *
Our departure was received with such
hilarity, and so many humorous suggestions were
advanced as to the cause of our retreat, that we
were covered with confusion. " Don’t leave us,
sir,” said the young person with the vermilion
rosettes, in a tone of mock entreaty. " Let ’im
alone, Hemmy,” cried the miscreant with the con-
certina-case; "can’t you see he’s breakin’ ’isart.
Jane’s gone to Bondi with the baker.” We smiled
contemptuously at this cheap wit, but it was
apparently much appreciated by the million, for it
is no figure of speech to say that the young man’s
remark doubled up everybody on the floating
jetty, and made the very steamer rock again. A
little farther on was a prim-looking steamboat
painted green on the inside—a circumstance which
at once convinced us we were right at last. An
acquaintance was on board, which was a comfort-
able commencement, and so, seating ourselves,
with an air of proprietorship, comfortably in the
stern (for did we not possess a 35s. ticket?), we
watched our friend carefully fold and put away
a large ’possum-skin rug. " That might come in
handy for the ladies,” we hazarded with spectral
jocularity. “ No ladles to-day,” said he—“ No
ladies?” "No; too cold. By the way, have you
brought your blankets ? The bait Is .” The
wharf! It was eventually a jaunting-car that
guided us. As it flashed its way through the dis-
persing ankles we have mentioned, we knew we
were saved. A fitting thing, a jaunting car, to go
to a picnic of which Dan O’Connor was chairman.
Our only wonder is It wasn’t painted green, tool
* * *
There was nothing about our boat to give
any indication to the vulgar mind that it was
chartered by a clump of the patriotism and intel-
lect of the country for a festive purpose. We
detected no sign of bunting, and the only thing
calculated to make the company hilarious was the
absence of a band. Despite this merry circum-
stance, however, we were a somewhat grim com-
pany, and it seemed in keeping with the sur-
rounding atmosphere that the first person we
encountered was an undertaker. He was clad in
gorgeous raiment, was resplendent with jewellery,
and wreathed in smiles—but still an undertaker 1
The steamer was in charge of Mr. Quinn, one of the
secretaries—a courteous literary gentleman, whose
sonnet, “ On the Aged Barnett,” has, for months,
been the talk of the Bodega. We called Mr. Q.
aside and enquired confidentially for the hero
of these riotous proceedings. We learned then
that he had gone away an hour ago, under
the wing of Mr. Dan O'Connor, the Chairman,
and was then doubtless in the full enjoyment of
an elaborate and discursive lecture upon the bene-
fits of the marine panorama, at the hands of the
eloquent gentleman. We then envied Dion Bou-
oloault! In the course of our travels we have had
occasion to envy him many times; but this time
our envy reached what may be termed Its climac-
teric. As the steamer coughed d’un air pr&para-
tif several times, but made no signs of starting,
the question arose what we were waiting for. The
gallant undertaker at length formed himself into
a deputation, and having interviewed those in
authority, returned, saying that we were waiting
“foran eminent personage.” Who could it be?
A facetious gentleman, who had paid frequent
visits to an adjoining hotel, suggested the Pope—a
remark, which we regret to state, occasioned some
covert chuckling. The eminent personage on
whose attendance we danced, subsequently turned
out to be Sir Patrick Jennings, who, however
(much to the regret of the ladies) did not turn up;
but “Doctor Tucker” did, at the last moment,
looking a gorgeous picture after his European
trip. As the gallant doctor "corkscrewed” his
way up the “companion,” a lady said to her hus-
band—" Dear, who is that very distinguished-
looking man?” “ Hush I ” he replied, "that’s the
celebrated mad-dootor.” "Gracious me!” ex-
claimed the lady, “ how very stupid of them to
sell him a ticket! ” Then the word was given, the
plank was clattered Inboard, and the symmetrical
screw of the stately steamer cleft with rhythmic
strokes the moving waters of the turbid drain.
» * *
The journey to '.Clontarf was uneventful.
We smoked cigarettes under cover of the funnel
with the undertaker, and conversed cheerily upon
coffins; while Mr. Bailey caused a pleasant diver-
sion by pervading the vessel, adorned with a
tiower. Our arrival was quite in keeping with the
uproarious character of our voyage. There was
neither on the wharf, nor within the whole range
of the grounds, one single soul to be seen!
We were, if dull, a highly respectable company,
and therefore no violence was done to the inde-
fatigable secretary, but one or two brawny sons
of Erin were understood to have called him aside
and to have said that if anything happened that
the picnic was lost, they expected to hear from the
narty who had effusively trowsered their twenty-
five "white.” When we had landed, a man came
out from some shrubs and commenced to wrestle
with a hamper of grog. " Where is Mr. Bouot-
cault ? ” enquired a bold voice. Not come yet,”
was the reply. Not come; and the watches point-
ing to one o’clock. Not come! Here every in-
dignant eye was turned towards the secretary. But
he didn’tfiee! No! his cheek may have blanched,
and his breath come quicker-but he stood his
ground. Words were not for him in that terrible
nuncture; all he could do was to sink down on the
grog-basket, and point in a ghostly manner to-
wards the pavilions.
* • *
We walked up in sullen and revengeful
knots. As we looked round it seemed that we
might as well have been cast away on a desert
island for all the signs of life that were apparent.
A horrible feeling seized some of us that the other
people had Inveigled us to this solitary spot, while
they took the picnic elsewhere and devoured it.
We imparted this suspicion to the undertaker
upon the turf where Vial* the ooachbuuder
wrested the weapon from the gory grasp of the
beetle-browed murderer, and he turned livid.
Once in the old pavilion, however, and a sigh of
relief floated through the assemblage. The guest
wasn’t there, nor the chairman, nor either of the
vice-chairmen, but —the picnic was! Some of it
was set out upon a pi in a oa trestle j , and hungry
males ranged themselves up before it and
“ slogged”—there is no other word for it - into
oysters and porter. Ladles—we watched thls-
aeated on chairs, dispatched their men for big
“ bars” of this picnic overture, and, in the calm
enjoyment of having, at last, found the picnic,
feasted like a bevy of genteel ghouls. This was
the talk: “ Another plate, dear, and say it is for
yourself—the bottle is here behind the chair.”
♦ • *
In full view was the rest of the picnic, on
four long tables and a cross one for the "quality.”
The effect was exceedingly picturesque, the tables
being ornamented with numerous huge blocks of
ice, in the centre of which were frozen fruit and
other picturesque trifles. This idea was, we
could see, as yet. in its infancy. In the not far
distant future when you telephone for a cool-
headed reporter he will be sent down in an oblong
block, and you will take him out with a darning-
needle. Encomia being exhausted over the dis-
play of victuals, we all meandered out into the
deserted grounds again, looking, even after the
“ snack,” as little like a holiday party as need be.
We were not savage, for our grated feelings had
been well lubricated with fat oysters and bread
and butter, but none of us looked at all enlivened
by repletion. “ A fine lot of mourners we’d
make,” we remarked to our undertaking friend,
surveying the cortege as it drifted sadly about the
lawn. Here he drew us aside. " Mourners,” he
said, "are the merriest of mortals.” “Merry?”
we exclaimed. “Hush,”said he; "yes. Youshould
see the Barcelona nutshells and banana-skins
that are always at the bottom of the mourning
coaches. Why only the other day, in one of ’em,
we found three pine-apples, half a bottle of
Square-O! and a draught-board.” Then he went
away to try—bless him!—and borrow some cricket
things, while we stood pondering alone upon the
spot where Vial, the gallant coachbullder, wrested
the weapon from out the gory grasp of the
beetle-browed assassin—we think we have said
that before. As we lay upon the emerald
sward, a longing, somehow, came upon us to be
distinguished. Suppose upon the great Dion’s
arrival we should dive in amongst the sycophants
by which he was sure to be surrounded, and
drawing him aside by the lappel of his coat, ex-
claim : T ‘ Leave, Dion, this following of flatterers,
this bevy of trillers by whom you are enveloped.
Come with us. and we will show you the exact
spot where”—but would he come ?—and, above all,
—should we be reported? Hal there was the rub I
The undertaker only having succeeded in raising
a stump like a boomerang, and a ball the size of a
walnut, all thoughts of athelic sports were then
abandoned; and the company commenced to be
simple watchers for the boats containing the guest
and the speeches. In another moment one of
those steamers for which the port is so justly
famous glided up to the wharf, and one of these
musical organisations which are (for many reasons)
only to be found in the country made a violent at-
tack on the “ Conquering Hero.” By this time we
were all down at the boat, and in a moment they
had landed 1 Their trip round the harbour, with
its attendant lecture, had told upon them evi-
dently. They were—and just fancy this I—a pen-
sive party.
• ■ *
We watched Dion as be landed. He was
pale, but composed; and as he gazed upon the un-
peopled sward in front, and thought of the gor-
geous gathering behind, while he murmured how
charmed he was with his lips, be was doubtless
saying in his heart: “ So this is a Sydney picnic, is
it? Well, then, blank your institutions!” Dion
was habited in a light "Derby” get-up, and
sported a “barber’s model” neckcloth and a
diamond stud. His face was close-shaved, all but
the slightest moustache, while that part of our
guest’s head which had escaped being razored by
Divine Providence was ornamented with a fringe
of venerable whiteness—a godly crop, which says
for the wearer in a more eloquent and emphatic
manner than if he himself spoke; “ I never play at
seven-up, and couldn’t think of heading them.
Lucre I despise; Hive but to behold my fellow-
creatures rejoice.” Perhaps, Indeed, there never
was, since lying was invented, a mortal who
looked so full of life in front and so feebly patriar-
chal behind. And where was she ? Not far away.
Just a sufficient distance behind her lord to im-
press upon the spectators the faet that the honey-
moon business was over. Mrs. Boucicault was
dressed with severe simplicity. The colour of her
costume was black, and she had not apparently
sought to improve to any extent upon Nature’s
dress-improver. The only ornaments she wore
were two diamond studs in her ears (a present,
doubtless, from the gifted groom), but her ap-
pearance, notwithstanding the plainness of her
attire, was singularly attractive. Face, a complete i
oval; complexion, a transparent olive; and a pair
of eyes, large, lustrous, and of curious expression.
One glance at the lady was sufficient to assure you
that she wouldn’t—despite all the nudges andap-
pealings—be moved to get up, not if it was never
taken in. And as for stepping over the way for
1 three shop eggs and a streaky rasher—pooh J
The fun of the fair commenced by Dan
O’Connor, M.P., leading the way to the new pavi-
lion, where we were to dance before the banquet.
Dan, by the way, was a splendid—indeed, quite a
prismatic study. His marvellous beard flashed all
round upon the company like a stream of fairy
water, and more "noticeable” than ever were his
"large grey eyes.” Once in the pavilion, Mr.
O’Connor ordered the band up into its eyrie, and
proceeded to organise a quadrille. The Boucicault
party declining to dance, Dan had to make up his
square party of what dowagers and llutterers as
were available; and the effect was of a tear-draw-
ing description. The band consisted of a collection
of nine able-bodied men, each with lungs of iron
and an instrument of brass, with which be was but
imperfectly familiar. Placed in close proximity to
the celling, the awful sounds thesa musicians
evolved struck the walls with discordant echoes
and came crashing down upon the dancers in a
manner that was more than disconcerting. We
got the "measure” of the man who operated on |
the kettle-drum, immediately. Having the Day
of Judgment in his wandering eye, he was Intent
on practising "The Last Call.” But the dance
went on, and while this pathetic sample of the
poetry of motion was in the full swing of its giddy
whirl, the balance of the oratory arrived in
another steamer, and "dinner” was announced
immediately on the conclusion of Dan’s melan-
choly Carmagnole.
* * *
It was, on the whole, a superior spread,
there being little about it that was delusive.
Nearly everything mentioned in the menu (and
this is rare in banquets) was found en evidence,
though we are inclined to think that one item,
" Boucicault cream,” was a delicate little poetic
fiction on the part of the caterer. We may mention,
too, that “ Roast turkey and truffies ” on being
manipulated by Mr. Slattery, proved somewhat of
a sell —sage and onions evidently being
“ Irish ” in the estimation of the caterer for the
succulent root he so tantalisingly advertised. To
quote, however, the words of Mrs. Betsy Prig at
the Bull, "the drinks was all good.” By-and-by,
when the “solid portion of the viands” ("under
which the tables groaned”) “had been disposed
of,” the Chairman rose and commenced an innings
which lasted, on and off, until nearly 5 o'clock;
and, let it be remembered, that the oacquet bad
commenced at 3 sharp! He proposed the Queen,
whom he characterised as the most wise, illustri-
ous, domestic, and “ beautiful” princess that bad
ever ruled over an empire. It was not (he said)
usual, be knew, to expatiate upon the toast of the
Sovereign, but he could not help being thankful
to the Fates for having placed him in the position
of asking so distinguished a company to drink the
health of the wisest, greatest, grandest Queen
that ever it was the lot of man to glorify. Simi-
lar slobber was lavished on the "Prince of
Wales and the rest of the Royal family,”
but an attempt being made to beslaver a
certain very eminent fowl-fancier, an admoni-
tary growl warned tin eloquent boa-constrictor
presiding to transfer the laying-on of his fulsome
foam to the " honoured and distinguished gentle-
man on bis right. Toen Dan gathered up a coat-
tail, and having withered the band into silence
by means of a glance and a waiter, proceeded to
pronounce an eulogium on Mr. Boucicault, that
lasted for nearly an hour, and rendered the major
part of the guests entirely prostrate. He had
been at s ime pains to sort all the dramatists whom
he considered to be Irishmen, and consequently
began by and ended with the
author of “ London Assurance ! ” Dan had
prepared some notes, but his excitement ren-
dered them worse than useless.” " Farquhar,”
he cried, “one of the old English dramatists—he
was an Irishman, and so was Cullender.” He meant
Congreve! In conclusion, Dan said rather than
have not been present in bis capacity as chairman
that day he would willingly have “ resigned his
position as aldermai, forfeited his seat as one of
the representatives of the people, and caused his
name to be erased from tne Commission of the
Peace.” Just imagine! An hour of this! An
hour of wild phrases, the majority [of which were
commenced and never 11 dished, of dislocated verbs
at hopeless issue with distorted nominative oases,
of rant, rot, blather, and “sklte!”
• t «
By the time Mr. Boucicault rose to reply
the majority of us were pretty well used up, but
found some relief in calling for " something
short,” and sucking sullenly at cigars. Dion's was
a clever oration, ornate, yet not too ornate to be
logical, but had be been Demosthenes he would
not have held the worn out ear of that exhausted
assembly for over ten minutes. After the guest’s
address the whole thing dwindled into a dreary
jumble of toasts proposed and toasts replied to,
the only really happy response being that of Mr.
Crick, who said, “ Thank you very much on behalf
of the ladles, who are really anxious to adjourn to
the pavilion to have a dance.” This brief oration
effectually broke up the toast-list, and once more
we were tree to enjoy the luxury of heaven’s sun-
light, and to point out to each other the exact
spot where Vial, the gallant coachbullder, wrested
the deadly weapon from the gory grasp of the
beetle-browed assassin.
CLERGYMAN (on hi s'way from church to the son of a parishioner rather addicted to hunting on
Sunday) :" MY LITTLE BOY, I DIDN’T SEE YOUR FATHER AT CHURCH THIS
MORNING; I AM AFRAID HB DOES NOT FEAR DIVINE PROVIDENCE.”
YOUNG HEATHEN: “OH, YES, I AM SURE HB DOBS; HE TOOK HIS GUN WITH HIM
THIS MORNING.”


Personal Items
Isn’t generally known that Lord Chief
d iJ?® Coif ridge “ proposed ” to Mary Anderson
not long ago. The lady whom the frisky old gen-
tleman has now married Is tolerably rich,
r of Viscount, lately conferred on
it°',i^2. la to descend In the female line
should there be no heirs male. This Is quite an
exceptional concession with this title, and shows
that patriot-slaying In the (Soudan is esteemed a
noble occupation.
Alfred advertises that a portrait of the
Queen will be published In the Christmas number
ql the Jbrnbl. Too much zeal. We always
ht K? at t!? e .® U8ive loyalty would get him
ioE°v,^ U Vi e »: oot in the least surprise us to
h 0 , 1 * back from Europe in time-stand-
iofiT In th© dook on a charge of high treason after
that picture goes forth to the world.
A Melbourne married woman has lust
“ serclety” by eloping to Adelaide and
taking thence her friend from his wife and family
b ? yond 8ea8 ” Under all the oircum-
stances of the case, one expects to hear next from
somewhere or other of a French suicide—a pan of
d P orB ’ and a pair of smothered
lovers found looked In a last embrace as a fit end-
ing to such cranky doings.
The, Duchess of Edinburgh, who barely
condescended to be present at the marriage of
Beatrice, Is the daughter of the late Alexander
of Russia and is descended from Katherine, a
widow ol a poor soldier, and who was a peasant
girl of Livonia. An uncle of Queen Victoria, the
Duke of Sussex, married the widow of a London
alderman named Bugglnsi Blue blood was always
a blue humbug, and It is high time that the Royal
of meraiilance, dylD * PMt 8hould 8top talki °*
Donald Dinnie excused himself from
standing umpire In the Whistler-Miller wrestling
match on the ground that he had “ a pound or
two on the result. Profiting by his own recent
experiences of the Kansas man's capabilities,
bel . iev . e . won his pound or two. There’s
a satisfaction In knowing the canny Scot won’t
H^Hn? erl J lnrlot ? us livinpr ' Donald’s action in
df L c ,2 insr to umpire an affair on the result of
which a pound or two of his money depended
sbouW commend Itseif to the N.8.W. Minister of
Miss Genevieve Ward, whose “ Antigone”
1B i.°o ked forward to with such Interest by the
Melbourne public, is, It transpires through au
Amerloan source, preparing to quit the stage.
She is now touring through rural Victoria. Her
Anal performance will be given In New York early
In March next. Her mother, who is 70 years of
age, gave a recitation from Thackeray In London
lately. Mother and daughter possess talent for
sculpture, and It Is understood that when Miss
tL 8 i^W ( 1 D8 thesbwe the family will retire to
Italy to indulge in their art tastes.
In his recent lecture on “ Woman’s Rights
and Duties,” the Rev, Geo. Walters, of the Uni-
tarian Church, Melbourne, stood up for the
naughty, but nice, Oulda ” In a stylo calculated
to bring the grey hairs of 1100 Dr. Jetferls's with
sorrow to the boneyard“ The greatest living
D i« v ?i b8 JJ 8 a woman—one who has lashed unmer-
cifully the sms and vices of her own sex, but who
has also given us some of the most beautiful pic-
tures of pure and earnest love, some of the most
heroic characters, both male and female, that have
ever been created by the human imagination.”
The ’Frisco Post does not appear to have
any objection to British aristocrats as Immigrants,
provided they cross the Atlantic with full pockets.
If their pockets are empty, the Post declares-
horror I—they are “ as undesirable a class as China-
men. In California the work they get Is sheep-
herding, while In San Francisco, “as street car
conductors, waiters, and In other callings not re-
quiring great physical strength or Intellectual
capacity, they earn a respectable subsistence.” If
they are willing to work on these levels, the Post
does not think they should be excluded by special
legislation.
Captain J. R. Jeykell (for 15 years an
service, and late a major In
the N.S.W. Soudan Contingent) has been appointed
Governor of Brisbane Gaol. Before entering
«f PO n,illf 1 f Ut A e8 J «^ u , een8land ' he wllJ ’ at the wish
“Premier Griffith, Inspect the penal establish-
ments of Victoria. Major Jeykell, who by his man-
o^l £ L a^Aii 1 ?. teU }5 enoe ha8 earned the hearty
esteem of all his old comrades, and has made many
his short stay In Sydney, was enter-
earned at dinner the other evening at the Athe-
naeum Club by a number of his brother officers
who were desirous of bidding him adieu and wish-
ing him success In his new sphere of action.
Thomas Cooper, the once famous Chartist
lecturer.whowas the Bradlaugh of his day. has
published a volume of “ Thougths at Four-
he tells us he has lived down all
his old beliefs, and now thinks - does this old-time
fiery demagogue that the wonting man’s Indus-
tn wV. u? d . bumlilty u in times past wire pre-
ferftulo to what too much. In his idpas Hiafin
8 « e fl bil V n th08e el f ht-hour days. There are
some few, however, who will regard the opinions
expressed by a man In the maturity of middle aac
l ho8e of hi8 second “hndhood
ia r° r Jv? e men of hve-aud-thlrty; the
next world is for the men of flve-and-seventy.
Joseph Symes, the truculent editor of the
Liberal, describes himself as a man with weak
nerves, a prey to dyspepsia thes years bashful
timorous and shy. This is always kind of
man that gives trouble to constituted 'authority
Authority, spiritual or temporal, should if Tt
wants peace, aim to have healthy subieet. 4 * f
like him. he is too thin,” wm th e e SSsslon of a
Roman tyrant when the services of an eminent
citizen were offered to him. Without dyspepsia*
and with a constitution suitable for
llesh, Symes might now be. Instead of a MelbourSI
iconoclast, a suburban parson or captain nf q
are thin. tbaU ° lub ‘ Ail TnK Bulletin staff
Judge Molesworth upset a nice little pot
JMt week. Mrs. Ann Hunter, an elderly woman
of .0, had, by her will made in ’81, left her Twc? or
three thousand pounds among her relations at
At m the° n e e nd £ of T !?V at 4 expense.
M'Ewan, and then makes another favour'
wholly, of Mrs. E.’s daughter? fmnS”
for the M'Ewan family is blown to the ‘whfds
when the second will la contested in Court. AmoDr
the old lady being crazy waf
that about the time of making her second will she
often spoke of again getting married. Now as the
Baroness Burdett-Coutts married at 66, one knows
• where to draw the line. Dr. Brombv and
Mr. Bouclcault had better look to the matTerf
Dr - Schweninger, Bismarck’s physician is
questions as to his symptoms habiTs h ofnf« n m 0 0 /
enoueb?' The doctorrepU 6 a°'jp“ l ‘M rmJSS?
Highness. If you wish to be w*
asked questions, you had better consult aieteri 11
narysurgeon.” Bismarck, who for the first
met his match, was at firat speechlels
nation at the brusqueness of this
only say at the conchisfon of I
skill eqfuafto'your
The respondent/’ whose name is linked
with that of Sir Charles Dilke, In connection with
the divorce proceedings in which the Radical
baronet will flgnre as “ co.” is a slater of Ashton
Dilke s widow. Ashton Dilke was principal part-
ner in the popular Sunday paper, the Heeeebe,
the most successful journalistic speculation of
modern times, considering the comparative small-
ness of the original outlay. We notice, by-the-
way, that the Rep., for all its radical politics,
never misses an opportunity of hurling thunder-
polts against the people who are seeking to “ pol-
lute the minds of innocent girls,” &o., &o , by ex-
posures of immorality in high places. Sir Charles,
it is cabled, has just married the widow of the late
Mark Pattlson, a lovely and trusting creature of
two or three and twenty summers.
It was but a few years back that the well-
known sportsman, Pat Keighran, di*d. Of the
properties left to his family was 300 acres out
Essendon (Melbourne) way with a frontage to that
Keilor Road, over which the thousands had to
tramp who went to the Forest and Fryer's Creek
and Bendigo diggings more than 30 years ago. The
youngest son took this property as his share
of bis father’s estate. It was then valued
only at £7000. His elder brothers took up-country
properties, thought then to be more valuable, but
still remaining only of about the value they then
wore. These Essendon acres, as suburban land,
were recently sold by the lucky young Keighran
for £66,000. The land-jobbing syndicate that pur-
chased them are now likely to make as much
more by their venture. The estate is out up into
acre, half, and quarter-acre lots, and nearly all
sold to those Saturday land-sale buyers, who seem
never satisfied with buying.
It does not do for little men to play the
great game, and for trying it on Mr. Ruskln has
been greatly suffering. He was attempting the
daily-practised Gladstonian feat of felling trees
when he chopped into his own leg. After a few
days erysipelas began to show, and for some time
matters were in a critical state with the great art-
critic. And this reminds us. When Ruskln was
very ill, cablegrams were published in all the Aus-
trian dailies, saying that the great writer was
suffering from a cerebral affection.” This, of
course, turns out to have been a mere guess on the
part of our enterprising daily-newspaper men.
They very likely received the words Ruskln
ill. and, having pondered over the matter, de-
cided to locate his malady in his head instead of
his leg. English telegrams must, you know, be
spun out to a decent length. Let us all thank
Heaven that the cable-rate is about to be reduced
and that very shortly there will be a cut-throat
competition among the dailies.
Henry Jackson, who was with us Austra-
llans so much in “ the rousing days of the Fifties,”
is with the world no longer. The last mail brings
news of his sudden death in London. He died In
harness, or rather with the haresfoot in hand. He
left Australia in the earlier years of the sixties,
Food talent appears to have gone
with him. His line was that of the low comedian,
and very good at that. His memory recalls that
of Spiers and Pond at the Ci«, Cattabenl at his
billiard-rooms, and VIscomte de la Chapelle at the
varieties. In the stage-list of his contemporaries
were Henry Edward", Johnny Mungall. Dominick
Murray, Tom Nunn, Jack Dunn, Dick young, and
his cleverer brother, Fred Young. Of the stars of
those days were G. Y. Brooke, Fanny Cathcart
and her husband, Robert Heir, and that Austra-
lian prlma donna, Julia Matthews. These, with a
score of other “good fellows.” that were and are
not, made times lively with the many of us who
are now on the wrong side of 50.
Says a London Exchange:—“We should
like to know what General M’Neill did to deserve
a special vote of thanira, unless it was getting poor
Tommy Atkins’ throat cut through his stupid
blundering. It is an open secret that M’Neill
only just escaped by the skin of his teeth from
being recalled, and yet he has been thanked by
Parliament for his service. What must the offi-
cers and men who did the real lighting think of
naving their names associated, even in the re-
motest manner, in a vote of thanks with men
whose stupidity and blundering placed their lives
*o the extremest peril ? They must regard it as
nothing more nor less than a direct insult.” This
General M Nelli posted off to Balmoral, for he is a
favourite with Her Majesty, as soon as he re-
turned from Egypt, and, secure beneath the cegis
of Royalty, avoided the unpleasantness of a mili-
tary enquiry. This shows how much votes of
thanks to the troops engaged in the Soudan scuttle
are worth. But let us hopefully remember that
Sir Saul, at latest dates, was pressing for the medal
on behalf of the N.8.W. Contingent.
Mr. Howard Spensley, 20 years ago, was a
reporter on one of the Melbourne papers. He
married a lady who inherited considerable bricks
and mortar about Bourke and Collins streets,
passed his exams, as a barrister, worked his way
into a tolerable practice, became member of Par-
liament for Portland, and attained the position of
Solicitor-General in Duffy’s administration. He
has been living in the old country at ease for some
years, and is now a qaodhhfte in the Liberal in-
terest for Central Finsbury. Howard, who, by
the way, is known to many an Bngland-visltln g
Australian as the moat courteous and oonslderat o
or hosts, seems to be a real Liberal, not a sham. At
one of his meetings he was asked if he was in
favour of an Affirmation Bill, to which he replied
that “not only would he support an Affirmation
BUI on general grounds, but that, if it were only
for the purpose of enabling Mr. Bradlaugh to take
his seat, he would give it his hearty support, as he
considered Mr. Bradlaugh had been honest right
through and deserved the support of all true
Liberals and Radicals in his struggle against
bigotry.”
What’s in a name? Three years’, some-
times—if. In a moment of absent mindedness
a man writes some other fellow’s at the bot-
tom of a cheque. But there are better things than
hog and hominy in a name if it’s the right kind of
one, and Mr. Johann Knoetzacbe, a publican on
the Richmond, knows it. In addition to the usual
games for the amusement of thirsty souls, Mr.
Ken-h(forso his name is sounded) combines in-
struction and profit. He challenges the stranger
to spell his name after bearing it pronounced.
‘Ken-h. Oh I I can spell that-K e n a i t c h.”
“ You’re wrong. Mine's whisky; what’s yours?”
The spelling-bee has cost the thirsty one a silver
piece. The name is then spelt for him, the fluid
swallowed, and he is allowed another chance on
the same condition—loser “ shouts.” Ho “ shouts,”
and the landlord walks to his corner whistling
“ Ber Vateriand,” and thinking fondly of his old
home on the Rhine and the sire who blessed him
with a name which, in any crowd, is always good
for twice round. If a sneeze were photographed
and then phonographed the result would not be
unlike “ Knoetzsohe.”
Suoh of Victoria’s Civil servants as labour
in the Education Department have had a hard life
of it lately. The Melbourne D.T., which takes
this class of gentry under its own special, though
feeble protection, has been much concerned about
the overtime work of the Education clerks,
amounting in all to " three thousand solid hours.”
(The italics are the D.T.’s). For these 3000 solid
hours the recently-appointed Public Service Com-
missioners objected to pass the extra remunera-
tion claimed by the poor, slaving clerks. Trouble
resulted, and the clerks, it seems, are to get their
overtime money, amounting in all to £400. We
congratulate those clerks on getting through 3000
hours of overtime work and getting paid for ’em.
The overtime work extended over a period of 10
weeks, and there were 40 elegant clerks to da it,
so each would require to pick his teeth fat an
extra hour and a quarter per diem. As the ordln
ary working: day of the Education clerks termin-
ates at 4.30, it is evident that for 10 weary weeks
none of them got free until a quarter to six, by
which time the “ block ” is deserted, and life has
lost its zest. A £10-note all round was not too
much for such self-denial, and we marvel that the
Commissioners “cut up rough ” about it. A paltry
3j. 4d. a day extra! Why, even a British soldier
gets lOd. a day.
A Far Northern correspondent writes us
under date 19fch September:—'* Bevan, who has
been dodging about the New Guinea coast with
Ah Glm, the captain of the Pride of the Logau,
has gone over again in his cutter, the Blectra. He ,
is accompanied by Stuart and Sturgy, but no one (
knows what the trio intend doing. Bevan did not
half like the job on hearing of Captain Frier’s
massacre. Kerry, of bogus nugget tame, passed
up about theSthinst. in the Gunga to Thursday
Island, where he intends to purchase a 40-ton
schooner. Thence he goes to Book Island for I
Malays. (His geography is slightly ‘ mixed,’ as
Rook Island is near New Britain. There are no
Malays there, and the Germans won’t allow
natives to be taken away by any one.) He Intends
to engage 20 Malay bearers at Rook Island, and
then return to the Mai Cussar and try to find the
locality where the nugget came from. If he suc-
ceeds he will return at onc^; if not he Intends to
go to Port Moresby and hunt among the Owen
Stanley ranges in a general sort of way for speci-
mens of all sorts and gold among the number. We
may expect to hear of him at Port Moresby soon.
He is accompanied by a Signor Voigl, an Italian
naturalist, and states that he has a solendid equip-
ment and £3000 at his back. A Mr. Vaughn passed
up a week ago to overtake and accompany him.
Wo expect Sir Peter back here in about three
weeks if his mutton runs short Tne Raven has
gone to New Guinea in search of a well-known
pirate, so they ssy The 'men-o'-war * inch have
been sent to cut down oocoanuts and burn huts at
Moresby Island are expected to cover themselves
with glory.”
The Sydney friends of “Father” Chiaiquy,
the prince of religious humbugs, will be glad to
hear that that paunchy saint has issued another
book. It is (of course) all about the immorality,
rascality, simony, atheism (ye gods!), debauchery,
knavery, and ignorance of the R.O. priesthood.
The abominations of the confessional are shown
up, the evils of monasticlsm laid bare, and
chapter 510 (the book contains about half-a-mllllon
chapters) draws aside the heavy folds of tapestry
which environ the so-called “ Retreats ” in which
priests are supposed to sanctify themselves, but in
reality they go in for a high old time —revelling In
the wildest orgies of drunkenness and profligacy.
The trading in masses and indulgences is scath-
ingly condemned. And Chinlquy— qui s’excuse
s accuser— does not forget to serve up the old hash of
why he left the Church of Rome.” I he big “I”
bristles through the book, which is a lively pro-
duction all round, and a perfect god-send to
the * religious ” newspapers, venomous par-
sons, and atrabilious psalm-grinders. Car-
dinal Moran will have to “ sit up ” when confronted
with “Fifty Years in the Church of Rome, by
Father Chinlquy, the apostle of Temperance of
panada, author of ‘The Manual of Temperance,’
The Priest, the Woman, and the Confessional.’
Papal Idolatry,’ ‘Rome and Education,’ &o.”
Chinlquy s 850 pages of sickening hypocrisy is
dedicated “To Colonel Edwin A. Sherman ; to
Freemasons of the United States, and of the whole
world; to the Orangemen of the United States,
Canada, Great Britain, Australia, Tasmania, and
New Zealand; to the honest and liberty-loving
people of the United States; to all the faithful
ministers of the Gospel: to the bishops, priests,
and people of Rome.” What could be more {ecu-
menical ? And yet there are thousands '.who will,
for the next five years, hang with reverence on
the words of this clerical party with the head of
an ape, the voice of a frog, and the feet of a danc-
ing-master.
The shipbuilding firm of John Elder and
Co. is one of the largest in Scotland. A Mr. Pearce
is the leading member. He is also a member of
the Royal Commission recently appointed to re-
port on the depression of trade. He is a good deal
depressed himself at present owing to an unre-
hearsed interview he had with one Mr. Francis, an
important official in the Clyde Customs. When a
powerful man is at the thick end of a horsewhip
and a little fellow, the accused' seducer of his
daughter is at the lash end, the tete-a-Me is usually
very lively. It was so in this case, and we be-
lieve that up to this time Pearce's record for the
first hundred yards over the Glasgow pavement
have not, so far, been beaten. The Pall Matt.
Gazette gives the whole history of the case
with the praiseworthy completeness for which
it has lately become notorious. Francis accuses
Pearce—a married man, by the way—of having
had a liaison with his daughter. Miss Francis. The
lady is 35 years of age, and left her father’s house
without assigning any reason. She and Pearce
both deny, with commendable emphasis, baving
indulged in any familiarity. The odd thing about
the case is that the Pall Mall, while giving all
the spicy details, absolutely refused to publish the
woman’s pitiful cry“ For some time I have been
living in the family of a gentleman as companion
to his wife. After the public mention that you
have made of me, and the cruel wrong you have
done me, I may have to leave; and, if I do, I can-
not at this moment see what is to become of me.
You accuse me of being unchaste. It is false; but
false as it is, I shall lose my means of livelihood
and be turned helpless and hopeless upon the
streets, unless the same publicity is given to my
denial that was given to the charge. Right, then,
as far as you can, the wrong you have done me, by
publishing my denial.” Why the Gazette should
object to print this, suggests that English journal-
ism has assumed a new phase whose ending no one
can foresee. Mr. Pearce is the gentleman who
offers to put those flying steamers the Alaska,
Arizona, &o., on the road between ’Frisco and
Australia.
Poor Adam Lindsay Gordon has gone to a
place where the Melbourne Herald has no circu-
lation, otherwise he might have groaned over a
letter written to that journal last week. The
wrliter expressed himself as anxious to get a song
called The Stockman’s Last Bed.” Said he: “ The
words are Gordon’s and the music I cannot say
whose. Although the metre is irregular there
breathes a strain of feeling through the whole
poem which brings to the mind’s eye the rollick-
ing, genial stockariver out off in the full swing of
a tearing gallop. It rings with tramp of the herd,
the crack of the stockwhip, the thousand and one
wild echoes of the weird and wondrous Australian
bush. ’Tis pleasant to read such enthusiastic
eulogy as this, but, alas I the Herald’s corres-
pondent does Gordon’s memory the injustice of
quoting the verses which, if he ever did write, he
must be heartily ashamed of now. There are
three verses and the same chorus to each. Let us
take the middle verse as being the one that chiefly
rings with the tramp of the herd and the crack
of the whip and the wild echoes, &c. ;—
“ While yarding in cattle
He was gored by a cow,
Then ‘Alas! ’ cried poor Jack,
‘ It’s all up with me now;
No more to the saddle
I’ll vault light again.
Nor bound like the wallaby
All over the plain.
For I’ll sleep where the wattles their sweet per-
fume shed,
And the tall gum-trees shadow the stockman’s
bed.”
The greater the poet the greater the rubbish he
occasionally writes. Byron and Tennyson have
ne j P lent y stuff beneath contempt, and
if Gordon wrote that verse he has sinned in good
company. The only wild echo we heard after re-
citing it to somebody as a “ bit of our own,” was
the echo of a weird and wond’rous word, com
mencmg with a big, big D. But let us not do Gor-
don an injustice. We half suspect that the Her-
ald’s correspondent himself wrote the lines
quoted, and wants to get them formally accented
as Goraonlan. -
The long-flowing golden beard and plea-
sant features of W. Kinnaird Rose, with hat set
jauntily on a well-shaped skull and a bulky cigar
in mouth, are now well known to Brisbaneites.
Like a brilliant meteor, the versatile Bose de-
scended upon Brisbane nearly 12 months ago as a
distinguished pieisman and Scottish barrister ”
and he wag not long in the colony before he was
called to the Queensland Bar. He represented the
Scotsman in the Franco-Prussian and Russo-
Turkish wars, and was a warm friend of the late
Michael bkobeloff, whom Rose describes as a
thorough gentleman and the “ kingliest of men.”
Those who have read Rose’s war articles unhesi-
tatingly aver that they are in every way equal to
those of the great Forbes, while some very violent
admirers go so far as to state that Forbes is his in-
ferior. Kinnaird Rose has done well in at least one
sense while in Brisbane. Although a brief-
less barrister, he nevertheless rakes in more coin
by bis literary labours than most of the Queens-
barristers by their practice. He received
£oOO clear from the Government for acting on the
Polynesian Commission, which, as all the world
decided to wash the blood-stained
bknds of the cplony by returning to their native
I Boll some 400 niggers. The task of drawing up the
TO "G. A. S." (IN DEPRECATION.)
Where is, come say, good Gus, the bizarre
“screed ”
We weekly In the prints did wond’rlng read,
Those bits about “ mine host,” Augustus, say,
Those funny foreign phrases—Where are they ?
Oh, George Augustus, since we may not see
Thy book in driblets—still farewell to thee I
That some things have not pleased thee, print
doth show—
The larrikins you deem uncommon low I
The Yorick Club—those journalistic lads—
You brand, Augustus, as a “gang of cads.”
A thing with us you find's a social sin,
Is what the Yankees know as “ chipping in; ”
For none must speak to you where’er you roam
Without a “ letter ” from a Dook at home I
’Tls fit to draw the line when one is—“ Aw,”
“ The greatest journalist the world e’er saw.”
And must thou slate the Yorick I yet, great Chief.
They never said you were “ too full of beef,”
Called your “screed” “padding” primed with
guide-book lore,
Your lectures dubb’d a most unholy bore;
Your “few words after dinner ” they ne’er told
Were rococo, your jokes disguised but oldl
And, now we think, they “ hardly ever ” said
You were the boon companion of the dead!
That e’en now ducal corpses open poke
Their coffin-lids to laugh, QuS, when you joke.
They never said these things—were from it far,
And yet, Augustus 8., how rough you are!
LAMIA.
W. J. Henderson.
Lamia, thou art wistful wise,
With knowledge born of sorrows;
Lamia, thou hast mystic eyes,
Full of sweet to-morrows. j
Lamia, thou hast lashes.fair,
Long and soft and curling;
When thou lift'st them—ah, that’s rare
The glance sets blood a-whirling.
Lamia, thou hast lips so red,
A man might gladly sever
Soul from body, and lie dead,
To kiss them warm forever.
Lamia,- that’s the whitest arm
1 hat ever lace enfolded;
Venus must have lust a charm
When that fair limb was moulded.
Lamia, that’s a dainty hand,
With diamonds on it basking;
A man might give up house and laud,
If lie ’cl get that for asking.
But, Lamia, 1 will ask thee not,
For all thy smiling pensive—
1 11 ask thee not to share my lot;
The racket's too expensive.


Another British matron writing to a Lon-
don journal, plays right on to the social question
when she asserts that this Is a reform which
must work. She says:-"If we could get workiog-
olass mothers and Sunday-school teachers to teach
their girls that honest work is honourable, idle-
ness a disgrace, and that a seabkin coat <or satin
dress does not make a lady, something might be
done. Let them be taught that virtue raises
them in the eyes of men, and that a woman has
higher aims and responsibilities, let her be of
what class she may, than degrading her sex by a
life which brings nothing but misery and
wretchedness in its wake. Let the working
mothers and employers of female servants in Eng-
land look after these girls, not allowing them to
be out late at night, or to dress beyond their
means, and we might certainly protect our young
girls without the aid of legislation. I reiterate, it
is not a question for the men, but for the mothers
of England to decide.” There is 18-carat sense in
these lines. So long as girls are taught that idleness
and dress are the two requisites for sublunary
bliss, so long will they be easy victims for the
Hon. Billy and the Dock. But this lady
should go one step farther. Luxuriqusness and
idleness now is the test of respectability, and it
i« every girl’s aim in every station to attain these
requisites. If, than, this female reformer will per-
suade her friends in society to eschew Pans cos-
tumes and sealskin coats, and adopt some occupa-
tion or study, she will do something without the
Aid of legislation As long as suiiday-sohopl
teachers put the pomps and vanities of the world
behind them (in a bustle), their teachings will only
profit their girls in so far as the latter get new
ideas of, and new desire for, personal adornment.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is imitated. May this
caution be serviceable. Avoid all imitations.
There is but one genuine medical beverage
under the name of Schnapps, and that is Wor.PF.’s
Schnapps.
renort of the Commission fell on him, and its
fixtreme lucidity and terseness, combined with his
polished diction, formed subjects for very favour-
able comment on the writer. But Klnnalrd Bose’s
"roat failing is his abnormal love for notoriety,
which he courts on every opportunity that offers.
It has been hinted that he is ambitious to enter
■the Queensland senate, and certainly he is going
the right way about establishing the preliminary
tflourish, for his name has become a household
word. Barrister, pressman, Royal Commissioner,
volunteer, debater, lecturer, Johnsonian, strict
Sabbatarian,'.and an excellent j udge of Glenlivet,
i*ll tro to work up his record. Personally, he is a
white man, and a brick. He is also known as
’the biographer of Sam Griffith. In the August
number of Peter Mercer’s Magazine. Once a
Month, he slung five pages of sickening slayer
Vor which he has been unmercifully chaffed by the
Brisbane Tress and his friends. From beginning
to-owl’it was nothing but a farrago of fulsome
wndt. "Reticent as Lyndhurst, as impassive as
jva-raeli;” to be ranked with Carlyle’s " prophet-
nolitlclans of society,” and so on. A clever sketch
entitled “ Sam a la Bose ” appeared in one of the
Brisbane dailies burlesquelng Rose s production,
ind concluding by putting Griffith in a nutshell as
follows : “ Height.5ft. lOin.; weight, 1651bs.; brown
hair with dude parting; full brown beard and
moustache. Irritating manner. Contemptuous
way of treating opponents. Affectation of not
listening to debate when he is. Member of the
Mutual Scratching Society. Many followers but
,few friends. An autocrat in a democrats skin.
■That’s Sam’s picture. And so, by the alchemy of
iirony, Kinnaird Rose's bathos was transmuted into
•“ borac.”
It has been suggested that, in the event of
Mr. Dibbs being unable to form a new Ministry,
the Governor ought to call upon one of the Smiths
to undertake the task. The suggestion is a cruel
one, as, if acted upon, it would serve to remind
the new Governor that he had a father.
“Hitherto,” eaid Dion Boucioault when
responding to the toast of his health, proposed by
the evergreen Dan, “ I had no idea that I was so
great a man, and,” he added, glancing round on
the company as though he had a suspicion that
the whole thing were but a put-up Job, m
point of fact, I have my doubts about it even
now.”
Lord Augustus Loftus is to leave N.S.W.
.early next month, and Lord Carington will
arrive shortly afterwards. ‘ Welcome the com-
ing and speed the parting guest! People who
'have not been invited to Government House dur-
ing the occupancy of it by Lord Augustus are
• expected to see the point of this—and a Ann point
lit isl By the way, the Sydney Morning Herald
\people will persist in spelling the new Governor s
name “ Carrington.” Are they not aware that the
precious name has been the subject ot two Act**
of the Imperial Parliament —one substituting
“Carrington” for "Smith,” and tfie other substi-
tuting “ Carington ” for “Carrington”? The old
nobility of N.S.W. had better paste in their hats
this item of information. To spell wrongly a
lord’s name would be unpardonable,
This is the very latest fashionable item
•The Countess of Carnarvon (wife of the present
Viceroy of Ireland) is learning the Irish language.’
For years we struggled with this difficult tongue.
It has many peculiarities, its idioms alone being
bewildering in their complexity. Many of them
have been absorbed into the English speeefi, and,
besides enriching that language, go far towards
ennobling social and domestic life. But some of
those Idioms are comprehensively simple and sug-
gestive. For instance, when you see a person in
corduroy knee-breeches and 4 rimless hat; when
you notice that his hair is peeping through the
latter’s top, while a short, black pipe is deftly in-
sinuated into the band; when you further remark
that he Is twirling a stout stick, and yelling tare
an’ ounds,” you may know that he wants plenty of
room, and that it would be as well not to deny it
to him. This was our first lesson in Irish—a lesson
that has left a pronounced depression on the back
of our heads. But it by no means exhausts the
niceties of the language. There are other ex-
pressions equally telling. " Cruishkeen lawn is
one w 3 learnt early* and still keep in affectionate
remembrance. We can confidently recommend it
to the Countess, merely respectfully suggesting
that if the could learn to say “ potheen ” at the
same time she w 11 be surprised to find bow well
the two go together,
A correspondent writes:—“In a recent
issue you mention the fact of a coloured lady up
North being offered in exchange for a ton of sweet
potatoes. That paragraph awakens some old
memories. Old hands can remember manv in-
stances where white women were traded off for
valuable consideration in the early days. Dis-
posed of by ‘Art Union,’ or what wad called in
more primitive times ‘ raffled,’ more than one fair
sister left the husband of her choice and trans-
ferred her allegiance to the highest ‘throw.’ I
know one, at least, of these who, on a goldfield in
Victoria,- lived to see her great grandchildren
smile on her, and the chubby hands of the fourth
generation, in her sightless age, patted and
stroked the white blossoms of her blameless life,
albeit no priest or parson had blessed the union
of which the toddlers were the remote conse-
quence. In a Southern district of N.S.W. many
years ago a farmer, the tenth commandment not-
withstanding, cast a covetous eye on the buxom
(bride of a neighbour. He offered to trade. In
■consideration of a team of eight bullocks and
waggon loaded with wheat, he became the pro-
prietor of the lady. The waggon was despatched
as per agreement, and he proceeded to take pos-
session. She objected to the transfer, and, snatch-
ing a tomahawk, intimated that if he approached
she would cleave him to the breast-bone. She was
deaf to the voice of reason. Prayers and promises
were unavailing. Entrenching herself behind a
double shot-gun, she Invited him to take posses-
sion of his lately-acquired chattal She was a sar
oastio woman; he did not care for that feature In
the sex, and left without her, nor did he ever be>-
come seized of either too woman or waggon more.
I knew a woman on t ie Walmea who was sold —
I Mem. to editor: A lady who is rather Intimately
connected with me by marriage, has just looked
over my shoulder to remark that most women are
when they get married.]’’
Political Points
.The Victorian Assembly has declined, by
+3 votes to 11, to adopt the N.S.W. law punishing a
man who buys liquor on Sunday.
A London paper says“ The Liberal
Government was a one-man Government —Glad-
stone. The Conservative Government seems to be
a one-man Government, too—Parnell.
Referring to the attitude now assumed by
toe Sydney papers in regard to the Land Act, the
Burrowa Times says that “ metropolitan daily
journalism Is exceedingly wise after the event."
In 1868, the annual rate of authorised pen-
sions in N.S.W. amounted to £521216s. 5d. In 1884,
it reached the sum of £9903 Os. Od. Between these
two years there were 116 new pensions granted and
78 pensions fell in by death or otherwise.
“Hullo! You seem anxious,” said Slat-
tery, M.L.A., meeting David Buchanan, M.P., re-
cently, on the Post-office steps. “ I should think I
* e R lied Dave, edging in towards the
A to G delivery-hole; "I’ve written to Bis-
marck about toe New Guinea business, and his
reply is two malls overdue.”
“ Another too koker argoument,” sang out
M Bihone in the ’Ouse. " What’s that ?” growled
a member for the back-blocks, sitting near the
nfbbfher for the Upper Hunter. " Oh, some
of his darned French,” replied a member for a
marine suburb; “since he’s come back from his
trip home, he’s never done flashing it.”
“ The Duke of Portland,” we read in the
S.M. Herald, “ has written a letter in which he
expresses a hope that a Conservative Parliament
msy be elected next November to ‘ further the
prosperity of the land which we all love so well.’ ”
Henry George’s complaint against dukes is that
.? re allowed to possess too much earth, and
that it would be a good thing for the people if the
aristocrats did not love the land quite so well. The
earth is the Lord’s, the Church teaches, and the
lords , to a great extent, it remains.
“ FOR THIS RELIEF,” &c.
Prorogued 1 thank Godl At length we have a
spell
From Luscombe’s chatter, and from Melville’s
yelll
We’re free from Fremlin’s savage “ saffron ” howl,
From Proctor’s puling, and Jack’s mad-doggrowl.
No more of Loughnan’s “ logic ” for a bit,
Of Glbbes’ gibberish, and Wisdom’s “ wit."
From Garrett's quiver, Gorrlck’s rustic joke,
We re saved; and faded, too, is Cass’s croak.
"For this relief” (which with a bright boon
ranks),
O Alfred Sydney I many "many thanks I ”
“Under the heel of authority” was a
famous phrase used by Graham Berry when Pre-
mier of Victoria, some years ago. Things are
tending much that way still in Victoria. The
publicans have been pretty well brought “under
the heel, and now the retail traders are to be
similarly dealt with. Cole, of the famous Mel-
bourne book arcade, has called a mass meeting of
shopkeepers to protest against the new measure
which is to force them all to shut up shop at 7
o clock. What with these measures, and that of
taxing the bachelors, Germans can no longer be
j eered at for the " paternal ” pattern of their home
government. "Maternal” would be the mora
proper expression for these old-womanish ways of
interference with the liberty of the subject.
“ The only men (out of the N.8.W. Minis-
try) who command the respect and confidence of
the country are Mr. Dailey, Mr. Dibbs, and Mr.
Abbott; the other five should terminate their oc-
cupancy of office at the earliest date. Messrs
Norton, Triokett, and Cohen are respectable in-
capables—as politicians. . . . They count for
nothing in Parliament, and we suspect they do
not count for much more in Cabinet. If Mr.
Wright goes to the country as a Minister, the Go-
vernment of which he is a member will fall to
■ pieces. . . . Of Mr. Farnall it is only necessary
to say that his Gosford exploits and the enterprise
°£, 18 relationa are equally suggestive of honour-
able retirement.” This is “the straight griffin’
from the Sydney D.T.’s leading article of last
Saturday.
M. Larade, the editor, and M. Hillairet,
the proprietor of Le Pbogbes, a New Caledonian
paper that appears to be as troublesome to au-
thority over there as the Liberator is in Mel-
bourne, nave both been brought before the looai
Court and heavily fined. The editor was, in addi-
tion, sent to gaol for six days. The charge against
theni was defamation of M. Simon, a member of
the Council of Administration. M. Bernier, of
LTndependant, although admitting that the
savage onslaughts of Le Pbogbes merited con-
demnation, views the legal proceedings in a way
that the enemies of Joseph Symes would do well
to ponder over. He contends thatin a Democratic
community public opinion alone should control
the newspapar Press. An appeal to Jaw is evi-
dence of distrust of public opinion. Hence, if the
journalist be condemned, in nine cases out of ten
he will take rank as a martyr. In any case, he b j-
comes a strong political and social power.
There are some people who are ever long-
ing for “ yet another” taste of the golden cream
yielded by the Government milch cow. One of the
meanest proposals which ever emanated from a
representative of the squatting class is Mr. Alex-
ander Ryrle’s motion in the N.S.W. Assembly
that there be voted “ a sum of £1000, to enable
the Government to defray the expenses of a com-
petent person to proceed to the Argentine Re-
public, South America, to report on the wool-
growing industry of that country, with a view to
ascertain what limit there is to its expansion, and
what steps should be taken by our wool-growers to
successfully compete with such formidable rivals.”
It there is merit in the suggestion, the squatters
themselves ought to subscribe the £1000. They can-
not all p ead poverty, as only the other day we
viewed the spectacle of two of their number sub-
scribing £3000 between them, towards a movement
the object of which was to strengthen the apron-
string that connects us with the mother country,
the strengthening medium being the blood of
half-starved Arabs who had been ground down to
the limit of human endurance by a tyrannical
power that ought never to have been allowed to
interfere with them. Tsvo squatters voluntarily
subscribe £3000 to help sully our honour and to
expose us to unnecessary dangers, yet, before the
blood of the victims is dried up, we have the
squatters as a class asking the Government to vote
£1000 for a commission the only result from which
might ee expected to be—a recommendation that
the railway rates on wool be further reduced.
Although in the Parliament of N.S.W.
members have sat for many years whose power of
intellect had waned until the hon. gentlemen had,
at length, developed into inoffensive dum-
mies, their presence in the House failed to attract
more than a passing notice from either Press or
public, and these statesmen continue to be
moved year after year into the lobbies like chess-
men. An appeal to the Elections and Quali-
fications Committee should rightly have con-
signed the hon. members in question to Glades-
viile, but as the oonstituences they represented
would have returned the bunylp after a three-
mouths' ”diui'k,” no one, how ver much he may
have hungered after the seat, oared to take any
action. In England it would seem that the public
is equally callous upon the question of the mental
condition of its legislators, since the late Lord
Thurlow sat in the House of Peers for nearly a
decade, being the whole time in a complete condi-
tion of mental blurr; while the present Lord
Denham is pretty well in a similar predicament.
Notwithstanding that the Lord Chancellor is con-
veniently deaf when the noble lord addresses the
House, Lord Denham is assiduous in his at-
tendance to discharge those duties which have
hereditarily devolved upon him, and invariably
attempts to address the House on the subject of
“ the late Lord Denham,” who may be said to
occupy the same position in regard to his Lord-
ship's thoughts as Charles the First’s head did to
Mr, Dick’s Memorial. “ On Thursday week,” says
a London paper referring to this, “ the House of
Lords bad to accept an amendment made by the
Commons, and it had to be summoned for the pur-
pose. The House consisted of four members—(1)
the Lord Chancellor for England, (3) the Lord
Chancellor for Ireland. (3) the Earl of Klntore, one
of the Conservative Whips, and (4) Lord Denham.
In other words, there were present three officials
and an imbecile.” Pooh I a lot this to make a fuss
about, anyhow. Look at a certain Australian
House of Peers on an off day I There you can
see, at any time, the President hopelessly glaring
at two paralytic pulers, a member who is stone
deaf, an idiot gentleman who has fits—we don’t
say of what kind—and the inevitable usher.
The diminutive member for West Sydney
has been justly described as the political ferret.
The only M'Elbone says that Mr. Abigail has about
os keen a scent for a swindle as be (M’Blhone) has.
That may be true, but the compliment—if such it
was intended to be—requires a qualification. There
is this distinction between the two individuals
when they are on a scent. Abigail follows it up,
rets the game in sight, and makes sure of his prey
oefore he barks; whereas M’Blhone is too impa-
tient, and often barks most vigorously when he is
on a wrong scent. The latest chase which Mr.
Abigail has had in pursuit of game has been In the
direction of Government, and the wily little ferret
nas secured as prey—not a blind Brahma rooster,
or a broken-winged Muscovy drake, as might be
supposed by those paltry-minded disloyal peo-
ple who imagine that the Inner Domain is
simply a poultry - farm, but a real live
military captain. When it was positively
decided that the Colonial and Indian Exhi-
bition should take place, the boss showman,
Mr. Wales, expressed a desire that the colonial
Governments should appoint their Agents-General
as official representatives. All the Governments,
with the exception of that of N.S.W., readily
acquiesced in this arrangement. Our Government
thought fit to ignore the recommendation, and Sir
Patrick Jennings was appointed to the position.
Various have been the surmises as to why the
Government cast such a slight on Sir Saul Samuel,
but it is now apparent that these have been
all wrong. The political ferret seems to have
unearthed the secret. The Governor has a son
—Captain A. B. Loftus—who has been in the
receipt of over £670 a year from the State for act-
ing nominally as A.D.C , and in view of the depar-
ture of the father, and the startling intelligence
which has been flashed to the colony by cable on
two occasions that Loid Carington is to bring a
full retinue of flunkeys, it was necessary that
other provision should be made for the young
manl whose chief claim to distinction is that he
bears his father's name. A “ real nice billet,” as
Mr. Abigail would say, has been created for him in
what must generally be regarded as the absolutely
unnecessary office of private secretary to Sir
Patrick Jennings. What a satisfactory arrange-
ment—for the captain. Free passage to London,
expenses paid, and £600 a year in the bargain.
The secretary to the Exhibition Commis-
sioners here does not receive anything like
such a munificent salary, notwithstanding that
all the practical work, on which depends the
success or failure of our representation, falls upon
his shoulders. It is presumed that fie will proceed
to London, and If, when there, he were to find
that he could not attend to the Interests of N.S.W.
exhibitors, and at the same time write polite
notes for Sir Patrick, he would have no difficulty
in securing the services of half-a-dozen capable
clerks, who would be quite content to have £600 a
year divided among them. If Sir Samuel had been
appoioted to the position of Executive Com-
missioner, it is probable that he would have so ar-
ranged matters as to leave no opening for a
Government-house hanger-on. But, says the
Premier, evidently on the belief that he
was scoring a big point for the Govern-
ment, "the appointment was made on the
recommendation of the Executive-Commissioner,
whose wishes could not very well be ignored, con-
sidering that his is purely an honorary position.”
There be wheels within wheels. Sir Sandy. Let
the hon. gentleman explain at the outset why Sir
Patrick was appointed instead of Sir Saul. If he
offers any satisfactory explanation on this point,
then let him state whether or not the Government
have any control over the Executive Commis-
sioner, such control, for example, as would—If
there was any necessity for so doing—enable the
Government to prevent the unnecessary expendi-
ture of public money by the creation of unneces-
sary offices. ;
TOM TRUEFIT IS LAST TIP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.l
One cold, foggy London Sunday in October, In the
saloon of a certain sporting club, situated not far
from the historic Strand, a party of six were seated
at dinner. It was little more than 3 o’clock in the
afternoon—an unfashionable hour for dlnlng-but
we were to take the “ special ” for Newmarket at
5, and, as old John, the waiter put it, “ hurryln’
holf to ketch trails was a mistake.” Most of us
had reached a time of life when meals are recog-
nised as blessings bringing their own responsibili-
ties with them, so John's solicitude for the diges-
tive organs of his guests was accepted as evidence
of a practical, yet sympathetic wisdom.
Thero were six of us, as 1 ve said before, and we
had sat down together in that same room, on that
same particular Sunday, for ten years past. The
Newmarket Houghton Meeting commenced next
day, and the "special” was to bear us down to
our old familiar quarters-a little cottage on the
Heath —for the “ Cambridgeshire Week.”
Most of our party—all but one, In fact—were
men to whom the pleasant trip was a mere matter
of business; who "Jived at racing,” as the raying
is, and passed placidly through the excitement of
a big week and a great handicap undisturbed by
hopes or fears—particularly fears. Making heavy
“ books,” their extensive connection always en-
abled thorn to “ bet round,” and each succeeding
year found them acquiring riches at a steady Jog-
trot pace, varied by an occasional leap or bound.
The one non-protessional, and by far the poorest
member of the company, was myself. Only one,
on this occasion, but in previous years, two
“ amateurs " had accompanied the mighty raetai-
llcians, for a change of scene, as well as a mild
gamble, and our annual expeditions had numbered
seven. But Tom Trueflct, the brightest, the beat
hearted feilow that ever set foot on a racecourse,
had seen his last Cambridgeshire run for, and lay
this very Sunday on his death-bed, at his bachelor
home, in street.
We all missed him terribly, and the Sunday be-
fore the Houghton meeting had never seemed so
dull. Racing men, as a rule, are not given to sen-
timent, and see too maay poor devils drop out of
the sporting ranks to trouble much about one
fallen by the way. But Tom had been the life and
soui of our party, the prime favourite with us all,
even with cross-grained old J em Rosser, the North-
country leviathan, and his absence threw a gloom
over us that Sunday afternoon. ’Twas old Jem
who first mentioned the name that was in all our
thought.
"Who saw Tom Truefltt last?” The veteran’s
usually gruff tones were almost softened.
“ I was with him yesterday, for an hour.”
“No change, I suppose?”
“Only for the worse. He hardly knew me at
first, but he pulled himself round after a bit, and
asked for you all, and wanted to talk about Tues-
fuf” raCe * * n his B * a *' e seemed almost dread*
“Poor old Toml ” said little Dick Burns, after a
J? ow we U8 ®d to chaff him about his
nl >fhtmares of his In which horses
came in first that never won at any other time.
He was awfully superstitious about ’em, too.”
J 10 the finish—till he passes tho
9 X ’. ?? id °] d Jem. with quite a sorrowful
naufa***** 1 ?fliu J° ke - “ Last week, when I
I??*®* to wish him good-bye—and no mistake
ii was good-bye—he told me he was going
to die directly the Cambridgeshire was run.”
„ £ 8 ''fi® . c l°°h struck three, I rose from the table.
1 m going round to see him,” I said; “but I
wP *i? y of you t0 joia me * for the doctor
bars more than one visitor at a time ”
. “„ a P 80m rattled me round to the sick man’s
wtnrt«iPci a f|Uarter °f an hour. A glance at the
aMUred me * The blinds were not
, J£b® d0 °r was opened as I ran up the steps, and
th «“ met me with a soared face.
V“> Mr, wHgon, we were hoping you’d come.
M “ter has been calling for you-so loud.”
The glri s terrified look needed no further ex-
planation, for from Tom’s bedroom on the flrat
In the harsh, discordant shouts of a man
well/ 1 1 Dldn 11 know th ® meUlllc ring too
“May I go up, Mary?"
nursed”’ 8lr 1 there ’ 8 0nly Mlaa Ethel and tho
i wafl , calling out my name as I gained the
landing and knocked at the half-open door. Ethel
anH ■u« n fi eS K 8l8^ er myold Chum, came forward
and silently beckoned me in. The poor fellow, his
unoa r nnv he «itJ?/ , ° PP f e i, d u ? by plllowB - Presented an
uncanny sight , the long, emaciated fingers
plucked nervously at the counterpane, and his
? y ® B i gieamlng with a horrible brightness, were
PhP..ml a( ? an uif °5 the oelfimr. I touched his
shoulder lightly— Do you know me, Tom ?”
He turned his mad gaze on me, and clutching
savagely at my wrist, screamed, “ Did you back
the horse. Jack ?”
J®^ 8b! old fellow, don’t trouble yourself about
such things; I ve run round to see how you’re
getting on, and bring best wishes from the rest of
ruf oPP ys " We , re 0,r . by the express directly, but
111 see you next week, and tell you all about it.”
The desperate condition of the man-the convlc-
P°P r ?.P r , ere cumbered, made the last
words almost choke In my throat. Tom threw up
“*? shrunken arms, and laughed demoniacally.
8a jL oyer ’ da °k; I saw the horse
win. Who says I didn’t see the horse win ?”
No one, old fellow, no one, but you musn’t
7® r , r y yourself. Walt till you get stronger, Tom.”
I felt that It was doing mo kindness to stay longer
in the room, and, bendttig over the dying man’s
couch, I took the clammy hand that had so often
closed on mine In good fellowship and turned
to (JfO*
w , on * J ackl .” he shrieked, and then
S 18 V01ce to a whisper, while a
ghost of the old smile parted his blackened Ups-
r ve 5P j laughed when he saw It come in.”
I nodded a last farewell, and hurried from the
f® 0 ™:, Ethel followed me downstairs to tell me
that the doctor had arranged to send a male at-
tendant for her brother. He wouldn’t be wanted
for long, she said, and I hadn’t It in my heart to
express the hope that she might be mistaken.
All the way back to the club Tom’s wild words
rang in my ears, but to the kindly enquiries of
our P®rty after their old companion, I merely
anwered that he was as bad as he could be, and had
rambled a little. I felt that it would seem like
mocking the poor fellow to speak about his de-
lusion, his last nightmare,” as Dick Burns might
have called it, and I held my tongue. But in every
shrill whistle of the engine that thundered down
the special ” to Newmarket, I heard Tom’s voice
shrieking “ Wrexham I ’’
We were early out on the Heath next morning,
watching the horses gallop, and putting an edge
ou °ur appetites for breakfast. The other men
had their business to attend to, this to “ lay ” and
that to hedge, and so forth, and I wandered
about with vague ideas of picking up “ Informa-
tlon. 1 didn t stumble across any mysterious
stable secrets, but I did land upon a broken-down
wretch who had been at college with me, and he
borrowed a sovereign. And as he slipped it into
his greasy pocket, the battered old relic of the
past said, “ Fizgig’s won the Cambridgeshire, sir;
it s the same as all over.” The words set me
thinking of Tom Truefltt and his “tip” again,
and at breakfast I mildly suggested that perhaps
Wrexham bad a chance for the big event. Even
our venerable landlady, I noticed, shook with sun-
pressed laughter as I hazarded the query.
_ Have you backed It, man?” grunted Jem
Rosser.
“ No. Don’t you think it stands any chance ?”
I wish it did,’ grumbled the great Jem, and
the reply was, I felt, crushing.
The racing that day had little Interest for me,
but I was fortunate enough to get a hurried
whisper from one of my astute friends and win a
small wager. Visions of backing the winner of the
great handicap, at a price that was worth consider-
ing, began to haunt my brain. I went about but-
tonholeing good men for their “ opinion ’’—some-
thing that was ‘ real business.” I gathered 25
different * opinions on the course, crot three
more from our party At dinner, and went to bed
in a state of indecision aggravated by brandy and
water. On waking next morning, I felt that my
multitude of counsellors had brought me no wis-
dom. and that the best thing to do was to back
nothing for the Cambridgeshire, and await
patiently a little “something” for one of the
smaller events. On mentioning my determination
at the breakfast-table Jem remarked that “I’d
got a good tip at last.”
Presently one of the others wondered “ what
poor old Tom would have fancied.” The words
carried my thoughts back to the dying man with
his strange hallucination, and I almost made up
my mind to act on the Impulse that prompted me
to back Wrexham, but in the face of the opinion
expressed by Jem, a very Solomon as regards
horses that couldn’t win, I said nothing.
Two o'clock came. The great race was the next
on the card, and Fizgig—for whom it was “the same
as all over —stood first favourite. I sauntered into
the paddock to interview the great Fizgig, feeling
more than ever how dull was oven Newmarket
without poor Tom Truefltt, and while I strolled,
and smoked, and mused, a horse, mounted by a
small boy in “all grey,” nearly walked over me-
lt was Wrexham, And a strange stupid fancy
took possession of! my mind—that I could hear
through the hubbao of the racecourse, the deli-
rious shriek of the man whose companionship I so
missed.
“ What price Wrexham ?” I ashed the question
of a bookmaker with whom 1 Was sligntly ac-
quainted and whose money was right.
“ A thousand to ten to you, sir.”
“ Put it down.”
“ Again if you like, sir.”
“ All right, put it down twice.”
It was in the crowded ring that these bets were
laid, and I was immediately surrounded by a hun-
gry crowd anxious to “ get a tenner” out of such
an undoubted stiff ’un as Wrexham. I backed it
five times more, and then closed my book Tho
reflection that I, cautions Jack Wilson, had sup-
ported a horse to win £5000 was so staggering that
I aw . ay ?° the Brand stand to avoid the
possibility of being twitted for “ pluck” by any of
my professional friends. . . . Wrexham won
inm Cambrid B , eshlre by many a length, and old
Jem Rosser laughed over the extraordinary
, turn-up, with the keen delight that poor Tom
bad seen in his delirium. I won my £5000, but to
not a Hying soul did 1 Impart the true history of
™ y first and only big gamble. The horse had taken
la b°y* I told all of them at dinner that night,
and they congratulated me upon my astuteness
and *i ood tuck. With that ever memorable week
ended my modest turf career; for when a few
da y s later I stood beside the grave of my old
i8tered a vow ’ and ae P t it; too-never
to put foot in a racecourse again. Too well did I
know the chances of the game to attempt i jflow-
ing UP, the strange stroke of fortune which re-
warded my superstitious faith In Tom TrueliwA
l£l8t tip,


Profession*! Directory.
EORGE PER SIMAN. Seen* Painter, Theatre
Royal, Brisbane. Disengaged.
m H B A T R B R O YAL.
Under the management of
Messrs. Wilmamsow, Gahnkb and Muscmovi.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
GRAND INAUGURATION of the NEW COMIC
OPERA SEASON.
WILLIAMSON. GARNER, and MUSGROVE’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
THE INITIAL WORK OF THE SEASON,
to be given
THIS (Thursday) EVENING,
will be
Gilbert and Sullivan’s always welcome and
favourite ohera,
THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE
THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE.
MABEL (her original character in
' Australia).. Miss ALICE REE3
RUTH (her original character on its first
production in London) Miss ALICE BARNETT
Box plan now open
Prices as usual.
N
BW OPBRA HOUSE.
Under the Lesseeshlp and Management of
MAJERONI and WILSON.
Electric Success of THE SUNNY SOUTH.
Brilliant Reception Glorious Triumph
of the Australian actor-author,
Mr. GEORGE DARRELL,
In
HIS GREAT LONDON SUCCESS.
Acknowledged by the Press and public to be the
Best Australian Drama ever written.
THE SUNNY SOUTH
THE SUNNY SOUTH
THE SUNNY SOUTH,
with its
FIVE HUGE SENSATIONS.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Huenerbein’s Music
Warehouse, 318 George-street. Tickets for all parts
of the house may be obtained at Roberts’, tobac-
conist, next theatre.
JOE BROWN, Business Manager for Mr. Darrell.
GAIETY THEATRE.
Proprietor .. .. .. Mr. John Solomon
Manager for Mr. Solomon, Mr. B. N. Jones
Manager for Mr. Dampler, Mr. F. Gunther.
INAUGURATION of the DAMPIBR SEASON.
THIS and EVERY EVENING, until further
notice, at 7.45,
MB. ALFRED DAMPIER
and his Powerful DRAMATIC COMBINATION.
GRAND REVIVAL
of the late Charles Reade’s Prize Drama. In 5 acts,
IT’S NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND.
the Author’s own version.
N.B.—By the express wish of the late Charles
Reade, Mr. Dampler possesses the sole right of
producing this play in Australia and New Zealand.
Entirely new scenery has been painted expressly
by Mr. Klnchela.
Prices—Boxes, £2 2s.; orchestra chairs, 4s.; stalls,
, 3s.; parquette, 3s.; balcony, Is. No Free List.
“Box plan now open at Nicholson and Co., Music
Warehouse, George-street.
AOABBMY OF MUSIC.
Lessee and Manager .. F. C. Hlscooks.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS of
THE GRAND DOUBLE COMPANY,
LEON and CUSHMAN COMBINATION
In conjunction with
HISCOCK’S FEDERAL MINSTRELS.
Concluding with Leon and Cushman’s Farcical
Comedy, entitled A WOMAN’S WON’T.
Prices : Reserved Orchestra, 4s.; Stalls, 3s.; Par-
quette, 3s.; Gallery, la. Plan box at Paling’s.
THE ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL
George-street, Hay market.
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
CROWDED and FASHIONABLE AUDIENCES.
IMMENSE SUCCESS IMMENSE SUCCESS
Of
THE ALHAMBRA VARIETY COMPANY.
Pronounced by the Press and Public the most re-
fined Entertainment given in Sydney. Minstrelsy,
Olio, Farce, Every Evening.
The whole to conclude with the screaming farce,
OUR BOYS.
Gentlemen ushers in attendance.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs. 2s; stalls, Is;
balcony, la.
CH AS. AUSTIN, Business Manager.
Artists of acknowledged ability disengaged,
please communicate with Mr. Frank Smith.
THE OLYMPIC
(late Old Masonic Hall, York-street).
Lessees and Proprietors. .Messrs. Davis & Raphael.
Stage Manager .. ..Mr. H. Trevorah.
QUITS
QUITS
QUITS
QUITS
QUITS
QUITS
the Queen of Burlesque, QUITS
created a perfect furore by her QUITS
singing and acting. Q UIT8
Unbounded Success of __ QUITS
Messrs. STANFIELD and DARK, QUITS
in their inimitable duet, QUITS
SUPPOSIN’ AS ’OWI WOS YOU."
The celebrated and Charming Sisters,
ANNIE AND KATE MARTIN,
in their Original Songs and Dances.
Miss ANNIE SCHRAEDER. Miss ROSIE JOHN-
SON. &c, &o.
To-night. The Dance To-night.
Prices of Admission—Stalls, 2j.; Balcony Is. A
few reserved orchestra stalls at Nicholson’s, 3).
General Manager, Mr. M. L. RAPHAEL.
“THE LYCEUM
Newcastle,
SITUATED IN THE BEST PART OF THE CITT
It is capable of seating 600 people,
and suitable for
MUSICAL & DRAMATIC ENTERTAINMENTS.
The Stage (40ft. by 24ft.) Is furnished with
STOCK. SCENERY. &c.
For Terms, apply
COLIN CHRISTIE,
“ Thb Lyceum,”
Newcastle.
Miss Annette Scasl
TTAVING rested her voice for six months, after
n a long and successful tour through New
Zealand, would be happy to
RESUME HER PROFESSIONAL DUTIES ON
THB STAGE ONCE MORE.
m- Line of Business :—Opera Boufle, Concert*,
Burlesques.
This young lady artiste, being an eminent musi-
cian, would have no objection to travel with a
first-class company as Pianist.
All theatrical managers please address letters,
tor the present, Post Office, Young.
Lynch Family Bellringers
(Organised 1867)
Manager HARRY LYNCH.
CONTINUED SUCCESS. SUBURB AN CONCERTS
“ On Monday, at North Shore, over 600 persons
crammed the Masonic Hall In every part.”
TO-NIGHT (Thursday), Town Hall, Marrickvllle.
FRIDAY, School of Arts, Botany.
Manly, Randwick, Newtown, &o„ to follow.
.. on „„ A «nnto (JAMES SMITH.
Advance Agents, j H E BARNES.
DAILY, Leaving SYDNEY at 7.15 a.m., Return-
ing from G03FURD at 5 p.m.
SUNDAYS at 12 noon.
OVERLAND ROUTE.
SYDNEY
and
GOSFORD.
CUT THROUGH BATES.
SINGLE FARE, 53 ; RETURN. 7s. 6d.
The new Overland Route allows visitors six
hours In Gosford. A most enjoyable trip, and no
sea-sickness.
Agents—
BOYD and ICING,
96 Pitt-street, Sydney;
Or,
J. MORTIMER,
Times Office, Gosford.
W
K 8 T SYDNEY ELECTION.
ALDERMAN JOHN D. YOUNG
Is
A CANDIDATE.
HIS ADDRESS
will be]
BEFORE THE ELECTORS
in a few days.
MDE. DE NOUVELLES’
Old and experienced Laundresses say that it Is un-
equalled for imparting a beautiful finish to
starched linen.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers at 3d. per
packet. Wholesale by Elliott Bros, and B.'Prosser
and Co., Pitt-street; W. J. Norris and Son, Forest
Lodge; Comet Co , Newcastle.
PARISIAN
Beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
None genuine unless bearing the name and addres
of the only maker,
J. BUTTERFIELD, Chemist, 141 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
XjiiTLeri. G-loss
CONTINUED SUCCESS
OF
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£s iwiii sues i
PACKED in CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS.
|y Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
The £5 Bale system has been In operation for 13
?cars, during which time we have despatched over
orty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
£S LADY’S BALE.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladles Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made
of good longclotb. and
nicely trimmed. If de-
sired, other articles may
be ordered instead of
any of the above.
£5 MOURNING BALE.
25 yds, Blk. French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 doz. Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
l pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
GLOVES.
On receipt of 3j. in
stamps, we send, post
free, a pair of 2 or 4-
button kid or silk Gloves
any size or colour, good
quality and fashionable.
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant's Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Kobe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5,
15a.
We send, carriage free,
a Lady’s New Accouche-
ment Belt for fifteen
shillings, or a pair of best
Nursing Stays for ten
shillings.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials - Silks, Velvets, &c.—with
prices, and full instruction tor self-measurement,
if applied to.
RILEY BROTHERS,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Originators of the celebrated £5 Bales of Drapery,
and Contractors for Linen Drapery to the
Government of New South Wales.
“ BEACH’S ”
CONSULTATION
ON THE
MELBOURNE CUP.
NOW OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIP,ER8, 10s. BACH.
First Horse £250
2nd .. ■ inn
uiaitoia Oil
Non-starters 50
Also. CAULFIELD CUP.
1000 Subscribers at £1 each; First Horse, £500.
Address—
“ BEACH,"
(hire of J. Q. Dceble,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney
Please apply early, and register letters for repl
With stamped envelope.
TJOBERT BUTCHER h CO
(Late William Long),
I W WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
684 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL. SYDNEY’
Country Orders receive prompt attenl Ion.
0O\1NTCASTL£
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
S YD N E1V
IMPORTtRSTJFAXLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
Infants and Children
What gives our Children rosy cheeks, '
' What cures their fevers, makes them sleep;
Caatoria.
When Babies fret, and cry by turns.
What cures their colic, kills their worms,
Castoria.
What quickly cures Constipation,
; Sour Stomach, Colds, Indigestion ;
j
, Farewell then to Morphine Syrups,
» Castor Oil and Paregoric, and _
fc Hall Castoria.
‘ “ Castoria is so well adapted to Children
that I recommend it as superior to any medi-
cine known to me.”—H, A. Abchkb, M. D,
111 Oxford St., New York.
Elliott Beob., Sidney, Agents.
ment
Barry's Tricopherous.
Guaranteed to make the
ha rgrow on bald heads, to
eradicate scurf and dan-
druff, and remove all im-
purities from the scalp. It
positively prevents the hair
from falling out or turning
gray, and In every case
makes it thick, soft, glossy,
and abundant.
BARRY’S
FLORIDA WATER.
The Original aud the Best-
The only perfume in the
world that has received the
1 endorsement of a Govern-
Put up in three sizes.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnung and Co.
C. B. ■ODIMI,
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
, FIREARMS,
makew CtUre(i by the moat oelet)rat 6 d R*»g»"h
nt 6 f ■u?v5 r, * f Ji rt i 1 S r u e8ll L ea to *PPrlse his customers
ra ct that h® has been appointed AGENT for
& CO., Lon-
T ATi« r^0^?r LA T ND J & SON., London; JOSEPH
CO London N> London ; CHA8. OSBORNE &
,he » ra
Game Bags, Gun Cases, Cartridge Belts. Ac., and all
k A D n 8 n 0f por .^®“ en ’ 8 Requisites for the field.
All Goods will be Faithfully Guaranteed at
B02 George.st., Sydney.
Where Inspection is Invited.
RAW VASELINE.
B
4V'
A
F°™9 ftenln ?. and Preserving Horses' Hoofs.
Kills parasites, and prevents their growth.
a father Preservative it is Invaluable-pre-
A® racking, and renders It waterproof.
From its anti-corrosive qualities, uncqalled as a
m™olS, r a 0t ™ to £, and f 9 r keeping In perfect order
rns .’u^ a ne8 ’ * 0, 1® Is the sole material
used for the above purposes In the Austrian and
keepers armles * SoId by a11 Saddlers and Store-
SOLE AGENTS :
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
12S York-street, Sydney.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 3rd October, 1885,
TENDERS FOR ADDITIONS AND REPAIRS.
rpENDERS are Invited for Additions to Teach-
Bay PubUc SchooL and f ° r reP * irS t0 the Watson ’ 8
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and
Forms of Tender obtained at the office of the
Department of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Additions to
Teacher s Residence, and for Repairs, Watson’s
Bay Public School,” must be lodged with the Under
Secretary, Department of Public Instruction, at
OotoberffiM ° ° ° Ck 8 m ’’ 0n Monday * the 19th
loweIt M oV nl a S ny te°nde?. 0t hlm8elf t0 accept the
' W. J. TRICKETT.
oo.,
MUSIC SELLERS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.;
Also, at London, Mayence, Paris, and Brussels.
liF LARGEST STOCK IN THE COLONIES.
Alex. Borthwick.
WALLPAPER, PAINT, &c. «■«■»»-
2S1 G-eorg-e-st., S3rd.r1.e37-.
R. GOLDSBROUCH & CO.
LIMITED,
WOOL and GRAIN BROKERS,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
WAREHOUSES—DARLING HARBOUR.
MAKE LIBERAL CASH ADVANCES ON THE ENSUING CLIP EITHER for ratu tkt
SYDNEY OR MELBOURNE, OR SHIPMENT TO LONDON. F ° E SALE IN
AUCTION SALES OF WOOL
Held EVERY FRIDAY during the Season, and at frequent Intervals during the Winter Months.
THE SALES OF FAT STOCK
at Homebush, FREEHOLD and STATION PROPERTIES, GR AT S’, SHEEPSKIN'S mnm m A T t aw
and other STATION PRODUCE, under the Superintendenceof Mv. GEORGE W
FULL RATES OF INTEREST
allowed on Fixed Deposits, Current Accounts, and FINANCIAL BUSINESS ol all kinds deducted.
Sydney—40 Hunter-street.
Melbourne —Bourke and William Streets,
London —156 and 157 Leadbnhall-Street.


m
■i ’.mi
w THIRTY SHILLINGS.
fW THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
fl 1HI8 triumph of musical Invention Is acknow-
I.. lodged on all bands to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It is a wonderful little Instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 23 reeds, plays in three keys, and all the
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the Inventor, the world
was first Indebted for the Organctte; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and Intelligent
study, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of cost and crudeness.
It requires no skill to extract from It any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &o., &c., Ac. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy.
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that are sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that “ be who runs
may read.” It is best adapted to the kind of music
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate ; but it has also wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces. It Is pitched for tho
voice, and has a little card-holder for convenience
in slngi ng. It will be found invaluable for Cou ntry
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should bo
supplied with one; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autopbone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment than four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Since
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
or
474 GE0R6E STREET SYDNEY
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant mining camps, from many a lonely
shepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities—from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can offer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corre-
spondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by all educators and moralists
that music is the great refining influence, and
especially with children its effect for good is
boundless. The love for music which music in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, end parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders an other
wise hard task an easy one.
The price of the Autophone Is 80s.,
and whore good music oan .be procured for such a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autophone for 30s. we
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it ouf
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
Send to us for catalogues of tunes at any time*
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents for Australia:
Oriental Gold Company*
474 George-street, Sydney, 474
Opposite entrance to Fruit Markets.
Exercise and a judicious use of Wofc’s Schnapps
will keep you in the best of health.
Invalids who require stimulants can safely
rely upon W olfb’s Schnapps. Be certain they
get Wolfe's.
It is astonishing the favour in which
Wolfe’s Schnapps is held—We suppose because
it is a first-class article.
SUNDRY SHOWS
T xeatbe royal—“ The Pirates of Penzance” p. 8
Gaiety Theatre—” It's Never Too Late to
Mend” •••••»•;;
Opera House—” Sunny South „
The Olympic-" Quits »
Alhambra- Variety Company
ACADEMY or Music- Minstrels .......... - ■ • • • ..
Lynch Family Bellringers, Town Hall, Mar-
J rickville »«
The attendance at Sydney Opera House
was fair, but patchy, on Saturday night. Mr
George Darrell’s " Sunny South ” was set up as
the attraction. A couple of years ago the Sydney
nubile had the advantage of seeing this drama. The
The more spirited of them thought of it several
times since. It formed a picture. Imagination
drove taeksl In the side-wall of its sitting-room,
and. with a piece of rope, hung the picture. When
memory looked at it, it instinctively turned to the
opposite side-wall. It expected to see the author-
actor also hanging by a piece of rope. But Mr.
Darrell was away in England. Several of his ad-
ventures are described In the bill. He had got
the length of the twelfth night’s representation
of the “ Sunny South,” when someone, in cutting
the rope that bound him to the tree, nearly cut
the actor’s thumb off. It took seven medical
men to save the arm. Mr. Darrell was the re-
cipient of prompt and generous sympathy. He
has many features to make him liked. But does
not the incident force a moral ? Had Mr. Darrell
olayed his drama for 11 nights only he would not
have had bis thumb out. It is to be hoped that
the lesson will not be lost.
The plot of the play is indifferent. The
incidents are dragged in. They have the merit of
being rapid, stirring, exciting, but they are unln-
telleotual. The stage-carpenter and scene-shifter
could make enough of them to last till Christmas.
The play is on nearly the same plane as the serial
stories in a boy’s journal. The names in the cast
are made on that pattern. There is Worthy
Chester, an English gentleman; Perfidy Pounce, a
man of business; Bank-teller True, a brave ex-
ample, and a lot of others whose names are sup-
Sosed to give the clue to their characters. There
i the same prominence given to the pride of an
old family that the schoolboy and nursegirl make
solid matter of thought from. Then there is
shooting enough to please the long-clothes bearer
of the deadly pop-gun. There is fire enough to
keep everybody awake, if it wore only to take
care of his eyebrows.
' ■Some things have been toned down since we
last saw the play. The bushranger’s hut does not
blaze so fiercely as it did in Melbourne. There is
less glass broken in the early scenes. There is less
noise of powder being fired away. The spectator
is not obliged to look so frequently to the door.
Altogether, the play is considerably less like Sheol.
Possibly this is accounted for by the state of Mr.
Darrell’s health. The late suffering has left its
traces. He does not step on the stage as he did
when we first saw him in the character of the re-
turned digger. His whip-arm is stiller, his smile
is sloklied o’er with the cast of thought, his pipe
is less at home. He is subdued. Did we not
know his history we would have believed that it
was matrimony that effected the change. Nothing
but matrimony or serious sickness knocks the
vivacity out of a man like that.
■ • •
George tried to cheer up once. He got
them all about him in the mining camp, and pre-
pared to sing an original song. It turned out that
his voice was husky, but the way he smiled
through the building won everyone’s sympathy.
The song had a pleasing air, and there was a
moderately fine point on some of the lines. For In-
stance, be prophesied about the fashionable class
of girls in the following terms of classic compli-
ment:—
“ They will powder their noses.
And tread on their toeses.
So long as the world goes round."
While warbling these sentiments his right arm
was gently elevated, the back of the hand belrg
turned to the celling, and the fingers playfullj
twiddling with the ambrosial atmosphere. Add to
this an inexpressibly sweet expression of counten-
ance, and the combined effect can be calculated to
a nicety. m m
fie had a large party helping him. Mr.
Rainford was Ben Brewer, a representative
digger. He was not unlike the thing, i >
flannel and moleskin. His gag, “I'm a dig-
ger I am, and I knows it,” comes in too
often. Mr. Ireland was Eli Grup, a man on
’Change. This is the sort of stupid, repulsive
character playwrights usually give us as the
holder of mortgages on the ancestral domains. He
is ugly as sin, and as thick-skinned as a buffalo,
and he is always ready to cancel the deeds if the
grey-headed father will give him the only daugh-
ter in marriage. It will dawn upon playwrights
some day that an avaricious mortgagee may be
as amiable, as handsome, and as sweet-tempered
as George Darrell himself. Considering the na-
ture of the part, Mr. Ireland got through well.
Mr J P. West had the part of Dick Duggan, a
bushranger- This was the best held character of
the night. There was substance in it. It was con-
sistently atrocious. #
Miss Annie Mayor was—horribile dictu!—
Bubs. She had to represent a girl bred in the
bush. She was lively, audacious, and possessed of
a slice of the vocabulary Kenry Kingsley gave to
Gertrude Neville. Miss Emma Fischer was Clarice
Chester. She was supposed to represent a girl
born in the purple. Australia is paid a dexterous
compliment by this little arrangement. Mr. Dar-
rell will be, no doubt, astute enough when he re-
turns to London to make Miss Mayor Clarice and
Miss Fischer Bubs.
“ The Sunny South ” will run as Ion# as it
can. and then Mr. Darrell will present, for the first
time in Sydney, his great emotional play, “The
Naked Truth/’ So far, we have only seen in the
theatre the half-naked truth. She was in the
drees-circle. , , , ,
The Sydney Theatre Royal was crowded
on Monday night to witness the representation of
Mr. Boucicault’s latest dramatic production. “The
Jilt” is a five-act comedy, and, with the exception
of the Hibernian flavour contributed by Myles
O’Hara, characters, scenery, and Incidents are
wholly descriptive of life among the midland
counties of England. This was a change. It gave
a chance to members of the company to whom
parts in purely Irish plays were not most con-
Senial. ft testified to the versatility of the gifted
ramatlst. It proved that the hand of the author
of " London Assurance ” had not forgotten its
cunning. B ,
The story of the play is not in itself deeply
interesting. A certain Sir Budleigh Woodstock
marries a heartless jilt. He thinks she loves him
passionately, and accordingly passes his days in a
round of laughter and revelry. But his wife is
actually writing to an old lover, telling him how
much she hates her husband. She does not dis-
guise the fact that she married him solely for his
money. In time she changes- Sir Budleigh's
character gains on her. She banishes the old love
from her thoughts and gives her heart to her
husband. Those letters, however, exist. They
come into the hands of Myles O'Hara He gives
them to Lord Marcus Wylie. Lord Marcus
threatens to hand them to Sir Budleigh if she will
not help him to obtain the hand of her husband's
Sister, who is an heiress. Around that the play
spins. Myles, whose only worldly property is a
share in a steeplechaser, extricates Lady Wood-
stock from her difficulties, and himself marries
the heiress Everybody, except Lord Marcus, is
made happy in the end.
» • •
The way Lady Woodstock is made happy
has questionable aspects. Myles has returned the
compromising tellers. The load of apprehension
is lifted from her heart. She goes to throw the
records of her folly in the fire. Myles interposes.
He begs her to show the letters to her husband
and to pour her tale of sorrow into his ear. Other-
wise the secret standing up between them would
cast a shadow over her life. She agrees to this,
and Sir Budleigh acts fittingly. But what is the
complexion of the thing? Is not the husband
made aware that while she loved another she gave
herself to him for money ? Can a man ever obli-
terate this fact in a woman’s life ? It is wrong for
a;wife to have secrets, possibly. But there are
worse things.
* * *
Miss Thorndyke was Kitty Woodstock,
an heiress. Her dealings with Myles were charac-
terised by great nrohness. She is accomplished
and graceful. Her enunciation is particularly
distinct and her voice sweet. She had nothing to
do which called up strong powers, but, doubtless,
they exist. Miss Thomas had a better part. There
was room to turn about in it. She showed force
and facility, and kept the character consistent.
Miss Bouclcault, as Phyllis Welter, worked her
way through the under-plot, but the part had
little Importance and the acting revealed no apti-
tudes of a fresh order.
• • •
Mr. Vincent enjoyed himself in the part
of Sir Budleigh Woodstock. His buoyant tem-
perament infected the house. As the play pro-
gressed, however, there were signs that his vein
of humour was running out. Mr. Flemming
makes a very good gentlemanly villain. As Lord
Marcus, he exhibited much congruous baseness.
His retirement at the close was the most finished
touch in the piece. Mr. Brown was the vulgar
villain. It is not often one sees a drunken figure
staggering about on the stage, without wishing it
to be thrown into the cellar. In this case there
was no such wish. A character called Spooner
was taken by Mr. Tltheradge. This is a weak-
kneed, weak-eyed country curate, with a pa«fo .
for gambling. It is a pity the exigencies - f ue
play kept him so much off the stage. T_. little
seen of him was a whet.
* m *
The great character in the play is Myles
O’Hara. Mr. Bouoioault is as good in this perfor-
mance as in any of his purely Irish performances.
He has carried to English midlands the rich flavour
of the County Galway. He lives in the stable with
his race-horse, Ballyna-hlnch. He appears also to
do the sporting news for an influential organ. The
life of a jockey is his highest dream. The part is
lit with humour. The phrases are delicately
modulated. The sentiments nas a good deal of
originality. In speaking of his misfortunes on one
occasion he consoles himself with the remark,
“ Well, sure, if I had no troubles I’d feel like an
exile.” When he has blurted out an indiscreet ex-
pression, his apology to the heiress is, Ah, your
sweet words have turned all the blood in my body
into wine, and my sowl is drunk.” He explains
the fate of an old companion who bad been sadly
j Itid in these horsey figures: “ When he brought
her to the altar and put her nose to the rail, she
shied, and landed him with a broken life.” Dra-
matic writing like that, in these times of slipshod
stage badinage, is refreshing.
m m *
Young Bouoioault played Geoff Tudor, an
Eton boy. He was too old for it, too dry for it,
too “made” for it. Had he called himself a
Cambridge or Trinity man he might have passed
muster. But even then he had nothing to do
worth working over. It is as the scheming villain
this actor manifests ability.
• • •
The Bouoioault season closed last night
(Wednesday). It has been highly succassful
throughout. Atlno time did the enthusiasm of the
audience reach the fervour It attained on two or
three occasions in Melbourne. The appreciation
was, however, as keen.
• « • •
1 |The Theatre Royal was comfortably filled
on Tuesday afternoon, when Mias Oracle Plalsted
took her well-earned “ ben.” Musgrove gave the
free use of the theatre to the little lady, and a
capital programme was discussed. The ertists
who assisted were Misses Myra Kemble and Agnes
Thomas, Messrs. Tltheradge, Seagrave, Oily Deer-
ing, Charlie Brown, Porter, Charlie Harding, and
others. Want of space prevents an extended
notice.
m * « «
“ Distant hills are green.” Many people
stagger through life without learning tnis simple
truth. Bat once a person has got a fairly good
grip of it, there’s no limit to be placed to his suc-
cess. He might even rise to drive a hearse, or
keep a pound. And this has to do with Harry
Lynch and his people. A week or fortnight ago
he and his mob had stowed away all their gear in
their bells—having removed the clappers—pre-
paratory to a journey overland to Melbourne,
playing through the bush on the way. But they’re
still in Sydney, negotiating their six little meals a
day. The fact is they’ve been so successful in the
suburbs that to leave would be simply turning
their backs on money. At the North Shore, the
other night 600 were in the hall, and as many more
on the roof At Ryde, the Glebe, and other places,
it was a case of coming early and being mightily
civil, if you wantedaseat. The “musical glasses, ’
by Harry himself, if the real piece dc resistance of
the show. Many respectable householders—men
who honestly strive to raise a large family on
slender means—visit the performances, and return
home with gloom in their hearts. Far into the
night they remain up, expectorating on their
hands and rubbing tumblers, to see if any chance
of getting beer for dinner lay in that direction.
« « « «
At the Gaiety, on Saturday nigut, our old
friend, Alfred Dampler, opened to a packed house
with “ It’s never too Late to Mend.” Of the per-
formance Itself we are obliged to hold over the
detailed account till next tesue.
The Old Masonic Hall, York-street, has
changed its name to the Olympic, and was opened
on Saturday night by Davis and Raphael’s
Variety Company. There was a good attendance,
and the performance was received w’lth favour.
We shall have more to say about it by-and-bye.
» ♦ * *
The “ Romany Rye,” with its horrors,
wild improbabilities, and downright impossibili-
ties, has been revived at the Melbourne Opera
House amid the loud rejoicings of the gods. It’s
impossible to see a piece of this sort without com-
ing to the conclusion that Charles Dickens was
born at least 40 years too soon. The minor sketches
of character which form the most acceptable fea-
tures of Sims’ melodramas could have been drawn
with even greater fidelity by the master hand,
while Dickens could at least have infused a little
more nature into the leading characters. To
seriously criticise such work as “ Romany Rye” is
out of the question. The hero and heroine are
little more than tools of the scene-painter and
stage-carpenter, and the heavy villain s duty is to
plot wickedness in shallow front scenes, while
heavy “ sets” are preparing at the back. Let it
be said, though, that the carpenter and painter
have done their work well in this latest
revival, and that noisy audiences have tes-
tified their bliss. A bird-shop in Little Queen-
street is a really lively-animal lively—and
truthful interior, although there were certainly
more Australian parrots in stock than one would
expect to find in a London fancier's. The deck of
the Saratoga, too, was well managed, and some
landscape scenes were as pretty as one could wish.
On the other band, Hampton Racecourse appeared
a dreary spot. It was a shocking bad meeting the
night we looked in. There were about five and
twenty people on the flat, and not a solitary soul
in the grand stand. But possibly we are hyper-
critical.
* * *
There’s one great thing to be said for
George Rignold’s “ Romany Rye.” He looks big
enough to accomplish some of the pugilistic,
one-down-t’other-come-up feats with wnioh Jack
Hearne is credited, and we must say that he
“ shapes” uncommonly well. Once or twice his
opponents came to grass on very slight provoca-
tion, but that was their fault, not his. And al-
though the villains who meditated dropping his
heroic body in the Thames permitted themselves to
fall out of the boat before he had time to hit ’em, we
can still console ourselves with the reflection that
they probably would have met the same fate If he
had hit ’em, and so it came to the same thing. We
are sorry to find though, that Lthe Italian accent
acquired when he played Macarl, in “ Called Back,”
still clings to handsome George. Such heroes as
he represents are only bred in England or her
colonies, and they ought to talk according to their
bringings up. Mrs. George Rignold was good as
Mother Shipton—very good. When she held a
candle to George's brown face, and remarked that
it reminded her of the boy who ran away from
her, we didn't feel in the least surprised at the boy
bolting. Precious few boys would remain with
such a mamma. Mr. T. B. Appleby was sufficiently
grotesque as Boss Knivett.but bis mother, who only
appeared for about three minutes in the person
of Miss Flora Anstead, was infinitely funnier. For
a bit of low—very low—comedy we have seldom
seen anything better than her Mrs. Knlvett. We
have pleasure in saying this, because when we saw
the same lady play a high-born Countess, we sin-
cerely wished she bad never been. W. G. Carey
was somewhat dull as Joe Heckett, who rears bis
granddaughter Gertie among the parrots and
canaries. The innocence of this young lady was
surprising, considering the people her grandpa
mixed with and the neighbourhood she resided
in. Miss Bishop, however, played Gertie in a
simple, straightforward style that made the
character possible, and won the heart of others
than Jack Hearne. It won our heart, par exemple.
Brian Darley was a manly and matter-of-fact
sort of heavy villain, but hardly “ let go ” enough.
This amiable failing may be accounted for by the
restraining influence or his companion in crime
Mr. A. Roife. The latter gentlemen, described as
a bill-discounter, evidently possesses the rare gift
of dissimulation. With the character of a wily
rook he combined the manners and appearance of
a sucking dove. About 50 other people have more
or less to do in “ Romany Rye,” but life is too
short to explain how they do it. Suffice it to say
that Miss Lucia Harwood, as a gipsy, displays her
very parioaable love for Brian Darley with a pic-
turesque intensity that would move anyone ex-
cept a stage villain, and that the incidental police-
men are more than up to their work. Such zeal as
one particular “ bobby ” displayed is never met
with in colonial cities.
* * » *
The Brisbane public went crazy over
“lolanthe.” It was only put on for a week, and
every night the pretty little theatre was crammed,
and this with increased prices of admission. Lus-
combe Searrell’s "Estrella” also ran a week to
full houses, but the general opinion of the Bris-
baneites Is that it is weak and washy, both from
the musical and literary points of view. “The
Pirates ” succeeded Searrell's tympanum-torture,
and “ Les Cloches de Cornevlllo ” followed. And on
dit, Nelly Stewart and Emma Chambers wrangled
over the part of Serpolette, which was allotted to
the vivacious Emma. It is said that Nelly refused to
go on as Germaine, but the gorgeous George put
down his foot and she went on Musgrove’s splen-
did turn-out—embellished by the presence of Miss
Nelly aforesaid—astonished the folk up North...
Carey’s comedy combination is billed to aprear at
the Academy of Music at an early date.
THE MISSING LINK.
AGED AND OVERTAKEN SAVANT: “ BLESH MY SHOLE-I KNOW HISH’RY, ’N’ 1 KNOW
GBOG’PHY, ’N’ I KNOW ’TRIG’NOM TRY, ’N’ AJJEBRA, ’N’ CONIC 8HECTION8, ’N’
BOT’NY, ’N’ FLY-FISH’N*. NOW, ’F I KNEW WHEZZER MY HOUSE ’S NUMMBR
FOURTWBNT’NINE OR NINETWBNT FODR I’D BE FIC8HED.”


BRIEF MENTION .
Verily. Pro-Rogued!
tt was a picnic to Hlon Bouoicaulb. It was
also a picnic to Dion O'Connor (M.P.).
motto for the Order of the Garter:
“Knee plus ultra.”—ORbistian World.
. “ inhere is yourolient?” asked a Victorian
•tudge. “ Unavoidably detained in Melbourne,
your Honor.” He was. In gaol.
teishbp Batry says that, after the division
on the Wright case, he will tell his clergy to leave
off praying for politicians. They are past praying
for.
From the Melbourne papers “ On the
23rd September, the wife of Mr. —, of a son, late
of Ascot Vale. By cable.” This is probably the
result of the female craze for wearing wires.
The new N.8. W. Land Act works well up
North, where the dummies Impound their em-
ployers’ sheep, and have a weekly “ spree ” on the
pound fees, The squatters dare not “buck,” as
they are afraid of the dummies “splitting” on
them.
At a recent S.A. Church Association
meeting, a reverend gentleman who was io liquor
arose to second a motion having for its object the
raising of the consenting age to 16. He stated that
“anything for moral welfare had his (hie) fullest
sympathy,”
From 1st of present month N.S.W. Civil
servants must wear the galling harness of office
from 9 30 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. on all working days
except Saturdays. George-street tailors will have
to draw up a fresh time-table for the models they
pay to walk the “ block.”
The Northern Miner complains of the
way the Sabbath rest was broken in North
Queensland on a late occasion, and pertinently
asks:—“Where did the pigs come from; possibly
from some butcher’s yard. What is the use of an
inspector who goes to church Instead of pig-hunt-
ing on Sunday nights ? ” e
He is aged :i0, and just gazetted to a
cavalry regiment in India, and went to bid a last
farewell to his faithful old nurse, who, with tears
in her eyes, said to him, “ God bless ye, my darling
don t marry a black woman, or ye li have piebald
bairns. —Christian Commonwealth.
From a medical testimonial published in
the Sydney Evening News :-“l had been suffer-
ing from a polyphoid growth in my ear. . , The
pain was terrible in the extreme in my head. . .
The only relief I found was from standing on my
head, which was great amusement to children. By
the first operation, Dr. — extracted, &o.”
Grandiloquently announces the Kiama In-
dependent “ Our leading articles are each the
emanation of one miad, written always in the
public interest.” This is indeed a staggerer. That
any one man could have thus scintillated is utterly
beyond the bounds of human credulity.
A certain Southern M.L.A. went into a
public-house the other evening to “ kiss the baby,”
and was recognised by the sweet smller behind the
counter as one of the Parliamentary traducers of
her set. Hebe Intimated her intention of at onoe
pulling a bit off his ear and removing a portion of
the not superabundant hair from his colossal
brow. The M.P. walked.
THE “PALL MALL GAZETTE” DISCLOSURES.
(Special to The Bulletin.)
Tho King of Belgium is a man of muscles—
He cleaned out Ostend and exhausted Brussels.
[Our message was still coming ,through when we
went to press.— Ed. B.]
a great sensation was created recently in
South Creek, N.S.W., by a Hallelujah lass fasting
tor 15 days. The population, however, is now
pensive. It ii alleged (hit her lover, a young
journeyman baker, led tur a-, right with paes-
over-oake, which he used io push under the door
like the paper. He that curing tho fortnight
of miraculous abstinence from food she eat 16
miles of it.
r> The Northern Miner (Q.) reports the
Rev. Philip Moses as having asserted. In the course
of a lecture on Dickens, In the Charters Towers
School of Arts, that “ • The Old Curiosity Shop ’
was the greatest work of fiction ever wrlttenlexeent
one—the Bible.” Is that Thady’s mistake, or is It
one more of the " mistakes of Moses ?”
We cull this item from the Express, the
Sydney R C. hierarchical organ “ A Catholic
cricket club has been formed at Auckland. His
Do rash Ip the Bishop of the Diocese has been in-
vited to accept the olBoe of patron.” We hope
these orthodox sportsmen do not forget to “cross”
themselves when they see the hall coming it
would maintain consistency if they also sprinkled
holy water along the track, and said “The
Angelus” every “ over.”
Go it, ye cripples! Two wooden-legged
men—Chapman, of Melbourne, and Woods, of
Cootamundra, N.S.W., are matched for £30 aside
to walk 36 hours, viz , from 11 a.m, till 11 p.m. on
4th, 5th, and 6th of November. The Government
will probably be petitioned to proclaim the three
days as public holidays, and, if the affair draws,
two wooden-armed men might be raised to do a
Queensberry box or a Grajco-Roman wrestle.
The Anglican synod at Melbourne carried
a motion to the effect that sittings set apart in
churches for the use of the poor shall be of the
same design, construction, and finish as the pews
Sir Sandy 44 Caves In."
STR ALEXANDER. DON T SHOOT, SIR ’ENRY; I’LL COME DOWN. I’M A GONE-COON ALREADY. GARYAN HAS STIFFENED ME.”


Be not deceived by specious representa-
tloos-ee© that you get Wolfe's Schnapps, Accept
bo other.
of the rich. This is supposed to prefigure the state
of things In the Hereafter. But there, we are told,
there are many mansions, and in Sydney it was
recently announced from the pulpit that Heaven
had its own social rules and that select society
would celestially perpetuate itself
In describing Dion Bouoicault’s pleasant
run to the picnic grounds at Clontarf the unim-
peachable and pious Express thus commits itself:
—“The guest of the day thoroughly enjoyed the
rum, and spoke In glowing terms of the many
beauties of the harbour.” There is no confiden-
tial wink. There is nothing of the double entendre
about the statement. There is native simplicity
In every syllable. “ Mr. Bouclcault enjoyed the
ram, and spoke glowingly of the harbour.”
The state to which discipline is brought In
Her Majesty’s inavy is shown by the following:—
A oat on board one of the ships thought proper to
assume the duties of maternity. The captain, on
going his rounds, peeped in the bunker and saw
the mother and her brood. “Sir,” he said, turning
to the first lieutenant, “ this should not have
occurred without my previous knowledge or
sanction.” Strange that British tars, whose ac-
quaintance with cats was not always of the
pleasantest, should still preserve such an affection
for the animal.
of fashion will do well to note
“JJ* tb® editor of the Queanbeyan Times declares,
with all the confidence of a modern Beau Brummel,
that it may seem strange to some people, but it
is meat certainly true, that there is no absolute
rule as to what drapery is or is not decent.” Now
that the gay and festive O’Nale is throwing out a
f® ele . r to ascertain how the bunylp elite would
stand his appearance on the Queanbeyan boule-
vards arrayed in a calico sheet, it is plain that
summer is already beginning to tell down South,
ft tebow UP waratah way put the Adam-before-
the-Fall theory into practice the other day, but, it
seems, there ift an absolute rule in that district, for
the Bench sat on his notion with 403, or seven
days.
The old farce of “ Turning the Tables ” is
recalled by the proceedings, lately reported by
cable In the Australian papers, against the Pall
Mall Gazette editor and Bramwell Booth, of the
A L mjr - ,T° read that these exposers of
child-abductions have been arrested on a like
p.™?? if comical indeed. They made the story of
Lily s abduction. In their late “disclosures,”
the most sensational of the narrative. It Is,
doubtlessly, all fudge that Mrs. Armstrong, her
mother, was led to learn of the child’s whereabouts
from such a source. It Is plain enough that Mrs.
A. has been “ got at,” and made a tool of by those
wishing to turn the tables on the P.M.G. people.
In the first prosecution Initiated against the
G azette, It was necessary to secure the witnesses,
and Lily ” was doubtlessly safely kept for that
necessary purpose until the time of trial. The
abduction charge against the Gazetie is
plainly enough to get this girl out of the way, and
only a piece of “sharp practice” by the legal
fraternity.
The Melbourne D.T., speculating on the
formation of a new diocese down there, says, “ If
i 8ao P 18 re QUlrod, we venture to suggest
that it is not absolutely necessary to import him.”
It argues the question out on strictly Protective
principles, and proves its case with great force.
But it does not see that its arguments support
protection for native products generally, and
among other things, stultify the colony in con-
tinuing to import Governors. A lot of wisdom
on various subjects dribbles through the D.T but
it wants someone to recognise the relations be-
tween principles, and keep the paper from appear-
ing always to bo trying to bite its own nose off
Mr. Fitchett, editor of the D.T., is a Methodist
clergyman, but, like all the rest of the clergy, is
very “loyal.
. J . ol ?n Paterson has, we read,
completed his Melbourne picture to send to the
London Intercolonial Exhibition. It Is “ A View
of the beautiful Yarra from the Australian
Wharf. Let us lay back the ears of our imagina-
tion and describe scene:—A mud-dredge in the
back tolling laboriously; a steam-ferry Bke a
buoyed mangie occupies the middle distance; the
soft rich beams of the setting sun lend the waters
a translucent glow; a.corpse floats lazily by; it is
accompanied by a defunct dog and a cabbage- a
greasy tug on the right, a Hat punt and another
corpse on the left, and the balm of Araby per-
fumes the morning air. If Mr. Paterson makes
any better of it, he can call at this office and take
the sausage-rolls.
Advertisements printed on pieces of paroh-
ment the size and shape of ordinary luggage
labels, duly eyeleted, are now being distributed to
their customers by certain enterprising Sydney
publicans. The labels, which are designed to be
affixed to customers’ button-holes, are in this
form
FROM THE
HOTEL, STREET.
When I am Full
PLEASE TAKE ME HOME.
N.B.—My latch-key is in the left-hand vest
pocket, and there Is a dog in the yard.
Name
Address
THIS SIDE UP WITH CARE. PERISHABLE.
The Singapore people object to the club-
bing to death of stray dogs, and so (says the
Straits Times) “an intelligent constable Is pro-
vided with a number of meat balls, and also with
a number of quill points, each containing
grains of strychnine. On coming upon a stray
dog, the man makes a hole in a ball and empties
one quill into It, closes the hole, and oasts the
meat before the dog. Should the dog refuse the
ball, It Is picked up again by the constable,, to be
administered to the next dog.” This we consider
a very dangerous system. By-and-bye the “in-
telligent constaoie ” may blight the affections of
his favourite servant-gin, wherauoon Ann Bll»i
will produce her little quid when she takes Robert
X. s cold meat from her master’s cupboard. '
Quite a common cry of the £40-dropping
N.8.W. patriots who are now on the electioneering
tear is that they are in favour of having history
taught In our public schools. What particular
history is meant—Macaulay’s or Horace-Bent’s—is
not stated; the spouters, as a rule, being as dead
to the wit of the one as they are Ignorant of the
vai ue of the other. And this reminds us that It Is
evon possible to grin under the skelp of a Russian
or d ® rlve amusement from the pecu-
llarlties of a Russian censor. For example. A
Muscovite Wilkie Collins reoedtly gent to the
authorities the proof-sheets of a novel called, “In
Troubled Times ’ —founded on events connected
with the Rusao-Turkish war. In describing the-
tent furniture of one of the Grand Dukt£ the,
author stated that* amongst its ornaments was.
’the portrait of a certain actress of exoanaivn.
sensibilities ’ The cautious ceneor altered the
phrase to “ a large map of the theatre of war.”
fln^ n 'hTm««ff°^ e r te ? t0 th J 8 ’ ho COU-
? ne ~ i 1 ! 01 ! 0 a8 description was In-
tended to be purely historical;” upon which the
censor significantly replied that “in Russia not
hl8t0 . r, 9* 1 except what appears in the
olBcial Journals. The author gripped the
Mon at once, and-slid off with a sort of combined
nfo t fol the ’ (^ r f at :??‘ a *“ drunk ” aQd Othello smile
to blister the pavement on which ho
“Limited Liability” in New South Wales.
WHAT PARLIAMENT SAYS MINISTERS MIGHT JUSTIFIABLY DO UNDER THE 28TH CLAUSE OF THE CONSTITUTION ACT.


The Victorian Government has decided to
let the Spiritualists unmolestedly continue their
mild career at the Melbourne Bijou. The differ-
ence between Joe Byrnes’ disorderly house and
Mrs. Ballou’s Sunday-seance menageries rests In
the fact that the former gathers in the “ glint at
the door, and the latter sells tickets through the
week and profanes not the “ Sawbath ” with un-
holy trade. Joseph ought to'catoh on to this, put his
pews up for auction fon the Saturday, and revile
gold and call it hard names like “ filthy lucre ” or
‘‘dirty mammon” on the Sunday, and he will
come to be an Influential and universally-re-
spected citizen.
The New South Wales Rowing Association
Begatta on Saturday was not altogether a success.
The Mercantile crew was followed by misfortune,
and the Senior Bights was a gift to the S.K C. For
the Cup, Sharland rowed over the course solus.
The Malden Fours was won by Balmain, Glebe
second. The Sydney Grammar boys easily won
the All Schools’ Race, St. Ignatius, we are in-
formed, being weighted by water shipped at the
starting-post. The Glebe crew, stroked by Smith,
won the Junior Fours.
Call for WotFB’s Schnapps. It is the only
genuine brand. Be certain you get Wolfe’s.
There’s a language that's mute, there’s a silence
that speaks,
There’s a something that cannot be told.
There are words that can only be read in the
cheeks, -
And thoughts but the eye can unfold.
A generous use of Wolfe's Schnapps will impart
vigour and strength to the body and tone to tne
system. , i > ■ i .-l
A generous use of Wolfe's Schnapps will Impar-
atrength and Invigorate the body.
Beauty and elegance are confined to no
one race uf mankind, and we look in vain to find
perf. otion in mortality ; but what a useless waste
of time it would be 1o s*ek for imperfections in
Bi-ay Bros’, stock of China and Glass, showing at
their places, opposite the Joint Stock Bank.*
By the use of that admirable stimulant, Wolfe's
Schnapps, your lives will be lengthened.
For the sake of your health accept only Wolfe’s
Schnapps—It is the only genuine Schnapps.
THIS WICKED WORLD.
Tempos fugit! Tloket-oolleotor on Parra-
matta 9.30 p.m. train: “This your boy, mum?
He’s too big for a 'arf ticket, you know.” Mother
/down on the puncher like a ton of bricks): “ Oh,
too big, is he ? Well, p’raps he is now, but he
wasn’t when we started. He’s a growin’ lad, an’
this train is slow enough for him to grow bald-
headed before he gets to the end of his Journey.”
....“Ah,” exclaimed Mrs. Slowworn, “it's all
very well for you young folks to laugh, but you
can’t expect an old woman like me to be always in
the jugular vein.”....Girl to physician : “Can’t
■rou give me something to take these horrid
freckles oft my face ? ” Physician: “ Freckles are
fashionable now.” Young lady: “Indeed? Well,
Klvo me something to bring out more freckles ”...
* * General ’ Booth intends to offer himself to a
constituency at the coming election.” An appro-
bate conjunction: the “ General” election and a
polling “Booth.”... .Fond Mother; “ You are very
■tok my child, I will send for Dr. Jones ” Daughter
(quickly): “ Not Dr. Jones, mother, dear, he is en-
gaged already... Many a policeman has fixed his
-teeth in a leg of mutton, and now a miscreant has
planted his teeth into a policeman’s leg. This
must bo retributive justice, if there be such a
thing, and is certainly a case of the biter bit. The
•policeman’s leg no doubt tasted rather underdone,
hue perhaps the flavour of blue cloth may have
served as a condiment... .King Ludwig of Bavaria
hates women. When he went to Paris the Bavarian
Ambassador, Prince Hohenlohe, to please his gal-
lant Prince’s dainty whim, sent his wife away into
the country.... Vanity Fair hears from Mada-
gascar that the conquest which the French con-
template could not possibly be effected with less
than 30,000 men, if with that, and at an expenditure
which not improbably would reach £20,000 000 —
An ungodly story from America. Colonel Robert
lager soli was lately pleading a mandamus case in
the Supreme Court, and had occasion to quote
Moses, a celebrated American law-writer. The
Judge, willing to “ try a fall ” with the celebrated
infidel, said s “ Do I understand the learned counse
to mean the same Moses he has so much to say
about in his lectures ?” Replied meekly Colonel
Robert: “No, your Honorl The Moses I am
quoting is Moses on mandamus . The Moses you
are alluding to is Moses on damn usr....
Carlotta Patti, who was in Australia some years
ago and made a dreadful failure, has settled at
Paris, wishing to establish herself as a singing
mistress. She also Intends publishing her memoirs.
. ..Little Miss Pert: “Oh, mamma, Lila Bensons
got a little brother. Won’t you buy me one,
mamma? 1 ’ “ We’re too poor, dear. I haven t the
money.” “ Couldn’t you pay half a crown a week
on him, mamma? That's the way you got toe
sewing machine, you know.”—First love is best,
of course; but it your first love goes back on you
you can bo tolerably happy with the second and
third varieties.... When you see a woman meekly
obey her husband you can be sure of one of two
things-she is either afraid of him or is working
him for a new bonnet—An exchange says: It is
the clothes that attract attention, not the men.
We believe this. Men without clothes only attract
the attention of the police.... After Sunday School.
Little girl (who has Just come out): “ Teacher says
that when I go to Heaven I will have a lovely
white robe an’ a harp of gold, an’ a pair of lovely
wings. My word, won’t I swagger I .. . Christine
Nilsson is about to make her first professional tour
through her native land, since she became an
operatic star. Grishtina was born in a Swedish
wood-chopper’s hut 43 years ago, and consequently
is J ust 27 years of age .Mistress: “ There it goes
again, Mary, do you see that door ? Mary: i es-
sum,” Mistress: “Well, you’ve left it open for
the twentieth time to-day. Were you brought up
in a saw-mill?” Mary (with supreme scorn):
“ Nomem; I has alius lived with families as could
fford door-springs.” An Englishman named
Thomas Tobin was apparently anxious to be cer-
tain of leaving this world. Doubtful, perhaps,
as to the strength of the drugs kept by a local
cb< mist he purchased a pound of arsenic, mixed
it in three tumblersjof water, and drank the lot.
“Not all tha King’s horsos nor all thn King’s men,” Ac.


CORRESPONDENCE
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“ Wittenoom ” : You have no absolute
certainty for hanging anyone. You have only
legal certainty. Lo6k at, the Wyndham case....
“W.J.K.”: An old theme.. .“Bushman” (Daw-
son River, Q ); We forget the verses to which you
allude..New Zealand”: The person to Whom
you refer possesses a legal qualification, hut it is
the lowest recognised in Victoria. You had better
see Dr. Springthorpe “R.J. Not original.
Almost a paraphrase of the well-known—
“ They married her to forty thousand pounds
And slight Sir Robert, with his watery smile
And educated whisker.”
. ..‘‘Charley : Write us again, dear sir, when you
have heard what the electors ofN.S.W. have to
say at the general election about the Soudan
expedition “ B.8 J.”: The English pronounce it
“ Pell Mell.” The same rule does not apply to hall,
though....“ Wanted a Clerk ”: You are riled be-
cause a clerk gets hundreds a year for doing
nothing. It really is too bad. But it is not as bad
as are your verses about him—“JP.T.” (Mel-
bourne): Again you argue in support of the
article. You say, “I would make it Illegal for a
brewer to put a publican in such a state; and
further on, “ I fancy we could legislate on more
important questions.” You think it would be as
well if victuallers were never licensed. If we had
the starting of a new world that would be worth
considering, but we have got a world in full
swing and can only introduce modifications of the
existing machinery “Juvents”: You ask, Can
a boy leave his father when he is 18 years old?
This entirely depends upon the age of the son. If
the son is 21 when his father is 18, or even less, he
can do just aa he pleases. You see when the
father is 18 he ought to be able to look after him-
self....” Young Australian”: We are entirely
with you in sentiment, but have not room for
your letter. When our natives do rouse them-
selves and know their strength in the community,
we may expect to see the removal of foreign
antiquities from Parliament as well as from the
political system generally. Organisation must be
the first work, and the reform of the Upper House
the primary object. What about the “ Austra-
lians” who presented the N.S.W. M'nister for
Banquets with an address? Does not this prove
that you are right in saying that toadyism is the
creed of the quasi ranrefeatatlve.i of Young Aus-
tralia ?....“P P ”: Much obliged; next week
“C.L.B.”: Weare unable to assent to your v ew
One of the things to be apprehended lu the event
of women being endowed with political power la
that their influence wouli go to the side ot h>s
terlcal sentiment. It is the spirit of the practical
that is opposed to war. It is the victim of senti-
ment who writhes under a slight or insult, and
will, if he has national power, avenge himself by a
national war. To his side, rather than to the side
of the man of practical purposes, women's in-
fluence, if it retain the characteristics It now pos-
sesses, will most certainly Incline—“AFP.”:
We do not share your opinion concerning the
verses ...“ F.J.B.” (Melbourne): Such favours
always welcome. ..“Te Judlce”: We certainly
like bush poetry, but yours is not poetry of any
kind. This verse is, perhaps, your best:—
“ The excursion started punctual to time.
With hopes of good sport of various kind;
But the only thing we bagged was four galahs,
For the snakes, alas I had bid us ta tal”
But even that is not much better than Sladen’s
last. Don’t write your next poem on foolscap.
Scribble it on an old sugar-bag. It will frizzle just
as well....“Paddy Miles”: We wont insert libels
of this kind to please anyone. Your par. would
only be appreciated by the plaintiff and his lawyer
—and, perhaps, by the Judge —“Hay Joker”:
Your yarn would be Interesting to those only who
could Identify the parties. The incident has no
inherent wit, and to work up its humour, the par-
ties must be indicated. It is really nothing unusual
for a bank clerk in a fair position to make an ap-
pointment with a barmaid who wears a big bustle.
“Mercury”: Write more plainly. (P.8.-Don’t
write at all. We have now read the screed.) ..
“Nonnel” (Orange): You have too attentively
studied Swinburne’s “Dedication” to his volume
of 1865. There’s a deal of difference between
Swinburne and yourself as poets. Algernon
Charles S. sings as the wild bird sings; you sing as
does the parrot to whom Swinburne has been read
by his cruel master.. “Justice”: Our modesty
prohibits our appropriating all your compliments,
sincere though they may be. Although you may
not be able to write clearly on these subjects, you
nevertheless must have some influence. This it is
your duty to use, as we use ours, for the purpose
of opposing the Imperialistic system which it is
the object of a section to impose upon the country.
You deplore the abuse which Sydney papers
shower upon Sir Henry Parkes. So do we. But
we know that the virulence of their present
attacks would only be equalled by the sycophantic
laudations it ne returned to power and con-
trolled the Government advertisements again
‘‘Sigma”: Right you are. The “rights of pro-
perty” crowd would give their ears to upset
Henry George's position “ Plus”: Your paper
on Freethinkers had one good quality It burnt
well “Just’ : Will try to use it. “J.8.” Sir
Patrick Jennings badly wants a baronetcy. Go-
vernor Loftus recommended Sir Patrick for a
knighthood at the same time John Davies got his
C.M.G.-shlp. The Loftus family have considerable
Influence In London through the Marchioness of
Ely, who is a relative of theirs, and a prime
favourite with the Queen. The Marchioness re-
cently got one of the young Loftuaes appointed as
Keeper of the Crown Jewels io the Tower of
Lon on. The road to a baromt y is lo'g and
sometimes pretty devious, but Mr Patrick is right
on the track ...” Bob ’: H r y Emmett is, we be-
lieve, now playing atthc Nugget i heatre, kourko-
street. Me bourne “ Boy ac Manly : You ask
what we tulnk of Mr. Lxtl.ey's bpeecij. ncil. oi
course, you know, to those who like that sort of
thing, that Is Just the sort of thing they would
like — “J.J.” (Marrlckville): Is there no blue-
metal at Marrlckville ? We think not, else had
you been In your cherry case long erst. The
oflloe-boy s mother can write better stuff than
your ode to Memory, which begins;—
“iTime flies by, yet it remains
On one's memory bound with chains;
, You think of them you once did know
Very many years ago.”
.. .“J.H.W.”: Cannot afford space, nor do wo see
any object to be gained by a re-openlng of the
subject — "LSD”: Can you not manage to make
larger letters ? You should have a little more re-
spect for the eyes of the poor cotnpo. Borrow a
blank circus-poster, and write with a fire-shovel.
.... “ Reply ”: Post cards are to be abolished In
N.8.W. They|didn’t answer it seems.
One day last week Daya-of-Old and Jack
met at Rand wick in a half-mile ilutter for half a
century aside. Jack won after a good set-to, and
great was the gnashing of teeth amongst the
clever Northern and city “ talent.”
A billiard-match lately played at the
Palais Royal, London, shows that Cook has re-
turned to something very like bis old form. In
receipt of 2000 points in 12,000 from John Roberts
(spot barrid), he managed to defeat the champion
by 846 points, a grand performance, judging from
the latter’s recent form. It appears to be quite
the usual thing now to dispense with the spot
stroke in crack matches, and it ensures much better
" gates.” The public have wearied of witnessing
the almost mechanical precision with which such
men as Roberts and others can put down the red
ball, whereas the variety of beautiful strokes re-
quired in manipulating a break of 300 at the all-
round game never fail to interest followers of
billiards. The perfection to which the best
players have attained is something astonishing.
Eighteen or twenty years back, one Bill Dufton
was notorious as the only man coming within hall
of old John Roberts, then regarded as a phenome-
non. The old champion s best break, we believe,
was 365, and Dufton, who never mastered the spot,
occasionally made runs of 70 and 80. At the
present time 20 men In England can play the
“ spot ” better than Roberts ever could, while at
least a couple of hundred could give the go-bye to
William Dufton if he were back in the fiesh. BUI
committed suicide on discovering that his occupa-
tion was gone.
Writes a Queensland correspondent:—“In
this matter-of-fact age, when matrimony is more
often a union of lucre than love, it is refreshing to
hear of something reallv romantic, Liston, girls:
The daughter of a rquatter on the—well, in tne
hack-blocks, developed an affection for a band-
some son of Vulcan, who, In consideration of the
aonuil stipend of £75, swung his heavy sledge
with measured bsa f , &o, in the little forge under
the b ids. Hers was nor a Platofalo affec-
tion—it was a Vulcanic eruption-and from the
awik ii.e) volcano of her burr.log heart the lava
stream of love rolled uncontrolled to the feet of
Tubal Ca'n, Ha reciprocated. They kept tryst
eaoa evening and whispered their vows of con-
stancy under the wattle?. She loved him.
Enough! Her parent, she knew, would never
'corse it to a union. They planned an elope-
ment. Shs had horcis, jewellery, her own.
they were to meet at the slip - rails, speed
to the town, bo ut.ited, and have t‘o rest to
fate. She gathered her bel irgi gs, saddled her
nag, and repaired to the place of meeting. He
thought It ovei”. and—went to her father and made
a clean breast of It, got a cheque for a hundred
with Instructions to place at least the border line
between them. Waiting at the rails, her far her
met h a r- she went home with him. fn a quiet
dell not fur from the homestead where the sarsa-
parilla twines its brilliant green and pale-blue>
blossoms round the trunks of the dead gum-trees'
and the silver wattles sigh and whisper la the
summer evenings, the wild violets grow over the
grave of a broken-hearted girl. We want to meet
the traitorous lover on the confines of Gehenna
and express our opinion of his shar j in the trans-
action in one deep fervent torty-horse-power
kick, which will pats him clean over the edge of
the blue lake into the coils of the other serpent ”
“ It will be a remarkable things, indeed, if
the men who went to the Soudan learned nothing
there, and should fail to teach anything to the
people amongst whom they are dispersed.” This
is from a leaderjin the S.M. Herald. Now, here is
what has been ta ght. A returned hero asked a
squatter for a job, but stated that his three
montos’ soldiering had taught him that he ought
never to work at anything but soldiering, or bis
trade. Now, he had been tailor to one of the com-
panies, and as the squatter is getting up a Volun-
teer corps, he thought the goat slayer was worth
keeping, so he said: ‘‘Well, I’ll take you on and
give you a job in the meantime In your own line."
With that he brought out a lot of coats, troUsers,
&o., and told him to set to work to patch thsm.
The swaddy had had a feed, and replied with
scorn: “Patch civilians’clothes 1 No, sir I Bring
out your uniform and I’m there.”
They are becoming so widely known that
every day fresh applications from different parts
of the country are made for the beautiful combi-
nation Dinner and Tea Set, costing Eighty shill-
ings whloh aro only sold at Bray's Cbiua and
Glass Depot, 402 and 404 George-street.*
“ The summer pants,” the poet wrote,
Then paused in admiration,
To contemplate the cunning phrase.
His own, his last creation.
“ Ah, summer pants 1 ’ his friend replied,
“ There is an exhibition
Of these at Bummerfleld and Co.’s
Which laughs at competition." 11
The Game, as if was Played.
©ARYAN’S HAND. ' | WRIGHT’S HAND.


Wolfe’s Schnapps—It stands (alone like
the one Alexander without a rival.
Far, far better for you than beer, ale or
porter, and free from the intoxicating effects, is
American Hop Bitters. Read.
Ask for the celebrated Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Accept nothing else under any consideration.
As well expect life without air as health
without pure blood. Cleanse the blood with
Ayer,s Sarsaparilla.
Ask for Wolfe’s Schnapps and be sure you
purchase the genuine article. Beware of imita-
tions.
MacLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 George-street
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of Australia—by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps is imitated “Your
Rogue lovos a shining mark.” Bo sure and obtalif
W OLFE’S.
PEPPER AND SALT.
For the benefit of those misguided
maidens of Victoria who Just now are worrying
their poor little hearts about the backwardness of
bachelors, and Insorting plaintive matrimonial
advts in the Evening Herald, we have written a
song. It conveys a moral to the maidens, and
only needs setting to a tune as much like the Dead
March in Saul as metre will permit to bring a
tear to every matron’s eye Not that it ever re-
quires much to bring a tear to the matron’s eye—
especially if it is a black eye.—
Italian opera has sunk to suoh a low level
in London that its high priests have determined
to make one great effort to revive the former
grandeur of this obsolete class of entertainment.
The idea is that tin patronage of the middle-classes
—the common herd—is offensive to the blue-
blooded gentry who in former times were wont to
regard the opera-house as their own particular
hunting ground. Now-a-days, my lord marquis
who drops in to hear “ Traviata,” or some other
novelty* for the hundred and fiftieth time, never
knows who may be occupying the stall next to
his own. It may possibly be the very same par-
venu who bought his (tbe marquis's) ancestral
ihall a week previous, or the tailor who advanced
!hlm (he money to settle bis last racing account.
And the consequence is that a good many lord
marquises have discontinued frequenting a place
(SO apt to recall plebeian memories. To meet
(his difficulty a most laudable scheme has been
suggested. During tbe next season one night per
week is to be set apart for the descendants of suoh
as came over to England with the Conqueror, and
can trace back in an unbroken line to tbe days of
** the Cities of the Plain.” The opera will be de-
dicated to “ blood ” on that particular evening,
and the job of deciding upon the claims of all who
desire to be admitted will rest with a “committee
of the aristocracy.” To avoid the possibility of
any outsider buying a drop or two of “ blood ” on
these sacred occasions, all tickets will be “ strictly
personal and not transferable.” If this Idea works
well, no doubt it will bo extended. New operas
will be written on the understanding that they
shall only be produced on “ blood ” nights, and in-
terpreted by special artists who will require to
be tatooed with a coronet just above the vaccina-
tion marks. Tbe lew creatures who go to hear a
little music on the " off ” nights, will have nothing
to complain of. They will be on quite the same
footing as servants, who are allowed to take lun-
cheon in the marque after the “swells" have
blown themselves out and departed.
* * •
Here's a little item that outfit to be, if not
of universal, at least of Australasian interest.
Questions of precedence have already arisen in the
■C mrt of 8t James regarding Prince Henry of
Battenberg’s dignity of “ Royal Highness,” so re-
cently conferred upon him by the Queen. This is
bow the Royal bridegroom put it to the Princess,
after be had filtered into the gates of Balmoral on
a horse beside the Queen's carriage, and arrived in
a condition of dust and disgust at their rooms on
the second storey: “Look here, B?e. old girl, if
I’d known all about it I wouldn’t have spliced.
Of course, I put you out of it altogether,
for, taking things all in all. you’re more
than I expected. Yes, you are really—don’t
overwhelm me, Bee; you’re more than I ex-
pected. But what does it all lead to ? The
whtle ‘push,’ you see, is against me. Look,”
he went on, digging a'spur angrily into a kangaroo
rug (a present from Mr. G. A. Lloyd, a distin-
guished colonist), “ at Hesse, even. He’s a Royal
Highness, certainly, and after all we’ve done for
him, Bee, he wants precedence, too. Why, look
what he done at Ascot I Borrowed my gold lusee-
box with the £T5-dlaraond that I’d kept to get back
with if things didn’t geo, and played it up at the
Raleigh; while all the gambling I’m let do is an
hour or two of threepenny nap. with the house-
hold, aft?r She's climbed up Into the four-poster,
and you have taken in the hot dose ordered by
Sir William Jenner. Look at that Took, tool
A Serene Highness only, and even he wants to go
ahead of me because he’s an English Duke. Two
hundred he had on tbe Princess Mary's post-dated
cheque, and you know how that turned out. Oh,
yes; we’ve got lots of money to spend, but how
am I to spend it? I want to spend It, and enjoy
myself—. No, no; not that way, old girl; to
enjoy myself that way would cost no more than
an occasional autograph, or a hair or two out of
my moustache —. No; I’d like to get away out
of this— you can’t—and go back home, where I'd
precede everybody. You see how It Is here I
Why, at the last drawing-room, when I told Prince
Edward of Saxe Weimar where he was to] stand,
the Princess Helena turned to Sir John Cowell, and
asked the name of that nice-looking policeman.
Oh, well, If you think I’m unkind, I won’t, of
course, say any more, but look here, Bee, you
gammon you’re queer, and we’ll go down and have
a spell at Margate. Arthur’s back, now, so he
can do a bit of dust-swallowing to Baliater and
back In my place, and the Princes of Ultimo-
Pyrmont can run out the tunes the old lady likes
before she turns In. They’re faearly all dirges,
and the same bass will do for the lot. Let’s get
out of this, anyhow, for if any more want to go in
for precedence on levee days, Bee, you’ll have a
station in the housekeeper’s room, while I’ll have
to content myself with mounting guard in the
coal-hole.”
• * *
The other day, in the N.8.W. back-blooks,
a Judge on circuit was much horrified to find a
man who was proceeding to tbe assize-town on
purpose to be tried for horsestealing sitting
alongside him in the coach. Tes, actually right
alongside’him—the Judge—the grim functionary
who, on the morrow, might have to “ send him
up ” for seven years or so. And the worst of It
was that this prisoner on bail wasn’t possessed
of that meekness and sense of decency which
might reasonably have been expected to charac-
terise a man about to face 'the music of a jury.
He was a self-assertive horse-thief, and persisted
In admiring the scenery aloud to his Honor as the
coach rolled on its dreary way. “ Beautiful bit of
country, yer Honor—was taken up by Jerry Hoo-
lahan only eleven-year ago, and would fetch, I
reckon, two ten an acre all round even in
the drought-time. . . . Yes, yer Honor, it must
be terrible rough work for ye, travellln’
round about so much. Yer must be glad ter
git back to Sydney. . . I haven’t been to Sydney
these five year.” Which set his Honor (who had
been savagely grinding his teeth for an hour or
two) chuckling over the prospect of this loqua-
cious and shameless annexor of “gee-gees”
getting quite enough of Sydney (and Berrima)
during the next half decade. Presently they
pulled up at a wayside pub. There was but one
sdHe-d-mariaer, 15 minutes only was allowed for
dinner, they bad had no breakfast worth talking
about, and the next eating-place was miles and
miles ahead. So, they (driver and all) eat down to
dinner. The prisoner came in last, a bit late, and
the Judge (who, not seeing him when the company
took tholr places at the table, had Innocently
concluded that a fit of modesty had seized the
practical horse-admirer) was in the post of honour,
and had started to carve. “ I’ll trouble yer Honor
for a bit of the under-out,” pleasantly remarked
the horsey man—“ an’ might I ask yer Honor to
put a little mustard on me plate?” Which (It is
alleged by one of the travellers present) his Honor
actually did, wearing at the time a chain-light-
ning and prussie-aoid scowl. Next day this inter-
esting bushman’s “ trial ” came on. He took his
stand in tbe dock as if this were about the twelfth
time, and jauntily nodded to the Judge in a “ Ah 1
How-thedeuce-do-you-dol” sort of way. The
Crown Prosecutor’s opening statement was a
terrible indictment, a perfect crusher, in fact, and
looked like a “ fourteen years’ job at the very least*
The Judge's faoe wore a heavenly smile by the
time the learned counsel bad got through. Then
it was found that the principal witness, on whose
testimony the whole case for the Crown de-
pended, was absent—be had, the police thought,
been induced by some mysterious means or other
to skip across tbe Border. On the way back the
acquitted prisoner again dined with the Judge,
who onoe more carved, and actually had the impu-
dence not only to ask him for undercut and “ a
little fat, please,” but to go the length of remark-
ing that “ to eat horseradish with good beef was
like gilding the lily.”
“ I never thought you religious, well-edu-
cated, or sensible, ,r he said, “but 1 always thought
you very pretty.” And yet she felt complimented.
Bushie, at a back-blooks store: “You keep
things for washin’ here, don’t yer ? ” “ Oh, yes,
sir, all toilet articles.” “ Well, you might give me
a pound o’ soap, an’ a rasp,"
How we progress! A Yankee has dis-
covered that sea-sickness is caused by want of
blood in the head. So, to avoid mal-de-der, be says
you have only to stand on your head. No girl
need fear to take a trip to Manly, even when there
is a heavy sea on.
A Birmingham lady “took” two hand-
kerchiefs, and was discharged on the kleptomania
theory. No poor woman, of low social status, ever
commits kleptomania. She steals. Just in the
same way, no man of good social position is ever
flogged in N 8.W. Flogging is for the bad people
of “ the lower classes.”
As a two-year-old, Hermit won £4000 in
stakes, and as a three-year-old no less than £9000.
Next year he did nothing, and at five years was
made a stud stallion. The success of the first of
his progeny, Holy Friar, sent his price up to 200
guineas, at which he brought in £3000 a year for
14 years for his owner. The yearlings he has had
sold for no less than £27,900—for the past three
years only. He was bought for £1000, and has
altogether netted £80 000 as a return for the In-
vestment. He is said to be good for another five
years.
The bigwigs of the Victorian Football
Association have acted sensibly in rescinding their
recent resolution awarding a match to Bssendon,
in reversal of tbe umpire’s decision. The majority
of the members frankly acknowledged the error
of their ways, and admitted that the legal opinion
of the great Purvis and others convinced them
that the Association bad no power to upset tbe
verdict of an umpire. Why they needed legal
explanation of their own rules isn’t exactly clear.
A Canadian exchange says“ A clergy-
man in the county of Bruce preached, on a recent
Sunday, to his delighted congregation from 11 a m.
until 5 p m." The phase “ delighted congregation”
is simply the inspiration of genius. Sleep is de-
lightful. Some papers disbelieve this Item. We
don't. There is a parson in N.S.W., several of
them in fact, who preach with such good results
that the deacon, going round with tbe plate, has
to wake one half the congregation. These ser-
mons are like a death in Ireland—usually followed
by a wake.
It would seem that a Derby winner can
travel over the ground at the same speed as a
pigeon can fly through the air, for Derby distance.
In the matter of staying power, though, the
pigeon has a lot the bast of it. In a “carriers’”
race from Dover to Plymouth, the winner covered
the course-250 miles—at the rate of 1000 yards per
minute—that is to say, the intelligent bird flew
“ Derby time ” for the entire distance. Although
Musket’s stock all stay well, we should feel in-
clined to back that pigeon against Nordenfeldt for
a ?50 miles’ spin.
Bicyclists will be pleased to learn, and the
public will be disappointed In knowing, that “furi-
ous driving ” and its penalties do not legally apply
to this wheeled means of locomotion. It is for
pedestrians, now, to get out of the way of the
’cyclists, or be knocked aside, or down, at random.
Such is the decision of a London magistrate, and
evidently fresh legislation is required upon the
subject. Meantime, we advise the public to con-
sider the law as already made. It is our intention
to do so, and we warn ’cyclists that we carry a
thick and heavy stick and can run pretty nimbly.
From Samoa we get a letter from a Mel-
bourne man now on his way around the South Sea
Islands It is dated 9th September. He reports:—
“The scenery of these islands is very beautiful,
especially that of Vavau. Samoa is really a nice
&laoe. The natives are altogether superior to the
[aorls, and the women particularly so. 1 can ex-
cuse the mutineers of the Bounty—Christian and
his comrades—for their desire to stay at Otaheite.
Tbe weather, though warm, has by no means an
oppressive heat. Last Sunday I walked with two
other whites over 14 miles in 10 hours. There are
no postage stamps in use here. Letters are left to
oe sent on by the American Consul. I shall not
fWfF back - There are a number of Islands to
aDd something special to see in each of
months ” Wl 1 take me ’ 1 expect ’ a K° od three
Bobby has been spelling through in
an .English paper an account of what can be
H k h S( l ,)y , :tl,e “ Beilch of Bishops,” and in
of i 1 5 ignorance, he is obliged to appeal
™ < du P?£ ed elder brother (aged 10) for the
the wo Z d “ Bishops.” Authoritatively
th® answer: ‘ Bi ’ means two, and ‘ shops ’
means shops. Bishops are people who have two
shops—one here and one above 1”
To ‘‘go slow ” is a Yankee reminder often
be»d in tho States—addressed to “fast” people.
A Russian astronomer calculates that the addi-
tipnal weight of nearly 12,(*00 tons is being yearly
“A®! $° - ou r Planet—the produce of deposits of
meteoric dust. He thinks that this heavy addition
™J^*S 1 . b8t S nce “ u 5£ cause, sooner or later, a
P®rMptlble change in the rate of our annual whirl
ar 2“nd the sun. Whether we shall get closer to or
farther from it, or go slower round xt. and so have
a longer year, is what he has not yet decided. Like
f be . .® u PPiy of coal, which was so speculated on
awhile ago, it won t matter much to those now
living.
Jem Mace, the famous pugilist, late of
Australia, is, according to late English advices,
doing well as a ready-money bookmaker. Mace,
though, Is never likely to become as blgr a man at
the game as hla old opponent, Tom Kin g. The
latter, by ala of a commanding appearance, unas-
Burning manners, and a voice like a thunderstorm,
has risen to be one of the leading members of the
ring. Judging from his now venerable appear-
ance, no one would think that Tom had achieved
notoriety in one ring and fortune in another.
Leaning back in his barouche and pair the erst-
while pet of the “ fancy ” might easily he taken
fcf a parson. Now, it would want a long stretch
of the imagination to take Mace for a parson.
The Inverell Argus, a squatters’ organ,
thus delivers itself concerning divisions under the
LaMAct:— It would. Indeed, appear as a gene-
ral rule, that the pastoral tenants have had the
best of the bargain In the division of the country,
and have secured the pick of their runs as lease-
holm, throwing open the scrubby and otherwise in-
different portions.” This Is, unfortunately, true to
the letter. A tracing of one run is before us. All
the river frontage, except a few chains, is given to
the squatter, who has three creeks in his portion,
besides several small lakes. The resumed area is
barren—the Soudan goat would starve on It, but
tbe pastoral holding is nearly all valuable country.
The lessee was a subscriber to the Idiotic Fund. We
don’t know whether this has anything to do with
the division of his run, or whether it was thought
that this would be a better way of treating him
than by degrading him to the “ upper house.”
London Society, having received an ac-
count of the reception of the N.S.W. Contingent,
jeers at the Sydney authorities in this heartless
style:-“The return of the • Cornstalk’ Contingent
from the sad Soudan to Sydney, has in It something
Intensely humorous. It shows the self-denial of
the brave fellows used to the scorching sun of the 1
Soudan, and now exposed to a * continuous chill-
ing rain;’ and it also shows the intense selfishness
of the officials, from the Governor, Lord Augustus
Loftus. down, * who bad driven up in closed car-
riages,’ and comfortable, ‘ under umbrellas, and
clothed in thick overcoats,’ had deluged the
already dripping Volunteers shivering ‘ In their
thin khakee uniforms—the men of the Contingent
speedily became drenched’—with floods of elo-
quence.” Then it goes on to quote:—" ‘The
Governor made an able speech of welcome and
congratulation upon the safe return of the men to
their wives and families. The Governor’s hospi-
tality seems to take the road to the ‘ hospital.’ ”
This is very cruel, but very true. The drum on
that mournful day was beating “ funeral marches
to the grave ” for a lot of the unfortunate men,
who were thus paraded in honour of Plain Bill
and Co.
A Melbourne paper points out the unfair-
ness of two-year-old colts being set to concede
51b. to fillies, especially in the spring of the year.
There is a good deal to be said in favour of the ar-
gument, for, undoubtedly, members of the softer
sex mature earlier than males in the equine as in
the human race, and previous exoerience, both
here and in England, has proved that young
fillies repeatedly show their heels to colts who find
no dlflioulty in giving away the 51b. at three years
of age. All the same for that, it seems absurd to
suggest that two-year-olds should meet on equal
terms in the spring only, and If any alterations
wore made in the present scale of weights,
should apply to the whole year. If there wore no’
sexual allowance between two-year-olds in the
spring, people would be ready to advocate a
similar equality between three-year-olds in the
autumn. September in England is always recog-
nised as the "mares’ month,” and for theSt.Leger
a real good mare can always be backed with safety,
no matter how indifferently she may have shown
up during the summer. Some years back Mr.
Merry, the well-known turfite and Scotch iron-
master, won both Derby and Oaks with Doncaster
and Marie Stuart, respectively. Private trials had
shown the horse to have a slight advantage over
the mare, and when their owner decided to start
them both for the St. Leger stable money made
Doncaster the favourite. Owing to the favour-
able season of the year for her sex, and the five
pound allowance in weights, Marie Stuart won by
a head.
Whistler, with his terrible “arm-lock,”
has certainly destroyed what poor element of
sport there might once have been in a Graeco-
Roman wrestling match, but the affair between
the “Demon” aid Miller was satisfactory in so
far as it proved that a man ingloriously grubbing
about on his hands and knees, or lying fiat on his
stomach, is not invincible, as Miller was said to be
when in those edifying positions. For more than
an hour, by tho way, he was seldom In any other.
Whistler sat on his back, vaulted .over him, and
stood oalmly stroking his moustache meditating
what next to do with the inert mass of humanity.
But the fun was soon over when once be got a
good, dry grip of the big ’un’s wrist and com-
menced to work his arm back and apply the fatal
twist from the elbow. In the second bout
Miller gave in under the torture without requir-
ing to be laid back on his shoulders for
the stipulated five seconds, and onlookers were
able to form a fair idea of what sort of sport
there is about a Graeco-Roman match, where the
most “ classic ” dodge consists in twisting your
opponent’s arm till he gives in for fear of h' vlng
it broken As an exhibition of agility, strength,
and cunning device on the part of Whistler, the
match was entertaining enough, but to call such
rough-and-tumble wrestUng, as Australians un-
derstand the word, is absurd. As well might two
men have a prize-fight lying on the ground, with
the privilege of gouging eyes, until one or the
other threw up the sponge to avoid the necessity
of becoming eligible for admission to a Blind
Asylum.
THE MAIDEN’S PRAYER-ANSWERED.
PART I.
'Tls Spring, and the doves are all billing and ooo-
' ing,
The birds choose their mates and build nests on
the tree.
But the young men of Melbourne they come not
a wooing—
I sit at home lonely and murmur—Ah, mel
Chorus.
Woe to the heart that for someone is sighing—
A dashing bank-clerk, or old buffer in specs.;
I wouldn't care what, it is useless denying,
So long as ’twas one of the opposite sex.
My beauty la fading, my head’s all a-»wlmmln’,
For hope long deferred makes the maiden’s
heart sick;
The census shows fewer young fellows than
women—
Oh, what can I do to get hold af one 1—quick !
Chorus.
Woe to the girl who is full of affection.
But can’t find a bosom on which to repose;
I’m youthful and fair, and invite an inspection—
I’ll advertise, someone may answer—who
• knows 7
... ...
“ A tall and slim, and lithe of limb
Girl, with temper sweet as honey,
(And virgin heart) would send her carte
To one who thinks of matrimony.
She plays and sings, works fancy things.
And is considered rather clever—
To ‘ Ardent Love,’ at 9, The Grove,
Address your letters now or never.”
Part II.
’Tls Spring, and the doves are still cooing and bill-
ing;
|1 I’m married, alas! and have Just got my “first,”
And I would I had not been so ready and willing—
For my Bill Is a bear when he’s not “ on the
burst.”
Chorus.
Woe to the wife when her husband goes drink-
log.
And comes to bis couch at all hours of the
i night;
For ’ere I found someone to answer, I’m think-
ing
I was much hotter off-“Oh, a much better sight.
My head is a swimming, I’m losing my beauty,
For dinners deferred make a matron’s heart sad;
Tbe man has no thought about conjugal duty.
And as for the baby—it’s driving me mad.
Chorus.
Woe to tho woman who goes to the altar.
And slghsfor a bosom on which to recline.
Does a glrlwant a husband who’s sure to assault
her?
Just send your address, and I’ll let you have
mine.
“A rude and rash (with dark moustache)
Husband one can have who wishes:
A wolf to eat—he d—a the meat.
And throws about the plates and dishes;
He drinks and smokes, and cuts his jokes
That never are the least bit clever —
Write—' Altered Views,’ at 1, The Mews,
And you can take the beast for ever.”
THE JUDGE AND THE MAN HE CARVED FOR.


fchocoldli
creams
o
p&
m
hi/
prffKi
rS»
<V2«
Bn
21 PRIZE MEDALS.
Fry’s
Fry’s
Fry’s
Fry’s
Fry’s
Fry’s
Fry’s
Malted
Malted
Malted
Malted
Malted
Malted
Malted
Cocoa.
CbCO A.
Cocoa.
Cocoa.
Cocoa.
Cocoa.
Cocoa.
Fry’s
Fry’s
Fry’s
Fry’s
Fry’s
Fry’s
Fry’s
Cocoa
Cocoa
Cocoa
Cocoa
Cocoa
Cocoa
Cocoa
Extract.
Extract.
Extract.
Extract.
Extract.
Extract.
Extract.
Fry’s
Fry’s
Fry’s
Fry’s
Fry’s
Fry’s
Fry’s
Caracas
Caracas
Caracas
Caracas
Caracas
Caracas
Caracas
Cocoa*
Cocoa.
Cocoa.
Cocoa.
Cocoa.
Cocoa.
Cocoa.
FRY’S COCOA EXTRACT
Frys Malted Cocoa
V’
CARACAS COCOA
FRY’S CHOCOLATES FOR EATING.
SWEETMELA.TS.'
J. S. FRY & SONS, 4 Bond Street, Sydney,
a.t Bristol, Xjozzdoao., strzd. Iv£el"bo-cLrrxe.


H
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
IBRART FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
, TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRET AIRES,
ADING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in hxquisitb
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, Ac.
VERY ELEGANT. Just received, Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Novelties in boudoir and bow window
SUITES. Bradley. Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feei
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Grvftt variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
fend LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
B
ji IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
2J Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstaud, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
EDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, Uft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WA8H8TAND, with marble top
and tue back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached: PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS. 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20a.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.:
Chest of Drawers, from 10s.; Wardrobes, from 80s ;
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £310s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
jf?QK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
pWOil strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Case. Free at rail or wharves foi cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Bide
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also elegantly finished in
Embroidery, Plush, &o.
jf'IHIFFONNIBR WHATNOTS, effective designs,
\v just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
O’Connell-street.
NAMELLED and JEWELLED MIRRORS, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
° Cocnell-street.
RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS-
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and Inex-
panslve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s tno pair.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, OABV-
INQ CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Conneli-atreet.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
!ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMO'CK OHAIR—
Patented.
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
Bitting to reclining atid vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It 1s simple, yet ingenious In Its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, Instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superler
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort Is desired.
The frames aro of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four Inches In thickness
when fc ided. Price 80s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas. If required,
2s. 6d. extra.
S
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
B
AGATELLB BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
FRAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered la
any materials to meet the taste and requirement!
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
T71RAMBWORK for DINING-ROOM FUBNI-
JC TUBE, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery;
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connoll-streets.
B
BDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
BDDING.—All descriptions at lowest rates.
, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
BRADLBY
Bell and Spring streets.
W
A8HSTAND8, with marble, from 28s. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
t AWN and PARK SEATS 6 feet long. Rustic
Cast-iron Standards, 15s. each. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb. ,
Bentwood furniture.-a very eompiot*
Assortment: best mak«, low prices.
SOCIAL
It was through no fault of Mr. Playfair’s
that, upon the occasion of his ball the other night,
Sydney Town Hall was so crowded that dancing In-
stead of being a pleasure was more like torture.
The Mayor, In consideration of his guests, tried
bis utmost to limit the number of invites, but
when people have the execrable taste to bed lor
Invitations, what can a good-natured man do but
grant their requests ? Consequently, the company
on the evening of the 30th ultimo was just a few
hundred too many for comfort. But it was a bril-
liant crowd, and one of the best mayoral balls ever
Siven in Sydney. The Mayor, assisted by his
augbter and his lister, Mrs. Bailey, received the
guests, and shortly after 9 danclnsr commenced.
The Governor walked through the first quadrille
with Miss Playfair, who chatted as merrily with
his Excellency as she did with the other old beaux
when she danced with them up at the Liverpool
Asylum the other day. For their vis-a-vis they
had Miss Fischer and Mr. Unwin, a.D.C., and
there wore also In the same set the Mayor and
Miss Mllsom and Mr. Burdekln and Mrs. Bailey.
Mrs. Bailey wore a handsome black velvet
robe amply trimmed with black lace and
jet ornaments; Miss Mllsom, one of the most
tasteful dresses In the room, consisting of aground
work of heliotrope satin relieved by handsome
flounces of white lace, back drapery of deep
purplo. velvet, and an exquisite spray of pansies
resting on one shoulder. Miss Fischer was grace-
ful and pretty In a pale cream lace dress with a
Scarf of primrose satin; Miss Playfair wore a
simple but pretty dress of pale blue silk abun-
dantly trimmed with white lace; MUs Nellie Mll-
som, eau de nil silk, with dark-green velvet scarf
and wreaths of natural flowers on the corsage.
Miss Wlndeyer wore a severely simple dress of rich
. corded silk cut Y-shape, and a long train garnished
with chrysanthemums; Mrs. Hardle, a salmon-
pink satin, which shimmered through a handsome
, veiling of black beaded net; Mrs Spencer, black
lace dress with festoons of roses; Miss Spencer, a
young debutante, wore an appropriate pale cream
- satin frock draped with pompom net, white silk
hose, and tiny white patin shoes; Mrs. Wyatt chose
a striking costume of pale amber velvet and cream
• satin. -The bodice and train of the velvet fell over
a cream .satin petticoat adorned with bands of
hmbet; magnificent plumes, shaded from deep
amber to" pale cream, looped up the over-
skirt on one side, and an amber aigrette
formed the head dress. Mrs. Devlin wore a
rich robe of pale gold brooh4 with a handsome
train. The Misses Devlin were very pretty in
cream tufted gauze over satin of same colour,
satin bodices trimmed with costly lace. Mrs. Leo-
pold Jordan wore a handsome dress of black lace
adorned with wreaths of crimson roses. Miss
Fosbery was very elegant in a full pink tulle skirt
and satin bodice, and the Misses Throckmorton,
who were much admired, wore superb dresses of
cream and white, respectively. Several ladles,
who gloried in long necks which poets designate
“ swanlike,” adopted the plan of swathing this
part of their bodies in broad bands of white lace
or tulle, which In the distance looked extremely
like white chokers, and were decidedly unbecom-
ing. The coloured band of velvet fastened with a
jewel, which the Princess of Wales always wears
la order to hide her disfigured neck, Is tasteful,
and contrasts prettily with the white skin—if it is
white, that is—but this white bandage Isas ugly as
It is meaningless. Mrs. T. M. Aloock was attired
in a pale blue chenille tufted gauze over broche
of same colour, gold tissue sleeves and scarf. Mrs.
K. A. Watson an elegant ivory brocaded satin with
white corded silk draperies, and cardinal rib-
bons ; Miss Watson soft white muslin and
buttercup sash; Miss Davis, black lace, white
roses, and silver ornaments; Mrs. Seale, fawn
moire, and rich lace; Miss Montague, pale-pink;
Mrs. J. Cook, black satin and white lace; Mrs.
Aronson, a rich cardinal satin, with waterfall
of tufted net in same colour, a very striking dress,
which suited the wearer admirably; Mrs. W. E.
Bethel, crimson velvet and lace; Miss Paul, pink
silk and marguerites; Miss Greer, cream and gold;
Mrs. Hollingdale, very handsome pale-blue; Mrs.
Alderson, black and gold ; MBs Sandoman, a
superbly-made white silk dress; Miss Watson, pale-
pink; Miss E. Barton, crushed strawberry and
face; Miss Nellie Deane, black net, spotted with
cardinal tufts; Mrs- Dan. O’CDnnor, pink satin and
white lace; Miss Young, black garnished with
white flowers; Mrs. E. James, very rich white
satin and swansdown;.Mrs. Hill Trevor, handsome
black broche and natural flowers; Mrs. G. Mem-
man. cream satin and pearls; Miss Hogg, white
net and gilt ornaments; Mrs. Simpson, old gold
\ and rich lace; Miss Pitt, black with gold sash; Miss
Boulton, biscuit-coloured silk and lace skirt, terra
cotta bodice and sash; Mrs. Blackmore, rich cream
satin and feathers; Mrs. Watson, rich-corded silk,
trimmed with lovely lace. Miss Agnes Thomas
was a striking object as she made her appearance
after theatre hours In a superbly-beautiful white
satin dress, cut low, and sleeveless. The satin was
almost completely covered with an embroidery of
crystal beads, which sparkled at every movement
of the wearer. A quaint costume was a deep cream
lace skirt sprinkled with chenille tufts of a dusky
green colour; bodice of velvet to harmonize with
the tufts, and sash ends of the same. A sweet-
faced maiden, with a pair of the handsomest eyes
in the room, wore a complete costume of pink
veiling, simply made, but In perfect taste; and a
nice conception was a stone-coloured corded silk
bodice and high bunchy drapery over a beautiful
soft cream lace jupe. It was easy to see that the
Mayor had laid himself out to make this ball a
complete success, sparing neither expense nor
trouble in decorations, etc., and he was bravely
seconded in his efforts by both Compagnonl and
Needs, who fairly excelled themselves In catering
and music respectively. Catd-tables and lounge-
rooms were at the disposal of the old folk and non-
dancers, and, spite of the over-crowding, every-
thing went merrily as a marriage-bell till the
early hours of the morning.
♦ * *
A pair of turtle-doves who fled from the
madding crowd in the Mayor's ball-room and
sought the shelter of one of the up-stair rooms
wherein to whisper their sweet nothings, seemed
to forget that the large mirror on the opposite
wall reflected and made visible to those below all
they would surely have wished to have kept sacred
to their own sweet selves. Lovers, beware of tell-
tale mirrors 1
• • •
The Metropolitan Liedertafel programme
for their eleventh concert on the 39tn ultimo was
hardly as varied and enticing as usual, there being
not a single lady vocalist in the list of performers.
There was certainly a novelty In the shape of a
lady harpist, but on a social evening the public
are apt to look for something more. Mrs. C. F.
Richards tinkles the harp quite prettily, and
had the Instrument been In tune the item worn i
have been altogether pleasing. Thanks to the ur-
tiring energy of Mr. Ashcroft Edwards, tie
choruses were, without exception, excellently
given, especially “ Bonnie Doon," which was ar-
ranged for the society by the conductor. The
solo “ I saw thee weep,” with humming accom-
paniment by the Liedertafel, was an old friend
which has not yet worn out Its welcome, Callaghan
taking the solo part.admirably. Later on, the same
voice was heard again in ‘‘Oh, the joy of truly lov-
ing ” and, save tor a few mannerisms (quite
curable), it would not be too much to say that
there are few tenors in Sydney who could have
made a better show. It’s a voice which
would justify the owner bestowing upon it
cobslderable care and attention. The gentle-
man who sang “My Queen” has also a nice,
pure tone, but to those who know and love every
note of this chef doeuvre of Blumentnal s the
change in the lew last bars was something of a
shick. Doubtless the singer intended to improve
oq the composer, but, on the whole, Blumenthai is
preferable. Mr. Haflewell was as well received as
usual, and, contrary to his usual practice, he re-
sponded to the hearty encore. Mons. de Willlm-
off contributed one solo in his own graceful, tune-
ful, lack-fire manner, and contented himself by
bowing hia thanks to the audience for their hearty
applause. Mr. Charles Huenerbeln has arisen
again as a soloist, and played with his wonted verve
and brilliancy. The concert terminated with
8upp6’s March sung to words by Mr. Lewis Scott.
This is hard on Suppd, whose music certainly de-
serves a better fate. There was no instrumental
concerted music, which was well as matters stand.
As a voice-driller, Mr. Edwards is “ all thar, and,
perhaps, in that capacity, the best man iu Sydney;
but the instrumentalists, as a rule, defy his efforts
to lead them into the right path. The New
Masonic Hal) was charmingly decorated for this
concert, and the audience a particularly brilliant
one.
* • ♦
The pretty little church of 8t. John’s,
Ashfleld, was thronged with guests and spectators
on Wednesday, the 30th, the day of Miss Frances
Amy Webb’s marriage with Mr. Clement Mead-
more. Floral arches and other decorations oom-
nosed of dark-green leaves, ferns, and pure white
flowers, beautified the edifice, and immediately
upon the bride’s entrance to the church, the little
choristers sang an appropriate hymn. The bridal
robe was composed of white faille silk and costly
honiton lace. The train was edged with a satin
ruohing, and the long veil was fastened with a
beautiful diamond orescent. Real orange blossoms
and English heather were entwined in the wreath,
and the tout ensemble was very pleasing. Closely
following the bride were two small pages In nut-
brown velvet suits, deep cream-peaked lace collars,
old gold silk gloves and neckties, the latter fastened
with gold horseshoe pins, the presents of the bride.
The bridesmaids, eight in number, were attired in
cream lace dresses with wide old gold satin sashes,
clusters of buttercups at their throats, and long
tan gloves. The four principals, viz., Misses F.
Webb. Miliy Evans, Richards and Perdriau, wore
charming little un-protectable gold gauze bon-
nets and gold bracelets fastened with a herseshoe
of pearls, presents of the bridegroom. The re-
maining four, the Misses M. and V. Webb and the
Misses Devlin, wore no head-gear, save a single
bunch of buttercups in their hair. Their presents
consisted of delicate gold arrow brooches pierced
through pearl horse-shoes. After the ceremony
about 190 guests repaired to Ashgrove, where
Baumann catered a richirchi wedding breakfast.
A large marquee had been erected on the ex-
tensive lawn, under the shelter of which
various long tables supported the wedding
breakfast dainties. The bride and bridegroom
after holding a reception, took their departure
for Blackheath. Amongst the guests were Mrs.
Munro, in a beautiful lavender broche, trimmed
with white lace; Mrs. 8. Moses, fawn colour bro-
caded sateen, relieved by ruby velvet, small fancy
straw bonnet, trimmed with ruby, and a bunch of
red and white currants; Mrs. Jamieson, rich black
satin, with handsome jet trimmings; Miss Eva
Thompson, fawn satin and yak lace, small bonnet
trimmed with green velvet and pink roses; Mrs.
Devlin, sage-green satin and gold lace, bonnet
trimmed with pink plumes and long pink kid
gloves; Mrs. Hudson, fawn ottoman silk; Mrs.
Malden, green and gold, brocaded satin; the bride’s
mother wore an extremely beautiful gown of
brown-watered silk, with panels of embossed
trimming in colours shaded from pale lavender
deep brown, small fancy straw bonnet adorned
with plumes. The bride’s presents, little short of
a hundred In number, were specially handsome
and costly. Close upon 300 guests attended the
ball in the evening, when nothing was left undone
by the hospitable host and hostess of Ashgrove to
ensure the enjoyment of all.
• ■
A pretty wedding was celebrated in All
Saints’Church, Brisbane, on the 33rd September,
wnen Mr. Robert W. Ellis was married to Miss Ida
Maude Imria. The bride, who was elegantly at-
tired in an ivory-satin robe, and whose bright face
smiled under a magnificent tulle veil, was attended
by eight bridesmaids. Miss Irene Imrle and Miss
Adelaide Kent came first, gowned in cream lace
skirts and satin bodices touched with cardinal;
Miss Mabel Harris and Miss Fewlngs, in white
and pink; Miss Ida Harris and Miss Lillian
Tregurtha followed in cream and blue, and
two mites the Missts Mary Benjamin and Violet
Marienthal, beautifully dressed in pink si ps
with over-aresses of white lace. Each maid carried
a basket of flowers. Amongst the guests at the
breakfast were Mrs. Kenneth O’Doherty, in
handsome brown broche trimmed with Mal-
tese lace; Mrs. R. Crouge, green silk and
broche trimming; Mrs. W. H. Kent, very hand-
some old gold broche and satin dress with bonnet
to match; Mrs. J. R. Dickson, rich navy-blue
satin: Mrs. A. Benjamin, pretty canvas-cloth cos-
tume; Mrs. Forrest was charming in white and old
gold. The popularity of the bride was testified by
the many handsome and costly gifts presented to
her. A delightful dance was given in the evening
by Mr. and Mrs. Imrle at their residence, Bowen
Terrace.
* * *
The Eurekas held their fifth plain and
fancy dress ball on Tuesday, September 39th, at
West's Rooms. About 40 couples were present,
mostly in fancy dresses. The most noticeable
characters were:—Miss Burns, as Liberty; Miss
Brandt, Fortune; Miss Fallon, Lilly of the Valley;
Miss Nolan, Sailor Lass; Miss Johnson. Coming
Thro’the Rye; Miss M'Kay, Forget-me-Not; Miss
Morgan, Shrimp Girl: Miss Pearson, Romp. The
best of the evening dresses was a claret satin;
while a cream lace and pearls and a pale-blue
satin and white lace were very effective.
• mm
On Thursday, 14th ult., Mr. John Pearoe
entertained a number of his friends at his hos-
pitable residence. Eastbourne, Seven Hills. Danc-
ing, cards, &o., were indulged in till a late, or
rather early, nour.
• • .
An engagement which has not gained
much publicity as yet is that of a well-known
naval officer and a Pott’s Point young lady.
* * •
It is rumoured that Earl Cairns, better
known as Lord Garmoyle, is about to marry the
eldest daughter of Sir Samuel Wilson. This will
be a great rise for Gumboil, as our own Sir Samuel
can trace his descent back to Alfred the Great.
* * *
The most valuable wedding present which
Princess Beatrice received was a magnificent tea
and coffee service of solid gold, each piece being
richly chased. This was given by the Empress
Eugenie.
* * *
The bachelors of Bathurst celebrated the
wind-up of the season with a plain and fancy-
dress ball, held in the Victoria Hall on the 33rd
September. Dancing from half-past 8 till 4 Moat
of the guests appeared in character, and all seemed
to enjoy themselves. Of thee who wore fanev
costumes Miss Pedrotta, as La Traviata; Mias
Kable, as Red Riding flood; Miss Hartley, as
School-girl; Miss Marsden and Miss Ewer, Daugh-
ters of the Regiment; Miss Cherry, Cherry Ripe;
and Miss Smith, as Night, were amongst the most
conspicuous; while, of those who assumed quieter
attire, Miss Moore, in pink satin richly trimmed
with lace; Miss Whltford, in pale-pink nun’s-
veiling; two ladies from Milltown in black satin
and pink tarlatan jupes; a lady from Wallerawang
in cream satin and a local lady in cardinal bodice
and white shot silk were very attractive.
• • m
The plain and fancy dress ball, tendered
to Mrs. Martin by her numerous pupils and
friends, eventuated in the Dancing Academy,
Pitt-street, on the 30th, and was attended by about
60 couples. The best of the fancy costumes was
worn by Miss Taylor, being a pretty pale-blue
sailor-dress, with large straw hat and ribbons. A
gay cavalier was gorgeous in a ruby velvet cos-
tume of Charles II. time, but his sword was rather
unmanageable in the dances. A lady from Forest
Lodge was nicely attired in pink, and Miss Murphy,
in coloured bodice over a white skirt, was quite
nice. Two sisters were charming in white dresses
trimmed with pink bows, and Mrs. Chandler wore
white satin bodice and skirt. During the evening
Mr. Kltching presented Mrs. Martin, on behalf of
her pupils and friends, with a heavy purse of
sovereigns, and after refreshments had been par-
taken of, dancing, punctuated with a few songs,
was kept up till the early hours.
♦ ♦ •
The attendance at the first concert of the
Sydney Philharmonic Society augurs well for Its
future success. “ Paradise and the Perl" was not
a happy choice for an Introductory concert, the
music being too deep for the appreciation of a
miscellaneous crowd. They professed to enjoy It,
as a matter of course, because they thought It
good form to do so: but their sighs of relief when
all; was over* gave them away” utterly and entirely.
Herr Vogrloh pays a bigger compliment to the
Sydney audiences than they merit. But to the
concert. Madame Vogrlch took the prlnof*
pal soprano solo, and performed her task capi-
tally. It is only when heard In con-
junction with other lady vocalists that the
excellences of this lady’s style and voice are
most apparent. A few pianissimo bars at the ter-
mination of one of her solos were particularly
fine, and were acknowledged by a burst of ap-
plause (the first and only “burst” during the
evening) from the people. Mrs. Atkinson did well,
and what her voice lacks in force Is compensated
by Its great sweetness. Mrs, Brewer did her share
of work as conscientiously as usual, but was hardly
in her best voice. Mr. Friedmann improves upon
acquaintance, but he’ll have to go on Improving
a lot more before he can compare with a Halle-
well, a Bushel!, or a Gilpin. At times Mr. Brewer’s
singing was entirely satisfactory, not however
at all times. The choruses were almost all well
attached, but there was far too perceptible a
weakness In the tenors. The soprani and alti
mustered strong, and all wore white dresses, with
blue and pink scarves. The orchestra was re-
markably good, all things considered, and amongst
the audience Kowalski sat and took stock of the
material provided for him to work upon. It’s to
be hoped he was satisfied. This society will be
gratefully welcomed, and with proper manage-
ment and oonduotorship should prove to be as
popular as the Sydney Liedertafel.
• * •
A very pleasant social gathering took
place on Friday on board the Sir Walter Raleigh,
at the Central Wharf. The friends of the gallant
■kipper “ rallied ” up in force In answer to his Invi-
tation, and there was also a good sprinkling of the
fair sex. Song and dance alternated till 11p.m.,
when an adjournment was made to the saloon,
where a tastefully-laid table received becoming
attention. After supper bis Worship the Mayor
proposed the health of Captain Milne, who suitably
acknowledged the compliment, and proposed a
toast to the Mayor of Sydney. The ** Ladies ”
were next honoured on the motion of a sad sea-
dog. soon after which the merry company separ-
ated.
• * •
A very successful entertainment was given
at the Freemason’s Hall, Wagga Wagga, lately,
under the direction of Mr. W. G. Broadhurst.
Mr. Andrew Fairfax had journeyed from Sydney in
order to assist, and being In splendid voice de-
lighted his audience with no less than five solos
and a duet. “ Oh, fairy wand” was the gem of the
evening, and was sung by the accomplished wife
of a local medico and Mr. Fairfax. A young lady,
who is always a favourite, sang “ I cannot sing
the old song” with much sweetness. Koyle, too,
made a good Impression with " Forget,” and,
to wind up the entertainment, Offenbach’s
“ Blind beggars,” in which two members of
the church choir (think of it I) took pro-
minent parts, was given to the delight of
the audience. Next evening the Foresters
celebrated their anniversary by giving a subscrip-
tion ball, which was patronised by about 300
people. Amongst the fancy dresses most notice-
able was a Native Cat, and another young lady
aired her vivacity as Daughter of the Regiment.
An Italian Flower Girl was pretty, also La Fille
de Madame Angot. There were, besides, a Forget-
Me-Not, Colleen Bawn, Highland Lassie, Mephia-
topheles, Claude Melnotte; and amongst the many
beautiful evening dresses a lady, who was generally
voted belle, wore pink satin combined with cream
veiling and net. She was, however, closely pressed
by a lady from Qurwood-street In a black satin
drosa tastefully trimmed with pink. The Chief
Ranger’s wife looked charming In white satin,
and two young ladles wore twin costumes
ef pure white. A gentleman from the Lands
Office was particularly noticeable, both for
his dancing, and his nice discrimination in bis
choice of partners. The survey office was also to
the fore, as was a khakee warrior with the
glamour attaching to his Soudan trip still upon
him. Altogether everybody seemed to find enjoy-
ment, and the Foresters are to be congratulated
upon a result which could only have been attained
by each brother sending his utmost assistance.
9 * *
In this as yet unmilitary country it is
not generally the thing to wear spurs at a
ball, but at the Mayor’s, on the 30th, one Con-
tingent man disregarded the eternal fitness of
things, and was resplendent in a pair nearly a foot
long. The dress which suffered most by this mili-
tary man’s caprice, was that of the ex-Mayoress,
which was in places torn to shreds, and a well-
known bank-manager s son had his shins severely
lacerated by the spurry kicks of this Soudan
warrior.
• ♦ ♦
On the evening of the 34th September, the
Wlloannla Winter Party Club held their last dance
of the season in Kennedy’s Hall. All the “bone’’
and beauty of the town and country for miles
around attended this final flicker. Miss Haohey’s
petite and graceful figure attracted a number of
admirers, and Miss Desally’s genial manner and
pleasant face caused her to be much sought after.
Miss Brougham was as charming as ever; and
Miss Reid chose this occasion for making her
debut. An excellent supper was provided, and
great praise is due to the three young gentlemen
who undertook the management of these partie s’
which have already been remarkably successful.
* - •
Railway Picnic up at Newcastle, the other
day, and amongst the sports the biggest event
was the married women’s race. Eight matrons
entered for competition, and the way they used
their trotters would put a George Addison to the
blush. The successful flyer was handed her prize
amid much cheering.
* • ■
Petersham ‘ sooialled ’ for the last time this
season on the 1st Inst. The attendance was larger
than usual, and ladies’ dresses even more gay, and
dancing, contrary to the general rule, was kept
till 3 o’clock in the morning.
■ • •
Mr. F. L. Weiss gave a ball to his numerous
friends and relatives of his scholars at the Modern
High School, on 30th ultimo. The new school hall,
a fine spacious apartment, served capitally as a
ball-room. It has a good floor, ventilation, and a
triple set of punkahs, which were kept constantly
going on this occasion with pleasant effect. Below
stairs refreshments were served. Arrangements
were made for a juvenile party first, when most of
the young ones appeared in fancy dress, and per-
formed some pretty figures under the M.C.-shlp of
Mr. Alfred Read. At 9 o’clock the juveniles
departed, and afterwards the adults meandered
round on shuffling feet till a very advanced hour
in the morning, Mr. Weiss as usual proving a most
assiduous host.
• • •
The Newcastle Amateur Athletic Club
sports came off on Saturday, 3rd October, having
been postponed on account of the weather the
previous Saturday. The atternoon was cold, and
owing to the unsettled state of the atmosphere,
many ladies failed to put in an appearance. Hov -
ever, there was a very fair attendance, and tie
bicycle races in particular caused great excite-
ment. The ladles’ dresses were varied; some
appeared in fresh Spring toilettes, while not a few
contented themselves with Winter costumes, which
were far more seasonable as the afternoon ad-
vanced. One dark lady wore a claret-striped
ottoman silk, parasol and bonnet to correspond. A
navy and amber satin striped frock, small toque to
(Continued on next pare.)


About 4000 pereons put in an appearance
at Rosehill on Saturday. Parade, the 5 to 4
favourite, won the Hurdle Race. with Cymbal
second, Michael third. Cerise and Blue astonished
the natives by winning the Railway and Oetober
Handicaps, and Chesham appropriated the Two-
year-old Handicap by a length from Crossfire, who
had the unlucky Nicholson up.
Department of Public Work*.
Sydney. 6th October. 1886.
T*PLI
lowing Pi
KBS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
LIBS.—TBND BBS are Invited for the fol-
Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Govbrnmhnt Gazkttb, a file of which
la kept at every Post Office In the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced. If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Allan’s Black Wlngen Oils.
THEY WORK LIKE A CHARM.
TO those who have been suffering from Rheu-
matism or Sciatica, we come with glaa tidings
of the wonderful cures that have been effected by
CHA8. ALLEN’S BLACK WIN GEN OILS. Num-
bers have been cured, and can attest to the great
and miraculous powers of these already famous
Oils.
There is now no reason why anybody should be
be racked with pain, when for the small sum of
2a. 6d„ a bottle of CHA8. ALLEN’S BLACK
WINOBN OILS may be obtained from any che-
mist or storekeeper. On how many occasions,
when you have been laid up with a severe attack
of lumbago, would you have given anything to
get relief : also, when you have been rendered
sleepless through neuralgia or toothache, have
you sought In vain for a cure. Suffer no more :
keep the balm by you—a bottle of Chas. Allen’s
Black Wlngen Oils. It is needless to further recom-
mend, as a simple trial will prove to the most
sceptical the merit of Allen's Black Wlngen Oils.
“ TRY THEM.”
COSTELLO & GREY,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
ALLEN’S BLACK WINGEN OILS, stand un-
equalled for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
saddle girth, and wind Galls, Strains, Stakes,
Sprains, Bruises, Sweat Bolls, Fistula, Wounds or
all descriptions No ’bus proprietor, carrier, or
stockowner should be without them. They will
heal any sore, no matter if freshly done or of
years’ standing. No spell required to effect a cure.
“TRY THEM,”
May be obtained.from Chemists and Storekeepers.
COSTELLO & OREY,
68 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
BOYS’ AND YOUTHS’ 8. B. IMPERIAL SAC SUITS, LINED THRO
10/6. I««.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket only.
w.miisco.
LIMITED,
356 George-stroat,
Hava the
LARGEST AND BEST
SELECTED STOCK
of
PIANOS, ORGANS,
and
MUSIC.
BEST MAKERS. LOWEST PRICES
EASY TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Every Instrument Guaranteed.
Catalogues & Prices on Application.
W. H. PALING & Co.
3S6 George-street, Sydney.
1HB
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER.
ITS ADVANTAGES OVER THE PEN.
LEGIBILITY. RAPIDITY. EASE,
CONVENIENCE, ECONOMY.
Merchants having correspondents in America
have perhaps often desired to know how the
nicely-printed letters of their American friends
were produced. They are written by a small
machine called THE REMINGTON TYPE-
WRITER. The writing is done by touching keys,
and the manipulation is so simple and easy that
anyone who can spell can write with it. It prints
several styles of type (capital and small letters),
and the writing is fully as legible as print. It
saves labour, stationery, and time, writing much
faster than expert penmen, and condensing matter
to less than one-half the space occupied by pen
writing. Beautiful copies may be taken in the
usual manner in the letter-presc. Merchants,
bankers, solicitors, clergymen, editors and authors,
reporters, and all men of business should use the
type-writer, and save much valuable time.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY and CO.,
85 Clarence-street.
A man is wise when he knows what he is
drinking. Wolfe’s Schnapps may be relied
upon as a pure spirit.
The air was soft as woman’s touch,
The breeze was flower laden,
Beside the sea we slowly strolled,
1 and a lovely maiden.
The sky was cairn, all earth serene,
And I with joy was telling
The cheapness of the summer suits
Which Summer Held is selling.*
Be certain you make no mistake: ask for
and take no. other but the genuine Wolfe’s
Schnapps. Demand Wolfe’s.
“ I must confess I was agreeably surprised
at the full, rich aroma possessed by Wolfe's
Schnapps.’
Ball Boom Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 604 Hunter-street. Sydney.*
(Continued from page 16.)
match, suited its small wearer to perfection. A
pretty girl in black silk, with Olivette poke
bonnet, was charming; so was a gown of moss-
green cashmere and velvet, worn by a bright- 1
faced girl. Two pretty cousins in black, high hats,
and lovely shouider-spiays, were in good taste.
A young married lady was much admired in
olive-green surah and velvet, pink aigrette in
her bonnet. A Sydney visitor, with an enviable
complexion, looked elegant in a gown of cigar-
brown and ficelle bonnet. Two natty sisters, in
zephyr frocks—one cream, the other blue—sailor
hats to correspond, were fetching. Another pair
of sisters wore most stylish gowns, the elder chose
cream canvas, with striped brown and gold trim-
mings. golden Olivette bonnet; the younger,
a pretty d rk-eyed maiden, was becomingly
attired in a frock of ficelle and cardinal - tufted
zephyr cloth, with quantities of ribbons—bonnet
to match completed a charming toilette.
* * *
On the llth ult., at St. Michael’s and All
Angels, Paddington (London), was celebrated the
marriage of Miss Annie Catherine Mort (elder
daughter of the late Thomas Sutcliffe Mort, of
Greenoaks, Sydney, ;N.9.W.) and the Right Lev.
John Richardson Selwyn, Missionary Bishop of
Melanesia, younger son of the late Bishop of Lich-
field. The officiating clergy were the Rev. William
Selwyn, rector of Bromfield, Salop, and brother of
the bridegroom, assisted by the Right Rev. Bishop
Abraham, canon of Lichfield, and the Rev. Dr.
Codrlngton, fellow of Wadham College, Oxford.
The bride was given away by her brother, Mr.
Robert Mort. Her drees consisted of a skirt and
bodice of white sicilienne silk, trimmed with hand-
some pomt-de-gaze, and train of white crepe-de-
chlne looped with bouquets of orange blossoms; a
tulle veil and wreath of orange blossoms. The
two bridgemaids, the youthful daughters of the
bridegroom, wore dresses of Indian muslin, blue
sashes, and white hats trimmed with white
feathers.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Annual Railway Ball, Exhibition
Building October 8.
Grand Complimentary Concert ten-
dered to Signor and Signora
Fabrls, New Masonic Halt. October 8.
Tramway Works Picnic, Botany' October 8.
Sydney Socials’ Ball, frofessor West’s
Academy; Oetober 9.
Produce Merchants’ Annual Picnic,
Botany. October 16.
Complimentary Ball tendered to Mr.
and Mrs. Ernest Needs, Friday
evening, Nlthsdalo October 18.
Return Ball to the Mayor of Peter-
sham ■; October 31.
Entertainment at Petersham Town
Hall by Members of Petersham
FootbatlCiub .... Octobers?.
The “Claimant."
On the first page of this day’s issue of The Bul-
letin will be found the portrait of one who, some
ten years ago, performed the leading part in one
of the most sensational leading dramas of modern
times. It is the Tlohborne “ Claimant.” The
character he took was not a successful one, and
necessitated his retirement from public life for a
longterm of years. In connection with this re-
cently-taken portrait, the curious circumstance
is the extraordinary change that has taken place
in the convict’s appearance since he stood in the
dock so long ago to tell us what he did not know
concerning French pronunciation or the pecu-
liarities of “ rectangles.” The difference between
Orton’s appearance now and then is even greater
than that between the lost Tlohborne and the fat
Wagga butcher. This at least proves that a long
lapse of years can so alter a man as to make him
unrecognisable by those who formerly knew him
well. It also raises many curious questions. For
if one’s physical aspect is liable to such fundamen-
tal change, why may not the memory or other
mental attributes be also subject to a correspond-
ing one ? The evidence, gleaned from alt quarters
of the world, that the weighty person who stood
in the dock was not identical with the dandy young
Carabineer of other days, was simply ov.. rwhelm-
ing. But, In view of our portrait, some of the
links in the chain were certainly unsound. The
prisoner’s appearance as ho faced the jury, to-
f ether with the fact that he knew nothing of the
'reach tongue in which Roger Tlohborne was pro-
ficient, told strongly against him. But it will be
remembered how a Polish lady swore on the trial
that It was quite possible for a person to forget
every word in a language with which he was once
conversant. And now comes the picture to show
that it is equally possible for a person to change so
that none of his former acquaintances would re-
cognise him. But, despite all these things, no
logical person who attentively peruses the Judge’s
summing-up on the occasion of the Claimant’s
trial can arrive at any conclusion other than that
the Claimant is Arthur Orton.
The Political Situation.
As The Bulletin goes to press the public of New
South Wales Is languidly curious concerning the
Ministers who are to be associated with Mr. G. R.
Dibbs in the new Ministry. We say “languidly
curious,” for but few persons conceive the possi-
bility of the existence of that Ministry In the next
Parliament. In this Assembly Mr. Dibbs may be
able to command a majority, but the distant
thunder heard in the Canterbury election, re-
peated a week later in Central Cumberland,
and now resounding through the length and
breadth of the electorates, betokens the ap-
proach of a storm which will overwhelm
the Ministerial boat. Any Ministry formed
by Mr. Dibbs, and with anything like a ma-
jority of members of the late Cabinet, will go
to the country branded with the stigma of the
Soudan buslne’8 and the late Parliamentary and
journalistic explanations ot Messrs. Wbiqht,
Cohen, Dibbs, and Farnell, and will be held
liable for charges (perhaps of but little weight!
which the prorogation stifled. We care little w hat
colleagues Mr. Dibbs may choose, but we do hope
that Mr. Babton will not be persuaded, even by
the offer of the Premiership, to ally himself with a
party whose past actions, though acceptable to
a majority of the House and to the Sydney
dally Press, have not been commended by the
makers of members, the electors themselves. In
the next Parliament there will arise a cry for an
Australian party, and then the present Speaker
will be sought as a leader. It Is a strange thing
that Mr. Babton's greatness has invariably been
thrust upon him; he has never sought office—men
have called upon him, and he has not been found
wanting. Under his leadership a young and en-
lightened Australian party, in a representative
House, may be able to legislate upon Australian
not foreign—principles.
Wednesday, October 7.
Deab Peo,—This week I am going to treat you
to a missive of shreds and patches, so to speak. It
will be a collection of the margins that have
accumulated in all this whirl lately. It doesn't
sound promising quite, but consider, my friend, a
moment. What would life be without margins ?
Imagine the high pressure state ot affairs, If our
leaves were all print I It would be like a biting
grey day in winter without the conviction that the
sun is shining beyond, though It is hidden from us.
Margins are the elastic part of Nature which re-
bound so readily directly the tension is taken off.
Woe to the unhappy man whose days are not
broadly defined by this white strip. Sooner or
later will he murmur incoherently, as he tosses in
the delirium of fever, “ Mena sana in corpore
semo.” But worse still is the braln-depresslon
which never gets further than the verge of break-
ing down on the one hand, nor reaching the
healthy pulse-beats oh the other, but oscillates
miserably between pessimism and strained con-
scientiousness. Now, if my pet margins were
recognised institutions, such things would not be.
It seems.lto my limited feminine judgment, that
one-half the world dies of over-work, and the
other of over-leisure. The millennium seems as far
away as ever 1
The Nelson is safely anchored in Farm Cove
again, though she did not arrive in time for the
Union Club Ball, as was fondly hoped she would.
But dusk of that evening fell, and no Nelson was
signalled. All through the evening eager eyes
covertly watched the entrance, and once, when
some foreign officers loomed in the offing, their
uniform raised the cry, “ They come, they come.”
However, the gallant ship was many miles from
port when the revels were highest, and only ar-
rived in Sydney on Sunday morning after the
great social climacteric of the year had passed. I
hear the Nelson is to remain with us a few weeks,
and then go on to New Zealand, after which the
arogramme is said to be, Hobart in February, and
[elbourne in March.
This is the last night of the Boucioault season-
to-morrow will see the elder Boucioault and bis
company wending their way back to England,
via New Zealand and America. While going, Mr.
and Miss Boucioault make a trial of their strength
at the Bijou, in Melbourne. Miss Boucioault is a
youthful “ star,” and, I hear, not a little enjoys
the idea of so prominent a role in Williamson’s
company. She and her brother have been most
energetic in their rehearsals for Melbourne pieces.
They have been immensely taken up by society
here, and have been feted to their hearts’ contc nt.
Wherever you go, you hear of the Boucioauits,
and nothing but the Boucicaults—balls, races, pic-
nics, lunches. Afternoon-teas have livened up
to the same end, and dire has been the
chagrin when any contretemps has prevented
this much sought-after pair from putting
in an appearance. 1 do not know whether
any milliner bas teen aspiring enough to per-
petrate a “ Boucioault ” hat. I have not yet
seen a veritable masher doing a Boucioault limp,
but there Is plenty of time for both. It seems
just a little bit unfair that the father who had
made the fame, and is generally considered the
actor of the trio, should be so completely set aside
by the “ upper-ten” section. They simply Ignore
his claim to a traction of the attentions they heap
so lavishly upoa bis children. 1 suppose the con-
tradiction is partly due to .his second marriage,
and partly to his quiet, reserved manner. Young
Dion’s acting is most wonderful; it literally teems
with reality. His death-bed scene in the “ Colleen
Bawn” is a marvellous piece of emotional acting.
The Colleen herself charms one with the spon-
taneity of her performance^
These are halcyon days for the jeunesse dorie.
Scarcely a week passes without a juvenile enter-
tainment, got up with all the thought and lavish-
ness that is bestowed on the largest parties. I
cannot admire the fashion of mixing the guests. If
it be a children’s party, let it be one pure and
simple—boys and girls up to the “ not-out ” ages.
But your fashionable Miss of from 8 to 16 summers
turns up her nose in disdain if she finds there is not
a good field of “society” men and naval officers
to coquette with. It is an amusing study to watch
how these highly-developed young maidens adapt
themselves to the occasion with all the sang froid
ot a long term in the service. I can see before me
now a wee girl in flounced frock, short sleeves,
and wide sash, standing in a business-like attitude,
her fan tucked under her arm, her brows knitted,
as if in deep thought, as she calmly cons her
Srogramme, and finally decides, “ I am very sorry,
lr. , but my programme is quite full; perhai a
another time we shall be more fortunate.” Tb s
with a bewitching smile to a tall man, who stoops
very low in making the request I These entertain-
ments are charming spectacles, but by no means
unmixed evils. Listen to this anecdote; It is
worthy of print, and has been told so often apropos
ot a certain juvenile dance lately, that it is a
wonder it has not been tableau’d:—a. hot evening,
energetic dancers, the refreshment-table about
10 p.m. A small damsel with her partner comes up
quickly and asks for lemon-squash, then enters
into conversation with a still smaller acquaint-
ance, who is imbibing champagne-cup with evi-
dent relish. She remarks, en passant, to her friend
aetat ten, “This is my tenth glass to-night.”
“Then I pity you; see If you don t have a‘head’
in the morning! ” Experientia docet!
The University dinner (Oxford and Cambridge)
passed off with its usual success on Thursday
evening, when about 60 gentlemen assembled to
discuss a very excellent dinner. Since then there
has been a legal exodus from town. All the Judges
have departed north, south, and west on circuit,
and the barristers naturally follow in their wake.
The big wave storm of gaiety the week before
last is being followed up by lesser ones this week.
On Monday, a Paper-chase, which met at Wool-
lahra House. On Tuesday, a water picnic given
by Mr. and Mrs. Knox. On Thursday, Mr. and
Mrs. F. M. Dariey will give a riding and driving
picnic. Mrs. James Norton has sent out invita-
tions for a dance at her residence, Ecolesbourne,
Double Bay. On Friday Mrs. Merowether, of
Castle Field, Bondi, will give her dance.
An engagement is announced between Mr. Cecil
Bloxsome, third son of Mr. Oswald Bloxsome, the
Ranges, North Shore, and Miss Eva Fenwick,
youngest daughter of Mr. Christopher D. Fen-
wick, of Buropambela, Walcba, New England. I
understand the lady is at present travelling with
her father in Old England, but will return to the
colony next year.
CORRA LYNN.


BEALE.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—No family should be
without it. It is the purest and best stimulant
obtainable.
Headaches, lowness of Spirits, &o., show
that the Liver is out of order—In Wolfe’s
Schnapps you have the best remedy.
Wolfe’s Schnapps— Look for “W.A.S. ”
in a Diamond on the wrapper. “ Wolfe’s Aroma-
tic Schnapps.”
Bad dreams, disturbed sleep, indigestion,
stomach gas, all vanish before American Co’s Hop
Bitters. Read and ponder.
For years the world has accepted Wolfe’s
Schnapps cordial tonic and invigorant in its
market.
When your physician orders you Schnapps
he means Wolfe’s Schnapps, as it is the only
genuine brand.
Wolfe’s Schnapps. There are many imita-
tions but by using ordinary intelligence you need
not be.deceived.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 1st October, 1885.
TENDERS FOR ERECTION OF TEACHER'S
RESIDENCE, AND FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
HHENDERS are invited for the Erection of a
Teacher’s Residence, and for Improvements
tothe existing buildings, at the Pyrmont Public
School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydnag*
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Erection of
Teacher’s Residence, and for Improvements, Pyr-
mont Public School,” must be lodged with the
Under Secretary, Department of Public Instruc-
tion. at or before 10 o’clock a.m. on Wednesday,
the 31st October, 1885.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
W. J. TRICKBWr.
A QUEER "CELEBRITY."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
" The Countess of Landsfeldt” is the inscription
upon an old visiting-card which I lately turned up.
Like unto the rubbing given to Aladdin's lamp, is
the rubbing up of old memories recalled by this
card, which I venture to wager cannot be dupli-
cated throughout Australia. In tne recollection
of “Heroines 1 have met” the name of Lola
Montes, Counters of Landsfeldt, must not be
omitted mention ....
The strmge capers now being played by the
r igolng Ludwig of Havana help to reca'l hcsiof
his predecessor of the same name. He wus Just as
eceentr c as tae present on % out with much ol
difference. The present Ludwig shuns daylight,
society, and womankind, devoting hiu salf instead
to night, solitude, mu : c, and the building of
castles. The former Ludwig was equally notable
in other ways, and especially--so in the Solo-
monic characteristic of lovlqg: "many strange
womec.” Not the least strange of th?se was tue
almost similarly cranky Lola Mppt.s.
She was a dark-eyed Aberdonian beauty, and
changed her Scottish name for a Spanish one as
being more appropriate to her dark complexion,
and as a help to her in an adventurous career.
Her beauty had secured fur her, at 18 yeais, a
husband in the person of a Captain James. This
son of Mars left her behind when, 14 months after
marriage, he was called away with his regiment to
India. The alliance was not a happy one, as the
Captain was gl\ en to gaiety and the lady was of a
very capricious disposition. It was understood
among his friends that he was not heart-broken at
leaving her. Also that his return to her was like
that of Lord Lovel of the ballad—a problematical
matter. He might “ be back in a year or two -two
years, or it might be in three.”
Mrs. “Capfaln” James was of an extravagant na-
ture— especially in money matters. Such is olten
the case with those destined, like Jherself, to an
early grave. Nature seems to forsee that with
such the events of a long lifetime have to be
crowded into a few years. It was so with Shel-
ley, the poet,, who married before he was 20,
divqroed himself, and took another wife before he
was 24—keeping his name. In one eccentric way or
another, before the public for the remaining 11
years of his life. Similarly, also, with Byron and
some scores of other short-lived celebrities whose
names surge up. i
The stage was the first thought of Mrs, Captaip
James in her need of money and sensations. The
verdict of the stage-manager was quite against
appearance In the drama. She needed, for success,
all that which she h’d not the patience to
take. If she could not act could she dance ? The
ballet was very fashionable at that time—when
Taglloni, Cerito, and Elssler were names of Terp-
slchorean fame. Those were all Italians, but Mrs.
Captain James would come out as a Spanish
dancer— taking for that purpose the name qf
“ Lola Montes."
tihe appeared at the Haymarketln the early days
of the Forties—dancing with such strange orna-
ments as a dagger in her garter. The perform-
ance was as crude as such an untutored attempt
would necessarily be. She never thought of the
long years of patient practice by which the queens
of the ballet attained their undoubted proficiency.
Her first night’s performance was, therefore, her
last one—so far, at least, as London was to see her
OI Noth?n?was heard of her, publicly, for a year
or two, when she came to the front again as Mrs.
Heald at the Marlborough-street Police Court.
In the law office In which I was then engaged I
had opportunity of seeing her several times. Mr.
Heald was a foolish young man of fortune whom
Lola had inveigled into matrimony, representing
to him that her first husband had died in India.
All might have gone well if she had but been good,
but it la impossible with many of us to be good.
Mrs Heald was not to the taste of her husband s
friends. She was giddy, tiirtish, and highly ex-
travagant with her husband’s money—making it
fly in a manner very distastefully conspicuous to
that young man’s relatives.
The result was that they set on foot enquiries
and found that Captain James was alive ana well,
and had given his wife no c .use to think him dead,
bevond silence in correspondence. He explained
this by saying that he had had enough of her, and
that Mr. Heald would likely soon make a similar
renort He, who so long had endured her capers,
thought that, though Heald she might be, she
never would be cured} such was seemingly his
idea of the matte* Hence the charge of bigamy
brought against her. It was so clear a case that
Lola considered a change of climate as impera-
tively desirable. When the case was called upon
she did not appear, and was said to have left the
country. As the marriage was null and void, and
as Mr. Heald’s friends had effected their object,
nothing further was done by them In the bigamy
matter.
A poet has left on record that it was " from the
death-blow to his hopes that his name immortal
otcw.” It was so, in some lesser sort, with Lola.
Driven away from happiness and fortune with
Mr. Heald, by fear of a gaol, she went to France.
From thence her fate took her to Bavaria. Here
she again essayed an appearance on the stage as a
dancer Again a failure, as she had been in Lon-
don in the way of dancing, she had not altogether
failed. Old Ludwig, the king, was in the theatre
that night, and became infatuated with her.
Bavaria is a strange place for kings doing as they
like—right or wrong. For such doings as those
of the two Ludwigs, was tho Duke of Brunswick
driven iroui his Duchy and forced to long exile in
England—his brother, tho lately deceased duke,
being set up in his place-
Old Ludwig now made his new-found pet the
Countess of Landsfeldt. and showered wealtn upon
her—“>s fond old fools, kings or commoners, will
do. Good fortune was, however, to be all thrown
away upon this capricious being. She made her-
self as distasteful to the Bavarians as she had
done to Mr. Heald’s friends. There was no charge
of bigamy brought against her, but the place was
made very warm for her. It was for her own
safety at last, as Ludwig said, that she was recom-
mended to try another change of climate. Loaded
with money and presents, the Countess of Lands-
felt now left Bavaria. She was never to return to
It, as within a short time afterwards, Ludwig
vacated the throne, and soon after died. While In
Bavaria, the lawyers who had acted for her in Mr.
Heald's case received from their quondam client
the amount of their bill of costa which she had
left unsettled. It was accompanied by her card,
which I preserved as a souvenir of this eccentric
woman. As "a snapper-up of unoonsidered
trifles,” It was, to me, a preserveable ourio, and as
such found its way, afterwards, with other like
things, to Australia.
It was yet to be of service. It is said that a use
Is always found for things kept for seven years,
and so with this card. Seven years after I bad so
obtained and kept it, Lola Montes turned up in
Australia. She had beeu doing theatrical business
here and there iu America, until, in the early
years of the fifties, she found her way to Mel-
bourne. She was accompanied, as became a
Countess, by a secretary or attachi. named Follon,
who, by-the-way, committed suicide on her home-
ward voyage a year or two afterwards— throwing
himself over the ship’s side on some hot quarrel
he had with his capricious Countess.
Lola boarded at the then Imperial Hotel In
Ellzabeth-street, when making her appearance In
the Princess Theatre, in Melbourne. It occurred
to me to “ Interview ” her there in the manner
now common, with the Press reporters, with all
celebrities. How best to do it was the question.
“ Interviewing ” was not then a recognised prac-
tice and that matter of course, which it Is now.
Had I been Mayor, or other like notability,
I could have called and sent up my card. I had no
such standing, however, for so doing. It takes
time to attain to such dignities.
“ But, instead of my card, why not send up
hers?”
Happy thought, Indeed I and one that was acted
upon next day. It would certainly, I considered,
"fetch her” sooner than any other card. It was
with me even doubtful if she had a card of that
sort with her after so long a time—as she had long
since dropped the use of her noble title.
A literary celebrity of the time had gone to
Lola’s hotel that morning on a similar errand. He
had come prepared with a grand bouquet. He was
presenting this to the waiter, with his card, when
I handed in an envelope enclosing the card that
was both hers and mine—the latter in the sense of
possessor only. I had written in the envelope:
“ The long holder of the enclosed card begs an
interview!”
I was wholly unknown to the literary celebrity
with whom I now awaited the hotel servant’s
return. On this official re-appearing, ho said:
“ You are to step up, please!”
The literary celebrity hastened forwards, but
was stopped at the first landing, the waiter saying:
“ Not you, sir, but the other gentleman is wanted
first!”
This meant me! Crushing was the frowning look
which I received from the disappointed one as I
passed him on the stairs. If eyes could say, “ Who
the deuce are you ?” his were the eyes that plainly
said it.
There was no help for It—we have these oc-
casional proud moments in our lives. When beauty
selects its subjects of favour even editors of lead-
ing journals nave to vrait—kicking their heels
noon the door-mat, even though they bring floral
offerings.
The quondam countess was at breakfast, and
evidently, by her deshabille attire, not expecting
visitors Tbat card had however done the busi-
ness; feminine curiosity is even more powerful at
times than Is a regard for personal appearance.
“ Where did you get this card ? ” she said, when
I had made my bow, and before I had uttered a
word. I fully explained matters—tailing her how
I bad got it, and carefully kept it, and still wished
to keep it; also bow glad I was to see her come to
Australia, and how pleased I thought she would
be to find tbat such small souvenirs of her had
been carefully treasured. She now said:
“ Well, you are a good fellow, and 1*11 give you a
photograph now to keep with itl Sit down, and
answer me what I have to ask about Australia and
my theatrical prospects. Will you have tea or
coffee?”
I never gave a thought to the disappointed man
waiting below stalrs-though his bouquet, lying
upon the tablo. was staring me in the face. I sat
tor a good half-hour talking with Lola, until the
interview was interrupted by the appearance of
Mr. Follon—the secretary. This was an oppor-
tunity for ending the interview which I did with a
promise—made in response to Lola’s request—to
qo\[
she enveloped theloard'and the photograph—first
proudly displaying the former to Mr. Follon, and
saying:—
"Look here, Follon 1 here’s a gentleman has
kept my card for seven years, brought it to Aus-
tralia with him, and now sends It up to me as an
introduction instead of sending his own—wasn’t It
a good idea?”
On second thoughts Lola wanted to keep the
card, but I pleaded so hard for Its return that she
let me have it. On my way downstairs I passed
him whom I had so forestalled in this visit. Even
the long time of waiting had not suflioed. seem-
ingly, to give him a more pleasant look. He was
evidently yet as angry with me as before—perhaps
a little more so.
Poor Lola! Five years afterwards, or some-
thing less, she was In her grave. When passing
through New York, somo time after the events
here recounted, I happened to mention her name.
“ I can show you in the next street—Greenwood-
street—the room In which she died,” said the
friend to whom I had been speaking. “ The people
of the house keep it exactly as she left it!”
“ Anything peculiar about it then ?” I asked.
" Oh, yes I come and see itl” and I went with
him.
The room was on the second floor of a second-
class lodging-house. Lola had here died of con-
sumption — lingering out some three painful
months ere death relieved her of the burden of
existence. The walls were covered with scraps
and cuttings which she had pinned and gummed
upon them. Religious calls and ministrations had
been of comfort to her. Of such there was evidence
enough In what was left upon the walls. She had
been burled by charitable aid, and, indeed, had
been solely so supported in these helpless last days
of hers. In that respect—the utter desolation and
extreme poverty of her end—she had, I thought,
been singularly like in her fate to Lord Nelson’s
famous Lady Hamilton.
AUSTRAL.
DANGERS OF THE SEASON I
Unseasonable weather is always unhealthy
weather. When the system is prepared to meet
cold it is injurious to encounter heat. When
heavy garments are thrown aside for the Summer f
or Summer garments for the Fall, any sudden or
continued change In the atmosphere produces a
disastrous effect accompanied in the body. These
dangers come in every form; as the deceitful
malaria that steals into the system and silently
undermines the health; as cholera in some of its
many manifestations ; as debility accompanied
by exhaustion and depression of spirits, and as
sudden chilis loliowed by intense fevers. All of
these dangers are imminent, and no one whose
health Is tne least deranged is safe from their in-
fluence.
And yet they have no power over any one
whose body is in perfect order. When the system
Is debilitated changes of tho season easily pros-
trate. Malaria may be absorbed by any person,
and slow fever of a terrible an d stubborn character
will be the result, while If all the powers are la
full force it will be expelled as speedily as it came.
Indeed, all Season dangers of a physical nature
can be traced directly to weakened faculties In
some portion of the body. It may therefore be
truly said that only those whose habits of life are
such as to keep their bodies in constant health can
hope to escape tho influences which such a season
as the present brings.
It is freely admitted, not only by the most
scientific men in the land, but by intelligent
thinkers generally, that no permanent health can
be hoped for even under the most favourable cir-
cumstances unless tne great organs of the body—
the workshops of the system—are kept In perfect
order. Those organs ace the kidneys and liver. And
yet disorders of these functions are not only
dangerous, but especially so because they are
usually unknown and wholly misunderstood. If
an eye is injured it becomes exceedingly painful;
derangements of the stomach are followed by
severe and acute pains; weakened lungs become
sore, but the kidneys and liver do not show their
illness by pain—on the contrary, other symptoms
and in remote parts of the body are the only signs
they give. The certain symptoms of kidney and
liver difficulty are these: Unaccountable lassitude
and weariness, pains In the back and around the
loins, severe headaches, dizziness, inflamed eyes, a
coated tongue and dry mouth, loss of appetite,
chilly sensations, indigestion, a dryness of the
skin, nervousness, night sweats, muscular debility,
despondency, pufiQng or bloating under the eyes,
any unusual odor, color or sediment about the
fluids passed from the system, an increasing pallor
of the countenance, wasting of flesh and strength,
pains in the heart, shortness of breath, etc., etc.
But while all these dangers threaten adults, both
male and female, there are equally serious evils
hanging over children and infants, which can be
traced to the same cause. Thousands of children
whose kidneys have become weakened as the
sequel to scarietina, are In imminent danger at all
times, and especially during the changeable term.
This tact remains, however, that while these phy-
sical troubles are hard to cure they are compara-
tively easy to prevent. A careful attention to the
kidneys and liver will certainly avoid all the dis-
eases enumerated above, aud will banish the dis-
tressing symptoms which precede them, beside
adding the enjoyment consequent upon perfect
health. This, however, has always been the great
trouble. Organs so great as the kidneys and liver
are bard to control, and physicians have invariably
found it dillicult and often impossible to regulate
or in any way reach them. It is an established
fact, admitted by the most prominent physicians
in this country that one remedy and only one has
such an Influence upon these organs and acts so
powerfully and direct as to control and keep them
in perfect order. That remedy is Warner’s Safe
Cure. It is easier to prevent than to cure, and by
a oarelul attention to the truths stated above, no
one need iearany of the disastrous results which
always accompany changes of the season.
Wright’s " Pardnors.”


WANTED IN EVERY HOUSEHOLD a Canister of
Williams’ Australian Yeast Powder!
Williams’ 1 Yeast Powder
WILLIAMS'S
_ AUSTRALIAN
AST POWDER.
jWNUFACrURERS AND PATENTEES-
LT °N. CRIMWADE& CO-
MAKES LIGHT BREAD, TEA CAKES,
and PASTRY,
HALF-POUND TINS, SIXPENCE.
Beware of Imitations.
TAKE ONLY WILLIAMS’,
i 8 POWDER, the first manufactured
in the Australian colonies, bns from the outset
maintained Its position as the Premier Yeast
Powder ; and, In spite of severe competition, its
radius of consumption has steadily Increased.
4 Ms ’ AUSTRALIAN YEAST
.POWDER Is the most economical of Bakin#
$ afid sold at Sixpence tbe half-pound
canister.
Wholesale Depot;
VIRGOE, SON, and CHAPMAN\
BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
IESoIAsiToI©
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
|W BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
W IT.TdI.AM Horchant A Importer.
22 & 24 Olarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. 0. CHALMERS. B. G. WATKINS.)
BENERAL IRONMONGERS,
m. mm, ui mi! mebcmts,
Importers of
EAM t ENGI N E8. ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES, WOOD-WORKING MACHINE!
RA J AND OTHER CONTRACTORS' PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMRLKMKNT8
MINING, CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COAOHBUILDBR8’
MATERIALS, SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES, &o.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
3ALVANIBBD CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
IHBET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC; TIN
PLATES
*IG IRON and LEAD
)ILS, PAINTS, and
BRU8HWABB
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACKS
HEARING SUPPLIES
IUILDBRS* IRONMON-
GERY
lOLLED H GIRDERS
*LM
ll
II
f-
;^Sssc
v!* t
VERTICAL and HO
.! ZONTAL BOILERS
' team and ot
PUMPS
LATHES, PLANI1
SHAPINd, 8CRI
sSiHr N v KILL
STEAM HAMMERS
ENGINEERS’ BR.
FOUNDRY
PATENT ROLL
SHAFTING
QUICKSILVER, Ac.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, .& CO.,
- 64 YORK STREET.: .
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS.
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
SYDNEY;
- H QRACEOBUROH HTREEX
Head Warehouse - -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office
Gilicura
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tion*, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticura and Cutioura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
Burning Skin Diseases,
s’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching and
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers'.
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura- Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fall.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of ray disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Bend for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towri & Co., New South Wales.
C
UTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
Im
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itrhlng and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
ichu
lassachusctts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand.* Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
per bottle.
Prepared bt the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co-, Boston, TT.S.A.
GHAS. OTTE & GO.,
Electrical Engineers,
113 Pitt Street.
Electric Batteries for surgical and household use, Electric Bells,
Private Telephones, Electric Lights, Lightning Conductors, Dyna-
mos, and all Electrical appliances fitted at the shortest notice, at
25 per cent, under usual price.
CHAS. OTTE & CO., 113 Pitt Street
B
N
9*
*
m
m
m
m
?<•
M
nr
m
w
AS
E
Q
T
*
ft
ft
Sydney & Royal Arcades
9
o
m
1
107 Fitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
LUNCH ION AND BBIBB8HMBNT BOOMS V0B LADIBS AND Q1NTLBM1N.


ftg'l
&
3**
<5:
SS
£
&
a
%
a
Mff
o
<>
%
s
4*
s
V
£
a
*&
<?
?3
l J 3||
13
MAN
®*|jj
BURY.BUXIONaC
ENCLISH.ALES
BurFon-on-Trenf.
CO
URN
ifWnwissEuRa oeS M
' £ohde|
*
>c
ft 1
&
&
mi
¥
os
<*
<ss>
&
p
>
?
m
m
OB
ol^'
ABS
rs. J1LLT I CO.’S Wist d Spirit Starts d Ajtstits
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
London Agents: Messrs. Arthur Allt & Oo. t Wormwood Chambers, Wormwood-street, E.C.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
A PURELY MUTUAL SOCIETY. ESTABLISHED 1845.
Conducted under Supervision of the Government of the State of New York. Profits Apportioned Annually.
Inaugurated Non-forfeiting Policies in 1860. Adopted Tontine Investment Policies in 1872; and Non-forfeiting Limited Tontine
• Policies in 1884.
FACTS FROM A FORTY YEARS’ RECORD.
Received by the CompanyIn Premiums ....... £27,016,878
In Interest ....... 6,752,668
Total £33,769,546
Disbursed by the Company:—To Living members ...... £10.326,995
To the Representatives of Deceased Members . . 6,362,970
Total Paid to Members . . , . . . . . . . . £16,689,965
Expenses of Management for 40 Years ........ 4,881,278
Total Disbursements ...... £21,571,243
Balance (being Cash Assets on 1st January, 1885) ....... .£12,198,303
JET" The Company’s “ Non-forfeiting Limited Tontine Policy ” is the latest important advance in Life Assurance, combining the non-forfeilitre features originated by the
Company in 1800 with the Privileges and Profits of the Tontine Investment Policy.
Tontine Profits : —Dividends paid on Ordinary Life 10 Year Tontine Policies which have matured have averaged Over 43 pB**
Cent, on the Entire Premiums Paid.
Company’s Income for 1884 ... ... ... £2,930,138 | Surplus for 1884, by Legal Standard ... **. £2,067,613
Company’s OfficesBond-street Chambers, corner of Bond and George Streets, Sydney.
JOSIAH HOWELL, Gehefal Manager.^.
The Cooma Express complains that a
Sydney advertising-agent has hftd tk®.®keek to
oifer It “seven and sixpence for a double-column
standing advt. for three months.
Captain C. was asked liy the father of a
lady to whom he had ‘’proposed,” what prospects or
property he had. After thinking for a minute, he
said. that, “besides his pay aU he had wap a share
in the Indian Widows and Orphans’ Fund.
“ cadifor (Gympie): Civil Service appoint-
ments in the United States are obtainable largely
by political influence, the salaries varying accord-
ing to the nature of the position. This la jan
answer given bylthe Town and - Kuntry Jbrnei,.
We are so glad the same does not apply to N.s.W.
The Prince of Wales possesses at least TO
uniforms, which he has gradually accumulated, as
he has, been made an officer of various bodies;
naval, military, volunteer, aoadethic, &o. Not a
few of them His Royal Highness has “ out-grown.
His personal charms are more massive than they
once were.
The Attorney-General of Great Britain
has decided in a case informally submitted to him
that a barrister who receiv* s a retaining fee to
try action, and falls to attend the trial, ought to
return so much of the fee as exceeds the amount
Which would have been proper for merely an
opinion. Heretofore barristers have pocketed
their retainers and kept them whether they
tendered any service ornot. Mr. , of Sydney,
will possibly—but not probably—take the hint.
Sir Charles Dilke, the great “Radical,”
who is now in the Divorce-Court as a co-respond-
ent, is the son of the late Sir Wentworth Dilke, a
very worthy, philanthropic man, who wore grey
formal side-whiskers and no moustache, and be-
lieved in liannel waistcoats for African negroes,
and was consequently a pet of the Queens hus-
band, Prince Albert. He left two promising sons.
One Is dead, and tlr Charles is a- widower. When
his wife died, he had her cremated at Dresden, and
has ever since carried her ashes about with him
in a pill-box.
“ A Poor Man ” writes to a London paper;
—“I would humbly suggest that H.M. could not do
better than give a cheque for £100 000 from her
enormous accumulation of savings from the Royal
income given to her more by the poor than by
the rich, to provide for the erection of a large Na-
tional Reformatory Institution for the benefit of
criminals when discharged from our pads. By
doing this, or something like, lit, Her Majesty s
name would rank higher than It at present does
for acts of charity and mercy.” How “green
“A Poor Man ” must be I '
If all their admirers say about them be
true, the philanthropy of some of the officials of
Brisbane Gaol is ot a high order. “ Bobby ” Byrne
professes to have ascertained that they have on
occasions gone so far as to interest themselves
deeply in the relatives of the prisoners, with the
view of being the be#Br able to shed a little of the
sunshine of comfort on the depots for hominy.
“ It is only a coincidence” he relatively observes,
“that the prisoners so favoured, through their
relatives, with the kind sympathy of gaol war-
ders, have almost invariably been possessed of
money, or owned pretty female .relatives.”
The only Freethought paper in New Zea-
land, the Auckland Rationai,ist, is nearly as
tightly cornered as the Melbourne Liberator.
At the end of the 13th number, tho printers of
Auckland have one and all refused to do any more
work for the proprietary. Their reason is alleged
to be fear of the bigots. The proprietary, which
consists of four Individuals, and calls itself a
syndicate, appeals, therefore, for funds to pur-
chase a printing plant for the service of the cause.
Anyone who thinks calmly and Intelligently over
the situation sees that the pious people of Auck-
land as well as of Melbourne hive let zeal run a
great way ahead of discretion. The ways they
are taking to crush Syraes and extinguish the
Rationalist prove that if humanity is to pro-
gress some system must be devis’d to wrench
from zealots a power they so lamentably misuse.
Thieves sometimes have a dry sense of
humour, not at all appreciated by tnelr victim.
Some time ago a man from the country had been
drinking until he lost his balance, and while in
that state was taken to the Sydney Domain and
eased of bis watch and cash. The victim was con-
scious, but could not resist. After the rascals had
decamped with their plunder, a stranger strolled
up, “What’s the matter, my man? ” he asked. “ I
got drunk,” hiccuped the unfortunate, “and some
fellows brought me out here, saying they were
going to take dare of me, and robbed mo. ’ “ The
villains, ’ cried the stranger, i“ But are you really
so drunk ? ” “ So bad that t can t even get up,”
was the thickly-uttered reply. “Then," said the
Good Samaritan, “ here goes for your clothes and
boots.” And when the G.8. had done with him the
police wanted to run him in for not being dressed
enough. .
The Registrar-General 'gives the death-
rate of Polynesians in Queensland as averaging
148 per 1000. In Mackay, the northern sugar-grow-
ing district, nine hundred and twenty seven Polyne-
sians died duriny last year .'—831 males and 100
females! The horrors which associate themselves
with such a fearful rate of mortality are beyond
conception. Where are the gDdvey*rds for all
these victims ? Are the sugar plantations fer-
tilised by the bodies of dead kanakas-as the
French in the blood-curdling Marseillaise hymn
threatened to fertilise France with the blood of
their foes ? Or does the Mackay cemetery com-
prise thousands of nameless mounds, each contain-
ing the dead body of a poor, uncared-for kanaka ?
The callousness of the people of Queensland, in
allowing such wrongs to be Indicted upon an alien
and Inferior race of human beings, is deplorable
ii the extreme. When our records come to be
raad by posterity, the memory of the present
generation will be hissed at, if they do not arise as
one man and wipe out these ghastly blood stains
from the history of the sugar industry of Queens-
land. The municipal population of Mackay is
2300, and the electoral district carries on'y 2031
votes.
Mrs. Millicent Garrett Paweett-Sister of
Mrs. Garrett Anderson—has been writing laudatory
letters to the Maui, Gazbttb, and other
high-bred English ladies have their names on the
Committee of the “ Chief Directors Tribute
Demonstration.
The Bishop of Melbourne, with a worldly
wisdom which reflects infinite credit Ion the
“cloth,” says, “ the greatest danger of our young
men is giddiness. Oar warmer Sun, our lonely
forests, all contribute to this result.’ Too true,
Bishop.—
From lovely Lancashire, of Wife-beaters
Protection Club renown, comes the following
typical tale of civilisation as known among the
heathen tribes of England:—“ An extraordinary
man and rat light took place at Hey wood on W ed-
neflay night. A well-known man, after finishing
his work, called at a public-house on his way
home, and there met several rat-catchers, who had
a large rat, which the new-comer was challenged
to worry for a quart of beer. The conditions were
that he was not to handle the rat with bis hands.
He accepted the challenge, and a string was at-
tached to the rat’s tail sufficiently long to "How
the animal to move freely about a table upon
which it was placed. The battle began, the biped
following the movements of the quadruped for an
opportunity to bite. The little ruminant, how-
ever, drew first blood, meeting Its Incisors in its
opponent’s cheek. The man shook the rat off his
face as well as he could without handling it, and in
a couple of minutes afterwards he had worried it.
The rat was then cooked, and the victor ate his
fair share of the body, declaring It to be quite
luscious food. He drank his quart of beer, but
next day he was unablo to go to work, as the re-
sult of the precious evening’s exploit.” And, as
the howlers say, all this happened in a Kerlshtyln
land, and amongst a people who squander thou-
sands every year In pushing civilisation and
preaching the beautiful doctrine of hell-fire
amongst the poah little heathens scattered round
the world.
“ The Archbishop Of Canterbury has gone
abroad for a well-earned rest.” Best 1 Listen to
it, ye weary; heartsick couples, working io squalid
slums for a pittance so miserable that it will
scarcely keep body and soul together. Repeat the
soothing word, and yearn to experience the real
thing if you will, hilt it is not for you. No, no;
toil on for a few more years till your brain reels
and fever seizes your Hl-fed body, and then you
may lay your faithful bead on the pillow and
breathe out your soul. You will then find your
rest. The sleepy sons of the Church take theirs
now—on the Continent. It looks almost as if we
are likely to have the parable of Dives and Lazarus
over again. When we see the indifference and
sinful inactivity of our English Bishops, while
millions ot their fellow creatures with precious
souls to be saved are perishing—going down into
the blackness of darkness for ever—we cannot
help thinking that in the Day of Judgment it will
be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah than
for these men. Where Is the mod-rn Jeremiah
who will cry, “Woe unto this unfaithful band ?’
But we doubt If they would listen if one were
found, any more than did the sons of men In the
days of Noah.— ReVNolds.
Edward Hunter, of Charlton (Vic.), a gen-
tleman who has been loafing about this vale of
tears for 71 years, murdered a man the other day.
Mr. Hunter admitted that he had no previous ac-
quaintance with his victim, who had done him no
manner of harm. He also admitted to feelincr
“ glad he had killed him." Wily old boys of 71
usuallv have a motive for their actions, and it be-
hoves us to find one for Mr. Hunter’s strange be-
haviour:—
We out the following artistic bit of
treason from a Liverpool paper:—" Probably, if
those who now scoff at the very idea of a Prince of
the blood worth £40,000— and goodness knows hoir
much besides—a year ‘ working for his living •
could glance down His Royal Highness’s private,
gilt-edged, neatly-kept, and very confidential en-
gagement-book, and see the long list of dally and
nightly appointments he has to keep, I think it
very possible these scoffers would be considerably
astonished. For instance, let us suppose that we
—that is. a few of those fellows who are always
unaccountably railing against Royalty, and the
Prince of Wales In particular, and 1—are just per-
mitted to take a peep. In the most confidential
manner possible. Into his ‘ diary of a day ’ while
the Prince cons It over as he smokes his after-
breakfast cigarette. What shall we see ? Why,
something very like, if not exactly similar to the
following:—
"Mem.: Take the chair at Lord Shaftesbury’s
meeting for the Suppression of Vice in Africa.
“ Mem.: Don’t forget to run down to see Scatter*
wench win the Oaks. _
“ Mem. i Speak on obstetric science at the Plum*
stead Ladies’ Charity.
“ Mem.: Lunch With the Dean of Windsor.
“ Mem.: Lay the foundation-stone of the Mud*
borough Mechanics’ Institute.
“Mem.: See old Isaacs (d—n old Isaaos) about
another advance.
"Mem t Mustn t forget to turn up at Hurling*
ham.
" Mem.: Open the new chancel at St. Ritual’s.
" Mem.: Meet Lord Spishcash at that fat mate'll.
“Mem*; Bun down td Sevendials to open a
mission room. ,
“Mem.: Consent to bectime President tif the
Anti-Gambling Association.
"Mem.: Accept chairmanship of the Hobiety tot
the Suppression of Rooking.
“Mem : Try and win back the 10 * monkeys’ I
lost to Colonel Blazer at baccarat.
"Mem.: Send cneque td Sdolety for the Sup-
pression- of Vice.
"Mem.: Attend meeting of thb Social Pfirity
Syndicate. ,
“ Mem : Call on the Bishop of London. ,
" Mem.: Send bouquet td Loulb Spanglfefi, at thb
Juniper.
"Mem.; Distribute the prizes at the Orphan
Asylum.
"Mem.: Lay the odds against Spanker for thb
Derby.
“ Mem.: Go to Westminster Abbey to hear Lld-
"Mem.: Speak seriously to Albert Victor anfl
George about their Increasing extravagance.
“ Mem.: Wonder where Alexandra Is ? HaVen’t
seen her for a month.”
Oh; the fairest gifts of nature
Serve too often, as you say.
To put wicked thoughts within us,
And temptations in our way;
It is not the sunshine only
which falls watmly on oUr shore,
But those forests green and lovely—
They've a lot to answer for.
Those are words of warning. Bishop,
Which should not unheeded be;
Let us take a little hatchet
And destroy the greenwood tree;
In the winter, ’neatb Umbrellas
Maidens dreamily may roam.
But In summer-time their “ fellers
Shall make love to them—at home.
Some three -score years and ten In peace,
You’d lived a good old age, Ned;
You knew life’s story soon must cease;
But in Its closing page. Ned,
Could you no interest awake,
Save with this homicide, Ned ?
Your tala ' been one long mistake—
That 3 1 a denied, Ned.
The Reaper d passed you by
(H is ways, f ar « fickle).
Then why, by al v * ''Thy
Should you take i okle “
Some follies we can we oudono,
But your’s we can’t forg ive, Ned;
Your fellow-men left you alone—
Could you not let them live, Ned 7
But, stay 1 perhaps a wish to dwell
In heaven caused this deed, Ned;
It may be you have studied well
The usual scaffold creed, Ned,
Which teaches that the men, you know,
Who human blood have spilled, Ned,
Sit up aloft—while down below
Writhe those whom they have killed, Ned.


— ' isMiiMai
THE SYDNEY SPORTS
DEPOT.
889 QBOBQE-STREBT SYDNEY
(Opposite Royal Hotel,)
BICYCLESHTrICYCISS,
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles,
and Tricycles
Have Every Improvement.
1885 Universal Club, a thoroughly reliable “£^J-™ n ° insr
machine. Ball bearings to both wheels, and Improvements.
OUR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadster \
THE UNIVERSAL CLUE
BICYCLE,
fitted with Improved Ball Bear-
ings to front and back wheels.
Hollow Forks, Patent Head and
Detachable Bent Handle Bar,
Easy Slide Spring, Hubs Plated,
Black Enamelled Spokes,
Price, £13 10s. At the price
we defy competition.
JAMES MARTIN A COMPANY, 388 Bnorga-st., Sydney.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
.Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
or Brass and Bell Pounding, Finishing, Art Metal Work,, Coppersmithing, BlaolMmithing,
Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’B "PLUSH-OUT.” " "VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Am Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
S
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 8 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application
0
e
CO
(si
C.J
or>
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguish Wilson’s Ame-
rican “ Extra Toast ” BISCUITS. For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals thorn. Delicious with
milk, superb with wine, and Incompatible
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street, Sydney.
COMPASNONI CATERING CO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. *
THE oldest and leading Catering Establishment in N.S.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor*
Municipal Council of Sydiey, theA.J.C., City Club, *o., &o.
The Dining Saloons for Ladles and Gentlemen are the Finest, Coollest, and loftiest In the colony.
TheJJmmgDUiu FiKST _ C L ASa ME nU DAILY. Private Ear-Good Wine List. , ( „ ...
tr GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. (after tne
Theatres Select your own steak, Ac., and see It grilled In the room. This is one ol the
of therity. and a long-felt waut. Inspection Invited. Club rooms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Cluo
Sndaty JlubVupstairs. Ki O. TOLLENACHE, General Manager.
min
f|l O ALL wo
HATH YOU UBHD
LEWIS A WHITTY’S .
Borax Soap
S'*- TKT IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
0R8 or WOODWORK, In either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERT
IN SOAP I
Purlflea, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with It;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and OUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
■yp" Bold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
6d. per Bar.
Bole Manufacturers:
Lewis & Whiffy,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
EBIu
AND
\MHEN ALL
'OTHER KINDS OF FOOD ARE
REJECTED AT ALLCHEMISTS IM
JrtSa. 102* 20 ozBOTTLES
C ARNOLD ©BRIDGE S T
-fTV R. THOMAS
Ilf may be consulted on
Nervous Debility, Skin and Contagious Affections.
Medical Establishment, 203, Bllzabeth-street,
near Bathurat-street.
Hours: 9 till 10 daily.
Dr. Thomas is the only medical man advertising
In Australia who has passed the degrees of an Eng-
lish Physician and Surgeon. Examinations passed
-Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians,
London, 18«4; Member of the Royal College of
Surgeons. London, 1»59.
AVER’S
Hair Vigor
restores, with the gloss and freshness of
youth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
brown color, or deep black, as may bo desired.
By its use lighter red hair may bo darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not always, cured.
It checks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. It
prevents and cures scurf and dandruff, and
heals nearly every disease peculiar to the
scalp. As a Ladies’ Hair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume.
Mr. C, P. Bricher writes from Kirby, O..
July 3, 1882 ; “ Last fall my hair commenced
falling out, and in a short time 1 became
nearly bald. I used part of a bottle of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a new growth. I
have now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but for the
use of your preparation I should have been
entirely bald.”
J. W. Bowen, proprietor of the McArthur
(Ohio) Enquirer, says : “Ayer’s Hair Vigor
is a most excellent preparation for the hair.
1 speak of from my own experience. Its
use promotes the growth of new hair, and
makes it glossy and soft. The Vigor is also
a sure cure for dandruff. Not within my
knowledge has the preparation ever failed
to give entire satisfaction.”
Mr. Angus Fairbairn, leader of the
celebrated “Fairbairn Family” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from Jioston, Mass,, Feb. 6,
1880: “Ever since my hair heganto give sil-
very evidence of the change which lieeting
time procureth, I have used Ay'er’s Hair
Vigor, and so have been able to maintain
an appearance of yonthfulness — a matter of
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors, actors, and in fact every one who lives
in the eyes of the public.”
Mrs. O. A. Prescott, writing from 18 Elm
St., Charlestown, Mass., April 14, 1882, says :
“ Two years ago about two-thirds of my hair
came oif. it thinned very rapidly, and i was
fast growing bald. On using Ayer’s Hair
Vigor the falling stopped and a new growth
commenced, and in about a month my head
was completely covered with short hair, it
lias continued to grow, and is now as good as
before it fell. I regularly used but one bottle
of the Vigor, hut now use it occasionally as
a dressing.”
We have hundreds of similar testimonials
to the efficacy of Ayer’s Hair Vigor. It
needs but a trial to convince the most skepti-
cal of its value.
, PREPARED BY i 1
Dp.J C.Ayer&Co.,Lowell,Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
a .UOIT RKOS and 8. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents
andWEISSESS. «efom
Boyd'* Beard FUiirdid this,and
i&dS If a?Ul do it on either bold he. d or
S ,47 bare fare. fa. ret heavy i/out.
V - / tarhe in frovnl to 4 week i and never ,
— - f aii , young men already • ■ . ,
Copyrighted, trear full beards, having need 1 to Copyrighted,
1 file Ao inlary, easily applied, lerlatlt ill rfert, Pnct'O
t,! . V he > \ei un.hr e.ner, free from observation.
,1,1,’... If...,I 'gent, V. ,t 7.SI. <7 /’ .0 . Sydney . S .S. W'
2£
BULL DOQ ALB.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
bottling of Bass' lie have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage In thp
Wine and Spirit Merchants.— CATTBLL A CO.,
Bole Agents.
TJung Metssie
5 f»
rf
p
r- -r-
fw
Ff
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, Ac.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, Ac.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, Ac.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues can be had gratis on applica-
tion.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, Ac., at lowest prices,
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed. Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, to parcels
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed^
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Gall and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever Invented. The Trypograpb
tikes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost oi
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLI All ~~BULLARDp
842 GEORGE STREET.
ARTIFICIALTEET
COMPLETESFT
n
MARSHALL BRO?
DENTISTS
133 ELI Z ABETH ST
N°
TICE TO THE TRADP
Now landing ex Late Arrivals.
HALF-TESTER NICKEL BEDSTEADS.
HALF-TESTER BRASS BEDSTEADS.
HALF-TESTER IRON BEDSTEADS.
STUMP BEDSTEADS.
FRENCH BEDSTEADS.
BLACK and GOLD BEDSTEADS.
BLACK and BRASS BEDSTEADS.
Cases Of No. 14 AUSTRIAN CHAIRS.
450 Cases of AMERICAN CHAIRS.
760 Bales of BEST JAVA KAPOK.
10 Bales of COTTON FLOCK.
20 Bales of CURLED HAIR.
10 Cases of TOILET GLASSES (Assorted).
30 Cases of ROWCL1FFB SPRING MATTRESSES
15 Bales of BLACK CURLED FIBRE.
12 Bales of WHITE WOOL FLOCK,
J. LAWLER,
608 George-st., Sydney,
IMPORTER of FURNITURE. UPHOLSTERER
and BEDDING MANUFACTURAR.
B
AYARIAN
■TIERS.
HOP
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of the host Bavarian Hops. Superior to an
other.
They take the first place wherever tried, and ar
well authenticated by eminent medical men an
well-known analysts.
Bead the reports and testimony which aooonv
pany each bottle, and do not forget to make a
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
P. KIRBY,
from the late Mr. Jambs Cuutis,
TTaa-d-ertsOcer.
•4 BUNTEB ft PHILLIP STREETS.
PUNHRAL8 NKATLT 8XI0UTID.
N.B.—Hr. Elrby was In the empley of the
Ur. James Curtis for sixteen (Id) years;
Manager for over ten (101 years.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found
last with the Argosy Braces at Gowing Bros.
t\
i
A
YA
Vs.
m
GOWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
iirgosy Braces!
Argety Braces, 3s. 6dL, 8s., 8s. 6d., ft 4s. S
GOWINd - BROS.,
MIN’S MBKCKKS, BATTIKS, 0CTF11THK8.4
ami and 498
“Mr. William Ball.—Dear Sir,—Allow me to say
that I find your‘Bloom of Peaches suoerlor to
anything of the kind that I ever used before.—
Yours truly, Emblie Melville.
“ Dear Sir,—1 have never used anything equal to
your ‘ Bloom of Peaches.’ — Maggie Moore.
«Dear Sir,—I have the greatest pleasure In re-
commending Mr. Ball’s ‘Bloom of Peaches ?md
‘Fett-Puder’ as being invaluable.—Yours truly,
Alice nbtaln9d 0 f a n chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
“FETT-PUDER,” a delicate and Invisible
powder for the face. Beautifully perfumed.
White, Pink, or Cream, to suit all complexions.
Price, 1/6 per box.
Manufactured only by
WILLIAM BA L L ,
Tho “Professional” and Pharmaceutical Chemist,
61 BOURKE STREET. MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Agents for Sydney ;
Messrs. E. PROSSER k CO. ; Wholesale Chemists.
G. F. PRIDDY & CO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS,
Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6.30 p.m.: Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
qtudy economy
O and
HaveyourUmbrella Frames
1 re-covered, and your
Parasols re-llned and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly e*e
•ata«


W. WALKER and SONS,
LONDON and SYSNE7.
Catalogues Catalogues
POST 7BBB.
W. WALKER
and SONS
mmiin n n
are one of the
Largest
Stockholders
aud
if anvjactvrtn
r A
High-elau
FURNITURE
ENGLAND.
POST FREE.
ALL STOCK
In their
.SYDNEY
■evil
Bnpplltd
DIRBOT
from their
London
Manufactory
and Latest
London Styles
GTL4.Bi.NTMD,
SYDNEY BRANCH:
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
BEAD IT ALL.
It may Sava your Ufa.
AMERICAN CO.’S
Hop Bitters
The Purest and Best
Medicine erer made.
THEY ARB COMPOUNDED PROM
■ops. Buctau. Mandrake, and Dandelion.
“The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
• and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and In addition contain all the best
•and most effective curative properties
• of all other bitters, being: the greatest
• Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER-
•and life and health restoring agent on
• earth.”
mey dive New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and infirm.
.SiasssaJBpa ifss
isa^asarafs
• Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
• Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
•these Bitters are Invaluable, being
• highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
• without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
what, the disease or
jfi matter wuw ° —
. aymptoms are, or what the disease or
‘SCent use Ho R BIttoi. Don’t
• ailment is* use xiop , .® e ‘ , "
• waU until you are sfok. but if you only
• feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
•once. It may safe your life. Hun-
•dreds have been saved by so doing, at
• a trifling cost.”
jUt your Druggist or Physician.
•« do not suffer yourself or lot your
•friends suffer,but use and urgethomto
• use the American Co. s Hop Bitters.
these Hop Bitters are
HimnlrAn nnfltnim.
“Remember, mese xxup mumm
• no vile, drugged, drunken nostrum,
• but the purest and best Medicine
- — ~a — nn/i nrt TiArflfMI I
•but tne purest ana uwot
• ever made, and no person or family
• should be without It.”
w See that the name Dr. Soule la blown
every bottle, none other genuine.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LWF STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMCMID.
Capital £100,000.
Head Office : Melbourne.
New South Wales Branch : 171 Castlereagh-stroet.
Victorian Directors:
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P.,
Chairman
Hon. J. P. Levien, M.P.
rnomas Learmontn, Esq.
N. 8. Wales Directors.
Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Frank Cowley, Esq.
George S. Yeo, Esq.
Horses. Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs insured
gainst death from Accident* Disease*
or Natural
atine*Rises’ covering mortality or on
tf Th°e h o^y 6 livT P 8took Insurance Society in the
°B?5l particulars can be obtained from the under-
Agents wanted where unrepresented.
A. J. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.l
Office, 171 Oastlereagh-street.
E
A U
1711
D B
COLOGNE.
4711.
Established 1703.
Gold Medal, Moscow. 1873; Prize edal, Vienna, 1878
tils Bau de Cologne, so favourably known to
Australian public during the last 36 years, ob-
icd at the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
re Medal, and First Prize Sydney International
ilbition, for its superior sweetness, strength,
invigorating qualities, excelling all other oom-
has become the great favourite of the public,
is extensively patronised by the dllte of
ietaVge and constantly Increasing demand for
genuine 4711 Bau de Cologne, not only in
me but also in North and South America,
i and Australia, is further undeniable evl-
e of its superiority.
public are respectfully warned against
imitations with the genuine
e public are respeonuuy wuruou ttgumst
erous spurious imitations with the genuine
ber—4711 changed into 7411.1147,4117, Ac., Ac.
e real genuine article which carried off the
i Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
eeullar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents —ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
street, Sydney.
To bo had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
end Storekeepers, in town and country.
BOLE IMPORTER 07
Only Iron-fframod Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE.
107 FITT STREET.
SOXiS AGENT FOB THE
SMITE OHGk&XT.
WILLIAM BRUCE.
197 PITT STREET
Depot for the World’s Patented Articles
GEORGE ST., Opp. Wynyard St.
—->a
" AMERICAN
NOVELTY CO.
FANCY GOODS
NOVELTIES
:'u
Bring your Wife and Children with yoo.
Nobody pressed to buy
WANTED a number of Gentlemen who will have their
heads shaved as above, and guarantee to attend all
meetings and side-walk gatherings. SALARY LIBERAL.
TYQT7 DT7SDT rPMU'M r r foe mending China, Glass,
llOD iMKL LMlljlll Wood, &c., and everything
but Iron. Is. Bottle.
TOOTHACHE TINCTURE,-
No more, pain after one
application. Don’t be
afraid tc use it freely. Nc trouble to the Teeth. Is. Bottle.
Wolfe's Schnapps may be used with impunity,
its ingredients having been tested by medical men,
and found absolutely pure.
Ask for Wolfe's Schnapps, the purest, stimulant
in the world. It is far superior to brandy or
whisky.
Ask for Wolfe's Schnapps—the only alcoholic
invigorant that does not overspur the brain. Be
sure and obtain Wolfe’s •
Mr. DbOoxjbot Shown* (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the Miners’ Handy Book,”
“ Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “ Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Boresfqrd chambers, 63 Castle;
' Mining Titles, a well
provensp^olalftjJe^ 1 - Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
jinn, g matter of record In the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps stands at the head of all tonics
as a supreme remedy for dyspepsia, rheumatism,
nervousness.
The system Is strengthened and the nerves toned
by the use of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The wonderful cordial, Wolf e’s. Schnapps, wil
drive away all physical ailments.
DDa.rlln.gr I$a,r1ocaa.r Hotel,
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Railway Gates).
STEPHEN HOPKINS (Late of Wagga Wagga), Proprietor.
ESPECIAL ACCOMMODATION FOR COUNTRY VISITORS.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
CELEBRATED
HIS ill HIKES, TREACLE AHD COLDER STEEP,
' 1 V , . *
Self-raising /E rated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.-^®
& A, h&v© obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, Sydney I.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
. .and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E, 1883-4,
Sydney Agents: W. H. ARIELL ft CO., 343 end 346 Kent-street.
The “ explanation ” given by Mr. Farnell,
the N.S.W. Minister of hands, which was swal-
lowed with such apparent stratification hr the
Sydney Press, is received, not alone with doubt,
but with ridicule, in the country. The Armldale
Chronicle says:—“There has been corruption
somewhere, and the delinquents must be found
out and punished. There has long been a belief
or superstition that the operation of ‘ greasing the
wheels ’ can be successfully practised in some of
the Government departments, and we naturally
ask, * Have the wheels been greased on this occa-
sion ?’ ” The Adelong Argus takes up the run-
ning withOnly one inference could be drawn
from the statements made by Mr. P. H. Suttor and
Dr. Ross, viz , that Mr. Parnell had been unduly
influenced in the discharge of his Ministerial
duties by his sons-in-law, and his apparent reluct-
ance to meet this insinuation has doubtless created
the very general impression that be had a bad
ease. ... If the Minister tor Lands really
had no idea of what was going on until
his attention was called to it in the House,
he is to be pitied, and the question wises
whether a gentleman capable of being so hood-
winked is fit to conduct a department where
the clearest perspicacity is needed in its chief.
The 8.M. Herald says, in alluding to this subject:
• After all, no very serious harm has been done,
and it gives credence to the statement .* that a
Minister’s son-in-law has neither a better nor a
worse chance (as a land agent) than anybody else.
We scarcely think the general public will endorse
such remarks as these, for facts point exactly the
other way. ... If the ‘ influence’ of which
Messrs. Gumming and Martin boasted was a mere
fiction, then verily they were taking their £50 fees
under a false pretence; but it is notorious that
those men could really accomplish more at head-
quarters than others; whether, as far as Mr. Par-
nell was concerned, such influence was exercised
unconsciously is another thing, but exercised it
was,” Then the Gundagai Times has its little say :—
“The Minister for Lands has not given a satis-
factory explanation of the connection between
the two land-agents and himself. The charges
made by Dr. Ross were made deliberately and
without malice, and they remain uncontradicted
and unexplained. In the interests of fair nlay,
and the honest, open administration of the Land
Act, we have a right to demand from Mr. Parnell
his reason for not entertaining the application
made by Dr. Ross, M.L.A., on behalf of his con-
stituents; whilst a few days. Igter, under the tute-
lage of Mr. Gumming, he sees a reason for the
reversal of the decision of the Land Board. Were
any new facts adduced, or were circumstances
submitted by Mr. Gumming, which the hon.
member for Molong omitted ? ” . And, as if
this were not enough, the Cootamundra Herald
fires in:—"The Sydney Press seem to feel
quite satisfied with the defence made by the Minis-
ter for Lands against those members of the As-
sembly who dealt so severely with him and his
new Land Act last week; but it Is probable that
the country will not quite readily accept Mr.
Parnell’s defence as a valid one. As to the charges
made in the Assembly which insinuated the exist-
ence of some collusion between certain profes-
sional land agents and the Department, the
Minister left several points In those charges
untouched, and was so self - contradictory in
his references to others, that a bad impression
must bo left on the minds of the people who
have watched the doings of these land agents.
One of these agents was some time ago a partner
with Mr. Farnell in this very agency business; and
it is really singular if he does not know, while it is
well known throughout the country, that his name
is still made use of in connection with this agency.
People have no reason to complain about Mr. Par-
nell reversing the decision of local Land Boards,
but in doing that secretly instead Of in open court,
and on the mediation of his tons-in-law, who
exact fees of £50 from conditional purchasers
and others. A Minister for Lands needs
to have studied human nature in all its
phases ; but Mr. Farnell seems to have
treated that necessary study with indifference.
It weuld be interesting to have a return
of all decisions of local boards that have been re-
versed by the Minister, showing by whose in-
fluences they were reversed, and the reasons in
support of the reversals.” These criticisms, and
many others of like tenor which could.be quoted
if space allowed, go to prove that the " explana-
tion ” which was so “eminently satisfactory” to
the easily satisfied Sydney journals was not equally
so to these terrible rustics. Either that, or it
proves that in offices which derive considerable
incomes from the Government hardy political
scepticism makes no headway. A good “ standing”
advertisement would make many journals look on
the geocentric theory as the only one capable of
explaining natural phenomena.


A BOON TO THOUSANDS
Vanhood and Vigour of Youth
Restored in Four Weeks,*
iiiimimwirn
ESSENCE OF LIFE
Rtitores manhood to the moit ihattered and debOUated Ml
Ititution from whatever cauie arising, in FOUR WftfiRS,
Failure U impossible if taken according to the printed dl-
v! —. aii<4 ronnirn nn rnttrsi
failure ih uiipushiuw T • T — * . —
raction*, which are very simple, and require no restraint or
hindrance from business. .....
This invaluable remedy affords relief, and permanently
cures all who suffer wasting and withering of the nerves and
aiuscular tissues, Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Disturbed
Sleep, Trembling Sensations, Dirtiness, Spermatorrhoea, all
Urinary Deposits, which cause incapacity and degeneracy,
total and partial prostration, and every other exhaustive de-
rangement of the system ; regenerating all the important
elements of the human frame, and enabling mao to fulfil his
most sacred obligations. ... , . „.
In cases at tas., or four quantities in one for 36s. ;lf IJ
coach, is. 6d. extra.
NATURE’S GREAT REMEDY!
DR. RICORDS
SANATIVE PILLS
For strengthening the system, purifying the Wood, rsgulatini
the .bowels, and removing all vitiated humours, bilious anr
Liver Complaints, Rheumatism, Gout, _ Scorbutic Affections,
Costiveness, Skin Eruptions, and all diseases of the nervoui
system. This never-failing remedy affords at once a nan
lease of life to the sickly and aged of both sexes, imparting
a beautiful and clear complexion, a sure sign of health,
strength, and vigour. Price, at. ; by post, ad. extra.
AGENTS FOR SYDNEY I
Messrs. W.BARCLAY & CO.,
43 Q 0 VLB URN STREET,
y Oku Door trom Grorom Strbxt South,
And may be had of most Chemists. Of
Parcels packed securely and free from observation, sent to
Queensland. New Zealand, or any part of the Australian
Colonies, on receipt of Post Office Order ar Stamps,
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
Lost Vitality, &c.-A simple and positive
means of Self-Cure, by an eminent
French Hospital Physician- Sent Free
Medico, P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
r •
r//r
Of
LIFE
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man, Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from Indiscretion or excesses maybe
alleviated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-
chase and read the new work issued by the World's Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled tho Science of Life
or Self Preservation. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 proscriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
any physician. SOOpages, bound in beautiful French cloth,
full gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refundeiMn every Instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should be read by the young for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all. —London Lancet.
AddresstheWorld’s Dispensary Medical As- Mr II
sociation, or Dr. W. R.Parker, No. 69 Hunter II t. AL
Street, Sydney, N.S.W. The author may TUVOCI F
be consulted on all diseases requiring | fl I OLLr
skill, secrecy, and experience.
an u irons
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by Ml/OLTON’8
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures an.? no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it la possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price la. 3d.
0. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
MARSHALL'S
TON ft NERVINE
TRADE MARK-* 1 TONIC NERVINE.”
Aaars, uKiniAlN, &SPBBDY CURB Tor Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia-
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders. Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, Impoverished
Blood, Premature Decline, Loss of Vital Power,
&c. By its tonic ana soothing effects It at once
removes all craving for Alcohol. By Its richness
In phosphorous an', other powerful vitalising ele-
ments, MARSHALL'S TONIC NJRVINB nour-
ishes] and gives vigour to the wnola -lystera.
Price, 4s. Sd.. or 25s. a case Sold everywhere.
Proprietors, MARSH A LL OHOTH8R8, Registered
Chemists, 101 and 10(1 i/arket street. n«ai H; -is
Pa*k, Hydney, on' 5 fltt-stmat :.Clv«iii*»-ouaT.
N.B.—All imitations Illegal. YAK* NO 8U31TL
YUT».
A U T I O N .
important Notice to the public.
In consequence of an attempt to substitute In-
ferior and spurious articles for " Dr. Scott’s Elec-
tric,” the Pall Mall Electric Association, 51, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, desire to caution the public
against purchasing any counterfeit of the follow-
ing goods “ Dr. Scott’s Electric Corsets, Dr.
Scott’s Electric Belts, Dr. sostt's Electric Hair,
Flesh, or Tooth Brushes, Dr. Scott’s Galvanic
Generators, and Dr. Scott’s Electric Insoles ’*
Every genuine article bears the word “ Electric”
and the name of Dr. Scott, as also does the box
containing same. The extent of our trade, and the
marked appreciation of the public having induced
certain parties to manufacture a line of worthless
goods, having something of the general form and
external appearance of ours, and variously styled
“Magneto-Electric or Electric Magnetic,’’
we respectfully ask that parties who have been
influenced by the many testimonials we publish,
all of which are strictly genuine, or the universal
reputation of our goods, to give electricity a
trial, will see that the name of Dr. Scott and the
word “ Electric” appear on every article purchased.
In addition to this, we have recently registered a
new trade mark—an oval label with our local
address, “Pall Mall Electric Association, 51, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, N.8.W,” in marginal lines,
encircling the device of a mailed hand holding a
group of thunderbolts.
Hi
I
SlAfUO
*
£
&
a
As we are the only parties in Australia importing
these goods direct from Dr. Scott, and are prepared
to guarantee the genuineness of every article
bearing this label, we advise purchasers to see
personally that this trade mark Invariably appears
on any and every Electric Corset, Belt, Insole,
Generator, Hair, Flesh, or Tooth Brush, they may
desire to purchase. This borne in mind, much
vexation and disappolntrm nt will be saved ; and
we respectfully request th t any person who has
been induced to buy any of Uose imitations under
the Impression that they were Dr. Scott’s Electric,
will at once communicate with us.
Dr. Boott’s Electric Corset is a gentle ana
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by. he
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continenta
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give thorn $
trial 1
jfi.
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion* Palpitation, &c., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing oases, after all other remedies (so-
called) have failed.
The prices ore as follows
No. 1
No. 2
No. 3
No. 6
Electric Belts..
8 6
10 6
We now make all these goods in ddve and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. fid. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist oyer the linen. This can be done with
a piece ef common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
W
54 Margarat-straat,
SYDNEY,
P.O. Box 221.
■'
c*u>
RCiila
U)ak
LkSiSi
ssssw
,r
P
WAREHOUSES. SYDNEY.
Hit Hsw Zealand Liu d Mmulilt ittitj Company
(LIMITED),
HEAD OFFICE
LONDON.
Capital - - £3,500,000.
THIS COMPANY WILL CONTINUE TO DISPLAY AND SELL
WOOL!
ON THE MELBOURNE SYSTEM,
At their Magnificent Warehouses,
BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
|»" EVERY LOT WILL BE CAREFULLY VALUED, AND SPECIAL ATTENTION WILL BE
BESTOWED UPON SMALL FARMERS’ PARCELS. WHICH WILL BE PLACED ON A FOOTING
OF EQUALITY WITH THE LARGE CLIPS.
If reserves are not reached, the nominal charge of one shilling per hale only will he made.
WOOL SALES, EVERY TUESDAY.
SHEEPSKINS AND HIDES, EVERY FRIDAY.
Way Bills and all information can be obtained on application, or will be sent by return of post.
H. H. LANG, Produce Manager,
Sydney Wool and Grain Warehouses.
\
v \
V \
V f
■>
X.'j
S
x :\ v
&
r ' I,
v
«SfcV •
NEW AND INGENIOUS READY-ACTING DOG-TAIL AND CAMERA ATTACHMENT, FOR
TOURISTS.
A patent Is now pending by the inventors.
They claim the dog’s tail and the instantaneous shutter, also the combination of the shutter and
dog’s tail, also tbe whole dog, and tbe general application, in the mannersubstantiaily and for
tbe purpose described.
32 O’Connell-street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS.
Complete Photographic Outfits, in great variety, from £3. Catalogues post free.
THE LATEST WORKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOS-APHY.
BOLE AGENTS for BAKER’S DRY PLATE, the most RELIABLE and RAPID in the Market,
Our Photographic preparations an recognised as the most varied,
best, and Cheapest in the colonies.
Caterer and Confectioner,
654 GEORGE STREET,
WEDDINGS, BALLS, PICNICS, AND PARTIES A SPECIALITY,


READ THIS!
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS.
Manufactured by
THE GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS 00.,
SALE.
Certificate by Wm. Johnson, Government Ana-
lytical Chemist
“Government Analytical Laboratory,
“ Melbourne, July 14th, 1884.
“ I have examined Trood’s Hop Bitters (manu-
factured at Sale). They are remarkably pleasant
to the palate, and as a general tonic and promoter
of appetite for invalids and young people are no
doubt eicellent. The Hop Aroma is delicately
combined with a fragrant fruit flavour, producing
a really elegant preparation, which may be relied
on as beneficial to health and free from anything
deleterious.
(Signed) “ WM. JOHNSON,
“ Analytical Chemist.”
THESE celebrated Bitters have been proved by
analysis to be a pure, delicate, palatable com-
pound, and are invaluable in affording relief in all
cases of disorder! of the blood, stomach, liver,
nerves, etc.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTBHS
Will be found a perfect “ Balm of Gilead” to all
who are suffering from shattered nerves, an over-
worked brain, or lassitude; they are, in fact,
nature's brain and nerve food.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Are an excellent appetiser, and may be taken
with perfect safety by the most delicate invalids
and young people.
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS
Enrich and purify the blood, and are an exquisite
tonic and stiamlant. If you are sick, no matter
from what cause, use
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS.
The large and increasing consumption has
gained for the Gippsiand Hop Bitters Manu-
facturing Co. a wide celebrity.
Beware of Imitations,
And use only those manufactured by the
GIPPSLAND HOP BITTERS CO.
They are pronounced to be the best and only genn-
ine Hop Bitters manufactured in the colonies.
THOMAS TROOD & CO.,
Proprietors,
Sale, Nov. 11th,
To be obtained from all the leading merchants,
chemists, and hotels in the colonies.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1873.
Capital—£100,000 with power to Increase to £1,000,000
BONUSES—20 per cent, paid annually since 1873.
PE APES & SHAW’S
mum show!
PBAPES and SHAW’S SPRING MILLINERY.
PEAPB S and SHAW’S SPRING COSTUMES.
PEAPBS and SHAW’S SPRING DRBSS
FABRICS.
PBAPES and SHAW’S SPRING FABRIC
GLOVES.
PBAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT
KID GLOVES,
PEAPBS and SHAW’S SPRING HOSIERY,
from J. and R. MORLBY’S.
PEAPBS and SHAW'S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
LACE GOODS.
PEAPBS and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
EMBROIDERY.
PBAPES and SHAW’S SPRING SHIPMENT OF
PARASOLS.
NOTICEI
AH the above goods are
Now Open for Inspection.
Large Shipments
for other Departments are
CLOSE AT HAND,
and a constant flow of
NOVELTIES
will be opened up
DURING THE SEASON.
PEAPHJS & SHAW,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS,
324, 326, 328 George Street.
J. NOAB1E,
320 & 446 Goorgo Street,
12
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
Just Unpacked, ex sa. Rome,
Cases Rea! HAVANNA CIGARS
(Finest Brands), consisting of
“ANTONIO MURIA8 ”
“ VILLAR OF VILLARS”
‘ HENRY CLAYS"
“REAL”CABANAS
“LARRANAQA”
“ R1TICA ’’
“MORALES”
“ FLOR DB NARB8 ”
“ PARTAGAS”
“ TNTIMIDADS”
“ FLOR DE CUBA ”
“ESPANOLA”
“LA CORONA”
J. NOAKE,
320 & 446 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL MALL, HUNTER STREET.
POST FRE8 FOR Is. STAMPS.
Social Science.
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders, Chronic
Diseases, Impediments to Marriage, &o.. How to
choose a partner for life so as to live happy, How
to Regain and Preserve your Health, &c.
Address—K. T. SELBY, M H , Devonshlre-street,
Surry Hills, Sydney.
ANHOODt RESTOREDI
A Cl
l for the
TION, PREMATURE DECAY, Ac., has at
last discovered a simple SELF-CURE, which, (pi
the sake of suffering humanity, he will send FREE
Prescription which CURED him. Address,
self-addressed stamps' 1 — 1
the
arith
8lf-addressed stamped envelope—
. £. A. CLARKE, P.O. Box 292, Sydney.
SF
r ->
ECONOMICALFURNITURE M EtONOMICALFURNITURE
r , L. I J. I
r THE LARGEST AND ONLY LEGITIMATE
TIME-PAYMENT FURNITURE WARE-
HOUSE IN THE COLONY,
365 PITT STREET.
Public Announcement.
TO ALL WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.
MESSRS. NBILD and CO., on behalf of The
Magnetical- Electric Appliance Company
earnestly desire to call the attention of the public
to the fact that, in consequence of the success
attending: the sale of the above Company’s Elec-
tric Belts, Corsets, &o , a so-called Caution has
been published, emanating from an agent for
Electric articles, who, prompted by a motive to
attempt to monopolise the sale of such articles,
the principle of which we emphatically assert has
been known to the world for at least twenty years
and are now being manufactured in Great Britain
by dozens of firms, and variously styled for the
purposes of a trade mark only, but avowedly par-
taking of the same nature, being an adaptation of
the clement of Magnetioal Electricity. Further-
more, to give substantial proof of our assertions,
we here cite the well-known names of firms who
may well be called the pioneers of this form of
Electric Treatment, who perfected and popularised
its adaptation for Therapeutical purposes which
could be worn about the body as articles of
clothing, disoensing with the cumbersome chain
bands and the objectionable use of acids. Fore-
most among the promoters of this treatment are
Darlow’s “ Magnetine,” Scrivener Gills’ “ Amyn-
terlon,” Wetton’s “ Magneticon,” Whiting’s “ Mag-
netod,” &o., &o. We wish, therefore, to refute
in toto any erroneous impressions caused by the
before-mentioned so-called Caution, and we
emphatically assert that the Magnetieal-Electrio
Appliance Company’s Belts, Corsets, Lung In-
vigorators, Spine Binds, Insoles, &o , and various
other appliances of their manufacture, embrace
all the latest Improvements, and are manufactured
on strictly scientific principles, and in accordance
with the most modern and approved adaptation of
Curative Electricity. Wo ask, therefore, those
who desire to adopt the treatment of Electricity
for constitutional or local derangements, to com-
pare our Electric Belts, Corsets, &c , with those of
other manufacture, as they are undoubtedly of
superior Electrical Strength, design, quality of
material, and elegance of finish. The half-guinea
Gent.’s Belt is the best ever offered to the public
for electrical strength and quality. Gent.’s special-
power Electric Belts, 30s. These Belts are manu-
factured exprefcsly for tropical climates, and are
very durable, as also are our Electric Corsets,
Lung Invlgorators, Spine Binds. &o-
We beg also to draw special attention to the fact
that we have secured the services of a Medical
Electrician, a gentleman who was for many years
engaged as consulting representative in the firm
of Messrs. Wetton and Co., London, whose ap-
pliances are of world-wide reputation, and who
was also recently engaged as consultant to the
Hygienic-Electric Association, of Regent-street,
London.
All correspondence treated with the greatest
despatch.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
We have just received a large stock of the Mag-
netical-Electrio Appliance Company’s Half-guinea
Electric Belts, which are unequalled for electric
power and finish.
Guinea Electric Belt is t le same as sold la
England for £3 3s.
All our Bkc ric Appliances are stamped “Mag-
netlcal Electric Appliance Co , London aad Sydney,
without which none are genuine.
E. S. NEILD AND CO.,
158 Pitt-st., Sydney,
SOLE PROPRIETORS FOB AUSTRALIA.
ms Head Officet. ea
First Fire Society established m me ooiony on
the Mutual principle, (riving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Poliey-hc’ders are perfectly free by law from
ail liability .
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates*
Wolfe's Schnapps taken occasionally is an admir-
able remedy against coughs and colds. Accept
nothing but Wolfe's.
Of al) tonics, diuretics, and nervines, Wolfe’s
Schnapps is the safest and best. Be sure you
obtain Wolfe's.
Notice I—Reliable Old Australian Wines,
selected vintages for invalids and connoisseurs.
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Pltt-street.
A problem: wby people drink any other spirit
when they can obtain Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfes Schnapps is the most powerful, whole-
some, and succesful restorative of this age.
Obtain Wolfes.
QUOD FACIMU8 VALDB FACIMUS.
(What we do we do well.)
TOUR PHOTO.- If you are
undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
couusel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelman and Co., which
for artistic execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Go hold quite a
unique position as potograpbers.
Prices—C-D-V.,: Cabinets’ 30s. per dozen.
OBEELMAN * CO.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, SYDNEY ARCADE.
Asuamai lassii mbhSi 6ii MIIHfi
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
WALTER 0 HURCH, Manager.
Head Offlces-PITT and KING STREETS.
TQ WEAK MFfy SSV™.*
• v IWIUIE errors, early demy,
lost vitality, premature decline, nervous weak-
ness, etc., I will send you particulars of a
icrtain, simple, and sure means of self cure,
Free of Charge. Address, in confidence,
Prof. M. 33. TAYLOR,
68 Elizabeth St.,
SYDNEY 1NT.S W.
D B. B O T D,
62 CASTLERBAGH-STREET, SYDNEY
(Upstairs),
GRADUATE IN MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Registered Physician of New South Wales.
Office Hours:
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday. Wednesday;
and Saturday Evenings 7 to 9.
Deformities, Nervous, and Female Diseases a
Specialty.
Box 120 G.P.O.
mo Country Journalists.—Leaders, Telegrams,
I and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. “ Beta.” Buixktin Office.
BEST IN
THE WORLD
OFFICE
EE
i
LOWEST
IN PRICE
SCOTIAN -HORIZONTAL EN@INES.SM
‘ALBION” UONGSTROKE HORIZONTAL ENGINES. a
CLIM AX” VE RTIGA L ENSINES S BOILER’S.
'“CLIMAX” PORTABLEflOISTlNd ENSINES.
TBRITON”‘HORIZONTAL eOMPOUND LAUNCH ENGINES.
INVERTED COMPOUND MARINE ENGINES.
PORTABLE STEAM CRANES.
VeRTISAL.GORNISH,5 MARINE BOILER
i
■
mm
LARGE STOCKSrFOR FULL PARTICULARS AND PRICES APPLY TO.
D.& W.ROBERTSON.SYDNEY, SOLE AGENTS-«»NEW SOUTH WALES.]
J.W.SUTTtfN&CO, BRISBANE.SOLE AGENTS "“QUEENSLAND.]
ROBISON BRO-S.& CO.MELBOURNE,SOLE AGENTS -“VICTORIA
That Bras a nice and comfortable little
inquest at the Parramatta Lunatic Asylum. W 0
see that a warder was told to administer to a
patient a white draught. A white draugnt was
not at hand, so the attendant decided to administer
a black draught—a decision which culminated, by
some mischance. In the patient’s being given
enough carbolic acid to have curled up a squadron
of dragoons, or have disinfected the Fharo
Hospital. The officer, however, who admin*
istered the fatal draught received at the hands
of his superiors a most flattering character,
and it was generally understood that though the
circumstance was an unfortunate one. it bad
served to bring out the existence of many ad-
mirable traits in the attendant’s character net pre-
viously recognised by the outside world, and the
conclusion of the “ ooronlal ” proceedings was of a
decidedly congratulatory character The corpse’s
opinion of these proceedings, considering he had
long suffered from alienation of intellect, would
be, even if It were to hand, out of little value; it
was, however, notice! that during the enquiry,
his features bore an expression of penslveaese
almost amounting to rigidity.
who writes the bio-
graphical notices in the Sydney R C hierarchical
organ, took John M‘Bihone in band last week.
The Boreas of the Upper Hunter gets this square
of scented soap dropped Into bis coat pocket:
“ But this I am free to maintain, that the man has
a big heart and a sensitive conscience, and that
his aim is invariably at just things.” Terence does
not run away and hide after this feat. He hangs
about with several more squares in bis soap-box.
Here: “HU use as a politician consists in hlsf in-
Kad habit of going straight for anything that
heart of hearts be oonoeives to savour of
Jobbery.” In other circumstances that would be
a dangerous sort of description. The words might
be construed In a back-handed way. But Terence
la ipgenuousness Itself, and really loves tbe man
of expletives. He takes his oong* with empty
box asseverating that at tbe forthcoming elections
* “ a dbien constituencies would be proud to place
him at tbe top of the poll.” Terence forgets to
add that five doam would be proud to place him
at the bottom. With the exception of that little
omission the article is quite a full one.
Mra. Langtry was subjected recently to
the greatest slight that could be Inflicted upon a
woman In bet position, a deliberate out from tbe
Princess of Wales, who Is not the plastic doll in
tbe Prince’s hands that come people imagine This
episode occurred at Coombe House, wnere Lady
Archibald Campbell and her pastoral players were
giving their last performance of “ The Falthfulle
Shepherdcsse.” The Prince of Wales entered into
conversation with Mra. Langtry, who dropped the
usual quaint courtesy with which royalty is re-
ceived; the Princess of Wales had turned her
back, and was talking to some one else.
A hundred eyes watebed tbe group. It has often
been said, and not unjustly, that the Prince of
Wales is remarkable for tact, but even the most
distinguished social warriors sometimes lose their
heads where a pretty woman’s interests are con-
cerned, and at this moment, if any, Mrs. Langtry
needed the consolation of royal favour. The
Prince plucked the Princess by the sleeve, after
saying to Mrs. Langtry In quite a loud voice, “ Oh,
the Princess would like to toil you ” The
Princess turned around, surveyed Mrs. Langtry
quite as though she did not see her, gave so slight
a bow that tbe inclination of the head was
almost imperceptible, and then deliberately turned
her back and resumed her conversation with her
friends. The Prince looked oxq ulsttely foolish. Mrs.
Langtry’s confusion was painful to bebold, and
tbe social axe bad fallen I But this new scandal
may help the Lily’s theatrical interest*, which
have of late begun to languish.


POISON IN THE CUP!
THE CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATIOH'S
PUBE I2NT3DX^.3Sr
yjr A
wc
a:*
SMS
E
Sr<0
1
Associations iS-i
Wc
r/<v
n
JIMl
§
is.
"‘5*-: yP
v%
56
Tt«
*
• : '■ B ,
iv/k
l¥
•f‘VWl
«
I l!
/S
<£
ili
7i
r
<5
yS
sa
%
%
*&
4-
A%
*
J'
1NUAN IIAE&tflt
1
iggiliQi
mm%
m
Ifl
8
3/
3/
5
BT ."7
IB
I
Si
5
3/6
2/6
5^
PURE INDIAN TEA
Will go much further than the ordinary Teas, and consequently less need he used. It Is well to bear this in mind,
because when pure Indian Tea Is used too much may be put In the pot, and Its very goodness may create a prejudice
against It,
INDIAN TEA PROPERLY BLENDED,
As is so efficiently done by the CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION, is purer, stronger, more palatable, more economical, and in every
way superior to the Chinese rival. Give the CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION’S TEAS a lair trial In the teapot. ITse one-third
less fof an Infusion than you would of China Tea. This means really a saving of one shilling In three In the prices. Ask your
grocer for the CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION’S PURE INDIAN TEAS, and give them an honest, unprejudiced trial, and we will
stake “ Lombard-street to a China orange” that never again by choice will you revert to the shady, Insipid, doctored teas of John
Chinaman, but will in future drink the
Calcutta Tea Association’s Pure, Unadulterated, Fragrant,
Full-Bodied Indian Teas.
made In the Indian Gardens of old John Bull.
SOLD BV ALL RESPECTABLE TEA DEALERS AND GROCERS IN ALL THE COLONIES,
quality of your Tea has a higher
extract than any Packet Teas w e
have examined. ,
“ J. COSMO NEWBURY.
“FREDERICK DUNN.”
It will be thus seen that the
highest and best authority pro-
curable pronounces even our
lowest priced teas at 8s. 6d. per
lb. to be superior In purity and
analysis to any of those above
mentioned teas at 3s. 6d. per lb.
Further comment is superfluous.
The teas of the Calcutta Tea As-
sociation are the produce of up-
wards of 50 of the most celebrated
Indian tea estates, which, blended
together, make the most perfect
tea the world can produce. They
are blended by competent tea
tasters, assisted by analytical
chemists of the highest standing.
Every inducement is given to
the merchants and storekeepers
throughout the colonies to keep
our teas in stock, but should con-
sumers not be able to obtain them
from their regular grocer, they
can purchase at our wholesale
warehouses, as a sample, any
quantity trom half a pound up-
wBrds
Those living at a distance who
cannot be supplied locally can
hare sent direct from the Mel-
bourne wholesale warehouses any
quantity from 10lb. weight up-
wards,.freight and carriage free,
to the nearest port or railway
station on receipt of bank draft
or post office order made payable
to the Calcutta Tea Association or
order.
Our teas are packed in and
Jib. packets, 5, 10 and 851b. tin
canister ; half-chests in lead of
101b and upwards.
The teas sent out by us, duty
paid in Victoria and New South
Wales, are of three prices, and are
sold in any of the above size pack-
ages, at 2s. 6d., 3s., and 3«. 6d. per
lb. Slbthorp’s mixture at 3s. 6d.
per lb., in packages of not less
than 101b.
On account of the difference in
duty the prices in New Zealand,
and Queensland are 8s. 9s., 3s. 3d,
and 3s. 9d., per lb., duty paid.
When purchasing ask for
THE CALCUTTA TEA AS-
SOGIAMuN’S PURE
INDIAN TEAS.
See that you are supplied with
them, Don’t be prevailed upon
to take any other tea If you can-
not be supplied in one store try
another.
> eware of piracy and imitation*.
All our seas are marked THE
C A LCU PTA T R \ A88GCIA-
TION 8 POKE INDIAN TEAS
'J he price and wi ight, with in-
structions for brewii g,are marked
on the end of each package.
Hitherto the Australians have
had no option, but were forced to
purchase trash called tea which
was shipped here from China and
other ports; now they have an
opportunity of purchasing the
pure Indian teas supplied by the
Calcutta Tea Association, which
is the most perfect tea that can
be produced.
There is no instance on record
of Indian Tea being adulterated..
We will, at the request of any of
our patrons, send, or allow tnem
to send, a sealed packet of our
teas to an analytical chemist, and
if found to be adulterated we will*
iorfeit £500 to the charities.
We are sorry to say that some
of the storekeepers who sell our
Teas try to prevail upon custo-
mers to purchase other Teas, for
the simple reason that they make'
a larger profit.
The Teas of the Association are
all labelled "THE CALCUTTA
TEA ASSOCIATION’S PURE
INDIAN 1EA,” and the prices
are marked on every package.
The public will please ask tor
them, and take no others. They
are guarau’nd pure and of the
highest cim.-, aid such Teas can
only be supplied by an Association
having command of the produce
of not le s than Fifty Tea Estates,
which are blended so as to pro-
duce the most perfect teas in the
world.
NOTICt IS HEREBY GIVEN
TO ALL PERSONS
Either
PACKING or SELLING TEAS
With an
IMITATION OF OUR
WRAPPERS
That they will be
P B OSECUTBD.
And that this notice now glvfen
will be used to prove a guilty
knowledge against all persons
either imitating our wrappers or
selling teas In any wrapper with a
colorable imitation of ours.
J. B. TAYLOR, Secretary.
CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION
26 KING-9T., MELBOURNE.
Gradually, but surely, since the
day when the Somersetshire far-
mer’s wife-having received a pre-
sent of the “TEA” that was then
an unknown luxury, presented it
to her husband carefully cooked,
in the form of a plate of cabbage—
the said Tea has assumed the po-
sition of the most important, and
certainly the healthiest of beve-
rages, “ the Clip that Cheers but
not Inebriates.” It is only of late
years, however, that tea drinkers
have been awakened to the fact
that there Is danger even in That
Cup, and that the market may be
as readily filled with deleterious
compounds under the name of
Tea, as it may with spurious and
poisonous wines or spirits.
It is to remove the risk of these
impositions teat the
CALCUTTA TEA
ASSOCIATION
and its objects are now presented
to the public notice for the pur-
pose of supplying consumers with
PURE AND UNADULTE-
RATED INDIAN TEA,
beyond all suspicion of its being
in any way or in the slightest de-
gree tampered with. That there
exists a necessity for this project,
to prevent consumers from the
risk of drinking what is nothing
moro nor less than a Poison in its
most insidious and destructive
form, has been recently proved
beyond ail shadow of doubt.
The Victorian Press has, from
time to time, pointed out that
large quantities of teas Imported
into this market from China were
adulterated to an extent that ren-
dered them nearly as injurious to
the consumers as the deadly
Opium.
Bead the following report of the
Chief Analyst of the Technologi-
cal Museum, Melbourne, on 5m5
half-chests, quarters and boxes of
CHINA TEA sold by auction in
Melbourne on last January: —
“All the samples are of very
inferior description, and are, in
my opinion, unfit for human con-
sumption. They all contain rot-
ten and exhausted leaves, leaves
that have none of the general
characters of tea-leaves, dust (not
tea dust), gum, starch and iorelgn
colour, seeds of various kinds,
stalks, bark, sand and earthy
matter, hair and other matter of
animal origin.
“J. COSMO NEWBERY.
“B. Sc., C.M.G.”
Mr. Dunn, the recognised Tea
Analyst, reports on 975 packages
of China Tea received into this
market;-"It was difficult to find
a perfect and genuine tea leaf in
the samples, and that the stuff
consists for the most pait of de-
cayed, exhausted, or foreign
(other than tea) leaves, foreign
stems, tea sweepings, held to-
gether in little nodules by starch,
paste and pieces of brick husk and
nut shells. All this rubbish was
faced with plumbago, to give it a
black appearance, and was totally
unfit for dietary purposes.”
You can now obtain
PURE TEA FROM INDIA,
A BRITISH POSSESSION,
without being dependent upon
foreigners in the first instance,
and being poisoned by them in the
second.
THE CALCUTTA TEA ASSO-
CIATION has been formed for
the purpose of offerirg to the
Merchants , Orocers, and Con-
sumers PURE INDIAN TEAS,
chosen for us by the CALCUTTA
TEA SYNDICATE, and guar-
anteed Free from all Mixture of
Chinese, Japan, or other deleteri-
ous Tea, as shown by the f<Mow-
ing Letter from Messrs. James
Henty and Co., a firm of the
highest standing, and agents for
the Calcutta Tea Syndicate, Little
Collins-street _est
“TO THE SECRETARY OF THE
CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIA-
TION.
**36 King-street, Melbourne.
“At your request we have re-
peatedly inspected your large
stock of teas, and found same all
PURE INDIAN TEAS, selected
in India by the Calcutta Tea Syn-
dicate.—Yours, &c., _ , „
5 ‘ JAMBS HENTY and Co.
“ p.s.— We have also transferred
to you the stock and sole agency
of Sibthorp’s Indian Teas, as sup-
plied to visitors during the whole
of the International Exhibition.”
If stronger evidence be wanted
we can supply it. Read the fol-
lowing :—There can be no stronger
testimony adduced to the unrival-
led superiority of our Indian Teas
over all other competitors. Messrs.
Newbery and Dunn, the Govern-
ment Analytical Chemists, report
“rbStoRTON THREE SAMPLES
OF INDIAN TEA RECEIVED
PROM THE CALCUTTA TEA
ASSOCIATION.
“ The above samples have been
carefully examined by us. They
are ABSOLUTELY PURE, and
may add that even the lowest
TRY A 101b. TIN OF THIS TEA AND YOU WILL NEVER USE ANY OTHER SORT.
annulled wholesale by F. BOWMAN and CO., Melbourne; WHITE, COUNSELL and CO., Adelaide; NEILL BROS., Dunedin, N.Z.; JOHNSTON and CO., Wellington, NZ.;
" 11 and by W holesale Merchants in all the Co'onits.
GEORGE GRIFFITHS and CO., Merchants. Bridge-street, Sydney, have been appointed
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales.


And we thought the science of advertising
was played out, effete, moribund I Bihl it is but
in its Imancy. Look at the following from the
Sydney Morning Herald “ Announcement.
High Class Photography. Vcnimus, Vicimus.
Messrs. come accompanied with a staff of
competent artiste, trained in leading English, Con-
tinental, and American studios, at the head of
whom will be Mr. , who has been chief artist
with two of the foremost Court photographers in
the West End of London, viz , Palls and Bsssano.
Mr. has had the privileged and distinguished
honour of being afforded the opportunity of assist-
ing at the photographing of Her Gracious Majesty
Queen Victoria, and has himself also personally
photographed Her Royal Highness the Prin-
cess of Wales, In addition to making pictures
of many members of the governing families,
nobility, and aristocracy of England.” Fancy
that now—actually assisted In photographing
Majesty I Ah, could we but persuade to come
among us the bright particular star that "bossed
the jobl" But no, it would be expecting too
much—
Could we but view that artist grand
(Our loyal love it would awaken)
That llxed- ah del /—with his own hand.
The noblest body in the land,
And taught her how to pose and stand
To let her Royal "mug” be taken.
But, to be serious. Mr. has a real Insight
Into Australian social peculiarities. For hundreds
of years the English people have had a near view
of royal and aristocratic life. The result is that
they entertain very little admiration for either.
There is nothing like proximity to these institu-
tions to learn their true worth. If there is one
thing more than another that centurUs of suffer-
ing have taught progressive nations, it is that the
system of heredtary rulers or hereditary law-
makers is an outrage on common-sense and the
rights cf man. But Australians, removed by a
hemisphere from the countries where the noxious
growths have sent their roots so far into the
national soil, and ignoring the plain teachings of
old lands, still hanker for the excrescences that
retarded the wo: Id’s advancement. This
J8 from a home paper:—“From time to time the
Queen consents tube photographed, and when the
results are particularly pleasing Her Majesty per-
mits copies to be printed and eold at so much apiece.
[We have just received a copy of Queen Victoria’s
latest ihoto., and If she is •* oleased,” with what
despite re-touching, is the terrible result, all we
can say is that she must be easily satisfied ] H.M.
is a bad subject for the photographer, owing to
the fact that her face is always more or less
flushed, which gives a dark appearance to the
skin when prints are taken from the negative.
T?o avoid this, the negative has to be submitted to
a 1 process of elaborate ‘ working up ’ by the hand
of an experienced artist It will be at once in-
ferred, and correctly, that it is not easy to pro-
duce a likeness that is satisfactory in the eyes of
the Queen, Proofs of recent sittings have already
been laid before Her Majesty, we understand; so
in a few days we shad most likely find our
Sovereign Lady rubbing shoulders in the photo-
graph sellers’ windows with Tottie Longstockings,
of the Immorality theatre, while the Royal bride
Beatrice may be accorded a place of honour next
to some notorious society beauty who is more of a
stranger to her husband than she is to some dozen
other men.”
Itching Piles.
I was taken, for the first time in my life, with
blind piles, so severe that I could hardly keep on
my feet. I used various remedies for three weeks,
when the disease took the form of itching piles, and
growing worse. By advice of an old gentleman I
tried ithe Cuiicura. Onclapplicaeion relitvcd the
itching, and 1 was soon cured. I wish to tell the
world tl at in cases of Itching piles the price of the
Cuiicura is of no account. From an unsolicited
quarter. 0. C. KIRBY, 63 West Street, Concord,
Re-establish and restore the body by the per-
sistent use of Wolfe's Schnapps.
Make)ita rule to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps. It cre-
ates!no false]appetlte, but has an invigorating effect.
Business cares render a stimulant essentially
necessary— Wolfe's Schnapps is the stimulant that
should be taken.
Art Union of Moss Vale, in aid of Widow
and Orpan Fund of Berrima Masonic Lodge.
Tickets, 30s. Will shortly be drawn. Apply at
once for tickets. J. 8. Hyams, Sec., Moss Vale.*
As a tonic, diuretic, and an invigorating cordial
Wolfe's Schnapps is highly recommended to tne
public.
“Health is wealth ” Therefore everybody who
drinks Wolfe’s Schnapps is wealthy, because it
gives health.
The human system will be brief'd up against
changes of temperature by drinking the wed
known tonic, Wolfe's Schnapps.
Printed and Published by Tnn Bulletin News-
paper Oc. limited), M Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W,
Woman Items
There’s a Woman at root of every one s grief,
The wisdom of time avers;
The woman at his, be he ohlel or chief—
The other woman at hers.
Women and wine are the two evils of ex-
istence. Man was given tne former, and the latter
he discovered on bis own book.
“ When did you first get acquainted with
your wife?" asked a friend. “I knew her for a
good while, but I didn’t get really acquainted with
her until after we were married.”
There was—until lately—in Melbourne a
pretty little lady who had become notable as the
mother of a family of six, acquired in the short
space of the three years of her married life.
“I remember you very well,” said the
hotelkeeper, “but your wife has grown very
thin.” “Yes.” “ She was taller.” "Yes.” “And
lighter complexion, was she not ?'* “ Yes. Besides
you know. It is not the same one.”
Charles Bright tells a story of a man who
had been induced to attend a spiritualistic seance,
and was asked by the medium if be would like to
communicate with the spirit of his dead wife.
“No,” he replied, positively; “I believe in letting
well enough alone ”
Said he: “I have just been given a Persian
kitten, and, as she will grow up to be a cat, I have
named It alter you.” Then the Dovelet sneered
her cruellest sneer. 44 My collie has had a sister
horn, and, as she won't grow up to be a gentleman
dog, I named her after you.”
Simpson and his wife were on their way to
church, and the lady was putting on her gloves.
“My dear,” he said, pettishly, “you should com-
plete your toilet at home. I’d just as soon see you
putting on your stockings in the street as putting
on your gloves.” “Most men would,’’ she said,
promptly, and the abashed husband didn’t say
another word.
Ouida has three sets of names —Ouida, the
one she Is known by In the world 1 of letters; De la
Bmnde, the title by which some people know her;
and Mary Ann Stubbs, her real name. She is
English born, but partly French m origin. Her
mother was a native of Martinique, but she her-
self first saw the light of Warwickshire —Shakes-
peare's county—50 years ago, or thereabouts.
Henry of Battenberg, who has just married
Princess Beatrice, went into a tobacconist’s shop
at Cowes tho other day, says an English paper, and
asked In his best English tor "eln tuppenny
sohmoke.” “Good gracious! yer Rile and Serene
Highness," exclaimed the tobacconist; “do you
really want a tuppenny 7” “ Ob,’’ answered Prince
Henry, with a smile, *‘ ld is just a leedle egstrava-
gance for meiu honeymoons.”
The daughter-in-law of Fouohe, Due
d’Otrante, was one of the brightest of women: her
husband was a roui, whom the Parisians were wont
to refer to as the Due d’Otrante
One day the married pair chanced to dine together.
The duke began to i ail at life as an empty i hlng.
“ What consoles me,” he cried, “ is that 1 have
wronged many husbands.” *’ What I regret,’’ re-
torted the duchess, “13 that I can wrong only
one.”
An American editor has been taking sta-
tistics of girls’ favourite' names. He finds that
Mary leads off with 30, being pretty closely pressed
by Anna, with 24, between whom and Elizabeth
(17) there is a good breathing space. Elizabeth’s
heels are trodden upon by Laura with 16. Margaret
with 13, and Katherine with 12. Helen ana Emma
and Lilian and Clara are all pretty popular, while
Florence comes last with 5, Edith and Agees and
Grace and Maria being oonsplououslymbsent.
“ I do not—aw —see,” said he, as he with-
drew the htad-of his cane from his mouth. “ why
there should be so much objection to-aw—
roller skating: it is a harmless amusement.”
“• Some physicians say It Is injurious to the
health,” she observed, as she plied her crochet-
needle “ Perhaps so,” he rejoined, " but-aw—
they all seem to agree in the opinion that”—here
he blushed slightly-’ 4 that—aw—it strengthens the
calves” " Ahl Indeed,” she said with an arch
smile; “ do you feel any stronger since j ou began
to skate? ’
Princess Louise, eldest daughter of
“Wales." will not want for lovers It manufac-
turers of small talk can help it. No sooner has
their invention about Her Royal Highness’s be-
trothal to the Duchess of Connaught's brother
been contradicted, than they spread a frt sh report
that tho recond son ot the King of Sweden is
anxious to come a-woolnw the Hngilsh maid. Yet
another rumour credits the Princess of Wales and
her sister, tne Empress of Russia, with the mutual
desire io unite tho Princess Louise to the Ceeare-
wltch Nicholas. This youth is a few months
younger than his Royal cousin.
The “ noble ” poet who indiscreetly “stood
on a tower In the wet,” and who provided the
Princess Beatrice with a couple of “ suns ” ere
over she was tagrried, attained his 76th birthday
on the game day that the Duke of Edinburgh was
41 Tennyson was born in 1809. With regard to
Lord Tennyson's recent marriage ode, the eupbu-
Istic babbling of which invites the world’s derision,
It is probably the first eplthalamlum In which the
mother-in-law has been the principal figure. Tbo
bride, we are told, will lead “ a summer’s life ?”
But how about.the bridegroom? Let us hope
that “the summer s life " Is not a poetic expres-
sion for its being made rather hot for him. The
prose details of. this very interesting wedding Is
not less humorous. -lust think of a honeymoon
of 48 hours, Immediately followed by one’s mother-
in-law coming to lunob with you I The arrange-
ments have certainly had no parallel since th«
case of the small tradesman found “ travelling
alone ” upon his honeymoon, in consequence of
the money not tunning to “ taking bis wife along
with him.”
In order to get a glimpse of Princess Bea-
trice’s trousseau, the most astute wiles of diplo-
macy were respited to. Mrs. Stratton, the dress-
maker in Piccadilly Intrusted with the order, had
to guard herself and her creations against the un-
scrupulous onset of unauthorised reporters. She
stood her ground gallantly, but was at last circum-
vented by subterfuge. A “ lady ” oamo to her,
bearing a note from Lady Beotlve, introducing
her as a friend, and begging Mrs. Stratton, as a
personal favour, to let her see all the costumes
and dresses. Two days later, in one of the minor
and least respectable of the weekly papers,
between two paragraphs referring to late scandals,
appeared a description of the trousseau,so graphic
in technical details that It betrayed the hand of the
professional and gave great annoyance to the inter-
ested parties. Mrs. Stratton is no ordinary modiste.
She is patronised by the Queen and her daughters,
and besides) theirs makes only the wedding and
Court dresses of the highest In the land. She has
been entrusted with the priceless laco worn by
Queen Victoria on her own wedding day, and which
sne lent Princess Beatrice on hers; also with some
old point d'aiguihe, nearly as valuable (a gift to
her daughter), and which belonged to Catherine
of Aragon. At one time lately Mrs. Stratton had
in her house £30 000 worth of costly laces alone,
all the duchesses after the drawing-room having
sent theirs to be remounted on the robes pre-
pared for the Battenberg marriage, and on the
Saturday night the cautious dressmaker sent them
all in a sealed package to the Bank of England,
unwilling that so tempting a deposit should re-
main unguarded In her establishment over the
Sunday.
The list of the Princess Beatrice’s wedding
presents, as published In the Court Circular, occu-
pied two and a-half newspaper columns. Some of
the presents strike one as being rather tunny.
“Seven volumes of 4 The Gleanings of the Past,'
by the Right Hon W E Gladstone, given by Mrs.
Gladstone." Fancy Inflicting seven volumes of
the gleanings of the Grand Old Man upon a young
and happy bride 1 “ Holy Bible, and two volumes
of ‘Daily Light,’ given by the Maidens of the
United Kingdom. Since the Three Tailors of
Tooley-street took unto themselves the title of the
People of England, there has been nothing so bold
in the way of assumption as this. “ Screen for
photographs, given by 80 young daughters of
noblemen ana gentlemen,” “The 80 young
daughters ” ought certainly to figure in the next
Gilbert-and-SuUlvan opera. “We are 80 young
daughters of nobles and gents.” treated in
W. S. G.’s popular manner, would bo a certain
go. The Earl of Shaftesbury followed the
example of “ the Maidens of the United King-
dom,” and gave another Bible. But why ? The
idea In giving a weddizg present is to give
something the bride is not likely to have already.
Did the earl and the maidens imagine that the
Princess hadn’t a Bible of her own, bat usually
borrowed her mamma’s? An enterprising firm
S resented the Princess with a sewing machine!
ne looks down the list after this for a set of flat-
irons and a washing tray. There is one fearful
description In the oarefully-made-out-llst. Here
it Is. in all its stern uncompromising truth: “A
quilt, given by Mrs. Blake.” Of course It was an
expensive and beautifully-embroidered quilt, but
the other wedding presents are described and this
is not, and so reading simply “ A quilt,” again the
eye wanders anxiously down the list for r ‘ A pair
of blankets, given by Mrs. Jones,” and “ Six pil-
low-cases, given by Mrs. Robinson.” But the eye
is disappointed. “ A quilt ” stands alone in all its
native simplicity. Some of the presents from the
Royal relatives are very nice ones, and some are
rattier cheap ones. The best present of all, singu-
larly enough, has, by an unaccountable oversight,
been omitted from the list—” £30,000 and £6000 a
year, given by the bleeding British public.” That
puts some of the clocks and candlesticks and tea-
caddies and photograph-frames slightly in the
shade.
This is how a Yankee paper deals with the
recent “ romantic *, marriage of Lord Chief Jus
tice Coleridge, of England, who has wedded a lady
35 years his junior. _ Our contemporary begins at
the point where the happy pair first met on the
deck of an American liner:—” London, August
3.— ‘ Pleasant evening, ma’am,’ remarked Lord
Coleridge. * Delightful, indeed,’ said the lady.
‘ The moon is already high in the heavenly vault
and paints the heaving bosom of the ocean deep
with its silver sheen.’ * ’Ow poetiol’ replied hu
lordship. The scene ot the foregoing oonver-
sation was on the quarter-deck of an ocean steamer,
and the enraptured pair who did the talking were
Lord Chief Justice Coleridge and a stately lady
whose acquaintance he had cultivated on the
voyage. The result of the Interview and the
touohingly-sentimental overtures which suc-
ceeded it is the betrothal of his lordship, and all
London is on tiptoe in anticipation of the merry
event. The lady in the case is a strawberry blonde,
a few inches taller thin her judicial lover, and the
wearer of a pair of gold spectacles, the arms of
which are lost to view in the wavelets of her
luxuriant ha'£. Her name is Miss Amy Lawford.
When the steamer reached London the Lord Chief
Justice found himself in love up to the eyes,
and nothing could persuade him, during pro-
per hours, to quit the side of his enchantress.
He trotted her all over London in a hansom cab,
and wherever it was proper for a young and in-
experienced spinster of 47 to go, she went. When
his lordship’s family got to hear of his infatuation
they raised a terrible row, and Miss Melinda Cole-
ridge took occasion to lecture her gallant papa
right roundiy. His lordship was naturally em-
barrassed. He loved Miss Lawford with all the
ardour of his nature, but at the same time he
wished to conciliate his belligerent offspring
Swallowing, in one mighty motion, the sorrow
that the act occasioned, bis lordship indited to
Miss Lawford the following pathetic appeal for
liberty ‘Hare and Hounds, Junes, 1884 Hon-
oured Mies,—How happy I have been since 1 first
met vou It is not for me to say. You know it
well, and with that knowledge 1 dismiss the pre-
liminaries. The truth is—oh, really, now don’t tly
off and get mad—but the truth is, you know, I
can’t very well arrange it so as to get h'out this
evenink, h'owing to the h'illness of me children,
you know, so It you’d Just put off this ice-cream
h’engagement until we meet in H’Amerioa, it will
be a great favour.—Yours, as ever, Coley.
To Miss Amy Lawford, ,wy> Torrlngton-square.’
The Lord Chief Justice hadn’t more than time
enough to pull down bis waistcoat alter the de-
spatch of this letter when bo was shaken up by
the following telegraphic communication:— ‘No.
62Jd5 Torrington-square, June 3, 1884, Mister: Meet
me at the Pickwick Arms, as per agreement, and
let the “ h’illness of your children,” as you call It,
workout Its own natural course. You’ll know
me by my gingham pull-back, and mind you don’t
forget to come. Hatefully yours, Amy Lawford.’
The judge got there, and after he had paid for the
loe-oream, Miss Lawford took occasion to inform
him that he had better not trifle with her affec-
tions, as she meant to get married, and hadn’t any
time to fool around. His Honor has since tried to
wriggle out of the affair, but the lady remained
steadfast to her Jove, and, by threatening to drag
his lordship before a jury, has at last secured his
consent to the nuptials. Barrister Adams, who re-
cently married his lordship’s daughter, is in high
feather over the affair and kicks his heels together
whenever the subject is mentioned. It Is reported
that the barrister is quietly organising a ‘Call-
thumpiau ’ band, and means to give his father-la-
law a big serenade the night of the wedding.”
PRECAUTION.
THEIR MOTHER’S KNEE-NEW STYLE.
(Little Daughter, ft tat 12, loq.)
I read ot kids, ma, blythe and froe,
That “ prattle at their mother’s knee
This stuff makes me quite restive I
If near your knee, dear ma, I went,
1 couldn’t 41 prattle ” worth a cent —
It’s too suggestive I
A SOUND ARGUMENT.
“ Ob, papa, dear, wh»t word is this ?’’
Thus spake our little daughter—
A pert, enquiring, sate? misa.
“ That word, my devr, is slaughter.”
She covered up the s, and said:
“ Now, papa, what comes after ?”
With some dismay we scratched our head:
“ That word, my dear, Is laughter.”
We saw that It perplexed the child,
This lesson we bad taught her.
She asked again, and gaily smiled:
“ Why shouldn’t that be * lortar ? ’
Then with a burst of happy glee
That rang through every rafter,
She cried: “ J ust take me on your knee
And nurse your little daf ter.”
UTILISING FASHION.
IT MAY BE INDEFINITELY EXTENDED AS THE FAMILY INCREASES.
WARY GUEST: “WAITER, BRING ME ALL THE CAT3 THERE ARB IN THIS ESTABLISH-
MENT-AND ANY DOGS YOU MAY HAVE. WANT ’EM BIGHT OFF.”
(Astonished waiter products all the live-stock of the establishment.)
WARY GUEST: “ALL RIGHT-.NOW BRING ON A RABBIT.”
