

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.—No. 117 —New Series.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 8, 1885.
Price— Od.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 8, 1885.
The Banquet.
The Soudan Contingent had departed,
served, returned, and been disbanded when
it occurred to some of those who had been
instrumental in despatching it that some-
thing further was necessary before the
word “ finis” was written to a unique chap-
ter in our national history. Banquets and
babble had fittingly inaugurated the wild
expedition. To be in keeping, let food and
froth close it. This is the genesis of the
dinner given a week ago by the citizens of
Sydney to the returned braves. The refec-
tion was held in the Exhibition Building
and — including those who attended in
Khakee suits—quite 900 persons must have
occupied places at the tables. We have no
intention to describe the dinner itself. Ban-
quets so much resemble each other that the
person who has been present at one may be
said—except for the absence of subsequent
dyspepsia—to have been present at all. The
duty of describing this one may safely be
left in the hands of those useful litterateurs,
who carry on physiological functions, not
by eating and drinking, but by “ refreshing
the inner man” or “doing justice to the
good things provided.” In their hands we
feel that this dinner is safe. The duty we
have before us is of an entirely different
nature. We have to review the speeches
made by the principal guests, to discover
their meaning and point out their ten-
dency. Still, with this serious task be-
fore us, a few words may be spared re-
garding the banquet. We consider that
to allow the soldiers to bring their female
relatives to the dinner, and then shut them
up in a gallery in full view of the mounds
of wholesome food and drink which the
husbands, brothers, and sweethearts were
steadily reducing, was callousness of a
peculiarly reprehensible kind. It was
nothing new for them to see their protectors
eat. At the table that night there was
probably no soldier whose appetite and
capacity were not well known to some-
body in the gallery. It is idle to say that
those poor ladies made up for their enforced
fast by—at a later hour—timidly venturing
among the revellers, and making short work
of the debris. In future, we trust either
that places will be found for females
public banquets, or, if that is impossible,
that they be securely locked up at home>
under proper supervision.
• • *
Bishop Barry was unfortunate from the
beginning. When the strains of the National
Anthem, welcoming the Governor, were
becoming faint, the Primate prepared to
praise God for the manner in which
the Compagnoni Catering Company had
fulfilled its contract. But the soldier-guests
had anticipated him. The signal he took
for “stand and thank” they took for “sit
and tackle.” And it is but fair to say that
they took their seats with an emphasis
which set the senior partner of the company
speculating whether, after all, his contract
was a judicious one. As it would be flying
iu the face of the most elementary law of
human nature to expect men masticating a
toothsome tongue to rise and pray, his
Lordship accepted the situation, and sat
down also. Whether the irritating contre-
temps unsettled him, or the signs—now be-
coming apparent—that some Soudanese
skirmishes would be fought over again
convinced him that he would be better at
home, it would be hazardous to say. Cer-
tain it is that, when his turn came to speak,
bis seat was there, but it was vacant-
Whether he prayed on the way home, what
shape his orisons took, or whether auyevil
effects resulted from the absence of grace,
it would now be impossible to say.
• • •
But, as before remarked, it is with the
speeches we would deal. And first the
Governor’s. His Excellency is reported to
have said:—“This is no ordinary occasion-
It is the closing scene of a great national
event. It has been my inestimable good
fortune to be here at this most eventful
period of your history, to watch this new
growth of patriotism from the beginning, to
be in the midst of all this enthusiastic devo-
tion to the great old land from which you
have sprung, and of the glories and achieve-
ments of which you are so proud. . . . These
messages [the Queen’s to the Contingent]
were not mere formal acts of courtesy, but
were, on your part, practical proofs of a
loyalty of the highest kind known to the
world. . . . They were exchanged in the
sight of all men, when the strength of the
bond between England and her colonies was
doubted by some timorous and ill-informed
persons. They dissipated these doubts in an
instant, and showed mankind that in
moments of danger and difficulty we were
all shoulder to shoulder in upholding the
great and beneficent Power which, under
God's blessing, exists for the promotion of
His glory.” Volumes have been written,
speeches innumerable spoken, concerning
this patriotism whose birth and growth
Lord Loetus witnessed. But it would be
safe to say that, if the Governments of the
various countries sanctioned the experiment,
not 700, but 7000 men could, within 24 hours,
be raised in Paris, Berlin, Vienna, St. Peters-
burgh, New York, or Philadelphia forservioe
(at five shillings a day) in any country, from
Tartary to Tierra del Fuego. Should war
break out with Russia, and Mr. Dalley
desire to test the robustness of this new-
born patriotism, let him offer a shilling a
day to men for active service in Afghanistan
and tell the result of the appeal. Among
the “ timorous and ill-informed persons ”
who “ doubted the strength of the bond
between England and her colonies” are the
leading English statesmen of the past twenty
years. And, so far from the despatch of our
troops tending to allay those doubts, they
have but confirmed them. We are as highly
appreciative as His Excellency of the part
played by Britain in the world’s affaire, but
tp say that England exist* “for the promo-
tion of God’s glory” is—there is no use
mincing it—the veriest clap-trap. If the
British Islands had never appeared above
the Atlantic surges, or if the sea rolled over
them to-morrow, the Creator’s glory would
be still quite sate. He, from the hollow of
whose hand countless worlds were sent spin-
ning through space, is quite able, without
extraneous aid, to control the insects crawl-
ing on one of the most insignificant of them.
» • *
The Mayor now proposed the health of the
Ministry, and in doing so said “ he believed
they all would admit that they had done
one of the grandest acts ever performed in
Australia—that of sending these men to the
Poudan.” There were many present who
admitted no such thing—many who, when
they want a definition of what constitutes a
‘‘grand act,” will not think of applying to
the Mayor of Sydney for it. Mr. Halley
responded. He was justly severe on what
he rightly called “ the dismal and tearful
humorists — the exasperatlngly funny
people ’ -whose “ heart-breaking facetious-
ness so dangerously tempts a really humor-
ous man—no matter how intense may be his
love of peace—to ideas of violence.” The
allusion was too thinly veiled to be mis-
taken. Nor was it intended to be misunder,
stood. The dullest present saw at once that
the speaker, although not naming the Syd-
ney Morning Herald in so many words,
had that journal in his thoughts. It is hard
for the representatives of an important pub-
lication to be obliged, in the midst of a dis-
tinguished company, to stand as targets for
shafts of the keenest raillery, but they have
only themselves to blame. We trust it will
be a warning to them to confine themselves
in future to the well-beaten tracks of re-
spectable and legitimate journalism, and
leave to the Pariahs of the Press the unbe-
coming flippancy Mr. Dalley so trenchantly
condemned. “ Youf action,” continued the
speaker, referring to the Contingent, “ re-
vealed our Imperial resources.” Precisely.
Ai d it is of this we chiefly complain. The
nations of the earth might have gone on
thinking us powerful and ferocious, as the
beasts in “JEsop ” thought the donkey. But,
like the ass, we Avould speak out, and so our
character and resources were revealed.
“Your action,” went on the Attorney-
General, “ will live in history wfen we are
in the dust and are forgotten.” It is not
great actions alone that live iu history. The
lives of ridiculous onei also are tough and
time-defying. If the story of Leonidas and
his three hundred has come dowu to us
through the ages, so have the adventures of
“Goody Tavo-Shoes ” and “Old Mother
Hubbard.” The latter have been tract d to
solar myths, old before the Aryans turned
west from their Cential Asian tents. Com-
pared with them, the Pentateuch itself is
but a tale of yesterday.
* * •
The Hon. E. Barton proposed the “ Army,
Navy, and Colonial Forces ” with a re-
assuring modesty. “What need he say in
favour of our army and navy, whose vic-
tories had been countless and whose defeats
had been as glorious as the victories of
others.” Mr. Barton is reported to have
said this. Yorktown, Saratoga, Walcheren,
and the Transvaal were probably running
in his head. If Fontenoy and Bunker’s Hill
were as glorious as Austerlilz and Sedan, it
is difficult to see why the French and Ger-
mans train men at all. If their victories arc
no better than our defeats, their defeats
must be mournful, indeed. Admiral Tkyon
responded for the Navy, paid, sailor-hke, a
high tribute to the ladies, and ended by
saying that “ should war unfortunately
break out in the immediate future, he would
be proud to escort a contingent from this
colony to the seat of war.” We think the
Admiral can rest assured that he will never
be called upon to redeem his pledge—that
whatever fighting Australian troops have to
do will be done in Australia. But it was
when proposing the toast of the evening—
the health of the Contingent — that the
Chairman was at his best. “How pleased
and delighted,” he said, “ the ladies here
were that their boys were going to show
their gratitude to the country from whence
they came, by fighting for her,” What
ladies ? The wives, mothers, sisters, and
sweethearts of the men ? We often won-
der whether men, when they speak like
MR. HARRY STOCK DA LB,
Leader of the Cambridge Gulf (W.A.) Expkricg Expedition.


The Rates or Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 31s.; half-year, 13a. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
Xhb Advertising Rates are 5s. per Inch i
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions! -
16 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under ill, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
this, are aware of what they are saying*
Those who ever saw troops leave England
lor active service, ever saw the weeping
women frantically clinging to the sturdy
fellows they might never see again, will at
once conclude that if Australian women
were “ pleased and delighted ” at the depar-
ture of the Contingent, they had either
very good reasons for being so or else they
differ from their sisters the world over.
“ This was not the only time that the honour
of the country was upheld by unconstitu-
tional acts,” Mr. Playfair continued.
“ It had placed Australia in the
first place among nations. When Lord
Bbaconsfielb ordered the British Admiral
to enter the Dardanelles he committed an
unconstitutional act.” This comes of having
a Mayor, who, amidst the cares of business,
keeps au oourant with the world’s affairs.
It does not appear to have struck him that
if the Germans, or French, or Russians were
in possession of the Dardanelles at the time,
the fleet would still be waiting orders to
enter the Sea of Marmora. “ Placed Aus-
tralia in the first place among nations! ”
And we laugh at the Yankee showman, who
says: “ S’pose we turn the Mississippi into
the Mammoth Caves, whar would England
* e? ”
For the other speakers we have little
space. Corporal Stoubton Avas admirable.
When he told how the English soldiers
always ended a conversation by asking if
Australia had a standing army and paid the
men five shillings a day, the blood-relation-
ship between Pay and Paytriotism became
apparent. And when he told how, in the
camel race, the Australians won by n
“hump” all felt that the expedition had
not been sent in vain. Thus far we have
confined ourselves to matter-of-fact com-
ments on the speeches made at the banquet.
No fresh light was thrown on the causes
which prompted Mr. D alley’s offer. At the
beginning of the movement, two chief
causes were assigned for the action—one the
“Peril of England,” and the other, the
“necessity for drawing closer the bonds be-
tween Great Britain and Australia.” Upon
the exquisite absurdity of the former it is
unnecessary to dwell. When England’s
power reels under the blows of African
fanatics, it will be time to throw up the
sponge. But “tightening the bonds” is a
much more serious thing. It would be im-
possible for a populous Australia—one of
twenty or thirty millions, say—to be
governed from that little northern island—
it would be undesirable. The attempt so to
govern would be disastrous to both England
and Australia. It would be a system in
which the planet was 20 times the size of the
sun. Instead of revolving round that sun,
the sun would spin round, or fall into it.
The true policy of Australian statesmen then
is, not to endeavour to fight against natural
laws by tightening bonds which must ulti-
mately be severed, but rather to gradually
loosen those ties, so that when the inevitable
time oomes—the time we know to be on the
road, though many affect ignorance of the
fact—mother and daughter may go their
separate ways with mutual good wishes and
esteem.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Red Revolution of the Future.
Slowly but surely wo are coming to It. Science
clears the way and poverty hurls the peoples of the
world onward nearer and nearer to that san-
guine-spotted goal. The day is drawing nigh
when the spectre Starvation will sit down and
make itself at home in the populous places of the
earth. Wherever there is open space and room in
the world the human race goes on increasing at a
rate which soon fills the place to overflowing.
There are 50,000.000 of people in the United States
now. One century ago the States had not more
people than there are now in Australia. Immigra-
tion had a great deal to do with this, of course.
But the countries from which these immigrants
came in hundreds of thousands were not even
temporarily relieved by this social phlebotomy.
The struggle tor life remained as hitter as ever.
Only those who emigrated gained any benefit.
But there is a limit to all things. There is a limit
even to the capacity of America. Say that it takes
five centuries of progress to reach that limit. By
that time, then, there will be no more room for the
surplus population of Europe, which continent
will have then become as densely packed with
human beings as China. The healthy yearning for
a revolution every fortnight Implanted in the
breast of the Spanish American may keep South
America a little clearer, but Australia will pro-
bably bo packed from rim to rim by that time.
Irrigation will open up the “ desert interior " for
our descendants, but even then they will have
to keep a vigilant look-out to put their three
square meals a day beyond the region of
ambiguity. When the world has come to this
pass, the one great problem of the day will
b e _ w hat new food can be found for the people to
eat? It must be remembered just here that the
old checks to increase of population will have lost
most of their force. Stringent sanitary laws will
have made the origination in any house of any
contagious disease a crime, and the spread of that
disease an impossibility. War will have become a
dreadful phantom of history—all disputes being
settled by mutual concession and arbitration.
There will be only one check left—Famine. What
new food can be found for the people to
eat? The earth will have become impoverished
fey rotations of crops ; there will be no
room for sheep-farmers then; all that will
have been settled long before, and the soil
will no longer produce sufficient food for its
teeming thousands of millions. The question is
answered in the words of an eminent doctor who
died lately. He stated in a curious book published
some time before his death, this appalling
axiom:—“Why is not man good food for man?
and why should not cannibals be healthy
and strong?” The answer is that “man is
good food for man, and cannibals are the
strongest and healthiest of savages.” Man then
will be the new food found for man. Canni-
balism will become a general custom. Science
will sanction it-necessity will compel it. The
truth of tho statement quoted above is borne out
by facts. The old Maories of the cannibal days,
for instance, were twice the men that their de-
generate descendants, fed only on civilised food,
are. There may be a good deal more than we
know of in the belief of many savage races that
the eater of a slain man assimilates some of the
strength of constitution and physical virtues
which belonged to that slain man. Taking the
scientific view of the matter, what do we find ?
This: that a healthy human body contains in a
condensed form all that is necessary to build
up any other human body — muscle - making,
blood - making, bone - making, brain - making
material. What we have called the Red Re-
volution of the Future will be a return to
Cannibalism. This is tHb only way in which, at
the same time, population will be kept down and
the human race perpetuated. It is a ferocious yet
fascinating subject to contemplate. Put, for in-
stance, the question whether the majority of
people would find each other pleasant as centre-
dishes ? What is the answer ? Not many people
might be able to tell you for certain, but we have
heard weird stories, in the forecastle of a sailing
vessel during the dog - watch, of shipwrecked
sailors who have eaten their comrades, and were
cursed all the rest of their lives with a fearsome
hunger for human flesh. This shows that the taste
of the same must be good. Old ex-cannibals
when questioned on the subject, have replied that
it bore some resemblance to the taste of
pork, but was as much better as a man is
better than a pig. We don’t know that
we would much care to launch ourselves for-
ward into the age of the New Anthropophagi.
But from the safe distance of five centuries we
can speculate upon the state of things which
would exist then. People would be careful of
each other’s health, as no man would know when
he would have to eat his neighbour. For the
same reason no man would ask another to drink
intoxicants for fear of drying up his gastric juices,
and making him tough and unwholesome. There
are dozens more of bizarre speculations to be
made on this subject, but we have no further time
for them now. One probable law of that period
must, howe irer, not be overlooked—the law that
all men who have ceased to live for the good of
their fellows must die for the good of their fel-
lows. It is a pity the world will have to wait 500
years for this wise law. ‘.We have [our eye upon a
man—but no matter. He would be lovely in a
stew.
Parkes and Penury.
The public are aware that Sir Henry Pabkes,
ex-Premier of New South Wales, will, at an early
date, sacrifice, by Art Union, books, pictures,
statuary, autographs, and other treasures of art,
collected by him in the course of a long life, and
jn circumstances and among surroundings that
add largely to the intrinsic value of the articles.
It is also an open secret that the proceeds of the
drawing will not all go into Sir Henry’S pocket.
Influenced by this knowledge, the Jlngellio Pro-
gress Committee urge the members for the Hume
and Albury to ask Parliament that a sum of £5000
be granted to the veteran statesman. They urge
that a similar grant be solicited for Sir John
Robertson. At present we confine our remarks
to the case of Sir Henry. When Sir Henry
Pabkes’ policy was a controlling influence in the
affairs of the colony we oppossd, without any
equivocation, many of its main features. We
thought them adverse to the best interests of the
colony, and we registered our thought. But
there were other directions besides those which
we opposed. His policy aimed at freeing the edu-
cation of children from interferences which, in
older lands, had been associated with discord and
rancour. His intellectual breadth and boldness
stand crystallised in a State Education A.ot of
which the country approves. His policy aimed at
lifting New South Wales into a position in which
she could claim honourable recognition, infant
though she was, from the nations with centuries
of ci vilisation behind them. The policy was not
successful, but the man’s aim was high. In some
lespects the issue was ludicrous, but when the
methods taken by Sir Henry Pabkes to win for
his land honourable recognition are compared
with the methods taken by some others
to win for the colony recognition at any
price, the balance is to the credit of Sir
Henry. He, indeed, failed to secure the desider-
ated recognition. But here stand before us men
with butchers’ knives between their teeth and
sleeves rolled up. These perch themselves on the
toprail of a tawdry, pre-arranged contrivance to
show off stumpiness and perkily jerk out “ We got
the colony recognised,” The other day, in Vic-
toria, the Legislative Assembly voted to the
families of two deceased members a sum amount-
ing to about £8000. Sir Henry overtops them
in a way we need not describe. He was our Pre-
mier. He is the biggest man that has yet done
business for us. In these circumstances is not the
request that Parliament should vote a sum to raise
him above want reasonable and j ust ? A man
who has ever filled the office of Premier in Eng-
land receives from the r ivil List £3000 a-year
while he lives. As a colony, wo shall honour our-
selves by honouring the old man who stood by
our helm so long, and who, while working, forgot
the pecuniary future of himself and his family.
There are, of course, in the community persons
who even, at this early stage of the subject,
indicate that if Sir Henry starves it is simply his
own look out. That paltry little sheet in Hunter-
street, fit only to be the intellectual pocket hand-
kerchief of people going home in a tram, puts
aside the idea of Parliamentary action and recom-
mends “if pecuniary recompense ought to be
made,” that the hat bo privately sent round. It is
the Parliament of England that authorises the
£2000 a year to its ex-Premler. The Earl of Beacons-
fleld drew it till the day he died. Sensitiveness is
not hurt when the tribute is a formal national
one. Butthehatl And when Sir Henry was in
power, the Echo, with its aproned relative down
stairs, waddled about after his heels and loved him
fondly. Now his authority Is gone. The old man
is out In the wind. The rain and the sleet of
poverty are about him. Now is the time to re-
member, to be generous, to be just. But the
Goneril and Regan of Huuter-street scan his
plight and say, “ Send round your hat.” Parlia-
ment will, we hope, flout the jades and honour
Itself.
Judicial Stupidity.
Some judges and other public officials in Victoria
are developing qualities of a nature both cruel
and unfeeling. A week ago, a man named Mes-
senger was put on his trial at Ballarat for murder.
It was before Judge Williams— the writer of
“Religion without Superstition,” a brochure
which was as a dynamite torpedo dropped into the
soi-disant “religious” camp of Melbourne—he
appeared. He asked for counsel, and the judge
asked why he had not been provided with it.
Then upspake the sheriff, and said that no counsel
was provided because there was an impression
abroad that the prisoner had means. This opened
the flood-gates of His Honour’s eloquence and vitu-
peration. He told the police in the frankest way
what he thought of them—very little it was—said
the man must have counsel, and postponed the trial
for that purpose. A stop should be put to
this ridiculous conduct in a judge. Why, if
the trial happened in New South Wales, either
no counsel would have been allowed, or
else, an hour before the case came on, a
baby barrister, carrying his pap in his pocket,
would have been supplied. Anyway, the prisoner
would be in the condemned cell by Ithis,
Look at Cordini. We say all this not so
much to give offence to Judge Williams, whom
we respect as a fairly intelligent person who
acts according to his lights, but to show how far
ahead of our neighbours we are in administering
justice, and to impress upon them in all friendli-
ness the necessity for changing their procedure.
Then again, Mr. Brett, the Victorian Inspector-
General of Penal Establishments, furnishes a re-
port to Parliament condemning solitary confine-
ment as at present administered. There’ s
absurdity if you like I If our Assembly called fox-
such a yeport, it is certain that the only fault the
official furnishing it would find in solitary con-
finement was, that it was too coddling, and should
be seasoned with periodical caressings with the
“ cat.” These Victorians are falling steadily to the
rear in commonsense and civilisation.
Mr. Abigail and Confidential Reports.
The return issued from the Education Office in
Sydney, giving the private opinions of the Princi-
pal of the Training College on the personal charac-
ters of ten students sent up for classification last
Cnristmas still excites friction. It is held that
these opinions, being confidentially imparted to
the superior officers, ought not to have been ex-
hibited to the public. Mr. Abigail, in conse-
quence of whose motion in the Legislative As-
sembly the documents were printed, asserts the
right of Parliament to all information entitling or
disentitling candidates to receive salaries from
the State. For Parliament to possess this know-
ledge is for the public at large to possess
it. Thus the lino is drawn. In principle Mr.
Abigail is right. In practice he is wrong.
The enunciation of the principle and the deter-
mination to give it effect should have preceded
the writing of these coafldentlal reports, Mr.
Wright, the Principal of the College, did not
write for publication. When he described p
student as “untruthful,” “disingenuous,” “shy, 1 ’
“given to quibbling,” or in any other of the un-
favourable terms set out in his report, he believed
his words would be read only by men familiar
with the traditions of the service and competent
to apply them in a special professional direc-
tion. It is taking him at a disadvantage to
place these words before the general public.
In certain cases the injustice on this side
might be great. To assure some men that their
judgments upon others will be held sacred and
secret, is to give them a cover which tempts them
to speak unrefleotlvely. The fact is so clearly
apprehended by all, that the attitude of the public
mind when secret reports are referred to, is one of
impatience, alloyed with distrust. But the injus-
tice which Mr. Abigail’s retrospective motion
does the writer of the confidential report, is noth-
ing to the injustice it does the subjects reported
on. They, too, lived in an atmosphere of tradi.
tions. If they misconducted themselves in mat-
ters of purely scholastic moment, it was with
the reasonable conviction that only depart-
mental cognisance would be taken of the
deeds, Mr. Abigail makes them face the
country with their offences written on their
foreheads. It is easy to see how grave
the injustice might be if the reports were written
unreflectively. There is a further injustice. The
Return contains the names of those only who
went up for classification last Christmas. These
may be as good men as any others in the service.
But these men are singled out, and their faults are
circulated through the community. These are in-
justices Mr. Abigail has committed by making
of a sound general principle, hitherto left dormant,
a sudden and incidental use. He cannot destroy
his Return. He can, however, make it of national
value by enlarging the operation of his principle
and making all the writers of confidential reports
on subalterns in the public service aware that
they may be any day brought face to face with
the men they write about. This will satify the
public mind better, and will add to the health of
the public service.
A Roundabout Chapter on Art.
It was only when the other lodgers burst in our
door and appeared on the landing hastily armed
with every variety of deadly weapon that It
struck us that our mirth had been loud and un.
canny. The spokesman—an honest trader who
vends eye-lotion in Paddy’s Market—advanced
towards us with a eruel-looklng flint-musket
without a barrel, and said: “ From the noise com-
ing down the stairs, sir, we thought somebody
was a-chokin’ of you.” Having satisfied these
poor people that it was a now description of
laughter we were practising for an amateur
entertainment of “Box and Cox,” they slowly
filed down stairs, begging, as they went, that we
would inform them when another practice was
intended. What was the cause of our demonstra-
tive jocoseness ? It was the correspondence re-
garding the “ Roll Call.” 148 New Bond-street is
the head-quarters of the London “Fine Art
Society, Limited.” The Managing Director of that
Society, hearing what strides Art was making in
Australia—particularly in Sydney-sounded Mr
John Sands as to the measure of success that
might be expected from an exhibition of famous
pictures—a “replica” of Miss Thompson s “Roll
Call ” among others. This manager’s name first
appeared as Marchs B. Hinoli, and he spoke of
the willingness of his “Directors” to send the
picture out for exhibition with a view to ultimate
purchase. Surely, we thought, the name is sug-
gestive not of “ Art ” but of the “LombardLoan
and Discount Society,” and we set to weaving
fancy portraits of “his Directors,” who were so
recklessly ready to fritter away money in spreading
a love for mstheticisra. We conjured up a long line
of shrewd Semitic faces, reaching from Abraham
even unto Hinoli. Out from the dead centuries
leered the sharp features of those astute Eastern
men, until a weird phantasmagoria of hook-nosed
patriarchs, speckled goats, tables of stone, un-
leavened bread, Passover lambs, and brass balls
took possession of the chambers of our brain
Can it be, we mused, that the descendants of the’
mighty ones whose sole art lay in borrowing
jewellery and not returning it, in living where
others starved, in vending baggy trousers and
comprehensive coats, and in lending money at
1400 per cent, have at last taken to the fine arts? Can
it be that men leave off the “ old clothes ” line to
work up the “ old masters’ ” branch ? Has the
fate of the “Artful,” of Nancy, and of Bill
Sykes so preyed on Fagin that he will no longer
“smash ” flash notes, intends to let his “ Petticoat
Lane ” premises, and take to sesthetlcism ? These
were the thoughts that troubled us, and it was
with a sigh of relief we read in a subsequent letter
that Huish, not Hinoli, was the name of the
managing director, and that he “ was not only an
L.L.B., but also editor of the Art Journal.” And
now let us see how the matter stands. Editor of
the Art Journal and managing director of a
picture-dealing firm! Who will say after this that
it would be unbecoming for the same person to
follow the lucrative callings of doctor and under-
taker? Indeed, many advantages would follow
such an amalgamation, as the least a medical
man could do who combined both profes-
sions would be to allow a liberal discount
on both cough-mixture and coffins—particularly
where the families were large, and the prescrip,
tions unusually fatal. Yes, and if we could get
poets to review their own poems, publicans to tell
us the amount of tobacco that improved the
bouquet of rum, and hodmen to ventilate their
views on what constituted a fair average load of
bricks, public taste and education would progress
at a rate now undreamt of. It is the same with
Art. If you want a really unprejudiced opinion
upon a picture you must go to the man who has
it for sale—especially if he happens to be “not
only an LLB.,” but also an editor of an art journal-
He can see points in it that the vulgar would
never discover if left to their own undisciplined
judgment. Art is long, and it takes a long time
to learn It thoroughly. We have known short-
sighted men who, having mislaid their spectacles,
pointed out the subtle shades of “ tone and
colour,” the comprehensive “breadth of treat-
ment,” masterly “ perspective,” lovely “ light and
shade,” exquisite “ tenderness,” and fine “ finish ”
in a piece of white calico tacked to a wall by the
painter and paperhanger who was about to depict
on it an appropriate sign for an adjacent hostelry,
and who was in the next room mixing some yel-
low ochre to embody and send down the ages the
representation of the “ Goat in Boots,” shaping
itself in his busy brain. But we wander. “ I may
say that it is the only copy of the work in exist-
ence, and there cannot well be another, as the
original is in the possession of the Queen, where
it cannot be copied.” Tnis is what Marcus B.
Huish, L.L.B., writes. We have every confidence
in Marcus B. His name alone would inspire that. It
is an intricate case. Is it possible that any of Her
Majesty’s domestics had access to the original?
Can it be ?—but, no—yet it might I John Brown
was known to have tastes far above his station.
When but a boy ho was observed by the late
Prince Consort drawing a wheel-barrow. Of
course, it is a long step from that humble vehicle
to the “ Roll Call,” although there is a closer con-
nection between them than many people think.
In the Army we have known, even in times of
profound peace, officers and non-commissioned
officers whose only chance of answering to their
names was through the instrumentality of a wheel-
barrow. Could it be that Brown cultivated his
gift in secret, copied the “Roll Call,” and then
died ? The picture should on no account be sent
away until this point is settled. For, if it turned
out that this faithful servitor was the artist, rich
Australians would never forgive themselves for
parting with the work of one with whom they had
so much in common. And now another disturbing
element appears—this time in Sydney. J. G. Be
Libra (Verdi’s patronymic, you remember, wes
“ Bill Green a critic who could tie one band
behind his back for Buskin, examined the copy
sent, detected in it the broad brush of Miss
Thompson, pronounced it the genuine “replica,
and piled up coals of consuming “Art-fire” on the
heads of those vulgar people who are always so
ready to offer an opinion on matters far above
them. Was J. G. De Libra discomfited on the con-
firmation of the rumour that our “Roll Call” was
bogus ? It shows how little you know of art critics.
Why, it is a windfall for them to be caught trip*
ping—to be detected attributing a circus sign to
Guido. For then they show that, if not by Guido*
t was at least by some other person who cou


ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket only.
i
1
r
The “Premier” Knife Gleaner, as represented,
3 knives and carver, 45/-
“Kent’s” Household Knife Cleaner, 4 knives
and carver, 75/-
Salt Boxes* striped wood, from
Bellows, best make, 8ln., 3/-; 91n., 3/6; loin, 3/11
Sets of Wood Mats, to arrive. Set of six for 3/9.
J, TURNER ROBINSON A CO.S'
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Georga-straat,
Established 1864.
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OP
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACT
t3T Fashionable and First-class GAR
order, well made, well shrunk, and a
guaranteed.
perSevL
Aunal Kiooms tztsHi One HUllsat
Lightning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
C. W. ROBERTS
Single Bottla Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only ,9s.
Small Bottle. . 4s. 8d,
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
Prom Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
POR INVALIDS.
.1
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
is. Od. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
as. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT
Is. per Bottle.
BUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN—IN FLASKS,
Is. 9d. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke s Prize Medal Brand,
In stone bottles and square bottles,
LABQKST 81231,
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks. Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
■ ..
G. W. ROBERTS
George and Markgt Streets,
■TONES.
If you are weak and sleepless try Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Invalids and children—give them Kingaford’s
Oswego Cornflour.
To restore nerve and brain waste, nothing
equals Hop Bitters. Believe this and take none hut
American Co. See
If you are nervous take Wolfe's Schnapps.
, Kingaford’s Oswego Cornflour has no equal in
the world.
For light pastry, cakes, &c„ just try Klngsford’s
Oswego Corntiour.
An exhilirating gordiaUs Wolfe's Schnapps.
paint round any of the “ Old Masters; ” that the
unknown artist had depths of feeling in his mind
and ultra-marine in his pot that would stiffen
Raphael and Tintoretto with envy. Without
this talent for showing that your mistakes are a
long way better than other people’s successes, you
will never be more than an amateur in art—you
cannot be a true critic. You may pass an opinion
on “white and black,” or similar rough-and-
tumble work, but when it comes to the niceties o f
the profession, you will best consult your own
dignity by holding your tongue. Being at last
convinced that our “Roll Call” is bogus, J. C.
Db Libra discovers that “ it is thoroughly worthy
of Miss Thompson’s brush.” He also collides with
a “distinguished artist, recently arrived from
England,” who thinks the forgery "not only as
fine as, but in some respects even better than Miss
Thompson’s original painting.” We wonder if the
“ distinguished one ” is on his own hook, or travel-
ling in the interests of the “Art Society.” We
would enlarge on this subject, but space forbids’
With the “ Art Society ” in London, J. G. De
Libra in Sydney, and the Post-office carvings still
intact, we bid fair to make into the domain of the
“ beautiful ” macadamised roads where now there
are only bush tracks I Then hurrah for Art I
TO CORRESPONDENTS .
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
That par. about the pub.-
keeper, the inspector, and the butcher’s wife, may
be true, but it is not of interest. Surely it was
not evolved from that mighty Intellect which once
controlled the destinies of, say, Mud Flat “ W.
Norton ’’(Grafton): We cannot tell you why so
many petitions are on foot for remission, com-
plete or partial, of the fearful sentences pro-
nounced by Judge Windeyer. You put it that
either the Judge is unnecessarily cruel, or that
the people who agitate against the carrying into
effect of his decisions are maudlin sympathisers
with crime. Your dilemma Is not well made.
Both Judge and people are right. The laws are
bad. It is true the people make the laws. But, as
In the recent case of hanging, it is evident the
bulk of the people don’t understand a Jaw until
they see it in operation. The criminal code is
crueller than tne public conscience. The people
are the reflex of this conscience, the Judge Is
the reflex of the code. Hence the conflict —
“P.P.”: “The Roll Call” replica may or may not
be a “forgery.” But suppose it should now turn out
that the bust of Alfred in the next room is really
a presentment of Caligula after slaying Agricola
with a copper sabreI It might happen ...“A
Working Man” (Mackay, Q.): We cannot afford
space for your argumentative paper on the kanaka
Question. Your positions are, we believe, in the
main, correct and clearly put, but, unfortunately,
It is upon its abuses and exceptions that a system
is usually Judged. The sins of a few labour-
agents have brought about the condemnation of
the kanaka labour trade—“Aram is’* Always
glad of good stories or newspaper cuttings....
“J. Baldwin” (Grafton): Your story refers to a
N.8.W. “lady’* of the “good old times,” who,
while watching the infliction of the lash upon an
unfortunate convict, said, when the tied-up man
had got his prescribed “ six dozen,” “ Oh, do give
him ten more—It makes my baby laugh. ’ She Was
a lady of the “Alice Mary B.” school... "K.”
(Townsville, Q.) : Has appeared before
“Gladys”: Your sketch was heavy, but we soon
made it lighter. Pipe-lighter, you know. Send
some more when anything happens....* 1 J.W.”
(Corowa): Thanks....” D.L.”: Your items are not
of general Interest. If you steer clear of “the
trap who watches, and the banker’s clerk who
envies you,’ happiness may yet be yours....
“ J.H.J. . We don’t print your pome, “Good-bye,
Mary,” for several reasons. For one thing, it
seems too good to be original, and Jealous contem-
poraries would say it was a crib. This verse, for
instance :—
_ “ Yes. gone to that ere golden land, love,
Where an honest man near fails;
rr To that bright and sunny oountery,
To that boney New South Wales,
seems to smack of Tennyson. Tell us, is your
name Lewis ?....“ Malso” (Melb.): He is the same
man of whom it was 13 months ago reported that,
not choosing to honour an invitation to a ball sent
to himself and wife, he thought to snub the inviter
by sendiDtr bis cook and coachman instead ...
“ A T F. ” : Thanks... “ M.M.” (Charters Towers);
What is your estimate of Samuel Morley?.. .
“ C.B.”: You do not discriminate between matters
of taste, matters of opinion, and matters of Judg-
ment. For the rest, you do not, it seems to us,
fairly recognise the undoubted abilities possessed
by Mr. Dailey....” Nux Vomica” (West Maitland) :
That is a joyless little Jibe of the Maitland Mer-
cury about J. Mont. Smith. The first Mercury
was the god of thieves. Bad as he was, it is a
steep fall from him to the Maitland one. He had
brains, anyhow.... “M.C.W.” (Mackay): Thanks,but
we could hardly deal with the subject in any way..
“Tarboy”: Our readers don’t yearn for such
Sars. unless they interest someone else besides
le fellow who officiated in the principal part.
“A.H.H.”: We cannot “lick your items into
shape.” You see there’s nothing to lick. Ex
nihilo nihil fit “ J. Mills”: No ; his object in
life is to shettle peoplesh on landsh colony —
“ Antiquarian 99 : The exceeding great age and
respectability of your yarn is a guarantee of its
excellence...“ Mother Grundy ” (Thursday Island);
No, thanks. Send it to the Sydney Mail ...
“Eros" (West Maitland): If you can’t go on with-
out getting so furiously mad about the Pecksniffs
of your place, you ought to lie down, induce
some friend to plant daisies and mignonette over
you, and to run a nice green-painted railing all
round “Iconoclast”: Clever, and perfectly
true, but of no use to us... “Philo. : In the
sweet by-and-bye you will thank us for putting
your screed into the W.P.B— “J.L.”: Depends
upon the nature of the work. If short sketch or
poem, payment is not usually given except In
accordance with previous arrangement.... ‘Vul-
can”: Vigorous and effective, but verse is faulty.
....“H. G. Watson” (Silverton): There is nothing
to take hold of in the S.A. Chronicle leader. No
pretence of argument is made, but it is asked how
can these things be. The first step is to prevent
further sale of land, and then, as prejudice sur-
renders to truth, measures will be taken which
will make owners willing to surrender their lands.
Let the principle be admitted, and its results
will follow .... R Enquirer ” (Illawarra): English
National debt, 1884. £714,000,000. United States
debt, 1884, £383,000,000 sterling. A vote of £385,000
was last year made to Her Majesty for the salaries
of household, &c., but many other amounts also
gravitate to the Royal purse. To others of the
Royal family, £163,000 is paid yearly, of which the
Prince of Wales gets £50,000. President Cleveland
{eta £10,000; other questions cannot be answered,
lut why not take higher ground ? The monetary
Mde of the question is its least important part.....
Black Sheep,” “Bunyip,” “Blackball,’ * W.R.
, Turat ”: Thanks, will consider for next issue....
J.S.” (Redfern): No, certainly not. Unless you
class “our Mr. Wales ” with the “ Pretenders.”....
A daily wanderer among spirits”: Swear off
liquor and poetry, and you may yet be happy.
There were vacancies for 15 engine-
cleaners at 6s. a day In Melbourne, a week or two
ago. For these 15 vacancies these were 544 appli-
cants only. You would hardly think there was
much romance about engine-cleaning. Yet there
is quite as much about that as about swabbing
decks And hundreds of boys run away from their
comfortable homes every year to devote the
balance of their lives to the latter gorgeous en-
ployment. Bach of them believes he carries, if
not the Jewelled aigrette of a pirate, at least the
ribbon of an admiral in his kit. After a week or
two of it each arrives at the conclusion that a life
on the ocean wave is a thundering fine thing to
read of in bed, but a mighty mean existence to
experience. So with the engine-cleaners—only
somewhat differently, as they begin by knowing
they will have to clean engines, whereas, the
others are by no means generally aware when
starting, that they, will have to swab decks.
But there is a similarity in the cases.
Nearly every boy, who is not loud of a ship,
is fond of an engine of some kind. It may be only
a donkey-engine, but the chances are It will suit
him. It seems to the unjaded intellect of youth
such a splendid game to drive an engine—to make
it rip along and tear along till the wind it made
tore half the hair out of the heads of your pas-
sengers. And then to watch a bull walking slowly
across the line and to suddenly up steam and at
him—sending him horns, hoofs, and hide into five
different districts of sheol (Revised Edition) at one
smack. Oh, it would be glorious—it would be gay
—but it would not be for this world I Such Joy
was never Intended for this vale of tears. So the
539 unsuccessful candidates may console them-
selves by matriculating for the profession of
piracy or that of the law. The same preparation
will do for either.
VENTRILOQUISM.
MB. DALLEY (to Automaton): “NOW. THEN, GU8SIE, I SHALL CALL UPON YOU TO
MAKE AN AFTER-DINNER SPEECH FOR THE LADIES AND GENTLEMAN.”
(And he does it so naturally that you would hardly suspect that the ivords were the ventriloquist's own )
THE N.S.W. CRIMINAL LAW.
YOUNG LADY OF MATURE APPEARANCE; “SO KIND OF YOU TO REMEMBER MT
BIRTHDAY, DEAREST HENRY. AND DO YOU KNOW. YOU NAUGHTY MAN, I
HAVE HALF A MIND TO TELL YOU HOW OLD I AM. JUST 17 TO-DAY 1 ”
DEAREST HENRY (who begins to sec his way out); “ONLY 171 GREAT HEAVBN8I THEN IF
OUK WEDDING TAKES PLACE NEXT WEEK. AS SETTLED, I SHALL MAKE
MYSELF LIABLE TO IMPRISONMENT FOR SEVEN YEARS I GOOD MORNING I ”
The little fiction about her age cost her a husband.


Wolfe's Schnapps tranquilizos tne nervou
system. ,,
Klngsford’s Oswego Cornflour takes the iu
flavour of every kind of Seasoning,
Misery is a mild word to discribe the
mischief to hody and mind caused by habitual c
stipation. The regular use of Aver sOabtiiai
Pills, in mild doses, will restore the torpid \isce
to healthy activity. Try them and be cured.
The premises are a lot too small to
justice to the grand stock kept, and often noye
are lost sight of in the multitude of beauties. ±
latest speciality is the Combination Dinner
Tea Set at 80s, only obtainable at Bray tiros.,
and 404 George-street.* ' ‘
It is remarked very frequently, as the
sistants are showing visitors round the uj>k
showrooms of 402 and 404 George-street, tha , aJ .
are astounded at the extensive and (ichen,
of articles for every kind of use in the k
Dining, Drawing and Bed-room. n A v has
Dinner, Breakfast, and Toilet Sets everybody ns
heard of. Go and see them.* u
Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour superior
similar articles in the market. ., e , g
If you aro a business man take £ ou i.
Schnapps occasionally to keep your mental
ies in good order.
Personal Items
The Baroness Burdett-Coutts, we see, is
about to:;e8tabllah a “ British Honey Company.”
Probably she wants to sweeten the existence of
her unfortunate 39-year-old husband.
We don’t think that any .judge should be
allowed to sit on the bench and write a book while
he hears cases. A man with two brains might suc-
Lssfully attend to both jobs. Bat a mm with
only half a brain can dc neither propt rly.
Treason! Isn’t it ominous? They don't
play “ God save the Queen” after the performances
at the Melbourne theatres now, but the orchestra
sends the audience out to some lively dance
music, and there is no complaint made. This <^.® 8
not look as if the rank and file of the Vic-
torian people are over-anxious to have that me-
diocre creature, the Marquis of Lome, to succeed
Bir Henry Loch as their Governor.
We cannoned against
him in George-street.
‘ Ach Gott,” he growled,
“ mind vere you vos a
goin’.” We looked. There
was no doubt of it—it
was Charles Schlemm,
formerly of Sandhurst.
We thought he’d left this
world years ago to take
a tribute on a rainbow,
but there he was in front
of us, his “pow ” a little
frostier, maybe, but not
much altered otherwise.
Charley was one of the
few Bendigo men who
kept their heads cool
during the wild days of
1871, when champagne, or
at least what was paid for
as such, was as cheap as
buttermilk in Sandhurst,
and men gave half-a-
sovereign for the privi-
lege of sleeping in the
creek with their heads on
boulders. The upshot
was that when the mining
Black Monday came in
October 1871, and the
huge bubble burst,
Charles was able to retire
on his gains. We won-
dered, as we gazed admir-
ingly at him in Pitt-
street the other day.
whether he remembered
hearing of those mad
nights at “ loo,” when the
matutinal maid waded
through mounds of
“acts” to shake the
drowsy gamblers up and
tell them the sun was
peeping Into the back
yards? And we specu-
lated too on whether he
paid a visit to the church-
yard where his quondam
companion Jim Booty
was burled. ••Jim” was
a “ ring-tailed roarer ” in
those old days,and when-
ever billeted in what old
Dr. Bromby cabs “ the
world beyond the grave ”
—whether floating on a
sunbeam in Heaven, or
floating tributes in Hadi-s
—can be safely trusted to
keep things about him in
a state of constant live-
liness. Schlemm “ran”
ths tobacconist's shop
near the “Shamrock,”
since presided over by
the stately Van Damme,
who, when in Fiji, was
offered more Island prin-
cesses in marriage than
would 1111 a circus. Every
day some noble savage
would wait upon him to
offer his female rela-
tives for tobacco. But to
return to Schlemm He
managed to secure a large
Interest In a mine on the
Garden Gully llne-a line
which gave no promise
then of the grand future
before it. It was sus-
pected that he knew
more of meerschaum
than mythology, and so
the neighbours laughed
when he christened bis
mine the “ Pandora.” H e
gave his reason too—be-
cause “der vas hope at
der bottom of it.” It
such . were the case
“hope” had assumed a
strange shape, for at the
bottom of the Pandora
shaft, when Schlemm
bought in, were to be
found cats in every stage
of decomposition, super-
annuated top-boots,used-
up tinware, and a good
many feet of cvll-smell-
ing water. Over this
shaft Charles would crane
his neck once a day, just
to see if any fresh prpto-
plasm had been fired into ,
it since his last visit, and then walk contentedly
back to his shop whistling the 44 Rhine Watch,” j
One day a man was missing at the * 4 Beehive.
Men were constantly missed in those days-es-
pecially when any big steamer was advertised for
California. Into the midst of the crowd who were
freely betting on the whereabouts of the missing
man ran Bchlemm. He had seen the tody floating
at the bottom of his shaft, in an instant the veran-
dah was deserted and a motley cavalc rde of brokers,
speculators, sharpers, pick-pockets, loafeis, and
“lame ducks ” made their way to the ground. The
police, with professional promptitude, headed the
procession with grappling-irons. They forked out
a billy-goat, and, ever since, when Charles meetsan
animal of that genus, his features become hard and
unforgiving. So do the goat’s. The creature ap-
pears to grasp the situation Instinctively—to
recognise that there is a merciless vendetta be-
tween its race and the retired tobacconist. This
shows the vindictiveness of goats. For a slight
nut upon a dead brother years before in supposing
him to be a stock-broker, they have never for-
given Schlemm. But all the time it was under the
water, and the oats and the upperless boots that
hope and gold lay in the Pandora. Hundreds of
thousands of ounces proved that, however
“mixed’ 4 Charles’ mythology might be, his judg-
ment was right, He is one of the few who made
his 14 pile ” in gold and stuck to it.
Until we saw in Judge Therry’s 44 Remin-
iscences of New South Wales” ast iteraent to the
effect that Lord Robert -Cecil (now the Marquis of
Salisbury) many years ago paid a visit to the
colonies we were unaware that the present Prime
Minister of Great Britain had ever set toot on
Austxalian soil.
The Sydney correspondent of the LTnde-
pbsdani of New Caledonia, in reteuiog to the
recent visit of Sir Henry and Lady Loch to this
city, thus admires and weeps:—“ Qu’ils sont
heureux ces Melbouraiens d avoir une telle famille
a la lete de leur colonlel aimee et tous,
la gouvernante est 1'ame de tout le mouvement
social qui se produit cluz nos voisins.—Quelle dif
ference avec le nulrj!—N'en parlons pas! It is
unfortunate that His Excellency’s life of study is
! to be thus despised. It is true that in the ballroom
and drawing-room he is not a conspicuous social
success, but critics should have fairness enough to
take a man all round. Now, in the fowlhouse
Here is a really sweet obituary verse
clipped from the Melbourne Age:—
“ Our life hangs by a single thread,
Which soon is cut, and we are dead;
Then boast not, reader, of thy might -
Alive at noon, but dead at night.”
We like that verse because it contains good ster-
ling advice, but, after all, the sentiment might be
expressed even more precisely. This seems to
“ gee” more:—
Our life hangs by a thread, you see,
And when that’s cut, why, so must we—
At death we never ought to scoff.
For, sad to say, we soon 11 pop off.”
As an illustration of the rcductio ad cib-
mrdum of the de mortuis principle, we trot out
the Parramatta Mercury and its opinion of the
late Sir G. W. Allen, as given during his lifetime,
and again after his death, appearing in the issues
of dates as under;—
January 16th, 1883.
“ The division list
which decided the elec-
tion to the Speakership,
reveals the fact that the
representatives of Par-
ramatta, the Nepean, the
Hawkesbury, and Cen-
tral Cumberland voted
for the old man of
proven parlisanry and
incapacity, and against
the young man of high
intellectual attainments
and unblemished char-
acter.”
August 1st., 1885.
41 No one who knows
anything of the political
history of New South
Wales during the last
decade can truthfully
say be ever heard it
hinted that Speaker
Allen was other than the
personification of impar-
tiality."
To the Romans every emperor was a god as soon
as bis death prevented him from perpetrating
further outrages on hia fellows. It would be in-
teresting to know what the Parramatta Mercury
and Sydney Echo would publish as the obituary
of a Nero or a Caligula.
The Victorian Premier has a vein of dry
Scotch humour which breaks out now and then,
seemingly as much to his own astonishment as to
that of his hearers. In his budget speech, delivered
in the House a week or two ago, he explained
how he had manoeuvred the loan on the English
market in spite of the war scare. He and the
Queensland Premier bad been in the same state of
perturbation, he said, and added, “ I wired that it
appeared to me that the horizon was not yet per
manently clear, but I thought under Pro
vidence, it might remain so until we had floated
the loan.” Only a Scotchman could have said this
successfully. Only a Scotchman and a pillar of
the kirk would have been allowed to takejsuch
pleasant liberties with Providence without meet-
ing, in a House in which there are so many Krave
and godly men. some strong’ exhibitions ol disap-
proval. But Mr. Service is both these desirable
things, and the House laughed as one man. And
with reason.
Prince Frederick Charles, the great soldier
who, six weeks ago, sheathed his sword for ever,
had two names, one by which he was known to
the world, “The Red Prince,” the other by the
soldiers whom he often led to Vnran ”
davs of Koniggratz, Prince ‘ Alie Zeit Voran,
always in tluPfront. Prince Frederick Charles
Nicholas was not only, like every member of the
house of Hohenzollern, born a soldier, but he was
also a born soldier. His connection with the zie-
then Hussars dates from before June, 1849. when,
a? major, he led the only cavalry charge, that at
Wiesenthal, and was severely wounded charging
field works. In the Prusso-Danish war, the Red
Prince first commanded the combined Prussian
army corps in Schleswig, and then, on the retire-
ment of “ Papa” Wrangel, became Commander-
In-Chief of the allied 8 armies of Austria and
-Prussia. In the fortnight’s war which ended
at Sadowa or Konlggia'z he commanded tne
first army corps, and during J ann.Se ter-
rible,” the “disciplined tnunderbolt, as Mr.
Archibald Forbes called him, scored his name
deeply with bis sword on the pages of history.
In fact he was ever in the saddle; he won Vion-
ville on the 10th August, 1870, on the 18th the most
fiercely-contested fight of the campaign next to
Le Bourget w«s that of St. Privat, the French re-
treating to the churchyard, and only yielding
when a heap of dead and a few sorely-wounded
men represented the defenders. The pictures of
both these combats, by Alphonse de Neu/ille, will
be well remembered. Mars la Tours and Gravclotte
were exclusively Prince Frederick Charles, battles.
He was the investor of Metz and to him was made
the greatest surrender in the annals of warfare
when Bszaine gave up his sword, with three field-
marshals, 50 generi Is, 8000 officers, 30,000 sick and
wounded, and 150 000 prisoners, including the Im-
perial Guard. That 37th of October ended the siege
of 70 days, and lost Metz the title of La Pucelle.
Then, on the 38th November, he defeated General
Aurelle da Paladinesand the army of the Loire, on
the 4th December the four famous Uhlans entered
Orleans, for three days he fought against General
Chanzy at Le-Mans (January 10th, 11th, 13th), and
compelled one of the bravest of French generals
to retreat northward. With this the active life of
the Red Prince as a soldier ended. And now his
two antagonists, Chanzy and Aurelle de Paladines,
August Von Wurtemberg, Alvensleben, Volghts-
Rbefz, who fought with him at Gravelotte—all are
gone - Steinmetz, Von Room Von Goeben, Von
der Tann, and of the great captains who were
present in the Galerie des Glaces at Versailles
when the German Empire was proclaimed, but the
octogenarian Kaiser, the veteran Von Moltke, and
44 Unser Fritz ” survive—
44 Some men with swords may reap the field.
And plant fresh laurels where they kill;
But their strong nerves at last must yield,
They tame but one another still.
Early or late
They stoop to fate.
And must give up their murmuring breath.
When they, pale captives, creep to death.’*
An old literary friend, Bertha M. Clay,
has “glided.” Manyja tale of hers, sometimes with
hei name appended and sometimes without, has
done the block in the country Press, and in a cer-
tain evening paper in Sydney. The New York
Weekly held the exclusive use of her pen these
years back. Her stories showed considerable
ability of the strategic kind, her last one, Hia
One Mistake,” being generally regarded as her
best. She was 49 years of age at time of death,
and has been writing since her teens tajes some-
times Braddonlsh, sometimes Onidian, and some-
times with a collection of Mrs. Henry Woods sobs
and sighs. Clav was her name in letters, and by it
she is known by all outside her private friends.
Her maiden name was Low, and her marriage
name Brame. To us she is Clay.
Mr J. Henniker Heaton writes under date
London, June l:-“In a March number of your
villainously clever paper, you devote a half-
column of space to show that I was writing non-
sense in saying that there were 450,000 persons of
soldier’s age, Le.. between 20 and 40 years, in Vic
toria. You call down all sorts ot trouble on my
head and end by asking to be saved from such
writers. I send you the original letter from the
Times of Feb. 17. in which you will see that 1 said
there were 450,000 persons ot soldiers age mall
Australia. Because I got my information from
Victorian Agent-General, the Globe (London)
in commenting on my l etter to the Times, believed
I was referring to Victoria and said so. It was
copied fnto the 8. M. Herald from the Globe;
hence the trouble. You have acknowlged more
than once that notwithstanding my sms, I know
more about Australia than any man in England,
£nd in this case your faith was naturally shaken.
Vanity FAinsays
‘ The appointment of
Prince Leiningen to the
command (of the British
naval division) at the
Nore has produced a
strong feeling of dlssatis-
I faction amongst the
sailors. It is certainly
hard to discover what his
special qualifications for 1
this important post are,
and his record of service
at first sight appears
rather against him than
otherwise.” Special
qualification for the im-
portant post I Why he’s
a German pauper! What
other qualification i s
necessary ?
The Melbourne
Herald publishes what,
in its Innocence, it terms
a “ rather extraordinary
incident.” It appears
that a gentleman had
been dissipating at a
Town Hall lecture, and
when ihe curtain fell his
watch was non est. There
was the chain hanging
sadly down across his
waistcoat, but his gold
keyless repeater was
gone. However, this
good gentleman did not
despair nor apply to the
police. He merely trusted
in Providence, made the
best of his way to the
door of egrets, and
awaited developments,
And Providence was
good, for hanging to one
of the back buttons of
another man’s coat was
the missing watch This
was a very “ extraordin-
ary incident,” and speaks
well for the morals and
calm demeanour of such
as gather together at
scientific lectures. Now,
if we saw a man strolling
out of the Royal with a
watch hanging to t h e
back button of his coat,
we should be bound
either to tell him to take
it off, or to take it off
without telling him.
That little matter of
the elevation of Prince
Albert Victor to the
Bench is remarkable for
many reasons. For some
time past there has been
a serious conflict o f
opinion as to the disposal
of the fees paid by bar-
risters, and spent, some-
how, by the Benchers,
who have the control of
about £30,000 a year sub-
scribed in this way. As
these fees have lately
been falling into arrears
the Benchers gave notice
that no one should be
allowed to sit at meat
with H.R.H. who was
not good on the books as
to fees. This was a gor-
geous idea. While the
Benchers were enter-
taining Albert Victor,
they were using him as a
bumbailiff to collect ar-
rears. But the dodge did
not “ work.” The Junior
Bar regarded this as a last
straw, and in place of
going to see a sprig or
Royalty ride rough-shod
over those national rules
and customs which have
existed from time where-
of the memory of man
runneth not to the con-
trary, seceded and dined
in humbler state at an
adjacent pub. Even Tory
papers in England are
shocked at this 11 suspen-
sion ” of constitutional
custom at the behest of a Prince. It may set m
small thing that such a compliment should be pa Q
to a Prince at the expense of national usage, dui
the objection is that the Crown is thereby^assumes
to be above the Law. Charles the First lost Ul
head, and James the Second his crown, for assum
ing this, and Albert Victor will—ahem—do well io
profit by their warning.
Over the Garden Wall.


m
m
wiagi c
MIRTH
A NEW BOOK.
Containing over SCO Tricks
AND DELUSIONS WITH CARDS, DICE,
AND CONJURINQIAPPARATUS.
Illustrated with blocks and diagrams, fully ex-
plain d, simplified, and adapted for home amuse-
ment and social entertainments, forming the most
complete collection of its kind ever offered to the
Australian public. Mailed free to any address
ONE SHILLING.
THE WIZARD’S CHANGEABLE CARDS.
These cards change from Red to Black, from
eights to deuces and back again at the pleasure of
the performer, and elicit exclamations of wonder
and surprise from all who witness them. Post
free, with full instructions, Is, 3d.
THE YANKEE RUBBER BABY.
Goes in the waistcoat pocket, yet can be instantly
blown out to life size; screams awfully if smacked.
Even experienced fathers are deceived by these
laughter-producing infants, and no home can be a
really happy one without their cheering presence
Price, post free, Is.
Cut this advertisement out and post it to us, en-
closing 2i. in postage stamps, naming this paper,
and we will send you by return post,
THE BOOKS, CARDS, AND BABY.
Address all communications;
AUSTRALIAN MAGICAL DEPOT,
401 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 18«fl.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,0W>
Reserve Fund £150,000
Directors:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chalrm
" M.L.C.
M.L.O.
Hon. Henry Mort, 1
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King,
C. Rolleston, Baq., C.M.G.
Auditors;
Jas. Scroggle, Esq. i Hon. H. E. Cohen, Er>’
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen,
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyfmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyngan
Bourke, Manly, Byerock, and Parramatta.
Branch In Queensland ;
Brisbane.
London Branch ; 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors •
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel, K.C.M.G I Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers :
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan
olal Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted daily. . , , _ _
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo.
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
RAW VASELINE.
B
A
CAB and Buggy Harness. Super Race, Serg e
Prince’s Check Horse Clothing, Linen Horse
Clothing and Quarter Sheets, Horse Nets and Ear
Cape, Exercise Saddles, Race Saddles, Gold and
Silver-mounted Hunting and Riding Whips for
presentation, Newmarket Bandages, Head Collars,
Indiarubber Brushing Bings, Knee Caps, Horse
Brushes, Mane Combs, Spurs, Bridles, Kersey and
Felt Saddle Cloths in great variety, Kersey, Serge,
Felt. Collar Check, Trees, and a general assortment
of Saddler’s Ironmongery, .
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS’ IRONMONGERS,
12S York-street, Sydney.
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
Lost Vitality, &C.-A simple and positive
means of Self-Cure, by an eminent
French Hospital Physician- Sent Free
Medico, P O. Box 766, Sydney.
quod facimus valde facimus.
(What we do we do well.)
v r OIJE PHOTO-If you are
1 undecided where to go to
obtain an artistic and really truth-
ful potograph of yourself, ac-
cept what is but well-meant
couueel, and pay first a visit to
the vestibule leading to the Bur-
lington Galleries in the Sydney
Arcade. There you can inspect an
arrayof portraiture, not of select-
ed specimens, but the every-day
work of Creelmah and Co., which
forartist'c execution and elegant
finish, couple with moderation
in price, ought at once to deter-
mine your choice in their favour.
,x. You will thereby be but endors-
ing the almost universal opinion that in all the
foregoing excellencies C. and Co hold quite a
unique position as potographers.
Prices-C-D-V..: Cabinets' 30s. per dozen.
credlman & co.,
BURLINGTON GALLERIES, STDNBF ARCADE.
OSUOITD’S
SWISS CIGARS
Have been recognised as the BEST for half a
century.
* “ The Australian Abroad on Branches from
the Main Routes round the World.” By James
Kingston, F.R.G.S. Melbourne: William Inglis
and Co. 1885
"THE AUSTRALIAN ABROAD."
Mr. Kingston’s book contains a record of
his travels over a very large part of the earth's
surface. He has been at Pompey’s Pillar and One
Tree Hill, on the Hooghly, and in Port Darwin,
among the curios of Cairo and the flowers of
Botany Bay, on Mount Qlbeon in Judea, and
Mount Cook In New Zealand. After spending a
nuarter of a century in Melbourne, he started oft
without a companion and without a guide-book to
have a leisurely look at the world. What struck
him as strange he described, writing the account
in the locality of the incident. These descriptions
first appeared in a Melbourne newspaper, next in
two volumes published from a London house, and
n 0 w come forth in one volume from a Melbourne
publishing firm.
* * *
Mr. Kingston claims it as a merit that he
travelled without a guide-book. That is hardly
modest. The man who travels with a guide-book
ind lets it pull him along by the nose will not. It
la true, be able to tell us much that is now. But
are not, therefore, useless. The man
whovtravels without one, unless he is an extraor-
dinarily superior person, is likely to miss some-
I thing that deserves to be touched up afresh, and
is likely to try to describe something that has been
already well done by others. On the other hand,
kis habit of writing out his opinions in the places
that gave rise to them was founded in a wise con-
ception of the influences such a scheme would
have on h>s style. It has enabled him to be breezy
evon when his subject is flat. He is describing a
thing he has seen tor the first time, and which, as
he hae neither guide-book nor companions, and
does not .wait to talk it o ver with others, he is not
aware anyone but himself has ever seen. Readers
will think him prolix from time to time, but the
author’s own interest In his text is so genuine and
hearty that they are very likely to pardon him.
* ' « •
The main routes from which Mr. Kingston
v branched were the Torres Straits route and the
Overland one. He left San Francisco, and making
\ his way through Japan, China, and Java, founo
i himselt in Australia. He describes some parts of
AAustralia and New Zealand, and then proceeds
1 through Ceylon, India, Egypt, Palestine, and Syria.
I He has seen much, very much. Many of his de-
scriptions are vivid. His bargaining with the
\landlady at Hiogo, his run through the theatres at
(Osaca, his drinking of tea in the Chinese Tea
House, and his wanderings among the Towers of
Silence are characterised by crisp graphic ability.
Iflis trouble with the chopsticks among the three
chubby-faced stumpy girls would be as effective
were it not vitiated by bad -planning. Five pages
before he gives us this life-like picture of trouble
he has announced that he purchased, and always
carried with him, a knife and fork. Of course the
picture is introduced as a reminiscence, but a man
who was so artful as to write up his incidents as
•they occurred should have seen that he was, in this
paap, harking back—which is always bad art.
* * *
The i4eal traveller is supposed not to con-
cern himself at all with the virtue or vice of the
spectacles he sees. He should hold the mirror up to
nature, and leave to specialists the work of study-
ing the picture. From th e pages of one veracious
traveller a historian may write a history, a poet a
poem, a philanthropist may work out a social re-
form, a politician a State policy. The ideal tra-
veller has nothing to do with these things. His
paramount and ;sole duty is to see and be vera-
cious. Nevertheless, no one attains the ideal state,
and the man who introduces himself as a traveller
will not be long seated when he will undertake
any number of other people’s businesses. Mr.
Kingston deals fairly, in our sense, with the Indian
opium question. He admits the pernicious wicked-
ness of the forces that, despite Chinese law, secure
the Importation of the drug into the neighbouring
Empire. He admits it would have been kept out of
China were it not for British arms. He also practic-
ally admits that tbe revenue from opium is the
jewel in the Crown of India. And then he says: “It
is to the credit of Great Britain that she does not
enrich herself with these profits from opium. . .
Every penny that is raised from India is spent on
the government and improvement of that
country.” Now, does he forget that the adminis-
tration of this government is given to English-
men ? Does he forget that England sends out
members, allied in one way and another with its
own ruling class, to govern the Indians, and to
live upon this revenue ? Does he forget the old
maxim, "Qnifacit per aliumfacit perse?" Every
man Is entitled to his opinion, but when he offers
his opinion to others he offers a cheque. There
must be an account to meet it. In Mr. Kingston’s
case, if we carry his cheque delivered to us, as
above, at page 263, to page 279, we shall find him
admitting the state of his account in the following
words: “When it is further considered that one-
half of this produce (opium) is forced upon the
Chinese market by the British, it will be perceived
how little creditable opium-growing is to Great
Britain.”
* * »
It is rarely, however, Mr. Kingston goes
beyond his primary topic. We have hardly ever
read a book of travel in which the author kept so
closely to his promise. He must have fought
valiantly against temptations to tangential lines.
Among the ruins of creeds, the wrecks of states-
manship, the ashes of societies, he has managed to
keep up, on the whole, an active remembrance of
the carpe diem theory. The man making a tour of
the world must remember this theory and act upon
it if he is not to come back a sadder, a much sad-
der man, than he was at starting. Mr. Kingston's
book will help him to remember it. It will also
give him knowledge which guide-books will not
give. We are not slaves to guide-books, but we
believe they have uses, as milestones have on a
road, as time-tables have at a railway-station, as
catalogues have in a library. To guide-books
thus conceived, “ The Australian Abroad’ is an ad-
mirable supplement We do not hesitate in saying
that no man should leave Australia for the purpose
of seeing how the world looks without a copy of
the work we review. It is well printed and illus-
trated, and the various subjects are treated in such
a way as travellers who must read in snatches can
enjoy. It tells well for Australian enterprise in
the publishing when a work so good as this can be
offered to the public at half-a-crowr.
A Qulot Gams.


3Liocla.-IDla.Ta. <2z> Sla.suxao.roc Is
3-Star 10-Years’ Old Whiskies. The Oldest, Purest, and Most Mellow Imported. GOLD MEDALS—Cal
cutta, N.Z. and 8. and W. Australia. HOLLAND & CO.’S OLD TOM GIN. G. H. ADAMS, 119 Pi*t-
treet, Sydney: and at Melbourne. Adelaide, and Brisbane, Agent. Kirker, Greer, & Co. (Ld.)
1885 Universal Club, a thoroughly reliable and easy-running
machine. Ball bearings to both wheels, and improvements.
THE SYDNEY SPORTS
DEPOT.
389 GEORGE-STREET SYDNEY
(Opposite Royal Hotel.)
bicyglesTTricycles,
OUR
1885 Pattern Bicycles
and Tricycles
Have Every Improvement,
OUR SPECIALITY
New Cheap Roadster.
THE UNIVERSAL CLUB
BICYCLE,
fitted with Improved Ball Bear-
ings to front and back wheels.
Hollow Forks, Patent Head and
Detachable Bent Handle Bar,
Easy Slide Spring, Hubs Plated,
Black Enamelled Spokes,
Price, £13 10s. At the pries
we defy competition.
JAMES MARTIN A COMPANY, 388 Goorgo-sf., Sydney.
ii
AVOID COMPLICATED FOREIGN BRACES.”
THE
I
CHEDENTA,
SIMPLEST AND BEST FOR MEN AND BOYS,\
WHOLESALE ONLY AT
1© SC. 17 CHEAPSIDE, LONDON, E.C.
And of W. BENNY FINDLAY & BBO., Melbourne & Sydney.
Is the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel in the Western District. The Table and Liquo
cannot be surpassed, even in the Metropolis. Private Suites for families.
First-class Stabling
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor.
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OP CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eaatarn Backboard Wangona.
jgr BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant A Importer
83 & 24 Olwrenoe-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
ICASTORIAI
for Infants and Children.
Castorla cures Colic, Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation,
Gives healthy sleep and promotes digestion,
Without injurious medication.
{
“Castorla is so well adapted to children that
I recommend it as superior to any prescription
known to me.” H. A. Archer, M. D., j
111 Oxford Street, New York, a
Elliott Bros., Sydney, Agents.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIVING GEAR, Braso A Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
.Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Leacl, Spelter, &o.
f Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Copper smithing, Btecksmi thiPg.
Plumbing, Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’S "FLUBH-OUT,” "VALVE,” Sc "PAN” CLOSETS, "VACUUM” WATER- WASTE
PREVENTERS, &o.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Am Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls , Gas Fmes, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS,, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney
Full particulars and price on application.
THE SYDNEY_B|CYCLE CLUB.
FOURTH ANNUAL INTERCOLONIAL AMA-
TEUR CHAMPION BICYCLE AND TRICYCLE
RACE MEETING.
Under the patronage and rules of the New South
Wales ’Cyclists Union.
ViaIH of fhA
N.8.W. CRICKET ASSOCIATION GROUND,
Moore Park, Sydney, N.8.W.,
SATURDAY, 23nd AUGUST, 1885.
PROGRAMME:
1. One-mile Bicycle Championship of N.S.W.—
Special Club Trophy „ „ _
2. Ten-miles Bicycle Championship of N.S.W.—
Gardiner Cup
3. One-mile Bicycle Handicap ,, ,
4. Three-miles Bicycle Handicap—The Ladles
Bracelets
Competitors in this race must be nominated by
ladies*
5. One-mile Bicycle Handicap, for Maiden Riders
only
This race to be ridden on Roadster Bicycles.
Minimum weight, 351bs.
6. Two-miles Tricycle Handicap
GOLD MEDAL FOR FIRST SCRATCH MAN
PAST THE POST, IN ADDITION TO THE
THREE PRIZES ALLOTTED TO THE HANDI-
CAP; ANY COMPETITOR ALLOTTED A START
TO BE AT LIBERTY TO GO FROM THE
SCRATCH MARK IF HE CHOOSES.
THREE PRIZES IN BACH EVENT.
ENTRIES CLOSE AUGUST 10, AT 9 O’CLOCK
P.M , AT CLUB ROOMS.
7. 150 Yards Handicap Foot Race
8. 440 Yards Handicap Foot Race
9. Parade—Prize, Silver Bugle, for the Club ex-
celling in appearance and manoeuvres.
All events open to all amateurs.
E. H. McRAE,
Honorary Secretary.
All communications and enquiries to be ad-
dressed to, and entry forms obtained from, the
Club Clerk, J. Copland, at the Club Rooms and
Headquarters, 85 Market-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
bgUnk m IDS!
Intending Investors are invited to make early
application for tickets, as the Drawing will take
place at an early date. Remittances may be made
by cheque, P.O.O.. or stamps. Agents for New
South Wales—SULLIVAN & JACKSON, 142 King-
street, Sydney.
JjJAQLEHAWK MECHANICS’ INSTITUTE.
GRAND ART UNION,
In strict accordance with the Act.
VALUE
FIRST OKAA FIRST
PRIZE eWOUU* PRIZE.
SECOND PRIZE, £200.
THIRD PRIZE, £100.
4 prizes, value £50 each. 100prizes, value £5 each.
4 „ „ £35 each. 550 „ „ £1 each.
40 „ ,, £10 each. 300 „ „ 10s.;each.
1000 PRIZES 1 1000 PRIZES I
10,000
TICKETS at 10s. each, obtainable at most
business places in the colony.
N.B.—In proof of the value of the above, the
Committee undertake to find purchasers for the
various prizes at the prices named, and to hand the
winner full amount in cash, less 10 per cent, for
commission.
The drawing to take place in August, under the
supervision of the Mayor and Councillors of Eagle-
hawk and a Committee of Shareholders.
T. H. TAYLOR,
Managing Secretary.
Bull-street, Sandhurst, and
Mechanics’ Institute, Eaglehawk.
SULLIVAN & JACKSON, Agents,
Vaughan Chambers, 143 King-street, Sydney.
E
X S.S. BALLARAT. EX. 8.S. BALLARAT.
IBAPES and SHAW PE APES and SHAW,
H
AVB OPENED a large SHIPMENT of
GLOVES,
fNCLUDING Gents’ Chevrettes, Ladies’ Chev-
L rettes.
r ADIES’ Four-botton Tan Florentine GLOVES
R
UBY, Bronze, and Black ditto ditto,
F
OUR-BUTTON or Clasp Tan KID GLOVES,
W r
TH Ingrain Twist Points, Black and Self
Colour.
LSO, Eight-button Length Tan Mosquetaire.
HE LARG*B3T, most RELIABLE, and Cheap-
6St
S'
TOOK of LADIES’ and GENTLEMEN’S
GLOVES
-N THE AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
ADIES’ and CHILDREN’S GLOVES
’N EVERY LENGTH SIZB,a n COLOUR.
3EAPES and SHAW, PBAPBS and SHAW,
G
BORGE-STREET, GEORG B-8TREBT.
w*
T WEATHER REQUISITES
T PBAPBS and SHAW’S, GBORGE-STREET.
ADIES’ TAILOR-MADE ULSTERS.
ADIES’ MACINTOSH OVERALLS.
ADIES’ UMBRELLAS. GENTLEMEN’S
I UMBRELLAS.
s
PLBNDID VARIETY and EXTRAORDIN-
ARY CHEAP.
GENTLEMEN’S WINTER OVERCOATS, from
26s. eacn
ANTIPLUVIAN MACINTOSHES Bewn seams
23s. 6d.
D
OUBLB TEXTURE MACINTOSHES, 30s. each.
£
VERT VARIETY of Warm WINTER
HOSIERY.
ADIES’ and GENTLEMEN
■ GLOVES.
WINTER
|E APES and SHAW, PE APES and SHAW.
p. qedrqe-sTree1\
Professional Directory.
EORGE PEKRIMAN. Scene Painter, Theatre
1 Koval. Brl 1 "»ne. ———
abater royal.
Under the management of
wtt.t.tamhow. Garnkb and Musobove.
«Ir. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo.L. Goodman.
Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
Overture at 8 sharp.
PERFECT SUCCESS ) jlOf^NTHE
PERFECT SUCCESS V of . {OLANTHE
PERFECT SUCCESS ) (I° LA -NTHE
The Libretto by The Music composed by
W. 8. Gilbert, Esq. Sir Arthur Sullivan.
and interpreted by
WILLIAMSON, GARNER, and M U . S ®^ 0VB 8
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
IOLANTHB; or, THE PEER and THE PERI.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o c)°ok.
Prices of Admission: Dress Circle 5s.; Stalls, 3a.,
Family Circle, 3s. . __ . .
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway s
Hotel
Box’ plan open at theatre from 11 till14. No free
Hst. Doors open at 7.15. Carriages at 10.60.
BW OPBRA HOUSE.
N
Under the Lesseeshlp and Management of
MAJBRONI and WILSON.
TO-NIGHT and Every Evening,
THE GREATEST SUCCESS OF THE SEASON
The Greatest Success of the Season
MIXED MIXED MIXED MIXED
MIXED MIXED MIXED MIXED
MIXED MIXED MIXED MIXED
A Farcical Comedy in 3 acts, adapted by w. s.
Craven, and produced by the best Comedy
Company ever organised in the colonies,
including „ _
Mr. Philip Day, Mr. H. N. Douglass, Mr. W. S.
Craven, Mr. J. C. Joyce, Mr. Charles Seagraves,
Miss Helene Valence, Miss Dooy Mainwarlng, Miss
Amy Horton, Miss Jennie Qwynne.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Huenerbeln’s Music
Warehouse, 318 George-street. Tickets tor all parts
of the house may be obtained at Roberts • tobac-
conist, next theatre. Carriages at 10.L0* __
AIBTY THEATRBI
G
lessee Mr. B. N. Jones. Treasurer Mr.H. Musgrove
loors open at 7.30. Overture at 8. Carriages at 10.15
No Free List—Public Press excepted.
SPECIAL COMEDY SEASON,
under the direction of
[essrs. WILLIAMSON, GARNER, & MUSGROVE
Success most legitimate of the young English
comedian, Mr. FRANK THORNTON.
O-NIQHT and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY,
tr. Frank Thornton as the Rev. Robert Spalding
. SPECIALLY-SELECTED COMEDY COMPANY
The furniture and appointments from Hamilton s
lobe Furniture Depot, Park-street.
Admission— Parquette Stalls. 5s.: Stalls, 3s. ,Bal-
ony, 3s. Box plan at Nicholson’s Music Ware-
ouse, George-street.
General Business Manager, Mr. H. R. Harwood.
ITASONIC HALL, YORK STREET.
BJL Lessee Harry Lynch.
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY, Aug. 6, 7, 8,
Last three Nights of
THE WORLD-FAMED
Lynch Family Bellringers,
IN THEIR ORIGINAL CONCERTS.
FIFTH CHANGE OF PROGRAMME.
Admission—4s.. 3s., 3s., Is. Box plan at Paling’s.
Doors open at 7.30, overture at 8. Carriages. 10.15
■jkmr ASONIC HALL, YORK STREET.
M. Lessee .. Messrs. Minis and Kohn.
MONDAY, AUGUST 10.
GRAND OPENING NIGHT
of
FRED. W. MILLI8,
fcHE MONARCH VENTRILOQUIST,
Musical, mimical, 11 merry entertain-
ment.
entitled
LET MIRTH PREVAIL;
or*
Folks and faces,
an entertainment entirely new to the Sydney public
Doors open 7.30; Curtain 8 sharp.
Box Office at Paling’s.
ADOLPH KOHN,
Business Manager.
Miss Annette Scarl
■■WAVING rested her voice for six months, after
a long and successful tour through New
Zealand, would be happy to
RESUME HER PROFESSIONAL DUTIES ON
THE STAGE ONCE MORE.
&T Line, of Business :—Opera Bouffe, Concerts,
Burlesques.
This yobng lady artiste, being an eminent musi-
cian, would have no objection to travel with a
[irst-class company as Pianist.
All theatrical managers please address letters,
tor the present. Post Office, Young.
AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY, N.S.W.
a
RAND S H O
2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th SEPTEMBER,
AT MOORE PARK.
W,
Prize Schedules may be obtained on appli-
cation.
ENTRIES CLOSE 18th AUGUST.
F, WEBSTER, Secretary,
Tattersall’s Buildings, Sydney.
tl
THE LYCEUM,”
Newcastle,
SITUATED IN THE BEST PART OF THE CITY.
It is capable of seating 500 people,
and suitable for
ilUSICAL & DRAMATIC ENTERTAINMENTS.
The Stage (40ft. by 34ft.) is furnished with
STOCK, SCENERY, &o
For Terms, apply
COLIN CHRISTIE,
“ The Lyceum,”
_____ Newcastle.
ODDFELLOWS’ HALL,
Goulbuen.
mHIS Theatre, one of the best In the colony, is
T open


lajortut knitit!
THB
ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
BBG to Inform the public that, In consequence
of the
EXPIRATION OP LEASE
of their present premises, they have commenced
their
GKAND
ms sue,
Which will
LAST TOR A FEW WEEKS ONLY I
The Goods are all marked at an
EHORMOUS SACK!
as will be seen by list below.
PRICE LIST,
Ladies’ Handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 10s, 15s
17s 6d, and 30s each
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 4s and 5s per pair
Ladles’ Choice Necklets, 6s each
Ladles’ Choice Necklets, best' American Plate, 30s
each
Ladies’ Elegant Bangles, 4s, Os, and 10s per pair
Choice Lockets, 6s each
Handsome Gem Rings, 4s and 8s Od each
Wedding and Keeper Rings, In Solid Gold, 7s 6d
each
Ladles’ Handsome Lockets, 10s each
Ladles’ Elegant Crosses, 4s, 5s, and to each
Ladies’ Brooch and Barring Seta, from 6s to 16s
Thimbles, warranted Starling Silver, 3s fid each
Gents’ O. G. Watches, Hunting, Open-Faced
Crystal Glass, and patent Keyless, 80s each,
warranted 3 years
Ladies’ (same as above,)
These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and Jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully Jewelled, In hunting or open
faced crystal glasses .. .. .. J4 0 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
Jewelled, and compensation balance ..£6 0 0
Rotherham’s celebrated English Patent
Levers .. .. £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. £6 0 0
The celebrated Waltham Watch, In hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses.. ., £2 15 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance.. .. £4 15 0
A written warrantry for three years* accurate
performance is forwarded with each watfflh.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph, £i 0
Ditto, extra Jewelled, of the highest
grade £C 0 0
Ditto, in hunting oases, compensated and
full Jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £8 W 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent-
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £10.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 4s
each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings, half round buckle
flat broad buckle, engraved, good luck rings
2s 6d each.
Gent’s richly chased engraved and (plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 3s, 4s, 5s, and fis £d per set.
Same as above, only half sets, Is fid, 2t , and 3s per
set.
Best American Patent Spring Solitaire Suites,
5s per set.
Gent's elegant Seals, 4s each.
Gent’s Elegant Compasses, 4s each,
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, 6s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold handsome Scarf I’lnff, Itf,-
6d, 2s, 2s 0d, 3s, 3s fid, 4s, 4s 6d, 6s, an*«s 6d eao
Very best American Pencil Oases, 2s fid each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Match Boxes. 4s each.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Sovereign POTtoo. 4s each.
Richly engraved Bracelets, 6s ea ah.
Handsome Bracelets, beautifully Jewelled, 8s, 10s,
12s, and 14s each.
Broooches, Brooches, Brooches, 3 B fid, Ss, ,2s 61, 3s,
3s 6d, 4s, 4s fid, 5s, 5s fid, fis, 0s 6 i, 7s, 7a ( d, 8s, 8s
fid, 9s, 9s fid, and 10s each.
PLEASE NOTE,
All goods will be sent post free with the ©k cep-
tlon of the watches, orders for which must be ac>
companled with an extra amou at of two and si x ‘
pence to defray postage expen ses. Send In you r
orders early, as the goods mm ,t be sold, and no one
should miss this chance of pr ocuring the beautiful
gems at less than cost price.
Notbthb Abbrsss:
The Orien tal Gold Co.,
474 George Street,
PPOSITE THE MAftKBTq
DR.SCOTT'S
i
L
Dr. Scott’s Electric Corset is a gentle and
pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate tit, and aiding by; in
vitalising properties of electricity the func-
tions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by
the elite of American and Continental
society, they are daily endorsed by over one
million ladies, and as they do not exceed in
cost the ordinary goods of other makers,
without the electricity or therapeutic value
of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
If you have any pain, ache, or ill-feeling
from any cause; if you seem “pretty well,
yet lack energy and do not “feel up to the
mark;” if you suffer from disease, we beg
you to at once try these remarkable cura-
tives. They cannot and do not injure like
medicine. Always doing good, never harm.
There is no shock or sensation felt in wear-
ing them. There is no waiting a long time
for results; electro-magnetism acts quickly,
generally the first week, more frequently
the first day, and often even during the
first hour they are worn their wonderful
curative powers are felt.
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all
the old-time health and good-feeling come
back. They are constructed on scientific
Erinoiples, imparting an exhilarating,
ealth-giving current ro the whole system.
Professional men assert that there is hardly
a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily
practise the same, as your own physician
will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance
from those usually worn, as we substitute
our flat steel magnetods in place of the
ordinary corset-steels. They are all equally
charged, differing only in quality and design.
They are elegant in shape and finish, made
after the best French patterns, and war-
ranted satisfactory in every,respect. Those
who have tried them say they will wear no
others. Most of the above applies equally
to the Electric Belt for gents.
&
m
led
Dr. Scott’s Electric
Corsets and Belts
Are universally approved by leading Phy-
sicians as the: best, safest, and most effectual
remedy for Spinal Complaints, Incipient
Consumption, Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumours,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy, Lumbago,
Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases, Nervousness,
Indigestion, Palpitation, &c., and have
cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all (so-
called) have failed.
The prices are as follows s—
-S.-A
6'6
No. 1
No. 2 .. .. ... 8 6
No. 3 .. .. .. 10 8
No. 5 .. .. .. 15 0
Electric Belts.. .. .. 16 0
We now make all these goods in dove and
white only. They are sent out in a hand-
some box, accompanied by a silver-plated
compass, by which the Electric-Magnetic
influence can be tested. If you cannot get
them in your town, we will send either kind
to any port or railway station in New South
Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail
direct to any address upon receipt of stamps
to cover postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of
Corset usually worn; or, where the size is
not known, take a measurement of the
waist over the linen. This can be done with
a piece ef common string, which send with
your order.
Remittances can be made by cheque,
P.O.O., stamps, or currency, to the
PALL MALL
i,
54 Margaret-sfroat,
SYDNEY.
1P.O,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
THIATBX Royal—"lolan the”... p. 8
Opera House—“ Mixed ” ••
Gaiety Theatre—” The Private Secretary ,
Old Masonic Hall—Minis’Entertainment.. „
Old Masonic Hall—Lynch Bellringers
We write this notice at a moment when
■we are happily unconscious of the expressions of
opinion evinced by our journalistic confreres. We
always, if it be any news to you, dear public,
write, whenever it is possible, under similar cir-
cumstances. We have many reasons for this, one
of the chief being, probably, that we invariably
And the opinions of our daily contemporaries so
strongly in contradistinction to our own. With a
few exceptions, the lucubrations which emanate
from our distinguished brother-pressmen are
sealed with a solemn seal of gloom, and the spirit
of grim Melancholy prowls darkly amongst their
critical efforts.
In noticing “lolanthe,” there are to be
observed, perhaps, more considerations than are
evolved by the production of a variety of pieces.
We have first to consider the literary merits of the
nlav • we have next to devote our attention to the
capabilities of the cast; and, finally, it is our duty
to criticise, in always a friendly manner, of course,
the staging and the mise-en-scine. There is, we be-
lieve, no person, possessing an ordinarily intellec-
tual calibre, who could question, for one moment,
that the libretto of “ lolanthe ” possesses a singular
charm. We have before us, as we write, the book
of this, the latest of Gilbert and Sullivan’s operas
that we have had submitted to us for criticism.
To our minds, and we do not aspire to the posses-
sion of more than ordinary intelligence, this work
is a monument of merriment—food for fun that is
illimitable. It would be idle for anyone to make this
assertion without having proofs of its accuracy. We
therefore propose, no less for the entertainment
of the reader, than for our own satisfaction, to
print a few extracts from the libretto. It is to be
only hoped that the quiet sarcasm embodied in
this brilliant effort of the Gilbertian brain, will not
he lost upon what is known as the popular section,
and the best paying, of playgoers.
* ♦
The plot of “lolanthe,” being a fairy-
opera, possesses, as may be imagined, little or no
profundity. No one confers with the “flies” as
to whether to be or not to be is to be the question;
and none of the characters offers his kingdom for
a horse. But there are funnier things said and
done in this fairy opera even than these; and
there is a refreshing simplicity about the dialogue
generally which is balm to the soul of the poor
critic who has been! through a long course of
tragic incapables. A number of the Ideas of this
piece are derived from the “ Bab Ballads,” and
few sober persons could say they could be
derived from a more hilarious source. The
material used is largely derived from the
ballad of the curate whose mother was a
fairy, and whose bishop was Incredulous, and
from that of the elderly man who invoked
“Little fairy Peterkin,” and was rendered in-
visible with the exception of his pants and glasses.
The idea of Strephon being a fairy “half-way
down” emanates from this jingle. In precisely the
same manner that “ Pinafore ” was derived from
Captain Reece, commmander of the Mantelpiece.
The conception of Strephon, who is only half a
fairy, could not have been, probably, the produc-
tion of any brain but Gilbert’s. Listen to this
Ion. He’s an Arcadian shepherd, and he loves
Phyllis, a ward in Chancery.
Cel. A mere shepherd, and he half a fairy ?
Then comes the natural query—" Which half ? ”
What also should cause diversion in any mind is
the following remark by the Fairy Queen, who
had 35 years before, banished lolanthe for marry-
ing a mortal, “ a sentence of penal servitude which
she worked out on her head at the bottom of a
pellucid stream ”
Queen. When I banished her .... I am
sure I never intended her to live at the bottom of
that stream I It makes me perfectly wretched to
think of the discomfort she has undergone 1
There are more than the germs of comedy in
this. Strephon was represented by Mr, Albert
Brennir, and the Fairy Queen by Miss Florence
Trevelyan, and this selection of characters caused
a certain portion of the author’s text to suffer.
Read for yourselves:— r r ,
Leila. No one to look at you [lolanthe] would
think you had a son of 34. But that's one of the
advantages of being immortal. We never grow
old. Is he pretty ?
Iol. He’s extremely pretty, but he’s inclined to
be stout. , ,
All fairies. [Disappointed.] Oh!
Queen. I see no objection to fatness in modera-
tion.
The cue to this dramatic incongruity will be
found in the following table of the London and
Sydney casts, which is herewith appended:—
Sydney London.
Lord Chancellor ... R. Brough G. Grossmith.
Earl of Mount-
ararat W. H. Woodfleld R. Barrington.
Earl Toll oiler .. .. F. Boyle D. Lely.
Private Willis .. .. W. Webbe Mr. Manners.
Strephon .. .. .. A, Brennir R. Temple.
Queen of the
Fairies .. Miss F. Trevelyan Miss Barnett,
lolanthe .. Miss E. Chambers Miss J. Bond.
Celia .. Miss B. Temple Miss Fortescue
L?lia .. Miss A. Kelton Miss. Gwynne.
Fleta .. Miss L. Forde Miss S. Grey.
Poyllla .. Miss N. Stewart Miss Braban.
The joke, of course, devolved upon the fact of
Miss Alice Barnett being very stout and Mr. R.
Temple being " very pretty.” Well, Miss Trevelyan
is not very stout, though we decline to pass, in
the present number, an opinion as to whether Mr.
Brennir is “ very pretty ” or not.
» ♦ »
The words of the songs are, to our mind,
infinitely more attractive than the airs to which
they are set; the music, to our mind, being of a
too grandiose description for comic opera. We
stated this in strict confidence to the management,
upon which Mr. Musgrove sang to us (with much
feeling) the following:—
“ He dies I If fondly laid aside
In some old cabinet
Memorials of thy long-dead bride
Lie dearly treasured yet.” ,
But we are (though we said “Thank you,” with
effusion) of much the same opinion yeti The
greatest hit of the evening was undoubtedly the
patter song allotted to the Lord Chancellor in the
second act. We can cheerfully elford space (since
we write at so little a column) for a few extracts
from this lyric. Les void ;—
“When you’re lying awake with a dismal head-
ache, and repose is taboo'd by anxiety,
I conceive you may use any language you choose
to indulge in, without impropriety;
For your brain is on fire—the bed clothes con-
spire of usual slumber to plunder you:
First your counterpane goes, arid uncovers your
toed, and your sheet slips demurely from
under you.”
“ And bound on that journey you find your attor-
ney (who started that morning from Levon);
He’s a bit undersized, and you don’t feel sur-
prised when he tells you he’s only eleven.
Well, you’re driving like mad with this singular
lad (by the bye, the ship’s now a four-
wheeler),
And you're playing round games, and he calls
you bad names, when you tell him that ‘ties
pay the dealer.’ ”
But the gem of the song, no doubt, is embodied in
the following uproarious finale:—” You’re a regu-
lar wreck, with a crick in your neck, and no won-
der you snore, for your head’s on the floor, and
you’ve needles and plus from your soles to your
shins, and your flesh is a-creep, for your left leg’s
asleep, and you’ve cramp in your-toes, and a fly on
your nose, and some fluff in your lung, and a
feverish tongue, and a thirst that’s Intense, and a
general sense that you haven’t been sleeping in
clover; but the darkness has passed, and it’s day-
fight at last, and the night has been long—ditto
ditto my song—and, thanks goodness, they’re both
ofthemoverl” The chief interest of the piece is
centred, of course, In Mr. Robert Brough, who
enacted the part of the Lord Chancellor. He
developed a knowledge of his art which few
people would have been disposed to give him
credit for, after seeing him interpret the charac-
ter of the Innkeeper in “ La Petite Mademoi-
selle.” While in that lugubrious opera he was a
boniface of infinite dulness, in “ lolanthe” he has
shown himself to be a Lo d Chancellor loaded
to the throat with surpassing merriment-
His by-play alone would suffice to make the
fortune of any performer; and in his songs and his
dances, he gave indications of the possession of a
delightful humour. Mr. Prank Boyle, as the Earl
Tolloller, sang his music with much taste, and his
acting all through denoted a thorough under-
standing of the text of the author. As the Earl
of Mountararat, Mr, W. H. Woodfleld exhibited an
unexpected spirit of melancholy, and could hardly
be said to have added much to a production, the
innate fun of which is to our minds quite uncon-
trovertible.
* * *
The fairy “lolanthe” found a representa-
tive in Miss Emma Chambers. We saw this young
lady some years ago at the “ Met.” where her song-
and-dance constituted a considerable attraction.
She was 30 then; but it is extant on the re-
cords of the theatre that she is only 17 now. This
fact invests this lady, for us, with a not incon-
siderable interest. Her appearance as “lolanthe ”
from the back of the dress-circle certainly borders
upon juvenility, and her advent upon the stage
evoked some loudly-spoken expressions of en-
thusiasm from the representatives of Shylock,
who congregated, perhaps, on this night, in more
ferocious force than usual. But, In all probability,
they had not seen Mies Emma some years ago at
the “ Met.” Miss Nellie Stewart was the Phyllis of
the evening. She was a picturesque Phyllis;
but, It is an unquestionable face that the
music alloted to her was, in a large measure,
unsuited to her peculiar quality of voice. Perhaps
Miss Stewart has never read the story of Miss
Amelia Martin. Well, Miss Amelia aspired to vocal
honours: but, as she was unable to sing out, never
came out. Miss Stewart has one distinct advant-
age over Miss Martin, because, although she may
not at times sing out, she has come out, from an
operatic view. In a very extensive manner. She
has, for having acquired this much lyrical glory,
our sincere congratulation. But we dreamily wish,
somehow, that she would read the story of Amelia
Martin.
• ■ *
The Queen of the Fairies found a repre-
sentative in Miss Florence Trevelyan. Her cos-
tume comprised an Amazonian helmet and a fifty-
guinea diamond wand, in her manipulation of
which she happily escaped poking the conductor’s
eye out. It is no fault of this young lady, per-
haps, that she has been accorded more than she
can conveniently manage, both vocally and his-
trionically. These things occur in the best regu-
lated theatres, and, when we ran a circus in the
Barcoo district, we were very much that way
ourselves. The other fairies were highly satis-
factory, but we could have wished that the band
of the Grenadier Guards, who appeared to blow so
much Into their instruments, could have blown a
little more out of them. Their feebleness, both as
warriors and musicians, was gloomily suggestive
of the unfortunate Contingent.
♦ • •
As a triumph of staging, the opera is cer-
tainly unsurpassed by anything that has yet been
given to us in Sydney, and there is every proba-
bility of the piece running through the rest of the
season.
* * * *
From Victor Hugo’s “Lucrezla Borgia”
to Maitby and Dove’s “ Mixed ” is a stride, a
spring, a leap. The former held the stage of the
Opera House on Friday, the latter on Saturday
night. “ Mixed ” is a farcical comedy, adapted by
Walter 8. Craven from “Lea Trols Chapeaux.”
George Selwyn, a much-married man. with a
grown-up daughter, during the temporary ab-
sence of his wife, finds himself, about midnight, in
company with a young woman whom he casually
met in the vicinity of the Marble Arch. After
refreshments, she asks his name. With a pru-
dence springing from fear of his wife, he gives her
the name of Fred Singleton, a would-be married
man, then on a visit in his house. Afterwards
there is a quarrel, either about the girl or in con-
sequence of the refreshments, and Mr. Selwyn
loses his hat. He picks up another man’s hat,
however, and manages to get home. The troubles
created by these hats, the confounding of another
flrl with the girl of the Marble Arch, and Mr.
elwyn’s heroic efforts to hide the night’s doings
from his domestic disciplinarian, are the basis of
the play. Miss Selwyn and Victor de Latour, a
pair of lovers, get mixed with Fred and Lottie
Blithers, another pair, while Bosco Blithers, the
great character in the play, is all the time storming
the house of Selwyn for Ms hat.
* * *
Mr. Philip Day individualises his Bosco
Blithers, The professor of writing and elocution
does not fall to pieces when the play is over. The
figure holds together and can be looked back at.
Its parts are exaggerated, preposterous, but not
contradictory. The facial get-up, the costume,
the limp, the voice harmonise. The long black
coat with Hying skirts, the capacious white waist-
coat, the terrible pockethandkerchief, the gigantic
umbrella, and the daring, menacing display of
whisker, are the external signs of more than
average effrontery. Mr. Day lives up to the signs,
♦low and again he becomes internally and ex-
ternally riotous. He rolls on tho floor, drags the
chair between his legs, and struggles and squeals
and yells until the spirit of riot becomes conta-
gious. Then the gods lend help. Then you think
ow near the grotesque is to buffoonery, and how
close the comic actor can come to the circus
clown. It is soaring to call Bosco Blithers a crea-
tion. It can be well held to be a speciality.
♦ * *
George Selwyn, the old married man that
went “ on the batter,” was played by Mr. J. G.
Joyce. Mr. Joyce has a good deal of the D'Orsay
Ogden manner about him. He is not a man to
look well in his cups. Geniality would sit badly
on him. There is a great difference between old
men in this respect. One old man sups freely, and
it comes natural to call him a jolly old fellow.
Another old man, of equal virtue, sups freely,
and it comes natural to call him a confounded old
reprobate. To look well in his cups, and espe-
cially after them, a man must be born with a
genius in that direction. It is to be remembered,
however, that Mr. Joyce was in profound terror
of his wife. That was bound to make heartiness
hollow.
• • *
Mr. Craven, the adapter of the play, was
Victor de Latour, Misi Selwyn’s lover. He des-
cribes himself as “an amorous young French-
man.” No doubt it was Mr. Craven’s modesty
which caused him to assign to himself a part that
wanted no abilities to play. We would like to see
Mr. Craven try to lay hold of the house. He
looks well and moved well. However, if he did
not lay hold of his house, his suing was success-
ful, and he laid hold ot Miss Valence. A great
deal can be said for the alternative.
m
Two old friends helped Mr. Craven to
keep things going for Bosco. Mr. H. N. Douglas
was Fred Singleton. He had much running about
London looking for the Tompkins he wantel.
After finding about two score ot them he gave
up the billet. Mr Douglas’s build is hardly the
one for a runner of messages. Is it Shakespeare,
or;is it Victor Hugo, who describes a man as “ one
whom you could run on errands ? ” There is a
touch of genius in that description. It makes
clear our meaning when we say that Mr. Douglas,
running out of the door, with a London directory
in his hand, to search the town lor Tomkinses. did
not seem to be at congenial work. The other old
friend was Mr. Seagrave. He was valet, and was
supposed to have been imported from Ireland to
Kensington. He was, therefore, fitted up with a
quantity of wit and brogue. When Mr. Seagrave
plays the part in Ireland, the brogue will get him
taken for a Dutchman, while the wit will make
the gods want to bite him.
(Continued on page 13.)


BRIEF MENTION.
Cardinal Moran Is about to enrol 40 priests
for service In Australia. It is thought that
“ priests ” is a misprint.
They are going to establish a home for
deaconesses In Melbourne. . We presume this will
be in connection with the Young Men’s Christian
Association.
There is an American journal which is
entirely printed on paper made from sawdust.
Alfred should take a hint from this, and not let the
brains of his staff go to waste.
“PlainBill” says that “men of letters”
applauded the despatch of the Contingent. Quite
bo. But not so ardently as men who were without,
and wanted lettei’a. K.C.M.O., you know.
The Melbourne Age says:—“Peons are
going up in Germany and Austria over the change
of Government, in Eng'and.” Indeed I We never
before heard of “peons; 1 going upanywnere ex-
cept in Mexico—and then they usually went up on
the horns of a bull.
“In future address me as Capting,” said
a civil servant to a messenger; “lam entitled to
that rank by oourtsey.” And the next day the
gallant captain nearly fell in two trying to get
away from a William-goat that charged him, Nice
man—for the Soudan.
According to the Bvenoozb, General
Grant died f rom “ a malignant cancer, the same
malady that killed the first Napoleon.” Now, the
Little Corporal s cancer was in his stomach;
Grant’s near his tongue. But, then, everything is
stomach with some people.
From the Melbourne Age :—“ Melbourne
—To be Jet, Cleveland House and grounds, a per-
fect ‘russ in erbe.’” This will show you that
house-agents rush in where University professors
fear to tread. The gentleman who advertised this
delectable property must have learnt his Latin by
ear.
Dr. Taylor, the scientist, said in a recent
lecture;—“It is not the rich students only who
work in the cause of science. I have known Lan-
cashire miners who, out of their 24s. a week, have
saved enough to buy a microscope.” They must
have been a sarcastic lot, those miners. They
bought their microscopes, we presume, to see
what was left of their wages on Monday mornings
Bishop Barry has decided to commence a
special day mission for the businessmen of Syd-
ney. We wish the new venture all success. The
Inspector of Weights and Measures will be found
useful as an evangelist, and the cellar men of those
enterprising business citizens who manage to 8*11
genuine Louis Roederer fizz at 40s a dozen may
be asked by his Lordship to exhort a trifle also.
One of the chief arguments of the Vic-
torian Licensed Victuallers against the new Licens-
ing Bill is: “If this Bill is passed what will be-
come of the small publicans ?” We may have
several opinions about the wisdom of the Bill, but
we have only one opinion about this argument.
It is exactly on a plane with the question: If you
abolish capital punishment, what is to become of
the poor hangman ?
Now that the Sydney Girls’ Friendly
Society has “gone bung,” it would be interesting
to know by whom the two “singularly eligible”
slaveys, who are coming out to Bishop Barry, will
be received on their arrival. Our impression
is that the “ push will give his lordship brusher,”
and we can respectfully inform him thatl f we get
a show of annexing one of them we shan’t hesi-
tate. Our present lady-help hails from the Illa-
warra district, and uses our comb.
Maryborough (Q.) is now putting on
frills and bragging about its new fire-engine,
which can empty a 600-gallon tank of water In
three minutes. Cooktowa has taken the matter
up, however, and providing the tank is fl'led with
whisky, offers to find 100 men who will empty the
lot against the engine, and give it 40 seconds start.
Machinery will never conquer man. At least, not
in soaking “ snake-j ulce.”
Joy-bells pealed at Tamworthand bonfires
painted the welkin—or rather, we mean bitter
tears flowed fast and lamentations resounded,
when it was told that John M‘Elhone was dead.
But these signs of delirious joy, that is, grief,
subsided when subsequent tidings proved taat it
was not the member that had gone to regions
ever bright and fair, but a “ bull purp” to which
had sacrilegiously been given the name of the
hon. member for the Upper Hunter.
A Moama (Murray River) man, charged
with uttering valueless cheques, pleaded that ever
since he was kicked on the head by a horse, he had
not been altogether responsible for hla actions.
The cynical magistrate, while admitting that it was
curious a horse should klex in a fellow’s bump of
conscientiousness, said that if such a precedent
were admitted, half the Moama people would be
anxious to prove that they had been kicked on the
bump aforesaid by horses. Remanded.
The good people on a station some miles
past Moulameln, Rlverlna, were accustomed to
get their malls on a Friday, and thus knew when
the “ Sawbath” came round. Suddenly and without
notice the mail-day was changed to Tuesday, and
the station hands “ kept up ” the day of rest two
days after Tuesday, viz , on Thursday. They only
found out their mistake through the visit of a
Presbyterian meenister, who was much horrified
to discover all hands working on the Sunday.
Four Brisbane burglars have destroyed
their professional tools and gone West to take up
land. Wdat caused their late repentance? Last
week they lifted the newly-Jald foundation-stone
of the intended synagogue for the wealth they
supposed to be beneath. They found a verse ox
the Pentateuch in Hebrew. Then they rightly
considered that, owing to the way competition
was now cutting down everything, it was time to
change their calling and secure a little land whue
there was still some left in Queensland.
The “ Roll-Call Replica.”—What Is Art ?


From internal evidence we are inclined to
fancy that the Paris correspondent of the Shoal-
haven NeWs is a Chinaman writing from Tim-
buctoo. This is from a recent letter in the organ
of liberty named:—“It is contemplated to tranter
to the Pantheon, the bodies of Jules Pavre. Thiers,
Blanc, Lamartine, Baudin, Ledru Rollio, &e.—aux
grandees iommeo lapatrie tveonnaissarte!” (sic).
Mind, we don’t say that this does come from the
locality stated. Perhaps we are wrong altogether.
The correspondent may be a Shoalhaven man
learning Patagonian.
Mark how deftly the Critical and advertising arts
are combined in the following paragraph from a
N, Q. paper:—“We flatter ourselves that we are
better judges of what an officer and a gentleman’s
conduct should be than our contemporary, whose
hypercritical disposition is evidently the outcome
of an atrabilious temperament, induced no doubt
by a protracted course of serai-cooked and indi-
gestible food. Mr. Maine, our worthy chemist,
could no doubt supply our mucb-to-be-com-
miserated friend with a bottle of pepsine, which.
If properly used, would soon put the apology for
a liver which ho carries about with him in proper
working order.”
The correspondent of a Melbourne evening
Paper hints mat the N.S.W. Marine Board is an
u antique fraud,” and speaks of Its members as
oaotalns of a bygone era in navigation.” This is
another sample of Victorian venom. We are will-
wa # er that there is not a man on that
who could not write an exhaustive treatise
no= e “°P er way to Manage a Trireme, or even
a weighty opinion upon the seamanship of
\ an Tromp. And, if it comes to the handling of
»ffl mer8 ’ we believe that that Board would say
r„“ n ,°ne voice: “Look after your engine-halyards,
ana keep the reef-points of your boiler trim, and
nan’t go wrong.” Yet these are the men who
called antiquated by this sneering Victorian,
we can tell him they know quite as much about
navigation as the mud-dredge mariners of hts own
«olony. Come now I
Per playin’ fut-ball o’ Sunday,” said the
trap, as he yanked a small boy up before the
far) pur Qe City Police Court, and called up the
i"i al expression he usually employed when being
•ommended for “ profloiencv and z«al.” “What
onstable ?” enquired tne Court. ‘Break-
hv 8< $£? th > y ’ r Washup.” “ Was he doing it
L . a bul mob of’em, y’r War-
•nup. Fetch in the mob.” “ But, plase, y’r
Washup, I cudn’t * surround ’ ’em all. I oney tuk
the wan.” The Court snorted contemptuously. It
knew that a constable had never yet adequately
surrounded anything, barring cold meat and beer.
Go away and play, boy,” it said. Bat that hoy,
who would have had his ears slit a few years ago
for such a crime, turned round, put himself cheek-
by-.iowl with the Binch, and sab 1 ; ” Please, sir.
will the policeman give me me ball ?” “ He will,”
said the Court. But Constable Patrick M’Doolan
wasnt prepared to do It just then. Stoop and
we 11 tell you the reason. Nearer. His " missus ”
was using it for an improver.
Half-fainting, breathless, and tired, he
staggered into the street of Bermagui. “ A large
vessel on the rocks six miles to the south-east ”
was all he could say ere he fell exhausted to the
ground. In a moment five brawny fellows who
had often faced the long Pacific rollers, secured a
small boat and put to sea. Against a head wind
and a chopping sea, they pulled stoutly for two
hours. The cold spray dashed over them, but
they needed it not, so intent were they on reach-
ing the doomed vessel before it was too late.
Something struck the water in front of them, and
went skipping merrily to leeward. It was fol-
lowed by a boom sullen and threatening. Then It
flashed upon these reckless sea-dogs that H.M.S.
Nelson was at ball practice, and that those on
board had mistaken the boat for the floating
target. The time occupied In getting back to Ber-
magui is the fastest on record. And when (carry-
ing 1 their oars) they waited in a body on the mes-
senger to seek an explanation, and found he had
!eft an hour before, having consumed a bottle of
whisky before being brought to, the language they
used made a deep impression on those present.
“What are you doing for that cough?”
asked a banker of a wheezing editor out of em-
ployment. Oh, a bit of licorice, or some warm
water and sugar, or anything I can get cheap,”
was the reply. “ Look here, sir,” said the banker.
U i S^ j? n down into his pocket and
chinking a handful of sovereigns. “ what you want
is eggs in the shell, beaten up after they have hem
dissolved in lemon juice for three days. Add to a
dozen or so a couple of bottles of Moetand Chan-
ions best champagne, and do like Disraeli, live
Keep ypur mind from worry. Look on the
bright side of things. Take a drive out In the sun-
shine, or when It s mild, have your yacht out, and
invite a few friends down the harbour. Stint
nothing at a time like this. Take a run up to the
Blue Mountains when the weather is warmer.
Wear sealskin with the furry side in round your
chest, and see that your carpets and slippers are
soft and warm. But, above all, take a good, large,
airy house, well-ventilated, and with a pleasant
outlook. That s what I do when I have a cold.”
and he walked away thanking* God for an oppor-
tunity of assisting a suffering fellow creature, just
as a seedy-Iookmg man served the editor with a
writ for a two-year-old milk score of £113}.
Old Testament revisers show a further
Illustration that learning is not wisdom. A man’s
head may hold Greek and Hebrew to bursting and
he be still wanting in common-sense. The Revised
Bible is, for such reason, likely to get a nickname
as the “Caperberry Bible,” as long past editions
got nicknames for printer’s errors In them. The
beautifully-worded description of old ago in the
last chapter of Ecclesiastes is known to all of us.
should not have been made
ridiculous. Yet these revisers have done that
much in making the unthinking to laugh and the
judicious to grieve. Everybody appreciated the
sense of the expression, “Desire shall fail,” as
applicable to the failing appetites of old age. The
revisers boggled over it, however-coming to the
decision that the word “desire ” had been used for
stimulant,” and that the stimulant named In the
Hebrew text was the “ caperberry,” so to call the
capers of our dinner-table. Instead, therefore, of
writing, “Stimulants shall fail,” which would
have been sensible, the name of one stimulant
| only has been used. “ The caperberry shall fall,”
as we now read In the Revised Version, Is absolute
nonsense to 99 out of every 100 Blble-readers.
- Coming after the mention of the grasshopper
being a burden, it has even a comic look to some,
and is altogether a blunder of learning— minus
common-sease.
The two chief police magistrates in Mel-
bourne are Mr Panton and Mr. Chi These gentle-
men admiahter the law each in his own m mner.
r he djlf*renoe8 between their judgments are
therefore someimes peculiarly striking and
i*lways pleasantly picturesque. On tne fame day,
a short time ago, two boys were brought up by
r.be police for playing at football on Sunday. Oae
was taken In baud by Mr. Panton, the other by Mr.
Call-In separate courts, of course The former
fortunate youth was discharged without a stain
upon his character, and the policeman who
arrested him was coldly ordered to return him his
football. We are not sure whether the restitution
had not to be accompanied by an apology. The
second hapless youngster was fined 103., and
grimly informed that next time he came there
charged with a similar offence the fine would b
doubled. He left the court with his character
steened in crime-his reputation rulned-his pro-
speots blighted. He will grow up with the brand
ol infamy on his brow. What will become of him ?
it is sad to speculate upon his future. He may
® v ® n b<3C°in e a police magistrate. Then he can
take it out of the boys. But the first boy will
grow up in grace and good report, and perchance,
in the tulness of time, become a lawyer, and be
honoured and respected by all who have no deal-
ings with him. Thus do we see how the paths of
youth may diverge at the police court.
There was a row at an hotel up South re-
cently. It seems that a R.C. Bishop and his at-
tendants stopped at the lonely bark shanty, or
something, of a well-known identity who had
agreed to provide them with horses. In the course
of the afternoon, the Bishop’s friends went for a
stroll, guided by the landlord: and during their
absence the landlady—who was a devout daughter
of the Church, and rarely had a chance of unbur*
C ening her conscience to a cleric of any sort -ex-
pressed a desire to confess, and led his lorfshlp
into her boudoir. Having taken the precaution to
lock the door In order to avoid interruption, she
was about to tell his reverence a lot of things—
possibly, among others, how many silk dresses she
had “ made ” out of the till during the last quarter
—when her husband came thundering at the door.
.... It was no good explaining. It wasn't
being “biffed ’’ out on to the clammy black soil
that the Bishop so much objected to, nor the pew-
ter measure that caught him behind the ear; but
what he violently disliked was the strange smile
that pervaded the countenance of his chaplain.
This is a cynical and cruel world. Which reminds
us, by the way, that, in another colony (Queens-
land, wo bedeve) a Duke, or Earl, or something
who looked lo at a station homestead one day and
partook of lunch, became, In an hour or two,
violently enamoured of the fascinating wife of the
manager, aud tried to kiss her. To sotno people it
may appear strange, but the little woman was
proof against even the august advances of a Dook
or Earl. Her husband found her in tears, and
having ascertained the reason thereof, quickly
saddled his best horse and started after his nibs,
wbo, by that time, had proceeded a few miles upon
his journey. And when he caught him I — _
Belshazzar’s Feast.


A strengthening cordial — Wolfe' sSchnapps.
grocer keeps Kingsford's Oswego Corn-
flour done up In and llb.-paokets,
A NEW DISCOVERY.—Hoffman’s Eucalypto)
(registered) “ Mixture and Injection.’ 1 bey will
positively cure all kidney diseases and disorders,
all urinary complaints and discharges, irritation,
scalding, inflammation, gravel, pains In the back,
&c. A case incurable in nine months was actually
cured in eight days with Hoffmann’s Buoalyptol
Injection (“ purely vegetable ”). Hoffman's Eu-
oalyptol Mixture or Injection contain no mineral,
no sandalwood, no balsam, or anything injurious
to the most delicate constitution of either sex.
Ask for Hoffmnn’s, and take no substitute.
Wholesale; E. Prosser and Co.; Elliott Bros. Re-
tail : All principal chemists and storekeepers
Price, Ss. 8d. and 3s. 8d.*
For a torpid liver take Wolfe's Schnapps.
(Continued from page 0)
We have not much to say about the
women. Miss Docy Malnwarlng was the vixenish
wife. Her admiration of old Bosco, whom she
takes for Horace Tompkins, the new society poet,
is ably expressed. She devours him with her
eyes, and her rhapsodical allusions to the new
volumes of “The Midnight Moans” and “The
Frozen Tear” exhibit a capacity for burlesque
M’ss Mainwaring might make something out of.
Miss Helene de Valence had very little to do. She
extracted a swoon out of a situation that hardly
anybody but herself could have got more than a
mild laugh from She is evidently clever, and saw
that if she didn’t take that chance to lie down she
wouldn’t get another for the night. She is fair,
pretty, and capable, and the way she did the few
things given to her, which were embraces, augurs
well. Miss Horton was a pert little parlour-maid.
Miss Gwynno as Lottie Blithers and Fred’s in-
tended looked in only at the finish.
* ♦ ♦
Mr. Craven’s adaptation does not aim at
impressing the intellect or imagination. It looks
only for cachinnatlon. It even runs risks to
secure plenty of this.
* * * *
The Lynch Family of Bellringers are still
chiming merrily at the old Masonic Hall. This is
their last week, and those who have not yet heard
their oampanalogian entertainment lud better
look sharp, or like the unhappy man, “ they wi.l
be too late.”
« • * •
Fred. Millis, after having been all over thj
world since his season here in ’83, has got a short
lease of the old Masonic Hall, and opens there on
Monday night. Frederick is clever and is beauti-
ful. The first quality ensures the attendance of
men at his entertainments, his loveliness is what
attracts the other moiety of humanity.
« « « *
The old Masonic Hall, having been ob-
tained by Messrs. J. Davis, of Sydney, and M. L
Raphael, of Melbourne, on a long leas?, is to be
altered and thoroughly renovated. It will then
be available as a concert hall, &o., and not neces-
sarily as a theatre, as stated by our contemporaries.
We would like to suggest to the lessees that a new
name for the hall would be an improvement. The
present title is decidedly clumsy.
• » ♦ «
Thady O’Kane went to listen to “ East
Lynne,” when Miss Juno set It on the boards at
Charters Towers lately. He says that Miss Juno,
“ in her abandoned state,” won but slowly on the
sympathies of the audience. Of course he refers
to her in her character of the faithless wife. On
the other hand, “ Mr. Taylor made a first-rate rout
and villain.” That Is praise from Sir Hubert.
Thady says there was not a dry eye in the hall, but
a little lower down he avers that “ the back
benches lighted up their pipes, and kept them in
full blast all the time.” However, it was a great
nfirhton the whole, although In the interests of
Charters Towers decency the vigorous Tribune
had to ask the constables to take out a couple of
noisv hoodlums and hang them up.
The Lion at the Zoo (loq.): “Now, what
stupidity i 1 hey cabled home for a lioness,
and the Agent-General (so says this report)
has been and bought a training ship named
the ‘ Lionels,’ How am I ever to marry a
training ship?”
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Belle,—As I sat in the Theatre Royal
the other night, listening to the Mosaic-like music
of “ La Petite Mademoiselle,” I inwardly wondered
whether we shall ever again see grand opera in
Sydney, or whether it has utterly passed away
with the genial and enterprising Lyater. Opera
uouffe is all well enough, but even the most frivo-
lous of us tire of the tum-tum melodies, fleshings,
and high kicking after awhile, and yearn for the
creations of Verdi—I don’t mean Mr. Guglielmo
Green—Mozart, Donizetti, Meyerbeer, Bellini.
Weber, and other great masters, which, from what
I recollect, were presented with a grand complete-
ness here when Lyater lived. But worst of all is
the 'act that we are becoming quite barbarous in
matters musical, for we know ansolutely nothing
of the new operas pr iduced of late years, many of
which seem to be of great excellence. “ Carmen ’
may be said to bo the last new opera with which
Australia was favoured; vet several French, South
American, and Russian composers have come to
the front since Bllyet died Mossonet appears to be
the most promising of the new com posers. His
“Madeshda” was a success, but in jm latest pro-
dvct'on, “ Manon Lescaut,” founded on Dumas
well-known story, he seems to have made a new
departure. The great feature of “ Manon ” is a
song given to Maas, “With a fang'seye I saw,”
the effect of which is electrical. It is sung to a
weird feiique accompaniment, chiefly of violins
high up in the treble, and is something quite out
of the common. I wonder when some Sydney
concert singer will be pleased to sing this wonder-
ful song for us. It appears to me that there is no
necessity for our vocalists to give the same old
songs over and over again, till they quite pall upon
us, when so many new ones are being produced
every day at home. I do wish we could have
something fresh more often than we have.
Even yet the controversy is not ended in New
Zealand about those dry old classical books. A
couple of my young friends preparing to matricu-
late next session at our seat of learning, Newtown,
are teasing me to tell them what the discussion is
all about—as it T could explain it to thoir satisfac-
tion! But, now listen-Mrs. Aldls, of Auckland,
writes to say that no girl should be allowed to read
certain Latin authors; she says it would hurt their
modesty; at the same time sne owns she has read
them in their entirety. Now, you know, when we
were at school, only parts of these old books were
explained to us, so I feel forced to allow there must
be some truth in what Mrs. Aldis says about their
being so dreadful. One book is called the “ Heau-
tontlmoroumonos ” of Terence It must'be a fear-
ful book to have such a name as that; the authori-
ties of Canterbury College say it is monstrous, yet,
if the girls want a degree, they must read it. It is
on the syllabus. A singular thing is that Mr. Has-
lam, the Professor of Classics in that college, who
was one of those who set the book dokrn for study,
sides with Mrs, Aldls in denouncing it. When
asked why he put it on the list, he said he had
never read it —so you see that IE we girls of the
past are not qualified to point out the dangerous
authors, wo are no worse oil than a modern pro-
fessor.
The sutjectis, however, a serious one for our
sex, and it is quite dreadful to think that those
among us who nave a taste for the classics indulge
in it at the expense of our modesty. It is only by
last mall we learn that the celebrated and beloved
Giulia Cavallari, a student of the University of
Bologna, has been given, in her 25th year, the clas-
sical chair in the High School for women in Rome.
W hat will Mrs. Aldis say of her, I wonder ? But it
touches us more closely still, since our Melbourne
and Sydney girls have made a beginning in carry-
ing off the B.A. degree. Ned shakes his head, and
says they had to read the same books he read, and
that brings them practically under the ban of Mrs.
Aldis. This lady is the wife of a professor of
mathematics, and she will therefore be able to
figure out the perplexity of young girls who read
her letters. In real truth, dear Belle, I don t ad-
mire those who are always carping about the
moral tendencies of everything they read. I take
it that, in the abstract, our modesty is as safe in
the hands of honourable and cultured men as it is
in our own. Ned says Horace is as bad as Terence,
and that there are passages la Juvenal worse than
either; but he asserts that, read as a student reads
them, there is nothing in them, in fact, he holds
that if these are to be hidden, Shakespeare, Field-
ing. Smollet, Swift, and-the Bible must all be
hidden too. Just after talking with him, I recalled
what Mrs. Barret Browning advises, namely, to be
no niggard in the books one reads: to read away,
read away, confident that if the mind be nobly
directed that which is good in the book will rest,
that which is bad will fly. I think it is somewhere
in her “ Aurora Leigh ” she expresses a sentence
like that. But, there, you are yawning over the
subject of the dry old classics, so, for the nonce, I
will quit it.
I am glad you are trying to organise Sunday
concerts up there, and I suppose you caught the
idea from us, as, no doubt, you have seen tne ad-
vertisements in some of our dailies to the effect
that M. de Willimoff is to manage a series In our
New Masonic Hall Sunday is rapidly becoming
all over the world a day of amusement, and is no
longer a day of heavy dinners, indigestion (through
want of proner exercise), and gloom. We are not
all idlers and millionaires, consequently we must
have one day in tne week for reereation and
changes, which means rest for the tired mind and
body. Even the clergy at homo have seen fit to
discuss the question, aid in some parishes Sunday
amusements have been devised for the people. I
hold that a Sunday spent in cheerful or even in-
structive amusement tends far more to fit both
mind and body to meet the trials of the next six
days in the week than it the same day were passed
strictly in doors and in idleness, as the proper old-
fashioned Sabbath invariably is or wis, Yes,
shocking as it may seem to those dear old conven-
tional people, who won’t see the thiag; in its pro-
per light, the Sunday of the future will be what It
was always intended to be-a day of enjoyment,
and not a day of dread. So go on with your Sun-
day concerts, dear, by all means.
I must say I admire the Scotch nuptial arrange-
ments more than I do those of the English. The
former can marry at any time of the day without
obtaining a special license at a cost ot £30 for so
doing, and Instead of the long, dreary, speechy
dejeuner, an enjoyable dance after the ceremony is
much more to the Scottish taste The Scotch bap-
tism is also different from the English, in thatgod-
fathers and godmothers are unknown, the child’s
parents taking their place; but the lion’s share of
the ceremony falls upon the father, he being com-
pelled to hold the infant throughout the cere-
mony; whilst the mother, for this once, has only
a subordinate place. I should like, above ail
things, Belle, to see a Scotch baptism; It would be
quite worth while sitting out the affair j ust for the
tun of seeing a big awkward man holding a babe
lu long clothes, embarrassed at its shrieks—for, of
course, it would shriek—they all do when they are
wanted to be quiet—and not knowing how to st'll
them. Oh I it would be fun!
The domestic servant trouble in Sydney doesn’t
abate one bit; indeed, 1 think matters grow worse,
for they all seem to be in league together to do as
little as as they can for ruinous wages. I know of
one girl, who. because she possessed a conscience
and did honest work, got into dire disgrace with
her fellow-servants. They reproached her so
bitterly for “spoiling places for other girls” by
doing as she was bid and so forth, that at last
she succumbed to their ways, and is now as care-
less a servant as can be found in Sydney. And
that’s just the way they do, dear, so no wonde?
our households are in a constant state of ferment
in consequence. And really, I think the “ old and
valued servant *’ Is equally to be dreaded. Look
at our old Byrnes, for instance. Have we not all
to consult her convenience in matters domestic
rather than our own ? Of course we have; and I
really think the petting and pampering which is
necessary in order to keep these “ old retainers
in good humour, detracts greatly from the com-
fort we have derived from their long and honest
servitude.] They are torments, these servants, and
I wish with all my heart aU the household
drudgery could be done by machinery. A friend
of mine told me yesterday that her children s
nurse had resigned her position on account of her
duties being too arduous, and had, with the un-
reason peculiar to the tribe, declared that if It
wasn’t for the children, she could manage the
place very well.” So. as my friend didn t quite
see her way to abolish the children in order to
make things easy for their nurse, the girl left.
I saw an article in a paper one day entitled “ Why
not live by daylight?” It said that in countries
which are called civilised there appears to be the
greatest effort made to live as far into the night as
possible, and sleep in the daylight. Now, dear,
why is this thus? For it’s perfectly true that
late hours have a strange fascination for most of
us, whilst early rising Is simply abhorrent. No
one thinks it a hardship to stay up late at night,
but everybody shirks rising with the sun in the
morning. What we gain by this dodging of our
sleep hours is more than I can explain; no more
time is got by it out of the 34, and a very great
deal of artificial light is wasted. 1 have heard say
that a good third of the oil and gas burnt in the
world is due to this desire to avoid daylight and
livo a night life—a desire which all the good pro-
verbs about the advantages of early rising have
not yet availed to eradicate. Truly, we are strange
beings to thus scorn the luxury of the healthiest,
cheapest, and best light given us by nature I
I am afraid—very much afraid- that tailor-made
clothes for ladies mean to have a good reign. My
concern is for the poor dressmakers, who must, of
course, suffer by it. But, as if to compensate
dressmakers’ assistants to a certain extent for
slackness of employment, a firm of ‘tailors for
women ” in New York has created a new employ,
which doesn't call forth half the drudgery en-
tailed by making a dress. This new thing is the
“living model,” for which, however, only the
handsomest and most shapely girls can hope to be
chosen. They are trained to strike effective
attitudes, and walk with a gait intended to repre-
sent that of the most approved London belles,
and thus customers can see to the very best
advantage the costumes they are desirous
of purchasing. Oae firm alone in New York
employs 15 girls in this capacity. But there
is a. still more remarkable device for catch-
ing the fancy of New York wearers of
fashionable garments. In the centre of a room
stands a hobby-horse big as life, supported in such
a way on springs as to rise and tali like a horse on
the gallop. The sides of the room are composed
of mirrors, so any lady who seeks a new riding-
habit is enabled to see herself just as others see
her, and select her article, with her eyes wide
open, as to its charms or defects.
So Frank’s uncle is dead at last, and he will in-
herit the pronerty he has been waiting for all
these yearsl Oh I Bella, dear, don’t you think this
waiting for “ dead mens’ shoes ” is very terrible ?
Why ever can’t a man spend his money while he
lives—spend it well. I mean. It would then make
people desirous of keeping him with them, Instead
of looking forward to his death, as Frank un-
doubtedly has to his uncle’s. I think if I were a
man of wealth, instead of allowing it to accumu-
late, just for the benefit of perhaps one or two
individuals who would congratulate themselves
on their good fortune as soon as i was no more, I
would manage so as to draw my last cheque with
my last breath—close my banking account simul-
taneously with my eyes In the last long sleep.
Then everybody would grieve in real earnest at
losing a good friend—there would be no mock woe
depicted on the faces of those most nearly con-
cerned, who were eagerly awaiting the time when
they should become possessed of a ready-made
fortune. Uh I No. I’d have none of that.
I should fancy it would embitter all the sweets of
life to feel that someone was waiting-waiting
eagerly and impatiently to step into your shoes as
soon as the time came. But a man who hoards his
wealth deserves no better fate-it’s just a fit
punishment for him, isn’t it ?
I heard Ned talking to his friend Charlie about
this barmaid question. They were saying that
New Zealand had caught the Hebe abolition craze,
and scores of petitions had been sent to their
Parliament praying for the non-employment of
the barmaid. Ned said that it had been pointed
out that the first 35 signatures on ono of these
petitions were these of bank-clerks. Upon which
that horrible Charlie exclaimed: “Poor wretches 1
They must indeed have been hit hard, as doubtless
they had all married barmaids.’’
Do you know, dear, Tasmania is the first
Southern colony that has ever reared its own
“ Governess?" The wife of the Earl of Donough-
more, who has been recently appointed Governor
of that picturesque little island, is a beautiful
Tasmanian. Ho*v do they manage if, these Tas-
manian belles ? Is it the jam they eat. I wonder?
Just think what a splendid chance Lady Donough-
more will have—if she should choose to make use
of it—to humble the pride of the girls she disliked
before she became Lady Donoughmorel
One of the events of the week was Miss Gene-
vieve Ward’s benefit at the Opera House, on Fri-
day night, There was a bumper house, and the
lady received countless bouquets and baskets ot
flowers. After the first part of the performance,
Mr. Griffin (American Consul) presented her with
a laurel wreath on behalf ot the American citi-
zens. He made a speech which met everybody’s
approval, and Miss Ward replied sweetly and
cleverly. Addio.
Yours as ever,
MAB.
The London Replica Association (Unlimited).
The Jones’ Medals.
Next In gorgeousness to the ceremony of present-
ing new colours to a regiment, is that of present-
ing medals. At least such is the case in the British
and most other services. Bearing this in mind,
the manner in which the presentations were made
to “ our boys ” on Saturday last, was oppressively
gloomy and funereal. There was no Governor to
tell them that their action had drawn closer the
ties of kinship; no Attorney-General to assure them
that their departure made France pause before
sending more convicts to New Caledonia, Germany
take less than she intended of Papua, and Russia
retire from within striking distance of Herat.
Even the Mayor was not there, and so Alderman
John Young presided. There was a falling off—
there was a drop from Mercutlo to Tybalt, from
Romeo to the Apothecary I And the medals, too.
Have you seen them ? We give a picture of
one, but no artistic skill could do it justice.
Sooner than wear one wo would prefer an
empty sardine-tin tied to our top button
with twine. Get any old soldier to show
you his Crimean, or New Zealand, or Egyptian
medal, and what do you find ? The man's name
and rank on the edge, and his alone. You might
put it under the douhle-mlllion-magnifyinggas-
mloroscope of Mr. Weller without discovering
another name. But observe how we have im-
proved on all that. With us tho man's name does
not appear at all. but instead, that of Mayor Play-
fair, in large letters on one side, and of E. Jones, in
small, on the other. Indeed, so small are the letters
in the latter name, that we at tlrst spelled them
“ Johns,” and for some time thought the souvenir
was intended to commemorate the untimely death
of that much-tempted young person. In fact,
whatever this Soudan token may be as an adver-
tisement, as a medal it is a dismal failure. Even
at this early stage of the hapless wa'fs life, the
death-mark is on its little face-the pawnbroker s
window awaits it. Evan Jones can make artistic
medals when he likes- This time they evidently
haven’t given him enough 'money. And Evan,
like Mayor Playfair, is an Alderman. The medal
commemorates Mayor Playfair and Alderman
Jones.
View of the interior of their building, with portrait
of the fountain head (wholly imaginary).
Portrait of “Board of Directors” (imaginary, also).
Portrait of the Treasurer—the man what take
the monish.


Mr. Howitt, Police Magistrate and Ethno-
logist. applied to the Chief Secetary of Victoria, a
few days ago, for permission to organise a oorro-
boree of the blacks of Lake Tyers and Ramahyuck
stations. This Rentleman, who belongs to a well
known literary family, is engaged wrltlnR a book
on the aborigines of A ustralla. The Chief Secetary
refused, for the astounding reason that there 18 a
feud between the blacks of the two stations, and
gore would flow If they met. This, after the
years of drilling In Christian doctrine they have
had—after the money that has been collected to
Erovide them with teachers and preachers, hymn
ooks and hlbles. It could not be worse If one lot
were taught the Presbyterian and the other the
Popish form of the religion of Peace. On the
whole-though we regret to have to own It—we
believe It might have been just as well to leave
them to grope their way to the Hereafter by the
lights th«y had.
No kitchen Is complete without Klngsford’s
Oswego Cornflour.
Persons whose occupations are unhealthy-
take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
For Blancmanges, KIngaford’s Osv e/o Cornflour
cannot be surpassed.
THE GORGE OF THE GOBLINS.
A clear, cold night, with the moon in
cynical profile, and a heavy roll-up of those
twinkling orbs which grovellers term mysterious,
ind poets (Lewis Scott Included) " celestial.” A
Sretty night it was, with the street-lamps lighting
up with a pantomimic suddenness, one by one;
»nd the shop-windows of the grocers also burst-
ing suddenly into a glow in a queer Christmassy
manner that was homely and delightful. When
we arrived near the Exhibition Building, where
our Intrepid warriors were to be feasted, it was
■harp on the hour announced by the committee
for the commencement of the “wolfing;” yet the
attractions of the public-houses opposite proved
too much for about 200 of the heroes, who had
nositively refused to be seduced over the way by
obsequious stewards embellished with blue bows,
upon whose gloomy countenances was stamped
the augury of an impending crisis.
They were a motley company, these pala-
dins in khakee and their ladies. After seeing the
detachment, we shall never believe that the eam-
?i ft ign they went through was not a gory comblna-
ion of sun, sweat, aud slaughter. The dilapida-
tion in them was a spectacle for gloomy considera-
tion, the more especially as, by the bulbous
appearance of their helmets, our guerillas ap-
peared to have received all the blows of the
enemy on their heads. This circumstance would
account, no doubt, for the return of so large a
number. Most of the men, we found, were drink-
ing “beer and syrup I” and “port-wine hot”
seemed to be the favourite beverage of the ladles.
These latter, however, expressed themselves in
plain terms to toe anxious to take their places in
the gallery and watch their lords torture the
tucker; but the importunities of these young per-
sons met with scarcely any response In the averted
(not to say glazed) eyes of their several soldiers.
As a rule, a hiccup was the only reply vouchsafed
hy these would-be murderers of the Mahdl.
* * *
There was a well-lit cloak-room, manned
the courteous corsairs that pervade the vesti-
bule .of every ball. Immediate possession was
taken *»f our hat and ulster, in return for which
we were awarded half a board-and-residenoe card,
Cumbered several thousands for which we ex-
pressed our grateful acknowledgment. Entering
simultaneously with us was the ubiquitous Cupid
of the Macieay, In a condition of evening dress
■scarcely to be expressed in narrative, and it was
flpmewhat of a trial to us while crowding in with
Juo Khakee-ers. to observe him at once pervade
the platform. This elevation for “ the nobs” was
arranged in the exercise of a wise discretion, so
that the speakers would be thoroughly protected
from the audience. Their table ran across the full
length of the stage, while ours were in parallel
lines; and presented, at the first glance a brilliant
coup d'aeil. The hall was decorated with a few sets
of flags, many of which, alas I we recognised with
tears and sorrow. We had hoped they had been
long ago superannuated, or handed over to the
tender mercies of the paper mill. We had met this
garish and sorry fustian up lone country places,
where local members sawed the air in damp little
halls, whose walls bad broken out in fantastic
h'otches, not unsuggestive of the countenances of
the “ free and independent.” Again, at rowing-
dub balls, these flags have flaunted us. and we
once blushed to find ourselves face to face with
them at a railway opening. At the Austrian Band
pall they fluttered their little hour, and even later
on were again nailed up to do honour to the young
Princes. This Is almost too much, even for us,
who are so kind, generous, and forgiving!
m m *
Everybody, upon being seated, fixed his
attentive gaze upon the platform, upon which the
distinguished guests drifted slowly. The appear-
ancelof IHs Excellency with his star and riband,
was not. we regret, the scene of such a loyal and
respectful ovation as we could have wished—the
vice-regal entrance certainly calling forth a de-
cided * r cock-a-doodle-doo” from the gallery. Mr.
Dibba also excited but little attention. He has
grown wondrously careworn and grey, and has, in
the course of his Ministerial duties, acquired
another forehead—this time at the back of his
head. While the Mayor was occupied in showing
the Governor the costly tea-and-coffee service
(which lit up well) that was shortly to be presented
to the heroic creature who had most distinguished
himself in the, Soudan, the Knight of Clovelly
appeared, in star and riband, and was received
with much hilarity. Mixing with these was Aider-
man Withers in a frock-coat—a gifted (if not
poetic) creature who would adorn any phase of
society; and apparently doing the honours to the
Speaker was Alderman John Young, likewise in
afternoon attire. His general “ get-up ” suggested
more a funeral than a banquet, though this remark
may be extracted from us by a latent thought of
how much the banquet suggested a funeral. The
Shirt mounted by the Speaker attracted much
attention. It was, however, respected by the
company as being by its size and volume a valued
heirloom.
■ • •
The appearance, simultaneously, of Colonel
Richardson in scarlet aud medals (he has evidently
been a terror In his time 1), the Bishop, Colonel
Roberts, and Sir Alfred Stephen was the signal for
the commencement of the ghostly guzzle. The
minu was as follows, and though attractive in
appearance, we cannot but regard its nature as
delusive
MENU
Turkey Roast Beof Chicken
Round Beef
Duck Sucking Pig Goose
Spiced Beef Aspic Turkey
Brawn
Chicken in Aspic Saddle of Mutton
Galantine Lamb Ox Tongue
York Ham
Salads Mashed Potatoes
Charlotte Russe Westminster Pudding
Creams, assorted Blancmange
Jam Tartlets
Pudding d la Princess
Fruit Pies Meringued Apples
Fancy Tartlets
Jellies Fruit, etc.
On the obverse side of this attractive document
was T a highly fascinating presentment of three
laughing-jackasses, apparently welcoming the ar-
rival of the Contingent—a picture, in the concep-
tion of which the author has been singularly
happy. Before us was a turkey which appeared
in great request, and at an early period of the en-
tertainment we were aweary of hacking off great
blocks of her for our immediate neighbours. Hap-
pening to gaze around we discovered,5with a start,
in our immediate vicinity—Friedman. He cast
upon us a reproachful glance, and sent up bis
plate. He got a yard-and-a-half of the breast.
We can vouch, in the card, for the “ mashed pota-
toes,” but are somewhat sceptical on the subject
of the “ chickens in aspic,” for when we sent our
plate for some the waiter returned with cheese
and celery. After that we confined ourselves to
the turkey, though much harassed by waiters
on errands charged with abduction. To the fourth
one we said: “ Remembering Mr. Pecksniff’s
words to Jonas about Charity—Though many
have sought to bear her from me, all have failed;
but still I must one day steel myself to part with
her.” And thus we parted.
• • •
They were pleasant fellows at our table,
which was uuinvaded by the Khakee mob, but it
was a singular fact that none of them appeared to
have paid to come In. A young gentleman who
has faced many a frame, gave it out openly that
he hid “shoved in on the nod,” while we could
■ee several municipal employes about us, who bad
most certainly entered “on the whisper.” We
don’t mind saying that we also had essayed, upon
this national occasion of festivity, to exercise our
molars “ on the bluff.” We were, however, diplo-
matically defeated by the Mayor, whose suggestion
that a two-guineas’ subscription would ensure a
free pass, we scouted ; preferring to save one
pound two (which will doubtless be bestowed in
charity) by purchasing a ticket in the ordinary
way. As subsequent events have turned out, it
must be obvious to all, that had we subscribed to
this business, we should have covered ourselves
with ignominy!
♦ * *
As at the historic dinner at Todgers’s,
there were bottled beer aud bottled stout, also
wines, “ both native and foreign.” We consider
that, in quantity, the “native” predominated
over the " foreign,” though one of the stewards—
Neville Griffiths, we think—handed us a bottle of
imported hook, which was a “teazer.” We had
one glass, and requested the waiter to forward it
to Friedman. Deceived by the seductive appear-
ance of the bottle, he filled a brimmer, and we
watohed him as he drank. We knew by the ex-
pression of his face, Immediately afterwards, that
all the fairy tales wo could over concoct would
never extract another “pony” from him I We
beguiled another guest into toasting Her Majesty
the Queen, and he changed colour Immediately he
had imbibed. He said it had curdled up all the
beer he had drunk during the evening into great
big belligerent blocks I Another extremely polite
steward urged upon us a flagon of colonial claret.
We pressed his hand with gratitude, and declined.
“We have seen them make it,” we explained,
upon which he retired, not ungracefully.
* * *
In the early part of the evening some of
us essayed an impromptu or two. They were all
very bad, and ours, we consider, was the worst of
the batch. It ran as follows
There was a young soldier, now hark’ee,
Who came down from Carcoar in khakee;
He got biffed in the jaw by his mother-in-law
And fled back to Carcoar in khakee.
And yet this doggerel became at once extra-
ordinarily popular. It was handed about until we
became almost as famous as though we had
written “ Childe Harold;” and, we have it on good
authority, that, on being handed up to the big
table, the effusion was the cause of no inconsider-
able merriment. Rash fools that we were, to have
allowed the oomnositlon to escape from our grasp.
It at once gave Doubleyoubeedee the cue to come
down on us. We eyed him with much Interest as
he delivered his oration, in which he characterised
us as small wits and the like. It was quite evident
to anyone that either the Contingent or the claret
had proved tco much for Mr. D. s oratory, for he
spoke, for the most part, In angry, Jerky, and un-
rounded periods. The worthy gentleman should
be much obliged to the Rum and the Herald for
the picturesque manner in which he was reported;
but, in all probability, the scroll was delivered at
both offices on the day before—in a hand-barrow.
The Governor’s oration was a noble and glorious
effort. He read it all out of a copy-book, and was
quite inaudible to us though we were sitting, as it
were, just under the ball of his big toe. His Ex-
cellency’s opinions were, however, received with
much hilarity by the Contingent, and audible ob-
servations, such as “Go it, old boy!” and ** Ain’t
his nurse come for him ?” floated amongst the
khakee ranks.
» • *
Things, by this time, had become a bit gay
in the banqueting hall, but it was only after the
speech of Colonel Richardson that the real fun
commenced. We looked round, and the appalling
nature of the spectacle suddenly dawned upon us.
The greater part of the company, who had come
as guests, remained as goblins. In a word, British
beer had done its work with the Contingent. The
veterans openly guyed the speakers, and in the
middle of an eloquently grammatical flight by the
Mayor, a very full private shouted: “ Cop Marler,”
and tossed his girl, in the gallery, a Jelly. Buns
then began to be freely bandied about, and tart-
lets were sent up like rockets. One of the men
(who was quite “paralysed") had a streak of jam
over his eye-brow, and another his helmet be-
decked with blancmange. The efforts of another
to Jam a cream-cake into his pocket was much
remarked, and his failure received with general
merriment. But it was only after the flight of
Bishop Barry that the orgie reached its height.
The men then presented a sad, sad sight. Never
were heroes so fallen I
• • •
They were no more noble warriors, but
they had degenerated into greasy, guzzling, gorg-
ing goblins I We waited until we had seen two
struggling for the possession of a pine-apple, and
then we beat a sad and pensive retreat.
Housing tho Primate.


Wolfe's Schnapps for the overstrained
nerves.
For Pies, Puddings, Custards, Blancmanges, &o.,
use Kingstord’s Oswego Cornflour.
Avoid excitement, dissipation, and late
hours, and take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The purity and excellence of Klngsford’s Oswego
Cornflour Is unequalled.
BEALE & COMPANY.
BEALE & COMPANY
Beale & Company.
BEALE & COMPANY.
BOLE IMPORTERS OP THE
Sweet Hapsburg Piano,
AND THE
Haydn Organs & Harmoniums,
BEALE & COMPANY, f
Sole Importers of the Best and Strongest
SEWING-MACHINE
ever landed in the Colonies. Guaranteed to sew
from the Finest Muslin to the Heaviest Canvas.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
Sydney Show Rooms,
386 and 613 GEORGE STREET,
13 CENTRAL MARKETS,
151 OXFORD STREET.
TRAVELLERS AND BRANCHES THROUGH-
OUT THE COUNTRY.
LIBERAL TERMS OP TIME-PATMBNT.
Catalogues Free on Application.
“ BEACH’S "
CONSULTATION
ON THE
Sir Joseph Bank’s 4th Brand Handicap,
to be run at Botany, August 23ad, 36th, and 39tb,
1885 ; also on
Hawkesbury Handicap, Metropolitan and
Melbourne Cnp,
NOW OPEN.
1000 SUBSCRIBERS, 10«. BACH.
First Horse, £350.
Address—
“BEACH,”
Care of J. Q. Deeble,
Hotel, King and Pitt Street, Sydney
Plfase apply early.
Lawyers. Authors, Clergymen and Phy-
sicians ara all favourably inclined towards Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Kingsfords Oswego Cornliour made of American
Indian Corn, pure and unadulterated.
Purchasers should use caution else they
will have a counterfeit article palmed on them as
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Ladles, if you want your Pastry light, use Kings-
ford’s Oswego Cornflour.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
, a tnau oe glad w have thU *nae* p*« «a up «>
n€crclaries of racing clubt and manager* of
sporting events in (janarai.1
RACING.
Tamworth R.C Au A U8 L*’ S
Rcsehill R C M
Townsville (Annual) ..........Augurtia, W
Northern Hunt Club, at Rand wick..... .August 33
Canterbury Park R.C September s
Hawkesbury (Spring) September 10 12
ki&A'oH! 1
Canterbury Park R.C .. Ootobor 17
Narrabri J.C December 3, 3
Liverpool J.C November 9
Canterbury Park R.C w
A. J.C. (Summer) ™ Iq
Rosehlll December 28
AQUATICS.
Newcastle R.C. Regatta
M.R.C. Outrigger Race ....September
Davis v. Maoleaa
M.R.C. Branch Regatta October 10
ATHLETICS.
Qulrlndi Handicap ... ...August 5, 6
Sir Joseph Banks Fourth Handicap.... August 32,
My My M
Mudgee Sheffield Handicap September 1
Eight Hours’ Art Union and Sports, Agrl-
cultural Society’s Grounds October 7
’CYCLING.
Sydney Bicycle Club (Annual R.M.), Aeso-
elation Ground August 23
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
An English paper says s — 1 “ Mr. B. Howett.
the well-known Nottingham pencliler, is going out
to Australia.”
Mh Owen Friend potted his nine birds on
Saturday at the N.8.W. Gun Club ground, and
secured the trophy presented by Mr. M Quado.
An American paper says Larry Foley
contemplates a trip to America, when the offer
will be made to back him against anything, bar
Sullivan, for £500 aside. Bosh.
This (Thursday) evening Clarence Whistler
and John Thomas meet in a mixed wrestling
match at the Nugget Theatre, Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne, best of five falls, mixed style.
“By their defeat of Balmain on Saturday
ISst the University footballers may now be said to
have virtually won the Cup, as their remaining
matches will not materially affect their chance.
So far, they have an unbeaten record.
The cablegram to our dailies announcing
that Lord Rosebery’s horses for the Derby and
Oaks next year will be nominated by the Prince
of Wales. Is bosh. The nominations for the Derby
pf l&Si were maile last year, and all horses run in
the names of the nominator;
The champion small-scoring mdtbh has
just been recorded in English cricket. In a match
between the Birkenhead Victoria and Egremont
clubs, the latter, in their second Innings, did not
score a run from the bat. The total was 3, repre-
sented by one wide and one leg-bye.
At Charlotte, U.S., on May 35, John S.
Prince rode a bicycle four miles against four trot-
ters going a mile each. He won every contest,
and in one of the trials he made one mile four
yards in 3min. 33seo. Prince fainted after the per-
formance, but was soon brought round.
Charles Mitchell, the English pugilist,
and Jack Dempsey, were matched to box with
small gloves to a finish for £1000 a side* the match
to come off at’Frisco about the middle of July.
For a little ’uq, Dempsey has proved himself a
wonder, but with a first-class man of Mitchells
weight it was not thought he would stand much
show.
The Sydney footballers were fairly busy
on the bank holiday. On metropolitan grounds,
Wallaroo beat Kedfern by 3 points to nil; Arfoma
boat Newcastle by 18 to nil; and University beat
Balmain by 33 points to 5. The Burwoods, who
journeyed to Goulburn, defeated the local yokels
by 0 points to nil.
At Central Park, ’Frisco, June 17, Duncan
C. Ross succeeded la beating the records of Davld-
Aon, of Edinburgh, Scotland. Ross threw the
liilh. hammer l(Wft. 3m.: 131b hammer, Id I ft. 0in.:
And 311b. hammer 83ft. 3H!ln. in putting the weight
he covered 13ft. with the 10-poundcr; and
30ft. lin with the tttty sixer.
Says an English paper:—“Had Paradox,
the winner of the Paris Grand Prix, remained the
nrooerty of the Duke of Westminster, S his absence
from the Paris Grand Prize might have been cal-
culated on with some degree of confidence, as his
Gracs would no more run a horse on the Sabbath
than would Lord Falmouth or many other sports-
men I oould name.”
It may be interesting to those who imagine
that a fortune might be realised by backing the
crack English jockey Archer's mounts, to note
that, notwithstanding the wonderful form the
“champion” jockey was in at Epsom—his record
being 30 mounts, 13 wins-an investment of £10 on
each of his mounts would have resulted in a net
loss to the backer of £5918s. on the week!
At Lillie Bridge, recently, H. Hutchens,
the English professional sprint ohamplom unsuc-
cessfully essayed the task of beating the 3o0 yards
record held by L. E. Myers, the American ama
teur flyer. Up to about three-quarters of the dis-
tance he looked like doing a big performance, but
near home he faltered, and finally fell heavily two
or three yards from tne worsted, not only losing,
but also injuring his knee and elbow severely.
Here is an interesting advertisement from
an English newspaper:-” Enticed away, liver-
coloured curly spaniel bitch, I'ioss. If detained
after this notice, will be prosecuted; if returned,
will be rewarded.” What a warning to all liver-
coloured, curly spaniel bitches who may hereafter
be tempted by attractive strangers I You see it
places the whole burden of responsibility upon
them alone. They can no longer plead that they
are passive agents in the matter.
In the sporting rooms of a N. Y. journal is
kept a monster club, weighing 1501bs. Richard K.
Fox. the irrepressible sport and proprietor of the
oaosr. offered a gold medal, valued at £50, to the
athlete who put up the club at arm’s length above
the head the greatest number of times, the trials
to take place at any time between June 8 and
August Hast. Up to June 30, Matsada Sorakichi.
the Japanese wrestler, had done best with 18 times
aid Duncan C. Ross came next with 13 times.
Tbe first of the big wrestling matches
cime off In Melbourne on Saturday last, when
4 Professor ” Miller and Donald Dmnie met, best
of tbree falls —Grseco-Roman, Scotch, and mixed.
The first two were foregone conclusions for
Miller and Donald Dinnie respectively, but tbe
flna brought forth some tough work, korty-
tbree minutes and thirty-nine seconds were con-
sumed before Miller succeeded in throwing the
burly Scotchman, and was proclaimed the winner.
Mr. Dan. Abbott, the provincial boxer
■who has thrown out a challenge to box any man
ia the colonies, is not likely to have to wait long
for customers, as Peter Newton has offered to
oblige him for £100, and W. Atkinson has signified
alike intention for £35 aside, Abbott recently
showed with Farnan at his benefit in Melbourne,
when the South Melbournian got all over him. If
Abbott showed his true form on that occasion we
fancy Wagga has turned out as bad a boxer as it
did a baronet.
A late edition of the Tube, Field, and
Fahm states that John L Sullivan, the celebrated
American boxer, has forsaken the prize-ring for
the stage. He is taking lessons in statuesque pos-
ing, at Boston, and soon expects to rival Muldoon.
Mr. Sullivan, says bis professor, is of the Roman
type, the antique classic style, and his posing will
consist as follows: Thegladlator, Ajax, combatant,
Hercules at rest, the encounter, begging for
mercy, dying gladiator, Apollo, fighting gladiator,
and his own picture.
At Lynn, U.8., E. C. Stiokney recently
elevated a fib. dumbbell from shoulder to arm’s-
length above the head 60C0 times In 57 minutes, and
made a new record. In New York, in 1870, H.
Pennock put up a 10lb. dumbbell 8431 limes in 4brs.
34min., elevating not less than 25 times per minute,
and his foi’earm was not dropped lower than the
elbow. A Corcoran, at Chicago in 1859, put up a
18ib. dumbbell 14,000 times with one hand; and C.
0. Breed, at Lynn. U S., in 1882, put up a 50341b.
bell 7600 times in Ihr. 30min.
The Canterbury Park Race Club had fine
weather for their August meeting on Saturday
last, but the running was terribly sloppy from the
recent rains, and scarcely in a fit state to race
upon. A. E Cornwell’s Pet Girl won the first race,
the Opening Handicap; and then W. Kelso com-
pletely swept the board by winning the four
remaining races. His Friendship won the Selling
Race, Ellington the Bank Handicap, Good Luck
the Three-year-old Selling Race, and Solicitor the
Ladies’ Prize.
Reid and Stevens, who are now located at
the shed at Glebe Point for many years occupied
by Donnelly and Sullivan, have just finished a 23ft
half-decker to the order of Mr. Miller, of Double
Bay. She is 3ft. deep, and 8ft. 51n. beam ; and
although only intended for pleasuring, she looks
by no means a sluggard. We are pleased to see
these young builders getting on so well, as it is to
them we look to fill up the gap when our Joe
Donnellys and George Ellises shall have retired by
reason of effluxion of time.
A Gneoo-Roman wrestling match between
M’Oaffray, the young Yankee wrestler who came
over with Whistler, and Charles Hawkins, a local,
came off at Newcastle on Saturday night. Each
man secured a fall la turn, and then the match
was declared a draw, as Hawkins’ arm was dis-
abled. We don’t quite “see" this. If M’Caffrey was
able and willing to go on with the match, why
was it not awarded him ? This is one of the many
things that no man not Immediately connected
with wrestling circles cm quite understand.
The Sydney 20-foot half-decker races,
which commanded such big entries last season,
promise to show out conspicuously during the
coming season. The Nereus, built by Golding, up to
the time of her cremation Carried all before her,
and, wo understand, the first boat to be laid down
by the same builder, is of a similar class. How-
ever, Golding will have rather different cattle to
tackle during the coming time, as Donnelly and
Sullivan have received orders for two new 20-
footers, the first boats of the class they will have
turned out.
Native artists have not hitherto been
numerous or renowned. We have, therefore,
pleasure in noticing a solrited water-colour repre-
sentation of the Hon. J. White’s grey mare, Mas
cotte, by William M’Sherry, a 16-year-old native.
The likeness is almost perfect, and the light and
shade are used to good effect in the surroundings.
As the boy’s work gives promise of still better
things, we are sure he will receive every encour-
agement from his employer, Mr. John Sands, and
from the public, to persevere in an art which he
should adorn one day.
On June 4, Clarence Whistler, the wrestler
who is now performing in Melbourne, and Duncan
C. Ross, the well-known all-round athlete, met in
a wrestling match at San Francisco. The condi-
tions were four styles:—Side-hold, Graeco-Roman,
oollar-and-elbow, and catch-as-catoh-can. Ross
won the match, after an exciting contest. Whistler
won the Qroeco-Roman and catch-as-citch-can,
while Ross won the collar-and-elbow and side-hold.
The final bout was then tossed for, and Ross win-
ning, decided upon collar-and-elbow. Ross threw
Wolstler easily and won.
At the New Orleans Regatta on May 26,
the professional scullers’ race, distance three miles
(with one turn), was won by John Teemer by a
length and a half from J. Gaudaur, G. Hosmer
being third. The other competitors were J. Mao-
kay. F. Plalsted, H. Peterson, G. W. Lee, and J.
Griffin. The pairs were secured by Gaudaur and
Hosmer very easy from Mackay and Parker,
Teemer and Plaisted finishing some distance be-
hind. The fours fell to Plaisted, Lee, Peterson
and Teemer, after a splendid race with Mackay,
Hosmer, Gaudaur, and Parker. The scullers’ race
for beaten men was won by G. Hosmer by a length
from Mackay.
Mr. W. H. Tuokett. sen., has expressed his
desire to present the Victorian Rowing Associa-
tion with a set of silver sculls, to be called the
Will’s Soulls, to be competed for under the same
conditions as those for the Amateur Champion-
ship won by his son in 1878-79 80. Mr. Tuckett’s
son, who died recently of heart disease, was a
general favourite in Victorian aauatlo circles, and
one of the most successful amateur oarsmen the
colony has produced. In addition to winning club
races out of number, he formed one of the Inter-
colonial crews of 1878-79 80-81, and 82, and achieved
the following victories:—Maiden sculls, 1876)
junior sculls, 1877, Melbourne; challenge sculls,
1878 9 80: Leader challenge eight, 1876; Footsoray
challenge eight. 1877 8; Briscoe trophy four. 1882-
3; senior eight, 1883; Krug challenge eight, 1882-2-
3. Melbourne; senior sculls. 1878; senior eight,
1877-82, Barwon, senior four, 1882-3, Richmond.
The Stars and Stripes and the Union Jack
floated side by side over the grand stand at Chicago
Park, on 13th June, the occasion being a five-
round Queensberry contest between John L. Sulli-
van, the world’s champion, and Jack Burke, the
clever boxer known as the " Irish lad.” Sullivan
opened the ball with a lunge for Burke, which was
oloverlv dodged, but the pair soon came together,
when J.S threw his right twice on Burke s neck,
but too far back to do any damage. Sullivan then
rushed in, and after an interchange of short blows,
the pair clinched, and Burke came down. Burke
quickly regained his feet, and countered neatly
on Sullivan's nose, and the round closed with the
men clinching. There was nothlngjmuch to speak
of in the second round, but in the third there was
some lively work. Burke feinted, and Sullivan
threw in his right wickedly, but Burke
ducked, and threw his left glove into Sul-
livan's chin. This roused the devil in the
champion, and he made one of his famous rushes
There was a hot interchange of in fighting, but
Burke avoided Sullivan's right, and the men
clinched twice. Sullivan made another rush,
which Burke again stopped with his left clean and
effectively. No sooner was time called for round
four than Sullivan started with a rush that
roughed Burke into the corner where they closed,
and, upon breaking and coming together again,
Burke was floored by a heavy body blow. As
soon as Burke regained his feet Sullivan made
another rush, and raining right-handers with tell-
ing force on Burke, sent him again reeling to the
floor. In the fifth round John L. went at
it “ hammer and tongs,” and rushed Burke clean
down. Short arm fighting followed, Sullivan
forcing his opponent to the ropes and letting him
have it left and right. Burke fought hard against
odds, but was compelled to drop again and again
to avoid punishment. “ Get back in your corner,"
yelled the referee, but Sullivan paid no attention.
Burke, with a quick movement, sprang to the
centre, in time to avoid a powerful blow, and
stopped another short with a pretty lead. Another
clinch, time was called, and the battle was at an
end. Neither of the men were at all played out,
but the referee decreed that Sullivan had shown
the best fighting, and the contest was duly
awarded him.
A CURIOUS POEM.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Should you ask us whence we got this
Quaint and curious set of verses,
This extraordinary poem.
With its free, unshackled metre,
With its easy, careless cadence,
With its practical conclusion
And Its Dutch-like love of detail—
Very Dutch the love of detail I—
We should answer—we should tell you,
In a soft and silvern whisper,
Or with tones of thousand thunders:
In the Shepparton newspaper.
In the organ of opinion
Which, upon its whirling axis.
Makes the round world spin like blazes,
Like the cone-formed flames of gases;
Shakes the strong stars in their courses,
And is chiefly fed on whisky;
Whisky and the rum of commerce,
Such as Wunghnu au . Numurkah—
Soft-named Wunghnu 1 sweet Numurkah!—
Vend to paralyse the people
And to make the bullock-driver,
Unimaginative, simple—
Save where varied imprecation
Many-coloured is expected—
Body out of airy nothing
Red-eyed canines Cerberean,
Convoluted snakes, bird-headed
Reptiles quite unknown to Buffon,
Tongued with flame, and breathing brimstone,
Crawling, crawling, twisting, twining,
Whirling in a dance delirious.
Such the weird effect of liquor
Sold in Wunghnu and Numurkah.
But for real Bacchic madness—
For the worse wild rage of Atys
(As described by sweet Catullus
In his weird and dreadful poem,
In his fury-driven verses)—
Wunghnu wine knew never equal;
“ Tanglefoot ” the folk there call it.
With a gay, observant humour,
Mingled with a touch of pathos.
Deadly as the bite of adders,
When they really bite for business,
Is that fearsome wine of Wunghnu;
And, with frightened nods and whispers,
People up there tell the stranger
That the grapes, when plucked to make it,
Shriek like mandrakes plucked at midnight
From beneath a creaking gallows;
And that every year a stranger.
Slain by drinking of It freely,”
Is interred in every vineyard,
So the vines may be encouraged
To go on and grow more fatal,
More black-blooded and more deadly.
And the bearer smiles a mocking
Smile, and winks with deepest cunning,
Likewise guffaws, loud and hearty,
Calling for that wine of Wunghnu,
“ Let me see this wine of Wunghnu,
Let me taste this wondrous liquor!”
Cries that merry-hearted stranger,
In his pride of strength stomachic,
In bis granite-headed boldness.
Wherefore tell the gloomy sequel ?
Wherefore dwell upon the fact that
His remains are duly planted
Underneath a mantling vine, and
Next year gives a richer body
To the gruesome wine of W ungbnu ?
Par and far have we diverged from
What we first began to write of.
Led on by the witching wisp-light
Of the rum of gay Numurkah,
And the wondrous wine of Wunghnu.
Therefore, we will briefly wind up
By remarking that the poem
Underneath, was set and printed
In the Shepparton newspaper,
And was writ by Mrs. Scrlvens.
Should you go on asking further.
Who is this same Mrs. Scrlvens ?—
This poetical old party ?
We should answer freely, fairly
With unhesitating candour,
And with unaffected frankness,
“ Reader, ask us something easy.”
We feel that a small layer of prose should be let
in here to give the fabric firmness. It is so long
since we have trifled with the metre of Hiawatha
that, once started, we were unable to stop till the
warm milk was ready. You smile at this? Ah,
so would we have done once—in the reckless days
when we thought the solar system a circus organ-
ised for our special amusement as we plunged
homeward in the night. Yes, those were dear old
times—the dearest old times we ever wish to see
again. We are paying for them yet—in medicines
and crutches. We have revelled In that rum of
Numurkah. We have waded in that wine of
Wunghnu. We live—but that is by chance. So
we have now come down to warm milk. And—
let us whisper a secret to you—me feel ourselves
nothing the worse for it! We omitted to say there
is rum in the milk. And now for the poem, whion
is unique, we think, for its straightforward atten-
tion to facts and grip upon its subject. It Is
headed:—
“MRS. SCRIVENS' LAMENT,”
and totters along in the following fashion :—
“ Good people all who in Shepparton and Numur-
Listcn to me, for I’ve something to tell.,
(Likewise aprons I make and sell.)
I went to Wunghnu town and tramped all day.
Sixteen shilling to Mrs. Saunders for four fine tur-
keys I did pay;
Some evil-minded person has poisoned them, and
they now are all in the ciay.
Twelve laying hens I bought from Mrs. Redding;
These, too, are dead aud placed in the same
bedditg;
Eight laying auoks, and four tine drakes.
Of the same poisonous food did all partake;
Two of my best guinea-hens -
They’re an dead aud in the same pen;
Ten ro sters tio u Mrs. Day, oi Pine Lodge,
Have likewise been served with the very same
dodge.”
What shall we most admire here ? The ingenuity
that rings in the fate of the fowls to rhyme with
the names of the persons they were bought from—
or the versatility of phrase which describes the
common doom of all her purchases with such
varied felicity ? The parenthetical line regarding
the manufacture and sale of aprons by the author-
ess, is a stroke of genius. It marks the authoress
as one who has so long been familiar with the
Muse as to be able to venture upon an occasional
audacity with her now find then. But to quote
further:—
“ Who to an old couple have done such an evil
deed
Must certainly have come from very bad seed.
We’re both a good age on this world’s weary
stage—
My husband's sixty-four come next July, when
the birds begin to fly;
And I’m fifty-nine on the 17th of June—
The time of the year when the home birds are in
tune.”
The old lady weakens into sentiment here, you
will observe. But she quickly recovers herself,
and goes on with pardonable pride:—
“ Ever since we put foot on Victorian ground
We paid all our debts—twenty shillings in the
pound, or twelve pence in the shilling.
Whatever we owe, man or woman, we have to
pay at all times been willing.”
Here the old girl breaks down wretchedly. This is
not poetry. No poet would ever make such an
admission. If he did, he would have to fall out of
the ranks of song forever. There seems to be a
dim perception of this fact in the brain of our dear
old authoress, for she says further:—
“ That is the reason when we come to die
There won’t be much in the poor old sock laid
’ by,
But you who read this must be laid in the dust as
well as my husband and I;
80, If you go first, I hope you will see us together
decently laid by.”
There is a touch of pathos here which many a
writer of gilded'volumes could never equal.
Sladen never could. But if a wombat laid itself
out to write poetry, Mr. Sladen would have to
hang up his wild gridiron, and cease upon the
night forever. Tet he has had superior advan-
tages, if he has not been so mentally gifted as the
majority of wombats. This shows that to the
Sasteboard intellect, culture is not half so nutri-
ous as cabbage. Old Mrs. Sorivens does not seem
to have more culture that she can carry comfort-
ably, yet she manages to get a good deal of senti-
ment, sprinkled with certain moral maxims (which
to her, no doubt, are spick-and-span new in the
form of verse) into her poem, as well as some
sound commercial Information regarding the pre-
sent market price of turkeys in Wunghnu, not to
mention the further information contained in the
lines following. As thus:—
“ I’ll make Charles Franklin, Esq., my only
cashier—
He’s known my husband and me these last four-
teen year—
Snould any be willing to put their hands in their
pockets and give us couple
A pound, a penny, or a bright shilling, just to
. help us on our way,
For we’ve not a great time in this world now to
stay.”
Eh ? You can talk about your poets, but where
will you find any of them, after playing upon
your feelings, wind up with a dash upon your
purse in this fashion ? Not that they would not if
they dared, but they have not heart enough for
such fine audacity. Those last lines of Mrs.
Sorivens are Homeric. We are perfectly con-
vinced that there are several lines of similar pur-
port missing from each book of the “ Iliad.” The
rhapsodists, and even blind oid Melesigenes him-
self, kept this peroration in their mental eye all
through the storm and fury of the battles by
Soamander and the great movement of the many-
sounding sea. Mrs. Sorivens, we salute you from
afar off. You belong to the Band of Immortals.
Wunghnu now takes its station with Mantua and
the seven birthplaces of Homer. And all through
you. If you should think anything of the little
fame we have been able to give you through our
columns you will amply reward us if you leave us
—when you go to join the choir invisible of mighty
ghosts—your pattens! We should like to keep as
a venerable curiosity the measure of your poetic
feet.


COMPAGNONI CATERING CO., LIMITED,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 9 9
T
,HE oldest and leading Catering Establishment In N.S.W. Caterers to His Worship the Mayor,
Municipal Council of 8yd’ ey, the A.J.C., City &«t.
The Dining Saloons for Ladies and Gentlemen are the Fikest, Cooi<lest. and loftiest in the colony.
1 FIRST-CLASS MENU DAILY. Private Bar—Good Wine List.
b*- GRILL ROOM now open. A Grill can be had at any time from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. (after the
mhJoTrea Select your own steak, 4c., and see it grilled in the room. This is one of the acquisitions
r the cloy and a long-felt waot. Inspection invited. Club roe ms of the Prince Alfred Yacht Clue
and city Club, upstairs. ■» »• TOLLKSf ACHE. General Manager.
9
32 O CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
IMPORTERS OF SUPPLIES
: I
\D
Qro
a
L
v
■4
s
<2
te
<5
/ifi
CO
B
ga-«
ft
l
(£
2-5
to
s.
<5
•s-
to
:V
O
*5S
ty
5*.
,CJ
«■.
?L
K
gs
c
cl
<5
C»
CL
N
<5
O.
\
CL.
to
' w
/A
~--V'
Catalogues post free
TO ANY PART OF
AUSTRALIA.
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
Our Photographic preparations are recognised as the most varied.[[best,
and Cheapest in the colonies.
Complete Photographic Equipments, with mu instructions for Noviee*,:
(ft
3 C. C
C\
rjl o ALL WOMBN.
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
W" TRY n’ for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT or
COLD W ATER.
IT IB
WONDERFUL D1SCOYBRY
IN SOAP I
Purifies, Cleanseu, and Whitens all and everything
washed with it:
HBAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONB TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
6d. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers:
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GBNT.’B
LADIES’
60. IS. «d.; 100, SB. Sd.
60. 28. Od.; 100, 3a. Od.
Address. 6d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100. 8S. 6d.; 260, 6s. 6d.; 500, 10s.; 1000, 16s.
NO CHARGE FOB ENGRAVING FLATS.
Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
TEE DIRECT SUPPLY CO.,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral.
No other complaints are so insidious in their
attack as those affecting the throat and lungs:
none so trifled with by the majority of suffer-
ers. The ordinary cough or cold, resulting
perhaps from a trifling or unconscious ex-
posure, is often but the beginning of a fatal
sickness. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral has
well proven its efficacy in a forty years’ fight
with throat and lung diseases, and should be
taken in all cases without delay.
A Terrible Cough Cured.
“ In 18571 took a severe coid, which affected
my lungs. I had a terrible cough, and passed
night after night without sleep. The doctors
gave me up. I tried Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, which relieved my lungs, induced
sleep, and afforded mo the rest necessary
for the recovery of my strength. By the
continued Use of the Pectoral a perma-
nent cure was effected. I am now 62 years
old, hale and hearty, and am satisfied your
Cherry Pectoral saved me.
Horace Fairbrother.
Rockingham, Yt., July 15,1882.
' • Croup.—A Mother’s Tribute.
“While in the country last winter my little
hoy, three years old, was taken ill with croup;
it seemed as if he would die from strangu-
lation. One of the family suggested the use
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, a bottle of
which was always kept in the house. This
was tried in small and frequent doses, and
to our delight in less than half an hour the
little patient was breathing easily. The doc-
tor said that the Cherry Pectoral had
saved my darling’s life. Can you wonder at
our gratitude? Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Emma Gedney.”
169 West 128th St., New York, May 16, 1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
in my family for several years, and do not
hesitate to pronounce it the most effectual
remedy for coughs and colds we have ever
tried. A. J. Crane.
Lake Crystal, Minn., March 13, 1882. a
“ I suffered for eight years from Bronchitis,
and after trying many remedies with no suc-
cess, I was cured by the use of Ayer s Cher-
ry Pectoral. Joseph Walden.
Byhalia, Miss., April 5,1882.
“ I cannot say enough in praise of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral, believing as I do that
but for its use I should long since have died
from lung troubles. E. BRAODON.
Palestine, Texas, April 22, 1882.
No case of an affection of the throat or
lungs exists which cannot be greatly relieved
by the use of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
and it will always cure when the disease is
not already beyond the control of medicine*
fl» PREPARED BY <•
Dp. J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT BROS, and S. HOFFNUNQ & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
after before MOUSTACHE and WHISEEES. «Fons
Boyd* s Beard F.lixirdid thin, and
trill do it on either bald head or
bare face, Poices heavy Mou» ■
tache in fronts to 4 weeks and never a
fails, 20,000 young men already ' ' ' -
Copyrighted, wear full beards, having used 1 to £oj»yriflW«a.
8 PkU. No injury , easily applied, sertain in effect. Packets la. w.
sack, 3 for 3«. 6 A., post paid, sent under cover, free front observation*
Frink Douglas, Sols Agent, Box 720, 0.P.O., Sydney, N.S. W •
mm
i
jr
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
wtllnjr of Bass Aie nave ouuuucu iui mow
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award Riven at
Ewssff&fcTaSFBttSS
K wd Spirit Merchants.—OATTBLL & CO..
Sole Agents.
VKNETIA WALTK
T>u Air u> h wtU maHtMi. Ouourl U,. IMA*.
ras'iUitiiU.
Fed.
Fed.
Fed.
ff'S
_IAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &p.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, «c.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &o.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
New catalogues will be ready in a few days and
sent gratis on application. , . „
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &o., at lowest prices. _ .
Printing.—Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed. Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards. , ..
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, to parcels,
£1 upward. Liberal discount allowed.
— — J " tt— t> "-;8, Fans, Ac.
Jinuuay auu umw. Y— Y-* -, -- —'Ck
Subscriptions solicited to all the leading maga-
zines.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygraph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes oft 70 splendid copies.
Send and obtain full particulars of working.
WILLIAM - BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
Marshall's Artificial Tacth.
M
AR8HALL BROTHERS, owing to the great
increase of their dentistry Practice, have
also taken extensive premises at 133 ELIZABETH
STREET, Hyde Park. They still continue to
Inseit artificial teeth at the same enormously
reduced price as before, namely, £5 per set
(upper and lower), which are precisely the same
prize-medal teeth advertised by other firms.
Marshall Brothers gurantee these to be equal in
every way, both for quality, fit, and appearance,
to those inserted by hundreds of dentists (with a
limited practice), who charge double and treble
this amount. The public may doubt this, but
Marshall Brothers offer £1000 to any person who
proves this statement untrue. Consultation
free. Painless extraction under nitrous oxide
gas, MARSHALL BROTHERS, American Den-
tists, 133 Slizabeth-street, Hyde Park, and Market-
street. N.B.—All trams stop at the door.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
J. LAWLEK,
608 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
IRON, BRASS, and NICKEL-PLATED
BEDSTEADS,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRA8SE8
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS,
AMERICAN CHAIRS,
TOILET GLASSES,
HORSE HAIR,
KAPOK, FLOCK, FIBRE, and FLAX
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
&0., Ac.
THE LATEST VIWKS AND PUBLICATIONS ON PHOTOGRAPHY.
Sole Agents for Baker’s Dry Plate, the
most reliable and rapid in the market.
Bayaeij y a d
ITTEBS. nlJr
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
Made of the best Bavarian Hops. Superior to any
other.
They take the first place wherever tried, and are
well authenticated by eminent medical men and
well-known analysts.
Read the reports and testimony which aooom
pany each bottle, and do not forget to make a
trial of BAVARIAN HOP Bitters.
P. KIRBY,'
Prom the late Mr. Jajus Curtis,
XT i^d-ertsufeer,
84 HUNTER * PHILLIP STREETS.
TUNBRAL8 NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years;
Manager for over ten (101 years.
Been hunting for ease all my life, and found
last with the Argosy Braces at G owing Bros.
0
Wi
mm
mSm
i/.
GOWING BROS.
Have Just Opened their Twelfth Consign-
ment of the genuine
Argosy Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. 6d., 3s., 3s. 61,1; 4s. O
GOWING~ BHOS.p
MEN’S MERCERS. HATTERS, OUTFITS JKt**
SSZ and 488 Lcorgs-slras:.
WILLIAM BALL,
THE “ PROFESSIONAL" *ND PHARMACEU-
L riv TICAL CHEMIST.
61 BOUBKE-STREET EAST, MELBOURNE.
THE Toilet and Theatrical Requisite*. ma °u-
facturedby W. Ball, are composed of the
purest ingredients, and are guaranteed not to
cause the least injury to the most delicate skin.
There are few ladies now. either in private life
or of the Theatrical Profession, who do not look
upon the
BLOOM OF PEACHES
(REGISTERED)
as the one article that is perfectly safe and satis-
factory to use cither for the
THEATRE, BALLROOM, OR PROMENADE
K
Our Cupids Manufacturing Bloom of Peaches.
“Dear Sir,—I consider your ‘ make-up' perfect,
and should never think of using anything else
while it is possible to obtain it.—Yours^truly^,"
The following ladies and gentlemen have also
written sneaking in the highest terms ot
Toilet D Requhites i-Mesdames Louise Pomeroy,
Alice Deorwyne, Myra Kemble, Eva Davenport,
Roland nn att Phillips, etc., etc.; Messieurs George
Darley, Frank Cates, etc.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
Price, 1/6, 3/6, and 7/6 per bottle.
Wholesale Agents, N.S.W.:
Messrs. PROSSER & CO.. Sydney.
G. F. PRIDDY & CO.,
HAT MANUFACTURERS
and IMPORTERS.;
Beg to announce that, on and after APRIL 7th,
their Premises will be CLOSED on Week Days
at 6 30 p.m.: Saturdays as usual at 11 p.m.
438 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
Knsllih Papers and HagailiNi received by
every Mall.
Kpy at. ARC ADI, U10RQ1 8T« 488 STDMBX


JJIURNITUR1 SHOW BOOM,
r
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,'
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
Hall furniture, hatstands,
OHAIBS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
L
RBi
1BADING
Drawing-room suites, fashionably
stored, at all prices. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
WALL CABINETS tor Choice China, AoT
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bridle?
Newton, and Lamb. '•
Novelties in boudoir and bow window
SUITES. Bradley. Newton, and Lamb.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NBV
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Ijl IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.-Th.
11 ‘ Economic Bedroom Suite, oompr**' -
E
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
B
plate-gis
and tue
with swing
9 »» xAkoi-iwx w uu luaruio tqb
back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE.
IIlg - plflAi affonVii&H • PWTHJQT A T. nTri?
BOARD, and I
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from in.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 8d.; Washstands from 12s. gd .
Chest from 40s.; Wardrobes, from 80s!
VUVBU VI iiUiU TVO., UOlUXCUCOi iruill OUfl
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.; Cedar Sideboards
from £310s.: Clothes Horses, froml0s.6d.; Wrltlnv
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON. & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets
3
i?QK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
strong, and durable. Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
: and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion,
able designs In Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also In Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety Of designs; also elegantly finished la
Embroidery, Plush, &c.
f'lHIFFONNIBR WHATNOTS, effective designs.
Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
OConnell-streot.
E 1
■NAMELLED and JEWELLED MIRRORS, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with Sowers
forming Summer Screens for fire grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-street.
u
RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
1 A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES,
oes, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND.
marble top, 80s the pair.
•ETULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM—SIDE-
Jj BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 6 feet long and up to 90 feet.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
8
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in any
material.
8
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
B
AGATBLLB BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL very exten-
sive assortment in Chip
and other designs, whlct
. CHAIRS.-A very exten-
ippendaie, Early English,
ch can be upholstered m
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room furni-
ture, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
id Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
Walnu
MORO
Open to _ .
J, Spring and O’Connell-streets,
B
BD8TEAD8, nickel-plated and black and brass
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Damp
B
EDSTEAD8, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.-A11 descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell and Spring streets.
W
A8HSTANDS, with marble, fromSSa. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Rustic
■ AWN and PARK SEATS 6 feet long. „
1 M Cast-iron Standards, 15s. each. Bradley, New-
ton, andLamb.
I ENT WOOD FURNITURE.—A verycompls**
Assortment; beat arts, lowest Price*.
SOCIAL
The wedding of Miss Mac Arthur last
Monday week was so very quiet that few knew
when it was to take place, so the “ curious Raze of
the multitude” had no show; but since then the
particulars have transpired through the chosen
few who were present. Miss MacArthur is the
eldest daughter of Mrs. Arthur MacArthur* and
niece of Mr. E. A. Allen, of Plas-Newyeld, Upper
William-street. She married her cousin, Mr.
Charles Bayly, son of the late Major Bayly, and
bank manager at Brewarrina. The ceremony was
Serfotmed by the bride’s uncle, the Rev. G. F.
[acArthur, assisted by the Rev. C. D. F. Priddle,
and the Rev. A W. Pain, incumbent of St. John’s,
Darlioghurst, where the marriage was solemnised.
At 3 o’clock, the bride entered the church
leaning on the arm of her brother, Mr. Arthur
MacArthur, who gave her away. She was
beautifully dressed In white satin, and lovely
old Brussels lace; on her head a wreath of
orchids and a long plain tulle veil, fastened by a
diamond star, the gift of the Hon. J. B. Watt, tier
other jewellery were diamond brooches and a
splendid diamond bracelet (the gift of her mother).
In her hand the usual bridal bouquet of white
liowers. Following her up the aisle as pages came
two lovely little boys—the youngest sons of Mr.
J. B. Watt—picturesquely dressed in black velvet,
with point lace collars. Then came the two pretty
bridesmaids, Miss Enid MacArthur and Miss
Florence Watt. Their dresses were of pale grey
cashmere, trimmed with peacock-green velvet;
grey bonnets, with peacock-green aigrettes to
match. They each wore pretty brooches in the
form of a fly, in rubles and pearls, transfixed by a
golden barb. The bridegroom was accompanied
by Mr. Bayly MacArthur (brother of the bride) as
best man. The church was decorated with feres
and flowers, but as it is just now undergoing re-
pairs it did not look its best. In the evening the
newly-married couple left for Moss Vale, where
they passed their honeymoon. Mrs. Bayly wore a
travelling dress of green cashmere, i he presents
were, as usual, numerous and costly. Mr Edward
Allen’s was, perhaps, the most unique— 30 Com-
mercial Bank shares, valued at £3000. This “ pre-
sent-giving era” is a most wonderful one, and
girls should remember that it cannot last for ever;
therefore, now is their time to marry with the
certainty of having their homes furnished for
them.
■ e •
Last Monday, August 1, a wedding took
place at St. Mark's, Darling Point. The bride, in
this case, was Miss von Arnbeim, second daughter
of Mrs. von Arnhelm.of Sllberstein, Darling Point;
and the bridegroom, Mr. Alfred Tooth, brother-
in-law and cousin of Mr. R. L Tooth, of Swifts,
Darling Point. The church decorations were a
pretty arch at the chancel steps of Arum lilies and
ferns and bunches of white flowers on the super
altars. The bride was given away by her brother,
Mr. Harry von Arnheira. The ceremony was per-
formed by the Rev. Dr. Ellis, brother-in-law of
the bride, of Goulburn, and the Rev. B. Wool-
ton, incumbent. The bride wore a hand-
some dress of satin, with deep lace flounces
as a trimming for the front, caught up
here and there with •‘milliners’ jewels” as
a society paper described some pearl ornamenta-
tion the other day. The train was plain, having
only its full rich folds, and a narrow plaiting at
the bottom to complete it. The ordinary light
tulle veil, whence tweet bride faces look out as
through a soft mist, was dispensed with in this in-
stance, in favour of a beautiful old lace; one that
fell in beady folds, and hid the bride so completely
that one merely bad a suspicion of a fair young
face and a wreaih. Behind her came six sweet
bride-children clad in robes of softest cream with
huge soft sashes of cardinal or rich yellow the
creamy lace ilouoces being looped up all round
the short skirts with rosettes to match the sashes.
Bach one carried a lovely bouquet of oamellae,
narcissus, snowdrops, violets, and maiden-hair.
Miss Bessie Arnheim, the bride’s sister, was chief
bridesmaid, then came Miss G. Tooth, niece
of the bridegroom; Misses May, Blanch and Ethel
Llngen, cousins of the bridegroom; and Miss
Bridges, cousin of the bride. The bridegroom
was accompanied by Mr. William Mitchell as best
man. The good old fashion (?) of kissing the bride
as the happy pair turned to enter the vestry was
B reserved intact 1 Among the guests were Mr. and
trs. R. L. Tooth, Rev. Dr. and Mrs. Ellis, Rev. J*.
Woolton, Mrs. Woolton, Mrs. Kommls, Mr. and
Mrs. Llogen, Mr. and Mrs. Street, Miss Street,
Miss M’Leod, Mrs. Eustace Smith, Mrs. Lee Lord,
Mr. W. Mitchell, Mr. F. Mitchell, Miss Mitchell,
Mr. and Mrs. Partridge, Mr. Arthur Tooth, Mrs. A.
Cox, Miss Cox, and Mr. H. Bridges. The newly-
wedded pair go to Melbourne for a month.
• * «
Last Saturday the Paper Chase met at the
residence of the Hon. James White, Cranbrook.
The number of “Hunters” not so large as usual
In consequence of counter attractions, but about
20 ladles and gentlemen met and had one of the
best runs of the season. It was very short, just
through Bondi and back to Cranbrook. The hares,
Captain Marks (of the Swinger) and Mr. Ogllvle (of
the Nelson), were far too fleet and wary to be
caught, and after an exciting run of less than an
hour got safely to cover again, while their pur-
suers followed hard over rough country. The
ride included some bona fide water jumps, and
some falls. Two were rather amusing, as they
did not turn out disastrously. It was found some
ladies wore not in at the death, so two chivalrous
knights-erraat started in search. Riding side by
side, quickly and unobservantly they suddenly
found themselves in close contact with an over-
hanging branch, and in a moment were in mother
earth’s fond embrace I Among the riders this
week were Mrs. Cooper, Mrs. White, the Misses
Darley, the Misses Throckmorton, Ctptaln Paul
(of the Miranda), several officers of the fleet, Mr.
Blllyard, and others, making aoout 20 in all.
• ♦ •
The Sydney Bicycle Club’s second annual
ball has been fixed for Monday, 34th August, and
it will be held in the Town Hall. Of course all the
champions will be present.
* * *
EMrs. Dickson and Mrs. Andrew Bloomfleld,
of Elizabeth Bay. gave a picnic on Saturday up
Middle Harbour. The party was divided into those
who rode by North Shore, and those who went by
steamer. The day was exquisite, and the party a
most enjoyable one.
* • •
Since it started this year, the Woollahra
Private Rinklng Club has been a pronounced suc-
cess and every Monday night sees its devoted
members laying themselves out for the greatest
amount of joy that can be got by a combination
of perseverance and perspiration. It js hard to
work but they don’t care, these rinklng heroes.
Inspired by unlimited noise and knocks, and the
wide smiles of visitors, they chase round their
idea of amusement with an ardor which, after all,
really does result at last in developing a consider-
able amount of skill. There are some of the
best skaters in the city there, and an Eng-
lish visitor, who is champion of ever so
many counties, performs rather sensationally.
He is brilliant, but often unfortunate. A
bevy of bicyclists attend regularly, and their neat
garb is specially suited for the skating evolutions.
The champion amateur cyclist of N.b W . is an en-
thusiast; races round a course extemporised with
chairs between the slowest members, who are
least certain of their balance, result in roars of
laughter; and sometimes, by way of variety, bl-
cycles are brought on to the floor and a display ot
trick-riding given such as can seldom be seen. The
one thing badly wanted to make the gathering
complete is a lltcle music, and it is a pity the com-
mittee don’t manage to have it. Needless to say,
ladies support the rink in numbers, and probably,
for their sakes, the season will be wound up with
a dance, And. by the way, “ Wooden Wheels,”
who has been there, has sent us a little screed
about the rink which we might as well cram in
here as anywhere else. So here it is:—
The fourth annual ball of the Balmain
Rowing Club, given in the Town Hall last Friday
night, drew a large and brilliant crowd, and scored
a big snoot ss. Tne walls were decked with various
flags and oars, which, together with the Jack
Tars, Midshipmen, and Grace (and other) Darlings
gave the room quite a nautical appearance. Only
a few chose fancy costumes, and the first to claim
our attention was a shining object which we put
down for a block of Ice, but which, upon closer
Inspection, proved to be, as the label on the arm
informed us, “ glass with care.” Why Miss Beftha
Phillips, who is not supposed to be “ fond of
glass, adopted this character was not stated, but
it suited her, anyhow. As Bethna, Miss Schofield
looked very pretty, in a dress of cream and crim-
son satin, with gold trimming. Another Mascotte
came from Balmain, in a farm-yard costume of
brown and red, and bad as a companion a bright-
eyed gipsy from over the water. Ruth (Pirates)
was impersonated by a dark beauty. Miss Crow
was a neat little Swiss Maiden, and Miss Dibley
was happy in her choice of an Italian Girl. Grace
Darling was all there, of course, with a buoy (spell
it how you please) by her side. A graceful-
looking young lady appeared as Good Luck,
in black net studded with gold horseshoes.
The Prince of the Diamond Valley was quite
too overwhelming about the ' headgear. Mr.
C. Turley, as Don Caesar; Mr. G. Buchanan,
Toreador, and Mr. Carroll, English Court costume,
dressed the characters well. Mr. J. Teend, in his
football dress, was a good representative of the
Wellingtons. A magnificent evening costume,
which called forth general admiration, was worn
by Mrs. Murray. The skirt was of the richest
shrimp-pink satin with square-eut train, bodice of
crimson velvet, long pink kid gloves and fan to
match. Miss Prescott wore a charming costume
of heliotrope satin and violet velvet; Miss Lena
Stewart was falryllke in chenille tufted tulle over
white satin. A tall young lady wore an attractive
costume of marine-blue silk relieved by white
lace and pink flowers. Miss Hodge scintillated in
a pompon net jupe and white satin bodice laced
down the front. A fair young lady, in rose-pink
satin with lace flounces across the front of skirt,
and waterfall back of pink net with pale blue
?iompons, was a graceful dancer.' A Balmain
avourite wore the Club colours—black satin with
gold trimmings. Cream lace over pale blue, with
quantities of pearl ornaments, was effective. A
rather uncommon dress was of lilac satin and
lace, the wearer carrying a huge bouquet tied
with ribbons to harmonise with the dress. De
Groen’s band did their work capitally, and the
waltz, composed expressly for the occasion by
Mr. De Groen, was one of the pleasant features of
the evening. The Compagnoni Catering Company
provided tor material yearnings, and the joy was
prolonged well into the hours of morning.
V V •
Herr Hugo Alpen must indeed have felt
complimented at seeing so fair an audience on the
night of his benefit concert—for, on such nights,
home and the fireside are particularly tempting.
Yes, the rain came down in torrents, and partially
spoilt what, we have no hesitation in saying, would
have been a most substantial benefit tendered by
the members of St. Patrick’s choir and their
organist. The first part of the programme con-
sisted of part of Mr. Alpen’s Mass, in D., sung by
members of the choir, with Miss Moore, Mrs.
Banks, Mr. Frank Brewer, and Signor Vittorinl as
Erincipals. This Mass is certainly the composer’s
eat work, some of the Instrumentation being
particularly praiseworthy, and rendered as it was
on this occasion, it is small wonder that such warm
approval was manifested by the audience. The
second part of the programme opened with a
piano solo played by Miss Ida Alpen. The solo
was well within the child’s powers, and was played
correctly and with a nice crisp touch. Mr.
Dinnles sang “The Sailor's Grave.’’ and was en-
cored. Mrs. Riley gave Bishop's “Tell me
my heart,’’ in her own sweet expressive
way. and in response to the encore sang
“ Th° last rose of summer.” Herr Yogrlch de-
lighted the audience by playing Chopins’ A flat
polonaise, at the termination of which the ap-
plause was loud and long. Mrs. Brewer’s “ Angels
ever bright and fair” was tastefully given, but
the " Oh, Maritana” duet fell far short of what
might have been expected from such vocalists as
Miss Moon and Mr. Brown. And won’t some one
tell the latter gentleman not to say Don Csesar den
Bazan? “The Colleen Bawn” was Mr. Clancy’s
solo, and the “ Wedding March,” arranged for
voices and orchestra, terminated the coucert. Mr.
Alpen made a pleasant little speech during the
evening, and one of his lady admirers presented
him with a beautiful bouquet tied with his
national colours.
• m *
At the Jewish Bachelors’ ball given in
Brisbane last week, Miss Julia Cohefl, of Sydney,
claimed the belleship. Her dress was composed of
lavender satin and broohe, hair dressed high and
surmounted by a lavender aigrette. Another
stylish dress was worn by Mrs. Leo. Benjamin,
which consisted of a kind of long redlngote of
Seacock-blue plush, over a white satin petticoat,
[rs. Marienthal wore a rich dress of old gold satin
and cream lace; Mrs. Arthur Benjamin appeared in
white satin and lace skirt, ruby velvet bodice, with
harmonizing flowers; Mrs. J. A. Phillips wore a
handsome robe of ruby brocaded velvet; Miss
Imrie, pink satin, covered with pink brusselsnet,
garnished with sparkling bead trimming and
flowers. Miss Irene Imrie, yellow silk, covered
with cream tarlatan, cardinal sash and flowers.
* ♦ *
Mr. Massey’s attempt to render Gou-
nod’s “ Redemption,” last Thursday night in
the New Masonic Hall, was as bold as it was
praiseworthy. Whether it is wise to give a great
work like this with such material as was at Mr.
Massey’s disposal is questionable, but, if the result
was a little irritating, it was certainly, under the
circumstances, not disappointing. In producing
the Oratorio, Mr. Massey took upon nlmself a
most ambitious task, which was evidently a labour
of love, and the audience showed their gratitude
by following every note from first to last with
earnest attention. The orchestral music lo very
beautiful, and the most creditably rendered were
the “ March to Calvary,” and the weird music in
the Crucifixion, descriptive of the darkness and
the subsequent earthquake. Mrs. Colley did some
good work as soprano soloist, and Mr. Haliewell
bad a singularly easy task in the music allotted to
Jesus, which, it is needless to say, he sang with
divine expression. The tenor (Mr. Thompson
Brown) and bass (Mr. R, B. Callord) each had
exacting 1 parts, and as the oratorio progressed
their fatigue became only too apparent. The
magnificent chorus “ The word is flesh become
brought the performance to a close, and the audi-
ence testified their appreciation of the good work
Mr. Massey had done by long and hearty applause.
* ♦ ♦
At Madame Charbonnet-Kellermann’s con-
cert on Saturday, a special feature will be the first
appearance of a dozen very small performers from
Madame’s preparatory classes. Madame Keller-
man herself will play the second scherzo of
Chopin, and Mrs. Atkinson (contralto) will make
her first appearance before a Sydney audience.
Beethoven’s Septnor, arranged for two pianos,
will be played by some of Madame’s advanced
pupils. On Tuesday evening Madame Kellermann
will play a solo by Hummel, in B minor, and Mrs.
John Spencer will sing a solo. A special item in
Tuesday’s programme will be Mendelssohn’s con-
certo in G minor, each of the three movements of
which will be played by a different performer, and
the piano accompaniment by a fourth. Madame s
last valse de concert will be given at both matinee
and soiree.
♦ ♦ ♦
A return ball to the Mayor and Mayoress
of Oootamundra was held in Messrs. Scott and Mul
laly’s spacious stores last Friday week. Chinese
lanterns, flags, and ferns tastefully adorned the
building, and a well-selected committee, Messrs.
J. Barnes, Healy, Matthews, O’Donnell, Stafford,
and Taylor, with a most Indefatigable secretary,
Mr. Sandeman, carried the affair out splendidly.
About 60 couples werepresent. many hailing from
Yass. Murrumburrah, Young, Grenfell, and Wagga.
The Mayoress, Mrs. M’Beath, looked radiant in a
becoming sea-green satin with long train, low
bodice, short sleeves, and richly-trimmed with
lace. Mr. W. J. Watson, of Young, a beautiful
dress of pale-pink broche and silk, with train
and square front, trimmed with pale-pink
feather trimming and pink plumes. The ex-
mayoress (Mrs. Barnes), a nice dancer, wore
an elegant rich black velvet; Mrs. Solomon
grass green satin, profusely trimmed with lace; her
sister, Mrs. Moses, set off a costly dress of black,
low bodice, and sleeveless, with gold trimming
and ornaments; the wife of the sec. looked ex-
tremely well in pale-pink satin bodice and tarlatan
skirt, edged with wide lace; Mrs. Healy, graceful
in cream broche, with tr&in and square front,
black lace trimming, and embellishment of natu-
ral fern leaves; Mrs. Simpson, ruby velvet; Mrs.
Thomas, pretty costume, composed of cardinal
broche bodice and cream silk skirt, richly trimmed
with lace; Mrs. Agassiz, elegant in cream satin,
adorned with bows of black velvet; two ladies
looked well is pale-blue satin dresses, with Eliza-
bethian collars; Mrs. Finch, a becoming black
velvet robe draped with pink silk; niece of the
local G.P.S. looked handsome in pink veiling,
trimmed with deep cardinal; Mias Large, white-
figured silk jacket and tarlatan shirt; the wives
of the local journalists were each attired in
becoming costumes. Miss Sharp, of Young,
white satin, with waterfall of spotted net: Mrs.
Lowe, a most becoming dress of black satin beau-
tifully hand-painted. The supper-room, which
received attention about midnight, was provided
and furnished in a manner which we had thought
was peculiar to the metropolis.
• ' • •
A plain and fancy dress ball was given in
the Petersham Albert Hall last Thursday, and was
attended by about 100 people. A brace of girls
from Summer-hill looked well in mushroom-
coloured cashmere trimmed with lace and roses.
The best dress was a mixture of pale pink and
rich cardinal, trimmed with lace and beads. Not
many fancy dresses were worn.
• • •
The bachelors of Bathurst gave their first
ball last Wednesday in the Victoria Hall, Eeppel-
street. About fifty couples accepted invitations,
and the belle, resplendent in white tarlatan skirt,
trimmed with cardinal satin ribbons, and a white
satin bodice, came all the way from Wallerawang.
Richmond Cottage sent a pretty little figure in
pink tarlatan jupe, and black velvet bodice. The
favourite waltzer looked charming in black silk,
prettily trimmed with pale blue satin and lace. A
handsome pink broche, with black velvet water-
fall back, was worn by a local lady. Enjoyment
was universal, and the ball a great success.
♦ ♦ *
Notwithstanding the rainy weather, fully
300 people, principally ladles, assembled at St.
Pnlhp’s Church on Wednesday, the 39th July, to
witness the marriage of Mr. T. B. Melhuish to
Miss Maud Oroth, daughter of Mr. H. H. Grotb.
As the bride entered the church, supported
by her father, and attended by seven brides-
maids, she presented a charming appear-
ance. The bridal dress was composed of cream
ottoman silk cord, the front being a net-
work of crystal beads, met at the side by a ruoh-
ing of cream silk lace pearl passementerie,
over which fell a magnificent train of
silk. The body was pointed and trimmed
with pearl ornaments. The orthodox orange
blossoms and wreaths completed a most lovely
dress. Miss Grotb. the principal bridesmaid, was
attired in blush pink satin, handsomely trimmed
with fine edelweiss lace, long train, and bonnet to
match. Two other of the bridesmaids wore gold
satin, with lace trimmings, and cream hats. Two
wore cream nun’s veiling, and the other two blue
satin and cream lace, with hats to match. Each of
the bridesmaids carried a bouquet of violets and
camel lias made in the form of a horseshoe, and they
were all presented by the bridegroom with a mag-
nificent jewelled gold horse-shoe bracelet. After
the ceremony, about 30 guests proceeded to the
residence of the bride’s father, and sat down
to a sumptuous dijeuner supplied by the Com-
pagooni Catering Company, In exquisite style.
La the evening the number of guests was aug-
mented to about 100, and music and dancing was
Indulged in till the” weesma’ hours.” Mrs. Grotb,
the mother of the bride, wore a splendid costume
of Burgundy satin, with electric-blue satin trim-
ming and coffee-coloured lace; Miss Grotb, car-
dinal silk body, cream lace skirt; Miss Minnie
Groth, black grenadine, with jet front, old gold
gloves; Miss Bertha Groth, cream nun’s veiling
and cream lace; Mrs. Thornton, grey silk dress;
Mrs. M’Intyre, white satin, trimmed with pale-
pink satin; Mrs. Hall wore a costume of silver-
grey plush, trimmed with deep Brussels lace;
Miss Himmelooh, a dress of black Spanish
lace, with Gloire de Dijon wreaths ; Mrs.
Groth, jun., was attired In a black costume
with green leaves, and Miss Mom berg was also in
black. The Misses Lauchlan, one in pink surah
with black velvet trimmings, the other pale-blue
satin. Miss Braun wore a dress of pale-blue satin
trimmed with wreaths of deep crimson roses.
Miss Jones likewise wore a blue satin costume.
There were many other brilliant toilettes too
numerous to mention. The happy couple will
“ honeymoon ” at Sandringham, and as the bride,
dressed in a travelling costume of seal-brown
velvet, departed, a shower of rice and slippers
descended that almost "swamped” her.
• ■ *
A large crowd assembled at the University
last Saturday afternoon to hear Mr. Hector
M’Lean give an organ recital. The programme
was sufficiently varied to meet all tastes, and the
biggest share of applause was given to the per-
formers’ own waltz from *• Populaire.” Just
fancy 1
• • •
The N.S.W. Art Society held its fifth
annual meeting last week. The fun that was
expected ended in a fizzle, so that those of the
members who brought bludgeons up their sleeves
and knuckle-dusters In their pockets, were fortu-
nately disappointed. It may seem harsh and in-
considerate to disappoint men who have made
such provision for fair play, but the age is rapidly
deteriorating. Argument is taking the place of
action. In the absence of Mr. Combes, Mr. Sayer
took the chair and read the report. It was, on the
whole, satisfactory. Conversaziones for the “ in-
terchange of ideas,” and the enjoyment of
friendly social intercourse and harmony ” had
(Continued on next page.)
It always has muob puzzled me,
Beyond all thinking,
Whatever pleasure they can see
HR In roller rinklng,;
But yet I’ve seen a deal, and at
Uncertain periods,
Seen stars-while on the floor I sat—
By moi’e than myriads:
Seen sober men, like Girard tx-oupes,
Kick up so frisky,
You’d think they all had been the dupes
Of Pyrmont whisky.
Seen alry-sklrted maidens get
Such falls and crashes,
That thinking of them makes me yet
Break all in blushes.
For now and then, about the hall,
They’d sit down, sudden,
With scarcely any grace at all,
Like so much “ pudden.”
These falls occasion painful pangs,
You know, it’s horrid
For lovely woman to have “ bangs ”
Not on her forehead.
With straggling legs and struggling arms,
They keep rotating;
Dear me I wherever are the charms
Of roller skating ?
But one thing worse these folks might do
Who cut such capers—
They might, like me, be idiots who
Write for the papers.


T
HE GREAT NORTHERN COAL COMPANY,
Limited.
To be registered under the Companies’ Act.
CAPITAL £60,010, in 60,000 SHARES of £1 EACH.
THE PROMOTER-? RETAIN 35,000 FULLY
PAID-UP SHAKES FOR THEIR INTEREST IN
THE PROPERTY. AND ASK TOR NO MONEY,
35 000 Shares are offered to the public upon the
following terms Is. per share to be paid on ap-
plication, 1*. per share ou allotment, the balance
in calls of Is. per share at intervals of not Jess than
one month.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS:
THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq, (Scott, Henderson,
ana Co., Sydney.)
RO iEKT ROMB, Esq. (late of Lorimer, Rome, and
Co., Melbourne and Sydney).
ROBERT AM'Esq (A. and R. Amos, Sydney).
DUNCAN M’MAai’ER, Esq, Darling Point,
Sydney,
JAMES JONES. E q , Bathurst-street, Sydney.
JOHN STARKEY, Bsq , Castlereagh - street,
Sydney.
JOHN HENDERSON, Esq (Alexander Wilson and
Co., Sydney.)
BANKER?;
BANK of NEW ZEALAND
SOLIC1TO RS *
Messrs. WANT, JOHNSON, and CO., Pitt-street,
Sydney.
Some of the prominent ADVANTAGES of this
undertaken:—
1 The Government railrosd, Homebush-Wara-
tah extension of the Great Northern Line,
RUNS THROUGH THE PROPERTY FOR
A MILE AND A-HALP, AND WILL BE
COMPLETED FOR CJAL TRAFFIC lO
NEWCASTLE WiTflIN E .GHT MONTHS.
2. At a d< pth from 1 he surfice ofonly93feet
a seam of coal 20FEB T THICK exists, AS
PROVED BY THE fKliL SHAFT,
3. The existence of FIVE OTHER SEAMS of
COAL in the Company’s properly.
4. The excellence of the quality of the coal, as
proved by the Government Analyst and
the report of Mr. Tncmas, the Victorian
Government Coal-Viewer at Newcastle.
5. The extensive deepwater frontage. Al-
though Lake Macquarie Heads are not im-
mediately available for shipping, yet there
can be no reasonable doubt that in the near
future Laks Macquarie will become a ship-
ping port for the mineral produce of tne
district. The Government have engaged
the services of Sir John Coode, the eminent
engineer, to report as to the best means of
deepening the entrance to the lake.
6. The proximity of the Company’s property
to that of the celebrated Newcastle-Walls-
end Coal Company.
7. THE REASONABLE PROSPECT OF A
DIVIDEND WITHIN, SAY, 12 MONTHS
FROM COMMENCING OPERATIONS.
For full prospectus see Herald and Telegraph
of July 31st.
S. H. JONE?, 318 George-street. Sydney,
Broker,
fro m whom prospectuses and Forms of Applica-
tion can be obtained.
Sydney Bottling Co.
Alb & Porter Bottlers,
late
Macquarie place.
PHILLIPS & COMPANY,
418 George Street,
Sydney.
Ale : Quarts, 7/-; pints, 4/6
Porter: Quarts,7/; pints.4/6
Trade Liberally dealt with.
TERMS-CASH.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, 4th August, 1885,
TENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
PLIES.—TENDERS are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
la kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced. If possible, before the
duties of thn Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly compiled
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accent
the lowest or any tender.
F. A. WRIGHT.
flWHOOD RESTOREDI
A Clergyman having tried every known remedy
T'lrvw. NERVOUSEXHAUS-
TION, PREMATURE DECAY, &c., has at
last discovered a simple SELF-CURE, wLich, for
the sake of suffering humanity, he will send FREE
the Prescription which CURED him. Address.
witR self-addressed stamped envelope—
® r * A» CLARKE, P.O. Box 292, Sydney.
RILEY BROTHERS’
ORIGINAL
£5 DRAPERY BALES!
PACKED in CANVAS, and INSURED against
LOSS,
BT Carriage paid by mail all over the colonies
by Coach, Railway, or Steamer.
j£5 WINTER BALE.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 Large Marcella Quilt
10 yards good Sheetirg
20 yards Strong Calico
12 Strong cotton Tick
20 Wincey Dress Tweed
10 good Welsh Flannel
6 yds- Strapping Tweed
All the above are good
wearing articles.
£S FREE SELECTORS’
BALE.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 White or Colored Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 White or Unbleached
Calico
6 White or Red Flannel
12 yards Dress Material
12 yds. Cotton Shirtings
4 pair Good Stockings
1 pair Strong Stays
1 dark Petticoat
6 Strong Gambroon
0 Brown Holland
4 Large White Towels
3 yards Good Trousers
Tweed, Buttons,
Threads, &o.
£5 MEN’S CLOTHING
BALE,
1 Suit Tweed — Coat,
Trousers, and Vest
2 Crimean Shirts, large
size
3 Best Cotton Shirts,
large size
1 Best Felt Hat, any size
6 pairs Strong Cotton
Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or Pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &c.
£5 LADY’S BALE.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
3 Ladles’ Petticoats
3 Children's Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
For accouchements, we
have also a Bale contain-
ing Infant’s Clothing,
Baby Linen, Christening
Robe, Square, and Hood
or Hat, which we send
carriage free every-
where, on receipt of £5.
DRESSMAKING.
We have a large Dressmaking Department, pre-
sided over by a lady of great experience, and shall
be happy to forward patterns of the most fashion-
able dress materials - Silks, Velvets, &o.—with
prices, and full Instruction for seif-measurement,
if applied to.
The £5 Bale system has been in operation for 13
years, during which time we have despatched over
forty thousand bales, all giving the greatest satis-
faction.
The goods are now better and cheaper than ever,
and carriage arrangements quick and safe,
Price lists and patterns sent post free.
riley Brothers,
165 Oxford Street, Sydney.
TO Country Journalists.—Leader}, Telegrams,
and Sydney Letters, supplied by competent
literary man of long experience, on moderate
terms. “Beta,” Bulletin Office.
Darling Harbour Hotel,
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Railway Gates).
STEPHEN HOPKINS
(Late of Wagg& Wafrsra)
Propbeitob.
Especial Accommodation for Country Visitors.
A BOON TO THOUSANDS!
Manhood and Vigour of Youth
Restored in Four Weeks.
HHHl
ESSENCE OF LIFE
Restores manhood to the most shattered and debilitated con
stitution from whatever cause arising, in FOUR WEEKS,
Failure is impossible if taken according to the printed di-
rections, which are very simple, and require no restraint or
hindrance from business.
This invaluable remedy affords relief, and permanently
cures all who suffer wasting and withering of the nerves and
muscular tissues, Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, Disturbed
Sleep, Trembling Sensations, Dizziness, Spermatorrhoea, all
Urinary Deposits, which cause incapacity and degeneracy,
total and partial prostration, and every other exhaustive de-
rangement of the system ; regenerating all the important
elements of the human frame, and enabling man to fulfil his
most sacred obligations.
In cases at 12s., or four quantities in one for 36s. ; if by
:oach, 2s. fid. extra.
NATURE’S GREAT REMEDY!
II DR RICORDSII
SANATIVE PILLS
For strengthening the system, purifying the blood, regulating
the bowels, and removing all vitiated humours, bilious ano
Liver Complaints, Rheumatism, Gout, Scorbutic Affections,
Costiveness, Skin Eruptions, and all diseases of the nervous
system. This never-failing remedy affords at once a new
lease of life to the sickly and aged of both sexes, imparting
a beautiful and clear complexion, a sure sign of health,
strength, and vigour. Price, zs. ; by post, 2d. extra.
AGENTS FOR SYDNEY!
Messrs. W.BARCLAY & CO.,
43 GOULBUBK STREET,
One Door from George Street South,
And may be had of most Chemists, \
Parcels packed securely and free from observation, sent to
Queensland, New Zealand, or any part of the Australian
Colonies, on receipt of Post Office Order or Stamps.
OFFORD & CO.’S nnTe
Lightest, Best, and Cheapest.
652 GEORGE STREET.
ON THE
Briclrfield. Sill.
OUR STAY UD CORSET DEFAHTUGVT.
Wolfe's Schnapps possess all the requisite
of a family medicine.
Ladies, when you are next cooking just giv
Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour a trirl.
Kidney and Urinary complaints of al
kinds permanently cured with Hop Bitters. Genu
ine made by American Co. Bead
Notice!—Reliable Old Australian Wines
selected vintages, for invalids and connoisseurs
Only sold by Hookings, 143 Pitt-street.
Messrs. Sullivan and Jackson, of 141 King
street, intimate that the Drawing of the Eagle
hawk Art Union (Prospectus of which appears it
our advertising columns) will shortly taae place
and invite early application for Tickets.*
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated wltl
flag and floral decorations. Artistic effects skll
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 604 Hunter-street, Sydnav.*
Be sure you get the Genuine MURRAY
& LANMAN’S FLOHIDA WATER. There are
counterfeits, but if you will hold a leaf of the
namphlet which is around each bottle, up to the
light, you will see in faint letters, water marked
in the paper, the words “ LANMAN&KEMP
NEW YOKK,” and where you cannot And this
you may be sure the article is not genuine.
To make a good Custard you should use Kings
foad s (Jswego Cornflour.
Travellers and persons of feeble constitu-
tion take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
HEY WILL LOOK BETTER THAN NE
DR. BRIGHT’S PHOSPHODYNE
the only Reliable Remedy for Mental ana Physical
Depression, Nervous. Debility. Incapacity for
study, Loss of Energy. Sick Headache, Indigestion,
remala Complaints, Premature Decline, and la a
marvellous medicine for renovating impaired and
oro ken-down constitutions. It operates on the
system without exciting care or thought unon the
individual a« to the process. It moves the lungs,
nver, heart, kidney, stomach, and intestines, with
a harmony, vigour, yet mildness unparalleled in
medicine, and is the most powerful blood purifier
oi the present day. Bold by all chemists.
Agents— Elliott Bros.
coolalta wines,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 G-eorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
bo found in the “LIGHT AND
LIFE,’’forthe speedy cure of Nervous Debility,
Lost Manhood, Despondency, &o. A copy of
this book will be sent free, sealed. Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy. .
' 76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
(■e
c-
e
'Ml
\
n
2
sent to any Railway Station
Tree oe Charge.
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call in and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPOON BUSKS),
2s. lid., 3s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., 5s. 6d., Os. 6d., 7s. 6d., 8s. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. 8d., 12s 6
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS, 666 and 668 Brickfield Hill.
.—Orders from the Country will receive Immediate and careful attention.
(Continued from page 16.)
been held during the year. With the exception of
tobacco, there is nothing like harmony for making
life pleasant. And ithey generally run in couples,
too. Wherever you find one you may be sure the
other is only just round the corner. Classes had
heen established to cultivate studies “Lorn the
antique” and “from the nude.” It is doubtful,
however, whether these subjects cannot be
studied to greater advantage at fashionable
suburban parties than in the Art Society’s
rooms. Some friction was expected from
those whose 54 imp.erishab e works were re-
jected by a brutal committee at the last exhibi-
tion. An insulting offer, it will be remembered,
was made at the time to allow those paintings to
appear as specimens of early aboriginal mural
decoration. Mr. Feilding app Jared to be the ring-
leader of the malignants, and proposed an amend-
ment to the motion for adopting toe report He
did so, not because some of his ‘studies” were
rejected. Far from it. He'd have done just the
same if they’d all been bought for the Art Gallery.
Mr. Dalgarno said that Mr. Feilding “had gone
about in a chronic state of grievance.” To this
Mr F. naturally objected, when Mr. D. consider-
ately consented to withdraw “chronic,” but
would go cheerfully to death sooner than with-
draw another word. The report was adopted,
Pigueait, Sayer, Ashton, Dalgarno, Hopkins,
Riley, Watson, Smedley, Jackson, Henry, and two
Collingridges were chosen for a committee. After
a wanton and unprovoked attack on the “ Dox-
oiogy,” the meeting separated.
• * * •
The annual entertainment of the New-
town Waratah C. C. was given by the Gas Amateur
Minstrels in the Oddfellows’ Hall, Newtown, on
the 3lst., and was a decided success—One of the
Tweeds’ fairest daughters goes to fill a surveyor’s
home at Walgett, in a few months’ time Last
amateur theatricals at Murwillumbah so success-
ful that people crave for more. . .“Hupper
circles of the Tweed lawn tennis-log from early
morning till dewy eve—Numerous friends of
Miss Genevieve Ward met on the Melbourne boat
on Saturday morning to bid farewell to the
talented actress and little “Teck.”—Mr. C E.
St. John Page was presented with a handsome
chain and locket on his departure from the Bank
of New South Wales, Gundagai, last week — A
successful concert was given at the Freemasons'
Hall, Wagga Wegga, recently, by Miss Ada Baker
(a young lady of only eighteen summers), in aid of
the local hospital —A return ball was tendered
to Mr. M’Beath, Mayor of Cootamundra, on the
24th instant, by the townsfolk. A very successful
affair The Windsor Cricket Clubs Social (held in
Mrs. Martin’s room, Pitt-street), on Wednesday
last, was a pronounced success.
ANSWERS TO SOCIAL CORRESPONDENTS.
[Note.—Social items, in order to ensure inser-
tion for the current week, should be to hand no
later than Tuesday.]
“ Synagogue Wedding Too late for Insertion. .
“Sturdy”: Thanks for the trouble you have
taken, but we cannot promise to publish a de-
tailed notice on each affair of this kind—
“Pierrot”: Obliged to condense your account
—want of space... “Vlctis”: Acceptable, but
received too late “Lima": Tour matter ar-
rived sufficiently early this time but your
item too antiquated to be interesting. ■
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Lodge Shaw Stewart Social, Albert Hall,
Parramatta Road August 6
Madame Charbonnet-Kellermann’s An-
nual Matinee and Soiree Musicals,
New Masonic Hall Aug. 8,11.
Grand Masonic Ball (Sydney Tarbolton)
Town Hall August 13.
Newtown Private Social .. August 14
Sydney Social (Nithsdale) August 14.
Carrington Plain and Fancy Dress Ball,
West’s Academy August 18.
Londoners’ Club Ball, Town Hall August 19
Sydney Bicycle Club Ball, Town Hall. . .August 34.


Wolfe's Schnapps restores digestion.
The most delicious of all preparations for Pud-
dings,' Custards, &c„ is Kingsford’s Oswego Corn-
flour. i-
If you are low-spirited take Wolfe a
Schnapps. ,
Most popular amongst the ladies is Klngsford
Oswego Cornflour.
Political Points
The first aot;of Sir M. Hicks-Beaob, as
leader of the Commons, was to be the moving of
a resolution excluding Mr. Bradlaugh from the
precincts of the House during the remainder of
the session.
A correspondent enquires whether it is
true that Mr. Abigail. M.L.A., said at a recent
meeting that he “would rather see ten Chinamen
than one Irishman land on our shores.” We don’t
think it matters much to the world what Mr.
Abigail said. Francis is just the sort of politician
whom one can suspect of preferring, on all occa-
sions, yellow to green.
“Robespierre Joe” is the nickname the
Tory papers at home give to Mr. Joseph Chamber-
lain; the Radical member of Parliament for Bir-
mingham. Many a true word is said in jest It
will not be the fault of the Tones if an English
Robespierre does not arise one of these days, and
settle certain long-standing feuda wftMoutwalttog
for the views of the House of Lards. Chamberlain
might as well be the man as any other.
Herbert Spencer has written to M. Yves
Guyot“I am glad that you are opening tte
eyes of the French to the illusion that colonies
are of any advantage. A short tlai© ago I dis-
covered that Mr. Gillen, of the Board of Trade,
thought, like myself, tnat if the cost of wars and
administration were taken into account, the colo-
nies would be found to constitute a regular and
heavy loss. I have asked Mr. GIffen to demon-
strate this with the aid of statistical documents.
Vanity Fair’s love for Lord Randolph
Churchill is as strange a product of instinct a d
reason as its hate for Mr. Gladstone. The new
Minister is in favour of a tax on sugar. There can
be no doubt that such a tax will press hardly on
the poor. Vanity Fair, however, wants Lord
Randolph to be thought th) particular friend of
the poor. Consequently it proceeds thus to argue
for him. As a piece of political reasoning, we
have never seen anything to excel it, even among
the writings of Mr. Mortimer Franklyn. Hear:—
“ Cheap sugar is not, however, an unmixed good.
Sugar is to many people a very unwholesome diet.
It is especially so to those of a gouty or rheumatic
tendency. The poorer classes in the country
are very prone to rheumatism; they would
certainly enjoy better health on the whole if they
consumed less sugar.”
How cunningly the aristocratic world of
England is extending its web in every direction.
Its young sprigs are sent off to America and Aus-
tralia to capture heiresses, and thus consolidate
wealth all over the English world, and to unite as
one the privileged classes everywhere. The latest
success of this kind is the marriage of Charles
Ramsay, brother of Lord Dalhousie, to Miss Garri-
son, a New York heiress, perhaps the daughter of
William Lloyd Garrison, the immortal slavery-
abolitionist.
From the Paul Maui,:— “ A striking inci-
dent of the gathering in St. James's Hall was the
large amount of sympathy accorded to the origi-
nal demand of Lord Randolph Churchill as to
Egypt-namely, that Arab! should be recalled, and
the National party reinstated in power. Sir W.
Harcourt was perhaps hardly prepared for the
loud cheers which greeted the quotation from his
opponent.” And this is the Arahi whom the
hysterically “ loyal” dally Press of Sydney called a
*’ cowardly murderer” and a “ base traitor.”
Following up the c ue afforded by the
Goaford speeches, we have been making inquiries
as to the composition of the next N.S.W. Ministry.
We are in a position to state that the next Cabinet
will most improbably be constituted as follows:—
Mr. Farnell, Premier and Minister for Lands; Mr.
Buchanan, Attorney-General; Mr. Abigail, Mines
sad Banquets ; Mr. Slattery, Justice ; Mr. Oliffe,
Public (House) Instruction; Mr. M'Elhene, Colonial
Secretary, with a seat in the Upper House; and
Mr. N. Melville, Minister for (the Devil and all his)
Works.
England’s finances are in disorder, but
what shall be said of those of France, with her
£30,000,000 deficit which she is making no prepara-
tions to meet by fresh taxation 2 The growth of
the French debt is appalling. When Say was
Treasurer he consolidated a large floating debt,
and the total of the consolidated debt then stood
at £880,000,000, 20 per cent, more than that of Great
Britain. Since then—in only three years—another
floating debt has sprung up, which by the end of
the present year is likely to attain £80,000,000.
Already one-third of the ordinary Budget, which
stands at the enormous figure of. £130,000,000, is re-
quired for the service of the regular debt. What
is to be done ? Few people as yet realise how fast
old Europe, with its most civilised countries in
the van, is careering towards the abyss of bank-
ruptcy. And the sole cause is war—into which the
Daileys and the Loftuses would plunge the now
tranquil and prosperous land of Australia.
Movement succeeds movement in North
Queensland with as gradual a regularity as Irish
agitations. The coloured labour, financial separa-
tion, territorial separation, and other minor ques-
tions have been consigned to past history, and the
correct thimble which hides the pea has at last
been lifted. Mackay has at last taken a step in
the right direction. On Mr. Griffiths’ return from
his Northern tour, he was Interviewed at Flat-Top
by a deputation, representing the freeholders and
selectors of Mackay District, who presented a
draft scheme which proposed, among other
things, that the Government should advance a
loan for the erection of central sugar mills, the
farmers giving their lands as security for repay-
ment. Under present circumstances, the mill-
owners, who have large crops of their own to
crush, are utterly indifferent whether they crush
the farmer’s cane, or let it rot on the ground. The
farmers have declared that they can grow sugar
with white labour alone, and that this is but
the truth, anyone who is acquainted with
tbe Mackay district will scarcely deny. It is
a well-known fact that In the Mackay district
there are farmers who have grown cane for years
without any material assistance from coloured
labour. If sugar pays the farmer under the pre-
sent ruinous mill system, what success may he not
achieve when the central mills’ system is an ac-
complished fact ? The present depression may,
after all, have been the cloud from behind which
will spring the silver lining of a permanent pros-
perity, for
“ Out of evil good will spring.
As the Indian serpent resteth
On the plant that heals its sting.”
Joe Abbott, the N.S.W. Minister for Mines
and Rabbits is said to have a firm belief that he
will one day be Premier of the colony. We are
certain that he will, if he can only work his fel-
low-members as well as he can lubricate constitu-
encies with road-and-bridge and hospital-vote-
grease. But he falls in one point-he should
manage to keep it dark. It is well to be able to
show the political cocoanut chock full of the milk
of popularity, hut it Is a great mistake to let men
see whence the cow-juice was drawn. On his re-
cent tour, Joe made lots of friends at Wentworth.
He enabled the editor of the local Advocate to
give vent to his ecstatic joy in these terms“ We
have received some of the most flattering remarks
that a newspaper could receive, from the Minister
for Mines downwards.” We are informed, too, on
unreliable authority, that the leading hotelkeeper
offered to “chalk them up” for him to a moderate
extent should he ever again visit the town;
and as if this was not honour enough for
one man, the hospital committee voted him
a life member I From his autograph letter, accept-
ing the latter privilege, we extract these words:—
“ I have now the honour to Inform you that the
course which your committee has adopted is one
which meets with my entire approval, except that
I feel the honour they have done me is far more
than I deserve for anything I have done, or can
do, for one of the noblest institutions in the
colony. The first Act of Parliament I had passed
— [So Joe is a whole Parliament and Governor
in himself—Eh ?] —after I became a member of
Parliament five years ago, was one to enable trus-
tees of Hospitals in the country to secure and pro-
tect their funds. For this Act I was made a life
member of eight hospitals, and my likeness placed
in the committee-room of two of those institu-
tions. I shall always with pleasure remember my
visit to Wentworth; and the most pleasing inci-
dent in connection with that visit, to me, will be
the honour your committee have done me.” This
is beautiful. It is so pleasant to see how the
Wentworth peonle adore the Minister. We began
to think that Wentworth had found a politician
worthy of disinterested adoration, and that Joe
had found disinterested adorers. But (another idol
gone I) Immediately below this autograph letter ia
printed one also from Mr. J. P. Abbott, as follows;
“ Department of Mines, Sydney—Sir,—I have the
honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter
of the 36th June last, in which you tender to me
the thanks of the Committee of the Wentworth
Hospital, and also the public of the district for the
promise I have made to have an unconditional
vote of £1000 placed upon the estimates for your
hospital. Since my return to Sydney, I have seen
my honorable colleague, Sir Alexander Stuart, in
whose department hospitals are placed, and he
was good enough to ratify my promise, and to
promise to place a sum upon the next estimates.
I have the honour to be, sir, your obedient ser-
vant, J. P. Abbott.” Comment Is needless. The
Minister has promised to give the Hospital Com-
mittee £1000 from the State coffers; therefore
Wentworth is happy. Wentworth has conferrea
an honour upon him; injreturn, perhaps, thereror
he is joyous, and the country which pays for tne
joy in each case is moved to new transports oi
rapture at seeing the popularity of the Minister,
and the just appreciation of Wentworth. Shades
of the deceased William, can these things be done:
»
PLAIN BILL: “SOME OF THOSE DISMAL AND TEARFUL HUMORISTS. . . . SOME OF THESE INSUPPORTABLT COMIC PEOPLE HAVE LAUGHED A MELANCHOLY
LAUGH. . . . THESE EXASPER ATINGLY FUNNY PEOPLE WHOSE OPPRESSIVE, HEARTBREAKING FACBTIOUSNE83 STRONGLY TEMPTS A REALLY HUMOROUS
MAN TO IDEAS OF VIOLENCE.”— Vide speech at Banquet to the N.S.W. Contingent.
BOOH!
If you are “ chosen,” H. Levlen,
’ fis easy, sure, to tell,
Tw-ll be when rules the roast serene
The great James Squire Farnell 1
He owes you, or the Devil’s in’t,
Of gratitude a piece;
He’s sure to take that little hint”
You set in Qosford grease.
Out on such bosh I is what we say,
You great forensic gawk;
Of what avail, now, anyway,
This blatant “ picnic talk ?”
But, O poor “ pitcher,” dull and dense,
We know we d pray In vain
That poor, forgotten Common-Sense
Assert herself again 1


Qiticura
V" <■-'
Eczema on Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
as*
Scrofula on Neck
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
A.J.O. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRES8ING SALOON,
91 King-street.
N.B.—I ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA AND INSECTICIDE.
M
I^ Il ACIDIT F V BILIOUS'HE A DAPRv 7 fo I FLATULENCE,
Invalids and Children. mLIOUS HEADACHE, and a MOST GENTLE APERIENT for
l»“ See Medical Opinions Accompanying each Bottle.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout the Colonies.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
CO^jBOACHES?^tuVltoS3m I l?M^o5« h D“d, L Fowi. F »15 S, ,G BSTI l* S ', MO«OmTO*S. and
from the Depredations or the Furniture* oL S i’ n animals. It Preserves Furs
may be Cleansed of Insect Vermin by KHOSE’S INSECTICIDE?*** 8 ’ Fow Hou8e8 > and Kennels
Sold in Tins. Is., and upwards, by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
ELLIOTT BROS. •
K. PROSSER & CO. f Sydney.
m
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 8B4 and 366 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio!
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment. Australia.
*•■«« ** «>« -««, «•.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-stteet, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, MANAGER.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, and CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS. R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS. R. G. WATKINS)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
M, iDWi, ul UHR HOWS,
Importers of
I and REQUI8
BAR, PLATE, SHEET,
and HOOP IRON
GALVANISED CORRU-
GATED and PLAIN
IRON
SHEET and PERFO-
RATED ZINC: TIN
PLATES
PIG IRON and LEAD
OILS, PAINTS, and
BRUSH WARE
FENCING WIRE
WOOLPACK8
SHEARING SUPPLIES
BUILDERS’ IRONMON-
GERY
ROLLED H GIRDERS
£3
sue
GINES
V ZORTAi L BOILilS
m - -
a;- '~ i fgSSSi.”m
SA%Sf® DBILLI
STEAM HAMMERS
■/aar brj
P #hVf?, T no HOLLI
QUICKSILVER, &b.
tr Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
Head Warehouse -
Iron ani Implement Yard
Bulk Stores
London Office
- 64 YORK STREET,
- HAY AND ENGINE STREETS.
- HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR,
SYDNEY;
• ■ 86 QRAOEOH UROH STRJCJTft
DISFIGURING- HUMORS, Humiliating Erup- i
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures, *
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching, i
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi- ]
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with i
of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by -
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally. ]
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,>
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar 6
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath '
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated ?
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent, 1
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and r
Scalp, when ail other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re- I
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol- a
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which t
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer I
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood; 1
have been obliged to shun public places by reason -
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got d
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies, 2
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood f
as pure us a child’s. Send for onr sixty-four page i
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.” p
Australian Consignees,
K. Towns & Co. f New South. Wales. 1
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
tier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
ind Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifters free from mercury,
irsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
3 a re by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
iruggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
J1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
no Soap, 10 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00
icr bottle.
Prepared rt the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co , Boston. U.S.A.
%
a
mo
BjestMaki
ynetlll
'I0$k
$
vovr
*
\*/vsrS!L
107 Pitt-street,
CATERER AND CONFECTIONER.
W” LUNCHEON AND BBFBBSHMENT BOOMS FOB LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.


W. WALKER and
LONDON [and SYDNEY.
Catalogues
POST FEBB.
W. WALKER
and SONS
STDNETIBEANCH :
Catalogues
POST FEBB.
ALL STOCK
In their
.SYDNEY
are one of the
Largest
BOVII
Stookholdera
Supplied
and
DIRECT
Manufacturer*
from their
HiKh-elaa«
FURNITURE
ENGLAND.
London
Manufactory
and Latjgt
London Btylai
Guarani iid,
81 CLARENCE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
REMEMBER THIS,
IP YOU ARE SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails. ....
If you are comparatively well, out reel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of American Co. s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
Buffering from any of the numerous
diseases of stomach or bowels. It is
your own fault if you remain ill, for
American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
mit you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to American Co.’s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a Bai®
in Gilead ” in the use of American Co. s
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of malarial,
epidemic, bilious and intermittent
fevers—by the use of American Co. a
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, American hur
BITTERS will give you fair skin, rich
blood, the sweetest breath, health, and
comfort. In short, they cure ALL
Diseases of the Stomach, Bowels,
Blood, Liver, Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
JB500
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
Bister, mother or daughter, canbe made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
American Hop Bitters, costing but a
trifle.
Will yon let them suffer?
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
American Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
per See If the name of Hr. Soule Is blown
In every bottle, If not It Is counterfeit.
THE AUSTRALASIAN MUTUAL LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
Capital ... ... ... £100,000.
Head Office : Melbourne.
Svdney Branch : Boyle’s Chambers, Bond-street
• * . . _ a. . XT a (TTnlnn •
Victorian Directors s
John L. Dow, Esq., M.P.,
Chairman
Hon. J. F. Levien. M.P.
Thomas Learmonth, Esq.
N. S. Wales Directors:
Andrew Town, J.P., Esq.
Frank Cowley, Esq.
George 8. Yeo, Esq.
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and Dogs Insured
against death from Accident, Disease, or Natural
rimmes on land, rail, or at sea.
Marine Risks on Stock covering mortality or on
Merchandise accepted. . . ,j
The only Live Stock Insurance Society in the
can be obtained from the undeir-
Agents wanted where unrepresented.
A. J. WILKINSON, Branch Manager.
Office, Royle’s Chambers, Bond-street.
B
A U
4711
D B
COLOGNE,
4711.
Established 1703.
Gold Modal, Moscow. 1872; Prize Modal, Vienna, 1873
This Bau de Cologne, so favourably known to
Australian public during the last 35 years, ob-
tetaedat the last Philadelphia Exhibition the
Prize Medal? and First Prize Sydney International
Exhibition. for its superior sweetness, strength,
Sd invigorating qualities, excelling all other com-
Pe it t has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the dllte of
® The’large and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 4711 Bau de Cologne, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India? and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number— -4711 changed into 7411,1147, 4117, &o., &o.
real genuine article which carried off the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue-and-gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents—BLLIOTT BROTHERS, Pltt-
w noiesme « street, Sydney.
To he had at the principal Perfumers, Druggists,
o nd storekeepers, In town and country.
SOIjE agent fob the
SMITH ORGAN.
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
SOLE IMPORTER OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos I
WILLIAM BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
'IIIHIIIIII: Mill,Ii;m;.l,'ll, r.iriUlliiM:'-. i
MR
5th Half-Yearly Sale.
JULY, 1886.
ROSSALUS. 1X0YD & CO.,
354 George-street, Sydney.
Wa bee respectftflly to inform our numerous Customers and the Public generally, that
our US CAL JULY SALE has commenced in the usual way. The Ladies of Sydney
will no doubt remember what bargains they have purchased at our previous Sales;
therefore we venture to think that a great and speedy clearance will be effected, and
we trust by our well-earned reputation for really new goods, Ladies will determine to
attend the Sale.
ISOSS-A.LIE, LLOTD dc CO,
354 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The great anti-bilious remedy Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
The sale per day now exceeds 00,000 lbs. of Kings-
ford’s Oswego Cornflour.
Art Union of Moss Vale, in aid of Widow
and Orpan Fund of Bdrrlma Masonic Lodge.
Tickets. 306. Will shortly be drawn. Anply at
once for tickets. J. 8. Hyams, Sec., Moss Vale.*
MaoLaughlin’s Bodega, 306 Qeorge-street,
near Hunter-street. Wines from the best vine-
yards of-Australia— by glass or bottle. Families
supplied. Cold Luncheons, &c.*
If y C u want good puddings use Kingsford’s
Oswego Cornllour.
tVnlie'fi Schnapps cannot be approached
for-its flavor andpurny of spirit.
OBTAINABLE EBOM ALL GBOCEBS AND 8TOBEKEEPEB8.
. T
II " ; V
l> yz 7. ’ I ; f.
CELEBRATED
ms AN CAKES, TREACLE AID SOLDEH STEW,
Self-raising /Erated Flour, Plum Puddings, Mincemeat,
Infants’ Food, &c.
FOR SUPERIORITY OF QUALITY AND EXCELLENCE.
,8. & A. have obtained First Awards all over the world, including Two Gold Medals, .Sydney I.E., 1880; Special Gold Medal
and Seven First Awards, Melbourne, 1881; and Two Gold Medals, Calcutta I.E. 1883-4,
Sydney Agents: w H. ARIELL A CO, and 345 Kent-s*'**!.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
I This is the refined way in which the Ben-
inAdvertiser puts it.—“Flutter of exoite-
entamong the fair sex. It is already known that
young antf rising solicitor of this city will, within
next few days, be united la the bonds of wed-
ict to the daughter of a former resident °, f Sand-
urst, connected with the timber trade, xhere s
dainty way of putting it for you I The man who
rote It has no business on a country journal. He
muld be editing posters or naper-bags for
rocers. And this Is what the “ young and rising
filcltor ” —who constantly courts the Muses—
indsuss—
“ Be mine, be mine, oh, peerless maid I
(Her heart began to thaw.)
I prithee leave the timber-trade—
Come over to the law.
“ The bliss, the joy to call thee mine 1
To hold your band In feel
Give up the lath and rafter line,
Come in and board with me.
Mrs. Jackson, of Kiama (N-S-W.), gave a
llnner to the local members of K th w+nr d
ingent. (This shows how much better Kiama
)oarding-housea must be than Sydney ones. Por-
onallv. we would prefer the Soudan stew to
Voolloomooloo “ hash.") After the “dovers“ had
luly Hashed, Captain Honey laid himself out to
mmortallse the guests of the evening. He also
)x plained that he, himself, had desired to get a
louoein the Gazette of Fame by going, but he
bought of his wife, and wisely preferred to listen
« the rattle of the churn at home, rather than the
■attle of Martinis in the Soudan. Touching the
sagerness of men to enlist, he explained that when
•ho wire was sent to him asking how many of the
Kiama Khakees wanted to go, he replied that none
wore desirous of going. The reply was an order to
present himself In Sydney at once. This is the
ipontaneous outburst of patriotism. Captain
Parrot of Sydney was present, and in the course
of his little chat he made these singular i remarks re-
anecting the justice of our Invasion of the Soudan.
military men they had nothing to do with
the optical side of the question; they did not
stop P to inquire * what right has If
? ’ They did not stop to question the right of
the Acting Premier to ask them to go—they had
nothing to do with these things—they simply
Sni 11 ntiered to go and their services were
accepted.” This Is what we are asked to admire
ar the “ military spirit.” Captain Parrot plainly
ravs that a volunteer (not a soldier, mind) need
enquire as to justice or right. He mart
simply go to slaughter savages In a scientific way
when asked to do so. This is playing very low
down on patriotism. An assassin never stops to
enquire as to the justice of his action. All men
ablior assassins. Theoretically, all men love the
Christian virtues. Captain Parrott says that an
invitation to slaughter does away with what he
calls the political side of the question. This is the
natural outcome of the military spirit.
M. Davis, of Nathalia (Vie.), deserves a
medal as big as a soup-plate from the society for
the promotloh of Christian knowledge, for his
commendable and-shall we say Jowdlotous sya-
tom of spreading the Gospel among the benighted
Agriculturalists of the Lower Goulburn Valley.
Quite recently a conclave of the honest farmers of
tne country was held in that Arcadian village to
devise means for the encouragement of a more
geometric system of ploughing than that in vogue
among the pioneer selectors, who preferred des-
cribing a half-circle round an obstinate gum
to preserving the unity of Paraliel lins-s.
The local business men were also eager to assist in
the improved order of things, and their donations
ranged from a pair of “back-bands” presented
by the proprietors of the district Press, to
a pair of hob-nailed and iron-clad bluchers,
the gift of the village shoemaker. And
in this connection, the philanthropic Davls-
with a keen perception of the material benefits
arising from well-cultivated paddocks, on the one
hand, and a sympathetic regard for the eternal
welfare of the cultivators on the other-goner-
ously donated a Holy Bible (King James’ edition)
as a supplementary second prize for competition
among the double-furrow artists. This splendid
trophy—price 15s. C.O.D.-attraoted competitors
from Ticola even unto Numurkah, and great was
the struggle for the prize. Now that we have
calmly considered the matter we are forced to the
Inevitable conclusion that the gift, after all, was
not malavroiio*, but rather bordering on the sin-
gularly appropriate. Who. we ask, has ever wit-
nessed a seance between an irate lamer and a
refractory team of double-furrow plough horses
and heard the unseotarian remarks of the
teamster, that has not yearned to bombard him
wfttTchuaks of Holy Writ bearing on the evil
effects of profane speaking, or—pat him on the
head with a brick ? We pause for a reply. There-
fore, we reiterate that Mr. Davis deserves well of
his adopted country, and we humbly hope that his
laudable efforts to circulate the Scriptures among
the unregenarate ploughmen of Victoria will be
attended with satisfactory results-If only in clear-
ing off any stock he may have on hand before
getting in his supplies of the Revised Edition.


LU&
JTUDI ECONOMY
J and
lavcyourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-Ilned and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
i 541 George Street,
I Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
I Parasols made to match cos-
tume* Repairs neatly eze>
anted
TEETH
(COMPLETE SET),
£5
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
DENTIST,
MARKET STREET,
One door from George-strcct.
CIEIICE
OF
life
KNOW THYSELF
A Great MEDICAL WORK on MANHOOD,
Exhausted Vitality, Nervous and Physical Debility, Pre-
mature Decline in Man,Errors of Youth, and the untold
miseries resulting from indiscretion or excesses maybe
alienated and cured. Those who doubt this should pur-
chase and read the new work issued by the World’s Dis-
pensary Medical Association, entitled the Science of Life
or Self Preservation. A book for every man, young,
middle-aged, and old. It shows how lost health may be
regained and retained. It contains 125 prescriptions for
all acute and chronic diseases, each one of which is in-
valuable. So found by the author, whose experience for
20 years is such as probably never before fell to the lot of
anyphysician. SOOpages, bound in beautiful French cloth,
full gilt, guaranteed to be a finer work in every sense than
any other sold in the country for 2 guineas, or the money
will be refunded in every instance. Price, only 12/6 by
mail, post paid. Illustrative sample, 2 stamps. Gold
medal awarded the author by the National Medical
Association, to the officers of which he refers.
The Science of Life should he read by the young for
instruction and by the afflicted for relief. It will benefit
all. —London Lancet.
Address the World’s Dispensary Medical As- M T A I
sedation, or Dr. W. R. Parker, No. 69 Hunter M L A L
Street, Sydney, N.S.W. The author may TLJVOCI C
be consulted on all diseases requiring | f| I U t L F
skill, secrecy, and experience.
\jViO\!NTCAST L[ &
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYD N ELY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHF
NEWEST SHAPES.
r
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
headache, TOOTHAC JtE.
RAINS, BRUISES, TURNS. SCALD j, &c and
<kkenInternally cures DIARRHCEA,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other xuterno aches
knd pains.
Price, Q/- Sold EverywMier©,
G. £. MOULTON, sole prop i. :or„
AridLROURISrjfi .A.TSTT)
o - T) N E Y.
PAINT
Marshalls
TONIC’NERVINE
SAFE, CERTAIN. & SPEEDY CUKE for Ner-
voub and General Debility, and all complaint*
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Llvtr and Kidney
Complaints, Loss of Vital Power, &o. By its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
tor Alcohol. By Its richness in phosphorous and
2£h®r powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
o ? Jfhole system. Price, 4a. fld., or 26s. a case.
Sole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHaR8,:M.P.B.
Sfhufkoturing and consulting Chemists, 104 and
i 1 ? Market-street, near Hyde Park, Sydney, and
Olraular-quay. TAKE NO BDH8TI-
NO MORE CORNS I
CORNS AND WARTS removed without pain
by the use of Palmer’s Painless, Harmless,
and Effectual CORN AND WART REMOVER.
This preparation Is the most wonderful ever used
for Corns, Warts, or Bunions. If applied accord*
ing to the directions, it will effectually remove
them in from six to eight days.
PALMER’S
FACILE CURA Us?
For Neuralgia, either Chronic or Local.
This most wonderful Preparation has surpassed
all others In speedily removing this excruciating
and most distressing complaint. It matters nor
how !ong or severe the suffering has been, a single
bottle has never failed in producing the desired re-
sults ; and it can be most confidently recommended.
Sold retail by all chemists and druggists and
general stores; wholesale by Messrs. Elliott Bros.
Sydney ; E. Prosser and Co., Sydney ; Felton.
Grlmwade, and Co., Melbourne; Kempthorne and
Prosser, Dunedin.
Sydney Pharmacy.
76 HUNTER STREET,
Opposite Tramway, Elizabeth Street.
PHYSICIANS’ PRESCRIPTIONS carefully pre-
pared with Drugs of the purest quality.
I'rench Indiarubber Goods. Ladles’ Abdominal
Supports and Pessaries, Syringes and Enemas of
every description, always in stock.
Country Orders promptly executed,
H. P. SABIEL, M.P.S., Mgr.
NEUSTADT and CO.,
COMPLETE
FURNISHERS,
39, 154, 156, A 158 OXFORD-ST J
SYDNEY.
vr HOUSES FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
ZZ. Either fok Cash or Time Pa ymbht.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
TO weak MFM sssfssaaj
»»3E-lo errors, early decay,
lost Titalit}, preniat in e decline, nervous weak-
ncss, etc., I will send you particulars of a
certain, simple, and sure means of self cure,
r reo of Charge. Address, in confidence.
Prof. M. B. TAYBOB,
68 Elizabeth St.,
SYDNEY N.S W.
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AMD
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN.
Corner of William-street, Hyde Park.
High-class Furniture
At Very Lowest Prices, compatible with the fine®
workmanship and finish, for entrance halls,
dining-rooms, drawing.rooms, bedrooms,
and libraries.
k.'ARPBTS IN NEWEST DESIGNS ANI
FINEST QUALITY,
rtTLTON CARPETS, BRUSSELS CARPETS.
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With Hearthrugs to match.
COBLICINE AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL AND
BLACK AND BRASS,
In all sizes and various designs.
MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Capital—£100,C
Ip
DURING his recent visit to London, carefully
selected a large and varied Stock of
manufactured by the most celebrated English
makers.
further desires to apprise his customers
of the fact that he has been appointed A6KNT for
the following Firms -—JOHN RIGBY & CO Lon-
80N - London:
LANG & SON, London; CHA8. OSBORNE &
vl/tf JuOllQOQ.
n ™ ls ? for the eminent firm of
BUBSi & CO., London.
»»*** "v a- hi i/uiully Guaranteed hi.
602 Gaorma.st.p Sydney,
Where Inspection Is Invited.
Champagne
Hsldslock & Co’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINK MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS ft Co., London.
"oie Ajrnntf for Heldsieofe & Co., Bolras.
E v s¥<$S?Ss» iPEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT 18 MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD,
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
881 Georice-strcet, Sydney.
going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TUBE
HOTEL, which is now kept by
The “LOUIS’*
VELVETEEN.
The strictest examined may try every test of touch
and sight without discovering that these are other
than the Genoa Velvets which they so closely resem-
ble. while the peculiar arrangements resulting in the
fast woven pile enable them fo stand interminable
and rough wear, which jwould ruin real velvets at
four times the price.! For Costumes and
vv
Ml
Trimmings it is unequalled, and in fact
for all purposes ip which Silk Velvet
may be used we Specially recommend
the "LOUIS" VELVETEEN.
Every yard of genuine bears
, the name of " Louis."
May be had from all
Drapers throughout
the Colonies, most
of %vhom will
send patterns
post free on
application.
11
DR. O CORNELL,
52 Castlereagh Street,
SYDTTEY, TT.S.W.
A SEOUL AR GRADUATE iu all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, and registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and N.S.W., whose
life-long cxjicricnco, practical method of treat-
ment, and pure medicines insure speedy and per-
manent cures in all p r 1 vat e cases, c h ro n i c,
nervous, skin and special diseases,
DR. O CONNELL is the oldest advertising
physician, as papers will prove. Consultation at
office, or by post, free and invited. A friendly
talk or opinion costs nothing. When it is incon-
venient to visit the city for treatment, medicina
can be sent by post everywhere, free from obser-
vation. Curable cases guaranteed ; where doubt
exists, it is frankly stated. 7«£j>ecial attention to
Severe and.Loug-standing Cases. <i
Nervous Prostration, Debility, •
Mental and Physical Weakness,
the result of Indiscretion, Excess, or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects: —Ner-
vousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Defective
Memory, Pimples on the Pace, Aversion to Society
of Females, Want of Pleasure in Life, Want of
Ambition, Unfitness to Marry, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Headache, Restlessness, Loss of Spirits,
Pains in the Back, Stunted Development, &c., are
■ _ _ I treated with unparalleled success. Cures per,
manent, safe, and private. Symptom list free, and medicines sent by post.
Skin Diseases, Itching, Burning, Scaly Pimples, Blotches and Eruptions
of evqry kind, from whatever cause, promptly cured.
It is self-evident that a physician paying particular attention to a class of cases attains great skill,
and physicians in regular practice all over the country knowing this, frequently recommend gaffes to
this oldest office in Australia, where every known appliance is resorted to, and the proved good
remedies of all ages and countries are used. On account of the great number of cases applying, thq .
charges are kept low—often lower than Is demanded by others. If you secure the skill, and get a
speedy and perfect life cure, that is the important matter. Book, 40 pages, sent free. Call on or 1
address DOCTOR. J. O CONNELL, |3
52 Castlereagh Street (ground floor), Sydney.
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
larchant Tailors, Habit, and Robe Makars.
Trousers from Sis. to 4 Os.
N.B.—Mr. SHEARS'BY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Parmer and Co.
W. Bheaesby & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st.
Carmack’s Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk
(Composed of about equal proportions of Pure Cod Liver Oil and Condensed Milk digested).
IT affords us much pleasure to announce to the Medical Profession and the Public that welmve sue.
ceeded In combining these nutritive substances Into a permanent, palatable, and easily assimilable
form.
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk bas the following advantages over the Plain Oil and the
Emulsions now in use 1st. Plain Cod Liver Oil is unpalatable to most persons, but in comblnat on
with condensed ( digested ) milk, as exhibited in this preparation, it will usually be taken by the youngest
child with a relish. 2nd. Oils are prepared for assimilation principally in the duodenum ; consequently
Cod Liver Oil, when taken plain, often offends the stomach, The Oil and Milk in Peptonized Cod Liver
Oil and Milk are digested, and it will therefore usually agree with the most delicate stomach. 3rd.
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk contains double the nutritive and flesh-forming principles found in
the Emulsions of Cod Liver Oil. 4th. It is well known that the Emulsions of Cod Liver Oil usually
contain from 30 to 75 per cent, of water. Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk contains 53 per cent, c ft
best Cod Liver Oil. and In the place of water we use condensed milk, reduced in vacuo in our labora-
tory. 6th. The milk is condensed to the consistency of the Cod Liver Oil, and when combined, as In
Peptonized Cod Liver Oil and Milk, It forms one of the most pleasant and nutritious compounds that
can be conceived or produced.
pg~ This Preparation is acknowledged far superior to any of the Cod Liver Oil Emulsions ever
introduced, it being already digested, it may be retained on the weakest stomach.
We also manufacture the above preparation combined with HYPOPHOSPH1TE8 OF LIME ANB
SODA. To be obtained of the Principal Chemists and Druggists in the colonies.
The Maltine Manufacturing Co., Lim., 24 aud 25 Hart-st., Bloomubury, London, W.C.
Wholesale Agents in the Colonies Elliott Bros., Sydney; E. Prosser Sc Co., Sydney; Felton, Grlm-
waJe. & Co., Melbourne; Rocke, Tompsltt. & Co., Melbourne; Duerdin & Sainsbury, Melbourne: P. H.
Paulding & Co., Adelaide; A. M. Bickford & Co., Adelaide; Berkley, Taylor, Sc Co., Brisbane ; Elliott
Bros. & Co., Brisbane; New Zealand Drug Co.. Brisbane.
Samples and Full Particulars may be obtojnedof
T. PALMER, 104
W.
King-street, Sydney.
j-v ;
Head Office*. ««»
First Fir© Society established in toe coiotiy on
the Mutual principle, giving policy-holders back
part of their Premiums as a cash bonus out of
profits every year.
Policy-hr dersara perfectly free by law from
allllabilitj
Fifteen days’ Brace allowed for payment of re-
newal premiums.
Damage by lightning and explosions by gas paid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires. 5,
Fire insurance at lowest rates*
WALTER C flURCH, Manager.
Head Offloes-PITT and KING STREET®.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE.
MADAME ELIBE,
PARI8IBNNB DRESSMAKER AND SPECIAL
STAYMAKKR,
BEGS to call Ladies’ attention to her superior
FIT, TASTE, and exceptionally reasonable
charges. All orders receive her personal attention
and superintendence.
1S8 COLLINS STREET EAST.


Eczema twenty years.
My gratitude to God is umbounded for the relief I
have obtained from the use of the Cuticura
Remedies. 1 have been troubled with eczema on
my legs for twenty years, I had not a comfortable
night for years, the burning and itching was so in-
tense. Now, I am happy to say I have no trouble.
Only the liver-colored patches on my limbs
remain as a token of my former misery. HENRVT
L. SMITH, 188 West Ave., Rochester, N. Y.
SCIENTIFIC PROBLEMS.
Science tells ua that we are composed of lime,
iron, phosphorous, and other combustibles, though
we, ourselves, know perfectly well that we are
built up of roast beef, lodging-houses Dash,
shandygaff, jam-tarts, &o. It also teaches us that
if a cannon ball was fired at the sun at the rate of
so many miles a minute, it would never get there.
Furthermore, it dogmatically asserts that this
world is round, although we are just as confident
that it s flat, because several modern travellers
declare that they have tramped to the edge and
peeped over. It also teaches that the heat evolved
by a combination of oxygen and hydrogen is hot-
ter in Its way than Sir John Robertson on the pre-
sent Land Bill. But what we want Science to ex-
plain to-day is this: Why can’t a Pltt-street
draper’s assistant ride a hired horse to South Head
on Sundays without having his trousers crawling
up to his neck to see how he parts bis back hair ?
Tnat’s a subject which dumps Science down on a
back seat instanter; but it requires little or no
science to explain why Summerfleld and Com-
pany’s £3 3s. suits lead the fashion now, because
they are made on scientific principles, and proved
to be the acme of perfection.*
A glass of Wolfe's Schnapps at bed time
will give you a sou c it night’s rest.
Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour can be obtained
in and lib. packets.
Just give Kingsford’s Oswego Cornflour a trial
when you sre next cooking.
People are loud in their praise of the merits
of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Mb. DbOoubot Brown* (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,’’
"Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52 Castie-
reagh-street, Sydney, **" Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, T0T Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
Old sores !.—Many persons are greatly
troubled with old sores that they cannotsucceod in
healing—they try all kinds of applications, lotions,
plasters, poultices, liniments, &c., &o, but all in
vain—the open wound remains sullen and obstinate.
For all such sores the only mode of healing is to
alter the character of the blood, put into it a
greater amount of life power, cleanse it, make it
ealthy and natural, and you wiil be astonished
how quickly the old sore will hoai. BRISTOL’S
SaRSAPAHILLA. la the greatest and best of all
blood purifiers, cleanses, and heales.
the Renner Manufacturing Co., of Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvan a, U.8.A., make an extraordin-
ary offer to agents, and those wanting employ-
ment, to sell their Renner Combined Alarm and
Door Bell, in the different colonies and counties in
Australia. It is endorsed by over 3000 publishers
In the United States and Canada, and by the 100,000
who are now using them on their doors. It has
never been sold by the trade, but by agents alone.
It will pay 100 per cent, profit, and sells from $1.00
to $6.00 each. Agents In the United States have
taken as high as 23 orders in a single day. It sells
readily on Its merits. General agents who can
handle a number of counties, or one of the colo-
nies, can secure those they want by being the first
to comply with our terms. Large Illustrated
circulars, containing terms and price-list, will he
sent free. Address: Renner Manufacturing
Co., Pittsburgh, PenneyIvannla, U.8.A. *
Printed and Published' by Tm Btrujrriw News-
paper do. (Limited). M Pltt-st., Sydney, N.8.w.
THE GOLDEN BULLET.
I, who tell this story, am a ring. Let the reader
lay aside the incredulous smile with which this
announcement is received, and listen.
In this age of the world it is the improbable that
attracts attention.
I am aware that this sounds more like Victor
Hugo than a golden utterance, so I will get on
with my story.
I am not a very valuable ring, and were I to
state my intrinsic worth, my young lady reader
might compare me scornfully with a certain
brilliant that sparkles on her engagement-finger—
whichever one that might be.
I consist at present of an Intaglio, the head and
bust of .Cleopatra cut in onyx by a Roman artist*
and set in a disk of pure Californian gold. The
disc is not solid, bilt consists, in fact, of several
distinct bars through which the finger can be seen.
1 think I am rather artistic and unique. At present
I am on my master's little finger, and sometimes
8 he kisses me. For, strange as it may seem, they
both love me, and I am a very happy ring.
“I was not always so complete and fashionable as
I am now. The calm happiness of-.my present
existence has only come to me after a stormy
early life. When the earth was young I lay
embedded’ln the heart of the Sierras. An earth-
quake rent a great fissure in the mighty rock
wherein I had lain so long at rest. Moisture and
disintegration caused me to be washed with the
crumbling rook down the stream of my new
existence. My progress from the beautiful Sierras
towards the sun was gradual but sure. My
specific gravity—the only gravity I fear that I
possess—caused me to sink with other nuggets of
our golden family, and to lie in the glistening
sands of the SanJoacquim, all untouched by the
oiltside world. Then came great floods which
stitred us roughly up, and whirled us further
towards the mighty bay whose waters, surging
through the Golden Gate* mingle with the great
Pacific. Again I sank, the sands shifted, the
course of the stream was changed, and I became a
Unit in the vast army of alluvial gold.
I lay there a long time in the lives of men.
California changed hands. Marshall discovered
gold. The fever spread, and the exciting history
of avarice and crime on the one side, and of
manly courage and perseverance on the other—
the history of reckless gambling, of mad passion,
and of death which followed the days of '49. and
out of which chaos was evolved the grand State
of to-day.
1 diverge. A young miner found me. I was
among the first results that gladdened his eyes as
he worked his claim. “I will keep you, my
beauty,” he said, as I lay in his hand, and be
smiled at me with his brave blue-grey eyes, ‘‘as a
talisman to lead me to better fortune. God knows
I can stand a little of that now,” he continued,
with a sad smile, as he drooped hie handsome head
and cast his eyes wearily on the grofind.
1 was always with him after that. He had me
beaten into a rough ring, and I was proud to en-
circle the finger of his browned and honest band.
I liked him from the first. Singularly handsome,
his pleasant smile was tinged with that sadness
which lends such a charm to great hearts and
gentle natures. It softened the brightness of his
face as a streak of morning cloud tempera the
garish brightness of the early day. He was ha ppy
in that he sought his fortune before life grew into
that dull, grey farce so many of us sit out till
Death rings down the curtain on the final scene.
The claim where I was found did not pan out
well. Perhaps they did not go deep enough. It
was abandoned, and I went through some of those
early-day scenes which have now become matters
of history. -*
Spring found us in a lonely mountain hut in one
of those deep and picturesque gorges of the
Sierra Nevada mountains, where Nature is to be
seen in her grandest mood. There my master and
his “pardner” JJm were working a claim together.
It was a lonely and a dangerous spot, when we
consider the human hymnas who Infested the
mountains, and tainted with their presence the
civilisation of those early days.
It was early evening, and both were sitting be-
fore the cabin door watching the entrancing glories
of the setting sun, as with a ravishing extrava-
gance of colour it bathed the towering height of
the grand old mountains.
“ We hev struck it rich, Mr, Stanley,” said Jim,
“We hev struck it rich, but I hev ben warned to
quit. Those >damned jumpers hev .their eyes on
this here claim, and I hev ben as good as told that
onless we quit they’ll treat us to cold lead. P’raps
they’re bluffin’, but 1 reckon we won’t go ’till we
light out for good with our little pile 1 ”
"Jim was right,” mused Stanley Desmond as in
the cold gfey light of the following morning be
looked with bitter sadness upon the dead face of
his late partner. “ He has gone for good, and I am
like to follow,” and he glanced at his right arm
hanging moveless and bloody at bis side, while a
wound in his shoulder throbbed with burning
pain. Roughly, but with great tenderness, he
burled bis friend, working with his remaining
arm, and racked with pain the while,
><r One thing more remains,” he said to himself,
as with the skill of a surgeon he cut me from the
heart of a ruffian who, not far from the hut, lay
stark and cold.
“ You have saved my life, my little talisman,”
he said, “ and will forgive the ignoble use I put
upon you, too. My buckshot was all gone, and
you, my golden bullet, saved my life.’—and he
glanced at the lifeless form of the cut-throat who
would never more jump a claim in this world.
This, reader, happened in the days of ramrods
and muzzle-loaders.
He washed me carefully, and, being pure gold, I
retained no stain of that horror. Battered and
warped out of shape, I could no longer encircle his
finger, so he hung me tenderly about his nock.
Stanley then set fire to the cabin, which blazed and
crackled. “Jim’s funeral pyre,” he said, with
swimming eyes; “ and now 1 go to succour or—to
death I” and, with his golden talisman about his
neck, his stricken form was soon lost in the
shadows of the grand old mountains.
An excursion party In the hills at early dawn.
They had driven from the quaint, Spanlsh-looking
town thus early to avoid the hotter and more ver-
tical rays of later hours. The cheerful neighing
of the mustangs showed bow they appreciated the
halt. No Comfort or luxury had been forgotten,
and all seemed happy.
The life of this party and the happiest among
them all, thoroughly enjoying their ostensible ad-
miration, was a young girl of, perhaps, eighteen,
whose rival face, dark, brave, laughing eyes, ana
generous wealth of halt like the raven’s wing, be“
grayed her Spanish blood. Tall, svelte, and grace-
ful as a fawn, the rounded outlines of her beauty
were yet barely suggestive of voluptousness. She
busied herself to make all comfortable and happy,
for it was her party, and she liked to play the
hostess in a demure and pretty manner. Then,
when ail were laughing merrily, she wandered
slowly away from them, as though she craved soli-
tude, and the genii of the wood saw from under
those long dark lashes an expression at once pen-
sive and thoughtful—an expression beautiful to
see, as betraying the hidden fancies of a young
gin’s soul.
Was it fate that led her from the others ? Who
can say! In the prosaic science of to-day we call
these things coincidence.
But there she found him. I saw the terror come
Into her eyes as she gazed on his white, uncon-
scious face—then it changed to true womanly
courage. No use to faint, to scream I No one was
near. “ Can he be dead ? ” she thought, and with
a great fear she knelt and felt his heart. The
colour rushed back into her cheek, and the terror
faded out of her eyes. ,V.He lives, she said. She
laid his head upon her knees, and from my place
about his neck, I saw that she thought him beau-
tiful. And in the depths of that silent wood she
stooped and kissed his forehead, and in soft
Spanish accents begged him not to die. She
brought some water from a spring, and genily
forced him to partake of it. Mis pulse throbbed
with more strength, and he opened his ejres. “I
could not help it, little ring,” hesaldjWanderlngly;
“I had no bullet, and could hold out no longer.
Poor Jim! poor Jim! You cannot save me now,
my talisman,” he added, feebly, “ you cannot save
me now.”
“But I can, and willl” cried Isadora, as she laid
him gently down, and ran to bring the others to
him.
“ I suppose you must have your own way, and
MR. FARNELL: “THE GREAT DANGER
WAS THAT THEY WERE EDUCATING A
NUMBER OP YOUNG MEN AND YOUNG
WOMEN WHO WOULD BY-AND-BYE BE
DRONES UPON SOCIETY. . . , THEY
HAD NO DE&LRE WHATEVER TO tflLL
THE SOIL.”
nurse him,” said the aunt and sole guardian of
Isadora Quandary when Stanley was brought to
their beautiful home near the City of the Angels,
“but, for my part, I object to having the house
turned Into a miner’s hospital.” “Oh, Aunt!”
cried Isadora, “I feel as though I must!” and, as
in most things, she had her way.
Who could die with such a nurse ? Her presence
in the room was balm to the stricken man. Who
that has been nursed through a long Illness by such
a ministering angel but has almost wished he
might be ill for ever I And Stanley grew to love her,
and he felt a great Joy that she bad made him well.
A PAIR REQUEST.
DOMESTIC: “ PLEASE, SIR, WILL YOU PAINT MY HEAD AND SHOULDERS—PHOTO-
GRAPHS IS SO VERY UNSATISFACTORY.”
I saw it coming. I saw it in her eyes; I felt it In
the wild throbbing of his heart. He saw as he
recovered that, by her surroundings and the de-
ference that was paid to her, she was what the
world calls rich, and he tried to keep it back. He
did not know it were as easy to keep back the
MR. TRICRETT: “AS A SYSTEM OF EDU-
CATION, OPEN TO ALL CLASSES AND
CREEDS, AVAILABLE TO BOTH RICH
AND POOR, IT WAS ONE THAT IN ITS
PRINCIPLES WOULD BEAR B CTT LITTLE
IMPROVEMENT.”
stormy billows of that Pacific which ceaselessly
lapped the shore, as the mighty wave of love
which surges in the human heart, and rolls on
sometimes to peace, more often to destruction!
“ In a few days I shall go,” he told her, with a
sigh, and their eyes met.
'You should not sigh now: you are nearly
well,” she said, In a soft low voice, while he mur-
mured:—
“ Not e’en the dearest heart, and next our own,
A nows halt the reasons why wo smile or sigh.”
“ Tell me the story of that queer bent ring,” she
said; “ I know it partly, for you have told it me.”
And so he told my story while her eyes showed her
wonder and her grief.
“ I, too, have a talisman I love,” she said when
he had done. “ It is an Intaglio my father cut in
Rome. He was an artist and a sculptor, and loved
my mother dearly. She gave it mo. Shall we ex-
change until—until ”
“ Until we meet again ?” he faltered
And so they exchanged, and the little ugly bent
ring lay in her warm white bosom.
Thus they parted. He went back to his claim
with a new hope in his heart and a will to do all
that love would prompt and genius execute for
her sake. Jim was right. They had struck it
rich, but fortunes do not come to us as quickly as
love, and it was two years ere Stanley Desmond
felt himself an independent man. Two years of
hope and fear while the intaglio of Cleopatra lay
upon his heart. When he again sought the coast, his
heart in a wild tumult of expectation—Isadora
had gone!
Four months have passe d It is a warm evening
by the shores of the most picturesque of Italian
lakf s. A woman, young and beautiful, is sitting
half absorbed in thought, half looking at the glis-
tening rays of the moon which, struggling through
the surrounding foliage, playfully kis3 the rippled
mrface of the water. There is a dreamy sadness
in her eyes as of one waitu g. She sighs, and, as
her bosom heaves, she is of a little ring
nestling (h°re. “This ring,” cab says softly to
herself. There is a rustling of inre leaves, and in a
moment more he is at her side.
“ I knew you would come,” she said simply.
“My darling!" he cried with trembling voice,
and he took her in his arms and kissed her passion-
ately.
”aee,” she said, blushing like a rose, “I have
kept your golden bullet.”
“ Don’t you think, my dear, that you had better
come in-doors. The night air grows chill,” said a
deep voice from the shadow at this moment. With
the suspicious inspiration of jealousy, Stanley
drew himself up to bis full height. “Isadora,
who is that man?’’ This was the insolence of
love. In an instant the girl was transformed. The
rich blood of a long line of haughty Castilian an-
cestors throbbed in her veins and resented the
tone. The woman was superb as, taking the hand
of the stranger and casting a withering glance of
mingled defiance and scorn—and many other
thlngs-at Stanley, she said, “ This, sir, is my hus-
band I ” As one stricken dead, Stanley could omy
exclaim, “ JehoshaphatI ”
At this moment a sound like the shriek of a dis-
tant locomotive was heard. The dense foliage by
the lake parted, and a woman whose hair, by an
enormous stretch of the courtesy of imagination,
might be called auburn, and whose tout ensemble
was the ’ r ery apotheosis of hysteria, entered the
arena and threw her gasping form on Stanley’s
breast.
This was Isadora’s cue. She did not miss it.
“ Sir,” she said, with a look of her Illustrious
progenitor, Stout Cortez, when, with eagle eye, he
stared at the Pacific. “Sirl Who is that Woman/’
Stanley’s voice seemed to come from afar as with
a sob like the wail of a lost spirit, he replied,
“ This, Madame, is My Wife! ”
As the shadows of night deepen round this
strange group, and the waters of the lake blacken
with the fast gathering gloom, I see the rosy lips
of the beautiful Isadora part, and hear distinctly
articulated through her pearly teeth the words,
“ Well, I’m Damned I ”
A UNITED CABINET.
